{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__mayer___primary_glossary.pdf","mytitle":"Primary Glossary","mylang":"de"}
A Primary Glossary
OF
Psychological & Philosophical
Terms
RELATED TO THE
CONSCIOUS EVOLUTION OF THE SOUL
BY
MAY BENZENBERG MAYER
POJODAG PUBLICATIONS
NEW YORK
JOHN M. WATKINS
21, CECIL COURT, LONDON, W.C.2
1932
INTRODUCTION
PART I
CONTENTS
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN •
Light-spark
Spirit
Soul
Man
Body
Self
Household of Selves
I and Field of Awareness
PART II
THE ENERGIES OF MAN
Psychenergy .
Erdenergy
Movenergy
Manenergy
Instinct
Urge
Wish .
Will
Impulse
Page
9
IO ,
II
2I
22
PART III
MAN AND Hrs FACULTIES
Sensation
Feeling
Thinking
Imagination .
Intuition
PART IV
THE ToPOGRAPHY OF MAN
Consciousness
Unconscious
Subconscious
Foreconscious
Transliminal .
Collective Unconscious
Heritage
Inheritance .
Personality .
Individuality.
Ego
Psychic Plane
Page
34
35
37
39
40
41
44
44
45
45
46
46
48
48
49
49
51
52
53
INTRODUCTION
A
FIRST principle in all constructive study is
clarity and accuracy in the use of an appropriate
terminology.
The definitions on the following pages are intended
to facilitate that type of study among those who
would discriminate in the use of psychological and
philosophical terms as related to the evolution of the
soul.
As an aid to a better perspective of the subject,
namely the soul evolving through man into spirit-
the words in this glossary, instead of being arranged
alphabetically, are grouped according to their
respective provinces.
These groupings overlap somewhat ; but all groups
are related to the study of the soul in its parts, its
energies, its equipment, and the stages of evolution
it has achieved. These terms are merely an intro~
duction to the subject, but should be sufficient to
present a first broad outline.
To know any subject well, demands a knowledge of
its parts, in addition to an understanding of the
nature, trend, and purpose of the whole. The former
requires names for these parts, consistently defined
and limited ; the latter a survey of the inter~relation
of these parts within the organism. Analysis and
5
synthesis ; detailed examination balanced by a vision
of integrated but highly differentiated components-
these two are partners in true understanding and
essential to evolution consciously directed.
The study of the soul as man falls quite naturally into
the following groups.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN
The inherent components of man's life.
These components must cover the various
stages from inception and be conceived as
possessing potentiality in simultaneity. They
are practically separated from each other by
condition (state), by time and by focus of
consciousness (polarization).
THE ENERGIES OF MAN
The natural power-equipment of normal man
in earth, out of which are evolved his facul~
ties. Faculties "previously " evolved (herit~
age) give the impression of natural equip~
ment.
THE FACULTIES OF MAN
The natural energies expressing in specialized
modes. Their character and quality make
explicit the stage of development the person-
ality or the individuality has achieved.
6
THE TOPOGRAPHY OF MAN
A time-place-condition description in the ever
fluctuating layers of experience and memory.
These are experientially known by man
through the shifting of his " field of aware-
ness " in which the " I " is focussed.
7
PART I
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN The constitu~
tion or con~
stituents of
man must be considered from several approaches.
There are body, soul, and spirit, man's native equip~
ment. But primordial(y, man is a Light~Spark.
Essential(y, he is a spirit.
On the other hand, the immediate source of his
manifestation is soul.
Again, now seenfrom the human level he is three~fold :
body, heart and mind. Light~Spark, spirit, soul
states recede and are " forgotten," to give oppor~
tunity to the human stage. The memories of these
are to be later regained. Furthermore, man is a self,
of whom he may speak as "me" or "I." But this
\)
self is composed of many contrary trends, is what
is known as " dismembered." Instead of a " unity "
he is a household of conflicting selves, over which
his intelligence should rule, and out of which
disorder he must make eventual order. This order~
ing and integrating is the process of at-one-ment, to
which the mystic frequently ascribes seven or more
steps. Regeneration and second birth are the most
familiar of these.
There are other constituents of man, such as ego,
personality, and individuality, which however, are
discussed more logically under another group-
TOPOGRAPHY.
LIGHT-SPARK Light-Spark is a name given in
Gnostic traditions to the earliest
stage of being, in what we might
call the primordial history of the soul. It is as a
seed derived from the Fullness or Pleroma, but yet
is not directly of it. In it are embryonically the
powers necessary for development and fulfilment. It
is "loaded with the Wealth of Cosmic Treasure"
but only in the potential state-similarly as the acorn
carries within itself the oak. Every human being is
a Light-Spark. This confers nothing distinctive. It
is what each Spark has done to evolve the potentialities
into potencies, that super~sensually indicates where it
is on the Long ]ourney between Alpha and Omega.
10
Broadly speaking, the Light-Spark is a stage so far
removed from even deeply inquiring consciousness,
that like the measure of light-years, it does not come
into prevalent speech. However, it is necessary for
a student of the Great Journey to know these things
that he may mark off and discriminate what, to the
average mind, has as yet no differentiation.
SPIRIT L. spiritus; Fr. spirare, to breathe, to
blow. The life principle.
Spirit and spiritual are used here according to their
ancient and philosophical meanings, in which this
life principle or Breath emanated from the Great
Mind. Accordingly, spirit applied to man is the
individual element in its potential powers on the
way into matter, or in its fulfilled state after the
return. The spiritual plane is the region, condition,
quality, to which spi~it is native. This plane is the
first region seen from below up in the areas of
Cosmic spheres. Therefore, spirit is applied to a
stage after that of Light-Spark, and prior to that of
soul. Associated with this plane are such words as
Light, Mind, Wisdom, the Pattern-worlds, Nirvana,
Buddhi, Amenti, the Higher Heavens, etc.
Spirit is the source of soul. These two are often
likened to sun and moon. The sun is the earth's
source of life and energy, yet like spirit, it never
comes down to earth. Its fire is beyond the capacity
11
of the earth to endure, but it sustains through rays,
and lights another luminary, the moon, which is the
agent of light during the night-time of man's con-
sciousness and life in earth-the analogy of philoso-
phers to the period before man awakens to matters
of cosmic significance. Broadly speaking, one is in
the stage of being illumined by the moon, during the
period when one is conscious of the soul, and has
not yet attained the higher birth. Here we must also
discriminate between those who have not yet become
soul conscious, and those who mistake soul for
spirit. Philosophically and mystically these two are
far apart.
In careless usage, spirit and soul are frequently given
as synonymous. (See dictionaries.) Also by apply-
ing it to a correspondent on a lowly level, the
" breath of life " has come to be used for that
element which animates the physical vehicle (cp.
ghost, shade, simulacrum, etc.) and therefore, those
who have passed out of the physical body, are said
to be spirits. If this word is used for this humble
level, what is left in the English language for those
stages to which it originally applied ?
Spirit is also to be seen as the state into which the
threefold nature when mature, comes to its fruitage.
This process of maturing continues in states beyond
that of the physical body. It is only the " Son of
man " who is able to enter the spiritual plane. Thus
man is only potentially spiritual ; speaking accu-
12
rately, he moves toward the spiritual in his progress
through the earlier planes. The mind vehicle must
be developed before he can experience spirit directly.
Otherwise, as one allegory puts it, he sees only its
reflection, distorted and reversed through the soul,
a watery element.
Again, the spiritual plane is a Life which becomes
Light to awakening man. It is the last realm of the
Cosmic, in passing downward through which, the
Light-Spark receives as it were an ovum of Light.
This ovum must grow and mature. As another
occult allegory describes it, Osiris mates with Isis
(the feminine aspect of the brooding Wisdom, cp.
the Holy Spirit of Christian tradition), and after
travail and death to the lower life there are born
these " sons " who replace the father (the earlier
stage). Horus is the heroically evolving man pos-
sessing four mystical powers (four sons) who
accomplish the final works of the human evolution.
The attaining of this lofty spiritual state is the goal
in the great mystical literatures of all ages. It is the
alchemical making of gold ; the winning of the
Golden Fleece ; the marriage to Helen ; the adora-
tion and following of Beatrice ; the achieving of
Buddhi ; the Goal of Sophia ; the Marriage of the
Bride (soul) and the Lamb (spirit); it is the Upper
Paradise of the Zohar ; the Passage out of Amenti
into the Golden Light of the Celestial Lakes. Of
one truly making effort to accomplish that Journey,
13
Wisdom might say," Then I (Wisdom) was by him,
as a master workman, and I was d2.ily his delight,
rejoicing always before him."
SOUL Of uncertain origin.
An entity conceived as the essence, sub-
stance, or actuating cause of individual life,
especially of life manifested in psychical activities.
Here the dictionary is very close to the philosophic
content. The human soul is the immediate source
of man's life. It is the seed ftom which the three-
fold nature of physical, emotional, and mental life
evolves.
Again, the soul is the link between what we may call
present and past. In it are stored the fruits of past
experiences, from which are derived those trends
and qualities that cause one child to differ from
another. These trends and qualities remain largely
unconscious, but may be drawn into expression by
a technique that penetrates lower and higher than
that of psychoanalysis or " deep psychology." This
technique, to be effective, must have occult and
mystical factors.
Not only do humans differ in quality and power in
the proportion that they are able to draw consciously
on accumulated experience, but souls themselves
differ from one another. Their age is not measured
14
by time but by the condition they have achieved,
according to the manner and degree of response to
the pleasures and problems of environment in the
course of the soul's Journey.
The soul is born out of the watery or psychic spheres
(erroneously called astral), as all life, occultly speak-
ing, is born out of water or Moisture. This latter
is seen as an element of the First Mother, in the great
cosmogonies. Likewise on humbler levels, the
human fcetus is carried in and born from a bag of
water. Hence the soul, the psychic planes, the
mystical states of religious devotees, emotions and
the watery spheres, are intimately related. It should
be noted in passing, that feelings, wishes, emotions
are an energic force of the watery or psychic world,
with which we are familiar in the physical world, and
which act as a kind of natural link between these
worlds. (vide "feeling," Part III.)
The soul does not grow wholesomely of itself any
more than does a garden. It requires cultivation.
Environmental changes, pleasure, and pain serve to
aid this cultivation until the stage of mental soul
consciousness is attained. Thereafter the mind
becomes responsible for the soul and the ratio of
progress is then in proportion to the control of
conditions and steadiness of attention to those things
which are its good, and aid it on its way. So a
horticulturist knows what is good for his plants,
and by wise application of laws, steadily followed,
15
grows master~plants undreamed of by the idler on
the streets. Man's master~work is the full maturity
of the soul.
The node of the soul's emission into this life, is in
the upper regions of the psychic plane. If one has
not evolved to an approximate nearness to this node,
he will not be soul conscious, though he may intel~
lectually discuss its nature, or have read all available
volumes describing its characteristics. At Pojodag
there is keen discrimination between intellectual
familiarity, and experiential familiarity with a sub~
ject. Significantly enough, a Ladder of the emotion
faculties has been sketched, marking the location of
the soul node, and a technique developed for its
ascent. Approximation to this node causes psychic
sensations, akin to when a hand is brought close to
a lighted lamp, the degree of warmth disclosing its
nearness.
However, most persons have experienced momentary
or fragmentary soul consciousness through deep
sorrow or extreme happiness. External factors occa~
sionally jolt the field of awareness into the vicinity
of this node. But the consciousness is forgotten, or
if it has been startling in quality, it is " reasoned
away " when mundane things again claim the atten~
tion. The practical or the intellectual types will
naturally repudiate the actuality of a soul, for their
" familiars " are matters of the third dimension and
life independent of the physical worlds is to them
not conceivable.
16
It is not until one is able to maintain one's self on or
above the seventh rung of the Psychic Ladder, that
a steady and convincing realization of the soul's
existence takes place. The reason for this will be
obvious to thinkers. Certain conditions are as
necessary for consciousness of the soul, as syn-
chronized wave lengths are to hearing over the radio.
A student will gradually discern why a return to the
accumulated mother-stuff, the deeper transliminal,
the soul nature, are necessary to conscious evolution
of the higher constituents in man. There is high
development possible for man in this life ; there is
also possible a super-development splendid and
transcendent, cleaving several dimensions, outleaping
time, attaining a knowledge of immensities before
which the average human mind would wilt, winning
a rapport with Heights where the Living Spirit
abides in Delight.
In ancient systems the soul is sometimes seen as dual :
rational and irrational. By the former " the Path up
to the Spiritual Gods is brought to birth " ; by the
latter it is under the constraint of the things of earth.
Again, as in some of the Hermetic writings, the soul
is referred to as threefold : divine, because the higher
mind is the vehicle of spirit ; human, because asso-
ciated with the mind and the emotions ; irrational
because joined to the heart and the appetites.
The student is again requested to note, in order to
prevent later difficulties should his studies carry him
17 B
further, that these formulations on the soul are
elementary. Complex metaphysical aspects are
frankly omitted.
MAN Man : Sk. 111anas, mind.
The highest of the cl~ss Mammalia, having
exceptional mental development.
Cf. the L. Homo sapiens : Man with the capacity for
profound knowledge.
Man is the name given to the soul in those stages of
its journey in which it shall develop the powers of
mind. The seeds of these powers, be it remembered,
are in-wrapped in the soul and provided with a
material organ (brain) finely specialized for the work
within the body. Need, conflict, desire, struggle,
reason, intellectual search, these slowly unwrap and
expand the powers of the mind, and its material
organ, the brain. These powers begin at " need
thinking,"-progress through many stages, such as
"practical thinking," " reason thinking," through
" intellectual " and " philosophical thinking " to
" abstract " and even higher capacities. These stages
are broadly outlined on the " Ladder of the thinking
faculty" at Pojodag.
Mind in its highest aspects is the vehicle of spirit. It
alone is qualified to directly contain the element ofthe
Light. Mind then becomes the" Chariot ofthe Sun."
Its stuff is wrought of Wisdom ; its four Horses are
the perfected sub-natures in man.
18
Many grades of man are noted in great bibles : the
earth man, lm-man (hunms: earth), red Adam, etc.,
at one end, and the " Son of man " at the other.
Occult and mystical philosophy must inevitably deal
with many of these grades.
BODY Body : AS. bodig; akin to OHG. botah.
Cf. bodice : an inner garment stiffened
with whalebone.
The cross reference to the word bodice gives an
admirable clue to the significance of the word. The
physical body, or any body, is that which stiffens,
slows up the energy, encases the life for which it is
the vehicle. The physical body is the " stiffest " of
them all, but is indispensable for life in earth. Its
advantages are also its disadvantages.
The student cognizes its special equipment in the
five senses, which are the gates or bridges over which
the energies of the self travel continuously in their
traffic with the world of things. In the early stages
of life, these five senses are the five foolish virgins
who do not care to guard their light. Little by little
they are transformed into the five wise virgins, who
in the occult story, enter into the Bridal Chamber
with the Groom. As the mind comes to understand
the use of the senses, it changes their behaviour.
They then gather and keep precious oil, grown on the
tree of human life, and convey the light of their
19
experience in earth, now purified and strong in
quality, into the next stage of the Great Journey.
The gross or physical body vehicling the soul in
earth, thus provides the means by which the mind
(man) can evolve in the physical dimensions.
SELF Self: root common to many languages.
Meaning same, particular, identical, having
its own single nature.
The self is the totality of individual human life. It
comprises all that belongs to a particular being. The
word " selvage " gives its meaning further defini-
tion, i.e., possessing an edge which at once separates
it from all that is beyond, and holds all within its
edge together. Thus the self is the entire being in
all its constituents, but at the stage ofself-observation.
This brings it into the human span of experience, as
contrasted with the Light-Spark which contains all
embryonically and without the human type of con-
sciousness. This ability of mental observation of the
self proves that some powers are already partially
evolved.
In certain philosophies, the Great Selfis still referred
to, but the psychology of the last century has
narrowed its meaning quite logically to refer to the
totality of those fields which observation can regis-
ter. Therefore the definition may be simplified as
20
follows : The self is the totality of life energies and
their manifestations, which revolve around and relate
themselves to an individual soul called man in earth.
HOUSEHOLD OF SELVES The human soul in
the course of con~
tacts with many
environments becomes dismembered, that is, it is
rent by many conflicting desires. It is held back by
many attachments, is severed by partial fears, old
prejudices, angers, lusts, as well as being further
severed by ideals, yearnings, vague glimpses of
immensities. Many contrary inclinations thus pos~
sess man simultaneously. These inclinations are the
broken off or dismembered parts of the whole, each
acting its own drama (as the portrayal of dreams
unmistakably reveals). Though tending in many
directions, they are still retained within the " edge "
of the self. These dismembered parts are the selves
within the house, a symbol used from ancient time
with endless colourful variations.
It should be understood that this dismemberment of
the self into selves is normal, and philosophically
salutary. It is inherent in the Great Pattern. But
man must develop the insight to grasp and use the
possibilities of this dismemberment, instead of merely
decrying them.
A few references to the house symbol may be profit~
able : " The house of bondage " ; " the house of
21
man" (mind) ; " the house not made with hands " ;
" the house with four doors " ; " the Ark with its
animals " ; " the house of friends " ; " the house of
God." The word " house " is often replaced by
such words as boat, temple, dwelling, mansion,
tabernacle, etc.
The dwellers within the house are then described as
animals, people, enemies, brothers, friends, etc.
Allegories and myths provide further illustrations.
I AND FIELD OF AWARENESS I : root com-
mon to many
languages.
The nominative case of the pronoun of the first per~
son. For an amusing and typical illustration of
looseness in the use of words, see dictionary : " this
I that thinks is the soul." A student will note that
this sentence contains three differing constituents.
The " I " is the point of consciousness from which
observation takes place. It is surrounded by the
" field of awareness," an area of a lesser degree of
consciousness, fading off into more or less blurred
fringes. This field of awareness in turn floats in the
self, which, however, is wholly unnoticed, or at best
only vaguely sensed. The reader may draw on the
analogy of a light with its rays focussed at a point,
the area partially illumined by dispersion and reflec-
tion, and the vast surrounding darkness.
22
The "I" observes either objectively, or outside of
the self (ex. I see a horse, etc.), or subjectively, in
regard to some aspect of the self [ex. I am hungry
(physical); I am sad (emotional); I am thinking
(mental)].
One may also compare the " I " to the nucleolus
within the nucleus of a cell. This nucleolus with its
accompanying nucleus (field of awareness), is a
detached and swiftly movable constituent. It is
snatched and temporarily possessed by any one of
the selves which has the strength (energy) to thrust
itself into notice. This, for instance, may occur
through discomfort, desire, pleasure, or more rarely,
through thought. The " I " is thus the hapless vic-
tim of many selves. Each snatches according to its
power, the temporary dominance which the field of
awareness and its nucleolus naturally provide. Until
in turn (or out ofturn !) this " I " is seized by another
wish or need.
Philosophically seen, this " I " is at once the crux of
dismemberment and the key to at-one-ment. Thus
the greatest anguish of soul consciousness is suf-
fered through the " field of awareness " and the " I."
But when the " I " is gradually brought into the
service of the higher mind, beginning at the " Philo-
sophical rung of the Ladder," the " I " becomes the
courier of the loftiest elements within the household
of selves, and the process of at-one-ment is well
under way. The "I" then becomes capable of
23
seeing and knowing with the god-ward moving ele-
ment in man. As in an analogy frequently used at
Pojodag, the "I" becomes Mercury, cupbearer and
messenger of Zeus, instead of remaining enslaved to
the desires dwelling in the valley.
24
PART II
THE ENERGIES OF MAN
This group of terms relates to the natural equipment
of energy types as illustrated in the average person.
Energy : capacity for active work.
PSYCHENERGY This word is used at Pojodag
for the collective and undif-
ferentiated energy of the soul.
It is plainly a simple compound of psyche (or soul)
and energy. Its meaning is thus self-evident.
As this collective energy flows into the human being
in earth, it generates the tree of human life. It has
three marked types of energic expression. These
are erdenergy, movenergy, manenergy. The charac-
ter of one's heritage makes for irregularity and varia-
tion in the momentum which these three possess.
ERDENERGY OHG. erda, Fr. ero : to earth; cf.
E. ear : to plow. Earth energy.
A name for the flow of energy in the physical body,
activating the body in all its behaviours ; and in a
25
diversified way, pouring its vitality through the five
senses. This energy is related to the "life-side " of
the physical vehicle and has certain correspondences
to the " prana " of Eastern literatures. Metaphysical
research in the ectoplasms will presently find further
correspondences. Vide Sensations, Part III.
MOVENERGY L. emovere : to shake, to stir, to
move out. Emotion or desire
energy; related to "wish."
A name for the energy which mystically speaking, is
the" mother of all living" (Gen. iii. zo). The desire
to eat of the apple was (and is) the motivation to
enter into earthly conditions. Without this especial
type of energizing which was roused from its poten-
tiality by the Serpent Forces in the state called the
Garden of Eden, there could be no human evolution.
Hence Eve or the moving volitive energy is the
" mother of all living," in the human evolution.
Movenergy is thus the name for all desire energy
that moves, or tends to move man to action. When
it comes into expression it is differentiated as feelings,
affections, wishes, longings, hankerings, etc. Vide
Feeling, Part III.
The hidden or accumulated momentum of this type
of energy peculiarly reveals where the soul is on its
Journey, the ideal mile-posts of which are illustrated
(for instance) in the allegorical figures of the women
26
in Genesis, beginning with Eve, and culminating
with Mary in the New Testament.
It should be noted that the soul, the psychic plane,
movenergy, and the feeling faculty, have intimate
relations one with another, but are not identical.
MANENERGY Sk. manas : mind.
Mind energy.
A name for the slowly evolving energy of the mind.
It is to be regretted that there are no English words
available to describe that state of manenergy before
mind, in the philosophical meaning of the word, is
developed. Actually, manenergy manifests as the
thinking faculty, according to the power of heritage
and the quality of the brain, the brain being the
organ for the mind in the physical body. This
thinking faculty goes through many stages before it
evolves mind. The" Great Mind" set it (mind) up
in the midst of souls, just as it were a prize. (Corpus
Hermiticum IV.) However, this energy is named for
that in which it culminates, and which is distinctively
the object of the human evolution. The careful
student should here also note that the human soul
has not yet really become man, much less become
" Son of man." It is for this fruit " that the whole
creation groaneth and travaileth in pain" (Romans
viii. 22). Teleological concepts come to rest in
gnosis. Vide Thinking, Part III.
27
INSTINCT L. instinctus, Fr. instiguere : to instigate.
Implanted by nature ; innate. The
natural inward impulse, unconscious,
involuntary.
This word has been reserved to denote two move-
ments which are innate in all forms of life, from the
vegetative upward. These are the pulse, the rhythm,
the contraction and expansion, the in and the out,
the" getting and spending." Livingness subsists on
these two primary instincts, which manifest every-
where in threefold man, according to the stage of
development he has reached.
The instincts are brought into action in the body at
the moment ofphysical birth, independently ofman's
volition, by the intake of breath, the contraction and
expansion of the diaphragm and the consequent
exhalation ; by the intaking of milk and the expel-
ling of urine and freces, etc. Thus the pattern for
energic behaviour is set up ; but it is a long time
before man learns enough to be ready to bring about
a proportionate in and out in the emotional and
mental areas. He craves affection, but must also
learn to give it ; he learns from others but he must
also give out the fruit of this thought, both acts to
be contributive and acceptable to the higher phases
of his environment. It is the constant and approxi-
mate movement between these two instincts that
makes for health-physical, emotional and mental.
The simpler forms of their physical manifestation are
taken out of man's hands by Nature (!) else man
28
might too much handicap his experience in earth.
The rest is left more or less as stuff in a workshop
awaiting co-ordination.
Nutrition and reproduction (surrounded by the
sexual desires) as seen in the psychology of modern
time, · are two powerful illustrations of the two
instincts in the body. There are many others.
Again, the introvert and extravert types are fixations
toward one side or the other of what ideally speaking
should be a free and full movement between both.
This is one reason why the work at Pojodag en-
deavours to break down types and uses the words
" centripetal " and " centrifugal " to denote energies
flowing toward and from the centre.
The evils of exaggerated surrender to either one
movement or the other have long been known to
philosophy, and are recorded in various illumined
allegories. The wolf or the dramatization of greed,
whether physical, emotional, or mental, illustrates
the tragedy ofthe centripetal movement; the leopard
or lust, the tragedy of sensual, emotional or mental
debauchery, the hideous debacle of too much spend-
ing-the centrifugal movement.
Thus the introvert and the extravert may be mild
illustrations of what the symbols of wolf and leopard
exemplify in the extreme ; and let it never be for-
gotten that there may be greed and lust in the emo-
tional and mental realms as well as in the physical.
29
To the mind already capable of abstract sight, these
two movements may be seen to animate the so-called
tree of life like a mighty pulse. As the rhythm main-
tains or loses its measured beat in the manifold sub-
divisions of the tree, so is visible the health or disease
of that soul. These are occult matters of no direct
implication in a primary glossary, but are worthy of
thought to those whom these sentences may stimu-
late. Paraphrasing, " it is in this flow that Life
consists."
URGE L. ttrgere : to force, to press, to impel.
This word is used for the instigation to
specific but unconscious and involuntary
bodily action. These urges force, or attempt to
force an action, because of tension accumulated
below the threshold of consciousness, which tension
finds resistance weakest at the level of a physical act.
Thus the emotion of anger, pent up, might suddenly
release itself through a blow, a scream, etc., none of
which intentions were in the conscious area. By the
same token, one might leap without forethought into
the sea to save a swimmer caught by cramp. Often
the urge acts as a legitimate safety valve. Inherently
it is neither good nor evil, but a manifestation of
expansive force from the transliminal, breaking out
in physical modes of expression.
WISH Many sources. To have a desire, to long
for, to have a yearning. Related to" wont,"
to have pleasure in, to enjoy. .
Wish is the inborn outward-moving expression of
30
movenergy, become defined and localized. It arises
from unconscious areas, usually in response to some
stimulus in the material world. It is the simplest
expression through which the " mother ofall living"
can manifest. Often it emerges from the heritage
which is " forgotten " when the soul is born to this
world.
It is the elementary cause of dismemberment, and it
is for that reason that many philosophies conceive
peace of soul as possible only when men have learned
how to bring about the cessation of desire. But
wishes and desires have a work to accomplish, and to
negate them before that intention is achieved, is to
frustrate the " fulfilment " of the soul. The ideal
process is to be seen as a kind of pilgrimage through
many desires, ever pressing onward and constantly
replacing earlier or lower desires by loftier ones in a
steadily ascending series. Thus and thus only is
made the passage through the Tuat. Thus is travelled
the high and exalted road to Wisdom.
WILL ME. wille, AS. 1villa, etc., AS. willian: to
wish ; to choose. Purpose, determination,
choice, intention.
This word significantly enough, is an offshoot of
wish, just as the power for which it is now only a
name, is an offspring of later man, not really a part
of his native equipment. In contrast to " urge " and
31
" wish " rising from unconscious areas, will is a
product of the conscious mind. Dr. Jung states it,
" I regard as will that sum of psychic energy which
is disposable to consciousness . . . it is released by
conscious motivation . . . is a psychological phe~
nomenon that owes its existence to culture and moral
education and is therefore largely lacking in primi~
tive mentality." (Psychological Types.)
Will, therefore, is a special, directed dynamic of the
mind, sustained toward a selected goal. It is deter~
mination carried on by mental processes, which,
through the "I," are aware of themselves and their
purpose. It is sustained by intelligence, judgment,
and constancy. It is well to contrast with will, a
behaviour that superficially acts like it, and through
which many persons are accredited with possessing
strong wills. Determination in service to a wish or
an emotional complex, even though these be uncon~
scious or perhaps rationalized, gives the appearance of
great strength of will. When analysed, it will be
seen that feelings dominate reason, that feelings, not
reason, are persistent. Obstinacy becomes obvious
whenever the determination is challenged, and
indeed many other less pleasant symptoms quickly
appear. Seen inwardly, the situation is irrational,
there is conflict, and an exercise of will~power is
necessary to give one aspect or another the domi~
nance. Therefore Pojodag discriminates between will
and will~power. Will on the other hand implies
knowledge and purpose integrated ; the emotions
support, instead of ravage the stream of energic
82
power. It is thus cool, sweet and stable. Through
attaining this power of will, an exalted product of
development, man is enabled to conceive something
of the nature of the Great Will. " Like is known to
like alone."
IMPULSE L. i111pellere : to incite into action. This
word is used as a general term to denote
all tendencies to action, bodily, emo-
tional, or mental, that come from areas of which the
personality is unaware. This eliminates much care-
less use of the word "instinct."
The impulse may remain on the threshold of exter-
nalization because caught by some opposing element
in consciousness ; or it may break into action,
emotion, or thought. It is interesting to observe
that it is increasingly realized that man shall be
responsible for the character and quality of his
feelings and his thoughts, as ethics now holds him
for his acts. It was said long ago, " as a man
thinketh in his heart, so is he." This responsibility
will take man to a purgation and healing of his
"unconscious areas," from whose depths feelings
and thoughts arise, and which are the seed bed of
all impulses.
33 c
PART III
MAN AND HIS FACULTIES
Faculties are the specialized behaviours which the
energies in man acquire when they come into expres~
sian. They are the " capacity for active work "
carried into specific operation (cp. psychenergy). As
soul powers unique to Homo sapiens, they are con~
ditioned below the threshold of consciousness by
" heritage," and limited at the threshold of expres~
sian by the condition of the body (health, defects,
disease, etc.). Except for congenital obstructions
such as idiocy, every faculty is capable of great
augmentation, both in power and quality. When it
is understood that these faculties are the soul's
specialized facilities for passing through the human
evolution, the importance of developing them will
be at least partially appreciated. The wider, deeper,
and higher their capacities are developed, the richer
the harvest they return to the soul. Here we are face
to face with one of the more palpable paradoxes in
the mysteries of human evolution-man is not only
" both tool and vehicle to all ends "-he becomes
himself the fruit of all his efforts, the end which he
as yet blindly seeks.
34
SENSATION L. sensus, etc., sentire: to perceive,
to feel; cf. OHG. sinnan: to go,
to journey. The faculty ofreceiving
mental impressions through the action of the sense
organs; or of perceiving changes in the body.
Sensation is erdenergy in action. Readers of modern
psychology will appreciate the distinction which it
has been necessary to draw between sensation and
feeling. Analysis breaks up into parts what appeared
to be single and elementary ; subsequently new
words come into being and old words are assigned
with greater discrimination. The humorous slant
on this dilemma was already noted under the caption
" soul," where" I," soul and mind were confounded.
Thus research of the last decade has sharply separated
the faculties of sensation and feeling and a student
must accustom himself to this division.
Sensation is then the faculty of receiving impressions
of the objective world through the five senses, and of
the subjective world or changes within the physical
body. It is likewise the means of relating the soul to
all activities which it may undertake in -earth.
One whose attitude in life is dominantly determined
by response to pleasurable or to morbid sensation, is
classified as a " sensation type." In the philosophical
history of mankind, this faculty was the first to
evolve, being indispensable to survival and primitive
progress. (Feeling and thinking naturally evolved
more slowly, being relatively unnecessary for sur~
35
viva!.) Thus sensation was the collective dominant
faculty, and many characteristics of humanity to~day
are illustrative of mass regression to this earlier
dominant function. In allegories it has been figured
as the appetites, greed and lust, or stomach and
genitals. The wolf and the leopard are their symbols.
It is significant that all three of the primary faculties
(sensation, feeling, thinking) have a latent range of
power. Few people tap this range consciously, for it
develops through a deliberate restraint ofthe ordinary
range, and the exercising of the extraordinary range,
as for instance by Yog or other secret disciplines.
To this the name PERCEPTION is assigned. One has
then superfine sense organs, that sense, hear, see,
smell (and occasionally taste) what to others remains
unknowable. Clairvoyance, clairaudience, psycho~
metry, belong to this super~sense group, as well as
sensitivities possessed by the medicine man in
extreme, and primitive man in general, such as scent,
sensitivity to impending weather changes, coming
catastrophes, etc. (still possessed by animals). These
sensitivities, as possessed by the medium who goes
into a trance or is little more than a telephone wire,
are usually ab~normalities brought about or at least
aided by other agencies, upon the subtle counterpart
of the physical body wherein the extra~range of
sensitivities is unfolded, regardless of ideal sequential
development from the lower senses. Super~senses
resting securely on a foundation of a nobly propor~
tioned under~structure are in quite a different category
to the oblique development of un~self~possessed
36
senses whose attractive forces usually beguile the
soul to pride and absorption, in the fascination they
possess for most persons. The Leaders such as
Jesus, Gautama, Apollonius, trained their faculties,
but held them quite incidental to mightier works.
All faculties should be developed in comely relation-
ship. Of these things the square, the cube, the cross,
the pyramid, sreak symbolically.
FEELING OS. gifolian : to perceive ; Icel. f alma,
to grope, to perceive by touch. To be
conscious of a subjective fact, as to feel
pleasure, pity, anger.
Feeling is movenergy in action, causing man to
experience in consciousness any one, or several, of
an almost infinite variety of emotions. These differ
vastly in quality and degree and may be wrapped
around an object or situation. Affection, hate, pity,
scorn, fear, anger, resentment, jealousy, hostility,
kindliness, are familiar illustrations. Curiosity, won-
der, reverence, awe, ambition, l>.re also to be so
classed. All of these tend to cause action to or from
the object or situation and therefore are the source
of action in the soul (as compared with action in the
body through the senses). This desire to or from, it
will be recalled, is the activating power of " the
mother of all living." One whose typical reaction to
the world is through feeling, is classified as a " feeling
type."
37
Apart from the enormous recent regression of
collective humanity to the dominance of the sensa~
tion faculty, the normal dominant faculty has for
some time been that of feeling. It is indeed partially
because the dominance is now slowly shifting to the
thinking faculty, that this regression is taking place.
At any great transition, there are those who cannot,
or will not, adapt themselves to the strenuousness of
the change, and who use it as an excuse for the
" easier way " of mass regression. One may well
ponder how much the late war, in legitimatizing
slaughter and prostitution, made this mass regression
possible. Its backwash is still with us, but now
sprayed like a poison throughout the social structure.
It is no longer merely slaughter and prostitution-it
has grown more insidious and its victims have a wider
range.
Metaphysically speaking, feeling is a characteristic of
the psychic world, projected into this dimension.
When intensified to a high degree, and directed in
special ways, it becomes an instrument of superlative
nature. The disciplined mystic knows that this
faculty, like the sense organs, has its super~octave.
It is deplorable, however, that so many pseudo~
mystics mistake lesser emotional states for this octave.
It is so intense that it is quiet ; so fervent that its heat
is white. It rises into what the mystic calls rapture,
transport. Its ultimate fruit is ecstasy.
38
THINKING ME. thenkcn ; D. dunken : to seem,
etc. To exercise the faculties of judg~
ment, conception, or inference, as
distinguished from simple sense perception.
Thinking is manenergy in action at the level ofmental
awareness. It is a faculty of the mind, manifesting
and developing at the human stage of the soul's
evolution. Through it intelligence becomes possible,
and therefore the dawn of consciously determined
actions, based on observation, comparison, judg~
ment. One who reacts to the world primarily
through the thinking faculty, is classified as a thinking
type.
It is the development of this capacity in its highest
degree that is the object of the hu~man evolution. It
is first schooled in the objective world by learning
respect for facts ; then organizing these facts into
knowledge through first~hand experience ; and making
order within its own little domain on the basis of
these two. Then understanding slowly takes form
within the mind, and with quiet power man is now
able to rule the little domain. The crucial stage is
when these abilities are turned on another domain,
man himself, the miniature world of the microcosm.
Here he likewise must move from facts to knowledge,
to understanding, and through these to ruling, in mind,
the household of selves. As he evolves, orders, and
perfects himself in obedience to the Pattern of the
Macrocosm, he is doing the work of the Heroes-
Hercules, Jason, Gilgamesh, Horus, etc. The realrps
39
of the gods are accessible only to those who have
made themselves like. Unfortunately, many well-
intentioned persons labour under the delusion that
they may reach Deity or Infinite Spirit by ardour and
devotion, by yielding their self-will, and practising
the virtues of kindliness, service, and stalwart faith.
These are indeed necessary, but are only attributes
of heroes, not their main fount of expression. Mind
is of another category and is indispensable to know-
ledge of the Larger Worlds. He who has sensed
what Gnosis is, would achieve gnosis.
IMAGINATION L. imago ; L. in1itatus ; Fr. imi-
tare : to imitate. Imagine : to
form a notion or a mental image
of; to picture to one's self. Imagination is the
faculty of weaving memory pictures into an endless
series of combinations. It is spontaneous and largely
at the mercy of stimuli of which the image maker is
unconscious. This is illustrated by day-dreams,
phantasies, hallucinations, etc. However, in many
phases of rational life, imagination is already under-
going an unwitting discipline, as in the setting up of
theories on scientific data, ofplanning and invention,
or of orchestrating a musical theme.
It is also the primary factor in the structure ofdreams,
and is at the disposal of sensation, feeling and think-
ing, the three fundamental faculties. Its spontaneity,
as seen by psychology, is the source of morbid con-
40
ditions, as in fear complexes, or of productions of
great beauty, as in the arts. Both represent, broadly
speaking, a young stage in the use and development
of imagination. There is another type of spontaneity
that comes after long discipline, that is the ideal goal
of this faculty.
Metaphysically studied, imagination is a character~
istic behaviour of the psychic plane, which has its
own stuffs and materia. It is with this that imagina~
tion has to do, and indicates why the understanding
of its nature and use is of momentous consequence in
man's higher development. When he begins his
occult training, he endeavours to image things as
they are, not as he wishes or fears. He is then " true~
ing " his faculty, removing it from the genus of false
personal imagination toward the high order of what
is called true imagination. It becomes a fair and
cherished avenue to larger realms wherein abide
"the things that are." It is a super~cousin of clair~
voyance, with which it has little in common, since
one is only an extension of physical sense organs and
the other a faculty of soul, in rich and disciplined
service to the mystical mind.
INTUITION L. intuitus, p.p. ofintuere: to look on.
Immediate apprehension or cogni~
tion. From the etymological mean~
ing of intuition, as a direct inspection, or looking
upon something, ... arose the meaning of the imme~
diate knowledge of spiritual things....
41
The word intuition is reserved at Pojodag for this
" looking in on spiritual things," which is still its
meaning in philosophical circles (akin to noesis).
Therefore, its usage for " direct cognition " of mun~
dane matters, is to be condemned. It is another high
word that has been dragged into the dust, and has
been used for superstitions, hunches, unconscious
predispositions, clairvoyance, clairaudience, etc.
Dr. Jung speaks of it as a "psychological function
which transmits perceptions in an unconscious way."
But when the transliminal is known and its processes
watched, this description no longer is acceptable.
Actually, intuition is a normal power of the higher
mind, which functions naturally above the limitations
of time because time is not an element of the realms
upon which it looks. It is not the power of thinldng
itself, but the child of a new generation, whose family
stock has long been synchronized with the pattern of
the tree of the Mind. This is the normal road to the
possession of intuition as a constant companion on
those lordly reaches of the latter stages of the Great
Journey. Mind is not abrogated, but it is now joined
by a syzygy from supernal regions. The gnostic
knows what intuition really is ; the psychologist is
endeavouring to learn. Henri Bergson senses beauti··
fully the ideal relation between mind (which he calls
intellect) and intuition: "A complete and perfect
humanity would be that in which these two forms of
conscious activity should attain their full develop~
ment."
42
There are, however, periods within the experience of
the immature soul when it may be put into a condi~
tion by forces outside ofits own volition, and whence
it then " looks in on " great mysteries. When they
are within consciousness, they are preceded by the
signal that indicates conditioning (not vital nor
psychic). The "word" and the "hand " of the
Lord are at work. A practical guide to the difference
between hunches, perceptions, etc. and intuition, is
that the former concern people, situations, condi~
tions, events, whereas the latter are super~personal
and are concerned with cosmic processes. Admirable
illustrations may be found in the first chapter of
Ezekiel, or in the Poemandres of Hermetic tradition.
Very few persons would understand or be interested
in intuitions, even if they had them; nevertheless,
with the egoistic contempt of which ignorance alone
is capable, tl ey have appropriated the word to per~
ceptions of earthly concerns. It gives them the
glow of possessing an unusual power and sets them
apart from their neighbours. Such can know nothing
of the Noumenal world, wherein Truth has her out~
posts, and to whose Gates intuition leads.
43
PART IV
THE TOPOGRAPHY OF MAN
This group of terms pertains to those areas in man
which are comparable to geological strata. Man
undergoes processes ; these as they recede in time,
cause deposits, some of which are easily tapped as
memories, while others remain as predispositions
and as tendencies. In addition to these deposits,
there are qualitative changes. And last but not
least, consciousness is perpetually shifting its beams
of light, so that now one, now another stratum
comes within the range of the knowable.
CONSCIOUSNESS L. conscious; con. : with ;
scire : to know. Immediate
knowledge or perception of
any object, state or sensation.
Consciousness is the light of awareness that bathes
the object, state, or sensation and makes it knowable
to the subject (man), " the light that plays around the
zone of possible actions or potential activity which
surrounds the action really performed by the living
being." (Bergson, Creative Evolution.)
44
By common consent, consciousness usually refers to
the waking state ; states differing from this are called
unconscious, subconscious, foreconscious, precon~
scious, superconscious, etc. Philosophically studied,
however, consciousness may not be equated with the
waking state, for there are many who are learning to
carry the light of awareness with them into various
strata in their own topography. Therefore, con~
sciousness is the state resulting from the light in the
"field of awareness " through the "I." (Vide
Part I.)
UNCONSCIOUS Not conscious. · Areas of man
not illumined by the field of
awareness.
In modern psychology the unconscious is the vast
reservoir containing the imprints of all past experi~
ence, as well as powers and trends which remain
potential. Pleasant and unpleasant are alike deposited
and it is from this welter that the technique ofpsycho~
analysis draws up to consciousness the forgotten
sources of mental and emotional disorders. This
area has been studied through various methods, such
as hypnosis, dreams, associative tests, phantasies and
classical abnormal states. (Vide transliminal.)
SUBCONSCIOUS L. sub : under, below. Below
consciousness. This word,
which was used in the earlier
years of psychological investigation, has been almost
completely replaced by unconscious.
45
FORECONSCIOUS This word, like the word
PRECONSCIOUS, relates to that
part ofthose strata ofmemory
which through mental effort or the association of
ideas, can be made conscious.
TRANSLIMINAL L. tra?Js : across, beyond ;
litninal: line, lintel, threshold.
The word transliminal embraces those regions which
are beyond three-dimensional consciousness, but
with which man is allied by virtue of his own nature.
In philosophical studies a purely psychological
terminology is not sufficient. Metaphysics must
support the research. Therefore, the word trans-
liminal replaces and amplifies the concept of the
unconscious and involves vital, psychic and mental
spheres to which man is related by his life, his
emotions and his thoughts.
In this area are recorded, not only the experiences and
memories of this immediate life, but his entire past.
These are both personal (vide Heritage) and collective,
similarly as man is both an individual member of
society and still partakes of that which is character-
istic of his race and time. It is the long, living path
of the serpentine force, whose manner of movement
has ineradicably recorded its behaviour (the Book of
Life). Because passing through any area implies
partaking of its nature, man has inherent rapport
46
with the psychic world, which occasionally is mani-
fested in dreams (dreams being an aspect of its form
side to man).
For immediate practical inquiry, much of what is
said of the unconscious, applies to the transliminal.
It can be compared to the iceberg, as in Dr. Stanley
Hall's famous analogy, seven-eighths of which is
invisible. It can be seen as the repository of re-
pressed desires, as the hiding-place of disturbing
complexes, as the source of many pathological dis-
orders, as the fount of inspiration and the dream
world of phantasy. It contains primitive impulses,
the "dominants" of Dr. Jung, the visions of the
saint, the ecstasy of the mystic. Through it one may
come to superconsciousness (erroneously called
" cosmic consciousness "), or sink to depths of
abominations ; through it one learns how to be
outside of one's body, in one or another of a number
of possible states. It is the means of extra-mundane
contacts ; it is the nattfral dynamic for this life. It
has its own substances, energies, patterns, trends.
Man is surrounded by it, but he does not know how
to handle it and vacillates between a reductive study,
or a glorifying ofsome aspect in super-terms, without
in the least understanding what he is doing.
There is no doubt that the royal road to a knowledge
of the transliminal and a later ability to function con-
sciously in it, is through the study of dreams- all
dreams, not merely those that are dramatic. These
dreams must be studied analytically, therapeutically,
47
metaphysically, mystically, occultly. One method
succeeds the other as progression is made in what is
called at Pojodag the "pilgrimage into the self." So
one comes to know the nature of the soul and to see
on the horizons, the glowing Patterns of the Great
·Mind.
COLLECTIVE UNCONSCIOUS "The collective
unconscious em-
braces the whole
sphere of inherited functional complexes which Jung
terms archetypes, by means of which the historical
continuity of all human experience exists as special
psychic tendencies or ways of functioning in indivi-
dual psychology." (The Structttre and Meaning of
P.rycho-analysis. Healy, Bronner and Bowers.)
HERITAGE L. heres: of uncertain origin. This
word is used at Pojodag for the
accumulated powers and complexes
of a single soul, acquired in the course of its experi-
ences prior to this life. This of course implies con-
tinuity of soul life.
Heritage is only partially drawn upon to build the
characteristics of the personality ; the balance is
buried ever deeper under the increasing layers of
memories and experience. A deep-high penetration
of the transliminal, in conjunction with other special
training, can tap this heritage.
48
INHERITANCE This word is used to include
those varied and considerable
influences that are concurrent
with the possession of a specific physical body. It
relates to the powers and limitations of the body, as
received from family and race stream, together with
their particular momenta, mores, biases, traditions,
etc.
It may be helpful to note here that heritage, inherit~
ance and environment (time, place, condition) are the
three factors conspiring together to mould the per~
sonality. The stronger the heritage, the greater the
resistance to encroaching inheritance and environ-
ment.
PERSONALITY Fr. persomte; L. persona, mask
for actors; per (through), and
somts (sound).
The word " persona " arises from the custom of
ancient Greek actors who wore a mask to indicate
the role or character they played. The word still
carries the mask idea, and as modern psychology uses
it, refers to the outer behaviour by which man
adjusts to the world. This adjustment requires
protective, evasive, and adaptive mechanisms which
discard fJJatry other tendencies, interests, and habits that
fail to fit into the environment. In the course of
time (through adolescence) the surviving behaviour
patterns crystallize into a mask or personality.
49 D
This mask may be " thick or thin," and of manifold
characteristics, varying according to the nature of the
soul, the power of the inheritance, and the domina~
tion of the environment ; but everyone wears a mask
or a personality. The submerged attitudes are
usually in marked contrast to this outer behaviour,
which constitutes but a minute portion of the house~
hold of the self, to which alas, the personality as
such, has no access. Abilities, powers, knowledge,
of far greater value than those enlisted in the support
of the personality, are in this manner outlawed from
conscious participation in objective experience.
These facts have been amply demonstrated by the
psycho-analytic technique, ·particularly under such
investigators as Dr. Jung of Zurich.
The work of Pojodag, on theses ofits own, requires the
overcoming of the limitations of personality, and the
conscious assimilation of outlawed energies.
A powerful or striking personality (pleasant or un~
pleasant) is due to much of the psychenergy of the
self being pressed outward into the veneering mask.
Seen as an energic situation, it is not favourable to
the soundness of the self, there being too much
pressure at the periphery, and therefore not an even
distribution of the energic influence. There is too
great an unconscious emphasis on the centrifugal
movement. Symmetry requires both the centripetal
and centrifugal movements in conscious control.
50
Seen philosophically, the personality is a product
unwittingly developed, and is to be gradually dis-
integrated in surrender to the individuality.
INDIVIDUALITY L. individius : indivisible. Of
the character of a one, pos-
sessing complexity in unity.
The individuality is to be noted in contrast to the
personality. Individuality is the resultant of a con-
scious response to the laws which govern progress.
It involves differentiation and integration, the
one into many-the early Osiris into his fulfil-
ment, in Horus and his four sons. In the preliminary
processes, the parts of the human soul have been
divided, developed, and are now knit together in the
individual for the common purpose of the organism,
namely, the evolution of the soul. Ignorant persons
speak of unity and simplicity as ideals. On the
contrary, the ideal is diversity and high integration.
Contrast the highly differentiated human organism
with that of the undifferentiated jellyfish ! The per-
sonality is often colourful and dramatic. The
individuality is rich, resourceful, enduring. There
are logical steps in the transition from personality to
individuality, similarly as there are from childhood
to maturity.
Squaring the circle is the symbolical .illustration of
this process.
51
EGO L /. The conscious and permanent subject
of all psychical experiences, whether held to
be directly known or known only through
reflective thought.
The ego is the organized area of primitive stuff,
within the totality of the self. It is necessary to be
familiar with the concept of the evolution of the soul
to grasp the full significance of the ego. As the
soul evolves, its progressions may be compared with
those of an embryonic chick growing within an egg.
It draws on the raw materials of yolk and white to
build its tiny body. In doing this it highly differen-
tiates or makes increasingly different, the relatively
simple; though potential stuff of the egg. The
amount it has differentiated at any given time is com-
parable to the ego. It represmts work done. The chick
does it without conscious labour, while the human
soul does it with ever greater degrees of conscious-
ness. In that it represents work done and that the
soul in its younger stages identifies, indeed merges
itself into what has been done, explains why the ego
is such a tender area, and why in common speech,
egoism (egotism) implies self-conceit. It is thus a
" bumper " which absorbs, recoils, or advances,
according to the capacity of the self. It has its place
philosophically, but should minister to the good of
the self, instead of as is usual, to the personality.
Ego-centric is used at Pojodag to describe a move-
ment of psychenergy toward the ego. It carries no
opprobrium, since a right proportion of such activity
52
must nourish the growing ego. Thus the ego may
grow without implying self-complacency. There are
exercises in the higher discipline that remove this
danger.
Comparing individuality with ego, the former is the
manifestation of the latter. One is the flower, the
other is the plant ; one is the light reflected on many
facets of a precious stone ; the other is the stone
itself; one is the visible man standing forth in his
true growth ; the other is the very core of his being
running structurally through the length and breadth
of him.
PSYCHIC PLANE The psychic plane (world,
sphere, order, area) is too fre-
quent an expression in such
studies as these, to be omitted. It is allegedly
synonymous with astral plane (astro: starry); an
unfortunate misnomer for what old (ancient) philoso-
phers called " watery sphere." The soul manifests in
and through the psychic plane, hence the soul is
often called " psyche."
The psychic plane is (natively) linked with the evolu-
tion ofman. The transliminal discloses unmistakably
some of its characteristics, such as images shaped
according to wish and emotion ; great plasticity ;
condensation of aspects (called " over-determined "
by psycho-analysis), etc. The physical man may be
said to be wrapped in what is comparable to the
membrane of an egg. He is not yet, however,
53
mature in it, hence he knows the world beyond the
membrane (psychic) only vaguely, even though the
membrane unites him to it. As a child in the nursery,
though a part ofthe teeming world, is quite incapable
of apprehending it, much less taking a conscious part
in it, so is the average human in his personal psychic
area. But similarly as the child grows and gradually
participates in the world about it, so man, conscious
in the psychic world, may also learn to participate.
Toward this ability, the work with dreams as prac~
tised at Pojodag House, is markedly affective, and it
is such studies that permit the correction of many
popular ascriptions to the "astral plane."
It is the psychic plane which the soul leaves (to which
it dies) at the birth of the body ; and to which it
returns at the body's death. It is thus most adjacent
to the human-a next-but not a final plane. From
it (and not from the Spiritual plane) come virtually
all the communications received by spiritualists and
students of psychic research. It is undoubtedly this
that has contributed to the popular error of equating
seance room phenomena with the . word psychic.
These are already being classified in another category.
A small volume would be necessary to do the merest
justice to this term.
Volume II contains an expansion of psycholo~
gical and philosophical terms, with an addition
of some mystical and occult words necessary to
the pursuit of these studies. (In preparation.)
54
INDEX
Body
Collective Unconscious
Consicousness
Ego
Erdenergy
Feeling .
Foreconscious
Heritage
Household of Selves
I and Field of Awareness
Imagination
Impulse.
Individuality
Inheritance
Instinct .
Intuition
Light-spark
Man
Manenergy
Movenergy
Personality
Psychenergy
Psychic plane .
Self
Page
19
48
44
52.
2.5
37
46
48
2.1
2.2.
40
33
51
49
z8
41
IO
x8
2.7
z6
49
2.5
53
2.0
Page
Sensation 35
Soul 14
Spirit II
Subconscious . 45
Thinking 39
Transliminal 46
Unconscious 45
Urge 30
Will 31
Wish 30
