{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__mathers_de_laurence___sacred_book_of_abra-melin.pdf","mytitle":"Sacred Book Of Abra-melin","mylang":"de"}
The Book of
THE SACRED MAGIC OF
ABRA=MELIN, THE MAGE
As Delivered by
Abraham the Jew Unto His Son Lantech
A Grimoire of The Fifteenth Century
Translated By
S. L. MacGregor-Mathers
From an Old and Rare French Manuscript
In the Bihliotheque de i'Arsenal at Paris
Prepared for Pubhcation in the United
States of America Under The Editorship of
L. W. DE Laurence
THE DE LAURENCE COMPANY, inc.
CHICAGO
Copylight ig^2
by
The dc Laurence Company
Second Piinting: April, 1939
Third Printing: 1948
MANUFACTURED IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF THE
INTRODUCTION,
By S. L. mac GREGOR-MATHERS.
Notice of the " Biblioth^que de lArsenal" at Paris.—The Manuscript
of the present work known to Bulwer Lytton and Eliphas L6vi.
—Similarity between Mejnour's style of instruction of Glyndon
in " Zanoni " and that employed by Abra-Melin to Abraham
the Jew.—Critical description of the present Manuscript ; its
style ; examples ;
apparent date.—Abraham the Jew, his era,
and occult contemporaries.—His faith and travels. —Abra-Melin.
—Place of residence, and family of Abraham the Jew.—Value
of this Book to Occult students.—Notable persons with whom
Abraham was brought in contact, and for or against whom he
worked Magic.—His warnings against the error of changing one's
religion, whether Jew, Turk, Christian, or Pagan.—The absolute
necessity of unshaken faith in order to produce a Magical effect.
—The Author comparatively broad in his views, though unjust
to women.—Good advice in other matters given by him.—His
counsel of a retired life not borne out by his own history.—White
and Black Magic.—Apparent basal definitions of this particular
system of Sacred Magic.—Its advantages, especially as regards
Abraham's comments on other Professors of Magic he had met.
—The employment of a Child-Clairvoyant, necessary or not.
—
Abraham's intolerance of other Magical systems. —Basis of his
system in the Qabalah.—Example of Magical Square of Letters
from Third Book, compared with a Pentacle in " Key of
Solomon ".
—General character of these.—Practical Qabalah.
—
Definitions of the nature of Angels, Elemental Spirits, and
Devils, with their differences. —Behaviour toward these, as advo-
cated by Abraham.—Meaning of the word Demon, as distinct
iv Table of Contents of the Introduction.
from Devil. —Magic in the " Arabian Nights," compared with
recipes in Third Book of this work.—Faust and the effects he is
said to have produced.—Magic and the Qabalah derived from
Egypt ; difference between Egyptian and Chaldean Magic.
—
Value of a Sacred language and one's mother tongue compared.
—Pentacles and Symbols.—Evocation by the Magic Circle and
Licence to Depart.—Abraham's Remarks on Astrology,—Notes
to this work.—This Introduction written for Occultists only
page XV
Appendix A :
—Table of Hebrew Letters and English Equivalents
page xli
„ B :
—Cagliostro's use of a Child-Clairvoyant page xlii
„ C : —Examples of other forms of Angelic Evocation
page xliii
ACTUAL TEXT :—TABLE OF CONTENTS
OF CHAPTERS.
THE FIRST BOOK.
The Chapters of the First Book have no separate heading of con-
tents given in the text ; while those of the Second and Third
Books have. I have therefore here placed those of the Chapters
of the First Book in parentheses.
PROLOGUE.
(The First Book to be considered as introductory to the two others,
which form the actual original Magic as taught by Abra-Melin)
P<^g^ 3
THE FIRST CHAPTER.
(Abraham's reasons for giving this work as a legacy to his son
Lamech) page 4
THE SECOND CHAPTER.
(His Father Simon had told him somewhat of the Qabalah.—Of the
Magic of Rabbin Moses of Mayence, and how greatly inferior
this was to the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin) . . page 5
THE THIRD CHAPTER.
(Beginning of the Travels of Abraham the Jew, —His going to May-
ence in Vormatia (the district under the rule of Worms) to study
under Rabbin Moses, for four years. —He then forms a friendship
with a young Bohemian Jew named Samuel. —They resolve to
travel together to Constantinople, with the intention of afterwards
visiting Palestine.—They begin their journey on February 13th,
1397, pass through Germany, Bohemia, Austria, Hungary, and
vi Table of Contents of Chapters.
Greece, arriving at length at Constantinople, where they stop two
years, and Samuel dies. —Abraham the Jew then travels into
Egypt, where he remains four years, afterwards going into the
Holy Land, where he remains a twelvemonth. —He there meets
a Christian student of Magic with whom he passes on into the
wilds of Arabia ; but finding no Adept there, Abraham thinks of
returning home) pcig& 7
THE FOURTH CHAPTER.
(He commences his return journey, travelling by Arabia Deserta and
Palestine into Egypt.—Here he lodges with an old Jew named
Aaron, in a small town called Arachi, situated on the banks of
the Nile. —He tells Aaron of his numerous and fruitless travels in
search of some Great Adept in Magic.—Aaron informs him that
in the desert, not very far from Arachi, there dwells a very
learned and pious Mage called Abra-Melin ; and that he will find
him a guide to shew him the route thither. —Abraham visits
Abra-Melin, and finds in him at length the Great and Wise
Magician he has so long sought.—He remains with him and
studies under him.—Abra-Melin gives him two Books on Magic
to copy, which form the basis of the Second and Third Books of
this work.—Abra-Melin implies that this true Sacred Magical
Science will only remain among the Jews seventy-two years
longer.—At length Abraham quits Abra-Melin, and goes to
Constantinople, where he is detained by illness for two months.
—He returns home by ship to Trieste, and thence through
Dalmatia) p(^g^ lO
THE FIFTH CHAPTER.
(Concerning the various Professors of Magical Art, whom Abraham
had found in the course of his travels.—Of Rabbin Moses of
Mayence.—Of James a Christian of Argentine, and a juggler.
—
Of a Black Magician called Antony of Prague in Bohemia, and
his fearful end.—Of the Magicians in Austria.—Of the Magicians
in Greece.—Of a Magician of Ephiba, near Constantinople, who
wrote certain numbers on the ground.—Of the Magicians, Simon,
and Rabbin Abraham of Constantinople.—Of the Egyptian
Magicians, Horay, Abimech, Alcaon, Orilach, and Abimelec.
—
Of the Arabian Magicians.—Abra-Melin the only truly Great
Table of Contents of Chapters. vH
Adept.—Of a Magician, Joseph of Paris, a Christian who had
become converted to the Jewish faith, and whose Magic was
after the nature of that of Abra-Melin.—Abraham warns Lamech
of the error of renouncing the religion in which a man is brought
up) page 15
THE SIXTH CHAPTER.
(Errors in the Magic of Rabbin Moses.—The Black Magic of Antony
the Bohemian of Prague.—The manner of his death.—Of the
Austrian Magicians.—Of the young Sorceress of Lintz, with
whom he experimented.—Of the Greek Arts of Magic.—Of the
many systems of Magical working, and how that of Abra-Melin
was the best ; because based on the Wisdom of the Qabalah)
page 19
THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.
(Abraham prepares to perform the Operation recommended in this
work.—He acquires the knowledge and vision of his Guardian
Angel ; and of the Symbols of Magic like those of the Third
Book) page 24
THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.
(That he practised Magic with success from 1409 to 1458.—Of the
divers persons he healed.—Of the Magical aid he gave to the
Emperor Sigismund of Germany ; how he lent him a Familiar
Spirit ; and how he facilitated his marriage.—Of the aid he gave
to Count Frederic by making magically an army of 2000
horsemen appear.—How he helped the Bishop of his City.
—
How he delivered the Count of Varvich (Warwick) from an
English prison.—How he aided the flight of Pope John XXIII
from the Council of Constance.—How he forced a person
who had stolen from him, while with the Duke of Bavaria, to
confess the theft and restore the money.—Of his warnings and
prophecies to the Greek Emperor (Constantine Palaeologos).
—
How he performed the feat of raising a dead person to life, on
two occasions, in Saxonia, and in the Marquisate of Magdeburgh.
—How he obtained by Magic, both his marriage and a consider-
able treasure of money) page 27
viii Table of Contents of Chapters.
THE NINTH CHAPTER.
(General Advice.—That this Art is founded on the Holy Qabalah.
—
That all the Signs written in the Third Book are written with the
Letters of the Fourth Hierarchy ; but that the mysterious words
are taken from Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Chaldee, Persian, and
Arabic) page 35
THE TENTH CHAPTER.
(Warning advice against the deceits of the Devil and the Evil Spirits)
page 38
THE ELEVENTH CHAPTER
(General Advice) page 40
THE TWELFTH CHAPTER.
(Additional advice regarding the communication with the Guardian
Angel ; and of the use of a Child as Clairvoyant in the
Invocation) page 43
THE SECOND BOOK.
PROLOGUE.
(Concerning the Sacred Magic) page 49
THE FIRST CHAPTER.
How many, and what, are the classes of Veritable Magic . page 50
THE SECOND CHAPTER.
What we ought to take into consideration before the undertaking of
this Operation page 52
THE THIRD CHAPTER.
Of the Age and Quality of the person who wisheth to undertake this
Operation p^ge 55
THE FOURTH CHAPTER.
That most Books on Magic be false and vain . . . page 56
Table of Contents of Chapters. ix
THE FIFTH CHAPTER.
That in this Operation it is necessary to make election neither of
time, day, nor hour page 59
THE SIXTH CHAPTER.
Concerning the Planetary Hours, and other Errors of the Astrologers
page 60
THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.
Regarding what it is necessary to accomplish during the first two
Moons of the beginning of this Veritable and Sacred Magic
page 64
THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.
Concerning the two second Moons ..... page 69
THE NINTH CHAPTER.
Concerning the two last Moons which must be thus commenced
page 70
THE TENTH CHAPTER.
Concerning what things a Man may learn and study during these
two Moons page 72
THE ELEVENTH CHAPTER
Concerning the Selection of the Place page 74
THE TWELFTH CHAPTER.
How one should keep oneself in order to carry out this Operation
well page 77
THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER.
Concerning the Convocation of the Good Spirits . . . page 81
THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.
Concerning the Convocation of the Spirits .... page 86
THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.
Concerning what you should demand of the Spirits, who are divided
X Table of Contents of Chapters.
into three different Troops, and convoked on three separate
days page 92
THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.
Concerning the sending them away page 97
THE SEVENTEENTH CHAPTER.
What we should answer unto the interrogations of the Spirits, and
how we should resist their demands .... page 98
THE EIGHTEENTH CHAPTER.
How he who intendeth to operate ought to conduct himself with
regard to the Spirits page 10
1
THE NINETEENTH CHAPTER.
Description of the Names of the Spirits upon whom we may call to
obtain that which we desire ..... 'page 104
THE TWENTIETH CHAPTER.
In what manner we ought to carry out the Operations . -Page 123
THE THIRD BOOK.
PROLOGUE.
(Brief Advice) page 163
THE FIRST CHAPTER.
How to know all kinds of things Past and Future, which be not how-
ever directly opposed to God, and against His Holy Will
page 165
THE SECOND CHAPTER.
How to acquire information, and be enlightened concerning every
kind of proposition, and all doubtful sciences . . .page 172
THE THIRD CHAPTER.
How to cause any Spirit to appear, and take various forms, as of man,
of animal, of bird, etc page 174
Table of Contents of Chapters. xi
THE FOURTH CHAPTER.
To procure divers Visions ...... -Page 175
THE FIFTH CHAPTER.
How one may retain the Familiar Spirits bound or free, in whatsoever
form page 178
THE SIXTH CHAPTER.
How to make manifest mines, and push on all manner of work con-
nected therewith ....... -Page 182
THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.
To cause a Spirit to perform all manner of Chemical work and
Operations with facility and promptitude, especially as regards
Metals page 184
THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.
To excite Tempests page 186
THE NINTH CHAPTER.
To transform Animals into Men, and Men into Animals. (Also to
transform Animals into Stones) page 187
THE TENTH CHAPTER.
To prevent all operations of Necromancy and Magic from producing
any effect ; except the Operations of the Qabalah, and of this
Sacred Magic page 190
THE ELEVENTH CHAPTER.
To cause to be brought to one any kind of book, and whether lost or
stolen page 192
THE TWELFTH CHAPTER.
To know Secrets, and especially those of any person . .page 194
THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER.
How to make a Corpse rise from the Dead, and perform all the Opera-
xii Table of Contents of Chapters
tions which the person would do were he living, and this during
the space of seven years, through the means of the Spirit, page 196
THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.
The Twelve Symbols for the Twelve Hours of the Day and of the
Night, in order to make oneself Invisible to every person, page 198
THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.
To cause the Spirits to bring us everything to eat and drink which we
may wish, and even everything which we can think of .page 201
THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.
How to discover and take possession of all kinds of Treasure, pro-
vided that it be in no way (Magically) guarded . -page 203
THE SEVENTEENTH CHAPTER.
How to fly in the Air and go wherever one may wish . -pag^ 209
THE EIGHTEENTH CHAPTER.
To heal divers Maladies page 211
THE NINETEENTH CHAPTER.
For all kinds of Affection and Love page 214
THE TWENTIETH CHAPTER.
To excite every kind of Hatred, Enmity, Discord, Quarrels; Contests,
Combats, Battles, Loss, and Damage . . . .pagc 220
THE TWENTY-FIRST CHAPTER.
To transform oneself, and take divers shapes and forms -Pag^ 223
THE TWENTY-SECOND CHAPTER.
This Chapter is only for working Evil, for with the Signs herein we
can cast Spells, and perform every kind of Evil Work. We should
not avail ourselves hereof ..... -Pag^ 225
THE TWENTY-THIRD CHAPTER.
To demolish Buildings and Castles page 227
Table of Contents of Chapters. xiii
THE TWENTY-FOURTH CHAPTER.
To discover Thefts page 229
THE TWENTY-FIFTH CHAPTER.
To walk and operate in and under water . . . .page 231
THE TWENTY-SIXTH CHAPTER.
How to open every kind of lock without a Key, and without noise
page 232
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH CHAPTER.
How to cause Visions to appear ..... -Page 234
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH CHAPTER.
How to obtain as much gold and silver as one may wish, both to be
able to provide for the necessaries of life, and to live in opulence
page 243
THE TWENTY-NINTH CHAPTER.
How to cause Armed Men to appear page 245
THE THIRTIETH CHAPTER.
To make Comedies, Operas, and all kinds of Music and Dances to
appear page 246
CONCLUSION.
Remarks on these Symbols of the foregoing Chapters . .pag^ 248
The Order of the First Hierarchy page 260
The Order of the Second Hierarchy .... -Page 260
The Order of the Third Hierarchy ... .page 261
THE END.
INTRODUCTION,
BY
S. L. MAC GREGOR-MATHERS.
IVING perhaps to the circumstance that the indis-
pensable " Bcedecker " accords only a three or
four line notice to the " BibliotKeque de rAr-
senal " ; but few English or American visitors
to Paris are acquainted with its name, situation,
or contents, though nearly all know at least by sight the
" BibliotKeque Nationale " and the " BibliotKeque Mazarin ".
This " Library of the Arsenal,'' as it is now called, was
founded as a private collection by Antoine Rene Voyer D'Argen-
son. Marquis de Paulny ; and was first opened to the public
on the ()th Floreal, in the fifth year of the French Republic
[that is to say, on z^th April, iy()j)-> or just a century ago.
This Marquis de Paulny was born in the year 1722, died in
1787, and wa'i successively Minister of War, and Ambassador
to Switzerland, to Poland, and to the Venetian Republic. His
later years were devoted to the formation of this Library, said
to be one of the richest private collections known. It was
acquired in 1785 by the Comte UArtois, and to-day belongs
to the State. It is situated on the right bank of the Seine, in the
Rue de Sully, near the river, and not far from the Place de la
Bastille, and is known as the '^
Bibliotheque de FArsenal ". In
round numbers it now possesses joo,ooo printed books, and about
8000 manuscripts, many of them being of considerable value.
Among the latter is this Book ofthe Sacred Magic of Abra-
Melin, as delivered by Abraham the few unto his son Lamech ;
which I now give to the public in printedformfor the first time.
xvi Introduction.
Many years ago I heard of the existence of this manu-
scriptfrom a celebrated occultist^ since dead; and more recently
my attention was again called to it by my personal friend^ the
well-known French author^ lecturer and poet^ fules Bois,
whose attention has been for some time turned to occult subjects.
Myfirst-mentioned informant told me that it was known both to
Bulwer Lytton and 1^liphas Levi, that the former had based
part of his description of the Sage Rosicrucian Mejnour on that
of Abra-Melin, while the account of the so-called Observatory
of Sir Philip Derval in the " Strange Story " was lo an extent
copied from and suggested by that of the Magical Oratory and
Terrace, given in the Eleventh Chapter of the Second Book of
this present work. Certainly also the manner of instruction
applied by Mejnour in " Zanoni " to the Neophyte Glyndon,
together with the test of leaving him alone in his abode to go on
a short journey and then returning unexpectedly, is closely
similar to that employed by Abra-Melin to Abraham, with
this difference, that the latter successfully passed through that
test, while Glyndon failed. It would also be especially such
experiments as those described at length in the Third Book,
which the author of the " Strange Story " had in view when
he makes Sir Philip Derval in the MS. history of his life
speak of certain books describing occult experiments, some of
which he had tried and to his surprise found succeed.
This rare and unique manuscript of the Sacred Magic of
Abra-Melin, from which the present work is translated, is a
French translation from the original Hebrew of Abraham the
yew. It is in the style of script usual at about the end of the
seventeenth and beginning of the eighteenth centuries, and is
apparently by the same hand as another MS. of the Magic of
Picatrix* also in the "-^
Bibliotheque de rArsenal''. I know
of no other existing copy or replica of this Sacred Magic of
Abra-Melin, not even in the British Museum, whose enormous
collection of Occult Manuscripts I have very thoroughly studied.
* Probably the same as Gio Peccatrix the Magician, the author of
many Manuscripts on Magic.
Introduction. xvii
Neither have 1 ever heard by traditional report of the existence
of any other copy. In giving it now to the Public^ I feel^
therefore^ that I am conferring a real benefit upon English and
American students of Occultism., by placing within their reach
for the first time a Magical work of such importance from the
Occult standpoint.
The Manuscript is divided into three Books., each with its
separate Title Page., surrounded by an ornamental border of
simple design^ in red and black ink., and which is evidently not
intended to be symbolical in the slightest degree., but is simply
the work of a conscientious caligraphist wishing to give an
appearance of cleanness and completeness to the Title Page.
The wording of each is the same : " Livre Premier (Second
or Troisieme, as the case may be) de la Sacree Magie que
Dieu donna a Moyse, Aaron, David, Salomon et a d'autres
Saints Patriarches et Prophetes qui enseigne la vraye
sapience Divine laissee par Abraham a Lamech son Fils
traduite de I'hebreu 1458 ". I give the translated title at
the commencement of each of the Three Books.
On the fly-leaf of the original MS. is the following note
in the handwriting of the end of the eighteenth century :—
" This Volume contains 3 Books, of which here is the
first.—The Abraham and the Lamech., of whom there is here
made question., were fews of the fifteenth century, and it is
well known that the fews of that period possessing the Cabala
of Solomon passedfor being the best Sorcerers and Astrologers.^''
Then follows in another and recent hand : —
" Volume composed of three parts—
\st part 102 pages.
2nd „ 194 „
June, 1883."
xviii Introduction.
The style of the French employed in the text of the MS. is
somewhat vague and obscure^ two qualities unhappily heightened
by the almost entire absence of any attempt at punctuation, and
the comparative rarity of paragraphic arrangement. Even
the full stop at the close of a sentence is usually omitted, neither
is the commencement of a fresh one marked by a capital letter.
The following example is taken from near the end of the Third
Book : " Cest pourquoy la premiere chose que tu dois
faire principalement ates esprits familiers sera de leur
commander de ne tedire jamais aucune chose deuxmemes
que lorsque tu les interrogeras amoins queles fut pour
tavertir des choses qui concerne ton utilite outon prejudice
parceque situ ne leur limite pas leparler ils tediront tant
etdesi grandes choses quils tofusquiront lentendement et
tu ne scaurois aquoy tentenir desorte que dans la confusion
des choses ils pourroient te faire prevariquer ettefaire
tomber dans des erreurs irreparables ne te fais jamais
prier en aucune chose ou tu pourras aider et seccourir
tonprochain et nattends pas quil tele demande mais tache
descavoir afond," etc. This extract may be said to ginje a
fair idea of the average quality of the French. The style,
however, of the First Book is much more colloquial than that
of the Second and Third, it being especially addressed by
Abraham to Lamech, his son, and the second person singular
being employed throughout it. As some English readers may
be ignorant of the fact, it is perhaps as well here to remark
that in French " tu," thou, is only used between very intimate
friends and relations, between husband and wife, lovers, etc. ;
whtle "vous," you, is the more usual mode of address to the
world in general. Again, in sacred books, in prayers, etc.,
"vous" is used, where we employ " thou " as having a more
solemn sound than " tu ". Hence the French verb " tutoyer," =
''to be veryfamiliar with, to be on extremely friendly terms with
any one, and even to be insolently familiar''. This First Book
contains advice concerning Magic, and a description of Abra-
ham's Travels and experiences, as well as a mention ofthe many
Introduction. xix
marvellous works he had been able to accomplish by means of
this system of Sacred Magic. The Second and Third Books
{which really contain the Magic of Abra-Melin, and are prac-
tically based on the two MSS. entrusted by him to Abraham., the
Jew^ but with additional comments by the latter) differ in style
from the formery the phraseology is quaint and at times vague
^
and the second person plural, "vous," is employed for the most
part instead of ^^tu'\
The work may then be thus roughly classified
:
—
First Book : = Advice and Autobiography ; both ad-
dressed by the Author to his son Lamech.
Second Book : = General and complete description of
the means of obtaining the Magical Powers
desired.
Third Book : — The application of these Powers to
produce an immense number of Magical results.
Though the chapters of the Second and Third Books have
special headings in the actual text., those of the First Book
have none ; wherefore in the " Table of Contents'' I have sup-
plemented this defect by a careful analysis of thtir subject matter.
This system of Sacred Magic Abraham acknowledges to
have received from the Mage Abra-Melin ; and claims to
have himself personally and actually wrought most of the
wonderful effects described in the Third Book., and many others
besides.
Who then was this Abraham the few ? It is possible,
though there is no mention of this in the MS., that he was a
descendant of that Abraham the few who wrote the celebrated
Alchemical work on twenty-one pages of bark or papyrus, which
came into the hands of Nicholas Flamel, and by whose study
the latter is said eventually to have attained the possession of
the '^ Stone of the Wise'\ The only remains of the Church of
Saint Jacques de la Boucherie which exists at the present day,
is the tower, which stands near the Place du Chdtelet, about
ten minutes' walk from the Bibliotheque de rArsenal; and there
is yet a street near this tower which bears the title of
*'
Rue
XX Introduction.
Nicolas FlameI,'' so that his memory still survives in Paris^
together with that of the Church close to which he lived, and
to which, after the attainment of the Philosopher s Stone, he and
his wife Pernelle caused a handsome peristyle to be erected.
From his own account, the author of the present work
appears to have been born in A.D. 1362, and to have written
this manuscript for his son, Lamech, in 1458, being then in his
ninety-sixth year. That is to say^ that he was the contemporary
both of Nicholas Flamel and Pernelle, and also of the mystical
Christian Rosenkreutz, the founder of the celebrated Rosicrucian
Order or Fraternity in Europe. Like the latter, he appears
to have been very early seized with the desire of obtaining
Magical Knowledge ; like him and Flamel, he left his home and
travelled in search of the Initiated Wisdom ; like them both, he
returned to become a worker of wonders. At this period, it
was almost universally believed that the Secret Knowledge was
only really obtainable by those who were willing to quit their
home and their country to undergo dangers and hardships in its
quest ; and this idea even obtains to an extent in the present day.
The life of the late Madame Blavatsky is an example in point.
This period in which Abraham the few lived was one
in which Magic was almost universally believed in, and in
which its Professors were held in honour ; Faust (who was
probably also a contemporary of our author^ Cornelius Agrippa,
Sir Michael Scott, and many others I could name, are examples
of this, not to mention the celebrated Dr. Dee in a later age.
The history of this latter Sage, his association with Sir Edward
Kelly, and the part he took in the European politics of his
time are too well known to need description here.
That Abraham the few was not one whit behind any of
these Magicians in political influence, is evident to any one who
peruses this work. He stands a dim and shadowy figure behind
the tremendous complication of central European upheaval at
that terrible and instructive epoch ; as Adepts of his type always
appear and always have appeared upon the theatre of history
in great crises of nations. The age which could boast simul-
Introduction. xxl
taneously three rival claimants to the direction of two of the
greatest levers of the society of that era—the Papacy and the
Germanic Empire—when the jealousies of rival Bishoprics^ the
overthrow of Dynasties^ the Roman Church shaken to her
foundations, sounded in Europe the tocsin of thatfearful struggle
which invariably precedes social reorganisation, that wild whirl-
wind of national convulsion which engulfs in its vortex the
civilisation of a yesterday, but to prepare the reconstitution of a
morrow. The enormous historical importance of such men as
our Author is always underrated, generally doubted ; notwith-
standing that like the writing on the wall at Belshazzars
feast, their manifestation in the political and historical arena is
like the warning of a Mene, Mene Tekel, JJpharsin, to a
foolish and undiscerning world.
The full and true history of any Adept could only be
written by himself, and even then, if brought before the eyes
of the world at large, how many persons would lend credence
to it ? and even the short and incomplete statement of the notable
events of our Author s life contained in the First Book, will be
to most readers utterly incredible of belief. But what must
strike all alike is the tremendous faith of the man himself, as
witnessed by his many and dangerous journeyings for so many
years through wild and savage regions and places difficult of
access even in our own day with all the increased facilities of
transit which we enjoy. This faith at length brought him its
reward, though only at the moment when even he was becoming
discouraged and sick at heart with disappointed hope. Like his
great namesake, the forefather of the Hebrew race, he had not
in vain left his home, his " Vr of the Chaldees,'' that he might
at length discover that Light of Initiated Wisdom, for which
his soul had cried aloud within him for so many years. This
culmination of his wanderings was his meeting with Abra-
Melin, the Egyptian Mage. From him he received that system
of Magical instruction and practice which forms the body of the
Second and Third Books of this work.
In the Manuscript original this name is spelt in several
xxii Introduction.
different ways^ I have noted this in the text wherever it occurs.
The variations are : Ahra-Melin, Abramelin^ Abramelim^ and
Abraha-Melin, From these I have selected the orthography
Abra-Melin to place on the title page, and I have adhered to
the same in this Introduction.
As far as can be gathered from the text, the chiefplace
of residence of Abraham the few after his travels was
Wurzburg, or, as it was called in the Middle Ages, " Her-
bipolis ". He appears to have married his cousin, and by her
to have had two sons, the elder, named foseph, whom he
instructed in the Mysteries of the Holy Qabalah, and
Lamech, the younger, to whom he bequeaths this system of
Sacred Magic as a legacy, and to whom the whole of the
First Book is addressed. He speaks further of three daughters,
to each of whom he gave 100,000 golden florins as a dowry.
He expressly states that he obtained both his wife, and a
treasure of 3,000,000 golden florins, by means of some of
the Magical Operations described in the Third Book. He
further admits that his first inclination to Qabalistical and
Magical studies was owing to certain instructions in the Secrets
of the Qabalah, which he received when young from his father,
Simon ; so that after the death of the latter his most earnest
desire was to travel in search of an Initiated Master.
To the sincere and earnest student of Occultism this work
cannot fail to be of value, whether as an encouragement to that
most rare and necessary quality, unshaken faith ; as an aid to
his discrimination between true and false systems of Magic ; or
as presenting an assemblage of directions for the production of
Magical effects, which the Author of the book affirms to have
tried with success.
Especially valuable are the remarks of Abraham the
few on the various Professors of the " Art which none may
name " in the course of his wanderings and travels ; the
account of the many wonders he worked ; and, above all, the
careful classification of the Magical Experiments in the Third
Book, together with his observations and advice thereon.
Introduction. xxiii
Not least in interest are the many notable persons of that
age for or against whom he performed marvels : The Bumperor
Sigismund of Germany : Count Frederic the Quarreller : the
Bishop of his city [probably either fohn /., who began the
foundation of the Wurzburg University in 1403 with the
authorisation of Pope Boniface IX., or else Echter von Mes-
pelbrunn, who completed the same noble work) : the Count of
Warwick : Henry VI. of England : the rival Popes—John
XXIII., Martin F., Gregory XII., and Benedict XIII.: the
Council of Constance : the Duke of Bavaria : Duke Leopold
of Saxony : the Greek Emperor, Constantine Palaologos : and
probably the Archbishop Albert of Magdeburg : and also
some of the Hussite headers—a roll of names celebrated in the
history of that stirring time.
Considering the era in which our Author lived, and the
nation to which he belonged, he appears to have been somewhat
broad in his religious views ; for not only does he insist that
this Sacred system of Magic may be attained by any one, whether
few. Christian, Mahometan, or Pagan, but he also continually
warns Lamech against the error of changing the religion in
which one has been brought up ; and he alleges this circum-
stance as the reason of the occasional failures of the Magician
foseph of Paris (the only other person he mentions besides
himself and Abra-Melin who was acquainted with this par-
ticular system of Magic) , namely that having been brought up
a Christian, he had renounced that faith and become a few.
At first sight it does not seem clear from the Occult point of
view what particular Occult disadvantage should be attached
to such a line of action. But we must remember, that in his
age, the conversion to another religion invariably meant an
absolute, solemn and thorough renunciation and denial of
any truth in the religion previously professed by the
convert. Herein would be the danger, because whatever the
errors, corruption, or mistakes in any particular form of re-
ligion, all are based on and descended from the acknowledgment
of Supreme Divine Powers. Therefore to deny any religion
xxiv Introduction.
(instead of only abjuring the mistaken or erroneous parts thereoj )
would be equivalent to denying formally and ceremonially the
truths on which it was originally founded ; so that whenever a
person having once done this should begin to practise the Opera-
tions of the Sacred Magic^ he would find himself compelled to
ajirm with his whole willforce those very formulas which he
had at one time magically and ceremonially [though ignor-
antly) denied ; and whenever he attempted to do this, the occult
Law of Reaction would raise as a Ceremonial Obstacle against the
effect which he should wish to produce, the memory of that Cere-
monial Denial which his previous renunciation hadfirmly sealed
in his atmosphere. And the force of this would be in exact
proportion to the manner and degree in which he had renounced
his former creed. For of all hindrances to Magical action, the
very greatest and most fatal is unbelief for it checks and stops
the action of the Will. Even in the commonest natural opera-
tions we see this. No child could learn to walk, no student
could assimilate the formulas of any science, were the impracti-
cability and impossibility of so doing the first thing in his mind.
Wherefore it is that all Adepts and Great 'Teachers of Religion
and of Magic have invariably insisted on the necessity offaith.
But though apparently more broad in view in admitting
the excellence of every religion, unfortunately he shows the usual
injustice to and jealousy of women which has distinguished men
for so many ages, and which as far as I can see arises purely
and simply from an innate consciousness that were women once
admitted to compete with them on any plane without being handi-
capped as they have been for so many centuries, the former
would speedily prove their superiority, as the Amazons of old
did; which latter [as the writings even of their especial enemies,
the Greeks, unwillingly admit) when overcome, were conquered
by superior numbers, not by superior valour. However, Abra-
ham the Jew grudgingly admits that the Sacred Magic may
be attained by a virgin, while at the same time dissuading any
one from teaching it to her ! The numerous advanced female
occult students of the present day are the best answer to this.
Introduction. xxv
But notwithstanding the forementioned shortcomings^ his
advice on the manner of using Magical Power^ when acquired^
to the honour of God, the wefare and relief of our neighbour,
andfor the benefit of the whole Animate Creation, is worthy of
the highest respect ; and no one can peruse it without feeling
that his highest wish was to act up to his beliej.
His counsel, however, of a retired life after attaining
Magical Power by his system (I do not speak of the retirement
during the six months' preparation for the same) is not borne
out by his own account of his life, wherein we find him so
constantly involved in the contests and convulsions of the time.
Also, however much the life of a hermit or anchorite may
appear to be advocated, we rarely, if ever, find it followed by
those Adepts whom 1 may perhaps call the initiated and wonder-
working medium between the Great Concealed Adepts and the
Outer World. An example of the former class we may find in
our Author, an example of the latter in Abra-Melin.
The particular scheme or system of Magic advocated in
the present work is to an extent " sui generis," but to an extent
only. It is rather the manner of its application which makes
it unique. In Magic, that is to say, the Science of the Control
of the Secret Forces of Nature, there have always been two
great schools, the one great in Good, the other in Evil ; the
former the Magic of Light, the latter that of Darkness ; the
former usually depending on the knowledge and invocation of
the Angelic natures, the latter on the method of evocation of the
Demonic races. Usually the former is termed White Magic,
as opposed to the latter, or Black Magic.
The invocation of Angelic Forces, then, is an idea common
in works of Magic, as also are the Ceremonies of Pact with and
submission to the Evil Spirits. The system, however, taught in
the present work is based on the following conception : (a) That
the Good Spirits and Angelic Powers of Light are superior in
power to the Fallen Spirits of Darkness, ifi)
That these latter
as a punishment have been condemned to the service of the
Initiates of the Magic of Light. {This Idea is to be found
xxvi Introduction.
also in the Koran ; or^ as it is frequently and perhaps more
correctly written^ ''
Qur-an'\) (y) yis a consequence of this
doctrine^ all ordinary material effects and phenomena are
produced by the labour of the Evil Spirits under the command
usually of the Good. (S) That consequently whenever the Evil
Demons can escape from the control of the Good., there is no evil
that they will not work by way of vengeance, (c) That there-
fore sooner than obey man., they will try to make him their
servant., by inducing him to conclude Pacts and Agreements with
them. {JQj
That to further this project^ they will use every
means that offers to obsess him. (17) That in order to become
an Adept., therefore., and dominate them ; the greatest possible
firmness of will., purity of soul and intent., and power of self-
control is necessary, {d) That this is only to be attained by
self-abnegation on every plane, (t) That man., therefore., is the
middle nature., and natural controller of the middle nature
between the Angels and the Demons., and that therefore to each
man is attached naturally both a Guardian Angel and a
Malevolent Demon, and also certain Spirits that may become
Familiars, so that with him it rests to give the victory
unto the which he will, (k) That, therefore, in order to
control and make service of the Lower and Evil, the knowledge
of the Higher and Good is requisite [i.e., in the language of
the Theosophy of the present day, the knowledge of the Higher
Self).
From this tt results that the magnum opus propounded
in this work is : by purity and self-denial to obtain the knowledge
of and conversation with one's Guardian Angel, so that thereby
and thereafter we may obtain the right of using the Evil Spirits
for our servants in all material matters.
This, then, is the system of the Secret Magic of Abra-
Melin, the Mage, as taught by his disciple Abraham the Jew
;
and elaborated down to the smallest points.
Except in the professed Black Magic Grimoires, the
necessity of the invocation of the Divine and Angelic Forces to
control the Demons is invariably insisted upon in the operations
Introduction. xxvii
of evocation described and taught in Mediaeval Magical
Manuscripts and published works. So that it is not so much^
as I have before said^ this circumstance, as the mode of its
development by the Six Moons' preparation, which is unusual
;
while again, the thorough and complete classification of the
Demons with their offices, and of the effects to be produced by
their services, is not to be found elsewhere.
Apart from the interest attaching to the description of his
travels, the careful manner in which Abraham has made note
of the various persons he had met professing to be in the posses-
sion of Magical powers, what they really could do and could
not do, and the reasons of the success or failure of their experi-
ments, has a particular value of its own.
The idea of the employment of a Child as Clairvoyant in
the invocation of the Guardian Angel is not unusual ; for
example, in the " Mendal,'' a style of Oriental Divination
familiar to all readers of Wilkie Collins' novel, " The Moon-
stone^' ink is poured into the palm of a Childs hand, who, after
certain mystical words being recited by the Operator, beholds
visions clairvoyantly therein. The celebrated evocation at which
the great Mediaeval Sculptor, Benvenuto Cellini, is said to have
assisted, also was in part worked by the aid of a Child as Seer.
Cagliostro * also is said to have availed himself of the services
of Children in this particular. But for my part I cannot
understand the imperative necessity of the employment of a Child
in the Angelic evocation, if the Operator be pure in mind, and
has developed the clairvoyant faculty which is latent in every
human being, and which is based on the utilisation of the thought-
vision. This thought-vision is exercised almost unconsciously by
every one in thinking of either a place, person, or thing, which
they know well ; immediately, coincident with the thought, the
image springs before the mental sight ; and it is but the
conscious and voluntary development of this which is the basis
of what is commonly called clairvoyance. Among the High-
landers of Scotland, the faculty, as is well known, is of common
* See Appendix B.
xxviii Introduction.
manifestation ; and by the English it is usually spoken of as
''
Secoml-Sight'\
Unfortunately^ like far too many modern Occultists^ Abra-
ham the few shows a marked intolerance of Magical systems
differing from his own ; even the renowned name of Petrus di
Abano^ is not sufficient to save the " Heptameron or Magical
Elements " from condemnation in the concluding part of the
Third Book. Works on Magic, Written Conjurations, Pen-
tacles., Seals, and Symbols, the employment of Magical Circles,
the use of any language but one's mother tongue, appear atfrst
sight to be damned wholesale, though on a more careful exam-
ination of the text I think we shall find that it is rather their
abuse through ignorance of their meaning which he intends to
decry, than their intelligent and properly regulated use.
It will be well here to carefully examine these points from
the occult standpoint of an Initiate, and for the benefit of real
students.
Abraham in several places insists that the basis of this
system of Sacred Magic is to be found in the Qabalah. Now,
he expressly states that he has instructed his eldest son, foseph,
herein as being his right by primogeniture, even as he himself
had received somewhat of Qabalistic instruction from his father,
Simon. But this system of Magic he bequeaths to his younger
son, Lamech, expressly as a species of recompense to him
for not being taught the Qabalah, his status as a younger
son being apparently a serious traditional disqualification. This
being so, the reason is evident why he warns Lamech against
the use of certain Seals, Pentacles, incomprehensible words, etc. ;
because most of these being based on the secrets of the Qabalah^
their use by a person ignorant hereof might be excessively dan-
gerous through the not only possible but probable perversion of
the Secret Formulas therein contained. Any advanced student
of Occultism who is conversant with Mediaeval works on Magic,
whether MS. or printed, knows the enormous and incredible
number of errors in the Sigils, Pentacles, and Hebrew or
* Born about 1250.
Introduction. XXIX
Chaldee Names^ which have arisen from ignorant transcrip-
tion and reproduction ; this being carried to such an extent that
in some cases the use of the distorted formulas given would
actually have the effect of producing the very opposite result
to that expected from them. (/ have commented at length on
this subject in my notes to the " Key of Solomon^' published by
me a few years ago.) Wherefore Abraham the few it
appears to me, in his anxiety to save his son from dangerous
errors in Magical working, has preferred to endeavour to fill
him with contempt for any other systems and methods of opera-
tion than the one here laid down. For also besides the unin-
tentionalperversions of Magical Symbols I have above mentioned,
there was further the circumstance not only possible but probable
of the many Black Magic Grimoires falling into his hands, as
they evidently had into Abraham's, the Symbols in which are
in many cases intentional perversions of Divine Names and
Seals, so as to attract the Evil Spirits and repel the Good.
For the Third Book of this work is crowded with Qabal-
istic Squares of Letters, which are simply so many Pentacles,
and in which the Names employed are the very factors which
make them of value. Among them we fnd a form of the
celebrated Sator, Arepo, Tenet, Opera, Rotas, which is one
of the Pentacles in the " Key of Solomon ". Abrahanis for-
mula is slightly different
:
—
s
XXX Introduction.
/ ghe the Hebrew form [see Appendix A^ Itable of Hebrew
and Chaldee Letters) of Equivalents :—
Sh
Introduction. xxxi
// is also to be observed^ that while many of the Symbolic
Squares of Letters of the Third Book present the nature of the
double Acrostic^ there are also many which do not, and in the
case of a great number the letters do not fill up the square
entirely, but are arranged somewhat in the form of a gnomon,
etc. Others again leave the centre part of the square blank.
In Appendix C* to the Introduction I will, for the sake
of comparison, give some examples of Angelic invocation taken
from other sources.
Abraham the few repeatedly admits, as I have before
urged, that this particular System of the Sacred Magic of
Abra-Melin has its Basis in the Qabalah. It is well to
examine what is here meant. The Qabalah itself is divided
into many parts ; the great bulk of it is of a mystic doctrinal
nature, giving the inner Occult meaning of the Jewish Sacred
Writings. Also it employs the numerical values of the Hebrew
Letters, to draw analogies between words, the total numerical
value of whose letters is the same ; this branch alone is a most
complicated study, and it will be foreign to our purpose to go
into it here ; the more so as my work, the " Kabbalah Unveiled^''
treats at length of all these points. The so-called Practical
^balah is the application of the mystic teachings to the pro-
duction of Magical effects. For the classification of Divine
and Angelic Names ; of Hosts and Orders of Angels, Spirits,
and Demons ; of particular Names of Archangels, Angels,
Intelligences, and Demons, is to be found carried out even to
minute detail in the ^balah, so that the knowledge hereof can
give a critical appreciation of the correspondences, sympathies,
and antipathies obtaining in the Invisible World. Therefore
what Abraham means is, that this system of Sacred Magic is
thoroughly reliable, because correct in all its attributions, and
that this being so, there is no chance of the Operator using
Names and Formulas on wrong occasions and in error.
But also it is notable that Abraham the few {^probably
again with the intent of confusing Lamech as little as possible)
* See Appendix C, " Examples of A ngelic Invocation ".
xxxii Introduction,
speaks only of Hvo great classes of Spirits : the Angels and the
Devils ; the former to control, the latter to be controlled ; and
leaves entirely out of consideration, or rather does not describe
that vast race of beings, the Elemental Spirits, who in them-
selves comprise an infinitude of various divisions of classification,
some of these being good, some evil, and a great proportion
neither the one nor the other. Evidently, also, many of the
results proposed to be attained in the T'hird Book, would imply
the use of the Elemental Spirits rather than that of the Demons.
No advanced Adept, such as Abraham evidently was, could
possibly be ignorant of their existence, power, and value ; and
we are therefore forced to conclude either that he was unwilling
to reveal this knowledge to Lamech ; or, which is infinitely
more probable, that he feared to confuse him by the large
amount of additional instruction which would be necessary to
make him thoroughly understand their classification, nature, and
ofiices. This latter line of action would be the less imperative,
as the correctness of the symbols of the Third Book would
minimise chances of error ; and what Abraham is undertaki?ig
to teach Lamech, is how to arrive at practical Magical
results ; rather than the Secret Wisdom of the Qabalah.
It is entirely beyond the scope of this Introduction for me
to give here any lengthy dissertation on the natures, good or
evil, of Spiritual beings. I will, therefore, only state briefiy
and concisely the principal differences between Angels, Ele-
mentals, and Devils.
We may then conclude that Angels, though themselves
divided into numerous orders and classes, possess generally the
following characteristics : That they are entirely good in nature
and operation, the conscient administrators of the Divine Will
upon the plane of the material universe ; that they are re-
sponsible, not irresponsible agents, and therefore capable of
fall ; and that they are independent of the currents of the
infinite Secret Forces of Nature, and can therefore act beyond
them, though their classification and qualities will cause them
to be more sympathetic with certain among these forces than
Introduction. xxxiii
with the rest, and this in varying degree. Also that they are
superior in power to Men, Spirits, Elementals, and Devils.
The Eleme?itals on the other hand, though consisting of an
infinitude of classes, are the Forces of the Elements of Nature,
the administrators of the currents thereof ; and can therefore
never act beyond and independently of their own particular
currents. In a sense, therefore, they are irresponsible for the
action of a current as a whole, though responsible for the part
thereof in which they immediately act. Therefore also they are
at the same time subject to the general current of the Force,
wherein they live, move, and have their being ; though superior
to the immediate and particular part of it which they direct.
Such races, superior to man in intuition, and magical powers ;
inferior to hi?n in other ways ; superior to him in their power
in a particular current of an Element ; inferior to him in only
partaking of the nature of that one Element ; are of necessity
to be found constantly recurring in all tlie Mythologies of
Antiquity. The Dwarfs and Elves of the Scandinavians ; the
Nymphs, Hamadryads, and Nature Spirits of the Greeks ; the
Fairies good and bad of the legends dear to our childish days ;
the host of Mermaids, Satyrs, Fauns, Sylphs, and Fays ; the
Forces intended to be attracted and propitiated by the Fetishes of
the Negro-Race ; are for the most part no other thing than the
ill-understood manifestations of this great class, the Elementals.
Among these, some, as I have before observed, are good ; such
are the Salamanders, Undines, Sylphs, and Gnomes, of the
Rosicrucian Philosophy ; ?nany are frightfully malignant,
delighting in every kind of evil, and might easily be mistaken
for Devils by the uninitiated, save that their power is less ; a
great proportion are neither good nor evil, irrationally working
either ; just as a monkey or a parrot might act ; in fact such
closely resemble animals in their nature, and especially com-
binations of animals, in which forms distorted and mingled,
would lie their symbolic manifestation. Another very large
class, would not act irrationally in this manner ; but with
intent, only always following the predominant force either good
xxxiv Introduction.
or evil in their then entourage ; a spirit of this kind, for
example, attracted into an assembly of good persons would
endeavour to excite their ideas towards good ; attracted among
evil-minded persons would incite them mentally to crime.
Among how many criminals is not their only excuse that "they
thought they kept hearing something telling them to
commit the crime " ! Tet these suggestions would not always
arise from Elementals alone, but frequently from the depraved
astral remnants of deceased evil persons.
Devils, on the other hand, are far more powerful than
Elementals, but their action for Evil is parallel to that of the
Good Angels for Good ; and their malignancy is far more
terrible than that of the Evil Elementals, for not being, like
them, subjected to the limits of a certain current, their sphere
of operation extends over a far greater area ; while the Evil
they commit is never irrational or mechanical, but worked with
full consciousness and intent.
I do not agree entirely with the manner of behaviour,
advised by Abraham towards the Spirits ; on the contrary,
the true Initiates have always maintained that the very greatest
courtesy should be manifested by the Exorciser, and that it is
only when they are obstinate and recalcitrant that severer
measures should be resorted to ; and that even with the Devils
we should not reproach them for their condition ; seeing
that a contrary line of action is certain to lead the Magician
into error. But, perhaps, Abraham has rather intended to
warn Lamech against the danger of yielding to them in an
Exorcism even in the slightest degree.
The word " Demon " is evidently employed in this work
almost as a synonym of Devil ; but, as most educated people
are aware, it is derived from the Greek " Daimon," which
anciently simply meant any Spirit, good or bad.
A work filled with suggestive Magical references is the
well-known " Arabian Nights,'' and it is interesting to notice
the number of directions in the Third Book of this work for
producing similar effects to those there celebrated.
Introduction. xxxv
For example^ the ninth chapter of the Third Book gives
the symbols to be employed for changing human beings into
animals^ one of the commonest incidents in the " Arabian
Nights,'' as in the story of the ''''first old man and the
hind,'' that of the " three Calendars and the five ladies oj
Bagdad," that of'''' Beder and Giauhare," etc., etc.; as distinct
frotn the voluntary transformation of the Magician into
another form, as exemplified in the " story of the Second
Calendar," the symbols for which are given in the twentyfirst
chapter of our Third Book.
Again these chapters will recall to many of my readers
the extraordinary magical efi'ects which Faust is said to have
produced ; who, by the way, as I have before remarked, was
in all probability contemporary with Abraham the few.
But the mode of their production as given in this work
is not the Black Magic of Pact and Devil-worship, against
which our Author so constantly inveighs, but instead a system
of Qaballstic Magic, similar to that of the " Key of Solomon
the King " and the " Clavicles of Rabbi Solomon," though
differing in the circumstance of the prior invocation of the
Guardian Angel once for all, while in the works I have just
mentioned the Angels are invoked in each Evocation by means
of the Magical Circle. Such works as these, then, and their
like, it could not be the intention of Abraham to decry, seeing
that like his system they are founded on the Secret Knowledge
of the Qabalah ; as this in its turn was derived frofn that
mighty scheme of Ancient Wisdom, the Initiated Magic of
Egypt. For to any deep student at the same time of the
Qabalah and of 7nodern Egyptology, the root and origin of the
former is evidently to be sought in that country of Mysteries, the
home of the Gods whose symbols and classification formed so
conspicuous a part of the Sacred Rites ; and from which even
to the present day, so many recipes of Magic have descended.
For we must make a very careful distinction between the really
Ancient Egyptian Magic, and the Arabian ideas and traditions
prevailing in Egypt in recent times. I think it is the learned
xxxvi Introduction.
Lenormant who points out in his work on Chaldean Magic^ that
the great difference between this and the Egyptian was that the
Magician of the former School indeed invoked the Spirits^ hut
that the latter allied himself with and took upon himself the
characters and names of the Gods to command the Spirits by, in
his Exorcism ; which latter mode of working would not only
imply on his part a critical knowledge of the nature and power
of the Gods ; but also the affirmation of his reliance upon them,
and his appeal to them for aid to control the forces evoked ; in
other words, the most profound system of White Magic which it
is possible to conceive.
The next point worthy of notice is what Abraham urges
regarding the preferability of employing one's mother tongue both
in prayer and evocation ; his chief reason being the absolute
necessity of comprehending utterly and thoroughly with the whole
soul and heart, that which the lips are formulating. While
fully admitting the necessity of this, I yet wish to state some
reasons in favour of the employment of a language other than
one's own. Chief, andfirst, that it aids the mind to conceive
the higher aspect of the Operation ; when a different language
and one looked upon as sacred is employed, and the phrases in
which do not therefore suggest matters of ordinary life. Next,
that Hebrew, ChaIdee, Egyptian, Greek, Latin, etc., if pro-
perly pronounced are more sonorous in vibration than most
modern languages, and from that circumstance can suggest
greater solemnity. Also that the farther a Magical Operation
is removedfrom the commonplace, the better. But I perfectly
agree with Abraham, that it is before all things imperative
that the Operator should thoroughly comprehend the import of
his Prayer or Co?ijuration. Furthermore the words in these
ancient languages imply ''''formulas of correspondences " with
more ease than those of the modern ones.
Pentacles and Symbols are valuable as an equilibrated
andfitting basis for the reception of Magicalforce : but unless
the Operator can really attract that force to them, ihey are
nothing but so many dead, and to him worthless, diagrams.
Introduction. xxxvii
Bui used by the Initiate 'who fully comprehends their meanings
they become to him a poiverful protection and aid, seconding and
focussing the uoorkings of his Will.
At the risk of repeating ivhat I have elsewhere said, I
must caution the Occult student against forming a mistaken
judgment from what Abraham the few says regarding the use
of Magic Circles and of Licensing the Spirits to Depart. It
is true that in the Convocation of the Spirits as laid down by
him, it is not necessary to form a Magic Circle for defence and
protection; but why?—Because the whole group of the
Bedchamber, Oratory, and Terrace, are consecrated by
the preparatory Ceremonies of the previous Six Moons ;
so that the whole place is protected, and the Magician is, as it
were, residing constantly within a Magic Circle. There-
fore also the Licensing to Depart may be to a great extent
dispensed with because the Spirits cannot break into the con-
secrated limit of the periphery of the walls of the house. But
let the worker of ordinary Evocations be assured that were this
not so, and the Convocation was performed in an unconsecrated
place, without any Magical Circle having been tracedfor defence,
the invocation to visible appearance of such fearful potencies as
Amaymon, Egyn, and Beelzebub, would probably result in the
death of the Exorcist on the spot ; such death presenting the
symptoms of one arising from Epilepsy, Apoplexy, or Strangula-
tion, varying with the conditions obtaining at the time. Also the
Circle having been once fortned, let the Evocator guard carefully
against either passing, or stooping, or leaning beyond, its
limits during the progress of the Exorcism, before the license to
depart has been given. Because that, even apart from other
causes, the whole object and effect of the Circle working, is to
create abnormal atmospheric conditions, by exciting a different
status offorce within the Circle to that which exists without it
;
so that even without any malignant occult action of the Spirits,
the sudden and unprepared change of atmosphere will seriously
affect the Exorciser in the intensely strained state of nervous
tension he will then be in. Also the License to Depart should
xxxviii Introduction.
not be omitted^ because the Evil Forces will be only too glad to
revenge themselves on the Operator for having disturbed them,
should he incautiously quit the Circle without having previously
sent them away, and if necessary even forced them to go by con-
trary conjurations.
I do not share Abraham's opinion as to the necessity of
withholding the Operation of this Sacred Magic from a Prince
or Potentate. Every great system of Occultism has its own
Occult Guards, who will know how to avenge mistaken
tampering therewith.
At the risk of repeating myself I will once more earnestly
caution the Student against the dangerous automatic nature of
certain of the Magical Squares of the Third Book ; for, if left
carelessly about, they are very liable to obsess sensitive persons,
children, or even animals.
Abraham's remarks concerning the errors of Astrology in
the common sense, 'and of the attribution of the Planetary Hours
are worthy of careful note. Tet I have found the ordinary
attribution of the Planetary Hours effective to an extent.
In all cases where there is anything difficult or obscure in
the text, I have added copious explanatory notes ; so many
indeed as to form a species of commentary in parts. Especially
have those on the Names of the Spirits cost me incredible labour,
from the difficulty of identifying their rootforms. The same
may be said of those on the Symbols of the Third Book.
Wherever I have employed parentheses in the actual text,
they shew certain words or phrases supplied to make the mean-
ing clearer.
In coticlusion I will only say that I have written this
explanatory Introduction purely and solely as a help to genuine
Occult students ; and thatfor the opinion of the ordinary literary
critic who neither understands nor believes in Occultism, I care
nothing.
87 Rue Mozart, Auteuil, Paris.
APPENDICES.
Introduction. xliii
(APPENDIX C.)
EXAMPLES OF OTHER METHODS OF ANGELIC EVOCATION.
For the benefit of the Occult Student I here give two other
systems of Angelic Evocation. The first is taken from that part
of the Book called "Barrett's Magus" (1801), which is entitled
" the Key to Ceremonial Magic ". The second is copied from
my "Key of Solomon the King".
From
" The Perfection and Key of . . . Ceremonial Magic "
;
being
the second part of the second Book of
" The Magus
or
Celestial Intelligencer "
;
*
by
Francis Barrett, F.R.C.
" The good Spirits may be invocated of us, or by us, divers
ways, and they in sundry shapes and manners offer themselves to
us, for they openly speak to those that watch, and do offer them-
selves to our sight, or do inform us by dreams and by oracle of
those things which we have a great desire to know. Whoever
therefore would call any good Spirit to speak or appear in sight,
he must particularly observe two things ; one whereof is about
the disposition of the invocant, the other concerning those things
which are outwardly to be adhibited to the invocation for the
conformity of the Spirit to be called.
" It is necessary therefore that the invocant religiously
dispose himself for the space of many days to such a mystery,
and to conserve himself during the time chaste, abstinent, and to
abstract himself as much as he can from all manner of foreign
and secular business ; likewise he should observe fasting, as much
as shall seem convenient to him, and let him daily, betv/een sun-
* Published originally by Lackington & Allen, London, 1801 ;
but reprinted and re-issued by Bernard Quaritch, Piccadilly, some
years since.
xliv Introduction.
rising and setting, being clothed in pure white linen, seven times
call upon God, and make a deprecation unto the Angels to be
called and invocated, according to the rule which we have before
taught. Now the number of days of fasting and preparation is
commonly one month, i.e.^ the time of a whole lunation. Now,
in the Cabala, we generally prepare ourselves forty days before.
" Now concerning the place, it must be chosen clean, pure,
close, quiet, free from all manner of noise, and not subject to any
stranger's sight. This place must first of all be exorcised and
consecrated ; and let there be a Table or Altar placed therein,
covered with a clean white linen cloth, and set towards the east :
and on each side thereof place two consecrated wax-lights burning,
the fiame thereof ought not to go out all these days. In the
middle of the Altar let there be placed lamens, or the holy paper
we have before described, covered with fine linen, which is not to
be opened until the end of the days of consecration. You shall
also have in readiness a precious perfume and a pure anointing oil.
And let them both be kept consecrated. Then set a censer on
the head of the Altar, wherein you shall kindle the holy fire, and
make a precious perfume every day that you pray.
" Now for your habit, you shall have a long garment of
white linen, close before and behind, which may come down
quite over the feet, and gird yourself about the loins with a
girdle. You shall likewise have a veil made of pure white linen on
which must be wrote in a gilt lamen, the name Tetragrammaton
;
all which things are to be consecrated and sanctified in order.
But you must not go into this holy place till it be first washed
and covered with a cloth new and clean, and then you may enter,
but with your feet naked and bare ; and when you enter therein
you shall sprinkle with holy water, then make a perfume upon
the altar ; and then on your knees pray before the altar as we
have directed.
" Now when the time is expired, on the last day, you shall
fast more strictly ; and fasting on the day following, at the rising
of the sun, enter the holy place, using the ceremonies before
spoken of, first by sprinkling thyself, then, making a perfume,
you shall sign the cross with holy oil on the forehead, and
anoint your eyes, using prayer in all these consecrations. Then
open the lamen and pray before the Altar upon your knees ; and
then an invocation may be made as follows :
—
Introduction. xlv
AN INVOCATION OP THE GOOD SPIRITS.
"In the Name of the Blessed and Holy Trinity, I do desire
ye, strong and mighty Angels Qiere name the Spirit or Spirits
you would have appear), that if it be the Divine Will of
Him Who is called Tetragrammaton, etc., the Holy God, the
Father, that ye take upon ye some shape as best becometh your
celestial nature, and appear to us visibly here in this place, and
answer our demands, in as far as we shall not transgress the
bounds of the Divine mercy and goodness, by requesting un-
lawful knowledge ; but that thou wilt graciously shew us what
things are most profitable for us to know and do, to the glory
and honour of His Divine Majesty Who liveth and reigneth
world without end. Amen.
**'
Lord, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in heaven
—
make clean our hearts within us, and take not Thy Holy Spirit
from us. O Lord, by Thy Name we have called them, suffer
them to administer unto us.
" And that all things may work together for Thy Honour
and Glory, to Whom with Thee, the Son and blessed Spirit, be
ascribed all might, majesty, and dominion, world without end.
Amen.
" The Invocation being made, the Good Angels will appear
unto you which you desire, which you shall entertain with a
chaste communication, and licence them to depart.
" Now the Lamen which is used to invoke any Good Spirit
must be made after the following manner : either in metal con-
formable or in new wax mixed with convenient spices and
colours ; or it may be made with pure white paper with con-
venient colours, and the outward form of it may be either square,
circular, or triangular, or of the like sort, according to the rule
of the numbers ; in which there must be written the Divine
Names, as well general as special. And in the centre of the
Lamen draw a hexagon * or character of six corners ; in the
middle thereof write the Name and Character of the Star, or of
the Spirit his Governor, to whom the Good Spirit that is to be
called is subject. And about this Character let there be placed so
many Characters of five corners, or pentacles,t as the Spirits we
* Probably an error for "hexagram," or "hexangle".
f Probably an error for " pentagrams," or " pentangles ".
xlvi Introduction.
would call together at once. But if we should call only one,
nevertheless there must be made four pentagons, wherein the
name of the Spirit or Spirits with their characters are to be
written. Now this Lamen ought to be composed when the
Moon is in her increase, on those days and hours which agree to
the Spirit ; and if we take a fortunate planet therewith, it will be
the better for the producing the effect ; which Table or Lamen
being rightly made in the manner we have fully described, must
be consecrated according to the rules above delivered.
" And this is the way of making the general Table or
Lamen for the invocating of all Spirits whatever ; the form
whereof you may see in plates of pentacles, seals, and lamens.
" We will yet declare unto you another rite more easy
to perform this thing : Let the Man who wishes to receive an
oracle from a Spirit, be chaste, pure, and sanctified ; then a place
being chosen pure, clean, and covered everywhere with clean and
white linen, on the Lord's-day in the new of the Moon, let him
enter into that place clothed with white linen ; let him exorcise
the place, bless it, and make a circle therein with a consecrated
coal ; let there be written in the outer part of the Circle the Names
of the Angels ; in the inner part thereof write the Mighty Names
of God ; and let be placed within the Circle, at the Four Parts of
the World,* the vessels for the perfumes. Then being washed
and fasting, let him enter the place, and pray towards the East
this whole Psalm :
—" Blessed are the undefiled in the way, etc.".
Psalm cix. Then make a fumigation, and. deprecate the Angels
by the said Divine Names, that they will appear unto you, and
reveal or discover that which you so earnestly desire ; and do this
continually for six days washed, and fasting. On the seventh day
being washed and fasting, enter the Circle, perfume it, and anoint
thyself with holy oil upon the forehead, eyes, and in the palms of
both hands, and upon the feet ; then with bended knees, say the
Psalm aforesaid, with Divine and Angelical Names. Which
being said, arise, and walk round the Circle from East to JVest^
until thou shalt be wearied with a giddiness of thy head and brain,
then straightway fall down in the Circle, where thou mayest rest,
and thou wilt be wrapped up in an ecstasy ; and a Spirit will
appear and inform thee of all things necessary to be known. We
must observe also, that in the Circle there ought to be four holy
* I.e., The Cardinal Points, or Quarters.
Introduction. xlvii
candles burning at the Four Parts ot the World, which ought not
to want light for the space of a week.
" And the manner of fasting is this : to abstain from all
things having a lite of sense, and from those which do proceed
from them, let him drink only pure running water ; neither is
there any food or wine to be taken till the going down of the Sun,
" Let the perfume and the holy anointing oil be made as is
set forth in Exodus, and other holy books of the Bible. It is also
to be observed, that as often as he enters the Circle he has upon
his forehead a golden lamen, upon which must be written the
Name Tetragrammaton, in the manner we have before mentioned."
In " The Key of Solomon the King " * (Book II. —Chapter
XXI.) will be found other directions for invoking spirits as
follows :
—
" Make a small Book containing the Prayers for all the
Operations, the Names of the Angels in the form of Litanies,
their Seals and Characters ; the which being done thou shalt
consecrate the same unto God and unto the pure Spirits in the
manner following :
—
" Thou shalt set in the destined place a small table covered
with a white cloth, whereon thou shalt lay the Book opened at
the Great Pentacle which should be drawn on the first leaf of the
said Book ; and having kindled a lamp which should be sus-
pended above the centre of the table, thou shalt surround the
said table with a white curtain ; t clothe thyself in the proper
vestments, and holding the Book open, repeat upon thy knees
the following prayer with great humility :
—
The Prayer.
" Adonai, Elohim, El, Eheieh Asher Eheieh, Prince
of Princes, Existence of Existences, have mercy upon me, and
cast Thine eyes upon Thy servant (N.) who invoketh Thee most
devoutly, and supplicateth Thee by Thy Holy and tremendous
Name, Tetragrammaton, to be propitious and to order Thine
Angels and Spirits to come and take up their abode in this
place ; O ye Angels and Spirits of the Stars, O all ye Angels and
Elementary Spirits, O all ye Spirits present before the Face of
* Published by G. Redway, London, 1889.
t So as to make a species of small tabernacle around the altar.
xlviii Introduction.
God, I the Minister and faithful Servant of the Most High con-
jure ye, let God Himself, the Existence of Existences, conjure ye
to come and be present at this Operation ; I the Servant of God,
most humbly entreat ye. Amen.
" After which thou shalt incense it with the incense proper
to the Planet and the Day, and thou shalt replace the Book on
the aforesaid table, taking heed that the Fire of the Lamp be
kept up continually during the operation, and keeping the cur-
tains closed. Repeat the same Ceremony for seven days, be-
ginning with Saturday, and perfuming the Book each day with
the Incense proper to the Planet ruling the day and hour, and
taking heed that the Lamp shall burn both day and night ; after
the which thou shalt shut up the Book in a small Drawer under
the table, made expressly for it, until thou shalt have occasion
to use it ; and every time that thou wishest to use it, clothe
thyself with thy vestments, kindle the lamp, and repeat upon thy
knees the aforesaid prayer, '
Adonai, Elohim,' etc.
" It is necessary also in the Consecration of the Book, to
summon all the Angels whose Names are written therein in the
form of Litanies, the which thou shalt do with devotion ; and
even if the Angels and Spirits appear not in the Consecration of
the Book, be not thou astonished thereat, seeing that they are of
a pure nature, and consequently have much difficulty in familiar-
ising themselves with men who are inconstant and impure, but
the Ceremonies and Characters being correctly carried out,
devoutly, and with perseverance, they will be constrained to
come, and it will at length happen that at thy first invocation
thou wilt be able to see and communicate with them. But I
advise thee to undertake nothing unclean or impure, for then thy
importunity, far from attracting them will only serve to chase
them from thee ; and it will be thereafter exceedingly difficult for
thee to attract them for use for pure ends."
THE FIRST BOOK
OF THE
HOLY MAGIC,
WHICH GOD GAVE UNTO MOSES, AARON, DAVID, SOLOMON, AND OTHER
SAINTS, PATRIARCHS AND PROPHETS; WHICH TEACHETH
THE TRUE DIVINE WISDOM.
BEQUEATHED BY ABRAHAM UXTO LAMECH HIS SON.
TRANSLATED FROM THE HEBREW.
1458.
THE FIRST BOOK OF THE HOLY MAGIC.
LTHOUGH this First Book serveth rather
for prologue than for the actual rules to
acquire this Divine and Sacred Magic ;
nevertheless, O ! Lamech, my son, thou
wilt therein find certain examples and other
matters* which will be none the less useful and profitable
unto thee than the precepts and dogmas which I shall
give thee in the Second and Third Books. Wherefore
thou shalt not neglect the study of this First Book, which
shall serve thee for an introduction f- unto the Veritable
and Sacred Magic, and unto the practice of that which I,
Abraham, the Son of Simon, have learned, in part from
my father, and in part also from other Wise and faithful
Men, and which I have found true and real, having
submitted it unto proof and experiment. And having
written this with mine own hand, I have placed it within
this casket, and locked it up, as a most precious treasure ;
in order that when thou hast arrived at a proper age thou
mayest be able to admire, to consider, and to enjoy the
marvels of the Lord ; as well as thine elder brother
Joseph, who, as the first-born, hath received from me the
Holy Tradition of the Qabalah. :[.
Des exemples et des circonstances. f D'achemincment.
X I consider this a truer orthography of the word than the usual
rendering of " Cabala ".
The Hook of the Sacred Magic
THE FIRST CHAPTER.
AMECH, if thou wishest to know the reason
wlierefore I give unto thee this Book, it is
that if thou considerest thy condition, which
is that of being a last-born Son, thou shalt
know wherefore it appertaineth unto thee ;
and I should commit a great error should I deprive thee
of that grace which God hath given unto me with so
much profusion and liberality. I will then make every
effort to avoid and to fly prolixity of words in this First
Book ; having alone in view the ancientness of this
Venerable and Indubitable Science. And seeing that
Truth hath no need of enlightenment and of exposition,
she being simple and right ; be thou only obedient unto
all that I shall say unto thee, contenting thyself with the
simplicity thereof, be thou good and upright,* and thou
shalt acquire more wealth than I could know how to
promise unto thee. May the Only and Most Holy God
grant unto all, the grace necessary to be able to compre-
hend and penetrate the high Mysteries of the Qabalah
and of the Law ; but they should content themselves with
that which the Lord accordeth unto them ; seeing that if
against His Divine Will they wish to fly yet higher, even
as did Lucifer, this will but procure for them .a most
shameful and fatal fall. Wherefore it is necessary to be
extremely prudent, and to consider the Intention which
I have had in describing this method of operation ; because
in consideration of thy great youth I attempt no other
thing but to excite thee unto the research of this Sacred
Magic. But the manner of acquiring the same will
come later, in all its perfection, and in its proper time ;
for it will be taught thee by better Masters than I, that
is to say, by those same Holy Angels of God. No man
* R^el.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 5
is born into the World a Master, and for that reason are
we obHged to learn. He who applieth himself thereunto,
and studieth, learneth ; and a man can have no more
shameful and evil title* than that of being an Ignorant
person.
THE SECOND CHAPTER.
HEREFORE do I confess, that I, even I
also, am not born a Master ; neither have
I invented this science of my own proper
Genius ; but I have learned it from others
in the manner which I will hereafter tell
thee, and in truth.
My father, Simon, shortly before his death, gave me
certain signs and instructions concerning the way in
which it is necessary to acquire the Holy Qabalah ; but
it is however true that he did not enter into the Holy
Mystery by the true Path, and I could not know how to
understand the same sufficiently and perfectly as Reason
demanded. My father was always contented and satisfied
with such a method of understanding the same, and he
sought out no further the Veritable Science and Magical
Art, which I undertake to teach thee and to expound
unto thee.
After his death, finding myself twenty years of age,
I had a very great passion to understand the True Mysteries
of the Lord ; but of mine own strength I could not arrive
at the end which I intended to attain.
I learned that at Mayence there was a Rabbi who
was a notable Sage, and tlie report went that he pos-
sessed in full the Divine Wisdom. The great desire
* This is identical with the Oriental doctrine that Itijnorance is
in itself evil and unhappiness.
6 The Book ok thk Sacrkd Magic
which 1 had to study induced inc to go to seek him
in order to learn from liim. Hut this man also had
not received trom the Lord the Gift, and a perfect
grace ; hecause, although he torced liimsell to manifest
unto me certain deep Mysteries ot the Holy Qabalah, he
by no means arrived at the goal ; and in his Magic he
did not in any way make use of the Wisdom ol" the Lord,
but instead availed himself of certain arts and superstitions
of infidel and idolatrous nations, in part derived trom the
Egyptians,* together with images of the Medes and of
the Persians, with herbs of the Arabians, together with
the power of the Stars and Constellations ; and, finally,
he had drawn from every people and nation, and even
from the Christians, some diabolical Art. And in every-
thing the Spirits blinded him to such an extent, even
while obeying him in some ridiculous and inconsequent
matter, that he actually believed that his blindness and
error were the Veritable Magic, and he therefore pushed
no further his research into the True and Sacred Ma<j:ic.
I also learned his extravagant experiments, and for ten
years did I remain buried in so great an error, until that
after the ten years I arrived in Egypt at the house of an
Ancient Sage who was called Abramelim, who put me into
the true Path as I will declare it unto thee hereafter, and he
gave me better instruction and doctrine than all the others ;
but this particular grace was granted me by the Almighty
Father of all Mercy, that is to say. Almighty God, who
little by little illuminated mine understanding and opened
mine eyes to see and admire, to contemplate, and search
out His Divine Wisdom, in such a manner that it
became possible unto me to further and further under-
stand and comprehend the Sacred Mystery by which I
entered into the knowledge of the Holy Angels, enjoying
* Yet the true Qabalah is undoubtedly derived from the Egyptian
and Eastern Wisdom.
OF Abra-Mi:i.in the Mage. 7
their sight and their sacred conversation, from whom*
at length I received afterwards the foundation of the
Veritable Magic, and how to command and dominate the
Evil Spirits. So that by way of conclusion unto this
chapter I cannot say that I have otherwise received the
True Instruction save from Abramelim,J- and the True and
Incorruptible Magic save from the Holy Angels of God.
THE THIRD CHAPTER.
HAVE already said in the preceding chapter
that shortly after the death of my father, I
attached myself unto the research of the
True Wisdom, and of the Mystery of the
Lord. Now in this chapter I will briefly
mention the places and countries by which I have passed
in order to endeavour to learn those things which are
good. And I do this in order that it may serve thee for
a rule and example not to waste thy youth in petty and
useless pursuits, h'ke little girls sitting round the fireplace.
For there is nothing more deplorable and more unworthy
in a man than to find himself ignorant in all circum-
stances. He who worketh and travelleth learneth much ;
and he who knoweth not how to conduct and govern
himself when far from his native land, will know still less
in his own house how to do so. I dwelt then, after the
death of my father, for four years with my brothers and
sisters, and I studied with care how to put to a profitable
use what my father had left me after his death ; and
seeing that my means were insuflicient to counterbalance
* I.e. from the Angels.
f This name is spelt " Abramelin " in some places, and
" Abramclim " in others. I have consequently carefully in all cases
put the orthography as it there occurs in the MS.
8 The Book of the Sacred Magic
the expenses which I was compelled to be at, after having
set in order all my affairs and business as well as my
strength permitted ; I set out, and I went into Vormatia*
to Mayence, in order to find there a very aged Rabbi
named Moses, in the hope that I had found in him that
which I sought. As I have said in the preceding chapter,
his Science had no foundation such as that of the True
Divine Wisdom. I remained with him for four years,
miserably wasting all that time there, and persuading
myself that I had learned all that I wished to know,|'
and I was only thinking of returning to my paternal
home, when I casually met a young man of our sect,
named Samuel, a native of Bohemia, whose manners and
mode of life showed me that he wished to live, walk,
and die in the Way of the Lord and in His Holy Law ;
and I contracted so strong a bond of friendship with him
that I showed him all my feelings and intentions. As he
had resolved to make a journey to Constantinople, in
order to there join a brother of his father, and thence to
pass into the Holy Land wherein our forefathers had
dwelt, and from the which for our very great errors and
misdeeds we had been chased and cast forth by God.
He, J having so willed it, the moment that he 5^
had made
me acquainted with his design, I felt an extraordinary
desire to accompany him in his journey, and I believe
that Almighty God wished by this means to awaken
me, for I could take no rest until the moment that we
mutually and reciprocally passed our word to each other
and swore to make the voyage together.
On the 13th day of February, in the year 1397,
we commenced our journey, passing through Germany,
* " Vormatie'' ; that is to say, the district under the government
of the town of Worms, called in Latin "Vormatia" anciently.
t In the previous chapter he says that he remained in this path
of study for ten years.
% I.e., God. § Samuel.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 9
Bohemia, Austria, and thence by Hungary and Greece
unto Constantinople, where we remained two years, and
I should never have quitted it, had not death taken
Samuel from me at length through a sudden illness.
Finding myself alone, a fresh desire for travel seized me,
and so much was my heart given thereto, that I kept
wandering from one place to another, until at length I
arrived in Egypt, where constantly travelling for the
space of four years in one direction and another, the
more I practised the experiments of the magic of Rabbin
Moses, the less did it please me. I pursued my voyage
towards our ancient country, where I fixed my residence
for a year, and neithei saw nor heard of any other thing
but misery, calamity, and unhappiness. After this period
of time, I there found a Christian who also was travelling
in order to find that which I was seeking also myself.
Having made an agreement together, we resolved to go
into the desert parts of Arabia for the search for that
which we ardently desired ; feeling sure that, as we had
been told, there were in those places many just and very
learned men, who dwelt there in order to be able to study
without any hindrance, and to devote themselves unto
that Art for which we ourselves were seeking ; but as we
there found nothing equivalent to the trouble we had
taken, or which was worthy of our attention, there came
into my head the extravagant idea to advance no farther
but to return to my own home. I communicated my
intention to my companion, but he for his part wished
to follow out his enterprise and seek his good fortune ;
so I prepared to return.
lO The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE FOURTH CHAPTER.
N my return journey I began to reflect on
the time which I had lost in travelling,
and on the great expense which I had been
at without any return, and without having
made any acquisition of that which I wished
for and which had caused me to undertake the voyage.
I had, however, taken the resolution of returning to my
home on quitting Arabia Deserta by way of Palestine,
and so into Egypt ; and I was six months on the
way. I at length arrived at a little town called
Arachi, situated on the bank of the Nile, where I
lodged with an old Jew named Aaron, where indeed I
had already lodged before in my journey ; and I com-
municated unto him my sentiments. He asked me how
I had succeeded, and whether I had found that which I
wished. I answered mournfully that I had done abso-
lutely nothing, and I made him an exact recital of the
labours and troubles which I had undergone, and my
recital was accompanied by my tears which I could not
help shedding in abundance, so that I attracted the com-
passion of the old man, and he began to try to comfort
me by telling me that during my journey he had heard
say that in a desert place not far from the aforesaid town
of Arachi dwelt a very learned and pious man whose
name was Abramelino,* and he-^- exhorted me that as 1
had already done so much, not to fail to visit him, that
perhaps the Most Merciful God might regard me with
pity, and grant me that which I righteously wished for.
It seemed to me as though I was listening to a Voice, not
human but celestial, and I felt a joy in mine heart such as
I could not express ; and I had neither rest nor inter-
mission until Aaron found me a man who conducted me
* Thus spelt here. f Aaron the Je\
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. ii
to the nearest route, by which walking upon fine sand
during the space of three days and a half without seeing
any human habitation I at length arrived at the foot of a
hill of no great height, and which was entirely surrounded
by trees. My Guide then said :
" In this small wood
dwelleth the man whom you seek ;" and having showed
me the direction to take he wished to accompany me no
further, and having taken his leave of me he returned
home by the same route by which we had come, together
with his mule which had served to carry our food.
Finding myself in this situation I could think of no
other thing to do than to submit myself to the help of
the Divine Providence by invoking His very holy Name,
Who then granted unto me His most holy Grace, for in
turning my eyes in the aforementioned direction, I beheld
coming towards me a venerable aged Man, who saluted me
in the Chaldean language in a loving manner, inviting me
to go with him into his habitation ; the which courtesy
I accepted with an extreme pleasure, realising in that
moment how great is the Providence of the Lord. The
good old Man was very courteous to me and treated me
very kindly, and during an infinitude of days he never
spake unto me of any other matter than ot the Fear of
God, exhorting me to lead ever a well-regulated life, and
from time to time warned me of certain errors which
man commits through human frailty, and, further, he
made me understand that he detested the acquisition of
riches and goods which we were constantly employed in
gaining in our towns through so severe usury exacted
from, and harm wrought to, our neighbour. He required
from me a very solemn and precise promise to change my
manner of life, and to live not according to our false
dogmas, but in the Way and Law of the Lord. The
which promise I having ever after inviolably observed,
and being later on again among my relatives and other
Jews, I passed among them for a wicked and foolish man ;
12 The Book of the Sacred Magic
but I said in myself :
" Let the Will of God be done,
and let not respect of persons turn us aside from the
right path, seeing that man is a deceiver ".
The aforesaid Abramelin, knowing the ardent desire
which I had to learn, he gave me two manuscript books,
very similar in form unto these which I now bequeath
unto thee, O Lamech, my son ; but very obscure : and
he told me to copy them for myself with care, which I
did, and carefully examined both the one and the other.
And he asked me if I had any money, I answered unto
him " Yes ". He said unto me that he required ten
golden florins, which he must himself, according to the
order which the Lord had given unto him, distribute by
way of alms among seventy-two poor persons, who were
obliged to repeat certain Psalms;* and having kept the
feast of Saturday, which is the day of the Sabbath, he set
out to go to Arachi, because it was requisite that he
* The Qabalistical reader will at once remark the symbolism of
the numbers "ten" and "seventy-two," the first being the Number of
the SephirotJi, and the second that of the ScheuiahavipJiorasch. But
as many readers may be ignorant of the meaning and reference of
these terms, I will briefly explain them. The Ten Sephiroth are the
most abstract ideas and conceptions of the ten numbers of the ordinary
Decimal Scale, and are employed in the Qabalah as an ideal means
of explaining the different Emanations or Attributes of the Deity. It
was thus that Pythagoras employed the abstract ideas of Numbers as
a means of metaphysical instruction. The Schemahamphorasch or
"Divided Name" is a Qabalistical method of investigating the natures
of the Name of four letters I H V H (Jehovah), which is considered
to contain all the Forces of Nature. There are in the Book of Exodus
three verses in the fourteenth chapter, describing the pillars of fire and
of cloud forming a defence unto the children of Israel against the
Egyptians. Each of these three verses consists in the Hebrew of
seventy-two letters, and by writing them in a certain manner one
above another, seventy-two columns of three letters each are obtained ;
each column is then treated as a Name of Three Letters, and the
explanation of these is sought for in certain verses of the Psalms
which contain these Names ; and these latter would be the verses of
the Psalms alluded to in the text, which the seventy-two poor persons
were told to recite.
OF AliRA-MliLIN TIIK MaGE. I3
should himself distribute the money. And he ordered
me to fast for three days, that is to say, the Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday tollovving ; contenting myself with
only a single repast in the day, wherein was to be neither
blood nor dead things ;* also he commanded me to
make this commencement with exactness, and not to fail
in the least thing, for in order to operate well it is very
necessary to begin well, and he instructed me to repeat
all the seven j- psalms of David one single time in these
three days ; and not to do or practise any servile opera-
tion. The day being come he set out, and took, with
him the money which I had given him. I faithfully
obeyed him, executing from point to point that which
he had ordered me to do. His return was fifteen days
later, and being at last arrived he ordered me the day
following (which was a Tuesday), before the rising of the
Sun, to make with great humility and devotion a general
confession of all my life unto the Lord, with a true and
firm proposal and resolution to serve and fear Him other-
wise than I had done in the past, and to wish to live and
die in His most Holy Law, and in obedience unto Him.
I performed my confession with all the attention and
exactitude necessary. It lasted until the going down of
the Sun ; and the day following I presented myself unto
Abramelin, who with a smiling countenance said unto
me :
" It is thus I would ever have you ". He then
conducted me into his own apartment where I took the
two little manuscripts which I had copied ; and he asked
of me whether truly, and without fear, I wished for the
Divine Science and for the True Magic. I answered
unto him that it was the only end and unique motive
which had induced me to undertake a so long and
troublesome voyage, with the view of receiving this
* This would not necessarily exclude eggs or milk,
t So in the MS.
14 The Book of the Sacred Magic
special grace from the Lord. " And I," said Abramelin,
" trusting in the mercy of the Lord, I grant and accord
unto thee this Holy Science, which thou must acquire
in the manner which is prescribed unto thee in the two
little manuscript books, without omitting the least imag-
inable thing of their contents ; and not in any way to
gloss or comment upon that which may be or may not
be, seeing that the Artist who hath made that work is
the same God Who from Nothingness hath created all
things. Thou shalt in no way use this Sacred Science
to offend the Great God, and to work ill unto thy
neighbour ; thou shalt communicate it unto no living
person whom thou dost not thoroughly know by long
practice and conversation, examining well whether such
a person really intendeth to work for the Good or for the
Evil. And if thou shalt wish to grant it unto him, thou
shalt well observe and punctually, the same fashion and
manner, which I have made use of with thee. And if
thou doest otherwise, he who shall receive it shall draw
no fruit therefrom. Keep thyself as thou wouldst from
a Serpent from selling this Science, and from making
merchandise of it ; because the Grace of the Lord is
given unto us free and gratis, and we ought in no wise
to sell the same. This Veritable Science shall remain in
thee and thy generation for the space of seventy-two* years,
and will not remain longer in our Sect. Let not thy
curiosity push thee on to understand the cause of this,
but figure to thyself that we are so good-f- that our Sect
hath become insupportable not only to the whole human
race, but even to God Himself !
" I wished in receiving
these two small manuscript books to throw myself on my
knees before him, but he rebuked me, saying that we
ought only to bend the knee before God.
* Note again the number of seventy-two.
f This is evidently said ironically.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 15
I avow that these two books* were so exactly
written, that thou, O Lamech my son, mayest see them
after my death, and thou shalt thus recognise how much
respect I have for thee.-j- It is true that before my
departure I well read and studied them, and when I found
anything difficult or obscure I had recourse unto Abra-
melin, who with charity and patience explained it unto
me. Being thoroughly instructed, I took leave of him,
and having received his paternal blessing ; a symbol
which is not only in use among the Christians, but which
was also the custom with our forefathers ; I also departed,
and I took the route to Constantinople, whither having
arrived I fell sick, and my malady lasted for the space of
two months ; but the Lord in His Mercy delivered me
therefrom, so that I soon regained my strength, and find-
ing a vessel ready to depart for Venice I embarked
thereon, and I arrived there, and having rested some days
I set out to go unto Trieste, where having landed, I took
the road through the country of Dalmatia, and arrived at
length at my paternal home, where I lived among my
relatives and my brothers.
THE FIFTH CHAPTER.
T is not sufficient to travel and journey abroad
and see many lands, if one does not draw
some useful experience therefrom. Where-
fore, in order to show unto thee a good
example, I will in this chapter speak of the
Mysteries ^ of this Art which I discovered in one way
* He probably means the copies he himself had been ordered
by Abramehn to make, and not the originals.
•j- " Et tu connoiteras la deference dontj'e me sers avec toy!'
\ Misfires, evidently a slip for Maistres, Masters.
i6 The Book of the Sacred Magic
and another while travelh'ng in the world, and also of the
measure and understanding of their various sciences ;
while, in the Sixth Chapter following, I will recount the
things which 1 have learned and seen with some among
them, and whether in actual practice I found them true
or false. I have already before told you that my first
Master had been the Rabbin Moses at Mayence, who
was indeed a good man, but entirely ignorant of the True
Mystery and of the Veritable Magic. He only devoted
himself to certain superstitious secrets which he had
collected from various infidels, and which were full of the
nonsense and foolishness of Pagans and Idolaters ; to such
an extent that the Good Angels and Holy Spirits judged
him unworthy of their visits and conversation ; and the
Evil Spirits mocked him to a ridiculous extent. At
times, indeed, they spake to him voluntarily and by
caprice, and obeyed him in matters vile, profane, and ot
no account, in order the better to entrap, deceive and
hinder him from searching further for the true and certain
Foundation of this Great Science.
At Argentine I found a Christian called James,
who was reputed as a learned and very skilful man ; but
his Art was the Art of the Juggler, or Cup and Balls
Player ; and not that of the Magician.
In the town of Prague I found a wicked man
named Antony, aged twenty-five years, who in truth
showed me wonderful and supernatural things, but may
God preserve us from falling into so great an error, for the
infamous wretch avowed to me that he had made a Pact
with the Demon, and had given himself over to him in
body and in soul, and that he had renounced God and all
the Saints ; while, on the other hand, the deceitful
Leviathan had promised him forty years of life to do his
pleasure. He made every effort, as he was obliged to
by the Pact, to persuade me and drag me to the precipice
of the same error and misery ; but at first I kept myself
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 17
apart from him, and at last I took flight. Unto this day
do they sing in the streets of the terrible end which
befel him, may the Lord God of His Mercy preserve
us from such a misfortune. This should serve us as a
mirror of warning to keep far from us all evil under-
takings and pernicious curiosity.
In Austria I found an infinitude, but all were either
ignorant, or like unto the Bohemians.
In the Kingdom of Hungary I found but persons
knowing neither God nor Devil, and who were worse
than the beasts.
In Greece I found many wise and prudent men,
but, however, all of them were infidels, among whom
there were three who principally dwelt in desert places,
who showed unto me great things, such as how to raise
tempests in a moment, how to make the Sun appear in
the night, how to stop the course of rivers, and how to
make night appear at mid-day, the whole by the power
of their enchantments, and by applying superstitious
ceremonies.
Near Constantinople, in a place called Ephiha,
there was a certain man, who, instead of Enchantments,
made use of certain numbers which he wrote upon the
earth ; and by means of these he caused certain extrava-
gant and terrifying visions to appear ; but in all these
Arts there was no practical use, but only the loss of soul
and of body, because all these only worked by particular
Pacts, which had no true foundation ; also all these Arts
demanded a very long space of time, and they were very
false, and when these men were unsuccessful they had
always ready a thousand lies and excuses.
In the same city of Constantinople I found two
men of our Law, namely, Simon and the Rabbin Abra-
HAME, whom we may class with Rabbin Moses of
Mayence.
In Egypt the first time I found five persons who
2
1
8
The Book of the Sacred Magic
were esteemed and reputed as wise men, among whom
were four, namely, Horay, Abimech, Alcaon, and
Orilach, who performed their operations by the means
of the course of the Stars and of the Constellations,
adding many Diabolical Conjurations and impious and
profane prayers, and performing the whole with great
difficulty. The fifth, named Abimelu, operated by the
means and aid of Demons, to whom he prepared statues,
and sacrificed, and thus they served him with their
abominable arts.
In Arabia they made use of plants, of herbs, and of
stones as well precious as common. The Divine Mercy
inspired me to return thence, and led me to Abramelin,
who was he who declared unto me the Secret, and opened
unto me the fountain and true source of the Sacred Mys-
tery, and of the Veritable and Ancient Magic whicli God
had given unto our forefathers.
Also at Paris I found a wise man called Joseph,
who, having denied the Christian faith, had made himself
a Jew. This man truly practised Magic in the same
manner as Abramelin, but he was very far from arriving
at perfection therein ; because God, Who is just, never
granteth the perfect, veritable and fundamental treasure
unto those who deny Him ; notwithstanding that in the
rest of their life they might be the most holy and perfect
men in the world. I am astonished when I consider the
blindness of many persons who let themselves be led by
Evil Masters, who take pleasure in falsehood, and, we
may rather say, in the Demon himself; giving them-
selves over unto Sorceries and Idolatries, one in one manner,
another in another manner, with the result of losing their
souls. But the Truth is so great, the Devil is so deceitful
and malicious, and the World so frail and so infamous
that I must admit that things cannot be otherwise. Let
us then open our eyes, and follow that which I shall lay
down in the following chapters ; and let us not walk
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 19
in another Path, whether of the Devil, or of men, or of
Books which boast of their Magic ; for in truth I declare
unto thee that I had so great a quantity of such matters
written out with so much Art, that had I not had these
of Abramelin, I could herein have given thee those.
However, it is true that just as there is only one God,
that not one of these Books is worth an obolus.* Yet
with all this there are men so blind that they buy them
at exorbitant prices, and they lose their money, their time,
and their pains, and which is worse, very often their souls
as well.
THE SIXTH CHAPTER.
K^SM
HE Fear of the Lord is the True Wisdom,
and he who hath it not can in no way
penetrate the True Secrets of Magic, and
he but buildeth upon a foundation of sand,
and his building can in no way last. The
Rabbin Moses persuaded me to be wise, while he him-
self, with words which neither he himself nor any other
person understood, and with extravagant symbols made
bells to sound, and while with execrable conjurations he
made appear in glasses him who had committed a theft,
and while he made a water causing an old man to appear
young (and that only for the space of two hours and no
longer). All the which things he indeed taught me,
but the whole was but vanity, low curiosity, and a pure
deception of the Demon, leading to no useful end imag-
inable, and tending to the loss of the Soul. And when
I had the Veritable Knowledge of the Sacred Magic, I
both forgot them, and banished them from mine heart.
* A coin of base money formerly in use, its value being about a
halfpenny.
20 The Book of the Sacred Magic
That impious Bohemian,* with the aid and assis-
tance of his Associate, performed astounding feats. He
rendered himself invisible, he used to fly in the air, he
used to enter through the keyholes into locked-up rooms,
he knew our greatest secrets, and once he told me things
which God alone could know. But his Art cost him too
dear, for the Devil had made him swear in the Pact that
he would use all his secrets to the dishonour of God, and
to the prejudice of his neighbour. Ultimately his body
was found dragged through the streets, and his head
without any tongue therein, lying in a drain. And this
was all the profit he drew from his Diabolical Science
and Magic.
In Austria I found an infinitude of Magicians who
only occupied themselves in killing and maiming men,
in putting discord among married people, in causing
divorces, in tying witch-knots in osier or willow branches
to stop the flow of milk in the breasts of nursing women,
and similar infamies. But these miserable wretches had
made a Pact with the Devil, and had become his slaves,
having sworn unto him that they would work without
cessation to destroy all living creatures. Some of these
had two years (for their Pact) to run, some three, and
after that time they underwent the same fate as the
Bohemian.
At LiNTz I worked with a young woman, who one
evening invited me to go with her, assuring me that
without any risk she would conduct me to a place where
I greatly desired to find myself. I allowed myself to be
persuaded by her promises. She then gave unto me an
unguent, with which I rubbed the principal pulses of my
feet and hands ; the which she did also ; and at first it ap-
peared to me that I was flying in the air in the place which
I wished, and which I had in no way mentioned to her.
* I.e. Antony, of whom he makes mention in the preceding
chapter.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 21
I pass over in silence and out of respect, that which
I saw, which was admirable, and appearing to myself to
have remained there a long while, I felt as if I were just
awakening from a profound sleep, and I had great pain
in my head and deep melancholy. I turned round and
saw that she was seated at my side. She began to re-
count to me what she had seen, but that which I had
seen was entirely different. I was, however, much aston-
ished, because it appeared to me as if I had been really
and corporeally in the place, and there in reality to have
seen that which had happened. However, I asked her
one day to go alone to that same place, and to bring me
back news of a friend whom I knew for certain was
distant 200 leagues. She promised to do so in the space
of an hour. She rubbed herself with the same unguent,
and I was very expectant to see her fly away ; but she
fell to the ground and remained there about three hours
as if she were dead, so that I began to think that she
really was dead. At last she began to stir like a person
who is waking, then she rose to an upright position, and
with much pleasure began to give me the account of her
expedition, saying that she had been in the place where
my friend was, and all that he was doing ; the which
was entirely contrary to his profession. Whence 1 con-
cluded that what she had just told me was a simple
dream, and that this unguent was a causer of a phantastic
sleep ; whereon she confessed to me that this unguent had
been given to her by the Devil.
All the Arts of the Greeks are Enchantments and
Fascinations, and the Demons hold them enchained in
these accursed arts so that the Foundation of the True
Magic may be unknown to them which would render
them more powerful than they ; and I was the more
confirmed in this opinion because their operations were of
no practical use whatever, and caused injury unto him
who put them into practice, as in fact many of them
22 The Book of the Sacred Magic
avowed plainly to me, when I had the True and Sacred
Magic. There are also many operations which they say
are handed down frorn the Ancient Sibyls. There is an
Art called White and Black ;
* another Angelical, Teatim ;
in which I avow that I have seen orations so learned and
beautiful, that had I not known the venom therein hidden,
I would have given them herein. I say all this because
it is very easy to him who is not constantly upon his
guard to err.
One old scribbler of symbols ^- gave me many en-
chantments which only tended to work evil. He per-
formed other operations by means of numbers, which
were all odd, and of a triple proportion, in no way similar
to the other, and for proof of this, he caused by such
means in my presence a very fine tree which was near
my house to fall to the ground, and all the leaves and
fruits were consumed in a very short time. And he
told me that in Numbers there was hidden a very Great
Mystery, because that by the means of numbers one can
perform all the operations for friendships, riches, honours,
and all sorts of things, good and evil ; and he assured me
that he had tried them, but that yet some that he knew
to be very true had not yet succeeded with him. With
regard to this particular, I found out the reason through
the Wise Abramelin, who told me that this came and
depended from a Divine Ministry, that is to say, from
the Qabalah, and that without that, one could not succeed.
All these things have I beheld, and many others, and
those who possessed these secrets gave them to me out of
friendship. I burned these recipes afterwards in the
house of Abramelin, they being absolutely things very
far removed from the Will of God, and contrary to the
charity which we owe unto our neighbour. Every
* ? the Book " Ambrosius ".
I Evidently the man mentioned in Chapter V., as living at
Ephiha, near Constantinople. The word I have rendered by
" scribbler of symbols " is grifas.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 23
learned and prudent man may fall if he be not defended
and guided by the Angel of the Lord, who aided me, and
prevented me from falling into such a state of wretched-
ness, and who led me undeserving from the mire of
darkness unto the Light of the Truth. I have known
and felt the effects of the goodness of the Wise Abraha
Melin,* who of his own free will, and before I had asked
him so to do, accepted me for his disciple. And
before that I had declared my wish unto him he would
accomplish and fulfil my desire ; and all that I wished to
obtain from him he knew before I could open my mouth.
Also he recounted to me all that I had seen, done, and
suffered from the time of my father's death down to this
moment ; and this in words obscure and as it were
prophetic, which 1 did not then comprehend, but which
I understood later. He told me many things touching
my good fortune, but, which was the principal thing, he
discovered to me the Source of the Veritable Qabalah,
the which according to our custom, I have in turn com-
municated unto thine elder brother Joseph, after that he
had fulfilled the requisite conditions without the accom-
plishment of which the Qabalah and this Sacred Magic
cannot be exercised, and which I will recount in the two
following books. Afterwards he did manifest unto me
the Regimen of the Mystery of that Sacred Magic which
was exercised and put into practice by our forefathers and
progenitors, Noah, Abraham, Jacob, Moses, David, and
Solomon, among whom the last misused it, and he re-
ceived the punishment thereof during his life.
In the Second Book I will describe the whole faith-
fully and clearly, in order that if the Lord God should
wish to dispose of me before that thou shalt have attained
a competent age, thou shalt find these three small manu-
script books as forming at the same time both an inestim-
* So written here in the MS.
24 The Book of the Sacred Magic
able treasure and a faithful master and teacher ; because
there are very many secrets in the Symbols of the Third
Book which I have seen made experiment of with mine
own eyes by Abramelim,* and to be perfectly true, and
which afterwards I myself have performed. And after
him I found no one who worked these things truly ; and
although Joseph at Paris walked in the same Path, never-
theless God, as a just Judge, did not in any way wish to
grant unto him the Sacred Magic in its entirety, because
he had despised the Christian Law. For it is an indubit-
able and evident thing that he who is born Christian, Jew,
Pagan, Turk, Infidel, or whatever religion it may be, can
arrive at the perfection of this Work or Art and become
a Master, but he who hath abandoned his natural Law,
and embraced another religion opposed to his own, can
never arrive at the summit of this Sacred Science. •^•
THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.
OD, the Father of Mercy, having granted
unto me the grace to return safe and sound
into my country ; I paid unto Him accord-
ing to my small power, some little portion
of that which I owed Him ; thanking
Him for so many benefits which I had received from
Him, and in particular for the acquisition of the Qabalah
which I had made at the house of Abramelim. j It now
only remained for me to reduce to Practice this Sacred
* Thus spelt here.
f Many Occultists will doubtless not be of this opinion. It is
one thing to simply quit one debased and materialised form or sect of
religion for another, which is perhaps little if any better ; and quite
another thing to seek out the true religion which is at the basis of all,
and which could not be entirely true, were it not free from Sect.
I Thus spelt here.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 25
Magic, but many things of importance and hindrances
presented themselves ; among the which my marriage
was one of the greatest. I therfore judged it fitting to
defer putting it in practice, and a principal obstacle was
the inconvenience of the place in which I dwelt. I
resolved to absent myself suddenly, and go away into the
Hercynian Forests, and there remain during the time
necessary for this operation, and lead a solitary life.
It was not possible for me to do it sooner for many
reasons and dangers of which latter I ran a risk in that
place, besides which it would be necessary to leave my
wife, who was young and now enceinte. Finally, I re-
solved to follow the example of Abramelin,* and I
divided my house -j- into two parts ; I took another house
at rent, which I in part furnished, and I gave over to one
of my uncles the care of providing the necessaries of life
and the needs thereof Meanwhile I with my wife and
a servant remained in my own house, and I began to
accustom myself to the solitary life, which it was to me
extremely difficult to support, because of the melancholic
humour which dominated me, and I lived thus till the
season of Easter which I celebrated with all the family
according to custom. Then first, on the following day, in
the Name and to fhe honour of God Almighty the
Creator of Heaven and of Earth, I commenced this holy
operation, and I continued it for Six Moons without
omitting the slightest detail, as thou wilt understand
later. And the period of the Six Moons being expired,
the Lord granted unto me His Grace by His Mercy ;
according to the promise made unto our foretathers, since
while 1 was making my prayer unto Him He deigned to
grant unto me the vision and apparition of His holy
Angels, together with which I experienced so great joy,
consolation and contentment of soul, that I could neither
* Ifonbrasscr ic parti cVAbraviclin.
f Probably meaning " household ".
26 The Book of the Sacred Magic
express it nor put it into writing. And during the three
days, while I was enjoying this sweet and dehghtful
presence with an indicible contentment, my holy Angel,
whom God the Most Merciful had destined from my
creation for my Guardian, spake unto me with the
greatest goodness and affection ; who not only manifested
unto me the Veritable Magic but even made easier for
me the means of obtaining it. He confirmed as being
true the Symbols of the Qabalah which I had received
from Abramelin ; and he gave me the fundamental means
by which I could have an infinitude of others in my
operations according to my pleasure, assuring me that he
would instruct me fully thereon. (These Symbols are
all like those of the Third Book.) He gave me further
very useful advice and admonition, such as an Angel
could give ; how I should govern myself the following
days with the Evil Spirits so as to constrain them to obey
me ; the which I duly followed out fulfilling always from
point to point his instructions very faithfully, and by the
Grace of God I constrained them to obey me and to
appear in the place destined for this operation ; and they
obligated themselves to obey me, and to be subject unto
me. And since then even until now, without offending
God and the Holy Angels I have held them in my power
and command, always assisted by the power of God and
of His Holy Angels. And this with so great a prosperity
of our house, that I confess that I held myself back from
the vast riches which I could have accumulated ; although
I possess enough to be counted among the number of the
rich, as thou wilt know when thou shalt be more
advanced in age. May the Grace of the Lord, and the
defence and protection of His Holy Angels never then
depart from me, Abraham, nor from my two sons Joseph
and Lamech ; nor from all those who by your means and
by the Will of God, shall receive this operation ! So be
it!
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 27
THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.
TiN order to show that Man ought to make use
I
of the good things of the Lord by applying
them unto a good end, that is to say, unto
His honour and glory, both for his own use
and that of his neighbour ; I will describe
in a few words in this present chapter many and the most
considerable operations which 1 have carried out ; and
the which, with the aid of the All-Powerful Lord and
of the Holy Angels, by the means of this Art I have
easily conducted unto the desired end. And I write not
this description in any way to vaunt myself, nor out of
vain glory, the which would be a great sin against God,
because it is He Who hath done the whole, and not I ;
but only do I write this that it may serve for instruction
unto others, so that they may know wherein they ought
to avail themselves ot this Art, as also that they may use
it to the honour of Him Who hath given this wisdom
unto men, and glorify Him ; and in order that each one
may know how great and inexhaustible are the treasures
of the Lord, and render unto Him particular thanks for
so precious a gitt. And especially (do I thank Him) for
having granted unto me, who am but a little worm of
Earth, through the means of Abramelin the power to
give and communicate unto others this Sacred Science.
After my death a book will be found, which I com-
menced to write at the time when I was beginning to
put in practice this Art, which, reckoning the number of
the years, was in 1409, until to-day on which I am
arrived at the 96th"* year ot mine age, with all honour
and augmentation of fortune ; and in this book can be
read in detail even to the very least thing which I have
* As this MS. bears the date of 1458, Abraham must have been
born in 1362, and was consequently 47 years old in 1409,
28 The Book of the Sacred Magic
done. But here, as I have aforesaid, I will describe only
the most remarkable.
Up till now I have healed of persons of all condi-
tions, bewitched unto death, no less than 8413, and
belonging unto all religions, without making an excep-
tion in any case.
I gave unto mine Emperor Sigismond,* a very
* Sigismond, Emperor of Germany, was born the 14th February,
1368, and died at Znaim on the 9th December, 1437. Son of the
Emperor Charles IV. and of Anne of Silesia, he received an excellent
education. At ten years of age his father gave him the Margravate of
Brandenburg, and two years later he was betrothed to Mary, the
daughter of Louis the Great of Hungary, whom he afterwards married.
He was nominated by his father-in-law his successor on the throne of
Poland. But the nobles preferred Ladislaus, the nephew of Casimir
the Great. However, in 1386, he took possession of Hungary, repulsed
the Poles, overcame the rebellious nobles ; and then marched against
the Wallachians ^nd Turks, but he was beaten, and later, notwith-
standing the help of France and England, he lost the Battle of
Nicopolis in 1396. He escaped on board a vessel in the Black Sea,
and for eighteen months was a fugitive from his Kingdom ;
and at
the moment of his re-entering Hungary he was made prisoner by the
discontented nobles, and shut up in the citadel of Ziklos. Escaping
thence into Bohemia, he, however, reconquered his throne, and in
14 10 was raised to the Empire by one party among the Electors,
while Josse, Marquis of Moravia, and Wenceslaus were elected by
other factions. A remarkable coincidence, seeing that at this moment
when three Emperors possessed the Empire, the Papacy had also
three Popes, viz.: John XX HI. (Balthazar Cossa), a Neapolitan;
Gregory XH. (Ange Conrario), a Venetian ; and Benedict XI H.
(Pierre de Lune), a Spaniard. The death of Josse, and the resigna-
tion of Wenceslaus, left Sigismond sole master of the Empire. After
having received the Silver Crown at Aix-la-Chapelle in 1414, he went
to preside at the Council of Constance, where John Huss was con-
demned, notwithstanding the safe conduct which he had obtained
from the Emperor. He endeavoured to end the differences between
the Roman and Greek Churches, visited P"rance and England
under pretext of reconciling Charles VI. and Henry V., but, as some
say, in order to form a league with the latter against P^rance, so as to
recover the ancient Kingdom of Aries. The death of his brother,
Wenceslaus, in 1419, rendered him Master of Bohemia, at the moment
when the revolt of the Hussites was at its height. He commenced a
war of extermination against them, but was defeated by Ziska in 1420,
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 29
clement Prince, a Familiar Spirit ot the Second Hier-
archy, even as he commanded me, and he availed himself
of its services with prudence. He wished also to possess
the secret of the whole operation, but as I was warned
by the Lord that it was not His Will, he contented
himself with what was permitted, not as Emperor, but as
a private person ; and I even by means of mine Art
facilitated his marriage with his wife ; and I caused him to
overcome the great diiriculties which opposed his marriage.
I delivered also the Count Frederick* by the means
and a war of fifteen years' duration ensued. In 143 1, whilst he was
being crowned King of Italy at Milan, his troops experienced such
severe defeats that he was forced to concede advantageous terms to
the rebels. But dissensions arose among them, and Sigismond profited
by this to completely crush them at length and make Bohemia submit.
He reigned twenty-seven years as Emperor of Germany, eighteen years
as King of Bohemia, and fifty-one years as King of Hungary. His
second wife, Barbe, has been called by some, //ic JMessalina of Germany.
* Frederick I., surnamed the Ouarreller, Duke and Elector of
Saxony, was born at Altenburg in 1369, and died in 1428. He was
son of the Landgrave and Margrave Frederick the Severe, and of
Catherine, Countess of Henneberg. At only four years of age, Frederick
had been betrothed to Anne, daughter of the Emperor Charles IV. ;
later on he had serious disputes concerning this matter with the
Emperor Wenceslaus (the brother of Anne), who had disposed of her
hand to another, but who ultimately consented, in 1397, to pay
Frederick a considerable sum by way of damages. In 1388 he fought
as ally of the Burgrave of Nuremberg in the war of the German
towns; and gained his knightly spurs in 1391, in the war which he,
in concert with the Teutonic Knights, waged against the Lithuanians.
Next, he fought against Wenceslaus. He married Catherine of
Brunswick in 1402, and after various wars and quarrels, the L^niversity
of Leipzig was founded in 1409. The indefatigable activity which
this Prince displayed from 1420 against the movements of the
Hussites, who were directly menacing his possessions, pointed him
out as a valuable auxiliary to the Emperor Sigismond, who was then
in a very critical position. In order to assure himself definitely of the
alliance of Frederick the Ouarreller, the Emperor conferred upon him
the Electorate and Duchy of Saxony ; but the former could not long
enjoy his new found dignities in peace, for the Emperor shifted the
whole weight of the war with the Hussites on to hrs shoulders. As
the other German Princes did not respond readily to the Elector's
appeal, the latter had the misfortune to lose the greater part of his
30 The Book of the Sacred Magic
of 2000 artificial cavalry (the which 1 by mine Art caused
to appear according unto the tenor of the Twenty-ninth
Chapter of the Third Book here following), free out of
the hands of the Duke Leopold of Saxonia ; the which
Count Frederick without me would have lost both his
own life, and his estate as well (which latter would not
have descended) unto his heirs.
Unto the Bishop of our Citv also, I showed the
betrayal of his government at Orembergh, one year before
the same occurred ; and I say no more concerning this
because he is an Ecclesiastic* passing over in silence all
that I have further done to render unto him service.
The Count of VarvichJ- was delivered by me from
Army near Brux in 1425. But his wife, Catherine, summoned the
whole of Catholic Germany to unite in a Crusade against the inno-
vating Hussites ; wJiile 20,000 strange and foreign Warriors caine
unexpectedly to range themselves tinder the Standard of Frederick.
It is to be noted that Abraham the Jew puts the Artificial Cavalry he
supplied at 2000 (though this may easily be a slip for 20,000) and
rumour would of course soon magnify the number. But the Elector
was at length defeated at the disastrous battle of Aussig in 1426,
where the elite of the German Warriors fell. The following year again
witnessed a fresh defeat of the Elector, and the chagrin which this
excited, ultimately led to his death. He was succeeded by his son,
Frederick H., called " the Good" born in 141 1, who began to reign in
1428, and died in 1464 (see Diet. Larousse).
* The same ambiguity exists in the French as in the translation,
as to whether it is Abraham or the Bishop who parses over the matter
in silence. Et fe nen dis pas davantage acause qnil est un eclesiastique
passant sous silence ceque joy fait deplus pour luy rendre service. (I
preserve the orthography of the French original.)
-f-
By " Count of Varvich," Abraham evidently means " Count
of Warwick," as throughout the MS. a w is never used, but always
a V, wherever the former occurs in a proper name. This Count of
Warwick is probably Henri de Beauchamp, the brother-in-law of
Warwick the " King-Maker," and son of that Richard de Beauchamp,
so infamous for his instrumentality in bringing about the torture and
burning of the heroic Joan of Arc. Henri de Beauchamp was at first
deprived of his goods by Henry VI. ; but in 1444 that Monarch created
him Duke of Warwick, and later. King of the islands of Wight, Jersey,
and Guernsey. He did not long survive to enjoy these honours
{^Dict. Larousse).
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 31
prison in England the night before he was to have been
beheaded.
I aided the flight of the Duke,* and of his Pope
JoHN,j- from the Council of Constance, who would other-
* Probably Albert V. of Austria.
f Pope John XXIII. (Balthazar Cossa), Pope from 14 10 to 141 5,
was born at Naples. He had been a corsair in his youth, and at first,
after his entry into holy orders, was only notable for his debauches,
his exactions, and his violence. Pope Boniface IX. nevertheless
appointed him Cardinal in 1402, and afterwards Legate of Bologna,
where he is said to have given himself up to such excesses that
Gregory XII. thought it necessary to excommunicate him. Notwith-
standing this Cossa was elected to the Papacy at the time when the
Church was shaken by internal dissension. He promised at first to
renounce the Pontificate, if on their side Gregory XH. and Benedict
XIII. would abandon their claims. However, he mounted the Papal
Throne, and declared for the side of Louis d'Anjou in the war between
the latter and Ladislaus regarding the Throne of Naples. At length,
after the taking of Rome by Ladislaus, he was forced to implore the
support of the lunpcror Sigismond. The latter consented to grant
him his protection, but on the sole condition of the convocation of
the Council of Constance. After much hesitation, and after having
taken every possible precaution to ensure his personal safety, John
XXIII. consented to the assembling of the Council, which he opened
7th November, 14 14. Being then summoned to lay aside the Papal
Mitre, he judged it prudent to consent; but a few days later, he
succeeded in escaping in disguise, during a tournament given by the
Duke of Austria. He retired to Lauffembourg, and protested against
the abdication, which he declared to have been obtained from him by
force. The Council was for a moment struck with fear and consterna-
tion, but the firmness of the Emperor Sigismond, coupled with the
effect of the declaration of J. Gerson that the General Councils had
higher authority than the Papacy, prevailed. John XXIII. was sum-
moned to appear before the Council, but refused ; and soon after,
being abandoned by the Duke of Austria, who was too weak to resist
the power of the Emperor, he was arrested at P'ribourg, and conducted
to Rudolfcell. On the 29th May, 141 5, this Pontiff was solemnly
deposed by the Council of Constance as being given to simony,
impudent, a secret poisoner, and a spendthrift of the wealth of the
Church ;
and was imprisoned in the Castle of Heidelberg. At the
end of four years he recovered his liberty, on payment of 30,000
golden crowns, and went to Rome, where he made his submission to
Martin V., and was by him appointed Cardinal-Bishop of I-Vascati,
and Senior of the Sacred College. He died a few months later at
Florence, either of anxiety or by poison.
32 The Book of the Sacred Magic
wise have fallen into the hands of the enraged Emperor ;
and the latter having asked me to predict unto him which
one of the two Popes, John XXIIl. and Martin V., should
gain in the end, my prophecy was verified ; that fortune
befalling which I had predicted unto him at Ratisbon.
At the time when I was lodged at the house of the
Duke of Bavaria,* my Lord, for matters of the greatest
importance ; the door of my room was forced, and I had
the value of 83,000 Hungarian pieces stolen from me in
jewels and money. As soon as I returned, the thief
(although he was a Bishop !) was forced to himself bring
it back to me in person and to return with his own hands
to me the money, jewels, and account books, and to give
me the principal reasons which had forced him to com-
mit the theft, rather than any other person.
Six months ago I did write unto the Grecian Em-
PEROR,f- and I warned him that the affairs of his Empire
were in a very bad condition, and that his Empire itself
was on the brink of ruin,:]; unless he could appease the
Anger of God. As there only remaineth unto me but a
little while to live, those who remain after me will
receive the news of the result of this prophecy.
The Operation of the thirteenth chapter^ of the
Second Book, I have twice performed ; once in the house
* Either Ernest or William I. of Bavaria. They were brothers,
and reigned conjointly. From his calling the Duke of Bavaria, his
Lord, it would appear that he was living under his dominion, but it
is curious that up to this point Abraham has never mentioned the
name of his own town.
f Constantine Pala;ologos, who was the thirteenth and last
Greek Emperor. He was killed, and Constantinople taken by the
Turks under Mahomet II. The direct descendant of Constantine
Palaeologos to-day, is the Princess Eugenie di Cristoforo-Palaeologae-
Nicephorae-Comnenae.
I A deux doigts de sa perte.
§ This chapter is entitled :
" Concerning the Convocation of the
Good Spirits ",
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 33
of Savonia;* and another time in the Marquisate of
Magdeburgh, and I was the cause that their estates were
handed down unto their children.
Now when once the facuUy of being able to avail
oneself of the Sacred Magic hath been obtained, it is per-
missible to demand from the Angel a sum of coined
money proportionate unto thy birth, quality and capacity,
the which without difficulty will be granted unto thee.
Such money is taken from the Hidden Treasures. It is,
however, necessary to note that in all Treasures one is
allowed to take the fifth part, God permitting the same,
although some braggart chatterers-^- do say that there be
an infinitude hereof which be destined and reserved unto
Anti-Christ, I do not for a moment say that this may not
be true ; but undoubtedly from the same Treasures one
may also take the fifth part. There are yet more which
be destined unto others. Mine own particular treasure
was assigned unto me at Herbipolis ; .|. and I performed the
Operation of the eighth chapter § of the Third Book ; it
was not in any way guarded, and was very ancient. It
was of gold, which had never been struck into ingots ;
and which I afterwards caused to be beaten out and con-
verted into its equivalent weight of golden florins, by the
Spirits ; the which was done in a few hours ;
(and I did
this operation seeing that) mine own possessions were
* Thus in MS.—? Saxonia. f Quelques hableurs.
\ Herbipolis is the Latin mediaeval name of the town of Wurtz-
bourg in Bavaria. It seems from this passage that it was probably
the city of Abraham the Jew, and therefore the one intended a few
paragraphs before where he speaks of the " Bishop of our town ".
Wurzbourg and the surrounding district formed a Bishopric, and in
the time of Abraham it was the scene of constant struggles between
the Bishop and his party, and the burghers. Later, formidable
persecutions against the Jews took place there, and many edicts
were promulgated against witchcraft.
§ This is evidently an error for either the sixth, the sixteenth, or
the twenty-eighth chapter ;
probably the latter.
3
34 The Book of the Sacred Magic
few and of little worth ; and so poor was 1 that in order
to marry a person who had a considerable dowry, I was
forced to make use of mine Art, and I employed the
Fourth Sign of the Third Book and the Third Sign* of the
nineteenth chapter ; and I married my cousin with
40,000 golden florins as a dowry, the which sum served
as a cover to my fortune.
All the Signs which are in the Eighteenth Chapter-^-
have been made use of by me so many times that I could
not count them. However, they are all given in the
Book;]; already mentioned.
I made great and wonderful experiments with the
Signs of the second § and eighth ||
chapters of the Third
Book. The First Sign^ of the first chapter of the Third
Book is the most perfect.
It is necessary to be prompt and adroit in all these
operations, seeing that in the things which belong unto
God we can easily commit still greater errors than those
into which Solomon fell.
All these Signs have I worked with great ease and
pleasure, and with very great utility (unto myself and
others). All these operations and others in infinite
number have I performed by the Signs which be in
the Third Book, and never have I failed in attaining
mine end, I have always been obeyed (by the Spirits),
and everything hath succeeded with me because I have
myself obeyed the Commandments of God. Also I have
* To make oneself loved by a relation.
f The Eighteenth Chapter is entitled :
" How to heal divers
maladies ".
+ I.e. the Third Book.
§ The Second Chapter is entitled :
" How to obtain information
and be enlightened concerning every kind of proposition and all
doubtful sciences ".
II
The Eighth Chapter is entitled :
" How to excite Tempests".
IF " To know all sorts of matters past and to come, which are,
however, not opposed to God and to His Holy Will."
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 35
from point to point followed out that which mine Angel
hath counselled and prescribed unto me ; following out
also exactly that which Abra-Melin * had taught me,
the which is the same that I shall write in the Two
following Books, and which 1 shall exemplify and explain
more clearly ; because the instructions which I received,
although in very obscure words and Hieroglyphics, have
caused me to attain mine object, and have never permitted
me to err and fall into pagan, strange, and superstitious
idolatries ; I being always kept in the Way of the Lord,
Who is the True, the Only, the Infallible End, for
arriving at the possession of this Sacred Magic.
THE NINTH CHAPTER.
HE infamous Belial hath no other desire
than that of obtaining the power of hiding
and obscuring the True Divine Wisdom,
so that he may have more means of blind-
ing simple men and of leading them by
the nose ; so that they may always remain in their simpli-
city, and in their error, and that they may not discover
the Way which leadeth unto the True Wisdom ; seeing
that otherwise it is certain that both he and his Kingdom
would remain bound and that he would lose the title
which he giveth himself of " Prince of this World,"
having become the slave of man. This is wherefore he
seeketh to annul and destroy utterly this Sacred Wisdom.
I, however, do pray all and singular to be upon their
guard, and in no way to despise the Way and Wisdom of
the Lord, nor to allow themselves to be seduced by the
Demon and his adherents ; for he is a liar and wijl be so
* Thus spelt here.
36 The Book of the Sacred Magic
eternally ; and may the Truth for ever flourish ; for in
following out and obeying with fidelity that which I have
written in these Three Books, not only shall we arrive at
the desired end, but we shall sensibly know and feel the
Grace of the Lord, and the actual assistance of His Holy
Angels, who take an incredible pleasure in seeing that
they are obeyed and that you intend to follow out the
Commandments of God, and that their instructions are
observed. Such then are the particular points upon
which I insist.
This Wisdom hath its foundation in the High and
Holy Qabalah* which is not granted unto any other than
unto the First-Born, even as God hath ordained, and as it
was observed by our predecessors. Thence arose the
difference, and the truck •^j- or exchange between Jacob
and Esau ; the primogeniture being the Qabalah, which
is much nobler and greater than the Sacred Magic. :[.
And by the Qabalah we can arrive at the Sacred Magic,
but by the latter we cannot have the Qabalah. Unto the
Child of a Servant, or of an Adulterer, the Qabalah is not
granted, but only unto a Legitimate Child ; as occurred
in the case of Isaac and Ishmael ; but the Sacred Wisdom
through the Mercy of God all can acquire, provided that
they walk in the right Path ; and each one should con-
tent himself with the Gift and Grace of the Lord. And
this must not be done out of curiosity, and with extra-
vagant and ridiculous scruples, wishing to know and
understand more than is right ; seeing that temerity is
certainly punished by God, Who then permitteth him
who is presumptuous not only to be turned aside out of
* As I have pointed out in my " Kabbalah Unveiled," I consider
this a truer orthography than " Cabala," or " Kabbalah ".
f Troque ou change.
X That is to say the True and Unwritten Qabalah, which is the
Ancient Egyptian Magical Wisdom ; and not later Hebrew perversions
thereof.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 37
the True Way by the Second Causes,* but also the
Demon hath power over him, and he ruineth and ex-
terminateth him in such a manner, that we can only say
that he himself is the sole cause of his own ruin and
misery. It is certain that the Old Serpent will attempt
to contaminate the present Book with his venom, and
even to destroy and lose it utterly, but O Lamech ! as
a faithful father I entreat thee by the True God Who
hath created thee and all things, and I entreat every
other person who by thy means shall receive this method
of operating, not to be induced or persuaded to have any
other sentiment or opinion, or to believe the contrary.
Pray unto God and ask Him for His assistance, and place
all thy confidence in Him alone. And although thou
canst not have the understanding of the Qabalah, never-
theless the Holy Guardian Angels at the end of the Six
Moons or Monthsf- will manifest unto thee that which is
sufficient for the possession of this Sacred Magic.
Wherefore all the Signs and Symbols given in the
Third Book, are written with Letters of the Fourth
Hierarchy;;}, but the Mysterious Words wherein con-
sisteth the Secret § have their origin in and are drawn
from the Plebrew, Latin, Greek, Chaldean, Persian, and
Arabian languages by a singular Mystery and according
unto the Will of the Most Wise Architect and Fabricator
of the Universe, Who alone dominateth and governeth it
by His All-Power ; all the Monarchies and Kingdoms of
the World are submitted unto His Infinite Power, and
unto this Sacred Magic and Divine Wisdom.
* That is to say the Administrators of the First Cause, i.e. the
various Divine Powers, or Gods and Goddesses, who act more directly
on matter.
f Abraham here alludes to the period of preparation required
from the Neophyte, as described later.
\ Rc^^arding the Hierarchies, see end of Third Book.
§ Thus in the Indian "Mantras" the force and mystery of the
Words themselves is especially insisted on.
38 TiiK Book of the Sacked Magic
THE TENTH CHAPTER.
T beini; understood that in this operation we
liave to do with a Great and Powerful
Enemy, whom through our own weakness
and human strength or science we cannot
resist without particular aid and assistance
from the Holy Angels, and from the Lord of the Good
Spirits ; it is necessary that each one should always have
God before his eyes, and in no way offend Him. On the
other hand, he must always be upon his guard, and abstain
as from a mortal sin from flattering, obeying, regarding, or
having respect to the Demon, and to his Viperine Race ;
neither must he submit himself unto him in the slightest
thing, for that would be his ruin and the fatal loss of his
soul. As it happened unto all the seed descended from
Noah, Lot, Ishmael, and others who did possess the
blessed land (before our forefathers) who inherited this
Wisdom from father to son, from family to family ; but
m the course of time having lent an ear unto the Treach-
erous Enemy, they let themselves be turned away from
the Veritable Path, and did lose the True Science which
they had received from God by the means of their fathers,
and gave themselves over unto Superstitious Sciences, and
unto Diabolical Enchantments, and unto Abominable
Idolatries, the which was the cause that thereafter God did
chastise them, defy* them, and chase them from their
country ; and did introduce in their stead our predecessors
;
from which same errors again later came the cause of our
present misery and servitude, the which will last even
unto the end of the world ; since they in no way wished
to know the Gift which God had given unto them, but
instead abandoned it to embrace and follow the deceits of
the Demon.
* Les deffit.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 39
This is wherefore each one should take care to
submit himself unto him* neither by acts, nor by words,
nor by thoughts, because he is so adroit and prompt that
he can seize one unexpectedly ;
just as a Spider may take
a Bird.}' Let that miserable Bohemian and the others
whom I have before mentioned, serve thee for an example
to avoid (even as they did unto me).
In the commencement of the Operation there ap-
peareth a Man of Majestic Appearance, who with great
affability doth promise unto thee marvellous things.
Consider all this as pure vanity, for without the per-
mission of God he can give nothing ; but he will do it
unto the damage and prejudice, ruin and eternal damna-
tion of whomsoever putteth faith in him, and believeth in
him ; as we may see in the Holy Scripture in the matter
of Pharaoh and his adherents, the which despised the
Veritable and certain Wisdom of Moses and Aaron, and
were in the beginning backed up by the Devil who
showed them by the means of Enchantments that he
could both do and put in practice all the works of the
aforesaid holy men, whence he ultimately did reduce
them to such a condition of obstinacy and blindness, that
without perceiving their own error and the deceit of the
Demon, they were cruelly chastised by God with divers
plagues, and were at last all drowned in the Red Sea.
This is wherefore in conclusion I say unto thee in few
words, that we must rely upon God alone, and put all our
confidence in Him.
* I.e., the Demon.
f There is a very large species of Spider, which can even capture
and kill small birds, but it is only met with in tropical regions, espe-
cially in Central America and Martinique ;
the zoological name of
this species is Mygal^.
40 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE ELEVENTH CHAPTER.
OD be my witness that I have not learned
this Science out of curiosity, nor in order
to avail myself of it for an evil purpose,
but rather to use it for the honour and
glory of my,* for mine ov^n use, and for
that of my neighbour ; and I have never wished to
employ it for vain and vile things, but I have always
laboured with all my strength to aid all creatures, friends
and enemies, faithful and unfaithful, as well the one as
the other, with a perfect will and a good heart, and I
have also made use of it for the animals.
I have before cited certain examples in order to show
unto thee that God Almighty doth not in any way grant
the Art or the Science unto a person in order that he may
use it for himself alone, but in order that he may provide
for the needs of others, and of those who do not possess
this Sacred Science. This is why I pray every one to
tollow mine example, and if he doeth otherwise the Male-
diction of the Lord will fall upon him, and as for myself
I shall be excusable and innocent before God, and before
all men.
In the Third Book there will be found a very beauti-
ful garden,*f-
the like of which assuredly no one hath ever
made, and which no King nor Emperor hath ever
possessed. He who shall wish to be as an industrious
Bee therein, can there suck the honey which it containeth
in abundance ; but if he shall maliciously wish to trans-
form himself into a Spider, he can also draw poison from
thence. God, however, accordeth and giveth His Grace,
* Here a word is evidently omitted in the MS. by a slip. It
should probably read " of my God ",
t This is a very usual expression in Qabalistic Books to
denote a valuable collection of Occult or Magical information.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 41
not unto the Evil, but unto the Good ; and if it seemeth
unto thee that some chapters of the Third Book can
be rather applied unto Evil and unto the hurt of our
neighbour, than unto a useful end ; each one shall know
that I have so placed them, in order that we may under-
stand that this Science can be applied alike for Evil or for
Good, as I will show thee more fully in the other Books.
We must then study to flee the Evil and to obtain all the
Forces of Good. He who shall act thus all the days of
his life shall have the succour and assistance of the faith-
ful, benign and holy Angels ; and he who shall use it for
Evil shall be abandoned by the same Angels, and shall be
in the power of the Treacherous Enemy, who never
faileth to obey the commands of such an one to work
Evil, in order to render him his slave. It is necessary to
have as a general rule and maxim which never faileth,
that whenever thou shalt see a man filled with an extra-
ordinary desire to procure this operation for himself, if
thou wishest to give it unto him, it is necessary to test
his sincerity and his intentions, and delay him, according
to the instructions which I give unto thee in these three
Books. And if he seeketh to obtain it by indiscreet
methods, and sayeth unto thee that this operation may be
true or not true, feigning doubts in order to compel thee
to give it unto him, or that he maketh use of other
stratagems, thou mayest then conclude that such a man
walketh not in the Way of the Lord. If any person
wisheth it in a way opposed to that which God employeth
to grant it, this would be presumptuous.
And if any person seeketh to obtain it not for him-
self, (but for either) a child or a relative, who is not such
as he should be who receiveth so great a treasure ; he who
shall grant it unto him shall be culpable of a great evil,
and shall himself lose the Grace and Wisdom of the Lord,
and shall deprive his heirs of the same eternally.
If a man of evil life, whom one shall feel by means
42 The Book of the Sacred Mac;ic
of this Sacred Science will persist in his evil way of life,
shall come unto thee to seek this Sacred Science, it is
prohable that such a man doth not desire to use it for
good and in a right intention, but that having received it,
he will use it for evil. I have also in such case myself,
however, seen and felt that God, Who penetrateth the
secret of our hearts, hath put by indirect means obstacles
in the way of such an one's success, causing difficulties to
arise of one kind and another. So that he who at the
first wisheth to possess this Science in order to use it
against his neighbour, and to commit all sorts of abomin-
ations, manifesteth himself as an unworthy person unto
him who had resolved to give it unto him.
Shun Commerce, and the converse of those who
actually in the search for this Science shall do and say
all things which tend to Evil ; seeing that such men can
become the Enchanters of the Devil. Thou shalt know
the rest hereafter in the other Books. Here I am very
prolix upon this point, and I am exaggerating much,
because it is certain that once the Operation is given in
due form, it is an Irrevocable Act.
But if, on the other hand, after an exact examination
and inquisition thou shalt find a person tranquil and sin-
cere, thou must aid him, because God Who hath aided
thee wisheth also to aid him ; unto this end hath He put
into thine hands this Sacred Science.
Thou must make every eflPort to procure peace
amongst those who are at discord, and sworn enemies
among themselves ; and it is imperative to do good unto
every one, this being the sole and true means of rendering
favourable unto thee, God, the Angels, and Men ; and of
making the Demon thy slave, and obedient in all and
through all. And such an one shall pass the rest oi his
life with a good and right conscience, in honour and
peace, with contentment, and useful unto all beings. I
entreat those who shall be possessors of a so great treasure
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 43
to employ it in the proper manner, and never to cast it
before swine.
Thou shalt use it for thyself, O Lamech, my son,
but of the fruit which thou shalt draw therefrom, thou
shalt make partakers those who have need, and the more
thou shalt give, the more shall thy means increase. The
same shall happen unto him to whom thou shalt give it.
In these regions and countries we are slaves, and
justly afflicted for our sins and those of our fathers ; how-
ever, we ought to serve the Lord in the best manner
which shall be possible unto us.
And by such an one shall the Treasure be kept secret,
and shall be given unto his heirs as far as he can, being
ware of disinheriting them in order to give it unto others,
and of causing it to fall into the hands of the Infidels, or
of rendering the Wicked possessors thereof.
THE TWELFTH CHAPTER.
1
44 The Kook of the Sacred Magic
not encounter any doubtful matter which he will not be
able to solve himself, but further day by day will he
assume unto himself a great and ardent desire, pleasure,
and will, to undertake this so glorious operation ; the
which can be effected by any person of any religion
soever,* provided, however, that during the Six Moons
he hath not committed any sin against the Law and
Commandments of God.
Now it remaineth unto me, O Lamech, my son, to
show unto thee the marks of my extreme paternal tender-
ness, by giving thee two principal pieces of advice, by
the means of which, and observing all the other particu-
lars which I shall describe, thou (and any person unto
whom thou shalt accord this Sacred Science) mayest in-
dubitably arrive at the perfection of this same Wisdom.
It is necessary, however, to understand that many have
undertaken this operation ; and that some have obtained
their wish ; but that there are others who have not
succeeded, and the reason of this hath been because
their Good Angel hath not appeared unto them in the
day of the Conjuration, their Angel being by its nature
Amphiteron, |- because the Angelic nature differeth to so
great an extent from that of men, that no understanding
nor science could express or describe it, as regardeth that
great purity wherewith they;]; be invested.
1 do not wish that thou, LAxMECh, my son, and thy
successor, and friends, should be deprived of a so great
treasure. I in no way wish to abandon thee in so essen-
tial a matter. The other point is the Psalm which 1 will
tell thee also ; and though thou givest the operation unto
another person, although he be a friend, thou shalt in no
* It is noticeable how constantly Abraham the Jew insists
upon this point.
f This word in Greek would mean " exhausted in every way,"
or " hemmed in and hindered on every side ".
I I.e., the Angels.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 45
wise communicate this unto him, because this Psalm is
the preservative against all those to whom thou shalt have
given the Holy Magic, should they wish to make use of
it against thee ; and thou shalt be able thyself to make
excellent use of it against them. This was granted by
the Lord unto David for his own preservation.
For the first point : the day being come when it is
necessary to perform the Orations, Prayers, and Convoca-
tions of thy Guardian Angel, thou shalt have a little
Child* of the age of six, seven, or eight years at the most,
who shall be clothed in white, the which child thou shalt
have washed from head to foot, and thou shalt place upon
his forehead a veil of white silk very fine and transparent,
which covereth the forehead even unto the eyes ; and
upon the veil it is necessary to write beforehand in gold
with a brush a certain Sign made and marked in the
manner and order as it will be shown in the Third Book ;
the which doth serve to conciliate and to give grace unto
the mortal and human creature to behold the face of the
Angel. He who operateth shall do the same thing, but
upon a veil of black silk, and shall put it on in the same
manner as the Child. After this thou shalt make the
Child enter into the Oratory and thou shalt cause him to
plac>e the fire and the perfume in the censer, then he shall
kneel before the Altar ; and he who performeth the
operation shall be at the door and prostrate upon the
ground, making his Oration, and supplicating his Holy
Angel that he will deign to appear and show himself
unto this innocent being,-^)- giving unto him another Sign
if it be necessary in order to see him himself J on the two
following days.
It is requisite that he who shall operate shall take
heed to in no wise regard the Altar, but having his face
* The following instructions recall some of Cagliostro's methods
of magical working.
f I.e., the Child. % I.e., the Operator.
46 The Book of the Sacred Magic
towards the groiuul let him continue his Orations, and as
soon as the child shall have seen the Angel thou shalt
command him to tell thee, and to look upon the Altar
and take the lamen or plate of silver which thou shalt
have placed there tor this purpose, in order to bring it
unto thee it it be necessary, and whatever other thing the
Holy Angel shall have written thereon, wherewith thou
oughtest to work on the two following days. The which
being done he will disappear. Which being carefully
done, the Child will tell thee (for this, it is necessary to
have instructed him beforehand), and thou shalt command
him to bring unto thee the little plate,* by the which
when thou hast received it thou shalt know what the
Angel hath ordered thee to do. And thou shalt cause it
to be replaced upon the Altar, and thou shalt quit the
Oratory, thou shalt close it, and thou shalt in no wise
enter therein during the first day, and thou shalt be able
to send away the Child. And he who shall perform the
Operation shall prepare himself during the rest of the day
for the morrow following, to enjoy the admirable presence
of the Holy Guardian Angel, in order to obtain the end
so earnestly desired, and which shall not fail thee if thou
followest the Path which He shall show unto thee. And
these two Signs are the Key of the whole Operation.
Unto the Glory of the Most Holy Name of God and of
His Holy Angels !
* I.e., the lamen of silver, previously alluded to.
END OF THE FIRST BOOK.
THE SECOND BOOK
OF THE
HOLY MAGIC,
WHICH GOD GAVE UNTO MOSES, AARON, DAVID, SOLOMON, AND OTHER
HOLY PATRIARCHS AND PROPHETS; WHICH TEACHETH
THE TRUE DIVINE WISDOM.
BEQUEATHED BY ABRAHAM UNTO LAMECH HIS SON.
TRANSLATED FROM THE HEBREW.
1458.
THE SECOND BOOK OF THE SACRED MAGIC.
PROLOGUE.
HE Wisdom of the Lord is an inexhaustible
fountain, neither hath there ever been a
man born who could penetrate its veritable
origin and foundation. The Sages and
Holy Fathers have drunk long draughts
thereof, and have been fully satisfied therewith. But
with all this, not one among them hath been able to
comprehend or know the Radical Principles, because the
Creator of all things reserveth that unto Himself; and,
like a jealous God, He hath indeed wished that we should
enjoy the fruit thereof, but He hath not wished to permit
us to touch either the Tree or its Root. It is then not
only proper, but further also we are compelled to conform
ourselves unto the Will of the Lord, walking in that Path,
by the which also our predecessors went, without seeking
out through a vain curiosity how it is that God reigneth
and governeth in His Divine Wisdom ; because such
would be a very great presumption and a bestial conceit.
Let us then content ourselves with only knowing how
many blessings He hath granted unto us Sinners, and
what extent of power He hath given unto us mortals over
all things, and in what way it is permitted unto us to use
them. Let us then content ourselves with this, laying
aside all other curiosity, observing without any comment
that which shall be set down in this Book with fidelity.
And if ye do follow my advice, ye shall be infallibly
comforted thereby, *
* The style of the writing here is much more quaint and obscure
than that of the First Book ; and is evidently the translation of
Abraham the Jew from a more ancient writer.
4
50 The Book of the Sacred Maciic
THE FIRST CHAPTER.
WHAT AND HOW MANY BE THE FORMS OF VERITABLE
MAGIC.
HOSO should wish to recount all the Arts
and Operations which in our times be re-
puted and preached abroad as Wisdom and
Magical Secrets ; he should as well under-
take to count the waves and the sands of
the Sea ; seeing that the matter hath come to such a pass
that every trick of a buffoon is believed to be Magic, that
all the abominations of impious Enchanters, all Diabolical
Illusions, all Pagan Idolatries, all Superstitions, Fascina-
tions, Diabolical Pacts, and lastly all that the gross
blindness of the World can touch with its hands and feet
is reckoned as Wisdom and Magic ! The Physician, the
Astrologer, the Enchanter, the Sorceress, the Idolater, and
the Sacrilegious, is called of the common People a Magi-
cian ! Also he who draweth his Magic whether from
the Sun, whether from the Moon, whether from the Evil
Spirits, whether from Stones, Herbs, Animals, Brutes, or
lastly from thousand divers sources, so that the Heaven
itself is astonished thereat. There be certain who draw
their Magic from Air, from Earth, from Fire, from Water,
from Physiognomy, from the Hand, from Mirrors, from
Glasses, from Birds, from Bread, from Wine, and even
from the very excrements themselves ; and yet, however,
all this is reputed as Science !
I exhort you, ye who read, to have the Fear of God,
and to study Justice, because infallibly unto you shall be
opened the Gate of the True Wisdom which God gave
unto Noah and unto his descendants Japhet, Abraham,
and Ishmael; and it was His Wisdom that delivered Lot
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 51
from the burning of Sodom. Moses learned the same
Wisdom in the desert, from the Burning Bush, and he
taught it unto Aaron his brother. Joseph, Samuel,
David, Solomon, Elijah, and the Apostles, and Saint
John particularly (from whom we hold a most excellent
book of Prophecy*) possessed it. Let every one then
know that this, this which I teach, is that same Wisdom
and Magic, and which is in this same Book, and inde-
pendent of any other Science, or Wisdom, or Magic,
soever. It is, however, certainly true that these mira-
culous operations have much in common with the
Qabalah ; it is also true that there be other Arts which
have some stamp of Wisdom ; the which alone would be
nothing worth were they not mingled with the foundation
of the Sacred Ministry, whence later arose the Mixed
Qabalah. The Arts are principally twelve. Four in
number, 3, 5, 7, 9, among the numbers in the Mixed
Qabalah. The second is the most perfect one, the which
operateth by Sign and Visions. Two of the even numbers,
namely 6 and 2, which operate with the Stars and the
Celestial Courses which we call Astronomy. Three con-
sisteth in the Metals, and 2 in the Planets, j- As to all
* I.e., the Revelation, or Apocalypse.
f This whole passage about the signification of these numbers is
very obscurely worded in the original. I take the meaning to be the
following : The Arts or methods of Magical working are twelve,
if we class them under the twelve Signs of the Zodiac. The second
number mentioned above, 5, is perfect because of its analogy with
the Pentagram that potent Symbol of the Spirit and the Four
Elements ; 6 is the number of the Planets (as known to the Ancients,
without the recently discovered Herschel and Neptune). As the
Chaldean Oracles of Zoroaster say :
" He made them Six, and for the
Seventh, He cast into the midst thereof the Fire of the Sun ". 2
operates in the Stars and Planets as representing their Good or Evil
influence in the Heavens, in other words their dual nature. 3
consists in the Metals because, the ancient Alchemists considered
their bases to be found in the three principles which they called
Sulphur, Mercury, and Salt ; but by which they did not mean the
substance which we know under these names.
52 The Book of the Sacred Magic
these Arts, the which be conjoined and mingled together
with the Sacred Qabalah ; both he who maketh use of
these same, either alone, or mingled with other things
which be in no way from the Qabalah ; and he who
seeketh to exercise himself in performing operations
with these Arts ; is alike liable to be deceived by
the Demon ; seeing that of themselves they possess no
other virtue than a natural property ; and they can pro-
duce no other thing than probable^ effects, and they have
absolutely no power in spiritual and supernatural things ;
but if, however, on certain occasions theyf- cause you to
behold any extraordinary effect, such is only produced by
impious and diabolical Pacts and Conjurations, the which
form of Science ought to be called Sorcery.
Finally, let us conclude that from the Divine
Mystery are derived these three kinds of Qabalah, viz. :
the Mixed Qabalah, and the True Wisdom, and the (True)
Magic. We will, therefore, show forth this last, and the
manner of becoming its possessors in the Name of God
and of His Celestial Court !
THE SECOND CHAPTER.
WHAT WE SHOULD CONSIDER BEFORE UNDERTAKING
THIS OPERATION.
E;{: have already said what is the Science
which I§ am to teach you, that is to say,
that it is neither in any way human nor
diabolical, but (that it is) the True and
Divine Wisdom and Magic, which has
* I.e., " probable " as opposed to " certain ".
f I.e., professing Magicians.
I
In the original MS. :
" Nous avons deja dit quelle est la science
queje dois vous enseigner cest adire quelle nest point humaine" etc.
§ Ibid.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 53
been handed down by our predecessors unto their suc-
cessors as a hereditary treasure. In like manner as I
myself at present, so even should yecthink, before entering
into this matter,* and before taking possession of so great
a treasure, how much this Gift is sublime and precious,
and how vile and base are ye yourselves who be about to
receive it. This is wherefore I say unto ye that the
beginning of this Wisdom is the Fear of God and of
Justice. These be the Tables of the Law, the Qabalah,
and the Magic ; they should serve unto ye for a rule.
It is necessary that ye should begin to attach yourselves
unto the very beginning, if ye truly do wish to have the
Veritable Wisdom ; and thus shall ye walk in the right
Path, and be able to work ; all the which is contained in
this Book, and all the which is therein prescribed. For
to undertake this Operation with the simple intention of
using it unto dishonest, impious, and wicked ends, is
neither just nor reasonable ; for it is absolutely necessary
to perform this Operation unto the praise, honour, and
glory of God ; unto the use, health, and well-being
of your neighbour, whether friend or enemy ; and
generally for that of the whole earth. Furthermore, it is
also necessary to take into consideration other matters,
which though less important be still necessary ; namely,
whether ye be capable, not only of commencing^ but also of
carrying through the Operation unto its end ; this being a
necessary point to consider before coming unto a final
determination upon the matter ; because in this case we
are not negotiating with men, but with God, by the
intermediation of His Holy Angels, and with all Spirits,
both good and evil.
I am not here intending to play the Saint and Hypo-
crite, but it is necessary to have a true and loyal heart.
Ye have here to do with the Lord, Who not only be-
* In the original :
" Comniejc suis apresent vous devez do7ic penser
avant que d'entrer dans ce ball^ etc.
54 The Book of the Sacked Magic
holdeth the outer man, but Who also penetrateth the
inmost recesses of the heart. But having taken a true,
firm, and determined resolution, relying upon the Will of
the Lord, ye shall arrive at your desired end, and shall
encounter no difficulty. Often also man is changeable,
and while beginning a thing well, finisheth it badly,
being in no way firm and stable in resolution. Ponder
the matter then well before commencing, and only begin
this Operation with the firm intention of carrying it out
unto the end, for no man can make a mock of the Lord
with impunity.
Furthermore it is likewise necessary to think and
consider whether your goods and revenue be sullicient
for this matter ; and, further, whether if your quality or
estate be subject unto others, ye may have time and con-
venience to undertake it ; also whether wife or children
may hinder you herein ; these being all matters worthy
of observation, so as not to commence the matter blindly.
The chief thing that ye should consider is whether
ye be in good health, because the body being feeble and
unhealthy, it is subject to divers infirmities, whence at
length result impatience and want of power to operate
and pursue the Operation ; and a sick man can neither be
clean and pure, nor enjoy solitude ; and in such a case it
is better to cease.
Consider then the safety of your person, commencing
this Operation in a place of safety, whence neither enemies
nor any disgrace can drive you out before the end ;
because ye must finish where ye begin.
But the first part of this chapter is the most impor-
tant, and see that ye keep well in mind the necessity of
observing the same, because as regardeth the other disad-
vantages, they may perhaps be remedied. And be ye
sure that God doth aid all those who put their confidence
in Him and in His Wisdom, and such as wish to live
rightly, making use with honour of the deceitful world.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 55
which ye shall hold in abomination, and see that ye make
no account of its opinion when ye shall be arrived at the
perfection of the work, and that ye shall be possessors of
this Sacred Magic.
THE THIRD CHAPTER.
OF THE AGE AND QUALITY OF THE PERSON WHO
WISHETH TO UNDERTAKE THIS OPERATION.
N order to describe the aforesaid and other
considerations in the best possible manner ;
I will here make a general recapitulation ;
mentioning also first what may bring hin-
drance unto the matter.
It is, then, necessary that such a man* give himself
up unto a tranquil life, and that his habits be temperate ;
that he should love retirement ; that he should be given
neither unto avarice nor usury (that he should be the
legitimate child of his parents is a good thing, but not as
necessary as for the Qabalah, unto which no man born of
a clandestine marriage f- can attain) ; his age ought not
to be less than twenty-five years nor more than fifty ; he
should have no hereditary disease, such as virulent leprosy ;
whether he be free or married importeth little ; a valet,
lackey, or other domestic servant, can with difiiculty
arrive at the end required, being bound unto others
and not having the conveniences at disposal which are ne-
cessary, and which this Operation demandeth. Among
women, there be only Virgins who are suitable ; but I.|
* I.e., he who intends to undertake the Operation.
f I doubt this assertion very much.
+ Here comes another touch of prejudice. In the present day
many of the profoundest students of the Qabalah ?re women, both
married and single.
^^
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 57
on all other days, and at all times. And whenever ye
shall see tables which do mark the days and their differ-
ences, the Celestial Signs, and other like matters,* pay no
attention thereto, because herein is a very great sin-f*
hidden, and a deceit of the Demon ; it being one of his
many methods of endeavouring to confound the True
Wisdom of the Lord with evil matters. Because this
True Wisdom of the Lord can operate and perform its
effects every day, and at any moment and second. The
Gates of His Grace are daily open, He wisheth, and it
is pleasing unto Him to aid us, as well on this day as on
the morrow ; and in no way could it be true that He
desireth to be subjected to the day and hour which men
would wish to prescribe for Him ; seeing that He is the
Master to elect such days as He Himself wisheth, and
also may they be sanctified ! Flee also all such Books
* It seems again to me here that Abraham the Jew stretches
the matter too far. It is perfectly and utterly true without doubt that
Angelic Magic is higher than that form of Talismanic Magic which
has its basis in the Astrological positions of the Heavenly Bodies ;
and can therefore do more, and be also independent of Astrological
considerations, because the matter is relegated to a higher plane than
this, and one wherein the laws of Physical Nature do not obtain. But
certainly when working with the rays of the Sun, we shall more easily
find his occult force of heat attainable when he himself is producing
that effect upon the earth, i.e., when he is in the Sign of the Lion ;
while when he is in that of the Bull, his force will be rather that of
Germination, etc., when in the Northern Hemisphere. And the same
with the other Planets. Also if working by the Indian Tatwas, we
shall find it necessary to consider the position of the Moon, the time
in the day, and the course of the Tatwa in the period of five Gharis.
Of course Abraham could not make the experiments of Rabbin Moses
succeed if he substituted the laws of another plane for their own.
f So it would be if he applied it to the Angelic working ; but
equally it would be an error which, though not so great, would still
entail failure, to apply laws exclusively of the Angelic plane to those
experiments which would mainly depend on the physical rays of the
Planets ; though undoubtedly the Angels of a Planet govern its rays.
But the Angels of Mars do not govern the rays of Jupiter, nor those
of the latter the rays of Mars.
58 The Book of the Sacred Magic
as those whose Conjurations include extravagant, inexpli-
cable, and unheard-of words,* and which be impossible to
understand, and which be truly the inventions of the
Devil and of wicked men.
It is well also to recall that which I have said in the
First Book, viz., that in the greater part of their Conjura-
tions there was not the slightest mention made of God
Almighty, but only of Invocations of the Devil, together
with very obscure Chaldean words. Surely it would be
a rash thing of a man who should deal with God by
the intermediary of His Holy Angels, to think that he
ought to address Him in a jargon, neither knowing what
he saith nor what he demandeth. Is it not an act of
madness to wish to offend God and His Holy Angels !
Let us then walk in the right way, let us speak before
God with heart and mouth alike opened, in our own
maternal language,-^- since how can ye pretend to obtain
any Grace from the Lord, if ye yourselves know not what
ye ask ? Yet, however, the number of those who lose
themselves utterly in this vanity is infinite ; many say
that the Grecian language is more agreeable unto God, it
may be true that it was perhaps at one time, but how
many among us to-day understand it perfectly, this is the
reason why it would be the most senseless thing to
employ it.
* The Grimoires of Black Magic would usually come under this
head. But, nevertheless, the extravagant words therein will be usually
found to be corruptions and perversions of Hebrew, Chaldee, and
Egyptian titles of Gods and Angels. But it is undoubtedly evil to use
caricatures of Holy Names ; and these for evil purposes also. Yet it
is written in the Oracles of Zoroaster :
" Change not barbarous Names
of Evocation, for they are Names Divine, having in the Sacred Rites
a Power Ineffable !
"
f Yet, notwithstanding, it is well in a Sacred Magical Operation
to employ a language which does not to our minds convey so much
the commonplace ideas of everyday life, so as the better to exalt our
thoughts. But, as Abraham says, we should before all things under-
stand what we are repeating.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 59
I repeat then : —Let each one speak his own language,
because thus understanding what it is that ye are demand-
ing of the Lord, ye will obtain all Grace. And if ye
demand a thing which is unjust, it will be refused unto
you, and ye will never obtain it.
THE FIFTH CHAPTER.
THAT IN THIS OPERATION IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO
REGARD THE TIME, NOR THE DAY, NOR THE HOURS.
HERE be no other days (to be observed) than
those which God hath ordained unto our
Fathers, vi-z.^ All Saturdays, which be the
days of the Sabbath ; Passover ; and the
Feast of Tabernacles ; of which the former
is the Fifteenth Day of the First of our Months, and
the latter (beginneth on) the Fifteenth Day of the Seventh
Month.* Now tor this Operation, any person of whatever
Lawi' he may be, provided that he confesseth that there
is One God,|. may observe these feasts. However, the true
time of commencing this Operation is the first day after
the Celebration of the Feasts of Easter, and this was
ordained unto Noah, being the most convenient time, and
the end falleth just at the (Feast of) Tabernacles. § Our
predecessors have thus observed it, and the Angel ||
also
* The Passover is about the Vernal Equinox and nearly cfjrre-
sponds to our Easter; it begins on the 15th or 16th of the Jewish
First Month = Nisan or Abib. The Feast of Tabernacles begins about
the middle of their Seventh Month = Tisri.
f I.e., religious denomination.
\ It is immaterial whether the religious conception be Theistic
or Pantheistic.
§ The Initiates (;f the True Rosicrucian Wisdom, know that there
is a certain force in the observance of the Equinoxes.
II
Abraham evidently means his Guardian Angel.
6o Thk Book of the Sacred Magic
hath approved it ; and also it is more advisable to follow
good counsel and example, than to be obstinate and follow
one's own caprice ; and also to treat the election of a
particular day as a Pagan idea, paying no regard whatever
either to Time nor to the Elements ; but only (having
respect) unto Him Who granteth such a period. Thus
then will we be found men in the fittest condition of
Grace and reconciled with God, and purer than at another
period ; and this being an essential point ye ought well
to consider the same.
It is, however, quite true that the Elements and the
Constellations do perform of themselves certain operations*
but this is to be understood of natural things, as it hap-
peneth that one day is different unto another ; but such
a difference hath not operation in things Spiritual and
Supernatural, being thus useless for (higher) Magical
Operations. The Election of Days is still more useless,
the Election of Hours and Minutes whereof the ignorant
make so much, is further a very great error.
Wherefore I have resolved to write this particular
chapter, in order that this error might appear more plainly
evident unto him who readeth it, and that he may draw
profit therefrom so as to operate with judgment.
THE SIXTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING THE PLANETARY HOURS AND OTHER
ERRORS OF THE ASTROLOGERS.
T is true that the Wise in Astrology do write
of the Stars and of their movements, and
that these attaining thereto do produce
divers effects in inferior and elemental
things ; and such are, as we have already
* Here Abraham admits to an extent what I have urged in my
previous notes.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 6i
said, natural operations of the Elements ; but that they
should have power over the Spirits, or force in all super-
natural things, that is not, neither can ever be. But it
will instead be found that by the permission of the Great
God it is the Spirits who govern the firmament. What
foolishness then would it be to implore the favour of the
Sun, of the Moon, and of the Stars, when the object
would be to have converse with Angels and with Spirits.
Would it not be an extravagant idea to demand from the
wild beasts the permission to go hunting ? But what
else is it, when they* have elected a certain day, when
they have divided it up into many false divisions such as
hours, minutes, etc. " Here," they say, " we have the
Planetary Hours, and the Planet appropriate to each
Hour." O what Planets ! O what fine order ! Tell
me, I pray you, what advantage you get by this division.
You will reply :
" A very great one, because it shows us
in all things, either good or bad fortune !
" I tell you,
and I repeat absolutely, that this is in no way true ; that
they produce thus a change of the time and of the Air, I
in part concede ; but do me the grace to tell me how ye
do divide the Planetary Hours. I know that ye begin
the first hour of the day with the Planet which itself
giveth the name unto the day, as Sunday is ascribed to
the Sun, Monday to the Moon, Tuesday to Mars, Wed-
nesday to Mercury, Thursday to Jupiter, Friday to Venus,
and Saturday to Saturn ; then ye divide the length of the
Day into twelve equal portions which ye call Hours, and
to each Hour ye assign its planet ; and ye do the same
thing with the Night, according to whether the days be
long or short. Thus do the Hours become long or short.
As for example, suppose that on a Sunday the Sun riseth
at 7 o'clock and setteth at 5 o'clock in the evening, its
course will be ten Hours, the which ye divide up into
* I.e., the Astrologers to whom Abraham refers in the first
sentence of the chapter.
62 The Book of the Sacred Magic
twelve equal parts, so that each Hour is of fifty minutes'
length. I say, therefore, that the hrst Planetary Hour is
of the Sun, and is fifty minutes long ; that the second is
of Venus ; the third of Mercury ; and so on of the others ;
at last the eighth Hour returneth unto the Sun ; the ninth
unto Venus ; the tenth unto Mercury ; and so the Day
finisheth. Then cometh the Night, which is longer,
that is to say, fourteen Hours, and each Planetary Hour
of this Night will be seventy minutes, and in order to
continue the regular succession as we have begun, the
first Hour of the Night will be of Jupiter ; the second
of Mars ; the third of the Sun ; and so on until Monday,
whose first Plour will be (according to this rule) of the
Moon. Now tell me, I pray you, doth it always happen
that when the Day of Monday commenceth, that is to
say, when the Sun riseth in its horizon, that the Moon
riseth also together with him, and that she setteth also
together with him ? They cannot answer this. Where-
fore then do they apportion unto the second day of the
week and unto its first hour the Moon ? They can tell
you no reason, except a likeness to the name (of the
Day).*
O ! how gross an error ! Hear and tell me when it
is that a Planet hath the greatest force in the Elements ;
whether when it is above or when it is below your Horizon
or Hemisphere ? We must however avow that it is
more powerful when it is above, because being below it
hath no power save according unto the Will of God.
Why then, even further than this, should we attribute
unto a Planet a Day and Hour, if during the whole
period of such Day it appeareth not above the Horizon !
Abramelin as a most excellent Master in natural
things taught unto me a very different form of classifi-
* I.e., the Moon and Monday; Sun and Sunday; Mars and
Tuesday (Tuisco is a name of Mars) ; Venus and Friday (Freya's day,
after Freya, the Scandinavian Goddess), etc.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 63
cation (which also well examine, and see whether it be
not more surely founded than the aforesaid rule of the
Astrologers), and made me to comprehend what should
be the true Planetary Hours. When the Planet beginneth
to appear upon the Horizon then doth its Day begin
(whether it be Light or Dark, Black or White), and until
it hath passed its elevation* its Day lasteth until it riseth
anew, and after that it hath set its Night endureth ; so that
as well in the Days of the Sun as in those of the Moon
and of the others, the Days of all the Planets he mingled^
only that one commenceth sooner than another, according
to which nature they be mingled together in the Celestial
Signs. Now it is requisite that I should tell unto you
what be the Planetary Hours ! Know then that each
Planet hath only an hour during the which it is very
powerful, being over you and above your head, that is to
say when it is in the Meridian. Then, naturally, will
sometimes arrive the Hours of two Planets together
and beginning at the same moment ; they then produce
an effect according unto the nature, quality, and com-
plexion of these stars.j- But all this only hath power in
natural things. Here have I declared and proved unto you
the errors of the (common) Astrologers ; keep yourselves
carefully from the insensate follies of their Days and Hours,
because if ye make use of these as do the false Magicians
and Enchanters, God will chastise you ; and in order to
chastise you will pay but little attention unto the awaiting
of the Hour of Saturn or of Mars.
I therefore now conclude this chapter, having suffi-
ciently treated of the false and useless method employed
by the Astrologers in the Election of Days and of Hours.
* " Etjiisqua cequil trenionte son jour dure jusqua cequil se leve
derechef."
f This is the initiated Rosicrucian teaching, which is very dif-
ferent to that of the outer and unitiated World.
64 The Rook of the Sacred Magic
THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.
REGARDING WHAT IT IS NECESSARY TO ACCOMPLISH
DURING THE FIRST TWO MOONS OF THE BEGINNING
OF THIS VERITABLE AND SACRED MAGIC.
E who commeiiceth this Operation should
consider with care that which we have
before said, and should pay attention unto
that which follovveth ; and the thing being
of importance, I shall leave alone for the
present all other considerations, so that we may begin
with the Operation which we should perform on the first
morning after the celebration of the Feast of Easter (or
Passover).
Firstly : Having carefully washed one's whole body
and having put on fresh clothing : precisely a quarter
of an hour before Sunrise ye shall enter into your Ora-
tory, open the window, and place yourselves upon your
knees before the Altar, turning your faces towards the
window ; and devoutly and with boldness ye shall invoke
the Name of the Lord, thanking Him for all the grace
which He hath given and granted unto you from your
infancy until now ; then with humility shall ye humble
yourselves unto Him, and confess unto Him entirely all
your sins ; supplicating Him to be willing to pardon you
and remit them. Ye shall also supplicate Him that in
the time to come He may be willing and pleased to
regard you with pity and grant you His grace and
goodness to send unto you His Holy Angel, who shall
serve unto you as a Guide, and lead you ever in His
Holy Way and Will ; so that ye fall not into sin through
inadvertence, through ignorance, or through human frailty.
In this manner shall ye commence your Oration, and
continue thus every morning during the first two Moons
or Months.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 65
Meseemeth here that now some may say :
" Where-
fore dost thou not write down the words or form of
prayer the which I should employ, seeing that, as for
me, I am neither sufficiently learned, nor devout, nor
wise r
Know ye that although in the beginning your prayer
be but feeble, it will suffice, provided that ye understand
how to demand the Grace of the Lord with love and a
true heart, whence it must be that such a prayer cometh
forth. Also it serveth nothing to speak without devotion,
without attention, and without intelligence ; nor yet to
pronounce it with the mouth alone, without a true intent
;
nor yet to read it as do the ignorant and the impious.
But it is absolutely necessary that your prayer should
issue from the midst of your heart, because simply setting
down prayers in writing, the hearing of them will in no
way explain unto you how really to pray.* This is the
reason that I have not wished to give unto you any special
form of prayers and orations, so that ye yourselves may
learn from and of yourselves how to pray, and how to
invoke the Holy Name of God, our Lord ; and for that
reason I have not been willing that ye should rely upon
me in order to pray. Ye have the Holy and Sacred
Scripture, the which is filled with very beautiful and
potent prayers and actions of grace. Study then herein,
and learn herefrom, and ye shall have no lack of instruc-
tions how to pray with fruit. And although in the
commencement your prayer may be weak, it sufliceth
that your heart be true and loyal towards God, Who
little by little will kindle in you His Holy Spirit, Who
will so teach you and enlighten your Spirit, that ye shall
both know and have the power to pray.
When ye shall have performed your orations, close
* This is the great point to be studied in all Magical Operations
soever, and unless the whole heart and soul and faith go with the
ceremony, there can be no reliable result produced.
5
66 The Book of the Sacred Magic
the window, and go forth from the Oratory ; so that no
one may be able therein to enter ; and ye shall not your-
selves enter again until the evening when the Sun shall
be set. Then shall ye enter therein afresh, and shall
perform your prayers in the same manner as in the
morning.
For the rest, ye shall govern yourselves each day as
I shall tell you in the following instructions.
Concerning the Bed Chamber and the Oratory, and
how they should be arranged, I will tell hereafter in the
Eleventh Chapter.*
It is requisite that ye shall have a Bed Chamber near
the Oratory or else your ordinary habitation, which it is
necessary first to thoroughly clean out and perfume, and
see that the Bed be both new and clean. Your whole
attention must be given to purity in all things ; because
the Lord hath in abomination all that is impure. You
shall sleep in this said Chamber, and you shall continue
therein during the day, there transacting the matters
which belong unto your business ; and those which you
can dispense with, leave alone. You may sleep with
your Wife in the bed when she is pure and clean ; but
when she hath her monthly courses you shall not allow her
to enter the bed, nor even the Chamber. Every Sabbath-
eve it is necessary to change the sheets of the bed, and all
the linen. Every Saturday you shall perfume the Chamber.
And ye shall not allow any dog, cat, or other animal
to enter into nor dwell therein ; so that they may in no
way be able to render it unclean. As regardeth the
matrimonial obligation, it is chastity, and the duty that
of engendering children ; but the whole should be done
in the Fear of God, and, above all things, in such case see
that your Wife be not impure. But during the following
four Moons ye shall flee sexual intercourse as ye would
* The title of the Eleventh Chapter of the Second Book is :
"Concerning the Selection of the Place".
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 67
the Plague. Even if ye have children, endeavour to send
them away unto another place before (commencing the
Operation), so that they may not be an hindrance from
being about you ; except the eldest-born of the family,
and infants at the breast.
As regardeth the regimen of your life and actions,
ye shall have regard unto your status and condition. If
you be your own Master, as tar as lieth in your power,
free yourself from all your business, and quit all mundane
and vain company and conversation ; leading a life tran-
quil, solitary and honest. If aforetime you have been a
wicked, debauched, avaricious, luxurious and proud man,
leave and flee from all these Vices. Consider that this was
one of the principal reasons why Abraham, Moses, David,
Elijah, John, and other holy men retired into desert
places, until that they had acquired this Holy Science and
Magic ; because where there are many people, many
scandals do arise ; and where scandal is, Sin cometh ; the
which at length of^'endeth and driveth away the Angel of
God, and the Way which leadeth unto Wisdom becometh
closed unto ye. Fly as far as you can the conversation of
men, and especially of such as in the past have been the
companions of your debauches ; or who have led you into
sin. Ye shall therefore seek retirement as far as possible ;
until that ye shall have received that Grace of the Lord
which ye ask. But a Domestic Servant* who is com-
pelled to serve a Master cannot well have these con-
veniences (for working and performing the Operation).
Take well heed in treating of business, in selling or
buying, that it shall be requisite that you never give way
unto anger, but be modest and patient in your actions.
You shall set apart two hours each day after having
dined, during the which you shall read with care the
Holy Scripture and other Holy Books, because they will
* Meaning in the case where the Aspirant unto the Sacred
Magic is a Servant actually then serving a Master.
68 The Book of the Sacred Ma(iic
teach you to be good at praying, and how to tear the
Lord ; and thus day by day shall ye better know your
Creator. The other exercises which be free and permitted
unto you, are hereafter set forth and principally in the
Eleventh Chapter.
As for eating, drinking and sleeping, such should be
in moderation and never superfluous. It is especially
necessary to shun drunkenness, and flee public dinners.
Content yourself with eating at your own house, with
your family, in the peace and quiet which God hath
granted unto you. You should never sleep during the
day, but you may in the morning, for after that you have
performed your devotions you may if you wish again go
to bed to rest yourself. And if it happeneth by chance
that you do not rise sufficiently early, that is to say before
sunrise, it doth not greatly matter (provided that it be
not done of evil intent), and you shall perform your
ordinary morning prayer;* but you should not accustom
yourself to be slothful, it being always better to pray
unto God at an early hour.
CONCERNING CLOTHING AND FAMILY.
Your dress should be clean but moderate, and accord-
ing to custom. Flee all vanity. You shall have two
dresses, in order that you may be able to change them ;
and you shall change them the eve of each Sabbath,
wearing the one one week, and the other the next ;
brushing and perfuming them always beforehand.
As for that which regardeth the family, the fewer in
* The object of most of these instructions is of course to keep the
Astral Sphere of the Aspirant free from evil influences, and accustom
him to pure and holy thoughts and to the exercise of Will power and
Self-control. The student of the Indian Tatwas will know the value
of active meditation at Sunrise because that moment is the Akasic
commencement of the Tatwic course in the day, and of the power of
the Swara.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 69
number, the better ; also act so that the servants may be
modest and tranquil. All these pieces of advice be prin-
cipal points which it is well to observe. As for the rest,
you have only to keep before your eyes the Tables of the
Law during all this time, and also afterwards ; because
these Tables should be the rule of your life.
Let your hand be ever ready to give alms and other
benefits to your neighbour ; and let your heart be ever
open unto the poor, whom God so loveth that one cannot
express the same.
And in the case that during this period you should
be attacked by some illness, which would not permit you
to go unto the Oratory, this need not oblige you to
abandon your enterprise at once ; but you should govern
yourself to the best of your ability ; and in such case you
shall perform your orations in your bed, entreating God
to restore you to health, so that you may be enabled to
continue your undertaking, and make the sacrifices which
be due, and so with the greater strength be able to work
to obtain His Wisdom.
And this is all that we should do and observe during
these two Moons.
THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING THE TWO SECOND MOONS.
HE two first Moons being finished ; the two
second Moons follow, during the which ye
shall make your prayer, morning and even-
ing at the hour accustomed ; but before
entering into the Oratory ye shall wash
your hands and face thoroughly with pure water. And
you shall prolong your prayer with the greatest possible
affection, devotion and submission ; humbly entreating the
Lord God that He would deign to command His Holy
70 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Angels to lead you in the True Way, and Wisdom, and
Knowledge, by studying the which assiduously in the
Sacred Writings there will arise more and more (Wisdom)
in your heart.
The use of the rights of Marriage is permitted, but
should scarcely if at all be made use of (during this
period).
You shall also wash your whole body every Sab-
bath Eve.
As to what regardeth commerce and manner of
living, I have already given unto you sufficient instruction.
Only it is absolutely necessary to retire from the
world and seek retreat ; and ye shall lengthen your
prayers to the utmost of your ability.
As for eating, drinking and clothing, ye shall govern
yourselves in exactly the same manner as in the two first
Moons ; except that ye shall fast (the Qabalistical fast)
every Sabbath Eve.
Note Well : The Sabbath is for the Jews, who are
accustomed to observe the same every Saturday, but for
Christians the Sabbath is the Sunday, and they* ought to
consider the Saturday as its Eve.
THE NINTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING THE TWO LAST MOONS WHICH MUST BE
THUS COMMENCED.
ORNING and Noon ye shall wash your
hands and your face on entering the Ora-
tory ;•!• and firstly ye shall make Confes-
sion of all your sins ; after this, with a
very ardent prayer, ye shall entreat the
* I.e., the Christians.
t This probably means in the bed-chamber before entering the
Oratory.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 71
Lord to accord unto you this particular grace, which is,
that you may enjoy and be able to endure * the presence
and conversation of His Holy Angels, and that He may
deign by their intermission to grant unto you the Secret
Wisdom, so that you may be able to have dominion over
the Spirits and over all creatures.
Ye shall do this same at midday before dining, and
also in the evening ; so that during these two last Moons
ye shall perform the prayer three times a day, and during
this time ye shall ever keep the Perfume upon the Altar.
Also towards the end of your Oration, ye shall pray unto
the Holy Angels, supplicating them to bear your sacrifice
before the Face of God, in order to intercede for you,
and that they shall assist you in all your operations during
these two Moons.
The man who is his own master -J-
shall leave all
business alone, except works of charity towards his neigh-
bour. You shall shun all society except that of your
Wife and of your Servants. Ye shall employ the greatest
part of your time in speaking of the Law of God, and in
reading such works as treat wisely thereof; so that your
eyes may be opened unto that which from past time even
unto the present ye have not as yet seen, nor thought of,
nor believed.
Every Sabbath Eve shall ye fast, and wash your
whole body, and change your garment.
Furthermore, ye shall have a Vest and Tunic of linen,
which ye shall put on every time that ye enter into the
Oratory, before ye commence to put the Perfume in the
Censer, as I shall tell ye more fully hereafter
Also ye shall have a basket or other convenient vessel
of copper filled with Charcoal to put inside the Censer
when necessary, and which ye can take outside the Ora-
* Que vous puissiezjouir et risister a la presence, etc.
f I.e., independent.
72 The Book of the Sacred Magic
tory, because the Censer itself should never be taken away
from the place. Note well that after having performed
your prayer, you ought to take it* out of the Oratory,
especially during the Two last Moons, and ye should inter
it in a place which cannot well be made unclean, such as
a garden.
THE TENTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING WHAT THINGS A MAN MAY LEARN AND
STUDY DURING THESE TWO MOONS.
LTHOUGH the best counsel which I can
give is that a man should go into retire-
ment in some desert or solitude, until the
time of the Six Moons destined unto this
Operation be fulfilled, and that he shall
have obtained that which he wisheth ; as the Ancients
used to do ; nevertheless now this is hardly possible ; and
we must accommodate ourselves unto the. era (in which
we live) ; and being unable to carry it out in one way,
we should endeavour to do so in another ; and attach
ourselves only unto Divine Things.
But there be certain who cannot even do this
thoroughly, notwithstanding they may honestly wish
the same ; and this because of their divers employments
and positions which will not permit them to act in
accordance with their desires, so that they are compelled
to carry on their worldly occupations.
In order then that such may know what occupations
and business they can follow out without prejudice to this
Operation, I will here state the same in few words.
We may then exercise the profession of Medicine,
and all arts connected with the same ; and we may per-
* I.e.^ the ashes of the charcoal and incense.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 73
form all operations which tend unto charity and mercy
towards our neighbour purely and simply. As for what
concerneth the liberal arts ye may interest yourselves in
Astronomy, etc., but flee all arts and operations which
have the least tincture of Magic and Sorcery, seeing that
we must not confound together God and Belial : God
wisheth to be alone ; unto Him pertain all honour and
glory. All the above matters are however permitted
during the two first and the two second Moons.
You may walk in a garden for recreation ; but you
shall do no servile work ; and amidst the flowers and the
fruits you can also meditate upon the greatness* of God.
But during the two third and last Moons ye shall quit
every other matter only permitting your recreation to
consist in things Spiritual and Divine. If ye wish to be
participators in the Conversation of the Angels, and in the
Divine Wisdom, lay aside all indiscreet -i'
things, and
regard it as a pleasure when ye can spare two or three
hours to study the Holy Scripture, because hencefrom ye
shall derive incredible profit ; and even the less ye are
learned, so much the more will ye become wise and
clever. It sufliceth that in the performance of your
Orisons ye shall not give way unto sleep, and that ye shall
fail in nowise in this operation through negligence and
voluntarily.
* In the text evidently by a slip the word grandeur is repeated
la grandeur la grandeur de Dieu.
J-
" Laissez apart touttes les choses curieuses"
74 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE ELEVENTH CHAPTER.*
CONCERNING THE SELECTION OF THE PLACE.
E should make the Selection of the Place (for
the Operation) before commencing it, and
prior to the celebration of the Passover, in
order that we may decide upon the same
without hindrance, and it is necessary that
all things should be prepared.
He who commenceth this Operation in solitude can
elect a place according unto his pleasure ; where there is
a small wood, in the midst of which you shall make a
small Altar, and you shall cover the same with a hut (or
shelter) of fme branches, so that the rain may not fall
thereon and extinguish the Lamp and the Censer. Around
the Altar at the distance of seven paces you shall prepare
a hedge of flowers, plants, and green shrubs, so that it
may divide the entrance -f-
into two parts ; that is to say,
the Interior where the Altar and Tabernacle will be
placed after the manner of a Temple ; and the part Ex-
terior, which with the rest of the place will be as a
Portico thereunto.
Now if you commence not this Operation in the
Country, but perform it in a Town, or in some dwelling-
place, I will show unto ye what shall be necessary
herein. ;{:
Ye shall choose an Apartment which hath a Window,
joined unto the which shall be an uncovered Terrace (or
* This chapter is previously referred to in the Seventh Chapter
in speaking of the Bed-chamber and the Oratory.
\ ''
L'avenue" ; the modern sense of this word is, of course, a road
or path bordered by trees.
\ Compare the following description with that of Sir Philip
Derval's so-called Observatory, in the Strange Story, by Bulwer
Lytton.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 75
Balcony), and a Lodge (or small room or hut) covered
with a roof, but so that there may be on every side
v^indows whence you may be able to see in every direc-
tion, and whence you may enter into the Oratory. In
the which place* the Evil Spirits shall be able to appear,
since they cannot appear within the Oratory itself. In
the which place, beside the Oratory towards the quarter
of the North, you shall have a roofed or covered Lodge,
in the which and from whence one may be able to see
the Oratory. I myself also had two large windows made
in my Oratory, and at the time of the Convocation of the
Spirits, I used to open them and remove both the shutters
and the door, so that I could easily see on every side and
constrain them-f- to obey me.
The Oratory should always be clear and clean swept,
and the flooring should be of wood, of white pine ; in
tine, this place should be so well and carefully prepared,
that one may judge it to be a place destined unto prayer.
The Terrace and the contiguous Lodge where we
are to invoke the Spirits we should cover with river sand
to the depth of two fingers at the least.
The Altar should be erected in the midst of the
Oratory ; and if any one maketh his Oratory in desert
places, he should build it;]; of stones which have never
been worked or hewn, or even touched by the hammer.
The Chamber § should be boarded with pine wood,
and a Lamp full of Oil Olive should be suspended therein,
the which every time that ye shall have burned your
perfume and finished your orison, ye shall extinguish. A
handsome Censer of bronze, or of silver if one hath the
means, must be placed upon the Altar, the which should
in no wise be removed from its place until the Operation
* I.e., the Terrace or Balcony. f ^-^y ^^^ Spirits.
X /.^., the Altar.
§ He here evidently means the Oratory, and not the Bed-
chamber described in Chapter VII.
76 The Book of the Sacred Magic
be finished, if one performeth it in a dwelling-house ; for
in the open country one cannot do this. Thus in this
point as in all the others, we should rule and govern
ourselves according unto the means at our disposal.
The Altar, which should be made of wood, ought to
be hollow within after the manner of a cupboard, wherein
you shall keep all the necessary things, such as the two
Robes, the Crown or Mitre, the Wand, the Holy Oils,
the Girdle or Belt, the Perfume ; and any other things
which may be necessary.
*The second habiliments will be a Shirt or Tunic of
linen, large and white, with well and properly made
sleeves. The other Robe will be of Crimson or Scarlet
Silk with Gold, and it should not be longer than just unto
the knees, with sleeyes of similar stuff. As for these
vestments, there is no particular rule for them ; nor any
especial instructions to be followed ; but the more
resplendent, clean, and brilliant they are the better will it
be. You shall also make a Girdle of Silk of the same
colour as the Tunic, wherewithal you shall be girded.
You shall have upon your head a beautiful Crown or
woven Fillet of Silk and Gold. You shall prepare the
Sacred Oil in this manner : Take of myrrh-j- in tears, one
part ; of fine cinnamon, two parts ; of galangalj half a
part ; and the half of the total weight of these drugs of
the best oil olive. The which aromatics you shall mix
together according unto the Art of the Apothecary, and
shall make thereof a Balsam, the which you shall keep in
a glass vial which you shall put within the cupboard
(formed by the interior) of the Altar. The Perfume
* The Rosicrucian Initiate will note the description of these
vestments.
f
" Mirrhe en larines ".
X ? Galanca, or galanga, an Indian root, used for medicinal pur-
poses. See description of Holy Anointing Oil and Perfume in
Exodus XXX.
OF Ahra-Melin the Mage. yj
shall be made thus : Take of Incense in tears* one part ;
oF Stactcj- half a part ; of Lign Aloes a quarter of a
part ; and not being able to get this wood you shall take
that of cedar, or of rose, or of citron, or any other
odoriferous wood. You shall reduce all these ingredients
into a very fine powder, mix them well together and
keep the same in a box or other convenient vessel. As
you will consume a great deal of this perfume, it will be
advisable to mix enough on the eve of the Sabbath to
last the whole week.
You shall also have a Wand of Almond-tree wood,
smooth and straight, of the length of about from half an
ell to six feet. ];
And ye shall keep the aforesaid things
in good order in the cupboard § of the Altar, ready for
use in the proper time and place.
Here followeth the manner of ordering oneself and
of operating.
THE TWELFTH CHAPTER.
HOW ONE SHOULD KEEP ONESELF IN ORDER TO CARRY
OUT THIS OPERATION WELL.
HIS Operation being truly Divine, it is
necessary once more to treat of and dis-
tinguish the present Consecration into
different periods of time.
You shall then understand that during
the two first and two second Moons, no other Consecra-
tion must be performed, than that of which we have
already spoken in the Seventh and Eighth foregoing
* Olibanum. + Or storax.
* A " brasse " is a fathom ; but here perhaps implies rather an
arm's length :
" Lune brasse enveron ou demi aulne ".
§ I.e., in the hollow interior of the Altar.
78 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Chapters,* unto the which I refer you, so as not to be
too prolix. And I only say unto you, that during the
course of the two first and two second Moons, every
Saturday when ye perform the Orison, ye shall also burn
the Perfume as well in the morning as in the evening ;
and in the two third and last Moons ye shall make the
Prayer and the Perfume thrice daily.
Now here hath the last part of the time arrived ;
here therefore open ye your eyes and be attentive, and
govern yourselves in everything and every place in the
way which I have written 'unto you. Have confidence
in God, because if even until then ye have faithfully
observed mine instructions which I have given unto you,
and if your Orisons shall have been made with a righteous
heart and with devotion, there is no manner of doubt that
all things will appear easy unto you, and your own spirit
and your understanding will teach you the manner in
which you should conduct yourself in all points ; because
your Guardian Angel is already about you, though In-
visible, and conducteth and governeth your heart, so that
you shall not err. The two Moons being finished, in
the morning ye shall commence all that is commanded in
the Ninth Chapter,-)- and further observe this present
Chapter.
When first ye shall enter into the Oratory, leave
your shoes without,.! and having opened the window,
§
ye shall place the lighted coals in the Censer which ||
you
shall have brought with you, you shall light the Lamp,
and take from the Cupboard of the Altar your two Vest-
* Which give the instructions for these periods.
I Concerning the two last Moons.
I
" Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou
standest is holy ground."
§ It will be remarked how this point is insisted on.
II
*' Which," apparently, should refer to the coals, and not to
the censer.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 79
ments, the Crown, the Girdle and the Wand, placing
them upon the Altar. Then take the Sacred Oil in your
left hand, cast some of the Perfume upon the Fire, and
place yourself upon your knees,* praying unto the Lord
with fervour.
THE ORISON.
" O Lord God of Mercy ; God, Patient, Most Be-
nign and Liberal ; Who grantest Thy Grace in a thousand
ways, and unto a thousand generations ; Who forgettest
the iniquities, the sins, and the transgressions of men ; in
Whose Presence none is found innocent ; Who visitest
the transgressions of the father upon the children and
nephews unto the third and fourth generation ; I know
my wretchedness, and that I am not worthy to appear
before Thy Divine Majesty, nor even to implore and
beseech Thy Goodness and Mercy for the least Grace.
But, O Lord of Lords, the Source of Thy Bounty is so
great, that of Itself It calleth those who are ashamed by
reason of their sins and dare not approach, and inviteth
them to drink of Thy Grace. Wherefore, O Lord my
God, have pity upon me, and take away from me all
iniquity and malice ; cleanse my soul from all the un-
cleanness of sin ; renew within me my Spirit, and comfort
it, so that it may become strong and able to comprehend
the Mystery of Thy Grace, and the Treasures of Thy
Divine Wisdom. Sanctify me also with the Oil of Thy
Sanctification, wherewith Thou hast sanctified all Thy
Prophets ; and purify in me therewith all that apper-
taineth unto me, so that I may become worthy of the
Conversation of Thy Holy Angels and of Thy Divine
Wisdom, and grant unto me the Power which Thou
* Preferably I should advise upon the Western side of the Altar,
and facing therefore the East ; also 1 would have the cupboard opening
upon the Western side, for certain mystical reasons.
8o The Book of the Sacred Magic
hast given unto Thy Prophets over all the Evil Spirits.
Amen. Amen."
This is the Prayer w^hich I myself made use of in
my Consecration ; the which I give not here to confine
you (to a certain form), nor to oblige you to employ the
same, nor to tell it you over as I would to a parrot whom
I should wish to teach to talk ; but only and solely to
give unto you an idea of the manner in which we should
Having finished your Orison, rise from your knees,
and anoint the centre* of your forehead with a little of
the Sacred Oil ; after this dip your finger into the same
Oil, and anoint therewith the four upper corners of the
Altar. Touch also with this Holy Oil the Vestments,
the Girdle, the Crown, and the Wand, on both sides.
You shall also touch the Doors and the Windows of the
Oratory. Then with your finger dipped in the Oil you
shall write upon the four sides of the Altar these words,
so that they may be perfectly clearly written on each
side :
—
" In whatever place it may be wherein Commemora-
tion of My Name shall be made, I will come unto you
and I will bless you."
This being done the Consecration is finished, and
then ye shall put the White Tunic and all the other things
into the Cupboard of the Altar. Then kneel down and
make your ordinary prayer, as is laid down in the Third
Chapter ;-]• and be well ware to take no consecrated thing
out of the Oratory ; and during the whole of the ensuing
period ye shall enter the Oratory and celebrate the Oflice
with naked feet.
* The place of the third eye in the Indian figures of Gods.
f This is apparently a slip for "the Seventh Chapter"; as the
Third Chapter is only a short one regarding those who are fitted to
undertake the Operation.
OF Abra-Melin the Mace. 8i
THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING THE CONVOCATION OF THE GOOD SPIRITS.
E are now arrived at a point at which ye
shall be able to see clearly, having duly
followed out and observed the instructions
which I have given unto you, and having
during all this time served God your Crea-
tor with a perfect heart. We are now arrived at the
term, wherefore the following morning rise betimes,
neither wash yourselves at all nor dress yourselves at all
in your ordinary clothes ; but take a Robe of Mourning
;
enter the Oratory with bare feet ;
go unto the side of the
Censer, take the ashes therefrom and place them upon your
head ; light the Lamp ; and put the hot coals into the
Censer ; and having opened the windows, return unto the
door. There prostrate yourself with your face against the
ground, and order the Child* to put the Perfume upon
the Censer, after which he is to place himself upon his
knees before the Altar ; following in all things and
throughout the instructions which I have given unto you
in the last chapter of the First Book, to which I am
here referring. -]• Humiliate yourself before God and His
Celestial Court, and commence your Prayer with fervour,
for then it is that you will begin to enflame yourself in pray-
ing, and you will see appear an extraordinary and super-
natural Splendour which will fill the whole apartment,
and will surround you with an inexpressible odour, and
this alone will console you and comfort your heart so that
you shall call for ever happy the Day of the Lord. Also
* See Book I., Chapter XII.
•f-
Because previously when he has mentioned a foregoing chapter,
it has been one of those in this Second Book to which he has referred.
6
82 The Book of the Sacred Magic
the Child* will experience an admirable feeling of con-
tentment in the presence of the Angel. And you shall
continue always your Prayer redoubling your ardour and
fervour, and shall pray the Holy Angel that he may deign
to Sign, and write upon a small square plate of silver
(which you shall have had made for this purpose and
which you shall have placed upon the Altar) another
Sign if you shall have need of it in order to see him ; and
everything which you are to do. As soon as the Angel
shall have made the Sign by writing, and that he shall
have written down some other counsel which may be
necessary unto you, he will disappear, but the splendour
will remain. The which the Child having observed, and
made the sign thereof unto you, you shall command him
to bring you quickly the little plate of silver, and that
which you find written thereon you shall at once copy,
and order the Child to replace it upon the Altar. Then
you shall go forth from the Oratory and leave the
Window open, and the Lamp alight, and during this
whole day you shall not enter into the Oratory ; but shall
make preparation for the day following ; and during the
day you shall speak to none, nor make answer, even were
it your own wife or children or servants ; except to the
Child whom you can send away. Also you shall before-
hand have set your affairs in order, and so arranged them
that no embarrassment may be caused you thereby, which
might distract your attention. In the evening when the
Sun shall be set, you shall eat but soberly ; and then you
shall go to rest alone ; and you shall live separated from
your wife during these days.
During Seven Days shall you perform the Ceremonies
without failing therein in any way ; namely, the Day of
* If the Operator himself has developed the clairvoyant faculty ;
which the training he has subjected himself to for six months ought to
have greatly aided, and be pure in mind, I can see no necessity for the
employment of a Child as Seer.
OF Ahra-Melin the Mage. 83
the Consecration, the Three Days of the Convocation of
the Good and Holy Spirits, and the Three other Days
of the Convocation of the Evil Spirits.
Now the second morning after, you are to be pre-
pared to follow the counsel which the Angel will have
given you. You will go early unto the Oratory, you
will place the lighted charcoal and perfumes in the
Censer, you are to relight the Lamp if it be (by that
time) extinguished ; and wearing the same Robe of
Mourning as of the day before, prostrate with your face
towards the ground, you shall humbly pray unto and
supplicate the Lord that He may have pity on you, and
that He may deign to fulfil your prayer ; that He will
grant unto you the vision of His Holy Angels, and that
the Elect Spirits may deign to grant unto you their
familiar converse. And thus shall ye pray unto the
utmost degree that shall be possible unto you, and with
the greatest fervour that you can bring into action from
your heart, and this during the space of two or three
hours. Then quit the Oratory, returning thither at mid-
day tor another hour, and equally again in the evening ;
then you shall eat after the manner aforesaid, and go to
rest. Understand also that the odour and the splendour
will in nowise quit the Oratory.
The third day being now arrived, you shall act thus.
The evening (before) you shall wash your whole body
thoroughly ; and in the morning, being dressed in your
ordinary garments, you shall enter into the Oratory, but
with naked feet. Having placed the Fire and the Per-
fumes in the Censer, and lighted the Lamp, you shall
put on the White Vestment, and place yourself on your
knees before the Altar, to render thanks to God for all
His benefits, and firstly for having granted unto you a
Treasure so great and so precious. You shall render thanks
also unto the Holy Guardian Angels, praying unto them
that henceforward they will have you in their care for
84 The Book of the Sacred Magic
the whole period of your life ; also that he* will never
abandon you, that he will lead you in the Way of the
Lord, and that he will watch carefully over you to assist
you, and consent unto the present Operation of the Sacred
Magic, so that you shall have such Force and Virtue that
you may be able to constrain the Spirits accursed of God,
unto the Honour of your Creator, and for your own good
and that of your neighbour.
And then shall you first be able to put to the test
whether you shall have well employed the period of your
Six Moons, and how well and worthily you shall have
laboured in the quest of the Wisdom of the Lord ; since
you shall see your Guardian Angel appear unto you in un-
equalled beauty ; who also will converse with you, and speak
in words so full of affection and of goodness, and with such
sweetness, that no human tongue could express the same.
He will animate you unto your great content in the fear
of God, making you a recital of the blessings which you
have received from God ; and bringing unto your re-
membrance the sins by which you have offended Him
duiing the whole period of your life, will instruct you
and give unto you the manner in which you shall be
able to appease Him by a pure, devout, and regulated
life, and by honest and meritorious actions, and such
things as God shall ordain unto you. After this he will
show unto you the True Wisdom and Holy Magic, and
also wherein you have erred in your Operation, and how
thenceforward you should proceed in order to overcome
the Evil Spirits, and finally arrive at your desired ends.
He will promise never to abandon you, but to defend and
assist you during the whole period of your life ; on con-
dition that you shall obey his commands, and that you
shall not voluntarily offend your Creator. In one word,
you shall be received by him with such affection that
* /.^., your special and particular Guardian Angel.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 85
this description which I here give unto you shall appear
a mere nothing in comparison.
Now at this point I commence to restrict myself in
my writing, seeing that by the Grace of the Lord I have
submitted and consigned you unto a Master so great
that he will never let you err.
Observe that on the third day you should remain in
familiar conversation* with your Guardian Angel. You
should quit the Oratory for a short time in the afternoon,
remaining without about an hour ; then for the rest of
the day you shall remain therein, receiving from the
Holy Angel distinct and ample information regarding
the Evil Spirits and the manner of bringing them into
submission, carefully writing down and taking notes of
all these matters. Now, the Sun being set, you shall
perform the Evening Orison with the ordinary Perfume,
giving thanks unto God in particular for the very great
Grace that He hath granted unto you in that day, there
also supplicating Him to be propitious unto you and to
aid you during your whole life, so that you shall never be
able to offend Him. You shall also render thanks unto
your Guardian Angel and beseech him not to abandon
you.
The Prayer being finished you will see that the
Splendour will disappear. Then shall you quit the
Oratory, closing the door, but leaving the windows open
and the Lamp alight. You shall return as on the pre-
ceding days unto your apartment where you shall
modestly recreate yourself, and eat your necessary food,
then you shall go to rest until the following morning.
* " En la familiarite et conversation delange."
86 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING THE CONVOCATION OF THE SPIRITS.*
HOUGH the following advice may be
scarcely necessary for the most part, since
I have already explained unto you all
things necessary to be done ; and also see-
ing that your Guardian Angel will have
sufficiently instructed you in all that you should do ;
yet
nevertheless I will here declare plainly certain matters
unto you, with the idea rather of making the account of
the Operation complete in this Book,}- and also to give
you every opportunity of possessing the matter thoroughly
through reading these things many times ; so that having
received the Vision of the Angel, you may find yourself
thoroughly instructed in all the essential points.
Having then reposed yourself during the night, you
shall rise in the morning before dawn, and shall enter into
the Oratory ; and having placed the lighted Charcoal in
the Censer, light the Lamp also. You shall then robe
yourself, taking first the White Vestment, and over this
you shall put on that:]: of Silk and Gold, then the Girdle,
and upon your head you shall place the Crown, and you
shall lay the Wand upon the Altar. Then, having put
the Perfume in the Censer you shall fall upon your knees,
and pray unto Almighty God to grant you the Grace to
finish your Operation unto the Praise and Glory of His
Holy Name, and for your own use and that of your
neighbour. Also you shall supplicate your Guardian
* I.e., those of a material force ; many being evil, some few in-
clined to good, most of a mixed nature somewhat good yet the evil
predominating in their dispositions.
f I.e., this Second Book of the three constituting the treatise.
+ I.e., the Red Robe, or Mantle.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 87
Angel to aid you, and to govern your heart with his
counsel, and all your senses. After this you shall take
the Wand in your right hand, and pray unto God to give
unto this Wand as much virtue, force, and power as He
gave unto those of Moses, of Aaron, of Elijah, and of
the other Prophets whose number is infinite.
Now place yourself beside the Altar looking towards
the Door and the open Terrace ; or if you be in the
Country place yourself at the Western* side, and com-
mence by summoning the Chief Spirits and Princes.
But your Angel will already have instructed you
how to convoke them, and will have sufficiently impressed
it on your heart.
And as well in this as in the Orison, we should never
proceed and act by the mouth only or by written Conjura-
tions alone ; but with a free heart and intrepid courage ;
because it is certain that there is more difficulty in con-
voking the Evil Spirits I' than the Good, which latter
usually appear more readily when they are first called if
it be bv persons of good intent ; while the Evil Spirits
fiee as much as possible all occasion of submitting them-
selves to man. This is wherefore he who wisheth to
constrain them should be upon his guard, and follow out
faithfully irom point to point the instructions which his
Guardian Angel will have given him, and that he im-
* " On SI vous estez en Canipagne mettes vous diicosti^ du ponant"
This word ''
ponant " is almost obsolete in modern French, being only
employed in a nautical sense, and even then but rarely. It implies
the " West," or rather the part of the " Ocean towards the West '.
Even
in the middle a^es this expression was not in wide use. The Occult
student will remark here the idea of " turning to the East to [jray, and
to the West to invoke". But usually in Magic it is advisable to turn
towards the quarter sympathetic in nature with that of the Spirit you
wish to summon.
t That is if you convoke them to senr }'ou. But all media;val
tradition implies that they are ready enough to come if )'ou arc an
evil-minded person wishing to make a pact with them to obtain
magical force, i.e. a Goetic Magician as opposed to an Initiate Adept,
88 The Book of the Sacred Magic
presseth them well upon his memory following them from
point to point ; seeing that while no Spirit Good or Evil
can know the secrets of your heart before you yourself
bring the same to light, unless God Who alone knoweth all
things should manifest them ; they (the Spirits) neverthe-
less can penetrate into and understand that which you are
thinking by means of your actions and your words.*
This is the reason why he who wisheth properly to con-
voke and conjure the Spirits, should first well consider
the following Conjuration ; and afterward perform it
with feeling and freely by heart ; and not by writing,
because in using that composed by others, the Spirits
thence judge that we ourselves are ignorant, and render
themselves straightway more intractable and stubborn. -i-
The Evil Spirits be about you, though invisible, and they
keenly examine whether he who conjureth them is
courageous or timid, whether he is prudent, and whether
he hath a true faith in God Who can perform all things
with ease. We can constrain them (the Spirits), and
force them to appear ; but a few words ill pronounced by
an ill-intentioned person only produce an effect against
the person himself who ignorantly pronounceth them ;
and an individual of such a character should in no way
undertake this Operation, for such would be the true way
to make a mock of God and to tempt Him.
* This is why in religious and magical writings such stress is
laid on the importance of controlling the thouglits ; which are as it
were our prototypical speech and action in all matters of importance.
Modern thought-reading would alone suggest this to persons unskilled
in Occultism.
f " Les Esprits jugent parla denostre ignoranse et serendent plus
reveches et ostinez" The Initiate knows the value of an Invocation
written by himself, in harmony with and expressing exactly his will
and idea. But this does not deny the utility of many of the Conjura-
tions handed down by tradition.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 89
OF THE CONJURATIONS.
I. have many times repeated unto you that the Fear
of God is the principal subject of the instruction of your
Guardian Angel, against which you should never commit
any fault, even if it be but slight.
Firstly : You should perform the Conjuration in
your mother tongue,* or in a language that you well
understand, and conjure the Spirits by the authority of
and their obedience to the Holy Patriarchs, rehearsing unto
them examples of their ruin and fall, of the sentence
which God hath pronounced against them, and of their
obligation unto servitude ; and how on one side and on
another they have been vanquished by the Good Angels
and by Wise Men ; all which points you will have had
plenty of opportunity to study in the Sacred Writings
during the Six Moons (of preparation). Also you shall
menace them, in case they are unwilling to obey, with
calling unto your aid the Power of the Holy Angels over
them. Your Guardian Angel will also have instructed
you to perform this Convocation with modesty, and in no
wise to be timid, but courageous, yet in moderation,
however, without too overbearing hardiness and bravery.
And in case of their being inclined to resist, and unwilling
to obey you, you must not on that account give way to
anger, because thus you will only do injury to yourself;
and tliey will ask nothing better, it being exactly what
they would be endeavouring to do ; but (on the contrary)
with an intrepid heart, and putting your whole trust in
God, with a tranquil heart you shall exhort them to
yield, letting them see that you have put all your confi-
dence in the Living and Only God, reminding them how
* Yet the advantage of its being in a language which you do
not immediately associate with the things of every-day life is great,
provided always that you understand the words and repeat them and
pronounce them correctly.
90 The Book of the Sacred Magic
powerful and potent He is ; thus, therefore, govern your-
self, using prudence towards them.
And communicate unto them also the Form* in
the which you wish them to appear ; the which you can
not determine, nor even themselves, but you ought the
evening before to have demanded this from your Guar-
dian Angel, who knoweth better than you your nature
and constitution, and who understandeth the forms which
can terrify you, and those of which you can support the
sight. -f-
And you must not think that this can be done other-
wise, as certain Accursed Persons write ; that is to say,
by means of Seals, and Conjurations, and Superstitious
Figures, and Pentacles, and other Abominations, written
by Diabolical Enchanters ;'^. for this would be the coin
wherewith the Hideous Satan would buy you for his
slave.
But let your whole trust be in the Arm, the Power,
and the Force of God Almighty ; then shall you be in
all safety, and the Guard of your Angel will defend you
from all dangers. This is why you should have good
courage, and have confidence that no adversity can happen
unto you. Observing then the doctrine that your Angel
will have given unto you, and persevering in placing all
your trust in God, at length they will appear in the form
commanded upon the Terrace, upon the sand ; when,
according to the advice and doctrine received from your
* This recalls the phrase so frequent in Conjurations, in which
the Spirits are commanded to appear " in human form without any
deformity or tortuosity ".
f Because some of the Demonic forms are so terrible that the
shock of their sight might cause a person of a nervous temperament
to lose his reason.
+ I must again repeat that it is only evil and perverted symbols
which come under this denunciation of Abraham the Jew ; for nearly
all Pentacles and Seals are the Symbols and Sigils of Divine and
Angelic Names.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 91
Holy Angel, and as I will clearly teach you in the fol-
lowing Chapter, you shall propound your demand, and
you shall receive from them their oath.*
The Spirits which we should convoke on the first day
are the Four Superior Princes, -j* whose Names will be
written in the Nineteenth Chapter, and this is the Con-
juration of the First Day.
THE CONJURATION OF THE SECOND DAY.
On the following day, having performed the ordin-
ary Orison, and the aforesaid Ceremonies, you shall briefly
repeat the aforesaid Conjuration unto the said Spirits,
bringing to their remembrance their promises and Oaths
made on the preceding day to send unto you the Eight
Sub-Princes ;;{: and address the Conjuration unto all the
Twelve together, and in a little while they will appear
visibly, the Eight Sub-Princes in the form which hath
been commanded them ; and they will promise and swear
unto you (allegiance), as will be more fully shown in the
following Chapter.
The Names of the Eight Sub-Princes are described
hereafter in the Nineteenth § Chapter.
THE CONJURATION OF THE THIRD DAY.
The Conjuration of the Third Day is the same as
that of the Second Day, seeing that we are then .to re-
mind the Eight Sub-Princes of their Promises and Oaths
(of Allegiance) ; and we are to call and convoke them
with all their adherents, and then they do appear once
* I.e., of allegiance to you.
t The four Superior Spirits and Princes are : Lucifer, Leviathan,
Satan, and Belial.
t The KiL,dit Sub-Princes are: Astaroth, Magolh, Asmodeus,
Beel/.ebuth ;
Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and Amaymon.
§ By a very evident slip, " Cluipitre IX." is written in the MS.
instead of XIX.
92 The Book of the Sacred Magic
more in visible forms, the whole particular cohorts of
each will appear also invisibly, surrounding the Eight
Sub-Princes. But while invoking God your Lord for
strength and surety, and your Holy Angel for counsel
and assistance, never forget what the latter will have
taught you, for it is a necessary point.
Here followeth the Fifteenth Chapter which teacheth
what we should demand from the Spirits, who are divided
into three classes.
THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.
CONCERNING WHAT YOU SHOULD DEMAND OF THE SPIRITS
WHO ARE DIVIDED INTO THREE DIFFERENT TROOPS
AND CONVOKED ON THREE SEPARATE DAYS.
HE Demands we should make to the Spirits
are'of three different kinds.
THE FIRST DEMAND.
The Demand of the First Day when
the Four Superior Princes shall have visibly appeared,
you shall make according untp the Order of the
Angel :
—
Firstly : The Proposition by what Virtue, Power
and Authority you make your demands unto them ; that
is to say by the Virtue of God our Lord Who hath made
them subject unto all His creatures, and brought them to
your feet.*
Secondly :•]• That your object is not at all a malign
curiosity, but (one tending) unto the Honour and Glory
* " Qui les asoumis atouttes ses Creatures et avos pieds"
I Tht<? whole paragraph is difficult of clear translation by literal
rendering, 'So I give the MS. text :
" Secondement que vostre fin nest
point curiositS maligne mais alhonneur et gloire de Dieu £t alutiiiti
propre et acelle de tout le genre humain etpourtant toutte ces fois que
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 93
of God, and to your own good and that of all the Human
Race. That further, every time that you shall summon
them, by whatever Sign or Word, and in whatever Time
and Place, and for whatever occasion and service, they
shall have to appear immediately without any delay, and
obey your commands. And that in case they shall have
some legitimate hindrance hereto, they are to send unto
you some other Spirits assigning then and there such as
shall be capable and potent to accomplish and obey your
will and your demand in their place. And that they
shall promise and swear to observe this by the most
rigorous Judgment of God, and by the most severe pun-
ishment and chastisement of the Holy Angels, inflicted
upon them. And that they will consent to obey, and
that the Four Sovereign Princes will name unto you the
Eight Sub-Princes, whom they will send in their place to
take the Oath as I have already said, to appear at once
on the following morning when commanded by you ; and
that they will duly send the Eight Sub-Princes.
For greater certainty, quit the Altar now, and go
towards the Door which openeth on to the Terrace,
advancing your right hand beyond.* Make each one of
them touch the Wand, and take the Oath upon that
Wand.
vous les appellerez avec quelquesoit signe ou parole etenquelquescit temps et
Lieu etpotirquelle soit occasion etservile dabort sans aucunement retarder
ayent aparoitre etobeissent avos commande^nens etaucas quils eussent un
empechenien Legitime quils ayent avous envoyer dautres esprits enles
nomtnant presentemcnt ceux quiseront capable etpuissan poicrobeir etac-
complir vostre volonte et vostre demande en leur place etquils vous pro-
nieltent et jurent dobsen'er cela par le trcsrigoureux jugement de Dieu
etpar latres grande peine et chatiment dessts anges sur eux ils conscntiront
dobeir et Les 4 princes souverains vous nonuneront les 8 sousprinces quils
vous cnveront cnleurplase aleurfaire prefer le sermcnt comtne jelay deja
dit dtparoitre dabort," etc. The writer of this manuscript never uses
the sh'ghtest punctuation, and paragraphs are infrequent.
* Le., beyond the Door, but being careful not to go out on to the
Terrace yourself.
94 TiiK Book of the Sacred Magic
THE DEMAND OF THE SECOND DAY.
The Eight Sub-Princes being invoked, you shall
make unto them the same demand and the same admoni-
tion which you have (already) made unto the Four
Sovereign Princes. And further you shall request from
these four, that is to say, from Orikns, Paimon, Ariton,
and Amaimon ; that each of them shall assign and con-
sign unto you your Familiar Spirit, which from the day
of your birth they are compelled to give unto you.
These will be given and furnished unto you with their
dependants and will afterwards obey you. It is tor you
to demand from these the other Spirits which you may
wish to have ; but seeing that they be infinite in number,
and one more skilful in service than another, one for one
matter, another for another ;
you shall make a selection
of the Spirits whom you wish, and you shall put outside
upon the Terrace a w^ritten list of their names for the
Eight Sub-Princes (to see), and you shall require from
these (latter) the Oath, as you did from the Four Superior
Princes, that the following morning they shall have to
appear before you together with all the Spirits whose
names you shall have given in writing, and also your
Familiar Spirits.
THE DEMAND OF THE THIRD DAY.
The Eight Sub-Princes having presented all the
Spirits as you have directed them, you shall command
that AsTAROT* with all his following shall appear visibly
in the Form which the Angel shall have prescribed unto
you ; and immediately you shall see a Great Army, and
all under the same Form. You shall propound unto
them the same demand, which you have already made
unto the Princes, and you shall cause them to take Oath
* Written " Atarof' by a slip in the MS.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 95
to observe the same ; that is to say, that every time that
you shall call one of them by his name, that he shall at
once appear in such Form and Place as shall please you,
and that he shall punctually execute that which you
shall have commanded him. All having sworn, you shall
put outside the entry* of the Door, all the Signs of the
Third Book which belong unto Astarot-^^ alone^ and
make him swear thereon, also ordaining unto them:]; that in
cases when it may not seem fit unto you to command them
verbally, that as soon as you shall take one of these Signs
in your hand and move it from its place that the Spirit
marked in the Sign shall do and execute that which the
Sign beareth, and that which your intimation § joined
thereto shall indicate ; also that in the case that in the
Sign II
none of them shall be specially named, that all in
general shall be obliged promptly and readily to perform
the Operation commanded ; and that if also in the time
to come, other (Signs or) Symbols be made by you which
be not here^ included, that then also they (the Spirits
under Astarot) shall be equally bound to observe and exe-
cute them also. And when the Oath hath been taken,
cause the Prince in the Name of the rest to touch the
Wand.
After this, remove those Symbols from the Door-
way ; and call Magot, and after him Asmodee, and lastly
Belzebud ; and act with all these as you have done with
* I.e., upon the sand on the Terrace.
f Again erroneously "Alaroi".
I I.e., unto the subservient Spirits of Astaroth.
§ I.e., whether Verbal, or Mental, or by Gesture.
II
Again note that the whole of the operations of this Magic of
Abra-Melin and of Abraham the Jew depends on these Symbols, so
that it is not the true and sacred pcntacles and symbols which he con-
demns ; but erroneous and corrupted ones made use of ignorantly.
• I.e., in those wliich the Operator has written down from the
Third Book, and placed at the entry of the Door for Astaroth to take
oath upon.
96 The Book of the Sacred Magic
AsTAROT; and all their Symbols having been sworn unto,
put them aside in order in a certain place, so arranged
that you can easily distinguish one from another, as
regards the subject, operation, or effect, for which tliey
have been made, and unto which they belong.
This being done, you shall call Astarot and
AsMODEE together, with their common Servitors,* and
shall propound unto them their Symbols ; and having
made them swear in the forementioned manner, you shall
call in similar fashion Asmodee and Magot, with their
Servitors, and shall make them take oath upon their Signs
in the aforesaid manner.
And thus shall you observe this method with the
Four other Sub-Princes ;')• but first of all convoke them
with their common Servitors, and make them swear upon
the common Signs, then Amaimon and Ariton together,
and finally each one apart, as in the first case. .|
And when you have put back all the Symbols into
their proper place, request from each of these last Four§
your Familiar Spirit, and make them repeat its Name,
which you shall at once write down, together with the
time during which they shall be obliged to serve you.
Then you shall propound unto them the Signs of the
Fifth Chapter of the Third Book ;1| and shall make them
not only swear upon these Symbols (collectively), but also
each one (separately), that from this time forward he will
* I.e., Servitors belonging equally to these two Sub-Princes
together.
f I.e., Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and Amaimon. Ariton is often
called Egin or Egyn in other works on Magic.
\ I.e., following the order of the classification in the Nineteenth
Chapter of this Second Book.
§ I.e., Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and Amaimon ; one Spirit from
each for a Familiar.
II
Entitled :
" How one may retain the Familiar Spirits, bound
or free, in whatsoever form ".
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 97
observe duly and with diligence the six hours destined ;*
and you shall cause them to promise to serve you with
fidelity, performing all which they are obliged to do, and
that you shall command their (services) ; and that they
shall not in the slightest degree be false and lying as re-
gardeth you ; also, that if by chance you should assign
over one of them unto another person, that he shall act as
faithfully by him as by yourself ; and, lastly, that they are
to fulfil, perform, and execute, that which God for their
Chastisement hath destined unto them for Sentence (of
Judgment).
You shall then observe this form with all the Princes,
and until all the Symbols shall be sworn to, with the
Four Familiar Spirits and the others dominating (them).
THK SIXTEENTH CHAPTER
CONCERNING THE SENDING THEM AWAY.
CONCERNING the sending away of the
Spirits as well during the Three Days, as
hereafter :
—
It is not necessary to observe many
Ceremonies in order to send away the
Spirits, -j- because they themselves are only too glad to be
* I.e., so that each of the four Famih'ars shall serve a fourth part
of the twenty-four hours of the day, that is six hours.
f However in all Magical Works great stress is laid on the
importance of licensing a Spirit invoked in the Operation to depart,
and if he be unwilling, of even compelling him against his will to
return to his place. It must be remembered here, in this Operation
of Abraham the Jew, that not only his Oratory but his Bed-chamber
also is kept pure and consecrated, and therefore it would be next to
impossible for an Evil Spirit to break through to attack him. But in
all Magical Evocations by the Circle, the Magician should never quit
the same, without having licensed and even forced the Evil Spirits to
depart ; as cases are on record of the Operator experiencing sudden
7
98 The Book ok thk Sacked Magic
far away from you. This is wherefore you need not other-
wise license them to depart ; that is to say that during the
Three Days, having finished speaking with the Four
Sovereign Princes, and afterwards with the lught Sub-
Princes, and received their Oath (of allegiance), you shall
say unto them that for the present they can go unto their
destined place ; and that every time that they shall be
summoned, let them remember their Oath made upon the
Symbols.
(And you shall send away) the Familiar Spirits and
all other Spirits with the aforesaid words.
It is true, however, that as regardeth the Familiar
Spirits you shall tell them that at the time when they are
on guard-duty they shall remain near you visible or in-
visible, in whatever form shall please you, in order to
serve you during the destined Six Hours.
THE SEVENTEENTH CHAPTER.
WHAT WE SHOULD ANSWER UNTO THE INTERROGATIONS
OF THE SPIRITS, AND HOW WE SHOULD RESIST THEIR
DEMANDS.
HE Wicked Devil knoweth full well that
you are in no way obliged unto him, nd
that you have commenced this Operation
under the Grace and Mercy of God, and
under the protection and defence of the
Holy Angels ; nevertheless, he will not fail to try his
death. I myself was present on an occasion when in the Evocation
by the Circle, the Magician incautiously having stooped forward and
outward just over the limit of the Circle, received a shock like that
from a powerful electric battery, which nearly threw him down, struck
the Magical Sword from his hand, and sent him staggering back to
the centre of the Circle. Compare also with this incident Allan Fen-
wick's experience in the Strange Story, when his hand accidentally
went beyond the limits of the Circle when he was replenishing the
Lamps during the Evocation.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 99
fortune, and he will seek to turn you aside from the
Veritable Path ; but be you constant and courageous,
and swerve not in any way, either to the right hand or
to the left. If he showeth himself proud with you,
render unto him the like, and in your turn show him
your pride. If he be humble, be in no wise too rude
and severe toward him, but be moderate in all things.
If he asketh you some matter, you shall make answer
unto him according to the instruction which the Guardian
Angel shall have given you ; and understand that the
Four Princes,'^" more than all the rest, will powerfully
tempt you, saying unto you :
" IVho is he who hath given
thee so great authority .?
" They will reproach you with
your hardihood and presumption in summoning them,
knowing how powerful they are, and contrariwise, how
weak and sinful you yourself are. They will reproach
you with your sins, and will especially seek to dispute
with you concerning your religion and your faith in God :
if you be a Jew they will tell you that your faith and
your religion have been refuted by God Himself, and that
you observe not the True Law as it should be (observed) :
also if you be a Pagan they will say. What hath God to
do with you or His Creatures either, seeing that you know
not God .? if you be a Christian they will say unto you.
What business is it of yours to have to do with Hebrew
Ceremonies which are tainted with idolatry, and the like .?
But let none of this disquiet you in the least ; answer
them in few words, and laughingly, that it is none of
their business to discuss these matters with you, and to
deliver their opinions concerning them; and that although
you may be a worthless wretch and a great sinnei, you
will yet hope that the True and Only God, Who hath
created the Heaven and the Earth, and Who hath con-
demned themf' and brought them into submission under
* Viz. : Lucifer, Leviathan, Satan, and Belial.
f I.e., the Demons and Evil Spirits generally.
100 The Book of the Sacred Magic
your feet, will forgive you your sins, both now and ni
future, whatever may be the religion which you profess.
(Further that) you wish to know, understand, confess, and
honour no other than the Great and Only God, the Lord
of Light, by Whose Power, Virtue, and Authority you
command them to obey you.
When you shall have spoken unto them thus, then
will they sing another song, telling you that if you wish
them to serve and to be obedient unto you, that you must
first come to terms with them. Then shall you answer
them on this wise :
—
" God our Lord hath condemned and sentenced you*
to serve me, and I do not treat as an equal vs^ith those
who are accustomed to obey ".
Then will they demand of you some sacrifice or
courtesy if you wish to be served and obeyed promptly.
You shall reply that sacrifice is not to be made unto them,
but rather unto the only God.
They will then entreat you not to hinder or bring to
shame by means of this Wisdom any of their Devotees
and Enchanters in their operations and enchantments.
You shall then make answer that you are obliged to
pursue the Enemies of God and the Lord, and to re-
press their malice, and also to save and defend your
neighbour, and any who are offended and hurt by them.
Then with much verbiage, and an infinitude of
different ways will they make severe attacks upon you, and
even the Familiar Spirits will rise up against you in their
turn. These latter will demand and beseech of you that
you will in no way give them over unto others (to serve
them). Hold firm, however, and promise nothing either
to one class (of Spirits) or another ; but reply to them
that every true and brave man is obliged to aid and serve
his friends to the best of his ability, and with all his
* The Demons generally.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. ioi
possessions, among the which they must assuredly also
be comprised.
When at length they see that they have lost all hope
of making you prevaricate, and that they can obtain
nothing notwithstanding all their requests ; they will
definitely surrender, and will ask nothing else of you
unless it be that you shall not be too rude and insulting
in commanding them. You shall make answer to this,
that if they prove themselves to be obedient and prompt
in serving you, that it may be that your Angel, by whose
instruction and command you are governing yourself,
may instruct you not to be so rigid and severe with them
if they shall obey, and that in such case you will act as
may be right.
THE EIGHTEENTH CHAPTER.
HOW HB WHO OPERATETH SHOULD BEHAVE AS
REGARDETH THE SPIRITS.
E have already seen how one should constrain
tlie Spirits, and what one should ask of
them ; also how to dismiss them without
luirt, and how we should make answer
unto their demands and presentments.*
All that I am about to say unto you now is super-
fluous, because it is certain that any one who shall have
observed witli a true heart and firm resolution the advice
which I have given regarding the Six Moons, will be in-
structed with so much thoroughness and clearness by his
Guardian Angel, that no doubtful point will present itself
which he will not be able easily to clear up of himself
We have also already sufficiently shown how on
every or any occasion, he who operateth should comport
* In the original : " demandes etapparitions ".
I02 The Book of the Sacred Magic
himself as regardeth the Spirits ; that is to say as their
Lord, and not as their Servitor. Yet in all matters there
should be a reasonable mean, seeing that we are not
treating with men, but with Spirits, of whom each one
knoweth more than the whole Universe together.
Now if you shall make some demand unto a Spirit,
and he shall refuse to execute it ; first well and carefully
examine and consider whether it be in the power and
nature of the Spirit to whom you make such demand, to
fulfil the same. For one Spirit knoweth not all things,
and that which appertaineth unto the one, another
knoweth not. For this reason, see that ye well take
heed before endeavouring to force them to perform a
matter. Yet if, however, the Inferior Spirits be dis-
obedient, you shall call their Superiors, and remind them
of the oaths which they have taken unto you, and of the
chastisement which awaiteth the breaking of such vows.
And immediately, on beholding your steadfastness,
they will obey you ; but should they not, you ought
then to invoke your Guardian Angel, whose chastisement
they will quickly feel.
Yet, notwithstanding, we should never employ harsh
means, in order to have that which we can obtain* by
gentleness and courtesy.*
If during the Invocation they should appear with
tumult and insolence, fear nothing ; neither give way to
anger ; but appear to make no account thereof. Only
show them the Consecrated Wand, and if they continue
to make a disturbance, smite upon the Altar twice or
thrice therewith, and all will be still.
It should be noted, that after you shall have licensed
* Let me here once again insist on the absolute necessity in
Occult working of being courteous, even to the Evil Spirits ; for the
Operator who is insolent and overbearing will speedily lay himself
open to obsession by a Spirit of like nature, the whicK will bring about
his ultimate downfall.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 103
them to depart, and they shall have disappeared, you shall
take the Censer from the top of the Altar, and having put
perfume therein, take it out of the Oratory on to the
Terrace whereon the Spirits shall have appeared, and you
shall pertume the place all round ; for otherwise the Spirits
might work some evil unto persons entering by chance
therein.
Now should you be willing to content yourself with
the Symbols which be in the Third Book here following ;
you shall the day after take away all the Sand from the
Terrace and cast it into a secret place ; but above all
things take care not to throw it either into a river or into
the navigable sea.
But should you desire to procure for yourselt various
other Symbols and Secrets, leave the Sand and all things
in place, as we shall also describe more particularly in the
last chapter.
Also, should you wish it, you can retain your arrange-
ments in place, and keep the Apartment of the Oratory
proper and clean, as well as the Altar; which latter you
may place in a corner, should it incommode you in the
centre of the room. For in this Apartment, if it be not
contaminated nor profaned, you may every Saturday enjoy
the presence of your Guardian Angel ; the which is one
of the most sublime things which you can desire in this
Sacred Art.
104 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE NINETEENTH CHAPTER.
A DESCRIPTIVE LIST OF THE NAMES OF THE SPIRITS
WHOM WE MAY SUMMON TO OBTAIN THAT WHICH
WE DESIRE.
WILL here give a very exact description of
many Spirits, the which (names) either
altogether or in part, or else as many of
them as you may wish, you should give
written upon paper unto the Eight Sub-
Princes, on the Second Day of the Conjuration. Now all
these (Spirits) be those who will appear on the Third
Day, together with their Princes. And these (Spirits) be
not vile, base, and common, but of rank, industrious, and
very prompt unto an infinitude of things. Now their
Names have been manifested and discovered by the Angels,
and if you should wish for more the Angel will augment
them for you as far as you shall wish ; seeing that their
number is infinite.
The Four Princes and Superior Spirits be :
—
LUCIFER. LEVIATAN. SATAN. BELIAL.
The Eight Sub-Princes be
ASTAROT. MAGOT. ASMODEE. BELZEBUD.
ORIENS. PAIMON. ARITON. AMAIMON.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 105
The Spirits common unto these Four Sub-Princes,
namely ;
—
ORIENS.
Hosen.
ACUAR.
Nilen.
MULACH.
Melna.
schabuach.
SCHED.
Sachiel.
ASPERIM.
COELEN.
Parek.
Trapis.
Pareht.
Elm IS,
NUTHON.
Tagnon.
LiRION.
LOSIMON.
ASTREGA.
Igarak.
Ekalike.
Haril.
Irroron.
Lagasuf.
ROMAGES.
Kelen.
Platien.
Ramaratz.
PAIMON. ARITON.
be:—
Saraph.
Tirana.
Morel.
Malutens.
Melhaer.
Mermo.
Ekdulon.
Moschel.
Katini.
Chuschi.
Rachiar.
Nagid.
ENfPHASTISON.
Asmiel.
Lomiol.
Parmatus.
Plegit.
RAGARAS.
Parusur.
Geloma.
ISEKEL.
Kadolon.
I LAGAS.
ALAG AS.
Promakos.
Erenutes.
Atloton.
NOGEN.
Proxosos.
Alluph.
Tragi.
I parkas.
RUACH.
Melamud.
Mantiens.
Pereuch.
Torfora.
Tasma.
NOGAR.
Ethanim.
Paraseh.
Irminon.
I MINK.
Iaresin.
Ogilen.
Igilon.
Igis.
KiLIK.
Elzegan.
lOGION.
Balalos.
Alpas.
Metafel.
Najin.
Afarorp.
MOLIN.
(=111 Spirits Servient.)
AMAIMON.
Habhi.
Nercamay.
Enaia.
NUDITON.
Apolhun.
POTER.
Obedama.
Deccal.
Badad.
Pachid.
Adon.
Patid.
Gerevil.
A.sturel.
Plirok.
GORILON.
Tarados.
GOSEGAS.
Aherom.
Remoron.
I PAROL.
Zaragil.
Oroia.
soterion.
Darascon.
Tulot.
Morilen.
Tliese be the Spirits common unto
ASTAROT and ASMODEE,
VIZ. :-
Amaniel.
io6 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Taret.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 107
These be those of
MAGOT and KORE,
vtz. : —
Nacheran.
Urigo.
Ubarin.
Roler.
Arrabin.
Sorriolenen.
Petunof
Tagora.
Madail.
COBEL.
Marag.
Maisadul.
CORODON.
Egakireh.
horminos.
ILARAX.
Batternis.
Those of
Katolin.
Faturab.
BUTARAB.
Arotor.
SuriPAS.
Megalak.
Mantan.
Debam.
abag iron.
Sobel.
Kamusil.
Agilas.
Hepogon.
Paramor.
Hagog.
Makalos.
LUESAF.
Fersebus.
ischiron.
Hemis.
forteson.
Anagotos.
Meklboc.
TiRAIM.
Pandoli.
Laboneton.
Kaitar.
KOLAM.
Daglas.
Olisermon.
Mimosa.
LOCATER.
( = 65 Spirits Servient.)
(=16 spirits Servient.)
These be those of
BELZEBUD,
VIZ.
Alcanor.
DiRALISEN.
Ergamen.
Lamalon.
Tachan.
Tromes.
NOMINON.
Amatia.
LiCANEN.
GOTIFAN.
Igurim.
Ikonok.
Balfori.
Iamai.
BiLIFARES.
DiMIRAG.
NiMORUP.
Akium.
Kemal.
AROLEN,
Arogor,
Masaub.
Baruel.
Odax.
Arpiron.
DULID.
Sikastin.
TiGRAFON.
Irix.
Nenisem.
Arioth.
SCHARAK.
KiLIGIL.
Hagion.
RiMOG.
Amchison.
COLVAM.
io8 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Hacamuli.
BoROL.
Magalast.
Namiros.
Orgosil.
BiLIFOR.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 109
These be those of
AMAIMON,
viz. :
—
Romeroc. Ramison. Scrilis. Buriol.
Taralim. Burasen. Akesoli. Erekia.
Illirikim. Labisi. Akoros. Mames.
Glesi. Vision. Effrigis. Apelki.
Dalep. Dresop. Hergotis. Nilima.
(=20 Spirits Servient.)
Under what Rulers. Total of Spirits Servient.
Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, Amaymon - = 1 1
1
Ashtaroth and Asmodeus - - - = ^^
Amaymon and Ariton . . . =10
Asmodeus and Magoth - - - =15
Ashtaroth ------ =^2
Magoth and Kor6 - - - . =65
Asmodeus ------ ^ i5
Beelzebub =49
Oriens = 8
Paymon =15
Ariton ------ =22
Amaymon =20
Total of Names of Servient Spirits - = 316
Infinite be the Spirits which I could have here set
down, but in order not to make any confusion, I have
thought lit to put only those whom I have myself em-
ployed, and whom I have found good and faithful in all
the Operations wherein I have availed myself of them.
Also it is true that he who shall perform this Opera-
tion will be able thereafter, according to his need, to
obtain (the names of) more.
NOTES TO THE FOREGOING LISTS OF NAMES
OF SPIRITS.
BY
S. L. MAC GREGOR-MATHERS.
I have thought it advisable to give as far as possible some idea
of the Significations of these names of Spirits, which are for the most
part derived from the Hebrew or Chaldee, and also from Greek
and Latin and Coptic, etc.
no The Book of the Sacred Ma(;ic
THE CHIEF SPHIITS.
Lucifer :— From Latin, Lux, Light, and Fero, to bear, = A
Light Bearer. There is a name " Lucifuge " also employed occa-
sionally, from Liix, Light, and Fugio, t(; fly from, -=-
He who shuns
the Light.
LkviataN:—From Hebrew, LVIThN (usually written Levia-
than instead of Lcviatan), = the Crooked or Piercing Serpent or
Dragon.
Satan : —From Hebrew, ShTN, = an Adversary.
Belial :
—From Hebrew, BLIOL, = a Wicked One.
THE EIGHT SUB-PRINCES.
ASTAROT : —PVom Hebrew, OSllTliRVTii, = flocks, crowds or
assemblies. Usually written " Ashtaroth ". Also a name of the
Goddess Astarte ;
Esther is derived from the same root.
Magot :
—
May be from Hebrew, MOVTh, = small stones or
pebbles ; or from MG, = a changing of camp or place ; or from Greek,
Magos, a magician. Usually written Maguth. Compare the French
word " Magot^' meaning "a sort of baboon," and also "a hideous
dwarfish man " ; this expression is often used in fairy-tales to denote
a spiteful dwarf or elf. This Spirit has also been credited with pre-
siding over hidden treasure. Larousse derives the name either from
ancient French or German.
Asmodee :
—Usually written " Asmodeus," and sometimes
" Chashmodai ". Derived by some from the Hebrew word ''
Asamod,"
= to destroy or exterminate ; and by others from the Persian verb
" Azmonden," = to tempt, to try or prove. Some Rabbins say that
Asmodeus was the child of the incest of Tubal-Cain and his sister
Naamah. Others say that he was the Demon of impurity. Others
again relate that he was employed by Solomon in the building of the
Temple at Jerusalem ; that he then attempted to dethrone Solomon,
to put himself in his place ;
but that the King vanquished him, and
the Angel Gabriel chased him into Egypt, and there bound him in a
Grotto. The Rabbins say that when Asmodeus was working at the
building of the Temple, he made use of no metal tool ; but instead
of a certain stone which cut ordinary stone as a diamond will glass.
Belzebud : —Also written frequently "Beelzebub," " Baal-
zebub," " Beelzebuth," and " Beelzeboul ". From Hebrew, BOL,
= Lord, and ZBVB, = Fly or P"lies ; Lord of Flies. Some derive the
name from the Syriac " Beel d'Bobo," = Master of Calumny, or
nearly the same signification as the Greek word DiABOLOS, whence are
derived the modern P>ench and English " Diable " and " Devil ".
Oriens :
—These four names of Oriens, Paimon, Ariton and
Amaymon, are usually allotted to the Evil Kings of the four (juarters
of the World. Oriens, from Latin, Oniens, = rising or Eastern. This
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. hi
name is also written Uriens, from Latin, Uro, = to burn, or devour
with flame. It is probably from Uriens that a mediaeval title of the
Devil, vis., " Sir Urien," is derived. The Name is also sometimes
written " Urieus," from Latin, " Urios" a title given to Jupiter as
presiding over the Wind. Urieus is also derivable from the Greek
Adj. " EURL'S, EuREiA, El'RU," meaning vast or extensive. By the
Rabbins he is also called SMAL, Samael, which is derived from the
Hebrew root SML, which means "a figure, image, or idol". It is a
name given in the Qabalah to one of the Chief Evil Spirits.
Paimon :
—Is also frequently written " Paymon," and sometimes
" Paimonia ". Probably from Hebrew, POMN, = a tinkling sound or
small bell. This is again derived from the Hebrew root POM, = to
agitate, impel, or strike forward. The word POMN is employed in
Exodus 28, 34 ; 28, 33 ;
and 39, 25. Paimon is also called by the
Rabbins by the title of OZAZL, Asa^el, which is a name used in
Leviticus with reference to the Scape-Goat. Its derivation is from
OZ, = a Goat ; and AZL, = to go away. It has frequently been
warmly discussed whether the word in question means simply the
Scape-Goat, or whether it signifies a Demon to whom that animal
was dedicated. But in Rabbinic Demonology it is always used to
mean one of the Chief Demons.
Ariton : —It is also often called " Egyn," or " Egin ". This
name viay be derived from the Hebrew root ORH, = to lay bare,
to make naked. It may also be derived from the Greek word
ARHRETON, = secret, or mysterious, in any sense good or bad.
Egin, may be derivable from Hebrew, OGN, = to delay, hinder, or
retard. There may also be a connection with the Greek Aix,
AlGOS, = a Goat. This Spirit is also called by the Rabbins OZAL,
Azael, from the root OZ, which means both a Goat, and also vigour,
vehemence of force ; thus having partly the same root as " Azazel ".
Amaimon :
—Also written frequently " Amaymon "
;
perhaps
from the Greek word Maimon, present participle of Maimao ;
and A as an enforcing particle ; hence Amaimon would mean
"terrible violence and vehemence". This Spirit is also called by
the Rabbins MHZAL, Mahazael, perhaps from the root MZ, = to
consume, or devour. Amaymon is spoken of in the various mediaeval
Magical works as being a very potent Spirit, and the use of a ring,
with Magical characters to hold before the mouth while conversing
with him, is recommended as a protection against his deadly, fiery,
and poisonous breath.
THE SERVITORS OF ORIENS, PAYMON, ARITON
AND AMAYMON.
HOSEN : —From Chaldaic, ChVSN, chosen^ = Strong, Vigorous,
Powerful.
112 The Book ok the Sacred Magic
Sarath : —From Hebrew, ShRP, = to burn, or devour with fire.
Proxosos :—Perhaps from Greek, Prox, Proxokos, = a Kid.
Hauhi :—From Chaldce, ChBA, or Hebrew, CnBH, = Hidden.
ACUAR :
—From Hebrew, AKR, = a tiller of the earth.
Th^aNA : —Perhaps from Hebrew, ThRN,= the Mast of a Ship,
also an Apple Tree.
Alluph :
—From Hebrew, ALVP, = a Leader, a Duke ;
also a
Bull, from his leadings the herd.
Nercamay:—Perhaps from Hebrew, NOR, = a boy, and ChMH
= a companion.
NiLEN :
—
Perhaps from N/lus, Latin, or Neilos, Greek, = the
River Nile.
Morel : —Perhaps from Hebrew, MRH, = to rebel.
Tragi : —From Greek, Trachus, etc., = harsh, rude.
Enaia : —Perhaps from Hebrew, ONIH, = Poor, afflicted.
MULACH :
—Probably the same as " Moloch," from Hebrew, MLK,
= to rule.
Malutens : —Perhaps from Hebrew, MOL, = to lie, or deceive,
or prevaricate.
IparkaS:—Probably from Greek, HiPPARCHES, = a commander
of cavalry, or leader of horse.
NUDITON : —Apparently from the Latin, NuDITAS, = nakedness,
derived in its turn from NUDATUS.
MelNA : —Perhaps from Hebrew, LN, to abide or rest.
Melhaer : —Perhaps from Hebrew, ML, to cut off, or divide,
and ChR, whiteness, purity.
Ruach :
—From Hebrew, RVCh = Spirit.
Apolhun :
—From Greek, APOLLUON, Apollyon, = the De-
stroyer,
SchabuACH : —From Arabic = to calm or assuage.
MermO:—From Coptic, Mer, Across, and Moou, Water, =
Across Water.
Melamud : —From Hebrew, MLMD, = stimulus to exertion.
PoTER :—From Greek, POTER, = a drinking cup, or vase.
Sched : —From Hebrew, SllDD, the Hebrew name for a devas-
tating demon. But the Hebrew root SuD implies the same idea as
the English words " To Shed " ; and signifies a female breast.
EkdulON : —Probably from Greek, Ekduo, = to despoil.
Mantiens : —From Latin, Mantiens, and Greek, Manteia, =
Prophesying, Divining.
Obedama :
—From Hebrew, OBD, = a servant. AMA = mother.
But AMH = a maid-servant, whence Obedama should signify a woman-
servant.
Sachiel : —Is a name frequently given in Magical works to an
Angel of the Planet Jupiter. SKK = to cover or protect, but SChH
= to trample down.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 113
MOSCHEL :—From Hebrew, MVSh, = to move oneself about.
Pereuch : —Perhaps from Greek, Per and EUCHE, = concerning
prayer, or given unto prayer.
Deccal : —From Hebrew, DCuL, = to fear.
ASPERIM : —Perhaps from Latin, " Aspera," = Rude, Rigorous,
Perilous, Dangerous.
Katini : —From Hebrew, KThN, == a tunic, whence the Greek
word Chiton.
Torfora :— From Hebrew, ThOR, = a small knife, or lancet.
Badad : —From Hebrew, BDD, = solitary.
I have thus far given the probable derivations at length ; but I
shall, for the sake of brevity, here continue them without giving their
roots and remarks thereon :
—
COELEN.—Latin. Heavens.
Chuschi.—Hebrew. Silent.
Tasma.—Hebrew and Chaldaic. Weak.
Pachid.—Hebrew. Fear.
Parek.—Hebrew. Roughness, Savage.
Rachiar.—Greek. Sea breaking on rocks.
NOGAR. —Hebrew. Flowing.
Adon.—Hebrew. Lord.
Trapis.—Greek. Turning.
Nagid.—Hebrew. A Leader.
Ethanim.—Hebrew. An Ass ; a furnace.
Patid. —Hebrew. Topaz.
Pareht.—Hebrew. Fruit.
Emphastison.—Greek. Image, Representation.
Paraseh.—Chaldaic. Divided.
Gerevil.—Hebrew. Divining Lot, Sortilege.
Elmis.—Coptic. Flying.
Asmiel.—Hebrew. Storing up.
Irminon.—Greek. Supporting.
ASTUREL.—Hebrew. Bearing authority.
NUTHON.—Perhaps Coptic, Godlike; or Greek, piercing.
LOMIOL.—Perhaps Hebrew. Binding, Bitter.
Imink.—Perhaps Coptic. Devouring.
Plirok.—Perhaps Coptic. Burning up.
Tagnon.—Perhaps Greek. Heating,
Parmatus.—Greek and Latin. Shield-bearing.
Iaresin.—Hebrew, Possessing.
GORILON.—Coptic. Axe; Cleaving either to, or asunder; Bones.
LiRION.—Greek. A lily.
Plegit.—Perhaps Greek. Smiting, Smitten.
Ogilen.—Hebrew. Round, Wheel.
8
114 The Book of the Sacred Maoic
Tarados.—Perhaps Coptic. Dispersion.
LosiMON.—Perhaps Coptic. Understanding of restriction.
Ragaras.—Perhaps Coptic. To incline, or bow the head.
I(;iLON.—Perhaps Greek. After the fashion of ElKELOS.
GOSEGAS.—Probably Hebrew and Chaldaic. Shaking strongly.
Astrega.—Perhaps Coptic. P^xpeditious.
Parusur.—Perhaps Greek. Present to assist.
Igis. —Perhaps from Greek HiKO, root of HiKNEOMAl. Coming.
Aherom.—Hebrew. Separation, from ChRM.
Ic;arak.—Perhaps Celtic, from Carac. Terrible.
Geloma.—Hebrew, Glm, and Latin, Glomus. Wrapped, or
wound together.
Khjk.—Hebrew. Wrinkled with age.
Remoron.—Latin. Hindering, staying.
Ekalike.—Perhaps Greek. At rest, or quiet.
ISEKEL. —Hebrew. Anointing, or Anointed.
Elzegan.—Perhaps Hebrew = Turning aside.
Ipakol.—Hebrew. Breathing forth.
Haril.—Hebrew. Thorny.
Kadolon.—Perhaps Greek. A small vase, or urn.
lOGiON.—Perhaps Greek. Noise of battle.
Zaragil.—Perhaps Hebrew. Scattering.
Irroron.—Latin. Sprinkling with dew.
Ilagas.—Greek. Obtaining ; having obtained.
Balalos.—Perhaps Greek, from Ballo, to throw.
Oroia.—Probably Greek. Returning in due season.
Lagasuf.—Perhaps Hebrew. In paleness, pining away.
Alagas.—Perhaps Greek. Wandering.
Alpas.—Probably Greek. Yielding.
Soterion.—Greek. Saving, Delivering.
Romages.—Perhaps Hebrew. To throw and to touch.
Promakos.—Greek. A fighter in the front of a conflict.
Metafel.—Hebrew. To fasten.
Darascon.—Perhaps Celtic. Turbulent.
Kelen.—Greek. Going swiftly, as in a race.
Erenutes.—Perhaps Greek. Receiving.
Najin.—Hebrew. Propagating.
TULOT. —Chaldaic. Triple.
Platien.— Greek. Flat, broad.
Atloton.—Greek. Insufferable.
Afarorp.—Perhaps Hebrew. Breaking, rending.
MORILEN.—Perhaps Greek. Foolish speaking.
Ramaratz.—Hebrew. Raised ground, or earth.
NOGEN.—Hebrew. To strike a musical instrument.
MOLIN.—Hebrew. Abiding in a place.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 115
THE SERVITORS OF ASHTAROTH AND ASMODEUS.
Amaniel.—Hebrew. Nourishment of God.*
Orinel.—Hebrew. Ornament of God ; also Tree of God ; also
Elm Tree.
TiMiRA.—Hebrew. Palm.
Dramas.—Greek. Action.
Amalin.—Chaldaic. Languidness.
KiRiK —Hebrew. A Stole, or Mantle.
BUBANA.—Perhaps Hebrew. Emptiness.
BUK.—Hebrew. Perplexity.
Raner.—Perhaps Hebrew, Singing ; or Greek, Watering.
Semlin.—Hebrew. Simulacra ; Appearances.
Ambolin.—Perhaps Hebrew. Tending unto nothingness.
Abutes.—Perhaps Greek. Bottomless, Measureless.
Exteron.—Latin. Without, Foreign, Distant.
Laboux.—Perhaps Latin, and conveying the sense of " La-
borious ".
CORCARON.—Perhaps Greek. Tumultuous, noisy.
Ethan.—Hebrew. An Ass.
Taret.—Perhaps Hebrew. Dampness, tending to corruption.
Tablat.—Perhaps Hebrew. Immersions.
BURIUL.—Hebrew. In terror and trembling.
Oman.—Perhaps Chaldaic. To cover, or obscure.
Cara.sCH.—Hebrew. Voracity.
DiMURGO.S.—Greek. A fabricator, Artisan, or Workman.
Roggiol.—Perhaps Hebrew. To drag down ;
the feet.
LORIOL.—Perhaps Hebrew. Unto horror.
ISIGI.—Perhaps from Hebrew, and implying " Error," or "to err".
DiORON.—Greek. Delay.
Darokin.—Probably Chaldaic. Paths or Ways.
HORANAR.—? ?
Abahin.—Perhaps Hebrew, and signifying "terrible".
GOLEG.—Probably Hebrew. Whirling.
GUAGAMON.—Greek. A net.
Laginx.—? ?
Etaliz.—Hebrew. The furrow of a plough. Hence agri-
culture.
Agei.—Probably Hebrew. Meditation.
Lemel.—Perhaps Hebrew. For speech—?.
Udaman.—Perhaps a corruption of Greek, EUDAIMON, =
Fortunate.
* Frequently in Qabalistic Magic " El," the Name of God, is
joined to the Names even of Evil Spirits, to intimate that even these
have no power except by His permission.
ii6 The Book of the Sacred Ma(]ic
BlALOT.—Perhaps Hebrew. Absorption,
GagalOS.*—Perhaps Greek. A tumour.
RagaLIM.—Hebrew. Feet.
Finaxos.—Perhaps Greek. Worthy in appearance—?.
Akanef.—Hebrew. A Wing.
Omages.—Greek—? for Ho Magos, = the Magician.
Agrax.—Perhaps Hebrew. Bone.
Sagares.—Greek. A double-headed battle-axe, especially that
used by the Amazons.
Afray.—Perhaps Hebrew. Dust.
Ugales.—Probably Greek. Calm.
Hermiala.—? ?^
Haligax.—? ? > Perhaps traceable to Celtic roots.
GUGONIX.—? ? )
Opilm.—Hebrew. Citadels ; eminences.
Daguler.—? ?
Pachei.—Probably Greek. Thick, coarse.
NiMALON.—Perhaps from Hebrew, relating to "circumcision ".
THE SERVITORS OF AMAIMON AND ARITON.
Hauges.—Apparently from the Greek " AuGE ". Brilliance.
Agibol.— Hebrew. Forcible Love.
RiGOLEN.—Perhaps from Hebrew, = to drag down. The same
root also is that of the word ''Kegel" = "foot".
GrasEMIN.—Perhaps from Hebrew, GRS, = a bone.
Elafon.—Probably from the Greek Elaphos, = a stag.
TrisAGA.—Greek. Directing by Triads.
Gagalin.—Perhaps Greek. Tumour, Swelling, Ganglion.
Cleraca.—Perhaps from Greek and Latin, " Klerikos," and
" Clericus," = clerical.
Elaton.—Probably Latin. Sublime ; borne away.
Pafesla.—Perhaps from Hebrew—? a sculptured Image.
THE SERVITORS OF ASMODEUS AND MAGOTH.
TOUN.—Perhaps from Hebrew. ThNH, = Hire, Price.
Magog.—Hebrew. The well-known Biblical name for a
powerful Gentile nation.
DiOPOS.—Greek. An overseer.
DiSOLEL.—? ?
Biriel.—Hebrew. Stronghold of God.
c.„^„ /Greek. A Siphon or Tube for raising fluids.
\ Hebrew. To cover over.
* See somewhat similar name, "Gagalin," in the Spirits under
Amaimon and Ariton.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 117
Kele.—Hebrew. To consume.
Magiros. —Greek. A cook.
Sartabakim.—? ? SRTN in Hebrew = the Sign Cancer.
LUNDO.—? ?
SoBE.—Greek. The tail of a horse ;
also a fly-flap.
Inokos.—Perhaps from Latin, " INOCCO," = to rake the earth
over the newly sown seed.
Mabakiel.—Hebrew. Weeping, Lamentation.
Apot.—Hebrew = A Treasure ; a Tribute.
Opun.—Perhaps from Hebrew. A Wheel.
THE SERVITORS OF ASHTAROTH.
Aman.—Hebrew. To nourish.
Camal. —Hebrew. To desire God ; the name of one of the
Archangels in the Qabalah.
TOXAI.—From Greek, TOXEIA, = Archery; or Latin, TOXICUM,
= Poison.
Kataron.—Greek. Casting down.
Rax.—Greek. A grape-seed.
GONOGIN.—Hebrew. Pleasures, Delights.
SCHELAGON.—Hebrew. Like Snow.
GiNAR.—? ? Perhaps Chaldaic—? To perfect, or finish.
IsiAMON.—Hebrew = Solitude, Desolation.
Baiial. —Hebrew = To disturb.
Darek.—Hebrew = a way, or path.
IscilIGAS.—Perhaps from Hebrew, IShO, = To save, or aid.
GOLEN.—Greek. A cavern.
Gromems.—Perhaps Latin or Greek—? to mark out.
Rkjios. —Greek. Horrible, Terrible.
NiMERIX.—? ? Perhaps Celtic.
Herg.—Hebrew, To slay.
Argilon.—Greek. Clay.
Okiri. —Perhaps Greek—? To cause to sink or fail.
Fagani.—Perhaps Greek—? Devourers.
Hll'OLOS.—Greek. A Goat herd.
Ilks(jN.—Greek. Enveloping.
Camonix.—? Greek—? Perseverance in combat.
Kafamal.—? ?
Alan.—Chaldaic. A Tree.
Apormenos.—Greek. Uncertain.
Ombalat.—? ?
QUARTAS.—Latin. Fourth.
U(;iRPEN.—? ?
Araex.—? Greek. ? Shock.
Lepaca.—Hebrew. For opening or disclosing.
KOLOFE.—Greek. Summit, or height of achievement.
ii8 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE SERVITORS OF MAGOTH AND KORE.
Nacheran.—Probably Hebrew. Nostrils.
Katolin.—Hebrew. Walls.
Luesaf.—Perhaps Hebrew. Unto Loss or Destruction.
Masaub.—Hebrew. Circuit.
URKiO.—Latin. Spoiled ; unfit for food.
Eaturab.—Perhaps Hebrew—? Interpretation.
Fersebus.—Perhaps Greek—? A bringcr of veneration.
Baruel.—Hebrew. Food or nourishment from God.
Ubarin.—Greek. Insult, Outrage.
Butarab.—? ?
Ischiron.—Greek. Strong, Mighty.
Odax.—Greek. Biting.
ROLER.—? ?
Arotor.—Greek and Latin. A ploughman or husbandman.
Hemis.—Greek. Half, half-way.
Arpiron.—Perhaps Greek—? Attempting straightway.
Arrabin.—Greek. Pledge, caution money.
SUPIPAS.—Perhaps Greek—? relating to swine.
Forteson.—Greek. Burdened.
DULID.—? ?
Sorriolenen.—? ?
Megalak.—Hebrew. Cutting off.
Anagotos.—Perhaps Greek—? Conducting.
SiKASTIN.—? ?
Petunof.—Coptic. Exciting.
Mantan. — Hebrew. A gift.
Meklboc—Perhaps Hebrew—? Like a dog.
Tiqrafon.—Perhaps Greek—? Capable of writing any matter.
Tagora.—Coptic. Assembly.
Debam.—Perhaps Hebrew. Strength.
Tiraim.—Hebrew. Filling up.
Irix.—Greek. A hawk or falcon.
Madail.—Perhaps Hebrew. Drawing out from, consuming.
Abagiron.—Perhaps Greek—? Gathering together,
Pandoli.—Greek. Altogether a slave ; or perhaps from Greek
and Latin—Possessing all wiles.
Nenisem.—Perhaps Hebrew—? Wavings, Displayings.
Cobel.—Hebrew. A Chain.
Sobel.—Hebrew. A Burden.
Laboneton.—Perhaps from Greek, Lambano, = to grasp, or
seize.
Arioth.— Hebrew. Lioness.
Marag.—Hebrew. To drive forward.
Kamusil.—Hebrew. Like a rising or elevation.
OF Abra-Mki.in the Mage. 119
Kaitar.—Perhaps from Hebrew, KTllR, = a crown or summit.
ScHARAK.—Hebrew. To wind or twine about.
Maisadul.—? ?
Agilas.—Perhaps Greek—? Sullen.
KOLAM.—Hebrew. Shame ; to be ashamed.
KiLIGIL.—? ?
CORODON.—Perhaps Greek—? a lark.
Hepogon. —Perhaps Greek—? a saddle-cloth.
Daglas.—? ?
Hagion.—Greek. Sacred.
Egakireh.—? ?
Paramor.—Perhaps the same as the modern word Paramour :
—
a Lover.
Olisermon.—Perhaps Greek and Latin —? Of short speech.
RiMOG.—Perhaps from Hebrew, RMK, = a Mare.
HORMINOS.—Greek. A stirrer up.
Hagog.—Hebrew. The name of Gog, with the definite prefix
"Ha".
Mimosa.—Perhaps Greek. Meaning Imitator. "Mimosa" is
also the name of a Shrub.
Amchison.—? ?
Ilarax.—Perhaps Greek—? Cheerful ;
gay.
Makalo.S.—Perhaps Chaldaic—? Attenuated, Wasted.
Locater.—? ?
COLVAM.—Perhaps fi'om a Hebrew root, signifying " shame ".
Patterms.—? ? Perhaps derived from Greek, Battarizo, =
to use vain repetitions, to babble.
THE SERVITORS OF ASMODEUS.
Onei. —Greek, One. Purchase; buying.
Ormiox.—Perhaps Greek—? Moored, fastened securely.
Preches.— Perhaps Greek, from Pretiio, "to swell out ".
MaggIIX —Hebrew. Precious things.
Sceavak.—Perhaps from Coptic, S/LAK, = Torture, Pain.
Mehhesser. —Either from Hebrew, BSllR, = flesh, or Chaldee,
BSR, = to reject.
Bacaron.—Hebrew. P'irstborn.
HOEHA.—Hebrew. Fatness.
HieARION.—Greek. A Pony or little horse.
GlEARION.—? ?
Emure—Perhaps Greek. F^ound in.
Ahadir.—Hebrew. Scattered.
Sbarionat.—Perhaps Coptic—? a little friend.
Utiea.—? ?
Omet.—Hebrew. A neighbour.
SaRRA.—Coptic. To strike.
120 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE SERVITORS OF BEELZEBUB.
Alcanor.—Probably Hebrew and Arabic—? a harp.
Amatia.—Greek. Ignorance.
BiLIFARES.—Hebrew. Lord of Division.
LamaRION.—? ?
Diralisen.—Greek. The ridge of a rock.
LicaNEN.—Perhaps from Greek, LiKNON, = a winnowing fan.
DiMIRAG.—Chaldaic. Impulsion, Driving forward.
ElpoNEN.—Perhaps Greek—? Force of hope.
ErgAMEN.—Greek. Busy.
GOTIFAN.—Probably Hebrew, expressing the idea of crushing,
and turning over.
NiMORUP.—? ?
Carelena.—Perhaps Greek, from Kar, = Hair, and Lambano,
= to seize.
Lamalon.—Perhaps Hebrew. Declining, turning aside.
Igurim.—Hebrew. Fears.
Akium.—Hebrew. Sure.
DORAK.—Hebrew. Proceeding, Walking forward.
Tachain.—Hebrew. Grinding to powder.
Ikonok.—Greek. Phantasmal.
Kemal.—Hebrew. Desire of God.
BiLlCO.—Perhaps Hebrew—? Lord of manifestation.
Tromes.—Greek. Wound or disaster.
Balfori.—Hebrew. Lord of producing.
Arolen.—Perhaps Hebrew—? Strongly agitated.
LiROCHl.—Hebrew. In tenderness.
NOMINON.—Greek. Conventional.
Iamai. —Hebrew—? Days, periods.
ArOGOR.—Probably Greek—? a helper.
HoLASTRi. —Perhaps from Coptic, HOLSz, = to surround.
Hacamuli.—Hebrew. Withering, fading.
Samalo.—Probably Hebrew. His image.
Plison.—Perhaps Greek, from Pleo, to swim.
Raderaf. —Perhaps Greek—? a rose-bearer.
BOROL.—Probably from Hebrew, BVR, = a pit, to bury.
SOROSMA.—Perhaps Greek. A funeral urn.
CORILON.—? ?
Gramon.—Greek, from Gramma, = Writing.
Magalast.—Greek. Greatly, hugely.
Zagalo.—Perhaps Greek, from Zagklon, = a reaping-hook.
Pellipis.—Perhaps Greek
—
? Oppressing.
Natalis.—Latin. A birthday, nativity, natal.
Namiros.—Perhaps Coptico-Greek—? Naval, Nautical.
Adirael.—Hebrew. Magnificence of God.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 121
Kabada. —Hebrew. Dulness, heaviness.
KiPOKIS. —Hebrew. Like Overflowing.
Orgosil.—Hebrew. Tumultuous.
Arcon.—Greek. A Ruler.
Ambolon.—Greek. Earth thrown up, or fresh turned.
Lamolon. —Hebrew. With detestation.
BiLIFOR.—Perhaps Hebrew—? Lord of Glory.
THE SERVITORS OF ORIENS.
Sarisel.—Hebrew. Minister of God.
Gasarons.—? ?
SOROSMA*.
* See same name under Beelzebub.
TURITEL. —Hebrew. Mountain cast down.
BalaKEX.—Chaldaic. Ravagers.
Gagison.—Hebrew. Spread out flat.
Mafalac.—Hebrew. A fragment.
Agar.—Hebrew. Beloved.
THE SERVITORS OF PAYMON.
Aglafos.—Greek. Bright light.
Agafali.—Perhaps from Greek, AGE, reverence.
DiSON.—Greek. Divided.
Achamel.—Hebrew. Truth of God.
SUDORON.—Greek. Probably a false gift.
Kabersa. —Hebrew. Wide measure.
Ebaron.—Greek. Not burdensome.
ZALAN E.S.— Greek. Trouble-bringer.
Ugola.—? Greek. Perhaps = Fluent in speech.
Ca.ME. —Greek. Tired.
ROFFLES.—Hebrew. The Lion trembling.
MenoLIK. —Perhaps Greek—? Winnowing with fury.
Tacaros.—Greek. Soft or tender.
ASTOLIT.—Probably Greek—? Without Garment.
RUKUM.—Hebrew. Diversified.
THE SERVITORS OF ARITON.
ANADER.—Greek. A flayer.
Ekorok. —Hebrew. Thy breaking, Thy barrenness.
SiBOLAS.—Hebre.w. A rushing Lion.
Sarls.—Greek. A pike or spear.
Sekabin.—Chaldee. Casters down.
Caromos.—Perhaps from Greek, Charma, = joy.
Rosaran.—? Hebrew—? Evil and wicked.
122 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Sapason.—Perhaps from Greek, Sepo, to putrefy.
NOTISER.— Perhaps Greek, = Putter to flight.
Flaxon.—Greek. About to rend, or to be rent asunder.
Harombrub.—Hebrew. Exalted in greatness.
MegalosIN.—Greek. In great things.
MiLlOM,—Hebrew. The ender or destroyer of day.
Ilemlis. —Hebrew. The silent Lion.
Galak.— Greek. Milky.
Androcos.—Perhaps Greek—? Arranger or orderer of men.
Maranton.—Greek. Quenched, having extinguished.
Caron.—Greek. The name of Charon, the ferryman of the
souls of the dead in Hades.
Reginon.—Hebrew. Vigorous ones.
Elerion.—Perhaps Greek. A Laugher or Mocker.
Sermeot.—Hebrew. Death of the flesh.
Irmenos.—Perhaps from Greek, Hermeneus, = an Expounder.
THE SERVITORS OF AMAYMON.
Romerac.—Hebrew. Violent thunder.
Ramison.—Hebrew, The movers with a particular creeping
motion.
SCRILIS.—Probably Latin, from Sacrilegium, = a sacrilegious
offence.
BURIOL.—Hebrew. Devouring fire of God.
Taralim.—Hebrew. Mighty strongholds.
BURASEN.—Hebrew. Destroyers by stifling smoky breath.
Akesoli,—Greek—? the distressful, or pain-bringing ones.
Erekia.—Greek probably. One who tears asunder.
Illirikim.—Hebrew. They who shriek with a long drawn cry.
Labisi.—Hebrew. The flesh inclothed.
Akoros.—Greek. Overthrowers of authority.
Mames.—Hebrew. They who move by backward motion.
Glesi.—Hebrew. One who glistens horribly, like an insect.
Vision, —Latin. An apparition.
Effrigis.—Greek. One who quivers in a horrible manner.
Apelki.—Greek. The misleaders or turners aside.
Dalep,—Hebrew. Decaying in liquid putrefaction.
Dresop.—Hebrew. They who attack their prey by tremulous
motion,
Hergotis.—Greek. A labourer.
NiLIMA.—Hebrew, The evil questioners,
(End of Notes on Names of Spirits.)
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 123
THE TWENTIETH CHAPTER.
HOW THE OPERATIONS SHOULD BE PERFORMED.
HE atoresaid Operation being finished, it is
necessary, in order to render this instruction
complete, to say how we should manage the
Operations which he who operateth wisheth
to put into practice.
Firstly, then, haying come unto the end, and having
obtained all that is necessary; you cannot sufficiently praise
and honour God, and His Most Holy Name, eyen al-
though you had a thousand tongues ; neither also can you
sufficiently magnify and thank your Holy Angel Guardian
as he meriteth. Hovyever, you ought to render thanks
proportionate to your estate and to the Great Treasure
which you haye received. It is necessary also that you
should fully understand how you ought to enjoy these
immense riches, so that they may not be in your hands
unfruitful, or even harmful. Because this Art is like a
Sword in your hand, capable of serving for all kinds of
evil and for hurt unto your neighbour. But in putting
it into practice for that sole end for which it hath been
made, namely for vanquishing therewith the Demon and
Enemies, then shall you be making a good use hereof I
wish also further to give you some instruction upon certain
necessary and principal points.
The Operation of the Spirits being linished, you
shall continue a whole week to praise God ; and as re-
gardeth yourself personally, you shall do no servile work
during the Seven Days, neither shall you make any Con-
vocation of the Spirits in general, nor of the Familiars ;
and afterwards, when the Seven Days be passed, you shall
commence to exercise your power, as shall be hereafter
said :
—
124 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(i) Take heed before all things to perform no
Magical Operation soever, or Invocations of the Spirits
on the Sabbath Day, during the whole period of your
life, seeing that that day is consecrated unto God, and is
the day on which you should repose and sanctify yourself,
and you should solemnise it by prayers.
(2) Keep yourself as you would from the Eternal
Fire, from manifesting unto any living being that which
your Guardian Angel shall have confided unto you ;
excepting unto him who hath given unto you the Oper-
ation, unto whom you have as it were a greater obliga-
tion than unto your own father.
(3) As far as lieth in your power take heed in no
way to make use of this Art against your neighbour ;
except for a just Vengeance ; although I counsel you even
in this particular to imitate God, who pardoneth even
you yourself, and there is not in the world a more meri-
torious action than to pardon.
(4) In the case of your Angel dissuading you from
some Operation, and forbidding you to do the same, keep
well from becoming obstinate therein, for you would in
such a case ever repent it.
(5) Fly all kinds of (Evil) Science, Magic, and
Enchantments, because they be all Diabolical Inventions ;
also put no trust in books which teach them, though in
appearance they may seem reliable to you, tor these be
nets which the perfidious Belial stretcheth out to take
you.
(6) In conversing with Spirits Good or Evil, never
employ words which you do not understand, because even
so will you have shame and hurt.
OF Ahra-Melin the Mage. 125
(7) You shall never demand ot y<^^ur Guardian An^el
any Symbol wherewith to operate tor an Evil end, seeing
that you would grieve him. You will find only too many
persons who will beseech you to do thus ; see that you do
it not !
(8) Accustom yourself as much as possible to purity
oF body and cleanliness of raiment, seeing that this is very
necessary ; tor the Spirits, both Good and Evil alike, love
purity.
(9) As far as possible shun the employment of your
Wisdom for others in evil things ; but first well consider
him to whom you would render a service ; because it
often happeneth, that in doing service unto another one
worketh evil lor oneselt.
(10) In no way attempt to procure the Operation of
the Holy Angels unless you have extreme need thereof,
seeing that these Holy Angels be so far above you that
it is useless tor you to wish to compare yourseU unto
Them, you being nothing in comparison of Them Who
are the Angels ot God.
(11) If the Operations can be performed by the
Familiar Spirits, it is not necessary to employ others
therein.
(12) Though it should be an easy matter for you to
employ your Familiars to annoy your neighbour, seek to
abstain therefrom, unless it were to repress the insolence
of such as might attempt aught against you personally.
Never keep the Familiar Spirits in idleness, and should
you wish to give one over unto any person, see that such
person be distinguished and meritorious, for they love not
to serve those of base and common condition. But should
126 TiiK Book ok thk Sacrkd Macic
such person unto whom you give them have made some
express Pact (with Spirits) in such case the I'amiliar
Spirits will tiy in haste to serve him.
(13) These three Books of this present Operation
ought to be read and re-read an infinitude of times ; so
that in the space of Six Months betore commencing, he
who operateth should be tully instructed and informed
therein ; and if he be not a Jew, he should further be
conversant with many of the customs and ceremonies
which this Operation demandeth, so as to become accus-
tomed unto that retirement which is so necessary and
useful.
(14) Should he who performeth this Operation
during the Six Months or Moons commit voluntarily
any mortal sin prohibited by the Tables of the Law, be
certain that he will never receive this Wisdom.
(15) Sleep in the day-time is entirely forbidden,
unless absolutely requisite, owing to some infirmity, or
to old age, or to debility of constitution ; for God is
always willing to employ mercy * towards mankind,
because of their infirmities.
(16) If you have not the fixed intention of con-
tinuing the Operation, I counsel you on no account to
commence it ; because the Lord doth not care to be
mocked, and He chastiseth with corporal maladies those
who make a mock of Him. Howbeit, he who is hindered
from continuing through some unforeseen accident, sinneth
in no way.
(17) It is impossible for him who hath passed fifty
years of age to undertake this Operation. Thus also was
* In MS., " User d'humaniie"-.
OF Aiu<a-Mklin the Mage. 127
it the custom in the true iind iiiicient Jewish Law con-
cerning the l^riesthood. Also, he should not be less than
tvventv-five years oi" age.
(18) Y(Hi shall not permit the Familiar Spirits to
fiimiliarise themselves too much with you, through your
disputing and arguing with them ; because they will pro-
pound so many affairs and things at once as to contound
and trouble the mind.
(19) With the Familiar Spirits you should not
make use ot" the Symbols ot' the Third Book, unless it
be those ot the Fifth Chapter thereof ;* but it you desire
anything, command them aloud to perform it. Never
commence many Operations at once and in the same
tinie, but when you have finished one then begin another,
until you are perfect in the practice ; for an Apprentice
Artist doth not become a Master suddenly, but little by
little.
(20) Without reasons of the very last importance,
the Four Princes j- or the Eight Sub-Princes [. should
never be summoned, because we must make a great dis-
tinction between these and the others (who are inferior to
them).
(21) In operating, as rarely as possible insist upon
the Spirits appearing visibly ;|| and thus you will work
* Entitled: " How we may retain the Familiar Spirits bond or
free, in whatsoever form ".
t Viz. : Lucifer, Leviathan, Satan, and Belial.
I Viz. : Ashtaroth, Maguth, Asmodeus, and Beelzebub ; Oriens,
Paymon, Ariton or Egyn, and Amaymon.
§ For not only does constraining them to visible appearance
require reiterated conjurations, but also they must be in some way
provided with the necessary elements wherefrom to build up a body
to manifest in.
128 The Book of the Sacred Magic
all the better, for it should suffice you for them to say
and do what you wish.
(22) All Prayers, Orations, Invocations, and Con-
jurations, and in fact everything you have to say, should
be pronounced aloud and clearly, without however
shouting like a madman,* but speaking clearly and
naturally, and pronouncing distinctly.
(23) During the Six Moons, you shall sweep the
Oratory every Sabbath Eve, and keep it strictly clean,
for it is a place dedicated unto the Holy and Pure
Angels.
(24) Take heed that you commence no Operation
at night if it be important, unless the need be very
pressing.
(25) Your only object during your whole life should
be to shun as far as possible an ill-regulated life, and
especially the vices of debauchery, gluttony, and drunk-
enness. -f-
(26) Having completed the Operation, and being
now the Possessor of the True Wisdom, you shall fast
three days before commencing to put it in practice.
(27) Every year you should make a commemoration
of the Signal benefit which the Lord hath conferred upon
you ; at such time feasting, praying, and honouring your
Guardian Angel that day with your whole strength.
* In the Original :
" Sanspourtant crier comyne iinfou ".
f I have by this phrase translated the expression in the Original
:
" Le vice de crapule ".
OF Arra-Melin the Mage. 129
(28) During the Three Days on which you con-
strain the Spirits you shall fast, for this is essential, so
that when you are working you may find yourself freer
and more tranquil both in body and mind.
(29) Note that the fasts are to be understood as
commencing always from the first nocturnal Star, and
not otherwise.
(30) Keep as an indubitable precept never to give
this Operation unto a Monarch,* because Solomon was the
first who abused it ; and if you should do the contrary,
both you and your successors would alike lose the Grace
hereof. With regard to this command, I myself having
been sought by the Emperor Sigismond, gave him will-
ingly the best Familiar Spirit which I had ; but I steadily
refused to give him the Operation ; and it should not be
given unto Emperors, Kings, or other Sovereigns.
(31) You may assuredly give, but it is not permis-
sible to sell, this (Operation), for this would be to abuse
the Grace of the Lord who hath given it unto you, and
should you act contrariwise unto this, you would lose its
control.
(32) Should you [icrform this Operation in a town,
you should take a house which is not at all overI(K)ked
by any one; seeing that in this present day j- Curiosity is
so strong that you ought to be upon your guard ; and
there ought to be a garden (adjoining the house) wherein
you can take exercise.
* This also seems like mere prejudice on the part of Abraham.
f Remember that " this present day" means of course the period
when Abraham was writing this work, i.e., 1458. In this particular of
curiosity the world has doubtless chanf^^cd little since.
9
I30 The Book of the Sacred Ma(]Ic
(33) Take well heed during the Six Moons or
Months to lose no blood from your body, except that
which the expulsive Virtue in you may expel naturally
of its own accord.
(34) Finally, during that whole time, you shall
touch no dead body of any description soever,
(35) You shall eat during this whole period neither
the flesh nor the blood of any dead animal ; and this you
shall do for a certain particular reason.*
(36) You shall bind by an Oath him unto whom
you shall give this Operation, neither to give nor sell it
unto any avowed Atheist or Blasphemer of God.
(37) You shall fast for three days before giving the
Operation unto any ; and he who shall receive it shall
do likewise ; and he also shall hand over unto you at the
same time the sum of Ten Golden Florins, or their value,
the which you should with your own hand distribute
unto poor persons whom you shall charge to repeat the
Psalms, Miserere Met Deus, etc., " Have mercy upon me,
O God " ; and the De Profundis, etc., " Out of the
Depths ".
(38) It will be a good thing, and one which will
facilitate the Operation, for you to repeat all the Psalms
of David, seeing that they contain great power and virtue ;
and to say them at least twice in the week.
Also you shall shun gaming as you would the
plague ; because it ever is an occasion ot Blasphemy.
* Probably implying that the Evil Spirits could easily obsess
such animal, so as to act upon the Operator through whatever he
might eat of it.
OF Al!RA-Ml-:i.IX THE MaGE. I3I
Also during this time prayer, and the study of the Sacred
Books, should take the place of gaming with you.*
All this advice, and much more which you would
be certain to receive from your Angel Guardian, I have
here set down, so that by observing the same perfectly,
without failing in the slightest particular, you shall at
the end of the Operation find the value thereof. I am
now, therefore, about to give you distinct and sufficient
Information how to employ the Symbols, |- and how to
proceed if you wish to acquire others.
You are then to understand that once he who oper-
ateth hath the power, it is not necessary (in all cases'];)
to use written Symbols, but it may suffice to name aloud
the Name of the Spirit, and the form in which you wish
him to appear visibly ; because once they§ have taken
Oath, this suffiiceth. These Symbols, then, be made for you
to avail yourself of them when you be in the company of
other persons ; also you must have them upon you, so
that in touching or handling them simply, they may
represent your wish. Immediately then he|| unto whom
the Symbol appertaineth will serve you punctually ; but
if you should desire something special which is in no
way connected with or named in the Symbol, it will be
* In the Original MS. :
" Vous fuirez lejeu comme la peste parce-
quiloccasionne toujours du blaspheme oiitreque dans ce temps la leveritable
jeti est loraison ct la lecture des livres sacrez ".
By "jeu," here is evidently meant gaming or gambling, and not
simple recreation and amusement, which latter would be almost a
necessity during this period, to prevent the brain giving way from
the intense nervous strain.
f I.e., those of the Third Book.
I I have here interpolated " in all cases," as otherwise this
passage would clash with remarks elsewhere.
§ I.e., the Spirits, who have sworn allegiance to the Operator at
his convocations of them.
II
i.e., that Spirit.
132 TiiK Book of the Sacked Maciic
necessary to signify the same at least by showing your
desire by two or three words. And here it is well to
observe, that if you use prudence, you can often reason
with those persons who be with you in such a manner
that the Spirits, having however been beforehand invoked
by you, will understand what they are to do ; but it is
necessary to discover your intent unto them by words.
For they be of such great intelligence, that from a single
word or a single motive, they can draw the construction
of the whole matter ; and although they cannot penetrate
into the inmost parts of the human mind, yet nevertheless
by their astuteness and subtlety they be so adroit that
they comprehend by perceptible signs the wish of the
person in question.
But when it is a grave and important matter, you
should retire into a secret place apart, provided it be
appropriate, for any place is good to invoke the Spirits
proper unto the Operation. There give them their com-
mission regarding that which you wish them to perform,
the which they will either execute then or in the days
following. But always give them the signal by word of
mouth, or in any other manner that may be pleasing unto
you, whenever you wish them to begin to operate. Thus
did Abramelin in Egypt, Joseph in Paris, and as for
myself, I have always acted in the same manner. I have
also made myself a very great man, and especially one
who hath been of service unto Princes and great Lords.
I will hereafter tell clearly what Operations belong
unto this or unto that Spirit, and how it is necessary to
act.
Now will I teach you how all those (Symbols)
which be in this Book, as well as those which you will
(hereafter) receive from the Spirits (themselves), ought
to be written down and acquired. For the number of
Operations is infinite, and it would be an impossibility to
set them all down in this work. If therefore you should
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 133
wish to pertorni certain fresh Operations by the use ot a
Syinhol not set down in any way in the Third Book [I
am speaking of good and permissible Operations],* you
shall make the demand thereof from your Guardian Angel
in this manner :
—
Fast the day before, and on the following morning
you, being well washed, shall enter into the Oratory, put
on the White Tunic, illumine the Lamp, and put the
Perfume in the Censer. Then lay the Lamen ot Silver
upon the Altar, whereof the two Angles shall be touched
wath the Holy Anointing Oil ; tall upon your knees and
make your Orison unto the Lord, rendering unto Him
grace for the benerits which you have received in general.
Then shall you supplicate Him to be willing to send
unto you your Holy Angel, that he may instruct you in
vour ignorance, and that he may deign to grant your
demand. After this, invoke your Holy Guardian Angel,
and pray him to favour you with his vision, and to in-
struct you how you should design and prepare the Symbol
of the Operation desired. Also you shall remain in prayer
until you shall see appear in the room the Splendour of
your Angel. Then wait to see if he shall expound or
command anything touching the form of the Symbol
demanded. And when you have finished your supplica-
tion, arise and go to the Plate of Silver, whereon you
shall find written as it were in drops of dew, like a
sweat exuding therefrom, the Symbol as you ought to
make it, together with the Name of the Spirit who
should serve you for this Operation, or else that of his
Prince. And wnthout touching or moving the Lamen,
copy at once the Symbol just as it appeareth, and leave
the Plate of Metal upon the Altar until the even ;
at the
which time, after having made your ordinary Orison, and
returned your thanks, you shall put it away in a piece of
clean silk.
* This Parenthesis is Abraham's.
134 TuK Book ov tmv, Sm kkd Macic
The most convenient Day tor proeuring these Syni-
hols is the Sahhatli ; because by such an Operation, we
do not in any way viohite (its sanctity), neitlier do we
injure the same at all. Also we can prepare all things
necessary the day before. But \i the Angel should not
appear, and should not in any way manifest unto you the
Symbol, then may you l)e certain that the pretended
Operation, although it may appear good in your eyes, is
not so considered by God and by your Guardian Angel ;
and in such case you shall change your demands.
Now, as regardeth the Symbols for Evil Operations,
these shall you obtain more easily; seeing that after
(putting on) the Perfume, there is nothing else to do
but to make your Orisons. Then being clad in your
White Tunic, you shall put on over it the Silken Vest-
ment and the Girdle, and after that the Crown, taking
the Wand in your hand, and placing yourself at the side
of the Altar towards the Terrace. Then, holding the
Wand, conjure in the same manner as you did on the
Second Day. And when the Spirits shall have appeared,
you shall command them in no way to quit the place,
until they shall have manifested unto you the Symbol of
the Operation which you desire, together with the
Names of the Spirits capable of putting the same into
execution, together with their Symbols. And then you
shall see the Prince unto whom the Operation apper-
taineth avow, write, and sign upon the Sand the Symbol,
together with the Name of the Spirit who is to serve for
this Operation. Then shall you take the Surety and Oath
of the Prince upon the Symbol, and also of his Ministers,
as you will have previously done in accordance with the
(directions given in the) Fourteenth Chapter.* And
should several Symbols be given, make them take Oath
upon them all. This being done, you can dismiss them
*I.e., of this Second Book. The Chapter is entitled : "Concerning
the Convocation of the Spirits ".
OF Ahka-Meli\ the Mage. 135
in the manner we have already described, taking heed
betore this to copy the Symbols which they >>hall have
traced upon the Sand, because in departing they will
destroy the same. And when they have gone, take the
Censer and perfume the place, as before said.
I do not however write this, so that you may
hereby, as well as by the use of certain of the Symbols
described in the Third Book, work Evil ; I have in no
way written them down tor such an end ; but only that you
may understand the full perfection of this Art, and what we
can herewith perform. For the Evil Spirits be exceediiig
prompt and exceeding obedient in the working of Evil ;
it is to be wished that they were as much so tor the
Good. Plowever, take heed that you be upon your guard.
And remember, that as there is a God to write these
aforesaid Symbols, there is no particular preparation neces-
sary ot Pens, ot Ink, and of Paper ; nor yet ot elections
of particular Days, nor other things to be observed, which
the False Magicians and Enchanters of the Devil would
have you believe. It sufficeth that the Symbols should
be clearly written with any kind of Ink and Pen, pro-
vided that we may easily discern unto what Operation
each Sign appertaineth, the which also you can easily do
by means of a properly arranged and drawn up Register
of them. But the greatest part of the Symbols ot the
Third Book I counsel you to make before commencing
the Operation, keeping them until that time in the in-
terior of the Altar. And after that the Spirits shall have
taken Oath thereupon, you shall carefully keep (the
Symbols) in a safe place, where they can neither be seen
nor t(Hiched by any other person, because thus great harm
might befal such person.
Now will we declare unto you what Symbols be
manifested by the Good Angels and what by the Evil,
and unto what Prince each Operation is subject, and
lastly, what should be observed as regardeth each Symbol.
136 The Book of the Sacred Magic
BY WHOM THE SYMBOLS OF THE CHAPTERS OF THE
THIRD BOOK BE MANIFESTED.*
The Symbols of the Chapters of the Third Book,
which be manifested only by the Angels, or by the
Guardian Angel, be these, namely :
—
Chapter I. (To know all manner of things Past and
Future, which be not however directly opposed to God,
and to His Most Holy Will.)
Chapter III. (To cause any Spirit to appear, and
take any form, such as of man, animal, bird, etc.)
Chapter IV. (For divers Visions.)
Chapter V. (How we may retain the Familiar
Spirits bond or free in whatsoever form.)
Chapter VI. (To cause Mines to be pointed out,
and to help forward all kinds of work connected there-
with.)
Chapter VII. (To cause the Spirits to perform with
facility and promptitude all necessary chemical labours
and Operations, as regardeth Metals especially.)
Chapter X. (To hinder any Necromantic or Magical
Operations from taking effect, except those of the Qabalah,
or of this Sacred Magic.)
Chapter XI. (To cause all kinds of Books to be
brought to one, and whether lost or stolen.)
Chapter XVI. (To find and take possession of all
kinds of Treasures, provided that they be not at all
magically guarded.)
Chapter XVIII. (To heal divers Maladies.)
Chapter XXV. (To walk upon, and operate under,
Water.)
Chapter XXVIII. (To have as much gold and
silver as one may wish, both to provide for one's neces-
sities, and to live in opulence.)
* I have thought it advisable to add here the headings of these
chapters at length.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 137
The following (Symbols) be manifested in part by
the Angels and in part by the Evil Spirits, which is why
we must not avail ourselves hereof without the permission
of the Holy Angel. They are those of :
—
Chapter II. (To obtain information concerning, and
to be enlightened upon, all sorts of Propositions, and all
doubtful Sciences.)
Chapter VIII. (To excite Tempests.)
Chapter XII. (To know the Secrets of any person.)
Chapter XIII. (To cause a Dead Body to revive,
and perform all the functions which a Living Person
would do, and this during a space of Seven Years by
means of the Spirits.)
Chapter XIV. (The Twelve Symbols for the Twelve
Hours of the Day and of the Night, to render oneself
Invisible unto every person.)
Chapter XV. (For the Spirits to bring us anything
we may wish to eat or to drink, and even all (kinds of
food) that we can imagine.)
Chapter XVlI. (To fly in the Air, and travel any
whither.)
Chapter XIX. (For every description of Affection
and Love.)
Chapter XX. (To excite every description of Hatred
and Enmity, Discords, Quarrels, Contentions, Combats,
Battles, Loss, and Damage.)
Chapter XXIV. (To discover any Theft that hath
occurred.)
Chapter XXVI. (To open every kind of Lock
without a Key, and without making any noise.)
Chapter XXIX. (To cause Armed Men to appear.)
The following (Symbols) be only manifested by the
Evil Spirits, namely :
—
Chapter IX. (To transform Animals into Men, and
Men into Animals, etc.)
138 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Chapter XXI. (To transform oneself, and take dif-
ferent Faces and Forms.)
Chapter XXII. (This Chapter is only for Evil, for
with the Symbols herein we can cast Spells, and work
every kind of Evil ; we should not avail ourselves hereof.)
Chapter XXIII. (To demolish Buildings and Strong-
holds.)
Chapter XXVII. (To cause Visions to appear.)
Chapter XXX. (To cause Comedies, Operas, and
every kind of Music and Dances to appear.)
UNTO WHAT PRINCE THE OPERATIONS OF EACH CHAPTER
ARE SUBMITTED.*
AsTAROT and Asmodee do together execute the
Symbols and Operations of :
—
Chapter VI. (To cause Mines to be pointed out,
and to help forward all kinds of work connected there-
with.)
Chapter VII. (To cause the Spirits to perform with
facility and promptitude all necessary Chemical labours
and operations, as regardeth Metals especially.)
Chapter IX. (To transform Animals into Men, and
Men into Animals, etc.)
Asmodee and Magot together do execute the Oper-
ations of :
—
Chapter XV. (For the Spirits to bring us anything
we may wish to eat or to drink, and even all (kinds of
food) that we can imagine.)
AsTAROT and Ariton both do execute the following
* Here again I am giving the headings of the Chapters of the
Third Book at length ; as by so doing they form a species of Key to
the character, nature and offices of the Prince who governs their
Operations.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 139
Chapter by their Ministers, yet not together, but each
separately :—
Chapter XVI. (To find and take possession of all
kinds ot Treasures, provided that they be not at all
magically guarded.)
Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and Amaimon will execute
by means of the Ministering Spirits common unto them,
the following, namely :
—
Chapter I. (To know all manner of things Past and
Future, which be not however directly opposed to God,
and to His Most Holy Will.)
Chapter II. (To obtain information concerning, and
to be enlightened upon all sorts of Propositions, and all
doubtful Sciences.)
Chapter III. (To cause any Spirit to appear, and
take any form, such as of Man, Animal, Bird, etc.)
Chapter IV. (For divers Visions.)
Chapters V. (How we may retain the Familiar
Spirits bond or free, in whatsoever form.)
Chapter XIII. (To cause a Dead Body to revive,
and perform all the functions which a Living Person would
do, and this during a space of Seven Years, by means of
the Spirits.)
Chapter XVII. (To fly in the Air, and travel any
whither.)
Chapter XXVII. (To cause Visions to appear.)
Chapter XXIX. (To cause Armed Men to appear.)
Amaimon and Ariton together perform :
—
Chapter XXVI. (To open every kind of Lock
without Key, and without making any noise.)
Oriens alone performeth :
—
Chapter XXVIII. (To have as much Gold and
Silver as one may wish, both to provide for one's neces-
sities, and to live in Opulence.)
140 The Book ok the Sacred Magic
Paimon (alone) performeth :
—
Chapter XXIX. (To cause Armed Men to appear.)
(It is to be noted that this chapter has already been classed
under those performed by Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and
Amaimon, together.)
Ariton performeth :
—
Chapter XXIV. (To discover any Theft that hath
occurred.)
Amaimon (performeth) :
—
Chapter XVIII. (To heal divers Maladies.)
AsTAROT (performeth) :
—
Chapter VIII. (To excite Tempests.)
Chapter XXIII. (To demolish Buildings and Strong-
holds.)
Magot (performeth) : — *
Chapter X. (To hinder any Necromantic or Magical
Operations from taking effect, except those of the Qabalah,
or of this Sacred Magic.)
Chapter XL (To cause all kinds of Books to be
brought to one, and whether lost or stolen.)
Chapter XXI. (To transform oneself, and take dif-
ferent Faces and Forms.)
Chapter XXIV. (To discover any Theft that hath
occurred.)
Chapter XXX. (To cause Comedies, Operas, and
every kind of Music and Dances to appear.)
Asmodee (performeth) :
—
Chapter XII. (To know the Secrets of any person.)
* In addition to the chapters here given, Magoth is said to rule
the operations of Chapter XIV. (InvisibiHty), in the special instruc-
tions of Abraham, the Jew, concerning that chapter.
OF Abra-Meltn the Mage. 141
Belzebud (performeth) :
—
Chapter IX. (To transform Animals into Men, and
Men into Animals, etc.)
Chapter XX. (To excite every description of Hatred
and Enmity, Discords, Quarrels, Contentions, Combats,
Battles, Loss, and Damage.)
Chapter XXII. (This Chapter is only for Evil, for
with the Symbols herein we can cast Spells, and work
every kind of Evil ; we should not avail ourselves hereof.)
The Operations of the following Chapters can also
(to a great extent) be administered by the Familiar Spirits,
namely :
—
Chapter II. (Scientific Information.)
Chapter IV. (Visions.)
Chapter XII. (Secrets of other persons.)
Chapter XVIIl. (Healing of Maladies.)
Chapter XIX. (Affection and Love.)
Chapter XXIII. (Demolishing Buildings.)
Chapter XXIV. (Discovery of Theft.)
Chapter XXVII. (Causing Visions to appear.)
Chapter XXVIII. (Obtaining Money.)
Chapter XXX. (Visions of Operas, Comedies, etc.)
If at the beginning they excuse themselves from the
performance, there is probably some hindering cause, and
in this case you should make use of other Spirits ; but
otherwise they must obey you in and throughout every-
thing that you shall command them.
142 The Book of the Sacred Macic
INSTRUCTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS CONCERNING WHAT
POINTS WE SHOULD PARTICULARLY OBSERVE WITH
REGARD TO EACH CHAPTER OF THE THIRD BOOK,
AND ESPECIALLY CHAPTERS I., II., IV., VI., VII., X.,
XXIII., XXV., XXVII., XXIX., XXX.*
Chapter I. (To know all manner of things Past and
Future, which be not however directly opposed to God,
and to His Most Holy Will.)
First take the Symbol in your hand, place it (upon
the top of your head) under your hat, and either you will
be secretly warned by the Spirit, or he will execute that
which you have the intention of commanding him to do.
(This next instruction is given in the MS. as relating
to Chapter II., but it evidently is more appropriate to :
—
)
Chapter III. (To cause any Spirit to appear, and
take any form, such as of Man, Animal, Bird, etc.)
Take in your hand the Symbol, and name the Spirit,
who will appear in the form commanded.
(The next following information evidently has re-
ference to the Symbols of the Fifth Chapter, but there
is no number subjoined as in the other cases in the
original MS. :
—
)
Chapter V. (How we may retain the Familiar
Spirits bond or free, in whatsoever form.)
We must understand that every man may have Four
Familiar or Domestic Spirits, and no more. These Spirits
can serve you in many ways, and they are granted unto
you by the Sub-Princes.
The First hath his period of power from Sunrise
until Noon.
The Second, from Noon until the Setting of the Sun.
* Notwithstanding^ these Numbers arc here given, it will be
found that the Instructions do not include all these Chapters, and,
on the contrary, give information concerning some of those not here
specially mentioned.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 143
The Third, from the Setting of the Sun until Mid-
night.
And the Fourth, from Midnight even unto the Sun-
rising of the following Day.
He who possesseth them is free to avail himself of
their services under whatever form may be pleasing unto
him.
Of this kind of Spirits there is an infinite number,
who at the time of their fall were condemned to serve
man ; and to each man there be four of them destined ;
and each one is obliged to serve during a period of Six
Hours, and in the case of your giving one over unto some
other person, you can no longer avail yourself of his
services, but in order to replace him during his time of
service, you may call upon some other Spirit. And
should you wish to send away one of the said Spirits
before the Six Hours during which he is on Guard be
expired, it sufficeth for you to make him some sign that
he can go, and at once he will obey. But when the Six
Hours of their Guard be expired, the aforesaid Spirits
will depart of their own accord without demanding your
permission, and the next in rotation will successively take
the place (of his predecessor). But if you have given
one away (unto another person), you will employ one of
the common kind in his place.*
Chapter VIII. (To excite Tempests.)
If you should wish to excite Tempests, give the
Signal above your head (and touch the Symbol on the
top) ; and when you wish to make them cease, you shall
touch it on the underneath side.
Chapter IX. (To transform Animals into Men, and
Men into Animals, etc.)
* It is of course evident that the number Four of the Familiar
Spirits = one for each of the Four Elements of which Man is com-
posed, ruled by the Holy Name of Four Letters, IHYH, Tetragram-
maton.
144 The Rook of the Sacred Magic
Let the being, whether Man or Animal, see the
Symbol, and then touch them suddenly with it, when
they will appear transformed ; but this will be only a
species of Fascination. When you wish to make it cease,
you shall put the Symbol upon the head (of the being)
and strike it with the Wand, and the Spirit will then
restore matters to their former condition.
Chapter XI. (To cause all kinds of Books to be
brought to one, and whether lost or stolen.)
Our predecessors, from the commencement of the
World, have written many and divers excellent Books of
the Qabalah, whose value surpasseth that of all the riches
of the World. These Books have been for the most part
lost by the Providence or Command of God, who hath
not been willing that His High Mysteries should be
made public by such means ; seeing that hereby through
such Books the Worthy and Unworthy can equally arrive
at the enjoyment and possession of the Secret things of
the Lord. Some also have been burned in fires, or swept
away by the Waters, and other similar accidents (have
occurred) through the Evil Spirits, who are jealous of
Man's possessing such great treasures, and of being obliged
to obey him. But this Third Part (of this Book), that is
to say the Sacred Magic, is that which hath not been
entirely lost, but the greater part hath been hidden and
built up within a wall, and this hath happened by order
of the Good Spirits, who have not permitted this Art to
altogether perish, being willing that he who should (desire
the same) should employ honourable means to obtain the
same from the True and only God, and not from that
Perfidious One and Deceiver, the Devil, and his following.
This Operation being completed in the proper
manner, you will be able to see and to read these Books ;
but it is not permitted unto you to copy them, nor to
keep them in your memory more than once. As for
myself, I have made every effort to copy them, but as
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 145
fast as I wrote, the writing used to disappear from the
page ; whence you may conclude that the Lord knowing
our nature, which is inclined unto Evil, doth not wish
that such great Treasures should be employed to serve
unto that end,* and unto the destruction of the Human
Race.
Chapter XII. (To know the Secrets of any person.)
For this Operation it suiTiceth to touch the Symbol,
for at once the Spirit doth whisper the reply in your ear
;
but should you comprehend by such a means anything
vile, whatever it may be, as you love the Grace of the
Lord, see that you keep yourself from making manifest
that which (you have obtained by the use of) the Symbol,
seeing that by so doing you might work harm unto your
neighbour. Every time that you touch the Symbol you
should mention by name the person whose Secrets you
desire to know.
Chapter XIII. (To cause a dead body to revive, and
perform all the functions which a living person would do,
and this during a space of Seven Years, by means of the
Spirits.)
I can in truth both say and affirm that a man who
hath just died is divided into Three Parts, viz. : Body,
Soul, and Spirit. The Body returneth unto the Earth,
the Soul unto God or unto the Devil, and the Spirit hath
its period determined by its Creator, that is to say, the
Sacred Number of Seven Years, during the which it is
permitted to wander hither and thither in any direction ;
at length it taketh its decision, -f-
and goeth straightway
* I.e., the Evil.
f
" Se resout," in the MS. " Resoudre," like our word "resolve,"
also may imply to reduce to its chemical constituents. These three
parts of the person, which Abraham calls Body, Soul, and Spirit, are
designated in the Qabalah by the respective terms of " Nephesch,"
i.e., the animal part ;
" Neschamah," or the Soul, that is to say, the
Higher Aspirations, and " Ruach," i.e., the Mind or Spirit. But
besides these, the Qabalists also recognise certain higher principles,
ID
146 The Book of the Sacred Magic
unto the place whence it came forth (at the beginning).
To change the condition of the Soul is impossible, but
the Grace of the Lord, for many causes and reasons which
it is not here permitted unto me to make manifest, hath
been willing to permit that, with the aid of the Spirits,
we may force the Spirit to return and to conjoin itself
again with the Body, so that for the space of Seven Years
it can operate any matter. And although this Spirit and
the Body joined together can perform all the functions
and exercises which they used to execute when the Body,
the Soul and the Spirit were together, yet is it only an
imperfect Body, being in this case without the Soul.
This Operation is, however, one of the greatest, and
one which we should only perform in extraordinarily im-
portant cases ; seeing that in order to accomplish it the
Chief Spirits have to operate.
Nothing else is necessary than to be attentive to the
moment when the Man is just dead, and then to place
the Symbol upon him towards the Four Quarters of the
World ;* and at once he will lift himself up and begin
to move himself. He should then be dressed ; and a
Symbol similar to that which hath been placed upon him
should be sewn into his garment. Know also that when
the Seven Years be expired, the Spirit which was con-
joined with the Body will at once depart, and that we
cannot further prolong the period of the aforesaid Seven
Years. I made proof of this Operation in the Morea for
the Duke of Saxonia, who had only children who were
minors, and the eldest was between twelve and thirteen
of which Abraham the Jew does not here speak, nor yet of the faculty
of reincarnation of those principles. Reincarnation is a subject much
treated of by the Oriental Sacred writings, and was undoubtedly a
fundamental doctrine of the Ancient Egyptian Magic, from which, be
it well remembered, the Hebrew Qabalah has been derived. The
Esoteric Buddhists divide the personality into Seven Principles, in-
stead of the Three given above.
* I.e., The Four Cardinal Points.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 147
years of age, unrit for the government and management
of his estate, the which his own relatives would have
seized upon and appropriated unto themselves ; and by
this means I provided (against the contingency), and pre-
vented that estate from falling into other hands.
Chapter XIV. (The Twelve Symbols for the Twelve
Hours of the Day and of the Night, to render oneself
Invisible unto every person.)
To render oneself invisible is a very easy matter, but
it is not altogether permissible, because that by such a
means we can annoy our neighbour in his (daily) life, for
we can easily employ the same for producing various
effects, and we can also work an infinitude of evils (here-
with). But, honestly speaking, we must not do the
latter, such being expressly forbidden by God. This is
wherefore I entreat you to avail yourself hereof always
for a good and never for an evil end ! You have in this
Chapter Twelve Symbols, for Twelve different Spirits
submitted unto Prince Magot, who are all of the same
force. You should put the Symbol (upon the top of your
head) under the hat or bonnet, and then you will become
invisible ; while on taking it away, you will appear
visible again.
Chapter XV. (For the Spirits to bring us anything
we may wish to eat or to drink, and even all kinds of
food that we can imagine.)
As for this Symbol, and all like ones appertaining
unto this Chapter, when you shall wish to make use of
them, you shall put them between two plates, dishes, or
jugs, closed together, on the outside of a window, and
before a quarter of an hour shall have passed, you will
find and will have that which you have demanded. But
you must clearly understand that with such kind of
viands you cannot nourish men for more than two days
only ; for this food, although it be appreciable by the
eyes and by the mouth, doth not long nourish the body,
148 The Book of the Sacred Magic
which hath soon hunger again, seeing that this (food)
giveth no strength to the stomach. Know also that none
of these (viands) can remain visible for more than twenty-
four hours, the which period being passed, fresh ones will
be requisite.
Chapter XVI. (To find and take possession of all
kinds of Treasures, provided that they be not at all magi-
cally guarded.)
Should you wish to discover or to take possession of
Treasure, you must select the Symbol which you wish,
whether it be of a common or of a particular Operation,
and the Spirit will at once show it unto you, of what-
soever kind, or after whatsoever fashion, it may be.
Then shall you place the Symbol which is referable unto
it thereon, and it will no longer be possible for it to
disappear into the ground, nor for it to be carried away.
Furthermore, the Spirits destined unto the Guard of this
Treasure will flee, and you can then dispose of it as you
wish, and take it away.
Chapter XVII. (To fly in the Air and travel any-
where.)
Name the place whitherunto you wish to travel, and
place the Symbol upon your head, under the bonnet or
the hat ; but take well heed lest the Symbol fall from
off you through negligence or want of caution. Do not
journey at night-time unless necessity or some pressing
reason thereto compelleth you, but select the day-time,
and that serene and calm.
Chapter XVIII. (To heal divers Maladies.)
Undo the bandages of the sick person, and clean
them, and having applied the unguent and the com-
presses, put them again upon the sick person ; and place
the Symbol upon them,* and leave it thus for about a
quarter of an hour, then take it away and keep it (for
* I.e., the bandages.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 149
use on another occasion). But if it be an internal malady,
you shall place the Symbol upon the bare head of the
patient. These Symbols may be seen and examined
without any danger, howbeit it is always better that
they should neither be seen nor handled by any other
person than yourself.
Chapter XIX. (For every description of Affection
and Love.)
And
Chapter XX. (To excite every description of Hatred
and Enmity, Discords, Quarrels, Contentions, Combats,
Battles, Loss, and Damage.)
On request, and by the intermediary of the Spirits,
we can obtain love, goodwill, and the favour of Princes
and Sovereigns, on this wise : Name aloud the person
or persons by whom you wish to be loved, and move
the Symbol answering to the class under which they
fall ; because if you be operating for yourself in matters
falling under the heads of love, friendship, etc., you
should absolutely name aloud the person, and move
the Symbol. But if you name or operate for two other
persons, whether it be for love or for hatred, you should
expressly name both, and move the Symbols answering
to the classes under which they fall. Also, if it be
possible, you can touch them with the Symbol, whether
it be general or particular. Under this heading are in-
cluded all classes of goodwill, among the which the most
difficult by far is to make yourself beloved by religious
persons. *
Chapter XXL (To transform oneself, and take dif-
ferent Faces and Forms.)
In this Transmutation, which is rather a Fascination,
the method of operating is as follows : Take the Symbol
in your left hand, and with it stroke your face. Now
* In the Original MS., " despersonnes religieuses". This expres-
sion would include monks, nuns, and also people bigoted in religion.
ISO The Book of the Sacred Magic
were it some (ordinary) Necromancer who was trans-
formed by the working of some Diabolical Art, he would
soon be discovered (by you). It is certain, however, that
if he who operateth be instructed in the True and Sacred
Magic, like yourself, that he * could produce no effect
upon you ; because against the Grace of the Lord, by
whomsoever received, no Operation can take effect,
whether for Good or for Evil ; but should such be
Diabolical Operations by express pacts and similar Sor-
ceries, it is certain that you would soon bring them to
shame.
Chapter XXII. (This Chapter is only for Evil, for
with the Symbols herein we can cast Spells, and work
every kind of Evil ; we should not avail ourselves
hereof.)
All these Symbols are to be either buried in the
ground, or placed under doors, steps, or buried under
paths and other places by which people do pass, or
whereon they lean ; in this latter case it is sufficient
merely to touch (such places) with the Symbol. It must
be here remarked that we can work much evil against
our enemies, and if you know for a certain fact that they
are attempting your life, there is no imaginable sin in
availing yourself of (these Symbols for protection). But
should you do this to please some friend, you would not
escape easily with impunity from (the disapproval of)
your Guardian Angel. Use then this Knowledge as a
Sword against your Enemies, but never against your
neighbour, which would be without any result but that
of bringing hurt to yourself.
Chapter XXVI. (To open every kind of Lock,
without Key, and without making any noise.)
Should you wish to open anything locked, such as
ordinary Locks (Bolts), -f-
Padlocks, Coffers, Cupboards,
* I.e., such Evil Magician.
f
" Serrures" which implies bolts as well as locks.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 151
Boxes, and Doors, you shall touch them with the side of
the Symbol which is written upon, and immediately they
will open without any noise, without being in any way
damaged, and without exciting any suspicion of their
having been broken open. When you wish to again
close them, you shall touch them with the back of the
Symbol, that is to say, with the part thereof not written
upon, and at once they will refasten of their own accord.
And in no way should this Operation be employed in
Churches, or for the committing of Murder. Also (re-
member) that this Operation can be used for all manner
of wicked ends ; wherefore we should obtain (permission)
first from our Guardian Angel, so as not to irritate him,
and abuse the Grace of God, which we have received.
Neither should this (Operation) be employed to aid in
the commission of Rapes and Violation of Women ; but
only for (laudable) effects, and other (permissible) ends.
The Child of whose services you avail yourself for
the conclusion of this Operation should not be more than
Seven Years of age ; it should be able to speak clearly,
it should be active, and should comprehend what you
teach it to do, in order to serve you. And fear not that
this Child may be able to reveal and tell unto others any-
thing of what he doeth ; also he will not in the least
remember that which he shall have done, and you can
make trial thereof yourself by interrogating him after the
seven days be past, and you will find that he will be able
to tell you nothing of that which hath passed ; the which
is a very remarkable thing.
When you shall have thoroughly decided to give
this present Operation unto any, and which should only
be given as a free gift, as I have already said ; remember
to make such person give you Seven Florins, the which
you shall distribute unto Seven poor persons with your
own hand, and such poor persons must genuinely be in
want. Them shall you straitly charge, to repeat for
152 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Seven days the Seven penitential Psalms, or the Pater
and Ave seven times a day, praying unto the Lord for
the person who hath given (the florins) unto you to
distribute unto them, that He would deign to come unto
his assistance, and to grant unto him for ever such
strength that he may never transgress His Holy Com-
mandments.
While in the performance of the Operation, be
certain that each person (undertaking the same) is subject
unto very great temptations to prevarication, and in par-
ticular unto great disquietudes of mind, to force the
abandonment of the Operation. For the Mortal Enemy
of Man is grieved that he should make the acquisition of
this Sacred Science, the which also he receiveth from
God Himself, Who hath by this means closed the way
against the Demon, this being the only object and end of
this Sacred Science. For the Enchantments whereof the
Evil Enchanters and Sorcerers make employ, are in no
way wrought by the true method, and they only have
power to execute their end in proportion to the Tributes,
Sacrifices, and Pacts, rendered in return, which latter evi-
dently bring about the loss of the Soul, and very fre-
quently that of the Body as well.
Consider that it is the pride of (the Demon) which
hath chased him out of Heaven, and think what a heart-
breaking thing it is for him to see a Man, made of vile
earth, command him who is a Spirit, and who was created
noble, and an Angel (as well) ; and also that it is neces-
sary that he should submit himself unto Man, and obey
him, not of his own free will, but by force, and by a
power of command which God hath given unto Man, to
whom he is forced to humiliate himself, and to obey, he,
who had the greatest difficulty in submitting himself unto
his Creator. And yet, notwithstanding all this, he is
obliged by his most profound humiliation, and by his
most severe suffering, to submit himself unto Man, for
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 153
whom further is destined that Heaven which he himself
hath lost for an Eternity.
Wherefore you should continue the Operation, and
have recourse unto the Lord, and in no way be troubled,
for you shall vanquish every difficulty, seeing that the
Lord never faileth those who put all their confidence in
Him.
You may only give this Sacred Operation unto two
persons ; and in the case of your giving it unto a third, it
would hold good for him, but you yourself would be for
ever deprived of it. I beseech you in grace to well open
your eyes, and thoroughly examine him unto whom you
shall give so great a Treasure, so that he be not one who
will make use of the same to make a mock of God, which
is a sin so great, that we Jews are a living proof thereof
For since our predecessors began to make use of this
Sacred Magic for Evil, God hath granted it unto so few
among us, that in my whole lifetime, ourselves included,
we be but the number of Seven persons who by the
Grace of God possess the same.
When the Child shall warn you that your Guardian
Angel hath appeared, then shall you, without moving
from your place, repeat in a low voice Psalm CXXXVIL,
which beginneth :
" Confitebor Tibi Domine^ in toto corde meo^'
" I will give thanks unto Thee, O Lord, with mine whole
heart," etc. And, on the contrary, when you shall con-
voke for the first time the Four Chief Spirits, you shall
say Psalm XC. :
" Qui habitat in adjutorio Altissimi^'
" Whoso dwelleth in the defence of the Most High,"
etc.; and this not in a low voice as in the preceding
case, but (aloud) as you usually speak, and standing
where you happen to be.
Chapter XXVIIL (To have as much Gold and
Silver as one may wish, both to provide for one's neces-
sities, and to live in opulence.)
And whereas I have allowed the Twenty-eighth
154 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Chapter to pass without notice, I now refer hereto.
Place the Symbol of the Money you require in your
purse, let it remain there for a short time, then put
your right hand in your purse, and you will there find
Seven pieces of the class of Money which you have
intended to obtain. But take heed to perform this
Operation only thrice in the day. And the pieces of
Money whereof you have no longer need will disappear
at once. This is why when you have need of small
change you should take heed at the same time not to
ask for large pieces. I could have here set down other
values and Symbols, but I have only given those which
I have found the most necessary for a beginner, and partly
also to avoid confusing you. And also it is not right
that I who am only a mortal man should give further
instructions hereon unto you who are about to have an
Angel for Master and for Guide.
We have already said that providing he recogniseth
a God, any Man, of any Religion soever, may arrive at
the possession of this Veritable Wisdom and Magic, if
he employ right and proper ways and means. Now I
say further that unto whatever Law* he who operateth
may pertain, he can observe the feasts, etc., thereof,
provided that they hinder not the Operation, with a
firm and true conviction that he shall have from his
Angel greater lights as to the points wherein he may be
liable to err. Wherefore you shall be ready and willing
to correct your faults, obedient in all things, and on all
occasions, unto his precepts. And you should observe
exactly and inviolably from point to point, everything
touching the regimen of life, the practice, and other
counsels given in this Book.
As we have already said, if by chance some slight
indisposition should overtake you after the commence-
* Le.^ Religious denomination.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 155
ment of the Operation, you shall observe that hereinbefore
laid down ; but should the illness become very much
worse, so that remedies become necessary unto the health
of the body, and that you have to undergo blood-letting ;
then do not harden yourself against the Will of the Lord,
but having made a brief prayer, thank Him for having
visited you in this manner. And having made use of
remedies which oblige you to leave off the Operation
already begun, so as not to become as it were your own
murderer, and notwithstanding that it grieveth you to
the heart to be forced so to do, yet nevertheless conform
yourself unto His Holy Will. And when you shall have
regained your accustomed health, in His own good time
shall you return unto the Operation, feeling sure that He
will grant you His aid. Such a forced desistance doth
not hinder you from awaiting a titting time, when you
may recommence ; seeing that such interruption is not in
any way voluntary, but forced by necessity. Whereas,
had this interruption occurred through pure caprice, you
ought never to think further of (recommencing), because
we must not make a Mock of God.
There be two kinds of sins which are infinitely dis-
pleasing unto God. One is Ingratitude, and the other
Incredulity. I say this cursorily, because the Devil will
not fail to insinuate a thousand ideas into your head (such
as) that this Operation may perhaps be (a real thing) and
perhaps not ; that the symbols are badly drawn, etc., so
as to make you comment upon the subject. This is why
you must have Faith, and that you must believe. Neither
should you dispute concerning that which you understand
not ; remember that God out of nothingness hath created
all things, and that all things have their being in Him ;
watch, work, and you will see.
In the Name of the Most Holy Adonai, the True
and Only God, we have finished this Book in the best
156 The Book of the Sacred Magic
order and with the best instruction which has been
possible to me. Know also that it is only in God that
you will find the sole and certain Way to arrive at the
True Wisdom and Magic, but yet also by following out
that which I have written down in this Book with such
exactitude. Still, however, when you shall have put any-
thing into practice, you shall manifestly know how great
and immeasurable hath been my paternal affection ;
*
and in truth I dare to say that I have done for love of
you what no one in our times hath undertaken, and in
especial in that I have declared unto you the two Symbols,
that of the Child, and your own particular one,-^- without
the which I swear unto you by the True God that out of
an hundred persons who might undertake this Operation,
there would be only two or three who would actually
attain unto it. I have, however, removed most of the
difficulties, (therefore) be now tranquil, and despise not
my counsel.
It need not appear strange unto you that this Book
is not at all like unto so many others which I have, and
which are composed in a lofty and subtle style ; because
I have composed this (work) expressly in order to spare
you so much labour, and to enlighten therein the diffi-
culties which you might (otherwise) have encountered in
order to comprehend its meaning. And so that it might
not be at all necessary for it to pass into other hands (than
your own), in making this Book I have in no way availed
myself of eloquent but peculiar expressions, which those
who write such works usually make use of, and even then
* Here Abraham the Jew is evidently especially addressing him-
self to his son Lamech,
f These two Symbols are probably those which are placed at
the extreme end of the Third Book, i.e., the Magical Squares with the
Names Adam and Uriel returned therein, and of which the Squares
of numbers above are evidently intended for the reverse sides ; Adam
being applied to the Child, and URIEL to the Guardian Angel of
Lamech.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 157
not without mystifications. But I have employed a
certain manner of arrangement, making a mixture of the
subject matter, and dispersing it here and there in the
Chapters so that you may be forced to read and re-read
the Book many times, and also the better so to do, to
transcribe and imprint it in your memory. Render then
your thanks unto the Lord God Almighty, and never
forget my faithful advice, even unto the day of your
death. Thus will the Divine Wisdom and Magic be
your wealth, and never can you find a greater Treasure in
the World. Obey promptly him who teacheth you that
which he hath learned by his own experience ; and I
pray and conjure you by that God Who is my God, to
observe summarily and inviolably the three following
heads which should serve you as guides and limitations
until you shall pass the gulf of this Miserable World :
—
(i) Let God, His Word, all His Commandments,
and the Counsel of your Angel, never depart from your
heart and from your mind !
(2) Be the declared enemy of all the Evil Spirits,
their Vassals, and Adherents, during the whole period of
your life. Dominate them, and regard them as your
Servitors.* If they make propositions to you, demand-
ing from you pacts, or sacrifices, or obedience, or servi-
tude, refuse them with disdain and menaces.
(3) It is more than evident that God can know the
heart of men, the which none else can do. You should
therefore force yourself to test severely for some time him
to whom you intend to give this (knowledge). You
shall closely note his method of life and habits ;
you
* Again let the practical Occultist remember that this counsel
applies principally to Adepts ; for the ordinary man can not com-
mand the Demons, seeing that he has not yet learned to understand
and control even all his thoughts ; and the Adept can only command
such beings through the knowledge of his Higher Self, and of his
Guardian Angel.
158 The Book of the Sacred Magic
shall discuss the subject with him, seeking to discover
in the clearest way and as far as possible, whether he
would use it for Good or for Evil. Also in giving this
Operation you shall fast, eating only once a day, and he
who shall receive it shall do the same ; see also what we
have said in the Third Chapter,* and elsewhere. It is
also true that one who would suffer much in health by
fasting in such a manner, may if absolutely necessary
supplement the same by paying one or several persons
to fast in his stead and to intercede for him.-j- (The
whole object and end of) this should be both to give and
receive this operation unto the Glory of the Great God,
and unto one's own good and that of one's neighbour,
whether friend or enemy, and unto that of all things
created.
The Ten Florins of Gold J shall be distributed
by your own hands when you shall have received the
money, unto Seventy-two poor persons who know the
Psalms, as mentioned in a preceding Chapter ; and see
also that you fail not in this, for it is an essential point.
Furthermore you shall demand from him to whom
you shall give the Operation, some pleasurable gratifica-
tion which is in harmony with the Operation, at your
choice. But see that you demand not money, for for
this you would be deprived entirely of the Holy Wisdom.
Every time that you shall desire to make a fresh
command,§ you shall thrice repeat the Psalm XC, " ^i
habitat in adjutorium Altissimi^'' etc., " Whoso dwelleth in
the aid of the Most High," etc. —because this Psalm
* I.e. of the Second Book.
f I think this system of substitution should be very rarely
practised. He must be a very spiritless person who would be dis-
suaded by the prospect of fasting for a day or two.
\ Before alluded to in several places.
§ This would apparently apply to a command given to the
Demons, and not to an Aspirant for the Sacred Wisdom,
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 159
possesseth so great a virtue that you will be astonished
when you comprehend it.
If you know that you, as a man, have offended your
Creator, in anything regarding the Tables of the Law ;
perform no operation until after having made a general
confession of your sins unto God ; the which you shall
observe unto the day of your death. By thus acting the
Mercy of the Lord will never depart from you.
Unto the which Lord be Praise, and Glory, and
Honour, for the Gifts which He hath granted unto us.
So be it !
THE END OF THE SECOND BOOK.
THE THIRD BOOK
OF THE
SACRED MAGIC,
WHICH GOD GAVE UNTO MOSES, AARON, DAVID, SOLOMON, AND OTHER
SAINTS, PATRIARCHS AND PROPHETS; WHICH TEACHETH
THE TRUE DIVINE WISDOM.
BEQUEATHED BY ABRAHAM UNTO LAMECH HIS SON.
TRANSLATED FROM THE HEBREW.
1458.
II
THE THIRD BOOK.
(THE PROLOGUE.)
g^pj
(^^
E who shall have faithfully observed that
w^hich hath been taught unto him, and
shall have with a good will obeyed the
Commandments of God, let him, I say,
be certain that this Veritable and Loyal
Wisdom shall be accorded unto him ; and also that the
Perfidious Belial can do no otherwise than become his
slave, together with all his Pestiferous Generation.
However I pray the True God who governeth,
ruleth over, and maintaineth all that He hath created ;
that thou, O Lamech, my son, or whomsoever he may
be unto whom thou shalt have granted this Sacred Opera-
tion, mayest work it out, having always before thee the
Fear of God, and in no way use it for Evil, because God
the Eternal hath wished herein to leave us our free will,
but woe unto him who shall abuse His Divine Grace.
Yet I say not but that if an enemy should attempt thy
life, that it is permissible unto thee if necessary to de-
stroy him ; but in any other case lay not thine hand unto
the sword, but use gentler methods. Be kind and affable
unto every one. One may also serve a friend without
harm unto oneself.
David and King Solomon could have destroyed their
enemies in an instant, but they did not so ; in imitation
i64 The Book of the Sacked Magic
of God Himself who chastiseth not unless He is out-
raged.
If thou shalt perfectly observe these rules, all the
following Symbols and an infinitude of others will be
granted unto thee by thy Holy Guardian Angel ; thou
thus living for the Honour and Glory of the True and
only God, for thine own good, and that of thy neighbour.
Let the Fear of God be ever before the eyes and the
heart of him who shall possess this Divine Wisdom and
Sacred Magic.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 165
THE FIRST CHAPTER.
O know all manner of things Past and Future,
which be not however directly opposed to
God, and to His Most Holy Will.
(i) To know all things Past and Future in general.
yl j-To know things appertaining unto the Future.
(4) Things to happen in War.
(5) Things past and forgotten.
(6) Tribulations to come.
(7) Things propitious to come.
(8) Things past regarding Enemies.
(9) To know the Signs of Tempests.
(10) To know the Secrets of War.
(11) To know true and false Friends.
(2)
1 66 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(3) (4)
D
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 167
(9) (10)
R
i68 The Book of the Sacred Magic
NOTES TO THE CHAPTERS OF MAGICAL SYMBOLS,
BY
S. L. MACGREGOR-MATHERS.
The following Notes to these Chapters I have classed under various
heads for greater convenience of reference, thinking that besides
the explanations of most of the Magical Names employed in the
Symbols, it would also be of assistance to the Occult student to be
able to see at a glance briefly stated at the end of each Chapter, the
substance of the information especially referring thereto, given by
Abraham the Jew in other parts of the work, notably towards the end
of the Second Book :
—
Under {a) therefore I have stated by what Powers the Symbols
of each particular Chapter are manifested.
Under {b) the Names of the Sub-Princes of the Evil Spirits who
are the especial overseers of the execution of the effect desired.
Under {c) whether the Operations of the Chapter in question
can be to an extent performed by the " Familiar Spirits," or not.
Under {d) an abridgment of any especial instructions given
by Abraham in other parts of the work.
Under {e) I have given the meanings of most of the Names
employed in the Squares, as far as possible, and also any additional
remarks which seemed necessary.
These Magical Symbols of this Third Book consist solely of
Squares of Letters, which may be roughly divided into four distinct
classes.
(i) Those in which the whole of the Square is occupied by
Letters. In this form the double Acrostic arrangement is especially
marked ; though in some few cases it is slightly varied by the intro-
duction of a different name.
(2) Those in which part of the Square is left vacant, the Letters
being arranged in the form of what is called in Geometry, a Gnomon.
(3) Those in which the central part of the Square is left vacant,
the Letters forming a border round the void part.
(4) Those of more irregular disposition, and in which in some
instances single Letters are placed separately in the vacant part of
the Square.
It will be remarked that in nearly all cases these Names arranged
in the Squares represent generally the effect to be produced, or in
other words are simply the Hebrew or other appellations of the result
to which the Square is to be applied. At the beginning of each
Chapter is placed a numbered list of the effects to be obtained by the
use of each Symbol there given. Then follow the Squares themselves.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 169
In the Original MS. these Squares have been also numbered to
correspond with the list at the beginning of each Chapter, but from
the evident difference in the ink this has been done later, though the
handwriting is the same. I think also that in several cases the
numbers to the Squares have been misplaced ; and though usually
the natural Sequence of i, 2, 3, 4, 5,6 is adhered to, yet occasionally
they are in a more irregular order, as in the 5th Chapter, for ex-
ample, where they run thus :
—3, 4, 5, 6, i, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
The Squares in the Original MS. are all of the same size, sub-
divided according to the exigences of the case, though convenience of
printing has prevented this equality of size being adhered to in the
present work. In most instances the Gnomons and Borders are ruled
off from the vacant part, but this rule is not adhered to in all cases
ill the Original MS. The Letters in the Squares are Roman Capitals.
In some few instances two letters are placed in the same small Square,
or subdivision, of the larger Square.
NOTES TO CHAPTER 1.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested only by the
Angels or by the Guardian Angel.
(d) Oriens, Paymon, Ariton, and Amaymon execute the
Operations hereof by means of their Common Ministers.
(c) The Familiar Spirits cannot well execute the Operations of
this Chapter.
(d) Take the Symbol in your hand, place it under your hat or
cap, upon the top of your head, and you will be secretly answered by
the Spirit who will execute that which you wish. (This mode of
operation will evidently be applicable to many of the Chapters.)
(e) No. I is a Square of 25 Squares, and is a complete specimen
of double Acrostic arrangement. MILON, though Greek-sounding, has
here hardly a meaning if derived from either MiLOS, a fruit or other
tree; or from Meilon, a precious thing, or article of value.—It seems
rather derived from the Hebrew MLVN = a diversity of things,
or matters.—IRAGO is perhaps from Greek EiRA a question, or in-
quiry, and Ago to conduct or decide. Hebrew RGO = to disrupt or
analyse.—LAMAL, probably from Chaldaic MLA = fulness, entirety.
OGARI from Hebrew OGR = a swallow or swiftly-flying thing.
NOLIM from Hebrew, NOLIM = hidden or covered things. Whence
we may extract the following as the formula of this Square :
" Various
questions fully examined and analysed, and that quickly, and even
things carefully hidden and concealed ". This rule we can apply to
discover the formulas of other Squares.
No. 2 is a Square of 49 Squares, and is also a complete Specimen
170 The Book of the Sacred Magic
of double Acrostic—THIRAMA from Chaldee TIRM = strongly-
defended places, or Citadels.—HIGANAM from Hebrew or Chal-
dee GNN orGNM = to defend.—IGOGANA, perhaps from Hebrew
GG = a roof or covering or protection from above.—RAGIGAR, per-
haps from Chaldaic ROO (it must be remembered that, though I here
transliterate the letter Ayin by O, it has really the power of a Gh
as well ;
it is a sound difficult of comprehension by a non-Orientalist)
;
= to break up, or breach.—ANAGOGI probably from Greek ANA-
GOGE = the act of raising or elevating.—MANAGIH from Hebrew
MNO = to restrain ; stop, put a barrier to, or contain by a barrier,
—
AMARIHT from Hebrew AMRTh = Word or Speech.—The whole
idea of this Formula seems to be the making forcible way into a
defended place or matter.
No. 3 is a Square of 25 Squares, and again a perfect form of
double Acrostic. DOREH, from DVR Hebrew = a habitation.
—
ORIRE perhaps from Latin ORIOR = to rise or be born.—RINIR
perhaps from Hebrew NIR = to renew.—ERIRO perhaps from ARR
= to curse.—HEROD from Hebrew ChRD = shaking, trembling.
No. 4 is a Square of 25 Squares, and again a perfect double
Acrostic—NABHI from Hebrew NBA = to prophesy.—ADAIH
perhaps from Heb, DIH. = a bird of omen. BAKAB from Heb.
KAB = in trouble. HIADA from Hebrew IDH = sent forward, or
thrown. IHBAN from IHB Hebrew = to give or bring. Hence the
formula would be somewhat " To prophesy by omens the troubles to
come" ; the which is much more applicable to No. 6, "The Tribula-
tions to come "
; than to No. 4, which is for " The Things to happen in
War ".
No. 5 is a double Acrostic of 49 Squares.—NVDETON from
Hebrew ND = to remove, and AThN = strongly.—VSILARO from
Hebrew BSHL = to ripen, and Chaldaic ARO = the Earth.—DIRE-
MAT from Hebrew DR = to encompass or include, and MT = things
forgotten or slipped aside. ELEMELE from Hebrew ALIM and
ALH = God of the Mighty Ones.—TAMERID from Hebrew
ThMR = straight like a palm-tree, and ID = put forward. —
ORALISV = from Hebrew = ORL = superfluous, and ISh = the
substance.—NOTEDVN, from NTH = to stretch out and DN = to
contend or rule.
No. 6 is a double Acrostic of 36 Squares.—SARABI from
Hebrew ShRP = to burn.—ARAIRP from Hebrew AR = a river,
and RPH = to abate or slacken.-RAKKIA from Hebrew RKK = to
become faint, to become softened.—AIKKAR from Hebrew OKR =
to trouble or disturb.—PRIARA from PRR = to shatter or break up.
—
IPARAS from Hebrew PRS = to break in pieces, to divide, or part
in sunder. This will give a formula of trouble.
No. 7 is a double Acrostic of 36 Squares.—MALACH from
Hebrew MLCh = Salt ; also that which is easily dissolved ; to
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 171
dissolve.—AMANEC from MNK = a chain, or from AMN = sta-
bility.—LANANA from LNN = to lodge, or take up one's abode.
—
ANANAL from AN = labour, and NLH, to complete or finish.
—
CENAMA perhaps from QNM = odoriferous. HCALAM perhaps
from HCL = spacious (as a palace).
No. 8 is a double Acrostic of 25 Squares.—KOSEM, from
Hebrew QSM = to divine or prognosticate.—OBODE, from Hebrew
OBD = a servant—SO FOS from Greek SOPHOS = wise, learned,
skilful.—EDOBO, perhaps from DB = to murmur.—MESOK from
Hebrew MSK = to mingle or intermix.
No. 9 is a double Acrostic of 36 Squares.—ROTHER is per-
haps from RTT, Trembling, Dread ;
and HRR to conceive or bring
forth.—ORORIE from Hebrew OROR = laying bare, disclosing.
—
TOARAH from Hebrew ThVRH = Law, Reason, or Order of—
HARAOT from Hebrew HRH to bring forth, or from ChRTh = To
inscribe or mark down.—REHTOR from RTT and ThVR = reason
for dread.—The whole formula will represent the disclosing of the
reasons for dreading any terrible effect.
No. 10 is another double Acrostic of 64 Squares, and No. 11
one of 49 Squares. I have here given a sufficiently careful analysis
of the meanings of the combinations formed by the letters in the
preceding Squares to give the Reader a general idea of the formulas
involved. To avoid an undue extension of these notes, I shall
not usually analyse every name contained in each Square, but shall
confine myself in most cases to giving sufificient indications of the
meanings of the principal words or words only, which are therein
employed. The Reader must remember also that in such an
Acrostic arrangement of the letters of words, half of those therein
contained will simply be inversions of the principal word or words
therein contained. For example, in No. 1 1, REAHBEM is of course
MEBHAER written backwards.—ELIAILE reads the same way
backwards or forwards, and so does HAOROAH ;
and BIKOSIA
written backwards gives AISOKIB. Yet undoubtedly some of these
words are to an extent translatable also, and in this case will be found
to have a bearing on the subject-matter of the Square. Hebrew
especially is a language in which this method will be found to work
with a readiness unattainable in ordinary European languages, from
the fact that its Alphabet may be said to be entirely Consonantal in
character, even such letters as Aleph, Vau, and Yod, being rather
respectively, a drawing in of the breath than the letter A ; V rather
than U ; and Y rather than I. Also in common with all really ancient
languages the system of Verbal Roots from which all the words of the
language are derived, has this effect, viz., that the majority of com-
binations of two or three letters will be found to be a Verbal Root,
bearing a definite meaning. Besides all this, in the Qabalah each
letter of the Hebrew Alphabet is treated as having a complete sphere
172 The Book of the Sacred Magic
of hieroglyphic meanings of its own ; whence the most important
ancient Hebrew Names and Words can be treated by the Qabalistic
Initiate as in fact so many formulas of Spiritual force. I have been
thus lengthy in explanation in order that the Reader may have some
idea of the reason of the construction and use of these Magic
Squares.
THE SECOND CHAPTER.
1
OF Abra-Melin the Mage.
(3)
173
E
174 TiiK Book of the Sacred Magic
THE THIRD CHAPTER.
O cause any Spirit to appear, and take any
form, such as of Man, Animal, Bird, etc.
(i) It will appear in the form of a Serpent.
(2) To make them appear in the shape of any
Animal.
(3) In Human form.
(4) In the form of a Bird.
(1)
u
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 175
NOTES TO CHAPTER III.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested only by the
Angel or by the Guardian Angel.
(d) Oriens, Paymon, Ariton, and Amaymon execute the
operations hereof by means of their common Ministers.
(c) The Familiar Spirits do not execute the Operations of this
Chapter.
(d) Take the Symbol in the hand, and name the Spirit desired,
who u'ill appear in the form commanded.
(e) It will be noticed at once that of the four Symbols of this
Chapter, the first has the name of the Archangel Uriel, and the three
others those of three of the Chief Princes of the Demons, viz. :
—
Lucifer, Leviathan, and Satan.
No I is an Acrostic of 25 Squares.—URIEL from Hebrew
AURIEL = Light of God.—RAMIE from Hebrew RMIH = De-
ceit. IMIMI is either from IMM = the Sea, or great waters, or from
IMIM = Mules.—EIMAR is probably from AMR or IMR = To
speak.—LEIRU is the reverse of URIEL, i.e., Uriel written back-
wards.—This formula seems to show that the Symbol should be
numbered 2 instead of i.
No. 2 is an Acrostic of 49 Squares.—LUCIFER from Lucifer
(Latin) = Light bearer. This Square should probably be numbered 3.
No. 3 is an Acrostic of 64 Squares.—LEV^IATAN from
Hebrew, = the piercing or twisting Serpent. This Square should
probably be numbered i.
No. 4 is an Acrostic of 25 Squares.—SATAN from Hebrew
ShTxN = an Adversary.—ADAMA from Hebrew ADMH = reddish
earth.
THE FOURTH CHAPTER.
OR divers Visions.
( 1
) For Mirrors of Glass and Crystal.
(2) In Caverns and Subterranean Places.
(3) In the Air.
(4) In Rings and Circlets.
(5) In Wax.
(6) In Fire.
(7) In the Moon.
(8) In the Water.
(9) In the Hand.
176 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(1)
G
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 177
(7) (8)
G
178 The Book of the Sacred Magic
SEPPED Hebrew SPD = He struck.—RES DEB = perhaps Heb-
rew, RSh DB head or chief point of a discourse.
No. 5 is a Square of 25 Squares.—NEGOT = perhaps Heb.
NHG, He leads.—ERASO = probably Greek, sec. pers. sing, from
Eromai for EiROMAl, to demand or interrogate. GARAG =
perhaps from Heb. GRO, to diminish. OMARE = perhaps Greek,
an Assembly or Synthesis.—TOGEN = perhaps from Greek TOGE
= Why or Wherefore when used in an adverbial sense.
No. 6 is a Square of 16 Squares.—NASI = Hebrew NSI = My
Banner or Symbol.—APIS = the Egyptian sacred bull. SIPA = per-
haps from SPH = Hebrew to consume.—I SAN = perhaps from Heb.
IShN = To sleep.
No. 7 is a Square of 25 Squares.—GOHEN should perhaps be
COHEN = a Jewish priest.—ORARE, Latin = to pray.—HASAH,
Heb. HSH = to keep silence. ERARO perhaps from Heb. ARR
= to curse. NEHOG = perhaps Heb. NHG = to lead.
No. 8 is a Gnomonic Square of 9 Squares out of 25 Squares.
—
ADMON = perhaps from Heb. DM0 = Tears but also Liquids or
fluids.
No. 9 is a Gnomonic Square of 9 Squares out of 25 Squares.
—
LELEH = Hebrew LILH = Night, Darkness.
THE FIFTH CHAPTER.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage.
(3)
179
I
i8o The Book of the Sacred Mac;ic
(7)
(8)
P 1
E
1
OF Ahra-Melin the Mage. i8i
NOTES TO CHAPTER V
{a) The Sj-mbols of this Chapter are manifested only by the
Angels or by the Guardian Angel.
{d) Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and Amaymon execute the
Operations hereof by means of their Common Ministers.
(c) The Familiar Spirits can hardly be said so much of them-
selves to be able to execute the Operations of this Chapter, as under
the rule of the aforementioned Spirits.
(d) Each person can have four Familiar Spirits and no more :
the first working from Sunrise to Midday ; the second from Midday
till Sunset ; the third from Sunset to Midnight ; and the fourth from
Midnight till Sunrise. Such Spirits may also be loaned to friends, in
which case you can avail yourself of another ordinary Spirit in place.
(e) The Square numbered i is not however placed first in Order
in the MS., but fifth. It is a Gnomon of ii Squares taken from a
Square of 36 Squares. ANAKIM = Hebrew ONQIM = Giants ; the
root ONQ also = a necklace or torque. This word " Anakim " hardly
appears to have any reference to the form of a lion. —No, 2 is a
Gnomon of 1 1 Squares again, taken from a Square of 36 Squares,
and is in the MS. placed .sixth in order. —CEPHIR in Hebrew means
KPIR a young Lion ; and this Square should probably therefore be
numbered i. —No. 3 is a Gnomon of 13 Squares taken from a Square
of 49 Squares ; and in the MS. occupies the first place in order.
OIKETIS, Greek, means a maid-servant or feminine page. This
Square therefore should probably be numbered 2. —No. 4 is a Gnomon
of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25 Squares. PARAS = Hebrew
PRSh, a horse, or horseman, while PRS = an ossifrage, a bird of the
hawk or eagle kind. This Square is apparently correctly numbered,
though in the MS. it is in the second place. —No. 5 is a Gnomon
of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25 Squares. RACAH is appar-
ently from the Hebrew RQH meaning vain, empty; and does not
seem to have any particular reference to any of the forms mentioned
for the Symbols.—No. 6 is again a Gnomon of 9 Squares, taken from
a Square of 25 Squares. It is placed fourth in order in the MS.
—
CUSIS may be from the dative plural of the Greek word KUON =
a dog, but in Hebrew it would mean numbering, computing. —No.
7 is a border of 24 Squares taken from a Square of 49 Squares.
PERACHI, perhaps from PRK, Savagery. DB is a Bear in Hebrew.
—No. 8 is a Square of 25 Squares. RISIR, perhaps from Latin
" RiSOR," a mocker or jester. ISERI, perhaps from Hebrew or
Chaldaic Root, ISR, to punish or whip. SEKES, perhaps from
SChSh = reborn by hope.—No. 9 is again a Square of 25 Squares.
NESER = Hebrew, NShR, an Eagle ; which .seems to shew that this
Square should be numbered 5. ELEHE is probably ALHI, Hebrew
= My God. SEPES ? ShPS = the hair on the lip, the moustache.
1 82 The Book of the Sacred Magic
RESEN = RSN Heb., = a bridle, or bit. —No. lo is a Gnomon of ii
Squares taken from a Square of ^6 Squares. PETHEN = Hebrew,
PThN, an Asp or venomous Serpent, whence this Square should prob-
ably be numbered ii. —No. 1 1 is a Square of 25 Squares. KALEF,
= KLP, Hebrew, a hammer. ARARE from Hebrew ARR to curse,
cursed. LAMAL perhaps means "in speaking" from MLL, Hebrew,
to speak.—No. 12 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square
of 25 Squares. KOBHA = perhaps Hebrew KBH = to extinguish.
THE SIXTH CHAPTER.
O cause Mines to be pointed out, and to help
forward all kinds of work connected there-
with.
(i) To prevent Caves from falling in.
(2) To shew a Gold Mine.
(3) To cause work to be done in Mines.
(4) To make work done in inaccessible places.
(5) To make them tunnel Mountains.
(6) To cause all water to be withdrawn from
the Mines.
(7) To make the Spirits bring Timber.
(8) To make them found and purge Metals
and separate Gold and Silver.
(2)
(1)
T
E
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 183
(3)
(4)
c
1 84 The Book of the Sacred Magic
NOTES TO CHAPTER VI.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested only by the
Angels or by the Guardian Angel.
(d) ASTAROTH and AsMODEUS execute together the Operations
of this Chapter.
(c) The Familiar Spirits cannot well execute the Operations of
this Chapter.
(d) No especial iwstructions are given regarding this Chapter
in the Second Book.
(e) No. I is a border of 20 Squares taken from a Square of 36
Squares.—TELAAH = perhaps from ThVLOH, = a Worm which
pierces holes in the ground.
No. 2 is a border of 32 Squares taken from a Square of 81
Squares. —ALCABRUSI may mean " supported by planks or props,
or beams ". If so, probably this Square should be numbered i.
No. 3 is a border of 20 Squares taken from a Square of 36
Squares. CADSAR perhaps from QTzR = to shorten or abbreviate
a matter or work.
No. 4 is a Square of 49 Squares. PELAGIM, Hebrew PLGIM
= Divisions, strata, etc.
No. 5 is a Square of 36 Squares. KILOIN = Hebrew QLOIM,
Excavations.
No. 6 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares. NAKAB = Hebrew, NQB = Piercing. Perforation.
No. 7 is a Square of 36 Squares. KITTIK may mean = "To
arrange in a store-place ". TINNAT recalls a name used on some of
the Gnostic Magical Gems. TANNIT is the name of a Tyrian
goddess.
No. 8 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares out of a Square of 25 Squares.
MARAK, from Hebrew MRQ = To cleanse, purge, or refine.
THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.
O cause the Spirits to perform with facility and
promptitude all necessary Chemical labours
and Operations, as regardeth Metals es-
pecially.
(i) To make all Metals.
(2) To make them perform the Operations.
(3) To make them teach Chemistry.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. i8s
(1) (2)
M
1 86 The Book of the Sacred Magic
No. 3 is a Square of 49 Squares.— I POMANO, probably from
Greek HiPrOMANES, an ingredient used in philtres, etc., perhaps put
here for chemical drugs in general.
THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.
O excite Tempests.
(i) To cause Hail.
(2) To cause Snow.
(3) To cause Rain.
(4) To cause Thunder.
(1)
c
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 187
NOTES TO CHAPTER VIII.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested partly b)' the
Angels and partly by the Evil Spirits,
(d) ASHTAROTH executes the Operations of this Chapter.
(c) The Familiar Spirits cannot execute the Operations of this
Chapter.
(d) To excite a Tempest, give the Signal above you, and touch
the Symbol on the top. To make it cease, touch it underneath.
(e) No. I is a Square of 49 Squares. CANAMAL = Hebrew
ChNML, i.e., Hailstones of great size.
No. 2 is a border of 16 taken from a Square of 25 Squares
TAKAT, TKO, Hebrew, has the sense of " immersed in, overflowed
by".
3. A Gnomon of 1 1 Squares taken from a Square of 36
SAGRIR, Hebrew SGRIR = "a most vehement rain and
No.
Squares,
tempest ",
No. 4. A Square of 25 Squares. HAMAG, perhaps from
Hebrew, MOK, " to compress, or crush, or press".
THE NINTH CHAPTER.
O transform Animals into Men, and Men into
Animals ; etc.
(i) To transform Men into Asses.
(2) Into Stags or Deer.
(3) Into Elephants.
(4) Into Wild Boars.
(5) Into Dogs.
(6) Into Wolves.
(7) Animals into Stones.
i88 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(1) (2)
1
E
OF Abra-Melix the Mage.
(7)
189
I
190 The Book of the Sacred Magic
tusk of an Elephant ". But ChZR = a wild boar, whence this Square
should perhaps be numbered 4.
No. 4 consists of 24 Squares taken from a Square of 49 Squares ;
two letters SI are allotted to one Square. BEDASEK is perhaps from
BD, a limb, and SK, covered or protected, as with a strong skin. It
may thus stand for the Elephant as having powerful and thick-
skinned limbs. If so, this Square should be numbered 3.
No. 5 is a Square of 49 Squares. KALTEPH. The Hebrew
word for Dog is KLB. This Square it will be noted is not a perfect
Acrostic.
No. 6 is a Square of 64 Squares.—DISEEBEH is probably
from ZABH = a wolf. —This Square also is not at all perfect as an
Acrostic.
No. 7 is a Square of 144 Squares.—ISICH ADAM ION, prob-
ably from DMIVN = Similitude of; and SIG, Scoria or Lava, or
SQ, stone ; root of SQL, to stone.
THE TENTH CHAPTER.
O hinder any Necromantic or Magical Opera-
tions from taking effect, except those of the
Qabalah and of this Sacred Magic.
(i) To undo any Magic soever.
(2) To heal the bewitched.
(3) To make Magical Storms cease.
(4) To discover any Magic.
(5) To hinder Sorcerers from Operating.
(1)
c
OF Abra-Melin the Mage.
(3)
191
p
192 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(e) No. I consists of 17 Squares containing 18 letters (LI of
"Codselim" occupying i Square) taken from a Square of 49 Squares.
—CODSELIM and COHABIM may be from KSILIM, the foolish
ones, and KABIM, the mourning ones (Hebrew).
No. 2. A border of 20 Squares taken from a Square of 36
Squares.—LACHAT, perhaps from Hebrew LChSh = to enchant.
No. 3. A Square of 81 Squares.—PARADILON, probably
from Greek PARA, against, and DEILON, perverse, or miserable,
or unfortunate.
No. 4. A Square of 25 Squares.—HORAH, from Hebrew
ChRH, To be enraged ; or HRH. to conceive, or bring forth.
No. 5. A Square of 49 Squares.—MACANEH from Hebrew
MChNH, = a fortification, castle, or defence. MADASUL, from
MATzL, = about me, before me, at my side.
THE ELEVENTH CHAPTER.
O cause all kinds of Books to be brought to
one, and whether lost or stolen.
(i) For Books of Astrology.
(2) For Books of Magic.
(3) For Books of Chemistry.
(2)
(1)
C [
OF Abra-Melin the Mage.
(3)
193
K
194 The Rook of the Sacred Magic
THE TWELFTH CHAPTER.
O know the Secrets of any person.
(i) To know the Secret of Letters.
(2) To know the Secret of Words.
(3) To know Secret Operations.
(4) For the Military Counsels of a Captain.
(5) To know the Secrets of Love.
(6) To know what riches a person possesseth.
(7) To know the Secret of all Arts.
0)
M
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 195
(5)
c
E
196 The Book or the Sacred Magic
No. 3 consists of a Gnomon of 13 from a Square of 49 Squares.
—MAABHAD, from Hebrew MOBD = a deed or act.
No. 4 consists of 29 Squares from a Square of 81 Squares.
MILCH AMAH, from Hebrew MLCilMH = War.—ADH^ACHI
from DRK (Hebrew) = Way, Plan, Idea.—ELIM (Heb.) = Mighty
Ones.
No. 5 consists of 25 taken from a Square of 49 Squares.
CEDIDAH is either from KDID = a Spark, or from DID, the root
of the words ; love, delights, breasts.—DERARID from Hebrew
DRR - liberty.— HADIDEC from DDIK = thy loves or delights.
No. 6 consists of 16 from a Square of 36 Squares.—ASAMIN
from Hebrew ASMIM = treasure houses, garners.
—
MAF IDEper/iaps
from FID = oppression, misfortune.
No. 7. A Gnomon of 13 from a Square of 49 Squares.
—
MELABAH from MLABH - Art or Science.
THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER.
O cause a Dead Body to revive, and perform
all the functions which a living person
would do, and this during a space of Seven
Years, by means of the Spirits.
(i) From the Rising of the Sun until Mid-Day.
(2) From Mid-Day until the Setting of the Sun.
(3) From the Setting of the Sun until Mid-Night.
(4) From Mid-Night until the Rising of the Sun.
(1)
E Z
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 197
(3) (4)
I
198 The Book of the Sacred Magic
THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.
HE Twelve Symbols for the Twelve Hours
of the Day and of the Night, to render
oneself Invisible unto every person.
(1) (2)
A
OF Aura-Melin the Mage. 199
(6)
(5)
c
200 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(12)
(11)
T
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 201
No. 7 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares.—CEHAH = Restriction, and compression.
No. 8 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares.—ANANA is a word expressing earnest desire for some
then defect to be supplied.
No. 9 consists of 19 taken from a Square of 25 Squares.
—
TAMAN = "to hide or conceal," and recalls the Biblical name of
" Teman ". NEDAC means " accumulated darkness ".
No. 10 is a Gnomon of 13 Squares from a Square of 49 Squares.
—BEROMIN signifies " coverings or shrouds of concealment ".
No. 1 1 is a border of 16 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
—TALAC = signifies " thy mists ".
No. 12 consists of 16 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares.—ALAMPIS is the Greek adjective ALAMPES, meaning
"without the light of the Sun". ISIL is Hebrew and means "he
will dissolve ".
It will be remarked that all these names distinctly express some
idea relating to Invisibility.
THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.
OR the Spirits to bring us anything we may
wish to eat or to drink, and even all (kinds
of food) that we can imagine.
(i) For them to bring us Bread.
(2) Meat.
(3) Wine of all kinds.
(4) Fish.
(5) Cheese.
(1)
N
(2)
N B
202 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(3)
(4)
L
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 203
but you must clearly understand that with such kinds of viands you
cannot nourish men for more than two days. For this food although
it be appreciable by the eyes, and by the mouth, doth not long
nourish the body, which hath soon hunger again, seeing that this
food gives no strength to the stomach. Know also that none of
these viands can remain visible for more than 24 hours, the which
period being passed, fresh ones will be requisite.
(e) This Chapter naturally brings to one's mind the descriptions
of the Magic feasts in the " Arabian Nights " and elsew^here.
No. I is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares, lAIIN means "Let there be wine". Evidently therefore
this Square should be numbered 3, instead of i.
No. 2 consists of 10 Squares taken from a Square of 25 Squares.
BASAR means " flesh ".
No, 3 consists of 21 Squares in the form of the Roman Capital
Letter E, taken from a Square of ^6 Squares. —LECH EM means
"bread," CNOHAH implies "corn," and MECHEL means "a
cake". Therefore this should evidently be numbered i, instead of
3. MECHEL also means " a window ".
No. 4 is a Square of 25 Squares.—DACAD should be spelt
with a G instead of a C ; the meaning is " bring forth fish". CAMAC
means "meal, or flour". AFARA may be from the Greek adverb
Aphar = " straightway or forthwith "
; but if taken as a Hebrew
root may mean " bring forth fruit ",
No. 5 is a Gnomon of 15 Squares and 3 other supplementary
ones taken from a Square of 64 SqOares. LEBHINAH is from
LBA = "milk," and INH " to squeeze".
THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.
O find and take possession of all kinds of
Treasures, provided that they be not at all
(Magically) guarded.
(i) For Treasure of Silver (or Silver Money).
(2) For Gold Money.
(3) For a great Treasure,
(4) For a small Treasure,
(5) For an unguarded Treasure.
(6) For Copper Money.
(7) For Gold in Ingots.
(8) For Silver in Ingots.
(9) For Jewels.
204 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(lO) For Ancient Medals (and Coins).
(ii) For a Treasure hidden by a particular Person.
(12) For Pearls.
(13) For Diamonds.
(14) For Rubies.
(15) For Balassius Rubies.
(16) For Emeralds.
(17) For worked Gold.
(18) For Silver Plate.
(19) For Statues.
(20) For Specimens of Ancient Art.
(1)
T
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 205
(5)
M
2o6 Thk Book of the Sacred Magic
(11)
(12)
K
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 207
(17)
K
N
E
2o8 The Book of the Sacred Magic
No. 2 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of
25 Squares. CESEP means " Silver ". This Square should therefore
probably be numbered i, or 8, or 18.
No. 3 consists of 24 Squares from a Square of 49 Squares.
SEGILAH means "Treasure".
No. 4 consists of 10 Squares from a Square of 25.—NECOT
means probably stamped money.
No. 5 is a Square of 25 Squares. MAGOT is the name of one
of the Sub-Princes.
No. 6 is a Gnomon of 10 from a Square of 16 Squares. AGIL
may mean " a heap," but also " a globular drop of dew ".
No. 7 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of
25 Squares. COSEN perhaps means "a golden cup".
No. 8 is a Gnomon also of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares.—OTSAR means " restraint ".
No. 9 is a Square of 36 Squares. BELIAL is the name of one
of the four great chiefs of the Evil Spirits.
No. 10 is a Square of 25 Squares.—ORION, the celebrated
mythological name of the Greek hunter, and of the constellation, is
perhaps used here as the name of a Spirit.
No. 1 1 is a border of 10 Squares taken from a Square of
25 Squares.—KERMA means either ''
a cutting off" or else " a super-
inducing ".
No. 12 is a Square of 16 Squares.
No. 13 is a Square of 49 Squares.—BICELON is perhaps from
IHLM = Diamonds. The root IChL means " abiding strength and
hardness ".
No. 14 is a border of 12 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
SEGOR means respectively " to break forth " and " to shut in,"
according as the root begins with S or Sh.
No. 15 consists of 20 Squares from a Square of 49.
No. 16 is a Square of 49 Squares. ASTAROT is one of the 8
Sub-Princes of the Evil Spirits.
No. 17 consists of 10 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
KONEH means " possessions ".
No. 18 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of
25 Squares. CAHIL means " gathered together".
No. 19 is a Square of 36 Squares. ARITON is one of the 8
Sub-Princes of the Evil Spirits.
No. 20 is a Square of 3<^ Squares. ORIMEL is evidently here
used as the name of a Spirit. OIRIN is a Chaldaic word meaning
Angelic Watchers over the Kingdoms of the Earth. ORION may
also come from this word.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 209
THE SEVENTEENTH CHAPTER.
O fly in the Air and travel any whither.
(i) In a black Cloud.
(2) In a white Cloud.
(3) In the form of an Eagle.
(5)*In the form of a Crow (or Raven).
(4) In the form of a Vulture.
(6) In the form of a Crane.
(1)
T
210 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(5) (6)
R
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 21 I
THE EIGHTEENTH CHAPTER.
O heal divers Maladies.
(i) To heal Leprosy.
(2) For chapped hands, etc,
(3) For old Ulcers.
(4) For pestilential diseases.
(5) For inveterate Paralysis.
(6) For Malignant Fevers.
(7) For bodily pains.
(8) For Sea Sickness.
(9) For Vertigo and Giddiness).
(10) For the " Miserere " * (a most violent and
dangerous kind of colic), accompanied by dread-
ful vomiting.
(11) For Dropsy.
(12) For all kinds of Wounds.
(1)
T
212 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(3)
M
OF Abra-Melin the Mage.
(9) (10)
213
K
214 The Book of the Sacred Magic
These Symbols may be seen and examined, without any danger, yet
it is always better that they should neither be seen nor handled by
any other person than yourself.
(e) No. I consists of 20 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares.—TSARAAT = " a stroke or plague ;
the leprosy ".
No. 2 consists of 4 Squares from a Square of 16. —BUAH
signifies to clear away.
No. 3, a Square of 64 Squares.—METSORAH signifies "flow-
ing sores or ulcers ".
No. 4 is a Square of 36 Squares. —RECHEM means "closely
seizing ".
No. 5 is a Square of 25 Squares.— ROKEA signifies general
evil.
No. 6 is a Square of 25 Squares.—BETEM = " the internal
parts ".
No. 7 is a Square of 36 Squares.—BEBHER = " in purifying
or cleansing ".
No. 8 is a Square of 25 Squares. —ELEOS, the Greek word
HALS = " the Sea from its saltness ". —ELOS means " calm still
water ".
No. 9 is a Square of 49 Squares. —KADAKAT means " ver-
tigo, turning of the head ".
No. 10 is a Square of 49 Squares.—ROGAMOS from Latin
Rogamus, "we pray".
No. II is a Square of 25 Squares.—SITUR means " secret".
No. 12 is a Square of 36 Squares.—HAPPIR means "to shatter
or break ".
THE NINETEENTH CHAPTER.
OR every description of Affection and Love.
(i) To be beloved by one's Wife (or Husband).
(2) For some especial Love.
(3) To be beloved by a Relation.
(4) For a Maiden in particular.
(5) To acquire the affection of a Judge.
(6) To make oneself beloved by a Married person.
(7) To make oneself beloved by a Widow.
(8) By a girl already promised in Marriage.
(9) By a Maiden in general.
(10) By some especial Prince,
(11) By some especial King.
OK Abka-Melin the Mage. 215
(12) To obtain the friendship of some particular
person.
(13) To have that of a Great Man.
(14) To be beloved by a Woman.
(15) To make oneself beloved by Ecclesiastics.
(16) To make oneself beloved by a Master.
(17) To make oneself beloved by a Mistress.
(18) To make oneself beloved by Infidels.
(19) By the Pope, by an Emperor,* or by Kings.
(20) For Adulteries in general.
D
O
D
I
M
(i;
O D I M
(2)
R
2l6 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(5)
(6)
A
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 217
(12)
(H)
A
2l8 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(18)
(17)
E
F
E
H
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 219
are included all classes of good-will and affection, among the which
Abraham says that the most difficult thing is to make oneself or
others beloved by religious persons.
{e) No. I is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of 25.
DODIM means "loves, pleasures".
No. 2 consists of 17 Squares arranged like a capital letter
E taken from a Square of 25 Squares. RAIAH means "a female
companion ".
No. 3 consists of 13 Squares taken from a Square of 25 Squares.
MODAH = " Adorned as for a bridal".
No. 4 consists of 25 Squares from a Square of 49.
No. 5 consists of 29 Squares taken from 49. ALMANAH = "A
virgin "
; hence evidently this should be numbered 4 and not 5, while
probably No. 4 should be here placed.
No. 6 consists of 26 Squares taken from a Square of 36 Squares.
CALLAH means " a married woman, but especially a bride".
No. 7. A Gnomon of 7 from a Square of 16. ELEM means
*'
a widow ".
No. 8. A Square of 25 Squares. NAQID = " Remote off-
spring ".
No. 9. This has a strong likeness to the well-known SATOR,
AREPO, TENET, OPERA, ROTAS. It is a Square of 25 Squares.
SALOM = "Peace". AREPO = "he distils". LEMEL = "unto
fulness ". OPERA, " upon the dry ground ". MOLAS = " in quick
motion," or perhaps better " stirring it up into quickness, i.e., life".
The former sentence is capable of a rather free Latin translation,
thus :
—
SATOR = The Creator.
AREPO = Slow-moving.
TENET = Maintains.
OPERA = his creations.
ROTAS = As vortices.
No. 10 is a Square of 25 Squares. DEBAM signifies "influen-
tial persons ".
No. II. 8 Squares from a Square of 16. AHHB signifies " to
love ". BEAR signifies in Hebrew "to waste or consume".
No. 12. A Square of 36 Squares. lALDAH signifies " a
girl ".
No. 13 consists of 19 Squares arranged like the capital letter F,
and taken from a Square of 49 Squares. BETULAH = a virgin.
No. 14 consists of 25 Squares from a Square of 49. lEDIDAH
is from a Hebrew Root, signifying objects of Love. DILOQAH
means " to eagerly pursue, or to burn as with a fever ". DOQAR-
CA = "pierced".
No. 15. 12 Squares from a Square of 25. SAQAL means
"a wise person ".
No. 16. A Square of 36 Squares. QEBHIR = " a protector".
220 The Book of the Sacred Magic
No. 17. 14 Squares from a Square of 25. EFEHA means
" passionate ".
No. 18. A Gnomon of 11 from a Square of 36. TAAFAH =•
" to join together, to connect ".
No. 19 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares from one of 25 Squares.
SARAH means "powerful, high in authority".
No. 20 is also a Gnomon of 9 Squares from a Square of 25
Squares. CATAN = " to adhere closely ".
THE TWENTIETH CHAPTER.
O excite every Description of Hatred and
Enmity, Discords, Quarrels, Contentions,
Combats, Battles, Loss, and Damage.
(i) To excite Quarrels and Fights.
(2) For Enmity in general.
(3) For Enmities of Kings and of the Great.
(4) For particular Enmities.
(5) For Enmities among Women.
(6) To cause a General War.
(7) To render any one unfortunate in Combat.
(8) To put Discord in an Army.
(9) For a particular Discord.
(10) To sow Discord among Ecclesiastics.
(11) For every description of Vengeance.
(12) To cause Battles, Losses, etc.
0)
(2)
K
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 221
(4)
(3)
R
222 The Book of the Sacked Magic
(9) (10)
G
I
B
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 223
No. 4 consists of 25 Squares from a Square of 49.—ATLITIS
is a corruption of the Greek adjective ATLETOS = " insufferable,
not to be borne ".
No. 5 consists of 19 Squares from a Square of 49.—OTSAMAH
= " bodily strength ".
No. 6 consists of 21 from a Square of 25.—SINAH=" Hatred ".
No. 7 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares from a Square of 25. SATAN
is the Name of one of the Chief Evil Spirits and has been elsewhere
explained.
No. 8 consists of 19 Squares in the form of a capital F, taken
from a Square of 49 Squares.—LOFITOS is evidently from the
Greek LOPHESIS, meaning "rest, cessation from action {i.e. in this
case military action) ".
No. 9 consists of 13 Squares arranged in the form of an F, and
taken from a Square of 25 Squares.—GIBOR = " strength, might,
severity ".
No. 10 is a Square of 25 Squares.—NOKAM = " vengeance ".
No. II is also a Square of 25 Squares.—KELIM = "for all
kinds of things ".
No. 12 consists of 25 Squares from a Square of 49. —KERABAH
= " assault, attack ".
THE TWENTY-FIRST CHAPTER.
O transform oneself, and take different Faces
and Forms.
(i) To appear old.
(2) To take on the appearance of an Old Woman.
(3) To appear young.
(4) To transform oneself into a Girl.
(5) To appear like a young Child.
224 The Rook of thk Sacred Magic
(2)
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 225
NOTES TO CHAPTER XXI.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested only by the
Evil Spirits.
(d) Magot performs the Operations hereof.
(c) The Familiar Spirits cannot well execute the Operations of
this Chapter.
(d) This is rather a fascination than anything else. Take the
Symbol desired in your left hand and stroke the face therewith.
Abraham further observes that such an Operation performed by an
ordinary Magician would be easily seen through by the possessor of
the Sacred Magic ; while on the contrary this latter would be safe
from detection by ordinary Sorcerers.
(<?) The Student will note in these Squares the marked position
of the Letter Q, as in many other cases where the effect aimed at
seems to be rather a deception of the senses of others.
No. I consists of 16 Squares from a Square of 25. ZAKEN
means " old ".
No. 2 is a Gnomon of 16 Squares with the Letter Q added ;
from a Square of 72 Squares.—DISKENAH = "in the likeness of
an old woman ". It is to be remarked that this Square is rather
oblong, 8 Squares long by 9 deep.
No. 3 consists of 20 Squares from a Square of 49. —DISAKAN
means " to cover up or hide," but were it DISAKAR it would mean
" as one young".
No. 4 consists of 10 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
—
lONEK means " thy dove ".
No. 5 consists of 16 Squares from a Square of 25.—BACUR =
" a firstborn ".
THE TWENTY-SECOND CHAPTER.
HIS Chapter is only for Evil, for with the
Symbols herein we can cast Spells, and
work every kind of Evil ; we should not
avail ourselves hereof.
(i) To cast Spells upon Men.
(2) To bewitch Beasts.
(3) To cast a Spell upon the Liver.
(4) This Symbol should never be made use of.
(5) To cast a Spell upon the Heart.
(6) Upon the Head and other parts of the Body.
15
2 26 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(1) (2)
Q
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 227
NOTES TO CHAPTER XXII.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested only by the
Evil Spirits.
(d) Belzebud performs the Operations hereof
(c) The Familiar Spirits cannot well execute the Operations of
this Chapter.
(d) Abraham warns strongly against use being made of this
Operation. The Symbols should be either buried or concealed in
places where the persons we wish to harm are likely to pass by ; or,
if possible, we can touch them with the Symbol.
(e) No. I consists of 17 from a Square of 49 Squares. QELA-
DIM means " those who creep in insidiously ".
No. 2 consists of 19 Squares from a Square of 49 Squares.
BEHEMOT = "Beasts".
No. 3 consists of 18 Squares from a Square of 49. MEBA-
SIM = " those that stamp down violently".
No. 4 is a Square of 25 Squares.
CASED, Hebrew (if used in a bad sense) = " overflowing of
unrestrained lust ".
AZOTE, Hebrew = "enduring".
BOROS, = Greek = " Devouring, gluttonous ".
ETOSA, = Greek = "idle, useless".
DEBAC, = Hebrew = "to overtake and stick close".
No. 5 consists of 14 Squares from a Square of 36. LEBHAH
implies, "Agony at the heart".
No. 6 consists of 17 Squares. QARAQAK = " thy baldness,"
also " thy rending asunder ".
THE TWENTY-THIRD CHAPTER.
O demolish Buildings and Strongholds.
(i) To make a House fall to the ground.
(2) To destroy a Town.
(3) To demolish Strongholds.
(4) To ruin possessions (and Estates).
228 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(0 (2)
N
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 229
THE TWENTY-FOURTH CHAPTER.
O discover any Thefts that hath occurred.
(i) Jewels stolen.
(2) Money.
(3) Worked Gold.
(4) Silver Workmanship.
(5) Effects, such as Furniture.
(6) Horses, and other Animals.
(1)
K
230 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(5) (4)
c
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 231
THE TWENTY-FIFTH CHAPTER.
O walk upon, and operate under, Water.
(i) To swim for 24 hours without becoming
wearied.
(2) To remain under Water for 2 hours.
(3) To rest upon the Water for 24 hours.
(1)
N
232 The Book of tup: Sacred Magic
NOTES TO CHAPTER XXV.
(a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested only by
the Angel, or by the Guardian Angel.
(d) Abraham does not state to what Prince this Operation
is submitted.
(r) The Familiar Spirits cannot well execute the Operations of
this Chapter.
(d) No especial instructions are given by Abraham regarding
this Chapter.
(e) No. I consists of 23 Squares taken from a Square of 81
Squares. NAHARI AMA means " a river of waters ".
No. 2 is a Square of 64 Squares.
No. 3 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
MAIAM = " Abundant waters such as the sea".
THE TWENTY-SIXTH CHAPTER.
O open every Kind of Lock, without a Key,
and without making any noise.
(i) To open Doors.
(2) To open Padlocks.
(3) To open Larders (or Charnel-Houses).
(4) To open Strong-boxes (or Caskets).
(5) To open Prisons.
(1) (2)
S
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 233
(3)
B
234 The Book of the Sacred Magic
noise or injury. When you wish to reclose it touch it with the side of
the Symbol not written upon, and it will refasten and shew no trace
of having been opened.
(e) No. I consists of 14 Squares taken from a Square of
25 Squares. SAGUB signifies "exalted" or "lifted up" (as an
ancient portcullis might be).
No. 2 consists of 13 Squares taken from a Square of 25 Squares.
RATOK means " a confining chain wreathed or fastened round any-
thing ".
No. 3 consists of 1 5 Squares taken from a Square of 49 Squares.
BARI ACA = " a place for food to be put ".
No. 4 consists of 13 Squares from a Square of 25. SEQOR
may mean either " to satisfy " or " to deal falsely," according as it is
spelt with Q or K.
No. 5 consists of 25 Squares from a Square of 81.
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH CHAPTER.
O cause Visions to appear.
(i) To make trellis-work to be seen.
(2) A Superb Palace.
(3) Flowering Meadows.
(4) Lakes and Rivers.
(5) Vines with their Grapes.
(6) Great Fires.
(7) Divers Mountains.
(8) Bridges and Rivers.
(9) Woods and various Kinds of Trees.
(10) Cranes.
(11) Giants.
(12) Peacocks.
(13) Gardens.
(14) Wild Boars.
(15) Unicorns.
(16) Beautiful Country.
(17) A fruit Garden (or Orchard).
(18) A Garden with all kinds of Flowers.
(19) To cause Snow to appear.
(20) Different kinds of Wild Animals.
(21) Towns and Castles.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 23s
(22) Various flowers.
(23) Fountains and clear Springs (of Water).
(24) Lions.
(25) Singing Birds,
(26) Horses,
(27) Eagles.
(28) Buffaloes,
(29) Dragons,
(30) Hawks and Falcons.
(31) Foxes.
(32) Hares.
(33) Dogs.
(34) Gryphons.
(35) Stags.
0) (2)
s
236
B
L
The Book of the Sacred Magic
(8)
(7)
s
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 237
(H)
M
238 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(17)
M
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 239
(23)
N
E
S
240 The Book of the Sacred Magic
(30)
OF Abra-Melin the Mage.
(35)
241
K
242 The Rook of the Sacred Magic
No. 9 consists of lO Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
CAIOT is probably from CHAIOTH = " Living creatures ". It may
also mean covert, where living creatures abide. Perhaps it should be
numbered 20.
No. 10 consists of 11 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares. lAQEB probably means a bird of the crane species.
No, II consists of 17 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares. MELUNAC = "Thy dwelling-place," and perhaps this
should be numbered 21.
No. 12 consists of 11 Squares taken from a Square of 25
Squares. PERAC may mean "flowering gardens". Perhaps this
should be numbered 13.
No. 15 consists of 16 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares.
No. 14 is a Gnomon of 11 Squares from a Square of ^6
Squares. OLELAH may mean "horned animals" or "tusked
animals ".
No. 13 consists of 14 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares. KIKAION = a place where gourds grow.
No. 16 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares taken from a Square of
25 Squares. MAKOR - "places digged ".
No. 17 consists of 21 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares. MIGIRAS = " a place where productive plants grow ".
No. 18 consists of 12 Squares from a Square of 36 Squares.
ESAHEL = "rich".
No. 19 should probably be numbered 24. It is a Gnomon of 9
from a Square of 25 Squares. ARIEH = " a lion ".
No. 20 consists of 19 from a Square of 49 Squares. LIMI-
KOS = " savage (animals) ".
No. 21 consists of 13 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
SASAS probably means " Horses," and this Square should probably
be numbered 26 instead of 21.
No. 22 consists of 18 Squares taken from a Square of 49
Squares. KIKIMIS = " thistles," and also " some kinds of flowers ".
No. 23 consists of 15 Squares from a Square of 49 Squares.
NESIKER signifies fluids of various kinds.
No. 24 consists of 9 Squares from a Square of 25. DOB I H = "a
bear," and should evidently be otherwise numbered.
No. 25 consists of 14 Squares from a Square of 49 Squares.
No. 26 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares from a Square of 25 Squares.
PARAH = "a heifer," but also " fruit, produce".
No. 27 consists of 1 5 Squares from a Square of 49.
No. 28 consists of 10 Squares from a Square of 25. FAN IN is
probably from BN, and meaning " Towns and Villages," whence this
should probably be numbered 21.
No. 29 consists of 8 Squares from a Square of 16. REEM =
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 243
" Unicorns," and also beasts of the beeve kind, Buffaloes, etc.
Perhaps this Square answers for i 5 as well.
No. 30 consists of a Gnomon of 13 Squares from a Square of 25
Squares. A II AH = rapacious birds.
No. 31 consists of 10 Squares from a Square of 25. SUHAL
means " a blackish lion," whence this Square should be numbered 24
probably.
No. 32 consists of 18 Squares from a Square of 49. GIRIPFIS
may mean " small beasts that run swiftly ".
No. 33 consists of 10 Squares from a Square of 25. ARNEP
should probably be ARNEB. It means " a Hare," whence this Square
should perhaps be numbered 32.
No. 34 is a Gnomon of 9 Squares from a Square of 25. AIIAL
probably means "wild goats".
No. 35 consists of 12 Squares from 25, KELEF = "a Dog,"
whence this Square should probably be numbered 33.
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH CHAPTER.
O have as much Gold and Silver as one may-
wish, both to provide for one's necessities,
and to live in opulence.
(i) To have coined Gold.
(2) To have coined Silver.
(3) To have Silver in small coins.
(4) To have small change in Copper (or Bronze).
(1)
s
244 The Book of the Sacred Magic
r
(3) (4)
p
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 245
THE TWENTY-NINTH CHAPTER.
O cause Armed Men to appear.
(i) To cause an Army to appear.
(2) Armed Men for one's defence.
(3) To cause a Siege to appear.
(2)
(1)
M
A
246 Thk Book of the Sacred Magic
NOTES TO CHAPTER XXIX.
{a) The Symbols of this Chapter are manifested in part by the
Angels, and in part also by the Evil Spirits.
{d) Oriens, Paimon, Ariton, and Amaimon, execute the
Operations hereof by the means of their common Ministers. Paimon
also performs this Operation alone.
(c) The Familiar Spirits cannot well execute the Operations of
this Chapter.
(d) No especial instructions are given by Abraham regarding
this Chapter, by which Abraham says (in the First Book) that he
himself had caused armed men to appear.
{e) No. I is a Gnomon of 13 Squares from a Square of 49
Squares. MACANEH = "an encampment".
No. 2 consists of 19 Squares from a Square of 81. MAHARA-
CAH perhaps means " an ambuscade ".
No. 3 consists of 21 Squares from a Square of 81 Squares.
THE THIRTIETH CHAPTER.
O cause Comedies, Operas, and every kind of
Music and Dances to appear.
(i) To cause all kinds of Music to be heard.
(2) Music and extravagant Balls.
(3) For all kinds of Instruments to be played.
(4) For Comedies, Farces and Operas.
0) (2)
N
A
OF Abra-Melin thk Mage. 247
(3) (4)
N
I
G
I
248 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Finally, I will quote the following passage from the " Key
of Solomon the King " :
—
" Accursed be he who taketh the Name of God in
Vain ! Accursed be he who useth this Knowledge unto
AN Evil End. Be he Accursed in this World and in the
World to come. Amen. Be he Accursed in the Name
which he hath blasphemed!"
ESSENTIAL REMARKS UPON THE FOREGOING
SYMBOLS.
It is certain that among all the Symbols which I have
hereinbefore written down there be many which one can
employ for evil (purposes) ; and I avow that (at first) I
intended not to give them here at all ; but thereafter I
did make reflection in myself that I was working no
evil ; for often the secret judgments of God permit
disgrace, hindrances, infirmities, and other vexing accidents
to happen unto Mortals, either to awake them from the
lethargy wherein they be sunk so that they recognise not
their Creator, or else to give them an opportunity by
their afflictions of increasing their merit. And although
God can in no way do evil, but always good, nevertheless
we cannot deny that occasionally He permitteth the
Secondary Causes to act. Now the Executioners and
Executors of the Divine Justice be the Evil Spirits.
Whence I conclude that although it may be in no sense
advisable to work Operations for Evil, yet that there may
arise, however, certain cases which do admit of and permit
the same ; as (for example) when it is necessary to save
and defend one's own life, or to avert some great scandal
or evil, or to prevent offensive acts which might be done
against oneself, or to displease God and hurt one's neigh-
bour, as well as in just Wars, and other like cases. Yet it
is always best in such instances to govern yourself accord-
ing to the counsel of your Holy Guardian Angel. I
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 249
have also written these for the reason that God hath
given unto Man free Will both in merit and demerit ;
for, further, having finished the Operation, if thou
shouldest wish (which I pray God not to permit)* to
operate for Evil and to abuse the Grace which God hath
granted thee, the Spirits would be only too ready to give
and manifest unto thee the Symbols, and will grant
willingly unto thee all that thou shalt demand of them.
Concerning this matter I repeat unto thee,—Fear the
Lord, love Him, and respect His Commandments with
a good heart, and thou shalt live happy and contented
upon Earth.
If thou considerest maturely what be the essential
points of this Operation, thou shalt find that the first
point is to make a firm, veritable, and real resolution
to live in a truly edifying condition of modesty, and
in retirement, as far as it shall be possible for thee so
to do. For Solitude is the source of many blessings,
such as, to give oneself up to prayer, and unto the con-
templation of things Divine ; to flee evil conversations
and occasions of sin ; to live in oneself; and to accustom
oneself to continuing a life of such regularity. For if
one were to go to present oneself before a King, what
would one not do to appear before him with splendour
and magnificence ; and what diligence and care would
not one put in practice to prepare oneself hereunto.
Now we must understand that the enjoyment and vision
of the Angels of the Lord be infinitely above the Princes
of Earth, who in fact are but a vanity, a shadow, and
vile dust of Earth. Now if to please these Mortal
Princes one would almost commit idolatries ; what ought
one not to do to appear before the Holy Angels of God
who represent the Grandeur of the Majesty of God.
Let each one hold for a thing, sure and certain that the
* In the Original Qua Dieu neplaise. The Parenthesis is
put by Abraham the Jew.
250 The Book of the Sacred Magic
Grace which the Lord granteth unto us in giving us this
Sacred Science by the means and intermediation of His
Holy Angels is so great that none can fitly express it.
It is certain that having obtained this Sacred Wis-
dom thou mayest dispose of it and communicate it unto
three friends ; but thou must not exceed this Sacred
Number of the Ternary, for in such case thou wouldest be
altogether deprived of it. One of the most meritorious
deeds in the sight of the Lord, is to share with one's
neighbour the goods which God hath given unto us ;
yet must we take note of that which God commanded
unto Moses, when He ordered him to give the Operation
unto Aaron his brother, namely that he should receive
as the Symbol of an Offering Ten Golden Florins, the
which he should distribute unto Seventy-Two poor per-
sons with his own hands, obliging them to repeat the
Psalms which I have already mentioned in the Second
Book, and which should be of the number of Seventy-
Two. For if he who receiveth this Operation should
not perform this Alms, the Operation would be void
of value for him. Thou, not yet having the Authority
to give it, without having received the Ten Golden
Florins, thou must act like Moses, unto whom the Lord
granted it on this condition, for him to give it unto his
brother Aaron.
I have also described the precautions which we must
take before granting this Sacred Science unto any ; and
I repeat here that at least Six Months should transpire
during which we should frequently test, and seek by
conversations to sound, the inclinations of him unto
whom we may be willing to give it ; so as to know
whether he be a reliable person, and also the object for
which he demandeth and is anxious to obtain this
Science. Now shouldest thou perceive that such an one
is light and inconstant, and that he hath only vague
ideas, and habits and manners'which be not good, then
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 251
shalt thou temporise with him for a time, so as to bring
up causes, occasions, or pretexts, so as not to give it
unto him, even shouldest thou already have promised it to him.
For it is better to undergo the displeasure of a Mortal
Man than that of an Eternal God, from Whom thou
hast received so great a Grace. I have, however, myself
made trial hereof, for to my great wonderment (once
upon a time) when I was thinking that I was putting it
to good use in giving it unto a certain person for whom
I had great respect ; God Himself intervened and did
not permit my intention to be carried out, for that person
began of his own accord to wonder whether the matter
were true or no, and he doubted it much, believing that
it was a fable, and did not have an entire faith therein ;
and he made me comprehend by his discourse that he
was not such an one as I had thought. Furthermore it
happened that he fell dangerously ill, and I in my turn
was reprimanded by my Angel who blamed me for the
choice I had made. The whole machinery of the
Universe is maintained by Faith ; and he who believeth
not, suffereth the chastisement of his perfidy both in
this World and in the next. I could here say much
more relating to our own selves, but as thou wilt have
to pass under the influence * of thy Holy Guardian
Angel, thou wilt be sufficiently instructed in his own
good time, and by himself, concerning these matters
which be both delicate and to be jealously guarded. -f
The Evil Spirit is so subtle, so keen, and so cunning,
that that which he cannot obtain at the time of the
Conjuration, he will seek to have on other occasions
in offering thee his services. This is why the very first
action to take especially with thy Familiar Spirits, should
* In the Original " Passer par les mains de" ; = " pass through
the hands of" ; but this translation would sound somewhat undigni-
fied.
f In the Original " Qui sontjalouses et delicates ".
252 The Book of the Sacred Magic
be to command them, never to say anything unto thee
of themselves, but only to speak when thou shalt inter-
rogate them, unless it were to warn thee of matters which
concern either thine advantage or thine hurt. For if
thou dost not limit their liberty of speech they will tell
thee so many and so important things, that they will
completely overcloud * thine understanding, and thou
wilt not know what to believe, so that in the confusion
of ideas they could make thee prevaricate, and perhaps
fall into irretrievable error. Never make thyself to
be greatly entreated in any matter wherein thou canst
aid and succour thy neighbour, and do not wait until
he demandeth assistance from thee, but seek to know
to the full his need even though it be concealed, and
give him prompt aid. Also trouble not thyself as to
whether he be Turk, Pagan, or Idolater, but do good
unto all those who believe in a God. Be especially
charitable towards those who are in extreme want,
prisoners, or sick, and let thine heart be touched, and
succour them generously ; for God taketh pleasure in
beholding the poor succoured.
In the Twenty-Eighth Chapter where it is treated
of the way to have Silver and Gold sufficient to supply
one's needs on occasion ; thou must know that the quan-
tity of Gold or of Silver of which thou hast then actually
need, will be at once brought unto thee, and thou canst
use it for this occasion only. And if thou usest it not
within the twenty-four hours, this sum will disappear
and thou wilt no longer be able to avail thyself of it.
Think not, however, that this Gold is but a phantasy, for
if thou effectually expendest it, and dost not endeavour to
hoard the same, he who shall receive it from thine hands
can enjoy the same and expend it according unto his
* In the Original " Quits tofusqueront Lentendement" literally,
" they will obfuscate thine understanding ".
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 253
desire, and the money will be real both for him and for
others.
For once only mayest thou demand of thine Holy
Angel the amount of Gold and of Silver which thou
shalt judge suitable unto thine estate and conditions. My
possessions were few, and I demanded of mine Angel
Three Thousand Thousand Golden Florins,* and they
were granted unto me. Later I made such good use of
the Sacred Science, and I understood so well how to
augment my goods, that at the present time, after having
married three Daughters unto each of whom I gave a
hundred thousand (golden florins), as thou wilt see by the
testament which I have made, I am leaving in current
money more than a Million Golden Florins, besides a
large quantity of very valuable furniture. Had I been of
noble birth I might have demanded much more and
have profited less. When any one demanded of me :
" Eh ! How have you managed to gain so much .?
" I
would reply thereto that it is a fine thing to know by
certain Knowledge how much such or such a thing is
worth here, and how much it is worth elsewhere, that
this year, wheat, barley, and other crops, will be cheap in
Italy, and dear in France, etc., etc. ; and that commerce
well managed, enricheth any one.
As for what concerneth the manner of treating and
commanding the Spirits, it is an easy thing unto whom-
soever walketh by the proper paths ; and it is a very
difficult thing for whomsoever through ignorance sub-
mitteth himself unto them. I have heard say that there
be some men who pass for being famous herein, such
as a certain blind man D'Acali, a certain Bearli, a
Peter D'Abano,-^- and many others. Ah ! how many
of them do but deceive themselves ! I do not say that
* In the Original :
" jooo milflorins dor".
t Yet Peter of Abano or Apona is always considered to have
been a great and powerful Magician.
254 The Book of tfie Sacred Magic
these men did not perform extraordinary things ; but
it is necessary to note their manner of working, for their
Science is imperfect, and their Authority proceedeth
not from God by the intermediation of His Holy Angels,
but proceedeth directly from express Pacts made with
the Devil,* and (acteth) by means of Consecrated Books
full of thousands of Diabolical Conjurations and impious
Exorcisms ; in one word things which be contrary unto
the Commandments of God and the peace of men. And
with all this their Operations be destined for certain
times and hours, and finally the Demon carrieth away
with him their miserable Souls, which thing arriveth
only too often. And yet it is the Science of these
persons which causeth them to pass for famous Wise
Men.
In the First Book I have made mention of those
whom I had encountered in my journeyings in Europe.
The true Commandment is that which dependeth from
God, and in which there is no dependence placed on
any Spirit imaginable, for in employing them, if you
make unto them the least submission, the slightest prayer,
or honour, you are rendering yourselves their slaves, and
they are in no way submitted unto you. The Spirits
have so great knowledge that they comprehend very well
by our actions what dispositions we have, and understand
our inclinations, so that from the very beginning they
prepare the way to make us to fail. If they know that
a man is inclined unto Vanity and Pride, they will humili-
ate themselves before him, and push that humility unto
excess, and even unto idolatry, and this man will glory
herein and become intoxicated with conceit, and the
matter will not end without his commanding them some
pernicious thing of such a nature that ultimately thence-
* I cannot possibly see that the well-known " Heptameron " or
" Magical Elements " of Peter of Abano in any way counsels Pacts,
or deserves the above severe speeches of Abraham the Jew.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 255
from will be derived that sin which will make the Man
the Slave of the Demon. Another man will be easily
accessible to Avarice, and then if he take not heed the
Malignant Spirits will propose unto him thousands of
ways of accumulating wealth, and of rendering himself
rich by indirect and unjust ways and means, whence
total restitution is afterwards difficult and even impossible,
so that he who is in such case findeth himself ever the
Slave of the Spirits. Another will be a man of Letters ;
the Spirits will inspire him with presumption, and he
will then believe himself to be wiser even than the
Prophets, furthermore they will endeavour to lead him
astray in subtle points in matters appertaining unto God,
and will make (that man) fall into a thousand errors,
the which afterwards when he wisheth to support he
will very frequently deny God, and His high Mysteries.
The causes and matters whereof (the Spirits) will make
use to cause a man to waver are infinite, especially when
the man attempteth to make them submit to his com-
mands, and this is why it is most necessary to be upon
one's guard and to distrust oneself. The true Command-
ment will be that which will be given when he who
commandeth shall have maturely reflected and considered
who he is in himself, and who he is who should serve
and obey him. And if a Mortal Man not having on his
side the support of the Power and Will of the Lord
shall have sufficient force to command the Spirits and
to constrain them to obey him ;
(they, namely) who
have the same virtue and power, which God hath granted
unto them, they having lost nothing hereof ; and they
also being Spirits from God and herein differing from
thee who art drawn from the mire, as Gold is from
Lead ; and that their sin is notorious, for the which they
were chased from Heaven ; figure also unto thyself, that
a Spirit which of his own nature is all vanity, would not
be likely to submit himself unto thee without a superior
256 The Book ov the Sacred Magic
force (compelling him), neither would he wish to obey
thee nor to serve thee.* He who shall reflect and reason
upon these particulars will know that all things come
unto us from God, and that it is He Who wisheth and
commandeth that the Evil Spirits should be submitted
unto us. If then all things depend from the Lord, upon
whom wilt thou, O Man, base thyself so as to be capable
of thyself (alone) to dominate the Spirits ? It is certain
that such an enterprise cannot succeed without the loss
of thine own soul. Then it is by the virtue of that
God Who hath submitted them under thy feet, that thou
shalt command them, as will be precisely ordained unto
thee by thy Holy Angel. " Donee ponam inimicos tuos
scabellum pedum tuorum'' " Until I shall make thy foes
thy footstool." Also do not familiarise thyself with
them ; for they be not little pet dogs. Adopt a serious
tone and an air of authority, make them obey thee, and
be well ware of accepting the least offer which they
shall make unto thee of themselves ; and treat them
as their Master, also without occasion thou shalt never
molest them, and order them to execute thy commands
from point to point without adding or diminishing in
any way imaginable. And when thou canst employ
Inferior Spirits (in a matter), thou shalt in no way make
thy requests unto the Superiors. Also seeing that all
have not the same powers, thou shalt take heed not to
command unto one (Spirit) a thing appertaining unto
(the office of) another ; and because it would be impos-
sible for me to here write down in full the quality,
virtue, and office of each Spirit, thou shouldest search
this out for thyself and sharpen thy faculties ; and in the
first demand which thou shalt make unto the Four Spirits
(who are) the Supreme Princes, and unto the Eight Sub-
* This whole sentence is most confusedly worded in the Original,
and I have endeavoured to render it as literally as circumstances
would allow.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 257
Princes ; thou shalt demand the most skilful of the
Spirits, of whom thou shalt make a register for con-
venience ot the practice which I describe unto thee in
this Third Book where also thou wilt find the Symbols
of many Spirits. But seeing that the subjects of various
erring humours (of mind) and other occasions which
arise daily be diverse, each man will procure for himself
those (Spirits) which be ot his nature and genius and fit
for that wherein thou wouldest employ them.* And
when thou shalt find an extreme resistance unto operating,
Oil the part ot any Spirit, after that thou shalt have given
him the necessary instructions, and that he cannot execute
that which thou hast commanded him ; in such case
thou shalt convoke the Superior Spirits and demand of
them others which may be better capable of serving thee
in thy need. And in all cases thou shalt avail thyself of
the power and command of thy Holy Angel. Keep ever
continually before thine eyes the Fear of God ; and seek
to obey His Commandments, and those of thy Holy
Angel, ever retain in thine heart his holy instructions
;
never submit thyself unto the Evil Spirits, in the slightest
degree even should it seem to be to thine own advantage
and unto that of thy neighbour (so to do). For the rest,
be certain that they will obey thee so perfectly and reallv,
that there will be no operation however great or dilficult
it may be, that thou shalt not bring unto a glorious ter-
mination ; the which I mvselt also have done. As
regardeth the service which thou shouldest render unto
thy neighbour in his necessities, thou shouldest perform
it with zeal, and in no sense wait for him to ask it of
thee, and seek also to comprehend his needs unto the
uttermost, so as to be able to take sound action (therein).
Thou shalt take heed to succour the infirm and the sick
and to work for their healing ; and see that thou dost
* This whole sentence is very badly wordcci in the Original, but
I have endeavoured to render it as literal!)' as possible.
17
258 Thp: Book of the Sacrp:d Magic
not good works to attract praises and to make thyself
talked of in the world. Also thou mayest make semblance
of performing (thy cures) by prayers, or by ordinary
remedies, or by (the recital of) some psalm, or by other
like means.
Thou shouldest be especially circumspect not to
discover the like matters unto reigning Princes; and in
this particular thou shalt do nothing without consulting
thy Good Angel ; for there is a certain generation which
is never contented, and besides that which ariseth from
simple curiosity, these Princes regard such (action) as a
duty and obligation. Also it is a certain fact that he
who possesseth this Sacred Magic, hath no need whatever
of them. Further they are naturally inclined to ask
of thee always things prejudicial, the which if granted
by thee would offend the Lord, and if not they become
your declared enemies. Now my opinion (is that it)
would be always (preferable) to render them what ser-
vices you can from a distance.
There is nothing which is so pleasing unto the
Angels as to demand knowledge froni them, and for
my part I think there is no greater pleasure than
that of becoming wise when one learneth from such
masters.
I both have exhorted, and do exhort unto a solitary
life,* which is the source of all good ; it is true that
it is difficult to accustom oneself thereunto ; but once
thou shalt have obtained the Sacred Science and Magic
the love for retirement will come unto thee of thine own
accord, and thou wilt voluntarily shun the commerce
with and conversation of men ; for the pleasure and con-
tentment thou wilt enjoy when thou shalt be the possessor
of this Science will be so great that thou wilt despise
* Yet apparently Abraham himself led anything but a retired
life, being mixed up in most of the leading political events of his
time.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 259
all amusements, excursions, riches, and every other thing
however attractive such may be.
For once only will it be permissible to obtain
property and goods proportionate unto thy degree and
estate ; the which afterwards are to be used by spending
them liberally for thine own needs and those of thy
neighbour, sharing with him in his necessity the good
things which God shall have given (unto thee) ; for he
who should employ these for evil ends shall render
himself incapable of obtaining from God any other grace
and benefit.
The Child which one should choose for greater
surety and success in (the acquisition of) this Sacred
Science should be born of a legitimate marriage, and
its father and mother should be also legitimate. It should
be from six to seven years of age, vivacious, and witty ;
it should have a clear speech and pronounce well. Thou
shalt prepare it some time before commencing the Opera-
tion and have it ready when the time requireth. I myself
am of opinion that there should be two (children) in
case of any accident which might happen, through sick-
ness, or death, or other like (hindrance). Thou shalt gain
it over to thee by giving it puerile things to amuse it,
and have it ready when necessary, but in no way tell
it anything of what it is to serve for, so that if it be
questioned by its parents it can tell them nothing. And
if it be a well-behaved Child, it is all the better. We
may be certain that by this means we can arrive at the
possession of the Sacred Science ; for where he who
operateth faileth, the innocence of the Child supplieth
(that which is wanting) ; and the Holy Angels are much
pleased with its purity. We should not admit women
into this Operation.*
All the clothes and other things which have been
* Abraham here means apparently, not to use a woman in
place of the child.
26o The Book of the Sacred Magic
used during the period of the Six Moons, you should
preserve, it you intend to continue in the same house
wherein thou hast performed the Operation, because they
be always good. But if thou dost not intend to use them
more, nor yet the Oratory, thou shalt burn them all, and
bury the ashes in a secret place.
It is now necessary to give unto thee a little light,
and declare unto thee the quality and value of the Spirits,
and in what thou canst exactly employ them with surety
of success. Thou must however take note that each
Spirit hath a great quantity of Inferior Spirits which
be submitted unto him. Also I wish to say that as
regardeth things base, vile, and of little importance the
Superior Spirit will not execute them, but will cause
them to be executed by his Inferiors with all punctuality.
And this mattereth not unto him who operateth pro-
vided that his commands be fulfilled, and that he be
punctually obeyed.
THE ORDER OF THE FIRST HIERARCHY.
(SERAPHIM, CHERUBIM, THRONES.*)
The Spirits of the Seraphim serve to make thee respected
and loved for works of Charity, for that which regardeth
honours and other similar things. In matters of great
importance they themselves act ; but for matters base
and carnal, it is their subjects who do serve and operate.
THE ORDER OF THE SECOND HIERARCHY.
DOMINIONS, VIRTUES, AND POWERS.
The property of the Dominions is to dominate ; to pro-
cure liberty ; to vanquish enemies ; to give authority
* These and the following Titles of the Hierarchies are usually
ascribed to the Good Angels ; but sometimes are also employed to
designate grades of the Evil and Fallen Angels as well.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 261
over Princes, and over all kinds ot persons, even Eccle-
siastics.
The Virtues are proper to give strength and force
in all matters w^hether of War or Peace ; and in all
Operations concerning the health ot men, and in all
maladies for which the fatal hour hath not vet been
written.
The Powers have the dominion over all the Inferior
Spirits ; and this is why they can serve in all things
in general, good or evil, and they are devoted unto all
things in general, good or evil ; and they be straight
and right in execution, very punctual, very prompt, and
exact in their Operations.
THE ORDER OF THE THIRD HIERARCHY.
PRINCES, ARCHANGELS, AND ANGELS.
The Princes comprise Spirits capable of giving Treasures
and Riches, and they or their dependants serve in all the
Operations, being a mass composed of different Orders,
and they are sufficiently truthful.
The Archangels be proper to reveal all Occult
matters, and all kinds of secret things, such as obscure
points in Theology and the Law. They serve with
great diligence.
The Angels in general do operate each one accord-
ing unto his quality. There be an inhnite number
of them. They command the Four Princes and the
Eight Sub-Princes in all kinds of Operations. These
latter* having taken their oath, observe that which they
have promised, provided that the Operation one demandeth
of them be in their power.
* Meaning apparently the Four Princes and Eight Sub-Princes
of the Demons, before so often alluded to.
262 The Book of the Sacred Magic
To cause the Spirit to re-enter a dead body is a very great
and difficult Operation, because in order to accomplish
it the Four Sovereign Princes* have to operate. Also
it is necessary to take great care, and to pay heed unto
this warning, namely that we should not commence this
Operation until the sick person is really at the point
of death, so that his life is absolutely despaired of. It
should be so timed as to take place a little while before
the sick person giveth up the ghost ; and thou shalt
carry out all that we have said hereon in the Second
Book. But on no account should we perform this
Operation to divert ourselves, nor for every class of
person ; but only on occasions of the very utmost and
most absolute necessity. This Operation I myself have
performed but twice in my life, namely once for the
Duke of Saxonia, and on another occasion in the case
of a lady whom the Emperor Sigismond loved passionately.
The Familiar Spirits are very prompt, and they are able
to execute in most minute detail all matters of a
mechanical nature, with the which therefore it is well
to occupy them ; as in historical painting ; in making
statues ; clocks ; weapons ; and other like matters ; also
in chemistry ; and in causing them to carry out com-
mercial and business transactions under the form of other
persons ; in making them transport merchandise and
other goods from one place to another ; also to employ
them in causing quarrels, fights, homicides, and all kinds
of evils, and malefic acts ; also to convey letters and
messages of all kinds from one country to another ; to
deliver prisoners ; and in a thousand other ways which
I have frequently experimented.
These Spirits should be treated according to their
quality, and a distinction should be made between a
* Viz. : Lucifer, Leviathan, Satan, and Belial.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 263
great Spirit and one of a vile or insignificant nature,
but thou shouldest nevertheless alway conserve over them
that domination which is proper unto him who operateth.
In speaking unto them thou shalt give them no title;
but shalt address them sometimes as "you," sometimes
as " thou "
; and thou shalt never seek out expressions to
please them, and thou shalt always have with them
a proud and imperious air.*
There be certain little terrestrial Spirits that are
simply detestable; Sorcerers and Necromantic Magicians
generally avail themselves of their services, for they
operate only for evil, and in wicked and pernicious things,
and they be of no use soever. He who operateth could,
should he so wish, have a million such, but the Sacred
Science which worketh otherwise than Necromancy in
no way permitteth you to employ such as be not con-
strained by an Oath to obey you.
All that hath hitherto been said and laid down should
suffice, and it is in no wise to be doubted that he who
executeth all these matters from point to point, and who
shall have the right intention to use this Sacred Science
unto the honour and glory of God Almighty for his own
good, and for that of his neighbour, shall arrive with
ease at the possession thereof; and even matters the most
difficult shall appear easy unto him. But Human Nature
is so depraved and corrupted, and so different from that
which the Lord hath created, that few persons, if any,
do walk in the right way ; and it is so easy to prevaricate,
and so difficult not to fail in an Operation which demand-
eth the whole (soul of a) man in (its) entirety. And
in order not to intimidate in any way him who shall
resolve to undertake this Operation, I am about here to
* In spite of what Abraham here says, I must reiterate, that
the. grcoiest courtesy should alwajs be used towards Spirits, otherwise
the Operator will speedily be led into error.
264 The Book of the Sacred Magic
set down in writing the difficulties, temptations, and
hindrances which will be caused him by his own
relatives; and all this will be occasioned by the Evil
Spirits so as to avoid having to submit themselves, and
humiliate themselves, and subject themselves unto Man,
their greatest enemy, seeing that they behold him in
powerful condition arriving at the enjoyment of that
Eternal Glory which they themselves have foolishly lost
;
and their rage is so great and their grief so poignant, that
there is in the world no evil which they be not ready to
work, if God were to permit them, they being always
attracted by the idea of the destruction of the Human
Race. Therefore is it necessary to take courage and
make a constant resolution to resist in all things with
intrepidity, and to earnestly desire to obtain from God
so great a Grace in despite of men and of the Demon.
Also beforehand thou shouldest arrange thine affairs in
such wise that they can in no way hinder thee, nor bring
thee any disquietude in the period of the Six Moons,
during which time there will occur the greatest possible
attempts at assault and damage unto thee which the keen
and subtle Enemy will bring to bear upon thee. He will
cause thee to come in contact with evil books, and
wicked persons, who by Diabolic methods and tricks
will seek to turn thee aside from this enterprise, even
though it be already commenced, by bringing before thee
matters which in appearance will seem of the greatest
importance, but which really be only built up on false
(and evil) foundations. To such annoying accidents thou
shouldest steadily oppose thyself, by following out care-
fullv the ample instructions which I have given thee,
thus banishing them from thee with calmness and tran-
quillity so as to give no chance to the Enemy of exercising
his fraudulent tricks to interrupt thee.
Thy relations also, astonished at thy manner of life
and thy retirement, will make every effort to attempt to
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 265
find out the reasons thereof. It will be necessary to
satisfy them by words full of affection, and to make them
think that time which engendereth change, also causeth
men who are not altogether ignorant persons to resolve
at times to live by themselves. This hath been the
cause why so great a number of good and learned men
have retired into desert places, so that being separated
from their own relatives and from the world they might
live tranquilly in prayer and orisons to render themselves
more worthy to obtain through the Grace of the Lord
a Gift so great and so perfect.
I FURTHER approve of thy possessing a Bible in the vulgar
language, and also the Psalms of David, for thine own
use. Some person may here reply: "I understand the
Latin, and I have no need of the common language".
I answer him that when we pray we ought not in any
way to embarrass the Mind by having to interpret the
Psalms ; for at such a moment we should be as much
united as possible to God ; and even the Psalms being
in the vulgar tongue when one readeth them they
imprint themselves better on the memory; and this is
the true manner of particular prayer, if the person praying
be illiterate, for in saying the Psalms in Latin he would
not know what he was asking of God.
In these Three Books we shall not find the slightest thing
which hath not a true and necessary foundation. And
we should take the greatest care, and keep ourselves as
we would from a deadly poison, from commencing this
Operation at all, if we have not made a firm resolution
to carry it through unto the end. Because (in the con-
trary case) some notable evil would befal him who had
(carelessly) commenced the Operation, and who would
then only too well comprehend that we may not make
a mock of the Lord. Should it happen that God by
17*
266 The Book of the Sacred Magic
His Will and Commandment should visit thee and afflict
thee with some malady which should render thee in-
capable of finishing the Operation according unto thy
wish, thou having already commenced it ; then shouldest
thou like an obedient servant submit thyself humbly unto
His Holy Will and Commandment, reserving His Grace
unto the time pleasing unto His Divine Majesty to grant
it thee. And thou shalt cease from thine Operation,
so as to finish it on another more favourable occasion,
and meanwhile thou shalt devote thyself unto the cure
of thy body. And such a case ought in no way to afflict
thee, for the Secrets of God are impenetrable, and He
performeth, permitteth, and operateth all things for the
best and for our good, although it may be not understanded
of us.
Hereinafter will I set down the Key of this Operation,
which is the only thing which facilitateth this Operation
to enjoy the Vision of the Holy Angels, by placing the
Symbols* given hereafter upon the brow of the Child
and of him who performeth the Operation, as I have said
in the First Book, to which one can easily refer.
I will say even as much as this, that out of an
hundred scarcely five or six persons can attain unto the
possession of this Sacred Magic without this Key ; for
reasons which one can in no way disclose.
Also we should repeat the Psalm VI.
—
'^ Domine^ ne in
furore tuo arguas me^'' etc. ("O Lord, afflict me not in
Thine Anger").
There is nothing in the World which we should so
much desire as a true Science, neither is there any more
diflicult to obtain than this one, because often one dieth
before attaining unto it in its entirety.
* See the Squares with the Names of ADAM and URIEL given
at the end of the work.
OF Abra-Melin the Mage. 267
This is the true and only Way of this Sacred Science
and Magic which the Lord hath granted unto us by
His pure mercy ; and is that which in Six Months
maketh us attain unto the most high and Occult gifts
of the Lord which we can think of.
This is the True Science which comprehendeth
all other Sciences once one is in possession thereof.
Oh ! how many books be read among us which
seem wonderful
!
It is not fitting for me even to reveal a part of this
Science and its properties ; and to appropriate unto myself
that which appertaineth unto a person of a great mind
and so far above me.* In teaching it even, I have far
exceeded that which I should have done, in having given
unto thee the two last Symbols, but what will not paternal
love and affection do ? Endeavour only to obey me
and to follow out my precepts from point to point,
according to the manner in which I have given them
unto thee in writing ; keeping alway the Fear of God
before thine eyes. Also forget not the slightest thing
which I have said unto thee in these Three Books, for
with the help of God Who ruleth and governeth all
things, and reigneth gloriously in Heaven and upon
Earth, and Whose Divine Justice shineth in Hell ; if
thou hast recourse unto Him and puttest all thy confidence
in His Divine Mercy, thou shalt obtain this Holy Science
and Magic whose power is inexpressible. Then, O my
Son ! and Whosoever may attain thereunto ; remember
to praise and glorify the Lord, and to pray unto Him that
He may be willing to deign and accord unto me His
Holy Glory, the place of veritable rest, whereof to me
while yet in this Valley of Misery He hath granted
a large share through His Goodness and Mercy ; and
* This whole passage is awkwardly and obscurely worded in the
French. By the " person of great mind," I suppose that Abraham
intends to designate Abra-Melin.
268 The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the Mage.
I pray the Lord also that He may be willing to grant it
unto thee also with His Holy Benediction, and unto all
those who by thy means will arrive at the possession
of this Sacred Magic, and who will use it according
unto His Holy Will.
May God deign, say I, to grant unto such all tem-
poral goods, and a good Death in His Holy Kingdom
!
so MAY IT be !
12
