{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__yates___psychological_rackeeteers.pdf","mytitle":"Psychological Rackeeteers","mylang":"de"}
PSYCHOLOGICAL
RACKETEERS
DOROTHY HAZELTINE YATES
BOSTON
RICHARD G. BADGER, PUBLISHER
TH? GORfiAM PRESS
COPYRIGHT, I932, BY BICHABD BADGES
ALL BIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
THB GORHAM PRESS, BOSTON, U. S. A,
387355
JUL 22 1932
FOREWORD
The author wishes to express gratitude for help from
various quarters. Thanks are due to the many students
and other friends who have aided in gathering informa
tion and material. Mrs. Maude Empey has been par
ticularly generous in this respect. Professor Warner
Brown of the University of California has kindly permit
ted the incorporation of certain data secured by him.
Professor Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University read
the manuscript at one stage of its development and made
extremely valuable suggestions. For unfailing encour
agement the author is particularly indebted to her
mother.
D. H. Y.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
I. Making the Acquaintance of the "Applied
Psychologist" 9
II. We Decide to Study "Applied Psychol
ogists" 21
III. How They Put It Over 30
IV. What Price Psychology 39
V. What the "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 48
VI. What the "Applied Psychologist" Teaches
(continued) 71
VII. Glimpses into Psychological Masterpieces. . 79
VIII. Evidence as to Personal Qualifications,
Education, and Credentials 88
IX. The Most Famous "Psychologist" 105
X. A "Character Analyst and Vocational Ex
pert" 129
XI. How Published "Systems" are Marketed. . 142
XII. Six "Systems" 158
XIII. By Way of Evaluation 180
XIV. What the Trained Psychologist Thinks
about "the Power of Thought" 204
7
PSYCHOLOGICAL
RACKETEERS
CHAPTER I
MAKING THE ACQUAINTANCE OF THE
"APPLIED PSYCHOLOGIST"
Perhaps you have sometimes seen in a shop window
or elsewhere a poster reading somewhat as follows:
Five Wonderful
FREE LECTURES
on
APPLIED PSYCHOLOGY
followed by an advanced course.
SCIENTIFIC LIVING— HEALING
CHARACTER ANALYSIS— How to Read People at
Sight
SUCCESS— HEALTH—HAPPINESS
Then appear the name and picture of one who calls him
self (or herself) an "Applied Psychologist," "Practical
Psychologist," "Master Psychologist," "World-famous
Psychologist," or some other such modest title. You are
9
10 Psychological Racketeers
further informed that you will, if you take the course,
be shown how to make your dreams come true, how to
change your life completely; or how to understand and
magnetize yourself, how to understand and attract others,
and how to find the road to success which leads to the
highway of health and happiness; or how to grow brains
like carrots and how to live victoriously; or, it may be,
how to contact the ego, how to gain all knowledge
through cosmic consciousness, how to train your sub
conscious mind to be your slave, and how to initiate new
cycles of development; or some other varieties of "how"
depending, it would seem, on the advertiser's flow of
language as well as on his varieties of psychological
ability. These phrases, by the way, have been taken
without alteration from various posters.
Perchance you, like myself, were moved to go and
find out what it was all about. As a teacher of psychol
ogy of the orthodox college variety, I had a special
curiosity about these other "psychologists," so when one
of my students brought me a circular explaining that
Madame M'Ketchem (as I shall call her), a "Super-
Psychologist," was "lecturing on Super-Psychology, the
Greatest Science in the World," I surrendered to her
bombardment of psychological appeal. Madame
M'Ketchem, the circular explains, is "a lecturer and
teacher of international reputation. She has taught and
lectured in some of the largest educational institutions
of the United States and Europe and holds degrees and
artists' certificates, as well as other credentials, from
The "Applied Psychologist?' 11
leading schools both here and abroad. Her lectures on
Super-Psychology are a revelation to the American pub
lic, presenting old and new truths in such clear and con
cise form that the audience is held spell-bound by her
eloquence. Much of her knowledge is gained 'Inspira-
tionally' and through contact with that 'Power Within.'
The methods in Super-Psychology as taught by her de
velop the student to the point where he also can gain
this knowledge in like manner through an understanding
of the Basic Laws."
Armed with a notebook and pencil and accompanied
by five senior students similarly equipped, I sallied forth
one evening in pursuit of the Basic Laws. We found
Madame in a good-sized hall, which was filling rapidly.
She was a portly person whose natural visibility was
heightened by a most resplendent evening gown, a veri
table rhapsody in orange and black. And the brilliance
of her raiment was matched by the radiance of her smile,
which she flashed upon us as we took seats well forward
and prepared to drink in her every word. From the
notes we took is set down here a true and faithful re
port, in Mada*ne's very own language, of what we learned
that evening, which is so strangely different from that
which I had, up to that time, known as psychology. We
were vastly entertained by her remarks, so I pass them
on to you for what they are worth.
Madame began by saying that, though this was a
free lecture, she would for once break her usually in
flexible custom and begin the regular class work. She
would make us a "gift"—to use her own expression —
12 Psychological Racketeers
of this lesson. As an indigent college professor, I felt
properly grateful. First she showed us a chart of the
human body, and, with a long pointer, indicated "the
door of Brahm, where the ego leaves the body in sleep
and death." This "door" she located on the side of the
head.
"After you are able to go and come at will through
the door, three or four knots or 'bumps' will appear on
the side of your head," she informed us impressively.
Her audience was obviously fascinated by this anatom
ical possibility, and we all craned our necks to see the
exact spot where one crawled in and out of oneself.
She also pointed out the place "where the ego entered
the body before birth." It seemed to be at about the
fourth lumbar vertebra. Then she explained and dem
onstrated certain breathing exercises.
"Rhythmic breathing," we were told, "is breathing in
harmony with the vibrations of the body. It is just
fine for nervous diseases."
And Madame breathed in most palpable rhythm, her
perfect-fifty-two bosom heaving magnificently.
"Now you do it with me," she commanded. So we
all obediently heaved in chorus.
But the vital, all-imporant thing, it seems, is to hold
the right mental attitude while breathing. In this way
"Prana" (she said "Prah-na," with a beautiful broad
a), or vital force, can be extracted out of the atmosphere.
This mysterious commodity is in food, water, air, every
thing, but it is not a chemical substance. Science calls
The "Applied Psychologist" 13
it ozone, Madame stated, but Super-Psychology calls it
"Prana."
She broke off the "Prana" exposition to bid us stand
up and stretch our spines.
"It will rest you, and it will cure many troubles,"
she said, pulling herself ponderously erect. "And you
can train your subconscious mind to do the stretching
for you. In fact, one can stretch about four inches
farther with the subconscious mind than with the con
scious mind. Learn to talk to your inner self."
When we had seated ourselves again after the spine-
stretching interlude, Madame enlarged on the subject
of "Prana," how to get and control it.
"Shut your eyes, press your finger-tips together, keep
your feet together firmly on the floor, and take seven
deep breaths."
It was explained to the now enraptured audience
that life current (which seems to be "Prana" in a state
of flux) is generated when the feet are in contact and the
finger-tips touching, for this position closes the circuit
and keeps the current in the body. Positive current is
on the right side of the body and negative current on the
left, we were assured. The brain is positive and the
spine is negative. As "Prana" is breathed in, it is
stored in the solar plexus. Thus, according to Madame,
one becomes a human battery, and energy can be sent
to any part of the body.
"Mentally use the affirmation 'Power,'
" she urged.
"Say, 'Power in the right arm,' concentrate, and feel
14 Psychological Racketeers
the warmth in that arm. Now say, 'Power in the finger
tips,' and feel the current getting stronger there."
"I do seem to feel something in my fingers," whispered
the fluffy senior sitting next to me.
"If you think hard of any part of your body," I
whispered back, "you will notice some curious sensa
tions —the effects of circulation and pressure of various
kinds."
I must admit that our eyes were not very tight shut
during this part of the proceedings. We could not re
sist covertly peeking at our neighbors, who apparently
accepted all these revelations in whole-souled faith and
were going through the different maneuvers with a zeal
that must have rejoiced the heart of Madame. An oldish
woman sitting southeast of me had a florid double chin
that quivered, jelly-like, in her efforts to get enough
"Prana." As we watched, my student companion could
not quite suppress a half giggle. Madame opened her
eyes, which I suspect were also none too tightly sealed,
and cast a suddenly wintry glance in our direction. My
student deftly adjusted her features and ostentatiously
applied herself to the business of absorbing "Prana."
"Hope the old dear doesn't throw us out," she cau
tiously murmured between inhalations.
Fortunately for the completion of our psychological
education, Madame's attention was diverted by her next
piece of business, which was to "stimulate the will-powei
center in the temples."
"Take seven deep breaths, throwing the head back
each time to get more force. Now repeat after me, 'I
The "Applied Psychologist" 15
will to awaken every dormant cell in the will-power
center.'
"If you get no feeling of response with just the feet
touching and the hands together, try pressing the thumbs
on the temples as you repeat the affirmation. Observe
the feeling of determination that surges through your
body, and feel the warmth or throbbing or tingling sen
sations in your temples. Now relax."
"Why, it does throb!" said my student in a surprised
whisper as we docilely followed instructions.
"Of course," I replied very, very softly so that we
might steer clear of the spotlight henceforth. "You have
placed your thumbs right on large arteries and are feel
ing your own pulse."
Next we practiced an exercise to improve the memory,
directing "Prana" to the top of the skull and chanting
after Madame: "Power! Power! I will to awaken every
dormant cell in the memory faculty." The seat of execu
tive ability lies in the front part of the head, we learned,
and may be similarly stimulated.
I felt inclined to rise up and tell the august Madame
and everybody else that the notion of "faculties," such
as will, memory, and so forth, lying each in its own little
corner of the brain, had long ago been disproved by sci
entific research, but what the use of objecting to any one
part of this extraordinary "lesson." It was all so ridicu
lous. However, to the scientifically uninformed her as
tonishing "truths" were, no doubt, as plausible as genu
ine explanations would have been—and much more thrill
ing.
16 Psychological Racketeers
The rest of the evening was taken up largely with
directions and exercises for healing by means of
Madame's "perfect concentration method," which took
several forms.
"You don't have to call the doctor when you're sick.
If you have a headache, you can send vital current and
blood to your head to relax every nerve. Or if you have
high blood pressure, it can be absolutely relieved by
sending the blood down. Use my concentration method,
and you can drive out all physical and mental weak
nesses and fatigue. Remember this method and use it
when you need to: Sit on the floor, legs drawn under
you and toes turned back. Put your hands forward, but
keep your chest high. Exhale, stop breathing, and con
centrate your mind on finding sore spots. Inhibit all
other thoughts. You will locate the sore spots almost at
once. Then practice the method of directing Prana to
them as I have told you, concentrating hard, and with a
positive affirmation toward cure. Or, in the same posi
tion, breath exhaled, try to think what your mental
weaknesses may be. Concentrate and take in a breath.
With this breath will come the answer, telling you what
your weaknesses are. This is testing the brain for weak
spots."
Or, if for any reason you do not fancy that method,
you can sit with the feet together and hold the ankles
with the hands, thumbs in contact (Oh for the early
training of a contortionist, thought I!), and send
"Prana" to the afflicted part. Moreover, there is still
another perfectly good way of getting "Prana." The
The "Applied Psychologist" 17
sun, like everything else, is full of
it,
and
if
you just
know Madame's secret, you can help yourself freely. To
do this, you must, while
it
is
daylight, describe
a
circle
with the body, moving from east to west, and you can,
with each breath, literally draw "Prana" from the sun
in the form of heat. Empty the lungs completely each
time, inhale vigorously, and concentrate on drawing in
solar energy and storing
it
in the solar plexus. If you
wish to send waves all over the body, say, "Solar energy
up the spine and over the body." Solar energy may be
used in many ways; for instance,
it
is
excellent (so she
said) for cultivating executive ability. The magnetism
obtained from the sun may be used as you imagine
yourself
a
magnet. You can throw out circles of mag
netic thought waves that will go to the persons you
mean them for. And as you concentrate on your
thought waves, you will feel vibrations from those who
are being drawn to you. This
is,
indeed, mental tele
pathy. You can use this means to concentrate for suc
cess.
And
if
you find all this difficult to follow, dear reader,
don't blame me, for
I
have merely reported the gist of
what was said, in Madame's actual phraseology. She
admitted freely, by the way, that her methods and teach
ings were in part adapted from Yogi philosophy, but
were "much better suited to American minds."
The session culminated in some demonstrations and
testimonials. Three members of the audience vouch
safed the information that they were suffering respec
tively from "eye trouble," "dizzy feelings," and "sour
18 Psychological Racketeers
stomach." After a little urging from Madame, they
went to the platform for healing. "Prana" was to make
them well; and, "for greater power and quickness," the
audience and Madame were obligingly to supply the
"Prana." We breathed and we concentrated, and we
concentrated and we breathed. We sent "Prana" to our
solar plexuses, and from our solar plexuses we sent it
"in healing waves" impartially to the lady with the
troubled eyes, the dizzy gentleman, and the ensoured
one.
"Visualize them in perfect health," cried Madame to
us, and, with elephantine sprightliness, to the trio on the
platform, "Have faith and health shall be yours!"
And theirs it was in a remarkable short time. At
least, one of the sufferers began to testify in a hoarse
and excited voice that he felt much better already.
There was a ripple of excitement as the drab little man
recounted in rather unpleasant detail the history of his
afflicted digestive tract, which, it appeared, had been
lying down on the job for many a long year.
"She made me well when she came to town the last
time, too," he added, turning toward Madame. Evi
dently her cures carried no guarantee of permanency, but
no one seemed critical.
"You feel much better, too, don't you?" Madame
asked the other two patients, in a tone that implied there
was no doubt about it.
"Yes," responded one rather vacantly.
"I think so," answered the other somewhat uncertainly
and looking doubtful.
The "Applied Psychologist" 19
"Of course you do," quickly cried Madame as she
hurried them off the platform, "and you'll feel better still
tomorrow."
There was one casualty reported. A woman in the
audience told how she had tried to heal her daughter
some months earlier & la Madame's method, and how she
had taken the pain right out of the girl—but into her
own body. Madame declared that this was because the
woman's healing power was very great but "too nega
tive." She was given directions for positive healing.
"Now we'll say the 'Ooms,'
"
Madame continued, ex
plaining to those who had "not yet found the true way"
that "Oom," or "Ah-oom," is the word for God in any
language.
We rose and gurgled through a series of long drawn-
out "Oo-ooms," which sounded like a cross between a
thunder storm and the mooing of a herd of cows. We
followed this up by going into "the Silence." This, I
found out, is a mystical relationship with the Deity,
achieved by relaxing, breathing deeply, and concentrat
ing on a mentally pronounced "Oom." It was well,
Madame said, at the same time to direct power to the
mid-brain, or optic thalamus.
But I could stand no more. So this was psychology!
"Come," I said to my student companion, "let's get
out of here. I'm sure I'm suffering from an overdose of
'Prana' in my optic thalamus."
At the door we happened upon a friend of mine, also
making her escape.
"Wasn't it weird and wonderful!" she exclaimed as
20 Psychological Racketeers
we walked along together. "She's the wildest 'psychol
ogist' I've come across yet. I go to hear this sort of
thing now and again because it's so amusing. —Some
times it's pathetic, though. Take the case of that little
man who just testified so enthusiastically. I know for a
fact he's been 'cured' —temporarily—by four different
'psychologists.' He has quite a history. In his young
manhood he was converted to religion in a very emo
tional way, and decided he ought to be a missionary in
some far-off country. But the idea quite overwhelmed
him. He began to develop symptoms of all kinds that
kept him from leaving home. A good illustration of
what you real psychologists call 'defense mechanisms,' I
suppose. He used to go to doctors at first, but was much
disgusted because they never could find anything wrong
with him physically and said his troubles were all in his
mind. Of late years he's taken to 'applied psychology.'
He doesn't stop with the free lectures but spends his old
mother's none too plentiful savings on 'treatments' and
'courses.'
"
CHAPTER II
WE DECIDE TO STUDY "APPLIED
PSYCHOLOGISTS"
After that evening's experience I soon learned that
there was a great deal of popular interest in these "ap
plied psychologists," and that there were many persons
who supposed that psychology as taught in the colleges
and as taught by the traveling "applied psychologists"
was one and the same thing. The latter were reported
to have said so emphatically. I decided to study the
situation; and to keep a record, for an entire year, of
their activities and of other evidences of such "psychol
ogy" in our college town, a place with a population of
some sixty thousand. If the kind and amount of alleged
psychology circulated in one small city could be found
out precisely, that would probably give a fairly repre
sentative picture of the state of affairs throughout our
United States.
Who were these "psychologists"? Had they ever
any justifiable claims to learning and wisdom, or were
they just racketeers with another dodge for fleecing the
public? How much good or harm were they doing?
Why were people drawn to them? What were the mo
mentous truths they were proclaiming? Was it all as
21
22 Psychological Racketeers
absurd as the lesson on "Prana"? And would it not be
well for me, as a college professor of psychology, to find
out in detail just what was being done in the name of
psychology? If the college instructor meant one thing
by the word, and the world at large meant something
else, perhaps it was time to make clear that there was a
difference of understanding. It might also be a good
idea to explain the college psychologist's views on some
subjects talked about by this other sort of "psychologist."
So with these questions and possibilities in mind I
went to work. Presently I found I was not only learning
a great deal about "applied psychologists," but that I
was likewise getting a new and vivid insight into human
nature in general. Needless to say, the process was al
ways enlivened by the "psychologist's" unconscious
humor. . With his fifty-seven varieties of tricks and non
sense, he just naturally can't help being funny. As for
his technique in selling his product, it is more than that
—it is art itself.
As my investigation progressed, I became more and
more amazed at the amount of this kind of psychology,
the duration of its success, and the range of its influence.
It was not only the neurotic failures and the unintelli
gent who succumbed, but business and professional men
and women prominent in the community. Our family
dentist, who was outstanding in his profession and in the
town's worthwhile activities, was discovered to have in
dulged in several "courses." The well-to-do grocer next
door to me had given his ardent support, financial and
otherwise, to a recently visiting "psychologist." The
Study of the "Applied Psychologist" 23
high-school teacher living across the street boasted of her
autographed copy of a curious effusion entitled Psychol
ogy and the Seeking Soul, bought from an "applied psy
chologist." The Lutheran minister happened to mention
his interest in, and ownership of, several books from a
similar source. A society leader, wife of the town's fore
most architect, admitted having paid nearly eight hun
dred dollars for "psychological treatments" (which did
not prove successful) for her paralytic daughter. The
Business and Professional Women's Club had not long
before taken a "course in applied psychology" en masse.
A well-known and highly respected business man, who
had been badly swindled in a large-sized scheme for
psychologizing the world, was, however, the most volu
ble on the subject.
"If this isn't psychology, why don't you people in the
colleges tell us what the real stuff is? There are lots of
people like myself who feel that they might use psy
chology to advantage in everyday business. We would
like to improve both ourselves and our businesses. And
you want something to put some pep into you once in a
while, to make you feel you really can do what you want
to."
The afore-mentioned dentist said that the words of a
lady psychologist some years earlier had given him his
real start toward success.
"But," he added, being more skeptically inclined than
most, "you can't take everything they tell you. She told
us that her hair had grown white before she took up
psychology, and that she 'willed' it black again after
24 Psychological Racketeers
wards. Just the same, I'm strong for them, for she did
me a lot of good."
The successful woman proprietor of a women's ap
parel shop also attributed her success to "applied psy
chology." In her case, it was a much advertised corres-
podence course, or "system." The same system was first
brought to the attention of the department of psychology
at the college by an old man of eighy-five, who lived in
a small nearby suburb. He made us a special visit one
day to tell us that this psychology course had solved all
his problems; had given him health, long life, prosperity,
and an understanding of "Universal Mind." He wanted
our students to learn of the system, of its wonderful
message. He was very evidently sincere. He offered to
send free typed copies to all who would study them faith
fully and practice the exercises.
Evidence from more remote quarters, of the present
deep interest in "psychology," was not lacking. For in
stance, my brother, an electrical engineer and inventor
living in a distant city, sent me a letter that had been
written to him by a man of his acquaintance and vicin
ity, also an engineer. I quote:
"Wonder if you can spare enough of your valuable
time to answer a very unusual question —What, in your
opinion, is the most significant discovery of this modern
age? . . .
"Psychology tells us that THIS is the greatest dis
covery of modern times —that every man can call upon
the Life Principle at will; that it is as much the servant
of his mind as was ever Aladdin's fabled 'Genie-of-the
Study of the "Applied Psychologist" 25
lamp' of old; that he has but to understand it and work
in harmony with it to get from it anything he may need
—health or happiness, riches or success.
"What I am trying to ask is simply this: What part
do you believe practical psychology plays in modern
business? What part has it played in the moulding of
your life?"
Because of these and other proofs of popular interest
and approval, I have given a great deal more attention
to the matter than I at first intended. The statements
made in the following account are exact statements, not
approximations or guesses, and evidence has been care
fully gathered and compiled. Names, of course, have
been camouflaged, except in the case of one notorious in
dividual. My records show that itinerant psychologists
have appeared in our town at about the rate of one every
four or five weeks, so that, with two cases reported from
elsewhere, there has been collected in all rather full in
formation concerning fourteen lecturers. I shall try to set
down an account of these, their methods and credentials,
and what they say and put in print. In addition, some
thing will be said later of other psychological gleanings,
particularly of correspondence courses and published
"systems of psychology" purporting to present the facts
of "scientific psychology" to the public.
I have myself heard nine of the fourteen psychologists
lecture, questioned them personally when possible, and
have taken notes on what they had to say. One other
has been reported on by a fellow faculty member, and
the remaining four by advanced students at the college.
26 Psychological Racketeers
Two of the cases reported by students were of lecturers
operating in neighboring large cities, men who have not,
as far as is known, made their appearance in our town.
They both have unusually well worked out systems —
particularly from the standpoint of financial returns to
themselves —and from what has been learned of their
activities seem to prefer larger places, where the pros
pects of money gains are no doubt greater. A number
of other students have contributed notes taken, at my
suggestion, during lectures given by some of the psychol
ogists investigated.
To get an adequate knowledge of the "applied psy
chologist" and his teachings, it did not seem necessary
to take a complete course. Generally we heard a par
ticular lecurer not more than twice. But I have had
long interviews with six persons I judged competent to
report, who experienced full courses from different ones
of our group, and who have added details of class pro
cedure. All six declare that the courses are as described
in the lecturers' synopses, circulars, and books, to be dis
cussed in later chapters. And of course there have been
multitudinous conversations of a less searching and
formal nature, which have been illuminating and have
sometimes pointed the way to further material. In this
manner, for instance, I learned of two different "societies
of applied psychology," which arose in the wake of trav
eling lecturers. I have personally attended meetings of
both, for pains were taken to follow every clue. Such
societies are numerous and thriving, and you will prob
ably discover them in your community, too.
Study of the "Applied Psychologist" 27
Documentary evidence in regard to our group is plenti
ful, for it was enthusiastically gathered —and hilariously
enjoyed —by us all. There are circulars describing
courses from every lecturer but one, about whom there
is,
however, unusually complete information from other
sources; a number of synopses of regular courses and
outlines of correspondence courses also offered by mem
bers of the group; ten books (four of which might better
be called "booklets") and three magazines, of their au
thorship; some "Character Analyses" of persons known
to me, by
a
"Psychologist and Vocational Expert"; an
ever-increasing collection of newspaper advertisements
and reports
;
my file of personal correspondence concern
ing credentials, endorsements, methods, etc., and even
some letters from the psychologists themselves; and
a
great deal of material prodigally distributed by them,
such as handbills, business cards, brochures, posters,
postals advertising courses, and advertisements of books,
correspondence courses, special lectures, etc. (One man
went so far as to present his audiences with copies of a
poem of his which was intended as
a
fountainhead of per
petual inspiration and had "directions for use" printed
below it.)
There
is
also the American Medical Association's pub
lication Nostrums and Quackery, which gives
a
signifi
cant history of one of our subjects before he embarked
on his psychological ventures. Then, too,
I
have the re
sults of
a
questionnaire
I
issued to some college classes
and
a
number of parents and "housemothers" of college
students, as well as to the town's Business and Profes
28 Psychological Racketeers
sional Women's Club, asking about their experiences
with, and interest in, "applied psychology."
Later, when the special group is disposed of, the evi
dence on hand regarding published "systems" of so-called
psychology will also be given.
Over and above all this, I have reluctantly discarded
most of a mass of more or less relevant material to a
large extent donated by friends and helpful students.
It is so assorted and unwieldly that it must be largely
ignored, though it undoubtedly contributes to an under
standing of what often passes for psychology. Roughly
classified the collection consists of: (I)seven other books
on "applied psychology" and six different kinds of mag
azines devoted to the subject (twenty-seven issues of
one); (2) advertisements, newspaper accounts, and
written reports regarding individuals always designated
as "psychologists" or "doctors of psychology," and at the
same time variously described as "psychics," "psycho
analysts," "astro-psychoanalysts," "phrenologists," "phy
siognomists," "graphologists," "numerologists," "hypno
tists," "spiritualists," "healers," "mental mystics,"
"mind-readers," "mediums," "mental scientists," "menti-
culturists," "palmists," "crystal-gazers," "astrologers,"
or what not; and (3) a quanity of somewhat indescrib
able oddities, including a sample of ground "coffee made
from prunes and cereals" invented and sold by a "spir
itist," a horoscope for which one self-supporting woman
student had trustfully paid ten hard-earned dollars, and
a most alarming newspaper portrait of a very cross-eyed
man who "is astounding the world with his new philos
Study of the "Applied Psychologist" 29
ophy," which he is presenting in lessons on "conscious
eyes, sub-conscious eyes, and super-conscious eyes;
salesman's eyes, successful eyes, hypnotic eyes; sexual
eyes —no woman can afford to miss this lesson; and
psychological eyes;" as well as several other kinds of
eyes, each lesson fifty cents only.
I
The first task is to consider the fourteen psycholo
gists especially investigated. Their methods and gen
eral procedures are so similar that it is easy to discuss
individuals collectively, with the exception of two
women. These women are not, perhaps, just like "ap
plied psychologists" in the usual popular sense. At least
their practices are somewhat different, so they will be
considered separately. What immediately follows, then,
applies to twelve cases unless it is otherwise specified.
CHAPTER III
HOW THEY PUT IT OVER
In the large cities one may see billboards advertising
"applied," or "practical," psychologists, but in this
town they were satisfied to announce themselves
through the newspapers or by means of small posters.
However, in two cases at least, these methods were sup
plemented by more personal appeals, for two of my
older students, middle-aged housewives, showed me pos
tals they had received in regard to different psycholo
gists.
"I have just been to hear Dr. Victor Hardboyld,"
was stated on one card, which went on to urge attend
ance at that gentleman's "splendid lectures and demon
strations." No name was signed. The card was so clev
erly worded and such a skillful piece of multigraphing
that the recipient had actually supposed it to be a typed
message from a member of the college faculty anxious
to share the psychological treats offered at the free lec
tures described!
The general procedure of these traveling lecturers was
to give from three to eight free evening lectures —us
ually there were five or six—followed by at least one
tuitional course, which consisted of anywhere from six
SO
How They Put It Over 31
to eighteen lessons. However, the single course of
"eighteen lessons" discovered, turned out to be much
less imposing than it sounded, for it took only six eve-
i nings. This practice of grouping two or three "class
lessons" for one evening's presentation was quite com
mon. The lecturers do not stay long in one place, gen
erally less than two weeks, and sometimes more than
half the time is given to the free introductory lectures.
These were plainly intended to whet the appetite for
the esoteric delicacies of the tuitional course. Topics
selected were discussed with reservations and tantaliz
ing promises of complete explanation in the regular pay
classes. The same general field was covered in the pre
liminary series, and there were, as a matter of fact, gen
erous foretastes of what was to come.
At these free lectures, we had an opportunity to study
real genius in advertising. It was the psychologist's
best chance to sell himself and his wares to the dear
public. Even as we entered the door, circulars and other
advertising matter were heaped upon us by an ever-
alert "secretary" or other assistant, who often pointedly
suggested that we might like to give some to our friends.
The alluring titles of the free lectures always caught
the eye and invited further patronage. Here are some
that show true advertising artistry: "Miracles of the
Mind," "Your Imprisoned Angel," "Prosperity Attain
ment an Assured Science," "Breaking the Bars of Fate,"
"Your Unopened Mental Mail," "How to Make Dol
lars Seek You," "Creative Psychology or Why Handi
capped?" "Backbone or Wishbone?"
32 Psychological Racketeers
There was, besides, much advertising of the free lec
tures from the platform and through the newspapers.
Indeed, one sometimes got the impression at first that
all the lectures were to be free, the generous outpour
ings of a philanthropic soul struggling in the service of
humanity, as it were. There were tempting additional
gratuitous attractions in many cases, too. Six of the
twelve psychologists advertised that they would give
actual demonstrations of healing free after each free
lecture. Seven would analyze character (one through
handwriting) and indicate vocational fitness, three
boasting "life-size charts," and another "unique black
board illustrations," to show the secrets of character
analysis. One would have a "drawing for free class
work" —the lucky number to win a regular course
gratis. Another lecturer was to be accompanied by his
wife, "the World's Greatest Genuine Telepathist."—
"Ask her anything.—She knows."
There were five women in our entire group of four
teen, and nine men, but, in the case just referred to, the
husband shared honors to some extent with his omnis
cient spouse. Often a particularly vigilant "secretary"
was discovered to be the lecturer's marital partner.
It is hard to say which made the more striking im
pression at these free lectures, the male or female of
the psychological species. In costume, of course, the
women lecturers, with their gay and often fantastically
designed evening gowns, eclipsed the men—that
is,
all
except the Hindu "Mystic Psychologist." He was
a
riot of color in his yellow and purple satin robes and
How They Put It Over 33
turban. We leaned forward in our chairs when he was
first led forth by a master of ceremonies who explained
somewhat at length that the audience was going to hear
a "psychologist, metaphysician, and seer," who would
give "positively the best course ever offered." The in
troducer reinforced his remarks by rendering a selec
tion on the piano, but even that did not disturb our
absorbed contemplation of that gorgeous son of India.
The other men compensated for their unexciting Oc
cidental attire in divers ways. The gentleman who was
going to give a "Super-Course" on "How to Crystalize
and Capitalize 'The Self,'
"
radiated pep and person
ality all over the lecture hall. He was animation itself
with his aggressive friendliness and broad and beatific
smile, which never slipped for an instant. Another en
veloped himself thickly in an atmosphere of authority
and power. He was a master of effect. His stage was
carefully set—flowers, dim lights, soft music —for a
dramatic entry. With solemn deliberateness he walked
forward and opened a Bible, from which he read a pas
sage in deep, orotund voice. When he had finished, one
of his retinue of reverential attendants removed the big
book, more lights came on, and he commenced his own
address. But before long, this was interrupted by a
slight commotion at the back of the hall. A boy in the
Western Union Telegraph uniform was seen hurrying
toward the platform. With all eyes upon him, the psy
chologist took the proffered envelope and opened it. His
face lighted as he read, and, with just the right air of
reluctance, he said that he supposed he must explain —
34 Psychological Racketeers
it was a message of appreciation from a former student
who could not keep from expressing his gratitude.
My neighbors in the audience were enormously im
pressed by this evidence of devotion. I would have
been, too, if I had not learned earlier that this was a
frequently used device of his, nicely timed for an ap
propriate moment. I had also learned that some of the
persons who were to be so effectually "healed" later in
the evening were "plants," who were well paid for their
help in putting over a good show.
And that reminds me of the female psychologist who
received so many beautiful flowers.
"From a dear lady I was the means of healing," she
would murmur emotionally when the bouquets were
brought to the platform. "My dear students! They
are so grateful and loyal!"
But some one at her hotel chanced to see the florist's
bill and unkindly spread the news. She had sent her
self the floral tributes!
Answering questions from the platform was a fre
quent practice of the lecturers which seemed to give
them a good deal of added prestige in the eyes of the
audience. Sometimes questions were answered immedi
ately when asked; sometimes the questioners privately
wrote them on slips of paper and dropped them into a
box provided for the purpose at the door, and they were
dealt with at the next meeting. Here is one collection
I heard discussed:
(1) Why will nostril breathing cause insanity in
Occidentals?
How They Put It Over 35
(2) Why do sounds reverberate in the subconscious?
(3) Can I heal indefinitely?
(4) Why is a person troubled with spells of depres
sion?
(5) Why do some people hear every sound both far
and near?
(6) Is there any relation between success and clear
ideas?
Such questions furnish an illuminating commentary
on the mental processes of that audience. I do not feel
competent to report the answers in great detail, for my
impressions are too vague and notes too sketchy. It may
be said, however, that the psychologist replied, accord
ing to these notes, that the reason for insanity due to
nostril breathing, in Occidentals, was that "things can
be misapplied —they must be taught by a teacher"; that
one could heal indefinitely "if responsive"; that the
remedy for depression was to "go out and buy a pair of
shoe-strings," the idea being to take one's mind off one's
troubles in this way; and that there was a relation be
tween success and clear ideas. (The relationship was
not explained.) Whatever else the psychologist may
have said has escaped my memory and my recording
pencil. I remember clearly, though, how seriously the
audience accepted these weighty explanations.
Promises of character reading and vocational analy
sis after the free lectures, were, like promises of heal
ing, great drawing cards. I think of the heavy-set psy
chologist with the slightly Yiddish accent, who talked
for over two hours before he began the analyses for
36 Psychological Racketeers
which the audience was waiting with obvious impatience.
At the meeting before he had volubly promised that if
parents would bring their children, he would read the
children's characters and disclose their vocational apti
tudes. A great many children appeared, some very
young. As the evening advanced, some were completely
overcome by discomfort or sleepiness and had to be
borne out by weary-looking parents. (Could it be, I
wondered, that the long discourse was calculated to
eliminate an undesirable number of applicants?)
Finally the great man called for subjects, lined them
up in a row, and selected a boy who appeared to be
about eleven or twelve, a restless, rather untidy-looking
lad. The psychologist went up to him, scrutinized him
hard, stepped back, then with head on one side, eyed
the boy again. The latter gave a foolish, self-conscious
grin.
"Come here, son, come here," said the man, with
pompous gravity. "I must examine your head. Phre
nology tells us that man's faculties may be disclosed by
the contours of the skull."
Gravely he felt the boy's head. Then still more
gravely he walked up and down, apparently meditating
deeply, hands clasped behind him. (He looked, I could
not help thinking, for all the world like Felix of movie
fame!)
"This boy," he finally announced to the mother, "is
alert, quick, active, firm, a leader of the gang. He is a
good boy but reckless and not industrious. You will
need to develop industry in him. He is generous and
How They Put It Over 37
has a good intellect. He is finely organized." (At this
point the psychologist felt the boy's head again.) "You
will have to drill a money sense into him. He will make
a success in telegraphy and electricity and other de
partments of applied technique, but it would take too
long to go into that tonight."
Mother and son seemed well satisfied with this diag
nosis and prognosis. As for me, I was busy analyzing
the analysis. "Alert, quick, active, reckless" —that
could be guessed from the boy's actions. "A leader,
firm, a good boy, generous, good intellect, finely organ
ized"—all this would please the mother undoubtedly.
And what mother would believe otherwise? As for "not
industrious," well, few boys are industrious. "Success
in telegraphy and electricity" —the Morse code and
things electrical are typical boy interests. And "other
departments of applied technique" —what meaning is
there in that sounding phrase?
Four other character readings were given but all
briefer than this. The second child, a little girl, was
declared to have "a harmonious temperament but with
a strain of melancholy. Never intimidate her. Develop
precision in her." The parents of the third child were
advised to "send her to bed happy always. Be kind to
her. She seems happy now." The next girl showed "a
balance of faculties and would be easily controlled by
affection. The use of force would bring rebellion. De
velop self-reliance in her." In the last case the child
was said to have "an active memory and vigor" com
bined with "constitutional strength and power." These
38 Psychological Racketeers
were the only points made, except that all were found
to have good intellects. Feeling the children's heads,
meditative pauses, irrelevant asides to the children or
their parents, and rhetorical padding of the ideas men
tioned, eked out the meagerness of these reports. The
psychologist seemed to forget the vocational aspect with
the later cases. Finally he declared that lack of time
prevented his going further.
The parents and the audience in general appeared
much pleased with his performance. I need not presume
to comment again. The "analyses" speak for them
selves. I would like, however, to cite one further in
stance of a vocational reading. In this case the psy
chologist was a woman. She called for volunteers from
the audience.
"Who would like to find out his vocational fitness?
I can read you at sight," she cried.
A young man of twenty years or thereabouts stepped
up. The lady scanned him attentively from head to
foot. A pause. Then her eyes traveled back even more
slowly as she examined her subject from the tips of his
somewhat worn shoes to the crown of his rather nonde
script head.
"You are fitted for business or science," she said
slowly. "Ah,—I have it ! You will succeed in scientific
business —scientific business."
And with this oracular utterance, she ended her dem
onstration, leaving me to marvel at her easy achieve
ment of such a clever generality. "Scientific business" 1
Why, that describes hundreds of occupations!
CHAPTER IV
WHAT PRICE PSYCHOLOGY
Invariably a collection was taken at the "free" lec
tures, which was referred to as a "silver offering" when
the lecturer solicited it on the ground that he had to
pay rent for the hall. If the place was not well filled,
he was apt to add, in a tone of grieved amazement, that
he had never before had so small an audience. The
collection was always taken before there were any char
acter analyses or demonstrations of healing, etc.
Fees for the tuitional courses ranged from ten to fifty
dollars in so far as could be discovered. But the lec
turers seemed loath to make public announcement of
their charges at the free lectures. Perhaps there was a
fear of frightening away insecure prospects by a pre
mature mention of money. Only two psychologists ac
tually printed their fees on their circulars; one, of
twenty-five dollars ("two in a family, forty dollars"),
and the other, "a special price of fifteen dollars for this
class only, for the purpose of giving all a chance to take
the instructions, the regular price being twenty-five dol
lars everywhere." However, information—obtained
largely through personal consultation —is at hand in
regard to nine of the twelve cases. Only one person
39
40 Psychological Racketeers
offered a course for ten dollars; three charged fifteen;
four others, twenty-five, while one of these also gave a
special "rejuvenation course" for thirty-five dollars;
and a certain spellbinder who was most gloriously un
hampered by any knowledge of collegiate psychology,
calmly extracted fifty dollars per capita. I learned, on
the authoritative statement of the manager of the hall,
that this lecturer netted a cool three thousand dollars in
his two-weeks stay.
The tuitional class attendance in towns of this size
is likely to be at least fifty or more, if the lecturer knows
the game at all; so that even those who sell their es
timable services for a mere twenty-five dollars a course,
as many do, are pretty sure to make between twelve
and thirteen hundred dollars anyway for each series of
talks. In the big cities the proceeds far outstrip this
figure, of course, and are frequently enormous. And
don't forget that it is easy to take in at least two, and
possibly three, places a month. I use the words "take
in" advisedly. Oh, it's a great racket, certainly. But
there is more to it than the lecture levy, as you shall
hear.
At the free lectures, it was not infrequently suggested
that one "consult the secretary at the door" in regard
to rates, etc. Once while doing so, I was inveigled into
leaving my name and address. During the next five
months, I received from this psychologist a series of
eight "follow-up" letters (with numerous copies of tes
timonials enclosed) advertising his new books and cor
respondence courses "at special rates," a forty page
What Price Psychology 41
booklet called Making Your Dreams Come True de
scribing these courses, and two quite lengthy outlines of
less recent correspondence courses.
In fact, class fees are by no means the only sources
of revenue. All of the twelve but one had at least one
side line. They sold everything from shares of stock in
a motion picture company for the production of psy
chological films, to phonograph records to aid one in
"going into the Silence." Another "psychologist" I
know of, not of this group, sold oil stock — until she
came into serious conflict with the law.
Most of the lecturers had written books, copies of
which were for sale at the door. One saw such tempt
ing titles as Within the Holy of Holies, or Attitudes of
Attainment, Joy is Perfection, Practical Hypnotism,
The Alchemical Laboratory of the Mind, The Call of
the Soul, The Nine Primary Functions of the Mind, etc.
The last is described within as "A University Course of
Psychological Instruction," and is a series of nine paper-
covered "books," or, more accurately, booklets, selling
for five dollars. A single booklet could be purchased
for one dollar. I paid my dollar and now own a work
called Memory, that is extraordinarily different from
anything else I have ever seen in the same field. At
least the author knows the advantages of brevity, for he
has covered this tremendous subject in thirty-eight small
pages of coarse print widely spaced.
One could buy collections of poems, also, by those
who were poets as well as psychologists. Books on sex
might be had but seem to be expensive, for a volume
42 Psychological Racketeers
on psychology and sex was found listed at twenty-five
dollars. "Applied psychology" comes high whether in
speech or print. One man charged eight dollars for his
book giving an account of his course, which book he
very nearly forced upon students in his class. Four of
the psychologists sponsored monthly magazines devoted
to "applied psychology." These magazines featured
the psychologist selling them and were edited and pub
lished by him.
Half of the group advertised special extra lectures or
lecture courses, over and above the regular classes—
side-shows, as it were, to catch any extra cash one might
have left over, or to draw the piker who wouldn't pro
duce the price of the main performance. For example,
a lecture on "The Magic of the Voice" (described in
the circular as "a practical, wonderful lesson, accompa
nied by a simple formula which will assure you of pop
ularity on all occasions") was advertised for one dol
lar; one called "Your Psycho-Analysis and Vocational
Guidance," for the same sum; a series of four "After
noon Vital Success Lectures, admission each lecture
fifty cents"; and special "sex talks" were one dollar in
one case and five dollars in two others. One man's five-
dollar "special sex lesson" was, however, also part of
his regular course and free to members of the class—
five dollars to non-members. This was the only instance
when it was permissible to take a single lesson, or part,
of a regular course. Manuscripts of extra courses not
given at the time were sometimes sold, e. g., a "Special
Course of Instruction in Self-unfoldment," price three
What Price Psychology 43
dollars, but one dollar to students in the author's regular
class. Allusion must also be made to the psychologist
who, in addition to his regular activities, belonged to
"The New Age Evangelism League," which "will wel
come you as an active member and accept the initiation
fee of Ten Dollars which entitles you to any one select
ed course of instruction provided by the Lecture Bu
reau."
Private consultations, analyses, or lessons might be
had in many cases. One gentleman, for example, said
that a "type analysis" could be obtained from him for
five dollars. Another, who, according to his business
card, is a "Lecturer and Consulting Psychologist" giv
ing "Advice on Personal and Business Problems," held
office hours from "ten to five and by appointment," and
would give individual, as well as class, lessons. A lady
who made the town her headquarters for several months,
advertised a "Health Studio" where she could be con
sulted privately. But the Hindu was seemingly the
most generous, for he would, his circular stated, not only
give "Private lessons by special arrangement," but also
"Free Psychic and Spiritual advice to all needy per
sons" taking his course. Apparently some of the most
popular lecturers, who draw the largest audiences and
have numerous side lines, do not think it worth while
to give time to individual interviews.
Four of our psychological authorities declared them
selves to be presidents and founders of regular psycho
logical "Schools" or "Institutes" —of which I, alas, had
been in lamentable ignorance up to that time —and one
44 Psychological Racketeers
lady even laid claim to two. From a certain president's
"special announcement" it appears that there is little
likelihood of the world's running short of "applied psy
chologists," for a new school for their training has been
opened, where after three months of study—or six, if
one must attend night classes—the student will be ready
to enter a "lucrative profession and noble work," in
which he will be "looked up to socially.". If enrollment
was before a certain date, this course might be obtained
for a hundred dollars instead of a hundred and fifty.
Moreover, there were others in our group who mentioned
schools or institutions of a psychological nature. In an
explanatory leaflet Madame M'Ketchem asserts, though
without further particulars, that her system is "incor
porated under the laws of the State . . . and the stu
dents are organized into a school where classes are
maintained and instructions are given, until every one
has thoroughly grasped the methods and the applica
tion . . ." Still another psychologist advertised a sum
mer school for the study of psychology. And the most
ambitious of all was about to establish a "cooperative
university," part of a "City Beautiful" to be founded
in Mexico. To this haven, those who paid a thousand
dollars down could withdraw and lead an ideal exist
ence, with almost no work and marvelous opportunities
for psychological thinking.
Naturally these psychological institutions will grant
certificates and degrees. Sometimes it was made clear
that the regular class course of the traveling lecturer
should lead to other tuitional courses at these institu
What Price Psychology 45
tions, or by mail perhaps. At the completion of such
courses one would get "a beautiful Diploma" and de
gree, the D.D. degree and Ph.D. being among those
offered. One folder has a facsimile of a diploma, which
shows that a certain mind-power course "includes Ap
plied Psychology, Suggestive Therapeutics, Auto-Sug
gestion, Personal Magnetism, Mental Healing, Tele
pathic Healing, Laying on of Hands, Salesmanship, and
allied and kindred fundamental subjects." The facsimile
brings out excellently the old-English lettering of the
degree conferred, the copious ornamentation at the top
of the diploma, and the beribboned seal at the bottom
to the left of the signatures of the president and secre
tary of the institution. These signatures seem to be
followed by several degrees apiece, though not all the
letters can be made out distinctly. One degree is clearly
a "D.D.S.," however, and another a "D.C." (Do you
suppose training as a dentist and chiropractor helps this
worthy official in his psychological work?) The folder
states that one will be proud to own such a diploma and
delighted to show it to one's friends and acquaintances
when it is placed in a good frame and hung upon the
walls of one's office or home. (Yes, those are the very
words.)
Mention should finally be made of the two women
referred to earlier as rather different in their methods.
One of these describes herself not only as a psycholo
gist but as a psychoanalyst especially, and speaks of her
"studios," located in a large city, where she will hold
private interviews. She travels around from town to
46 Psychological Racketeers
town lecturing, too, but does not prefix her courses with
a free series. Some of her former students report that
she asks five hundred dollars for a private analysis fol
lowing a six-lesson course, usually at twenty-five dol
lars, but that she does not mention the five-hundred-
dollar analysis until one is well launched on the twenty-
five dollar course. Her procedure, in our town, was to
advertise herself in an address to a woman's club. No
one has been found who knows just how she gained ac
cess to the club, but the presiding officer says indig
nantly that the psychoanalyst "was forced upon her"
at the meeting. At any rate the analyst was there in a
magnificent fur coat that must have cost her the price
of several analyses. As a special favor and if the club
acted at once, she would, she said, form a class. And
sure enough, she talked them into it—at the "very spe
cial rate" of twenty dollars per person. But she de
parted eventually with some apparent irritation, for no
one consented to be privately psychoanalyzed for five
hundred dollars. The wiser psychologists learn to pare
their terms down somewhat in the smaller cities, where
lavish spending is less common.
The remaining member of the group also rejects the
method of free lectures followed by tuitional course.
For lecture purposes she frequently allies herself with
some religious organization —for instance, the Young
Men's Christian Association—but apparently depends
financially more upon private "character and vocational
analyses" and the sale of her books than upon proceeds
from lecture courses. She is very much more modest in
What Price Psychology 47
her charges than the last mentioned lecturer; her "an
alysis" and book together cost only five dollars, and I
have visited a regular course of hers when there were
"collections only." Her activities will be considered more
at length in a later chapter.
CHAPTER V
WHAT THE "APPLIED PSYCHOLOGIST"
TEACHES
The merest glance at the circulars advertising courses
proves that no matter what the cost of psychology, it is
well worth the price. "America's Foremost Exponent
of Modern Psychology" will "reveal the Secret Laws of
Success" and "the Practical Secret of Eternal Youth."
And he is not the only one who can tell great secrets,
for here is a "New World Messenger" who will divulge
"the Secrets of Superb Vitality and Dynamic Energy"
and "the Psychological Secrets of vocal freedom, mem
ory, facility, eloquence, and power in conversation and
in public speaking." "A Wonder Man" will hand you
the "Three Master-Keys to Prosperity"; and "Amazing
New Discoveries" are to be disclosed by the "Master
Mind of the New Age," along with the "Infallible For
mula for entering the Sub-conscious Mind, with an anal
ysis of the formula and definite instructions as to its use
for definite, dependable, desirable results." "Ten il
luminating lessons, never before offered the public, on
the inner art of living" will lay bare "the hidden, mys
terious impulses" leading to success or failure. One
psychologist states positively that she "is known as the
48
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 49
Best Informed, most Inspiring and Lovable Woman on
the Lecture Platform. To her the Greatest Living Am
erican said: 'I felt a great joy spring up in my heart
when I met you.' She will for the first time give to her
students the Secret of this Hidden Spring." This lady
also says that "science claims at last to have found why
we die," and that she will make known "Great Discov
eries from the Laboratories of Johns Hopkins University
and Rockefeller Institute that will transform your life.
Would you be a Modern Methuselah? Young at Sixty."
Of course you would! —Especially if you were old,
unhappy, and down on your luck. And you would
doubtless be willing to "consult your educated self-in
terest and learn how to capitalize your energy and
achieve ten times more success with one-tenth of your
present effort." You would want to know "how to avoid
letting people get your goat" and "how to live fully—
here and now." You would want "to get out of the
grip of circumstances" and "in step with success," so as
to lead "the Life Triumphant." With the knowledge
to be gotten from a certain phychologist you could "sit
in the seats of the mighty," but "without it you are a
pitiful slave." And would not you, too, dear reader,
like to know about "the science that reveals you to
yourself and opens an enchanted world more wonderful
than fairyland"?
That's it. It is a kind of fairyland or paradise (only
close at hand and easy to reach) to a half-sick, unsuc
cessful, often despairing person —and be assured there
are many such, as well as some of the more fortunate,
50 Psychological Racketeers
in these lecture halls. Poor pathetic humanity! Care
worn and disheartened but always wistfully seeking,
"trying to get out from under," as one circular puts it.
And here are these glittering promises, these skillfully
drawn pictures of joys said to be within reach —for fif
teen dollars or perhaps twenty-five. Half a dozen
lessons and presto! —the trick is turned! Drab, com
monplace lives "completely changed," made colorful,
splendid, rich in "heart's desires."
"Life is humdrum," said the high-scool teacher, ex
plaining why she took a course, "and Dr. Guy made it
seem interesting and worthwhile."
There are many like her in these classes—gray-haired,
tired-looking women who want a new panacea for living
and some to raise them in their own esteem. The psy
chologist is not blind to this fact. Here, for instance,
is an offer of a free lecture on "America's Purest Jewel,"
which is "Woman and the tremendous power she wields;
her constant endeavor in the world of thought to raise
man above conflict and war. A just valuation of her
great contributions to mankind."
There is always a flattering emphasis on self and
hitherto unappreciated personal powers. "Leam why
you are not appreciated, misunderstood." Psychology
"will not only uncover those dormant talents but will
show you how to develop them. Most of you are un
aware of the gold mine within you. Once uncovered,
this divine spark will lead you to the very pinnacle of
success, health, and happiness." "Take this course . . .
to make you great." "YOU! What do you know about
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 51
YOURSELF?" stands out boldly on one circular, which
goes on to say that the "Exponent of a new gospel of
living . . . will teach you in his lectures and lessons
how to develop your Marvellous Inner Resources." And
another, more subtle, "how to use that Something which
distinguishes you." All this is deliciously gratifying to
natural egoism. You, you are at last discovered to be
somebody! You are powerful. You can "master fate."
"The most concerned person in the world today is
YOU," states one psychologist in confidential vein.
"What are you going to do about it?"
The only solution
is,
you gather, to take an "instruc
tive, dynamic, 'self-producing course." "How to truly
Evaluate yourself"
is
of "priceless value to you," so
that there shall be "self-knowledge, self-reliance, and self-
expression." Then at last will come "the Beautiful
Realization" of yourself and all your hopes.
To this end the psychologist gives his analyses, tells
"the strongest and. the weakest point in your personality,"
"how you can make your personality count for more,"
and what
is
"necessary for greater success." More
over, he teaches his students to analyze themselves by
explaining "what the contour of the head denotes," "what
the eyes reveal," the "significance of color," etc., or
through self-analysis in other ways. Students also learn
"how to know the underlying principles and motives of
each person" and "how to read persons at a glance."
There
is
references to "types," especially "the five great
biological types." It
is
necessary, for example, to un
derstand your own type in order to make the proper
52 Psychological Racketeers
vocational adjustment. "My Psychological Lesson
Course," says one lecturer, "covers everything which you
need to know to enable you to live up to the perfection
of your special type of personality."
The circulars hint at important explanations to be
given by the psychologist in this search for "personality
and power." "The many ways of the subconscious self"
are to be "explored and explained," for there are "mys
terious sources of power, the great inner self with its hid
den impulses and motives," and you should learn "to
develop the magnetic vibrations of this inner power."
Suggestion is to come to your aid. The great law of
vibration is to be invoked. ("Everything is what it
is by its rate of vibrations," state some student notes in
my possession.) You can learn "how to vibrate the God
Center," "the Law of Vibration in business success,"
"how to develop personality by vibration," etc. Besides
"concentrating," "visualizing," and "going into the Si
lence," you can "think for Victory," and through sugges
tion "recharge the mental and physical faculties in sleep."
The "symbolism of dreams" and the "interpretation of
positive and negative intuitional dreams" can be learned
from the psychologist. You can listen to the "voice
of Intuition" and be vastly helped by "Inspiration."
You can, for example, learn to use "the intuitional
method for character reading," "develop inspirational
drawing, speaking, music, writing" (even "writing and
selling of the short story"), or get "Inspirational Knowl
edge." Or you can "train the Subconscious Mind" —
that "Modern Miracle Worker" —"to reach out to the
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches S3
Super-Conscious Mind to gain Knowledge." Knowl
edge, by the way, is often referred to as "original," the
idea apparently being that it is directly God-given and
can be originated from within in some mystical, occult
way.
The "power of thought"
is,
naturally, the basic, all-
pervasive concept from which these others are born. The
general underlying argument seems to be that
a
well,
confident, achieving self can be developed through
thought power primarily. We come upon such expres
sions as "the healing power of right thought," "the mind
and its wonder-working powers," "how your thought
brings success, friends, prosperity, and love," and "ac
tions speak louder than words but are not half as power
ful as thoughts." The advent of the radio has been
a
real boon to the "applied psychologist," for he finds
therein both an illustration and
a
proof for his explana
tions of thought transference. You can have "a Victori
ous Radio Mind" and "make your mind both
a
receiv
ing and sending station." Since other persons may be
equally well informed on the uses of thought, you must
be taught "how to protect yourself against the mental
influence of others." (Sometimes there must be terrific
battles of thoughts, and
I
wonder just what assures vic
tory to either side.) Thought power can bring you
"peace, poise, power, plenty, prosperity." —But enough
of this general reiteration! You must have guessed by
this time, reader, that "applied psychology" will keep
you from being "sad, sensitive, and unsuccessful," will
give you "Vigorous, Vibrant Aliveness" and "the Secret
54 Psychological Racketeers
of Success" or "the Secret of Superiority" or any other
alliterative joy you may choose.
The surest and quickest way to see the scope of "ap
plied psychology" is to study attentively the circulars I
have been quoting, which advertise the free lectures and
regular pay classes. Here we have a brief printed state
ment. Examination of these circulars shows that the
general subject matter of all is the same, and that the
same identical words and phrases occur repeatedly. Now
if we count these recurrent topics, they can be listed
in a frequency table that shows plainly what the "applied
psychologist" is talking about and where his emphasis
lies. In the table to follow all topics appearing in three
or more circulars have been included. Effort has been
made to retain the original expressions —though without
the intriguing verbiage in which they are often em
bedded —hence the conglomeration of single words and
phrases.
One psychologist had, necessarily, to be omitted be
cause there is no circular for him. Nor is the Hindu
"Mystic Psychologist" included. This is because it
seems better to keep to the American brand. It must
be remembered, however, that Hindu "psychologists"—
"Swamis" and the like—are quite numerous in this
country. The topics in the following distribution have
been taken, then, from the circulars of ten psychologists:
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 55
TABLE I
Chief Topics Number of Circulars
in Circulars Containing this Topic
How to get what you want 10 (100%)
Success 10
Health 10
Happiness 10
(i
u
Money, financial success, or wealth 9 (90%)
How to waken (or develop) your hidden
powers 9
The Subconscious Mind 9
M
M
Concentration 8 (80%)
How to be popular 8
Magnetism 8
How to get rid of fear, or fear and worry .8 "
How to heal yourself and others 8
"
Rejuvenation 8
Prosperity 8
How to develop personality 7 (70%)
Suggestion (and sometimes autosugges
tion) 7
"
Memory training 7
"
Will power 6 (60%)
Business success 6
"
Health, happiness, success (grouped in a
phrase) 6
"
56 Psychological Racketeers
TABLE I (continued)
Chief Topics Number of Circulars
in Circulars Containing this Topic
Power 6
"
How to read people at sight 6
"
Telepathy 6
"
How to find, or understand, God or re
ligion 6
"
Character analysis by lecturer 6
"
Scientific exercises 6
"
How to make your dreams come true ... 5 (50%)
How to attract what you want (the Law of
Attraction) 5
"
Love 5
Imagination 5
"
(Original) knowledge 5
"
Self-confidence, or self-reliance 5
"
Salesmanship 5
"
How to get rid of complexes (or repres
sions) 5
"
How to cure bad habits 5
"
Vocational guidance (by lecturer, or by
self alone using lecturer's methods) .5 "
Types of people 5
"
Sex information 5
"
Glands (endocrine) 5
"
What you should eat, or scientific eating . . 5
"
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 57
Scientific breathing 4 (40%)
How to get rid of fatigue 4
"
How to grow brains 4
Mastery of fate 4
Ability at public speaking and in conver
sation 4
"
How to attract friends 4
Psycho-analysis 4
Self-analysis 4
Interpretation of dreams 4
Visualization 4
The Silence 4 "
Peace and contentment 4
Poise 4
Harmony 4
Domestic happiness 4
Character development 4
The Law of Vibration 3 (30%)
Sleep 3
How to cure nervousness 3
Emotional control 3
How to protect yourself against the mental
influence of others 3
How to be attractive to the opposite sex . . 3
How to be beautiful 3
How to know whom to marry 3
"
58 Psychological Racketeers
How to help children (through suggestion,
etc.) 3
Long life 3
Authorship 3
Inspiration 3
Intuition 3
Prayer 3
Abundance 3
No doubt some of these terms would occur in more
circulars if they were not almost synonymous with others
in the list already employed to convey much the same
idea. For instance, the only person who makes no men
tion of money, wealth, or financial success includes "pros
perity" and "success." Or else an idea, e.g., the awakening
of hidden powers, may be implied without being overtly
expressed. However, in my compilation I have made
practically no attempt to interpret, but have merely
quoted the most usual expression in its simplest form.
Substitutes have been accepted only occasionally, when
it seemed perfectly clear that they meant the same, e.g.,
"how to realize your desires" was accepted as the equiva
lent of "how to get what you want." The comparative
brevity of some of the circulars would also have a limit
ing effect on numbers. And of course the subject of
methods and means must be slighted by the psychologist
in his circulars, for naturally he deems it wise to dwell on
the glorious end-results and keep his rare and mysteri
ous talents for lecture-room display.
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 59
It is true, too, that the table does not show the amount of
repetition of terms. However, the general emphasis
is,
as
a
matter of fact, well brought out in this distribu
tion, and
it
certainly gives an idea of the relative value as
popular appeals these topics have in the psychologist's
mind. Let us look at the seven that stand first. That
"how to get what you want," "success," "health," and
"happiness" occur in every circular hardly seems to be
a
matter of chance or hasty judgment. These are funda
mental general desires, what most people are seeking,
and the psychologist
is
more than wise to stress them.
In fact, "health, happiness, and success" are such
a
sum-
mum bonum that the words appear not only singly in
many places, but are also found grouped together as an
enticing trio in six of the circulars, and in a seventh we
find the practically equivalent phrase '!health, happiness,
and prosperity," and in still another, "health, wealth,
and happiness." "Financial success, money, or wealth"
(mentioned by all but one)
is
indeed something most
mortals covet. With this, "prosperity" (alluded to in
eight circulars) and "business success" (in six) are nearly
synonymous, as
is
also "abundance," a term of approved
psychological parlance (mentioned three times). The
ever-present "how to get what you want" appears again
in that poignant phrase "how to make your dreams come
true" in half of the circulars, and also as "how to at
tract what you want" in the same number. "How to
waken hidden powers"
is
a
delightful expression with two
meaningful implications: first, that there are hidden
powers to be awakened; and second, that
it
is
possible
60 Psychological Racketeers
(through the psychologist) to awaken them. And that
caption "the Subconscious Mind" points to the means of
arousal.
However, the best way to analyze these topics may be
to group them. The following attempt at classification
has, therefore, been made:
TABLE II
I. Human Desires
A. General
1. (How) to get what you want (10)
2. (How) to make your dreams come
true (5)
3. (How) to develop hidden powers (9)
B. Specific
1. Success (10)
a. Final objectives
(1) Money, financial suc
cess, or wealth (9)
(2) Prosperity (8)
(3) Business success (6)
(4) Power (6)
(5) Mastery of fate (4)
(6) Salesmanship (S)
(7) Authorship (3)
(8) Abundance (3)
b. Auxiliary objectives
(1) Memory training (7)
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 61
(2) Will power (6)
(3) (How) to read people at
sight (6)
(4) Self-confidence, or self-
reliance (S)
(5) Imagination (5)
(6) (Original ) knowledge ( 5)
(7) (How) togrowbrains(4)
(8) Ability at public speak
ing and in conversa
tion (4)
2. Health (10)
a. (How) to heal yourself and
others (8)
b. Rejuvenation (8)
c. Long life (3)
d. Sleep (3)
3. Happiness (10)
a. Through attracting others
(1) (How) to develop per-
personality (7)
(2) Magnetism (8)
(3 ) (How) to be popular ( 8 )
(4) (How) to attract
friends (4)
b. Through personal realization
(1) (How) to find, or un
derstand, God or re
ligion (6)
Psychological Racketeers
TABLE II (continued)
(2) Peace and content
ment (4)
(3) Poise (4)
(4) Harmony (4)
(5) Character development
(4)
(6) Emotional control (3)
c. Through sex and family rela
tionships
(1) (How) to be attractive
to the opposite sex (3)
(2) (How)tobebeautiful(3)
(3) (How) to know whom
to marry (3)
(4) Love (5)
(5) Sex information (5)
(6) Domestic happiness (4)
(7) (How) to help children
(through suggestion,
etc.) (3)
Human Ills
A. (How to get rid of) fear and worry (8)
B. (How to get rid of) complexes, or repressions
(S)
C. (How to cure) bad habits (5)
D. (How to get rid of) fatigue (4)
E. (How to cure) nervousness (3)
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 63
F. (How to protect yourself against the) men
tal influence of others (3)
III. Methods of Attaining Desires and Getting Rid of
Ills
A. Through analyses and guidance
i. Character analysis by lecturer (6)
2. Vocational guidance (by lecturer, or
by self alone using lecturer's meth
ods (5)
3. Types of people (described and ex
plained by lecturer) (5)
4. Self-analysis (4)
S. Psycho-analysis (4)
Through physical means.
1. Scientific exercises (physical) (S)
2. Scientific eating (5)
3. Scientific breathing (4)
4. Glands (endocrine) (5)
Through mental or mystical methods
1. The Subconscious Mind (9)
2. Concentration (8)
3. Suggestion (7)
4. Telepathy (6)
5. The Law of Attraction (5)
6. Visualization (4)
7. The Silence (4)
8. Interpretation of dreams (4)
9. Intuition (3)
64 Psychological Racketeers
10.
11.
12.
13.
Prayer (3)
Inspiration (3)
The Law of Vibration (3)
Scientific exercises (mental) (3)
Here we have them —a long list of things human
beings crave, a short list of human ills, and a pretty siz
able enumeration of aids in obtaining the former and
eliminating the latter.
There is no doubt about the interest in what I heard
one woman call "material supply." It is noticeable, for
instance, that the lecture outlines promise plenty of help
for the person in business, especially for the unsuccess
ful salesman. Let me quote from one circular:
"Lesson 5. Law of Suggestion. Law of Self-Confi-
dence. Retail Salesmanship. A New Principle Demon
strated. Easily Used by Everybody at Once. How to
Increase Your Business from 100 to 1000 Per Cent in a
Few Weeks. How to Create Steady, Satisfied Custom
ers.
"Lesson 6. How to Collect Debts, No Matter How
Old, without Collection Agencies or Lawyers. How to
Make Up Your Customer's Mind for Him. Demon
strated. Psychological Moments and What they do to
you, if you don't watch out. How to Sell by Means of
Thought Transference. How to Broadcast for Custom
ers and Get Them."
Health vies with financial success in importance, and
"how to heal yourself and others" is a necessary corol
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 65
lary. "Keep your tonsils and appendix," is the advice
given in a certain circular, and use psychology. Diseases
"ranging from warts and tumors to scurvy and cancer"
are positively declared to have been healed during class
demonstrations. Moreover, we are assured by one psy
chologist that "anyone who so desires can become a men
tal healer," and that "persons who do not know they have
any talent for healing will be surprised to find that power
within tapped in the classroom."
All the world is seeking "personality" —or "magnetic
personality," or "personal magnetism," or just plain
"magnetism"—judging from the prevalence of these
terms in the circulars.
"Personality," writes one man, "is the World's Great
est Prize."
This same person calls his whole system "Magnetic
Psychology" and states that "the magnetism in your
body, conserved and directed by an intelligent psychol
ogy, will make your life over, make it one great success."
Another will teach "how to radiate Magnetism and be
come attractive to 85 per cent of the people you meet,"
and "how to put the stamp of Creative Distinction in
Your Personality." And another advertises a lesson on
"magnetism," in which she will tell, among other things,
"how to make your Aura cast out a pleasing influence,"
"how to heal with Magnetic Power," and how to "raise
your Mental Vibrations to a higher plane so as to attract
to you, friends, power, and financial success." It would
seem, then, that magnetism not only attracts friends,
but is a good paying proposition as well. "The Mag
66 Psychological Racketeers
netic Law of Popularity" will teach you "how to mag
netize the persons whose approbation you desire," and
"the cravings of the lonely, hungry heart will be an
swered," says a psychologist who evidently knows some
thing of human longings, —if you learn "the Magnetic
Law of Love" as unfolded by him.
Directions for conducting "a magnetic courtship" are
also promised, along with instruction in selecting a wife,
or husband, by the shape of the jaw. Whether or not a
blond should marry a brunette, if women should pro
pose, and whether wives must be beautiful, are ques
tions to be settled in the "applied psychologist's" lecture
room. "How to be happy though married" and "how
to be happy with relatives and in-laws" are also listed
for discussion, as well as "how to get relatives, mothers-
in-law, to pack up and leave and still keep on the best of
terms with them."
Lectures on sex draw young and old, according to re
port. Such matters as "the predetermination of sex,"
"scientific conception," the production of "children who
will be supermen and superwomen," are to be dealt with.
These talks are "special to men only" or "women only."
A thrilling subject by no means neglected is that of
"the Endochrine1 Glands such as the Pituitary, Thyroid,
Adrenals, Interstitial, including the Generative and Self-
Regenerative Glands—How to Create the 'Beneficent
Cycle.'
" Other circulars speak of "the Endocrine
Glands and a Superior life," "glands and youth," "the
1The (pelting has been preserved as it stands.
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 67
Endocrine Glands and what everybody should know,"
and of "Routing Old Age without the Use of Glands."
That reminds me how pitiably people must long for
vanished youth, for "rejuvenation" stands well toward
the beginning of the first table. There are to be found
such vivid expressions as "Turning the Clock of Time
Backwards," "Unmasking your Ever- Youthful Self,"
"Age and how to abolish it," and "Old at 35 or Young
at 70—Which?" An observer reports that one lecturer
was "a very young-appearing man—looking about thirty-
five years old"; but he said he was seventy, and that his
youthful appearance was due to "applied psychology."
"How to develop and retain beauty"
is,
of course, bound
up with the process of renewing youth. "Rejuvenation"
seems often to include the notion of longevity, too. The
point
is
that one wants to regain youth and then remain
in that pleasant and beauty-giving state for
a
long time
to come. In three circulars, as we have seen, there
is
unequivocal mention of long life;
it
is
also implied in five
others.
;
!
|
.\f'ffi
A
topic that we must not fail to notice
is
"how to find,
or understand, God,"
a
subject listed in six of the ten cir
culars. In all but one, there
is
some reference to re
ligious matters. This
is
hardly surprising since religion
and mind-cure methods have long consorted together.
Religion
is
unquestionably the most effective instrument
there
is
for thought-power systems. It has the added
advantage of vesting both system and expositor with
respectability.
The psychologist
is
often careful to point out that his
68 Psychological Racketeers
teachings do not interfere with any creed or established
religion, taking the stand that his doctrine is inclusive
and basic. "Applied Psychology," reads one circular,
"does not touch nor affect your religion." Another sys
tem "is not a religion nor has it a creed other than to
recognize The Universal Mind, the Creator of all things."
On the other hand, I remember hearing one lecturer
persistently cast vague but vehement aspersions on cur
rent orthodox religion, declaring his own mystical re
ligious exercises and pronouncements far superior. I
know through personal conversations that there are those
who go to lectures on "applied psychology" because they
are dissatisfied with religion as they find it in the
churches, feeling that it does not fill their needs. They
want something promising immediate results, a practical,
here-and-now religion, one that reaches out to them. And
it is particularly true that the unsuccessful want a doc
trine that embraces a new recipe for success.
Certain practical subjects advertised for discussion are
worthy of" passing attention perhaps: viz., the cure of
constipation; "strengthening," or "curing," the eyes; and
"how to reduce" (what a lure to susceptible ladies of
enlarged waistline!). Each of these topics appears in
two circulars. One lecturer advertises a special dietary
that will "increase pleasure in eating," "improve the
health and mental powers almost immediately," and
simultaneously "reduce grocery bills and the work of
the women of the household." "Lost valuables" will be
restored to their owners through psychology, says an
other,
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 69
Further comment on the topics seems unnecessary,
but it remains for me to speak of the frequent use of
the words "science," "scientific," and "law." Without
exception every psychologist assures the public that what
be has to offer is "science" or "scientific"; e.g., almost
always in the titles, or sub-titles, of courses—like "Sci
entific Life Culture" and "Magnetic Psychology, the
Master Science of the Age"—and in many such expres
sions as "scientific rhythmical breathing," "scientific
thinking," "the science of salesmanship," and so forth.
The oft-repeated word "law" appears in phrases like
"the law of visualization," "the law of abundance," "the
law of suggestion," "the secret law of happy marriage."
We are told that heretofore "the science of human life
has not been taught in the schools, the home, the clubs,
or anywhere else," and that we must certainly learn
from such and such an applied psychologist "how to
scientifically avoid failure ... a lesson brought from
one of the greatest laboratories of Europe and never be
fore taught in this country." "Psychology is a science,
and as such, keeps within the bounds of demonstrable
fact and repeatable phenomena. I teach you the physi
cal and mental laws of your being. ... I am putting
into the common language of every-day life the knowl
edge of the great university class rooms and laborator
ies." One psychologist offers a special course on "the
science of health and healing —stripped of all technicali
ties, the laws of this science are laid bare by a master's
70 Psychological Racketeers
hand"; and a part of this course is a lesson on "the sci
ence of effective prayer." Another lecturer will divulge
"the Latest Word in Science in Psychology, Biology,
Pedagogy, and Business Application."
CHAPTER VI
WHAT THE "APPLIED PSYCHOLOGIST"
TEACHES
(continued)
One is impressed by the remarkable similarity in sub
ject matter and wording of the different circulars. Just
why they are so alike is pretty clear. It is safe for the
psychologist to assume that the underlying human de
sires are very much the same always; hence that factor
is constant, or almost so. And mind-cure methods and
other mental prescriptions do not vary a great deal.
There are a few stock sources for these, which are the
common property of "applied psychologists" in general.
We even have hints of these sources in the circulars.
For example, there is an allusion to "Error" that calls
to mind Mrs. Eddy, and some others to "Divine Prin
ciple," etc. that suggest the same author. Cou6 is men
tioned twice in one man's circular. Freud's name ap
pears in another, and, as we have observed, "psycho
analysis" is referred to in four. Some show a trace
of East Indian influence, and in Madame M'Ketchem's
circular the Yogi mysteries of the Far East are seen to
be patently contributing their share for the prospective
thrill-seeker. And there is a faint suggestion of a de
71
72 Psychological Racketeers
fective 1880 model of Western academic psychology in
the groundwork of several of the systems. Further
more, the lecturers show considerable familiarity with
the work of other "applied psychologists" in the field,
so it is probable that they have made good use of this
knowledge in developing their own systems.
Nevertheless each psychologist unfailingly explains in
his lectures and printed statements that he and his
course are distinctly "different" from all others and
markedly superior. He does not hesitate to say that
many other psychologists are frauds. Often he uses new
terms for what seems to be the same, or practically the
same, thing. "We have been psychologized to death,"
I heard one man say, and proceed to point out that his
teachings were "not exactly psychology" but "a new and
simplified system of practical mind-power." According
to another, "concentration is out of fashion" (though he
has his own "new method" for this, too), and "we teach
mental broadcasting."
In the same fashion, the circulars show some attempts
at individuality. The names selected for courses or
systems vary from the stereotyped "Applied Psychology"
to "Constructive Psychology," "The Psychology of Suc
cessful Living," "Super Science," "Super-Life Culture,"
"Health and Successful Living," "Psycho-Analysis," etc.
Sometimes certain lectures are advertised as particularly
unusual and valuable: viz., "What Every Woman Should
Know About Men. Secret of Her Attraction to Them.
Why Some Men are Always in Demand. Love and its
Relation to Life. This Lesson Alone is Worth Thou
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 73
sands of Dollars to Those Who Desire Victorious Liv
ing." And here is an "unrivalled" specialty, a lesson
on "the Psychology of Color and its effect on the ner
vous system." The circulars also exhibit differences in
style and diction, which are reflections of the particular
psychologist's general mode of treatment. There are
those of the soulful, "uplift" type; those distinctly prac
tical and utilitarian in their language; some sonorous
and grandiose; and others that are mixtures.
As regards methods to be employed, some difference
in emphasis is discernible in the circulars. These may
perhaps be said to fall into three classes: viz., (1) those
that emphasize concentration as their principal method
(two cases) ; (2) those that dwell on suggestion, the sub
conscious, etc. (three cases); and (3) those that advo
cate the various mental and mystical means but stress
the necessity for preliminary self-knowledge (a) through
a study of physiognomy (two cases) or (b) through
"self-analysis" or "psycho-analysis" (three cases). But
bear in mind that no psychologist limits himself to a
single method. Rather he tends to draw on all the
favorite mind-power resources, though in different pro
portions. Possibly there is justification for regarding at
least three circulars as playing up all the approved meth
ods rather impartially. It may be added that further in
vestigation often leaves one uncertain as to the essential
distinction between "suggestion" and some other mental
instruments, more particularly "concentration."
The real difference between one man's psychology and
another's lay in his own particular way of using the
74 Psychological Racketeers
methods. His special technique became apparent when
he held forth in person on the lecture platform. Not
that he thought up anything very original, but he re
decorated the old and loudly asserted it was new and
unique. There were characteristic variations in formulae
for suggestion, concentration, et cetera, in minutiae of
directions for their application, in forms of "exercises,"
"manifestations," "demonstrations," and the like. Take
Madame M'Ketchem's performance described in the first
chapter. It is thoroughly typical as to objectives —will
power, memory, success, health —and there are, in gen
eral, the same old ways of getting them. Concentration
with breathing exercises is a customary psychological
sport. But "Prana" is her specialty —even if she did
borrow it from the Yogi—and we do not hear of it from
others. Visualization, which she also advises, is always
a great favorite and comes plain or fancy.
"Visualize what you want," another lecturer insisted,
"and surround it with your favorite color in your mind's
eye. Get the line of transference from your mind to
your objective. You can have anything that you can
encompass with your consciousness."
At the outset of the pay course, the psychologist
usually dealt with "the physical aspect of man," touching
on such matters as food, exercise, and rest. This gave
him a splendid chance to be "different." All the diets
recommended were "superior to any other." Each lec
turer could even say authoritatively what to eat, and
what not to eat, during this or that ailment. Many and
varied were the diagnoses and prescriptions. "You have
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 75
too much mucous in your system," one man was told.
And another suffered from "an oversupply of mag
nesium." Every psychologist had his own system of
"exercises." In one case these were "purely mental."
General physical exercise, in the commonly accepted
meaning of the term, had a small but not unimportant
place with most. It was solemnly maintained that cer
tain physical exercises would make the brain grow and
hence increase intelligence. One man prided himself on
his "brain-breathing" exercises.
The psychologist saw to it that members of the class
actively participated in the hocus-pocus peculiar to him.
For example, to quote some circulars, they practiced "ex
ercises to increase the resourcefulness, fertility, and pro
ductivity of the mind," or "spiritual, psychological and
physiological exercises for renewing and strengthening
the eyes," or "scientific exercises" guaranteed to make
one "live to be a hundred," or "a hundred and fifty,"
depending on which psychologist was being patronized.
In one case there were "actual demonstrations of the
psychic handshake." And certain hitherto unknown
phenomena might be manifested under the direction of a
specially gifted wonder-worker with the cooperation of
his audience. For instance, one lecturer stated that dif
ferent persons responded to different musical notes or
types of sound.
"Listen," he said to his class, "as I pronounce the
words 'Allaho Abha' in different keys. Some of you will
thrill to one note, some to another. A wave of ecstacy
will pass over you as you find your tonal affinity."
■
76 Psychological Racketeers
It is reported that his listeners readily detected their
particular "tonal affinities," and that some persons "were
carried away with excitement like people at a religious
revival."
The audience seemed to me more often carried away
by the sheer volubility of these talented word-producers
so ardently striving for new effects. The helpless listen
er was subdued by floods of language, overpowered by
the razzle-dazzle of words. There are some enthralling
literary bits in the circulars, too. Novel phrases and
figures of speech help distinguish one man's work from
another's, for example:
"Fear, its history, its horrible toll of humanity, its
gruesome threat. How to overcome
it,
how to dispel its
shadows. How to put
a
smile into the dilated eyes of
fear."
"Food according to biological type and diathesis."
"Emerging from the Chrysalis of Mediocrity to Great
ness."
Characteristic cryptic and vague expressions also dif
ferentiate the circulars and doubtless arouse awe and
curiosity. Consider the following:
"The Eternal Urge and what
it
means to us."
"The Magic Law of Agreement."
"Contacting Universal Mind through Super-conscious
ness."
"The secret prayer called the 'Unspeakable Word.' "
"The Cosmic Viewpoint and the Conception of the
Absolute."
When
I
heard the lecturer who spoke on the last men
What "Applied Psychologist" Teaches 77
tioned topic, I recorded some of his other expressions,
e.g., "as an agency of propaganda the human voice is the
most powerful," "the power of vibratory forces," "vibra
tory accord," "spiritual prophylaxis," "we shall reveal the
mysteries of the fourth dimension," "psychology achieves
by means of intonations and suggestion." He even used
the phrase "inversely to the square of the distance," but
I failed to understand how it applied. I judge that a
great many of the audience failed to get the full import
of his words. But this is said without the least inten
tion of unfavorably criticizing his effectiveness. Quite
the contrary.
"It was awful interesting," said a woman who listened
to another psychologist at her first lecture of the free
series. "It was about sound and what they believe in
India."
"Could you give me an idea of what was said?" I
asked.
"Well, it was awful deep," she answered hesitatingly.
"It gives you a real thrill. I don't believe I could tell
what she said. But it was awful interesting and awful
deep."
Some expressions to be found in certain circulars are
too deep for me also, and baffle my powers of classifica
tion, e.g.; "How to test out the body with the Egyptian
Posture."
At any rate there is no uncertainty about such state
ments as: "This is the supreme, decisive turning point
in your life. You decision as to whether you will take
this course of instructions and receive unlimited bene
78 Psychological Racketeers
fits, or whether you will turn it down for some trivial
reason, is going to determine the character of the coming
years for you. At this moment you are determining
your destiny." And, "Mrs. Blank is the Only Lecturer
Who Gives of Herself Personally to Her Students. Be
cause of This Personal Contact Her Classes are Neces
sarily Limited as to Number. This is the Greatest Op-
porunity of Your Life."
Evidently we should accept no substitutes. Yet, in
spite of these declarations of difference and superiority,
those of us who have sampled numerous courses are con
vinced that the fundametals of all systems are the same.
"Psychology" is "psychology" —"the power of thought,"
"the power of suggestion" —slight change of dress not
withstanding. "The Law of Suggestion," admits one
psychologist, "is the basic law in all teaching, selling,
and healing," and, he might have added, in all systems
of applied psychology emanating from itinerant psychol
ogists.
i
CHAPTER VII
GLIMPSES INTO PSYCHOLOGICAL
MASTERPIECES
It would never do not to examine the published works
of these illustrious authors. I have before me a meaty
volume of three hundred and fifty-one pages, which, ac
cording to the person who lent it to me, is an excellent
reproduction of the writer's tuitional course, plus con
siderable additional "explanation." As so often hap
pens, the author is also the publisher. Here is a chapter
on "Concentration," which means, as usual, a method of
attaining any wished-for goal through focused attention
combined with a definite ritual.
"Get a candle," says this psychological authority
quaintly, and you wonder what is wrong with the elec
tricity. But it appears that the candle is not primarily
for illuminating purposes but to fix the attention of your
"Conscious Mind" firmly while you concentrate. You
are to gaze steadily at the candle-flame in your quiet,
otherwise unlighted room and keep repeating aloud, over
and over, what you want, thus:
"Bill Johnson, you will buy my second-hand car to
morrow. I want you to. You cannot resist me. You
must do it."
79
80 Psychological Racketeers
Poor Bill, it seems, is powerless even though miles
away. You keep this business up for at least half an
hour, and Bill is at your mercy. You will know that
your message has been received when you see the words
you are repeating written large in the candle-flame, which
may appear to spread out like a fan. But even if this
does not happen, Bill will have to come across just the
same. (There are illustrations that prove it.)
Now all this is possible because your "Subconscious
Mind" gets the big idea you are implanting in it and
communicates with Bill's subconscious by means of
"mental telegraphy." Bill is all out of luck because he
doesn't know about Dr. Stickem Upp's system. You, of
course, having paid your good money for
it,
could arm
your own subconscious with protecting thoughts in case
you suspected any one of having designs on you.
The candle-flame method
is
the method par excellence
for getting anything you want, and very precise directions
for exact placing of the candle, yourself, et cetera, are
given. Plain unilluminated autosuggestion will do for
developing personal traits, such as self-confidence and
will power. But to be really effective, any form of sug
gestion must be practiced exactly as the author advises
in many pages of capitalized directions. "Write
it
on
a
Card"—"Select
a
Semi-DARK room"— "Before going to
Bed"—"ACTUALLY SPEAK IT OUT"— "do this for
TWELVE DAYS"— but let us rudely skim over this
part.
It soon becomes clear that your subconscious can, as
a
matter of fact, carry on its work at any time or place.
Glimpses Iuto Psychological Masterpieces 81
For instance, you can use "the Scientific Handshake" if
you meet a person you want to influence. (Slow—picture
ahead—of two men shaking hands. Strong resemblance
to Arrow collar family.) Take as much of the other
fellow's hand as you can, grip firmly, and shake only once
or twice. One foot should be slightly ahead of the other.
As you grip the other person's hand, raise yourself as if
you were going to walk forward, and look him squarely
in the eye, or rather, seem to look through him. (Eye
exercises to make you look as if you were reading the
other man's innermost thoughts, are described earlier.)
Concentrate on your message for his subconscious mind,
repeating it mentally as you clasp hands. And be
very, very careful not to let his hand drop suddenly, be
cause, for some reason not given, that will undo all the
good work. Curl your fingers around his little finger
and slide them off with easy deliberateness.
Don't waste any opportunities. Even if you merely
meet a stranger "at a Social Gathering," send a mental
radiogram to his subconscious, such as: "You will be at
tracted to me. You cannot help liking me." This
gives you extra friends, who may come in handy some
day. If you are a salesman, say to your prospect men
tally, as you shake his hand: "You cannot resist me!
You must buy this new vacuum cleaner!" —or whatever
it is you're selling.
(So that's it! I shall rigorously abstain from shaking
hands with all vacuum cleaner, and other, agents.)
Then, in the next chapter, comes "the Psychological
Moment." It is easily recognized after reading Professor
82 Psychological Racketeers
Stickem Upp's description. Suppose you are trying to
persuade your prospect to buy the vacuum cleaner or the
sure cure for athlete's foot, and he is sitting with his
legs crossed and his armed folded. If, as you talk, he
still keeps them in the same position, you are wasting
your breath. But if he uncrosses his legs, unfolds his
arms and leaves them wide of his body, and opens his
fingers, that is "the Psychological Moment." You are to
close the deal at once.
The author ignores other kinds of psychological mo
ments.
Healing is discussed, both self-healing and the healing
of others, and four principal methods are described: sug
gestion, autosuggestion, magnetism, and telepathy. The
explanations given are long and circumstantial, but since
I have myself witnessed one of this man's public heal
ings, perhaps I can pick out the main points.
First, get your patient to describe his "sympfows."
(The author persistently employs this spelling. "Ap
plied psychologists" in general are addicted to ortho
graphical novelties, original punctuation, and the like.)
Then seat the patient in a darkened room, have him close
his eyes, relax, and make his mind a blank. Tell him
very positively that you know he is going to get well, and
make sure he has faith. Often your suggestions are all
that is necessary to produce a cure. However, magnetic
fluid from your body will certainly bring results, pro
vided you hold the thought of healing and offer spoken
suggestions to that effect while you make magnetic
"Passes" ..... UdJH
Glimpses Iuto Psychological Masterpieces 83
Magnetism is such a fascinating subject that I must
reproduce some of this expert's explanation. Magnetism
is a force, or fluid, which can be seen under certain
circumstances, and is of high vibratory character. You
get it by practicing Dr. Stickem Upp's exercises. It
raises the sick person's rate of vibration to normal. To
the patient it very often feels like the pricking of pins.
Not only for therapeutic purposes but socially, mag
netism is a wonderful thing, for I find it written that
a Magnetic Personality never lacks "invitations to Swell
Affairs."
Magnetism oozes, as it were, out of your hands and
onto the patient as you make the passes, which are light,
stroking movements. There are most careful directions
for these. They must be made downwards, not upwards;
and from right to left, so as not to interfere with circula
tion; the hands have to be dry and warm through rub
bing only; and, very important, treatments should not
be over twenty minutes; etc., etc.
(Probably the last point is for much the same reason
as an old minister gave when he explained why his ser
mons were never more than twenty minutes long: "No
souls are saved after the first twenty minutes.")
But to return to the patient. Suppose he has a head
ache. Make about two dozen passes on his forehead,
pausing now and again to hold the stroke, so to speak,
and all the while offering suggestions that he is getting
better, that the pain is leaving him. Then have him ex
hale rapidly as you withdraw your hands. Repeat all
this three times. Next, take a large white handkerchief
84 Psychological Racketeers
and tell him that, when you count three, he will be en
tirely well. Wave the hanky over him and count aloud,
slowly. After that, tell him he may open his eyes, and
say firmly that he is all well now.
(The patient I saw did not quite seem to get the
bright idea. He gave Brother Stickem Upp a long, hard
look—a real mean look, in fact.)
The procedure is more complicated if you are curing a
toothache. The chief point of difference is that you fold
the handkerchief and put it on the patient's cheek, over
the sore tooth, and then, with your mouth against this
covering, blow through it six times. This author's
brochure on correspondence courses advertises instruc
tion in curing toothache "by Divine Breath," but in the
present work human breath seems to be sufficient. He
wisely advises going to a dentist if there is an exposed
nerve. (Thank heaven he says nothing about using
Peppitup Toothpaste twice a day and seeing the dentist
at least twice a year.)
What he says about the other ways of healing is
too repetitious to be very interesting. In healing by
telepathy, or absent treatment, you are advised to place
the patient's photograph before you if you do not know
him by sight. And most certainly tell him beforehand
the exact time you will treat him. You are cautioned
against using your mental vibrations for evil, because
that is "Black Magic."
Justice has not been done the author in this too brief
and too barren account of his teachings, but we really
must hurry on. Life is short and psychology is long.
Glimpses Iuto Psychological Masterpieces 85
The next volume before me is about a hundred pages
in length. It consists of recommendations as to the use
of "Affirmations" and "Concentration," heavily inter
spersed with scriptural quotations. There are also occa
sional quotations from Mrs. Eddy's chief work. "Affir
mations," as you may have gathered, are oral assertions
to the effect that you have achieved, or will achieve, a
desired end, which is really only a bright hope, though
you won't admit it. It is usually suggested, as in this
case, that they be made during periods set aside for the
purpose. This man is our best word-artist, and he
recommends, among others, the following "affirmation,"
which is representative of the book in general:
"O my Father, I thank Thee for prosperity. I am
prosperity! I vibrate prosperity! I think prosperity!
I talk prosperity! I act prosperity! I attract prosper
ous people to myself this day, and my influence with them
adds to their prosperity, and they assist in my pros
perity!"
"Put your whole soul into the oral Affirmations," he
writes, "as well as into the Concentrations. Gradually
you will find your own mind becoming illumined, and
these thoughts will prove to be only suggestions —simply
seed thoughts, from which will grow mental forests of
richest spiritual foliage, under whose spreading branches
your Soul of souls may take sweetest rest and comfort."
Concentration, according to him, does not call for
specific oral or silent expressions. One simply selects
a subject and meditates upon it with great earnestness,
using "the power of Intense Desire working in harmony
86 Psychological Racketeers
with a well-developed faculty of Imagination." "In con
centrating it is preferable to sit, in an easy position, with
the face to the East, the hands clasped, the body relaxed
but erect, with eyes closed and the head inclined slightly
upward. . . ."
A quick excursion into American-Oriental mysticism
will serve to complete this sampling of psychological lit
erature. Here are three booklets setting forth other, and
less worldly, tenets of the system encountered in Chap
ter I. The highest aim of the system, the originator of
which calls himself a "Master Psychologist-Metaphysi
cian," seems to be the possession of mystical knowledge.
This is to be gained by "Concentration," but a much
more awesome and concentrated concentration than here
tofore described. There must of necessity be "a Master"
to guide the student. The author is "a Master" and
tells how he got that way. Briefly, the story is that he
took no food or water for thirty days and after that
went through "the Death Trance" for three days. It
seems he left his body and went "into the Astral," re
turning, after other-world wanderings, with the "revela
tion" he now discloses. The whole account teems with
such expressions as "Astral, or Etheric, Body," "Odic
Force," "higher Planes," "Ancient Wisdom," "increased
mental Vibrations," "Invisible Helpers," "Aquaciac
Records," "soul histories," "the endless-never-end," "in
visible worlds," "unseen planets," "Cosmic Harmony,"
etc. I shall merely quote one passage:
"At the base of the spine is a Sense Center, called the
KUNDALINI, the 'Spirit-Fire,' as it is frequently
Glimpses Iuto Psychological Masterpieces 87
termed in the Far East. Silent MEDITATION, CON
CENTRATION or PRAYER will cause this coiled-up
Energy to move up the CANAL OF SUSHUMNA, in the
center of the spinal cord. When this Energy reaches the
brain, great INTELLECTUAL and SPIRITUAL
POWER is manifested in the individual, for as the
KUNDALINI passes up this canal to the nerve or sense
centers, they become 'spiritualized' so that the student,
who has advanced sufficiently, can see and yet not be
conscious of seeing; hears but is not conscious of hear
ing; neither is he conscious of the sense of taste, smell,
or touch.
"In other words, he has so raised his vibrations above
the vibrations of his physical self, that he is no longer
conscious of his physical body, but vibrates in harmony
with his SPIRIT CONSCIOUSNESS, the EGO, and
while in this state can contact GOD, the SPIRIT BE
ING. .. . The person ... no longer is in need of
books, for all KNOWLEDGE is his as the pages of the
UNIVERSE are open to him. He hears and sees all
things of the UNIVERSE by going into a state of MED
ITATION and CONCENTRATION and focusing bis
mind upon the one thing he desires to know."
And so on and so on.
CHAPTER VIII
EVIDENCE AS TO PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS,
EDUCATION, AND CREDENTIALS
And what do we discover about the personal qualifica
tions of our group of psychologists? Let us first exam
ine the circulars and other advertisements of all fourteen
and permit them to speak for themselves. There should
be some additions to the descriptions and descriptive
terms already quoted in previous chapters.
Our Hindu, Dr. Lettim Singh, "was born in India of a
family of Philosophers, Scientists, Rishis, and Mystics,
descendants of the Ruling Class," and he "is a unique
blending of the deep Mystic and Spiritual Mind of the
Orient and the Practical Scentific Mind of the Occident,
a rare combination of the two. Thus he is fully equipped
to give to the waiting world in the simplest form and the
most comprehensible manner the Greatest and Most Sub
lime teachings of the Saints, Masters, and Sages of
India."
One lady calls herself a "Physician, Psychologist, Psy-
cho-analyist, Lecturer, Educator." Another advertises
that she is "an Evangel of Success," "a character analyst,
vocational expert, gifted lecturer, and author," that she
"has made a life study of psychology and its allied sub
88
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 89
jects," having "graduated from the American Institute of
New York, which was founded for the purpose of dis
seminating the Gallian Doctrine upon which all modern
character analysis is founded . . . ," and that she "pos
sesses a radiant and forceful personality, her audiences
instinctively warming toward her." She cites press no
tices and the statements of civic, commercial, and re
ligious organizations (twenty-one commendations in all)
to prove her worth and effectiveness.
Another psychologist describes himself as "The Man
of the Hour" and graciously admits that he is "consid
ered one of the foremost Psychological authorities."
"Dr. O. G. Helpus has spent years as an instructor in
different educational institutions. He has conducted
many Post Graduate Courses along professional lines in
many of the large cities. . . . He has traveled exten
sively and lectured in nearly all the large cities of Amer
ica and Europe. To be privileged to sit in the class con
ducted by Dr. Helpus is a rare opportunity and any
person is to be congratulated who successfully continues
the line of study presented by This Teacher of Teach
ers. . . . Dr. O. G. Helpus enjoys a unique distinction.
That of a Teacher of Teachers. Many prominent suc
cesses are the result of his wonderful capabilities. He is
a Master and gives the actual demonstrations of his
work. . . . His publications have reached a tremendous
sales figure."
Elsewhere we read that "Dr. Styng A. Guy, the emi
nent psychologist . . . has been an active worker in the
field of applied Psychology both in the United States and
90 Psychological Racketeers
Canada for many years and has also lectured in the prin
cipal cities of Great Britain and the European continent.
He combines a fine literary and scientific culture with ex
tensive research and travel and is familiar with the latest
American and European developments on his specialty
through direct contact with the greatest living authori
ties." (These authorities are not mentioned by name.)
And, if you please, "America's Greatest Psychologist" is
also numbered in our group.
We would naturally expect to find the names of a
"foremost psychological authority" whose "publications
have reached a tremendous sales figure," and of an "emi
nent psychologist" given to "extensive research," and
certainly of "America's Greatest Psychologist," in tha
leading publications devoted to listing prominent psy
chologists and scientists. But I have looked in vain for
their names in The Psychological Register, the Biograph
ical Directory of American Men of Science, and in the
directories of the American Psychological Association
and the American Association for the Advancement of
Science. Nor are they in Who's Who. In fact, not a
single one of the fourteen is to be found in any of these
directories, though each individual avers, in varied
phraseology, that he is a well-known expert in the psy
chological field.
Next let us look for evidences of educational qualifi
cations. There is considerable mention of educational
equipment in the various circulars. Five of the four
teen psychologists attach degrees to their names. One
man lays claim to a Ph.B. and an LL.B., mentioning
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 91
two well-known and reputable universities in this coun
try and giving dates. I have communicated with these
institutions, and in both cases those in authority replied
that the person in question received the degrees named
in the years stated. He has the distinction of being the
only one in the group whose assertions in regard to de
grees or certificates I have been able to substantiate
completely. Unfortunately, however, bachelor's degrees
in law and philosophy, particularly those dating back a
good many years as in his case, do not guarantee ade
quate training in modern psychology. Quite the re
verse, in fact. When I heard him lecture, his only ref
erences to academic psychology were passing allusions
to James and Freud. He hesitated over the latter name,
pronounced it "Frude" first, then "Frowd." I have been
unable to find any other indications of his knowing any
thing about scientific psychology. On the other hand,
the influence of his college training did show itself in
his comparatively modest claims. His promises were
less extravagant and less materialistic than those of the
other lecturers —which may explain why he did not suc
ceed in attracting large audiences.
A psychologist of the feminine sex
is,
she announces
in her advertisements, an M.D. and D.O. One gentle
man has
a
Ph.D. after his name, and still another both
Ph.D. and Sc.D. In none of these cases are universi
ties mentioned, and personal inquiries brought only in
definite answers.
A
secretary, when consulted as to the
university granting
a
certain man's Ph.D., said that
she was not sure which one, but that "any university
92 Psychological Racketeers
in the country would do it because he has traveled so
much." I felt hesitant about telling her that travel is
not the basis on which degrees are granted.
A promising case seemed to be the Hindu, who tacks
four degrees to his name, A.M., CP., D.D., and Ph.D.
His circular states that "he is a Certified Teacher and
Graduate of the University of
1
holding the
Master of Arts Degree." This university replied to my
inquiry, that the individual referred to had taken his
A.B. and M.A. degrees there, his major subject being
mathematics, but that they "fail to find any record to
indicate completion of the teacher training curriculum,
which would entitle him to recommendation from the
University for a teaching credential . . . His record
does not show completion of any work in the Depart
ment of Psychology." It may be that he does not mean
to imply that he was certified as a teacher by this uni
versity, but he might make the point clear and tell just
where he became a "certified" teacher. He says further
that he is "a Certified Minister of the Christian Religion
and Philosopy," and that he is founder and president
of an American institution (unknown to me and my as
sociates) which grants D.D. and Ph.D. degrees. He
makes no statement as to where his own CP., D.D.,
and Ph.D degrees were obtained, nor does he give any
particulars as to how he became "a Certified Minister."
And, by the way, just what is a "CP." degree?
The title "Dr."
is,
to be sure, quite common, for four
lA large state university.
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 93
others besides these naming specific doctors' degrees—
making nearly sixty per cent in all—use it before their
names in their advertisements. No satisfactory expla
nations are given, nor have I been able to get any, as
to the origin of the title. On one occasion I remained
after a lecture by Dr. Victor Hardboyld, and, with what
I hoped was the proper shade of awe and admiration,
asked to see some of his diplomas. He had stated that
he had a great many "from all parts of the country and
Europe" and had pointed toward a large pile of impor
tant-looking papers. To comply with my request the
learned man unfolded two "diplomas" (copiously dec
orated with cherubs, scroll patterns, and red seals). One
of these he said had been granted him in Boston, though,
for some curious reason, "St. Louis, Mo." was plainly
inscribed at the bottom of both documents. I did not
comment aloud, but privately I thought of past scandals
in regard to "diploma mills" in the latter city. These
fleeting glimpses left no clear impression as to the body
of the text, and none at all as to the degrees named, if
there were such. Broad hints to see more diplomas
proved ineffectual. My notes add that this psycholo
gist told me he was also a graduate of the "School of
Human and Divine Science in Chicago," an institution
apparently unheard of before or since, but I could get
no more information.
Another of our "doctors" advertises that he is licensed
by the state board of medical examiners of a certain
state, which does not happen to be the one in which he
is now established. My inquiry has produced a letter
94 Psychological Racketeers
from the capital offices of the former state testifying
that this man holds a license "to practice Drugless-Ther-
apy," dated ten years earlier. He does not account for
the "Dr." before his name in any other way. I cannot
help wondering if the conspicuously placed phrase "li
censed by the State Board of Medical Examiners," es
pecially with the appropriation of the title "Dr," is not
rather misleading to the general public. It is perfectly
true, of course, but does it not call to mind an M.D.
degree and training in a regular medical school? —For
which I find not the slightest evidence.
This means, then, that nine of the fourteen, or about
two-thirds of the group, assert their right to some de
gree, or degrees, and that of the nine only one offers in
his circulars, or anywhere else, complete and verifiable
information in regard to source, and that even in this
one case there is no evidence of proper training in psy
chology. Obviously there is a very decided reticence
about disclosing where and when degrees were obtained.
Yet every college-bred person knows that the mere affix
ing of degrees without indicating university or date
means little. And one would naturally expect any pro
spective teacher and self-declared authority to be only
too ready to make known his educational qualifications.
Of the five psychologists who make no reference to
specific degrees or degree titles, one affirms that she
"holds degrees and artists' certificates, as well as other
credentials, from leading schools both here and abroad,"
though we are not enlightened as to the nature of these
degrees and other credentials. Another declares, as has
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 95
been noted, that she graduated from an institution de
voted to the spreading of "the Gallian Doctrine." Un
happily for her reputation as a modern scientist, the
phrenology of Gall was discredited long ago and has
been repeatedly disproved in most thorough manner.
A third maintains that she is a graduate of Teachers'
College, Columbia University. The authorities of this
institution say, however, that their records do not show
that she is one of their graduates, but that, after a
year's course, she received from them in 1902 a pro
fessional diploma — of a kind no longer granted —for
teaching in kindergartens. The transcript of her record
while in attendance at Teachers' College shows a number
of courses in education and one very brief elementary
course in psychology as it was taught then. Neverthe
less, this lady announced during a free lecture that she
had held "a chair of psychology" at a certain teachers'
college in the Middle West. One of my colleagues, for
merly an instructor there, wrote to a friend of his to
verify this assertion. I quote from the reply: "Your
letter makes me laugh ... As to the lady I know her
well. She was Director of Kindergarten here, 1904 to
1906, when this was just a normal school. She closed
her last year early, as I recall, to get married. If she
taught any psychology, there is no record of it." This
"psychologist" claims to be president and founder of a
"School of Personality" and also of an "At-Home Study
School" and other organizations, presumably psycho
logical. I wrote to her at the "School of Personality,"
96 Psychological Racketeers
since the city of its location was given in her circular,
but received no reply.
Two of the lecturers are silent on the subject of their
formal education. I have been unable to penetrate this
silence in one case, but for the other there is enlighten
ing evidence. The psychologist in question, who gener
ally calls herself a "psycho-analyst," is one of the two
women described earlier as operating along slightly dif
ferent lines from the rest. Though her charges are mon
strous, her claims are less pretentious in some ways and
her methods more conservative than is usual. As an
advertisement she uses an attractively gotten up bro
chure containing, among other matter, excerpts from
letters of appreciation of her and her work. One prom
inently placed commendatory remark refers to her gen
eral ability and enthusiasm and is attributed to an ac
credited professor of psychology. When I inquired fur
ther of this professor, he wrote that his statement had
been made in an ordinary letter of recommendation
written at the lady's request some dozen years previous
ly, after she had studied at the university where he
was; that he had no way of knowing how well she had
used her ability since; and that it was most embarrass
ing to have statements made twelve or more years ago
"continually used as a method of advertising." I also
learned from the university's registrar that she had been
a non-degree student, who had been obliged to obtain
special permission to attend the university for half a
year, and that in this brief time she had taken courses
in psychology and English.
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 97
This is most significant news, not simply because it
shows so pitiably little real study of psychology on her
part, but because it is the only evidence I have been
able to obtain that any of the fourteen "applied psy
chologists" have made any attempt at a special study
of psychology at a university of standing. If these psy
chologists have any such training they are carefully
concealing the fact. Their lack of definite statement as
to what their education actually was, is regrettable, to
say the least, for appropriate training is commonly
looked for as convincing evidence of professional fitness.
We should expect to find such information readily ac
cessible in the light of the general claims made. But
these findings are all that I have been able to secure
after diligent search.
There are some other letters having to do with en
dorsements, which may be of interest. It must first be
explained that two of the lecturers have it printed in
their circulars that they are sponsored by certain or
ganizations. One is a "Psychological Association" en
tirely unknown to me and to persons I have consulted,
and the other an equally unknown "League." The
gentleman whose "Campaign of Free Lectures" is an
nounced by the "League," is also its president and
founder. Moreover, on a handbill is found the declar
ation that his educational work is endorsed by "national
and state officials," who are not named, and also by the
school board of a large city, which is designated. Ac
cordingly, I wrote to the school board of this city and
98 Psychological Racketeers
in due time received the following reply from an assist
ant superintendent of schools:
"Replying to your communication under date of No
vember 29th, asking for information in regard to a
Doctor , permit me to say that I have
made inquiry of several people in these offices and find
that no one has any information in regard to this lec
turer.
"The City Board of Education to my knowl
edge has never given its endorsement to' any lecturer
or entertainer of any description. I have had super
vision of this department for some time and I do not
remember of ever having had an interview with this
particular lecturer.
"Naturally we have no information in regard to where
Doctor received his doctor's degree.
"In conclusion I desire to state that this office never
gives its endorsement to any person to enter our schools
for the purpose of giving talks on psychology or allied
subjects.
"Trusting that I have answered the questions in your
letter, I remain," etc.
But in our town this "psychologist" convinced the
newspapers of his remarkable qualifications, and they
gave him several splendid write-ups with all the "en
dorsements" enumerated in fine style. Later, when he
paid us a second visit, he aired his psychological views
before a prominent luncheon club.
Indeed, it must not be supposed that persons in po
sitions of authority are likely to share the above-men
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 99
tioned superintendent's lack of enthusiasm for psychol
ogy (so-called) and itinerant psychologists. There are
many who are well impressed. A case in point concerns
another of our lecturers. I remember listening to this
speaker with interest, especially because he had such an
air of "bless-you-my-children" benignity. He urged his
audience to purchase a series of little books of his own
writing, and in his circulars was to be found a brief but
ardent endorsement of them. This endorsement was
from a minister who has been prominent for many years
in a certain large city. I later wrote to the minister
asking whether he had endorsed the booklets, and what
was his opinion of this psychologist personally, and re
ferring briefly to "applied psychologists" in general.
The following is the body of his letter in toto:
"I am in receipt of your kind favor of the 6th in
stant, which I have read over very carefully. Let me
say with reference to the traveling psychologists of the
present day, that so far as they have touched this city,
I think I have met all of them. Certainly I have met
the more aggressive and conspicuous members of this
class.
"I find that the 'Popular' psychologists of the present
decade are, as a rule, earnest people who are trying to
make an honest living by commercializing such ideas as
success in life, physical health, matrimonial happiness,
and mental vitality, under the general caption of 'Ap
plied Psychology'—that there are to be found in this class
some who are unworthy and might be classed as fad
dists or fakers, I do not question, but I believe that the
100 Psychological Racketeers
average traveling lecturer on the subject of 'Applied
Psychology' is worthy of confidence. Whenever I have
met a sincere and honest lecturer, I have sought to com
mend his work, and, in a general way, whatever pieces
of literature he may be offering to the public. Person
ally, I do not expect to find many thoroughly scientific
experts in this class and I do not judge their work from
a scientific standpoint. The trouble with the university
trained psychologist is that he lacks the knack of reach
ing the masses who are in need of some sort of a practi
cal psychology.
"With reference to Dr. of whom you
inquire—if he has in his possession a letter signed by
the writer, doubtless I had some knowledge of his work
and book and was willing to add my personal endorse
ment. I have met so many public lecturers during the
past seven years that I confess it is difficult to recall at
a moment's notice, the person named in your letter or
the book referred to.
"It seems to me that the main point in dealing with
this class of individuals is to be absolutely sure of a
sound moral character and an earnest purpose allied
with an honest endeavor."
This letter provides much food for thought, but I
shall postpone comment until a later chapter.
It may be appropriate at this point to set forth the
impressions of another minister in regard to another one
of our group. The letter given below appeared in the
daily newspaper:
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 101
"Editor, The :
"Last evening my wife and I attended one of the lec
tures and telepathic demonstrations being given by Dr.
and Mrs. in the temple. The so-called
'telepathic demonstration' seemed to me anything but
convincing. In fact, though I dislike to use the un
pleasant word, it was apparently a fraud. Now I am
interested in telepathy as a science, and would like to
challenge Mrs. to appear before a committee of
ministers or prominent citizens and give a demonstra
tion of her powers, and prove her claim that she is 'the
world's greatest genuine telepathist.' If she can prove
that she has such power, I will be the first to acknowl
edge
it,
but
if
she has not,
it
is
wrong for Dr. and Mrs.
to deceive the people by trickery.
Yours in the interests of truth,
Rev.
."
(Name and address given.)
If any attention was paid to this letter by the lec
turer or his telepathic wife,
I
do not know of it. After
leaving town this same psychologist sent me some out
lines of correspondence courses and special lecture series
offered by an institution of which, he states, he
is
presi
dent. Along with the outlines came copies of testimon
ials in regard to the courses and the members of the
staff who give them. One testimonial reads:
"At the close of the Special Class which you have
held for our Agency and in which twenty-two members
of this organization had the privilege of taking this
course in Character Reading,
I
want to express, per
102 Psychological Racketeers
sonally, my appreciation of your thorough work with
our men and women.
"The interest which they manifested in the Lessons
was sufficient evidence to you of their appreciation and
I believe they have all been helped very much in a prac
tical way which will serve them in their work in sales
manship of life insurance.
"We hope it will be possible to have a second course
later on."
The rather complete outline of the course referred to
shows that character reading is taught by a study of
physiognomy. "It lays out the geography of our head
and face. . . . The world has never placed a burden on
a sway-back nose . . . The color of the hair, the shape
of the eyebrows, the hands and fingers, the legs, feet,
and ankles —all are signs of character."
I wrote as follows to the writer of the testimonial
just quoted, who signs himself superintendent of an
agency for a nationally known life insurance company:
"I find a letter -from you among the endorsements of
a course in character reading given by a Dr.
. I should appreciate it very much if you would
tell me when you took this course, and whether you still
think it valuable.
"I should be very glad if you would tell me all you
know about Dr. and his qualifications for giving
such a course."
This reply was received:
"Dr. conducted a Course in our
Agency about three years ago, and we were much ap
Qualifications, Education, Credentials 103
preciative of the good work he did. He is very sincere
and conscientious, and most capable, and, as in our
case, is sure to implant much knowledge. I recommend
him most heartily, and trust you have already made use
of his services."
This letter is particularly challenging to the trained
psychologist because it suggests a wide-spread interest,
and belief, in such methods of character reading. It
would seem that people in general are entirely ignorant
of the body of scientific evidence disproving the possi
bility of determining character from "the color of the
hair, the shape of the eyebrows, the hands and fingers,"
etc., etc.
It may be worth while to inquire as to the occupa
tions of the fourteen "applied psychologists" before
they entered their present field of endeavor. Can some
further light thus be thrown on their qualifications?
Unfortunately I have been able to collect very few facts
in' this regard, because their statements are so vague.
Pinning them down to definite particulars is generally
impossible. It has already been shown that about a
quarter of a century ago one lady was in charge of kin
dergarten work at a normal school, where she stayed
for less than two years. Then she married, and just
when after this she became an "applied psychologist,"
I do not know. Another has had no other occupation
except that of housewife and has been for years teach
ing the phrenology of Gall. More will be said about
her in a chapter to come. One man told me—I have
only his word for it—that he used to be a minister. He
104 Psychological Racketeers
added that "psychologists can do more good than
preachers," that "getting souls ready to be saved is
greater than saving them." After some private investi
gating, I discovered another to be an unprosperous law
yer who has recently taken to "applied psychology" as
a side line. Still another has been practicing various
drugless methods of healing for the past twenty-five
years, according to his own testimony, and before that
time was a salesman. Our friend the "psycho-analyst"
has given no further clues as to her past, but her pres
ent is arousing considerable excitement. The newspapers
report her a recently named co-respondent in a divorce
suit. As part of a psychoanalytic prescription, it is al
leged, she urged somebody else's husband to "go on a
marital vacation"—with her; and there is much mention
of drinking along with the love-making. With respect
to the past history of the rest of the group, I can say
little that is very definite except in one case, which will
be taken up in the next chapter.
CHAPTER IX
THE MOST FAMOUS "PSYCHOLOGIST"
Orlando Edgar Miller—a famous personage in the
history of "applied psychology"! Indicted for murder,
a prisoner in the Leavenworth penitentiary, discoverer
of numerous "cures," founder of "universities," promo
ter of a "psychology colony" and a psychologically
aimed motion picture company, at the present time a
fugitive from justice —so goes the story of Miller. But
the half hath not been told in these few phrases. His
earlier life was made a subject of study by the Ameri
can Medical Association, which has from time to time
satisfied popular inquiry by publishing exposes of med
ical frauds, and their account will be drawn upon for
more details. Miller, it seems, was brought to their at
tention as the "inventor" of a "cure" for tuberculosis,
and the founder of a Chicago concern known as the In
ternational Institute for the Treatment of Tuberculosis.
The following is taken from The Journal of the Ameri
can Medical Association for December 12, 1908:
"When any new treatment, for a well-nigh incurable
disease, is advanced, physicians who are careful of their
patients' safety and well-being first wish to know some
thing about the individual responsible for it. Should
105
106 Psychological Racketeers
this treatment be given to the world, not through the
reputable channels of conservative medical journals, but
by means of methods adopted by irregulars the world
over, sensible physicians are still more insistent on ex
amining the antecedents of those who originate it.
Should such examination show that the 'treatment' is
essentially secret, that it is put on the market as a com
mercial proposition, and that it is originated by one who
has no claim to medical training, the medical profession
is more than justified in looking on such a proposition
with suspicion. Should it be found, moreover, that the
individual fathering the project is a man who has de
voted a large part of his life to such concerns as 'rupture
cures' and fake sanitariums, and has at various times
been arrested and has served at least some time in a
federal prison —should all these things come to light,
any sensible physician would naturally and rightly as
sume the attitude usually credited to Missourians —
Show me!
"For these reasons we give our readers some informa
tion regarding the president and originator of the Inter
national Institute —O. E. Miller, Ph.D.—which was in
cidentally acquired in our investigations of the 'insti
tute' itself.
"According to the Chicago Tribune, June 11, 1902,
Miller has been grocer, lawyer, newspaper editor, pres
ident of a Y. M. C. A., school superintendent, proprietor
of a 'rupture cure,' and president of a 'dope' sanitarium.
He is now president of the 'consumption cure' institute.
Mr. Miller's long suit is his 'piety.' Throughout all the
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 107
vicissitudes of his checkered career, though he has with
remarkable versatility jumped from a 'rupture cured or
no pay' business to curing drug addicts 'in from 6 to 8
days,' yet he has ever demonstrated the value of re
ligion as a financial asset.
"In the early '90's Miller was running a 'rupture cure'
concern in Denver. So successful was this 'cure' —in
relieving the ruptured of their money —that within six
years Miller claims to have done a business of over
twenty million dollars. Branches of the concern were
to be found in nearly every large city in the United
States.
"While pursuing this delectable business Miller was
president of the 'Professional Men's Debating Society'
of the Y. M. C. A. ; he also organized a large bible class
and was carrying on what was known as the Coopera
tive Bible Union.
"While thus engaged in saving souls and curing rup
ture, Miller was convicted as an accessory to the mis
application of national banking funds and was sentenced
to ten years in the federal prison at Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas. After serving nearly two years of the sentence
he was released on bond on the order of the Circuit
Court of Appeals; the case then seems to have been
dropped. Even in prison Miller's piety had to find ex
pression and he established a Sunday school of which
he was the leader and in addition he had charge of the
music in the chapel on Sundays.
"In 1898 O. E. Miller came to Chicago and, accord
ing to the Tribune, exploited a 'medicated sand' treat
108 Psychological Racketeers
ment for stomach trouble and as a 'sure cure for dys
pepsia.' In the meantime, he had, to use his own words,
'come into possession of a very wonderful formula for
the treatment of morphin, opium, tobacco and liquor
habits.' This was too good an opportunity to miss and
he at once organized 'a religious and philanthropic
movement' known as the St. Luke's Society. This con
cern advertised that the patient would be put 'into a
normal condition' in 'from six to eight days, in all cases
of drug addictions where tobacco is not used . . . Some
forms of nervous affections require two weeks' time.'
"While a 'philanthropic' movement, it did not give
sufficient indications of being a charitable institution to
warrant the Chicago Department of Health granting a
license. The business was evidently a paying one, how
ever, for Miller kept moving into more expensive and
commodious quarters until finally he. rented the old
Hotel Woodruff as a 'sanitarium.' Then, when he had
150 persons in the building, came a fire in which thirteen
inmates perished.
"Miller's next venture was a combination 'university'
and 'sanitarium,' which he floated at Glen Ellyn, a sub
urb of Chicago. This institution was known as the 'Rus-
kin University' . . . Orlando E. Miller, besides being
the 'general secretary' . . . also taught eugenics and
sanitary science . . . The 'university' very naturally
had a college of medicine, and there was nothing narrow
or hide-bound about it. According to the prospectus
issued at the time:
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 109
'Every student in the medical department of
Ruskin University will receive instruction in every
known process of healing, whether it goes under the
name Regular, Irregular, Allopathic, Eclectic,
Homeopathic, Physio-Medical, Osteopathic, Hydro
pathic, or any other title.' [Italics ours. —Editor
of The Journal.']
"But in spite of all the inducements held out to stu
dents, the 'university' was not a financial success and
had it not been for its 'sanitarium' annex would have
gone out of existence even sooner than it did. At the
'Ruskin Sanitarium' were 'drug addicts, nervous cases,
rheumatic and kidney troubles successfully treated.'
The advertisements of this 'sanitarium' also call atten
tion to 'The Famous Glen Ellyn Mineral Springs and
Mud Baths.' Inquiries fail to disclose the whereabouts
of either the famous springs or the equally noted mud
baths. There are springs at Glen Ellyn, it is true, and
as they are not of distilled water, there is doubtless min
eral matter in them —hence, by poetic, or advertisers'
license, mineral springs, if you please. There are, too,
occasional swampy spots where, in wet weather, a per
son willing to risk arrest for indecent exposure, might
take a mud bath —but the people of Glen Ellyn have
never heard of any one taking that risk. An unfeeling
town council finally got after Miller, and, as the papers
stated at the time, fined him $100 and gave him ten
days in which to leave the town.
"Miller says: 'Since severing my connection with the
110 Psychological Racketeers
Ruskin movement, I have been engaged in one way or
another in trying to get my treatment for tuberculosis
to the attention of the medical profession.' The 'In
ternational Institute' was the result, of which Orlando
Edgar Miller, Ph.D., is the president."
The Journal tells in considerable detail of the meth
ods and personnel of this "Institute" and the results of
the "treatment." Miller was, unfortunately, able to
enlist the services of some registered physicians to aid
him in his schemes. The Medical Association first in
vestigated three cases of persons treated by the "Insti
tute," one of which had been given wide publicity
through pamphlets distributed by the concern to show
the marvelous results of their remedy. No mention
was made of the fact that the patient died shortly. So
did the two others.
A later issue of The Journal relates what the "Insti
tute" did for sixty-two other consumptives. We read:
"Some light is thrown on one of the earlier episodes
in Miller's attempt to get his 'cure' before the public,
by the following communication:
Dunning, 111., Dec. 22, 1908.
To the Editor: —I notice in The Journal, Dec.
12, 1908, you have given your readers some timely
facts concerning O. E. Miller and his, so-called, tu
berculosis cure. Permit me to add my share to the
general fund of facts. In October 1907, Miller, ac
companied by a Chicago physician, came to the
Cook County Hospital for Consumptives at Dun
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 111
ning. Miller said he had a cure for pulmonary tu
berculosis, and that if some of our patients would
be willing to try his treatment, he would care for
them free of charge. He explained that the physi
cian who accompanied him was to be with them
and administer the treatment. The matter was pre
sented to a group of patients and ten of them ac
cepting his offer, were taken by Miller to the Lin
coln Park Hospital, Chicago, where they were
'treated.' One other patient joined them later. The
result of the 'treatment' follows:
(1) C. Kearney, dead. (2) C. Peterson, dead.
(3) P. Carr, dead. (4) C. Ryan, dead. (5)
L. Goodman, dead. (6) Olander, dead.
(7) R. Coudek, unaccounted for. (8) M. J.
Cronin, unaccounted for. (9) A. Daum,1 and
(10) A. Martin, confined to bed by terminal tu
berculosis, in Cook County Hospital for Consump
tives. (11) R. Kacin, advanced tuberculosis, an
ambulatory case.
Mr. Kacin, who was with the men all the time,
has made a statement under affidavit, which I in
clude with this. If in your judgment these facts
will interest your readers, I shall be glad to have
them published.
Ernest S. Moore,
Physician in Charge, C. C. H. C."
'Reported dead later.
112 Psychological Racketeers
Further we are told that "though Miller's agents
when soliciting funds for the establishment of 'sani
taria' have apparently conveyed the impression that the
'Institute' has a 'large sanitarium in Chicago,' the facts
are the concern has no place of its own. Since last July
the institute's patients have been given 'treatment' at
the Chicago Union Hospital. With the cooperation of
the Chicago Health Department, we were able to obtain
a list of the patients who have been received at the
Chicago Union Hospital to undergo the Miller 'treat
ment.' We have followed up the history of these pa
tients and the information received up to the time of
going to press is presented in tabular form . . .
What the Institute has Accomplished
Case From Admit. 1908 Condition
1 111. July 17 Dead.
2 111. July 20 No information.
3 Ohio July 31 Dead.
4 m. Aug. 2 Dead.
5 hl Aug. 2 Dead.
6 Ind. Aug. 4 Dead.
7 Ohio Aug. 7 Dead.
8 111. Aug. 9 Dead.
9 Wis. Aug. 9 No information.
10 Penn. Aug. 10 No information.
11 111. Aug. 12 Dead.
12 Ind. Aug. 17 Dead.
13 m. Aug. 17 Dead.
14 Ohio Aug. 18 Dead.
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 113
Case From Admit. 1908 Condition
15 111. Aug. 27 Dead.
16 111. Aug. 29 Dead.
17 111. Sept. 2 No information.
18 Ohio Sept. 10 Dead.
19 ID. Sept. 15 No information.
20 Col. Sept. 16 No information.
21 Tenn. Sept. 16 Dead.
22 in. Sept. 14 "StiU has hemorrages; de
creased weight."
23 ni. Sept. 19 Dead.
24 m. Sept. 19 Dead.
25 m. Sept. 19 Dead.
26 Iowa Sept. 24 "Still living; out in Arizo
na."
27 Ohio Sept. 24 Dead.
28 Wis. Sept. 26 "Is in last stages."
29 Mich. Sept. 26 Dead.
30 Ind. Oct. 4 Dead.
31 111. Oct. 4 Dead.
32 111. Oct. 5 Dead.
33 Ohio Oct. 16 Dead.
34 111. Oct. 25 Dead.
35 111. Oct. 26 Dead.
36 111. Oct. 26 Dead.
37 111. Oct. 26 Dead.
38 111. Oct. 27 Dead.
39 in. Nov. 4 Dead.
40 Tenn. Nov. 4 Dead.
114 Psychological Racketeers
Case From Admit. 1908 Condition
41 EI. Nov. 9 Dead.
42 Vt. Nov. 12 No information.
43 111. Nov. 14 No information.
44 111. Nov. 15 Dead.
45 in. Nov. 17 Dead.
46 Ind. Nov. 21 Dead.
47 m. Nov. 24 No information.
48 Kas. Nov. 24 No information.
49 Ind. Nov. 28 Dead.
SO Texas Dec. 12 No information.
SI 111. Dec. 14 No information.
"These cases, it should be remembered, are in no
sense selected. They represent the official record of the
Institute's roster, from July 17, 1908, to Dec. 14, 1908.
The table gives, in the briefest possible way, the history
of fifty-one consecutive patients subject to the O. E.
Miller 'treatment' for tuberculosis. Yet Miller and his
associates have the blatant effrontery to publish broad
cast the statement:
'Of all cases treated ... we have effected per
manent cures of over 80 per cent including all com
plications.'
"Tables and statistics are generally dry and uninter
esting, but we feel that the tabular statement given above
speaks more eloquently than any sermon of 'man's in
humanity to man.' Here we have a list of 51 individuals
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 115
suffering from tuberculosis who have been subjected to
the Miller 'treatment' at the International Institute and
of 39 of whom we were able to obtain definite informa
tion. Thirty-six of the 39 are dead, while the 3 that are
still living may be said to be in a dying condition. It
is possible, yes probable, that of the 12 patients about
whom we have no information, the same proportion are
either dead or dying.
"Taking the 62 patients that we know have taken
the Miller 'treatment' — 11 from Dunning and 51 cov
ered by our own investigations —we have positive infor
mation concerning SO of them. Of the SO there are 43
dead and the rest are in the terminal stage of the dis
ease. And yet Miller claims to cure 80 per cent of those
treated!
"What the 'treatment' actually seems to accomplish
is to hasten the dissolution of the unfortunate victim
taking it. As the reports began coming in regarding the
cases under investigation, it was common to find such
statements as: T believe the "treatment" marked the
beginning of his rapid decline,' or 'her decline was rapid
afterward.' . . . Such, then, are the methods of one of
the most heartless and cruel of the innumerable 'con
sumption cure' fakes."
In 1912 the American Medical Association came for
ward with more information, gleaned from newspapers
in this country and abroad. It appears that Miller went
to Paris after his "cure" had been declared a fraud, but
in 1911 attempted to reintroduce it into a New York
hospital. His record was too well-known, however, and
116 Psychological Racketeers
he was obliged to seek pastures new. England proved a
haven for a while. He "interested the Duke of Man
chester in his 'consumption cure' business with the re
sult that the duke furnished a mansion for 'institute'
purposes. Miller's British venture seems to have been
as successful —for Miller—and as unprofitable—for his
victims—as his American and French enterprises. It is
claimed that in one case —that of Prince Hohenlohe—
Miller actually received £1,000 ($5,000) for his 'treat
ment.' Of course the prince died. Like all Miller's en
terprises, his British sanitarium, in spite of its ducal
patronage, was unable to survive the bright light of pub
licity. After his 'consumption cure' became unprofitable
he resurrected an old fake of his, the 'sand cure' for
dyspepsia."1
It was not until a dozen years later, in 1924, that
Miller finally published a reply to this increasingly em
barrassing report of the American Medical Association.
Copies of a booklet called My Answer were, when ques
tions arose, distributed to his students of "applied psy
chology," which subject was by that time engaging his
attention. According to this "answer," he has been sub-
*A1I the American Medical Association's information re
garding Miller is brought together in their publication Nostrums
and Quackery, a collection of articles reprinted from The Jour
nal. See the second edition, 1912, pp. 115-130, American Medi
cal Association Press, Chicago. Their account is quoted almost
in toto by Miller at the beginning of a booklet by him called
My Answer. I am much indebted to Dr. Arthur J. Cramp,
Director of the Bureau of Investigation of the American Medi
cal Association and author of Nostrums and Quakery, for his
investigation of Miller, which makes my own findings much
more complete.
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 117
jected to a lifetime of persecution, largely at the hands of
the medical profession, though their dastardly work has *
been substantially supplemented by that of judges, jury
men, bank officials, and many others, especially news
paper editors. However, having early in life become
"converted to the teaching of non-resistance," he has
"simply ignored" these attacks. He even declares that
they have given him "helpful publicity."
He baldly insinuates that an editor of the American
Medical Association had a personal grudge against him
because he had cured this man's former wife, when he,
the editor, would have preferred it otherwise. This cir
cumstance and the medical profession's "fetish against
secret formulae" brought about the persistent opposi
tion. There is strong implication of an unremitting
jealousy at his success. Through such lack of "profes
sional cooperation" with him, he has been sadly thwarted
in his efforts to benefit ailing humanity, though great
numbers of prominent persons without medical bias have
found his claims most convincing.
The newspapers have, alas, been all too ready to
spread the damaging report of the Medical Association.
We learn, for instance, that the Chicago Tribune pub
lished "a very scurrilous attack," and that when Miller
made an attempt to present his side of the case to the
managing editor, this individual (name not given) most
unsympathetically refused to be interested. Why our
much-abused hero brought no libel suit is not explained.
At this point in his story he interpolates an account of
a young reporter who said to him:
118 Psychological Racketeers
" T was told by my boss that you were* the foxiest
old grandpa alive and that you would make me think
that white was black. I was warned not to let you get
near enough to me or you probably wouM hypnotize me
and cause me to write things that I shouldn't.'
"
His superior's warning was not heeded, it seems, for
Miller says that the young man had an hour's conversa
tion with him and declared "he had met an entirely dif
ferent character of man than he had been led to expect,"
and that his report would be quite different. Thus was
the painful story for once throttled, the fair-minded re
porter subsequently losing hk job as a result —but being
promptly rewarded with another' by a just Providence,
we are relieved to learn.
Close examination of the "one hundred and four pages
of Miller's My Answer makes it clear that, in spite of his
adroit and lengthy "explanations," he really touches but
lightly or not at all on many of the Medical Associa
tion's accusations. He has nothing to say about the
deaths reported by the physician in charge of the Cook
County Hospital for Consumptives, or those earlier in
vestigated by the Medical Association. In regard to the
fifty-one cases receiving the Miller treatment at the Chi
cago Union Hospital, we are given a most ingenius ex
planation. According to Miller, the thirty-six patients
must have died as a result of "the law of suggestion,"
due to reading the pernicious account of him gotten out
by the Medical Association ! Concerning the cases about
which there is no information, we are coolly informed that
the investigating physicians actually had received favor
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 119
able reports but would not say so. This seems to be
his discreet way of calling them liars. His whole argu
ment, which is much more cleverly put than can be in
dicated in this brief summary, probably sounds quite
convincing to credulous readers, especially those some
what antagonistic to doctors.
Miller says a good deal about his activities abroad.
It will be remembered that at the critical time when his
"cure" for tuberculosis was under investigation, he had
taken refuge in Paris—though that is not at all the way
he puts it. He says that he received a cablegram from a
wealthy patron asking him to come at once to treat the
son of this man's business associate. Owing to the pros
pective patient's untimely death just as Miller arrived,
the latter could not immediately demonstrate his powers.
He was, however, persuaded to remain and try them on
five French paupers dying of tuberculosis. It is stated that
"the patients made such rapid improvement that in less
than two weeks we had them eating well, going out for
daily walks, motor rides, putting on weight and adding
to their chest expansions." But then there was opposi
tion from French physicians. They stubbornly insisted
upon knowing what his formula was and trying it out
themselves openly before they would acknowledge its
excellence. At this juncture the Duke of Manchester
became interested in Miller and his carefully guarded
secret, and suggested that he repair to London where he
would be assured "a square deal."
" 'These people are only trying to get your formula
for their own ends,'
" Miller reports the Duke as saying.
120 Psychological Racketeers
So the long-suffering healer departed for England and
eventually assembled in a nursing home four patients
who, he says, were in the last stages of tuberculosis.
After undergoing his treatment for ten days, they all
showed marked improvement, according to him. Strange
as it may seem, the English specialists who came to ex
amine them actually reported them worse from the
treatment ! This erroneous report was, we leam, inspired
by American physicians, whose malicious literature had
sadly prejudiced their fellow-doctors abroad. Neverthe
less, because of the great interest of the British nobility,
our hero gained many more patients.
"Members of the British Medical Association deter
mined that something must be done to stem the popular
tide of appreciation that seemed to be rising. Physi
cians came and looked over the patients, secured their
names, and the addresses of their relatives and friends.
To these relatives and friends they wrote such letters
and sent such American printed matter that the majority
of the patients were recalled within a week, although
they were all improving in a most wonderful way, and
many of them left very much against their will."
Thus was the oft-persecuted Orlando Edgar again frus
trated in his noble task, because of "the most thoroughly
underhanded opposition of the British Medical Associa
tion." His friend the Duke still remained faithful, how
ever, and secured him a mansion "on one of the most
beautiful estates in England" for his work.
"There I began giving lectures on health, diet, breath
The Most Famous "Psychologist 121
ing, etc., and continued the popular public work on Ap
plied Psychology, which I had started in Paris."
This is the first we hear of his active interest in the
psychological field. There is then mention of attacks
by certain newspapers and of efforts at blackmail on the
the part of one editor (now dead). But the most ex
citing circumstance of his sojourn in England appears to
have been his indictment for murder after a woman died
at his nursing home.
"At the preliminary hearing," Miller hastens to ex
plain, "the charge was changed to manslaughter."
Since the English court records are not available, we
must leave it to Miller to tell his own story. He de
scribes in some detail the lack of intelligence of the jury
and the unfairness of the judge and the trial. He re
ceived a three-months jail sentence, he says, and ob
serves that "similar sentences had frequently been ad
ministered to Christian Scientists and other drugless
healers, for permitting patients to die without medical
attention." His sentence was illegal, he declares, and
his lawyer suggested an appeal.
"But I have always preached and practiced non-resist
ance," he writes, "and I said I would acquiesce."
He next explains how he happened to serve a term
years earlier in the Leavenworth penitentiary in this
country. It seems that he experienced similar injustice
at the hands of an American judge and jury, who had
been set upon him by a misguided populace. In the first
place, he assures us his operations in regard to the bank
ing funds which he is said to have misapplied, were per
122 Psychological Racketeers
fectly legitimate, and his indictment was "a political
frame-up." Then we were led to believe that the now
deceased justice in the case was "violently prejudiced"
against him and a decidedly corrupt individual to boot.
Vigorously asserting that there was something very rot
ten in Denmark, our hero's complaints are loud at this
point. We learn, however, that with the ever-helpful
"doctrine of non-resistance" to guide him, he acted mag
nanimously. Though he was "railroaded to prison," he
submitted gracefully because he "thought it might prove
a place where some good could be done," and for other
reasons that are shrouded in circuitous statement. At
the time of his release the chaplain publicly thanked him,
he tells us, for his inspiring influence over the men.
"The occasion," states Miller, "was more like an old-
fashioned Methodist love feast. There were no dry eyes,
and as I shook hands with the men that night I had the
realization that wherever one is in this world, there are
opportunities to be of service." Truly the redoubtable
Orlando's ability to make his every situation be of ser
vice (to himself) was almost incredible!
Turning from the sad picture of the weeping convicts
and prison officials mourning his departure, he goes on
to later events. With disconcerting suddenness we dis
cover him devoting himself exclusively to the cause of
"applied psychology." "On my return from England,
February 1919, I at once became a popular lecturer on
Health and Applied Psychology. I appeared in many of
the large eastern cities always in the largest available
auditoriums. My crowds averaged over 100,000 a
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 123
month. Out of these campaigns there grew a move
ment, which was incorporated under the laws of Illinois;
it was named 'The International Society of Applied Psy
chology.' This movement has been phenomenal in its
growth, and because of its success, the country has been
flooded with public speakers along these lines."
From his students and the newspapers, it has been
learned that one of his activities during the next few
years was the promotion of a "Founders' League of
Chapala Cooperative University," which university was
to be the nucleus of a "psychology colony" in Mexico.
Members of the organization were to live by the aid of
psychological knowledge and develop into supermen and
superwomen. With this Mexican "Temple of Psychol
ogy" as an objective, Miller opened elaborate offices in
San Francisco, for he was by that time shedding the
light of his philanthropic spirit on the Pacific coast.
My Answer was published by "The Psychological Press"
at this Geary Street address. And it was here that
handsomely engraved life-membership certificates in the
"Founders' League" were sold for the purpose of raising
a million dollars to establish the proposed university.
The plan was later taken up again in Boston, where,
however, it was halted by a grand jury investigation
after one of the inducements offered to prospective mem
bers of the colony was announced as the use of a speci
ally devised hammock which would "lengthen the bones
of the spine and make certain longer and happier life."
It was early in 1922, Miller's book tells us, that he
began to promote the Rellimeo Film Syndicate, which
124 Psychological Racketeers
was to produce "Better Pictures with a Psychological
Punch" and uplift the movie industry out of sodden
commercialism into altruistic psychological heights. The
name Rellimeo, it will be observed, is 0. E. Miller spelt
backwards. This worthy says: "In Los Angeles my
students subscribed for over $40,000 worth of shares.
In San Diego they subscribed over $50,000. I then
visited Oakland and Sacramento, where we had the
usual success."
From the California cities he went to Portland and
Seattle, where, presumably, other converts to psychology
also became large purchasers of stock. At this point in
his narrative, however, he is particularly concerned with
the machinations of his now rather numerous enemies.
Not only the newspapers but Better Business Bureaus
—which, as you know, are organized in many cities to
protect the public against fraudulent business schemes
—and "Ad Clubs" showed very active hostility to him.
This had begun when he lectured in the East, and had
increased as he progressed along the West coast. More
over, in Seattle he had become associated with a woman
who played into the hands of these organizations in a
way that he speaks of most bitterly. The newspapers
at first refer to the two as "a psychological team," call
ing her his "secretary," but later tell of the excitement
they caused in Portland by hiring nearby theaters and
"exposing" each other. The papers also report other
details that do not appear in Miller's version —of his
being arrested in San Francisco for practicing medicine
without a license, of his many creditors in Portland and
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 125
his row with the mayor there, of his unpaid bill of seven
hundred and thirty dollars for use of the Oakland civic
auditorium, of his alleged third wife, and so on. But in
spite of everything he attracted large crowds, and busi
ness was apparently excellent for a time. He winds up
his book with two testimonials exonerating him com
pletely from all crimes and misdemeanors and extolling
his blameless conduct.
The rest of the story can be sketched from the reports
of his victims and newspaper accounts. It is alleged that
Miller got hundreds of thousands of dollars from film-
stock investors, who were filled with high hopes and
often turned over to him almost every cent they had.
Elderly women, widows especially, have told of trustfully
giving him their lifetime savings in return for the worth
less stock. Then he disappeared, leaving misery and
sometimes destitution behind him. Some said he was
in Mexico; some said he was still in the San Francisco
bay region, where he had been operating. Several war
rants were issued for his arrest on charges of embezzle
ment, grand larceny, and violating the corporate securi
ties act. But Miller was nowhere to be found.
After an interval of nearly a year he and some of his
associates were indicted by the federal grand jury for
using the mails to defraud in connection with the no
torious Rellimeo company, and a hunt was begun in
Mexico for the elusive psychologist. Finally he was
discovered to be lecturing serenely on "health, happi
ness, success," and allied psychological subjects in Win
nipeg, Canada! The United States federal authorities
126 Psychological Racketeers
considered extradition; but that was not feasible be
cause this country's treaties with Canada do not make
fraudulent use of the mails an extiaditable offense. How
ever, since Miller had been "mugged" and fingerprinted
in England at the time of his imprisonment there for
manslaughter, the Canadian government arrested him
as an undesirable alien. The arrest was made in Van
couver, British Columbia, just as he was about to begin
a widely advertised series of lectures on psychology.
His genius at persuasion appears to have shown itself
again, for he was soon released on the understanding that
he had ten days in which to leave the country; and the
point of departure was left to him when he promised on
his "honor" to inform the Canadian officials of his going.
During the period of grace he refreshed himself amidst
the beauties of Banff and then went back to bis Van
couver hotel.
In the meantime deputy United States marshals sta
tioned at the Canadian border prepared for his return to
this country. Provided with warrants for his arrest,
they waited for him to step into their clutches as he
crossed the boundary. But their wily antagonist never
appeared. He vanished completely, spurlos versenkt, it
would seem, though it is hard to imagine this agile
creature "sunk" permanently. Perhaps a ship bound for
the Orient carried him to a more hospitable land. Per
haps he is even now selling the secrets of psychology in
Siam or curing consumptives in Korea or fostering his
finances in the Philippines or thrilling the titled in
The Most Famous "Psychologist" 127
Tahiti. Be that as it may, this country has heard noth
ing for more than a year of Orlando Edgar Miller, Ph.D.
The secret of his remarkable career, to which justice
has hardly been done in this short survey, doubtless lay
not only in his fertile brilliance of brain but also in his
extraordinarily compelling personality. I can see him
now as he stood before his audience. His appearance
was commanding: a head well set on broad shoulders; a
well-featured countenance seeming to radiate strength
and benevolence; a figure not tall but giving that im
pression because of superb carriage. His air of absolute
self-confidence was flawless. Especially notable was his
voice, a full-toned, vibrant voice that drew his listeners
to him as if he had been a prophet of old. It was some
what too suavely ingratiating at times, perhaps, but his
audiences were not trained in fine critical distinctions.
The deep cadences of his many scriptural quotations,
the ringing eloquence of his exhortations, the volume and
power of his "affirmations," were, to the great majority,
irresistibly convincing.
With consummate skill this smooth-tongued orator
built himself defenses in every word he spoke. "Only
the good can succeed" —and he had painted a glowing
picture of his own success. "God is on the side of the
good, the righteous"—where 0. E. M. had just shown
himself to be. "Think no ill of any one. . . . Exercise
faith in every human being. . . . Practice the doctrine
of non-resistance. . . . Never, if you intend to be true
to yourself and the highest within you, go back on a
friend. Whatever the friend may do to you, disloyalty
128 Psychological Racketeers
is inexcusable." And so he made them feel that to doubt
him, to think ill of him, their new-found friend, would
be veritable self-defilement.
Religion was his great ally. Biblical passages dripped
from his lips on the slightest provocation. He even
wrote tracts on Christ and religion.
"He had such fine ideas about God, and he made won
derful prayers," explained one of his students of "ap
plied psychology."
And after he had prayed with them, he sold them
movie stock —"in the service of humanity" —or rupture
cures or medicated sand or whatever was his current de
vice for transferring money from their pockets to his.
He did indeed fairly hypnotize his prey. Faith in him
would linger on even in the face of the most damning
evidence.
"I thought he was absolutely genuine and sincere,"
said one woman. "He was either sincere or else the
greatest hypocrite that ever lived." And one felt that
she still wavered slightly toward the former view.
Assuredly he was a master "psychologist."
CHAPTER X
A "CHARACTER ANALYST AND VOCATIONAL
EXPERT"
Amelia Cann Soothem, as we shall know her, seemed
different from the others. One discovered real kind
liness rather than self-seeking in her bright psychological;
smile. I first encountered her in a church, where she was
giving a series of "free lectures under the auspices of
the young people of the church." It is true that the
plate was passed for the usual "offering," but no expen
sive tuitional course lay ahead—just "private analyses"
at the remarkably low rate of three dollars per person
(and for two dollars extra one would get her newest
book).
Her preliminary talk that evening led quickly to some
public demonstrations. With a most scientific-appear
ing pair of calipers she began to measure heads busily.
One felt at once that calipers were a vital necessity for
the real thing in character reading —nice large shiny
calipers, of course, with a business-like look about their
metal and joints. She even flourished the instrument
importantly while she peered into the faces of her sub
jects and examined their eyes and ears and noses and
chins. There must be something benign about calipers,
129
130 Psychological Racketeers
for all her judgments were most gently sympathetic, and
if ever a faintly critical word crept in, it was soothingly
tempered with encouraging suggestion. Her language
was sometimes a bit unconventional perhaps. For in
stance, she spoke of "the tall, dark temperament." But
let us not be fussily censorious.
There were pleased titters from the adolescents present
when she announced that she would speak next time on
love, courtship, marriage, and divorce/ She would, she
said, choose one's scientific mate/fnen and there, and
she assured us that there had been no report to date of
divorce by couples of her selecting. I did not attend
this lecture myself, but a student of mine brought back
word that the church was filled with) high-school boys
and girls.
"Is it really true," he asked, "that if only one of the
two parents has an inheritable weakness or taint, their
children will never inherit it? She told us that."
"Of course it isn't true !" I cried and listened with
horror-stricken curiosity to his report of her fantastic
biology. So high-school youngsters were being fed these
harmful misstatements —and right in a church, tool As
soon as I could, I cornered the minister of the church
in his study. He was youngish and modernly educated,
I knew.
"Well," he replied uneasily after my none too gentle
expostulation, "I only let her lecture because she is some
thing of a friend of the family, and I did not know how
to put her off. She is a good woman and does help some
people. She means well and is human and sympathetic.
"Character Analyst, Vocational Expert" 131
I remember once several years ago one of my parishion
ers came to me in great mental distress. I didn't seem
able to help her at all. My wife knew Mrs. Soothem,
and we got her to come over. She straightened the wo
man out completely. I know that what she has to say
is hopelessly unscientific, and I'm sorry I let her speak
to the young people. I'll try to see that she sticks to the
inspirational part and steers clear of the biology. And
I won't let her stay here long."
I soon found out that Mrs. Soothem was well known.
Several of my students, past and present, had been "an
alyzed" by her in former years when she was visiting
their home towns. I was able to get hold of a couple of
her documentary analyses, which had been made for two
s^ters eleven years earlier. An elaborate printed blank
is used, half of which is concerned with the character
analysis, and the other half with the matter of voca
tional aptitudes. Under "Character Analysis" there are,
first, spaces for data in regard to height, weight, "Size of
Brain," and color of complexion, hair, and eyes; then,
five main headings, "Temperament or Type," "Quality
of Brain," "Health," "Activity of Brain and Body," and
"Mental Characteristics." The kinds of "Temperament
or Type" enumerated are "motor," "vital, or nutritive,"
"mental," and "harmonic." Rambling descriptions and
prescriptions are printed all along. If motor tempera
ment is deficient, for example, one should "cultivate by
eating bone and muscle-building foods"; or if vital tem
perament is excessive, it should be "restrained by plain
living and high thinking." And if the "Quality of Brain
132 Psychological Racketeers
is fine in constitutional texture," one has "exquisite sen
sibilities, is expressibly shocked by the coarse and gross,"
and should learn to "sympathize with all." Dotted lines
have been left, where Mrs. Soothem has written "very
fine," "strong," "intense," "excellent," and so on. She
is chronically encouraging and always selects favorable
adjectives. This also applies to her verdicts in regard
to the "Mental Characteristics," under which topic are
included such subheads as "spirituality," "optimism
and enthusiasm," "reasoning," "governing and aspiring,"
"executive and forceful," etc.
At the end of this half of the blank is a neatly penned
"Recapitulation." These are so characteristic of Mrs.
Soothem and her teachings that I quote both sisters'
completely:
"If this little girl were a bird she would surely sprout
an extra pair of wings. She is a positive and dominent
character demanding much of life and of people. She
must learn to be patient and poised. Guard the temper
earnestly. Cultivate concentration carefully. The vi
tality is good but fresh air and plenty of fresh cool water.
When she is impatient she should lie down flat and take
a few simple exercises and take a glass of cold water.
The memory is phenomenal. Don't worry about her
schooling she will not break down."
"An excessively high keyed nature tuned up to concert
pitch and a little higher. Learn the beauty in plain
things in the every day things of life. Take full respon
"Character Analyst, Vocational Expert" 133
sibility in what ever you undertake. Learn to rejoice in
your own will power and executive force. Do not be
over sensitive. Every cloud has a silver lining and our
Father in heaven is ever watchful of our welfare."
Under "Vocational Adaptation" Mrs. Soothem has
again written in her judgments. The older sister is
"adapted" to miniature painting, music, authorship, po
etry, art, designing, and dramatic expression; the
younger, to dramatic expression, singing evangelism,
vocal music, designing, and authorship.
It was the older sister who gave me the "analyses."
She also good-naturedly set down on paper answers to
questions I asked. No, she does not feel that the an
alyses are correct. As for the vocational abilities named,
most of them seem very general and might fit many per
sons in one way or another. Her own present occupa
tion is rural-school teaching, which she "loves," and it is
not mentioned at all in her analysis. Certainly some of
the alleged vocational tastes are not hers. She is "not
gifted in writing," has "never written poetry," and does
"not like it particularly." She "lacks dramatic expres
sion" and is "decidedly ungifted" along this line. She
is "fond of music" and has had a little instruction, "but
that's all." She has been very fond of drawing and paint
ing ever since childhood and gave much time to it then,
even making attempts at miniature painting. At the
time the analyses were made, she was a child of twelve,
and her sister was six. Mrs. Soothem happened to be
visiting great friends of their family, who lived only two
134 Psychological Racketeers
doors away. Since no secret was made of the childish
interest in miniature painting, it is not hard to imagine
how Mrs. Soothem hit upon this. The young teacher's
only real achievements in art have been nothing more
lofty than Christmas and birthday cards, of which she
has "painted dozens."
"In reference to my sister's chart," she adds, "my
mother thinks there are fewer characteristics true than
in mine. She hasn't a 'phenomenal memory,' and the
vocational aptitudes named have so far been clear only
to Mrs. Soothem."
I also communicated with a third young woman —like
wise an elementary-school teacher—who had been an
alyzed as a child. She writes: "... I can't seem to
find it [the analysis] . I probably destroyed it at some
time, not having much faith in it. I especially remem
ber this —the madam prescribed for my breakfast the
following: 'a dish of prunes and some zwiebach, with a
good game of handball with my brothers before break
fast.' I paid two dollars for that information. She
also said that the two things in this world for which I
was best fitted were either a domestic science teacher or
an evangelistic singer. Can you imagine me doing
either! I hate anything connected with housework or
cooking, and I can't sing. The only things she told me
that came near being so were: health —good; business
ability —very strong (and here she is exaggerating)."
Criticisms of this order naturally make one wonder if
our "vocational expert and character analyst" did any
thing much but a little magnificent guessing. There
is,
"Character Analyst, Vocational Expert" 13 5
however, proof of supporting theory, and now for a word
about it.
The "Gallian doctrine," or phrenology, on which Mrs.
Soothem makes clear she bases a large proportion of her
findings, was developed by a German physician named
Gall considerably over a century ago. Early in life he
became deeply interested in the physical basis of mental
traits and abilities. He decided that the brain surface
was made up of compartment-like areas, each of which
marked off the abode of a particular mental "faculty,"
and that the extent of any "faculty" could be readily de
tected by noting the prominence of the individual's skull
at the appropriate place. Great self-esteem, for instance,
would mean a perceptible "bump" on the upper back
part of the head; and memory was thought to dwell be
hind the eyes, which would be bulging if that power were
strongly developed. Gall drew his conclusions from ob
serving people. Because he saw a few persons praying
fervently in church, and it seemed to him their heads
were unusually high in the upper middle region, he said
"veneration" must be located in that spot. Again,
when he once observed that an insane woman who be
lieved herself to be a queen, had a head rather wide at
the back, he concluded that "love of approbation" must
lie under that part of the cranium. It did not appar
ently occur to him that it takes more than an occasional
case or two to prove a fixed relationship.
For a while Gall's teachings were enthusiastically re
ceived, but the advancement of medical science in later
years meant careful investigation of the brain and com
136 Psychological Racketeers
plete disproval of his theory. It has become certain that
the possession of different mental characteristics does not
mean the brain works in separate sections. Rather it
performs as a whole, or, more accurately put, many parts
of the brain are involved, with every kind of mental ac
tivity. There is localization of function only in a way
very different from what Gall supposed. It is the sense
organs and muscles that are linked to particular brain
areas. To take one case, the area which Gall said was
reserved for "the faculty of veneration," physiologists
have found to be the crucial nerve center for the leg
muscles. Such centers do not, however, operate in iso
lation.
Moreover, "bumps" on the head may be due to thick
ness of the skull bone at that spot —"solid ivory" in
a very literal sense —or to too much watery fluid in the
brain. Certain kinds of idiots have wonderful "bumps"
that mean nothing but an over-supply of cerebral fluid.
As a matter of fact, even the amount of brain matter
itself is not a sure indication of amount of mental abil
ity; it is complexity of structure that counts, quite as
much as size. And finally it can be said that the so-
called "science" of phrenology falls down hopelessly
whenever it is rigorously put to the test by a thorough
checking up of the relation between Gallian traits and
cranial measures.
There is another method of character reading, namely,
physiognomy, which is even more popular with "applied
psychologists" in general, and which Mrs. Soothem uses
freely herself. In this case, character traits and voca
"Character Analyst, Vocational Expert" 137
tional aptitudes are detected from the features, com
plexion, hair, figure, and so forth. For instance, a well-
developed chin is said to signify will power and deter
mination; coarse hair means a coarse nature; and blonds
are "changeable" (however much they may be preferred
by gentlemen). Under the classification of "types" ap
pearing in Mrs. Soothem's character analysis blanks, the
"motor temperament" is described as "positive and de
cided" and declared to be indicated by a "tall, angular
figure"; the "vital, or nutritive, temperament" is "so
ciable and pleasure-loving" and possessed by those of
"plump, rounded body and short or medium height";
and so on. Her classification of types, by the wayr is
no more her own original handiwork than is her phren
ology, but has had a long history. Nowadays practi
cally all physiognomists —and that means a goodly num
ber of our "applied psychologists"—use the classifica
tion, usually with some additions, subtractions, or varia
tions.
The world in general appears to be perpetually inter
ested in this kind of thing. In a large city nearby, the
leading newspaper has recently featured as a signal at
traction a "psychologist" it has subsidized to write
articles, and answers to inquiries, about "the mental,
motive, and nutritive types" and other matters of phys
iognomy. Even more recently I have discovered that
in another well-known city not far away, physiognomy is
actually taught to salesmanship classes in the evening
schools, which are, of course, under the direction of the
city board of education. A student of mine tells me of
138 Psychological Racketeers
having had the same thing, including some phrenology,
in a privately owned business college.
It is at once observed when one sets to work to pene
trate the intricacies of physiognomy that its adherents
are perfectly content to make dogmatic assertions with
out proof, on the theory, apparently, that if one says a
thing often enough and emphatically enough, one will be
believed. But in the past few years many of their state
ments have been tested experimentally by those who have
been in search of valid data. Invariably the wholesale
claims of the physiognomists have been disproved. Thus,
in one study (by Paterson and Ludgate) about a hun
dred persons unversed in a certain system of "character
reading" were asked to judge the characteristics of blonds
and brunettes of their acquaintance. Each judge was to
think of two decided brunettes and of two thoroughly
blond blonds (of the non-peroxide variety) and write
down whether or not they had the different qualities
enumerated in the system. The results show that the
brunettes were quite as likely to have alleged "blond"
traits as "brunette" ones. And vice versa for the blonds.
For example, 84 per cent of the brunettes and 81 per cent
of the blonds were rated "positive," a trait ascribed to
blonds only by this system; and 64 per cent of the dark-
skinned and 63 per cent of the fair-complexioned were
judged "dynamic," supposedly a "blond" characteristic
exclusively.
I have recently come across another system, in which
it is maintained that blonds are "addicted to hard
liquor." In refutation I immediately think of my very
"Character Analyst, Vocational Expert" 139
blond and very "dry" maternal parent, and I believe no
one would find it very difficult to multiply such instances.
About all one can conclude from blondness is that the
blond's forbears probably came from the north of Eu
rope, where the fair races have flourished from time im
memorial. In summary it may be said that all the
thorough investigations of various physiognomic systems
show these systems to be highly unreliable.
If by way of evidence the physiognomist offers any
thing besides sheer unsupported assertion, it is very apt
to be the extremely treacherous argument by analogy.
The man with the thick, bull-like neck is alleged to have
fiery, obstinate traits like the bull, and he of the slender
figure resembling a greyhound is said to be quick, keen,
and responsive like the greyhound. But the tests have
shown that such physical resemblances do not actually
prove anything at all in regard to mental similarities. The
slender man may, or may not, be quick and keen of mind.
The character analyst, however, has that ever-present
human tendency to remember the times when his theory
works and to forget all the others. It may be interest
ing in this connection to remind ourselves that the
scoundrel described in the last chapter owned a set of
features warranted, by the most approved principles of
physiognomies, to mean prodigious nobility of character.
And, if we want another instance of the rules not always
holding, there is the motion picture hero, who often has
an appearance of high integrity that is sadly belied by
his failure to pay his income tax.
Genuine causes and relationships seem to slip by the
140 Psychological Racketeers
physiognomist. He tells us that great judges, organiz
ers, and captains of industry are modeled on the lines
of the circle, and have round faces and round bodies.
Therefore, of course, the "round" person must be cut
out for such professional activities. But is not this a
reversal of the order of events? Has not our friend
the analyst overlooked the fact that judges, captains of
industry, and their kind are almost necessarily older
men, and that, with age and a sedentary occupation, the
human being tends to become "round," or, in less poetic
language, just plain fat?
However, no one denies that it is sometimes very easy
to tell a good deal about a person from his appearance.
Not only the clothes and the way they are worn, the man
ner of speaking, and the person's general state of neat
ness and cleanness, but his face and bearing as well, not
infrequently do give us important clues as to his nature
and possibilities. Just what does . it? Certainly we
cannot continue to think that we judge by the shape of
the nose, or the distance between the eyes, or the color
and texture of the skin, or the "roundness" of figure.
What count in our estimating are the expression, the
little mannerisms of face and body, the individual's way
of carrying himself, and the like. The kindly person
thinks kindly thoughts, so the muscles of his face fall
into what we have learned to recognize as kindly lines.
The bad-tempered man's mouth and brow soon show his
characteristic disposition. The man of authority walks
with dignity, and bows from the waist with a certain
ceremoniousness that his less important fellowmen have
"Character Analyst, Vocational Expert?' 141
seldom acquired. Such facial and bodily habits settle
almost irrevocably, and it takes no great ability to per
ceive their significance, though often we may not realize
the precise source of our information. Perhaps the phys
iognomists and phrenologists sometimes really think
they are using their special criteria when these other
things are the true indicators.
At any rate, I am convinced that Mrs. Soothem is sin
cere and well-intentioned—and that her influence is re
grettably wide. She has recommendations galore from
Y. M. C. A.'s, Rotary Clubs, business organizations, and
ministers. I have a recent letter from her—in answer
to a non-committal inquiry of mine—saying that she is
"permanently located" with the Y. M. C. A. of one of
our largest cities, but that she answers "some outside
calls for courses of lectures —chiefly churches and
Y. M. C. A.'s." So we may picture "the Little Woman
with the the Big Message," as one press notice describes
her, happily spreading her sugary falsities for years to
come, in serene ignorance of contemporary scientific psy
chology.
CHAPTER XI
HOW PUBLISHED "SYSTEMS" ARE MARKETED
Due space must next be given to a prominent phase of
popular psychological activity, namely, the published
"systems of applied psychology," which are parceled out
in correspondence courses or else sold in book form. I
have chosen for description six that appear to be the
most widely known. None is a production of any of the
famous fourteen we have just done with.
One of the systems I began to investigate by filling
out —in the name of an acquiescing friend—the coupon
included as part of a full-page magazine advertisement.
The promised booklet on "scientific mind training," tell
ing about this system in detail, came promptly, and with
it a persuasive letter making a "Special Offer" of rates
reduced, "for a limited time," from sixty dollars to thirty-
nine cash, or forty-two or forty-five on certain install
ment plans. Two other letters, increasingly appealing,
followed shortly. In the meantime another obliging ac
quaintance had saved me the thirty-nine, or forty-two,
or forty-five, dollars by lending her copy of the course,
for which she had duly paid forty-two dollars in install
ments.
The other five systems were first brought to my atten
142
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 143
tion through letters of advertisement addressed to me at
my house—form leters, it is true, but couched in the
most seductive language and accompanied by circulars
promising endless benefits. Just why I personally was
honored with such communications, I do not know. Is
it that I am on somebody's "sucker list," I wonder sadly.
At least I share this condition, for one or more friends,
in the case of each of the five respective systems, sup
plied with me similar letters directed to them.
All the systems, it turned out, were being offered at
greatly reduced rates. One, for personal instruction in
which, "carefully selected individuals who could be
trusted to guard such priceless knowledge" had paid
"from $200 to $500," was now being sacrificed for thirty-
nine dollars, in this case three dollars down and three
dollars for twelve monthly payments further, or thirty-
six dollars for a full settlement at once. I showed my
Scotch strain by availing myself of the "five-day free ex
amination" offer and got my three dollars back when
the books were returned at the end of five days. A
twenty-four lesson system was described as originally
selling for "two dollars a lesson, or forty-eight dollars,"
but was offered me for forty, first and later for ten
dollars, "or nine dollars for cash." I finally bought this
work in book form for a cash payment of four dollars
and fifty cents. Another system had been reduced from
one hundred and fifty dollars and now cost only eighteen.
It did not, however, cost me that, for I borrowed it from
my dentist. The two most recently written courses are
not claimed to have been as highly priced originally as
144 Psychological Racketeers
the others —probably the market value of "applied psy
chology" is slumping as the supply increases. One of
these systems I purchased for a cash payment of six
dollars and eighty-five cents—"regular price $13.50"
—
only to learn later that it eventually sold for a dollar
ninety-eight! The other I bought for five dollars, and
there was a two-year subscription to a magazine on "ap
plied psychology" thrown in. I was informed that orig
inally the course alone was twenty-five dollars when pre
sented in lecture form; and I have seen it advertised for
"thirteen-fifty cash, as a correspondence course in four
teen lessons."
"The enclosed 10 day option-circular," runs the letterof
advertisement," is worth $25.00inreal money, so we have
limited it to your personal use. ... It gives to a selected
list of people the opportunity to get the most talked
about, the most successful and the greatest Course in
Applied Psychology. . . . Only one condition we make
—that you send in your reservation at once. The plates
are all made—the paper is bought —the printers are wait
ing—but we can make only one edition at this price,
and we want to give every one of our friends a chance at
that edition. . . . Tomorrow may be too late."
This is typical language. As a matter of fact "to
morrow" was not "too late," nor yet the next day, next
week, nor next month. One acquaintance of mine re
ceived practically the selfsame communication six months
later. I know some one else who accepted a "special
offer" by the publishers of another system, the same
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 145
offer made to me two years earlier "for one week only —
never again!"
"Awake! Arouse! Act! —Order now," it is urged.
There are many inducements to encourage immediate
ordering and prompt and full payment, though the in
stallment plan is always a suggested alternative to the
latter. The varied assortment of premiums and per
quisites offered by different publishers at different times
includes: free copies of extra books or pamphlets ("just
send the price of postage") and magazine subscriptions;
even a "beautiful 14-karat, gold point, self-filling foun
tain pen free" ; and an "emblem of the system, a Beauti
ful Goldine Medalion" ("small, neat, chaste, and ele
gant") ; or "your name nicely embossed on the cover"
of the text; and so on.
But bargain prices and special awards should be super
fluous, for we are told that "there are students who in
sist on sending in additional sums, deeming the price
of the course insufficient for the value received. One
man sent a check for a hundred dollars as an attempt to
make up the difference, and smaller amounts are an
everyday occurrence."
"The endless benefits awaiting you in this elaborate
system," says another prospectus, "make its trifling cost
fade into oblivion. READ ON! ... Virtually a $5000
college training brought to you for only a few dollars!
. . . Results within 24 hours. . . . Graduates of this
course have been able to demonstrate the fact that they
possess the gleaming fire of the eye seen in almost all
highly energized animals, and give forth electrical cur
146 Psychological Racketeers
rents in touch and glance. ... It is a private study,
teaching ten thousand facts of the Secret Forces of Brain
and Body. ... It gives the thrill, the fire, the vital
spark of a surcharged life ; the overflowing soul of a man
or woman, leading, swaying, controlling and command
ing their fellow beings with an irresistible mental deter
mination."
"In a darkened hall," writes this author, "I have
thrown two lines of fire from my eyes, and have projected
these flames to the far end of the hall. That is being on
fire inside."
"The complete Key to life's supreme prizes is herein
offered to you," we read in regard to a third system.
"The cleverest, catchiest lessons for success you ever
saw. . . . Mind you —not the things you've read else
where, but Great Big Surprises. . . . Don't speak of it
in the same breath with cheap, amateurish books sold by
others. ... A life-long treasure of mental delights that
beggars description."
There is no need to recount further the glowing de
scriptions of these fervid and varied letters and pros
pectuses. Let me merely add that their torrential
encomiums are usually illumined by interesting illustra
tions; for example, that of a young man, arms out
stretched, gazing longingly at a heaped-up pile of money
(apparently gold coin of high denomination), behind
which a young women, beautiful and smiling, is hovering
provocatively; and that of another young man being
guided by a large-winged angel up a hill crowned by a
haloed dollar sign; and of an abnormally cheerful-look
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 147
ing couple radiating "magnetism" (represented by zig
zag lines) to ten different pictorial insets labeled re
spectively "wealth," "health," "personality," "elo
quence," etc., etc. Be it noted that I have found the
pictured thickness of one seven-volume course in strong
contrast to the meager slimness of the actuality.
Three of the six systems are in the form of "lessons"
and have been issued as correspondence courses. These
systems and one of those regularly in book form promise
the purchaser the privilege of free consultation by mail
and advice on his perplexing personal or professional
problems. In one case we hear of a "Consulting Board
consisting of eminent psychologists of, Europe and Amer
ica" to whom such problems are referred. Another con
cern goes so far as to furnish the student with "work
sheets" on which he is to perform certain exercises to be
submitted about once a month to a "staff of American
psychologists" at the "Institute." When corrected, the
exercise sheets will be returned to the student; and not
only are his papers corrected, but he is also provided with
a confidant and adviser then and ever after, according to
the prospectus. The instructors are described as "ready
to give you the best of themselves and of their long psy
chological training and practical experience in life." Four
of the six courses lead to a "diploma" or "certificate."
i Testimonials and other endorsements are always part
of the advertising matter, sometimes a very large part in
the case of older systems. One system in particular fur
nishes commendatory statements from all sorts and con
ditions of men and women, including distinguished men
of letters, titled Europeans, and a famous American
148 Psychological Racketeers
judge. Names are given. Another system seems to
have had a quite as numerous and admiring, if less dis
tinguished, patronage and to have found favor with a
rather large proportion of chiropractors. In general, for
all the systems, enthusiasm is expressed in no measured
terms, and the benefits enumerated cover a wide range.
Only a few excerpts from the letters need be given:
"I praise God for these haven-sent truths."
"I shall unhesitatingly rank it only second to the Bible
as the most influential and uplifting work dedicated to
mankind."
"The reading in these pages is marvelous. Things I
have read there I would have never dreamed of."
"I was enthralled by the wonderful thoughts ex
pressed."
"For a year have been held captive by some mysterious
force, against my will. Your books are restoring my
powers."
"I had a fall and several of my front teeth were in
jured and became loose. As a result of your System on
reeducating the subconscious mind they are now solid
in the gums."
"I am walking on air since taking this great course."
"When I received the books, my little son was afflicted
with croup, coughing almost incessantly. I read them
aloud to him. He went to sleep and coughed no more
that night. In the morning, he went to school."
"I can now speak before a hall full of fellow-workers:
before, my heart was in my boots as well as in my
mouth."
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 149
One testimonial puzzles me. It is rather long, be
ginning, "When I was a boy of twelve," etc.; and clos
ing, "Yours sincerely, Ellen ." The italics are
mine. Are there really boys who grow up into Ellens,
or—to make a rather abominable pun—did the writer
forget himself?
Sometimes it is specified that courses are recommended
by "eminent psychologists," and "one of the greatest
psychologists now living" is quoted at some length in
one place. We do not, however, find the actual names
of any accredited psychologists among those endorsing
these courses, except in one case. In this instance the
advertising letters bear on their margins the names of
a number of psychologists of established reputation, who
are described as endorsing the publications and the sup
porting organization. A glimpse of some of the past
activities of this concern may be enlightening. About
fifteen years ago it began to make itself known as a
society "chartered for educational and scientific pur
poses" and "not organized for profit." The objects
were declared to be the dissemination of psychological
knowledge and the application of such to business, in
dustry, and other fields of endeavor. In a truly elegant
brochure the society published pictures of its "labora
tory" and emphasized its research work in psychology,
promising employers especially experimental study of
their problems and expert psychological aid in the solu
tions. This advertising literature displayed conspicu
ously numerous pictures of prominent psychologists, with
150 Psychological Racketeers
statements signed by them expressing sympathy with the
aims of the society and wishes for its success.
It was discovered upon investigation1 that the photo
graphs had not been donated by their respective originals
as one would have inferred (and as was actually stated
at the society's office) but had been purchased en masse
by the promoter of the scheme, such pictures being ac
cessible. Specific inquiries directed to some of the sup
posedly endorsing psychologists also brought to light the
fact that they had not authorized the publication of
either photographs or statements. The writers were, in
deed, quite uninformed as to the organization's opera
tions or standing.
The following explanation from one university pro
fessor made his position clear:
"The statement credited to me is an extract from a
letter written by me in answer to a letter from an offi
cial of the Society setting forth certain aims of which all
psychologists would approve and asking for cooperation.
While approving of the Society's expressed aims, I was
careful to say that I could not in any way endorse the
Society itself, that I knew nothing of its personnel, and
nothing of the methods it proposed to use." After an
examination of the literature since issued by the Society,
I am obliged to condemn strongly its methods as show
ing no attempt to carry out the plans formerly presented,
'Conducted largely by Professor Warner Brown of the Uni
versity of California, to whom I am indebted for most of the
information concerning this particular psychological enterprise.
This part of his letter did not, of course, appear in the so
ciety's brochure.
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 151
and having the appearance of an ordinary 'new thought'
money-making operation."
A psychologist whose name and "endorsement" were
very much used by the society when soliciting further en
dorsements, wrote: "I approved the general purpose of
the society but know nothing of its actual operations.
I know nothing about the organization and have had
nothing to do with it." Another typical reply stated
that "they asked me to say something regarding the pos
sibilities of applied psychology; I did so, but with no
idea of endorsing the work of that particular society, of
which I know nothing."
A much quoted professor, who had been sent a copy
of the society's Course of Reading, had this to say: "I
confess I do not see how those booklets really can help
the business man. Some of the material, I think, is
quite fair, most of it is rather cheap, and very little of
it is of practical value. ... I do not see in what sense
they can use my name in support of their special en
deavors."
From a further source—one of the professors who had
refused to respond to the society's appeal —came this
comment: "No psychologist of repute, so far as I know,
has any real control of its work, although the Society
publishes many letters from eminent psychologists that
to a careless reader imply something very different."
The letters were apparently regarded as implying
"something very different" in many quarters, and un
doubtedly carried great weight. Prominent business men
and others lent their support to the movement. The so
152 Psychological Racketeers
ciety succeeded, for a time, in instituting numerous
"clubs" or classes (always requiring substantial fees) for
the study of applied psychology as set forth in its read
ing course. But not every one was any better impressed
than the more cautious among the college professors, as
may be seen from the following report from a well-
known mining engineer:
"My suspicions were first aroused by their representa
tive talking in the vernacular of a traveling salesman.
Then when he announced that a society which is backed
by so many prominent men and so heavily endowed as
he claimed this was, should have to make such a strong
appeal for my membership and charge such a large tui
tion for one course, payable in advance, they were further
aroused. He showed me letters from prominent psychol
ogists, governors, and an endless number of prominent
men, which were so perfectly reproduced in all details
that they looked like originals. He reluctantly admit
ted that they were copies.
"Then what seemed to me to be most incompatible
with the spirit of a society for sincere educational pur
poses, he described the sumptuousness with which their
offices are furnished and the pretty girls there to receive
guests, which he said was all for the effect it would have
on applicants."
Their "executive offices," located in a large western
city, proved upon investigation to be as interesting as
the foregoing statement implies. The "laboratory," in
connection, was doubtless very impressive to many but
was excessively mirth-provoking to some university grad
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 153
uate students of psychology who visited it. The society's
literature also mentioned "Washington, D. C, Offices,"
but these seem to have been on paper only. A univer
sity professor who took the trouble to go to the address
given wrote that he learned there that the organization
"never has had, and does not now have, an office at that
address." In reality it was the office of two lawyers
"apparently but recently started out in business," who
had helped to incorporate the society and were among its
"trustees." They stated that all business was done at
the other address, but that incorporation had been in the
District of Columbia.
The reading course is still extensively advertised, but
the society's promises and prices are not so great as
formerly, and its list of endorsing psychologists seems
to have dwindled greatly. Of the six that are named in
the most recent advertising letter as "endorsing the pub
lications," two are deceased, one has not replied to my
letter of inquiry, and two others write as follows:
(1) "I know nothing about the scheme you mention
and have never given any endorsement of any kind to
the publications, which I have never seen."
(2) "No, I have never given the Society permission to
use my name in the way you suggest."
The remaining reply is rather long to quote but states
in substance that the writer endorsed the reading course
"years ago" as containing "practical suggestions"; that
the course is unrevised since, and "it would be quite
foolish to endorse books that old"; but that "they have,
154 Psychological Racketeers
without consulting me, been using my endorsement ever
since."
The reading course is now published under the auspices
of a widely known and reputable magazine —described
as "publishers to the Society"—which seems to be genu
inely convinced of the value of the "endorsements."
It must not be thought that the authors of these vari
ous systems always exhaust their psychological resources
with one literary effort. Far from it. I have abundant
evidence that one system is likely to lead to another,
often with startling rapidity. One author boasts that he
has produced "over fifty profound educational systems of
great size, scope and cost." I actually have in my col
lection circulars describing sixteen of these —"disclosures
from SO years secret study by the greatest living teacher
. . . friend and teacher of such notables as Cardinal
Gibbons, Lord Beaconsfield, Phillips Brooks, Bishop
Newman, Edwin Booth, William E. Gladstone, James G.
Blaine, etc., etc. ... At the request of Queen Victoria,
Gladstone presented her with a set of 's teach
ings." (He must now be a very old man, this friend and
teacher of notables whom death has removed from any
possible inquiry concerning their educational and psy
chological discipleship!)1
The general method of approach when the author is
a prolific writer seems to be first to try out the pros
pective customer with advertisements of the more ex-
^eaconsfield died in 1881 ; Gibbons, in 1921. The other men
died in the last decade of the nineteenth century. Newman
was born in 1801, and none of the others later than 1835.,
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 155
pensive courses or books ; if he does not capitulate after
some repetition of this treatment, various reductions in
prices —already "much reduced" —are proposed, and
other publications, less lengthy and less costly, brought
to his notice. At some later period a new effusion may
again call forth a soaring of price. Former patrons are
likely to receive a veritable bombardment of advertising
matter regarding other productions. Once a purchaser,
always a prospect. A newly launched course may mean
a letter and circulars every three or four weeks. In this
literature earlier publications sometimes turn up intact
as parts of multi-volumed series. Occasionally special
aspects of the psychological theme are played up in a
new venture, conspicuously the subject of sex. For in
stance, one course on "social science" is described in the
circular as built around this topic. Its worth may be
judged from an accompanying testimonial, which I can
not forbear quoting in part:
"These lessons should be broadcasted from every radio
station, so that the Truth you have revealed concerning
the most vital problem in life may rise full-orbed be
fore an astonished multitude."
Since each new system is said to excel by far every
thing that has gone before, it is to be feared that I am
missing much in limiting myself to the six systems se
lected. Personally I am all agog to examine the latest
fruit of one author's fertile pen; only lack of time pre
vents. This "new training system" is called Life Elec
tricity. Let me quote from the circular:
"The central core of LIFE ELECTRICITY is a pow
156 Psychological Racketeers
erful force known as 'Glame,' a word coined from the
first letters of
The Five Most Powerful Words.
"No greater words can be found in language than the
five from which the first letter of each spells
G . .
L . . .
A
M
E
"We will not here divulge WHAT those words are;
they appear under full explanation in LIFE ELEC
TRICITY. Try as hard as you may, you will not find
five such words as those which created 'Glame.' They
are the most important, the most potent, the most sub
lime words in human speech and human culture. . . .
"As we have stated —the heart of Human Radio-
Energy is a potent force termed Glame. This doubtless
is a new word to you, but to make clear what it will do
for you when cultivated, we mention the following.
"1. It will enlarge the pupils of the eyes, which is a
sign of vital power.
"2. It will impart great vigor to your heart, for it is
the only stimulant that does not consume what it feeds
upon.
"3. It will cause your eyes to flash fire. The brain
within is also lighted and acquires an almost super
natural power of sight into facts and conditions not
otherwise knowable.
"4. It will increase the discs in your blood. Rich
How Published "Systems" Are Marketed 157
blood is due to increased number of blood discs. After
glame is drawn into the body, the remarkable increase in
blood is shown.
"5. A person who has glame in the system can com
municate to another by a touch of the hand. Diseases
have been cured in this way.
"6. Glame will quicken all your faculties; not only
your conscious and ordinary faculties, but the deeper
powers of the brain. It builds gray matter in all the
ganglia, including the brain. . . ."
And so on and on and on, to say nothing of the pic
tures. One that takes my eye shows a series of "nerve
cells"—"at left, impoverished by nervous prostration—
at right, highly charged with life electricity as developed
by this system." Of course the one on the left is long
and skinny, while the one at the extreme right is corpu
lent to the bulging point.
I also have on file communications from five other pub
lishers advertising five other systems of "applied psy
chology." One embraces a "Cooperative Plan" which
"enables students to 'earn while they learn' " by finding
others to buy the system, thus altruistically spreading
the glad tidings with the greatest possible rapidity. But
the six systems already chosen are all I feel able to
undertake.
CHAPTER XII
SIX "SYSTEMS"
System I, as I shall call it in this summary, was first
given to the world as a correspondence course but later
appeared in a volume of over four hundred pages. The
foundation principle of the system is that all is mind.
Our human minds are described as part of the "Uni
versal Mind" (or God, or "Principle") and are said
to communicate with this by means of the subconscious
mind. The conscious mind is a poor feeble creature
compared to the wonderful subconscious with its super
ior powers of memory, intuition, inspiration, instinct,
imagination, genius, and what not. Its dwelling-place
is the solar plexus, or "abdominal brain," which, so says
the author, contracts or expands according as thoughts
are "resistant" or "non-resistant." If it expands prop
erly and radiates energy as it should, all is well with us,
and the whole body is enveloped in an atmosphere of
personal magnetism; if it fails to function rightly, all
the ills of the race will ensue.
It is the subconscious that can get us anything we wish,
by means of the "Law of Attraction" and the "Law of
Vibration," in explanation of which much language
flows. Boiled down and with the repetitious excrescences
158
Six "Systems" 159
strained out, the main argument, as nearly as I can
grasp
it,
is
this: All substance
is
in motion at various
rates of vibration; in fact, all substance
is
simply vibra
tion. And vibration and thought are one and the same.
Thought
is
"mind in motion" and also "substance in
equilibrium"
(
?
!
!
)
. By means of your thoughts, work
ing through your subconscious mind to Universal Mind,
you can change vibration rates where you will and in
accordance with your thought, just as does Universal
Mind, of which your mind is part. Your mental vibra
tions can "cause the invisible molecules of different
chemical elements to coagulate and combine" so as to
produce
a
visible result. Your thoughts are, moreover,
magnetic and attract what you want, if you go about
it
correctly. The way to proceed
is
to think of what
you want, concentrate on
it,
visualize
it,
and affirm that
you have
it,
and
it
will be drawn to you as sure as fate.
The greater and higher your thoughts the more quickly
will you "be placed in harmony with the object of your
thought." The thought of "Truth"
is
the highest rate
of vibration and overcomes disease, poverty, and all
other kinds of "Error." The vibratory activities of the
universe are governed by the "Law of Sevens," and Uni
versal Mind manifests in the objective through the prin
ciple of attraction that each atom has for every other
atom, in infinite degrees of intensity. (Clear, isn't it?)
Thus are the laws of attraction and vibration said to
work. And
if
the person unfamiliar with these invincible
laws thinks he smells any scientific discrepancies, let him
begin at once "to create brain cells"—that's the author's
160 Psychological Racketeers
exact phrase —which will enable him to perceive more
clearly. He may be somewhat dazed by the profuse
stream of lofty words in the original text, but let him
steadfastly practice the "exercises" to be found at the
end of each lesson. Some of these are exercises in con
structing concrete visual images, but more often they di
rect the student to concentrate on abstractions, such as
"Power to create," "Insight," "Unity with Omnipotence,"
etc.
Very occasionally the originator of the system gives a
wholly concrete example of its glorious results. One in
stance concerns a colored janitor who has a great yearn
ing for five dollars. We can readily picture him pining
and sighing for the money, even as you and I. Then by
good luck he overhears some of his apartment-house
clientele discussing the beauties of the psychological sys
tem under consideration here. Our dusky friend thinks
he'll try
it,
too. So he "sends out mental vibrations"
for the coveted five dollars. Events happen quickly af
ter that.
A
pet canary belonging to the old lady on the
first floor escapes from its cage and flies out of the win
dow. With great agility the alert janitor drives it into
a
corner of the enclosed back yard and presently bears
the bird triumphantly back to its owner. Thereupon she
hands him
a
nice new five-dollar bill! We are left in
doubt as to whether this had coagulated out of invisible
molecules in the old lady's pocketbook, or whether the
canary had received the colored gentleman's mental vi
brations and obligingly wandered forth, or what. At
any rate the "Law of Attraction" seemed to work.
Six "Systems" 161
The system has always been a psychological "best
seller" and even when much more extravagantly priced
than now, was exceedingly popular. Furthermore, the
author is listed in Who's Who. And I know personally
a lady who has long embodied his teachings in courses
she has given as regular staff lecturer for the board of
education of one of this country's biggest cities. She
has written a widely disseminated testimonial in which
she speaks of the author's "marvelous compilation,"
"profound reasoning," "scientific analysis," etc. No won
der the public believes it all!
System II is like unto System I, singularly so in fact,
but is written in simpler, more practical style. This
author ignores vibration and the solar plexus and uses,
in general, fewer enigmatical embellishments. His con
stant effort seems to be to inspire his readers to belief
in the power of their own thought, and to trust in the
Universal Mind; to this end there is much repetition.
Visualization is constantly harped on. Visualize what
you want, his directions go, and thus impress it upon the
subconscious mind, which is part of Universal Mind;
and, by the law of attraction, your desire will be realized
if you believe that you have it and see it as an existent
fact. However, certain excellent practical suggestions
are also thrown in: viz., the necessity for having a goal,
for making the start toward
it,
avoiding scattered effort,
doing one's work well, and being willing to learn.
Much space
is
given to the subject of health especially,
and the author's position (as in System
I)
appears to be
strikingly like that held by Mrs. Eddy. The body
is
162 Psychological Racketeers
defined as "a mental concept," and all disease is said to
be solely the result of wrong thinking. Measles or
smallpox comes from your fear of them. You visualize
yourself covered with a rash—and your thought ma
terializes. If you are wise, you will heal yourself and
keep yourself well, by creating a mental image of your
body in perfect health, such an image as Universal Mind
holds all the time. Vaccination, medicine, diets, and ex
ercise are all said to be needless and useless.
Specific directions are given for renewing youth. Get
a picture —or, better still, a little statue—of a young and
perfectly formed person such as you would like to be.
Have it before you at night as you get ready for bed.
Visualize it as you fall asleep and, believing in the reali
zation, give the image to your subconscious mind. In
eleven month's time you will be just like that model !
The author explains that all the cells of the body are
sooner or later replaced by new ones, and that it takes
only eleven months for the body to be completely made
over. Therefore, he concludes, one should never feel
old, because one is never more than eleven months old!
It certainly takes an "applied psychologist" to see truths
where truths were never seen before.
Of course anything else may be obtained from Uni
versal Mind by giving mental pictures to the subcon
scious, but, since time presses, I must reluctantly aban
don the entrancing possibilities of this system with the
repeated reflection that it is curiously reminiscent of the
first one—even in language as well as thought. How
ever, there are certain more up-to-date allusions, such as
Six "Systems" 163
mention of Cou6 and some recent writers on popular psy
chology, and quotations from inspirational poets now in
vogue—Edgar Guest, Ella Wheeler Wilcox, and others —
to remind us that System II is a later product, published
within the last few years and nearly two decades after the
other. The earlier system is adorned with a fair sprink
ling of quotations from such time-honored literary lights
as Shakespeare and Emerson. There is no mention in
System I of any academic psychologists. James and
Jung are each referred to once by the author of System
n.
The later system was never, as far as I know, given
by correspondence or in lectures. It is set forth in seven
very small "volumes," a single "volume" containing ap
proximately fifty pages and a page being the equivalent
of about a half page of an ordinary-sized book. No
formal exercises are offered other than rather simple di
rections for suggestion and visualization.
System III is contained in seven even smaller book
lets, each containing two "lessons," and is also one of
the newer systems. It is the shortest of the six and
covers what would amount to about eighty or ninety
average pages. It
is,
however,
a
much more ambitious
work as regards range of subjects discussed than Systems
I
and II. In fact, when
it
was presented first—in lec
ture form—
it
was boldly advertised as "covering the
entire field of psychology, academic and popular." Since
the author his
a
compact style and
is
fond of numbered
outlines, he really does hit
a
surprising number of high
spots—as well as many low ones.
164 Psychological Racketeers
Unlike the two systems just described, this one has
something to say of physical means to health, and the
first booklet is concerned with breathing, muscular ex
ercise, nutrition, elimination, and relaxation. With all
these functions the mind should play its part, too, it is
said. For instance, in seeking to develop strong muscles,
visualize strong muscles, with your eyes closed, and be
sure to do this at "the psychological moment," which in
this case is immediately after a particular exercise is
finished, when "the cells relax and stand at attention."
The second book deals with the conscious mind and
its training. No one could help applauding the author's
astonishing brevity, for, in what would be about ten
ordinary pages, he covers sensation, perception, memory,
imagination, emotion, reason, will, concepts, and judg
ment—a program for which the university professor of
psychology would undoubtedly require at least three or
four hundred pages for an elementary treatment. Such
is the greater wisdom of the "applied psychologist."
The next two booklets of the series are on the sub
conscious mind and its management. It becomes very
clear that the subconscious is the hero of the piece even
more than in the first two systems. "Universal Mind"
does not put in an appearance until the last book. It
is your own subconscious that does the work. It is sug
gestion, the author frankly states. The nature of your
thinking, the "impressions" you give to the subconscious,
make you what you are and get you what you get. Many
law of attraction, vibration—but the whole has a much
of the same old terms show themselves—visualization,
Six "Systems" 165
less metaphysical hue than heretofore and a conservatism
not previously encountered. For instance, suggestion is
said to bring anything "within reason," and "most" dis
eases can be prevented by right thinking combined with
"right hygiene."
"Predominant impressions" may be given to the sub
conscious at any time and without formalities, but the
author recommends his own particular "Master Form
ula." For this there are six preliminary steps: (1) vi-
talic breathing, (2) relaxation, (3) the mental bath, (4)
fixation of attention upon the desired thing, (5) use of
the psychological moment (the moment of extreme in
tensity, of semi-self-hypnosis) for suggestion, and (6)
the attainment of the Silence. After these various in
itial stages there are five principal steps: (1) visualiza
tion, or the clear mental picture, (2) audible, spoken,
definite suggestion, (3) assumption (at least subcon
scious) that the desire is realized, (4) impersonation, or
acting as if the assumption were realized, and (5) per
sonification, or identifying the self with the part played.
Other main topics touched on in this work are psycho
analysis, child psychology (the author subscribes to the
recapitulation theory, which is regarded as obsolete by
trained psychologists), success, the psychology of sales
manship, and happiness. The booklets are full of cheer
ing reflections and kindly hints about conduct. We are
not infrequently urged to strive to serve others. In fact,
the author says if we do, we'll get more ourselves, which
certainly is a compelling argument.
System IV need not detain us long, for in many re
166 Psychological Racketeers
spects it duplicates System III. There is the same em
phasis on suggestion and the subconscious, and the same
comparative freedom from mystical entanglements and
poetic reference. The author of System III has heard
of James and of the European psychoanalysts, Freud,
Jung, and Adler; and the author of System IV can
actually rattle off the names of several contemporaneous
American psychologists of standing. If one has plenty
of money to spend and is not at all particular about
scientific accuracy and up-to-dateness, both these sys
tems have much to commend them. They contain
plenty of good advice, even if the quantity and quality of
their psychology is enough to make the university pro
fessor of psychology shriek in agony. System IV is fif
teen years old but still widely advertised as "the last
word on psychology." It comes to the purchaser in
twelve little books, which means an estimated total of
perhaps four hundred and fifty average pages.
The fifth system is a correspodence course that tells
about the mind and all its works in twelve lessons (some
four hundred pages). Unlike the other systems, this
one was made in England; and originated about thirty-
five years ago as a memory-training course. In a
brochure the author tells how, with the assistance of
"the leading English and American professors of psy
chology," he reared his little brain-child into a fully
matured course of instruction "for scientifically develop
ing all the powers of the mind just as an athlete develops
his muscles." The work gained international popularity,
and I have an edition that is especially intended for
Six "Systems" 167
American readers. Since the system is different in em
phasis from the general run of "applied psychology," I
shall give a little more space to it and make a few com
ments at the same time.
Development through "exercise" is the theme.
Train the senses, train the memory, train the will,
train the imagination, train "the power of concentra
tion" (the author uses this word in the ordinary, every
day sense), etc. In short, "train all your mental facul
ties," for you can never attain your goals without the
right training. And this is to be accomplished by means-
of the numerous and varied "exercises" devised by the
author.
It is rather hard to describe these exercises, because
they are generally long and complicated. One of the
simplest ones for concentration requires the student to
choose an unattractive subject and concentrate on
it,
gradually increasing the time of concentration. For im
agination, here
is
one that first calls for an analysis of
"any house you know" as to whether
it
is
(1)
a
suitable
dwelling-place and (2) aesthetically desirable. Then
improvements of all sorts, inside and out, are to be im
agined, tabulated, and drawn in picture form. Exercises
for "training the senses" and cultivating "the power of
observation" are scattered all through and form the
largest proportion—about
a
third—of the entire number.
"Can you," asks the author movingly, "describe the
pattern of the wall-paper in your office?"
I
personally cringe with shame as
I
discover that my
memory yields only vague and uncertain visions of that
168 Psychological Racketeers
wall-paper. Or is it calcimine? I never really noticed.
My shame deepens as I find that I cannot even picture
the exact pattern of my living-room rugs or the arrange
ment of the old boxes under my cellar stairs. How can
the world roll on if I have not observed these things?
I am doomed to be one of life's sad failures —unless, of
course, I diligently practice this system of exercises. I
must at once set to work, as the author says, to train
my "power of observation" by taking up the study of
finger-prints. I surely must study their loops, whorls,
and arches. And I must also act on his advice and study
the marbles used in the corridors of office buildings, for
what in the world will become of me if I cannot tell
Pavonazza marble from Sienna? I must, as he recom
mends, note the differences between trees and study the
telephone numbers of unknown persons. I must observe
how my friends part their hair, and the color of their
neckties, and how many drug-stores there are on the
north side of town. And so on through a multiplicity of
requirements. But let us pass on to other phases of the
work.
Instruction and exercises for developing the memory
form part of every lesson. Great stress is laid on train
ing the senses as the preliminary step. In a typical ex
ample, one is directed to take a walk with the object of
seeing and hearing all things and especially noting those
that are in any way unusual. After returning, the mem
ory exercise is to go over in the mind every thing ob
served, working from the end of the journey back to the
Six "Systems" 169
beginning. This inverted mental tour
is,
we are assured,
"one of the finest mental exercises ever prescribed."
Besides such practices for "exercising the memory"
the author has an allegedly unbeatable scheme for making
one remember both "connected" and "unconnected"
words and ideas, and
a
special contrivance for numbers.
Like other commercial memory systems this one makes
use of the principle of association of ideas in its own
particular fashion. This principle has been definitely
recognized since the time of Aristotle, but
it
is
doubt
ful
if
the author knows that. He deplores other sys
tems on the market as "hopelessly opposed to the laws
of psychology" and proceeds to expound his own.
A
series of words
is
said to be "connected"
if
it
can be so
arranged as to show some relationship between suc
cessive words. Take the series "lens-town-window-
house-glass," says our author. If you want to remem
ber these words (though
I
do not myself see why any
one would want to), put them in the order "town-house-
window-glass-lens"
;
for
it
is
clear that a house
is
part of
a
town, and
a
window
is
part of
a
house, and that win
dows are made out of glass, and that lenses are generally
glass in
a
certain form. When all this
is
perceived and
the new arrangement made, the list will stick in your
mind like flies to fly-paper.
Apparently the author has little interest in memorizing
much else besides word series, for he has hardly any
thing to say in regard to ideas. One may conclude, how
ever, that these are first to be reduced to single words.
As one exercise the student
is
told to remember in the
170 Psychological Racketeers
form of a word series the chief points in a speech he is to
make.
A variation on the general method must be used if
the memorizer is faced with a word series that shows no
relationships. These must, in that case, be evolved out
of his inner consciousness, the missing links supplied.
Let us say you want to remember together umbrella and
candy. Then, by what this writer calls "catenation," or
"the insertion of intermediates," you produce something
like this: umbrella-protection-confection-candy. And
you have it! —All nicely glued into your mind.
To memorize numbers, the "figure-alphabet" is recom
mended, which, as the author acknowledges, is a couple
of hundred years old. In this the various numbers from
0 to 9 are evaluated as consonants or typical combina
tions of consonants. For the curious, I here append
the device:
0 1234S 6 789
s tnmrlsh kfp
z d zh chard v b
csoft th chsoft ch
"
j g
"
g soft qu
tch ng
dg
Six "Systems" 171
To memorize a number, the procedure
is,
of course,
to translate the figures into these consonant sounds and
unite them with suitable vowels so as to form a word.
For example, 16 may be remembered as dash, attache*,
adage, thatch, dodge, etc. And 57 can be translated into
lake, luck, league, lung, Olga, and many others.
To this writer the subconscious mind
is
a less impor
tant matter than the conscious. He says that
if
the
conscious mind
is
trained, the subconscious will take
care of itself. However, he devotes an entire one of the
twelve lessons to the latter subject, and elsewhere deals
with the matter of autosuggestion, which, he states,
is
particularly valuable in training the will. In connec
tion with "will power" he has much to say about busi
ness success and salesmanship.
In summary,
it
can be said that the system empha
sizes personal development by the author's methods,
and that material success
is
held to be an inevitable
consequence. The laws of attraction and vibration do
not figure, and imagination in various sensory fields is
to be employed rather than visualization alone. Above
all, the human mind needs "mental discipline" by the
author's system of exercises, and neither
a
magical sub
conscious nor a benevolent Universal Mind
is
sufficient.
There
is,
in fact, no reference whatsoever to the Deity.
Be
it
added that the series of lessons
is
interlarded with
often admirable counsel and practical wisdom.
What little academic psychology there
is
in System
V
is
undoubtedly drawn from an old-fashioned English
psychology. Bain and Galton are even quoted, though
172 Psychological Racketeers
we find very few references to any psychologists, aca
demic or otherwise. There
is,
it
should be observed,
one allusion to the internationally popular William
James, whose chief text appeared in 1890.
It was James, by the way, who was one of the first
to brand the number-alphabet as "excessively poor,
trivial, and silly." The chief objection to
it
is
the usual
one directed toward the main features of commercial
memory schemes in general. They are thoroughly arti
ficial devices for remembering what might much better
be remembered by some more natural scheme of asso
ciations. While the principle of forming associations has
long been recognized as sound when sheer native reten-
tiveness
is
not sufficient, for most purposes obvious re
lationships and readily associated facts are far superior
to arbitrary connections. For example, my new tele
phone number
is
2733, and
I
learnt it speedily enough
by observing that 27
is
the cube of
3,
which occurs
twice,—
a
neat little study in
3,
as
it
were. Some such
quickly discovered process
is
certainly a great deal
easier than using the cumbersome number-alphabet.
The method of "catenations"
is
also unnecessarily
troublesome, especially
if
one were to write these on
cards in the elaborate way this author suggests.
And that reminds me that
I
sometimes wonder as
I
read these writers on how to memorize word series, main
points in
a
speech, shopping-lists, office materials to be
ordered, and what you will—did they never think of
using the good old pencil and
a
little piece of paper?
Why try to commit to memory a lot of items that are
Six "Systems" 173
much more expeditiously and safely committed to
paper? But I suppose they have to tell us something
that sounds mazy and momentous, or we wouldn't think
we were getting our money's worth, and goodness knows
we have paid enough.
The creator of System V is quite right, however, in
recognizing the importance of observation in making
memory impressions. But, we may well ask, why all
the absurd and laborious "exercises" in observing that
which has little or nothing to do with our daily life and
work? And will such mental gymnastics as recalling in
reverse the impressions of a morning stroll really help
us remember the details of our business or the wife's
birthday? It is very much to be doubted.
The trouble is this author, like all the "applied psy
chologists" I know of, apparently has faith in the long-
exploded theory of "mental faculties." It used to be
thought that memory, observation, will, concentration,
etc. were practically independent "powers" and should
be "trained." Now we realize that such words are just
convenient terms for ways in which we act. Because
we observe, we memorize, and we concentrate, we have
fallen into the habit of speaking as if these types of
activity were entities in their own right. But experts
in psychology do not now hold that there are any such
"mental faculties" to be "trained like muscles." Con
sequently artificial systems of exercises to "discipline"
these alleged "faculties" have gone into the rubbish
heap—or should be speedily dumped there.
What we really can develop are desirable specific
174 Psychological Racketeers
habits and general patterns of behavior. We can learn
to use certain more satisfactory procedures in observing,
memorizing, and concentrating. But scientific evidence
now shows that it is a great deal better to practice on
the kinds of material we want to work with finally than
on something remote from it. Let us take an everyday
case. Young Johnny Jones spends a lot of time observ
ing baseball games. He is a wonder at taking in all the
details. Yet when it comes to perceiving the intricacies
of "joggerfy" maps, his "power of observation" is a to
tal loss. One kind of observing did not help the other.
Oftentimes, to be sure, one kind will help another, es
pecially if the two kinds are much alike. In general,
however, the amount of help is surprisingly small.
Sometimes having learnt to observe one type of thing
is actually a hindrance in observing other types. All
this has become evident from careful psychological in
vestigation and holds good for other mental functions.
If you want to get so you closely observe matters con
cerning your business, it is far wiser to practice that
very thing. Certainly there is no advantage in clutter
ing up your mind with the strange materials of com
mercial psychology. They have no special potency. In
fact, there is a real objection, in this busy age, to letting
yourself be distracted by the unselective attention to
all sorts of things that these "mind training" courses
advocate.
System VI, to which we must now hastily adjourn, is
one of a series of systems (in book form only) begun
many long years ago, but just how many I cannot say.
Six "Systems" 17S
I have examined eight bulky volumes of this apparently
infinite psychological eruption. They descant exuber
antly on many themes all said to bear on the subject of
"Magnetism," the key-word of the system. A glance
into the "Reading Guide and Index," which comes with
the set, stirs one's curiosity—"vitalizing at will"—
"magnetic parentage" —"laws of occupying another's
mind"—"soul magnetism" —"the magnetic voice of
psychic timbre"—"the red fire of magnetic passion" —
"instances of stored telepathy" —"the white fire of
force" —"the nervous system set on fire"—"magnetic
undulations"—"white magic" —"radial magnetism of
the sexes"—"warning against animal magnetism" —
"ether-sea washes the shore of heaven" —"demons, low
est of unseen powers," etc., etc., etc.
In the text "Magnetism" is described as "the origin
of life," "the cause of living," "the source of all the ele
mental powers," and "is the power to influence or con
trol mind or matter," "capable of accomplishing every
thing that is possible." Magnetism passes from one
person to another in "the vibrant waves of the ether."
It is opposed to hypnotism, which is a base and wicked
thing. But, alas, most persons are in "the hypnotic
class" and dwell in "the Dark of the Mind." To save
these unfortunates, to which group you and I in all prob
ability belong, the author has written down his contri
butions to science. First we must learn to employ "The
Crystal Mind, which is now being made public for the
first time." But don't ask me what it
is,
for his expla
nation of this, as well as of many other matters,
is
be
176 Psychological Racketeers
yond my poor comprehension. Let it suffice to say that
he is fond of words of his own invention, like "Ool" and
"Daf"; and that new terms are frequently used for old
subjects, such as "the Other Mind" for the subconscious
mind.
The books contain sundry "methods" and "exercises,"
especially those for developing a magnetic mind, eye,
and voice. In short, the reader is given "a private train
ing course in the magnetic control of others by the most
powerful of all known methods." One of the author's
favorite discoveries appears to be his "Psychic Method,"
in accordance with which one must "empty the mind,"
"devitalize the whole body," and "be brought to the
boundary." In spite of what he has said about the
evils of hypnotism, pages are given to instructions for
practicing it—''for self-protection." Passes, specially
constructed mirrors and crystals, and other more or less
familiar devices for inducing hypnosis, are discussed.
One book is called "Sex Magnetism" but has no very
exciting secrets to disclose. In another volume, one not
ostensibly on the subject of sex, it is suggested that if
the reader will write to the publishing company, instruc
tions as to how to prevent pregnancy will be forthcom
ing. The latter book is attractively described at the
beginning as "solid science from beginning to end, yet
vitally interesting and startling at every step. It pre
sents instructions, the like of which you have never be
fore seen."
We do indeed find startling scientific information
throughout the series, some samples of which I shall
Six "Systems" 177
try to give in condensed form. For example, the author
declares that there are well-proved instances that
thought is able to suspend the operation of gravitation.
His physiology in particular is distinctly novel. We
learn that the membranes covering the brain, the me
ninges, are the source of "brain action"; and that the
membranes of the body, in general, give intelligent con
trol to the organs with which they are associated. The
brain, for instance, is to be regarded as the engine and
the membranes as the engineers. In radio terms, the
meninges receive the message, and the brain interprets
it. All minds continually broadcast messages; and the
magnetic individual can know the mind of every one
else. At the birth of an infant his brain is a blank, but
the membranous coverings are fully developed. They
contain the whole history of all that man has ever
learned. To attain the highest perfection we must shift
the mastery from the brain to the meninges. A Crystal
Mind results from caring for the health of the brain and
building up new tissues in the meninges through right
thinking. Irritation of one of the membranes of the
brain produces profanity. (Yes, that's what he says.)
The brain at work has a fiery glow, due to an electrical
or phosphorescent fire burning within. Some of this is
reflected through the eyes. Any one may control at will
the dilation of the pupils of his eyes.
In the last volume "you enter the Secret Chamber
and become partner of the author in his epochal revela
tions of all natural and supernatural phenomena. Facts
only—proofs only—no theories—absolute facts —every
178 Psychological Racketeers
word new—with Complete Scientific Demonstrations of
every fact and law known to modern investigation of
mental phenomena. Today civilization lifts its eyes up
ward —to behold the glorious new PSYCHIC AGE into
which we are just entering . . . There is nothing so
cruel as Nature; nor anything so kindly, as this Gentle
Mother of Earth. Our work embraces all. The truths
we are presenting cover the whole vast arena." One of
the truths presented is that no kind god would have
made such a cruel world; it
is,
therefore,
a
creation of
the devil. His existence accounts for poisons, taran
tulas, and other baleful things. At death all wicked per
sons become "devil units." Ninety per cent of humanity
are "devil-born," though eventually the God of Love
will entirely overcome the "D-evil," and also death, de
cay, decrepitude, dotage, disease, dope, drugs, delirium,
doctors, debt, devastation, and other malignant factors
beginning with d. In one of the earlier volumes all
kinds of hells (including married lifel) have been de
scribed most graphically.
But in this very limited survey
it
is
possible to sug
gest only
a
fraction of the melodramatic prolixities in
dulged in. The seeker of knowledge must read for him
self to find out "how the fires of magnetism are start
ed," "what the enemies of magnetism do to you," "the
secret power of men who sway tens of thousands,"
"which parts of the body lose magnetism
if
not
watched," "how to avoid petty hygienic habits that
waste magnetism," "how to use the magnetic hand
shake," "how to get the important magnetic tremolo in
Six "Systems" 179
the voice," "characteristics of social queens," "how to
breathe for magnetic power," "how dentists, lawyers,
doctors, preachers profit by magnetism," etc., etc., etc.
The books are marked by a complete absence of all
reference to the kind of psychology and psychologists I
have been brought up to call scientific. They are sup
plied with the usual measure of admonition and aphor
ism. One remark impresses me especially; it is to the
effect that the wisest man is not he who has stored away
the greatest number of facts in his mind, but he who
takes in the most of what goes on about him and turns
the largest proportion of it to his own account. This
appears to be descriptive of the author himself. He
seems to have been less interested in facts than in turn
ing his knowledge of human nature to exceedingly prof
itable account. His earlier systems—they appear under
the same name at least—were among the first, and most
expensive, in the field; and his works have probably
been for more extensively advertised and read than
those of most other popular psychologists.
CHAPTER XIII
BY WAY OF EVALUATION
It is time to stop.
Humpty Dumpty said the way to tell anything was
to begin at the beginning, go through to the end, and
then stop. But the rule will not do for "applied psy
chology." If I were to go through to the end of the
wealth of material that has piled up on my shelves, you
would be exhausted, and so would I. For instance, over
there is a Who's Who in Occult, Psychic and Spiritual
Realms, in which realms are found alleged leaders in
applied psychology ad nauseam. And here is a large
pile of newspapers with a special-page feature of Dr.
Horatio Algernon Slush's "Answers to the Anxious."
After Dr. Slush's name at the top of the page is printed
"Psy.D.," which, a thoughtful editor makes clear, means
"Doctor of Psychology." (No one seems troubled by
the fact that such a degree is an unknown quantity in
universities of standing.)
Again, here are numerous copies of six different kinds
of magazines of popular psychology, to say nothing of
others on "New Thought" and "Metaphysics." The
more strictly psychological magazines are often bright
ened with articles by "numerologists," "cosmologists,"
180
By Way of Evaluation 181
"color symbologists," "food psychologists," "alphma-
thologists," "psychosophists," "illuminati," and other
distributors of psychological knowledge. And we dis
cover, through magazine literature, "Ootmssoml," which
turns out to be, not a Russian city, but a "psychological
Order." One editor explains that there are seventy-two
varieties of psychological cults in existence at the time
of his writing, which was about two years ago. Heaven
only knows how greatly that number may have in
creased.
One of the magazines in particular is a prime favorite
with the public and commonly accepted as entirely au
thoritative. I see it constantly on news-stands, and,
mind you, it is among the established periodicals in our
city public library. I have examined twenty issues with
care and find nothing very different in them, just a high-
grade variety of the kind of thing described in previous
chapters. They will furnish an excellent starting-point
for general critical comments —if you will have patience
just a little longer —for it is my intention to do full jus
tice to the best in "applied psychology." I mean that
quite seriously.
About half of this magazine is given over to articles
setting forth the "scientific" methods and principles of
"applied psychology," and the remainder consists largely
of inspirational material and short stories illustrating
the beauties of "thought power." It goes without say
ing that among the contributors are never well-known
college and university professors and research workers,
such men and women as belong to the American Psy
182 Psychological Racketeers
chological Association. These are, in fact, rarely men
tioned in any way, and their teachings seem to be al
most wholly unknown.
There are the usual superficial allusions to Freud and
psychoanalysis and to James. It is a pity some one does
not tell these people that while William James made a
great contribution to psychology when he published his
principal work in that field forty years ago, he has been
dead twenty years, and his findings have been enor
mously extended and amended through recent investi
gation. It should also be pointed out that Freud is gen
erally held in disfavor by university professors of psy
chology on the ground that his theory is fanciful and
unsound. As a matter of fact he was not trained to be
a psychologist but a physician. Trained psychologists
nowadays look very much askance at the mainspring of
the psychoanalytical doctrine, the subconscious. They
prefer either to redefine the word and to explain the
limited sense in which they use
it,
or else to reject "the
subconscious" altogether and account for the facts in
volved in other terms. But all that would make too
long
a
story to tell here.
The advertising matter in the magazine
is
too choice
to be slighted, however. Our heavy-weight criticism
must be suspended while we ponder the seemingly infi
nite varieties of things psychological. It appears from
the "ads" that there are practically endless psycholog
ical methods for dealing with everything under the sun.
Let us glance through
a
page or two. One can hardly
fail to be attracted by the advertisement of the "Psycho
By Way of Evaluation 183
Phone," which looks like a phonograph and an alarm
clock all rolled into one. "The latest triumph of science,"
we read. "Suggestive treatment during sleep is now
available to all by means of this marvelous instrument."
And further on: "Character reading by fingerprints is
one of the most mysterious and interesting scientific
studies in the world. It is recognized as such by the
ancients and receives special mention in the Bible . . .
All new-born babes should have their fingerprints read."
. . . "Do your ears protrude? My simple and marvel
ous new method will make them lay back to your head
at once.".. . . "We will tell you what the Stars Fore
tell for 1931. Are you thinking of making any changes
in your affairs in the near future? Consult us, the
World's Most Famous Astro-Psychologists." Or else
we are advised to write to a "Prosperity Specialist"; or
to tell our woes to a "Trouble Doctor." And here is a
picture of an unctuously cheerful-looking woman "who
bore her 29th male child at 68—it is easy to stay young
with this startling new method." The illustrations are
always captivating. Behold the coy creature in elab
orate wedding-gown and flowing veil.
"Why was She the Bride?" we are asked and are
promptly told the answer. "At last the hour arrived,
the hour she had long dreamed of—just a few minutes,
a few words and he was hers forever. He chose her, in
spite of the fact that there were many others more
beautiful and talented. Her secret was simple. Thirty
days ago she had read an amazing new book . . . which
shows how any woman can attract men by using the
184 Psychological Racketeers
simple laws of man's psychology and human nature.
She could just as easily have fascinated any other man.
You, too, can have this book; you, too, can enjoy the
worship and admiration of men and be the radiant bride
of the man of your choice. Just cut out this ad, write
your name and address on the margin, and mail to us
with 10 cents. The little book outlining these revelations
will be sent you, postpaid in plain wrapper. Knowledge
is power. Send your dime today."
What amorous spinster could resist that!
And here is a most compelling illustration of a young
woman casually clad in scanty undergarments, emerg
ing from a church while a fashionably dressed crowd of
obviously shocked people stare at her. This advertises
a book of dream interpretations. A very frequent type
of large illustrated advertisement gives an intimate per
sonal history "before" and "after" taking this or that
course or system. "How had I changed so miraculously
in three months from a shy, diffident 'yes' man to a
dynamic, vigorous he-man?" Then follows the narra
tive of a timid, self-conscious male, who, after reading
the book advertised, discovers the just-mentioned trans
formation. Finally we come upon an enlightening little
"ad": "Will sell you names of readers and students of
psychology, astrology, occultism, mysticism, etc. Large
list on hand. Ten dollars a thousand names." That's
the way it's done, is it? Sucker listsl
However, the part of the magazine that is of special
interest to us in this chapter is the "Letters from Cor
respondents" page. The periodical has a wide circle of
By Way of Evaluation 185
readers, so we get a very good idea of the kinds of people
who turn to "applied psychology" for aid. The letters
bear every mark of genuineness.
From actual count I find that forty per cent of them
are appeals for help in improving a mental condition.
Queries as to how to rid oneself—or maybe one's chil
dren—of fear or self-consciousness are the most fre
quent of this type. Fear of death, fear of the dark (on
the part of a nineteen-year-old youth), fear of having
one's mind read by an enemy, fear of being alone, fear
of mysterious voices arising from nowhere, children's
fears (of dogs, of arithmetic, and what not) —how shall
these and other fears be vanquished? Of the correspond
ents troubled with self-consciousness, perhaps the most
plaintive are a young man exceedingly prone to blushing
who wants to know how to "be himself," and a bashful
suitor who longs for the ability to converse easily with
his sweetheart. Complexes, melancholy, suicidal long
ings, stammering, sleeplessness, and general unhappiness
are cited as further miseries. Then there are letters
from those who want to improve memory, will power,
or concentration, or to develop personality or original
ity. "My desire is for a wonderful personality," writes
one. "Can any one develop originality?" asks another.
"I wonder," says a third, "if you could suggest some
way to develop concentration, which is my greatest fail
ing."
Twenty-eight per cent of the letters are from persons
who are yearning for a happy adjustment of trouble
some sex and family relationships and problems. Hus
186 Psychological Racketeers
band or wife (generally the latter) desires advice on
how to get on with a soul-trying mate; a daughter asks
how to deal with an aged and tyrannical father; a
mother is perplexed over the management of an un
grateful flapper daughter; another mother asks how to
control a stubborn child and what to tell him about sex;
a young lady wants to know how to make her hesitant
lover propose; a divorcee seeks help in deciding between
two suitors. Shall the husband tell his wife of a former
affinity who bore him a child now dead? Shall the un
married mother keep her baby or offer it for adoption?
Should cousins marry when there is insanity in one
branch of the family? Shall the "woman with a past"
attend church? Does "a certain sex habit" debar one
from matrimony? Etc., etc.
The remaining letters (thirty-two per cent of the to
tal number) deal for the most part with vocational ad
justments and physical health or appearance, there being
a few more on the first topic. The man who does not
like his job is most often heard from. The middle-aged
failure writes in desperation —what is he fitted for, how
can he better himself? The young man thinks he has a
talent for writing, or perhaps it is art; will the editors
please advise him. The young girl wants to go on the
stage, but her family object. Shall the youth try to
satisfy his "great ambition," which is "to become a
movie actor"? The stenographer aspires to something
better than her present work. The wife wants a recipe
for prodding her lazy husband into more effort and much
more success.
By Way of Evaluation 187
On the physical side, advice is sought for the cure of
various disorders, from varicose veins to tuberculosis.
Psychology, to these seekers, has no limits to its powers.
A girl of twenty even wishes to know how to add to her
meager five feet of height. And of course there is the
young lady who would like to improve her complexion.
A vehement gentleman bewails his heavy beard and
earnestly desires to reduce permanently the too luxu
riant hirsute growth. (But, alas, psychology fails him
in this extremity, for the editor can think of no satis
factory remedy for the distress!)
There are also a few letters on miscellaneous sub
jects, e. g., a letter from a person who wants to know
how to become a clairvoyant, one requesting a bibliog
raphy on "Psychic Phenomena," another asking why
the unexpected happens, another in regard to the pro
priety of a woman's smoking, then a communication
from a young man who "seems to fall into trances with
wonderful feelings of exaltation and pleasure" (is it
well to continue this, he asks), and one from a husband
who would like the name of a hypnotist near his home
town, because his wife is going to have an operation and
he does not want ether used.
One must certainly conclude that there are a great
many persons in the world who want help in solving
their personal problems. While some of the questions
asked seem absurd or trivial to the reader, there are
many that are clearly grounded in fundamental human
needs. The "applied psychologist" has persistently re
alized these needs, as well as mankind's more luxurious
188 Psychological Racketeers
desires for fabulous wealth and so on, and has built up
his teachings around both sorts of longings. The timid
and fearful, the indecisive and purposeless, the mentally
colorless, the vocationally and matrimonially malad
justed, the stupid and ineffectual leading treadmill ex
istences, the nearly down-and-out battered and bewil
dered by life—these and many others are all reaching
out for a helping hand with their great big troubles or
funny little ones. As I said at the beginning of the
book, even the more able of humanity are seeking self-
betterment through "applied psychology." The fact
that it has flourished so extraordinarily testifies to an
urgent want.
It is not strange that there are ministers —particularly
elderly, over-trustful ones —who have lent a sympathetic
ear to "applied psychologists." The minister comes to
know a great deal about human longings and to feel
their pathos deeply. He also knows that the act of tell
ing some one else one's troubles, of talking things out,
is often wise and wholesome. These "letters to the ed
itor" and personal interviews with "analysts" sometimes
relieve the burdened in spirit enormously.
While we laugh at the "applied psychologist's" ridic
ulous promises and remedies, we have to admit that he
provides a much needed commodity — encouragement.
He rekindles hope and holds out the promise of suc
cess. At his best he cheers, inspires, and re-energizes;
he restores confidence in self and God; he tries to point
the way to inner peace. Sometimes he has very sensible
and serviceable advice to give — about pursuing one's
By Way of Evaluation 189
goal with dauntless determination, for example. He is
continually offering suggestions of accomplishment and
developing the "I-can-do" attitude. He is like the re
vivalist in many ways and has much the same effect —a
generally temporary emotional quickening. As the dif
ferent traveling lecturers made their appearance in our
town, I saw the same individuals in the audience time
and again, always, it seemed, looking for some fresh
source of strength, which they themselves were unable
to provide.
And for his mental and moral support the typical
"applied psychologist" charges a fat price. He is not
going to play the sturdy oak unless these clinging vines
pay him well. No matter how charitably one may try
to regard him, there is no denying that his chief aim is
money. He has assembled certain stimulating ideas to
sell to people who need stimulating —at the largest price
he dares ask. Suppose we make some comparisons. In
our town one gets a night-school course for one dollar,
and a university extension course for twelve dollars. The
university extension work is covered in fifteen class
meetings; and the night-school courses may comprise
as much as eighty evenings of instruction. But the "ap
plied psychologist" charges as high as fifty dollars for
six lectures! And think of the outrageous cost of some
of his books, "systems," analyses, and other commod
ities! One pays thirty or forty dollars for just a me
dium-priced "system," when not more than two or three
dollars would buy a reliable text by an accredited psy
chologist.
190 Psychological Racketeers
Of course "applied psychologists" are not all equally
mercenary. To avoid all possibility of injustice, let us
grant that some may be anima'' by more or less phil
anthropic feelings as well as mercenary aims. Human
nature is not likely to be wholly bad. We may reason
ably conclude there are many varieties of "psycholo
gists," from the hideously greedy who prey on the help
less without scruple, to the kindly souls who would like
to do some good while making a living. And let us
freely admit that they all seem to help some people,
perhaps greatly at times.
Yet the pity of it is that even the best of them prob
ably do much more harm than good. Their "uplift" is
too mixed with untruth. Much as human beings need
inspiration, it should come from a sound source. Other
wise, delusion and woeful disappointment are the al
most inevitable final result; and progress in general is
blocked.
When these popular inspirers call themselves "scien
tific psychologists," they are either deliberate frauds or
self -deluded. A very few, the least dishonest, are, I
think, self-deluded —and usually not above indulging in
a certain amount of hocus-pocus and highly colored as
sertion to help themselves along. All "applied psychol
ogists" appear to be appallingly ignorant of the genuine
science of psychology. Fantastic and bizarre theories
about mind and body, supported by hypocritical avow
als of piety and altruism, unjustifiable claims to knowl
edge, and false and preposterous pretenses of every de
scription, are the big stock in trade of the general run.
By Way of Evaluation 191
Their teachings are, emphatically, not those of the
university professor of psychology, notwithstanding pro
testations to the contrary. To the university professor
many of the explanations given and terms used are the
veriest nonsense, either utter absurdities or meaningless
jargon. He does not believe, for example, that "Prana"
is stored in the solar plexus, that magnetism is a fluid
of high vibratory character passing from the healer to
the patient, that silent meditation will cause coiled-up
energy to move up the central canal of the spinal cord,
that injurious (or other) thoughts are floating around in
the atmosphere, that mental vibrations cause coagula
tion and combination of different chemical elements so
as to produce visible substance, or that a "Law of At
traction" and "Law of Vibration" operate through
thought to create any result desired. He has, it may be
said parenthetically, certain beliefs concerning the sub
ject of vibration, but they are very, very different from
those to which the "applied psychologist" subscribes.
Crystal Minds, doors of Brahm, subconscious stretch
ings, Black and White Magic, Auras, Astral Bodies,
Ools, Odic Force, tonal affinities, and like rigmarole
have no place in his science. Nor does he expect to de
pend on mystical "Intuition" and "Inspiration," but
rather on close observation of facts and hard work.
In the light of claims made by the "applied psychol
ogist," one would naturally expect something better
than the profound ignorance he displays of psychology
as actually taught in the universities. He shows no
symptoms of ever having looked inside the covers of
192 Psychological Racketeers
any of their numerous present-day textbooks on the
subject. At best he has gotten, apparently from an out
worn authority or thirdhand (or fourthhand) source, a
curiously distorted impression of some few psycholog
ical matters —particularly the value of suggestion —
which he proceeds to dress up to suit his own fancy.
Very likely he has gleaned his garbled notion of the
subconscious from a highly untrustworthy popular
writer. With Freud, that imaginative and salacious thec-
rizer, he may possibly have the merest bowing acquaint
ance. Or his product may be just a kind of commer
cialized Christian Science, floating in a sea of scandal
ously misused religion; or a mass of self -devised "psy
chology" (with perhaps a strong tinge of Yoga) that is
best described as sheer drivel.
The "science" on which the popular psychologist has
erected his so-called psychological doctrines, is so at
variance with the truth that these muddle the layman
sadly. This does not apply merely to the pronounce
ments of the wildest and most extreme of the "applied
psychologists." Even the least visionary are given to
proclaiming loudly the grossest scientific misstatements.
To take a single example (from our magazine), here one
of the more conservative writers tells how he put a pa
tient into a hypnotic trance and thereby discovered why
strawberries and tomatoes disagreed with her:
"While in the trance state," he writes, "she diagnosed
her own condition and stated that it was due to the fact
that about a month before she was born her mother re
ceived a shock while she was eating strawberries."
By Way of Evaluation 193
It is said that the patient's subconscious mind had
always kept this prenatal memory, hence the resulting
disturbance. All of which
is,
of course, utter tommyrot
from the standpoint of real science. And, by the way,
how about the tomatoes? They seem to have passed
out of the picture. Maybe the lady's subconscious
couldn't distinguish between tomatoes and strawberries.
And kindly note the following "facts" culled from
the writings of the most staid and sober of these "scien
tists":
"All brain substances enter the Pituitary Gland for
a
final elaboration and thence go into the Pineal Gland to
be projected as Thought Substance."
"Old brain cells die and new ones are formed daily.
The new brain cells are formed under the emotional
condition and under the intellectual state of the person's
mentality."
"Thoughts produce brain cells."
"Every cell in the body has
a
center of mental know
ing, thinking, and creating power. So in the cell which
forms the inception of life in
a
mother's womb there
is
this center of mental power that we call the Subcon
scious Mind. It
is
the architect of the embryo and builds
the body step by step."
"The pineal gland
is
associated with the function of
telepathy, second sight, and other apparently extra-
normal phenomena. It
is
the gland of Energy Direction
and psychologically associated with the Utopian Urge."
Now there
is
no truth or wisdom in any of these
amazing statements. All they show
is
an ability to use
194 Psychological Racketeers
some rather queer words in even queerer ways. How
can such misconceptions do anything but befog the
mind9 of scientifically uninformed readers? This fake
"scientific psychology" can only confuse people and
leave them worse off than before. If they put faith in
it,
it
in no wise helps them settle their difficulties; quite
the contrary, in fact. If they do not put faith in
it,
they
may be left suspicious of all that
is
called scientific, the
true as well as the untrue. Meanwhile, there are im
portant principles of an honest-to-goodness scientific
psychology awaiting needed publicity.
Furthermore, what the "applied psychologists" have
to say
is
often directly pernicious. They have
a
habit,
for instance, of discrediting medical science and the
medical profession in a way that spells danger for all
of us. Observe the following declarations:
"Most syphilis comes from vaccination."
"He who has strengthened and purified his thought
need not concern himself about microbes."
"If you are
a
doctor, logic and sense don't count."
"The author, through the power of Mind and for
scientific purposes, has been able to cause Two Differ
ent Pulse Rates in the same young man at the same
time. The doctors could not do this, and they are too
stupid to know
it
is
possible."
"Treat symptoms, not causes. When symptoms are re
moved, the conscious awareness of the disease
is
gone and
the subconscious mind removes the cause automatically."
"If you desire health, avoid reading, studying, or
By Way of Evaluation 195
learning anything about disease. Only fools like doctors
believe in disease."
In short, the physician and his work are worthless
according to their teachings. Society in general must
expect to reap a harvest of ills when such ideas are
allowed to take root in ignorant people's minds. False
statements like the one concerning the cause of syphilis
—which appeared in a magazine edited by a very popu
lar one of the fourteen "applied psychologists" especially
investigated —are not only violently prejudiced but ex
ceedingly dangerous. If it were not for the serious con
sequences often entailed, what is labeled "science" would
be merely screamingly funny.
The extremely selfish, get-all-you-can policy taught in
"applied psychology" is not the least of its evils. For
instance, take the affair of a young man recently hanged
for murder. We learn from the case history that he was
a shy and bashful boy until he took a correspondence
course in psychology which taught him to "assert his
personality." Then his lady friends were so smitten by
his new charms that he had no trouble at all in borrow
ing money from them, so that he no longer needed to work
for a living. He had found out "how to get what he
wanted." Finally he hit upon a happy idea for express
ing his personality still further. He borrowed all his
landlady's savings and subsequently murdered her to
avoid settling his debt. A student of "applied psy
chology" would think up something clever like that!
Calamitous but less gruesome is the case of the wife
who was told by an oily-voiced male "psychoanalyst"
196 Psychological Racketeers
that her nature was too sensitive and delicate for her
husband's crude ways. She had not noticed the crude
ways herself —had been quite happy, in fact—but when
her eyes were opened she promptly sued for a divorce
and has been thoroughly miserable ever since getting it.
Another wife got a divorce (quite deservedly, I suspect)
because her husband had become addicted to "cosmic
psychology" and drove her "near crazy" by keeping a
metronome on the kitchen table and tapping his body
in time with the instrument "to keep his vibrations in
order." Then there was the young woman, a college
student in the state next to ours, who patronized a "psy
chologist" specializing in "numerology." The young
woman was informed that the vibrations of the letters
of her name were not "atmospherically harmonious" and
would bring bad luck in her business and love affairs.
So, after many expensive consultations, she spent more
of her good money to have her name legally changed
by court order. Two of my students report that they
also were similarly advised but "didn't fall for it."
It is well known that there are many persons who,
before a business deal, make a practice of consulting
their favorite numerologist, astropsychoanalyst, psychol
ogist, or whatever seer they swear by. Add to these the
number of individuals who are misguided by meaning
less "vocational analyses," "character readings," etc.,
and one may imagine the extent to which counterfeit
psychological advice is influential. No thoughtful per
son could suppose its effects to be anything but largely
injurious,
By Way of Evaluation 197
This is especially clear when the source is considered.
The charming Orlando Edgar Miller is not the only one
with unsavory reputation. I have a collection of news
paper clippings which show that other self-styled psy
chologists have been arrested for performing illegal op
erations, for contributing to the delinquency of minors,
and for blackmail, larceny, and assorted kinds of fraud.
Among the most pathetic of the many dupes seem to
me those who have been led astray through arousal of
inordinate hopes.
"I took up psychology," one man related, "and it
very nearly broke me. For a time I lost all my natural
prudence and judgment. I gave up the decent little
business I had; thought I could do wonderful things
in something I knew nothing about; and I haven't re
covered or got settled yet. That's what psychology did
to me."
No doubt the quantity of misinformation spread is
largely the cause of the very general haziness as to the
meaning of the word "psychology," which, nevertheless,
appears often in speech and print these days. I have
distinguished a number of different interpretations cur
rent among people as a whole. Psychology is very fre
quently supposed to be one or other of the following:
(1) a mysterious and fascinating kind of modern
magic. By using right thought power one can
get, or do, anything whatsoever.
(2) shrewd wisdom; using one's brains to personal
advantage. —"Use psyrology, Amos, use psyrol-
ogy."
198 Psychological Racketeers
(3) guileful trickery, or craftiness; ways of "putting
one over on the other fellow." The psychology
of advertising, for instance, consists of sly strate-
gems to ensnare the victim.
(4) psychoanalysis, which has something to do with
Freud, nasty sex experiences, complexes, and the
subconscious mind, all of which are much referred
to by writers of fiction.
(5) a new kind of religion.
Apropos of the last meaning in the list—which is by
no means exhaustive —I recall the case of the dear old
lady who appeared to register for night-school work.
She found a course in psychology was to be given.
"I guess I'll take that," she said. "It's a new kind
of religion, ain't it?"
When informed more precisely as to the nature of the
study, she abandoned her choice and solaced herself with
a course in millinery. A good many persons, no doubt,
find something on the head more satisfying than some
thing in it.
Curious ideas about psychology are not limited, how
ever, to the man on the street and his relatives. I re
cently read, in a thoroughly reputable and conservative
scientific journal, of an expert in chemistry who is so
enamored of psychology as to predict a future psy
chology of hydrogen!
At least it might be well to try to set the public
straight regarding the meaning and implications of the
term.
The world at large certainly knows very little indeed
By Way of Evaluation 199
of the painstaking psychological work carried on by re
search workers in the universities. There is a body of
sound information concerning mental life and human
behavior, which
is,
in the true sense,
a
science. And
there
is
a
genuine applied psychology. Psychology, of
course,
is
a
young science and has been suffering all the
growing pains of immaturity. Not only
is
there mis
understanding among people in general as to what psy
chology
is
all about, but there are many differences of
opinion over psychological matters among the psycholo
gists themselves. The time seems to have come, how
ever, for more universal enlightenment as to the exten
sive and useful findings of the psychological laboratories.
It
is
true that lots of people enjoy the thrill of the "ap
plied psychologist's" new witchcraft and quite like being
fooled; but
I
have reason to think there are plenty who
do not, plenty who are capable of receiving the facts
and eager for them.
The trained psychologist
is,
no doubt, much to blame
for the existing lack of popular information. He
is
gen
erally wrapped up in his research projects and revelling
in experiment and scientific discovery. He prefers to be
with men who have these same interests. He finds
it
hard, even impossible, to understand the point of view
of the average man and the average man's wife. If he
tries to talk to them, he has
a
strong tendency to talk
away over their heads. He does not make himself un
derstood; he
is
too "highbrow."
Just the same, he has recently been making some ex
cellent attempts to meet the average person's needs. Per
200 Psychological Racketeers
sonnel bureaus and different kinds of psychological clin
ics—even matrimonial clinics—have come into existence,
and there are an increasing number of non-technical
books and magazine articles by psychologists of stand
ing. Programs of mental testing and educational and
vocational guidance in the public schools are showing
what scientific psychology can do. More comprehen
sible and practical courses in psychology are being
offered in the colleges. In some cities university exten
sion divisions and evening schools are beginning to pro
vide serviceable psychological instruction. In the city
where this is being written, very definite efforts to bring
psychological enlightenment are in progress, partly
through a lecture series —called "The Truth about
Health, Happiness, and Success" —under the auspices of
the city's Department of Adult Education, which is an
other name for a night school that is trying hard to
bring liberalizing ideas to adults who still want to grow
mentally. The lectures in psychology, given by trained
psychologists in the vicinity who are not paid for this
service, are remarkably well attended by attentive and
appreciative audiences. In this city the problem of how
to protect the public from exploitation by "thought-
power" fakers is also being attacked by another agency,
the Better Business Bureau, which aims toward honest
business and truthful advertising.
In dealing with the situation, one must have clearly
in mind that there are two different kinds of materials
involved, the scientific facts of psychology and "uplift."
Whether or not they should be mixed, and in what pro
By Way of Evaluation 201
portions, are not altogether easy questions to decide.
Not every one requires, or is able to absorb, large doses
of science, even applied science; but the majority are
in need of a good deal of inspiration. For every one,
however, this should rest on a basis of scientific truth,
if there are to be full and permanent gains. Perhaps the
perplexed and troubled souls groping for more light are
a challenge to the various educational agencies especially.
Probably these should exert strong efforts to make them
selves known to the public, and to combine sufficient
practical sermonizing —about self-realization, self-confi
dence, and the like—with their technical teachings. The
churches are not satisfying the enormous demand for
optimistic, usable, human advice on everyday living.
We are in constant need of new prophets to put fresh zest
into old truths. Good ideas will bear much repetition.
Many of us have to be told about right principles of
thinking and doing over and over again, to have them
"rubbed in" firmly and emphatically, before we can de
velop an energetic, courageous, and effective philosophy
of life.
To whom shall be given this task of inspiring is some
thing of a problem. It may be, classes could be run on a
cooperative plan, and the psychologist, the social worker,
the minister (the liberal and "peppy" kind), and others
with something worthwhile to say, might all do their bit
on different evenings. The men and women who have
accomplished much and done great things are always
thrilling, and it might be that some of them could be in
duced to speak to popular audiences. They would serve
202 Psychological Racketeers
as shining examples of achievement. Of course persons
thoroughly trained in modern psychology should provide
the scientific information. They will do much more
than that if they are blessed with a gift for inspiring.
Whether the university professor should undertake this
popular lecture work is another phase of the question.
In many cases his researchings are much too valuable to
be disturbed. Society would be the loser if they were.
In other cases, if he has the inclination and talent, he
may well give some of his time to such service.
You will easily recognize the real psychologist when
he appears, if you know his ways. He won't announce
his presence with flamboyant advertising. He will be
modest in his charges and is likely to do a good deal for
nothing; he is not a money-grabber taking advantage of
humanity's mental and spiritual lacks. And since he
tries to deal with the plain and simple truth, he never
can be so certain, so flattering, so all-promiseful, as the
"applied psychologist." He may, indeed, be too hesi
tant and over-cautious in his statements, for it is often
very hard to be sure what truth is. He has no impossibly
quick and easy methods, no incantations and supersti
tions, no secret formulae. True science is always open
to all who can understand it and are willing to work to
do so.
If you are in doubt about the next alleged psychol
ogist who comes your way, find out if he is a member
of the American Psychological Association, or if he is
endorsed by members. You could write to the nearest
university to make sure, or to the Psychological Corpora
By Way of Evaluation 203
tion (Grand Central Terminal Building, New York
City), which was formed a few years ago by reputable
American psychologists and is not a money-making en
terprise. This organization will also tell you who, in
your neighborhood, are qualified to give legitimate psy
chological service.
CHAPTER XIV
WHAT THE TRAINED PSYCHOLOGIST THINKS
ABOUT "THE POWER OF THOUGHT"
Before we part company, let us consider together what
trained psychologists think about some of the less wildly
extravagant concepts of "applied psychology." It has
been admitted that psychological experts do not always
agree among themselves, but I shall try to give, in un-
technical language, their views on certain subjects that
do not involve much difference of opinion.
"Suggestion" is a conspicuous theme in "applied psy
chology" and shall engage us first. It is a central rami
fication of the power-of-thought doctrine. Now sugges
tion is recognized by the academic psychologist as well
as the popular lecturer as an important factor in human
conduct. In technical psychological literature it ha9
been defined variously and its different aspects empha
sized variously, but there is general agreement as to the
course of events, which, in the initiating stage at least,
have often been described. In suggestion a person re
sponds to an idea or situation without reflecting, un
critically. There is no weighing of evidence, no reason
ing, but a mechanical acceptance of the suggested idea
at its face value. It somehow slips in without arousing
204
The Power of Thought 205
opposition, and rational explanation or argument are not
needed to bring the resulting action or belief. Accord
ing to some authorities the chief characteristic of the
accepting process is that it goes on, to a large extent
anyhow, out of the focus, or clearest part, of conscious
ness; or, conversely put, there is always a "background,"
or marginal, phase, which plays an important part. The
background activities may even be outside of conscious
ness and exist simply as adjustments in the nervous sys
tem that lead to an automatic response.
Suggestion operates chiefly in two ways. First, it may
be indirect. For instance, the lecturing psychologist
covertly "suggests" that what he says is true by his tone
of authority, his high-sounding language, his frequent
use of the words "science" and "law," his impressive ap
pearance and setting, etc. The idea grows up in the
listener's mind —in his marginal consciousness —that this
is a person to be believed. The idea is not reached by
argument; it is merely accepted (if the suggestion
"takes"). Or there may be little or no conscious recog
nition of the source of a suggestion; for instance, one
member of the audience yawns when his neighbor does.
He does it automatically because of certain readjust
ments in his nervous system. In the second place, sug
gestion may be offered directly, as in cases when cures
are effected by suggestions in the form of direct asser
tions by the healer that the patient is well or getting
well. Here expectation of cure has been implanted
previously, and the whole situation as well as the spoken
words carry the idea of recovery. There is faith in the
206 Psychological Racketeers
healer, in his supposedly infallible formulae, in his
method of giving the suggestion —all this in the back
ground of consciousness.
The word "suggestion," it may be observed, is used to
mean both the whole process of giving and accepting the
idea, and the spoken assertion itself. "Autosuggestion"
is just a name for self-induced suggestion, and may like
wise be direct or indirect. Suggestion from others is apt
to be mingled with autosuggestion.
Emotional excitement, fatigue, ill-health, drugs, and a
condition of passivity make a person open to suggestion.
Ignorance along any line increases susceptibility to sug
gestion in that field of thought. That is one reason why
children and dull or poorly educated adults are unusually
suggestible. They have little or no basis for critical
judgment on most subjects. There are undoubtedly in
dividual differences in general suggestibility, and also
differences in the extent to which various suggestive
forces affect the same person.
The method of "affirmation," so much recommended
by the "applied psychologist,"
is,
of course, simply auto
suggestion. To the layman
it
is
most mysterious and
baffling. How can an idea,
a
mere thought, cure his in
digestion or his headache? But
it
seems to—sometimes
at least. What he does not understand
is
that there
is
a
physiological side to the matter, too; that there are
good physiological reasons for the effects of a suggested
idea. In the first place, all thought goes on in con
junction with brain activity. (Don't forget that!) And
in the second place, nerve impulse can spread from the
The Power of Thought 207
brain to other parts of the body through a many-branch
ing nervous system. Now suppose the patient who has
suffered from a wretched nervous indigestion assures him
self, with "faith," that the dinner he is about to have
will digest well, that he will feel entirely comfortable
during the meal and afterwards, that all will be well
with him. He may reinforce his faith by using some of
the hocus-pocus which the psychological healer has said
will surely do the business. Then what happens is this:
His earnest thoughts of well-being mean, in physiological
terms, certain brain changes, and perhaps other immedi
ate and more far-reaching changes in the nervous sys
tem. At any rate these brain changes start nerve im
pulse to various parts of the body. And as a result
there are produced numerous and widespread adjust
ments that lead to good digestion and assimilation.
We may think of the adjustments as working not only
in a positive direction as the addition of something new,
but also as a subtraction process, in which unfortunate
inhibitions and interfering body sets are removed. For
instance, the patient's new way of thinking gets rid of
worry and tension. Worry, a mild form of emotion,
means that the digestive juices are not going to flow so
well; tension of the muscles of the limbs means that
blood needed in the digestive tract is concentrated in
those muscles instead. Whatever the changes may be,
it is certain that it is not just thought as such that brings
about the improvement, but rather thought's accompani
ment, nerve energy.
In such cures the patient is aware of little that takes
208 Psychological Racketeers
place except the result. That
is,
he does not actually
feel many of the physiological adjustments, for they are
generally made below the level of consciousness, so to
speak. But there are other situations when bodily
changes, internal as well as external, can be distinctly
perceived as
a
mass of new sensations in the background
of consciousness. Take the case of strong emotion; the
physical agitation here
is
perfectly apparent
if
you stop
to consider the matter. Furthermore, the whole process
may have been just the result of your thinking, as in
autosuggestion. You get angry when you merely think
of some one who has interfered with a tenderly cherished
project. This thought has
a
physical accompaniment
in nerve activity that leads to those very perceptible emo
tional stirrings.
Suppose you fly into
a
rage at the dinner table. You
were eating calmly when a chance remark made you
think of an enemy of yours at the office. You never did
trust that man. Why did he take those spoiled invoices
of yours in to the boss today, you wonder to yourself.
Suddenly you realize that he must have meant to get you
"in bad," and that he has probably succeeded.
A
fierce
anger seizes you. You have
a
feeling of getting all
roused up inside; you breathe harder, more rapidly; your
muscles stiffen, perhaps tremble; your hands clinch and
you may —especially
if
you are
a
man—pound the table
and talk violently of vengeance. You were very hungry
a
few moments ago, but food no longer interests you
for the time being, though you may eat mechanically.
Careful research work by trained investigators has
The Power of Thought 209
made clear what is going on in the body dining such
emotional upheavals. For one thing, digestion comes
to a halt. The churning movements of the stomach and
intestines cease altogether during strong emotion, and
only a very small amount of gastric juice is secreted and
this of inferior grade. Food must remain undigested un
til the excitement dies down and conditions come back
to normal. Besides this interference with digestion,
there are other important changes which should be men
tioned briefly. The heart beats more rapidly; blood
pressure rises; breathing is more vigorous; and certain
glands of internal secretion, the adrenals, are stimulated
to greater performance. Their secretion, working its way
through the blood stream, enhances and adds to the
changes already accomplished by the nervous system.
A most conspicuous fact is that blood is diverted away
from the digestive tract and into the skeletal muscles.
Furthermore, the blood is now in a peculiarly energy-
producing condition, for the secretion of the adrenals has
affected the liver and made it give into the blood stream
unusually large quantities of blood sugar, which is the
best fuel for the work of the skeletal muscles. These be
come especially powerful and resistant to fatigue.
It is evident why you feel all ready for action. You
have changed from a placid person whose system was
prepared to digest food, to a stirred-up person in the
right physical state for strenuous activity which cannot
be restrained. The angry child throws down his toy,
cries, and stamps; the angry boy pounds his playmate
with all his might; the angry old gentleman shakes his
210 Psychological Racketeers
fist, paces the floor, and airs a torrid vocabulary. These
acts are simply other manifestations of the energetic
behavior to be expected when this strong emotion takes
hold. We thus see what a mental state may mean in
terms of inner and outer bodily activities. In your case,
it is important to remember, the turmoil was started by
those operations in the nervous system accompanying a
thought, the realization "this-detestable-person-is-thwart-
ing-me."
Though the details of the physiological adjustments
occurring in "thought cures" are generally less well un
derstood, much can be said concerning the kinds of
disease amenable to mental treatment and the conditions
under which cures arise. There is no doubt that all the
well-known healing cults can produce well-authenticated
cases of cures made without medicine or other "material"
/ remedy. Success is greatest with what are called functional
\> diseases, such as some kinds of indigestion, constipation,
' insomnia, asthma, paralysis, blindness, and deafness—
note that only some kinds of these diseases are referred
to—and many afflictions recognized as nervous. These
are customarily termed functional because there is no
organic disturbance involved, no destruction of tissue and
real injury to structure, nor is there infection at work;
but for some reason or other the affected part does not
perform as it should. The machine is not broken, but it
is badly regulated. Often in such cases all the patient
needs is a redirection of his thinking to bring about
the requisite wholesome body changes. New Thought,
Christian Science, "applied psychology," and other sim
The Power of Thought 211
ilar methods have all proved successful. So has the doc
tor who uses suggestion in less mystical ways.
The following true instance shows this well: An illit
erate soldier was stunned by an exploding shell during
one of the battles of the Great War. Later he noticed
that he did not see with the usual clearness. He com
menced to fear he would become blind, and as his fears
increased, his eyelids began to droop, and he found it
hard to focus on near objects. He was returned to Eng
land for treatment, which further confirmed his fears,
and in a short time he lost his sight completely. After
four years his condition was definitely recognized as
hysterical blindness, that
is,
blindness without any de
fect in the structure of the eyes or associated nerves.
They simply failed to make the proper responses to light.
At the hospital where the patient was sent, treatment
for disease of mental origin was begun on the evening
of his arrival, and in
a
few hours he was well on the road
to
a
complete and extraordinarily speedy recovery.1 It
is
obvious that the acceptance of the thought of ill health
was responsible for most of his trouble in the first place.
Only the general shock effects of the battleground ex
perience had been externally caused. The man had lit
erally thought himself into blindness. The doctors
showed him how to think himself out of
it
by sugges
tion, encouragement, and instruction in relaxation and
1See C. R. Griffith's General Introduction to Psychology (re
vised), pp. 539-541 (Macmillan, 192S). Griffith takes his ac
count from. A. F. Hurst's The Psychology
of
the Special Senses
and their Functional Disorders, pp. 95-97 (1920).
212 Psychological Racketeers
redirection of attention. He learned to pay attention
again to the things of sight when he was assured that he
could see them. The functions so long suspended were
set going once more. This is a case of the functional
nervous disorders, those mentally caused, which are, we
must understand, entirely real to the patient and in
effect.
In those functional diseases for which unfortunate
thinking is not apparently responsible, similar treatment
may also bring results. Constipation, for instance, may
indicate a spastic condition of the colon which can be
entirely removed by suggestion and allied mental meth
ods, because these induce the needed relaxation. Relax
ation will work wonders with many bodily ills. No doubt
that is why it is emphasized in "applied psychology."
"The Silence," that favorite mental retreat of the mys
tical "psychologist," specifically fosters it. In many in
stances if relaxation is not directly taught, the methods
used involve it necessarily. A serene, trustful, unwor-
ried frame of mind, the conviction that all is well with
one, peace and contentment —all these mean relaxation.
The habit of relaxing
is,
of course, only one of the
factors promoting health. It
is
not hard to see how
other physical changes due to suggestion can also be
beneficial. For example,
if
the blood
is
enriched through
improved digestion and assimilation of food resulting
from salutary autosuggestion —the reverse in effect of
emotion-producing thought —the body
is
helped to build
up
a
power of rapid recuperation and also
a
future re
sistance to disease. The blood
is
indeed
a
life-giving
The Power of Thought 213
stream. Mental healing practiced under favorable cir
cumstances may reasonably be believed at least to dis
pose the system toward health, to give it a set in that
direction. Sometimes that is all that is necessary to
break up a bad physiological habit.
And after all, we must not forget that the living tissue
of our bodies is innately so constituted that it tends to
repair itself. The true source of healing is intrinsic, not
extrinsic. Medicine or suggestion or whatever we pre
scribe, at best merely helps along a natural propensity.
It must be admitted that we not infrequently give entire
credit to the remedy for our cold or headache or slight
fever, when the chances are that nature would have
done as well, or nearly as well, if let alone.
The "applied psychologist" generally augments his
repertory with a recommended program of physical hy
giene. Like the discerning physician, he knows that
mental and physical prescriptions work well together.
The patient is told to eat properly, get more sleep and
exercise, practice deep breathing, etc. He is turned
away from a way of living that makes for ill health and
toward one which makes for good health. It may be
the physical regime quite as much as the mental, which
brings the happy result, if there is one.
The healing cults, however, frequently lay claim to
curing more than those ills which can obviously be
reached by simple hygiene or suggestion and the like.
They instance remarkable recoveries from organic and
infectious diseases, such as tumors, heart diseases, tuber
culosis, etc. But it is yet to be demonstrated that these
214 Psychological Racketeers
are genuine cures. There are, for example, cases in
medical history of "phantom tumors," when the patient,
because of dwelling on the subject, has all the symptoms
of a tumor—even the swelling —but there really is no
tumor. It is not hard to "cure" what does not exist, or
rather, what exists solely in the form of functional al
terations induced by apprehensive brooding. There are
also "malignant diseases" that have no physical basis
except in exceedingly trivial disturbances or entirely nor
mal conditions which are over-attended to and magnified
and distorted in the sufferer's mind. Unexpected sensa
tions in almost any part of the body can easily be dis
covered with concentrated attention. Let the imagina
tion have free rein and there are resultant ailments and
illnesses —which may, however, be speedily terminated
with a new mental outlook. Many a wise doctor has
made a lasting "cure" by means of a few bogus pills
(especially strong- tasting ones!) or by administering in
significant electric shocks from imposing apparatus.
Again, the symptoms of a genuine organic disease are
sometimes removed for the time being by "thought treat
ment," only to reappear later in more acute form, as has
been shown especially in the case of certain heart lesions.
The removal of symptoms does not prove that the cause
has been destroyed. Pain, an important symptom in
many cases, is rather readily dismissed by attending
to something else, if the pain is not too severe. The
mother with the toothache promptly forgets it when
some calamity overtakes one of her children. Distract
the young child's attention, and he no longer notices his
The Power of Thought 215
badly bumped head. In hypnosis, a state in which the
subject's attention is very greatly distracted, it is even
possible to perform a surgical operation without his feel
ing it. It may be added, by the way, that there is no
mysterious "magnetic fluid" emanating from the hynor
tist; the secret of his power lies in the force of sugges
tion.
There are times when suggestion and emotion to
gether produce spectacular effects. As has been indi
cated, strong emotions like anger and excitement mean
a body equipped for very energetic muscular action.
Under the sway of excitement created in the lecture
hall by the oratory of a persuasive and impassioned
healer and through his suggestions of healing, the cap
tivated listener may feel a new vigor sweep over him.
It is the temporary power of emotion, but he mistakes it
for new-found health. One time I saw an old man rise
from his wheel-chair and totter down the aisle, crying
that at last he could walk again. But some one had to
catch his swaying body before he had gone far. He was
taken to a hospital and never left his bed again. Emo- \
tional excitement may lend us colossal strength for the
time being, but it is not a curative agency for incur
able diseases. It uses our reserves of strength and, if
our reserves are scant, leaves us worse off than before.
It remains to be noted that suggestion may often be an
appreciable aid in the cure of organic disorders. The
same regulating conditions that operate in the removal
of functional diseases may help along the healing process
in structural ones. Such factors as improved circula
216 Psychological Racketeers
tion, digestion, elimination, and glandular secretion have
much influence. McDougall, a psychological investiga
tor, states that it has long been recognized that mental
conditions can affect favorably or unfavorably the heal
ing of wounds and the lesions of tuberculosis.1 As a
matter of fact the word cure is used rather uncertainly at
times and may mean just a great improvement in health,
an improvement which in some cases is no doubt largely
the consequence of a new way of thinking.
Now, since we have considered suggestion and health,
what about the other two members of the famous trio—
happiness and success? The general situation is much
\ j the same with them. That
is,
suggestive methods work
J
in certain ways and within limits. But there
is
no di
rect action of thought that will conjure automobiles out
of clouds, or
a
million dollars from the surrounding
ether, or other tokens of success and happiness from un
natural sources.
It
is
true that happiness may be attained through
thought directly in one sense. That
is,
if
one
is
deter
mined to be as cheerful and happy as
a
Pollyanna or
a
Mrs. Wiggs, one
is
pretty sure to develop forthwith
a
happy frame of mind. And what
is
happiness but a
frame of mind? The firm intention of seeing everything
as
a
blessing and of enjoying things as they are, may be
invincible and create
a
capacity for happiness that en
dures regardless of external conditions. Most people,
however, feel that certain externals are requisite.
'McDougall, Wm., Outline
of
Abnormal Psychology, p. 102,
Scribner's, 1926.
The Power of Thought 217
To some, these externals are in part friends, invita
tions to social gatherings, plenty of attention at these
gatherings, and so on; in brief, whatever goes with pop
ularity, or "personal magnetism" of a social order. Is
it possible, you may ask, to "suggest" yourself into popu
larity? Can you somehow, by using thought, make
yourself attract others? If you believe you can, you
probably turn over in your mind the thought, "I am
going to be popular, I am going to make myself at
tractive." That starts you thinking of ways to become
so and of those who are popular in the group in which
you wish to shine. Jim has "a good line," can dance
well, and adapts himself to other people and the needs
of the occasion. Mary always looks so trim and well-
groomed, and she is a "good sport" and has the sense
to "be herself." Probably you can, if you try hard, fall
into some of these ways, too; and, it may be, add some
improving touch of your own. In short, you can—pro
vided there is the latent possibility within you —become
a popular person by discovering the qualities and skills
that make people popular and making these qualities
and skills your own.
There is nothing uncanny about
it,
though just think
ing of a personal trait may give you
a
set in that direc
tion that
is
surprisingly productive. "After this
I
am
going to meet people easily," you say to yourself. "I
am going to be unafraid, self-possessed, poised." And
somehow the idea takes hold. You find yourself acting
in much the way you described to yourself. Your ner
218 Psychological Racketeers
vous system follows the new pattern. This is truly sug
gestion at work.
Suggestion is also set to work when you indulge in
"affirmations" of success in getting material possessions.
Repeating to yourself with conviction that you are going
to get a new house, a new coat, a radio, or more business
will develop a new confidence in yourself as a person
who intends to get what he wants. It will rid you of
your old diffidence and timidity. You are much more
likely to get what you are seeking. Furthermore, you
are now in the right attitude to take advantage of all
opportunities leading toward your goal. You become,
as it were, attuned to discovering whatever will aid you
in your quest. Your mind is on the alert for those
things. As in the case of popularity, you doubtless be
gin to study over the matter, and you may soon think out
serviceable plans to further your ends. If you think
about what you want often enough and hard enough,
you are certainly not unlikely to hit upon ways to realize
it. One happy idea may lead to another.
One of the great benefits of "affirmatioh" an<
forms of suggestion is that they keep the mind on the
subject, and this persistence of attention is a very impor
tant matter. It
is,
indeed, one of the secrets of suc
cess. What you give your attention to,
is
what you will
succeed in,
if
you succeed at all. You may become so
possessed with the idea,
it
may be attended to so ex
clusively, that you will work for the thing desired un
tiringly, sacrifice other things for
it,
save money toward
it,
acquire new habits and skills to that end, scheme and
The Power of Thought 219
contrive till it is obtained. If you pay the price in
terms of effort, time, and persistence, you stand a great
chance of winning. Just let the desire be strong enough,
and, provided your objective is in any way possible, the
successful outcome is pretty well assured, if you are suffi
ciently intelligent to set in motion the necessary ma
chinery.
But note the if's and maybe's. The trained psychol
ogist believes that this thing has limits. He believes that
the desire must be in the range of possibility. That
is,
one must not expect results without adequate causes and
conditions. Many supposed impossibilities have become
actualities, and remarkable things do happen, but science
has been increasingly successful in laying bare the under
lying reasonable causes and conditions. It has found,
as we have seen, that suggestion means practically (1)
adjustments in the nervous system that cause the body
and mind to become healthier or more effective, and also,
very often, (2) adjustments in the nervous system that
turn the attention to helpful methods of procedure and
outside forces. In any event, whatever change there
is
comes fundamentally through
a
nervous mechanism,
which
is
.a most important point to remember. Nervous
systems can only produce what nervous tissue
is
capable
of producing, and this
is
not endowed with the powers of
Aladdin's lamp, nor can "applied psychology" make
it
so.
Science finds that events in the world about us also op
erate according, to natural law, and that we must not look
for fabulous marvels there either. It may be added that
it
appears futile to expect suggestions directed to other
220 Psychological Racketeers
persons in their absence, and without their knowledge,
to take effect, for there is no nervous or other mechanism
here to convey the thought.
It should also be remembered that nervous systems
condition intelligence, a significant factor in success. The
dull man cannot produce what it takes real intellectual
ability to produce, any more than those deficient musi
cally can become Kreislers and Paderewskis. Our ner
vous systems do set limits to our achievements. The
"applied psychologist" does not seem to know that in
dividuals differ in capacity, in their "hidden powers."
Scientific psychology has shown that there are all ranges
of mental endowment from that of the idiots, who have
the minds of babies, to that of the world's outstanding
geniuses. In spite of the famous statement that "all
men are created free and equal," no informed person
can now pretend that the Edisons and Einsteins of the
world are average men who have achieved because they
have used abilities which we all possess and could use if
we but knew the rules of "applied psychology." If the
"applied psychologists" were content to encourage
people to develop the capacities they do have instead of
vainly striving for the impossible, there would be less
wasted effort and bitter disappointment.
Though our nervous systems set limits to what we can
do, these limits are generally far wider than we suspect.
We are rarely doing anything as well as we could do
it,
unless we are what Jimmy Dugan calls "champeens"
along that line. While we might never play tennis, for
instance, as well as Helen Wills Moody, yet sufficient
The Power of Thought 221
effort, training, and practice would in most cases vastly
improve our game. And so it is with other things.
Much experimenting has been done by trained psychol
ogists to show the effects of practice on many kinds of
abilities. The results show there always is improvement
in an undeveloped ability with systematic practice —and
sufficient incentive —and that the amount of improve
ment is usually great. We cannot develop what nature
has not given us potentially, but it is possible to
strengthen greatly many weak skills and to cause em
bryonic talents and latent capacities to blossom through
faithful cultivation. In this sense there are indeed "hid
den powers" that we would do well to develop if they
serve our purposes.
It has long been supposed that children are more
capable of learning than adults, but a recent investigation
by Thorndike (and others) shows that this is not true.
He finds that the ability to learn improves up to the
early twenties, remains nearly stationary until about
thirty, and then begins to diminish very slowly. The
man of forty-five is almost as capable of learning as the
man of twenty-five, quite as capable as the young person
of fifteen, and is a much better learner than the child
under ten. Thorndike tells us that age, in itself, is a
minor factor in either success or failure; the essentials
are capacity, interest, energy, and time.1
Through painstaking research the trained psychologist
has found out much about the quickest and easiest ways
^Thorndike, E. L., and others, Adult Learning, Macmillan,
1928.
222 Psychological Racketeers
to learn and to work, and he has many practical sugges
tions to offer. Suppose you are "just an average man"
setting about acquiring some new skill that will be an
aid in your daily occupation. You should have a strong
motive, or better, several strong motives. You must at
tack your new undertaking with zeal and the intention of
succeeding. If your wife adds her word of encourage
ment, so much the better. You must distribute scien
tifically the time devoted to practice, not working too
long nor too short a time and leaving the right intervals
between practice periods. You must be careful not to
practice wrong methods. You must try to find out
whether it is better to practice the act as a whole or to
learn it piecemeal. You should have some way of re
cording your improvement, so that you may observe
your progress. On all these points and many others the
trained psychologist can give good advice.
Now, of course, learning and developing skills through
scientific practice, and other procedures such as avail
ing oneself of opportunities that come one's way, making
plans for achieving desires, saving money for them, and
working and striving toward them in various other ways,
are not, properly speaking, part of the process of sug
gestion; that
is,
they are not responses that belong to
the operation of suggestion as such. Suggested responses
are direct and made without reflection. But these other
acts are often the less direct and immediate consequences.
They may have been initiated by suggestion and have
arisen because of
a
new "set" in the nervous system
which
is
truly the response of suggestion itself. They
The Power of Thought 223
are likely to be highly significant in the final outcome.
This is especially true when it comes to gaining success
and obtaining material possessions in general. The op
eration of suggestion proper is most in evidence in the
cure of many functional diseases and in the creation of
new attitudes and traits of character, results for the most
part produced directly by readjustments in the nervous
system.
It is a pity that suggestion is not more recognized as
a power in developing desirable attitudes and character
traits especially, for it is a valuable instrument for the
purpose. Suggestion
is,
to be sure, constantly at work
in various guises, but what
is
needed
is
to turn
it
more
to useful account. The attitude toward work of an en
tire office force may be fixed by an employer who says
little but does much.
A
standard for honest conduct
may be set by the timely remark of some teacher to
a
re
ceptive pupil. The ideas and ideals of the boys of
a
neighborhood are often largely determined by the leader
of the group, whose words and example are replete with
suggestions. If he
is
a
"bad boy," he can easily cor
rupt all the others, and their parents should take steps
to provide
a
better model. (Heaven help them to move
with tact and discretion, lest they surround the de
praved one with the glamour of the forbidden!)
Autosuggestion
is
a
force that might well be utilized
more than
it
is,
for
it
can bring easily won benefits.
Autosuggestions of courage, serenity, and cheerfulness,
made regularly and whole-heartedly, have worked won
ders with nervous and depressed patients. Surely most
224 Psychological Racketeers
persons would profit from sensible autosuggestions in re
gard to self-improvement. To think of perseverance,
for instance, and to resolve to act in a thoroughly per
severing fashion is to begin to travel the road of a per
severing person. To be "set" for patient work, deter
mined to stick to
it,
is
to dispose oneself far in the desired
direction. Earnest thinking about any virtue, with the
intention of acquiring
it,
inclines one to its possession.
Much of prayer, which has proved a most effective char
acter developer, answers such description and
is
unques
tionably of suggestive value, whatever else
it
may be
besides. Through any suggestive force for good, one's
thoughts are turned toward
a
better way of living, one's
nervous system
is
attuned thereto. "As
a
man think-
eth in his heart, so
is
he,"
is
a much quoted reflection
held in high esteem by "applied psychologists." And
doubtless rightly so.
We should also notice other prominent forms, such as
"concentration" and "visualization," that the power-of-
thought method takes with "applied psychologists." If
we examine into their literature,
it
is
clear that "concen
tration"
is
a
word used in several senses. Occasionally
it
means, as in common usage, the ability to fix attention,
to focus on a subject of thought so completely as to
banish mind-wandering; but in "applied psychology"
this simple conception, taken by itself,
is
rare. "Ap
plied psychologists" usually go further, much further, in
their interpretation of the word. To them,
it
is
above
all a method for getting anything desired.
According to some, the highest human desire
is
mysti
The Power of Thought 225
cal knowledge. Hence, a second meaning for "concen
trating" is going into "the Silence," meditating deeply,
ecstatically, on "Universal Mind," "Truth," "Harmony
with the Infinite," and the like; or perhaps even assum
ing the astral body and wandering among invisible plan
ets. In such ways supreme knowledge is said to be ob
tained. Academic psychologists, on the other hand, look
for knowledge in scientific experimentation, in painstak
ing study of all pertinent facts, and in intelligent and im
partial judging of these facts.
Now "applied psychology" always has, we should
speedily note, an eye to the practical. Even mystical
knowledge is generally held to lead to an increase in
this world's blessings. Furthermore, in the most fre
quently found usage, "concentration" is aimed enthusi
astically and whole-heartedly toward earthly comfort.
To concentrate, in the third sense, is to think earnestly,
fervently, of the hoped-for new house or new car or bet
ter job or improved state of health —to steep oneself in
the strong desire, with intent to realize it. Each "psy
chologist" has his special technique for this, including,
you will remember, such procedures as facing the east,
gazing at a candle flame, sitting on the floor with one's
toes turned back, holding the ankles with the hands,
breathing seven times, etc. Specific autosuggestions are
very often an important item. Less direct suggestion
is,
of course, always rampant in the ritualistic embroidery
of the whole situation. In fact, concentration in this
sense seems to be just another, more impressive, name
for the process of suggestion. Consequently, all that has
226 Psychological Racketeers
been said in that regard applies here. It is not necessary
to comment further, except perhaps to remark that the
three types of concentration are not inevitably separate
and distinct. For example, utilitarian wishing may trail
off into mystical identification, and vice versa.
Imagination, or rather visualization, is very fre
quently declared to be a powerful adjunct of concen
tration, and great emphasis is laid upon it. Rather
curiously, imagination seldom means anything but vis
ualization to the "applied psychologist." The trained
psychologist, however, knows that imaginings may not
only take the form of mental pictures, but also of mental
representations of sounds, smells, tastes, muscle feel
ings, and of a variety of sensations from the skin and
from within the body. A popular song runs through
the head; a faint but delicious memory of the fra
grance and lusciousness of that homemade mince-pie flits
across the mind; there is a dim remembrance of how it
felt to swim the river—to step on a sharp stone, to
plunge into the cold water, to strike out for the opposite
shore, to pant and struggle toward
it,
to feel
a
sudden,
menacing cramp. To some, recalled experiences may be
very vivid, almost like real; to others, they are only
faint and elusive ghosts of the past. In any case, not
only the past, but the future as well, takes shape from
memory items. We build our castles in the air, our day
time dream-hopes, from materials gathered before.
Perhaps the "applied psychologist" realizes, like his
more enlightened brother, that many persons seem to
possess
a
larger supply of visual "images," as they are
The Power of Thought 227
called technically, than of other kinds. Or it may be
that he merely neglects the others in his zeal to have his
students visualize. Whatever the reason, he is likely
to urge visualization most strongly and to insist upon the
mental picturing of actual objects and situations, not
only as a kind of supernatural agency for "attracting"
the material counterparts, but also as the potent ingredi
ent of all thinking, the vital thought element for bringing
any worthwhile result.
Scientific psychological research, however, has shown
that there are other ways of thinking that are quite as
satisfactory and result-producing. Effective thinking
goes on not only in the form of images, visual and other
wise, of concrete things, but also in symbolic terms. We
may, for instance, have images of the words used to ex
press the thought. We may mentally see or hear the
words "radio" or "trolley-car," as well as have mental
representations of the sight and sound of the real objects.
Also, it is said to be quite common to have images of the
way the throat muscles feel in saying the words, or in
beginning to say them. Or other symbols besides words
may be used to carry the idea. I know a person who
thinks of "million" as a point away off to the extreme
left, and of "money" as the dollar sign.
Strange as it may seem to some of us—especially to
those who visualize much —there are even persons who
declare they do their thinking without any images what
soever, either concrete or symbolic. According to John
B. Watson, who is an extreme "behavioristj" thinking
is merely talking to ourselves, a sort of inner speech which
228 Psychological Racketeers
goes on behind closed lips; it is just as much a matter
of making muscular movements as is tennis playing, but
the movements in the former case are largely concealed.
The muscles of cheek, tongue, chest, and especially
throat, are mainly involved during the thinking process,
it is said, though the whole of the individual's bodily
organization is at work implicitly. While thinking is
usually "subvocal talking" in Watson's view, it may
sometimes, he believes, take the form of other bodily
responses, such as a shrug of the shoulders or a move
ment of the eyelids.
Watson throws overboard the notion of mental pic
tures and other images as so much useless cargo. He
does not even believe there are such things. Further
more, he appears to deny mental life altogether. He
says that declaring we are "conscious" is merely a popu
lar way of saying that we are "naming our universe of
objects both inside and outside."1 However, Watson
represents only one small corner of the psychological
world. Most academic psychologists do not uphold him
in this nonchalant disposal of consciousness. They see
it as part of an intimate mind-body relationship. The
belief is growing, however, that the whole body is much
more concerned in thinking than was once supposed. It
is the opinion of some authorities that there can be no
consciousness without accompanying muscular activity;
such as movements (or the slight beginnings of move
ments) of the body parts involved in speaking, adjust-
"Watson, J. B., Behaviorism, p. 212, The People's Institute
Publishing Co., N. Y, 1925.
The Power of Thought 229
ments of the sense organs, and changes of muscular
tension in other parts of the body. Images are a very
unimportant matter to these writers, and their text
books in psychology often entirely overlook the subject
in favor of a presentation of the facts of physical re
sponse.
Even before Watson announced his views, it had been
discovered that there were individuals who thought
wholly or largely by saying words to themselves; they
were well aware of speech movements accompanying
their ideas. As may be supposed, "mixed" types of
thinking have also come up for description. For ex
ample, many persons are sure that they use "inner
speech" to a greater or less extent, but that they some
times employ imagery —without movement —as well.
There is still another way of thinking that is different
from those already mentioned. Some investigators re
port that they cannot detect in their mental life any
thing but unadorned consciousness, as it were. They
agree with Watson in finding no images, but they also
insist that they think without speaking words internally
and without body movements. There is no discernible
vehicle of thought in their case. They just seem to have
ideas pure and simple. Others say that some of their
thinking, but not all of
it,
is
done in this way.
It
is
plain, then, that there are radical differences in
the form thinking takes. The significant fact for us
is
that no one type has been discovered to be better than
another. There
is
absolutely no evidence to show that
any particular kind of thinking
is
necessarily superior
230 Psychological Racketeers
in helping us gain our objectives; no evidence to show
that visualizing actual objects and events has any spe
cial virtue. As a matter of fact, children are apt to
visualize concrete things, but adults tend to think in
terms of words in some form or other, because, in the
course of growing up, adults have gradually become
more and more accustomed to using words in speaking
and reading. Though the differences between indivi
duals, young and old, are numerous and sometimes
striking, the "applied psychologist" does not even know
that such differences exist. Or if he knows, he gives no
sign of it. He quite cheerfully preaches visualization to
everyone, including, of course, those who have no visual
images and do not know what they are.
Some of our best thinkers belong exclusively to the
class of non-visualizers. Many mathematicians, scien
tists, and others with highly productive minds, can de
tect in themselves little imagery except of words and
other symbols. And yet these are some of the very per
sons who think creatively, who "get somewhere." The
moral seems to be: If you are helped by visualizing ob
jects, if that turns your mind in the desired direction,
then visualize objects by all means. (You probably
cannot help doing so, anyhow.) If you naturally do
your purposeful thinking in some other way, go right
ahead thinking and planning in that other way.
The important thing, as we have seen, is to keep the
attention steadfastly on the objective and to marshall
all forces toward it. Visualizing is only one of the aids
to this. It is not, in fact, visualizing as such that is effec
The Power of Thought 231
tive, but rather directing the attention toward the desired
goal. If you constantly see yourself as healthy and well,
you may suggest yourself out of your present indisposi
tion. If you persistently picture yourself riding around
in a new Cadillac, this is likely to rivet your attention on
the new-car idea so strongly that you may think up ways
and means to get it.
Let me further add that it is not necessary, as one
"applied psychologist" insists it
is,
to "surround the ob
ject with your favorite color in your mind's eye." You
might just as well imagine it bathed in your favorite
perfume, or mentally hear your favorite tune issuing
from its interior. You may quite as profitably (proba
bly more so) carry on an internal conversation with
yourself about
it,
or do some wordless and imageless
thinking in the matter. But be sure to keep your mind
on the subject, and, perchance, by some turn of thought,
you may arrive at
a
way to obtain "the Beautiful Reali
zation" in all its glory
1
In conclusion be
it
emphasized that science—as the
great majority of trained scientists know
it
—does not
find that thoughts are independent forces functioning
separately from our physical bodies. That which we
know as mental
is
linked to the physical, especially to
the nervous system. The living human being
is
an
organism with two phases: consciousness, or thought-
life, and body. But they are two aspects of the same
thing,
in
a
close and intimate union. Leaving aside the
question of what happens after death, we can say that
232 Psychological Racketeers
m
science finds of the living person that physical events
may go on without mental, but never that mental may
go on without physical. Consciousness has been com
pared to the light of an electric bulb; the bulb, with its
filament and other parts, corresponds to the body. The
glowing light is as incapable of existing apart from the
lamp as your thoughts are of existing apart from your
body.
