{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__williams___voodoos_and_obeahs.pdf","mytitle":"Voodoos And Obeahs","mylang":"de"}
VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Phases of West India Witchcraft
BY
JOSEPH J. WILLIAMS, S.J.
Ph.D. (Ethnol.), Utt.D.
Fellow of the Royal Societyof Arts;
Fellow of the Royal Geographical and the American Geographical Societies;
Honorary Member of the Sociftf Academique Internationale (Paris);
Member of the International Institute of African Languages and
Cultures (London); Member of the Catholic Anthropological
Conference; Member of the American Folk-lore Society;
etc.
Author of "Hebrewism of West Africa,
"
"Whinct the 'Black Irish' of Jamaica,"
"Whisperings of the Caribbean," etc.
THIRD PRINTING
LINCOLN MAC VEAGH
DIAL PRESS INC.
NEW YORK MCMXXXIII
'ft)
0r-
i
Ci/£ COPYRIGHT, 1932, BY JOSEPH J. WILLIAMS
- First printing December, 1932
/ f Second printing January, 1933
Third printing May, 1933
MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES OT AMERICA
BY THE VAIL-BALLOU PRESS, INC., BINGHAIiTON, N. Y.
INTRODUCTION
The new york times of August 14, 1925, printed the follow
ing news item : "SEIZE PRICE LISTS OF VOODOO DOC
TOR POLICE GET CIRCULARS OFFERING 'WISHING DUST* AND
lucky charms to negroes at $1 to $i,000. Special to the
New York Times. Atlantic city, Aug. 13. Twelve thousand
circulars said to have been sent to this city by a New York voodoo
doctor were seized by the police here today as they were being dis
tributed to negro homes on the north side by six negro boys.
"The circulars bore the address of D. Alexander of 99 Down
ing Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.
"All sorts of love powders, wishing dust, lucky charms and in
cantations are offered for sale in the circular, with prices ranging
from $1 to $1,000.
"
'Guffer Dust, New Moon, No. 1, good, $50; Happy Dust,
$40; Black Cats' Ankle Dust, $500; Black Cat's Wishbone,
$1,000; King Solomon's Marrow, $1,000; Easy Life Powder,
$100; Tying Down Goods, $50; Chasing Away Goods, $50;
Boss Fix Powders, $15, and Buzzard Nest, $100,' were some of
the goods offered."
"Inquiry developed that 'Bringing Back Powders' were de
signed to return an errant wife or husband to a grieving spouse,
'Tying Down Goods' were said to keep the subject of one's effec-
tions from departing, while 'Chasing Away Goods' had the op
posite effect. 'Boss Fix Powders' keep one's employer in a
friendly mind."
Four days after the appearance of the foregoing in The Times,
we find this despatch from Cuba on the first page of The boston
post :
"SAVE CHILD FROM TORTURE rescued during
voodoo death rites Havana, Aug. 1 7. Paula Cejes, a three-
year-old white girl, was saved from a horrible death at the hands
vi INTRODUCTION
of Voodoo worshippers at Aguacate, Havana Province, today,
due to the rapidity of a search after she had disappeared.
"Paula, who lives with her parents on the Averhoff sugar
plantation, was enticed away by Voodoo worshippers who bound
and gagged her in a cane field and were in the act of performing
their rites when a posse of searchers came upon them.
"Rural guards later captured a white man and a colored man
who had in their possession articles used by voodooists in sacrific
ing life."
It may have been items such as these that inspired William
Buchler Seabrook to go to Haiti with the set purpose of learning
first hand whatever he could of Voodoo and kindred practices.
At all events, after some stay in the island, he published in 1929
The Magic Island which at once became the centre of heated con
troversy. To some it was a weird conglomeration of fact and
fancy worthy of little serious consideration and of even less
credibility.1
On the other hand, the usually conservative literary digest 2
apparently accepted it in its entirety as historic fact, and without
question or cavil devoted five entire pages almost entirely to ex
cerpts from its more startling passages and the reproduction of
1 Note : Magic Island was unquestionably received with fulsome praise by re
viewers generally. Thus the bookman, February 1929, p. 68: "It has been a long
time since a volume has held my attention so completely as W. B. Seabrook's
Magic Island. It is not a twice told tale but a vivid record of things seen." The
new york herald-tribune, January 8, 1939 : "Here in its own field is the book of
the year." The new york evening post, January 12, 1029, calls it "a sensational
vivid and immensely important book." To the outlook, January 9, 1929 : "It is a
prize among travel books." While the Saturday review, February 23, 1029, de
clares: "Mr. Seabrook has done justice to this remarkable subject not only in
investigating the system, but in presenting the results of his work."
The more thoughtful reviews, however, refuse to be entirely carried away by
the general acclaim, and modify their praise with almost hesitant reserve. Thus
the yale review, Autumn, 1029, p. 185, makes the restriction : "He spoils much
of his material by his exaggerated style and his dubious psychology." The
american journal of sociology, September, 1929, p. 316, insists: "He has writ
ten as an artist, not as an ethnologist." And the nation, February 13, 1929, p. 198,
urges : "It is time for a tempered intelligent presentation on the manner in which
they live, one that staying close to facts, probing under the surface, and eschewing
rumors, will make quite as fascinating a tale."
We may be pardoned, then, if we seem to delay too long on Mr. Seabrook
and his sensational book, but we must risk the criticism in the interest of fair
play as regards Haiti and the popular estimate of Voodoo.
2 February 23, 1929, p. 35 ff.
INTRODUCTION vii
several photographs. One single reference to "the element of the
occult which Mr Seabrook seems to believe" is the nearest ap
proach to a guarded caution about the actuality of the most im
probable details, a few of which may be mentioned in passing.
Thus, for example, at the "blood baptism," a truly voodooistic
rite, when the author was to receive the "ouanga packet" pre
pared for him by Maman Celie, after the preliminary sacrifice of
two red cocks and two black, an enormous white turkey and a
pair of doves," in due course the sacrificial goat was led forth.
"He was a sturdy brown young goat, with big, blue, terrified, al
most human eyes, eyes which seemed not only terrified but aware
and wondering. At first he bleated and struggled, for the odor of
blood was in the air, but finally he stood quiet, though still wide-
eyed, while red silken ribbons were twined in his little horns, his
little hoofs anointed with wine and sweet-scented oils, and an old
woman who had come from far over the mountain for this her
brief part in the long ceremony sat down before him and crooned
to him alone a song which might have been a baby's lullaby." 8
After a further ritual with the goat, Catherine, the sixteen-
year-old daughter of Maman Celie was led in by her brother
Emanuel who "had to clutch her tightly by the arm to prevent her
from stumbling when they brought her to the altar. Maman Celie
hugged her and moaned and shed tears as if they were saying
good-bye forever. The papaloi pulled them apart, and some one
gave the girl a drink from a bottle. She began to protest in a dull
sort of angry, whining way when they forced her down on her
knees before the lighted candles. The papaloi wound round her
forehead red ribbons like those which had been fastened around
the horns of the goat, and Maman Celie, no longer as a mourning
mother but as an officiating priestess, with rigid face aided in
pouring the oil and wine on the girl's head, feet, hands and breast.
All this time the girl had been like a fretful, sleepy, annoyed child,
but gradually she became docile, somber, staring with quiet eyes,
and presently began a weird song of lamentation." 4
The song
8 Seabrook, Magic Island, New York, 1929, p. 61.
4 Seabrook, I.e., p. 62.
viii INTRODUCTION
itself is summed up in the last verse : "So I who am not sick must
die !" 5
The author then continues : "And as that black girl sang,
and as the inner meaning of her song came to me, I seemed to
hear the voice of Jephtha's daughter doomed to die by her own
father as a sacrifice to Javeh, going up to bewail her virginity on
Israel's lonely mountain. Her plight in actuality was rather that
of Isaac bound by Abraham on Mount Moriah; a horned beast
would presently be substituted in her stead; but the moment for
that mystical substitution had not yet come, and as she sang she
was a daughter doomed to die."
"The ceremony of substitution, when it came, was pure effec
tive magic of a potency which I have never seen equaled in
Dervish monastery or anywhere. The goat and the girl, side by
side before the altar, had been startled, restive, nervous. The
smell of blood was in the air, but there was more than that hover
ing; it was the eternal, mysterious odor of death itself which both
animals and human beings always sense, but not through, the
nostrils. Yet now the two who were about to die mysteriously
merged, the girl symbolically and the beast with a knife in its
throat, were docile and entranced, were like automatons. The
papaloi monotonously chanting, endlessly repeating, 'Damballa
calls you,' stood facing the altar with his arms outstretched above
their heads. The girl was now on her hands and knees in the at
titude of a quadruped, directly facing the goat, so that their heads
and eyes were in a level, less than ten inches apart, and thus they
stared fixedly into each other's eyes, while the papaloi's hands
weaved slowly, ceaselessly above their foreheads, the forehead of
the girl and the forehead of the horned beast, each wound with
red ribbons, each already marked with the blood of a white dove.
By shifting slightly I could see the big, wide, pale-blue, staring
eyes of the goat, and the big, black, staring eyes of the girl, and
I could have almost sworn that the black eyes were gradually,
mysteriously becoming those of a dumb beast, while a human soul
was beginning to peer out through the blue. But dismiss that, and
still I tell you that pure magic was here at work, that something
"Ditto, p. 63.
INTRODUCTION ix
very real and fearful was occurring. For as the priest wove his
ceaseless incantations, the girl began a low, piteous bleeting, in
which there was nothing, absolutely nothing, human ; and soon a
thing infinitely more unnatural occurred; the goat was moaning
and crying like a human child. . . .8
"While the papaloi still wove his spells, his hands moving
ceaselessly like an old woman carding wool in a dream, the priest
ess held a twig of green with tender leaves between the young
girl and the animal. She held it on a level with their mouths, and
neither saw
it,
for they were staring fixedly into each other's eyes
as entranced mediums stare into crystal globes, and with their
necks thrust forward so that their foreheads almost touched.
Neither could therefore see the leafy branch, but as the old
mamaloi's hand trembled, the leaves flicked lightly as
if
stirred by
a
little breeze against the hairy muzzle of the goat, against the
chin and soft lips of the girl. And after moments of breathless
watching,
it
was the girl's lips which pursed up and began to
nibble the leaves.
.
.
.7
"As she nibbled thus, the papaloi said in
a
hushed but wholly
matter-of-fact whisper like a man who had finished a hard, sol
emn task and was glad to rest, 'Qa.
y
est' (There
it
is).
"The papaloi was now holding
a
machette, ground sharp and
shining. Maman Celie, priestess, kneeling, held
a
gamelle,
a
wooden bowl.
It
was oblong. There was just space enough to
thrust
it
narrowly between the mystically identified pair. Its rim
touched the goat's hairy chest and the girl's body, both their heads
thrust forward above it. Neither seemed conscious of anything
that was occurring, nor did the goat flinch when the papaloi laid
his hands upon its horns. Nor did the goat utter any sound as the
knife was drawn quickly across the throat. But at this instant as
the blood gushed like
a
fountain into the wooden bowl, the girl
with
a
shrill, piercing, then strangled bleat of agony, leaped,
shuddered, and fell senseless before the altar."
8
But let us pass to an even more grewsome narrative. Accord-
Ditto, p. 63
f.
7
Ditto, p. 65. a.
8
Ditto, p. 66.
X INTRODUCTION
ing to Seabrook, Celestine, the daughter of Antoine Simone,9 "al
though under thirty, was reputed to be secretly the grande
mamaloi of all Haiti, its supreme high priestess."
10
The author
adds: "And not only Celestine herself but her father, Antoine-
Simone, president of the Republic, was reputed to be active in
black sorcery. It was commonly said that magical rites and prac
tices occurred even within the confines of the palace walls and
probably they did." 11
In explanation, then, of his chapter "Celestine with a Silver
Dish," Seabrook writes : "The story of the silver dish is based on
the evidence of two credible eye-witnesses, one a Frenchman who
may still be seen and talked with at the Cape, the other a Haitian
now dead. I talked with numbers of people about it and found
none who questioned its approximate truth. It is current among
the Haitians themselves; so they will forgive me for including
it." . . ,12
"One moonlight night in the Spring of 1909 it was during
Easter week the Frenchman who now lives at the Cape was sit
ting in one of the vine-covered summer-houses with his Haitian
friend, . . . Towards one o'clock in the morning they heard a
tramping of feet from the direction of the palace, and presently
saw a black sergeant with two squads of soldiers marching toward
the stable yard, along a pathway of the deserted gardens. They
passed close to the summer house. Behind them, at a little dis
tance, came Celestine. She was barefooted, in a scarlet robe, and
carried in her hands a silver dish.
"In a small, open, moonlit glade, close to the summer house,
the sergeant halted his eight men, and lined them up at attention,
as if on a parade ground. Except for his low voiced commands,
not a word was spoken. Celestine in her red robe which fell loose
9 Note : The author spells it with a final e, Simone. While in Jamaica, the
family themselves always spelt it simply Simon.
10 Seabrook, 1. c, p. 117.
11 Note : As one who knew the Simons in Jamaica, I can categorically deny
both this assertion as well as the plausibility of the pseudo-voodooistic murder
which is shortly to be described.
12 Seabrook, L c, p. 121.
INTRODUCTION
like a nightgown to her bare feet, laid the great silver platter on
the grass.
"The sergeant handed Celestine a forked bent twig, a sort of
crude divining-rod, and stepped back a little distance. Celestine,
holding the wand loosely before her, facing the eight soldiers
standing at attention, began a gliding, side-stepping dance, sing
ing her incantations of mixed African and Creole in a low voice
alternating from a deep gutteral contralto to a high falsetto, but
never raised loudly, pointing the wand at each in turn as she
glided to and fro before them.
"The men stood rigid, silent as if paralysed, but following her
every movement with their rolling eyeballs as she glided slowly
from end to end of the line.
"For a long ten minutes that seemed interminable, Celestine
glided to and fro, chanting her incantation, then suddenly stopped
like a hunting-dog at point before one man who stood near the
center of the row. The wand shot out stiff at the end of her out
stretched arm and tapped him on the breast.
" 'Ou la soule, avant!' ordered the sergeant. (You there, alone,
step forward.)
"The man marched several paces forward from the ranks, and
halting at command, stood still. The sergeant, who seemed un
armed, drew the man's own knife-bayonet from its scabbard,
grasped the unresisting victim by the slack of his coat collar, and
drove the point into his throat.
"While this was taking place, the other seven men stood silent
obediently at attention. The victim uttered not a single cry, ex
cept a gurgling grunt as the point went through his jugular, and
slumped to the grass, where he twitched a moment and lay still.
"The sergeant knelt quickly over him, as if in a hurry to get
the job finished, ripped open the tunic, cut deep into the left side
of the body just below the ribs, then put the knife aside, and tore
out the heart with his hands.
"Black Celestine in her red robe, holding the gleaming platter
before her, returned alone beneath the palm trees to the palace,
xii INTRODUCTION
barefooted queen of the jungle, bearing a human heart in a silver
dish." 13
The general reaction on the author of such scenes, whether
given as personal experiences or otherwise, is utterly appalling.
Thus he tells us in connection with the ceremony described a
few pages back: "Not for anything, no matter what would hap
pen, could I have seriously wished to stop that ceremony. I be
lieve in such ceremonies. I hope that they will never die out or be
abolished. I believe that in some form or another they answer a
deep need of the universal human soul. I, who in a sense believe
in no religion, believe yet in them all, asking only that they be
alive as religions. Codes of rational ethics and human brotherly
love are useful, but they do not touch this thing underneath. Let
religion have its bloody sacrifices, yes even human sacrifice if
thus our souls may be kept alive. Better a black papaloi in Haiti
with blood-stained hands who believes in his living gods than a
frock-coated minister on Fifth Avenue reducing Christ to a solar
myth and rationalising the Immaculate Conception." 14
Of an earlier function at which he was present, he wrote : "And
now the literary-traditional white stranger who spied from hiding
in the forest, had such a one lurked near by, would have seen all
the wildest tales of Voodoo fiction justified: in the red light of
torches which made the moon turn pale, leaping, screaming,
writhing black bodies, blood-maddened, sex-maddened, god-
maddened, drunken, whirled and danced their dark saturnalia,
heads thrown wierdly back as if their necks were broken, white
teeth and eyeballs gleaming, while couples seizing one another
from time to time fled from the circle, as if pursued by furies
into the forest to share and slake their ecstacy.
"Thus also my unspying eyes beheld this scene in actuality, but
I did not experience the revulsion which literary tradition pre
scribes. It was savage and abandoned, but it seemed to me mag
nificent and not devoid of a certain beauty. Something inside
myself awoke and responded to it. These, of course, were in-
18 Ditto, p. 122 f.
" Ditto, p. 6i f.
INTRODUCTION xiii
dividual emotional reactions, perhaps deplorable in a supposedly
civilized person. But I believe that the thing itself their thing,
I mean is rationally defensible. Of what use is any life without
its emotional moments or hours of ecstasy?" 15
We must not be surprised, then, that after watching the con
struction of the "ouanga packet" that was to preserve him "safe
from all harm amid these mountains" 18, when bid to make a
prayer, this should be the author's response: "May Papa Legba,
Maitresse Exilee and the Serpent protect me from misrepresent
ing these people, and give me power to write honestly of their
mysterious religion, for all living faiths are sacred." 17
And how was this unholy pact carried out? Candidly, the glar
ing mistakes in ritual that the author makes in connection with
his description of a Catholic funeral service,18 which is open to
the whole world to witness, does not inspire confidence in his ex
position of the esoteric functions that are jealously reserved for
the initiated alone.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Seabrook has divided his volume, per
haps of set purpose, into two distinct parts. First we have 282
pages devoted to the general story with weird fantastic drawings,
more suggestive than illuminating, wherein the details are at
variance with the text. Then follows, 52 pages under the general
caption, "From the Author's Notebook" together with 27 photo
graphs by the author. This second part is made up of quotations
from standard authors and other references, with very few per
sonal experiences and those of the most ordinary type.
While accepting, then, the latter portion of the book at its face
value, it would seem safer to classify the earlier section as that
sensational type of narrative that has become associated with the
name of Trader Horn. This impression is strengthened by the
fact that many passages in the story, especially those placed in
the mouths of Louis and other informants, read almost as para-
15 Ditto, p. 42.
16 L c, p. 48.
" 1. c, p. 53- ....
18 1. c, p. 118 f. Note : For example, not only is the Dies Irae badly misplaced,
but there can be no Credo in a funeral Mass.
xiv INTRODUCTION
phrases from some of the authors who are mentioned later as
references, and it seems as more than a coincidence that the quota
tion from Labat appearing on page 292 is probably copied with
out acknowledgment from Eugene Aubin,19 as the same two
variations from the original 20
appear in both places. The opening
word has been changed from "ces" to "les" and "Us" has been
omitted before "conservent."
It is not at all surprising, then, that Dr. Price-Mars of Petion-
ville, Haiti, whom Seabrook actually mentions in the course of
his narrative 21
should publish an indignant reply to what he must
needs consider a gross libel against his native island.
Of Magic Island as a whole, Dr. Price-Mars says: "This is
nothing more than a chronicle, a rather long chronicle, if you will,
but throbbing, passionate, sensational. It contains whatever
Mr. Seabrook has seen, or thinks that he has seen, in Haiti, dur
ing a few months stay. I am forced to remark that this book is
throughout very amusing and very cruel amusing, on account of
the material replete with savage humor, and abominable, because
the American reader, and even the Haitian who is not in a position
to check up the facts advanced, is drawn to ask himself : 'Is what
he relates true? In any case, these grewsome facts, such as are re
corded, seem likely if they are not true.'
" 22
Dr. Price-Mars further states: "From the very beginning,
Mr. Seabrook, . . . has grasped the two essential elements of
Voodoo, religion and superstition ; religion, whose rites are pre
served by oral tradition alone, and superstition which is its gro
tesque caricature. Not only is this distinction unknown to
nine-tenths of the Haitians, but most assuredly, as the writer ex
presses
it,
Voodoo
is
a
cause of astonishment, nay of
a
scandal,
for most of us. And
it
is
on account of this disdain, of this fear
of
a
fact, however important, in the life of our plebian and rural
masses, that our pitiful ignorance records the sinister narratives
19 En Haiti, Paris, 1910, p. 46.
20 P. Labat, Nouveau Voyage aux Isles de L'Amlrique, La Haye 1724. Vol. II,
p. 44-
21 Seabrook,
1.
c, p. 318.
22 Dr. Price- Mars, Une-Stape de I'Evolulion Haitienne, Port-au-Prince, 1929,
P- 153-
INTRODUCTION xv
of which we make ourselves the complacent echo. And it is no less
in this way, that, as a ripple of culture, our mystic mentality dis
plays itself. When, then, foreign writers arrive among us, I mean
above all journalists who as a rule are in quest of sensational
copy, they have only to imbibe at this fount of absurd beliefs the
most marvellous discourses and put them on the lips of authentic
individuals, to color them with an appearance of truth. Their mis
conception or even evil intention is nothing in comparison with
the Haitian ignorance. How pitiful I" 28
Dr. Price-Mars stamps the "Goat-Cry Girl-Cry" episode as
"A ceremony in which he pretends to have taken part. But to my
way of thinking, this ceremony is a creation of his fertile imagina
tion." 24
And again, he positively asserts : "As regards the cere
mony of initiation, it is in every way false." 25
Furthermore, after recounting the description of the "Petro
Sacrifice" which Seabrook 28
claims to have attended, Dr. Price-
Mars continues : "And was he, then, the spectator that he claims
to be ? I don't think so. It is probable that he did assist at Voodoo
ceremonies. I personally sought to secure the opportunity for him,
because, in the interviews that we had, I was made aware that he
was familiar with the comparative history of religions, and the
occasion seemed to me opportune to call attention to certain rites
which indicate the antiquity of Voodoo, the solid foundation of
my theory, to wit, that Voodoo is a religion. I was disappointed
in my purpose, because I encountered a persistent distrust on the
part of the peasants to whom I addressed myself, despite my long
established and friendly relations with them. That Mr. Seabrook
may have succeeded in winning the confidence of a Maman Celie.
I am willing to concede to him, on the condition, however, that he
does not dramatize the situation by depicting to us the peasant
community whose guest he has been as a nook lost in the highest
and most inaccessible mountains, isolated from all communication
with urban centres. These conditions render his account absolutely
23 Dr. Price-Mars, L c, p. 154 1
» Ditto, p. 54.
21 Ditto, p. 172.
!e Seabrook, 1. c, p. 28 ft.
xvi INTRODUCTION
improbable, because there is not a single peasant in a true rural
centre who would consent to organize real Voodoo ceremonies
for the sole pleasure of a stranger. On the other hand, the cere
mony which he has described is only half true. At the very outset,
he has committed a ritual absurdity in making the bull the princi
pal sacrificial matter of the Petro. They sacrifice the bull as the
fowl and the goat in nearly all the Voodoo ceremonies, but the
victim proper to the Pedro is the pig. The absence of this animal
in a ritual display of Pedro is equivalent to a blunder so stupid
that it would falsify its meaning. Moreover, the sacrifice of the
bull considered as a god, or symbol of a god, is totally unknown
in Voodoo. It seems to me an invention or at least a very fantastic
interpretation and which the footnote of Seabrook sufficiently
explains." This reference is to "the Bacchae" of Euripides.27
Here we may leave Mr. Seabrook for the present.28
Just as fetishism was for a long time accepted as a generic term
covering all that was nefarious in the customs of the West Afri
can tribes, so in the popular mind today, Voodoo and Obeah are
interchangeable and signify alike whatever is weird and eerie in
37 Dr. Price-Mars, 1. c, p. 161 f.
28 Note : It must not be supposed that what has been written is intended in
any way to impeach the veracity of Mr. Seabrook. Personally I am convinced of
his sincerity and straightforwardness and that in his really fascinating account he
is no party to an imposition. Of course I can never agree with his extraordinary
profession of faith, and I doubt if he really takes himself seriously in that regard.
He was probably carried away by the spirit of his narrative.
As regards the story itself, I honestly believe that he has tried to stick to facts
as he has seen them or in many cases as they have been told to him, with perhaps
just a little of the personal element added for effect. But what I do fear is that he
has been too credulous in accepting all that has been told to him.
The West Indian Negro, especially if paid by results, is a mine of "information."
The workings of his imagination are extraordinary. A couple of years ago I was
striving to collect all the various anansy stories, in connection with a folk-lore
study of Jamaica. The teacher of a government "bush" school, seriously offered
to invent for me all the stories, that I wanted if I gave him sufficient time and
paid for the results. Fortunately for the value of my collection I was restricting
the contributors to children of school age. I have no doubt that Mr. Seabrook
must have encountered the same generous spirit, especially if he was paying by
results.
Even the goat scene may have been a clever piece of acting. The histrionic pow
ers of the West Indian are no wit inferior to his ability as a raconteur.
But in any case, no matter how we are to explain away the objective inac
curacies of Magic Island, even if we must invoke hallucination or that subtle form
of hypnotic influence, such as is at times ascribed to Voodoo worship, let there
be no suspicion that there is any intention of questioning Mr. Seabrook's honesty
of purpose.
INTRODUCTION xvii
the practices of the descendants of these same tribes as they are
found throughout the West Indies and the southern portion of
the United States.
And yet technically, not only are Voodoo and Obeah specifically
distinct, one from the other, both in origin and in practice, but if
we are to understand the true force and influence which they orig
inally exercised over their devotees, we must dissociate them from
the countless other forms of magic, black or white, that have
gradually impinged themselves upon them as so many excres
cences.
Logically, then, we must begin our study, not in the West
Indies but in Africa itself, going back as far as possible to the
origins of the present day practices, and watching their develop
ment, both before and after their transplanting, through the
medium of slavery, to new and fertile soil where they have be
come a rank, though exotic, growth.
The present writer first visited Jamaica in December, 1906, and
he became at once intensely interested in the question of Obeah,
and in a less degree in Voodoo. Since then he has made three
other visits to the island and has spent there in all about six years.
He has penetrated to the least accessible corners of mountain and
"bush" and has lived for some time in those remote districts
where superstitious practices are prevalent. He has steadily sought
to extend his knowledge of the Black Man's witchcraft, both by
conversation with the natives of every class and by seeking out
its practitioners. He has conversed with professional Obeah men,
whom, however, he has invariably found evasive and non
committal. But despite this latter fact he has by chance, rather
than by any prearrangement, had occasion at times to watch sur
reptitiously the workings of their grewsome art.
Meanwhile, for a quarter of a century he has culled the works
of others and sought not only to familiarize himself with the
smaller details of Voodoo and Obeah, but no less to discriminate
judiciously between fact and fiction to the best of his ability. The
result of his researches and observations are now set forth in the
following pages.
CONTENTS
I'AGI
Introduction v
CHAPTER
I African Ophiolatry i
II Serpent Cult at Whydah 22
III Voodoo in Haiti 56
IV Origin of Obeah 108
V Development of Obeah in Jamaica 142
VI Conclusions 209
Bibliography 237
Index A Places, Peoples, etc 249
Index B Topics 252
Index C Individuals and References 254
XIX
VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Chapter I
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY
Edward B. Tylor writing as long ago as 1871 observed : "Serpent
worship unfortunately fell years ago into the hands of speculative
writers, who mixed it up with occult philosophies, Druidical mys
teries, and that portentous nonsense called the 'Arkite Symbolism,'
till now sober students hear the very name of ophiolatry with a
shiver.1 Yet it is in itself a rational and instructive subject of
inquiry, especially notable for its width of range in mythology and
religion." 2
Dr. C. F. Oldham, Brigade Surgeon of his Majesty's Indian
Army, tells us in the Preface of his interesting little volume, The
1 Note: Cfr. C. Staniland Wake, Serpent-Worship and other Essays, London,
1888, p. 105 f. : "The facts brought together in the preceding pages far from ex
haust the subject, but they appear to justify the following conclusions:
"First. The serpent has been viewed with awe or veneration from primeval
times, and almost universally as a re-embodiment of a deceased human being,
and as such there were ascribed to it the attributes of life and wisdom, and the
power of healing.
"Secondly the idea of a simple spirit re-incarnation of a deceased ancestor
gave rise to the notion that mankind originally sprang from a serpent, and ulti
mately to a legend embodying that idea.
"Thirdly, This legend was connected with nature or rather Sun-worship and
the Sun, was, therefore, looked upon as the divine serpent father of man and
nature.
"Fourthly, Serpent worship, as a developed religious system, originated in
Central Asia, the home of the great Scythic stock, from whom all civilized races
of the historical period sprang.
"Fifthly, These peoples are the Adamites, and their mythical ancestor was at
one time regarded as the Great Serpent, his descendants being in a special sense
serpent-worshippers." This of course, would presuppose that Adam was the
founder of only a family and not of the human race that long antedated Adam.
Wundt, on the other hand, with equal assurance, suggests as a reason for the
fact that spirits are so often depicted as assuming the shape of snakes, since the
serpentine form naturally suggests itself to the primitive mind through the asso
ciation of ideas with the maggots that commonly infest dead bodies during the
process of decay. Cfr. C. Meinhof, Die Dichtung der Afrikaner, Berlin, 191 1,
p. 18. This is perhaps about as reasonable as the claims of those who connect the
snake with phallic worship.
2 Edward B. Tylor, Primitive Culture, Boston, 1874, p. 239.
1 »
2 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Sun and the Serpent: 8
"This work, which is based upon papers
read before the Royal Asiatic Society in 1901, was at first in
tended to refer only to Indian serpent worship. It was soon found,
however, that the serpent worship of India did not originate in
that country but was, in fact, a branch of the worship of the Sun
and the Serpent, which was once well-nigh universal. It became
evident, therefore, that a history of the Indian cult would go far
to explain the nature and origin of serpent worship, in other
countries and in other times." While we cannot accept many of
the views expressed in the course of this work, his final con
clusion is most important, coming as it does from such a source.
He says: "It would seem, moreover, that the deification of totems,
of kings, of ancestors, and of the heavenly bodies, which fur
nish so many of the divinities associated with the Sun-god ; as
also the human sacrifices and other abominations, which occurred
in some Sun-worshipping countries, all arose from the corrup
tion of the earlier worship of a supreme deity who was believed
to reside in the Sun. The Gayatri the most sacred text of the
Veda, which must not be uttered so as to be overheard by profane
ears, and which contains the essence of the Hindu religion, is a
short prayer to the Sun-god, who is addressed as Savitri, the
generator or creator. The early Egyptians, and other ancient
peoples also, seem to have worshipped the Sun-god as the
Creator." 4
8 London, 1905, p. 5.
4 Ditto, p. 206 f. Note : Dr. Oldham also states, p. 183 : "It seems in the highest
degree improbable that this close connection between the Sun and the serpent
could have originated, independently, in countries so far apart as China and
the west of Africa, or India and Peru. And it seems scarcely possible that, in
addition to this, the same forms of worship of these deities, and the same ritual,
could have arisen, spontaneously, amongst each of these far distant peoples. The
alternative appears to be, that the combined worship of the Sun and the serpent-
gods must have spread from a common centre, by the migration of, or communi
cation with, the people who claim Solar descent." This is Elliot Smith's theory
which would derive the entire cult from Egypt. Oldham, however, differs from
Elliot Smith in as much as he would make Asia and not Egypt the point of
origin. Thus, p. 197: "The social customs and religious rites of the Egyptians
were closely related to those of the Sun-worshipping people of Asia. There can,
indeed, be little doubt as to the Asiatic origin of the Pharaohs and their follow
ers." Nevertheless, Wilfrid D. Hambly, in the case of serpent worship, at least,
rejects the whole explanation. He finds in zoological evidence, sufficient reason
for spontaneous origins of the serpent cult in various parts of the world. Cfr.
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 3
In speaking of Africa, however, Egypt, at least for the present
must be excluded from our consideration. For our question now
deals with rites distinctively belonging to the black tribes, whether
we class them as Bantus or Negroes in the strict sense of the
word. And while at first glance it seems but natural to assign
an Egyptian origin for the cult, as far as the dark continent is
concerned, Wilfrid D. Hambly, Assistant Curator of African
Ethnology at the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago,
the first to produce a strictly scientific work on the question of
serpent worship in Africa,5 after a prolonged and careful study,
has adduced strong and convincing reasons to the contrary. Hence
his conclusion : "Examination of African Python worship in re
lation to cults and beliefs from other parts of the world provides
Wilfrid D. Hambly, Serpent Worship in Africa, Chicago, 1931, Chapter VII,
p. 68 ff.
Cfr. also, John Bathurst Deane, The IVorship of the Serpent, London, 1830,
who states in his Preface, p. xii f. : "The plan of this treatise is simple. It pro
fesses to prove the existence of Ophiolatreia in almost every considerable country
of the ancient world, and to discover in the mythology of every civilized nation,
evidences of a recollection of the events in Paradise. If these facts can be estab
lished, the conclusion is obvious that all such traditions must have had a
common origin; and that the most ancient record, which contains their basis,
must be the authentic history. The most ancient record containing this basis is
the Book of Genesis, composed by Moses. The Book of Genesis, therefore, con
tains the history upon which the fables, rites, and superstitions of the mytho
logical serpent are founded." The Reverend Mr. Deane, M.A., F.S.A. is recorded
in the first edition of his work as "Late of Pembroke College, Cambridge : Curate
of St. Benedict Finck ; and evening preacher at the Chapel of the Philanthropic
Society." His avowed purpose, the support of the Biblical narrative and his un
questioning acceptance of the Mosaic origin of Genesis, etc., effectively excludes
him from the consideration of most so-called critical scholars. However, while
admitting his partiality and bias, and even his lack of modern scientific methods,
there is much that he has to say that is really worthy of serious consideration.
Reference should also be made to Professor Clemen of Bonn, who after stat
ing : "Every possible kind of animal is regarded as a higher being by both primi
tive and civilized peoples, and it is not always easy to give a reason in the various
cases," adds : "Especially frequent is the worship of the snake, whose power of
locomotion without feet, as well as its repeated sloughing of its skin, its fixed
gaze and its poisonous fangs, no doubt attracted special attention." Carl Clemen,
Religions of the World, New York, 1931, p. 30.
Finally, M. Oldfield Howey, The Encircled Serpent, Philadelphia, 1928, p. 17,
asserts : "The origin of Egyptian Ophiolatry is lost in the mists of antiquity,
but it is said to have been derived from Chaldea, which country is thought to
have given it birth, and certainly produced enthusiastic adherents of its tenets.
But the serpent is everywhere in the mythologies and cosmogonies of Eastern
lands, so that to trace out the ultimate source of its appearance in so ancient a
civilization with any certainty is probably impossible."
5 Field Museum of Natural History Publication 289, Chicago, 1931, Anthropo
logical Series, Vol. XXI, No. 1,
4 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
no evidence that Africa received Python worship from extra
neous sources. On the contrary, the evidence is strongly in favour
of an indigenous origin of Python worship." 8
And again : "There
is nothing more than a superficial resemblance between the snake
beliefs of Africa and those of ancient Egypt." 7
In any case, the subject does not really come within the scope
of the present work. We are, it is true, in quest of the origin of
Voodoo as a serpent cult, but precisely, as we shall see later,
under the particular aspect of worshipping the non-poisonous
python. We have nothing to do here directly with rainbow-
snakes, or other like variants of the serpent cult.8
Canon Roscoe furnishes us with a description of the principal
centre of serpent worship in East Africa. He tells us: "The
python god, Selwanga, had his temple in Budu, by the river
Mujuzi, on the shore of the lake Victoria Nyanza. . . . The ap
pearance of the new moon was celebrated by a ceremony extend
ing over seven days; for this the people made their preparations
beforehand, because no work was done during the festival. A
drum was sounded as soon as the moon was seen, and the people
gathered together to make their requests and to take part in the
ceremonies. Those who wished to make any request brought
special offerings, whilst the rest brought beer and food as they
pleased. The priesthood of this deity was confined to members of
the Heart Clan ; the chief of the state upon which the temple stood
was always the priest. His dress was the usual priestly dress, that
is,
it
consisted of two barkcloths, one knotted over each shoulder,
and two white goat-skins as
a
shirt; round his chest he tied a
leopard-skin decorated with beads and with seed of the wild
banana, and in his hand he carried two fly-whisks made from
the tails of buffalo. The priest first received the offerings for the
6
Ditto, p. 74.
7
Ditto, p. 75-
8
Note
:
Hambly remarks, p. 55
:
"My general conclusion
is
that Python
worship
is
an indigenous factor of Negro culture; but on the contrary African
ideas of rainbow- snakes, snake-monsters, and birth-snakes, are derived from
Hamito-Semitic beliefs of southwestern Asia." And again, p. 64
:
"I am reluctant
to accept any statement with regard to the Egyptian origin of snake-sun beliefs.
There are, however, many Egyptian serpent beliefs, both ancient and modern,
which may assist in tracing the origin of African beliefs and customs."
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 5
god and heard the people's requests; then, going into the temple
to the medium, he gave the latter a cup of beer and some of the
milk from the python's bowl mixed with white clay. After the
medium had drunk the beer and milk, the spirit of the python came
upon him, and he went down on his face and wriggled about like
a snake, uttering peculiar noises and using words which the peo
ple could not understand. The priest stood near the medium and
interpreted what was said. During the time that the medium was
possessed the people stood round, and the temple drum was
beaten. When the oracle ended, the medium fell down exhausted,
and would lie inanimate for a long time like a person in a deep
sleep."
9
To further clarify our position, we may at the outset accept
Hambly's distinction between worship and cult as a scientific
working basis. Thus he says : "The difficulty of supplying a rigid
and logical definition of an act of worship is indisputable, but in
practice confusion of thought may be avoided by using the word
in connection with certain beliefs and acts. These might rea
sonably include ideas of a superhuman being, a priesthood, pro
vision of a special house or locality, and also the employment of
sacrifice and ritual procedure. The word 'cult' may be used to
designate beliefs and acts whose nature is less clearly defined than
is the case with concepts and ceremonies surrounding an act of
worship. . . . The subject of serpent worship has suffered from
hasty generalizations and a lack of classificatory treatment. Con
sequently there have been assumptions of similarities and identi
ties where they do not exist." 10
Of Africa in general, Hambly says: "The distribution of
python worship is clear. The main foci are the southwest shore
of Lake Victoria Nyanza; also several centres in the coastal
regions of the west, from Ashanti to the south of the Niger.
Python worship was probably indigenous to an ancient possibly
aboriginal Negro population, which was driven to the west by
9
John Roscoe, The Baganda, An Account of their Native Customs and Beliefs,
London, 191 1, p. 320 f.
io Hambly, 1. c, Preface, p. 8.
6 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
racial pressure in the east. Eventually the python-worshipping
people were forced into unfavourable situations in the Niger delta,
where they are found at present. Around the main centres of
python worship are python cults ; also python and snake beliefs." 11
Let us now follow Hambly's argument and see in a general way
what facts have led him to this conclusion. "West Africa," he
remarks, "undoubtedly yields evidence of python worship, espe
cially in Dahomey and southern Nigeria. There is also supple
mentary evidence with regard to python cults and beliefs. . . .
A geographical survey through the Congo, South Africa, and up
the east is negative with regard to the existence of python wor
ship.12 Not until the region of Lake Victoria Nyanza is reached
is there evidence of a definitely organized python worship with
a sacred temple, a priesthood, and definite ritual acts including
sacrifice. There appears to be no definite evidence of python wor
ship in Cameroon, but the serpent design is often employed in
wood carving and the equipment of medicine-men." 18
11 Ditto, p. 75. Cfr. also p. 48: "Python and snake worship were undoubtedly
more firmly established in Africa years ago than they are at present." And, p. 55 :
"Python worship of West Africa is found to be strongly intrenched among people
of Negro blood who speak non-Bantu languages, and of these the Ijaw are the
best example. In East and West Africa the python is associated with success
in agriculture and fishing. These occupations were followed by Negroes who
were driven out by pastoral immigrants."
12 Cfr., however, Thomas J. Hutchinson, Impressions of Western Africa,
London, 1858, p. 197. Writing from Fernando Po, where he was his Britannic
Majesty's Consul, having spent eight years in West Africa, Hutchinson says :
"The coronation of a king is a ceremonial that I have not yet had the pleasure of
witnessing ; but it has been reported to me as one possessing interesting features.
It is so bound up with their notions of a spirit or devil, that I deem it necessary
to explain the peculiarity of their belief on this latter point. 'Maaon' is the title
given to the devil, and the Botakimaaon (his high priest) is supposed to have in
fluence with him through communication with the cobra-capella, the 'Rouka-
rouko.' Their faith in God, to whom the name of 'Rupe' is given, is a loftier
aspiration than that of the devil ; but they believe that the Deity's favour can be
only obtained by intercession through the 'Botakimaaon' with his master. At the
ceremony of coronation, the Botakimaaon steps into a deep hole, and pretends to
hold conversation with one of the Roukaroukos at the bottom; the candidate
for regal honours standing alongside, and all his subjects, in futuro, being about.
This conference
is,
I
believe, carried on by means of ventriloquism,
a
faculty
with which many of the Fernandians are reported to me to be endowed. The
Botakimaaon then delivers to the king the message from the Roukarouko for
his guidance in his high station." The "Maaon" referred to
is
probably not the
devil, but some ancestral or other spirit as happens elsewhere in the serpent
worship.
_18HambIy,
1.
c, p. 18. Hambly further observes, p. 69: "Pythons of various
kinds have
a
distribution ranging from the southern Sahara to Natal. The
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 7
Again: "There are two unquestionable areas of python wor
ship, namely West Africa and a smaller region in Uganda, but
there is no definite evidence of similar institutions in the great
extent of country between the two centres. There are, however,
usages which may be the residue of a decadent python cult. . . .
The following factors are common to the East and West African
forms of python worship: (1) The python only, but no other
snake, is selected for definite worship. This choice may be due
to the impressive size of the large species of python. The reptiles
are tractable and non-poisonous. All observers are agreed that
the python rarely attacks a human being. (2) Hut structures
(temples) contain internal arrangements for feeding the reptiles.
(3) The python embodies a superhuman being, god of war, spirit
of the water, patron of agriculture, or goddess of fertility. (4)
The king sends messengers and offerings. He asks for prosperity.
(5) Sacred groves are found in addition to temples. (6) Acts
of worship bring people who offer sacrifice and make requests.
(7) Priests and priestesses are employed; the latter are wives of
the python. Both dance themselves into ecstatic trance in which
they make oracular utterances which are given in a language not
understood by the worshippers." 14
Hambly later returns to the same point : "One of the most im
portant questions is the possible relationship between the python
worship of Uganda and that of West Africa. The points of com
parison between these two centres have already been given in
Python sebae, the largest of all, may be found almost anywhere through the
Sudan from Senegal to Dafur. Pythons of some species attain enormous size,
have great crushing power, are non-poisonous, are easily tamed, seldom attack
human beings, and are slow to bite if handled gently. With these points in view it
is not difficult to understand why the python should have been selected as a
suitable snake for captivity in temples. The reptiles are easily controlled by
priests, and at the same time are harmless to those who come with petitions and
sacrifices." He had already said, p. 44: "Most observers have remarked on the
fearlessness with which priests and priestesses handle large pythons. These
snakes are, however, non-poisonous, and their general harmlessness and domes-
ticability are well attested. Very seldom do they attack human beings. The ques
tion of immunity in handling poisonous snakes is another problem, but in this
connection it must be admitted that many poisonous snakes, unless disturbed sud
denly and startled, are reluctant to strike."
14 Hambly, 1. c, p. 29 ff. Note : He has already observed : "In Uganda the
main ceremonies of supplication are carried out at new moon; to this I have
found no parallel in the ceremonies reported from West Africa." 1. c, p. 21.
8 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
detail. Briefly they are : The acceptance of the python as a super
natural being ; the honouring of the reptile, which is fed and gen
erally cared for; the appointment of priests and priestesses who
undergo special preparation; belief in the python as a source of
productiveness in relation to human fecundity, agriculture, and
fishing; making of petitions and the offering of sacrifice; ecstatic
dances of priests and priestesses. These go into trance during
which they prophesy and answer the requests of worshippers. These
points suggest relation rather than independent origin, though
it has to be admitted that the points of resemblance are of a rather
general nature. Zoological observations prove that the python is
likely to be accepted anywhere as an object of adoration." 18
Despite the last assertion, then, Hambly would trace the python
worship of Uganda and West Africa at least to a common source
rather than ascribe them to independent origin.
He continues ; "Knowledge of racial migrations in Africa points
to the probability that python worship passed across the con
tinent from east to west.18 To a certain extent the movement of
African races are understood; the defect of our knowledge lies
in the absence of a chronology for the mass movements of races.
It is known, however, that under Hamitic pressure in the Horn
of Africa the primitive Negro of the Lake Region moved across
the continent from east to west, sending branches of the migra
tory stem into the Congo area, in which the movement was from
north to south and from east to west. There is not a fragment
of evidence to suggest that the intrusive Hamites brought python
worship with them. The most reasonable suggestion is that the
worship is indigenous to the early Negroes of Uganda though the
ritual is now practiced by people who are somatically and linguisti
cally Hamitic. The migration of python worship was probably of
a purely racial character. The forms of worship are found in
their fullest structure and activity at both ends of the main racial
15 Hambly, 1. c, p. 49.
16 Note :- Later he states, p. 75 : "Within the African continent itself migra
tion of ideas has probably played a more important part than has independent
invention. Easy communication from east to west, and from north to south ;
known Hamitic and Semitic movements; also the appeal made by transmigra
tion and fecundity ideas in all grades of society, have assisted a ready diffusion."
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 9
migratory line ; that
is,
in Uganda at the eastern end, and southern
Nigeria and Dahomey at the western end of the line. . . . When
the main masses of migrants had passed across the continent,
they were fifteen degrees north of the equator, that
is,
to the
north of Dahomey, Ashanti, and Nigeria. Owing to pressure from
the Fulani and the Hausa, these Negro tribes from East Africa
had to move south into the unfavourable coast regions of the area
from Liberia to the mouth of the Niger.
It
is
precisely in these
non-Bantu regions that python worship, cults, and beliefs are
found at present. They were exceptionally strong at Brass, the
terminus of some of the oldest of these racial migrations." 17
This theory of Hambly
is
amply supported by independent
observations. Thus as regards East Africa, we may quote one
or two in passing.18 A. L. Kitching published
a
work in 1912 of
which he says himself: "This book embodies the experiences and
observations of ten years spent among the outlying tribes of the
Uganda Protectorate." 19
In the chapter on "Superstition" he
writes
:
"While some of the tribes in Uganda may be said to know
God in
a
certain sense, and to look to and pray to
a
Supreme
Being, whose influence
is
expected to be benign and helpful, the
religion of the majority . . . consists largely, in common par
lance, of dodging evil spirits." 20
Then, speaking of the Gan'
people of northwest Uganda, he states
:
"In the same vague
fashion sacrifices are offered to demons on the rocks that abound
throughout the district; the spot usually preferred
is
one where
there
is
a
hole in which dwells
a
snake. The demon, so
I
was
informed,
is
supposed to reside in the body of the snake,
a
state
ment which has decided Biblical flavour, although there was no
suspicion of Christian knowledge about my informer." 21
Canon Roscoe writing of the Banyoro, or as he prefers to call
17 Hambly,
1.
c, p. 50
f.
18 Note: The fact that among the Lango only the wizards eat snakes might
indicate at least a vestige of serpent cult. Cfr.
J.
H. Driberg, The Lango,
a
Nilotic Tribe
of
Uganda, London, 1923,
p.
105.
19 A. L. Kitching, On the Backwaters
of
the Nile, London, 1912, Foreword,
p. xi.
20 Ditto, p. 256.
21 Ditto, p. 259.
IO VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
them the Bakitara, located along the eastern shore of Lake Albert
in Uganda, stresses the point that in the common estimation
rivers and waterholes are usually under the guardianship of snakes
to whom sacrifices are offered. Thus, for example, "At the Muzizi
there was a medicine-man, Kaupinipini, who was in charge of
the river and cared for the snake, to which he made offerings
when people wished to cross. He affirmed that it was useless to
attempt to build a bridge over the river for the snake would
break it down, and the only means of crossing was by large
papyrus rafts on which the people, after giving offerings to the
medicine-man for the snake, had to be ferried over. The king
sent periodical offerings of black cows to this snake and the
medicine-man presented them to it with prayers that it would
not kill men." 22
And again : "Pythons were held to be sacred, and
in some places offerings were made regularly to them to preserve
the people. A few men kept pythons in their houses, taming them
and feeding them on milk with an occasional fowl or goat. It was
said that these pythons did not kill children or animals in their own
villages but went further afield for their prey. The king had a special
temple at Kisengwa in which a priest dwelt with a living python
which he fed on milk." 28
22
John Roscoe, The Bakitara or Banyoro, Cambridge, 1923, p. 42 f.
23 Roscoe, 1. c, p. 44. Note : After twenty-five years of missionary work in
Africa, Canon Roscoe undertook an ethnological expedition there in 1919. He
tells us, John Roscoe, The Soul of Central Africa, London, 1922, Preface, p. vii :
"For some time funds for such a purpose were not available, but Sir James G.
Frazer, who first aroused in me an interest in anthropology, was unceasing in
his attempts to find some means of financing the work. At length, owing to his
efforts, Sir Peter Mackie, of Glenreasdell, became interested in the project,
and most generously came forward and shouldered the whole financial burden,
handing over to the Royal Society ample sums for the purpose." It is interesting
then, to find Frazer writing from Cambridge on Feb. 5, 1908, to his friend Sir
Spencer Gillen in Australia, Spencer's Scientific Correspondence with Sir J. G.
Frazer and others, Oxford, 1932, p. 107 : "I wish if possible to relieve J. Roscoe
of his mission work in Central Africa, and set him free there entirely for anthro
pology. We should learn very much from him. I know no keener anthropologist
than he." Particular value, then, is attached to the following testimony of Roscoe,
taken from the very book that we have quoted in the text, The Bakitara or
Banyoro, p. 21 : "Though the Bakitara had a great number of objects of worship,
there was but one god, Ruhanga, the creator and father of mankind. With him
were associated the names Enkya and Enkyaya Enkya, whose identity it is not
easy to separate from that of Ruhanga. One man asserted that they were a trinity
and yet one god ; but as he had been for some years a devout Christian, in con
stant attendance at the Roman Catholic Mission Station his statement may have
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 1 1
It is well to note here what has been remarked by Hambly:
"The Wa Kikayu regard the snake and some other animals as
having a mysterious connection with spirits. When a snake enters
the village the people offer it milk and fat. These snakes are not
exactly the spirits themselves, but their messengers, who give
warnings of future evils and come to indicate that an offering
to the spirits will be opportune.-4
Having thus sufficiently established the fountain-head of Negro
Ophiolatry at Uganda, we may turn to West Africa for a more
intimate and detailed study of its development at what Hambly
calls the western end of the racial migratory line.
Major Arthur Glyn Leonard, writing in 1906, after ten years
of personal contact with the natives of South Nigeria, came to
the conclusion that here at least the Ophiolatry practiced was a
been coloured by Christian ideas. The general impression gathered, however, was
that their belief was entirely monotheistic, and that, if the three were not one
deity, then Enkya and Enkyaya Enkya were subordinate gods whose appearance
in their theology was later than that of Ruhanga, and more frequently, Enkya and
Enkyaya Enkya were called upon by the people in distress or need ; prayers
were made to them in the open, with hands and eyes raised skywards."
In connection with East African Ophiolatry, the following citations might be
noted.
"The only disquietude to a stranger in their houses arises from the snakes
which rustle in the straw roofs, and disturb his rest. Snakes are the only creatures
to whom either Dinka or Shillooks pay any sort of reverence. The Dinka call
them 'brethren' and look upon their slaughter as a crime. I was informed by
witnesses which I have no cause to distrust, that the separate snakes are indi
vidually known to the householder, who calls them by name, and treats them as
domestic animals." Georg Schweinfurth, The Heart of Africa, London, 1874,
Vol. I, p. 158.
"When a medicine-man or a rich person dies and is buried, his soul turns
into a snake as soon as his body rots ; and the snake goes to his children's kraal
to look after them." Masai saying recorded by A. C. Hollis, The Masai: Their
Language and Folklore, Oxford, 1905, p. 307.
"Under ordinary circumstances a snake is killed at sight. A snake is also
killed if it enters a house, and a hole has to be made in the wall in order to
eject the body, as it may not be thrown out of the door. But if a snake goes in
to the woman's bed, it may not be killed, as it is believed that it personifies the
spirit of a deceased ancestor or relation, and that it has been sent to intimate to
the woman that the next child will be born safely." A. C. Hollis, The Nandi:
Their Language and Folklore, Oxford, 1909, p. 90.
"According to the belief of a great many Bantus, especially in South Africa,
the dead appear chiefly in the form of snakes." Lucien Levy-Bruhl, The "Soul"
of the Primitive, New York, 1928, p. 292.
"The Zulu . . . recognizes the soul of an ancestor in the snake which visits his
kraal." Frank Byron Jevons, An Introduction to the History of Religion, Lon
don, 1896, p. 303.
These instances refer rather to serpent cult than to formal Ophiolatry.
24 Hambly, 1. c, p. 34.
12 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
form of ancestor worship. In his opinion the Nigerian venerates
the snakes precisely because he believes that the spirits of his
ancestors are embodied in them. Thus he states : "In Benin City,
at Nembe, Nkwerri, and in various localities all over the Delta,
Ophiolatry, so-called, exists and flourishes, as it has always done
ever since man taught himself to associate the spirits of his
ancestors with the more personal and immediate objects of his
surrounding. And as snakes living as they did in the olden days
in caves and trees, and as they now do not only in the towns,
but inside the houses, underground as well as in the thatched
roofs were very closely associated with man, it is no wonder
that they were early chosen to represent ancestral embodiment." 25
SB Arthur Glyn Leonard, The Lower Niger and its Tribes, London, 1906,
p. 327. Note: In a Preface to Major Leonard's work (p. xii) Professor A. C.
Haddon thus explains the author's general animistic theory. "We learn that the
religion of the Niger delta natives is based on the adoration of ancestral spirits,
materially represented by emblems, the latter being nothing more nor less than
convenient forms of embodiment which can be altered or transferred according
to circumstances. These objects, rude and senseless as they may be, are regarded
as vehicles of spiritual influence, as something sacred because of their direct as
sociation with some familiar and powerful spirit, and not as objects which in
themselves have, or carry with them, any so-called supernatural powers. It is
not the object itself, but what is in or is associated with it. The object accord
ingly becomes nothing more nor less than a sacred receptacle, and its holiness
is merely a question of association. The thing itself is helpless and powerless,
it cannot do harm, just as it cannot do good; the spirit, which is invariably an
cestral, even when deified, alone does the mischief and wrecks the vengeance in
the case of neglect or impiety, or confers the benefits and the blessings when the
ancestral rites are performed with due piety by the household."
According to Major Leonard, ancestor worship eventually postulated a Su
preme Being. Thus he argues, p. 89 : "Surrounded on all sides by evil, i. e. by
people who were inimical to him, and spiritual influences, who sought his life
on every opportunity, the family looked to its head for protection. But he, poor
man, was to a greater extent then this family circumvented by enemies on all
sides, and in spite of his skill, his strength, and his prowess, he felt himself
powerless in the face of them all. So in his misery he turned to the spirit of his
father, whom during his lifetime he had honoured and revered, and to whose
spiritual aid, when he was victorious, he had once attributed the victory. But vic
tory did not always shine upon him, for the race was not always to the swift,
nor was the battle always to the strong. Therefore it was in these moments
that he looked beyond his father to the first or spirit ancestor who had made
every man and everything, good or evil. A moment this of supremest exaltation,
arising out of the lowest depths of despair. Of supremest triumph also, for the
Supreme One had once more asserted his power and given him the victory. Hav
ing recognized the existence and presence of a Creator, and evoked his aid, the
next stage in the process was the formation of a system by which the victory
of the Supreme One and his great influence were to be commemorated and kept
alive." We cannot accept the Major's process of reasoning on the part of the so-
called primitive. But it is sufficient for our purpose that he does require a Su
preme Being in the present-day belief. To all appearances, Major Leonard is
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 13
To one observation of Major Leonard we must draw particular
attention. It is this: "Irrespective of tribe and locality, one fact
in connection with these natives impressed me very forcibly, and
that was that in every case, with regard to snakes, the emblem
revered is the python, and not one of the poisonous varieties, such
e . g. as the cobra or horned viper. . . . The snakes whose bite
means death are looked on as representing the spirits of evil." 28
In Northern Nigeria there are comparatively few vestiges of
the serpent cult, which may formerly have existed there, as in
dicated by certain finds. Thus C. K. Meek reports in connection
with the Bauchi Plateau :
27
"From a surface deposit at Rop there
was discovered a representation in tin of a coiled snake. This
evidently had some religious or magical significance, and once
again points to the presence of a former people who knew how to
work in tin, who had a developed artistic sense, and among whom
the cult of the serpent was perhaps a feature of their religion." 28
And again, "The Hausa states were foreigners from the East
and all belonged to the same racial stock. . . . The legend further
suggests that the ancient people of Hausaland reverenced the
snake. This we can readily believe, as certain snakes are still
regarded as sacred by the Angas, whose language is closely allied
to Hausa, and representations of snakes have been dug up on
the Bauchi Plateau." 29
Later he adds : "Before the introduction
of Islam, among the early peoples of the Hausa states various
snakes were apparently common totem animals, especially among
only following Frazer who says: "The theology of the Bantu tribes, especially
of such of them as have remained in the purely pastoral stage, appears generally
to be of the most meagre nature: its principal element, so far as we can judge
from the scanty accounts of it which we possess, is the fear or worship of dead
ancestors, and though these ancestral spirits are commonly supposed to manifest
themselves to their descendants in the shape of snakes of various kinds, there is
no sufficient ground for assuming these snakes to have been originally totems."
J. G. Frazer, Totemism and Exogamy, London, 1910, Vol. IV, p. 32.
In his chapter on "The Gods of the Priests and People," Major Leonard states;
p. 416: "This system of religion is based fundamentally that
is,
purely and
entirely on the close and naturally inseparable ties and associations of family or
ancestral relationships, which
is
regarded by these natives as
a
natural order,
direct from the Supreme God."
28 Leonard,
1.
c, p. 328.
27 Located about N.io"
;
E.100.
28 C. K. Meek, The Northern Tribes
of
Nigeria, Oxford, 1925, Vol.
I,
p.
54.
29 Ditto, p. 76
f.
14 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
the people of Katsina and Daura. The Abayajidu invaders of
the Daura traditions would appear to have slain the local snake
and substituted their own sacred animal, e.g. the lion (zaki), or
some other worship instead." 80
Percy Amaury Talbot of the Nigerian Political Service pub-
,0 Meek, 1. c, p. 174. Note: In a later work, Tribal Studies in Northern
Nigeria, London, 1931, Meek adds further details. Thus, Vol. I, p. 164, we read :
"The Melim are natural objects worshipped publicly in the bush, but families
and individuals protect themselves with minor objects known as 'habtu' which are
amulets or 'fetishes,' according as the efficacy is transmitted from outside or is
due to the presence of an indwelling spirit." He is referring to the Bura and
Pabir tribes located around N.i2°}4; E.io"!^. Again, p. 165: "Habtu Pwapu is
a striking representation in iron of a snake (pwapu means 'snake') which is
commonly seen in houses. Or it may be attached to the leg as an amulet. In the
houses they may be seen set in pairs (male and female) in the shell of a baobab
nut. They are said to ward off evil influences and appear to have a fertility sig
nification. Their custodians are women, but every householder must at harvest
offer benniseed and cotton and the blood of a chicken to his Habtu Pwapu, other
wise one of his household will be bitten by a snake. It may be noted here that
the figure of the serpent appears as a personal or house-protecting amulet all
through Egyptian history. A specimen of a Habtu Pwapu was obtained."
Writing of the Mumuye, located about N.o° ; E.11°£j, Vol. I, p. 468, Meek
states : "The rain cult par excellence for all the Mumuye and surrounding tribes
is that centred at Yoro. When a serious drought occurs all the senior priests of
the tribe proceed with gifts to the rain-maker Yoro. To this cult even the chief of
Kona appeals as a last resort, by sending numerous gifts. The rites are said to
be as follows. The priest (the kpanti mi, 1. e. rain-chief) removes from a large
pot the symbol of the cult, which is a piece of iron fashioned like a snake. It is
kept rolled up in a curtain of black string. The priest unwinds the curtain and
fastens it to two pegs on opposite walls of the hut. Then taking a blacksmith's
hammer in his right hand and a pair of iron scissors in his left, he says : 'What
I am about to do my forefathers did before me. Grant that this drought may
cease, and that we may have corn to eat.' He then chews a piece of the vitis
quadrangularis creeper and spits it out on the implements, which he lays on the
ground. Picking up the iron snake he says, 'You we received from Yoro in the
East; a drought has come upon us, and if we do not have rain, how shall we
obtain food to eat? Grant, therefore, that by your graciousness we may have
rain in abundance, and that in due course we may reap a sufficient harvest.' He
again takes a piece of the creeper, chews it and spits it out on the iron snake. He
then hurls the snake against the hammer and scissors, and it is said that as soon
as this is done the first peal of thunder is heard. It is a sympathetic rite, the clang
ing of the iron being a simulation of thunder."
As regards the Hausa, C. G. Seligman, Races of Africa, London, 1930, p. 81
f.,
records the derivation of the word title which now signifies king or chieftain
in
the Hausa language. The founder of the royal line was said to have been
a
son
of the King of Bagdad. On his arrival at Daura he found the well guarded by
a
serpent called Ki Serki, who prevented the drawing of water. He slew the
serpent, married the Queen of the country, and was thereafter called Mai-Kai-
Serki, the man who killed Serki. Seligman adds
:
"This legend
is
recorded since,
on the one hand,
it
seems to preserve some features of the older organization of
the land (matrilineal descent, snake worship)
;
and on the other emphasizes the
constant tendency to borrow and greatly exaggerate Eastern connections, due to
the increasing prestige
&
pressure of Islam."
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 15
lished in 191 2 the conclusions resultant of five years of intimate
contact with the Ekoi who were located on both sides of the
boundary between the Cameroons and Southern Nigeria. It is his
suggestion that Ophiolatry reached Nigeria from Egypt and had
its origin in the introduction "of non-poisonous snakes into grana
ries, in order to protect their contents from predatory rodents."
He writes : "Possibly the cult of the snake and crocodile has come
down from very ancient times. It is well known that both were
honoured in Egypt as tutelar gods, and if the Ekoi have trekked,
as seems likely, from the east of Africa, it is probable that the
original reason for deifying snake and cat, i. e. that these creatures
were the principal scourges of the plague-carrying rat, lies at
the back of the powerful snake cult, while traces of cat worship
are still to be found. Rats are a great pest all over the land, and
every possible means is taken to keep them down, though with
little result. In Egypt the snake was not only the guardian of
house and tomb, but a snake goddess presided over the harvest
festival, held in the month of Pharmuthi or April. Doubtless
among other attributes she was regarded as the protectress of the
garnered grain, and her cult grew from the practice of introduc
ing non-poisonous snakes into granaries, in order to protect their
contents from predatory rodents." 31
Fourteen years after the appearance of his first book, Talbot
brought out a truly scholarly work in four volumes entitled, The
Peoples of Northern Nigeria.32 He was still of opinion that "The
striking resemblance between the Nigerian cults and those of
31 P. Amaury Talbot, In the Shadozv of the Bush, London, 1912, p. 25. Note :
Of the religion of the Ekoi, Talbot says, p. 13 : "The religion of the Ekoi is alto
gether a fascinating study. Its principal features are the Cult of Ancestors and
of Nature Forces. ... Of actual Deities there are only two, Obassi Osaw, the
Sky God, and the Earth God Obassi Nsi."
Major A. J. N. Tremearne, The Ban of the Bori, London, 1914, p. 413, remarks :
"The names of many snake-worshipping tribes in the West Sudan consist of so
or so, in combination with other letters. But sa or za alone or in combination,
also mean chief, and rulers with these names are said to have come from the
east ; Sa, a younger son of Misraim or Menes, the earliest historic king of Egypt,
being given the district bordering the Fezzan route to the desert." He personally
rejects the opinion of those who hold that the Sa in question really stands for
serpent.
82 Oxford, 1926.
16 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
ancient Egypt and the Mediterranean area generally can only be
explained by intercourse, direct and indirect." 38
The following excerpts are of interest : "Minor deities often
assume the form or inhabit the bodies of snakes, some species
of which, especially pythons, are held sacred throughout the
region of marsh-lands and waters inhabited by the most ancient
tribe of all, the Ijaw, while there are traces of Ophiolatry in many
other parts." 84
"The chief juju in the Badagri region used to be Idagbe, sym
bolized by a large python." 88
"In some parts of the Brass country, the principal worship is
that of Ogidiga which was apparently introduced from Benin
by Isalema, the first settler at Nembe. He is represented by a
python and is supposed by some to be identical with the Bini
and Yoruba Olokun, God of the Sea." 88
"The Elei Edda worship a male Alose named Aru-Nga, who
resides in a very nimble snake, probably Dandrapis augusticeps.
If anyone kills this, a chief dies. It lives in a grove near the town
and comes out when the priest sacrifices to it ; it is supposed to
bite and kill any bad person." 87
"The Ake-Eze Edda chiefly worship Ezi-Aku, 'the property of
the Quarter,' to whom sacrifices are offered at the foot of a
special tree. Snakes are called her children and no one may touch
or hurt them." 88
"Among the Ekoi the most usual name for juju is some form of
Ndeum. . . . The Ejagham appear to confine the word to those
spirits, usually female, who live in trees, though they manifest
themselves at times in the shape of snake or crocodile." 89
Finally after another six years, Talbot further enhances his
reputation as the leading authority on Southern Nigeria by pub-
83 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 14.
34 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 83 f.
35 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 93.
38 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 103.
37 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 1 12.
38 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 112.
3» Ditto, Vol. II, p. 126.
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 17
Iishing his Tribes of the Niger Delta*0 where we read: "There
is a special snake called Adida, which is also worshipped at
Tombia. This is said to be the wife of Simingi and may never
be slain. Should any Oru-Kuru-Gbaw find one of these lying
dead, she would give it burial just as the juju priests do for the
Adumu serpents."
41
That this serpent cult can have its disadvantages at times is
evidenced by the following incident related by Talbot : "One eve
ning, when staying in the rest house at Omi-Akeni, an Ibo town
in Owerri District, Chief Gabriel Amakiri Yellow came to say
that he had heard of a woman's juju named Ogugu, the shrine
of which was near at hand. Our informant began : 'Ogugu is
the chief juju of the women of this country, and is very power
ful for the granting of children. ... If anyone promises some
thing to the juju and fail to give this, or swear on it name but
does not carry out the thing, Ogugu always sends visitors to
remind the person. Big snakes she sends to lie across the thresh-
hold of the house. At midnight, one will creep into bed, or coil
by the head of the sleeper. Never, never does such a messenger
leave again until the promise has been fulfilled.'
" 42
Before passing on, it should be remarked that despite the in-
sistance of Mr. Talbot that the serpent cult of Nigeria probably
owes its origin to Egypt, as he bases his supposition in great part
on the fact that the Ijaws are ultimately from distant East Africa,
so far from weakening Hambly's theory, he only strengthens it as
the latter has already shown that the Ijaw derive their origin,
in all probability, not from Egypt but from Uganda.
Stephen Septimus Farrow, in his thesis for the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, 1924, tells
us : "Among the Ibo tribes of the Owerri District (near neighbours
of the Yorubas) the boa-constrictor is worshipped. On the 27th
day of each month a white cock is offered to him, with cowries,
palm-oil or palm-nuts, white cloth and kola nuts. The sacrifice
40 London, 1932.
41 Ditto, p. 78.
42 Ditto, p. 92.
1 8 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
is deposited at cross roads, away from the town. There
is,
how
ever, no reptile worship among the Yorubas, except in the case
of crocodiles, belonging to Olosa the lagoon-goddess.48
Briefly, then, to sum up our present chapter. Prescinding from
the question whether African Ophiolatry
is
a diffusion from
abroad or of independent origin, we may accept Hambly's theory
that as regards the Dark Continent itself, the local centre from
which
it
eminated was in all probability in Uganda. Further we
may accept his assertion that
it
was indigenous to distinctively
Negro tribes which under pressure from Hamitic invasion, trekked
across the continent, carrying with them their old tribal beliefs
and customs. Thirdly, we agree that while the oppressors in East
Africa assimilated in some small degree more or less of its prin
ciples, West and not East Africa gradually became its true centre
of influence.
While the examples thus far cited in connection with the prac
tice in West Africa have savoured rather of the cult than of the
formal worship of the serpent in the strict sense of the word,
still the following points are of value. Independently of Whydah,
where in the next chapter we will find Ophiolatry practiced in
detail, scattered around this centre we have all the requisites to
satisfy our definition of serpent worship. True,
it
is,
that they serve
as confirmatory evidence and nothing more. But the very fact that
they are scattered over many localities and not restricted to one
place, adds to the strength of the argument. For local causes may
at times lead to some particular introduction of
a
temporary
cult, as in the instance related by Colonel Ellis, who writes
:
"Djwi-
j'ahnu . . . was
a
god who formerly resided at Connor's Hill.
Tradition says that the people of Cape Coast first discovered his
existence from the great loss which the Ashantis experienced at
this spot on the nth of July, 1824. The slaughter was so great,
and the repulse of the Ashantis so complete, that the Fantis,
accustomed to see their foes carry everything before them, at
tributed the unusual result of the engagement to the assistance
" S. S. Farrow, Faith, Fancies and Fetish, or Yoruba Paganism, London, 1026,
p. 20.
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 19
of a powerful local god. They accordingly sacrificed some pris
oners to him, and sent to Winnebah to inquire of the priests of
Bobowissi if their surmise was correct. The reply being in the
affirmative, a regular cult was established, according to the direc
tions of the priests of Bobowissi. At that time Connor's Hill was
covered with usually dense bush, which swarmed with snakes.
Indeed, even at the present day, when the bush is cleared every
year, they are still very numerous, and large numbers are killed
by the West India soldiers employed in his work. From this cir
cumstance probably arose the idea that Djwi-j'ahnu ordinarily
presented himself to his worshippers in the shape of a serpent
in the shape of the cerastes, one of the most deadly of the ophidia.**
Other snakes accompanied him, and were regarded as his
offspring or dependants. The first sacrifices offered were human
victims, but in later times eggs became the ordinary offering. If
the god did not present himself to his worshippers in his assumed
form, it was imagined that one of their number had given him
offence, and the priests then made inquiries to discover the of
fender. He, being found, would then be mulcted of a sheep, a
white cloth, and some rum; and with this special propitiatory
offering the worshippers would again proceed to the hill. If the
god still remained invisible, it was assumed that he was still dis
satisfied, that the atonement was insufficient ; and additional offer
ings were enforced upon the guilty member till the god revealed
himself. Djwi-j'ahnu was also believed to assume other shapes;
and a leopard, which some thirty years ago haunted the vicinity
of the hill, and became by its depredations the terror of the neigh
bourhood, was believed to be the god who had adopted this form.
When undisguised, Djwi-j'ahnu was believed to be of human
shape and black in colour, but of monstrous size. He was repre
sented as bearing a native sword in his right hand. His worship
has now been extinct for some twenty years, the acquisition of
** Note : Here we should observe that in the case of this local cult the serpent
chosen is a poisonous one ; which fact immediately distinguishes it from the gen
eral acceptation of the non-poisonous python. Indeed if the origin of this local
cult had not been preserved for us historically, the instance might have been
quoted to weaken the claim that one of the characteristics of the serpent peculiar
to African Ophiolatry is that it is of the non-poisonous type.
20 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
the hill by the Imperial Government, the clearing of the bush, and
the building of huts for the accommodation of troops, having
proved fatal to the continuance of this particular cult." 45
Before going on to examine Ophiolatry as it existed at Whydah,
we must accentuate one detail that already asserts itself, and that
is the prevalence with which the veneration of the serpent, whether
as a cult or worship, is associated with what is usually called
ancestor worship. But even here, while the reptile may be re
garded as the receptacle or dwelling place of the spirits, they in
turn are only intercessors or messengers of the Supreme Being
to whom the petitions or venerations ultimately tend.48 It is not,
then, idolatry, if we confine ourselves to the strict definition of
the word, as was so frequently assumed by the early African
travellers who came in contact with it and only too frequently
described it in distorted terms.47
" A. B. Ellis, The Tshi-Speaking Peoples of the Gold Coast of West Africa,
London, 1887, p. 40 ff.
48 Note : Cfr. C. Staniland Wake, Serpent Worship, p. 28 : "The fact is that
the serpent was only a symbol, or at most an embodiment of the spirit which it
represented, as we see from the belief of several African and American tribes,
which probably preserves the primitive form of this superstition. Serpents arc
looked upon by these peoples as embodiments of their departed ancestors, and an
analogous notion is entertained by various Hindu tribes." Also, M. Oldfield
Howey, The Encircled Serpent, p. 17 : "The religion of ancient Egypt is from
the earliest times closely interwoven with the symbolic worship of sun and ser
pent. Not only was the serpent looked upon as an emblem of Divinity in the
abstract, but it was connected with the worship of alt the Egyptian gods." And a
couple of pages later, p. 19 : "Both serpent and sun were emblems of the Celestial
Father and participated in the honours that through them were paid to the
Supreme Being." And finally, J. B. Schlegel, Ewe-Sprache, p. xiv : "Serpents
hold a prominent place in the religions of the world, as the incarnations, shrines
or symbols of high deities. Such were the rattlesnake's worshipped in the Natchez
temple of the Sun, and the snake belonging in name and figure to the Aztec
deity Quetzalcoatl ; the snake as worshipped still by the Slave Coast Negro, not
for itself but for its indwelling deity." As quoted by Edward B. Tylor, Primitive
Culture, p. 241.
47 Note : In cases where the serpent cult of Africa may actually imply more
than the invoking of the intercessory power of ancestors with the Supreme
Being, and where seemingly perhaps the Deity himself is venerated in the rep
tile, before ascribing the act of worship to idolatry, it would be well to weigh
carefully Father Hull's explanation of a similar phase of Hindu worship in India,
where not serpents but figures of stone are the object of the cult. Cfr. Ernest R.
Hull, Studies in Idolatry, Bombay, 1912, p. 1 ff. He says: "A European just
come out to India, if asked what he means by idolatry, will point at once to some
Hindu salaaming or prostrating himself in front of a lump of stone. 'That man,'
he says, 'is worshipping a stone. He is paying to it that supreme reverence which
is due to God alone. Idolatry means worshipping a stock or stone as God, and
instead of God.'
AFRICAN OPHIOLATRY 21
"Now it is difficult to believe that idolatry of this crude kind exists. Could any
man short of an idiot believe that a stone as such is God ?
"Those who think that the uneducated Hindus really regard the material ob
ject as God seem to be misled by the crude way in which simple Hindus express
themselves. They certainly do call the stone object a God. But they must all know
well enough that before certain ceremonies the stone was an ordinary stone;
and in one of their festivals they actually drive the God out of the image before
throwing it into the sea. This clearly shows that the God is rather an inhabitant
of the stone than the stone itself. In short, all the facts we know about Hindu
worship are totally against this view. . . .
"A second explanation current among the exponents of Hinduism, is as fol
lows : The man does not believe that the stone as such is God. What he be
lieves is that a stone, when selected, and set up, and consecrated in some way,
becomes the dwelling place of God. In this case, worship is directed, not to the
stone as such, but to the God present in the stone, which is merely an outward
and visible object marking that presence. . . . Hence the material stone is rev
erenced or respected as sacred on account of its connection with the divine
presence. But no Hindu, they say, dreams of paying divine worship to the stone
as such. ... It is true that the common people do not think metaphysically on
the subject. The divine presence is in the material object, and they venerate the
object in the rough divine. Still there is no difficulty in allowing that their wor
ship is far removed from the utterly preposterous idea that God is the stone as
such, or that the stone as such is God. The real object to which their worship is
directed, is sometimes as it were behind the stone some preternatural being,
real or imaginary, whom they believe to be God, whose special presence has been
induced therein by certain religious rites.
"As far as one can see, the normal belief of the mass of Hindus, is of this kind.
A fairly educated Hindu layman and a well educated Hindu priest may be
quoted for this. The layman said : 'I believe in the divine presence in the image,
and I suppose three-quarters of my fellow Hindus do the same.' The priest said :
'The common people believe that the image contains the God, but we educated
men do not. What we believe is that the object is a representation of an avatar,
i. e. the form under which God has manifested himself on earth ; or, if not a
representation of the actual form, it is a symbolic representation of some divine
attribute manifested to man.' This introduces the third view, according to which
the object is a mere stone unendowed with any divine presence; it is at most a
symbol or representation embodying some divine fact. The image in this case is
respected as sacred, being devoted to a sacred purpose; but worship is not
directed to it. An educated Hindu praying towards it is really praying not to it
but to his God ; that is to say, his worship, which is outwardly directed towards
the stone, is internally directed to the God in heaven, and not to the God as
specially present in the stone." In the African serpent cult the second explanation
holds true in such cases as the serpent itself seems to be venerated. Usually, how
ever, the reptile is merely the habitation of some spirit, ancestral or otherwise,
who acts as an intermediary with God and through whom the veneration is actu
ally given to God himself.
Chapter II
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH
Pere Labat writing of the year 1698 in the Island of Marti
nique, recounts what he had personally heard from the lips of
Pere Braguez, who in turn had actually witnessed the serpent
cult at Whydah when the King himself was in attendance to con
sult the oracle. This is probably the earliest recorded account of
an eye-witness, before European contacts had modified the ritual.
The narrative runs as follows: "The people on their knees and
in silence were withdrawn some distance apart; the King alone
with the Priest of the country entered the enclosure, where after
prolonged prostrations, prayers and ceremonies, the priest drew
near to a hole where supposedly he had a serpent. He spoke to
him in behalf of the King and questioned him as regards the
number of vessels that would arrive the following year, war,
harvest and other topics. According as the serpent replied to a
question, the priest carried the answer to the King who was kneel
ing a short distance away in an attitude of supplication. This
by-play having been repeated a number of times, it was finally
announced that the following year would be prosperous, that it
would have much trade, and that they would take many slaves.
The multitude expressed their joy by loud shouts, dancing and
feasting." Pere Braguez further stated that he had subsequently
interviewed the officiating priest who assured him : "That the
cult rendered to the serpent was only a cult in its relation to the
Supreme Being, of whom they were all creatures. That the choice
was not left to themselves, but that they had adopted it through
obedience to the common Master's orders, which were always
founded on sound principles. The Creator knew perfectly the
dispositions of the creatures who had come from his hands, and
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 23
appreciated only too well man's pride and vanity, not to take every
means suitable to humble him ; for which purpose nothing seemed
more effective than to oblige him to bow down before a serpent,
which is the most despicable and the vilest of all animals." 1
Reynaud Des Marchais, the French navigator, went on his first
voyage to Guinea in 1704. During the next twenty years, on
recurrent visits, he made a close study of the customs and practices
of the various kingdoms. In 1724 he sailed on his last voyage to
the Coast and spent several months carefully revising his notes
and checking up on his sketches. Shortly before his death he gave
his manuscript to Pere Labat who published it in 1730.2 In his
Preface Pere Labat accentuates the fact that on the voyage of
1724 Des Marchais had corrected "the observations which he
had made on several earlier ones." 3
The narrative itself shows
that Des Marchais was an eye-witness of the scenes that he de
scribes concerning the serpent cult at Whydah and the dates on
his sketches indicate that he attended these functions in different
years.
Concerning the origin of this worship of the serpent at Whydah
he states: "The principal divinity of the country is the serpent,
although it is not known just when they began to acknowledge
him, to render him a cult. They only know as absolutely certain
that this pretended divinity came from the Kingdom of Ardra.
These Whydahs having undertaken to give battle to the Ardras,
a large serpent left the enemy's army and came to deliver him
self to that of Whydah. But he appeared so gentle, that instead
of biting like the other animals of his species, he caressed and
embraced everybody. The chief sacrificer made bold to take hold
of him and raise him up on high to bring him in view of the entire
army, which, astonished at the prodigy, prostrated themselves
before this compliant animal, and rushed on their enemies with
such courage that they completely routed them. They did not fail
to attribute their victory to this serpent. They respectfully carried
1 P. Labat, Nouveau Voyage aux Isles de I'Amerique, Vol. II, p. 41 f.
2 Cfr. Nouvelle Biografhie Generate, Paris, i860, Vol. XXXIII, p. 467.
3 P. Labat, Voyage du Chevalier Des Marchais en Guinie, Isles Voisines, et <i
Cayenne, fait en 1725, 1726 & 1727, Amsterdam, 1731, Vol. I, Preface, p.
ii.
24 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
him along, built him a house, brought him sustenance, and in a
short time this new god eclipsed all the others, even the fetishes
which were the first and oldest gods of the country." 4
Des Marchais adds: "It is of particular note that the most
thoughtful Negroes very seriously assert that the serpent which
they venerate today is really the identical one which came to find
their ancestors, and which enabled them to achieve this famous
victory which freed them from the oppression of the King of
Ardra." 5
This would suggest that the centre of Ophiolatry at Whydah is
of comparatively recent origin, and other indications point
strongly in the same direction.
Up to the beginning of the nineteenth century the capital of
Whydah is usually marked on the maps as Xavier or Sabi, also
spelt Sabe, Saby, Savi, etc., and presumably a corruption of the
word Xavier which alone appears on the D'Anville map of Guinea
dated April, 1729. Des Marchais, also, heads his chapter on the
subject merely as "The Town of Xavier." 8
It is hard to believe
that at so early a date this name should have been applied any
where except to a Jesuit Mission. As a matter of fact from about
1600 to 1 61 7, one or more Jesuits were labouring continuously
along the Guinea Coast with headquarters at Sierra Leone. In
1607 Fr. Balthasar Barreira, S. J. certainly visited Benin and in
1613 Fr. Emmanuel Alvarez, S. J. built a chapel at Lagos.7
Whether or not the Jesuits did actually establish a mission
in Whydah and named it Xavier, this much is certain; that, in
connection with their labours along the Guinea Coast, there is
absolutely no mention of serpent worship in any form. And as
4 I.abat, Des Marchais, Vol. II, p. 133 f.
5 Ditto, p. 134. Note : For his own part, Des Marchais seems to be rather
sceptical about the longevity of this serpent. He writes : "If he is still alive, and
it has always been so believed since he was given to this people, he should be of
prodigious length and thickness. But it is needful to pay attention to what these
people say of it and then believe what one thinks proper. For it is only the
chief Sacrificer who has the privilege of entering its secret apartments, the King
himself can do so only once when he goes to present his offerings, three months
after his coronation." Des Marchais, 1. c, Vol. II, p. 136.
6 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 36.
7 Cfr. Antonius Francus, Synopsis Annalium S. J. in Lusitania, 1540-1725,
Augsburg, 1726.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 25
the Jesuits in their Relations are proverbially so detailed in such
matters, we have a strong presumption that it was non-existent
within their field of activity at the beginning of the seventeenth
century.
This presumption is strengthened by the fact that Charles
Chaulmer in 1661, while describing the fetish practices of Guinea
does not mention the subject.8 Moreover Dr. O. Dapper who
goes into great details about each of the Guinea Kingdoms and
their religions in 1668,9 as well as John Ogilby, two years later,10
are both silent on this point of serpent worship.
From all this it is safe to conclude that in all probability the
Ophiolatry of Whydah had its origin in the latter half of the
seventeenth century as it was well established there before the
century's close.
The whole story of the advent of the serpent, it must be ad
mitted, if taken by itself savours somewhat of a mythological
derivation of the cult from neighbouring Ardra. But this sugges
tion would be scarcely compatible with known facts, as we find no
indication that Ophiolatry had any previous existence there. Actu
ally Des Marchais takes care to point out that, in the fetishism of
Ardra, it is the buzzard that is singled out for veneration, and
that they show these birds "the same respect and the same atten
tion as is had for the good serpents at Whydah." 11
But even if we exclude this mythological aspect of the story,
at least as far as Ardra is concerned, there is still a possibility
that it may have reference to some migration from the east that
brought to Whydah, together with Ophiolatry, much-needed suc
cour in the time of some war against Ardra.
Before leaving Des Marchais, attention should be called to his
minute description of the procession held on April 16, 1725, in
honour of the serpent after the coronation of the King of Why
dah.12 He also goes into great detail about the recruiting and
8 Charles Chaulmer, Le Tableau de I'Afrique, Paris, 1661.
O. Dapper, Naukeurige Beschrijvinge der Afrikaensche Gewesten, Amster
dam, 1668.
10
John Ogilby, Africa, London, 1670.
11 Labat, Des Marchais, Vol. II, p. 261.
" Ditto, Vol. II, p. 145 ff.
26 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
training of little girls for the future office of priestesses and their
subsequent marriage to the serpent.18
We may now take up chronologically the principal accounts of
the serpent worship at Whydah that have come down to us. The
earliest detailed narrative and antedating even that of Des Mar-
chais is from the pen of William Bosman, the Chief Factor for
the Dutch at the Castle of St. George d'Elmina. Written originally
in Dutch in 1700, it was quickly translated and circulated through
out Europe. Concerning Whydah, or as he calls it Fida, he de
clares: "It is certain that his country-men have a faint idea of
the true God, and ascribe to him the attributes of Almighty and
Omnipotent; they believe that he created the universe, and there
fore vastly prefer him before their idol-gods: but yet they do
not pray to him, or offer any sacrifices to him ; for which they
give the following reason. God, say they, is too high exalted
above us, and too great to condescend so much as to trouble
himself or think of mankind : wherefore he commits the govern
ment of the world to their idols; to whom, as the second, third
and fourth persons distant in degrees from God, and our ap
pointed lawful governors, we are obliged to apply ourselves. And
in firm belief of this opinion they quietly continue. Their principal
gods, which are owned for such throughout the whole country,
are of three sorts. First, a certain sort of snakes, who possess
the chief rank amongst their gods. . . . Their second-rate gods
are some lofty high trees; in the formation of which Dame-
Nature seems to have expressed her greatest art. The third and
meanest god or younger brother to the other is the sea. These
three mentioned are the public deities which are worshipped and
prayed to throughout the whole country.14
"They invoke the snake in excessive wet, or barren seasons : on
all occasions relating to the government and the preservation of
their cattle, or rather in one word, in all necessities and difficulties
in which they do not apply to their new batch of gods. And for
13 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 144 ff.
14 William Bosman, A New and Accurate Description of the Coast of Guinea,
divided into the Gold, the Slave, and the Ivory Coast, London, 1705, p. 368.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 27
this reason very great offerings are made to
it,
especially from
the King.15
"The snake-house ...
is
situated about two miles from the
King's village, and built under
a
very beautiful lofty tree, in
which, say they, the chief and largest of all the snakes resides.
He
is
a
sort of grandfather to all the rest
;
is
represented as thick
as
a
man, and of an unmeasurable length. He must also be very
old, for they report that they found him
a
great number of years
past; by reason of the wickedness of men, he left another country
to come to them, at which being overjoyed, they welcomed their
new-come god with all expressible signs of reverence and big
veneration and carried him upon
a
silken carpet to the snake-
house, where he
is
at present." 18
This
is
a
slight variation from
the account of Des Marchais.
Bosman continues: "The reverence and respect which the
Negroes preserve for the snake
is
so great that
if
a
black should
barely touch one of them with
a
stick, or any otherwise hurt
him, he
is
a
dead man, and certainly condemned to the flames.
A long time past, when the English first began to trade here, there
happened a very remarkable and tragical event. An English Cap
tain having landed some of his men and part of his cargo, they
found
a
snake in their house, which they immediately killed with
out the least scruple, and not doubting but they had done
a
good
work, threw out the dead snake at their door, where being found
by the Negroes in the morning, the English preventing the ques
tion who had done the fact, ascribed the honour to themselves;
which so incensed the natives, that they furiously fell on the
English, killed them all and burned their house and goods.17
"In my time an Aquamboean Negro took
a
snake upon his stick,
because he durst not venture to touch
it
with his hands, and
carried
it
out of the house without hurting
it
in the least, which
two or three Negroes seeing, set up the same cry that
is
usual
on account of fire, by which they can in
a
small time raise the
15 Ditto, p. 369.
16 Ditto, p. 370.
17 Ditto, p. 376-
28 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
whole country. ... By these instances we are deterred from
meddling with the accursed gods or devilish serpents, notwith
standing that we are frequently molested by them, since in hot
sunshine weather, as if they were lovers of darkness, they visit
us by five and six together, creeping upon our chairs, benches,
tables, and even our beds, and bearing us company in sleep : and
if they get a good place under our beds, and our servants out of
laziness don't turn up our bedding, they sometimes continue seven
or eight days, where they have also cast their young. But when
we are aware of these vermin and do not desire to be troubled
with them any longer, we need only call any of the natives, who
gently carries his god out of doors.18
"But what is best of all,
is,
that these idolatrous snakes don't
do the least mischief in the world to mankind. For,
if
by chance in
the dark one treads upon them, and they bite or sting him,
it
is
not more prejudicial than the sting of the millepedes. Wherefore
the Negroes would fain persuade us that
it
is
good to be bitten
or stung by these snakes, upon the plea that one
is
thereby secured
and protected from the sting of any poisonous snake. But here
I
am somewhat dubious, and should be loth to venture on the credit
of their assertions, because
I
have observed that the gods them
selves are not proof against these venomous serpents, much less
can they protect us from their bite. We sometimes observe pleasant
battles betwixt the idol and venomous snakes, which are not want
ing here.19
"The species of these idol serpents here are streaked with white,
yellow and brown; and the biggest which
I
have seen here
is
about
a
fathom long, and the thickness of
a
man's arm." 20
"If we are ever tired with the natives of this country, and would
fain be rid of them, we need only speak ill of the snake, after
which they immediately stop their ears and run out of doors. But
though this may be taken from
a
European that they like; yet,
18 Ditto, p. 377.
19 Ditto, p. 379-
20 Ditto, p. 380.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 29
if a Negro of another nation should presume to do
it,
he would
run no small risk.21
"In the year 1697, my brother factor Mr. Nicholas Poll, who
then managed the slave trade for our Company at Fida, had the
diversion of
a
very pleasant scene. A hog being bitten by
a
snake,
in revenge, or out of love to god's flesh, seized and devoured him
in sight of the Negroes, who were not near enough to prevent
him. Upon this the priests all complained to the King; but the
hog could not defend himself, and had no advocate; and the
priests, unreasonable enough in their request, begged of the King
to publish
a
royal order, that all the hogs in his kingdom should
be forthwith killed, and the swiny race extirpated, without so
much as deliberating whether
it
was reasonable to destroy the
innocent with the guilty." 22
Twenty years after Bosman wrote his narrative, John Atkins,
Surgeon in the Royal Navy, sailed from Spithead, February
5,
1720, on an expedition in quest of the pirates that were infest
ing the slave route from the Guinea Coast to the West Indies.
Under the caption "Whydah" he wrote in his account of the
voyage
:
"This country
is
governed by an absolute king, who lives
in Negrish majesty at
a
town called Sabbee, six miles from the
sea. His palace
is
a
dirty large bamboo building, of
a
mile or two
round, wherein he keeps near a thousand women, and divides
his time in an indolent manner.
.
. . He
is
fattened to
a
mon
strous bulk, never has been out since he became king (nigh twelve
years)." 28
Concerning the religion of the country, Atkins remarks
:
"The
most curious of their customs, and peculiar to this part,
is
their
snake worship, which, according to my intelligence,
is
as follows.
This snake, the object of their worship,
is
common in the fields,
and cherished as
a
familiar domestick in their houses, called
deyboys; they are yellow, and marbled here and there, have
a
21 Ditto, p. 381.
22 Ditto, p. 381.
23
John Atkins,
A
Voyage to Guinea, Brasil, and the West Indies in His Maj
esty's Ships, the Swallow and Weymouth, London, 1735,
p.
110.
30 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
very narrow swallow, but dilatible (as all of the serpent kind are)
to the thickness of your arm on feeding. It is the principal deity
or fetish of the country, and brought into more regularity than
others, by the superior cunning of their fetishers, who have one
presiding over them, called the grand fetisher, or high priest, who
is held in equal reverence with the King himself; nay, sometimes
more, through gross supersitition and fear, for they believe an
intercourse with the snake, to whom they have dedicated their
service, capacitates them to stop or promote the plagues that in
fest them. He hath the craft by this means, to humble the King
himself on all occasions for their service, and to drain both him
and the people, in supplying their wants. It is death for a native
to kill one of these snakes, and severe punishments to Europeans.
When rains are wanted at seedtime, or dry weather in harvest,
the people do not stir out after it is night, for fear of the angry
snake, which, provoked with their disobedience, they are taught,
will certainly kill them at those times, if abroad, or render them
idiots."24
All this was written on the eve of the destruction of Whydah
as a nation. The Dahomans of the interior were bent on securing
an outlet to the sea, that they might eliminate the coastal tribes
from their position of middle-men in the lucrative slave trade.
After the conquest of Ardra, Whydah alone stood between them
and the consummation of their plan. Ordinarily a stout resistance
might have been expected. But, as Atkins' description has shown
us, the reigning king was devoid of the most fundamental qualities
for directing affairs in such a crisis.
William Snelgrave who visited the country three weeks after
the event, places the date of the destruction of Whydah by the
Dahomans as March, 1727.25 In this connection he writes: The
King of Dahomey "was obliged to halt there by a river, which
runs about half a mile to the northward of the principal town of
"Ditto, p. 113.
28 William Snelgrave, A New Account of some Parts of Guinea and the Slave*
Trade, London, 1734, p. 2.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 31
the Whidaws, called Sabee, the residence of their King. Here the
King of Dahomey encamped for some time, not imagining he
could have found so easy a passage and conquest as he met with
afterwards. For the pass of the river was of that nature, it might
have been defended against the whole army, by five hundred
resolute men : but instead of guarding
it,
these cowardly luxurious
people, thinking the fame of their numbers sufficient to deter
the Dahomans from attempting
it,
kept no set guard. They only
went every morning and evening to the river side, to make fetiche
as they call
it,
that
is,
to offer sacrifice to their principal God,
which was
a
particular harmless snake they adore, and prayed to
on this occasion, to keep their enemies from coming over the
river.
"And as worshipping
a
snake may seem very extravagant to such
as are unacquainted with the religion of the Negroes,
I
shall in
form the readers of the reasons given for
it
by the people of
Whidaw. This sort of snake
is
peculiar to their country, being of
a
very singular make
;
for they are very big in the middle, round
ing on the back like
a
hog, but very small at the head and tail,
which renders their motion very slow. Their color
is
yellow and
white, with brown streaks; and so harmless that
if
they are ac
cidentally trod on (for
it
is
a
capital crime to do so wilfully)
and they bite, no bad effect ensues
;
which
is
one reason they give
for their worshipping of them. Moreover, there
is
a
constant tradi
tion amongst them, that whenever any calamity threatens their
country, by imploring the snake's assistance, they are always de
livered from it. However this fell out formerly,
it
now stood them
in no stead
;
neither were the snakes themselves spared after the
conquest. For they being in great numbers, and
a
kind of domestic
animal, the conquerors found many of them in the houses, which
they treated in this manner. They held them up by the middle,
and spoke to them in this manner: If you are gods, speak and
save yourselves: Which the poor snakes not being able to do,
the Dahomans cut their heads off, ripped them open, broiled them
on the coals, and ate them.
It
is
very strange, the conquerors
32 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
should so far condemn the gods of the country, since they are
so barbarous and savage themselves, as to offer human sacrifices
whenever they gain a victory over their enemies." 28
Another valuable witness is William Smith who was sent out
by the Royal African Society of England which desired "an exact
account of all their settlements on the coast of Guinea." 27
He ar
rived at Whydah Road, April 7, 1727, that
is,
immediately after
the snake incident. He adds many interesting details to Captain
Snelgrave's account. Thus he tells us
:
"His Majesty of Whydah,
who
is
the largest and fattest man
I
ever saw, thinking himself
a
little too bulky to fight, was, upon the first alarm, privately
conveyed away by the main strength of
a
couple of stout lusty
Negroes in
a
hammock, by which means he saved his life.28
"The city of Sabee was above four miles in circumference. The
houses neatly built, though only mud-wall covered with thatch,
having no stone in all that country nor even
a
pebble as big as
a
walnut." 28
Concerning the serpent worship, Smith states
:
"They are all
pagans and worship ...
a
large beautiful kind of snake, which
is
inoffensive in its nature. These are kept in fittish-houses, or
churches, built for that purpose in
a
grove, to whom they sacrifice
great store of hogs, fowls, and goats, &c. and
if
not devoured
by the snake, are sure to be taken care of by the fittish-men, or
Pagan priests. . . . The laity all go in
a
large body by night
with drums beating, and trumpets of elephant's teeth sounding, in
order to perform divine worship, and implore either
a
prosperous
journey, fair weather,
a
good crop, or whatsoever else they want.
To obtain which from the snake, they then present their offer
ing, and afterwards return home. They are all so bigoted to this
animal that
if
any Negro should touch one of them with
a
stick,
28 Ditto, p. 10
f.
27 William Smith,
A
New Voyage to Guinea, London, 1745, p. 1.
28 Ditto, p. 190.
29 Ditto, p. 192. Note: According to Robert Norris, Memoirs
of
the Reign
of
Bossa Ahadee, King
of
Dahomy, London, 1789, p. 69: "The infatuated Whydahs
contented themselves with placing, with great ceremony, the fetish snake in the
path, to oppose the invading army, which not answering their hopes and expecta
tions, they deemed all other resistance vain, and fled precipitately before the
conqueror."
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 33
or otherwise hurt
it,
he would be immediately sentenced to the
flames. One day as
I
walked abroad with the English Governor,
I
spied one of them lying in the middle of the path before us,
which indeed
I
would have killed had he not prevented me, for
he ran and took
it
up in his arms, telling me, that
it
was the kind
of snake which was worshipped by the natives, and that
if
I
had
killed
it,
all the goods in his fort, and our ship would not be
sufficient to ransom my life, the country being so very populous
that
I
could not stir without being seen by some of the natives
;
of whom there were several looking at us that happened to be
on their march home from their captivity at Adrah. They came,
and begged their god, which he readily delivered to them, and
they as thankfully received and carried
it
way to their fittish-
house, with very great tokens of joy." 80
The destruction of Whydah as
a
Kingdom did not put an end
to the veneration of the serpent there. According to William
Davaynes, who was one of the directors of the East India Com
pany and who had left the Coast of Africa in 1763 after having
resided there twelve years, eleven years as Governor at Whydah
and the other at Annamboe, "The snake was the peculiar worship
of the ancient people of Whydah, and when this province was
conquered by the King of Dahomey, the worship of the snake
was continued upon motives of policy. Formerly
a
person who
killed
a
snake was put to death; but now
a
goat
is
sacrificed as
an atonement." 81
The last statement must apply to the case of
Europeans alone, for as we shall see the death penalty against
80 Ditto, p. 196
f.
Note: Speaking of Dahomey and vicinity he says, p. 213:
"All the natives of this Coast believe there
is
one true God, the Author of them
and all things." C. des Brosses, Du Culte des Dieus Fetiches, ou Parallile de
I'Ancienne Religion de I'Sgypte avec
la
Religion de Nigritie, Paris, 1760, pp. 25-
37, drawing his information principally from Atkins, Bosman and Des Marchais,
gives us
a
detailed account of the serpent cult at Whydah which he calls by its
old name Juidah. As the title of his book suggests, he would make Egypt the
source of this Ophiolatry of West Africa.
31 Note: Cfr. Report
of
the Lords
of
the Committee
of
Council appointed
for the consideration
of
all matters relating to trade and foreign plantations,
London, 1789. Part
I,
View
of
the Evidence that the Committee had obtained
of
the present state
of
those parts
of
Africa from whence slaves have been exported.
This
is
a
large folio volume of some twelve hundred pages which are unfor
tunately not numbered, thus making reference difficult.
34 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
natives who injured the sacred snake continued for some time to
come.
Concerning the continuation of the serpent cult itself, Robert
Norris states: "By Trudo's management (in tolerating his sub
jects with the free exercise of their various superstitions; and
incorporating them with the Dahomans by intermarriage if it may
be so-called), no distinctions being made between the conquerors
and the conquered, who were now become one people, many of
those who had fled their native countries, to avoid the calamities
of war, were induced to return and submit quietly to his govern
ment." 82
And "The remnant of the Whydahs who had escaped
the edge of Guadja's sword, were abundantly thankful to him,
for permitting them to continue in the enjoyment of their snake
worship." 88
Archibald Dalzel went out to Africa as a surgeon in the year
1763, and resided three years on the Gold Coast, some little part
of the time as Governor, and four years as Governor of Whydah,
returning to England in the year 1770. He was one of the
witnesses who testified before the Committee of Council appointed
for the consideration of all matters relating to trade and foreign
plantations. Reference has already been made to the Report of
this Committee which was published in 1789, and which contains
the following statement: "With respect to the religion of the
people at Whydah and the general object of their worship, Mr.
Dalzel observed that in no part of Africa had he been able to
understand the religion of the natives. At Whydah they pay a
kind of veneration to a particular species of large snake, which
is very gentle. In Dahomey they pay the same kind of veneration
to Tigers. Thus veneration does not prevent people from catch
ing and killing them if they please, but they must not touch the
beard, which is considered as a great offence. They have a great
number of men they call Fetiche men, or padres. The word fetiche
is derived from a Portuguese word meaning witchcraft." 84
82 Norris, Memoirs of the Reign of Bossa Ahadee, King of Dahomey, p. 2.
" Ditto, p. 105, Note.
34 Note : Cfr. also, Archibald Dalzel, History of Dahomey, an Inland King
dom of Africa, London, 1793, Introduction, p. vi : "Most of the savage nations
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 35
For the condition at Whydah in the closing days of the
eighteenth century, when throughout the British Empire the slave
trade was coming to an end, we have the testimony of Dr. John
M'Leod formerly of the British Navy who in 1803 served as
surgeon on a ship, bound from London to the Coast of Africa,
in the slave trade. On this occasion he visited the centre of the
serpent cult and tells us: "In Whydah, for some unaccountable
reason, they worship their Divinity under the form of a particular
specie of snake, called Daboa, which is not sufficiently large to
be terrible to man, and is otherwise tameable and inoffensive.
These Daboahs are taken care of in the most pious manner, and
well fed on rat, mice and birds, in their fetish-houses or temples,
where the people attend to pay their adoration, and where those
also who are sick or lame apply to them for assistance." 85
That the British abolition of slavery made little change in the
serpent worship at Whydah, is evidenced by ample testimony.
Thus, John Duncan in his journal records at Whydah in the Spring
of 1845: "The snake is also a fetish here; and houses are built
in several parts of the town for the accommodation of the snakes,
have some confused notion of a Supreme intellectual Being, the maker of the uni
verse; but this idea not being easily understood among a people not much
addicted to metaphysical reasoning, a variety of corporeal beings have been
selected as objects of devotion, such as the sun, moon, living animals, trees, and
other substances. The tiger is the fetish of Dahomey ; the snake, that of Whydah."
35
John M'Leod, A Voyage to Africa with some Account of the Manners and
Customs of the Dahomian People, London, 1820, p. 32. Note : Dr. M'Leod had
previously stated of Dahomey in general : "Snakes of the boa species are here
found of a most enormous size ; many being thirty to thirty-six feet in length, and
of proportionate girth. They attack alike the wild and domestic beasts, and often
the human kind." 1. c, p. 32. These are certainly not the sacred species, as he
tells us on the very next page : "The bulk of the animals these serpents are capa
ble of gorging would stagger belief, were the fact not so fully attested as to place
it beyond doubt. The state of torpor in which they are sometimes found in the
woods after a stuffing meal of this kind, affords the Negroes an opportunity of
killing them." 1. c, p. 31. If they were of the sacred variety they would not be
killed by the Negroes.
To this same period belongs Pierre Labarthe, who writes, Voyage a la Cote
de Guinie, Paris, 1893, p. 133 : "They have here a kind of high-priest whom the
Negroes call the Great Fetisher or Great Voodnoo ; he claims to have descended
from heaven and poses as the interpreter of the gods on earth ; under this guise
he demands the same honours as are shown to the King." And again : "Despite
their superstitions, these people have a confused idea of a_
Supreme Being, all-
powerful, immense; they seek to placate Him through their fetishers: they are
persuaded that God is too good to do them harm : that is why they render Him
no worship." 1. c, p. 135.
36 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
where they are regularly fed. These houses are about seven feet
high in the walls, with conical roof, about eight feet in diameter,
and circular. The snakes are of the boa-constrictor tribe, and are
considered quite harmless, although I have my doubts upon it.
They generally leave this house at intervals, and when found by
any of the natives, are taken up and immediately conveyed back
to the fetish-house, where they are placed on the top of the wall,
under the thatch. It is disgusting to witness the homage paid to
these reptiles by the natives. When one of them is picked up by
anyone, others will prostrate themselves as it is carried past,
throwing dust on their heads, and begging to be rubbed over the
body with the reptile. After taking the snake up, a very heavy
penalty is incurred by laying it down, before it is placed in the
fetish-house. Wherever a snake is found it must be immediately
carried to the fetish-house, whether it has ever been placed there
before or not. Snakes abound about Whydah ; their average length
is four feet and a half ; head flat, and neck small in proportion." 88
Another entry in Duncan's Journal is of particular interest, as
it gives us in detail the punishment inflicted on the natives for
even accidentally killing a sacred serpent. Earlier writers merely
indicate that such an individual was given to the flames. Here,
however, we have a full description. Under date of May i, 1845,
he writes at Whydah : "Punishment was inflicted for accidentally
killing two fetish snakes, while clearing some rubbish in the
French fort. This is one of the most absurd as well as savage
customs I ever witnessed or heard of. Still it is not so bad as it
was in the reign of the preceding King of Dahomey, when the
law declared the head of the unfortunate individual forfeited for
36
John Duncan, Travels in Western Africa in 1845 & 1846, London, 1847,
Vol. I, p. 126. Note : The Reverend Thomas B. Freeman, who visited Dahomey
in 1843, to promote the interests of the Wesleyan Missionary Society under date
of March 14th records in his journal, Journal of various Visits to the Kingdoms
of Ashanti, Aku, and Dahomi in Western Africa, London, 1844, p. 265 : "When
we had proceeded about two miles and a half we passed one of the King's
fetish-houses ; from whence a fetishman came and pronounced a blessing,
begging of the fetish a safe journey for us to Abomi. Though I pitied the people
on account of their superstitions, yet I could not help admiring their apparent
sincerity."
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 37
killing one of these reptiles, even by accident. The present King
has reduced the capital punishment to that described below. On
this occasion three individuals were sentenced as guilty of the
murder of this fetish snake. A small house is thereupon made for
each individual, composed of dry faggots for walls, and it is
thatched with dry grass. The fetish-men then assemble, and fully
describe the enormity of the crime committed. Each individual is
then smeared over, or rather has a quantity of palm-oil and yeast
poured over them, and then a bushel basket is placed on each of
the heads. In this basket are placed small calabashes, filled to the
brim, so that the slightest motion of the body spills both the oil
and the yeast, which runs through the bottom of the basket on
to the head. Each individual carries a dog and a kid, as well as
two fowls, all fastened together, across his shoulders. The culprits
were then marched slowly round their newly prepared houses, the
fetish-men haranguing them all the time. Each individual is then
brought to the door of his house, which is not more than four
feet high. He is there freed from his burthen, and compelled to
crawl into his house on his belly, for the door is only eighteen
inches high. He is then shut into this small space with the dog,
kid and two fowls. The house is then fired, and the poor wretch is
allowed to make his escape through the flames to the nearest run
ning water. During his journey there he is pelted with sticks and
clods by the assembled mob; but if the culprit has any friends,
they generally contrive to get nearest to him, during his race to
the water, and assist him, as well as hinder the mob in the en
deavours to injure him. When they reach the water they plunge
themselves headlong into
it,
and are then considered to be
cleansed of all sin or crime of the snake-murder." 87
Mr. Duncan subsequently returned to Whydah in 1849 as Vice
Consul to the Kingdom of Dahomey,38 and
it
was at his personal
request that Commander Forbes was appointed to accompany him
37 Ditto, Vol.
I,
p. 195.
88 Frederick E. Forbes, Dahomey and the Dahomans: being the Journals
0}
two Missions to the King
of
Dahomey, and Residence at his Capital, in the years
1X49 and 1850, London, 1851, Vol.
I,
p. 43.
38 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
to the Court of Dahomey in the interests of the suppression of the
slave trade. We may profitably cull some extracts from the Jour
nal kept by Commander Forbes on this occasion.
Thus he writes : "The religion of Dahomey is a mystery only
known to the initiated. There is no daily worship, but periods at
which the fetish-men and -women dance. They who are initiated
have great power and exact much in return. It is a proverb that
the poor are never initiated. The Fetish of Abomey is the leopard,
that of Whydah the snake. The human sacrifices at the See-que-
ah-nee are neither to the invincible god 'Seh,' nor to the fetish
'Voh-dong,' but to the vitiated appetites of the soldiery. At the
Cannah Customs there are sacrifices to the Voh-dong ; and at the
See-que-ah-nee there are sacrifices to the manes of their ancestors ;
the Dahomans, like the disciples of Confucius, looking to their
departed ancestors for blessing in this life." 89
March 8, 1849, he records: "The lions of Whydah are the
snake fetish-house and the market. The former is a temple built
round a huge cotton tree, in which are at all times many snakes
of the boa species. These are allowed to roam about at pleasure ;
but if found in a house or at a distance, a fetish-man or -woman is
sought, whose duty it is to induce the reptile to return, and to
reconduct it to its sacred abode, whilst all that meet it must bow
down and kiss the dust. Morning and evening, many are to be seen
prostrated before the door, whether worshipping the snake di
rectly, or an invisible god, which is known under the name of
'Seh,' through these, I am not learned enough to determine." 40
In a supplementary chapter on "Religion," however, he states
unequivocally: "The 'Voo-doong,' or fetish, represents on earth
the supreme god 'Seh,' and in common with thunder and light
ning, 'Soh.'
" 41
Humour at times creeps into the Journal. On March 10th, Com
mander Forbes writes : "Called on the viceroy, and had a long
conversation with him about trade. . . . On leaving a fetish-man
"9 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 32.
0Ditto, Vol. I, p. 108 f.
41 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 171.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 39
was passing the gate, with two large snakes. State officers in most
barbarous countries find it more convenient to remain at home,
except when duty calls them abroad. The burly officer, was, ac
cording to custom, seeing me beyond his gate and this was an
opportunity not to be lost, the fetish-man addressed him at great
length, in praise of his extraordinary liberality to the fetish, for
which he had no doubt to pay handsomely." 42
And again, on
July 12th he records: "On leaving the British fort this morning,
we learned that an extraordinary instance of the gorging of the
fetish snake had taken place in the night. The reptile lay in the
kitchen in dreadful pain, trying to force the hind legs and tail of
a cat into his distended stomach, now in the shape of the half-
swallowed victim. A fetish-woman arriving, carried the deity to
the temple."
43
It is not so surprising then, to find Father Lafitte, who arrived
at Dahomey in 1861, and devoted eight years to missionary work,
reporting that among those employed in the service of the sacred
serpents was a physician, "charged especially to watch over the
welfare of their laborious digestion." 44
Another witness covering this same period is J. Leighton Wil
son, who devoted eighteen years to missionary work in Africa
and subsequently became a Secretary of the American Presby
terian Board of Foreign Missions. Of the sea-port town of
Whydah, he says : "There is no place where there is more intense
heathenism ; and to mention no other feature in their superstitious
practices, the worship of snakes at this place fully illustrates this
remark. A house in the middle of the town is provided for the
exclusive use of these reptiles, and they may be seen here at any
time in very great numbers. They are fed, and more care is taken
of them than of the human inhabitants of the place. If they are
seen straying away they must be brought back; and at the sight
of them the people prostrate themselves on the ground, and do
them all possible reverence. To kill or injure one of them is to
42 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 112.
43 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 201.
44
J. Lafitte, Le Dahome, Tours, 1873, p. 101.
40 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
incur the penalty of death. On certain occasions they are taken
out by the priests or doctors, and paraded about the streets, the
bearers allowing them to coil themselves around their arms, necks,
and bodies." 45
This brings us to Richard F. Burton of Arabian Nights fame,
who, writing in 1864, more than a century and a quarter after the
event, thus details the debacle of the over-trustful devotees of the
serpent-god at Whydah. "The infatuated Whydahs," he says,
"instead of defending their frontier line, were contented to place
with great ceremony Danh, the fetish snake, Dan-like, in the path.
Agaja had retired to levy his whole force, leaving the field army
under his general. The latter seeing only a snake to oppose prog
ress ordered 200 resolute fellows to try the ford. They not only
crossed it unimpeded, but were able to penetrate into the capi
tal." 48
He has already said : "When the Dahomans permitted
48
J. Leighton Wilson, Western Africa, Its History, Condition, and Prospects,
London, 1856, p. 207. Note: Wilson says of himself, Preface, p. iv: "The writer
has spent between eighteen and twenty years in the country. He has had oppor
tunity to visit every place of importance along the seacoast, and has made ex
tended excursions in many of the maritime districts. He has studied and reduced
to writing two of the leading languages of the country, and has enjoyed, in these
various ways, more than ordinary advantages for making himself acquainted
with the actual condition of the people. He claims for his book the merit of
being a faithful and unpretending record of African Society." Of West Africa
in general, he asserts, p. 209: "The belief in one great Supreme Being, who
made and upholds all things is universal. Nor is this idea imperfectly or obscurely
developed in their minds. The impression is so deeply engraved upon their moral
and mental nature, that any system of atheism strikes them as too absurd and
preposterous to require a denial. Everything which transpires in the natural
world beyond the power of man, or of spirits, who are supposed to occupy a
place somewhat higher than man, is at once spontaneously ascribed to the agency
of God. All of the tribes in the country with which the writer has become ac
quainted (and they are not few) have a name for God, and many of them have
two or more, significant of his character as a Maker, Preserver, and Benefactor."
And again, p. 218: "On some parts of the Gold Coast the crocodile is sacred;
a certain class of snakes, on the Slave Coast, and the shark at Bonny, are all re
garded as sacred, and are worshipped, not on their own account, perhaps, but
because they are regarded as the temples, or dwelling-places, of spirits. Like every
other object of the kind, however, in the course of time the thing signified is for
gotten in the representative, and these various animals have long since been re
garded with superstitious veneration, while little is thought of the indwelling
spirit . . . The snake at Popo has become so tame that it may be carried about
with impunity, and is so far trained that it will bite, or refrain from biting, at
the pleasure of its keeper."
48 Richard F. Burton, A Mission to Celele, King of Dahome, London, 1864,
Vol. I, p. 146.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 41
serpent worship to continue, the Whydahs abundantly thankful,
became almost reconciled to the new stern rule.47
The serpent revered as sacred in Burton's day was clearly of
identical species with that first described by visitors to Whydah.
For he says : "The reptile is a brown yellow-and-white-streaked
python of moderate dimensions; and none appear to exceed five
feet. The narrow neck and head tapering like the slow-worms,
show it to be harmless; the Negro indeed says that its bite is a
good defence against the venomous species, and it is tame with
constant handling. M. Wallon saw 100 in the temple, some 10
feet long, and he tells his readers that they are never known to
bite, whereas they use their sharp teeth like rats. Of these 'nice
gods' I counted seven, including one which was casting its slough ;
all were reposing upon the thickness of the clay wall where it met
the inner thatch. They often wander at night, and whilst I was
sketching the place a Negro brought an astray in his arms; before
raising
it,
he rubbed his right hand on the ground and duly dusted
his forehead, as
if
grovelling before the king. The ugly brute
coiled harmlessly round his neck, like
a
'doctored' cobra in India
or Algeria. Other snakes may be killed and carried dead through
the town, but strangers who meddle with the Danhgbwe must look
out for 'palavers' which, however, will probably now resolve
themselves into
a
fine." 48
Then follows
a
description, differing
47 Ditto, Vol.
I,
p. 96. Note: According to Burton, Vol.
I,
p.
61
:
"The word
'Whydah'
is
a
compound of blunders.
It
should be written Hwe-dah, and be ap
plied to the once prosperous and populous little kingdom whose capital was Savi.
A 'bush town' to the westward, supposed to have been founded and to be still
held by the aboriginal Whydahs, who fled from the massacres Dahoine, retains
the name Hwe-dah. The celebrated slave-station which we have dubbed 'Why
dah'
is
known to the people as Gre-hwe or Gle-hwe, 'Plantation-house.'
"
Cfr.
also, Archibald Dalzel, History
of
Dahomey, Preface, p. xii
:
"Whydah," as
it
is
pronounced by the natives who sound the w of
it
strong, like in whip, the French
write Juida
;
the Dutch, Fida, &c."
Burton also asserts, Vol.
I,
p. 96
:
"Ophiolatry in our part of Africa
is
mostly
confined to the coast regions; the Popos and Windward races worship
a
black
snake of larger size
;
and in the Bight of Biafra the Nimbi or Brass River people
are as bigoted in boa-religion as are the Whydahs. The system
is
of old date:
Bosman at the beginning of the last century, described
it
almost as
it
is
at present.
It well suits the gross materialism of these races, and yet here men ought to be
tired of it."
48 Burton,
1.
c, Vol.
I.
p. 94.
42 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
only slightly in detail from Duncan's account of two decades
earlier. Thus : "In older times death has been the consequence of
killing one of these reptiles, and if the snake be abused, 'serious
people' still stop their ears and run away. When under former
reigns, a native killed a Danhgbwe, even accidentally, he was put
to death; now the murderer is placed somewhat like the Sala
manders of old Vauxhall, in a hole under a hut of dry faggots
thatched with grass which has been well greased with palm-oil.
This is fired, and he must rush to the nearest running water,
mercilessly belaboured with sticks and pelted with clods the whole
way by the Danhgbwe-no, or fetish-priests. Many of course die
under the gauntlet." 40
Of the "Boa Temple" he observes : "It is nothing but a small
cylindrical mud hut some fetish-houses are square with thick
clay walls supporting a flying thatch roof in extinguisher shape.
Two low narrow doorless entrances front each other, leading to a
raised floor of tamped earth, upon which there is nothing but a
broom and a basket. It is roughly whitewashed inside and out,
and when I saw it last a very lubberly fresco of a ship under full
sail sprawled on the left side of the doorway. A little distance
from the entrance were three small pennons, red, white and blue
cotton tied to the top of tall poles."
50
And again : "On the other
side of the road the devotees of the snake are generally lolling
upon the tree roots in pretended apathy, but carefully watching
over their gods. Here, too, are the fetish schools, where any child
touched by the holy reptile must be taken for a year from its par
ents who 'pay the piper' and must be taught the various arts
of singing and dancing necessary to the worship. This part of the
system has, however, lost much of the excesses that prevailed in the
last century when at the pleasure of the strong-backed fetish-men,
even the king's daughters were not excused from incarceration
and from its presumable object. The temple is still annually visited
by the Viceroy, during the interval after the Customs and before
the campaigning season. He takes one bullock, with goats, fowls,
49 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 95.
80 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 93.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 43
cloth, rum, meal, and water to the priest, who holding a bit of
kola nut, prays aloud for the king, the country, and the crops." 81
Burton relates one incident which shows what a hold the
fanaticism had on the people at large even in his day. Speaking of
the Catholic Mission Station at Whydah which was located in
what was known as the Portuguese "Fort" : "In March, 1863, the
fort was struck by the lightning-god, Khevioso, the Shango of
the Egbas; and they are not wanting who suppose that the fe
tishers, having been worsted in dispute by the Padres, took the op
portunity of a storm to commit the arson. As the inmates impi
ously extinguished the fire, they were heavily fined; and, on
refusing to pay, the Father-Superior was imprisoned. In June of
the same year occurred another dispute, about a sacred snake that
was unceremoniously ejected from the mission premises, and
doubtless this anti-heathenism will bring them to further grief." 52
Pierre Bouche who spent seven years on the Slave Coast, was
resident at Whydah in 1868, where, as he tells us, he witnessed
this scene : "One day I was on my way to visit a sick person. The
boy who accompanied me suddenly cried out : 'Father, a fetiche !'
I turned quickly, and saw a large serpent which had passed by me.
Before
it,
a
black prostrated himself, placing his brow in the dust
and bowing low. His prayer deeply distressed me: 'You are my
father, you are my mother,' said he to the reptile;
'I
am all
yours . . . my head belongs to you
!
... Be propitious to me
!'
And he covered himself with dust as
a
mark of humiliation." 83
Writing of the same period, E. Desribes tells us
:
"The cult of
living serpents
is
in vogue at many points along the Coast
;
but no
where have they temples and regular sacrifices as at Whydah. . . .
At Grand Popo not far from Whydah, the serpents have no tem
ple,
it
is
true, but they receive
a
cult even more revolting. There
is
there
a
species of large, very ferocious reptiles; when one of these
serpents encounters small animals, he mercilessly devours them;
and the more voracious
it
is,
the more
it
excites the devotion of its
81 Ditto, Vol.
I,
p. 98.
52 Ditto, Vol.
I,
p. 71.
03 Pierre Bouche, La Cote des Esclaves et
le
Dahomey, Paris, 1885, p. 389.
44 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
worshippers. But the greatest honours, the greatest blessings are
bestowed on it when, finding a young child it makes a meal of it.
Then the parents of the poor victim prostrate themselves in the
dust, and give thanks to one so divine as to have chosen the fruit
of their love to make of it a repast."
54
We shall have occasion to
refer to this incident later.
Our next witness is J. A. Skertchley who tells us : "In the early
part of 1 871 I left England with the object of making zoological
collections on the West Coast of Africa." 85
On account of local
wars, he was unable to penetrate the interior at Assinee and Accra
and so proceeded to Whydah, where he was induced to visit
King Gelele at Abomey, where he was detained as a "guest" for
eight months. Incidentally he relates : "Opposite Agauli, hidden
from profane eyes by a thick grove of fig trees which form but a
mere undergrowth when compared with several tall bombaxes in
their midst, is the far-famed snake house, or 'Danh-hweh,' as it
is usually called. The name is derived from Danh, a snake, and
Hweh, a residence. It is sometimes called Vodun-hweh, i. e. the
fetiche house; and again, 'danhgbwe-hweh,' or the big snake
(python) house. I was much disappointed at this renowned fe
tiche, for instead of a respectable temple, I found nothing but a
circular swish hut, with a conical roof ; in fact, an enlarged model
of the parian inkstands to be seen in every toy-shop. There was a
narrow doorway on the eastern side 58
leading to the interior, the
floor of which was raised a foot above the street. The walls and
floors were whitewashed, and there were a few rude attempts at
reliefs in swish. From the roof there depended several pieces of
coloured yarn, and several small pots containing water were dis-
54 E. Desribes, L'&vangtie au Dahomey et a la Cote des Esclaves, Clermont-
Ferrand, 1877, p. 184 f. Note : Another instance of exaggerated deference to the
serpent is given by Mary H. Kingsley, West African Studies, London, 1899, p.
483, as follows : "The python is the Brass natives' titular guardian angel. So great
was the veneration of this Ju-ju snake in former times, that the native kings
would sign no treaties with her Britannic Majesty's Government that did not
include a clause subjecting any European to a heavy fine for killing or molesting
in any way this hideous reptile."
55
J. A. Skertchley, Dahomey as it is; being a narrative of eight months' Resi
dence in that Country, London, 1874, Preface, p. vii.
58 Note : This fact may strengthen the supposition that the cult came originally
from the east.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 45
tributed about the floor. The roof was raised above the circular
walls by short projecting pieces of bamboo ; and coiled up on the
top of the wall, or twining round the rafters, were twenty-two
pythons. The creatures were the ordinary brown and pale yellow
reptiles, whose greatest length is about eight feet. They were the
sacred Danhgbwes whose power was relied upon to save the king
dom from the conquering armies of Agajah. It was the tutelary
saint of Whydah, and when that kingdom was conquered, was
introduced into the Dahoman pantheon. As recent as the late
King's reign, if a native had the misfortune to accidentally (for
no one would have had the temerity to purposely) kill a
Danhgbwe, he was at once sacrificed, and his wives and property
confiscated to the church. At the present time the defaulter has to
undergo a foretaste of the sufferings of his portion hereafter." 57
Then follows a description of the ordeal by fire which has al
ready been described.
Incidentally, Skertchley gives indication of a decadence having
57 Skertchley, 1. c, p. 54. Note : Skertchley later observes, p. 461 : "The Daho
man religion consists of two parts, totally distinct from each other. First a belief in
a Supreme Being, and second, the belief in a whole host of minor deities. The Su
preme Being is called Mau, and is vested with unlimited authority over every
being, both spiritual and carnal. He is supposed to be of so high a nature as to
care very little for the circumstances of men, and his attention is only directed
to them by some special invocation. He resides in a wonderful dwelling above
the sky, and commits the care of earthly affairs to a race of beings, such as
leopards, snakes, locusts, or crocodiles, and also to inanimate objects, such as
stones, rags, cowries, leaves of certain trees, and, in short, anything and every
thing. This deity is said to be the same as the God of civilization ; but the white
man has a far freer access to Him than the Negro, who is therefore obliged to
resort to mediators. Hence the origin of fetishism."
Cfr. also, A. Le Herisse, L'Ancien Royaume du Dahomey; Maeurs, Religion,
Histoire, Paris, 191 1, p. 96: "The Dahoman believe in a Supreme Being whom
they call Mahou (God) or Se (Beginning, Intelligence). They have neither statue
nor symbol to represent Him, they dedicate no cult to Him; His name is only
pronounced in some exclamations or invocations. Mahou has created the uni
verse; He has in particular created the fetishes, Vodoun, and has given them
certain forces, certain powers of which they made use in their own way to
govern human destinies. These Vodoun moreover, are not, in the strict sense,
intermediaries of Mahou, but rather his free and independent agents : 'The fetish
is a creature of God' 'Vodoun e gni Mahounou.' Or, again : 'God possesses the
fetish' 'Mahou oue do Vodoun.' The Vodoun are innumerable for, to the Da
homan, every monstrosity or phenomenon which exceeds his imagination or
his intelligence is fetish, a creature of God which demands a cult. The thunder,
small-pox, the sea are all fetishes; the telegraph and our railways would most
assuredly also be so, if they were not a 'machine of the whites.'
"
M. Le Herisse
was writing as Administrates des Colonies. He is dealing with ancient Da
homey and consequently independent of the Whydah influence.
46 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
set in, at least as regards external discipline. That reverence for
the sacred serpent, as regards the populace, is becoming subservi
ent to greed on the part of the custodians of the temple, is evi
denced by the following passage: "The doorway being always
open, the snakes frequently make excursions after nightfall.
Should an unfortunate person of either sex meet the strolling
deity, he is obliged to prostrate himself before
it,
and then, taking
it
tenderly in his arms, carry
it
to the priests. Of course he
is
re
warded by these gentlemen for taking care of the god, says the
reader. No such thing
!
He
is
fined for meeting the snake, and im
prisoned until
it
is
paid to the last cowrie." 58
Eight years after Skertchley, Colonel Ellis visited Whydah and
thus describes his experience: "While at Whydah
I
stayed at the
French Factory, and there
I
had
a
rather unpleasant adventure on
the night of my arrival.
It
was
a
very close night, and
I
was sleep
ing in the grass hammock slung from the joists of the roof, when
I
was awakened by something pressing heavily on my chest.
I
put out my hand and felt
a
clammy object. It was
a
snake,
I
sprung out of the hammock with more agility than
I
have ever
exhibited before or since, and turned up the lamp that was burning
on the table.
I
then discovered that my visitor was
a
python, from
nine to ten feet in length, who was making himself quite at home,
and curling himself up under the blanket in the hammock.
Ithought
it
was the most sociable snake
I
had ever met, and
I
like snakes to
be friendly when they are in the same room with me, because then
I
can kill them the more easily; so
I
went and called one of my
French friends to borrow
a
stick or cutlass with which to slay the
intruder. When
I
told him what
I
purposed doing he appeared ex
ceedingly alarmed and asked me anxiously
if
I
had yet injured
the reptile in any way.
I
replied that
I
had not, but
I
was going to.
He seemed very much relieved, and said that
it
was without doubt
one of the fetish snakes from the snake-house, and must on no
account be harmed, and that he would send and tell the priests,
who would come and take
it
away in the morning. He told me
that a short time back the master of
a
merchant vessel had killed
58 Skertchley,
1.
c, p. 56.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 47
a python that had come into his room at night, thinking he was
only doing what was natural, and knowing nothing of the preju
dices of the natives, and had in consequence got into a good deal
of trouble, having been imprisoned for four or five days and
made to pay a heavy fine.
"Next morning I went to see the snake-house. It is a circular
hut with a conical roof made of palm branches,89 and contained at
that time from 200 to 250 snakes. They were all pythons, and of
all sizes and ages; the joists and sticks supporting the roof were
completely covered with them, and looking upwards one saw a
vast writhing and undulating mass of serpents. Several in a state
of torpor, digesting their last meal, were lying on the ground;
and all seemed perfectly tame, as they permitted the officiating
priest to pull them about with very little ceremony.
"Ophiolatry takes precedence of all other forms of Dahoman
religion, and its priests and followers are most numerous. The
python is regarded as the emblem of bliss and prosperity, and to
kill one of these sacred boas
is,
strictly speaking, a capital offence,
though now the full penalty of the crime
is
seldom inflicted, and
the sacrilegious culprit
is
allowed to escape after being mulcted of
his worldly goods, and having 'run-a-muck' through
a
crowd of
snake-worshippers armed with sticks and fire-brands." 80
Evi
dently the ordeal of the burning huts has been mitigated, still an
other indication of the decadence in ritual.
Ellis continues: "Any child who chances to touch, or to be
touched by one of these reptiles, must be kept for
a
space of one
year at the fetish-house under the charge of the priest, and at the
expense of the parents, to learn the various rites of Ophiolatry
and the accompanying dancing and singing." 81
Abel Hovelacque, writing in 1889, thus depicts the formal
nuptial ceremonies with the serpent which the priestess undergoes
when she has attained the marriage age of about fourteen or fif-
59 Note
:
We must here notice that
in
the case of the snake-house, the mud hut
has given way to one of palm branches. This
is
another indication that decadence
in the worship has begun.
60 A. B. Ellis, The Land
of
Fetish, London, 1883, p. 43
f.
81 Ditto, p. 46.
48 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
teen years: "They are brought to the temple. On the following
night they are made to descend into a vaulted cellar, where it is
said that they find two or three serpents who espouse them in the
name of the great serpent. Until the mystery is accomplished,
their companion and the other priestesses dance and sing with the
accompaniment of instruments. They are then known under the
name of wives of the great serpent, which title they continue to
carry all their lives." 82
During the last half of the nineteenth century a rapid decay set
in as regards the veneration of the serpent at Whydah, due no
doubt to increasing contacts with the white man and consequent
European influences. Thus fidouard Foa, a resident in Dahomey
from 1884 to 1890, describes conditions as they existed at the
time of the French occupation which was completed in 1894.
Remarking the extraordinary prestige which Dangbe enjoyed, he
tells us : "One being alone, however, makes exception to the rule :
it is the pig. When he meets the god (which happens at every
step in Dahomey and Popo) without regard for the veneration of
which it is the object, kills
it,
eats
it
up, or at least tramples
it
under foot when he has sufficiently gorged himself with the
kind." 88
And apparently there are now no retaliatory measures on
the part of the devotees of the serpent.
Finally M. Brunet, who was the delegate of Dahomey at the
World Exposition of 1900, while stating that no mother would
dare rescue her own child
if
seized by one of the sacred snakes,
asserts later that for some years the cult of the serpent has been
on the decline, and adds
:
"Today, when
a
black has accidentally
killed or injured
a
reptile, they are content to have the culprit
flogged." 64
62 Abel Hovelacque, Les Nigres de VAfrique Sus-£quatoriale, Paris, 1889, p.
403. Cfr. also M. Malte-Brun, Universal Geography, Philadelphia, 1827, Vol.
Ill, p. 23
:
"In Whydah
a
serpent
is
regarded as the god of war, of trade, of
agriculture, and of fertility. It
is
fed in
a
species of temple, and attended by an
order of priests. Some young women are consecrated to
it,
whose business
it
is
to please the deity with their wanton dances, and who are in fact
a
sort of con
cubines of the priests. Every new king brings rich presents to the serpent. (Des
Marchais, II, p. 180. Oldendorp, p. 328)."
63 fidouard Foa, Le Dahomey, Paris, 1895, p. 226
f.
84 L. Brunet, Dahomey et Dependances, Paris, 1901, p. 353
f.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 49
The evidence adduced in the present chapter shows conclusively
that the Ophiolatry as practiced by the Whydahs was worship in
the strict sense of the word. Its ultimate object is a superhuman
being : we find a well organized priesthood ; the snake-house or
temple is described by all visitors ; sacrifices are certainly employed
and there is ritual procedure.
When we first come in contact with the worship of the serpent
at Whydah towards the end of the seventeenth century, we find
it well organized and in full vigour. Still there are indications
that it had not been long established there. Certainly, all traditions
point to the fact that it is not indigenous and that it has come
presumably from the east. This is in conformity with the suppo
sition that Uganda is the fountainhead of African Ophiolatry.
After the destruction at Sabee of the original centre of Whydah
Ophiolatry, it springs up again and is extended to other localities.
For the most part, it follows closely at first the old ritual, but as
time goes on and European contacts assert themselves, modifica
tions gradually creep in, and we find at one centre at least, Grand
Popo, the introduction of a decadent variant. A human child be
comes a victim when the sacred serpent sees fit to appropriate one
for the purpose. Thus while the worship of the serpent was well
regulated and clearly defined, should a child come in contact with
one of the sacred reptiles, it was regarded as a sign of vocation to
its service, and the little one was immediately attached to the
school established for the purpose, where the service of the deity
was formally taught. In the decadent days, however, as witnessed
independently by Desribes and Brunet, mothers readily yielded up
their children not merely to the service of the sacred snakes, but
as a living holocaust should one of these reptiles appropriate the
little one for the purpose.
We must also notice, that especially in the earlier accounts of
the worship at Whydah there is no question of idolatry. The ser
pent itself is not the object of adoration, it is merely a medium
of giving worship to the Supreme Being, whatever concept in the
native mind this term may represent. In the present work we are
excluding all theological considerations and we must leave to a
50 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
later volume the analysis of what the real divinity was that was
usually honoured by the title of Creator or Maker.
Furthermore, there are indications, as noted by Forbes, that the
superhuman being to whom the Whydah addressed himself was
probably the ancestral spirits, and that these were in some way
connected with the sacred pythons.
The Reverend Robert Hammill Nassau, a Presbyterian minister,
with a Doctorate both in Medicine and in Sacred Theology, was
for forty years a missionary in French Congo, and published in
1904 a work on fetishism in West Africa, wherein he gives us
the fruit of his life-study of native customs and superstitions.
Mary H. Kingsley gives due credit to Mr. Nassau for much
valuable information on fetish, and then playfully takes him to
task for not having thrown open to science the mass of valuable
material collected in long years of research. Thus she writes:
"I am quite aware that Dr. Nassau was the first white man to send
home gorilla's brains : still I deeply regret he has not done more
for science and geography. Had he but had Livingstone's con
scientious devotion of taking notes and publishing them, we should
know far more than we do at present about the hinterland from
Cameroons to Ogowe, and should have for ethnological purposes,
an immense mass of thoroughly reliable information about the
manners and religions of the tribes therein, and Dr. Nassau's
fame would be among the greatest of the few great African ex
plorers not that he would care a row of pins for that." 85
All
unknown to Miss Kingsley, Dr. Nassau had been taking the neces
sary notes and the publication of his book repaired the other short
coming referred to by his critic who had been so deeply impressed
by the Doctor's "immense mass of thoroughly reliable informa
tion about the manners and religion of the tribes" he had visited.
Dr. Nassau, it is true, is treating of the Bantu tribes situated
for the most part south of the equator, but much that he says is
also applicable to the Negroes in the strict sense of the word,
namely, those tribes from which the bulk of the slaves were
drawn, and which go by the generic term of West Africans.
85 Mary H. Kingsley, Travels in West Africa, p. 394 f.
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 51
Quite possibly, Miss Kingsley, if asked, might not have given
to the finished book the same encomium which she extended to the
material in hand. Still as she was like Ellis, whose writings carry
great weight with her, to a certain extent a professed follower of
Spencer, her general approval of Dr. Nassau's conscientiousness
and ability in his scientific researches, should lend considerable
support to the facts adduced as well as to the conclusions drawn.
Dr. Nassau is unreserved in his assertion : "I see nothing to
justify the theory of Menzies 88
that primitive man or the un
tutored African of today, in worshipping a tree, a snake, or an
idol, originally worshipped those very objects themselves, and
that the suggestion that they represented, or were even the
dwelling-place of, some spiritual Being is an after-thought up to
which we have grown in the lapse of ages. Rather I see every
reason to believe that the thought of the Being or Beings as an
object of worship has come down by tradition and from direct
original revelation of Jehovah Himself. The assumption of a
visible tangible object to represent or personify that Being is the
after-thought that human ingenuity has added. The civilized
Romanist claims that he does not worship the actual sign of the
cross, but the Christ who was crucified on it; similarly, the Da-
homan in his worship of the snake." 87
Again Dr. Nassau asserts : "The evil thing that the slave brought
with him was his religion. You do not need to go to Africa to find
the fetich. During the hundred years that slavery in our America
held the Negro crushed, degraded, and apart, his master could
deprive him of his manhood, his wife, his child, the fruits of toil,
of his life; but there was one thing of which he could not deprive
him, his faith in fetich charms. Not only did this religion of the
fetich endure under slavery it grew. None but Christian masters
offered the Negro any other religion ; and by law, even they were
debarred from giving them any education. So fetichism flourished.
The master's children were infected by the contagion of supersti-
88 History of Religions, p. 129 ff.
87 Robert Hammill Nassau, Fetichism in West Africa: Forty Years' Observa
tion of Native Customs and Superstitions, London, 1904, p. 48.
52 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
tion; they imbibed some of it at the Negro foster-mother's breasts.
It was a secret religion that lurked thinly covered in slavery days,
and that lurks today beneath the Negro's Christian profession as a
white art, and among the non-professors as a black art; a mem
ory of the revenges of his African ancestors; a secret fraternity
among slaves of far distant plantations, with words and signs,
the lifting of a finger, the twitch of an eyelid, that tele
graphed from house to house with amazing rapidity (as today in
Africa) current news in old slave days and during the late Civil
War ; suspected, but never understood by the white master ; which,
as a superstition, has spread itself among our ignorant white
masses as the 'Hoodoo,' Vudu, or Odoism, is simply African
fetichism transplanted to American soil." 88
Pere Baudin, while labouring as a missionary among the
Dahomans, writes : "Their traditions and religious doctrines sug
gest a people more civilized than the blacks of Guinea of the pres
ent day. And on the other hand, many customs, usages, and in
dustries show clearly that they are a people in decadence. The wars,
particularly the civil wars, which have laid waste, and still con
tinue to lay waste, these countries, have caused them to lose what
they had preserved of their ancient civilization, which was in great
part Egyptian, as indicated by many customs and usages. . . .
"Though scattered over an immense extent of country, these
fetish-worshippers have a certain uniformity of religious belief;
68 Ditto, p. 274. Note : Cfr. also J. J. Cooksey and Alexander McLeish, Re
ligion and Civilization in West Africa, London, 1931, p. 82, in reference to Da
homey : "The native fetish priests are not the simple, ignorant men, many in
Europe suppose them to be, on the contrary, they belong to the elite of the people
and are of more than average intelligence. Actually a cunning sage, the fetish
priest uses uncanny tricks designed to lead the common people to believe that,
by virtue of an initiation of which he holds the secret, he can command the good
or evil powers of the spirit world. On all sides in Dahomey, whether around Port
Novo, the capital, or away in the northern bush country, wayside shrines, snake
temples and sacred groves are seen, all furnished with fantastic objects of ven
eration. The terrific hold of fetishism which was responsible for the revolting
butchery of 'The Annual Customs' still persists in Dahomey, and is the great
obstacle alike to civilization and the progress of the Gospel." Then in a footnote
is added the remark : "The tremendous hold which this Voodoo worship has over
its votaries is seen in its persistence in the Republic of Haiti, in which many
people from Dahomey are found."
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 53
their divinities are identical, differing only in name ; and the par
ticular details which we give of the blacks of the Slave Coast of
Yoruba, Dahomey, Benin, and other neighbouring kingdoms apply
to all fetish-worshipping nations." 89
Of "The Religious System of the Negroes of Guinea," he as
serts : "The religion of the blacks is an odd mixture of monothe
ism, polytheism, and idolatry. In these religious systems the idea
of a God is fundamental; they believe in the existence of a Su
preme Primordial Being, the Lord of the Universe, which is His
work. Monotheism recognizes at the same time numbers of in
ferior gods and subordinate goddesses. Each element has its di
vinity who is as it were incorporated in
it,
who animates and gov
erns
it,
and
is
the object of adoration. After the gods and
goddesses there are infinite numbers of good and evil genii
;
then
comes the worship of heroes and great men who were distin
guished during their lives. The blacks also worship the dead, and
believe in metempsychosis, or the migration of souls into other
bodies. They believe in the existence of an Olympus, where dwell
the gods and celebrated men who have become fetishes, and in an
inferior world, the sojourn of the dead, and finally in
a
state of
punishment for great criminals. They have also their meta
morphosis, their sacred animals, their temples and their idols, etc.
In a word, their religion
is
similar in all things to the old poly
theism of the ancients; and notwithstanding the abundant testi
mony of the existence of God,
it
is
practically only
a
vast panthe
ism,
a
participation of all the elements of the divine nature, which
is
as
it
were diffused throughout them all." 70
He then proceeds to go into details: "The idea of God Al
though deeply imbued with polytheism, the blacks have not lost
the idea of the true God
;
yet their idea of Him
is
very confused
and obscure. . . . They represent that God, after having com
menced the organization of the world, charged Obatala with the
completion and government of
it,
retired and entered into an eter-
89 P. Baudin, Fetichisme et Fiticheurs, Lyon, 1884, p.
3.
° Ditto, p.
5.
54 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
nal rest, occupying Himself only with His own happiness; too
great to interest Himself in the affairs of this world. He remains
like a Negro king, in a sleep of idleness.
"Thus the black renders no worship whatever to God, com
pletely neglecting Him, to occupy themselves with the gods and
goddesses and the spirits to which they believe themselves in
debted for their birth, and their fate in this life and the next.
However, although they seem to expect nothing from God, the
Negroes by instinct naturally address themselves to him in sudden
danger or in great afflictions. When they are victims of injustice,
they take God to witness their innocence." 71
This last statement
nullifies in great part what he has just said about God being un
concerned about the affairs of the blacks, and their reciprocal
neglect of Him. Elsewhere this condition certainly does not exist.
As we shall see among the Ashanti, for example, he actually has
his temple and his priesthood.
As regards the demi-gods, Pere Baudin gives us the following
explanation : "A family establishes itself near a river, a forest, a
rock, or a mountain ; imagination aided by the fetish-priests soon
creates a belief in a demi-god, a tutelary genius of the place, and
thus a new divinity makes its appearance in the Negro pantheon,
and it is not long before it has its legend also.72
"The worship of the dead has greatly aided in augmenting the
number of the gods. Joined to the worship of nature is that of
humanity. The descendants from generation to generation offer
presents and sacrifices on the tomb of their ancestor, and end by
adoring him as a local divinity, the origin of which becomes more
and more obscure and consequently more and more venerable.
This occurred at Porto-Novo in the case of the chiefs of families
in various parts of the city, of whom the inhabitants are the real
descendants." 78
Concerning the lesser spirits, Pere Baudin writes: "After the
gods and the demi-gods come the spirits or genii. The genii are
71 Ditto, p. 6 f.
Ditto, p. 37.
78 Ditto, p. 37
SERPENT CULT AT WHYDAH 55
very numerous; some are good and some bad spirits. A certain
number serve as messengers to the gods and demi-gods, some are
considered nearly as powerful as the gods themselves and have
authority over lesser spirits who are their messengers, and these
in turn command others, forming a hierarchy which is not very
defined. The more ordinary spirits dwell in the forests and
deserts." 74
One of these lesser spirits has its own interest for us. We are
told : "Audowido, the rainbow, is a genius, held in great veneration
at Porto-Novo. In Yoruba he is called Ochumare. The temples
dedicated to this genius are painted in all the colors of the rain
bow, and in the middle of the prism a serpent is drawn. This
genius is a large serpent ; he only appears when he wants to drink,
and then he rests his tail on the ground and thrusts his mouth into
the water. He who finds the excrement of this serpent is rich for
ever, for with this talisman he can change grains of corn into
shells which pass for money." 75
74 Ditto, p. 40.
75 Ditto, p. 45. Note : Against the tendency of those who would exclude from
scientific consideration the testimony of missionaries, under the pretence that
they must of necessity show bias in their views, let us quote_ Sir James George
Frazer, who will scarcely be accused of being prejudiced in their regard. In
connection with the anthropological study of still surviving savage or barbarous
peoples, he says, Garnered Sheaves, London, 1931, p. 244: "The method is neither
more nor less than induction, which after all, disguise it as we may under the
showy drapery of formal logic, is the only method in which men can and do
acquire knowledge. And the first condition of a sound induction is exact observa
tion. What we want, therefore, in this branch of science
is,
first and foremost, full,
true, and precise accounts of savage and barbarous peoples based on personal
observation. Such accounts are best given by men who have lived for many years
among the peoples, have won their confidence, and can converse with them fa
miliarly
in
their native language; for savages are shy and secretive towards
strangers, they conceal their most cherished rites and beliefs from them, nay, they
are apt wilfully to mislead an inquirer, not so much for the sake of deceiving him
as with the amiable intention of gratifying him with the answers which he seems
to expect.
It
needs
a
peculiar combination of intelligence, tact, and good nature
to draw out
a
savage on subjects which he regards as sacred; to very few men
will he consent to unbosom himself.
"Perhaps the class of men whose vocation affords them the best opportunities
for observing and recording the habits of savage races are missionaries. They
are men of education and character
;
they usually live for many years among the
people, acquire their language, and gain their respect and confidence. Accordingly
some of the very best accounts which we possess of savage and barbarous peoples
have been written by missionaries, Catholic and Protestant, English, French,
Dutch, German and Spanish."
Chapter III
VOODOO IN HAITI
The Report of the Lords of the Committee of Council ap
pointed for the consideration of all matters relating to trade and
foreign plantations, published in London, in 1789, states, "Mr.
Dalzell supposes that the number of slaves exported from the
Dominions of the King of Dahomey amounts to 10,000 or 12,000
in a year. Of these, the English may export 700 to 800, the Portu
guese about 3,000, and the French the remainder." This will ex
plain how the Dahomans with their serpent cult became so centred
in the French islands of the West Indies, and especially in Haiti.
William Snelgrave who, as we have seen, was the first to visit
Whydah, after the conquest by the Dahomans, says of the slavery
there : "And this trade was so very considerable, that it is com
puted, while it was in a flourishing state, there were above twenty
thousand Negroes yearly exported thence, and the neighbouring
places, by the English, French, Dutch, and Portuguese." 1
As he
was in the trade himself, he may be regarded as speaking with
authority.
It is with good reason, then, that Colonel Ellis states : "In the
southeastern portions of the Ewe territory, the python deity is
1 Snelgrave, A New Account of some parts of Guinea and the Slave-Trade,
p. 2. Note: On p. 159 of the same book, Snelgrave states that from the entire
Guinea Coast, the Europeans of all nations "have in some years, exported at
least seventy thousand."
Cfr. also, W. D. Weatherford, The Negro from Africa to America, New York,
1924, p. 33 : "Dahomey, a small kingdom on the Slave Coast, has sufficient open
country, to allow of cooperation and aggressive military operations. It is said
that this state at one time had an army of 50,000 men and its terrible fighting
Amazons of 3,000 women were no inconsiderable military force. . . . This Da
homey kingdom flourished for centuries and was one of the most powerful allies
of the slave traders during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. It is supposed
that this country alone, at the height of the slave trade, delivered an annual quota
of fifteen thousand slaves, most of which were captured from neighbouring tribes."
56
VOODOO IN HAITI 57
worshipped, and this vodu cult, with its adoration of the snake
god was carried to Haiti by slaves from Ardra and Whydah,
where the faith still remains today. In 1724 the Dahomies in
vaded Ardra and subjugated it; three years later Whydah was
conquered by the same foe. This period is beyond question that
in which Haiti first received the vodu of the Africans. Thousands
of Negroes from these serpent-worshipping tribes were at the
time sold into slavery, and were carried across the Atlantic to the
eastern island. They bore with them their cult of the snake. At
the same period, Ewe-speaking slaves were taken to Louisiana." 2
Elsewhere Ellis remarks : "That the term vodu should survive
in Haiti and Louisiana, and not in the British West India Islands,
will surprise no one who is acquainted with the history of the
slave trade. The Tshi-speaking slaves (the Ashanti and kindred
tribes) called Coromantees in the slave-dealer's jargon, and who
were exported from the European fort on the Gold Coast, were
not admitted into French and Spanish colonies on account of their
dispositions to rebel and consequently they found their way into
the British colonies, the only market open to them, while the
French and Spanish colonies drew their chief supply from the
Ewe-speaking slaves exported from Whydah and Badogry." 8
Richard F. Burton had already asserted positively : "I may ob
serve that from the Slave-Coast 'Vodun' or Fetish we may derive
the 'Vaudoux' or small green snake of the Haitian Negroes, so
well known by the abominable orgies enacted before the (Vau
doux King and Queen) and the 'King Snake' is still revered at
S'a Leone." 4
He had previously stated : "Vodun is Fetish in
general. I hardly know whether to write it Vodun or Fodun, the
sound of the two labials is so similar." 5
2 A. B. Ellis, On Vodu-Worship, popular science monthly, Vol. XXXVIII
(1891), p. 651 ff.
3 A. B. Ellis, The Ewe-Speaking Peoples of the Slave Coast of West Africa,
London, 1890, p. 29. Note: The body-guard of Christophe was known as the
"Royal Dehomays." Cfr. Blair Niles, Black Hayti, New York, 1926, p. 289.
4 Burton, A Mission to Gelele, King of Dahome, Vol. I, p. 08.
5 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 79. Note : In the opening number of the journal of ameri
can folk-lore, issued in 1888, William W. Newell, under the caption Myths of
Voodoo Worship and Child Sacrifice in Haiti, strives to annihilate the whole ques
tion of Voodoo in Haiti. He thus enunciates his purpose, p. 17 f. : "Although all the
VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
There is extent but one detailed account of Haitian Voodoo as
it existed in the days of slavery, but that description, being by an
experienced eye witness is invaluable for our present purpose.
In fact it would be difficult to find a man better qualified than
Moreau de Saint-Mery to place before us the true picture of the
period. His youth in Martinique, his years as a legal practitioner
and later as a Magistrate in Haiti, his executive and administra
tive ability as shown in the most trying days of the outbreak of
the Revolution in France, all mark him out as a witness of the
utmost reliability.8
writers who have alluded to these superstitions have assumed that they are an
inheritance from Africa, I shall be able to make it appear : first, that the Vaudoux,
or Voodoo, is derived from a European source; secondly, that the beliefs which
the word denotes are equally imported from Europe; thirdly that the alleged
sect and its supposed rites, have in all probability, no real existence, but are a
product of popular imagination."
His own conjecture is even more fantastic than the most extreme tenets of his
adversaries. He would have us believe that the word itself as used in Haiti was
derived from the followers of Peter of Lyons who was condemned by the Council
of Verona in 1184, and who came to be known as Waldenses or Vaudois. Ac
cording to his theory, "the word vaudois, feminine vaudoise, had in fact come
to mean a witch, as its abstract vauderie or vauldoverie signified sorcery," and
was brought to Haiti in the seventeenth century when the rule of the island
passed from Spain to France. He continues : "To establish my second proposition,
that the characteristic practices ascribed to the alleged Haitian sect, as well as
the name, are of European origin, it will only be necessary to compare the charges
now made against the Vaudoux of Haiti with those which in the fifteenth cen
tury were made against the Vaudois of France and Switzerland." And as both
accusations were groundless, according to his theory, although three centuries
apart, the one must be the source of the other. It is difficult to see logic in such
deductions. In fact in a subsequent issue of the journal of american folk-lore,
Vol. II, 1889, p. 41, Mr. Newell makes the suggestive confession: "A few days
before the publication of the article in question appeared the third volume of a
history of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages by Mr. H. C. Lee in which a like
derivation of the name Voodoo is incidentally set forth." "Incidentally," too, Mr.
Newell makes the further admission, p. 45 : "Whatever opinion may be entertained
about the worship, which I consider as probably imaginary, there can be no
doubt concerning the habitual practice, even at the present day in the United
States, of sorcery under the name of Voodooism." Further while quoting Mr.
B. F. Whidden, United States Minister to Haiti, as saying that the trial and con
viction of certain Voodooists at Port-au-Prince in 1864, was unfair, since the
"evidence was extracted by torture," p. 41 ; he adds, seemingly with approval :
"Mr. Whidden is of opinion that, if the truth were ascertained, there would be
found no more cannibalism in Haiti than in Jamaica. On the other hand he thinks
that there is no doubt concerning the existence of a Vaudoux worship and dance,
which latter he has frequently seen and heard."
6 Note : We must crave pardon if we seem discursive in giving a brief outline
of the principal events in the life of our witness on the difficult question of Voodoo
as it existed in Haiti immediately before the slave insurrection.
Mecleric Louis £lie Moreau de Saint-Mery was a West Indian by birth and
through marriage a distant relative of the Empress Josephine of France. Born
VOODOO IN HAITI 59
Moreau de Saint-Mery classified Voodoo among the various
dances of Haiti which he thus describes.7 "What enraptures the
Negroes, whether they were born in Africa or America was their
cradle, is the dance. There is no amount of fatigue which can
make them abandon going to very great distances, and some times
even during the dead of night, to satisfy this passion.8
in Martinique, January 13, 1750, he came to Paris at the age of nineteen to enlist
in the King's Gendarmes. During his three years of service he continued his stud
ies and qualified as a barrister. To recoup financial losses, he took up the practice
of law at Le Cap in Haiti about 1772, and some eight years later he entered
the Superior Council of the Island. Thenceforth he devoted the hours of leisure
afforded by his office of magistrate, to classify and arrange the laws of the
French Colonies. In 1780 the fruits of his earlier labours had appeared in Paris as
a five volume work, which immediately attracted much attention. Louis XVI
called him to Paris to assist in the colonial administration and he was received
with acclaim by the learned world and was honoured by men of letters.
With the outbreak of the French Revolution, Moreau de Saint-Mery took a
leading part in the political life of Paris. As President of the electors assembled
there, he was twice called upon to address the King, and, it is said, it was he
who prevailed upon his colleagues to place Lafayette at the head of the National
Guard. The appreciation of his efforts was shown when the Assembly unanimously
voted him a medal.
In 1790, he represented Martinique in the Constitutional Convention where he
made the affairs of the colonies his chief concern, and in the following year he
was a member of the Judicial Council established by the Minister of Justice.
While a partisan of liberty, he was the uncompromising adversary of licence,
and as such he incurred the enmity of Robespierre. A few days before the fatal
August 10th, the latter's partisans attacked and seriously wounded Moreau de
Saint-Mery, who was thus forced to retire to a seaport town in Normandy. This
accident probably saved his life, as on the dissolution of the Constitutional As
sembly, he was immediately proscribed, but escaped the scaffold through the
devotion of one of the local guard to whom he had done some favour in the past.
Making his escape to the United States, he remained there until 1799, when he
returned to France, and held several state and diplomatic posts until in 1806 he
fell into disfavour with Napoleon. Thereafter until his death at the age of sixty-
nine, he scarcely kept body and soul together, and even that was made possible
solely through the charity of the Empress Josephine, and later through the
bounty of Louis XVIII. He died at Paris on January 28, 1819. Cfr. Nouvelle
Biographie Generate, Paris, 1861, Vol. XXVI, p. 498; F. X. de Filler, Dictionaire
Historique, Lyon, 1822, Vol. CII, p. 546.
7 Note: As the work that we are quoting is extremely rare, we feel justified
in giving the entire passage especially as the description will enable us later in
the final analysis, to distinguish the other dances that are today so often mixed
in with Voodoo in a most confusing manner. The full title of the work is : Descrip
tion topographique, physique, civile, politique, et historique de la partie Frangaise
de I'isle Saint-Domingue. Avec des observations genirales sur la population, sur le
caractere et les mceurs de ses divers habitants; sur son climat, sa culture, ses pro
ductions, son administration, &c &c. Accompagnees des details les plus propres
a faire connaitre t'etat de cette Colonie d I'epoque du Octobre 1789; et d'une nou
velle carte de la totaliti de I'isle. Par M. L. E. Moreau de Saint-Mery, Philadel
phia, 1797-98. Our quotation is from Vol. I, pages 44 to 51.
8 Cfr. also Pierre de Vaissiere, Saint Domingue: La Sociite et la vie Crioles
sous I'Ancien Regime (1629-1789), Paris, 1909, p. 177. In reference to the only
rest days of the slaves, namely Sunday and Feast-days, he remarks how "some
60 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
"One Negro dance has come with them from Africa to San
Domingo, and for that very reason it is common also to those who
are born in the colony, and these latter practice it almost from
birth, they call it the Calenda.
"To dance the Calenda, the Negroes have two drums made,
when possible from the hollow trunk of a tree in a single piece.
One end is open and they stretch over the other a skin of sheep or
nanny-goat. The shorter of these drums is named Bamboula, be
cause it is sometimes formed out of a very thick bamboo. Astride
of each drum is a Negro who strikes it with wrist and fingers, but
slowly for one and rapidly for the other. To this monotone and
hollow sound, is joined that of a number, more or less great, of
little calabashes half-filled with small stones, or with grains of
corn, and which they shake by striking them on one of the hands
by means of a long haft which crosses them. When they wish to
make the orchestra more complete, they add the Banza, a kind of
Bass viol with four strings which they pluck. The Negresses ar
ranged in a circle regulate the tempo by clapping their hands, and
they reply in chorus to one or two chanters whose piercing voice
repeats or improvises ditties. For the Negroes possess the talent
of improvising, and it gives them an opportunity for displaying
especially their tendency to banter.
"The dancers male and female, always equal in number, come
to the middle of a circle (which is formed on even ground and in
the open air) and they begin to dance. Each appropriates a partner
to cut a figure before her. This dance which has its origin on Mt.
Atlas, and which offers little variation, consists in a movement
where each foot is raised and lowered successively, striking with
force, sometimes the toe and sometimes the heel, on the ground,
in a way quite similar to the English step. The dancer turns on
himself or around his partner who turns also, and changes place,
waving the two ends of a handkerchief which they hold. The
dancer lowers and raises alternately his arms, while keeping the
spent them in a complete stupor, stretched out before their doors," while the greater
number "passed their leisure in drinking and dancing, the only distraction from
work with which they were familiar. The dance especially is with them a real
passion."
VOODOO IN HAITI 61
elbows near the body, and the hand almost closed. This dance in
which the play of the eyes is nothing less than extraordinary, is
lively and animated, and an exact timing lends it real grace. The
dancers follow one another with emulation, and it is often neces
sary to put an end to the ball, which the Negroes never abandon
without regret.9
"Another Negro dance at San Domingo, which is also of Afri
can origin, is the Chica, called simply Calenda in the Windward
Isle, Congo at Cayenne, Fandango in Spanish, &c. This dance has
an air which is especially consecrated to it and wherein the meas-
9 Pere Labat, Nouveau Voyage aux Isles de I'Amerique, Vol. II, p. 51
f.,
writing
of the year 1608, devotes
a
lengthy chapter to the West Indian slaves. While resi
dent in Martinique at the time, his remarks are general. He says of the Negroes
:
"The dance
is
their favourite passion.
I
don't think that there
is
a
people on the
face of the earth who are more attached to
it
than they. When the Master will
not allow them to dance on the Estate, they will travel three and four leagues, as
soon as they knock off work at the sugar-works on Saturday, and betake them
selves to some place where they know that there will be
a
dance.
"The one in which they take the greatest pleasure and which
is
the usual one
is
the Calenda.
It
came from the Guinea Coast and to all appearance from Ardra.
The Spaniards have learned
it
from the Negroes and throughout America dance
it
in the same way as do the Negroes.
"As the postures and movements of this dance are most indecent the Masters
who live
in
an orderly way, forbid
it
to theirs, and take care that they do not
dance
it
;
and this
is
no small matter
;
for
it
is
so to their liking, that the very
children who are as yet scarcely strong enough to stand up, strive to imitate
their fathers and mothers whom they see dancing, and will spend entire days at
this exercise." He then describes the two drums used as accompaniment in the
Calenda, the larger to beat the time and direct the dance, while the smaller
is
beaten much more rapidly as an undertone with
a
higher pitch. Seemingly the one
really directs the dance, the other arouses the passions. The dance itself
is
thus
described by Pere Labat. "The dancers are drawn up in two lines, one before the
other, the men on the one side and the women on the other. Those who are waiting
their turns and the spectators make
a
circle around the dancers and the drums.
The more adept chants
a
song which he composes on the spur of the moment, on
some subject which he deems appropriate, the refrain of which, chanted by all
the spectators,
is
accompanied by
a
great clapping of hands. As regards the
dancers, they hold their arms
a
little after the manner of those who dance while
playing the castanets. They skip, make
a
turn right and left, approach within
two or three feet of each other, draw back in cadence until the sound of the drum
directs them to draw together, striking the thighs one against the other, that
is
to
say the man against the woman. To all appearances
it
seems that the stomachs are
hitting, while as
a
matter of fact
it
is
the thighs that carries the blows. They re
tire at once in
a
pirouette, to begin again the same movement with altogether
lascivious gestures, as often as the drum gives the signal, as
it
often does several
times in succession. From time to time they interlock arms and make two or three
turns always striking the thighs and kissing. One easily sees from this abbreviated
description how the dance
is
opposed to decency."
It
will be noticed that this
is
not the real Calenda but rather
a
modified form of the Chica which as stated by
Saint-Mery in the next paragraph of the text, was called Calenda in Martinique
as one of the Windward Islands.
62 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
ure is strongly marked. The proficiency in the dance consists in
the perfection with which she can move her hips and lower part of
the back while preserving the rest of the body in a kind of immo
bility, that even the slightest movement of the arms which balance
the two ends of a handkerchief or her petticoat does not make her
lose. A dancer approaches her, all of a sudden he leaps into the
air, and lands in measured time so as almost to touch her. He
draws back, he jumps again, and excites her by the most seductive
play. The dance becomes enlivened and soon it presents a tableau,
of which the entire action at first voluptuous afterwards becomes
lascivious. It would be impossible to depict the Chica in its true
character, and I will limit myself to saying that the impression
which it produces is so strong, that the African or Creole, it does
not matter of what shade, who comes to dance it without emotion,
is considered to have lost the last spark of vitality.
"The Calenda and the Chica are not the only dances in the
Colony derived from Africa. There is also another which has been
long known there especially in the western part, and it is called
Voodoo.
"But it is not merely as a dance that Voodoo deserves con
sideration, or at least it is accompanied by circumstances which
ranks it among those institutions where superstition and bizarre
practices have a considerable part.
"According to the Negro Aradas,10 who are the real devotees of
Voodoo in the Colony, and who keep up its principles and rules,
Voodoo signifies an all powerful and supernatural being on whom
depends whatever goes on in the world. But this being is the non-
poisonous serpent, or a kind of adder, and it is under its auspices
that all those assemble who profess the same doctrine. Knowledge
of the past, realization of the present, foreknowledge of the fu
ture, all pertain to this adder, which, however, agrees to communi-
10 Saint-Mery, Vol. I, p. 29, explains that the word Arada is a corruption of the
pronunciation of Ardra, the name of a kingdom on the Slave Coast, which was
prior to its conquest by the Dahomans located between Dahomey and Whydah.
The term Aradas, then, applies specifically to the people of Ardra, but generically
to any tribes from the Gold or Slave Coasts. Here it seems to signifiy Dahomans,
including those from Ardra proper and Whydah.
VOODOO IN HAITI 63
cate its power, and make known its wishes, only through the
medium of a high priest whom its devotees select, and even more
so through that of the Negress, whom the love of the other has
raised to the rank of high priestess.
"These two ministers who claim themselves inspired by their
god, or in whom the gift of inspiration is really manifested for
the devotees bear the pompous names of King and Queen, or the
despotic ones of master and mistress, or finally the touching titles
of papa and mama. They are, for life, the chiefs of the grand
family of Voodoo, and they have the right to the limitless respect
of those who compose it. It is they who determine if the adder ap
proves of the admission of a candidate into the society, it is they
who prescribe the obligations, the duties which he must fulfil; it
is they who receive the gifts and presents which the god expects as
a just homage; to disobey them, to resist them, is to resist God
himself, and expose oneself to the greatest misfortunes.
"This system of domination on the one side, and of blind obe
dience on the other, once well established, they meet at fixed in
tervals at gatherings where King and Queen Voodoo preside,
according to those usages which they may have brought from
Africa, and to which Creole customs have added many variants
and traits which disclose European ideas ; for example, the scarf
or the rich belt which the Queen wears in this assembly, and which
she sometimes varies.
"The reunion for the true Voodoo, that which has least lost its
primitive purity, never takes place except secretly, when the night
casts its shadows, and in a secure place, and under cover from
every profane eye. There each initiated puts on a pair of sandals
and fastens around the body a more or less considerable number
of red handkerchiefs or at least of handkerchiefs in which this
colour is strongly predominant. The Voodoo King has more beau
tiful handkerchiefs and in greater numbers and one which is en
tirely red and which he binds around his brow is his crown. A
girdle, usually blue, puts the finishing touch to display his striking
dignity.
64 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
"The Queen clad with a simple luxury, shows also her predilec
tion for the colour red, which is most frequently that of her sash
or belt.
"The King and Queen take their place at one end of the room
near a kind of altar on which is a box where the serpent is kept
and where each member can see it through the bars.
"When they have made sure that no busy-body has gained ad
mission to the enclosure, they begin the ceremony with the adora
tion of the adder, by protestations to be faithful to its cult and
submissive to whatever it may prescribe. With hands placed in
those of the King and Queen, they renew the promise of secrecy
which is the foundation of the association, and it is accompanied
by everything horrible that delirium has been able to devise to
make it more impressive.
"When the devotees of Voodoo are thus disposed to receive the
impressions which the King and Queen desire to make them feel,
they finally take the affectionate tone of compassionate father and
mother, boasting to them of the good-fortune which is attached
to whoever is devoted to the Voodoo ; they urge them to confidence
in
it,
and to give proof of this by following their advice as to the
way they are to conduct themselves in the most important cir
cumstances.
"Then the crowd scatters, and each according to his needs, and
following the order of seniority in the sect, come to implore the
Voodoo. For the most part they ask of
it
talent to direct the mind
of their masters; but this
is
not enough. One asks for more
money, another the gift to please an unresponsive one; this one
wishes to recall
a
faithless mistress
;
that one desires
a
speedy cure,
or
a
long life. After these, an old hag comes to conjure the god
to end the disdain of him whose happy youth she wishes to cap
tivate. A maid solicits eternal love, or she repeats the malediction
with which hate inspires her against
a
preferred rival. There
is
no
passion which does not utter
a
vow, and even
a
crime does not
always disguise those who have for object its success.
"At each of these invocations, the Voodoo King
is
wrapped in
thought
;
the spirit
is
working in him. All of
a
sudden he takes the
VOODOO IN HAITI 65
box wherein the adder
is,
places
it
on the ground and makes the
Voodoo Queen stand upon it. As soon as the sacred ark
is
under
her feet, the new pythoness
is
possessed by the god. She shivers,
her entire body
is
in
a
convulsive state, and the oracle speaks by
her lips. At times she flatters and promises happiness, again she
inveighs and breaks out in reproaches; and according to her
heart's desire, or her own interests, or her caprice, she dictates as
obligatory without appeal whatever
it
pleases her to prescribe, in
the name of the adder, to the imbecile crowd which opposes not
even the smallest doubt to the monstrous absurdity, and which
only knows to obey all that
is
despotically prescribed.
"After all the questions have received some sort of an ambigu
ous answer from the oracle, they form
a
circle, and the adder
is
replaced on the altar. This
is
the time when they bring to
it
a
tribute, which each one has tried to make most worthy of
it,
and
which they place
in
a
covered hat, that
a
jealous curiosity may not
cause anyone to blush. The King and Queen promise to make this
acceptable to it.
It
is
by the profits of these offerings that they pay
the expenses of the assembly, that they obtain help for members
absent or present, who are in need, or from whom the society ex
pects something for its glory or its renown. Suggestions are made,
measures are determined, actions are prescribed which the Voo
doo Queen always declares to be the will of god, and which have
not as invariably good order and public tranquillity as an object.
A new oath, as execrable as the first, engages each one to silence
as regards all that has passed, to give assistance to whatever has
been determined, and sometimes
a
vessel wherein
is
the blood of
a
goat, still warm, goes to seal on the lips of the congregation the
promise to suffer death rather than reveal anything, and even to
inflict
it
on anyone who forgets that he
is
thus solemnly bound
to secrecy.
"After that, there begins the dance of the Voodoo.
"If there
is
a
candidate to be received,
it
is
with his admission
that the ceremony begins. The Voodoo King traces
a
large circle
with some substance that blackens, and places therein the one who
wishes to be initiated, and in his hands he puts
a
packet of herbs,
66 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
horse-hair, pieces of horn, and also other disgusting objects. Tap
ping him lightly, then, on the head with a little wooden wand, he
intones an African chant which those who surround the circle re
peat in chorus ; then the candidate begins to tremble and to dance ;
this is what is termed to 'make Voodoo.' If by mischance the ex
cess of his transport makes him leave the circle, the chant ceases
at once, the Voodoo King and Queen turn their backs on him to
avert misfortune. The dancer recovers himself, reenters the cir
cle, begins anew, drinks, and finally becomes convulsive. Where
upon the Voodoo King orders him to stop by tapping him lightly
on the head with his wand, or stirring stick, or even with a blow
of the voodooistic whip if he judges it fitting. He is conducted to
the altar to take the oath, and from that moment he belongs to
the sect.
"The ceremonial finished, the King places his hand or his foot
on the box wherein is the adder, and soon he becomes agitated.
This condition he communicates to the Queen, and by her the
commotion is spread around, and each one goes into contortions
in which the upper part of the body, the head and the shoulders
seem to be dislocated themselves. The Queen above all is a prey
to the most violent agitations ; she goes from time to time to seek
new frenzy from the Voodoo serpent ; she shakes the box, and the
little bells with which it is decorated produce the effect of a fool's
bauble. The delirium increases. It is even further aroused by the
use of spiritous liquors which in the intoxication of their imagina
tion the devotees do not spare, and which in turn keeps them up.
Fainting fits, swoonings follow for some, and a kind of madness
for others ; but with them all there is a nervous trembling which
they seem unable to control. They ceaselessly whirl around. And
finally it comes about that in this sort of Bacchanalia, they tear their
clothes and bite their own flesh ; others who become senseless and
fall to the floor, are carried, without interrupting the dance, to a
nearby room, where in the darkness a disgusting prostitution
holds the most horrible sway. Finally, weariness puts an end to
those demoralizing scenes, but for a renewal of which they have
taken good care to fix a time in advance.
VOODOO IN HAITI 67
"It is most natural to believe that Voodoo owes its origin to the
serpent cult, to which are particularly addicted the inhabitants of
Juida (Whydah), who it is said come originally from the King
dom of Ardra, of the same Slave Coast, and when one has read to
what an extreme these Africans carry the superstition for this
animal, it is easy to recognize it in what I am about to relate.
"What is unquestionably true, and at the same time most re
markable in Voodoo, is that sort of magnetism which prompts
those who are assembled to dance to insensibility. The preposses
sion in this regard is so strong that even the Whites found spying
on the mysteries of this sect, and touched by one of the members
who have discovered them, are sometimes set to dancing, and have
agreed to pay the Queen Voodoo, to put an end to this punish
ment. Nevertheless, I cannot refrain from remarking that never
has any man of the constabulary who has sworn to fight Voodoo,
felt the power which forces one to dance, and which has doubt
lessly preserved the dancers themselves from the necessity of
taking flight.
"Without doubt, to assuage the fears which this mysterious cult
of Voodoo causes in the Colony, they pretend to dance it in pub
lic, to the sound of drums and with the clapping of hands ; they
even have it follow a repast where they eat nothing but poultry.
But I affirm that this is nothing more nor less than a scheme to
escape the vigilance of the magistrates, and the better to assure
the success of these dark conventicles which are not a place of
amusement and pleasure, but rather a school where feeble souls go
to deliver themselves to a domination which a thousand circum
stances can render baneful.
"One cannot believe to what an excess extends the dependence
in which the Chiefs of the Voodoo hold the other members of the
sect. There is not one of these latter who would not choose any
thing in preference to the misfortune with which he is threatened
if he does not go regularly to the assemblies, if he does not blindly
obey whatever the Voodoo commands him. One has seen that the
fear of it has been sufficiently aroused to deprive them of the use
of reason, and those who, in a fit of frenzy, have uttered shrieks.
68 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
shun the gaze of men and excite pity. In a word, nothing is more
dangerous, by all accounts, than this cult of the Voodoo, founded
on this extravagant idea ; but of which one can make a truly ter
rible force where the 'ministers of being' whom they have hon
oured with the name, know and can do everything.
"Who will believe that Voodoo gives place to something further,
which also goes by the name of dance? In 1768, a negro of Petit-
Goave, of Spanish origin, abusing the credulity of the Negroes,
by superstitious practices, gave them an idea of a dance, analagous
to that of the Voodoo, but where the movements are more hurried.
To make it even more effective the Negroes place in the rum,
which they drink while dancing, well crushed gun-powder. One
has seen this dance called Dance to Don Pedro, or simply Don
Pedro, induce death on the Negroes; and the spectators them
selves, electrified by the spectacle of this convulsive exercise, share
the drunkenness of the actors, and hasten by their chant and a
quickened measure, a crisis which is in some way common to
them. It has been necessary to forbid dancing Don Pedro under
grave penalty, but sometimes ineffectually." 11
11 Moreau de Saint-M6ry, 1. c, Vol. I, p, 44 ff. Note : Moreau de Saint-Mery,
Loix et Constitutions des Colonies Francoises de I'Amerique sous le Vent, Paris,
1780, Vol. I, p. 415, shows that the Code Noir, published in March, 1685, by
Article II prescribes that slaves must within a reasonable time be instructed and
baptized as Catholics. By Article III, Masters who permit their slaves to gather
for religious purposes other than Catholic service are as liable as if they took
part themselves in such gatherings. By Article XVI, Gatherings of slaves be
longing to different masters are forbidden "either by day or night, under pretence
of weddings or otherwise, either on the premises of one of the masters or else
where, and even more so if on the public highway or in hidden places." Corporal
punishment is prescribed for the first offence, with the death penalty for repeated
infractions. By the next Article, Masters who permit such gatherings arc liable
to fines, etc. Cf r. also : Vol. V, p. 384 : Official Orders for the Police of Port-au-
Prince, issued May 23, 1772. Article II forbids all kinds of assemblies and gath
erings of slaves under pain of corporal punishment. And Article VI forbids even
free Negroes and persons of color from holding night-dances or the Calenda.
Even the dances that are allowed to them must stop at 9 p. m. Vol. IV, p. 234 : On
August 5, 1758, Sieur Lebrun, manager of the Carbon Estate at Bois de L'Anse
is fined 200 pounds "for having permitted an assembly of Negroes, and a Calenda
on the 23rd of July preceding, on the said Estate." Vol. IV, p. 829 : Order of the
Governor General dated January 15, 1765, for the formation of a Corps of Light
Troops, to be known as the "First Legion of San Domingo." It assigns as one of
their duties : "To break up the assemblies and Calendas of the Negroes."
That the Calenda was danced despite all legal restrictions, we have ample evi
dence. Thus for example, the Baron Wimpffen, who spent two years in the
island during the period of unrest that immediately preceded the actual up
rising of the slaves, records in his diary in August, 1789, that the day of the
VOODOO IN HAITI 69
According to Moreau de Saint-Mery, then, four kinds of
dances were indulged in by the Haitian slaves before the insur
rection. The Calenda and the Chica have accompaniments of
drums, etc. and the Voodoo and Don Pedro in which there is no
mention of such instruments. In fact, drums and the clapping of
hands are actually introduced at the pretended Voodoo which was
invented as "a scheme to escape the vigilance of the Magistrates
and the better to assure the success of these dark conventicles
which are not a place of amusement and pleasure," as we are ex
pressly told. Here we have the first main distinction the presence
or absence of drums.
Don Pedro, being an outgrowth from Voodoo with even the
year of its origin, 1768, clearly defined, may be passed over for
the present with the single remark that in place of the goat of
Voodoo, the pig becomes the particular animal of sacrifice.
Voodoo itself as described by Moreau de Saint-Mery bears a
close resemblance to its prototype of Whydah, making due allow
ance for local conditions, and it clearly satisfies all our requisites
to be classed as worship in the strict sense of the word, as distinct
from a mere cult.12 Furthermore, despite the rankling controversy
arrival of the French mail was celebrated as a festival for the Negroes who were
dispensed from work, feasted and allowed to dance a Calenda. In the same entry
of the diary we read that baptism meant practically nothing for the Negroes
generally except a change of name, which was frequently thereafter ignored
the sole motive being to please the master and nothing else. Cfr. Albert Savine,
Saint-Domingue a la Vexile de la Revolution, Paris, 191 1, p. 93.
12 Dr. Price-Mars, in setting out to prove that Voodoo is a religion, accepts as
his definition of the word religion, that adopted by the "sociological school of
Durkheim." Ainsi Parla L'Oncle, Compeigne, 1928, p. 30. Then follows a quo
tation from J. Bricourt, Oil en est I'Histoire des Religions, Paris, 1912, p. 15,
which is ultimately taken from Durkheim's chapter on "Definition of Religions
Phenomena and of Religion" Emile Durkheim, The Elementary Forms of the
Religious Life, London, 1926, p. 37. The words quoted really form no part of
Durkheim's definition which is only formulated towards the end of the chapter,
where it runs as follows : "A religion is a unified system of beliefs and practices
relative to sacred things, that is to say, things set apart and forbidden beliefs,
and practices which unite into one single moral community called a Church, all
those who adhere to them." p. 47. However the two are perfectly compatible and
Voodoo satisfies them both as well as most of the other definitions of religion,
enunciated by standard authors. Thus for example, "Religion may be defined sub
jectively and objectively. Subjectively, it is the knowledge and consciousness
of dependence upon one or more transcendental personal Powers, to which man
stands in a reciprocal relation. Objectively, it is the sum of the outward actions
in which it is expressed and made manifest, as prayer, sacrifice, sacraments,
70 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
concerning modern Voodoo in Haiti, all disputants seemingly ac
cept Moreau de Saint-Mery's account, at least substantially. We
are safe, then, in making this our starting point in our study of
Haitian Voodoo.
It is also generally agreed, that the slave insurrection was fos
tered and made possible by nocturnal assemblies that have been
commonly ascribed to Voodoo.
This uprising of the slaves which resulted in the first massacre
of the Whites in Haiti, in 1791, is thus described by Dr. Dor-
sainvil : "It was then that Boukman entered on the scene and de
termined to arouse the imagination and the senses. Born in Ja
maica, Boukman was a N'Gan or priest of Voodoo, the principal
religion of the Dahomans. His tall statue, his herculean strength,
had attracted the attention of the Master of the Plantation, Tur-
pin, who had him appointed successively an overseer and a coach
man. Over all the slaves who came in contact with him he exer
cised an ascendancy which became extraordinary.
liturgy, ascetic practices, ethical prescriptions, and so on." W. Schmidt, The
Origin and Growth of Religion, New York, 1931, p. 2.
Dr. Price-Mars, Ainsi Parla I'Oncle, p. 32, advances his claim as follows :
"Voodoo is a religion because all the adepts believe in the existence of spiritual
beings who live in part in the universe in close touch with human beings whose
activity they control. These invisible beings constitute a numerous Olympus of
gods, of whom the highest among them bear the title of Papa or Great Master
and have the right to special homage.
"Voodoo is a religion because the cult developed to its god, demands a hierarchi
cal sacerdotal body, a congregation of faithful, temples, altars, ceremonies, and in
fine, altogether an oral tradition which certainly has not come down to us un
changed, but thanks for
it,
has transmitted the essential part of the cult.
"Voodoo
is
a
religion because through the medley of legends and the corrup
tion of fables one can disentangle
a
theology,
a
system of representations, thanks
to which, primitively, our African ancestors had an explanation for the natural
phenomena and which in
a
hidden way lays the foundation of the anarchistic
beliefs on which rests the hybrid Catholicism of the masses of the people."
Then after considering the other side of Voodoo which consists of magic or
witchcraft, he concludes, p. 37: "And now,
if
we summarize the results of this
brief discussion, we may draw
a
first conclusion, to wit, that Voodoo
is
a
very
primitive religion, founded partially on the beliefs in all-powerful spiritual beings
gods, demons, disincarnated souls partially on the beliefs in witchcraft and
magic. If we evaluate this double character we will disclose in proportion to our
researches the state more or less pure in its country of origin, and on our soil,
modified by its more than
a
century of juxtaposition to the Catholic religion,
adapted to the conditions of life of our rural masses, fighting against the legal
statute of the nation which wished to free itself of all contact with this form of
beliefs, from which
it
has nothing else to expect. And there you have
in
brief the
position which Voodoo occupies in our social status."
VOODOO IN HAITI 71
"To put an end to all hesitation and to arouse complete devo
tion, he gathered together on the night of August 14, 1791, a
large number of slaves in a clearing in the Caiman woods, near
Morne-Rouge. All were assembled when a tempest broke. The
jagged flashes of lightning illuminating a sky of low and sombre
clouds. In a few minutes a torrential rain flooded the ground ; at
length under the repeated assaults of a violent wind, the trees of
the forest writhed, moaned, and even their heavy branches, torn
away, fell with a crash.
"In the midst of this impressive setting, the bystanders, mo
tionless, seized with holy terror, saw an old Negress arise, her body
shaking with prolonged shivers; she chants, spins around, and
whirls a large cutlass above her head. Rigid stance, gasping breath,
silence, blazing eyes fixed on the Negress, the audience is fas
cinated. Then is brought in a black pig, whose grunting is lost in
the uproar of the storm. With a quick movement, the inspired
priestess plunges her cutlass into the throat of the animal. The
blood gurgles forth, it is collected foaming, and distributed round
about to the slaves, all drink of
it,
all swear to carry out the orders
of Boukman." 13
Since Boukman was
a
Jamaican
it
would be reasonable to sup
pose that he introduced Jamaican features into the cult as he prac-
18
J.
C. Dorsainvil, Manuel d'Histoire d'Hditi, Port-au-Prince, 1925, p. 81
f.
Note: Cfr. also Thomas Madiou, Histoire d' Haiti, Port-au-Prince, 1922, Vol.
I,
p. 102, who states briefly: "On the night of August 14, 1791, 200 delegates
from the ateliers of the northern province assembled
in
the Lenormand planta
tion. There
a
coloured man harangued them about
a
pretended decree whereby the
King granted them three days of freedom each week.
It
was decided then the
22nd of the same month the insurrection should be general."
Concerning the originator of the Don Pedro, Dorsainvil asserts, Vodou el
Nevrose, Port-au-Prince, 1931, p. 46: "Popular tradition, well after Independ
ence, speaks among others of
a
certain Don Pedro,
a
being of flesh and bone,
who, at
a
certain time, had come from the Dominican Republic to take up his
abode in the mountains of the Commune of Petit-Goave. This Don Pedro was
the introducer of that violent dance which by corruption the people call
:
the
P£tro. At his death, Don Pedro did not delay in taking an honourable place
in the Voodooistic pantheon, drawing in his train an entire progeny, such as
Jean Philippe Petro, Criminel Petro, etc." Cfr. also, D. Trouillot, Esquisse Eth-
nographique: Le Vaudoux, Port-au-Prince, 1885, p. 28: "It was from the Domini
can Republic, at the time
a
Spanish Colony, that there came to Haiti in the last
century, the famous Don Pedro, an African who founded at Petit-Goave the
infernal sect, known under the same name as its author. The Don P6dro
is
a
dance of Vaudoux where the most unbelievable orgies are perpetrated
;
this sect,
diminishing daily,
is
only found in the hills of the place of origin."
72 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
ticed
it.
In all probability he had been banished from Jamaica for
complicity in previous unrest there. His administering of the sol
emn fetish oath bears resemblance to the Myalistic ceremonial that
will be discussed in
a
later chapter. In any case the sacrificial
victim was
a
pig, the rite strictly speaking belonged to the Don
Pedro and not to Voodoo proper. This fact alone suggests that
Don Pedro, which had started only twenty-three years previously,
in its very origin, may have been devised precisely in preparation
for such an uprising.
Very little notice was paid to Haitian Voodoo by the outside
world until 1884, when there appeared
a
book which has caused
no end of controversy from that day to this.
It
was entitled Hayti
or the Black Republic, and the author was Sir Spencer St. John.
His claim to credibility was based on the following facts. Before
becoming her Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to Mexico, he had been England's Resident and
Consul-General in Haiti for more than two decades. Secondly, as
he says himself, he had personally known "the Haitian Republic
above twenty-five years."
14
Again writing from Mexico, No
vember 13, 1888, in the introduction to his Second Edition, he
says of his original work: "The most difficult chapter to write
was that on 'Vaudoux-worship and Cannibalism.'
I
have endeav
oured to paint them in the least sombre colours, and no one who
knows the country will think that
I
have exaggerated
:
in fact, had
I
listened to the testimony of many experienced residents,
I
should
have described rites at which dozens of human victims were sacri
ficed at
a
time. Everything
I
have related has been founded on
evidence collected in Haiti, from Haitian official documents, the
press of Port-au-Prince, from trustworthy officers of the Haitian
Government, my foreign colleagues, and from residents long es
tablished in the country, principally, however, from Haitian
sources." 18
And
:
"As my chapter on Vadoux-worship and Can
nibalism excited considerable attention both in Europe and the
14 Spencer St. John, Hayti or the Black Republic, London, 1889, Introduction,
p. vii.
15 Ditto, p. xi.
VOODOO IN HAITI 73
United States, and unmitigated abuse in Haiti, I decided again
to look into the question with the greatest care. The result has
been to convince me that I underrated the fearful manifestations;
I have therefore rewritten these chapters, and introduced many
new facts which have come to my knowledge." 18
In view of this
last statement all our quotations will be taken from this Second
Edition of the work.
Let us, then, carefully weigh the testimony of Sir Spencer St.
John. At the very outset, he states : "I must notice that there are
two sects which follow the Vaudoux-worship those who only
delight in the flesh and blood of white cocks and spotless white
goats at their ceremonies, and those who are not only devoted to
these, but on great occasions call for the flesh and blood of 'the
goat without horns,' or of human victims. It is a curious trait of
human nature that these cannibals must use a euphemistic term
when speaking of their victims, as the Pacific Islanders have the
expression of 'long pig.'
" 17
We must here remark the careful distinction between the cults
in Haiti, and while the author does not also distinguish them by
name, the legitimate cult, if we may so term
it,
is
Voodoo proper,
while the cannibalistic element belongs to Don Pedro. Further,
it
should be noted that while the human sacrifice
is
called the "goat
without horns"
it
is
really substituted, not for the goat of Voodoo,
but for the pig of Don Pedro
:
just as in those Pacific Islands that
are referred to, where the term "long pig"
is
used.
But to resume St. John's narrative
:
"When Haiti was still
a
French Colony, Vaudoux-worship flourished, but there
is
no dis
tinct mention of human sacrifice in the accounts transmitted to us.
In Moreau de Saint-Mery's excellent description of the island, from
whose truthful pages
it
is
a
pleasure to seek for information, he
gives us
a
very graphic account of fetishism as
it
existed in his
day, that is, towards the close of the last century." He means of
course the eighteenth century. Then follows
a
lengthy citation
from the very passage that we have already quoted.
18 Ditto, p. xiii.
17 Ditto, p. 192.
74 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
At the close of the quotation, St. John observes: "In studying
this account, freely taken from Moreau de Saint-Mery, I have been
struck how little change, except for the worse, has taken place
during the last century. Though the sect continues to meet in se
cret, they do not appear to object to the presence of their country
men who are not yet initiated. In fact, the necessity of so much
mystery is not recognized, since there are no longer any French
magistrates to send these assassins to the scaffold." 18
A few pages further on, we read : "After studying the history
of Haiti, one is not astonished that the fetish worship continues
to nourish. The Negroes imported from the west coast of Africa
naturally brought their religion with them, and the worship of the
serpent was one of its most distinguishing features. Saint-Mery
writes of the slaves arriving with a strange mixture of Mo
hammedanism and idolatry, to which they soon added a little
Catholicism. Of Mohammedanism I have not myself observed the
faintest trace. When the Negroes found the large, almost harmless
serpent in Haiti, they welcomed it as their god, and their fetish
priests soon collected their followers around them. The French
authorities tried to put down all meetings of the Vaudoux, partly
because they looked upon them as political, but they did not suc
ceed. Many of the tribes in Africa are to this day cannibals, and
their ancestors no doubt imported this taste into the French
colony." 19
Sir Spencer St. John had already remarked, "I have been in
formed on trustworthy testimony that in 1887 cannibalism was
more rampant than ever," 20
and now in the body of his work he
writes: "There are in Haiti, as I have before noticed, two sects
of Vaudoux-worshippers ; one, perhaps the least numerous, that
indulges in human sacrifices ; the other, that holds such practices
in horror, and is content with the blood of the white goat, and
the white cock. ... In the country districts the Catholic priests
say these fetish-worshippers call themselves 'Les Mysteres,' and
"Ditto, p. 199.
lB Ditto, p. 229.
20 Ditto, Introduction, p. xii.
VOODOO IN HAITI 75
that they mix Catholic and Vaudoux ceremonies in a singular
manner ; the name probably refers to the rites they practice."
21
And, "I have been informed that, besides the goat and cock, the
Vaudoux priests occasionally sacrifice a lamb. ... It is carefully
washed, combed, and ornamented with bunches of blue ribands
before being sacrificed." 22
Let us come now to a spectacle that is even more revolting than
any of those already described one, in fact, where we are told
that the rites actually included human sacrifice. The following
letter appeared in the new york world of December 5, 1886.
The writer of it is personally vouched for by Sir Spencer St. John
who quotes the letter in full.
"I spent some weeks in Cap Haitien, one of the largest and
most important cities in Haiti, and while there I met a number of
Dominican gentlemen, who for various reasons had been com
pelled to spend a long time in the sister republic. These gentlemen
talked a great deal about the existence of cannibalism, and insisted
that its existence was not, as all Haitians claim, merely in the
minds of the writers who desire to publish sensational stories. I
had shut my eyes and ears to the customs of the country people,
and moreover I never allowed myself to think it possible that such
horrible practices, as these gentlemen assured me were common,
existed. Therefore I tried in every way to disabuse them of the
illusions which I thought they entertained. Among these Domini
cans was one who, irritated by my constant denials, determined
to prove to me that his assertions were true. In April (1886) the
workers on one of the coffee-plantations near Le Cap intended to
have some kind of demonstration in honour of one of their super
stitious observances, and my friend learned that, incidental to the
Vaudoux-worship (which by the way, unaccompanied by human
sacrifices no Haitian will deny exists), there would be a human
sacrifice. In some manner my friend had ingratiated himself with
certain of the Negro labourers who were to attend the sacrifices,
and induced them to allow him and me to be present, also. On the
21 Ditto, p. 130.
"Ditto, p. 231.
76 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
evening of April 19 he came to my house, where both of us
dressed ourselves in the ordinary country working-man's costume,
and then had our hands and faces well blacked by the Negro who
was to conduct us to the Vaudoux temple. To reach the temple we
rode out over the smooth wagon-road which runs to and through
the place called Haut-du-Cap, and when we had gotten about
three miles beyond the little tavern on that place, where everybody
stops for refreshments, our conductor suddenly left the highway,
and by a little winding bridle-path led us up the big mountain to a
spot about half-way up the side.
"Here the Negroes had constructed a rude wooden shanty
among the trees and where it could be hardly noticed by any
passer-by, if such there might be in that lonely quarter. Into this
miserable hut we were ushered by our guide, who to obtain ad
mittance, uttered some signal words to the two brawny Negroes
who stood guard at the entrance, and who closely interrogated
every person who entered. We were apparently a little late. In the
single room there was a motley crowd of Negroes, men and
women, congregated round a sort of wooden throne erected in the
centre of the room. On this throne arranged in many coloured long
gowns and adorned with tawdry finery, there sat on chairs draped
with flaming red cloth, a man and a woman. They were the
Papaloi and Mamanloi, or priest and priestess, of the order of the
Vaudoux. At their feet was the box which contained the 'holy
serpent,' which was being worshipped by this ungodly assemblage.
Behind the throne was stretched across from wall to wall a red
cloth partition, which divided the room, or rather which made
another and smaller apartment behind it. As we entered the people
were singing a chant low and monotonous, and at a sign from our
mentor, we, my friend and I, joined it. When this chant had
been finished, there succeeded an interval of deathly quiet during
which the worshippers appeared to be engaged in prayer. Sud
denly the silence was broken by the priest, who with violent ges
tures, and almost shrieking his words, harangued his audience
for ten or fifteen minutes. He told them there was but one thing
to do by which they might obtain spiritual as well as temporal
VOODOO IN HAITI 77
reward, to adore the serpent and obey implicitly and without
question its slightest order. The attitude of the people showed
that they comprehended the injunction and would obey. When
he had wrought the crowd to a sufficiently high pitch of en
thusiasm, the priest suddenly dropped his talk, and bursting into
a chant again, was immediately joined by the others. A weird
dance followed, the people singing as they danced, and gradually
becoming almost delirious in their fervour. The place was soon
in an awful tumult, some of the women, who especially seemed
to have lost all control over themselves, even climbing up to the
rafters, wriggling their bodies, hissing, and trying in every way
to imitate the movements of the snake.
"This ghastly dance was continued for two hours more, when
silence was again produced by the appearance from behind the
red curtain of two men leading by the hand a little trembling
Negro boy in white robes. The child was led to the throne, and
mounting
it,
he prostrated himself twice before the man and
woman seated there. The Papaloi, holding his hands over the
boy's head, blessed him in the name of the sacred serpent, and
then asked him
in
pompous language what he most desired in
the world. The little fellow, glancing up into the faces of his two
conductors, replied (and the reply had evidently been taught
him), 'That object above all other objects in the world which
I
most desire
is
the possession of
a
little virgin.' Hardly had he
spoken when from the encurtained apartment came two women
leading
a
Negro girl of four or five years, also dressed in the
purest white. The second child was led to the throne and stood
confronting the boy. Again the boy was asked what he most
desired, and when he had repeated his former answer, both he
and the girl were at once thrown down on their backs and bound
hand and foot.
"A burly Negro, knife in hand, separated himself from the
crowd, who had been watching the proceedings with breathless
interest, and mounted the throne. Reaching the boy, he said
something to the men, who with their hands over his mouth was
trying to stop the little fellow's cries, and they held their victim
78 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
by the feet up in the air. With a single slash across the little
throat, the brutal executioner killed the child, and the others held
him whilst the life-blood gushed into the receptacle placed below
to receive it.
"At this moment an involuntary exclamation of horror escaped
me, and immediately all eyes were turned towards me, looking
with distrust and suspicion. The horrible proceedings on the
throne were suspended, and a hasty consultation was held among
the people on it. Fearing for my life, and obeying a slight signal
from our guide, I somehow got out of the door, mounted my
horse and rode as hard as I could to the town. The worshippers
did not suspect that I was a white man. They assumed probably
that I was a novice and not yet hardened to the sight. At any
rate I was not pursued, and my friend was not interfered with.
He remained until the end, joined me that night, or rather morn
ing, and told me that the little girl had been killed in the same
manner as the boy, and that then the bodies had been cut up,
cooked, and eaten by the wretches. The whole awful orgy was
ended only when every person present had become helplessly
intoxicated." 28
23 Ditto, p. 203 ff- Note : St. John further quotes p. 243 from the evening
post of New York, for February 25, 1888: "Port-au-Prince, February, 1888.
Recently the body of a child was found near this city ; an arm and aleg had been
eaten by the Vaudoux. During Christmas week a man was caught in the streets
here with a child cut up in quarters for sale. Cannibalism still prevails, despite
all the forced statements to the contrary. President Salomon, to please the
masses, the Negro element, allows them to dance a Vaudoux dance formerly
prohibited."
He also cites many "fully-authenticated" cases, some of them falling under his
own observation, of the administering of drugs to induce apparent death. Sub
sequently the victims were brought back to consciousness, not infrequently after
burial and disinterment, that they might be murdered and certain portions of them
at least used in the ungodly sacrifices of Don Pedro. He concludes : "It was by
these means that the Papalois probably were enabled to obtain their victims dur
ing the French colonial period." 1. c, p. 241.
The following quotation from St. John, p. 232, should also be noted : "Moreau
de Saint-MeYy, in naming the different tribes imported into Haiti during the last
century, says: 'Never had any a disposition more hideous than the last (the
Mondongoes) whose depravity has reached the most execrable of excesses, that
of eating their fellow creatures. They bring also to Santo Domingo those butchers
of human flesh, for in their country there are slaughter-houses where they sell
slaves as they would calves, and they are here, as in Africa, the horror of the
other Negroes.'" Here we have additional evidence that whatever cannibalism
may have existed in Haiti in connection with the Don Pedro rites, must not be
VOODOO IN HAITI 79
James Anthony Froude, writing in 1888, refers to Sir Spencer
St. John's account, "Which," he says, "they cry out against with
a degree of anger which is the surest evidence of its truth." 24
Of his own visit to Port-au-Prince, he writes: "Immorality
is so universal that it almost ceases to be a fault, for a fault im
plies an exception, and in Haiti it is the rule. ... So far they
are no worse than in our own English islands, where the custom
is equally general ; but behind the immorality, behind the religi
osity, there lies active and alive the horrible revival of the West
African superstitions ; the serpent worship, and the child sacrifice,
and the cannibalism. There is no room to doubt it. A missionary
assured me that an instance of it occurred only a year ago within
his own personal knowledge. The facts are notorious; a full ac
count was published in one of the local newspapers, and the
only result was that the president imprisoned the editor for ex
posing his country. A few years ago persons guilty of these in
famies were tried and punished, now they are left alone, because
to prosecute and convict them would be to acknowledge the truth
of the indictment." 25
Two years later the accusation was renewed by Hesketh Prich-
ard in the following words: "Vaudoux, according to its more
elect disciples, is an all-powerful deity, but the idea of the masses
does not rise above the serpent, which represents to them their
god and which presides, in its box, over all their services . . .
Vaudoux is cannibalism in the second stage. In the first instance
a savage eats human flesh as an extreme form of triumph over
an enemy; so the appetite grows until this food is preferred to
any other. The next stage follows naturally. The man, wishing
to propitiate his god, offers him that which he himself most prizes.
Add to this sacrifice the mysteries and traditions of the ages, and
you have the Vaudoux of today. . . . Cannibalism has been
brought as a very general accusation against the Haitians, but
ascribed to Voodoo, but rather to other agencies, even as it was noticed in the
decadent cult of the serpent at Grand Popo.
24
James Anthony Froude, The English in the West Indies; or, the Bow of
Ulysses, London, 1888, p. 343.
25 Ditto, p. 344-
8o VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
although there is no doubt that the child sacrificed in the worst
Vaudoux rites is afterwards dismembered, cooked, and eaten, I
do not think of recent years the practice of cannibalism, uncon
nected with sacrifice, is in any degree prevalent, although it is
equally certain that scattered instances do still come to light.
Haiti is the sole country with any pretence to civilization where
a superstition contaminated by such active horrors exists." 28
Such scathing accusations, whether true or false, could not fail
to attract the notice of friends of Haiti, and many official and
unofficial answers or rather refutations have been attempted.
Notable among these defenders of the reputation of the Black Re
public may be cited J. N. Leger, who, while Envoy Extraor
dinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Haiti to the United States,
in 1907 published simultaneously in French and English a work
entitled Hayti. Her History and Her Detractors.27 However, his
partisan and exaggerated view is betrayed by his statement : "The
island which is now called Haiti is the only one in the West
Indies where cannibalism has never prevailed." 28
No doubt his
ire has been provoked by the assertion of Prichard, "Haiti is the
sole country with any pretence to civilization where a superstition
contaminated by such active horrors exists," which we have re
cently quoted. But in any case, the very aspersion which he so
indignantly repudiates in the case of his native island, he gratu
itously cast against all the rest of the West Indies. This in itself
might well make us cautious about accepting his reliability as a
witness. And further on the very page where we find this bald
accusation, he admits on the authority of Moreau de Saint-Mery 29
that of the Blacks imported to the Island of Haiti as slaves, one
tribe at least was anthropophagous. This he terms "the small tribe
of the Mondongues," but seeks to show that the gentle influence
of the Congo Negroes entirely tamed this unnatural instinct and
20 Hesketh Prichard, Where Black Rules White: A Journey across and about
JIayti, Westminster, 1900, p. 76 ff.
27 French Edition ; Haiti. Son Hisloire et ses Detracteurs, New York, 1907.
28 English Edition, p. 346 ; French Edition, p. 345.
29 Moreau de Saint-Mery, Description de la Partie Francaise de Saint-
Domingue, Vol. I, p. 33.
VOODOO IN HAITI 81
blotted out the practice. But where has it been recorded of savages,
that those of gentler traits prevailed over the warlike and the
blood-thirsty ?
To Sir Harry H. Johnston more attention must be paid when
he comes forward as a defender of Haiti's fair name and reputa
tion. He writes : "At least two out of the three millions of Haitian
Negroes are only Christians in the loose statistics of geographers.
They are still African pagans, with a vague recognition of the
Cross as an unexplained but potent symbol. They believe in a far
off scarcely heeding Deity and a multitude of spirits, ancestral and
demiurgic. Magic or empirical medicine ('Wanga') is, of course,
believed in; and ranges in scope from genuine therapeutics to
sorcery, mesmerism, and poisonings. As to Vuduism, much ex
aggeration and untruth have been committed to paper on this sub
ject, so far as it affects Haiti. Snake worship is of doubtful occur
rence, owing to the rarity of snakes in Haiti.30 Such harmless
snakes as do exist are tolerated in some villages or fetish temples
for their rat-killing propensities. The idea has therefore got abroad
that they are 'kept' as sacred animals by the Vudu priests or
priestesses. Sacrifices of eggs, rum, fowls, possibly goats (white
fowls or white goats preferred) are offered to ancestors or minor
deities presiding over the fertility of crops, rainfall (nature forces
in fact), and various small animals (perhaps even human remains)
are deemed useful in sorcery. . . . Isolated instances about
four or five of cannibalism (the killing and eating of children)
*o Note : Wilfrid D. Hambly here takes exception as follows, Serpent Wor
ship in Africa, p. 59: "Johnston (1910) says that snake worship in Haiti is of
doubtful occurrence owing to the rarity of the snakes there. Such harmless snakes
as do exist are tolerated in some villages and fetish temples for their rat-killing
propensities. The idea has therefore got abroad that they are kept as sacred
animals by the voodoo priests and priestesses. Those seeking scientific truth on
voodooism should doubt much of what has been written on this subject. Johnston
rather negatives his own cautionary remarks by stating that the python worship
of Africa was no doubt introduced by slaves into Haiti, Cuba, Louisiana, Carolina,
Jamaica, the Guianas, and Brazil. If this is admissible, it is difficult to under
stand why the evidences of St. John respecting the survival of snake cults in Haiti
(1889) should be discountenanced. Furthermore, Johnston's idea that snakes are
rare in Haiti is a misconception, as snakes are both abundant and conspicuous on
the island, though there are only a few species, and Haiti, like the rest of the
Greater Antilles, has no poisonous snakes. There are boas, blind snakes, and also
some Colubrine snakes,"
82 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
have occurred in the criminal records of Haiti during the last
twenty years, but the convicted were, in nearly all cases, punished
with death; the one or two not executed had been proved to be
mad, and were confined in prison or asylum. These acts of canni
balism were mostly examples of mad religious exaltation. Haiti
'Vuduism' has absorbed elements of Freemasonry and Christianity.
It predicts the future, investigates crime, arranges love affairs.
. . . The 2,500,000 Haitian peasants are passionately fond of
dancing, will even sometimes dance almost or quite naked. And
following on this choreographic exercise is much immorality. It
is for these dances and not for mystic 'Vudu' purposes that the
drums may be heard tapping, tapping, booming, rattling at night.
No secret is made, nor is any shame felt about these village dances,
in which many young people take part." 81
Of the neighboring
island of Cuba, Johnston writes : "The white Cubans charge the
Negroes with still maintaining in their midst the dark Vudu or
Hudu mysteries of West Africa. There seems to be no doubt that
the black people of Cuba (not the mulattoes) do belong to a number
of secret or Masonic societies, the most widely-heard-of being the
nvannego ; and it is possible that these confraternities or clubs are
associated with immoral purposes. They originated in a league of
defence against the tyranny of the masters in the old slavery days.
Several of them (as described to me) sounded as harmless as our
United Order of Buffaloes. But those seeking after scientific truth
should discount much that may be read on Vuduism. This supposed
Dahomean or Niger cult of the python or big serpent (Monitor,
lizard, crocodile or leopard), with which are associated frenzied
dancing, mesmerism, gross immorality, cannibalism or corpse eat
ing, really exists (or existed) all over West Africa, from Sierra
Leone to Tanganyika, and no doubt was introduced by Inner
11 Harry H. Johnston, The Negro in the New World, London, 1910, p. 193 f.
Note : He is giving the "official" explanation for the sound of the drums. As we
have noted there should be no drumming at real Voodoo or Don Pedro rites, al
though in practice a dance usually precedes the Voodoo function to "disguise" the
purpose of the gathering, as an alibi for the local authorities who may have
given tacit permission for the meeting which officially they should contravene.
Cfr. Seabrook, Magic Island, p. 54: "There was no reason to suppose that we
might be disturbed, but as an extra precaution a gay danse Congo was immedi
ately organized to cover the real purpose of our congregation."
VOODOO IN HAITI 83
Congo, Niger Delta or Dahomey slaves into Haiti, Cuba, Louisiana,
South Carolina, Jamaica, the Guianas and Brazil. Where Chris
tianity of a modern type has obtained little or no influence over the
Negro slaves and ex-slaves, these wild dances and witchcraft
persist.32 They are fast becoming a past phase in the life-condition
of the American Negro, and much of the evidence to the contrary
is out of date, or is manufactured by sensation-mongers for the
compilation of magazine articles." 88
Of the kindred cult in Cuba, Johnston further states : "The last
vestige of noxious witchcraft lingering among the Cuban Negroes
is (said to be) the belief that the heart's blood of the heart of a
white child will cure certain terrible diseases if consumed by the
sufferer. The black practitioners who endeavour to procure this
wonderful remedy are known as 'Brujos' or 'Brujas'
(i.
e. male or
female sorcerers). At the time
I
was in Cuba (December, 1908),
there were four or five Negroes awaiting trial on this charge at
Havana. Other cases said to have been proved beyond
a
doubt
have occurred in Eastern Cuba within the last two or three years.
But all these stories and charges are vague hearsay, and during the
short time at my disposal
I
was not able to get proof of one. There
is
little doubt that occasionally in the low quarters of the old
Spanish towns little white girls do disappear.
It
is
too readily as
sumed that the Negro
is
at fault." 84
Scarcely had these words of Johnston in defence of Haiti been
written before a new attack was launched. Stephen Bonsal asserts
without hesitation: "The truth
is,
that while you need have no
fear whatever of eating human flesh in Haiti disguised as roast
or as
a
round of beef, there
is
no place in the world where you
could so easily satisfy
a
cannibalistic craving as in this land. . . .
"Voodoo
is
not
a
written creed over which
a
house of bishops
presides publicly,
a
fact which should account for the many and
82 Note
:
Is not this condition verified, then, in Haiti, where Johnston's
own estimate was, as noted above, The Negro in the New World, p. 193: "At
least two out of the three millions of Haitian Negroes are only Christians in the
loose statistics of geographers. They are still African pagans, etc." It really looks
as
if
Johnston had done more harm than good to Haiti's cause.
83 Johnston,
1.
c, p. 64!
84 Ditto,
p.
66
f.
84 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
extremely varied versions of its practices which are in circulation
through the world. It is certainly not a mere veneer or an old gar
ment from the Congo days of the black race which has not yet
been cast away. But it is a substantial edifice of West African
superstition, serpent worship, and child sacrifice which exists in
Haiti today, and which undoubtedly would become rampant
throughout the island were it not for the check and control upon
native practices which the foreign residents exercise.
"Several Roman Catholic priests, who have long resided in the
heart of Haiti, told me that one of the hardships and difficulties of
the combat against African darkness upon which they are engaged,
is the extreme reticence not only of the active Voodooists them
selves, but of all blacks in regard to the fetish-worshipping rites.
"A Haitian is often absolutely lacking in tnat form of self-
respect which is the last to depart from the most ignoble white. 'All
will confess the most despicable crimes,' said my priestly inform
ant, 'and admit having sunk to the lowest form of human degra
dation, but even should you see him at the dance under the sablier
tree at night, all smeared with the blood which may have flowed in
the veins of a cock, or goat, or even a human child, he will deny
having anything in common with the Voodoo sectaries." 85
Again: "Of course, the real charge against Haitian civilization
is not that children are frequently stolen from their parents and
are often put to death with torture, and subsequently eaten with
pomp at a Voodoo ceremony, but that Haitians officials, often the
highest in the land, not only protect the kidnappers, but frequently
take part in the cannibalistic rites which they make possible. This
is the charge which I bring and which I am prepared to substantiate
in every particular upon evidence which appears to me, and to
many others to whom I have submitted
it,
to be absolutely un
impeachable." 89
Finally
:
"Every moonlight night in Haiti you hear in the woods
the tom-toming of the Voodoo drums and you know that the devil's
priests are astir. On the horizon burns
a
great campfire, and around
35 Stephen Bonsa1, The American Mediterranean, New York, 1912, p. 88
f.
86 Ditto, p. 90.
VOODOO IN HAITI 85
it dance weird and shadowy forms. Now and again a piercing
shriek rends the air, whether of joy or pain or uttered at the sight
of death, you know not, and your friend and mentor, acclimated
by twenty years of residence and sophisticated by much study of
this strange people, takes you by the hand and says, at least so did
mine; 'It is time, high time, to go now.'
"So I never saw the dark frenzy of the African rites descend
to the level of the cannibalistic feast which, at least in the last
generation, became so frequently a matter of court record, and I
believe that today there is only one white man in Haiti, a French
priest, who has seen the Voodoo rites carried out to their ghastly
conclusion. The little green serpent, the ruling spirit of the abject
Guinea coast sect, is often worshipped and the feast terminates in
scenes of the most vile debauchery, the 'goat without horns,' how
ever, is not always being sacrificed.
"The cannibalistic feed is only indulged in on rare occasions and
at long intervals, and is always shrouded in mystery, and hedged
about with every precaution against interlopers; for, be their
African ignorance ever so dense, their carnal fury ever so un
bridled, the papalois and mamalois, the head men and head women
of the serpent worshippers never seem to forget that in these vile
excesses there should perhaps be found excuse enough for the
interference of the civilized world to save the people of the Black-
Republic from the further degradation which awaits them.
"Within the last fifteen years human victims have been sacri
ficed to the great god Voodoo in the national palace of Haiti. Last
February there was assembled in the national palace what might
justly be called a congress of serpent worshippers. During the life
of Mme. Nord, which came to an end in October, 1908, not a week
passed but what a meeting of the Voodoo practitioners was held in
the executive mansion, and her deathbed was surrounded by at
least a score of these witch doctors.
"General Antoine Simon, who recently achieved the presidency,
may be the intelligent man he is represented to be by not a few
white residents who have come in close contact with him during
the years of his government of the southern arrondissements of the
86 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
island. But one thing is quite sure : if he wishes to remain in the
Black House and rule, he must share his sovereignty with the
Voodoo priests. If he should exclude them from power and banish
them from his presence, his term of office will be of short dura
tion." This prophecy was only too well verified. President Simon
ruled about two years and a half, from December 17, 1908 to
August 2, 191 1, when he made his escape to Jamaica.
Bonsal continues : "There is generally, in fact invariably, much
diversity of opinion in Haiti about things Haitian and a host of
contradictory counsellors, but upon this point there is practical
unanimity. No government can stand in Haiti unless it is upheld
by the Voodoo priests or by foreign bayonets. At least two govern
ments in the last fifty years, that of Geffrard and that of Boisrond-
Canal, have tried to dispense with the priestly poisoners of men's
minds and bodies without at the same time inviting the active sup
port of the civilized world, and in each instance these governments
ended in disaster and in bloodshed which lasted for years.
"But while few, if any, of the white men who are at present
residents of the island have witnessed the sacrifice of the 'goat
without horns,' it is the easiest thing in the world to assist at the
preliminaries at least of a Voodoo feast. While my two visits to
Haiti, taken altogether, do not cover quite a month, I have with
out great difficulty attended Voodoo feasts in town and country,
in the open air under the moonlit heavens, and in the slums of the
capital under the pallid glare of the electric light." 87
This would almost indicate that even as visitors to Chinatown
are said at times to be allowed to visit some stage-set opium dive,
where the actors for the occasion play up to the part with grewsome
reality, so too, perchance the Haitian brethren of the cult may not
be averse to turn an honest penny by staging, in the hopes of a
small consideration, a Voodoo spectacle to satisfy the demands of
tourists who in all good faith fancy that they have been admitted
to the most secret mysteries. This would explain much that Sea-
brook has reported.
Bruce W. Merwin, Assistant Curator at the University of
87 Ditto, p. ioif.
VOODOO IN HAITI 87
Pennsylvania Museum, writes in the museum journal,88 under
the caption "A Voodoo Drum from Hayti" as follows : "During
the first three centuries of colonization of the New World many
of the native customs and beliefs of West Africa were introduced
and retained by the slaves. Of these fetish worship with consider
able development or modification survives even to the present time.
In Haiti, as the Voodoo cult with its human sacrifices, this worship
is the most primitive and degraded in the two Americas. Attention
was drawn to the cult recently by a Voodoo priest's drum presented
to the University Museum by Mr. J. Maxwell Bullock, who had
received it from Major Alexander Williams of the United States
Marines. During the insurrection in 1916 in Haiti it had been
confiscated and its head punctured because the beating of a drum
was the signal to assemble the Voodoo devotees and to incite them
to a religious race war." This statement must be accepted with
restrictions. The term Voodoo is here employed not technically but
in its broadest possible sense. Moreover, anyone familiar with the
famous talking drums of Africa might suspect here that during
the Haitian troubles messages were actually transmitted through
the island by drum language. While I have never found among
West Indies the slightest vestige of what must now be a lost art
among them, certainly their ancestors were most proficient in this
regard and it is still actively practiced in Africa. This much, how
ever, is certain ; that the average drummer of the West Indies is as
proficient as any army bugler in the conveying of conventional calls
and commands.
Merwin further states : "The incessant booming of the drum, the
sight and taste of blood, and the great amount of rum drunk cause
a religious form of hysteria to sweep over the audience. At the
close of the sacrificial ceremony the worshippers begin a dance
called the 'loiloichi,' or stomach dance, which is well known in
West Africa. The dance gets wilder and wilder and more degraded
until it ends in an orgy of the worst description which lasts until
daylight. ... In Haiti the basis of Voodooism is the frank wor-
3» Vol. VIII (1917), p. 123 f.
88 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
ship of the sacred green snake that must be propitiated in order to
keep off the evil duppies."
89
We have here to all appearances the Chica dance of slave days
with a title that combines the old name with the Voodoo "loi."
Hence we may conclude that it was presumably a Voodoo feast at
which the Chica was danced.
George Mannington, in 1925 published a work on the West
Indies in which he tries to sum up the whole question dispassion
ately. His book boasts a Foreword by the Rt. Hon. Baron Olivier,
a former Governor of Jamaica. The following statement is of
interest : "Voodooism or serpent worship, is a degraded form of
religion commonly practiced by the ancestors of the present Negroes
in the forests of Africa, and was the only religion known to the
slaves in the early days. It is said to be followed still in the remoter
parts of some of the islands especially Haiti. It is only fair to
say, however, that the more self-respecting of the people indig
nantly deny that such practices are now followed even among the
most backward of the race. But reports to the contrary still persist.
It is certain that the Haitian Negroes still assemble in groves or
clearing in the forests and dance until they are exhausted to the
accompaniment of tom-toms and wild chantings ; rum-drinking
adds zest to the proceedings. These scenes are occasionally wit
nessed by spectators concealed from view ; it would not be safe to
show themselves openly. Whether or not the more degraded forms
of Voodooism are associated with these gatherings cannot be
positively stated, though such an assertion is made by many. The
belief of the Voodoo (or Vaudoux) votaries appears to be that an
all-powerful non-venomous serpent controls all human events,
knows all things past, present and future, and communicates his
power and will to the priest and priestess who administer the rites,
and who are called Papaloi and Man1aloi, loi being the equivalent
of the French roi and stands in the Negro terminology which is
without gender for both king and queen. This 'deity' is supposed
to require the sacrifice of 'a goat without horns.' Accordingly the
sacrifice of goats accompanied by incantations was the common
89 Ditto, p. 125.
VOODOO IN HAITI 89
practice, the animals being afterwards cooked and eaten. It is
alleged that the phrase 'goat without horns' was also interpreted
to mean a child, that small children were killed and eaten in secret
groves, and that the mothers were proud that their children should
be chosen for sacrifice. The victim's blood was mixed with rum
and drunk." 40
Dr. Price-Mars, whom we quoted at length when considering
Seabrook's Magic Island, gives us an extended view of Voodoo as
he sees it. Being a devoted and loyal son of the little isle that was
once so glorious as the proudest boast of Colonial France, he may
be partial in his views at times, but his sincerity cannot be ques
tioned.
Of the rise of the Haitian community, he tells us : "We know, it
is true, what elements have made up the Haitian community. We
know that a drove of slaves, imported to San Domingo from the
far-stretched western coast of Africa, presented in its entirety a
microcosm of all the black races of the continent. We know how
from the promiscuous intercourse of the white with his black
concubine, and from the artificial conditions of a society governed
by the law of castes, there developed a group intermediate between
the master and the body of slaves. We know further how the clash
of interests and passions, how the confronting of egoisms, and how
the principles evoked by the strange revolution, all brought about
the insurrection which led the erstwhile slaves to found a nation.
Such in a few words is the origin of our people."
41
Concerning the days that preceded the slave uprising, Dr. Price-
Mars writes : "We have at hand two documents whence we may
gather valuable information. The first is entitled L'Essai sur
I'Esclavage et Observations sur I'Etat Present des Colonies. It
treats of the anxiety which was aroused among the whites by the
frequent nocturnal gatherings of the slaves, where they fomented
their plots against the colonial regime. In this connection, the
author makes the following remark : 'Their designs would have
40 George Mannington, The West Indies with British Guiana and British
Honduras, New York, 1925, p. 267 f.
41 Dr. Price-Mars, Ainsi Porta I'Oncle, p. 107.
g0 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
been undiscoverable if they had not been betrayed by the women
concubines of the whites to whom they were generally very much
attached. The dance called at Surinan, Water Mama, and in our
Colony the Mere de I'eau, is rigidly forbidden. They make it a great
mystery and all that can be said of it is this, that it greatly excites
the imagination. They work themselves up to debauchery when
they keep the mind fixed on evil purposes. The leader of the con
spiracy goes into an ecstasy so as to lose all consciousness ; on re
turning to his senses, he pretends that his god has spoken to him
and has commanded some undertaking, but, as they do not adore
the same god, they hate him and they spy one on another, and
their projects are nearly always denounced.'
"From this curious document may be drawn an important con
clusion. It is that at the period to which it makes reference, prob
ably about 1760, the religion of the slaves had not yet been unified,
and without questioning the fact, the author of the Essay gives the
reason when he informs us that the Negroes do not adore the same
god." 42
Dr. Price-Mars goes on to state that while at this time, prob
ably about 1760, there could have been no uniformity of religious
cult among the Negro slaves, yet "less than thirty years later, we
find under the name of 'Voodoo' a religious establishment of which
Moreau de Saint-Mery was the first to give a detailed analysis and
which has remained famous, and has become the theme, enlarged
and borrowed, of most of the accounts which have been given of
the cultural ceremonies of Voodoo by writers who have not them
selves had the occasion of observing them." 48
Dr. Price-Mars remarks elsewhere : "The great mass of Negroes
gathered from different parts of Africa and brought to San
Domingo were from pious races attached to Mohammedanism,
Dahoman religion, and a few Catholics." 44
However, "With many of the slaves Christianity was little more
than an external formality to be observed during the hours of the
"Ditto, p. 1i3f.
" Ditto, p. 114.
44 Dr. Price-Mars, Unt Etape de I'Evolution Haitienne, p. 127.
VOODOO IN HAITI 91
day. By night they met in small groups to practice surreptitiously
their old tribal customs." 45
Gradually "These nocturnal meetings
became regular occurrences under the indomitable influence of
the Aradas, the Ibos and the Dahomans." 48
Showing that during the long formation period there steadily
developed a composite religious cult by a process of assimilating
the various animistic beliefs of Africa, Islamism included, he ob
serves: "But there was only one religion which retained a solid
framework of disciplinary traditions, a sacredotal hierarchy,
capable of imposing some of its rites upon the composite beliefs,
and this was the Dahoman." 47
In connection with his criticism of Seabrook's Magic Island,
Dr. Price-Mars asks a question and then answers it : "Is there a
Voodoo initiation whereby a neophyte, it matters not who he is,
thanks to the good will of the hougan,48 may be admitted to the
congregation? It seems not. Listen, however. If anyone believes
in the rites of Voodoo and he desires actually to take part in some
ceremony, rites of exorcism, of annual commemoration, expiatory
rites, etc., be he white or black, he has only to address himself to
the first hougan met, who will give him the mode of procedure.
As a general rule, the one officiating will not trouble himself to
find out how far the applicant is sincere. His mere application is
45 Ditto, p. 139.
46 Ditto, p. 141.
47 Ditto, p. 142 f. Note: After observing that the Dahoman rites have under
gone great changes and adaptations in the process of absorption, he adds, p. 144 :
"One may remark in passing the ritual gesture of the Mohammedan in the habitual
salaam of the official who holds his hands towards the east before beginning
each Voodoo ceremony. One finds there, too, taboo of the forbidden foods and
the unlucky days." And he sums it all up on the next page, p. 145 : "It is nothing
less than a syncretism of beliefs."
Cfr. also, D. Trouillot, Esquisse Ethnographique : Le Vaudoux, p. 28: "The
Creole Vaudoux is a syncretism of the different sects of the primordial Vaudoux
and of the superstitions as well African as Aryan mingled together by slavery.
It is certain that if an old Guinean was to return, he would not know what to
do in the midst of the dance and Vaudoux ceremonies of today."
48 Note : Dr. Price- Mars tells us that the word Hougan signifies fire or the
warmth of fire, p. 144. It is derived from the Habbes of the Central Nigerian
Plateau so well described by Louis Desplagnes. Cfr. La Plateau Central
Nigerien, Paris, 1907. Referring to the Hougans as "magico-religious leaders of
our rural population of the north and southwest," he continues : "These leaders
are constrained by the ceremonies of initiation to a life of austerity which be
speaks the great moral authority which they enjoy." Cfr. Dr. Price-Mars, L c.,
p. 130.
92 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
sufficient guarantee of good faith. Seabrook was in a position to
make such an application, and I believe that nothing more unusual
was done for the sake of making sport.
"On the contrary, is the individual a menial who is ignorant of
his own prerogatives ? I mean to say supposing that he is an indi
vidual, who thus far has been shut out from all participation in
the ritual obligations of the Voodoo, and who has suddenly become
aware of them, and has been inspired by 'the mysteries.' He may
wish 'to renounce,' to wit, to make up the arrears due to the gods,
and take a more intimate part in the congregation. Then the hougan
proceeds to those ceremonies which are more or less the rites of
initiation baptism of 'loi bossales,' and of the 'hounsis' and of the
'hougainikons.'
"But these initiations are all esoteric. They are accomplished
only by degrees. In the case suggested, the first order of the hougan
to the neophyte, is a severe penance, sexual and dietary abstinence,
penance as regards clothing ; then there is the rigorous retreat and
the fast, followed by the ceremony of initiation and finally the
trials.
"As regards this part of the rite, the initiation is in every way
secret. Moreover the ceremony allows variations. Sometimes the
hougan keeps himself in a darkened room where he has a pool,
the candidates, clothed in white, are stretched on couches in the
adjacent room, having each a wide-mouthed pitcher full of water
which is supposedly ready to receive the 'Mystery' with which the
hougan is going to converse. In fact, the congregation outside the
enclosure can hear at a given moment a kind of conversation
between the one officiating and the pretended 'Mystery' which,
having come at his call, may converse with the subject whom he has
honoured with a fellow-feeling towards him, the 'Mystery.' To my
mind, this conversation a probable effect of ventriloquism is
the boldest of trickeries and it is on that account that there is so
much need of obscurity and of solitude as is claimed by the hou
gan. When, at last, the 'Mysteries' have taken possession of the
elect, these come forth from the enclosure in procession, carrying
their pitchers on head and shoulder, make the round of the arbour
VOODOO IN HAITI 93
where the bulk of the congregation is gathered, taking part in the
feverish ecstasy of the dances and submitting to the ordeal of the
'Canzo' which consists in plunging the hand into a boiling pot of
mess intended for the cult meal. The aroused congregation cries
out at this moment : 'Aie Bobo ! Aie Bobo !'
"At other times, it is at a spring, or occasionally on the bank of
a river, or, if in a locality where there is neither water course nor
spring, it is beside a large cistern, or even a half -cask that the
hougan establishes a shrine,' made of a trellis of reed, on which
are spread large white cloths. There the gods are thought to es
tablish their temporary domicile. The one officiating enters alone.
By his interpretation, the gods, whom certain ones who have died
'serve,' constrain the voice of the dead to converse with their
kindred, their friends among the congregation which is kept at a
respectful distance. In this variant, the rite assumes a character,
half -expiatory, half -initiatory, as it is assumed that the hougan
can transfer to the living 'the Mystery' of his departed parent." 49
Throughout these initiation functions, we notice in clothing and
draperies the entire absence of red, which is the characteristic colour
of Voodoo. If the rites described really belong to present-day
Voodoo, then a marked change has been effected in the whole
cultural ritual. As a matter of fact, the entire ceremony as described
by Dr. Price-Mars suggests Ashanti origin rather than Dahoman
or Whydah.
After a lengthy quotation from Moreau de Saint-Mery, Dr.
Price-Mars observed in his earlier book : "This page of Moreau de
Saint-Mery assumes in our eyes an importance of the very first
order, not only because it is the only authentic document which con
tains serious facts on the religious manifestations of the Negroes
of San Domingo, but on account of the fulness of details, the pre
cision of delineation, the character of the whole work, one recog
nises at once the evidence of the truth. Well does the author tell us
that the sect was secret and it is still so in our day his relation
actually gives us the impression of a deposition of an eye-witness.
However, if as we believe, and as we shall prove later, the ritual of
49 Dr. Price-Mars, L c, p. 172 f.
94 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
cult is sensibly modified since the colonial epoch, many of the
distinctive details in the celebrated description have remained un
changed even today. They help us to establish the primordial ele
ments of Voodoo." 80
Dr. Price-Mars now makes a very serious mistake by assuming
that Voodoo, as he sees fit to portray it at the present day, is sub
stantially unchanged in one hundred and fifty years, and that it
is specifically the same rite as it was in slave times. Rather, since
he admits that Moreau de Saint-Mery has described accurately the
real Voodoo of Colonial times, it would be more profitable to us
if he had simply pointed out the present variants; perhaps, how
ever, it would be more accurate to say that it has been so radically
changed that the term Voodoo can be applied to it only by an ex
tension, if not distortion, of its meaning. That is, of course, pro
viding that Dr. Price-Mars is actually describing present-day
Voodoo to us and not some kindred rite, when he says : "Of these
traits the most characteristic is the state of trance in which the
individual possessed by the god finds himself enthralled." This is
certainly more like an Ashanti function than one from Whydah
as noted previously. "The second trait," we are told, "which gives
its tone to the ceremony is the dance, a rhythmic dance, to the sound
of a trio of long drums to the cadence of the 'assons,' executed on
the syncopated airs which a leader improvises, his voice being
echoed multifold by the enthusiastic congregation." Drums at a
Voodoo ceremony ! And what of his assertion that "the initiation
is in every way secret." And : "Well does the author tell us that the
sect was secret and it is still so in our day." What secrecy, or
even privacy can be had with the blatant summoning of the drums ?
"As regards the rest," he continues, "what seems to be the es
sential of the belief we speak of the adoration of the adder
this part of the rite has been eliminated from Voodoo or relegated
altogether to the background of the ceremonial. We believe it is
almost abolished. On this point we may be permitted to give our
personal testimony. In the course of our investigations, we have
had occasion to assist at numerous Voodoo ceremonies a hundred
50 Dr. Price-Mars, Ainsi Parla VOncle, p. 117 f.
VOODOO IN HAITI 95
at least of which some were celebrated in the most remote dis
tricts, we have never seen, not even once, homage rendered to the
adder. And, a remarkable coincidence, the writers either Haitians or
foreigners, who have seriously devoted themselves to the question,
are unanimous in remarking the same, whether they say it explicitly
or they fail to make mention of such a ceremony."
81
With all due
respect to the experience of Dr. Price-Mars, one cannot refrain
from making the reflection : Either he was fully initiated into
the cult, or he was not. If he was, then he has taken the oath to
conceal the true facts ; if he was not, then from his own statements,
being an uninitiated, he would never be admitted to the full cere
monies.82
Furthermore, if the present state of Voodoo in Haiti, is precisely
as Dr. Price-Mars describes
it,
with the serpent eliminated, there
must have been
a
very radical change quite recently. Some twenty
years ago,
I
was assured personally by Haitians in Jamaica, whom
I
certainly considered worthy of credence, that to their own knowl
edge, the mixture of Voodoo and Catholicism in Haiti had given
rise to many altars with regular tabernacles, such as are commonly
found in Catholic churches, but in each case the tabernacle was
reserved by the owner for the use of the serpent.
This view
is
further confirmed by the personal experience of one
111
Ditto, p. 118f.
82 Note
:
Prichard
is
not far wrong in his conclusions, Where Black Rules
White, p. 81
:
"Vaudoux
is
so inextricably woven in with every side of the
Haitian's life, his politics, his religion, his outlook upon the world, his social and
family relations, his prejudices and peculiarities that he cannot be judged apart
from them."
Arthur W. Holly, Les Daimons du Culte Voudu, Port-au-Prince, 1918, starts
his Preface with
a
blatant profession of faith
:
"Without vanity or false shame,
or cowardice,
I
declare that
I
am an esoterist that
is
to say one initiated to the
sciences whose roots are deep set in Ethiopic-Egyptian antiquity sciences which
allow one to recognize in the priestly writings the cosmogonic beginnings, to
disengage from
a
symbol,
a
sign,
a
given letter the value of the idea, its meta
physical sense or its true scientific character." The work itself
is
merely an
esoteric pretence of the most amateur type and of practically no real value.
However, Dr. Holly stresses one point that may be significant, Preface, p. x
:
"Definitively
I
have good reason for asserting that the Negro initiated in the
true Voodoo cult, in comformity with pure traditions, enters into no relations
whatever with Satan. The demons to whom they accuse him of sacrificing are
not the spirits of darkness, and therefore malevolent. They are rather the Daimons
according to the Greek concept, that
is
to say 'bright spirits.' Witchcraft, sordid
magic,
is
incompatible with the great principles preconized by Voodoo morale."
96 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
who spent many years in Haiti and Jamaica. While not free to
disclose the name of the party in question, whom we may refer to
as Madam X., the writer can unreservedly attest her honesty and
sincerity. She was a lady of education and refinement, and the
exemplary mother of a family. Of her stay in Haiti she subse
quently told a missionary in Jamaica : "When I first moved there,
I was told that I must be very careful about my baby, because the
natives often stole babies, white babies especially, to use them in
their obi rites or services." By obi is here meant witchcraft in its
generic form ; though, of course, Voodooism would be specifically
more correct. Madam X. continues : "Soon after I arrived, a
woman living next door, whose husband had been a notorious
Obeah man and had died just a short time before, came to visit me.
She was very friendly, and when she saw my chapel, she said ; 'You
know I have a chapel, you must come over and see me and see my
chapel which I have for my services; my husband was a great
Obeah man and all the great people came to him.' When I went to
see her, she showed me a room generously fixed up like a chapel ;
there was a box corresponding to our tabernacle, an altar and two
statues. . . . There was a white goat there which was used in
Obeah rites, she used to dress up this goat in the most costly robes ;
there was a barrel in which was a large snake which was dressed
in ribbons. She showed me lots of costly presents which had been
given her by rich people, costly robes for the goat, wine, jewels,
etc. After her husband's death she had kept up his work. She said
that all the people from the president down, even practical Catholics,
went to the ignorant Obeah men and women. She added, that in
order to get sacred particles the Obeah men and women used to go
to communion, keep the Hosts dry in their mouth, and bring them
home to their Obeah chapel and keep them in their tabernacles." 53
Despite his perfervid descriptions, Seabrook has much of real
value and particularly as already noted in the second portion of his
book. Thus for example: "Voodoo in Haiti is a profound and
vitally alive religion. . . . Voodoo is primarily and basically a
form of worship, and ... its magic, its sorcery, its witchcraft
53 A. J. Emerick, Obeah and Duppyism in Jamaica, Woodstock, 1915, p. 192 f.
VOODOO IN HAITI 97
(I am speaking technically now), is only a secondary, collateral,
sometimes sinisterly twisted by-product of Voodoo as a faith." 54
And "Voodoo is not a secret cult or society in the sense that Free
masonry or the Rosicrucian cult is secret ; it is a religion, and secret
only as Christianity was secret in the catacombs, through fear of
persecution. Like every living religion it has its inner mysteries,
but that is secretness in a different sense. It is a religion toward
which whites generally have been either scoffers, spyers, or active
enemies, and whose adherents, therefore, have been forced to
practice secrecy, above all where whites were concerned. But there
is no fixed rule of their religion pledging them to secrecy, and
Maman Celie was abrogating nothing more than a protective
custom when she gave me her confidence." 85
Again he says: "Although Damballa, the ancient African ser
pent god remains enthroned as its central figure, this Voodoo cere
mony is not the old traditional ritual brought over from Africa,
but rather a gradually formalized new ritual which sprang from
the merging in earliest slave days of the African tradition with the
Roman Catholic ritual, into which the slaves were all baptized by
law, and whose teachings and ceremonials they willingly embraced,
without any element of intended blasphemy or diabolism, incor
porating modified parts of Catholic ritual as for instance the vest
ments and the processional into their Voodoo ceremonials, just as
they incorporated its Father, Son, Virgin, and saints in their pan
theistic theology." 88
84 Seabrook, Magic Island, p. 12.
85 Ditto, p. 31.
58 Ditto, p. 34. Note: Cfr. also Seabrook, p. 89: "In America the word
Voodoo has come to mean indiscriminately any Negro sorcery, secret ceremony,
or old African witch-doctor practice. In Haiti the word is similarly loosely used
sometimes even by natives, so that when they wish to distinguish sharply they
are likely to use the word Rada as the name of their religion, and Service Petro,
or Service Legba for their ceremonial religious rites." P. 295 : "Petro or Service
Petro is the name given to the blood-sacrificial Voodoo ceremony. It derives from
the name of a slave who was a famous papaloi in colonial times." P. 308: The
following literally translated, is one of the formulas pronounced by the sorceror
over a death ouanga before hiding it in the secret place where it is to lie rotting :
"Old master, now is the time to keep the promise you made. Curse him as I curse
him and spoil him as I spoil him. By the fire at night, by the dead black hen,
by the bloody throat, by the goat, by the rum on the ground, this ouanga be
upon him. May he have no peace in bed, nor at his food, nor can he hide. Waste
98 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
We rather suspect that the following passage
is,
partially at
least, ascribable to Dr. Price-Mars from whom much of Seabrook's
technical information was gathered. "The worship of the snake
in Haiti," he declares, "is by no means so literal as commentators
have supposed.
It
is
true that on every Petro altar in Haiti there
is
a
serpent symbol, sometimes painted on the wall, sometimes
carved of wood and elevated on
a
staff.
It
is
true also that living
snakes are regarded as sacred objects, not to be injured or mo
lested. One of the commonest and handsomest
is
a
harmless green
tree snake which grows to three or four feet in length, but all
snakes are held sacred. But the serpent
is
worshipped symbolically,
and not because they believe he has any power of his own
;
he repre
sents the great god Damballa. ... So far as
I
am aware no living
serpent
is
kept 'in
a
box' or otherwise on any Voodoo altar to-day
in Haiti. A negro friend has told me, however, of an Obeah cere
mony which he had seen in Cuba in which
a
living snake was the
central object. He said that
a
large, non-poisonous snake was kept
in a big earthern jar on an altar, that some ten or fifteen negroes
made a sort of circular endless chain beginning and ending at the
rim of the jar by lacing their arms around each others shoulders
:
that the snake was then drawn from the jar and induced to crawl
over their shoulders, making the circuit and returning to the
jar." "
Finally Seabrook tells us
:
"It
is
not my intention to gloss over
the fact that actual human sacrifice
is
also an occasional integral
part of the Voodoo ritual in Haiti.
.
. . That human sacrifice in
Voodoo today may seem strange and to many persons horrible,
but only,
I
think, because they consider
it
in terms of 'time.' . . .
I
have described no human sacrifices on the pages of this book
solely for the reason that
I
never saw one.
I
f
I
had lived for many
years instead of months with Maman Celie in the mountains,
it
is
probable that
I
should have seen one. Such sacrifices, however,
Maman Celie tells me, are rare and performed only under stress of
him and wear him and rot him as these rot." But this
is
not Voodoo,
it
is
undiluted
witchcraft.
'Ditto,
p.
3ii,
VOODOO IN HAITI 99
seeming necessity. That they never reach the courts or public
notice is due to the fact that when they are pure authentic Voodoo,
the sacrificial victim is never kidnapped, stolen, or procured by
other criminal means, but always voluntarily offered from within
the religious group. Occasionally also, however, occurs some ex
traordinary criminal abuse of this practice, followed by denuncia
tion and prosecution. In this category was the case of Cadeus
Bellegarde which occurred in 1 920. He was a papaloi turned crimi
nal, a pathological monster." 88
Dr. J. C. Dorsainvil, a Haitian physician of standing, in an
address to the Historical and Geographical Society of Haiti stated
in 1924 : "Ten years ago, in a study published by the review haiti
medicale, we asserted that Voodoo in its psycho-physiological
effects consists in this, it is a racial psycho-nervous disorder, of a
religious character bordering on paranoia. Our opinion has in no
way changed. But as you see the question was then viewed from
a medical standpoint.89
"We are permitted today to present to you the same question
under another aspect, the philological viewpoint. This will be noth
ing else but a study chapter wherein we trace our origins.
"As much if not more than our revolution, Voodoo has tended
to destroy the reputation of our country. The imagination of well-
meaning chroniclers, such as St. John our latest visitor, to pass
over Alaux, Texier and others, who does his utmost to discover in
the frequently inoffensive ceremonies of this cult, the most re-
58 Ditto, p. 319 f.
59 Cfr. also, J. C. Dorsainvil, Vodou et Nevrose, p. 48 : "We affirm that Voodoo-
ism satisfies a nervous racial habit firmly established by the belief in secular
practices among many Haitian families. The proofs of such a condition are plen
tiful, if one will only take the trouble to observe well the facts." However, we
cannot endorse Dr. Dorsainvil's explanation of a "dual personality" even in the
broad sense in which he uses the term.
Trouillot, Esquisse Ethnographique : Le Vaudoux, p. 10, thinks that excessive
alcoholism and feverish excitement induces a sort of hypnotic effect at the Voodoo
dances so that it makes the participant insensible to pain as when he plunges
his hand into the boiling caldron. He further observes, p. 10 f. : "It is a fact that
the financial return of a dance and the orgiastic pleasures which it furnishes to
dancers and spectators are the only and real perpetuation of Vaudoux. It is no
longer a religion with its dogmas and rites, it is only a gross indulgence having
preserved the empty form of a vanished belief." And it was as far back as 1885
that these words were written I
IOO VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
pugnant scenes of cannibalism and orgies. Some of our journalists
even speak of it with that inconsideration and absence of study,
with which one can too frequently reproach them.
"We have then a deep interest in shedding the clearest light on
the origins of this mysterious cult. This work is easy today, for
the activity of investigators has left unturned no corner of the vast
moral world of humanity." 80
Taking up the meaning of the word, Dr. Dorsainvil asserts:
"Voodoo ... is simply a generic term of the fongbe dialect. . . .
It is the most important word of the dialect since it includes nearly
the whole moral and religious life of the Fons and is the origin, or
rather it is the invariable root, of an entire family of words. What
is the precise meaning of the world in fongbe? It designates the
spirits, good or evil, subordinate to Mawu and, by extension, the
statue of one of these spirits, or every object that symbolizes their
cult or their power, protective or malevolent." 81
Again, "The most
celebrated expression of the religion of the Voodoo is the cult of
the serpent or of the adder Da, pronounced Dan, incarnating the
spirit Dagbe, pronounced Dangbe." He is writing as a Frenchman.
"The two principal sanctuaries of this cult were found in the
sacred woods of Somorne near Allada and at Whydah. Among us
by contraction, the Dahoman expression Dangbe Allada has be
come the loa (a Congo word) Damballah, of which the symbol
still remains an adder." 8a
Of the establishment of the cult in Haiti, Dr. Dorsainvil has this
to say: "By comparison with other African tribes, the Aradas,
Congos, Nagos, etc. the Fons have been very much in the minority
in San Domingo. How, then, explain the strong religious impress
with which they have marked the people? It is here that shows
forth all the importance of the Voodoo cult in San Domingo.
Whether it is pleasing or not, Voodoo is a great social factor in
our history. The colonials tolerated all the noisy dances of the
slaves, but feared the Voodooistic ceremonies. They instinctively
60
J. C. Dorsainvil, Une Explication Philologique du Vbdu, Port-au-Prince,
1924, p. 14 f.
61 Ditto, p. 18 f.
62 Ditto, p. 20.
VOODOO IN HAITI IOI
dreaded this cult with its mystical movements, and felt in a con
fused way that it could become a powerful element of cohesion for
the slaves. They were not mistaken, for it was from the heart of
these Voodooistic ceremonies that the great revolt of the slaves of
San Domingo developed. Toussaint himself knew this so well that
when he became the first authority of the colony, he no longer
tolerated this kind of cult." 83
He adds later: "Religion so
hierarchic, so enshrouded in mystery, should, it is clear, exercise a
powerful attraction in the other African tribes represented in San
Domingo. It offered them a body of religious beliefs which were
not in the least to be found in the superstitions practiced by them
selves. But in branching out, Voodoo divested itself of its original
characteristics. It overburdened itself with parasitic beliefs, Ara-
dean, Congoleon, etc." 84
Dr. Parsons thus begins her article on the Spirit Cult of Haiti,
"During a recent folk-tale collecting tour to the south coast of Haiti,
I had opportunities to observe combinations in cult of African
paganism and French Catholicism of much interest to the student
of acculturation, as well as to West Indian folklorist or historian.
That this cult has heretofore passed undescribed in Haiti is prob
ably due to the diversion of interest to one of its reputed features,
ritual cannibalism or, in journalistic term, voodoo human sacrifice,
the folklore of which is wide-spread among all foreigners, white
and coloured, in Haiti, as well as among Caribbean neighbours.
Some St. Lucia boys shipwrecked in San Domingo told me there
that they had become afraid of going on to Haiti, as they once
thought of doing, since they had heard how they killed and ate
people in Haiti. It was the same story I had heard fifteen years
before from the French wife of a Syrian merchant at the Haitian
town of Ganaives. This lady felt outraged against the Island
'sauvages.' ... If human sacrifice occur or has ever occurred in
Haiti, it is in connection with the Taureau Criminel, the Criminal
Bull, one of the spirits or loi of which there is a large number, both
Catholic and African. Between patron saint and West Indian fetish
83 Ditto, p. 29.
64 Ditto, o. 37.
102 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
no distinction is made in the cult which may be described as a
theory and practice of possession by spirits. There is little or no
philosophic or religious expression of the theory to be heard in
Haiti, but descriptive details of the practice abound." 85
Perhaps the most dispassioned account of Voodoo comes from
the pen of one who had lived for years in Haiti towards the close
of the last century and had sought to study the question scientifi
cally. Eugene Aubin, in giving the results of his researches, dis
sociates himself from the partisans of every phase of sentiment.
His narrative is simple and to the point.88 Thus: "In the settle
ment as in the home, Negro life is dominated by old African super
stitions, that is to say by the Voodoo cult. Although they point out
many traces of it in the United States and in certain islands of the
Antilles, it is nowhere more prevalent than in Haiti where its
development remains unimpeded. Elsewhere it restricts itself to
the exploitation of witchcraft for the profit of some shrewd indi
viduals, which they call Obeah in the English colonies. The historic
development of San Domingo is sole cause for the difference in
Haiti. Whereas in the other islands fetishism tends, if not to dis
appear, at least to disguise itself under the influence of Christian
ity, supported by external force; the independence of Haiti
encourages parallel progress, even the confusion of the two
beliefs. . . .
"The study of Haitian fetishism is not easy. Those who treat of
the subject do so with prejudice or inaccurately. The Fathers Du
Terte and Labat scarcely touch on it. The latter restricts himself
to a mere expression of distrust. 'The Negroes,' he writes, 'do with
out scruple what the Philistines attempted ; they associate the ark
with Dagon and secretly preserve all their old idolatrous worship,
65 Elsie Clews Parsons, Spirit Cult in Hayti, Paris, 1028, p. 1.
88 Note : Cfr. Seabrook, The Magic Island, p. 316 f. : "Eugene Aubin, a French
writer who lived in Haiti for a number of years prior to 1898, interested himself
in the study of Voodoo without ever apparently having wished to witness or
participate in its sacrificial ceremonies. It is possible that he was restrained by
moral scruples. He wrote, however, an excellent book called En Haiti, pub
lished in Paris in 1910, which shows he was on the friendliest terms with the
leading papalois and hougans of that period. He discussed sympathetically and at
length with the more intelligent ones the nature of their creed and was admitted
to a number of their temples."
VOODOO IN HAITI 103
with the ceremonies of the Christian religion.' A 'trusty and
intelligent Negress' understood little of anything at Descourtelz.
As ever Moreau de Saint-Mery was the best informed of colonial
writers. The educated creoles pretend complete ignorance of things
so gross ; unconsciously there survives in them the old prejudices
of times when the planter felt himself insecure in his isolation
among the Negroes, dreaded their mysterious cult, their secret
meetings, their witchcraft and their poisons. For his part, the
Negro remains attached to his practices, observant of his initiations.
Z'affe mouton pas z'affe cabrite. The affairs of the sheep are
not those of the nanny-goat, says the creole proverb ; the things of
the blacks do not concern the whites.
"However uncouth may seem the cult sprung from Haitian
fetishism the fault is in no way due to the fundamental principle
of their beliefs, which restrict themselves to seeking out the mani
festations of the Divinity in the forces of nature. It is a pantheism,
as any other, classified by the same standard as ancient paganism
or the religions of India. The great wrong of the Negroes was to
overindulge life, in exaggerating the evil character of the super
natural world and in conceiving the universe as peopled with
predominantly evil spirits, among which the lois and the ancestors
freely enjoyed an aggressive role as regards suffering humanity.
They came to the conclusion that it was necessary to conjure these
evil influences by witchcraft, gifts and sacrifices ; to the papalois or
sorcerers, people well versed in the mysteries, fell the charge and
the profit of these conjurations. . . .
"According to the tribe, the rites and the traditions differ. Just
as the Negroes of San Domingo came in great numbers from all
coasts of Africa, Haitian Voodoo results from the confusion of
all the African beliefs. However, there stands out two principal
rites, each constituting a distinct cult, the rite of Guinea and the
'Congo rite.' Although the blacks of this colony came in greater
numbers from Congo than from Guinea, the followers are divided
about equally, according to the origin or the convenience of the
families. But, nevertheless, the superstitions of Guinea exercise a
prepondering influence on the actual doctrines of Voodoo. In each
104 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
of the two rites, experts remark a series of subdivisions, corre
sponding to the different tribes of the north and of the middle coast
of Africa. Arada, Nago, Ibo belong to the rite of Guinea; it seems
that the north coast has had more agreeable fetishism and freely
admits good spirits. The Arada would be the simplest and purest
cult of all, knowing nothing whatever of witchcraft. The spirits
venerated on the southern coast are more frequently wicked : these
latter frequent the subdivision of the Congo rite, the Congo Franc,
the Petro, and the Caplaou.
"The scenes of cannibalism which occur even now at times (an
example of this kind was tried in 1904 by the criminal court of
Port-au-Prince) would be the work of the adherents, fortunately
few in number, of the particular divisions of the Petro and the
Caplaou ; some may be ascribed to the Mondongue, of which the
character is a little out of the ordinary, although belonging to the
Congo rite.
"The paraphernalia of all these rites have created a veritable
mythology in Haitian Voodoo. The lois, saints, the mysteries found
in nature, have received the names of ancient African kings or
indeed of the localities where they have been deified. They add the
title of Master, Papa or Mister. Legba, Dambala, Aguay, Guede,
derived from the rite of Guinea, are the object of an almost uni
versal cult; Master Ogoun, Loco, Saugo, Papa Badere . . . and
they have also no end of others. The King of Engole (Angola)
and the King Louange (Loango) belong to the Congo rite. . . .
"All the lois wish to be 'served' ; and their service belongs to the
papalois. Do these ministers restrict themselves to the good lois,
namely to the rite of Guinea and to those elements of the Congo, as
they say 'who serve with one hand alone'? 'To serve with two
hands' implies no less the cult of the evil lois, pitiless deities, crav
ing for blood and vengeance. The houm forts, sanctuaries of these
multiple spirits, are on every hand in the plains, where the people,
better circumstanced, take care to surround their fetishism with
elaborate ceremonies, unknown in the uplands.
"The papaloi is a man versed in the rites, by heredity or study,
who has gradually risen in the Voodoo hierarchy. He has some
VOODOO IN HAITI 105
times attended the famous houmforts of the plains of Leogane
and Arcahaye, received the most secret initiations and undergone
the ordeal of an ordination. When these final ceremonies are con
cluded, the new papaloi presents himself to the faithful, and pos
sessed by the spirit, he intones the chant proper to the loi who,
during his life, will be the Maitre-caye, the Maitre-tete, and to
whom will be consecrated the houmfort which he is about to enter.
"The foundation of the Voodoo cult is found in the family.
Each familyhead, clothed with a family priesthood, honors the
spirit of the ancestors and their protecting lois." 87
To our way of thinking, then, Voodoo as first found in Haiti
was substantially the serpent worship of Whydah; and in the
beginning at least, it was but slightly modified by local conditions.
As the children of the African "bush" were ruthlessly torn away
from their native haunts, they naturally carried with them the
practices and superstitions that served as cherished memories of
the past, and thus introduced to their new surroundings the diverse
forms of perverted worship or sorcery, as the case might be, and
for a time at least clung to their own peculiar customs.
Those who had practiced Ophiolatry in Africa, had a great ad
vantage over the rest. Seemingly they had not lost their deity
after all. For the non-poisonous python was waiting their arrival
in Haiti. It was the one familiar object to meet their gaze. It was
the one connection with the past. Naturally any of the priests and
priestesses who were among them would not be slow to put the
incident to good account.
In any case, Voodoo quickly became the dominant form of
worship among the slaves, but as was to be expected it gradually
suffered modifications and even split up into various sects accord
ing to the whim and fancy of some new leader who gained in
fluence among the general body of the slaves.
Thus in 1768, Don Pedro came into being, as seems probable,
directly as a means of stirring up the slaves to insurrection. At
Whydah the serpent was consulted about the undertaking of war,
and in a sense represented the god of war. But now something
67 Eugene Aubin, En Haiti, Paris, 1910, pp. 43-51.
i06 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
more aggressive and emotional was required. The serpent natu
rally was retained, but in the ritual not only were the dances
quickened in their tempo, but the pig was substituted for the goat
as the sacrificial animal.
With the arrival of Broukman from Jamaica, the Don Pedro cult
in Haiti developed further, as it began to take on more and more
the form of sorcery. Its religious element is gradually transferred
from the service of the good spirits to that of evil spirits, and in
course of time it becomes the cult of blood par excellence and finds
its climax, at least on rare occasions, in human sacrifice and canni
balistic orgies.
As regards Voodoo proper, the account of Moreau de Saint-
Mery, it must be admitted, might seem to indicate that the cult
had become formal idolatry. But we should remember that the
atheistic tendencies of that day would probably influence the point
of view of one who subsequently was to take such an active part
in the events that led up to the French Revolution.
There are equally strong indications from the testimony of
later observers, that Voodoo in the nineteenth century could still
be classed as formal worship, substantially unchanged though
modified in many details.
However, it appears that the religious element in the cult was
gradually yielding to social influences. Voodoo feasts are intro
duced, probably at first as a disguise for the secret session that
will follow later. But in time, more and more is made of the ac
companying dance, with the consequences that Voodoo in the
strict sense of the word begins to wane. And unless Dr. Price-
Mars is entirely wrong in his estimate of conditions, the present
century finds the cult so modified and changed that it is now
Voodoo in name only.
Meanwhile we have a general conglomeration of all the old
cults, combined with dances of every description, all imbued with
every form of witchcraft and sorcery, posing under the generic
term of Voodoo. The religion of the Whydahs has become the
witchcraft of the Haitians !
As regards the much resented accusation of human sacrifice
VOODOO IN HAITI 107
and cannibalism, the weight of evidence would indicate that while
these abuses are by no means common in Haiti, nevertheless, at
times there are sporadic outbreaks. And it would be strange if the
orgies of nerve-racking debauchery and dissipation so peculiar to
tropical dances when the strong arm of the law does not intervene,
did not at times evolve a paranoiac state of irrational craving, and
subsequent surreptitious gratification of the lowest instincts in
degraded human nature the animal-like gratification of the
"goat without horns" in Haiti and the "long pig" in the distant
Pacific Islands.
It must not be supposed, however, that these disgusting orgies
are countenanced by the present Government authorities, or that
they are of frequent occurrence. Certainly within the coastal dis
tricts which are watched over by the American Marines, public
Voodoo is non-existent. But back in the hills there must still be
many a secret gathering as in the days of slavery, where Voodoo
and even Don Pedro at times find outlets for pent-up energy and
orgiastic excesses.
Nor on the other hand must this abnormality on the part of a
few be held as a reflection on the Haitians as a people. The
chapters of recent crimes in our own country, which may bespeak
degeneracy and moronism on the part of individuals, would not
ascribe these reproaches to the entire nation.
Chapter IV
ORIGIN OF OBEAH
Just as in the case of Voodoo there is a fundamental document
that has served as a starting point for all writers on the subject,
so we have a similar source of information as regards Obeah.
This is the Report of the Lords of the Committee of tlie Council
appointed for the consideration of ail matters relating to Trade
and Foreign Plantation, London, 1789.1 Part III is entitled:
1 Note : As mentioned before, this is a large folio volume of over twelve
hundred unnumbered pages. As it is difficult of access, although a copy may be
found in the Boston College Library, a somewhat lengthy citation may be per
missible. Bryan Edwards says of this Report: "It was transmitted by the Agent
of Jamaica to the Lords of the Committee of the Privy Council, and by them
subjoined to their report on the slave trade ; and, if I mistake not, the public are
chiefly indebted for it to the diligent researches, and accurate pen, of Mr. Long."
Bryan Edwards, The History, Civil and Commercial, of the British Colonies in
the West Indies, London, 1793, Vol. II, p. 88. As Edwards was writing less
than four years after the publication of the Report, his statement may be relied
upon as accurate. The Long referred to, was Edward Long, the historian. He
was the great-grandfather of Sir Esme Howard, recently the British Ambassador
to the United States. His own great-grandfather in turn, was at the age of
sixteen attached as Lieutenant to the regiment of his kinsman Col. Edward
Doyley when he set out on the original Cromwellian Expedition that seized
Jamaica in 1655. The Secretary of the Commissioners dying, young Long suc
ceeded him. This started him on a career that found him Speaker of the House
of Assembly of Jamaica at the age of thirty-three and Chief Justice of Jamaica
at thirty-eight. In the family tree with all its ramifications we find the names of
nearly all the leading gentry of the island, and if we trace it back far enough it
has a common origin with that of General Washington, the American patriot.
Even Sir Henry Morgan, the notorious buccaneer, who on three separate oc
casions acted as Governor of Jamaica, was connected with the Long family by
marriage. Edward Long, the historian, was born in England, but went to Jamaica
in 1757 at the age of twenty-three. He was a member of the Jamaica Assembly
from 1761 to 1768, and its_
Speaker for a time. Shortly afterwards he returned to
England and died there in 1813. Cfr. Robert Mobray Howard, Records and
Letters of the Family of the Longs of Longville, Jamaica, and Hampton Lodge,
Surrey, London, 1925, Vol. I, p. 1 19 ff. Bryan Edwards' supposition that the
Report was chiefly the work of Edward Long is strengthened by a letter written
by his daughter Jane Catherine Long to her brother Edward Beeston Long,
under date of March 6, 1785, where we read in the postscript: "You must not
expect to hear from my Father. He is obliged every day either to attend Mr.
Pitt or a West India Committee." !, c, Vol. I, p. 178.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 109
Treatment of slaves in the West Indies, and all circumstances re
lating thereto, digested under certain heads, and begins with a
consideration of Jamaica, and as noted, the information is fur
nished by "Stephen Fuller, Agent for Jamaica, and assisted by
Mr. Long and Mr. Chisholm." Questions 22 to 26 are as fol
lows :
"Whether Negroes called Obeah men, or under any other
denomination, practicing Witchcraft, exist in the Island of
Jamaica ?
"By what arts or by what means, do these Obeah men cause
the deaths, or otherwise injure those who are supposed to be
influenced thereby; and what are the symptons and effects that
have been observed to be produced in people, who are supposed to
be under the influence of their practice?
"Are the instances of death and diseases produced by these arts
or means frequent ?
"Are these arts or means brought by the Obeah men from
Africa, or are they inventions which have been originated in the
islands?
"Whether any or what laws exist in the island of Jamaica for
the punishment, and what evidence is generally required for their
conviction ?" The answer to this questionnaire follows.
"The term Obeah, Obiah, or Obia (for it is variously written),
we conceive to be the adjective, and the Obe or Obi the noun sub
stantive ; and that by the words Obiah-men and women, are meant
those who practice Obi. The origin of the term we should con
sider of no importance in our answer to the questions proposed,
if,
in search of
it,
we were not led to disquisitions that are highly
gratifying to curiosity. From the learned Mr. Bryant's
2
Com
mentary on the word Oph, we obtain
a
very probable etymology
of the term
:
'A serpent, in the Egyptian language, was called Ob
or Aub.' 'Obion
is
still the Egyptian name for
a
serpent.'
'Moses, in the Name of God, forbids the Israelites even to enquire
of the daemon Ob, which
is
translated in our Bible, charmer or
wizard, divinator aut sortilegus.' 'The woman at Endor
is
called
2
Mythology, Vol.
I,
p. 48, 475, and 478.
n0 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Oub or Ob, translated pythonissa, and Oubaios (he cites from
Horus Apollo) was the name of the basilisk or royal serpent,
emblem of the sun, and an ancient oracular deity of Africa.' 8
"This derivation which applies to one particular sect, the remnant
probably of a very celebrated religious order in remote ages, is
now become in Jamaica the general term to denote those Africans
who in the island practice witchcraft or sorcery, comprehending
also the class of what are called Myal men, or those who by means
of a narcotic potion made with the juice of a herb (said to be the
branched calalue or species of solanum) which occasions a trance
or profound sleep of a certain duration, endeavour to convince
the deluded spectators of their power to reanimate dead bodies.
"As far as we are able to decide from our own experience and
information when we lived in the island, and from concurrent
testimony of all the Negroes we have ever conversed with on the
subject, the professors of Obi are, and always were, natives of
Africa, and none other, and they have brought the science with
"Note: Cfr. also, The Discoverie of Witchcraft; proving that the compacts
and contracts of witches with devils and all infernal spirits or familiars are but
erroneous novelties and imaginary conceptions. ... By Reginald Scot Esquire.
Whereunto is added an excellent discourse of the nature and substance of devils
and spirits, in two books. . . . London, 1665. p. 71 : "Book VII. Chapter I. Of
the Hebrew word Ob, what it signifieth, where it is found : Of Pythonisses called
Ventriloquae, who they be, and what their practices are ; experience and examples
thereof shewed. This word Ob, is translated Python, or Pythonicus spiritus;
sometimes, though unproperly, Magus. . . . But Ob signifieth most properly a
Bottle, and is used in this place, because the Pythonists spoke hollow, as in the
bottom of their bellies; whereby they are aptly in Latin called Ventriloqui; . . .
These are such as take upon them to give oracles, etc."
Reginald Scot's work first appeared in 1584, and provoked a reply from no less
a personage than King James I of England, whose treatise Demonologie, in forme
of a Dialogue, Divided into three Bookes, Edinburgh, 1587, expressly declared
itself "against the damnable opinions of two principally in an age, whereof the
one called Scot an Englishman, is not ashamed in public print to deny that
there can be such a thing as Witchcraft : and so maintains the old error of the
Sadducees, in denying of spirits, etc." Montague Summers, who edited a new
edition of Scot in 1930, says in his introduction, p. xxviii : "That Reginald Scot's
The Discoverie of Witchcraft is both historically and as a literary curiosity a
book of the greatest value and interest, no one, I suppose, would dispute or deny."
While not quoted as such, Scot in all probability was the source from which is
drawn the entire theory of the Egyptian Ob being the origin of the term Obeah.
However, as shown elsewhere, Hebrnvisms of West Africa, p. 43 ff., the word
Ob did not originate with the Egyptians but may be traced back to the Canaanites
from whom the Egyptians as well as the Hebrews derived it and if there is any
value at all in this suggested derivation, it would be at most the indication of an
Hebraic influence on the parent stock of the Ashanti from whom, as we shall see
shortly, West India Obeah is directly derived.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH in
them from thence to Jamaica, where it is so universally practiced,
that we believe there are few of the larger Estates possessing na
tive Africans, which have not one or more of them. The oldest and
most crafty are those who usually attract the greatest devotion and
confidence, those whose hoary heads, and something peculiarly
harsh and diabolic in their aspect, together with some skill in
plants of the medicinal and poisonous species, have qualified them
for successful imposition upon the weak and credulous. The'
Negroes in general, whether Africans or Creoles, revere, consult,,
and abhor them ; to these oracles they resort and with the most imw
plicit faith, upon all occasions, whether for the cure of disorders/
the obtaining of revenge for injuries or insults, the conciliating
of favour, the discovery and punishment of the thief or the adul
terer, and the predicting of future events. The trade which these
wretches carry on is extremely lucrative; they manufacture and
sell their Obies adapted to different cases and at different prices.
A veil of mystery is studiously thrown over their incantations, to
which the midnight hours are allotted, and every precaution is
taken to conceal them from the knowledge and discovery of the
white people. The deluded Negroes, who thoroughly believe in
their supernatural power, become the willing accomplices in this
concealment, and the stoutest among them tremble at the very
sight of the ragged bundle, the bottle or the eggshells, which
are stuck to the thatch or hung over the door of the hut, or upon
the branch of a plantain tree, to deter marauders. In case of
poison, the natural effects of it are by the ignorant Negroes
ascribed entirely to the potent workings of Obi. The wiser Negroes
hesitate to reveal their suspicions, through a dread of incurring
the terrible vengeance which is fulminated by the Obeah men
against any who should betray them; it is very difficult therefore
for the white proprietor to distinguish the Obia professor from
any other Negro upon his plantation ; and so infatuated are the
blacks in general, that but few instances occur of their having
assumed courage enough to impeach these miscreants. With minds
so firmly prepossessed, they no sooner find Obi set for them near
the door of their house, or in the path which leads to
it,
than
112 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
they give themselves up for lost. When a negro is robbed of a
fowl or a hog, he applies directly to the Obiah-man or woman;
it is then made known among his fellow Blacks, that Obi is set
for the thief ; and as soon as the latter hears the dreadful news, his
terrified imagination begins to work, no resource is left but to the
superior skill of some more eminent Obiah-man of the neighbour
hood, who may counteract the magical operations of the other ;
but if no one can be found of higher rank and ability, or if after
gaining such an ally he should still fancy himself affected, he
presently falls into a decline, under the incessant horror of im
pending calamities. The slightest painful sensation in the head, the
bowels, or any other part, any casual loss or hurt, confirms his
apprehensions, and he believes himself the devoted victim of an
invisible and irresistible agency. Sleep, appetite, and cheerfulness,
forsake him, his strength decays, his disturbed imagination is
haunted without respite, his features wear the settled gloom of
despondency; dirt, or any other unwholesome substance, becomes
his only food, he contracts a morbid habit of body, and gradually
sinks into the grave. A Negro who is ill, enquires of the Obiah-
man the cause of the sickness, whether it will prove mortal or
not, and within what time he shall die or recover? The oracle
generally ascribes the distemper to the malice of some particular
person by name, and advises to set Obi for that person ; but if no
hopes are given for recovery, immediate despair takes place, which
no medicine can remove, and death is the certain consequence.
Those anomalous symptoms, which originate from causes deeply
rooted in the mind, such as terrors of Obi, or from poisons whose
operation is slow and intricate, will baffle the skill of the ablest
physician.
"Considering the multitude of occasions which may provoke
the Negroes to exercise the powers of Obi against each other, and
the astonishing influence of this superstition upon their minds,
we cannot but attribute a very considerable portion of the an
nual mortality among the Negroes of Jamaica to this fascinating
mischief.
"The Obi is usually composed of a farrago of materials most of
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 113
which are enumerated in the Jamaica Law (Act 24, Sect, i0,
passed 1760), viz. 'Blood, feathers, parrots beaks, dogs teeth, al
ligators teeth, broken bottles, grave dirt, rum, and eggshells.' . . .
"It may seem extraordinary, that a practice alleged to be so
frequent in Jamaica should not have received an earlier check
from the Legislature. The truth is that the skill of some Negroes
in the art of poisoning has been noticed ever since the colonists
became much acquainted with them. Sloane and Barham, who
practiced physic in Jamaica in the last century, have mentioned
particular instances of it. The secret and insidious manner in
which this crime is generally perpetrated, makes the legal proof
extremely difficult. Suspicions therefore have been frequent, but
detections rare. These murderers have sometimes been brought
to justice, but it is reasonable to believe that a far greater number
have escaped with impunity. In regard to the other and more com
mon tricks of Obi, such as hanging up feathers, bottles, eggshells,
&c. &c. in order to intimidate Negroes of a thievish disposition
from plundering huts, hog-styes, or provision grounds, these
were laughed at by the white inhabitants as harmless stratagems,
contrived by the more sagacious for deterring the more simple
and superstitious Blacks, and serving for much the same purpose
as the scarecrows which are in general use among our English
farmers and gardeners. But in the year 1 760, when a very formi
dable insurrection of the Koromantin or Gold Coast Negroes broke
out in the parish of St. Mary, and spread through almost every
other district of the Island; an old Koromantin Negro, the chief
instigator and oracle of the insurgents in that Parish, who had ad
ministered the fetish or solemn oath to the conspirators, and
furnished them with a magical preparation which was to render
them invulnerable, was fortunately apprehended, convicted, and
hung up with all his feathers and trumperies about him ; and this
execution struck the insurgents with a general panic, from which
they never afterwards recovered. The examinations which were
taken at that period first opened the eyes of the public to the very
dangerous tendency of the Obiah practices, and gave birth to the
law which was then enacted for their suppression and punishment.
ii4 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
But neither the terror of the Law, the strict investigation which
has ever since been made after the professors of Obi, nor the many
examples of those who from time to time have been hanged or
transported, have hitherto produced the desired effect. We con
clude, therefore, that either this sect, like others in the world,
has flourished under persecution, or that fresh supplies are an
nually introduced from the African seminaries. . . .
"We have the following narratives from a planter in Jamaica,
a gentleman of the strictest veracity, who is now in London, and
ready to attest the truth of them.
"Upon returning to Jamaica in the year 1775, he found a great
many of his Negroes had died during his absence; and that of
such as remained alive, a least one-half were debilitated, bloated,
and in a very deplorable condition. The mortality continued after
his arrival, and two or three were frequently buried in one day,
others were taken ill, and began to decline under the same
symptoms. Every means were tried by medicines, and the most
careful nursing, to preserve the lives of the feeblest; but in spite
of all his endeavours, the depopulation went on for above a twelve
month longer, with more or less intermission, and without his be
ing able to ascertain the real cause, though the Obiah practice was
strongly suspected, as well by himself as by the doctor and other
white persons upon the plantation, as it was known to have been
very common in that part of the island. Still he was unable to
verify his suspicions, because the patients constantly denied having
anything to do with persons of that order, or any knowledge of
them. At length a Negress who had been ill for some time, came
one day and informed him, that feeling that it was impossible for
her to live much longer, she thought herself bound in duty before
she died, to impart a very great secret, and acquaint him with
the true cause of her disorder, in hopes that the disclosure might
prove the means of stopping that mischief which had already
swept away such a number of her fellow-slaves. She proceeded to
say, that her step-mother (a woman of the Popo 4
country, above
4 Note : As this woman came from the Popo country, one would immediately
classify her as a Dahoman, but there is every possibility that she may have been
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 115
eighty years old, but still hale and active) had put Obi upon her,
as she had also done upon those who had lately died, and that
the old woman had practiced Obi for as many years past as she
could remember.
"The other Negroes of the plantation no sooner heard of this
impeachment, than they ran in a body to their master, and con
firmed the truth of
it,
adding that she had carried on this business
since her arrival from Africa and was the terror of the whole
neighborhood. Upon this he repaired directly with six white
servants to the old woman's house, and forcing open the door,
observed the whole inside of the roof (which was of thatch), and
every crevice of the walls stuck with the implements of her trade,
consisting of rags, feathers, bones of cats, and
a
thousand other
articles. Examining further, a large earthen pot or jar, close
covered, was found concealed under her bed.
It
contained
a
prodigious quantity of round balls of earth or clay of various
dimensions, large and small, whitened on the outside, and vari
ously compounded, some with hair and rags and feathers of all
sorts, and strongly bound with twine; others blended with the
upper section of the skulls of cats, or stuck round with cats teeth
and claws, or with human or dogs teeth, and some glass beads of
different colours; there were also
a
great many eggshells filled
with a viscous or gummy substance, the qualities of which he
neglected to examine, and many little bags stuffed with
a
variety
of articles the particulars of which cannot at this distance of time
be recollected. The house was instantly pulled down, and with the
whole of its contents committed to the flames, amidst the general
acclamation of all the other Negroes. In regard to the old woman,
he declined bringing her to trial under the Law of the island,
which would have punished her with death
;
but from
a
principle
of humanity, delivered her into the hands of
a
party of Spaniards,
who (as she was thought not incapable of doing some trifling kind
of work) were very glad to accept and carry her with them to
an Ashanti or from some other tribe, brought from the interior after capture.
A slave was generally spoken of, not by the name of the tribe from which he had
originally come, but from the district of the African coast-line whence he had
been shipped.
n6 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Cuba. From the moment of her departure, his Negroes seemed
all to be animated with new spirits, and the malady spread no
further among them. The total of his losses in the course of about
fifteen years preceding the discovery, and imputable solely to the
Obiah practice, he estimates, at the least, at one hundred
Negroes. . . .
"The following paper relating to the Obeah man in Jamaica,
was delivered by Mr. Rheder.
"Obeah men are the oldest and most artful Negroes ; a peculiar
ity marks them, and every Negro pays the greatest respect to
them, they are perfectly well acquainted with medicinal herbs,
and know the poisonous ones, which they often use. To prepossess
the stranger in favor of their skill, he is told that they can restore
the dead to life; for this purpose he is shown a Negro apparently
dead, who, by dint of their art, soon recovers ; this is produced by
administering the narcotic juice of vegetables. On searching one
of the Obeah men's houses, was found many bags filled with parts
of animals, vegetables, and earth, which the Negroes who attended
at the sight of, were struck with terror, and begged that they
might be christened, which was done, and the impression was done
away. In consequence of the rebellion of the Negroes in the year
1760, a Law was enacted that year to render the practice of Obiah,
death.
"The influence of the Professors of that art was such as to in
duce many to enter into that rebellion on the assurance that they
were invulnerable, and to render them so, the Obeah man gave
them a powder with which they were to rub themselves.
"On the first engagement with the rebels nine of them were
killed, and many prisoners taken ; among the prisoners was a very
sensible fellow, who offered to discover many important matters,
on condition that his life should be spared, which was promised.
He then related the part the Obeah man had taken, one of whom
was capitally convicted and sentenced to death.
At the place of execution he bid defiance to his executioner,
telling him that it was not in the power of white people to kill
him; and the Negro spectators were astonished when they saw
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 117
him expire. On the other Obeah men, various experiments were
made with electrical machines and magic lanterns, which produced
very little effect ; except on one who, after receiving many severe
shocks, acknowledged his master's Obeah exceeded his own.
"I remember sitting twice on trials of Obeah men, who were
convicted of selling their nostrums, which had produced death.
To prove the fact, two witnesses are necessary, with corroborating
circumstances."
As regards Barbados in this same Report, Mr. Braithwaite,
Agent for the Assembly of the Island, stated : "Negroes formerly
called Obeah men, but now more commonly called Doctors, do
exist in Barbados, but I understand that they are not so many at
present as formerly, and that the number has diminished greatly
in the course of the last twenty years." The Council of the Island
answered the same question: "There is hardly any estate in the
island in which there is not some old man or woman who affects to
possess some supernatural power. These are called Obeah Negroes,
and by the superstitious Negroes much feared." As regards the
origin of Obeah, Mr. Braithwaite answered : "Most undoubtedly
imported with them from Africa." The Council replied : "It has
been so long known here, that the origin is difficult to trace, but
the professors are as often natives as Africans."
The investigation concerning Antigua elicited the information
that a few Obeah men were still to be found there though in de
creasing numbers. Also that "the arts and means they use seem
to operate on the mind rather than on the body ; for though it has
been supposed that they have occasionally been guilty of admin
istering poison, Dr. Adair has never had just ground for believing
that any disease could be traced to this cause, though he does not
deny the probability of it."
Mr. Spooner, the Agent for the Islands of Grenada and St.
Christopher, testified : "Obeah among the Negroes must be con
sidered in the same light as witchcraft, second-sight, and other
pretended supernatural gifts and communication among white
men, with this difference only, that in proportion as the under
standing of the Negroes are less cultivated and informed, and
n8 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
consequently weaker than those of white men, the impressions
made on their minds by Obeah are much stronger, more lasting,
and attended with more extraordinary effects." And further:
"Obeah has its origin in Africa, and is practiced entirely by na
tives from thence : the creole Negroes seldom, if ever, laying any
pretensions to it."
Strange as it may seem, even at the date of this Report, 1789,
practically nothing was known of Obeah which had already begun
to threaten the white rule in Jamaica. They were satisfied to ac
cept it as the remnant of "a very celebrated religious order in
remote ages." It was a reflection of the distant Egyptian Ob of
antiquity, etc.
The Council of Barbados alone was awake to the fact that
Obeah is itself a vital, living force; that it is self perpetuating.
Elsewhere it is taken for granted that Obeah men are to be found
solely among "salt-water" Negroes; that with the abolition of
the slave trade, Obeah must of necessity die a natural death, as
the race of imported Obeah men become extinct.
Even in Jamaica, up to the rebellion of 1 760, Obeah occasioned
nothing more than scornful mirth at the absurd superstitions of
the blacks, and yet for more than a century, a terrible menace had
been gathering force and threatening to obliterate the civilization
and the morality of the island.
Mary H. Kingsley, in reference to that part of West Africa
which had been described by Colonel Ellis, remarks : "From this one
district we have two distinct cults of fetish in the West Indies,
Voudou and Obeah (Tchanga and Wanga). Voudou itself is
divided into two sects, the white and the red the first a compara
tively harmless one, requiring only the sacrifice of, at the most, a
white cock or a white goat, whereas the red cult only uses the human
sacrifice the goat, without horns. Obeah on the other hand kills
only by poison does not show the blood at all. And there is an
other important difference between Voudou and Obeah, and that
is that Voudou requires for the celebration of its rites a priestess
and a priest. Obeah can be worked by either alone, and is not
tied to the presence of the snake. Both these cults have sprung
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 119
from slaves imported from Ellis's district, Obeah from slaves
bought at Koromantin mainly, and Voudou from those bought at
Dahomey. Nevertheless it seems to me these good people have
differentiated their religion in the West Indies considerably; for
example, in Obeah the spider (anansi) has a position given it
equal to that of the snake in Voudou. Now the spider is all very
well in West Africa ; round him there has grown a series of most
amusing stories, always to be told through the nose, and while you
crawl about ; but to put him on a plane with the snake in Dahomey
is absurd, his equivalent there is the turtle, also a focus for many
tales, only more improper tales, and not half so amusing." 8
Here Miss Kingsley is as much in error when she associates
Obeah with serpent worship, as she is when she ascribes to the
Anansi of Jamaica any role at variance with his established place
in Ashanti folklore.9
W. P. Livingston has well said "Obeahism runs like a black
thread of mischief through the known history of the race. It is
the result of two conditions, an ignorant and superstitious re
ceptivity on the one hand, and on the other, sufficient intelligence
and cunning to take advantage of this quality. The Obeah man is
any Negro who gauges the situation and makes it his business to
work on the fears of his fellows. He claims the possession of
occult authority, and professes to have the power of taking or
saving life, of causing or curing disease, of bringing ruin or
creating prosperity, of discovering evil-doers or vindicating the
innocent. His implements are a few odd scraps, such as cock's
5 Mary H. Kingsley, West African Studies, London, 1899, p. 139.
"Note: Captain Rattray, Ashanti, p. 162, shows that Miss Kingsley was
not familiar with the Ashanti language and attributes much to fetishism that
has nothing whatever to do with the subject. In one place he naively remarks
that it is fortunate that she could not understand what seemed to interest her
very much. As to the information which she honestly thought that she was
picking up from her West Indian informants, it is well to remember that the
Jamaican, like our Southern Negroes, or I suppose any other child of Africa,
is only too ready to furnish just the information that is most desired, especially
if he is being paid for results. As a Resident Magistrate in Jamaica once said :
"The real Jamaican in a Court of Law is essentially afraid of the truth, and
seems to prefer to lose a case than abide by facts." When it comes to Obeah
and the like he is even more reticent and deceptive with the "bockrah Masser"
white Master and the real child of the "bush" will either assure you : "Me no
belieb Obi, Sah I" or else will greet you with the laconic : "Me no no, Sah !"
I don't know.
120 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
feathers, rags, bones, bits of earth from graves, and so on. The
incantations with which he accompanies his operations are merely
a mumble of improvised jargon. His real advantage in the days
of slavery lay in his knowledge and use of poisonous plants.
Poisoning does not now enter his practices to any extent, but
the fear he inspires among the ignorant is intense, and the fact
that he has turned his attention to particular persons is often
sufficient to deprive them of reason. Obeahism is a superstition at
once simple, foolish, and terrible, still vigorous, but in former
times as powerful an agent as slavery itself in keeping the na
ture debased." 7
The Jamaica term Obeah is unquestionably derived from the
Ashanti word Obayifo, which according to Captain Rattray
signifies "a wizard, or more generally a witch." 8
As noted else
where :
9
"An Ashanti legend runs as follows. When Big Massa
was busy with the work of creation, it happened that the little
monkey Efo was making himself generally useful, and when the
task was accomplished, he asked Big Massa that, in return for the
help rendered, all creatures should bear his name. To this Big
Massa acceded to such an extent that henceforth certain classes
of creatures added to their proper names the suffix FO, in acknowl
edgment of the little monkey's part in the work.10 Such is the
Ashanti fable, and hence we find the suffix FO in the names of
7 W. P. Livingston, Black Jamaica, London, 1899, p. 19 f. Note : The power
of fear is well illustrated by an example given by Lillian Eichler, The Customs
of Mankind, London, 1925, p. 631: "Superstition caused Ferdinand IV to die of
fright. The story is that in 1312 Peter and John Carvajal were condemned to
death for murder on circumstantial evidence. They were sentenced to be thrown
from the summit to jagged rocks below. Ferdinand IV, then King of Spain,
resisted obstinately every attempt to induce him to grant a pardon. Standing
upon the spot from which they were to be thrown, the two men called upon God
to witness their innocence, appealing to His high tribunal to prove it. They
summoned the King to appear before this tribunal in thirty days. His Majesty
laughed at the summons and gave the sign to proceed with the execution. In
a few days the King fell ill. He retired to his country residence, ostensibly to
rest, but really to shake off remembrance of the summons which somehow per
sisted. He could not be diverted. He became more and more ill, and on the
thirtieth day he was found dead in bed a victim to the mysterious dread which
had gripped his heart from the moment the summons had been uttered." Some
such fear works its effect in Obeah.
8 R. S. Rattray, Ashanti Proverbs, Oxford, 1916, p. 48.
9 Williams, Hebrewisms of West Africa, p. Vj f.
10 Cfr. Rattray, Ashanti Proverbs, p. 54.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 121
peoples, nation and occupations. Dropping the suffix, then, from
Obayifo, the resulting Obayi, as heard from the lips of the
Koromantin slaves (shown to be Ashanti, at least as regards their
leading spirits), was variously rendered by the Jamaican whites
as obeah, obia, etc. For even now there is no agreement as to the
correct spelling of the word. . . . Both with the Ashanti them
selves and their descendants in Jamaica the word is commonly
shortened into Obi. Thus we find the Obi country referred to in
the history of the Ashanti Fetish Priest, Okomfo-Anotchi, that is
Anotchi the priest. About the year 1700 after committing a capital
offence, as Captain Rattray tells us, he 'fled for his life to the Obi
country. Here he had made a study of fetish medicine and became
the greatest fetish-man the Ashanti have ever had.' Referring
to the Obi country, Rattray notes : T have so far been unable to
trace this place, but to this day in Ashanti any big fetish priest
is called Obi Okomfo, that
is,
Obi Priest.' So also in Jamaica, in
the practice of Obeah, the natives 'make obi' even today."
Captain Rattray, whose scholarly works on the Ashanti really
led the way to
a
complete revolution in the study and evaluation
of West Africa customs, fearlessly abandoned the trodden path
of narrow prejudice and
a
priori reasoning of the Spencerian
School, and literally reconstructed the entire system of scientific
research among the Negro tribes. We cannot do better then, than to
study in some detail the Ashanti prototype of the Jamaica Obeah
as described by so discriminating
a
scholar, who knows nothing
of the bearings his observations will have on Jamaica witchcraft,
but
is
conscientiously setting down the facts as he sees them in his
own chosen field where he
is
the undisputed master.11
1
1
Note
:
Previously, Ellis, Dennett and Miss Kingsley held complete sway,
despite the fact that they were utterly unqualified for the task that they had
undertaken. Stephen Septimus Farrow well adjudges their claims to credibility
in his thesis for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the University of
Edinburgh, in 1924. This Essay drew from Dr. R. R. Marett, Rector of Exeter
College, Oxford, the encomium
:
"Dr. Farrow,
I
think, has disposed of the all-
too-facile explanations of earlier investigators." Faith, Fancies and Fetish, or
Yoruba Paganism, p. vii. Of Col. Ellis, Farrow asserts, p.
5
:
"It is, unfortu
nately, not possible to exonerate the gallant colonel from
a
measure of anti-
Christian bias, which at times leads him to jump to conclusions which are
scientifically untrue." Concerning Dennett and Miss Kingsley, he writes, p.
5:
"Mr. Dennett was intimately known to the writer, whose wife was first cousin
122 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Captain Rattray is unequivocally of the opinion that the Ash-
anti worship a Supreme Being, Onyame.12 Furthermore he states:
"I am convinced that the conception in the Ashanti mind, of a
Supreme Being, has nothing whatever to do with missionary in
fluence, nor is it to be ascribed to contact with Christians or even,
I believe, with Mohammedans." 18
Bosn1an had noticed at the beginning of the eighteenth century
as regards certain West African tribes : "By reason God is in
visible, they say it would be absurd to make any corporeal repre
sentation of him . . . wherefore they have such multitudes of
images of their idol gods, which they take to be subordinate deities
to this gentleman. Mr. Dennett never learned to speak the language, but wrote
down Yoruba words as given to him by others ; but, as he went openly to priests
and keepers of shrines and asked direct questions, this thoroughly British and
un-African method of inquiry was very likely, indeed certain, at times to lead
to imperfect, and, not seldom untrue answers. Mr. Dennett's interpretations,
deductions and conclusions are often at fault, owing to his poor acquaintance
with the language, and also to the very free play he gave to his imagination.
This is very prominent in his pamphlet, My Yoruba Alphabet. ... It is also to
be remembered that Dennett and Miss Kingsley alike borrow from Ellis and
are influenced to some extent by his ideas."
Despite the fact that Ellis published grammars of more than one West
African language, he was forced to do his work through an interpreter as he
never acquired a conversational knowledge of any one of the languages about
which he wrote.
12 Rattray, Ashanti Proverbs, p. 18. Also, R. S. Rattray, Ashanti, Oxford,
1923, P- 139-
13 Rattray, Ashanti, p. 140. Note: Rattray had previously wr1tten, Ashantt
Proverbs, p. 19 f. : "In Ashanti, in remote bush villages, buried away in im
penetrable forest, and as yet even untouched by European and missionary in
fluence, it would seem incredible that the Christian idea of a one and Supreme
Being should, if a foreign element of only some two or three hundred years'
growth, have taken such deep root as to effect their folklore, traditions, customs,
and the very sayings and proverbs with which their language abounds. These
proverbs and traditions, moreover, which speak of and contain references to a
Supreme Being, are far more commonly known among the greybeards, elders,
and the fetish priestly class themselves than among the rising younger genera
tion, grown up among the new influences and often trained in the very pre
cincts of a mission. Fetishism and monotheism would at first sight appear the
very antithesis of each other, but a careful investigation of facts will show that
here in Ashanti it is not so."
Of the Ashanti Proverbs given by Rattray we need quote only the following:
Proverbs #1, io, 15: p. 17 ff. : "Of all the wide earth, Onyame is the elder."
"The words that Onyame had beforehand ordained, a human being does not
alter." "All men are the children of Onyame, no one is a child of earth."
Rattray further shows that this Supreme Being has a temple and a regular
priesthood, Ashanti, p. 144, for which a three years novitiate is required, Re
ligion and Art in Ashanti, Oxford, 1927, p. 45, and the prayer of consecration
uttered by the priest begins with the words, 1. C, p. 45: "Supreme Being, who
alone is great, it is you who begat me, etc."
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 123
to the Supreme God, . . . and only believe these are mediators
betwixt God and men, which they take to be their idols." 14
This condition is verified by Rattray in regard to the Ashanti.
He tells us : "In a sense, therefore, it is true that this great Su
preme Being, the conception of whom has been innate in the minds
of the Ashanti, is the Jehovah of the Israelites. As will be seen
presently, every Ashanti temple is a pantheon in which repose the
shrines of the gods, but the power or spirit, that on occasions en
ters into these shrines, is directly or indirectly derived from the
one God of the Sky, whose intermediaries they are. Hence we
have in Ashanti exactly that 'mixed religion' which we find among
the Israelites of old. They worshipped Jehovah, but they wor
shipped other Gods as well." 15
These intermediary deities engross the chief attention of the
Ashanti and their religious system consists principally in their
service and veneration. One by one they come into fashion and
then pass out of vogue, only perhaps to bob up again if the right
individual is found to espouse their cause. Listen to Captain Rat
tray's description of the origin of one such spiritual entity: "The
word shrine is used in this particular context, to designate the
potential abode of a superhuman spirit. It consists (generally) of
a brass pan or bowl, which contains various ingredients. This pan
upon certain definite occasions, becomes the temporary dwelling,
or resting-place of a non-human spirit or spirits. . . .
"The following is an account, from a reliable source, checked
and rechecked from many independent witnesses, of the making
and consecration of a shrine for one of the Tano gods. . . .
"A spirit may take possession of a man and he may appear to
have gone mad, and this state may last sometimes even for a year.
Then the priest or some powerful god may be consulted and he
may discover, through his god, that it is some spirit which has
come upon the man (or woman). The one upon whom the spirit
has come is now bidden to prepare a brass pan, and collect water,
leaves, and 'medicine' of specific kinds. The possessed one will
14 Bosnian, New and Accurate Description of the Coast of Guinea, p. 179 f.
18 Rattray, Ashanti, p. 141.
124 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
dance, for sometimes two days, with short intervals for rest, to
the accompaniment of drums and singing. Quite suddenly he will
leap into the air and catch something in both his hands ( or he may
plunge into the river and emerge holding something he has brought
up). He will in either case hold this thing to his breast, and water
will be at once sprinkled upon it to cool
it,
when
it
will be thrust
into the brass pan and quickly covered up. The following in
gredients are now prepared
:
clay from one of the more sacred
rivers, like the Tano, and the following medicinal plants and other
objects; afema (Justicia flavia), Damabo (Abras precatorhts)
,
the bark of the odum,
a
creeper called hamakyerehene, any root
that crosses
a
path,
a
projecting stump from under water, the
leaves of
a
tree called aya these are chosen which are seen to be
quivering on the tree even though no wind
is
shaking them
the leaves, bark and roots of
a
tree called Bonsam dua (lit. the
wizard's tree),
a
nugget of virgin gold
(a
gold that has been in
use or circulation must not be used),
a
bodom (so-called aggrey
bead), and
a
long white bead called gyanie. The whole of these are
pounded and placed in the pan, along with the original object
al
ready inside, while the following incantation or prayer
is
repeated
:
'Supreme Being, upon whom men lean and do not fall, (whose
day of observance
is
a
Saturday), Earth Goddess (whose day of
worship
is
Thursday), Leopard, and all beasts and plants of the
forest, today
is
a
sacred Friday; and you, Ta Kwesi (the par
ticular god for whom in this case the shrine was being prepared),
we are installing you, we are setting you (here), that we may have
long life
;
do not let us get "Death"
;
do not let us become impotent
;
life to the head of the village; life to the young men of this vil
lage; life to those who bear children, and life to the children of
this village.
O
tree, we call Odum Abena (to whom belongs the
silk-cotton tree), we are calling upon you that you may come, one
and all, just now, that we may place in this shrine the thoughts
that are in our heads. When we call upon you in the darkness,
when we call upon you in sunlight, and say, "Do such
a
thing for
us" you will do so. And the laws that we are decreeing for you,
this god of ours, are these
if
in our time, or in our children's
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 125
and our grandchildren's time a king should arise from somewhere,
and come to us, and say he is going to war, when he tells you, and
you well know that should he go to fight he will not gain the
victory, you must tell us so ; and should you know that he will go
and conquer, then also state that truth. And yet again, if a man
be ill in the night, or in the daytime, and we raise you aloft and
place you upon the head, and we inquire of you saying, "Is So-and-
so about to die?" let the cause of the misfortune which you tell him
has come upon him be the real cause of the evil and not lies. To
day, we all in this town, all our elders, and all our children, have
consulted together and agreed without dissent among us, we have
all united and with one accord decided to establish your shrine,
you, Ta Kwesi, upon this a sacred Friday. We have taken a sheep,
and a fowl, we have taken wine, we are about to give them to you
that you may reside in this town and preserve its life. From this
day, and so on to any future day, you must not fly and leave us.
From this day, to any future day, you, O Tano's fire, in anything
that you tell us, do not let it be a lie. Do not put water in your
mouth and speak to us. Today you become a god for the chief,
today you have become a god for our spirit ancestors. Perhaps
upon some tomorrow the Ashanti King may come and say, "My
child So-and-so (or it may be an elder) is sick," and ask you to go
with him, or maybe he will send a messenger here for you; in
such a case you may go and we will not think that you are fleeing
from us. And these words are a voice from the mouth of us all.'
"The various sacrifices are then made, and in each case the
blood is allowed to fall upon the contents in the brass pan.
"I have had many similar accounts of the consecration of a new
shrine as the temporary home of a new manifestation of a spirit
universal and always present, but not subject to control.
"It will be noted that other minor spirits or powers of nature
are not wholly ignored or neglected, and that all are considered as
able in some manner to help the greater spirit that is called upon
to guide and assist mankind.
"The priests tell me that at times, when the greater emanation
of God is not present, that the spirits of some of the lesser ones
126 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
will flash forth for a moment and disclose their presence. For ex
ample, a priest will suddenly burst forth, singing, odomae, die odo
me omera ('I am the odoma tree, let him who loves me come
hither'). It seems that the priest and priestess, when in the ecstatic
condition, are subject to many spirit influences. I have heard a
priestess begin to talk in a different dialect from her own. This
did not at all surprise the onlookers, who merely said, 'Oh that is
the spirit of So-and-so' a dead priestess of the same god, who
had come from another district, and had used that dialect. . . .
"Once the ingredients described have been put into the shrine,
that is apparently an end of them. They are not directly men
tioned, and it is only when the spirit of one of the ingredients of
the shrine takes charge, as it were, for a moment, that they are
even considered." 18
In connection with the Ashanti religious practices there is a
strong veneration for ancestors as shown especially in the func
tions connected with the stools which are supposed to be closely
associated with the vital spirit of these forebears.
So also we encounter animism in its broadest sense. This is
well illustrated in the use of the protective charm or suman which
really forms an integral part of the Ashanti religious practice. In
describing some "proverb" weights, Rattray calls attention to the
fact that they really represent a medicine man sacrificing a fowl
to one of the best known charms in Ashanti, the "nkabere charm"
and adds, "I once witnessed the making of one of these charms,
and the following short account may be of interest. That this
16 Rattray, Ashanti, p. 145 ff. Note : Cfr. also Rattray, 1. c, p. 182 : "Grouped
round the walls of the temple and raised a little from the floor upon their
stools were several shrines all but two of these, I was informed, were now
mere empty receptacles. The priests who had formerly tended them when they
were active shrines had died, and since then the spirit that had formerly mani
fested itself within them had ceased to do so. 'Some day this spirit might
descend upon someone who would then become their priest.'
"Several priests and priestesses I had spoken to told me that this was how
they had first become priests. They had been seized with a spirit and had either
lost all consciousness or seemingly had become mad. A god would be consulted,
and he might say it was an effect of an outpouring of such and such a spirit,
in which case, if there were a shrine already, such as had been described, its
cult would be once again revived. If no shrine existed, then a new abode would
be prepared."
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 127
charm should have been represented shows how generally the rite
is seen.
"The object upon the ground, over which the offering is being
held ... is known throughout the Ashanti as a charm (suman)
called nkabere, and the ceremony the medicine man is here seen
performing is the sacrifice of a fowl preparatory to or after the
ceremony known as Kyekyere nkabere, lit. to tie or bind the
nkabere. The nkabere consists of three sticks: (a) A stick from
the tree called bonsam dua, lit. the wizard's tree, (b) A piece of
the root of a tree called akwamea, taken where it crosses a path,
(c) A stick from the tree called adwin.
"These three sticks are placed upon the ground, or sometimes
upon an inverted pot, along with some pieces out of a sweeping
broom. A piece of string is placed on top of all.
"The medicine man or priest now retires a few paces and then
advances towards the charm with his hands behind his back,
crossing one leg over the other as he walks. When he reaches the
charm he stands with legs crossed, with his hands still behind his
back, and stooping down sprays pepper and guinea grain which
he has in his mouth over the charm, saying: 'My entwining
charm Nkadomako (Note: "A title of Tano. The priest whom I
saw performing this rite informed me that he gave his suman
all these high-sounding titles to please and flatter
it,
as
if
it
were
really
a
god."), who seizes strong men, mosquito that trips up
(Note: "The word used literally signifies to trip in wrestling.")
the great silk-cotton tree, shooting stars that live with the Supreme
Being,
I
have to tell you that So-and-so are coming here about
some matter.' Here he takes his hands from behind his back and,
stooping down, picks up the sticks and twine. Making
a
little
bundle of the sticks, saying as he does so
:
T
bind up their mouths.
I
bind up their souls, and their gods.
I
begin with Sunday, Mon
day, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.' As he
repeats each day he gives
a
twist of the string round the sticks
till he has bound them all together, when he knots the string to
keep
it
from unravelling, ending by saying
:
'Whoever comes may
128 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
this be a match for them.' From time to time a fowl will be of
fered to this suman. The medicine man or priest will advance
upon it with crossed legs and hands held behind the back and
perhaps with a whistle in his mouth, to call up the spirits, and will
stand over the charm with legs crossed. He then holds the fowl
by the neck and blows the whistle. This is what is shown in the
weight." 17
Thus far we have briefly outlined what might be called the reli
gious atmosphere of the Ashanti. Concomitant with this and es
sentially antagonistic to
it,
we have another condition of affairs
which may be summed up as witchcraft. Of this phase of life,
Rattray says
:
"Witchcraft was essentially the employment of anti
social magic. The belief in its general prevalence was largely due
to the fact that certain forms of illness resulting in death could
not otherwise be accounted for. There appears to be considerable
logic in regarding killing by witchcraft as akin to murder, even
if
its classification as such by the Ashanti was not directly due to an
acknowledgment of
a
fact which was in many cases true,
i.
e.
that poison in some form or other was often an important stock-
in-trade of the professed witch." 18
As already stated, the Ashanti word for witch was Obayifo,
and they have the proverb, "Obayifo oreko e! obayifo oreko e!
na wonye obayifo a, wuntwa wo ani. A witch
is
passing! a
witch
is
passing! (someone cries), but
if
you are not
a
witch you do not
turn your eyes to look." 19
This mysterious being
is
thus described
by Rattray: "Obayifo, Deriv. bayi, sorcery (synonymous term
ayen),
a
wizard, or more generally witch. A kind of human vam-
17 Rattray, Ashanti, p. 310.
18 Rattray, Ashanti Law and Constitution, Oxford, 1929, p. 313. Note: The
association of poison with witchcraft
is
not peculiar to the Ashanti.
It
is
recur
rent throughout the history of magic. Thus Theocritus, writing in the third
century b. c, describes
a
scene at Cos where
a
fire spell
is
laid against
a
neglect
ful lover by
a
maid whose affections have been spurned. Before
a
statue of
Hecate, barley-meal, bay-leaves,
a
waxen puppet, and some bran are successively
burned with appropriate incantations. Then follows
a
libation and the burning
of herbs and
a
piece of the fringe of her lover's cloak. The ashes are to be
rubbed by an attendant on the lintel of the lover. The maid's soliloquy shows
that should her incantations fail to win back the faithless one, she has poisons
in reserve to prevent his affections being bestowed elsewhere. Cfr.
J.
M. Ed
monds, The Greek Bucolic Poets, London, 1916, p. 24 ff.
;
Theocritus, The Spell.
19 Rattray, Ashanti Proverbs, p. 53.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 129
pire, whose chief delight is to suck the blood of children whereby
the latter pine and die.
"Men and women possessed of this black magic are credited
with volitant powers, being able to quit their bodies and travel
great distances in the night. Besides sucking the blood of victims,
they are supposed to be able to extract the sap and juices of crops.
(Cases of coco blight are ascribed to the work of the obayifo.)
These witches are supposed to be very common and a man never
knows but that his friend or even his wife may be one. When
prowling at night they are supposed to emit a pho$phorescent light
from the armpits and anus. An obayifo in everyday life is sup
posed to be known by having sharp shifty eyes, that are never at
rest, also by showing an undue interest in food, and always talk
ing about
it,
especially meat, and hanging about when cooking
is
going on, all of which habits are therefore purposely avoided.
A man will seldom deny another, even a stranger,
a
morsel of what
he may be eating, or
a
hunter
a
little bit of raw meat to anyone
asking
it,
hoping thereby to avoid the displeasure of anyone who,
for all he can tell,
is
a
witch or wizard.
"The obayifo can also enter animals, etc., e. g. buffalo, elephant,
snakes, and cause them to kill people. The obayifo
is
discovered
by
a
process analogous to the 'smelling out' of witches among the
Zulu,
i,
e. the 'carrying of the corpse'. Witches and wizards are
guarded against by a suman, and
a
little raw meat or other food is
frequently placed at the entrance to a village for them to partake
of. This offering also frequently takes the form of
a
bunch of
palm nuts pinned down to the ground with
a
stick." 20
Hence the proverb
:
"Obayifo kum wadi-wamma-me, na onkum
wama me-na-esua. The sorcerer kills (by magic) the one who
eats and gives him nothing, but he does not kill him who eats and
gives him (even)
a
little piece."
21
Another Ashanti proverb runs: "Sasabonsam ko ayi a, osoe
obayifo
fi.
When
a
sasabonsam (devil) goes to attend
a
funeral,
he lodges at
a
witch's house." 22
This Sasabonsam will be met with
20 Rattray, Ashanti Proverbs, p. 47.
21 Ditto, p. 53.
22 Ditto, p. 47.
130 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
again in Jamaica. Rattray here remarks well to our purpose :
"Sasabonsam, Deriv. bonsam, a devil, or evil spirit (not the dis
embodied soul of any particular person, just as the fetish is not a
human spirit). Its power is purely for evil and witchcraft. The
obayifo is perhaps its servant as the terms are sometimes syn
onymous. Sasa or sesa is the word used for a person being pos
sessed of a spirit or devil (oye no sesa)."
28
And again: "The
Sasabonsam of the Gold Coast and Ashanti is a monster which is
said to inhabit parts of the dense virgin forests. It is covered with
long hair, has large blood-shot eyes, long legs, and feet pointing
both ways. It sits on high branches of an odum or onyina tree and
dangles its legs, with which at times it hooks up the unwary hun
ter. It is hostile to man, and is supposed to be essentially at enmity
with the real priestly class. Hunters who go to the forest and are
never heard of again as sometimes happens are supposed to
have been caught by Sasabonsam. All of them are in league with
abayifo (witches), and with the mmotia, in other words, with
the workers in black magic. As we have seen, however, and will
see again farther on, their power is sometimes solicited to add
power to the suman (fetish), not necessarily with a view to em
ploying that power for purposes of witchcraft, but rather the re
verse. I cannot help thinking that the original Sasabonsam may
possibly have been a gorilla. Under the heading of Witchcraft we
shall see how the Sasabonsam's aid is solicited to defeat and to de
tect the very evil with which he is thought to be associated in
directly." 24
That the Ashanti clearly distinguished between religious prac
tices and witchcraft is evidenced by the following observation of
Rattray: "From the information at our disposal, we now know
that the Ashanti makes a distinction between the following: the
okomfo (priest) the sumankwafo or dunseni (the medicine
man) ; and the Bonsam komfo (witch doctor). The word okomfo,
without any further qualification, refers to a priest of one of the
orthodox abosom (gods). We see, however, that a witch doctor
23 Ditto, p. 47.
24 Rattray, Religion and Art in Ashanti, p. 28.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 131
is allowed the same name as a kind of honorary title or degree,
being known as a Bayi komfo (a priest of witchcraft). Again,
the ordinary medical practitioners are never termed okomf o ; they
are sumankwafo, dealers in suman ; or dunsefo, workers in roots ;
or odu'yefo, workers in medicine." 25
Clearly defined Ashanti witchcraft, then, as a practice of black
25 Rattray, Religion and Art in Ashanti, p. 39. Note : Despite the fact, then,
that in theory witchcraft is antagonistic to their religion, the Ashanti, as is so
common elsewhere, in practical life blend the two without qualm or scruple. A
further instance of this is found in the case of the talking drums. The first time
a drummer uses them on a particular day, he begins by pouring a few drops
of wine on the edges as he invokes the various parts of the drums and invites
them to drink and concludes : Rattray, Ashanti, p. 264 f. : "Obayifo, gye nsa nom
(Witch accept wine and drink). Asase, gye nsa nom (Earth deity accept wine and
drink). Onyankopon Tweaduampon Bonyame, gye nsa nom (Supreme Being
Nyankopon, Tweaduampon Creator, accept wine and drink)." Then in connection
with the drum history of the Mampon division of Ashanti, Rattray tells us, 1. c. :
"Before the serious business of drumming the name of the chiefs begins, the
spirits of the various materials, which have gone towards the making of the
composite drum, are each propitiated in turn, and these spirits are summoned to
enter for a while that material which was once a portion of their habitation. The
drums thus, for a time, become the abode of the spirits of forest trees and of the
'mighty elephant.' The deities of Earth and Sky are called upon in like manner.
Even the hated and dreaded witches (abayifo), who prey upon the human body
and gnaw the vitals and hearts of men (just as humans partake of meat and other
food ) , are not forgotten, lest in anger they might seize upon the drummer's wrists
and cause him to make mistakes. A drummer who falters and 'speaks' a wrong
word is liable to a fine of a sheep, and if persistently at fault he might, in the past,
have had an ear cut off."
The prelude referred to above precedes every drum "piece," and closes with
the invocation of the witches which is thus translated by Rattray, Ashanti, p. 280:
"Oh Witch, do not slay me, Adwo,*
Spare me, Adwo,
The divine drummer declares that,
When he rises from the dawn,
He will sound (his drums) for you in the morning,
Very early, Very early, Very early, Verly early,
Oh Witch that slays the children of men before they arc fully matured,
Oh Witch that slays the children of men before they are fully matured,
The divine drummer declares that,
When he rises with the dawn,
He will sound his drums for you in the morning,
We are addressing you,
And you will understand."
* Note : "A title of respect given to chiefs, by women to their husbands, and
children to their elders."
This same introduction of an evil influence into a good or "lucky" charm is
indicated in the following news item taken from the Philadelphia evening tele-
cram for August 7, 1884: "The left hind foot of a graveyard rabbit, which has a
potent influence among the Southern Negroes has been presented to Governor
Cleveland as a talisman in the campaign. The rabbit from which the foot was
taken was shot on the grave of Jesse James."
132 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
magic, is in theory at least essentially antagonistic to religion in
any form, and as clearly dissociated from the making of a su-
man, which may be regarded as white magic, as its practitioner,
the Obayifo, is distinguished from the medicine man Suman-
kwafo. Nevertheless, the title Bayi komfo, a priest of witchcraft,
would indicate that even in Ashanti, there has developed a phase
of what might be called devil-worship in as much as the Sasabon-
sam, or devil, is so closely associated with witches.28
In all this, however, we do not find any real evidence of Ophiol
atry, either as regards the religion or the witchcraft of the
Ashanti.27
No doubt the Obayifo affected at times the role of medicine
man. He might remain respectable before the community at large
as a Sumankwafo, while in secret he plied his trade as a wizard.
So, too, he must naturally have borrowed occasionally from the
suman-maker's technique to effectually disguise his own incanta
tions. If in the making of a suman the real Sumankwafo actually
invaded his realm by soliciting the aid of Sasabonsam, why should
he not return the compliment in kind ?
Practically, in a general way, the differentiation was in the
specific object of the rite which determined whether the magic
was to be regarded as white or black.28 But over and above all this,
28 Note : This would explain the statement of J. Leighton Wilson who when
writing of the district of West Africa, between Cape Verde and the Cameroons,
says : "Fetishism and demonology are undoubtedly the leading and prominent
forms of religion among the pagan tribes of Africa. They are entirely distinct
from each other, but they run together at so many points, and have been so much
mixed up by those who have attempted to write on the subject, that it is no easy
matter to keep them separated." Cfr. Wilson, Western Africa, Its History,
Condition and Prospects, p. an.
27 Note : Among the Ashanti, it is true, the python is a totem of the Bosom-
muru, the most important of all the ntoro exogamous divisions on a patrilineal
basis. Cfr. Rattray, Ashanti, p. 47. In this connection Hambly remarks: "Rat
tray's description of reverence for the python in Ashanti includes statements
which might reasonably be regarded as evidence of a decadent python cult. But
the information is more correctly classified under totemism." Hambly, Serpent
Worship in Africa, p. 13. Furthermore, a complete absence of serpent cult seems
to be implied by the Ashanti Proverb : "Wonho owo to a, wommo ho aba. Unless
you see a snake's head, you do not strike at it." Rattray, Ashanti Proverbs, p. 72.
28 Note : W. G. Browne, Travels in Africa, Egypt and Syria, from the Year
1792 to 1798, London, 1806, p. 90, notices at Kahira a similar distinction in con
nection with Egyptian magic which is divided into "halal, lawful, and haram,
unlawful." This division of Magic into White and Black, as determined by its
lawfulness or unlawfulness has since come to be generally recognized.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 133
there was also a wide divergence in the ingredients employed, just
as the knowledge of vegetable qualities, good and evil, was used
for curative or destructive purposes, according to the profession
of the herbalist.
In fact, it would be natural to suspect that the really skilful
Obayifo would play the double role from motives of self-
protection if not from any mercenary reasons.29
D. Amaury Talbot, wife of the District Commissioner of the
Nigerian Political Service, in her book, Woman's Mysteries of
a Primitive People, devotes a chapter to "Love Philtres and
Magic" wherein she tells us : "The principal ingredients in these
philtres are the hearts of chickens pounded up to a smooth paste,
together with leaves thought to contain magical qualities. It is not
without significance, that among the Ibibios, save when admin
istered in 'medicine,' intended to weaken the will and destroy the
courage of the recipient, the hearts and livers of chickens are care
fully avoided as food, since it is thought that those who partake
will become 'chicken-hearted' in consequence. In order to render
the charm efficacious it is necessary to draw forth the soul of some
person and imprison it amid fresh-plucked herbs in an earthen
pot never before used. The vessel is then hung above a slow fire,
and, as the leaves dry up, the body of the man or woman chosen
for the purpose is said to wither away." 80
Of course a little poison
judiciously administered will supplement the efficacy of this
sympathetic magic.
Pere Baudin, in turn, speaking of fetish beliefs in general,
29 Note : Anyone who has lived for some time in Jamaica has come in contact
with really marvellous "Bush remedies." For example, a throbbing headache is
quickly relieved by the application of a particular cactus which is split and bound
on the forehead ; and a severe fever is broken effectively by a "bush tea" made
from certain leaves and twigs known only to the old woman who gathers them,
and whose only explanation is "Jes seben bush, Sah, me pick dem one one." Too
frequently, the Obeah man makes use of this knowledge of herbals in connection
with his art. In a particular case of Obeah poisoning that came under my personal
notice, just as the victim was on the point of losing consciousness, the very indi
vidual who was for good reasons suspected of being the cause of the trouble,
suddenly entered the sick room unannounced and administered the antidote. A
change of heart or more probably fear of the consequences, had probably saved
the victim's life.
,0
D. Amaury Talbot, IVotnan's Mysteries of a Primitive People, London,
1SM5, P- 138-
134 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
tells us : "The great or chief fetish priests have a secret doctrine
which differs greatly from the popular doctrine. In this secret doc
trine they gradually initiate the priests of the lower ranks." Among
these secrets he includes : "the medicinal receipts, especially those
for poisons," and immediately adds : "I do not believe that there
exists in the world more skilful poisoners. They preserve these
receipts with great care." 81
Moreau de Saint-Mery assures us : "It is unfortunately too cer
tain that some of the old Africans profess at San Domingo the
odious art of poisoning. I say profess, for there are those who have
a school where hate and vengeance has sent more than one dis
ciple." 82
Louis P. Bowler, who urges as his credentials for presenting
his little volume : "Eight years' experience in the Jungle of the
Gold Coast Colony," 88
recounts a number of cases of poisoning
which came under his personal observation. From his narrative
we may quote the following instances :
"Another case was brought to my notice where a European un
wisely parted with money to a chief for consideration on a con
cession. After obtaining the chief's promise to accompany him to
the coast town to sign the usual declarations before a District
Commissioner, it appeared that he had previously sold the same
concession and obtained money thereon. The European dies
mysteriously the night before his projected departure. He was
fond of pineapples, and the chief sent him a couple as a present,
which he unfortunately partook of. It seems that the chief, or his
medicine man, had inserted a deadly poison into the pineapple
with a piece of thin wire." 84
It may be objected that this is not Obeah, but cold-blooded mur
der. Yes, and the same may be said of Obeah wherever the end
is produced in this way. No doubt the natives ascribed the untimely
31 Baudin, Fetichisme et Feticheurs, p. 86.
32 Moreau de Saint-Mery, Description de la Partie Francaise de Saint Domi-
nigue, Vol. I, p. 36.
38 Louis P. Bowler, Gold Coast Palava: Life on the Gold Coast, London, 191 1,
p. 17.
34 Ditto, p. 136 f.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 135
death to the workings of Obeah, and it is equally probable that the
agent employed was himself an Obeah man.
The second instance which we are about to relate
is,
in
a
way,
even more characteristic. Bowler writes
:
"I remember an instance
of very fine powdered glass being placed in some soup on the table
of
a
European, which fortunately was discovered in time.
Powdered glass
is
a favourite Fantee 85
means of injuring or killing
those they have
a
grudge against.
It
is
broken up fairly fine, put
into kankee or fufu (native food), and when swallowed lacerates
the bowels, setting up internal hemorrhage. Another of their
methods
is
to rub the sticky latex of the rubber vine on the latch
of the doors, rails of beds, on the loin cloths, or anything their
victim
is
likely to touch. They then shake the poisoned broken
glass on the sticky rubber, and any person taking hold of these
things and receiving
a
prick in the hands
is
inoculated with the
poison. There are many deaths of Europeans in West Africa
that are put down to fever, black-water, typhoid, and stomach
complaints, that
if
their true cause were investigated, would be
found to arise from irritants and other poisons that the natives
are adepts at using." 38
It
is
with good reason, then, that Norman Eustace Cameron,
Principal of the Guianese Academy, insists
:
"I believe that African
medicines should be taken more seriously, even though we in Brit
ish Guiana and the West Indies are accustomed to think of
African medicine in terms of Obeah practice.
It
is
true that the
native doctors (called medicine men or witch doctors by those who
will not regard them with dignity) were acquainted with many
deadly poisons
;
as, for instance, those which were used for poison
ing their arrows in war; and
it
is
also true that the Kings of
Benin and Zimbabwe took precautions against death by poisoning.
But we ought to bear in mind that poisoning any member of an
8 Note
:
It
is
equally common in Ashanti, and
is
also found in Jamaica today.
I
never met with any case where
it
was administered to human beings, but
I
have known live stock to be destroyed in this way.
I
lost
a
horse myself on one
occasion through this very means. The technical term
is
"obi-water" and
it
produces dysentery and
a
slow-wasting death.
36 Bowler,
1.
c, p. 137
f.
136 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
African community was and is considered by the community as
murder, and if a person was suspected of having been killed by
poison, elaborate inquiries were made to detect the murderer who
would be tried and executed, sometimes cruelly, if found guilty." 87
This is in keeping with the practice of the Jamaica Myalist to
"dig up Obeah." And as we shall see in the next chapter, it was
precisely with the suppression of the Myal dance in Jamaica that
Obeah began to gain an ascendancy and develop into a quasi-
religion with hatred of the white man and the ultimate overthrow
of the white masters as an object.
In view of all this, it is hard to understand how Sir Harry
Johnston could have written: "Obia (misspelt Obeah) seems to
be a variant or a corruption of an Efik or Ibo word from the
northeast or east of the Niger delta, which simply means
'Doctor.' . . . Obia is like Hudu or Vudu a part of the fetishistic
belief which prevails over nearly all Africa, much of Asia, and
a good deal of America. ... In its 'well-meaning' forms, it is
medical treatment by drugs or suggestion combined with a wor
ship of the powers of Nature and a propitiation of evil spirits ; in
its bad types it is an attempt to frighten, obsess, and hypnotize,
and failing the production of results by this hocus-pocus, by
poison." 88
Far more accurate is the definition of The Encyclopedic Dic
tionary:39 "Obi (Obeah), A system of sorcery prevalent, though
not to so great an extent as formerly among the Negro population
of the West Indian Colonies. It appears to have been brought
from Africa by Negroes who had been enslaved, and to these
obeah-men (or women) the blacks used to resort for the cure of
disorders, obtaining revenge, conciliating favour, the discovery of
a thief or an adulterer, and the prediction of future events. The
practice of Obi had become general towards the close of the last
century, both in the West Indies and the United States, and there
87 Eustace Cameron, The Evolution of the Negro, Georgetown, Demerara, 1929,
Vol. I, p. 179.
88 Johnston, The Negro in the New World, p. 253, Note 1.
30 Philadelphia, 1894.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 137
is little doubt that the Obeah man exercised vast influence, and
that they carried on a system of secret slow poisonings, the effects
of which were attributed by their more ignorant fellows to Obi.
The system resembles other superstitions of savage peoples. It
may have originated in ancient religious practices, in which sor
cery bore a large part."
Hesketh J. Bell who spent many years in the British Colonial
Service in the West Indies and was subsequently Governor of the
Island Mauritius, has written at length on the subject of Obeah
and incidentally contributed valuable data gathered either from
personal observation or through reliable eye-witnesses.
Writing of Granada, an English island in the Windward Group,
Bell says: "Before the emancipation, the practice of Obeah was
rampant in all the West Indian colonies, and laws and ordinances
had to be framed to put it down, and combat its baneful influences.
There were few of the large estates having African slaves, which
had not one or more Obeah men in the number. They were usually
the oldest and most crafty of the blacks, those whose hoary heads
and somewhat harsh and forbidding aspect, together with some
skill in plants of the medicinal and poisonous species, qualified
them for successful imposition on the weak and credulous. In
these days, an Obeah man would be hard to distinguish from
other blacks, and might only be known by wearing his hair long,
or some other peculiarity, or else by possessing a good substantial
house, built out of the money obtained from his credulous coun
trymen, in exchange for rubbishing simples or worthless love-
spells. The trade which these impostors carry on is extremely
lucrative. A Negro would not hesitate to give an Obeah man four
or five dollars for a love-spell, when he would grudge three
shillings for a bottle of medicine, to relieve some painful sickness.
A veil of mystery is cast over their incantations which generally
take place at the midnight hour, and every precaution is taken to
conceal these ceremonies from the knowledge of the whites.
The deluded Negroes who thoroughly believe in the supernatural
power of these sorcerers, screen them as much as possible and the
138 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
bravest among them tremble at the very sight of the ragged bun
dle, the eggshells or Obeah bottle stuck in the thatch of a hut, or
in the branches of a plantain tree to deter thieves.
"The darker and more dangerous side of Obeah is that portion
under cover of which poison is used to a fearful extent, and the
dangerous and often fatal effects of many a magic draught are
simply set down, by the superstitious black, to the workings of
the spells of Obeah, and never to the more simple effects of the
scores of poisonous herbs growing in every pasture, and which
may have formed the ingredients of the Obeah mixture. Owing
to the defective state of the laws relating to declaration of deaths
and inquests, it is to be feared that very many deaths occur from
poisoning, which are set down to a cold or other simple malady." 40
Bell recounts the following narrative as he received it from
the lips of a French priest in Granada : "I was riding to see a sick
person living on the other side of the parish, when I happened to
pass a small wooden house, before which a number of people were
congregated, all talking together and evidently much exercised in
their minds about something inexplicable. On asking what was the
matter, I was told that the owner of the house was lying dead,
and that he was an Obeah man who had lived quite alone in the
place for many years, and that there was consequently no one
willing to undertake the job of looking after the corpse and bury
ing it. In fact no one would go inside the hut at all, as it was
affirmed that his Satanic Majesty was there in person looking
after the body of the Obeah man, which now undoubtedly be
longed to him. To allay their alarms, I got off my horse, and with
the assistance of a couple of men broke open the door and entered
the hut. Lying on a wooden stretcher was the body of the un
fortunate individual, whose death must have occurred a good
many hours before, and the body was in urgent need of burial,
so after scolding the people for their cowardice I prevailed on
them to see about a coffin and other details as quickly as possible.
It was, however, only in evident fear and trembling that any of
them would enter the room, and the slightest noise would make
«oHesketh J. Bell, Obeah; Witchcraft in the West Indies, London, 1889, p. of.
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 139
them start and look towards the door, in the expectation of seeing
le diable en personne coming to claim his property.
"The dirty little room was littered with the Obeah man's
stock-in-trade." Then after the catalogue of gruesome finds, he
continues : "In a little tin canister I found the most valuable of
the sorcerer's stock, namely, seven bones belonging to a rattle
snake's tail these I have known sell for five dollars each, so
highly valued are they as amulets or charms in the same box
was about a yard of rope, no doubt intended to be sold for hang
man's cord, which is highly prized by the Negroes, the owner of
a piece being supposed to be able to defy bad luck.
"Rummaging further, I pulled out from under the thatch of
the roof an old preserved-salmon tin, the contents of which showed
how profitable was the trade of Obeah. It was stuffed full of five-
dollar bank-notes, besides a number of handsome twenty-dollar
gold pieces, the whole amounting to a considerable sum, which I
confess I felt very reluctant to seal up and hand over to the Gov
ernment, the Obeah man not being known to have heirs. I then
ordered the people to gather up all the rubbish, which was soon
kindled and blazing away merrily in front of the hut, to the evi
dent satisfaction of the bystanders, who could hardly be persuaded
to handle the mysterious tools of Obeah. The man, I heard, had
a great reputation for sorcery, and I was assured that even per
sons who would never be suspected of encouraging witchcraft had
been known to consult him or purchase some love-spell." 41
Another incident related by the same French priest in Granada
to Mr. Bell, must close this chapter. The incident runs as follows :
"I will give you an instance which happened to me, and which
I have never been able to explain satisfactorily.
"Some years ago I was in Trinidad and had been sent by the
Archbishop to take charge of a parish far in the interior of the
island, and at that time but very little known and developed. There
being no presbytery, I had to make shift, until I could build one,
with part of a small wooden house, of which one room was occupied
by an old coloured woman, who lived there with a little girl. This
11 Ditto, p. 14 f.
140 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
woman was looked on with a good deal of dread by the people,
being supposed to possess a knowledge of a good many unholy
tricks, and it was confidently hoped that my near neighbourhood
would do her good, and at all events induce her to be seen now
and then at church, which is here a great sign of respectability.
When taking possession of my part of the house, I was shown
her room, and noticed particularly that it contained some really
handsome pieces of the massive furniture so much esteemed by
Creoles. A tremendous family four-poster, with heavy, hand
somely turned pillars, stood in one corner near a ponderous ma
hogany wardrobe, and various other bits of furniture pretty well
filled the little room. The door of her apartment opened on to my
room, which she had to pass through every time she went out of
the house. This was an unpleasant arrangement, but was shortly
to be remedied by having another door made in her room leading
outside. However, the night after my taking possession, I heard
a monotonous sound through the partition, as if someone croon
ing a sing-song chant. This continued for over an hour, and more
than once I felt inclined to rap at the partition and beg the old
dame to shut up her incantations, but it finally acted as a lullaby
and I soon dropped asleep. The next morning having got up and
dressed, I noticed that all was perfectly silent next door, and on
listening attentively failed to hear a sound. I feared something
had gone wrong, but noticed that the door leading outside had
not been opened, as a chair I had placed against it was in precisely
the same position as I had left it. I then knocked at her door
several times, but obtained no answer ; fearing an accident had
happened, I opened the door, and as it swung back on its hinges
I was astonished to see the room perfectly empty and evidently
swept clean. On examining the room carefully I found it only had
two small windows besides the door leading into my room. From
that day to this neither I nor anyone living in that district have
ever seen or heard anything of that woman or of her little girl.
How she moved all her heavy furniture out of that little room, has
ever remained an inexplicable mystery. I would have defied any
man to move the wardrobe alone, and even if the old woman had
ORIGIN OF OBEAH 141
had strength enough to carry the furniture away, she never could
have dragged it through my room without disturbing me. How
ever, these are the facts of the case, and I have never been able
to explain them." 42
42 Ditto, p. 17.
Chapter V
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA
As shown elsewhere it was the Ashanti in Jamaica who, during
the days of slavery, maintained a commanding influence over all
the other types of slaves, even imposing on them their peculiar
superstitions and religious practices, and who have left their im
press on the general population of the Island to such an extent
that they may undoubtedly be declared the dominant influence in
evolving our Jamaica peasant of the present day.1 Thus, to briefly
summarize a few of the principal facts, in Jamaica folklore, or
Anancy stories, we find the spider, anancy, as the central figure
and his son Tacoma as next in importance, with both names and
characters derived directly from the Ashanti. Here also the
Ashanti name of Odum is perserved for the silk-cotton tree.
These stories are passed along by the Nana or Granny, and again
the function and title are both Ashanti. The funeral custom of
raising and lowering the coffin three times, seemingly as a courtesy
to the Earth Goddess before starting for the grave, while peculiar
to the Ashanti in West Africa, is still prevalent in the Jamaica
"bush" where they know nothing of its origin or significance, and
where they give as the sole reason for doing so, that it is always
done that way. Again, the fowl with ruffled feathers, and half-
naked neck and which the Jamaica "picknies" call peal-neck, i. e.
bald-neck, is technically known as sensey fowl in Jamaica and
asense in Ashanti. So, too, the staple food of the Ashanti is fufu,
consisting usually of mashed yam, and sometimes of mashed
plantain. The term is the reduplicated form of fu, meaning white.
In the Jamaica "bush" there is a particularly fine grade of white
yam that is known as fufu yam, and it has lately been brought to
1 Williams, Hebrezvisms of West Africa, Introduction.
142
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 143
my attention that mashed yam in Jamaica still goes by the name
of fufu. Many other details of identity in words and customs
might be adduced but these must suffice for the present.
True it
is,
the Ashanti are not always expressly named as such
in the role they occupied in Jamaica.
It
is
as Koromantins that
they figure so prominently in the history of the island, especially
as regards the various slave-uprisings that so often threatened the
white supremacy. But, as has been shown, the Koromantin, while
generically Gold Coast slaves, were specifically, at least as applies
to their leading spirits, Ashanti.2
Gardner declares
:
"Little can be said with confidence as to the
religious beliefs of these people. The influence of the Koromantins
seemed to have modified,
if
not entirely obliterated, whatever was
introduced by other tribes. They recognized, in
a
being called
Accompong, the creator and preserver of mankind
;
to him praise,
but never sacrifice, was offered. . . . The tutelary deities in
cluded the departed heads of families, and the worship of such
was almost the only one observed to any great extent by Africans
or their descendants in Jamaica."
8
The Supreme Being among the Ashanti, as we have seen, was
Nyame, and his primary title was Nyankopon, meaning Nyame,
alone, great one. Accompong, then, was the white man's attempt
to transliterate the Nyankopon which he so often heard on the
lips of the expatriated Ashanti.
As previously noted: Bryan Edwards, in his brief outline of
the religious beliefs of the Koromantin slaves, asserts
:
"They
believe that Accompong, the God of heavens,
is
the creator of all
things
;
a
Deity of Infinite goodness. In fact we have in Jamaica
today, in the parish of St. Elizabeth,
a
Maroon town called Ac
compong, which according to Cundall, the Island Historian, was
so called after an Ashanti chief who figured in one of the early
2
Ditto, p.
9.
8
Gardner, History
of
Jamaica, p. 184. Note :-33ardner further observes p.
184: "It
is
and ever has been very difficult to extract from an old Negro what his
religious belief really was, but
it
seems probable that there was some idea that
departed parents had influence with the supposed rulers of the world beyond
the grave, and that prayers were offered to them in some such spirit as that of
the Roman Catholic who appeals to the saints
in
his calendar."
144 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
rebellions of the Island. One's first impression would be that this
chief had abrogated to himself the title of Deity. But we are as
sured by J. G. Christaller that among the Ashanti the Divine
Name was frequently given to a slave in acknowledgment of the
help of God enabling the owner to buy the slave." 4
Herbert G. De Lisser, a native Jamaican whose facile pen has
won for him well-merited distinction, writes : "The West African
natives and particularly those from the Gold Coast (from which
j the larger number of Jamaica slaves were brought) believe in a
number of gods of different classes and unequal power. All these
gods have their priest and priestesses, but there is one particular
malignant spirit, which on the Gold Coast has no priesthood. He
is called Sasabonsum, and any individual may put himself in com
munication with him. Sasabonsum's favorite residence is the ceiba,
the giant silk-cotton tree. He is resorted to in the dead of night,
his votary going to the spot where he is supposed to live, and
collecting there a little earth, or a few twigs, or a stone, he prays
to the god that his power may enter this receptacle. I f he believes
that his prayer has been heard he returns home with his shuman,
as the thing is now named, and henceforth, he has a power which
is formidable for injurious purposes, to which he offers sacrifice,
and to the worship of which he dedicates a special day in the
week. By the aid of this shuman he can bewitch a man to death.
He can also sell charms that will cause death or bodily injury.
His charms may also be put to other and less pernicious uses. Thus
the shuman charm in the shape of a bundle of twigs, if hung up
where it can be seen, is very efficacious for keeping thieves away
from a house or provision-ground. Anyone may go out and get a
shuman if he likes, but few there are who dare to do so, through
fear of Sasabonsum, the witch's god, and public opinion which
looks down upon a man with a shuman. The legitimate priests
whose office it is to approach the gods also sell charms both for
good and injurious purposes, but the main functions are to
propitiate the gods and bewitch the people. They were called upon
to undo the injury caused by the wizard and his shuman. Both
4 Williams, Hebrewism* of West Africa, p. 16.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 145
witches and wizards, priests and priestesses were brought to
Jamaica in the days of the slave trade, and the slaves recognized
the distinction between the former and the latter. Even the masters
saw that the two classes were not identical, and so they called the
latter 'Myal men' and 'Myal women' the people who cured those
whom the Obeah man had injured. Of the present-day descendants
of these priests or Myal men more will be said later on. It is prob
able that many of the African priests became simple Obeah men
after coming to Jamaica, for the simple reason that they could
not openly practice their legitimate profession. But when known
as Obeah men, however much they might be treated with respect,
they still were hated and feared. Every evil was attributed to them.
The very name of them spread dread." 5
Myalism, then, was the old tribal religion of the Ashanti which
we have studied in detail in the preceding chapter, with some
modifications due to conditions and circumstances. It drew its
name from the Myal dance that featured it, particularly in the
veneration of the minor deities who were subordinate to Accom-
pong, and in the commemoration or intercession of ancestors.
The old antagonism to Obeah or witchcraft on the part of the
priesthood becomes accentuated, and gradually takes on
a
role of
major importance, so that
it
actually forms
a
part of the religious
practice. In Ashanti, the Okomfo openly combated the Obayifo
as
a
matter of principle, and he had the whole force of Ashanti
religious traditions and public sentiment to support him, until he
eventually looked down with more or less disdain on the benighted
disciple of Sasabonsam. In Jamaica, on the other hand, native
religious assemblies were proscribed
by
law, as we shall see shortly,
which greatly hampered the Okomfo in his sphere of influence,
even his title being changed to Myal man, while the Obayifo or
Obeah man, who had always worked in secret, flourished in his
trade. For the very status and restrictions of slave life put his
fellows more and more at his mercy and filled them with
a
grow
ing fear of his spiteful incantations, backed up as they were with
active poisonings. Their gods had abandoned them; why not
8
Herbert G. De Lisser, Twentieth Century Jamaica, Kingston, 1913,
p.
11of.
146 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
cultivate the favour of the triumphant Sasabonsam, or at least as
suage his enmity and placate his vengeance?
It was natural, too, for the Okomfo to adapt his practice to the
new state of affairs. His hated rival, the Obayifo, must be con
quered at any price. Personal interests demanded this as strongly
as religious zeal. Since public service of the deities was no longer
possible, he in turn was forced to work in secret, and it is not
surprising that he met fire with fire, incantation with incantation.
His religion had aimed primarily at the welfare of the community,
even as the object in life of the Obayifo was the harm of the in
dividual. Open intercession for tribal success and prosperity neces
sarily gives way to secret machinations to break the chains of
bondage. A fanatic zeal takes hold of the Myalist Okomfo and he
devises the most impressive ritual he can, to arouse the dormant
spirits of his fellow-slaves.
Thus it came to pass that it was the Okomfo and not the
Obayifo, as is generally assumed, who administered the terrible
fetish oath. It was he who mixed the gunpowder with the rum
and added grave dirt and human blood to the concoction that was
to seal upon the conspirators' lips the awful nature of the plot for
liberty, and steel their hearts for the dangerous undertaking. It
was he, no less, who devised the mystic powder that was to make
their bodies invulnerable, and enable them to meet unscathed the
white man's bullets. Finally, it was the Okomfo and not the
Obayifo who, taking advantage of herbal knowledge, induced a
state of torpor on subservient tools, that he might seem to raise
the dead to life.
Yet, through it all, while he frequently substitutes for his own
religious ceremonial the dark and secret rites of his rival prac
titioner, his aim at least is still within the tribal law, as he works
white magic for the welfare of the community, no less than he
continues to combat the black magic of his adversary.
It is not surprising, then, that the role of the Myalist Okomfo
has been so little understood, and that his most effective work was
ascribed by the whites of Jamaica to the agency of Obeah and
that Myalism itself should become confused with witchcraft and
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 147
even regarded by some as an offshoot of Obeah and nothing more.
Gardner is only partially correct when he states: "Of late years
Myalism has generally been regarded as an art by which that of
the Obeah man could be counteracted. Its first mode of develop
ment was as a branch of Obeah practice. The Obeah man intro
duced a dance called Myal dance, and formed a secret society, the
members of which were to be made invulnerable, or if they
died, life was to be restored. Belief in this miracle was secured by
trick. A mixture was given in rum, of a character which presently
induced sleep so profound, as, by the uninitiated and alarmed, to
be mistaken for death. After this had been administered to some
one chosen for the purpose, the Myal dance began, and presently
the victim staggered and fell, to all appearance dead. Mystic
charms were then used ; the body was rubbed with some infusion ;
and in process of time, the narcotic having lost its power, the sub
ject of the experiment rose up as one restored to life, a fact for
which the Obeah man claimed all the merit. The plant said to be
used was the branched calalue, or solanum. If so, it can only be
the cold infusion which has the narcotic power, and which is stated
to belong to the European variety ; for when boiled it is harmless.
It is commonly used in Jamaica as a substitute for spinach, and
enters largely into the composition of the famous pepper-pot."
8
Matthew Gregory Lewis records in his diary under date of
February 25, 1817: "The Obeah ceremonies always commence
with what is called, by the Negroes, 'the Myal dance.' 7
This is
intended to remove any doubt of the chief Obeah man's super-
8 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 19a. Note : In this connection it is inter
esting to find A. W. Cardinall, In Ashanti and Beyond, London, 1927, p. 238,
who had spent many years as a District Commissioner of the Gold Coast, when
describing the initiation to a Bimoda secret society, observing : "If a Kussassi
youth wishes to become a member he has to undergo a rather frightening ordeal.
He is cut with a knife and medicine is inserted in the wounds : thereby he is
reduced to unconsciousness for a long time. 'He dies for five days' is the ex
pression used. They then anoint him with medicine, and he returns to conscious
ness."
7 Note : Lewis is evidently describing a Myal rite in the strict sense of the
word. His reference to it as the opening of an Obeah ceremony is due to the
common error of his day on the part of the whites who had not yet learned to
distinguish between the functions of the Myalist Okomfo and the Obeah man,
although it is clearly implied in the present instance by the subsequent reference
to the officiating functionary whom he calls by his proper title "the chief Myal
man" to whom he had previously misapplied the term chief Obeah man."
148 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
natural powers ; and in the course of which, he undertakes to show
his art by killing one of the persons present, whom he pitches
upon for that purpose. He sprinkles various powders over the de
voted victim, blows upon him, and dances round him, obliges him
to drink a liquor prepared for the occasion, and finally the sorcerer
and his assistants seize him and whirl him rapidly round and round
till the man loses his senses, and falls to the ground to all appear
ances and the belief of the spectators a perfect corpse. The chief
Myal man then utters loud shrieks, rushes out of the house with
wild and frantic gestures, and conceals himself in a neighbouring
wood. At the end of two or three hours he returns with a large
bundle of herbs, from some of which he squeezes the juice into
the mouth of the dead person; with others he anoints his eyes
and stains the tips of his fingers, accompanying the ceremony
with a great variety of grotesque actions, and chanting all the
while something between a song and a howl, while the assistants
hand in hand dance slowly round them in a circle, stamping the
ground loudly with their feet to keep time with this chant. A con
siderable time elapses before the desired effect is produced, but at
length the corpse gradually recovers animation, rises from the
ground perfectly recovered, and the Myal dance concludes." 8
With the decline of Myalism from its early religious standards,
it took on more and more a character of antagonism to Obeah
until eventually to "dig up Obeah" became its principal differentia
tion from witchcraft, at least as far as the uninitiated were con
cerned. The spirit of fanaticism, however, held apace and after
the abolition of slavery, when the restrictions on assemblies were
removed, there was a recrudescence of the cult, sometimes referred
to as "Revivalism" that has disturbed at times the peace of more
than one Jamaica community. Thus for example, Gardner tells
us: "In 1842 several Negroes residing on an estate near Montego
Bay gave themselves out to be Myal men ; and in St. James, West
moreland, and Trelawney, thousands of deluded people became
their followers. They were accustomed to meet together after
8 Matthew Gregory Lewis, Journal of a West India Proprietor, kept during
a Residence in the Island of Jamaica, London, 1834, p. 354 f.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 149
nightfall, generally beneath the shadow of a cotton tree. Fowls
were sacrificed, and wild songs sung, in the chorus of which the
multitude joined. Dancing then began, becoming more and more
weirdlike in character, until one and another fell exhausted to
the ground, when their incoherent utterances were listened to as
divine revelations. Half-demented creatures sat among the
branches or in the hollow trunks of trees, singing; while others
with their heads bound in fantastic fashion, ran about with arms
outstretched, and declared that they were flying. It became neces
sary at last to swear in several hundreds of special constables, and
to punish numbers of these deluded people for disturbing the
peace. . . . Some six years later a Myal man, called Dr. Taylor,
gave much trouble in Manchester and Clarendon, drawing great
crowds after him. He was sent to the penitentiary, where he was
accidentally killed. In 1852, the delusion again appeared: some
now gave themselves out to be prophets, and saw visions, but the
firmness of the missionaries soon put an end to these practices."
9
There are some interesting details of the Myalistic outbreak
of 1842 given by the Reverend R. Thomas Banbury, a native
Jamaican, in a little volume which he published at Kingston, in
1895 on Jamaica Superstitions. He tells us: "It took its rise at
Newman Hall estate in St. James and went through that parish,
Westmoreland and Hanover, increasing as it went until it con
sisted of hundreds of deluded fanatics. They went by the name of
'Myal people'; they were also called 'angel men.' They declared
that the world was to come to an end; Christ was coming, and
God had sent them to pull all the Obeahs, and catch all the shadows
that were spell-bound at the cotton trees. In preparation for these
events they affected to be very strict in their conduct. They would
neither drink nor smoke. Persons who were known to be notorious
for their bad lives were excluded from their society. They went
from place to place pulling out Obeahs and catching shadows and
uttered fearful threats against sinners. About the time mentioned
there was a very extraordinary comet, which continued in the
heavens for several weeks. It was in the west, and the shape of it
9 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 460.
ISO VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
was like a 'salt fish' (a cod fish split in two, with the head cut off),
the head square and the body tapering off to a point. It was re
markably brilliant. These people made reference to it in their songs
and pointed to it as an illustration of their divine mission, and the
people were not a little alarmed at its appearance. . . . Many
songs were used when taking up Obeahs, which they did openly in
the daytime, in the presence of a large concourse of people who
flocked from all parts to see it. The overseers and bookkeepers on
the sugar estates all were present. There were present an attorney
and a proprietor. An Englishman and a member of the House of
Assembly, who took them on his estate gave them room and en
couraged them in every way. They publicly dug out of his yard a
lot of Obeahs for him. . . . The amber was a talisman by which
they pretended to divine. Both Myal men and Obeah men use it.
Anything through which they look at the Obeah, either in the
ground or skin is called an amber, the name not being strictly
confined to the substance properly so-called.
"Four shillings was the price for pulling an Obeah and six
shillings for catching a shadow, and they did make money. They
accompanied their operations with violent singing and dancing.
They worked themselves into violent animal excitement and fa
naticism, jumping about, yelling like so many demoniacs. It was
frightful to hear them. Sometimes one would bolt out of the
ring and run into the bush and then the others would go after
him, declaring that the spirits had taken him away. They had vials
rilled with the juice of bad-smelling bushes which they called 'their
weed.' It was said that it had the effect of causing those upon
whom it was sprinkled to become Myal people. Not a little injury
was done to the churches by this Myal procession. A number of
young people, especially females, were drawn away. They fol
lowed them all about and fell into immorality with the men, not
withstanding the affected piety of the latter. They went into the
churches on Sundays and interrupted divine services by pulling
out persons whom they suspected of dealing in Obeah, or who were
so reported to them. Old men who looked suspicious were beaten,
rolled in cotton bush and half killed.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 151
"In a Baptist church at Slater's Hill an attack of this kind was
made on a man whom these people considered notorious for Obeah.
Afterwards the authorities had to take cognizance of their out
rages and sent some of them to prison. In returning from prison
their song was :
Myal nigga, we come oh,
We go da jail, we come out.
Myal nigga, we come oh,
We work again, we come back,
Myal man we come oh.
And according to the song they did begin their revelries again.
"There is no doubt that these people laboured under a delusion
from the devil. The Myalism of these people also put on a some
what different feature from that which existed before. They pro
fessed to take up Obeahs, which the regular Myal man never did,
for the work of the latter was confined to shadows, recovering
persons who were struck by duppies and bringing home those who
were carried away into the woods by the spirits." 10
In this last statement, we fear, Mr. Banbury is a little confused,
since "digging up Obeah" was the distinctive characteristic of the
Myalist, while we have here for the first time any reference to
"catching shadows," and their connection with "duppies." But
what, it may be asked were these shadows and duppies ?
Captain Rattray calls our attention to the fact that "The Ashanti
use a number of names translated in to English by the words
'soul' or 'spirit' or 'ghost'." He then proceeds to define these
various terms. Thus Saman "is a ghost, an apparition, a spectre ;
this term is never applied to a living person or to anything in
herent in a living person. It is objective and is the form the dead
are sometimes seen to take, when visible on earth. . . . The word
has no connection whatever with any kind of soul." 11
This is the
Jamaica "duppy," in every detail.
Again, he tells us : "The sasa is the invisible spiritual power of
a person or animal which disturbs the mind of the living, or works
10 R. Thomas Banbury, Jamaica Superstitions, or The Obeah Book, Kingston,
1895.
11 Rattray, Religion and Art in Ashanti, p. 153.
152 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
a spell or mischief upon them, so that they suffer in various
ways. . . . The sasa is essentially the bad, revengeful, and hurtful
element in a spirit ; it is that part which at all costs must be 'laid'
or rendered innocuous, the funeral rites . . . are really, I believe
the placating, appeasing, and the final speeding of a soul which
may contain this very dangerous element in its composition." 13
This is the "shadow" of Jamaica, where, however, both "duppy"
and "shadow" have gradually assumed a material element in the
general acceptation of the "bush."
Thus for example, on the occasion of deaths in the neighbour
hood, especially if by violence, the superstitious will plug up every
crack and crevice of their hovels at night, "to keep the duppies
out," an entirely useless precaution if the expected visitants were
purely spiritual and so impassible. After the hurricane in Montego
Bay in November, 19 12, when about a hundred were drowned, I
wanted to send a messenger on the following day on an errand
that would keep him out after dark. It was with the greatest dif
ficulty that I found one the usual form of excuse being : "Every
body stay home a night. Too many det (dead) round, Sah!"
So, too, at a "bush" funeral, the most important circumstance is
frequently the catching of the "shadow." I have more than once
watched the process from a very short distance, near enough, in
fact, to be able to hear all that was said, and to watch carefully
most that was done, as the actors, for such I must call them,
scrambled and grasped at empty nothingness, with such realism
of pretence, that I found myself actually rubbing my eyes, almost
convinced against myself that there must be an elusive something
that escaped my vision.
When sufficient rum had been imbibed, and the singing led by
a "selfish" voice had keyed up the assembly to the proper pitch,
someone would excitedly cry out: "See 'im yere!" Immediately
two or three or even more rival hunters would start after that
"shadow" at one and the same time. From outside where I stood,
it looked as if a general scramble had started in the hovel and I
could see forms falling over one another and hear the imprecations
12 Ditto, p. 153.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 153
and exclamations. After a time, one more "forward" than the
rest would claim to have caught the prey, only to be greeted with
cries of scorn:
" 'Im get away! See 'im dah!" Whereupon the
scuffle would start anew.
Eventually when all of them were breathless, dripping with
perspiration, their clothes soiled or at times actually torn, and
eyes almost popping out of their heads with excitement, while a
general condition of hysteria had taken possession of the entire
gathering, the feat would be accomplished by some belligerent
individual, who would clasp his hands and let out a veritable
scream of defiance: "Me got 'im! Me got 'im!" with such ve
hemence that he would literally shout down all protests to the
contrary, with perhaps just a little hint of possible physical violence
that might follow as a support to the power of his vociferation.
Then a box or at times a small coffin would be produced and with
much ado, not perhaps without a final effort to escape, the poor
"shadow" would be securely fastened in and properly "laid" to
be buried later at the funeral.
I have further listened to two disputants on the following
morning, while the rum fumes were still assertive, almost coming
to blows as to which one of them had actually accomplished the
feat of catching the shadow, and yet when I questioned them in
dividually a few days later, despite the fact that I knew them
intimately, both of them in perfect scorn, asserted, almost in the
same identical words: "Me no belieb in 'shadow,' Sah! 'Im all
nonsense, Sah!"
As far as I could form any judgment from my own observa
tions, it seemed to me that one of the supposed avocations of the
Obeah man was to catch the shadows of the living and nail them
to a cotton tree, while the Myal man, to undo the damage, was
busying himself by "pulling" the shadows from their imprison
ment in the tree. Again as the shadow may be harmful to the
family of the deceased, it is the function of the Myal man and not
the Obeah man to catch them at the funeral for this is a beneficial
act.
Reverend A. J. Emerick, who devoted more than a decade to
154 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
mission work in Jamaica, in a privately printed article gives us
valuable information about Myalism as it existed at the beginning
of the present century. He writes : "To attempt to describe Jamaica
Mialism, a superstition imported from Africa, is like trying to
describe the intricacies of the most cunningly devised Chinese puz
zle. Mialism is so mixed up with Obeahism, Duppyism and other
cults of African warp, together with whatever in Protestantism or
Catholic ritual that may appeal to the bizarre African imagination,
that it is hard to tell which is which and what is what. But for all
that it is a most interesting study for the student of folklore. . . .
"But whatever may have been its origin, Mialism, properly so-
called in Jamaica, is a species of Spiritualism, mixed with a
peculiar form of animism. Mialism with its Mial men and Mial
women, has been just as prevalent in Jamaica as Obeahism with
its Obi men and Obi women. At present you do not often hear
the words, 'Mialism and Mial people,' but they are still there in
large forces, masquerading under other names.
"The mysterious operations of Mialism consist in communica
tions with spirits or deaths ('dets' as the Jamaican terms it). The
persons who are favoured with communications with spirits are
called 'mial' people. They are said to be 'fo-eyed,' that is four-
eyed, by which is meant that they can see spirits and converse with
them. Both sexes make pretention to this power ; hence you have
mial men and mial women. They are believed to be able to kill or
injure anyone by aid of spirits. A mial man and obi man are
equally dreaded. The mial man harms by depriving persons of
their shadows, or setting deaths upon them.18 It is believed that
after a person's shadow is taken he is never healthy and if it be
not caught, he must pine away until he dies. It is said that the
word for shadow in the language of some African tribes is the
word for soul. Obi men and mial people sometimes carry little
coffins to catch and keep shadows, which shadows they are sup
posed to nail to the cotton tree. This cotton tree in the days of
slavery, like the oak in the days of Druidism, was worshipped
18 As just noted, in my own experience that was the work of the Obeah man.
The Myal man released them.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 155
and sacrifices were offered at its roots. This tree was held in
veneration and it was hard to get Negroes to cut it down because
they were afraid that if they did so the deaths which took up
their abode at its roots would injure them. There are many in
teresting superstitions connected with the cotton trees, one curious
belief about them was that they had the power of transporting
themselves at night to hold conferences together. . . .
"In connection with shadow taking is shadow catching, that is,
the restoring of the shadow to the person who had been deprived
of it. The performance is rather strange. Shadow catching is in
variably done in the night. The person suspected of having lost
his shadow is taken to the cotton tree, where his shadow
is,
as the
Jamaica people say, 'pell bound,' that
is
spellbound, or to which
it
was nailed. The mial men and mial women are accompanied by
a
large concourse of people. The victim is dressed all in white, with
a
white handkerchief about his head. Eggs and fowls are taken
together with cooked food, to the cotton tree. The mial men and
mial women parade up and down before the cotton tree with white
cloths over their shoulders, singing and dancing, and all the people
join in the chorus. The cotton tree
is
pelted with eggs, and the
necks of fowls are wrung off and the bodies are cast at it. This
is
done to propitiate the deaths or duppies that had their shadows
enthralled at the tree. The singing and dancing proceed more
vigorously as the shadow begins to make signs of leaving the
tree. A white basin of water to receive
it
is
held up. After they
have sung and danced to their heart's content, they suddenly catch
up the person and run home with him, affirming that his shadow
is
caught and covered up in the basin. When the patient has
reached his home,
a
wet cloth
is
applied to his head and his shadow
is
said to be restored to him." 14
The narrative may here be interrupted to remark that Fr. Emer-
ick fails to make the clear distinction between Obeah man and
Myal man, since at times the two functions are so confused and
even exercised by the same individual under
a
dual role. In gen
eral, however, Obeah
is
secretive and malicious; Myalism
is
open
14 A.
J.
Emerick, Jamaica Mialism, Woodstock, 1916, p. 39 ff.
156 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
and benevolent. When the "shadow" is "pulled" at the cotton
tree, or "caught" at the funeral, just as when Obeah is "dug up,"
the larger the body of witnesses the greater is the satisfaction of
the Myal man in this good deed which he performs. The Obeah
man, on the contrary, seeks to avoid all publicity, as his purpose is
evil. And even if, as occasionally does happen, the same individual
is today an Obeah man and tomorrow a Myal man, to the best
of my knowledge, he observes perhaps unconsciously the technique
of the rite which he is performing, and his entire manner and
method will change overnight.
Bringing the subject up to date, Fr. Emerick states : "Bedward-
ism has all the ear-marks of mialism, and in its fetish origin is
fundamentally the same. Its founder was a lunatic, named Bed-
ward, who was suffering from religious monomania. He claimed
that he had visions from God, and that the spirit of God had de
scended upon him and that in him the prophets were reincarnated,
at one time Jonas, at another Moses, then John the Baptist. He
declared that in a vision God had made known to him that the
water of Hope River cleansed from diseases and sin. It was
rumoured that a sick woman was cured by partaking of this water.
Belief in Bedward's miraculous powers gradually grew until per
sons from all over the island came to get the healing waters from
him and stories of wondrous cures by him were spread about.
The craze grew until as many as twenty and thirty thousand
Negroes used to gather every Wednesday morning along the river
bank at a place called August Town, on the Hope River. In the
great throng were hundreds of the crippled, the deformed, lepers,
the blind, consumptives and sufferers from every form of disease.
At a few moments of nine the so-called prophet would appear in
flowing white robes, and with a wand in his hand, with elaborate
and majestic ceremonies, he would bless the water, whereupon,
these thousands of men, women and children of all ages would
strip naked and jump into the water. An indescribable scene fol
lowed. ... I only introduce this short account of it here as
a help to my study of Mialism and because Bedwardism seemed
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 157
to have a parental affinity to Revivalism 15
which is now rampant
in Jamaica and which is nothing but Mialism pure and simple
under a new name. . . .
"The Revivalists masquerade as a Christian sect and cover
themselves with a glamour of Christianity, by such practices as
exclaiming in the mialistic songs, . . . such expressions as 'Lord
have mercy on us,' 'Christ have mercy on us,' words evidently
taken from the Catholic Mass. But despite all this they are but
pagan mialists, and their service is pagan. The mialists as a body
as well as individually, believed and especially FELT themselves
called by the spirit for their work. Their supreme effort in their
demoniacal, frenzied worship was to get a plenitude of the spirit.
So also the Revivalists believe and feel an excited call to perform
some work or give some message. Sometimes individuals, getting
the spirit during the night, arise and in a frenzied condition go
over the hills and along the roads, stopping sometimes before
houses and shouting at the top of their voices, quoting Holy Scrip
ture, giving warning, and announcing what they consider their
God-given message. They will sometimes give warning by shout
ing 'Hammer and nails!' This is intended to be a death warn
ing. During the day you will sometimes see them making curious
marking on the road before certain houses. One night while I
was going along a mountain path I met a woman who was under
this peculiar spell. She seemed to me like one of the frenzied
Eumenides whirling by me. You see again from the name of
'Angel people,' as they call themselves, where they get their idea
of being messengers from heaven." At one place in the moun
tains, I have myself heard one of these unfortunate creatures,
half-crazed with emotionalism, as night after night for weeks on
end, she stood up against a flat wall of rock which served as a
sounding board and sent her voice booming out over the valley
in a seemingly interminable repetition of "Fire and brimestone,
Fire and brimstone, Judgment on men, Judgment on men!"
15 Note : On the contrary Bedwardism is an offshoot of Revivalism which
dates back to the closing days of slavery.
158 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
After stating : "The original mial dance is said to be an old
West African priest dance," Fr. Emerick continues: "The Mial-
ists robed themselves in white and affected the power of divina
tion. The Revivalists do all this. There was a band of Revivalists
who met every Thursday at a place called Retirement, in the Dry
Harbour Mountains. I often heard them, for it was one perpetual
howl from morning till night, like the rise and fall of tidal waves
on the sea beach. I have gone to see them and any account of
demoniac possession that I ever read seemed tame in comparison
with the demoniacal contortions, the hysterical singing and moan
ing, the frenzied gyrating, swaying, dancing and the abominable
jerkings, of these people in the heat of their wild African, weird
fetish worship to become possessed by the spirit. They form a
compact circle, or rather wheel, of men and women. The whole
living, squirming wheel circles and swirls in a body and each in
dividual gyrates at the same time with many a curious bow and
bend and dip and twist. Alternately they sing and moan and
shout and scream. Every now and then by spells they go through
abdominal contortions, just as if some infernal spirit of wondrous
strength gripped them and threw into convulsions every fibre of
their being. Their eyes and faces with the demon of possession
looking from them made a horrible sight to see, and once you have
seen it you will never forget it. They all do not do the same
thing at the same time, some are doing one thing and others are
doing different things, but all together they make a harmonious
inharmonious whole. Each one held in his hand a green piece of
bush or twig. I asked the reason for this, but got no satisfactory
answer. . . . There is always one man who is called the leader,
or band master. He stands still not performing any of the gyra
tions, but directs the performance like the director of an orchestra
or band, and announces the revelations which those possessed by
the spirit receive." 19
Describing a similar open-air meeting of Revivalists, De Lisser
says : "Each of the white-robed women had a bit of withe twisted
round her left wrist, and each carried a short cane. Noticing this,
16 A. J. Emerick, 1. c, p. 47 f.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 159
I remembered that when the priests and priestesses of the African
Gold Coast were about to dance in honour of their gods and to
become possessed by them, they bound their wrists with addor and
carried bundles of canes in their hands. Here then, clearly, was
the survival of an African custom masquerading as a native Chris
tian revivalist demonstration." 17
Whatever, then, may be thought of the present-day decadent
Myalism as seen in Bedwardism and other revivalist outbreaks,
it is certain that in its inception, as the offshoot of the old Ashanti
tribal religion, it was of so potent a religious force, that it has
survived a century and a half of legal proscription and still a
further century of an undisguised death-struggle with the powers
of Obeah, and still is able to vitalize each recurrent upheaval
against formal Christianity, even as it inspired the futile efforts
to break the chains of slavery and cast off the white man's rule,
before constitutional methods had found a way to right the crying
wrong of humanity.
It is not surprising, then, that from the earliest days of legisla
tion in Jamaica, a serious source of danger to the peace of the
Colony was recognized to be ever present in the assemblies of
slaves where the old religious tribal dances were openly ac
companied by drumming which aroused the fanaticism of Africans
to such a pitch as to endanger a general uprising. Before long it
was discovered that a second cause of danger, this time a personal
one to master and slave alike, was to be traced to the secret poison
ings that were ever becoming more common. And yet many years
passed before it was even suspected that there could be any con
nection between this state of affairs and Obeah, which was looked
upon with amused toleration as foolish superstition and nothing
more. But even when the rebellion of 1760 disclosed the connec
tion of Obeah and poisoning, and there was a set determination
to crush the dread menace at any cost, it was not suspected that
they were not dealing with witchcraft alone but a recrudescence
of the old religious spirit in a new and more dangerous guise.
In early legislation we find accentuated the danger from fanati-
" De Lisser, Twentieth Century Jamaica, p. 134.
i60 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
cism aroused by religious assemblies and nothing more. Then
appears due provision against the menace of poisonings and finally
formal condemnation of Obeah. But through it all the secret
phase of Myalism and its confederation with its archenemy Obeah
against the oppressor of both, never seems to have been suspected.
We may be pardoned, if we review somewhat in detail the legal
development of this phase in the Law of Jamaica.
Appended to the Laws of Jamaica passed by the assembly and
confirmed by His Majesty in Council, April i7, 1684
18
immedi
ately following the Royal Confirmation and consequently dis
allowed, we have "An Act for the better ordering of slaves,"
wherein we find the words: "And it is further enacted by the
authority aforesaid, that every master or mistress or overseer of
a family in this island shall cause all slaves houses to be diligently
and effectively searched once every fourteen days, for clubs,
wooden swords, and mischievous weapons, and finding any, shall
take them away and cause them to be burnt." 19
This would in
dicate that even at this early date there was danger from a slave
uprising.
Among the Acts passed in 1696 is one entitled: "An Act for
the better order and government of slaves." Herein we read under
Clause XIII the very same words as in the above Act which was
disallowed in 1684.20 Clause XXXII of this new Act runs as fol
lows: "And whereas divers slaves have of late attempted to de
stroy several people, as well white as black, by poison ; the con
sequences of which secret way of murdering may prove fatal, if
not timely prevented : Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid,
That if any Negro, or any slave or slaves, before the making of
this Act, have maliciously given or attempted to give, or shall
hereafter maliciously give, attempt or cause to be given to any
person whatsoever, free or slave, any manner of poison, although
the same was never taken, or if taken, death did not or shall not
ensue upon the taking thereof ; the said slave or slaves, together
18 London, 1684, p. 140 ff.
19 Ditto, p. 142.
20 Acts of Assembly, passed in the Island of Jamaica from 1681 to 1737, in
clusive, London, 1743, p. 50 ff.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 161
with their accessories, as well before as after the fact, being slaves,
and convicted thereof . . . shall be adjudged guilty of murder,
as if the party or parties that took or shall take the same had
died ; and shall be condemned to suffer death, by hanging, burn
ing, or such other way or means as to the said Justices and free
holders shall seem most convenient." 21
Moreover Clause XXXIV
of the same Act prescribes : "And for the prevention of the
meeting of slaves in great numbers on Sundays and Holidays,
whereby they have taken liberty to contrive and bring to pass
many of their bloody and inhuman transactions : Be it enacted by
the aforesaid authority, That no master, or mistress, or overseer,
shall suffer any drumming or meeting of any slaves, not belonging
to their own plantations, to rendezvous, feast, revel, beat drum,
or cause any disturbance, but forthwith endeavour to disperse them,
by him, or herself, overseer or servants; or if not capacitated
to do the same, that he presently give notice to the next
commission-officers to raise such number of men as may be suffi
cient to reduce the said slaves." 22
Failure in duty on this point, the
commission-officers included, carries a penalty of "forty shillings
for every offence." This Act was confirmed, January 5, 1699,23
and thus became the first approved Code Noir of Jamaica.
We have, then, in the very foundation of the Jamaica Slave
Law, and that before the close of the seventeenth century, a clear
distinction between danger from the rebellion of slaves and danger
from poisoning.
In 1 71 7 there was passed "An Act for the more effective punish
ing of crimes committed by slaves," 24
of which Clause VIII thus
accentuates the danger of slave uprisings: "And whereas the
permitting or allowing of any number of strange Negroes to
assemble on any Plantation, or settlement, or any other place, may
prove of fatal consequences to this your Majesty's Island, if not
timely prevented: and forasmuch as Negroes can, by beating on
drums, and blowing horns, or other such like instruments of
21 Ditto, p. 55.
22 Ditto, p. 55.
23 Acts of the Privy Council, Vol. II, p. 834.
24 Acts of Assembly, 1. c, p. 108.
VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
noise, give signals to each other at a considerable distance of
their evil and wicked intentions: Be it further enacted, That in
one month's time after the passing of this Act, no proprietor, at
torney, or overseer, presume to suffer any number of strange
Negroes, exceeding five, to assemble on his plantation or settle
ment, or on the plantation or settlement under the care of such
attorney or overseer; nor shall any proprietor, attorney, or over
seer, suffer any beating on drums, barrels, gourds, boards, or other
such like instruments of noise on the plantations and settlements
aforesaid." The penalty for each offence is to be ten pounds in
the case of proprietor or attorney, and half that sum for over
seers. This was an early recognition of the power of the "talking
drums" which so long mystified African travellers.
In this Act of 1717, there is no mention of the danger of
poisoning. However, in 1744, in consequence of a frustrated re
bellion of the slaves, wherein "a general massacre of the white
people was intended," there was passed : "An Act to explain and
amend an Act, entitled, 'An Act for the better order and govern
ment of slaves,'
"
in which it is explained : "That it was the true
intent and meaning of the said Act, that the crime of compassing
and imagining the death of any white person by any slave or
slaves, should be deemed and adjudged a crime of as high a na
ture as the crime of murder, and should be punished as such," 25
and again reiterates "although the bloody purposes of such slave
or slaves be prevented before any murder hath been or shall be
committed." 29
Thus what was originally applicable to the case of poisoning
alone, is now by extension applied generally to any attempt what
soever at the taking of the life of any white person. Again, before
this last Act, the danger from rebellion had been clearly dis
sociated from the danger of poisoning. Henceforth, while the
two groups of prohibitions will be preserved, the danger of rebel
lion is recognized in both. However, the second group of Clauses
25 Acts of Assembly, passed in the Island of Jamaica from 1681 to 1754, in
clusive, London, 1756, p. 263 ff.
28 Ditto, p. 264.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 163
are now formally connected with Obeah, while the prohibition
against assemblies becomes more detailed and specific in purpose.
Gardner tells us : "The safety of the island was again imperilled
by the Koromantins. Several of the leaders met in St. Mary's
in July 1765, when the solemn fetish oath was administered. Into
a quantity of rum, with which some gun-powder and dirt taken
from a grave had been mingled, blood was put, drawn in suc
cession from the arm of each confederate. With certain horrid
ceremonies this cup was drunk from by each person, and then
came the council. It was agreed that during the ensuing Christmas
holidays the rising should take place, and in the meantime all were
to obtain companions." 27
The impetuosity of one of their number
frustrated the plans of his associates who were acting not under
the influence of Obeah but of Myalism, as the "solemn fetish
oath" makes clear.
On Dec. 21, 1781, there was passed "An Act to repeal several
Acts and Clauses of Acts, respecting slaves, and for the better
order and government of slaves, and for other purposes."
28
The purpose of this consolidated Act was to rewrite the Code
Noir in its entirety, and being passed for three years only, it was
to expire with December 31, 1784. Clauses XII to XIV renew
the former prohibitions about assemblies of slaves but the penal
ties are greatly increased. The master, owner, guardian or at
torney is now liable in the sum of one hundred pounds, while
overseers and bookkeepers may be punished with six months' im
prisonment for violations of the code. As regards amusements
which are permissible among their own slaves, the use of "drums,
horns and such other unlawful instruments of noise" are of course
prohibited.
Clause XLIX takes direct cognizance of Obeah. It runs as
follows : "And in order to prevent the many mischiefs that may
hereafter arise from the wicked art of Negroes going under the
the appellation of Obeah men and women, pretending to have
27 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 141.
28 Acts of Assembly, passed in the Island of Jamaica, from 1770 to 1783, in
clusive, Kingston, 1786, p. 256 ff.
164 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
communication with the devil and other evil spirits, whereby the
weak and superstitious are deluded into a belief of their having
full power to exempt them whilst under protection from any evils
that might otherwise happen : Be it therefore enacted by the
authority aforesaid, That from and after the first day of Jan
uary, aforesaid, any Negro or other slave who shall pretend to
any supernatural power, and be detected in making use of any
blood, feathers, parrots-beaks, dogs-teeth, alligators-teeth, broken
bottles, grave-dirt, rum, eggshells, or any other materials relative
to the practice of Obeah or witchcraft, in order to delude and im
pose on the minds of others, shall upon conviction before two
magistrates and three freeholders, suffer death or transportation ;
anything in this or any other act to the contrary in any wise not
withstanding." 29
This Act never received the Royal Assent and at its expiration
the matter was allowed to rest for a couple of years, but the
action of the Assembly in Jamaica during the years 1787 and
1788 resulted in what was commonly called "The New Con
solidated Act," 80
to which Stephen Fuller refers as "being the
present Code Noir of that Island." Clauses XIX to XXI prohibit
the meetings of slaves, etc. along the general lines of previous
Acts. Clause XL represents the restrictions on Obeah without
enumerating the paraphernalia, but specifies as the purpose of the
deed : "In order to affect the health of lives of others, or promote
the purposes of rebellion." 31
In Clause XLI, we find repeated the
old penalty against poisoning, which had been overlooked in the
Act of 1 781, where it was supposed to be contained under the
general decree against Obeah.82
December 14, 1808, there was passed "An Act for the pro
tection, subsisting, clothing, and for the better order, regulation,
29 Ditto, p. 277.
80 Stephen Fuller, New Act of Assembly of the Island of Jamaica commonly
called the New Consolidated Act, London, 1789.
31 Ditto, p. 10.
,2
Ditto, p. 11. Note : This Act failed to receive the Royal Assent and we find
no mention oi its provisions in An Abridgement of the Laws of Jamaica, being
an alphabetical digest of all the public Acts of Assembly now in force, published
at St. Jago de la Vega, in 1802. In fact there is no reference there in any way
pertaining to assemblies of slaves, Obeah or poisonings.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 165
and government of slaves, and for other purposes," which was re
placed on December 19, 181 6, by "An Act for the subsistence, cloth
ing, and the better regulation and government of slaves, for en
larging the powers of the council of protection; for preventing
the improper transfer of slaves; and for other purposes."
83
In the latter Act, Clauses XXXIV to XXXVI prohibit the
assemblies of slaves in the usual form, but under the section per
mitting amusements on the properties to which they belong, "so
as they do not make use of military drums, horns and shells" we
find the further restriction, "Provided that such amusements are
put an end to by ten o'clock at night." 84
Clause XLIX (p. 123 f.) deals with Obeah and Clauses LII
and LIII 85
repeat the former penalties for poisoning and having
poisons in one's possession. By Clause L, placed immediately be
tween Obeah and poisonings, slaves are forbidden to preach or
teach "without a permission from the owner and the quarter ses
sions," and by Clause LI nightly 38
and other private meetings of
slaves are declared unlawful. And as there is no mention of outside
slaves or drumming or dancing we may safely conclude that
these two new Clauses are associated with Myalism in its new
form, the true nature of which even here escapes detection.87
This surmise is strengthened by the fact that the whole matter is
thus placed immediately after Obeah to which the legislators evi
dently thought it was connected. Clause LIII proceeds to extend
the scope of previous legislation against the danger from poison
ings and further identifies the process with Obeah. It runs as
follows: "And be it further enacted, That if there shall be found
in the possession of any slave any poisonous drugs, pounded glass,
38
John Lunan, Abstract of the Laws of Jamaica relating to Slaves, St. Jago
de la Vega, 1819, p. 105.
"Ditto, p. 118.
88 Ditto, p. 124 f.
38 Ditto, p. 124.
87 Lunan, 1. c, p. 124. Note: While the non-conformists have always felt that
this legislation was aimed solely at their missionaries through motives of bigotry,
more sincerity of purpose should be accredited to the Assembly than was gen
erally accorded. The objective of the law is the Revivalist meetings initiated by
the Methodists, it is true, but the real motive is self-protection against the rising
spirit of Myalism fostered in these gatherings.
1 66 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
parrot's beaks, dog's teeth, alligator's teeth, or other materials
notoriously used in the practice of Obeah or witchcraft, such
slave upon conviction, shall be liable to suffer transportation from
this island, or such other punishment, not extending to life, as
the court shall think proper to direct." 38
The Act of 1781 had
made the use of such instruments unlawful, the present Clause
is directed against even having them in possession.
The prevalence of poisonings in Jamaica about this period is
evidenced by a visitor to the island in 1823, as follows :
"9
"A
Negro man, named Schweppes or Swipes, to which his comrades
had added the appellation of Saint, took it into his head to poison
a preacher at Montego Bay. He but half killed the poor creature,
who discovered the nature of the poison in time to prevent its
fatal effects, though it is more than probable he will never recover
his former health. The maniac did not escape, but argued that
the spirit moved him to kill Massa Parson. He affirmed that the
preacher always said 'he longed to lay down his burden; to quit
this mortal life; to go to Abraham's bosom, to the bosom of his
Saviour, to glory' and so forth and he Swipes (whose brain
was turned topsy-turvy) out of good-will and love, wished to
help him to Heaven and glory, for which he was anxious." Again
while visiting an estate on Morant River, we are told : "The cook
a few days before, had endeavoured to poison Mr. G. and his
family, by mixing, I think he said, ground glass in some soup,
which was, however, fortunately detected in time to prevent mis
chief." 40
Finally, just before sailing from Port Antonio, he
thus describes the contents of the "cutacoo" of a vagrant Obeah
man who was apprehended : "There was an old snuff-box, several
phials, some filled with liquids and some with powders, one with
pounded glass; some dried herbs, teeth, beads, hair, and other
trash; in short the whole farrago of an Obeah man." 41
On December 22, 1826, was passed "An Act to alter and amend
38 Lunan, 1. c, p. 124 f.
39 Cynric R. Williams, A Tour through the Island of Jamaica, from the western
to the eastern end, in the year 1823, London, 1826, p. 38 f.
40 Ditto, p. 240.
41 Ditto, p. 344.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 167
the Slave Laws of this Island." Clause LX to LXIV cover un
lawful assemblies of slaves. The time for "innocent amusements"
on their own properties is extended to midnight.42 Clause LXXXII
deals with Obeah and the following Clause repeats the prohibi
tion against slaves preaching and teaching without permission,
another evidence of rejuvenated Myalism.48 In Clause LXXXIV
there is a further extension of the general safeguard against the
formation of "plots and conspiracies"
44
whereby meetings of
sectarians between sunset and sunrise are prohibited: "Provided
always, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or taken
to prevent any minister of the Presbyterian kirk, or licensed
minister, from performing divine worship at any time before the
hour of eight o'clock in the evening at any licensed place of
worship, or to interfere with the celebration of divine worship
according to the rites and ceremonies of the Jewish and Roman
Catholic religions." Then follows an article for the punishment
of designing teachers for laying contributions on slaves 45
and
the usual prohibition against nightly meetings of slaves and the
Clauses on poisoning.48
Clause LXXXIV prohibiting meetings of sectarians between
sunset and sunrise aroused strong opposition, especially on the
part of the Methodists who claimed that the instruction of the
slaves was thereby practically restricted to the Established Church
of England,47 and the Act was accordingly disallowed. The des
patch thereupon sent by W. Huskisson, His Majesty's Principal
Secretary of State for the Colonies, addressed to the Governor
of Jamaica, Sir John Keanc, under date of September 22, 1827,
states, in part : "Among the various subjects which this Act
presents for consideration, none is more important in itself, nor
more interesting to every class of society in this kingdom, than
the regulations on the subject of religious instruction. The eighty-
42 Slave Law of Jamaica with Proceedings & Documents relative thereto,
London, 1828, p. 95 ff.
43 Ditto, p. 108.
44 Ditto, p. 109.
45 Ditto, p. 11o.
44 Ditto, p. in.
47 Ditto, p. 231.
VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
third and the two following clauses must be considered as an in
vasion of that toleration, to which all His Majesty's subjects,
whatever may be their civil condition, are alike entitled. The pro
hibition of persons in a state of slavery assuming the office of
religious teachers might seem a very mild restraint, or rather a
fit precaution against indecorous proceedings; but amongst some
of the religious bodies who employ missionaries in Jamaica, the
practice of mutual instruction is stated to be an established part
of their discipline. So long as the practice is carried on in an in
offensive and peaceable manner, the distress produced by the
prevention of it will be compensated by no public advantage.
"The prohibition of meetings for religious worship between
sunset and sunrise will, in many cases, operate as a total prohibi
tion, and will be felt with peculiar severity by domestic slaves, in
habiting large towns, whose ordinary engagements on Sunday
will not afford leisure for attendance on public worship before
the evening. It is impossible to pass over without remark the
invidious distinction which is made not only between Protestant
dissenters and Roman Catholics, bui even between Protestant dis
senters and Jews. I have indeed no reason to suppose that the
Jewish teachers have made any converts to their religion among
the slaves, and probably, therefore, the distinction in their favour
is merely nominal ; still it is a preference, which, in principle,
ought not to be given by the Legislature of a Christian country." 48
Again he says further on: 49
"It may be doubtful whether the
restrictions upon private meetings among the slaves, without the
knowledge of the owner, was intentionally pointed at the meet
ings for religious worship. No objection, of course, could exist
to requiring that notice should be given to the owner or manager
whenever the slaves attended any such meetings; but, on the
other hand, due security should be taken that the owner's author
ity is not improperly exerted to prevent the attendance of the
slaves.
"I cannot too distinctly impress upon you that it is the settled
« Ditto, p. 146.
*» Ditto, p. 147.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 169
purpose of His Majesty's government to sanction no colonial law,
which needlessly infringes on the religious liberty of any class of
His Majesty's subjects, and you will understand that you are not
to assent to any bill imposing any restraint of that nature, unless
a clause be inserted for suspending its operation until His Maj
esty's pleasure shall be known."
Later, taking up the question of Obeah, he writes : "The defini
tion of the offence of Obeah will be found to embrace many acts,
against which it could not have been really intended to denounce
the punishment of death. The definition of the crime of preparing
to administer poison is also so extensive as to include many in
nocent and even some meritorious acts. Thus also the offence of
possessing materials used in the practice of Obeah is imperfectly
described, since no reference is made to the wicked intention in
which alone the crime consists." 50
The acknowledgment, to the Governor, of the receipt of this
communication, on the part of the House of Assembly, on De
cember 4, 1827, contains these significant words : "In enacting
the eighty-third, eighty-fourth, and eighty-fifth clauses, which
are particularly objected to, the House had before them the ex
ample of Demerara, and they deemed the restrictions necessary,
as well for the peace of the colony as for the well-being of the
slaves; that opinion the House still retains, and consequently are
unable to present to your Honour any modified law on this
subject." 51
In the formal answer to the letter, passed unanimously 52
by the
Jamaica House of Assembly on December 14th we read: "The
eighty-third clause prohibits the preaching and teaching of slaves,
not because mischief might possibly accrue, but because it has been
found by experience, as the preamble in the clause declares, 'to
be attended with the most pernicious consequences, and even with
the loss of life.' So long as the slave subsists at the cost of the
master, so long must that master's right be admitted to watch
B0 Ditto, p. 156.
81 Ditto, p. 159.
BJ Ditto, p. 189.
170 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
over his actions, on which depend his health and his life. Neither
health nor life can be secure, if slaves are allowed to unsettle the
understanding of each other, by mutually inculcating their crude
notions of religion, and have free license to meet under the pre
tence of preaching at unseasonable hours and in improper places.
The House duly appreciate the pious motives of the King's min
isters, who would extend the blessings of religion all over the
world, but nevertheless it is their opinion, that no persons are
competent to judge of regulations intended to restrain the mal
practices of 'ignorant, superstitious, and designing slaves,' unless
they have made themselves acquainted with the African char
acter by a long residence among them. These remarks equally
apply to the eighty-fourth clause. Meetings for religious worship
between sunrise and sunset, are prohibited only to unlicensed
preachers ; and it is believed that in no well organized society are
persons, without character or of doubtful or secret views, suf
fered to go at large, under shelter of the night, amongst an ig
norant peasantry, and make upon their minds an impression that
may be dictated by political or religious fanaticism. . . . Al
though the slaves of Jamaica have advanced rapidly in civilization
within a very few years, yet it is not pretended that their progress
has been so great that all those guards can be dispensed with
which were thought essential by our predecessors. The eighty-
third and eighty-fourth clauses are not innovations, as Mr. Hus-
kisson seems to suppose ; they are taken from the old slave law,
and come again into operation on the disallowance of the new
law, with this difference, that the new law provides against any
misconception of the law in respect to Catholics and Jews, and
permits licensed ministers to perform divine worship at any li
censed place of worship to the hour of eight ; and when it is re
membered that in Jamaica the setting sun varies from half-past
five to half-past six, it will appear that time enough is afforded
for the night worship of slaves. . . .
"The remarks of Mr. Huskisson, on the clause for the punish
ment of Obeah, naturally offer themselves to one ignorant of the
extent of African superstition, and the horrible crimes Negroes
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 171
will perpetrate sometimes to gratify revenge, and often to ac
quire influence that may enable them to levy contributions on the
fears of their more timid fellows. Negroes are seen to pine away
to death under the pretended sorceries of the Obeah man; and,
where the imagination does not perform the work of death with
sufficient celerity, the more certain aid of poison is called in, to
hasten the fate of the victim. Mr. Huskisson considers, that under
the next clause, many innocent and some meritorious acts are
exposed to punishment. But it is submitted, that the possession of
poisonous drugs by Negroes cannot be innocent, unless confided
to them by their masters ; which fact can readily be proven." 88
Both sides to this controversy were right in part, and yet they
both failed to discern the real point at issue. To the home govern
ment, there was actual need of suppressing what appealed to
them as an outburst of religious bigotry against the non-conform
ists ; to the planters in Jamaica it was clear that there was growing
up among the slaves a religious fanaticism and unrest that could
augur nothing but another upheaval of the social order with
attempted massacre and destruction of property. What neither
side of the argument even suspected was that under guise of
Methodist Revivalism, the long persecuted and seemingly forgot
ten Myalism was taking a new lease of life and imbuing the
slaves in general with its own peculiar religious mania in prep
aration for the day when the solemn fetish oath might be admin
istered for the general overthrow of the white regime. And the
Methodist authorities, on their part, could only see a consoling
outpouring of the spirit, and countless brands saved from the
burning, when in reality the consequence of misguided zeal was
a dangerous recrudescence of pagan practices with a veneer of
Christianity, cloaked and disguised as a Methodist Revival.54
Similar excesses were experienced later by another group who
surpassed even the Methodists in the unbridled spirit of Revival-
58 Ditto, p. 164 ff.
04 Note: Cfr. also D. Trouillot, Esquisse Ethnographique : Le Vaudoux,
Port-au-Prince, 1885, p. 27, where Jamaica Revivalism is classified with the
Haitian "Fandango," a Chica Dance and claimed to be a form of Voodoo in the
wide sense of the word.
172 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
ism. Gardner thus describes the facts. "With a few exceptions, na
tive Baptist churches became associations of men and women
who, in too many cases, mingled the belief and even practice of
Myalism with religious observances, and who perverted and cor
rupted what they retained of these; among them sensuality was
almost unrestrained. Their leaders or 'daddies,' as a class were
overbearing, tyrannical, and lascivious, and united the authority
of the slave-driver with the darkest forms of spiritual despotism.
Of scriptural teaching there was little. Simple facts were so per
verted, that they would have been ridiculous had they not been
blasphemous."
55
It was this condition of affairs that led up to
the final slave-rebellion just before emancipation went into effect.
As recently as October 12, 1932, a letter appeared in the
daily gleaner of Kingston, Jamaica, entitled "An Open Letter
to Ministers of Religion" and signed by R. H. Ferguson, wherein
the latest form of Myalistic Revivalism, known as Pocomanism,
is thus described. "I see a house yonder. Those within are sing
ing. Come stealing sweet cadences the notes of that well-known
hymn
'Day is dying in the West,
Heaven is touching earth with rest.'
"The hymn ceases and ah! they strike up some lively tune as
'Bright soul, wha' mek you tun' back?' Bodies are swaying, and,
oh soul of Bacchus! Are they drunk? Pandemonium! a reli
gious frenzy. I am minded of the Berserkers a little mad
ness as men and women jumping like kangaroos, to a well-
timed rhythm place their hands to their mouths, grunting (is it
grunting?) for all they are worth, like wild boars sounding their
war-cries as they resist the onslaught of the charging hounds.
"That exercise over, a stalward Negro man, wearing a red and
55 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 358. Note : The so-called "Native Baptist
Churches" are not to be confused with the regular Baptists. They had their
origin, it is said, in groups expelled from the older organization for super
stition and immortality. They carried with them the name of Baptist and little
more. Cfr. Samuel Green, Baptist Mission in Jamaica, London, 1842, p. 19 f.
Many of the leaders in the insurrection of 1831 in St. James' parish, as well
as not a few of those who were associated with the Morant Bay Rebellion of
1865, were connected with these Native Baptist Churches.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 173
white bandana, steps forth and makes an oration. Listen. 'I come
here to take off ghosts and if the Devil himself come with you,
him must go!' Can it be possible in law-abiding Jamaica? Sick
folks are washed and anointed with evil-smelling oils, presum
ably, 'oil a tun' back,' 'oil a carry-away,' 'oil a keep him down,'
'oil a bamba,' 'dead man drops.' Oh shade of iEsculapius ! Songs,
songs, sacred songs.
"Does the law punish the man who practices Obeah ? Are these
practices a form of Obeah? If so, are they carried on in the guise
of Christianity? Do such meetings contribute to the uplift of the
people, and make of the children the ideal citizens of the days to
come? ...
"My humble opinion is that that sect should not be allowed to
broadcast such demoralizing influences. The island can safely do
without Pocomanism. . . .
"With the greatest alarm I once listened to a man haranguing
a crowd in New Town. Said he, 'Your ministers tell you when
you die, you gwine a heaven go drink milk and honey. Who tell
dem say God have cow-pen a heaven? etc' . . . And now I am
asking potently, should such people be allowed to carry on and
broadcast heresies, pernicious, destructive, damning? . . .
"I respectfully beg your fraternity to get together and rep
resent this matter to the legislators to the end that our fair island
may be saved the disaster of a religious upheaval brought about
by whom? An ignorant set of dancing, prancing, steppers, a set
of howling windbags men too lazy to work, and so elect to
collect toll while preying on the credulity of the simple self-
styled 'shepherds' determined to make a mess of Christianity."
This letter evoked the following editorial in the daily
gleaner of the following day. "pocomanism. Mr. R. H. Fer
guson cries aloud in his Open Letter to Ministers of Religion
(published in this paper yesterday) that Pocomanism is 'tearing at
the vitals of the Church.' He is aware that this 'Pocomanism,'
which he says is the result of Pocomania, will strike the average
reader as being something strange and weird; therefore in this
letter to the ministers of religion he explains what Pocomanism
174 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
is,
and
it
turns out to be neither more nor less than our old friend
Myalism, which
is
much better known in these days as Revival
ism. Pocomania, then,
is
a
frenzy brought about by men and
women exciting themselves 'jumping like kangaroos,' as Mr.
Ferguson expresses
it
singing hymns calculated to stimulate the
emotions, deliberately surrendering their minds and bodies to
superstitious influences. The leaders of these revivalists or poco-
maniacs claim to be able to exercise ghosts that are haunting af
flicted persons, and also to cure the sick by anointing them with
special mixtures, usually of an evil-smelling description. These
men are nothing but
a
survival of the 'Myal men' of
a
hundred
years ago, and of West African priests who practiced the same
rites in their native country. And they seem to thrive on their
deceptions.
"It
is
a
pity that Mr. Ferguson writes in
a
manner that sug
gests
a
sort of long, loud scream of the pen, varied by spasmodic
jumps, for the evil to which he calls attention
is
one that should
certainly not be overlooked. His application to
it
of the term
'Pocomanism'
is
very effective in directing notice to the thing to
which
it
refers. Religious revivals are of all sorts and descrip
tions
;
to speak of
a
revival merely, therefore,
is
not to evoke in
the mind of the average hearer any startling picture of physical
obscenity or moral degradation; which perhaps
is
why, when a
protest
is
voiced against 'Revivalism' of the ghost-catching or
'balm' healing type, not much notice
is
taken of it. Yet those
who have seen the ceremonies by which ghosts are supposed to
be laid and sickness to be cured, recognize that even the ejacula-
tory manner adopted by Mr. Ferguson in describing them does
not exaggerate the facts. The thing itself
is
worse than any pic
ture of
it
could be, and
it
is
no wonder that he wants to know
whether these practices are not
a
form of Obeah, even
if
carried
on under the guise of Christianity. He suggests that legislation
should be brought to bear on this Pocomanism and that the min
isters of the island should unite to crush the Pocomaniacs, 'an
ignorant set of dancing, prancing, steppers,
a
set of howling
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 175
windbags, men too lazy to work, self-styled "shepherds" deter
mined to make a mess of Christianity.'
"The language is strong, but not too strong; the denunciation
is fully merited. We agree entirely that this sort of Revivalism, or
Pocomanism, must have a bad effect upon the minds and morals
of the younger people who witness it and that it deliberately en
courages the basest forms of superstition. But it is no use ap
pealing to the ministers of religion ; they cannot put a stop to it.
Preaching and teaching will doubtless have a salutary effect in
the long run, but that long run means years and years, a couple
of generations, perhaps a century. We ought to have quicker and
more effective action to deal with the evil; such action means
legislation, and that in its turn will demand a comprehensive de
scription and definition of the practices to be suppressed. That
may not be easy, but we should hope that it will not be impossible.
The claim to 'take off ghosts,' to heal diseases by anointing with
oil, and incantations, is really a form of fraud such as Obeah is
defined to be in our laws. A disguise is thrown over these things
by the use of terms current in the Christian religion, but the fraud,
the superstition, the vileness of the dancing and the sexual ex
citation that follows are patent to everyone except the willingly
deluded. It will have to be the lawyers, however, who must try
their hands at framing legislation to suppress the practices com
plained of. We hope these lawyers will be equal to the task, for
these orgiastic revival dances this Pocomanism which seems to
be more common than should be possible at this date of our his
tory undoubtedly do much to frustrate the efforts made by
educationists and the religious organizations in this country."
But even if they do legislate against this latest Myalistic out
break, it is to be feared that they will at best abolish for a time
the public expression of the real spirit which we must expect
merely to retire once more to secret functions in preparation for
the day when it will ultimately break out anew under another
guise in which it will not be immediately recognized. It is not
always easy to analyze the Negro's purpose in a dance.
176 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
In quite recent times, I have personally known well-meaning
Ecclesiastics, comparatively new to Jamaica and its ways, com
menting with approval regarding the Minto dance, that it was
graceful and free from the objectional embraces of most modern
dances. In their innocence, or rather ignorance, they never sus
pected the entire purpose of the dance which consists in the arous
ing of the passions, being derived from the same source as the
Haitian Calenda already described. When told of its true import
they blushed at the memory of the interest they had shown in
watching the dance. An interest that had probably made the par
ticipants chuckle shamelessly at Parson's lack of understanding.
"
'Im ignorant fee true, Sah !" For they who dance the Minto
know full well its evil purpose.
William Wilberforce asserted: "The Jamaica planters long im
puted the most injurious effects on the health and even lives of
their slaves, to the African practice of Obeah, or witchcraft. The
Agents for Jamaica declared to the Privy Council, in 1788, that
they 'ascribed a very considerable portion of the annual mortality
among the Negroes in that island to that fascinating mischief.'
I know that of late, ashamed of being supposed to have punished
witchcraft with such severity, it had been alleged, that the pro
fessors of Obeah used to prepare and administer poison to the
subjects of their spells ; but anyone who will only examine the
laws of Jamaica against these practices, or read the evidence of
the agents, will see plainly that this was not the view that was
taken of the proceedings of the Obeah men, but that they were
considered as impostors, who preyed on their ignorant country
men by the pretended intercourse with evil spirits, or by some
other pretences to supernatural powers." 58
And remarks on the
very next page : "No sooner did a Negro become a Christian,
then the Obeah men despaired of bringing him into subjection." 57
This statement of Wilberforce brought almost immediately
from the Reverend George Wilson Bridges, an Anglican Clergy-
58 William Wilberforce, An Appeal to the Religion, Justice, and Humanity
of the Inhabitants of the British Empire, in behalf of the Negro Slaves in </ie.
West Indies, London, 1823, p. 22.
" Ditto, p. 23.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 177
man in Jamaica the following caustic retort : "You speak of the
African practice of witchcraft, called Obeah; and referring to
the laws which make the dreadful effects of that superstition pun
ishable by death, you call it 'folly' to attempt 'rooting out pagan
superstition by severity of punishment.' Are you then so ignorant,
Sir, of the manners and customs of the people whose cause you
profess to advocate, as not to know that Obeah, and death, are
synonymous : that the latter is the invariable end and object of
the former, and that this imported African superstition is widely
different from the harmless tales of witches and broomsticks,
which once frightened you in the arms of your nursery maid?
Your feelings have probably been shocked by stories of burning
old women for bewitching pigs, and swimming them for as
suming the shape of a hare ; but are you not to be told that Obeah
is a superstition dreadfully different from these fantasies; that
it
is,
in fear, the practice of occult poisons
:
by which thousands
have suffered in these islands, and which, though gradually giv
ing way beneath the spreading influence of Christianity, must
nevertheless, in every proved case, be punished by human laws, as
severe as those which attach to the convicted murderer in every
land." 88
And yet, as we have seen, Wilberforce was not far astray in
his estimates, not only of the Laws of Jamaica, but also of the
general attitude of amused toleration with which Obeah was usu
ally regarded by the planters of the island, until the rebellion of
1760 opened the eyes of all to the connection between Obeah and
poisonings, and led the Assembly to legislate directly against the
practice of this black art.
Still, despite the fact that chroniclers made no specific mention
of the dangerous pest as such, there are many indications that
it
exacted an awful toll of human lives from the earliest days of
Jamaica as an English Colony.
In an appendix to his Reports
of
the Jamaica Assembly on the
subject
of
the slave trade, Stephen Fuller gave
a
summary of the
S8 George Wilson Bridges,
A
Voice from Jamaica; in reply to William Wil
berforce, London, 1823, p. 28
f.
178 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Negroes from Africa who were sold in Jamaica between 1764 and
1788. During this period some 50,000 slaves were imported by
the five principal agents and of these nearly 15% came from the
Gold Coast and about 10% from Whydah. One firm, Messrs
Cappells, who seemingly specialized in Gold Coast Negroes, re
ports between November, 1782, and January, 1788, out of a total
of 10,380 importations, 5,924, or nearly 60% as from the Gold
Coast and only 444 from Whydah.69
But it is not only numerically but also by his dominant spirit,
as we have seen, that the Gold Coast or Ashanti slave asserted an
ascendancy over the rest of the slaves and firmly established in
Jamaica his own form of witchcraft, Obeah, with its concomitant
poisonings.
Robert Hammill Nassau states : "The slaves exported from
Africa to the British possessions in the West Indies brought with
them some of the seeds of African plants, especially those they
regarded as 'medicinal,' or they found among the fauna and
flora of the tropical West Indies some of the same plants and
animals held by them as sacred to fetich in their tropical Africa.
The ceiba, or silk-cotton tree, at whose base I find in Africa
so many votive offerings of fetich worship, they found flourish
ing in Jamaica. They had established on their plantations the
fetich doctor, their dance, their charm, their lore, before they
had learned English at all. And when the British missionaries
came among them with school and church, while many of the
converts were sincere, there were those of the doctor class who,
like Simon Magus, entered into the church-fold for sake of what
ever gain they could make by the white man's new influence, the
white man's Holy Spirit. Outwardly everything was serene and
Christian. Within was working an element of diabolism, fetich-
ism, there known by the name of Obeah, under whose leaven
some of the churches were wrecked. And the same diabolism,
known as Voodoo worship in the Negro communities of the
Southern United States has emasculated the spiritual life of many
59 Stephen Fuller, Two Reports from the Committee of the Honourable House
of Assembly of Jamaica, London, 1789, Appendix.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 179
professed Christians." 80
Again he says, "There are native poisons.
It is known that sometimes they are secretly used in revenge, or
to put out of the way a relative whose wealth is desired to be in
herited. . . . The distinction between a fetich and a poison is
vague in the thought of many natives. What I call a 'poison* is
to them only another material form of a fetich power, both poison
and fetich being supposed to be made efficient by the presence of
an adjuvant spirit. Not all deaths of foreigners in Africa are due
to malaria. Some of them have been doubtless due to poison ad
ministered by a revengeful employee."
81
Sir Hans Sloane, who accompanied the Duke of Albermarle to
Jamaica in 1687, in capacity of physician to the Governor, re
marks of the slaves : "They formerly on their festivals were al
lowed the use of trumpets after their fashion, and drums made of
a piece of a hollow tree, covered on one end with any green skin,
and stretched with thouls or pins. But making use of these in
their wars at home in Africa, it was thought too much inciting
them to rebellion, and so they were prohibited by the customs of
the island." 82
Again he says : "The Indians and Negroes have no
manner of religion by what I could observe of them. 'Tis true
they have several ceremonies, as dances, playing, &c. but these
for the most part are so far from being acts of adoration of a
80 Robert Hammill Nassau, Fetishism in West Africa, London, 1904, p. 135.
61 Ditto, p. 263. Note : Nassau further states, p. 264 : "An English traveller
recently in the Igbo country of Nigeria, in discussing the native belief in occult
forces, says: 'It is impossible for a white man to be present at the gatherings
of "medicine men" and it is hard to get a native to talk of such things, but it
seems evident to me that there is some reality in the phenomena one hears of,
as they are believed everywhere in some degree by white men as well as black.'
However that may be the native doctors have a wide knowledge of poisons ;
and if one is to believe reports, deaths from poison, both among the white
and black men, are of common recurrence on the Niger. One of the white
man's often quoted proverbs is. 'Never quarrel with your cook' ; the meaning
of which is that the cook can put something in your food in retaliation if you
maltreat him. There is everywhere a belief that it is possible to put medicine
on a path for your enemy, which when he steps over
it,
will cause him to fall
sick and die. Other people can walk uninjured over the spot, but the moment
the man for whom the medicine
is
laid reaches the place, he succumbs, often
dying within an hour or two.
I
have never seen such
a
case myself; but the
Rev. A. E. Richardson says he saw one when on the journey with Bishop
Tugwell's house-party. He could offer no explanation of how the thing
is
done,
but does not doubt that
it
is
done. Some of the best educated of our native
Christians have told me that they firmly believe in this 'medicine-laying.'
"
62 Hans Sloane,
A
Voyage to the Islands, London, 1707, Introduction, p. lii.
i80 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
God, that they are for the most part mixed with a great deal of
bawdry and lewdness." 68
With the suppression of drumming and
assemblies, the Myal dance (and in a disguised form) was all that
was left of their religious practices that could be produced in
public. In passing Sloane remarks a couple of cases of poisoning,
but makes no mention of Obeah as such.84
Charles Leslie, writing in 1740, states: "When anything about
a plantation is missing, they have a solemn kind of oath, which
the eldest Negro always administers, and which by them is ac
counted so sacred, that except they have the express command of
their master or overseer, they never set about
it,
and then they
go very solemnly to work. They range themselves in that spot of
ground which
is
appropriated for the Negro burying place, and
one of them opens
a
grave. He who acts the priest, takes
a
little
of the earth, and puts
it
into every one of their mouths
;
they say,
that
if
any has been guilty, their belly swells, and occasions death.
I
never saw any instance of this but once; and
it
was certainly
a
fact that
a
boy did swell, and acknowledged the theft when he
was dying
:
But
I
am far from thinking there was any connection
betwixt the cause and the effect, for a thousand accidents might
have occasioned
it,
without accounting for
it
by that foolish cere
mony." 85
While this passage
is
frequently quoted as an example
of Obeah,
it
is
really
a
religious ordeal, similar to so many prac
ticed in Africa.
It
is
employed publicly and for the general good.
Consequently we must ascribe
it
to Myalism and not to Obeah.88
03 Ditto, Introduction, p. lvi.
64 Note
:
Retribution falls heavily on the slave of his day,
if
we may judge
by the following statement of Sloane, Introduction, p. lvii
:
"The punishment
for crimes of slaves, are usually for rebellions burning them, by nailing them
down on the ground with crooked sticks on every limb, and then applying the
fire by degrees from the feet and hands, burning them gradually up to the head,
whereby their pains are extravagant. For crimes of
a
less nature gelding or
chopping off half of the foot with an ax. These punishments are suffered by
them with great constancy."
8B Charles Leslie, New History
of
Jamaica, London, 1740, p. 308.
66 Note
:
Dr. Patrick Browne, The Civil and Natural History
of
Jamaica,
London, 1756, p. 25, like his predecessor, Dr. Sloane, remarks the presence of
poisonous plants. However he ascribes the high death rate among the slaves
not to poison but rather to the poor medical attendance on the island. Speaking
of the diseases so prevalent among the slaves, he
is
decidedly outspoken: "These
are indeed frequently of a peculiar nature, and require a consummate knowledge
of symptoms and disorders, to discover the real forces of them
;
yet the owners,
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 181
Edward Long, the first historian to refer to Obeah by name is
writing after the revelation caused by the rebellion of 1760. As
yet his views are not as set as we find them fifteen years later in
the document studied in an earlier chapter, and he quite naturally
confuses Obeah and Myalism. He says of the slaves : "They firmly
believe in the apparition of spectres. Those of deceased friends
are duppies; others, of more hostile and tremendous aspect, like
our raw-head-and-bloody bones, are called bugaboos. The most
sensible among them fear the supernatural powers of the African
Obeah men, or pretended conjurers; often ascribing those mortal
effects to magic, which are only the natural operation of some
poisonous juice, or preparation, dexterously administered by these
villains. But the creoles imagine, that the virtues of baptism, or
making them Christians, render their art wholly ineffectual ; and
for this reason only, many of them have desired to be baptized,
that they might be secured from Obeah.
"Not long since, some of these execrable wretches in Jamaica
introduced what they called the Myal dance,87 and established a
kind of society, into which they invited all they could. The lure
hung out was, that every Negro, initiated into the Myal society,
would be invulnerable by the white man ; and although they might
in appearance be slain, the Obeah man could, at his pleasure, re
store the body to life. The method, by which this trick was car
ried on, was by a cold infusion of the herb branched calalue;
which, after the agitation of dancing, threw the party into a pro
found sleep. In this state he continued, to all appearances lifeless,
no pulse, nor motion of the heart, being perceptible ; till on being
rubbed with another infusion (as yet unknown to the whites),
the effects of the calalue gradually went off, the body resumed
its motions, and the party on whom the experiment had been
tried, awoke as from a trance, entirely ignorant of anything that
whose interest depends chiefly on their welfare, will commit them to the care
of some raw youth, or ignorant assumer, that is hardly skilled enough to breathe
a vein, or dispense a dose of physic ; but this proceeds more from ignorance and
vanity, than any real want of humanity; for few of them are judges of physic,
and each would be thought to have a doctor of his own."
87 This is the common misconception, already noticed, of considering Myalism
as an offshoot from Obeah.
1 82 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
had passed since he left off dancing." 88
A few pages later, Long
adds : "Bits of red rag, cats teeth, parrots feathers, eggshells and
fish-bones are frequently stuck up at the doors of their houses
when they go from home leaving anything of value within, (some
times they hang them on fruit trees, and place them in cornfields),
to deter thieves. Upon conversing with some of the Creoles upon
this custom, they laugh at the supposed virtue of the charm
and said they practiced it only to frighten away the salt-water
Negroes, of whose depredations they are most apprehensive."
89
Long seems too easily satisfied with the explanation of this
Creole. Even today, every Negro in Jamaica has a superstitious
fear of anything that is referred to, even in joke, as preternatural.
On more than one occasion I have seen a gentleman throw a piece
of ordinary paper on the floor and say to the housemaid, a married
woman of exemplary character and a regular church-member :
"Look out Aida, duppy there." To which Aida would invariably
reply with a laugh : "Me no belieb duppy, Sah ! All nonsense, Sah !"
And yet she would give that piece of paper a wide berth, and if
told to bring something that would necessitate her passing the
suspicious object, she would walk all the way around the room to
avoid it. When asked why she did not go direct, she would explain :
"Me prefar walk dis way, Sah!" And that paper would remain
there untouched until a friendly breeze blew it out of the house.
During the last quarter of the eighteenth century, there lived
one of the most desperate characters in Jamaica history. His
depredations accomplished single handed and over a wide area
left the impression that he was the head of a numerous and well-
organized band of robbers and his very name became synonymous
with terror throughout the country districts. Owing to the loss of
two fingers in an early encounter with a Maroon, he was generally
88 Edward Long, History of Jamaica, London, 1774, Vol. II, p. 416.
89 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 420. Note : In reference to the slave law of Jamaica,
Long writes, p. 493 : "The Negro code of this island appears originally to have
copied from the model in use at Barbadoes; and the legislature of this latter
island, which was the first planted by the English, resorted to the English
villeinage laws, from whence they undoubtedly transfused all that severity
which characterizes them, and shows the abject slavery which the common
people of England formerly laboured under."
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 183
known as Three-finger Jack. Concerning this desperado, many
accounts have come down to us, all of which show that his chief
reliance was the machinations of a notorious Obeah man. Thus
we are told : "Dr. Moseley in his Treatise on Sugar, says, T saw
the Obi of this famous Negro robber, Three-finger Jack, this
terror of Jamaica in 1780. The Maroon who slew him brought it
to me. It consisted of a goat's horn, filled with a compound of
grave dirt, ashes, the blood of a black cat, and human fat, all
mixed into a kind of paste. A cat's foot, a dried toad, a pig's tail,
a flip of virginal parchment, of kid's skin, with characters marked
in blood on
it,
were also in his Obeah bag." 70
Burdett thus de
scribes the Obeah man who bestowed this grewsome gift on Man-
song: "Amalkir, the Obeah practitioner, dwelt in
a
loathsome
cave, far removed from the inquiring eye of the suspicious whites,
in the Blue Mountains; he was old and shrivelled;
a
disorder had
contracted all his nerves, and he could hardly crawl. His cave was
the dwelling-place, or refuge of robbers; he encouraged them in
their depredations; and gave them Obi, that they might fearlously
rush where danger stood. This Obi was supposed to make them
invulnerable to the attacks of the white men, and they placed im
plicit belief in its virtues." 71
He evidently played the role of
Myalist as well as Obeah man.
Coming now to the nineteenth century, as would be expected,
70 William Burdett, Life and Exploits
of
Mansong, commonly called Three-
finger Jack, the Terror
of
Jamaica, Sommers Town, 1800, p. 34.
71 Ditto, p. 17. Note: Robert Renny published in London in 1807: An His
tory
of
Jamaica,
.
.
. To which
is
added an illustration
of
the Advantages,
which are likely to result, from the Abolition
of
the Slave Trade. He remarks,
Preface, p. xi
:
"Perhaps an observation will be deemed requisite respecting the
non-quotation of authorities, for the various historical facts, related in the
present volume. For this conduct, the conciseness requisite in
a
short history,
will probably account in
a
satisfactory manner." The entire work lacks original
ity and
is
little more than
a
reprint from others. Hence we may confine our
selves to the following brief quotation, p. 169
f.
:
"Whatever their notions of
religion may have been, they, not unlike their European masters, seem to pay
little regard to the ceremonies of any system in Jamaica. But they are not on
that account, the less superstitious. A belief in Obeah, or witchcraft,
is
almost
universal among them. The professors of this occult science, are always Afri
cans, and generally old and crafty. Hoary heads, gravity of aspect, and
a
skill in herbs, are the chief qualifications for this curious office. The Negroes,
both Africans and Creoles (i. e. those born
in
the island), revere, consult, and
fear them." Then follows an account which
is
little more than
a
paraphrase from
the Report of 1789.
184 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
every writer in Jamaica has something to say about Obeah which
still remains, however, a great enigma to be explained according
to each individual's point of view. Thus Stewart writing in 1808,
and expressing the opinion that was commonly maintained by the
missionaries : "There is one good effect which the simple per
suasion of his being a Christian produces on the mind of the
Negro ; it is an effectual antidote against the spells and charms of
his native superstition. One Negro who desires to be revenged on
another, if he fears a more open and manly attack on his adver
sary, has usually recourse to Obeah. This is considered as a potent
and irresistible spell, withering and palsying, by undescribable
terrors, and unwonted sensations, the unhappy victim. Like the
witches' cauldron in Macbeth, it is a combination of all that is
hateful and disgusting; a toad's foot, a lizard's tail, a snake's
tooth, the plumage of the carrion crow, or vulture, a broken egg
shell, a piece of wood fashioned into the shape of a coffin, with
many other nameless ingredients, compose the fatal mixture. It
will of course be conceived that the practice of Obeah can have
little effect, without a Negro is conscious that it is practiced upon
him, or thinks so : for as the sole evil lies in the terrors of a per
turbed fancy, it is of little consequence whether it is really prac
ticed or not, if he only imagines that it is. An Obeah man or
woman upon an estate, is therefore a very dangerous person; and
the practice of it for evil purposes is made felony by the law. But
numbers may be swept off by its infatuation before the practice
is detected ; for, strange as it may appear, so much do the Negroes
stand in awe of these wretches, so much do they dread their malice
and their power, that, though knowing the havoc they have made,
and are still making, many of them are afraid to discover them
to the whites; and others, perhaps, are in league with them for
sinister purposes of mischief and revenge. A Negro under this
infatuation can only be cured of his terrors by being made a
Christian; refuse him this indulgence, and he soon sinks a martyr
to imagine evils. The author knew an instance of a Negro, who,
being reduced by the fatal influence of Obeah to the lowest state
of dejection and debility, from which there were little hopes of
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 185
his recovery, was surprisingly and rapidly restored to health and
to spirits, by being baptized a Christian; so wonderful are the
workings of a weak and superstitious imagination. But, though
so liable to be perverted into an instrument of malice and revenge,
Obeah, at least a sort of
it,
may be said to have its uses. When
placed in the gardens and grounds of the Negroes,
it
becomes an
excellent guard or watchman, scaring away the predatory run
away, and midnight plunderer, with more effective terror than
gins and spring guns.
It
loses its effect, however, when put to
protect the gardens and plantain walks of the Buckras." 72
72
J.
Stewart, An Account
of
Jamaica and its Inhabitants, London, 1808, p.
256
ff
.
Note
:
In the second edition of this work which was published under the
title,
A
View
of
the Past and Present State
of
the Island
of
Jamaica, Edinburgh,
1823, for some unexplained reason, this passage
is
rewritten and considerably
changed with the element of poison in Obeah introduced. Cfr. p. 276
f.
:
"The
most dangerous practice, arising from the superstitious credulity, prevailing
among the negroes is, what
is
called obeah,
a
pretended sort of witchcraft. One
negro who desires to be revenged on another, and
is
afraid to make an open
and manly attack on his adversary, has usually recourse to obeah. This
is
con
sidered as
a
potent and irresistible spell, withering and palsying, by indescribable
terrors and unwonted sensations, the unhappy victim. Like the witches' caldron
in Macbeth,
it
is
a
combination of many strange and ominous things earth
gathered from
a
grave, human blood,
a
piece of wood fashioned in the shape
of
a
coffin, the feathers of the carrion-crow,
a
snake's or alligator's tooth, pieces
of eggshell, and other nameless ingredients, compose the fatal mixture. The
whole of these articles may not be considered as absolutely necessary to com
plete the charm, but two or three are at least indispensable. It will, of course,
be conceived, that the practice of obeah can have little effect, unless a negro
is
conscious that
it
is
practiced upon him, or thinks so; for as the whole evil
consists in the terrors of
a
superstitious imagination,
it
is
of little consequence
whether
it
be really practiced or not,
if
he can only imagine that
it
is. But if
the charm fails to take hold of the mind of the proscribed person, another and
more certain expedient
is
resorted to the secretly administering of poison to
him. This saves the reputation of the sorcerer, and effects the purpose he had in
view. (The negroes practicing obeah are acquainted with some very powerful
vegetable poisons, which they use on these occasions.) An obeah- man or woman
(for
it
is
practiced by both sexes)
is
a
very wicked and dangerous person on
a
plantation
;
and the practice of
it
is
made
a
felony by the law, punishable with
death where poison has been administered, and with transportation where only
the charm
is
used. But numbers may be swept off by its infatuation before the
crime
is
detected
;
for, strange as
it
may appear, so much do the negroes stand
in awe of those obeah professors, so much do they dread their malice and their
power, that, though knowing the havoc they have made, and are still making,
they are afraid to discover them to the whites
;
and others perhaps, are in
league with them for sinister purposes of mischief and revenge. A negro under
this infatuation can only be cured of his terrors by being made
a
Christian:
refuse him this boon, and he sinks
a
martyr to imagined evils. The author
knew an instance of
a
negro, who, being reduced by the fatal influence of obeah
to the lowest state of dejection and debility, from which there were little hopes
of his recovery, was surprisingly and rapidly restored to health and cheerfulness
by being baptized
a
Christian. A negro, in short, considers himself as no longer
VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Matthew Gregory Lewis, who was already quoted on Myalism,
records in his diary, in his own delightful way, an accusation of
Obeah brought by one of his own servants, Pickle, against a fel
low-servant Edward, as follows : "He had accused Edward of
breaking open his house, and had begged him to help him to his
goods again ; and 'Edward had gone at midnight into the bush'
{i.e. the wood), and had gathered the plant whangra, which
he had boiled in an iron pot, by a fire of leaves, over which
he went puff, puffie : 'and said the sautee-sautee ; and then had cut
the whangra root into four pieces, three to bury at the plantation
gates, and one to burn ; and to each of these three pieces he gave
the name of a Christian, one of which was Daniel ; and Edward
had said, that this would help him to find his goods ; but instead
of that, he had immediately felt this pain in his side, and there
fore he was sure that, instead of using Obeah to find his goods,
Edward had used it to kill himself.'
" 78
Even in my time in
Jamaica, it was enough to threaten to "burn whangra" within
the hearing of some petty thief, to have the goods returned at
once. I understood that failure to do so, would cause the body
of the thief to break out into the most terrible sores, in case the
threat had been carried into execution.
Another entry in Lewis' diary is worth repeating here. Under
date of January 28, 18 16, we find it recorded: "There are cer
tainly many excellent qualities in the negro character ; their worst
faults appear to be this prejudice respecting Obeah, and the
under the influence of this sorcery when he becomes a Christian. But, though
so liable to be perverted into a deadly instrument of malice and revenge, obeah
at least a species of it may be said to have its uses. When placed in the gar
dens and grounds of the Negroes, it becomes an excellent guard or watch,
scaring away the predatory runaway and midnight plunderer with more effective
power than gins and spring-guns. It loses its .power, however, when put to
protect the gardens and plantain-walks of the Bnckras."
B. Pullen-Bury, Jamaica as It Is, 1903, London, 1903, p. 140, says of recent
times : "Some planters adopt Obi to ensure themselves against thieving. They
take a large black bottle, fill it with some phosphorescent liquid, and place
within it the feather of a buzzard, the quill sticking uppermost. This they fasten
to a tree on the outskirts of the coffee-patch or banana-field, where it can be
well observed by all who pass near. The dusky population, firmly believing it
to be the work of the Obeah man, refrain their thieving propensities accordingly."
7S Lewis, Journal of a West India Proprietor, p. 134.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 187
facility with which they are frequently induced to poison to the
right hand and to the left. A neighbouring gentleman, as I hear,
has now three negroes in prison, all domestics, and one of them
grown grey in his service, for poisoning him with corrosive sub
limate ; his brother was actually killed by similar means ; yet I am
assured that both of them were reckoned men of great humanity.
Another agent, who appears to be in high favour with the negroes
whom he now governs, was obliged to quit an estate, from the
frequent attempts to poison him ; and a person against whom there
is no sort of charge alleged for tyranny, after being brought to
the doors of death by a cup of coffee, only escaped a second time
by his civility, in giving the beverage, prepared for himself, to
two young bookkeepers, to both of whom it proved fatal. It,
indeed came out, afterwards, that this crime was also effected by
the abominable belief in Obeah, the woman who mixed the
draught, had no idea of its being poison, but she had received
the deleterious ingredients from an Obeah man, as 'a charm to
make her massa good to her !' by which the negroes mean, the
compelling a person to give another everything for which that
other may ask him." 74
James Stephen, on the other hand, writing in 1824, in defence
of the slaves, still clings to the old estimate of Obeah as being for
the most part fanciful. Thus he argues : "Obeah also is a practice,
which has, by laws of Jamaica and Dominica, all of a modern
date, been constituted a capital offence : and many negroes have
of late years been executed for it in the former island, though in
many of our other islands it has never been considered as worthy
of having a place in the copious and comprehensive catalogues of
crimes furnished by their penal slave laws. Obeah and poison are
deserving of a particular consideration, because they were once
seriously alleged by the Agent of Jamaica and other colonists, as
great causes of the dreadful mortality which prevails among the
slaves in our islands. The subjects also are curious in their nature,
and I was prepared to offer much authoritative information upon
" Ditto, p. 148 f.
1 88 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
them, tending to prove that they are for the most part the
grounds only of fanciful, though fatal imputations on the un
fortunate slaves." 75
This passage drew a sharp reply from Alexander Barclay who
had just returned from a twenty-one years' residence in Jamaica :
"Another part of the slave law which Mr. Stephen disapproves of
is the punishment of Obeah with death but he has not assigned his
reasons for thinking that 'it has been, for the most part, the
ground of a fanciful though fatal imputation on the poor slaves.'
The deaths which the Obeah man occasioned by working on the
imaginations of their superstitious countrymen, and by poison,
certainly were not 'fanciful,' whatever their pretended super
natural powers might be.
"I was present some years ago, at a trial of a notorious Obeah
man, driver on an estate in the parish of St. David, who, by the
overwhelming influence he had acquired over the minds of his
deluded victims, and the more potent means he had at command
to accomplish his ends, had done great injury among the slaves
on the property before it was discovered. One of the witnesses,
a negro belonging to the same estate, was asked "Do you know
the prisoner to be an Obeah man?' 'Ess, massa, shadow-catcher,
true.' 'What do you mean by shadow-catcher?' 'Him ha coffin,
(a little coffin produced), him set for catch dem shadow.' 'What
shadow do you mean?' 'When him set obeah for summary (some
body), him catch dem shadow, and dem go dead'; and too surely
they were soon dead, when he pretended to have caught their
shadows, by whatever means it was effected. Two other causes,
besides the law, have contributed to make this now a crime of
much less frequent occurrence, the influence of Christianity, and
the end put by the abolition to the importation of more African
superstition." 7a
George Wilson Bridges, in his Annals of Jamaica, is also out
spoken. In explaining African Fetishism he observes : "The Obeah,
75
James Stephens, The Slavery of the British West India Colonies, delineated,
London, 1824, Vol. I, p. 305.
76 Alexander Barclay, A Practical View of the Present State of Slavery in
the West Indies, London, 1828, p. 185 f.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 189
with which we are so fatally familiar in Jamaica, is no other than
this doctrine of the fetish." 77
He had previously said : "The
dexterity with which the Negroes make use of poison to gratify
their human propensities, surpasses the utmost refinements of
Asiatic cruelty ... it is concentrated in so small a compass, that
the immersion in any liquor of the finger in whose nail it lies con
cealed, causes the immediate death of the drinker." 78
In the closing days of slavery, on the very eve of Emancipa
tion, we have the testimony of Dr. R. R. Madden, who, as he
tells us himself was one of six stipendary magistrates who in
October 1833, were sent out to Jamaica.79 In a letter dated King
ston, September 8, 1834, Madden writes: "An Obeah man was
lately committed to the Spanish Town prison for practicing on
the life of a Negro child. It appeared in evidence that he went to
a Negro hut, and asked for some fire to light his pipe ; that he was
seen to put some bush (herb) into the pipe, and then placing
himself to windward of the child, commenced smoking, so that
the fumes were directed by the wind towards the child. Immedi
ately after he went away, the child was taken alarmingly sick;
the father pursued the man suspected of Obeahing, and brought
him back. He was accused of being an Obeah man, of having
injured the child; and being threatened with violence if he did
not take off the Obeah he consented to do so, and accordingly per
formed certain ceremonies for that purpose; the child improved
and he was suffered to depart. The improvement however was
only temporary; he was again sent for and with a similar result.
"I have copied the account of his examination by the attorney-
general, from the original document. He confessed that he was
a practicer of Obeah, that he did it not for gain or vengeance, but
solely because the devil put it into his head to be bad. He had
learned the use of the bush from an old Negro man on . . .
estate, where master had been poisoned by old man. It was a
small plant which grew in the mountains, but did not know the
77 George Wilson Bridges, Annals of Jamaica, London, 1828, Vol. II, p. 404.
78 Ditto, Vol. II, p. 404.
79 R. R. Madden, A Twelvemonth's Residence in the West Indies, during the
Transition from Slavery to Apprenticeship, London, 1835, Vol. I, Preface, p. vi.
190 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
name of it ; (he gave some of the dried leaves to the attorney, who
showed them to me for examination ; but they were so broken
that nothing was to be made of them). He said it did him no
hurt to smoke this plant ; but whoever breathed the smoke was
injured by it; he had no spite against the father or mother of
the child, nor wish to injure them. He saw the child, and he could
not resist the instigation of the devil to Obeah
it,
but he hoped
he would never do
it
any more; he would pray to God to put
it
out of his head to do it. Such was the singular statement made
to the attorney-general by the prisoner; and the attorney-general
informed me, made with an appearance of frankness and truth
which gave
a
favourable impression of its veracity." 80
This looks
like smoking whangra or wanga which has become very common
of recent years. The effect on the smoker, however,
is
similar to
that of Indian hemp, and renders many of the devotees veritable
maniacs.
Dr. Madden also records
:
"There are two descriptions of Obeah
;
one that
is
practiced by means of incantations; and the other by
the administering of medicated potions in former times,
it
is
said of poisons, and these practitioners were called Myal men." 81
He
is
here mixing up the two, Obeah and Myalism, as might be
expected from one insufficiently acquainted with the island to
discriminate. The whole subject interests him nevertheless, as he
takes note
:
"In the criminal record-book of the parish of St.
Andrews,
I
find the following obeah cases
:
"1773. Sarah, tried 'for having in her possession cats' teeth,
cats' claws, cats' jaws, hair, beads, knotted cords, and other ma
terials, relative to the practice of Obeah, to delude and impose on
the mind of the Negroes.' Sentenced to be transported.
"1776. Solomon, 'for having materials in his possession for
the practice of Obeah.' To be transported.
"1777. Tony, 'for practicing Obeah, or witchcraft, on
a
slave
named Fortune, by means of which, said slave became dangerously
ill.' Not Guilty.
80 Ditto, Vol.
I,
p. 93.
»i Ditto, Vol.
I,
p. 97.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 191
"1782. Neptune, 'for making use of rum, hair, chalk, stones,
and other materials, relative to the practice of Obeah, or witch
craft.' To be transported." 82
Immediately after Jamaican emancipation, and during the try
ing days of reconstruction of the entire social order, with a
readjustment to conditions that were so vastly different from the
accepted status of nearly two hundred years when the word of
the master usually stood against the world, free rein was given to
the religious frenzy that brought again into vogue the Myalistic
spirit so long repressed. A spirit of exultation naturally drove the
slave of yesterday to take advantage of his freedom and sate him
self with long-forbidden joys and the outbursts of religious
fanaticism became so intermingled with nocturnal saturnalia, that
for a time it was difficult to distinguish the one from the other.
The old objective of Myalism quickly reasserted itself. Now that
the shackles had been stricken from their bodies, why not strike
the chains from their souls as well? To "dig up Obeah" con
sequently became widespread and persistent.
This gave witchcraft a set-back for a time, or rather made it
even more secretive and vindictive. As a consequence, there was
no abatement in the general fear and terror in which it was held
by Negroes without exception. And it cannot be surprising if
occasionally the practitioner of Obeah, perhaps for self-protection,
assumed the role of Myalist, and "dug up" perhaps the Obeah
that he himself had planted. In public, too, he might became a
Myalist Doctor, while in secret he was still the Obeah man. He
could apply the healing properties of herbs to counteract the very
82 Ditto, Vol. I, p. 98. Note : Dr. Madden later makes the observation on
p. 108: "The Africans, like all other people who profess the Mohammedan faith,
have an opinion that insanity and supernatural inspiration are frequently com
bined, and consequently, knaves and lunatics (partially insane) are commonly
the persons who play the parts of santons and sorcerers. The Africans carried
most of their superstitions to our colonies, and, amongst others their reverence
for those either whose physical or mental peculiarities distinguished them from
the multitude, and such were the persons who in advanced age, usually took
on themselves the Obeah character. It is evident to any medical man who reads
these trials, that in the great majority of cases the trumpery ingredients used
in the practice of Obeah were incapable of producing mischief except on the
imagination of the person intended to be Obeahed." The good Doctor here over
looks the element of poison and greatly underrates the power of superstitious
fear on the part of the Negro.
192 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
poisons he had occultly administered. Finally, together with the
vile concoction devised at the midnight hour for harm and ruin,
he might fashion the protective fetish as a counter-irritant. And
the Myal man in turn ! Is it entirely improbable that he may have
on occasion stooped to unprofessional practices, and with his
knowledge of vegetable poisons played the role of his rival in
herbal lore? In any case, from this time on, we find an ever in
creasing confusion of Obeah and Myalism in the accounts that
have come down to us.
Thus John Joseph Gurney, in a letter addressed to Henry Clay
of Kentucky and dated Flushing, L.
I.,
June
8,
1840, writes as the
tourist and not as
a
scientific investigator. He
is
describing his
visit to Jamaica
a
few month earlier, and remarks: "Under the
guidance of our friends
J.
and M. Candler, we drove several
miles into the country, to breakfast at Papine, the estate of
J.
B.
Wildman, late member of parliament for Colchester. There we
were entertained by William Manning,
a
catechist of the Church
Missionary Society, who like other agents of that institution in
the island,
is
very valuable and useful. . . .
"We were disappointed, on visiting the sugar works of Papine,
to find them stopped
;
and we saw young men, doing nothing, in
some of the comfortable cottages which have been built on the
property. The reason assigned was, that there was
'a
matter to
settle.' The said matter turned out to be the trial of
a
'Myalist,'
or 'black doctor,' one of those persons who hold communion, as
is
imagined, with departed spirits, and practice medicine, under
their direction, for the cure of the living the diseases them
selves, being ascribed to Obeah, or evil witchcraft. These supersti
tions, although not nearly as prevalent as formerly, still prevail
in some places, and deprived as the Negroes now are of regular
medical attendance, some of them have recourse to these magical
quack doctors, to the great danger of their lives. The whole day
was now given up by the people to this strange concern; but
under
a
promise of their working for their master two of their
usual spare days, in lieu of it. The Myalist,
a
young fellow of
eighteen or twenty, dressed in the height of fashion and jet black,
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 193
was brought up before our friend Manning to be examined
several men, and a crowd of women, being in attendance. He
openly confessed his necromancy, and as a proof of its success,
showed us two miserable women, one sick of fever, the other
mutilated with leprosy, whom he pretended to have cured. The
evidence was regarded by the people as resistless, and our plain
declaration of disbelief in Myalism, were very unwelcome to them,
They said it was 'no good.' We were sorry to observe the ob
stinacy of their delusions, but such things will be gradually cor
rected by Christian instruction." 88
If Mr. Gurney could only have
looked well into the future, he might have revised his prophecy !
The same fatuous hopefulness inspired the Reverend James
M. Phillippo of Spanish Town, who spent twenty years as a
Baptist Missionary in Jamaica. Writing of this same period, he
says : "It may be remarked that the spell of Obeism and its kindred
abominations is broken. In some districts, it is true, Myalism has
recently revived; but it has been owing to the absence of a law
since the abrogation of the Slave Act, by which the perpetrators
could be punished, together with the difficulties and expensiveness,
in many districts, of procuring proper medical advice and aid.
Thus the Myal men having most of them been employed in at
tendance of the sick in the hospitals of estates, and thereby acquir
ing some knowledge of medicine, have, since the abolition of
slavery, set up as medical men ; and, in order to increase their
influence, and, consequently, their gains, have called to their aid
the mysteries of this abominable superstition, in many cases ac
complishing their purposes by violence as well as by terror. The
more effectually to delude the multitude, the priests of this deadly
art, now that religion has become general, have incorporated with
it a religious phraseology, together with some of the religious
observances of the most popular denominations, and thus have
in some instances succeeded in imposing on the credulity and fears
of many of whom better things had been expected." 84
83
John Joseph Gurney, Familiar Letters to Henry Clay of Kentucky, Describ
ing a Winter in the West Indies, New York, 1840, p. 76.
84
James M. Phillippo, Jamaica: Its Past and Present State, London, 1843,
p. 263.
194 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
We will find our next witness more discriminating. From long
experience and close contact with every class of Jamaicans, he
had learned to recognize the fundamental elements that made up
their natural religious and superstitious tendencies, so commonly
confused and intermingled in practice, but nevertheless, even then
actually distinguishable in their principles.
In consequence of the rebellion that started at Morant Bay in
October, 1865, and which led to the trial and execution of George
William Gordon, a Royal Commission was appointed "to inquire
respecting certain disturbances in the Island of Jamaica." On
February 26, 1866, Beckford Davis, Clerk of the Peace of St.
George's, now a part of the Parish of Portland, appeared before
the Commission and was examined under oath. One point on
which he was questioned in detail was the prevalence and influence
of Obeah. His evidence, in part, was as follows : "It is a two
fold art; it is the art of poisoning, combined with the art of
imposing upon the credulity of ignorant people, by a pretence of
witchcraft. Its effects are produced by poisoning. The Obeah men
are parties who are acquainted with many of the simples of this
country, which are not known, and they administer them with a
very pernicious effect. ... I can only imagine what they are
from the effects which I have seen produced on individuals. . . .
I did not see the poison administered. I know that the general belief
is that Obeah men are acquainted with the venomous plants of
this country; their habit of practice in it is by imposing on the
Negroes by means of charms and things of that kind, such as dried
fowl's head, a lizard's bones, old eggshells, tufts of hair, cats'
claws, ducks' skulls, and things of that kind. I have seen a good
deal of it."
Asked: "Are these Obeah men still much consulted?" he an
swered : "Very much indeed ; and their influence is so great that
nothing that can be said to the black population can induce the
more ignorant of them to question the power of the Obeah man.
. . . They have no fixed residence. They wander about the coun
try wherever they can pick up dupes. . . . The people have many
superstitions about them, but they are mortally afraid of them."
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 195
He testifies about one particular Obeah man who was appre
hended in his district but was sent to Port Antonio for trial, and
describes the contents of his chest "and a book full of strange
characters." Among the Obeah articles noted in the chest was a
white powder, which was identified by Dr. Robert Edward Gayle
of St. George's as being arsenic.
Being asked: "Did you ever see an Obeah stick?" he replies:
"Oh yes, plenty of them." "With twisted serpents round them?"
"Yes, some; and some with the likeness of a man's head, only of
a very deformed cast. They have different kinds of things on them.
The Negroes are in great dread of them ; they consider if an
Obeah man touches you with one of these sticks, some great mis
fortune will happen, if not death itself."
Questioned further if he had ever seen an Obeah man with "a
globe of glass into which persons look to see the future?" he
asserts : "They have not arrived at that stage of superstition yet.
Grave dirt is a favourable article with the Obeah man. ... It
is the grave dirt taken from whence the corpse is buried. It is
supposed that if an Obeah man throws that at a person, he
will die."
To the inquiry : "Are the Obeah men solitary persons or have
they wives and families?" he answers: "Those that I have seen
have always been single men." "Has he any distinct mark by
which he is known?" "None in particular, that I know of, except
that he is generally possessed of a very bad countenance. . . .
There is generally a peculiarity about them."
Finally asked: "Do not they possess the art of curing as well
as poisoning?" he declared: "No; it is another class that do that,
called 'Myal men'; they profess to undo the work of the Obeah
man." "They are the antidote, not the bane?" "Just so." 88
The real sinister element of Obeah now began to assert itself.
As the entire tone of the Royal Commission had been from the
start antagonistic to Governor Eyre and its every move was sym
pathetic towards the restless masses who had been implicated in
"Report of the Jamaica Royal Commission, 1866, London, 1866, Vol. II, p.
531, Items 26459-26540.
196 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
the Morant Bay uprising where Obeah had played its evil part,
many an Obeah man boasted of the influence he had exercised
throughout the conduct of the investigation and consequently ap
plied his trade with new energy and the general terrorization of
the island.
Seven years after the publication of the Report of the Jamaica
Royal Commission, Charles Rampini writes: "Of all the motive
powers which influence the Negro character, by far the most
potent, as it is also the most dangerous, is that of Obeah. . . .
The Obeah man or woman is one of the great guild or fraternity
of crime. Hardly a criminal trial occurs in the colony in which
he is not implicated in one way or another. His influence over the
country people is unbounded. He is the prophet, priest, and king
of the district. Does a maiden want a charm to make her lover
'good' to her? does a woman desire a safe delivery in child-birth?
does a man wish to be avenged of his enemy, or to know the
secrets of futurity? the Obeah man is at hand to supply the
means and to proffer his advice. Under the style and title of a
'bush doctor' he wanders from place to place, exacting 'coshery'
from his dupes on all hands; supplied with food by one, with
shelter by another, with money by a third, denied naught from
the mysterious terror with which he is regarded, and refused noth
ing from fear of the terrible retribution which might be the
consequences of such a rash act. His pretensions are high; but
he has means at hand to enforce them. He can cure all diseases ;
he can protect a man from the consequences of his crimes; he
can even reanimate the dead. His knowledge of simples is im
mense. Every bush and every tree furnishes weapons for his
armoury. Unfortunately in too many instances more potent agents
are not wanting to his hand. His stock in trade consists of lizard's
bones, old eggshells, tufts of hair, cats' claws, ducks' skulls, an
old pack of cards, rusty nails, and things of that description.
'Grave dirt,' that is earth taken from where a corpse has been
buried, is also largely used. . . . But ground glass, arsenic and
other poisons, are not infrequently found among the contents of
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 197
the Obeah man's 'puss-skin' wallet, and it is not difficult to conjec
ture for what purposes these are employed.
"As an outward and visible sign of his power, the Obeah man
sometimes carries about with him a long staff or wand, with
twisted serpents or the rude likeness of a human head carved
round the handle. He has his cabalistic book, too, full of strange
characters, which he pretends to consult in the exercise of his
calling. One of these is now in my possession. It is an old child's
copy-book, well thumbed and very dirty. Each page is covered
with rude delineations of the human figure, and roughly traced
diagrams and devices. Between each line there runs a rugged
scrawl, intended to imitate writing. . . .
"There is something indescribably sinister about the appearance
of an Obeah man, which is readily observed by persons who have
mixed much with the Negroes. With a dirty handkerchief bound
tightly round his forehead, and his small, bright cunning eyes
peering out from beneath
it,
he sometimes visits the courts of
petty sessions throughout the island,
if
some unfortunate client
of his who has got into trouble requires his aid to defend
him. . .
.
"Serpent or devil worship
is
by no means rare in the country
districts; and of its heathen rites the Obeah man
is
invariably the
priest. Many of them keep
a
stuffed snake in their huts as
a
domestic god
a
practice still common in Africa, from which of
course the custom has been derived." 88
This
is
evidently an element of decadent Voodoo that tempo
rarily impinged itself on Obeah.
I
have found many references
to this in recent writers but never came across any indication
of
it
in my own investigations. As regards the cabalistic book,
referred to by both Beckford Davis and Rampini, we have possibly
a
residue of Mohammedanism. In the Report
of
i?8p, answering
the question about the religion of those among the slaves who
were not Christian, Stephen Fuller replied, "They are either
Pagans or Mohammedans, but principally Pagans. The Moham-
86 Charles Rampini, Letters from Jamaica, Edinburgh, 1873, P- 131
198 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
medans are those that come from the Mandongo Country chiefly."
Pere Labat had already stated : "Nearly all the Negroes are idola
ters. There are only those from the neighbourhood of Cape Verde,
of whom some are Mohammedans. When they bring these last to
the Islands, it is necessary to be on one's guard in assuming charge
of them. For besides the fact that they will never embrace Chris
tianity they are extremely subject to the abominable sin which
caused the destruction of the four ill-famed towns : and it is of
the greatest importance that this vice be not introduced among
the Negroes nor in the country." 87
He is writing in the year
1698. Much of the sensuous in Voodoo is probably due to this
influence of these Mohammedans, and possibly Obeah, too, may
owe to a like source some of the more repulsive features of its
later practice.88
Rampini gives some of the results of his own investigations
concerning Obeah and incidentally mentions in passing: "I have
before me the records of the slave courts held in the parish of
Portland between the years 1805 and 1816. They are full of cases
of Obeah. One woman attempts to murder her master by putting
arsenic into his noyeau ; another by mixing pounded glass with
his coffee; a third is charged with practicing upon the credulity
of his fellow-slaves by pretending to cure another of a sore in
his leg, and 'taking from thence sundry trifles, a hawk's toe, a
bit of wire, and a piece of flesh.'
"On 22d February, 1831, William Jones was tried and sentenced
to death 'for conspiring and contriving to destroy William
Ogilvie, overseer of Fairy Hill estate in the Parish of Portland.'
The notes of the evidence taken at the trial state : 'This prosecu
tion arises out of the confession of Thomas Lindsey, who was
shot to death pursuant to the sentence of a court-martial, on the
31st day of January, 1832. The part of the confession which
inculpates Williams Jones is as follows : About three weeks before
87 Labat, Nouveau Voyage aux Isles de I'Amerique, Vol. II, p. 46.
88 Note : The real Negro who has remained uncontaminated by Moham
medan influence has a degree of morality that puts the average white to shame,
e.g., Cfr. J. H. Driberg, The Lango, London, 1933, p. 209
f.,
especially the
Notes. Here we find the death penalty for those sensual acts which are usually
classified as being "against nature."
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 199
Christmas me and David Anderson; and William Rainey, and
Alexander Simpson being together, the devil took hold of us, tell
us we must destroy the overseer ; and we agreed to go to a man
named William Jones, belonging to Providence Mountain, an
Obeah man, to give us something to kill the busha, so that his
horse may throw him down and break his neck in a hole. Jones
said as this was a great thing he could not do it for less than
a doubloon, and we had only five shillings to give him. But we
agreed to carry him a barrow (hog) with five dollars, and a
three-gallon jug of rum, and three dollars in cash. He then gave
us something and told us to give it to the waiting-boy to throw
it in the water, and that would kill him. The waiting-boy, James
Oliver, did throw it into the water, but it did the busha no harm
and the waiting-boy said the Obeah man was only laughing at us.
We then went to the Obeah man, and he said the waiting-boy
could not have put the things into the water. And then he came
himself one day, took the bag of an ant's house, etc. etc. etc'
'Here,' says the report, 'follows an account of Obeah tricks
practiced.'
" 89
Finally Rampini warns us : "The Obeah man must not be con
founded with the Myal man, who is to the former what the anti
dote is to the poison. He professes to undo what the other has
done; to cure where the other has injured, but it must be con
fessed that, both in its operation and its results, the cure is often
worse than the disease. In truth, the boundary line between the
two classes of professors is oftentimes but a shadowy one." 90
We have already seen that the Ashanti Obayifo is in league
with Sasabonsam, the forest monster or evil spirit.91 Now, Bryan
Edwards, in his day recognized as a result of his direct inquiries
among the Gold Coast slaves that besides their belief in Accom-
pong, the Nyankopon of the Ashanti, the God of the Heavens
8" Rampini, 1. c, p. 135.
00 Ditto, p. 142.
Bl Note : Cfr. also J. G. Wood, The Uncivilised Races of Man, Vol. I, p. 550 :
"Sasabonsam is the friend of witch and wizard, hates priests and missionaries,
and inhabits huge silk-cotton trees in the gloomiest forests; he is a monstrous
being, of human shape, of red colour and with long hair."
200 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
and the Creator of all things, they lived in fear of a malicious
deity, the author of all evil, whom he calls Obboney.02 The very
title, which is Edwards' attempt to transliterate the name as he
heard it from the slaves, is suggestive of the deity's connection
with the Obayifo, or witch, and in many respects this evil spirit
corresponds with the Sasabonsam of the Ashanti. Hence it is
that we find modern Obeah classified at times as devil worship,
in which guise it poses more and more as a religion.
It would seem that during the days of slavery, with the drastic
suppression of Myalistic meetings, the need was felt more impera
tive of placating the other deity. And so it came to pass that
Obeah did in a sense develop more and more as a religion in
which, of course, the object of worship was not the Divine Being
but rather the evil spirit whether we refer to him as Sasabonsam
or Obboney, and whom we must regard either as the Evil One,
or perhaps more properly one of his satellites. The act of worship,
however, is not really one of adoration, but pacification or pro
pitiation, wherein an effort is made to assuage his enmity and
restrain his vindictiveness.
It is not surprising then to find the Reverend R. Thomas Ban
bury, writing towards the close of the last century, thus describing
the Obeah man : "He is the agent incarnate of Satan, the Simon
Magus of these good gospel days, the embodiment of all that is
wicked, immoral and deceitful. You may easily at times distinguish
him by his sinister looks and slouching gait. An Obeah man seldom
looks you in the face. Generally he is a dirty-looking fellow with
a sore foot. But some few are known to be decent in appearance
and well clad. He never goes without a wallet or bag in which
he carries his things. He is a professional man that is as well paid
as the lawyer or doctor, and sometimes better. It is a well known
fact that in cases of law-suits the Obeah man is retained as well
as the lawyer, and at times he not only works at home on the
case but goes to the court with his client for the purpose of stop-
92 Edwards, History of the British Colonies in the West Indies, Vol. II, p. 71.
Note: Trouillot, Esquisse Ethnographique : Le Vaudoux, p. 39, tells us that in
Haiti Sassa-Boussa is recognized as "the devil of the Bambaras."
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 201
ping the mouth of the prosecutor and his witnesses and of in
fluencing the judge and jury." 98
A more recent writer remarks: "Obeah! What's in an impos
ing name? Evidently a good deal; for, though owing to the at
titude taken by the law in Jamaica with regard to these esoteric
principles, the high priests and high priestesses of the cult efface
themselves as much as possible, it would appear from what can
be ascertained that their system is rudimentary compared with
the complicated forms of devil worship that obtain in India and
elsewhere.
"Obeah is an ignorant, superstitious foreigner, but owing to
'man's eternal sense of awe,' to the indestructible desire deep
down in the breast of most human beings to connect themselves
with the unseen world, and to that most powerful of all reasons,
the thirst of revenge, it has not died out. There are outward and
visible signs of this mangrove-rooted curse well known to the
police. A white cock, it would seem, plays a similar role to that
personated by the black cat of the witch in medieval times.
Whether the prime movers in this money-making business really
believe in all the accessories of their trade, or whether their by
play resembles merely the conjurer's arts, when he attempts to
divert the attention of the onlookers while he performs his tricks,
I have not heard, but this is sure: that the strength of their in
fluence lies in one word poisons." 94
A few pages later Miss Cook thus describes a part of a con
versation which was held at the home of a resident magistrate
in Jamaica, just after his return from Court where he had tried
a case of Obeah:
"
'Oh! Obeah!' said the winter tourist, 'I have
heard of that, I think, a ridiculous superstitious idea. How very
stupid all these people must be !' 'I beg your pardon,' objected the
pen-keeper's wife, 'that only states half the case. These Obeah
men and women (whom you can so seldom catch) do, no doubt,
pretend to cure diseases which they know little or nothing of,
shamelessly extracting money from a too credulous public, though
93 Banbury, Jamaica Superstitions.
9* E. M. Cook, Jamaica: The Lode stone of the Caribbean, Bristol, 1924, p. 115 f.
202 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
it is a fact that they well understand the preparation of simples;
but the dread of Obeah, which is another name for witchcraft,
is not altogether caused by superstitious fear. Obeah often means
poison. When anyone wishes to be revenged on his enemy he puts
Obeah on him : that
is,
he first consults the Obeah man as to the
best mode of procedure, with the result that poison
is
administered
in such a cunning manner that
it
is
almost impossible to find
it
out. The strange thing
is
that those who give the poison hardly
realize what they are doing, but attribute the result to supernatural
agency.' 'That is true,' corroborated the hostess." 99
We cannot close this chapter without quoting again from the
experienced missionary who threw so much light on the question
of Myalism. Father Emerick
is
speaking from eleven years of
experience and close study in some of the most pronounced Obeah
districts of Jamaica. Space, however, restricts us to
a
few of the
more striking passages taken from his valuable and careful study.
Thus he says
:
"The West Indies are like so many little Africas
or African colonies, with many of the customs, ideas, words,
observances and superstitions of their home country, Africa, still
clinging to them. Since a nation's religion exerts the strongest in
fluence upon its people, for they cling with greater tenacity to
it
than to anything else,
it
is
natural to suppose that the last thing
that they would give up, and that only after
a
great struggle,
would be what to them was their religion, their fetish worship
and superstitious practices. Thus
it
is
that the Africans brought
with them their African superstitions, which soon became preva
lent in all the West Indies, and
I
can assure you that Jamaica has
its share of them.
"There was
a
saying in vogue that the African Obeah man carried
his Obeah magic under the hair of his head when he was im
ported; for this reason the heads of Africans were shaved before
landing.
It
was also said that before leaving Africa he swallowed
his magical instrument. These imported superstitious practices
flourished in the island, in spite of the fact that these people have
been under the civilizing influence of
a
christian nation for 400
95 Ditto, p. 125.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 203
years, and in spite of the fact that slavery in Jamaica has been
abolished since August 1, 1824, Obeah flourishes in Jamaica al
though the most drastic laws have been passed against
it,
. . .
and in spite of the fact that twelve months' hard labour and the
lashes of the cat-o'-nine-tails are inflicted upon those found guilty
of practicing it. Obeah may be defined in general to be
a
super
stitious belief that certain men and women, known as Obeah men
and Obeah women, can exercise certain preternatural power over
places, persons and things and produce effects beyond the natural
powers of man, by agencies other than divine.
It
seems to be
a
combination of magic and witchcraft. Magic, we are told,
is
an
attempt to work miracles by the use of hidden forces beyond
man's control, so
it
is
in Obi
;
it
is
an attempt to produce by some
undetermined, invisible power, effects out of proportion to and
beyond the capabilities of the things and activities employed. In
witchcraft, we are told, . . . there
is
involved the idea of
a
diabolical pact, or at least an appeal to the intervention of the
spirits. In the history and make up and practice of Obi there
is
involved the idea of association with the devil.
.
. .
"His Satanic majesty
is
the invisible head of Obeah. The
visible agent, head and front of Obeah
is
the Obeah man or Obeah
woman, more often and more characteristically the Obeah man.
Who and what
is
the Obeah man? In general the Obi man or
woman
is
any man or woman who
is
supposed to have communica
tion with some invisible agent through which he or she can exert
preternatural power over animate and inanimate beings. You have
Obi men of all sorts, just as you have professional doctors and
quack-doctors. As Obeahism
is
so common among the people and
is
a
form of religion,
it
comes natural for any individual to practice
it
as he would practice any religious rite. From this you can easily
understand how any rascal who wants to gratify his revenge,
avarice or lust, can work upon the superstitious, practice Obi and
get
a
following as an Obi man. Hence Obi-working
is
very com
mon. . . .
"The Obi man's incantation
is
generally the muttering of
strange sounds, often meaningless, the pronouncing of some word
204 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
or words over the objects to be Obeahed, joined with some gro
tesque actions. It may consist in words or actions alone.
"The following lines which I find in my notes on Obeah, by a
Jamaican poet describe an Obi man at work :
Crouched in a cave I saw thee and thy beard,
White against black, gleamed out ; and thy gaunt hand
Mixed lizard skins, rum, parrots' tongues and sand
Found where the sinking tombstone disappeared.
Sleek galli-wasps looked on thee ; grimly peered
Blood-christened John Crows with a hissed demand
Who art thou ? then like ghouls to a dim land
Fled for they saw thee working and they feared.
"Compare this description of the Obi man making Obeah or
an Obi charm with that given by Shakespeare in Macbeth of the
witches making a charm through which they raised spirits and
deceivingly foretold to Macbeth his future; and you will find that
they have much in common. . . .
"If a gentleman in Jamaica find a rusty nail or knife hanging
over his door he knows that it is an obeah, it has been placed
there by one of his servants who has been offended or discharged.
The idea of placing it there is that when the master passes under
it he will meet with a violent death, or be afflicted with some
misery, or that he will be compelled to reemploy the discharged
servant. If you should happen to go to Jamaica and find under
your pillow at night some grave dirt, or a bit of feather in your
soup, or a few lizard bones in your coat pockets, you had better
look out, someone is trying to work Obeah on you. It is the
custom in Jamaica in the coloured Protestant Churches to expell
members who are guilty of certain crimes, or as the Jamaica
peasants says, 'Cratch der name off der church book.' If the
minister, after one of these suspensions, finds when he opens the
bible on the pulpit for his text, a quaint collection of cat claws,
feathers, dried leaves, eggshells, etc., he is not puzzled as to the
meaning of it all. He knows that is expresses 'Quashie's' desire
to be received back into the membership of the church. Teachers
will sometimes scatter obeahs over the school floor to compel
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 205
the government inspector of schools to give the school good
marks. . . .
"The Obeah credulous entertain the greatest dread of anything
supposed to be an Obeah, an egg seen on the road, or anywhere,
supposed to be placed designedly, would not be touched; they
would not walk near it. It would be accounted madness to step
over an egg or any parcel wrapped up with a string, found in the
yard or on the path. They will not walk near
it,
but take
a
circuitous way to avoid it. Even money would not be picked up
if
d1ere was
a
suspicion that
it
had been used by the Obi man
in washing some diseased person and cast in the road to transfer
the disease to the person picking
it
up. But of all things an egg
is
perhaps the most dreaded. The story
is
told of an old woman
giving her parting advice to her son going far away from home
;
'James, my bwoy, you do go wa fra mi, alla warra you da go,
no
li,
no tief, no swa, but
if
you do even tief, my bwoy, no tief
fole egg; because
if
you do tek people's fole egg, my bwoy, dem
tek narra fole egg go trowa same ina sea, same fassion de sea
rowl as so you belly bottom da rowl.' That is: 'James my boy,
you are going far away from me; but wherever you go, do not
lie, do not steal, do not swear, but
if
you do even so forget your
self as to steal, do not steal a fowl egg, because
if
you do the
person from whom you steal the fowl egg will take another
fowl's egg and throw
it
in the sea, and as the sea waves roll so
will the bottom of your belly roll' . . .
"Very frequently Obeah
is
used to bring about an influence over
the mind of another, in order to gain some advantage from or
over the person.
It
is
a
sort of hypnotism. This they call, 'Turn
him yeye,' that
is
'Turn his eye,' the eye in the phrase meaning
his mind or will, or the controlling of his actions. This frequently
happens in law-suits. The Obi man at times
is
retained as well
as the lawyer and the former
is
considered as indispensable,
if
not more so, than the latter. The Obi man sometimes not only
works on the case at home but also goes to the court with his
client for the purpose, as they call
it,
of 'Topping de mouts'
stopping the mouths, of the prosecutor and his witnesses and in
206 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
fluencing the judge and jury. This is understood to be 'turning
dem yeyes.'
"There is a 'Turn him yeye' Obeah, which is the equivalent of
the 'Love Potion' in witchcraft : the Jamaicans call it 'De tempt
ing powder.' Men and women use this 'Turn him yeye' Obeah
in fits of jealousy. A Lady Clara de Vere must be very careful
about breaking the heart of some country swain. He might get
a 'Tempting powder' from the Obi man and put it in her tea
and then she will fall madly in love with the broken-hearted swain.
It is said that the making of this love potion is unspeakably filthy
and disgusting. . . .
"Here is a case of an Obi man undertaking to force an un
desirable lodger to leave a man's house : 'An old Obi man heard
a respectable Negro proprietor say that he wished he could make
a lodger leave his house as he was a nuisance. The Obi man of
fered to manage it for a price. The proprietor must get two white
fowls, a white shirt, a pint of rum, some black thread, a bundle of
wood, two nails and a hammer. It was then arranged that they
meet at the proprietor's house. The proprietor pretending to agree,
went and told the police. At the appointed time he concealed two
policemen in some coffee bushes where they could see all that went
on. After some weird incantations, the Obi man drove one nail
into the front door and another into the back door of the house,
tying the black thread from nail to nail. He then produced a
flask filled with a mixture of oil, rum and fowl's blood and
lubricated the string, at the same time monotonously chanting.
The remnants of the liquid he threw into the fire. The next part
of the ceremony was to kill the two white fowls and sprinkle
their blood on the floor. The Obi man then demanded seventeen
shillings and three bangles, remarking at the same time, "I gib
dat fellow one day fe clear out, if him don't go, I catch him
shadow and him go fe tru." The detectives then stepped in and
arrested him.'
" 08
In rejecting the Slave Act of 1826, one reason assigned was,
as we have seen, the restriction placed on preaching and teaching
06 A. J. Emerick, Obeah and Duppyism in Jamaica, p. 190 ff.
DEVELOPMENT OF OBEAH IN JAMAICA 207
on the part of the slaves, as it was claimed that "amongst some
of the religious bodies who employ missionaries in Jamaica, the
practice of mutual instruction is stated to be an established part
of their discipline." 07
The deleterious effect of such practice is
shown in an earlier protest of the Jamaica Assembly against the
rejection of the Slave Act of 1807, as we find it in the Report of
the Committee of the Assembly dated November 16, 1809,98 how
two dissenting ministers while making application for a license
before the Magistrates of Kingston in August, 1809, admitted
freely : "That they had been informed that their predecessors
did, upon many occasions, conduct themselves improperly, and
did inculcate improper notions in the minds of the slaves." 99
Too
frequently well-meaning ministers of the gospel, especially in the
first days among the slaves, easily were misled to believe that what
was in reality nothing but fanatical emotionalism consequent on
the arousing of the spirit of the old African religions, was to
them an awakening of the spirit. Even for the experienced it is
hard at times to distinguish between the hysterical dementia of
an old-time camp-meeting and the obsession of Myalism in a
degraded form.
"So late as 1861," as Gardner remarks, "during the
revival, as it was termed, a party of young women, in a state
of religious excitement, went to the house of a reputed Obeah
man, residing in one of the suburbs of Kingston, and brought
him, with all the implements of his art, to the parade. His box
contained not only nearly all the abominations mentioned, but . . .
in the midst of all, sad to say, was a number of class tickets, in
dicating that he had been a member of a religious body for a good
number of years."
100
Thus not only the persecuting Myalists but
their victim the Obeah man as well, could be church members in
good standing, during this weird stage of Revivalism.
And if the zealous, well-meaning Methodist missionaries were
so easily deceived, why should we be surprised in our own day
91 Slave Law of Jamaica and Documents relative thereto, p. 146.
98 Ditto, p. 249.
99 Note : The full petition may be found, 1. c, p. 252 f.
100 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 188.
208 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
that such egregious blunders are made at times by chance visitors
to Jamaica or even by the more experienced folklorist who spends
a few hurried months in the island interviewing the very class of
individuals who are least likely to furnish correct information,
since they feel themselves called upon to deal with the whole
question as a foolish superstition of the low and ignorant, and
usually too, out of local pride, gloss over or deny the real work
ings of Obeah.101
101 Note : Cfr. Martha Warren Beckwith, Black Roadways; a Study of
Jamaica Folk Lore, Chapel Hill, 1929. Miss Beckwith opens her chapter on
"Obeah," p. 104, with the following paragraph : "We have seen that all Jamaica
Negroes believe in a spirit world. Many think that there are mischievous spirits
who have the power to take animal shape and go about making themselves trouble
some to men; these they say are the ghosts of evil men. Even the ghosts of
good men, whose souls the Christian religion teaches them to look upon as happy
in heaven, may come back to their friends on earth 'to keep holiday,' and may
at times be hovering about the house where they have lived on earth. There is a
general inclination today to associate these hauntings with the 'shadow' of the
dead which lingers about the grave and which, if properly solicited may be per
suaded to take a part in human affairs. This 'shadow,' which is the duppy, may
be tempted out of the grave by a member of the dead man's family and 'set'
upon someone against whom the exorciser has a grudge, or it may be made to
perform other services to his disadvantage. The practice of this power over the
shadow world is called obeah, and the so-called obeah religion depends on the
belief that such spirits may be employed to work harm to the living or may be
called off from such mischief. 'Working' obeah means to 'set' a duppy for some
one ; 'pulling' obeah means to extract the obeah set by another." Miss Beckwith
tells us in her Foreword, p. vii : "Between the summers of 1919 and 1924 I made
four visits to the island of Jamaica." If these four short visits had been lengthened
out into four full years, she would not have been so ready to settle off-hand the
difficult question of just what is Obeah, and her conclusions would unquestion
ably have differed greatly from what she has written. Again, p. 106, she asserts
absolutely : "Obeah is merely sympathetic magic." In her foreword, too, p. vii, she
states : "When the confidence of the people has been won and my own knowledge
widened, I could question them about beliefs and customs. To three such inform
ants I am especially indebted to Wilfrid Bonito of Richmond (but brought up
in Manderville), etc." Her friend, then, must have been amusing himself at her
expense at times, if we may judge from the following, p. 108 : "The real Obeah
man, says Wilfrid, must kill one of his own family it may be an infant. Wilfrid
did not say so, but I suppose in this way the Obeah man secures the duppy who
acts as his 'familiar' or 'control.'
"
Chapter VI
CONCLUSIONS
As Moreau de Saint-Mery remarks: San Domingo was the
first place in America where African slaves were introduced. It
was proposed to use them in place of the Indians who were dying
off in consequence of the hard work in the mines to which they
were ill-adapted.1
At that period, there were two sets of Negro tribes, one group
back of the Gold Coast, the other further to the east across the
Volta River, both in the formative stage and as yet unknown to
the white man. These two groups, to be known later as the Ashanti
and the Dahomans, were in time to become not only rivals for
the supremacy of West Africa, but were destined to establish in
the West Indies two distinct spheres of influence, as antagonistic
in slave circles as their own political ambitions were to be at
home.2
Among the Ashanti tribes, there was a strong religious organi
zation with well defined ritual, inspiring a coordination and spirit
of nationalism that later drew from Lord Wolseley the encomium :
"From the Ashantis I learned one important lesson, namely that
any virile race can become paramount in its own region of the
world, if it possesses the courage, the constancy of purpose, and
the self-sacrifice to resolve that it will live under a stern system
1 Moreau de Saint-Mery, Description de la Partie Francaise de Saint Domi-
nigue, Vol. I, p. 24.
2 Note: Commander Frederick E. Forbes, Dahomey and the Dahomans,
London, 1851, Vol. II, p. 7
1.,
writes: "On the western and north-western side
the stream of the Volta alone separates Dahomey from its great rival monarchy
of Western Africa, the kingdom of Ashantee. Time alone can develop the con
sequences to Africa of such powerful and ambitious nations being divided by no
more difficult boundary than the far from wide or impassable waters of the Volta.
Already on that side the Attahpahms and Ahjabee have been defeated although
not annexed to the rapidly increasing territory of Dahomey. If we turn to the
East, we find the extensive provinces of Yoruhbah looked upon with cupidity,
and marked out for devastation, slaver, and murder."
209
2IO VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
of Spartan military discipline enforced by one lord, master or
king." 3
It was as a matter of fact, the exalted religious spirit that
principally gave to the various tribal units the cohesive power
that formed the Ashanti into a warlike people, and tended to crush
down the antagonistic magic of the Obayifo.
Meanwhile at Sabee, the capital of the Kingdom of Whydah
on the Slave Coast, well established Ophiolatry was extending
its sway as a religious force of such proportions that the Daho-
mans themselves fell under its influence when once they had ex
tended their domain to the sea through the conquest of Whydah.
It is clear, then, that in its inception, Voodoo, as the West
Indian offshoot of the Ophiolatry of Sabee, must be considered
technically as a form of religion. The serpent worship of its
African prototype was ultimately addressed to the Supreme Being
through the ancestral spirits supposedly indwelling in the sacred
serpents. The same conditions undoubtedly marked the Haitian
Voodoo when it was first established in its new field, but its ritual
quickly suffered modifications through contacts with the other
religious influences derived from every part of the dark continent
through the influx of the heterogeneous masses of slaves that found
their way to West Indian bondage.
Shortly before the outbreak of the Haitian Revolution, an off
shoot of Voodoo developed into the more sanguinary Don Pedro
rites, but Voodoo itself continued for a time, substantially un
changed. It was a secret religious function with its own peculiar
dance unaccompanied by drums or other instruments.
Gradually it was found desirable to cloak the real Voodoo rites
by holding in advance a public dance which was summoned and
accompanied by the loud beating of the drums, presumably as an
official excuse for the local authorities who secretly sanctioned
all that was going on. This dance in turn developed into what
came to be known as a Voodoo feast, since prolonged dancing
without refreshments is scarcely compatible with the Negro
temperament.
8 H. Osman Newland, West Africa, London, 1922, p. 94.
CONCLUSIONS 211
Meanwhile the religious element in Voodoo became somewhat
decadent and superstitious practices associated themselves with its
ceremonies at times. The Voodoo feast, in consequence, was more
and more accentuated. It was developing into a social function,
and amusement rather than worship frequently became the real
objective.
Today it is difficult to believe, that, except in rare cases, do
we find Voodoo in Haiti, strictly speaking, an act of worship. At
least in the public estimation almost everything is classified as
Voodoo and the very drums that were originally debarred from
Voodoo by necessity if not by choice have actually come to be
known by the name of Voodoo drums. Magic and even witch
craft have entered into an unholy alliance with Voodoo and the
Papaloi and Mamaloi have somewhat assumed the role of medium
if not that of witch and necromancer.
We are even told that the serpent has now been eliminated from
the ritual. This may be true. We would not like to question the
reliability of such an authority as Dr. Price-Mars in the matter.
However, i f so, the change must have been effected within the past
few years, as I know from reliable witnesses that the practice was
still in vogue well after the opening of the present century. In any
case it seems inconsistent to have our friend Dr. Price-Mars in
sisting on this disappearance of the serpent from present-day
Voodoo, and yet demanding that it still be classified as a religion.
Let us quote his very words : "It is inconceivable that the Daho-
man traditions should disappear without leaving traces in the
Haitian beliefs. There remain as survival a few touches. We re
mark that the fear noticed among our peasants of killing adders
(a species of water boa, ungalia) is the most pronounced mani
festation of this survival. If, therefore, we omit the cult of the
adder on which rests the whole economy of colonial Voodoo,
probably because it approaches more closely to its Dahoman con
nection, what remains then of the original belief ? Nothing except
the dance and ecstasy, both strengthened by sacrifices. May we
not be permitted to point out that these three elements : the dance,
the ecstasy and the sacrifice, formed or form the permanent parts
212 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
of religious rites and that one finds them connected or separated
in the most exalted religions." 4
But if you eliminate the serpent
from the cult, it should no longer be called Voodoo. Can you play
Hamlet without the title part? It should at least be known by
some other term, more generic and including all Negro cults, as
did fetishism a generation ago. We can admit that much of the
emotional religious manifestations of the Haitians today is not
Voodoo in the strict sense of the word, but with all due respect
to Dr. Price-Mars, we are not entirely convinced that the serpent
cult, substantially the same as practiced in the last century is not
still secretly in vogue in Haiti. The transition seems too sudden.
Possibly, too, there is just a little verbal quibble in the repeated
assertions that the serpent is no longer worshipped. Our conten
tion, too, is that it was never worshipped. It was merely venerated
as a depository of some spiritual entity, not even itself divine,
but only an intermediary to the Divine Being, who is ultimately
and alone worshipped.5
Arthur C. Millapaugh who was the Financial Adviser-General
Receiver of Haiti, 1927-1929, in depicting the condition of Haiti,
in the eve of intervention in 191 5, simply states: "In the interior
the practice of Voodooism persisted but it was neither general
nor open and tended to disappear."
8
But while he fails to define
what he means by Voodooism, since his references are to Kilsey,
St. John and Seabrook, we must conclude that he is taking it in
its worst possible sense.
Certainly the wholesale confiscation of "Voodoo" drums by the
4 Dr. Price-Mars, Ainsi Parla I'Oncle, p. 120.
e Note : Dr. Price- Mars, however, goes too far when, in a lecture delivered be
fore the Society of History and Geography in 1926, he allows his fervour and
patriotism to carry him away and in an oratorical outburst asserts that Voodoo
which he defines as an animistic religion is not "opposed to the religion of the
one God, sovereign and supreme master of the Universe." Cfr. Une Btape de
Involution Haitienne, p. 115. He states specifically, p. 130: "This animism which
deifies the forces of Nature renders homage to the spiritual genii which they
incarnate, this animism, in fact, which renders to deceased ancestors a cult of
veneration and implores their favour and protection, is it a religion in opposition
to the religion of the one God, sovereign and supreme Master of the Universe?
No, certainly not." It is monotheistic, yes, and in that restricted sense his state
ment might stand, and possibly that is all that he really meant to signify.
6 Arthur C. Millapaugh, Haiti, under American Control 1915-1930, Boston,
1931. P- 20-
CONCLUSIONS 213
American Marines shows that the popular form of Voodoo was
still very much in evidence. As regards the conditions at the time
of writing in 1931, Millapaugh has nothing to say about Voodoo
beyond a passing remark in a footnote wherein he ascribes to the
Medical Service the principal factors in the combating of ages of
superstition and voodooistic beliefs.7 Possibly the fact that he
is writing for the World Peace Foundation makes him avoid
whatever might offend the self-respect of the Haitians to the
detriment of general peace and harmony.
Concerning human sacrifice, "the goat without horns" and
cannibalism, despite the loud protests of the friends of Haiti, it
is hard to believe that the practice is entirely extinct. It would,
of course, be a grave mistake to suppose that it is a regular practice
or connived at by the present government authorities. Still it
would be even more surprising if the sexual excitement of their
various dances with the concomitant excessive use of stimulants,
did not at times break down the nervous systems of individuals
here and there, and induce a kind of paranoia with a recrudescence
of all that is vilest and most degraded in fallen nature.
At all events, when such half -crazed outbreaks do occur, they
are to be associated with the Don Pedro swinish rites where the
ordinary victim is the pig, and where the human substitute would
be more appropriately called not the "goat without horns" but the
"long pig" as was done under similar circumstances in the distant
islands of the Pacific.
As regards Obeah, we find at work a process directly opposite
to that noticed in the case of Voodoo.
Obeah, no less than Myalism, as we have seen, derive their
origin from the Ashanti. The latter was the old religious dance
modified somewhat by circumstances and surroundings in Ja
maica, but substantially the same as practiced in West Africa.
The former, on the other hand was Ashanti witchcraft, essentially
antagonistic to Myalism which made one of its chief objects the
"digging up" of Obeah.
The Ashanti warlike and indomitable spirit was not crushed
7 Ditto, p. 140, Note 27.
2i4 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
by slavery, and the old religious practice easily stirred them up to
a point of rebellion. Hence from the earliest days of legislation
in Jamaica, the tribal religious dance remained inactive as as
semblies were strictly prohibited.
During the long years of slavery, then, Myalism might be
regarded as dormant. There was no opportunity of its develop
ment or branching out. It was preserved secretly and cherished
as the fondest tradition of the past. No doubt the hours of amuse
ment allowed to the slaves on their own cultivations, preserved
in some degree the Myalistic rites, disguised as one of the social
dances that were countenanced by the planters.
The native African is essentially religious in his own way and
as formal ceremonies were debarred he found an outlet by as
sociating with Obeah an element of worship, if not of Accom-
pong, at least of Sasabonsam or Obboney. If he could not venerate
the Supreme Being through the minor deities and ancestral spirits,
he might at least placate the evil one, and bespeak his influence
for purpose of revenge or to coerce his master to grant him some
thing that he sought.
We find Obeah thus really becoming a form of devil worship
in the Christian sense, and when at length Myalism entered into
an alliance with it for the overthrow of the white regime it natu
rally gained in the popular estimation of the slaves, since its arch
enemy Myalism had come to recognize its power. And yet this
public esteem was not one of devotion but of unholy fear, which
the Obeah man naturally played up to his own advantage.
With Emancipation, Myalism made haste to assert itself in an
endeavour to regain its pristine ascendancy and made open war on
Obeah, at the expense be it said of the general peace of the com
munity. Its new-found independence led to excesses of every kind
and in course of years it became as great an evil as Obeah itself.
Its old priestly class was dead, for a generation none had come
from Africa, and there had been no opportunity of establishing
a succession in the craft or of passing along the ritual in practice.
The traditions and nothing more could have remained, and it is
questionable whether the new leaders had any legitimate claim to
CONCLUSIONS 215
the exercise of the role that they assumed. It is simple, then, to
see that the decay of Myalism as a religious force was inevitable.
And it would certainly soon have been entirely eliminated had not
its spirit and much of its traditional ritual found new scope in
the kindred spirit of the emotional Revivalism of the Methodists
and even more so among the so-called native Baptist congrega
tions. But perhaps it is more conspicuous of all among the Bed-
wardites, so characterized by the peculiar hip-movement that is
clearly African, and which shows itself not only in their dance
but also in their religious processions, and gives a peculiar lilt to
all their hymns.
Here, strictly speaking, Myalism disappears as a separate entity,
and its very name is dying out except as a mysterious something
that has endured in its opposition to the Obeah man who more
and more assumes the dual role of Myalist by day and Obeah
man by night, using the title as a safeguard from the law in the
prosecution of his real aims in life. As a further consequence,
Obeah is taking on more and more of a religious aspect and it
is now, not entirely undeservedly, classified by many as devil
worship.
My first experience with an Obeah man in Jamaica was as
follows. Accompanied by a native of the district I was re
turning late one night to my residence high up in the mountains,
when suddenly my companion who was leading the way shrank
back and pointing a trembling finger through an opening of the
coffee walk where we happened to be passing, whispered almost
inaudibly: "Obi, Sah!"
It was a bright moonlight night, and a short distance off the
path might be seen a filthy-looking bedraggled fellow plying his
art of Obeah for weal or woe. I drew my reluctant companion
behind a shrub to watch the process which is so seldom vouch
safed to the eye of a white man.
The Obeah man had placed on the ground some sticks, feathers,
eggshells and other objects that could not clearly be distinguished.
A piece of string was placed on top of the little heap. He then
retreated for a short distance and began a mumbling incantation
2l6 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
which was accompanied by a rhythmic swaying of the body. With
hands behind the back he next approached, crossing one leg over
the other as he slowly advanced and drew near the incongruous
ingredients of what was evidently intended for a fetish. With legs
still stiffly crossed and swaying body he stooped and breathed
upon and spat at
it,
and then gathered up the articles one by one,
still mumbling some weird incantation as he placed the sticks
together and crushed the eggshells and other ingredients within
them and finally bound all together with the piece of string.
When the task was accomplished
a
cringing woman advanced
from the shadow of a tree where her presence had not previously
been noted. The Obeah man passed her the fetish charm and with
fierce injunction charged her to hasten on her way without look
ing back or speaking to
a
living soul. She was especially warned
to guard her fetish from every moisture. Should river or rain
or dew, or even the perspiration of her own body chance to wet
it,
not only would all efficacy be lost but
it
would inevitably turn
against herself.
I
could not follow all the words despite my knowl
edge of the language of the "bush," but
I
had been able to gather
the general gist of the instructions which were almost in the form
of an invocation or curse.8
Strictly speaking what
I
had been watching was not really the
practice of Obeah but rather the making of
a
protective fetish
or good luck charm, our friend was working in the role of
Myal man and cared nothing
if
he was observed. Had he been
really making Obi he would have been surer of his privacy and
would have squatted on the ground surrounded by his parapher
nalia and this would have been the scene with little variation
:
Most of the ingredients to be used are concealed in
a
bag from
which he draws them as he needs them. The special offering of his
patron which must include
a
white fowl, two bottles of rum, and
a
silver offering are on the ground beside him. Before him
is
the
inevitable empty bottle to receive the ingredients. The incantation
opens with
a
prolonged mumbling which
is
supposed to be "an
unknown tongue." This
is
accompanied by
a
swaying of the body.
8
Note
:
Compare this scene with that described by Rattray on page 127.
CONCLUSIONS 217
Gradually ingredients are placed in the bottle, and a little rum
is poured over them. The throat of the fowl is deftly slit and
drops of blood are allowed to fall first on the silver offering, and
then on the contents of the bottle to which is finally added a few
feathers plucked from various parts of the fowl with a last liba
tion of rum. During all this process the Obeah man has been draw
ing inspiration from frequent draughts of rum, reserving a sub
stantial portion to be consumed later when he makes a meal off
the flesh of the fowl.
When the bottle concoction has been completed and the last
incantation has been said over
it,
the Obeah man entrusts
it
to his
patron with minute instructions how
it
is
to be buried on some
path where the intended victim
is
sure to pass or as near his dwell
ing as possible.
In the days of slavery, the expert in Obeah was frequently
distinguished by being physically or mentally defective or ab
normal. So we find today that not
a
few of the pretenders to
expertness in Obeah affect
a
disregard for cleanliness and hygiene,
at strange variance with the Jamaican's characteristic love of bath
ing and neatness. If not actually disfigured, then, the Obeah man
usually presents
a
disgusting and filthy appearance especially when
actually making Obi. Again, he cannot as
a
rule meet your gaze,
but shiftily moves his eyes around and nervously distorts his
countenance, although on the other hand he will stare fixedly at
the blazing tropical sun without blinking an eye. Possibly his
very hang-dog look may be explained by injury to the optic nerve
induced during his long preparation for his future avocation when
as a little fellow he was forced to stand motionless by the hour
with every muscle tense and set while he stared the sun out of
countenance.
Another peculiarity of Jamaica Obeah should be noted here.
Possibly through contact with missionaries at an early date in
West Africa, Obeah in its various manifestations makes use of
crosses to
a
great extent. In the making of
a
fetish, as we have
seen, the Obeah man approaches his task, carefully crossing his legs
at every step. So, too, while crouched over the bottle, in making
2l8 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
real Obi, he is particular to keep his legs crossed under him. Many
crosses are made during the ritual and sticks are crossed and re-
crossed again and again. It is no uncommon thing to find a sickly
child to whom the Obeah man has been called all marked up with
crosses made with indigo or coloured clay. For "big obi" the wax
drippings from altar candles and the refuse from the censer after
benediction but especially the grains of unburnt incense, are partic
ularly in demand. This last is probably explained by what follows.
The Obeah man has a wholesome fear of the priest and usually
tries to avoid his presence. There is a conviction among them that
the priest can exercise a more powerful influence than any Obeah
man. This belief is expressed by the aphorism : "French obi, him
strongest." The first priest to become well known through the
Jamaica "bush" was a Frenchman, and the Catholic Church in
consequence has come to be known familiarly as the French
Church. Hence "French obi, him strongest" really means that the
Catholic Church exercises the strongest Obeah. It is also accepted as
a fact by the devotees of the Obeah cult that the priest can give
evidence of this dominant power by "lighting a candle on them."
This process is thus described : "Fadder take pin and Fadder
take candle; and him stick der pin in der candle; and him light
der candle on you. Der candle him burn, and him burn, and him
burn. And you waste, and you waste, and you waste. And when
der flame touch dat pin you die." So that it is only necessary
for a priest to make the playful remark to some black fellow in
the "bush," "I think I'll have to light a candle on you," to
bring him to his knees with: "O Fadder, don't."
The Ashanti Mmoatia, or little folks, are associated with the
forest monster Sasabonsam and the Obayifo or witch in impart
ing power to the suman or fetish.9 According to A. W. Cardinall
they are "Preeminently mischief -workers, and are said to 'throw
stones at one as one passes through the bush.'
" 10
Captain Rattray
calls them "fairies," and also tells us that in the Ashanti belief
they are "Of three distinct varieties : black, red and white, and
9 Note : Cfr. Rattray, Religion and Art in Ashanti, p. 23.
10 Cardinall, In Ashanti and Beyond, p. 234.
CONCLUSIONS 219
they converse by means of whistling. The black fairies are more
or less innocuous, but the white and the red mmoatia are up to
all kinds of mischief." 11
For this latter group perhaps imps would
be a more appropriate name than fairies. Be that as it may, the
Jamaica duppies or ghosts are notorious for their stone-throwing
propensities, and this poltergeist, as it is technically called, is asso
ciated in the popular mind with evil agencies.
In this connection it is interesting to note the testimony of no
less an authority than Lord Olivier, a former Governor of Ja
maica, who recently wrote to me : "The occasional outbursts of
this 'poltergeist' phenomenon in Jamaica is remarkable. I investi
gated with some care the evidence as to one case which occurred
when I was in Jamaica and there have been very full reports in
the local Press of another recent occurrence which seems to have
been carefully investigated without detecting any possibility of
corporeal agency."
The phenomenon itself is ascribed by the peasantry to duppies
or ghosts who despite their intangible nature are extraordinarily
good shots to all appearances. True, it is a frequent means of
frightening or annoying an enemy to cast stones from a distance
so that they will fall on the roof of his house and make him think
that the duppies are after him. On the other hand there are un
deniable instances of persons being stoned and that, too, by no
determinable agency. The stones for example, simply came out
of the trees with truly remarkable accuracy and no one can be
found either in the trees or on the line of fire.
A Jamaica missionary already quoted on Myalism and Obeah,
graphically describes some of his own experiences and gives many
instances that he has investigated where the stones thus thrown
seem to violate all the laws of science. For example, "Some of the
stones which came from the bushy declivity, after smashing
through a window, turned at a right angle and broke the teacher's
clock, glasses, etc., on a side-board." 12
A man running from the
stone-thrower turns and fires a gun in the direction from which
11 Rattray, 1. c, p. 25 f.
12 A. J. Emerick, Jamaica Duppies, Woodstock, 1916, p. 342.
220 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
the stones were coming, and as he does so another stone comes
from the very opposite direction and hits him in the back of the
neck.18 "Some of them seem to come in the open door, turn around
and fall at the teacher's feet." 14
A stone that has come flying into
the house is marked by one of the occupants and thrown out again
with the remark, "If him be a true duppy, him will throw this
stone back," and back it came, "proving that the stone-thrower
was a true duppy," in the common estimation.15
At times these duppies, imps, evil spirits, call them what you
will, have other means of disturbing one's peace of mind.
On one occasion I was on the outskirts of a notorious Obeah
district when a man, a non-Catholic, came to me and begged me
to come and bless his house as his children were starving. "Why
don't you give them something to eat ?" was the obvious question.
"Dem can't eat, Fadder," was the astonishing reply. "Someone
put Obi on dem." He explained further that when they tried to
eat, the food would fly up and hit them in the face, but that they
could not get it into the mouth. Absolutely incredulous, I mounted
my horse and followed him to his house. The entire village was
assembled around the dwelling and a state of panicky hysteria
had taken possession of all. While I did not actually witness the
diabolic display myself, as I did not feel justified in provoking the
evil one to an exhibition merely to satisfy my curiosity, all the
men, women and children there present agreed in their testimony
of what had happened. I blessed the house, but whether the bless
ing took or not, I cannot say, as I was shortly leaving Jamaica
and never revisited the district.
To understand the rapid transition from Myalism to Revivalism
in Jamaica, it is necessary to go into the question of the religious
condition of the island in the closing days of slavery.
In his chapter on "Religion and Education" prior to 1782,
Gardner writes : "It is no easy task to portray the religious history
of the colony during the period now under review. With the
"Ditto, p. 342
" Ditto, p. 343.
10 Ditto, p. 343.
CONCLUSIONS 221
exception of some letters written by the rector of Port Royal,
immediately after the earthquake (preserved in gentleman's
magazine) there appears to be no document in existence which in
any way illustrates the spiritual labours of the clergy. From Mr.
Bridges, as a clergyman, we might have expected some account
of the labours of his brethren ; but though he devotes considerable
space to the history of the established church, it is only so far as
the emoluments and status of its clergy were concerned.
"Amidst the dearth of information, the letters of the Port
Royal rector are of peculiar interest. Writing of the day of the
earthquake, he says, 'On Wednesday, the 7th, I had been at
prayers, which I did every day since I was rector of Port Royal,
to keep up some show of religion amongst a most ungodly and
debauched people.' This description of the general character of the
population applies, it is to be feared, to the whole island, but it is
questionable whether the incumbent of the doomed city was not
almost singular in his zeal." 19
Then after quoting further from the letter, Gardner adds :
"For more than two generations we shall search in vain among
the records of the colony for any further illustration of minis
terial zeal and fidelity." 17
Edward Long states : "The bishop of London claims this as a
part of his diocese; but his jurisdiction is renounced and barred
by the laws of the island, in every sense, except so far as relates
or appertains to ecclesiastical regimen of the clergy; which im
parts no higher power than that of granting orders, and giving
pastoral admonitions." 18
On the following page he asserts: "The
governor as supreme head of the provincial church, and in virtue
of the royal instruments, is vested with a power of suspending a
clergyman here, of lewd or disorderly life, ab officio, upon the pe
tition of his parishioners ; and I can remember one example of this
sort. The governor inducts into the several rectories within the
island and its dependencies, etc." 19
This power of patronage on
16 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 192.
17 Ditto, p. 193.
18 Long, History of Jamaica, Vol. II, p. 235.
19 Ditto, p. 236.
222 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
the part of the governor naturally led to abuses as in the case of
the Satirist "Peter Pindar" who was the last person one would
expect to find gracing the pulpit of a church. And yet we read in
Chambers's Cyclopedia of English Literature: "Dr. John Wolcot
(1738-1819) was a coarse but lively satirist, who under the name
of 'Peter Pindar,' published a variety of effusions on the topics
and public men of his times, which were eagerly read and widely
circulated. Many of them were in ridicule of the reigning sov
ereign, George III, who was a good subject for the poet; though
the latter, as he himself acknowledged, was a bad subject to the
king. . . . Wolcot was instructed in medicine, and 'walked the
hospitals' in London, after which he proceeded to Jamaica with
Sir William Trelawney, governor of the island, who had engaged
him as his medical attendant. The social habits of the doctor ren
dered him a favourite in Jamaica ; but his time being only partly
employed by his professional avocations, he solicited and obtained
from his patron the gift of a living in the church, which happened
to be vacant. The bishop of London ordained the graceless
neophyte and Wolcot entered upon his sacred duties. His con
gregation consisted mostly of Negroes, and Sunday being their
principal holiday and market, the attendance at the church was
very limited. Sometimes not a single person came, and Wolcot and
his clerk the latter being an excellent shot used at such times,
after waiting for ten minutes, to proceed to the sea-side, to enjoy
the sport of shooting ring-tailed pigeons! The death of Sir
William Trelawney cut off all further hopes of preferment, and
every inducement to a longer residence in the island. Bidding
adieu to Jamaica and the church, Wolcot accompanied Lady
Trelawney to England, and established himself as a physician at
Truro, in Cornwall." 20
This prepares us for the startling testimony of Charles Leslie,
written in 1840:
" 'Tis surprising that such worthless and aban
doned men should be sent to such a place as this. The clergy here
are of a character so vile, that I do not care to mention it; for ex
cept a few, they are generally the most finished of our debauchees.
20 Chambers's Cyclopedia 0} English Literature, London, 1899, Vol. II, p. 24.
CONCLUSIONS 223
Messrs. Galpin, Johnston and May, are indeed men whose un
blemished lives dignify the character they bear. They generally
preach either in their own churches, or to a few in some private
houses every Sunday; but for others, their church doors are sel
dom opened."
21
With such an account of the clergy, it is not surprising to find
Stephen Fuller, the Agent for Jamaica at London, addressing the
Earl of Shelburne as regards the pressing military needs of the
island, painting the free Negroes and mulattoes in sombre colours.
Thus he writes on April 2, 1782. "The free Negroes and mulattoes
have been reckoned about 900 fencible men, out of which number
not above 500 can be employed to any useful purpose ; the greatest
part of them being the most idle, debauched, distempered, profli
gate wretches upon earth. Besides this, there is an insuperable
objection to their being armed, as they are not to be trusted in
Corps composed of themselves, and the incorporating them with
the whites will not be endured." 22
What, then, the religious and
moral condition of the slaves themselves must have been, can well
be surmised.
William Wilberforce, writing in 1823, states: "It cannot be
denied, I repeat, that the slaves, more especially the great body of
the field Negroes, are practically strangers to the multiplied bless
ings of the Christian Revelation. What a consideration this! A
nation, which, besides the invaluable benefit of an unequalled de
gree of true civil liberty, has been favoured with an unprece
dented measure of religious light, with its long train of attendant
blessings, has been for two centuries detaining in a state of slav
ery, beyond example rigorous, and in some particulars, worse
than Pagan darkness and depravity, hundreds of thousands of
their fellow-creatures, originally torn from their native land by
fraud and violence. Generation after generation have been pining
away; and in this same condition of ignorance and degradation
they still, for the most part, remain." 28
21 Leslie, New History of Jamaica, p. 303.
22 Cfr. Stephen Fuller, Original Letter Book, 1776-1784, Boston College Li
brary, MS. No. 6003.
23 Wilberforce, Appeal etc, p. 19.
224 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
It was Wilberforce's Appeal that drew an answer from the
Reverend George Wilson Bridges, Rector of the Parish of Man
chester (1817-23) and later Rector of the Parish of St. Anns
(1823-37) 01 whom Frank Cundall says, that he "as a rule dis
plays more fertile imagination than Long without half his trust
worthiness as a historian." 24
Cundall further observes in his
regard: "In 1823 he published his Voice from Jamaica, written
in defence of slave-owners, for which the Assembly two years later
voted him 700 pounds." 25
This fact in itself renders Bridges' evi
dence of questionable value.
As regards the particular citation which we have given from
Wilberforce, Bridges replies in part : "As to the 'pagan darkness'
of the Negroes, though their progress certainly does not keep pace
with our anxious wishes to see them in that state which would
make it safe to confide ourselves to their estimation of a Christian
oath, nor in that condition which would render it advantageous
to themselves to be trusted with the liberty of self-control, yet the
promises of Christianity are so far understood, and its prelimi
nary rites so ardently desired by them, that during my residence
in this parish, I have actually baptized 9,413 Negro slaves, many
of them attend church ; some have learned the Lord's prayer, and
ten commandments, and a few have so far advanced, as to be now
disseminating their little stock of religious knowledge on the es
tates to which they are attached. As I said before, I believe all my
fellow-labourers here have been at least as assiduous as myself,
and some more successful. I expect therefore that you, sitting by
your own fireside, four thousand miles off, will not refuse credit
to the unanswerable fact, advanced by one who is on the spot, an
actor in the deeds he records, and who has certainly the better
means of forming a correct judgment, on the point at issue." 28
Here is a direct challenge, and it is taken up by a brother
clergyman, also long resident in Jamaica. Reverend William
James Gardner, Congregational Minister, who died in charge of
24 Cundall, Historic Jamaica, London, 1915, p. 5.
28 Ditto, p. 372.
26 Bridges, Voice from Jamaica, p. 26 f.
CONCLUSIONS 225
the North Street Church, Kingston, in 1874, reviewing the whole
question, takes Mr. Bridges to task in no uncertain manner. Thus
he writes: "The Rev. G. W. Bridges, the annalist, stated in 1823,
that he had baptized 9,413 slaves during two years, and that many
of them attended church. The proportion must indeed have been
small, for the church he refers to (Mandeville) could not at that
time have held a twentieth part of that number. Most of these
slaves paid half-a-crown each as a baptismal fee. Mr. Bridges, in
happy oblivion of what he had said of the money given to mis
sionaries being the result of a cruel and heartless imposition on
their superstition and ignorance, observes of the fees received,
that 'this laudable desire of exchanging worldly goods for celes
tial rewards,' evinces 'a measure of faith words cannot express.'
By the end of another year this zealous baptizer was able to re
port that 12,000 out of 17,000 slaves in the parish had received
the holy ordinance, and he adds 'happily there are no sectari
ans,'
" 27
This last remark probably explains the bitterness of Mr.
Gardner himself. However, the general estimate given is sup
ported by the Reverend R. Bicknell, a contemporary of Mr.
Bridges and like him a Minister of the Established Church, who
was stationed at Kingston and Port Royal during the period that
Mr. Bridges was at Manchester. He says : "In the parish church
of Clarendon I have often been, and never saw a hundred of all
colours there, latterly a much less number, and once in particular,
about ten or twelve only; though within five or six miles of the
church there were several thousands of inhabitants. The churches
of St. John's, St. Thomas's in the Vale, St. Dorothy's, St.
George's, St. Mary's, Hanover and Vere, are but little better at
tended, some of them even worse, as I can testify from my own
knowledge, and the assurance of creditable persons; the remain
ing churches I believe to be but little better, with the exceptions of
those in the parishes of Kingston, St. Thomas in the East, St.
Catherine, Port Royal, and St. Andrew." 28
Certainly if Mr.
27 Gardner, History of Jamaica, p. 334.
28 R. Bicknell, The West Indies as they are; or a Real Picture of Slavery; but
more particularly as it exists in the Island of Jamaica, London, 1825, p. 74.
226 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Bridges had been really accomplishing anything out of the or
dinary some mention of it would be expected here.
The Reverend John Riland, Curate of Yoxall, Staffordshire,
somewhat facetiously styles Mr. Bridges' claims of 9,413 bap
tisms of slaves : "A direct illustration of Obeah practice under the
forms of Christianity." And adds: "If we assume these 9,413 to
have been also actually converted from Paganism to Christianity,
or even to have been taught enough of the fundamental truths of
the Gospel to understand the engagements into which they en
tered, we have here a miracle as great as was exhibited on the
Day of Pentecost. And if they were not converted to Christianity,
of if they did not understand the nature of the solemn vow and
covenant they were called to make, what a mockery of religion,
and what a prostitution of the sacred initiatory rite of baptism, is
here made the subject of boast." 29
But let us return to Mr. Bicknell whom we have recently
quoted. We find him advertised as : "A member of the Univer
sity of Cambridge, late Naval Chaplain at Port Royal, sometime
Curate of that Parish, and previously of the City of Kingston, in
the aforesaid island." His description of conditions among the
slaves is not a pleasant one. Thus he declares: "It is not enough
that most of the slaves must work in their grounds a part of that
Holy day, but to add to the abomination, a market must be kept
also on the Sunday, for the sale of provisions, vegetables, fruit,
&c. It is the only market-day, fellow-countrymen, and fellow-
Christians, which the poor Negroes and coloured slaves have, and
instead of worshipping their God, they are either cultivating their
portions of land to preserve life, or trudging like mules with
heavy loads, five, ten, or even twenty miles, to sell the little sur
plus of their provision grounds, or to barter it for a little salt fish
to season their poor meals : or what is much worse, to spend, very
often, the value in new destructive rum, which intoxicates them,
and drowns for a time, the reflection that they are despised and
burdened slaves. I shall never forget the horror and disgust which
I felt on going on shore, for the first time, in Kingston, in the
29
John Riland, Memoir of a West India Planter, London, 1827, p. 186 f.
CONCLUSIONS 227
month of August, 1819; it was on a Sunday, and I had to pass
by the Negro Market, where several thousands of human beings, of
various nations and colours, but principally Negroes, instead of
worshipping their Maker on this Holy day, were busily employed
in all kinds of traffic in the open streets." 80
Again he tells us: "I have resided nearly five years in Jamaica,
and have preached two or three sermons every Sunday; many
other clergymen have also exerted themselves, but to very little
purpose, as far as slaves are concerned, as those horrid and
legalized scenes are just the same; for this Sunday market is a
bait of Satan, to draw away the ignorant Negro ; his temporal and
pressing natural wants are set in opposition to his spiritual ones,
and the former prevail to that degree, that most of the churches
in the island are nearly empty." 81
He adds later : "I am aware that there is a law in Jamaica im
posing a fine on proprietors or overseers for compelling the Ne
groes to do certain kinds of labour on the Sabbath; but it is
notorious that this law is altogether a dead letter, and that in re
spect to their grounds, the Negroes not only go of their own
accord to work there, as not having sufficient time allowed them
otherwise; but if they are found inattentive, it is a custom to send
one of the bookkeepers, on that Holy day, to see that all the slaves
are at work, and to watch them a certain time, that there may
not be a want of food. For putting the mill about (viz. for mak
ing sugar) on a Sunday, there is a fine of 50 pounds, one half of
which, I believe goes to the informer; but though this is done in
defiance of law in almost every, if not every parish in the island,
I never heard of an information being laid for that offence, as
those planters who do not put their mills about, wink at it in
others, and no clergyman or other religious person would ven
ture, I think, to inform, as he would be sure to meet with insult,
or some worse injury, for his conscientious interference." 82
Mr. Bicknell's conclusion is: "Nearly the whole of the field
80 Bicknell, 1. c, Flyleaf.
81 Ditto, p. 67.
82 Ditto, p. 73.
228 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Negroes (nine-tenths of the population) have not even the out
ward form of religion, and are just as great heathens as they were
on the banks of the Gambia or Niger." 88
The Reverend Peter Duncan, a Wesleyan-Methodist mission
ary, arrived in Jamaica early in 1821 and laboured there for over
eleven years. In reference to Dr. Coke's visit to the island in 1789,
he writes : "The island has been under British government for up
wards of a century, yet scarcely anything had been done for the
souls of the people. The habits of the whites had indeed become
much more settled. They were friendly and hospitable in their
intercourse with each other, and had improved in many of the
external civilities of modern refinement, but the hallowed re
straints of religion were as much unknown as ever. They were
strangers to the enjoyments of the domestic circle, and throughout
the whole country the standard of morals was deplorably low. It
is true, emigrants from Great Britain were constantly arriving,
but they left their profession of Christianity behind, and were
soon assimilated to the corrupt mass by whom they were preceded.
The ordinances of religion in many parts were rarely adminis
tered. There was a famine of the bread of life. There was indeed
a church in almost every parish, but many of the benefices were
generally vacant; and excepting on the occasion of funerals, the
churches in the country parishes were seldom open for divine
service, even upon the Lord's Day. Numbers of the clergy were
living openly in concubinage and were otherwise unblushingly im
moral; and it may be fairly questioned whether before 1789 that
Sabbath ever dawned upon Jamaica, which witnessed five hundred
88 Ditto, p. 71. Note : The Home Government made futile efforts at times to
check the growing abuses, if we may judge from a letter of the Duke of Halifax
answering one from Stephen Fuller who had sought an extended leave of absence
for the Rev. John Venn, at that time Rector of St. Catherine's, Jamaica, and
dated April 17, 1764, wherein he states : "I shall be ready to move his Majesty
to grant him that indulgence, upon being assured that Governor Lyttleton is
satisfied of the necessity and approves of the curate who is to officiate in his
stead. For I must acquaint you that, upon the complaints which have been made
by the Bishop of London of the bad consequences arising from the general
and frequent absence of the clergy from their livings in the West Indies, I have
made it a rule never to procure any such indulgence, unless the application be
so granted." Cfr. Stephen Fuller, Original Letter Book, 1762-1771, Boston Col
lege Library, MS. No. 6001.
CONCLUSIONS 229
persons in all the places of worship put together out of a popula
tion of between four and five hundred thousand souls." 84
The Reverend Claudius Buchanan while examining the "State
of our Established Church in the West Indies, in regard to its
efficiency as an instrument of instructing the people"
85
asserts:
"In Jamaica there are twenty parishes. Supposing that there are
also twenty Rectors (in some islands there are many pluralists)
we shall then have twenty Clergymen in an island which is 150
miles long and 40 in a medium broad ; which gives a district
of 300 square miles for the labours of each Clergyman. The popu
lation of the island is stated by Mr. Edwards to amount to 30,000
whites, 10,000 free persons of colour and 210,894 slaves: which,
when divided among twenty Clergymen, will give to each a cure
of 12,554 souls. It will hardly be necessary to say more of the
utter inadequacy of the public means of religious instruction in
Jamaica. This island is a favourable specimen of the state of the
Established Church in the old islands.
"On the whole it may be safely affirmed, that no human zeal
could be equal to a tenth part of the duties of the parochial Clergy,
were the slaves practically regarded as belonging to their flock.
But the truth
is,
that this unfortunate mass of the population has,
with very few exceptions, never been so regarded, either by the
Government or the Clergy." 88
The Reverend Peter Samuel reached Jamaica in January, 1832,
where he was to labour as
a
Methodist missionary for over eleven
years. In his account of the development of his denomination in
the island, he stresses among the obstacles encountered at the
start
:
"The pernicious influence of Obeahism and African super
stitions" 87
and adds
:
"The immense influence possessed and exer
cised by West Indian proprietors in the Parliament of the mother
country, as well as in the Colonial Assembly, gave
a
respectability,
3^ Peter Duncan,
A
Narrative
of
the Wesleyan Mission to Jamaica, London,
1849, p.
7
f-
88 Claudius Buchanan, Colonial Ecclesiastical Establishment, London, 1812,
P. 58.
88 Ditto, p. 60
f.
87 Peter Samuel, The Wesleyan-Methodist Missions in Jamaica and Honduras,
Delineated, London, 1850, p.
9.
230 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
a consistency, an air of justice, and a degree of power sufficiently
formidable to the apparently weak efforts of a few humble mis
sionaries." 88
We have indicated here the foundation of the bitterest re
ligious controversy in the history of Jamaica. When Dr. Coke
first visited the island in January 1789, he was deeply touched by
the condition of religious abandonment that he found amongst
the slaves. He was not slow on his return to England to send
out the Reverend William Hammett in that same year to establish
the Wesleyan Missionary Society in Jamaica.
The emotional element in Methodism immediately appealed to
the kindred Myalistic spirit among the Negroes, and as they
found in the assemblies which the newly-arrived missionaries
were convoking in open defiance of the authorities and in face of
the opposition of the planters, an opportunity of renewing much
of their own Pagan rites in connection with the Christian service,
they were not slow to take advantage of the general confusion of
ideas, and forthwith the "digging up" of Obeah again became
much in evidence. And the missionaries, good, well meaning souls,
derived comfort and consolation among their hardships and perse
cutions, in what they must have regarded as promising manifesta
tions of faith. They watched with delight the zeal to stamp out
this African superstition, which seemed to them the Negro's real
religion, and which they rightly interpreted as a form of devil
worship. And yet they were unconsciously fostering and abetting
a movement among the slaves that was for the most part as Pagan
as the Obeah that they were "digging up."
Space will not permit our going into this controversy in detail.
We can only touch on it as far as it has reference to our present
study. The nucleus of the Wesleyan Mission in Jamaica was really
formed of refugees from what is now the United States in conse
quence of the Revolutionary War, at least as regards the leading
spirits. This in itself may have stirred up opposition.89 On one
occasion, Dr. Coke himself, while preaching in Kingston, was al-
38 Ditto, p. 10.
30 Note : Cfr. Duncan, Wesleyan Mission to Jamaica, p. 11.
CONCLUSIONS 231
most dragged from the hall by a party of whites who seriously
threatened him with bodily harm.40
In November, 1790, the Grand Jury of Kingston presented to
the Court of Quarter-Sessions a complaint against the Methodist
Meeting in that city as a nuisance, on the grounds that it is "in
jurious to the general peace and quiet of the inhabitants of this
town." 41
Buchanan tells us : "After the Methodist Missionaries had been
about ten years in the Island of Jamaica; and had built a chapel
at Kingston, which was attended by some whites, and by many
people of colour and Negroes; the Colonial Legislature passed
an Act, on the 17th December, 1802, by which they prohibited,
and made penal, 'preaching or teaching in a meeting of Negroes,
or people of colour, by a person not duly qualified.' There had
hitherto been no law in Jamaica for Dissenters to qualify at all;
and the Legislature thought fit to determine, that a person regu
larly and legally qualified in England, under the Toleration Act,
was not duly qualified for Jamaica. In consequence of this law,
two of the Missionaries were thrown into prison. The penalty for
first offence was 'one month's imprisonment, and hard labour in
the common workhouse.' The penalty for the second offence was,
'imprisonment and hard labour for six months,' or such further
punishment 'not extending to life, as the Court should see fit to
inflict.' Such a law, in relation to a white man, had never been
heard of before in Jamaica; for the laws there are highly respect
ful to the privileged order. If again, a black man should 'teach or
preach in a meeting of Negroes, not being duly qualified,' he was
'to be sentenced to receive, for the second offence, a public flog
ging, not exceeding thirty-nine lashes.'
"By the operation of this law, the places of worship of other
denominations of Christians besides the Methodists, were shut up.
The preachers were silenced; and among the rest, a regularly or
dained minister of the Church of Scotland. The missionaries, in
the extremity of their sufferings, compared this legal opposition,
"Note: Cfr. Duncan, I. c, p. 8f.
41 Duncan, 1. c, p. 16.
232 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
and its effects, to the persecution of Diocletian ; only that the pun
ishments were not, as the law expressed
it,
'to extend to life.'
"The alleged ground for passing this Edict in Jamaica, what
ever the truth of the case might be, was certainly similar to that of
the Edicts of Diocletian.
It
was stated in the preamble
:
That the
Slaves, by being permitted to assemble at these meetings to hear
Christian instruction, were in danger of being 'perverted with
fanatical notions
;
and that opportunity was afforded them of con
certing schemes of much public and private mischief.'
"On an application made by the different religious societies in
England whose missionaries had been silenced, the Committee of
the Privy Council for matters of Trade, examined the merits of
the new Act; and upon their Report,
it
was disallowed by his
Majesty, and consequently ceased to have any force in
Ja
maica." 42
While we cannot help admiring the energy and long-suffering
manifested by the Methodist missionaries in their misguided zeal
with the slaves, as we read their glowing reports of souls re
claimed, we must keep in mind the warning of Mr. Gardner
:
"With the exception of one or two denominations, copious ac
counts have been published by missionaries of the labours in which
they have taken part in Jamaica.
It
may be asserted, without any
violation of Christian charity, that the most glowing descriptions
of the results which have followed such labours are the least trust
worthy. Honest, well-meaning men have frequently described as
fruit that which was only blossom
;
while vain, though pious men,
too anxious for the praise of their fellow-creatures, and ambitious
of the ephemeral fame of missionary chronicles or the applause
of public meetings, have sometimes injured the cause they wished
to serve by too highly-coloured descriptions of their success." 43
In
a
Report of the committee of the whole house which had
been appointed "to inquire into and take further into considera
tion the state of the island," presented to the House of Assembly
42 Buchanan, Colonial Ecclesiastical Establishment, p.
76
ff.
48 Gardner, History
of
Jamaica, p. 340.
CONCLUSIONS 233
of Jamaica on Dec. 20, 181 5, we find the words :
44
"The subject
of religion, and the best method of introducing genuine Christian
ity in the mild and beneficent spirit of its founder, is of so great
importance that the committee decline going deeper into it at pres
ent; but recommend that early in the next session a committee
may be appointed, for the special purpose of discussing and con
sidering the most eligible manner of diffusing religious informa
tion amongst that class of society.
"The Assembly has always been against communicating to
them the dark and dangerous fanaticism of the Methodists, which,
grafted on the African superstitions, and the general temperament
of Negroes in a state of bondage, has produced, and must continue
to produce, the most fatal consequences, equally inimical to their
well being and comfort in this world, and to the practice of those
virtues which we are led to believe ensure happiness in the next.
"But the representatives of the people have not displayed any
of that aversion with which they have been charged, to encourage
the propagation of Christianity in the form which they thought
likely to be beneficial. . . .
"It shows further, however, that the representatives of the peo
ple have always been desirous to encourage the introduction of
pastors, whose education gave security for the nature of the doc
trines which they were to inculcate.
"They continue of that disposition, although equally satisfied,
as in former times, that to communicate the lights of Christianity
through Methodism would have consequences the most fatal to
the temporal comforts of the slaves, and the safety of the com
munity."
This Report was accepted unanimously, and on December 22,
1815, a resolution passed, also unanimously, to this effect: "That,
early in the next session, this house will take into consideration the
state of religion amongst the slaves, and carefully investigate the
44 Note : Cfr. Further Proceedings of the Honourable House of Assembly of
Jamaica, relative to a Bill introduced into the House of Commons for effectually
preventing the unlawful importation of slaves and holding free persons in slavery
in the British Colonies, London, 1816, p. 40 f.
234 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
means of diffusing the light of genuine Christianity, divested of
the dark and dangerous fanaticism of the Methodists, which has
been attempted to be propagated, and which, grafted on the Afri
can superstitions, and working on the uninstructed minds and
ardent temperament of the Negroes, has produced the most per
nicious consequences to individuals, and is pregnant with im
minent danger to the community." 48
As already noted, neither side of the controversy even suspected
the real root difficulty. The Methodist Missionaries felt that they
were the victims of the rankest bigotry and cried aloud in protest.
If they had only realized that they were offering themselves as
martyrs to revivify and extend absolute Paganism with a veneer
of Christianity in the resuscitated Myalism that was parading as
Revivalism, they might have been less outspoken in their denun
ciation of the entire House of Assembly. If the planters, on the
other hand, who honestly recognized in the unrest, caused by the
activities of the Methodists, among the slaves, the significant
forerunners of serious disorders, if they had only been able to
really analyze the situation, and distinguish between the strong
Myalistic tendencies and the Methodistic emotional susceptibil
ities, they might have been able to direct the latter influence into
less dangerous channels and have opened the eyes of its pro
ponents to what was actually afoot. But each side of the con
troversy was deaf to the arguments of the other, just as they were
both blind to the real nature of the terrific forces for harm that
were accumulating among the mass of the blacks.
When the dreaded uprising actually began in St. James Parish
on the night of December 28, 1831, the feeling of bitterness on
both sides was intense. The Reverend David Jonathan East, writ
ing on the West Indies in the Centenary Volume of the Baptist
Missionary Society*6 admits that the insurrection "broke out in
the very district in which missionary labours had been most suc
cessful," and adds at once : "It is not perhaps surprising that the
4 Ditto, p. 42.
4 London, 189a, p. 191.
CONCLUSIONS 235
first thought of the planters was that missionaries were the au
thors of the rebellion."
Exaggerated as this view of the planters certainly was, it is no
more extreme than the attitude of some of the missionaries them
selves. Thus the Reverend Peter Duncan, who was a Methodist
Minister in Jamaica at the very time of the slave-rebellion, fos
ters his own resentment, and writing eighteen years after the
events, unhesitatingly insinuates, seemingly with absolutely no
foundation in fact : "Time may yet show, whether, in some in
stances, the negroes were not directly instigated to violence for
the purpose of casting odium upon the missionaries." 47
And in a
note he explains : "This thought has been ridiculed, and it has
been asked, whether it can be believed, that any man would insti
gate the negroes to destroy his own property : Perhaps not ; but it
never was pretended that the instigators of the negroes had prop
erty to destroy. The overseers, the parties alluded to, had no
property. Such found it easier to kindle the fire than to put it out.
It is not, however, suspected that many directly instigated the
negroes to the work of destruction." 48
If both sides could only have understood the insidious workings
of Myalism as we do today, how much different might have been
the closing days of slavery in Jamaica. In place of the mutual
antagonism, and bitter recriminations, they might have worked
harmoniously together for the peace and prosperity of the entire
community.49 The years of apprenticeship might then have wit-
47 Duncan, Wesleyan Mission to Jamaica, p. 223.
48 Ditto, p. 273, Note 1.
49 Note : We might then have been spared this terrible arraignment : "The
misdirected efforts and misguided counsel of certain Ministers of Religion,
sadly so miscalled, if the Saviour's example and teaching is to be the standard,
have led to their natural, their necessary, their inevitable result (amongst an
ignorant, excitable, and uncivilized population) rebellion, arson, murder. These
are hard and harsh words, gentlemen, but they are true; and this is no time to
indulge in selected sentences, or polished phraseology." Speech of His Ex
cellency, Edward John Eyre, Governor of Jamaica, before the Legislative
Council, Tuesday, November 7, 1865, at the opening of the first session after
the Morant Bay Rebellion. Cfr. Augustus Constantine Sinclair, Parliamentary
Debates of Jamaica, Spanish- Town, 1866, Vol. XIII, p. 3. And the Assembly in
their answering Address to the Governor, on the following day, state: "We
desire to express our entire concurrence in Your Excellency's statement that,
236 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
nessed a gradual enlightenment of the masses of former slaves,
spiritually as well as intellectually. And with their freedom from
bondage, they might naturally have acquired a disillusionment as
regards Myalism and Obeah alike. In that case the recrudescence
of Paganism that blighted the early days of reconstruction might
never have occurred.
In any case, the fact remains that actually the forces of
Myalism and Obeah today have degenerated into a common form
of witchcraft not unfrequently associated with devil worship, and
even those of the blacks who belittle its general influence, in prac
tice show a wholesome fear of the powers of the Obeah man.
And here we must leave the question for the present, reserving
for a future volume a detailed study of Duppyism and kindred
subjects.
to the misapprehensions and misrepresentations of pseudo philanthropists in
England and in this country, . . . and to the misdirected efforts and misguided
zeal of certain miscalled ministers of religion, is to be attributed the present
disorganization of the colony, resulting in rebellion, arson, and murder." Cfr.
1. c, p. 13.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Space restricts us to such works as may be found in the Boston
College Library, Newton, Mass.
i. bibliography for african ophiolatry
Anonymous.
Ophiolatreia or Serpent Worship (Printed Privately).
Atkins, John.
A Voyage to Guinea, Brasil, and the West Indies in His Majesty's
Ships the Swallow and Weymouth, London, 1735.
Basden, G. T.
Among the Ibos of Nigeria, London, 1921.
Baudin, Pere.
Fetichisme et Feticheurs, Lyon, 1884.
Bosch, F.
Le Culte Des Ancetres chez les Banyamwezi anthropos, Vol.
XX (1925).
Bosman, William.
A New and Accurate Description of the Coast of Guinea, divided
into the Gold, the Slave, and the Ivory Coast, London, 1705.
Bouche, Pierre.
La Cote des Esclaves et le Dahomey, Paris, 1885.
Breasted, James Henry.
History of Egypt, New York, 1905.
Development of Religion and Thought in Ancient Egypt, New
York, 1905.
Ancient Records of Egypt, London, 1907.
History of Ancient Egyptians, London, 1908.
Briault, M.
Polytheism and Fetishism, London, 1931.
Brosses, Charles des.
Du Culte des dieux Fetiches ou Parallele de I'Ancienne Religion de
l'£gypte avec la Religion de Nigritie, Paris, 1760.
Browne, W. G.
Travels in Africa, Egypt and Syria, from the Year 1792 to 1798,
London, 1806.
Bruce, James.
Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile, Edinburgh, 1804.
Brugsch, Henri.
History of Egypt under the Pharaohs, London, 1879.
237
238 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Brunet, L.
Dahomey et Dependances, Paris, 1901.
Budge, A. E. Wallis.
Egyptian Magic, London, 1908.
Egyptian Ideas of the Future Life, London, 1908.
The Book of the Dead, London, 1923.
Short History of the Egyptian People, London, 1923.
Dwellers on the Nile, London, 1926.
Amulets and Superstitions, Oxford, 1930.
Burton, Richard F.
A Mission to Gelele, King of Dahome, London, 1864.
Clemen, Carl.
Religions of the World, New York, 1931.
Cooksey, J. J. and McLeish, Alexander.
Religion and Civilization in West Africa, London, 193 1.
Dalzell, Archibald.
History of Dahomey, an Inland Kingdom of Africa, London, 1793.
Deane, John Bathurst.
The Worship of the Serpent, London, 1830.
Dennett, R. E.
At the Back of the Black Man's Mind, London, 1906.
Desribes, E.
L'£vangile au Dahomey et a la Cote des Esclaves, Clermont-
Ferrand, 1877.
Driberg, J. H.
The Lango, a Nilotic Tribe of Uganda, London, 1923.
Du Chaillu, Paul Belloni.
A Journey to Ashango Land, London, 1867.
Duncan, John.
Travels in West Africa in 1845 and 1846, London, 1847.
Ellis, Alfred Burton.
The Land of Fetish, London, 1883.
The Tshi-S peaking Peoples of the Gold Coast of Africa, London,
1887.
The Ewe-Speaking Peoples, London, 1890.
The Yoruba-Speaking Peoples of the Slave Coast, London, 1894.
Farrow, Stephen Septimus.
Faith, Fancies and Fetish, or Yoruba Paganism, London, 1926.
Feraud, L.
Les Peuplades de la SenSgambie, Paris, 1879.
FoA, £d0uard.
Le Dahomey, Paris, 1895.
Forbes, Frederick E.
Dahomey and the Dahomans; being the Journals of two Missions
to the King of Dahomey, and Residence at his Capital, in the
Years 1849 and 1850, London, 1851.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 239
Frazer, James George.
Totemism and Exogamy, London, 1910.
The Golden Bough, London, 1920.
Garnered Sheaves, London, 1931.
Freeman, Thomas B.
Journal of various Visits to the Kingdoms of Ashanti, Aku, and
Dahomi in Western Africa, London, 1844.
Garnier, J.
The Worship of the Dead or the Origin and Nature of Pagan
Idolatry, London, 1904.
Haddon, A. C.
The Wanderings of Peoples, Cambridge, 191 1.
Magic and Fetishism, London, 1921.
Hambly, Wilfrid Dyson.
History of Tattooing and Its Significance, London, 1925.
Serpent Worship in Africa, Chicago, 1931.
Hastings, James.
Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics (Edited), New York, 1913-
1922.
Hollis, A. C.
The Masai: Their Language and Folklore, Oxford, 1905.
The Nandi: Their Language and Folklore, Oxford, 1909.
Hopkins, E. Washburn.
The History of Religions, New York, 1926.
Hovelacque, Abel.
Les Negres de I'Afrique Sus-Equatoriale, Paris, 1889.
Howey, M. Oldfield.
The Encircled Serpent, Philadelphia, 1928.
Hurel, P. E.
Religion et Vie Domestique des Bakerewe anthropos, Vol. VI
(1911).
Hutchinson, Thomas J.
Impressions of Western Africa, London, 1858.
Johnston, Harry Hamilton.
The Uganda Protectorate, London, 1902.
The Nile Quest, New York, 1903.
Liberia, London, 1906.
Kingsley, Mary H.
Travels in West Africa, London, 1897.
West African Studies, London, 1899.
Kitching, A. L.
On the Backwaters of the Nile, London, 1912.
Labat, Pere.
Nouveau Voyage aux Isles de I'Amerique, La Haye, 1724.
Lafitte, J.
Le Dahome, Tours, 1873.
240 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Leonard, Arthur Glyn.
The Lower Niger and its Tribes, London, 1906.
Levy-Bruhl, Lucien.
The "Soul" of the Primitive, New York, 1928.
Lippert, Julius.
The Evolution of Culture, London, 193 1.
Lubbock, John.
Origin of Civilization and the Primitive Condition of Man, New
York, 1912.
Mangin, Arthur.
L'Homme et la Bete, Paris, 1872.
Mangin, Eugene P.
Les Mossi anthropos, Vol. X (1915).
Maspero, Gaston.
The Dawn of Civilization, New York, 1894.
History of Egypt, New York, 1906.
Popular Stories of Ancient Egypt, London, 191 5.
£tudes de Mythologie et d'Archeologie £gyptiennes, Paris, 1916.
M'Leod, John.
A Voyage to Africa with some Account of the Manners and Cus
toms of the Dahomian People, London, 1820.
Meek, C. K.
The Northern Tribes of Nigeria, Oxford, 1925.
Tribal Studies in Northern Nigeria, London, 1931.
Meinhof, C.
Die Dichtung der Afrikaner, Berlin, 1911.
Nassau, Robert Ham mill.
Fetishism in West Africa, London, 1904.
Where Animals Talk, London, 1914.
Norris, Robert.
Memoirs of the Reign of Bassa Ahadee, King of Dahomy, Lon
don, 1789.
Oldham, C. F.
The Sun and the Serpent, London, 1905.
Perry, William James.
The Children of the Sun, London, 1927.
Petrie, W. M. Flinders.
History of Egypt, New York, 1896.
Religions and Conscience in Ancient Egypt, New York, 1898.
Personal Religion in Egypt before Christianity, London, 1909.
Amulets, London, 1914.
History of Egypt from the Earliest Kings of the XVIth Dynasty,
New York, 1924.
Prichard, James Cowles.
Researches into the Physical History of Mankind, London, 1851.
Ratzel, Friedrich.
The History of Mankind, London, 1896-1898.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 241
Reville, A.
Les Religions des Peuples Non-CivilisSs, Paris, 1883.
Roscoe, John.
The Baganda, An Account of their Native Customs and Beliefs,
London, 191 1.
The Northern Bantu, Cambridge, 191 5.
Twenty-five Years in East Africa, Cambridge, 1921.
The Soul of Central Africa, London, 1922.
The Bakitara or Banyoro, Cambridge, 1923.
The Banyankole, Cambridge, 1923.
Rougemont, Frederic de.
Le Peuple Primitif: Sa Religion, Son Histoire et Sa Civilisation,
Geneve, 1855.
Savce, A. H.
Ancient Empires of the East, London, 1886.
Egypt of the Hebrews and Herodotus, London, 1896.
The Religions of Ancient Egypt and Babylonia, Edinburgh, 1903.
SCHWEINFURTH, GeORG.
The Heart of Africa, New York, 1874.
Scot, Reginald.
The Discovery of Witchcraft, London, 1665.
Seligman, C. G.
Races of Africa, London, 1930.
Skertchley, J. A.
Dahomey as it is; being a Narrative of eight months' Residence in
that Country, London, 1874.
Smith, Edwin W. and Dale, Andrew Murray.
The Ila-Speaking People of Northern Rhodesia, London, 1920.
Smith, Grafton Eliot.
The Evolution of the Dragon, Manchester, 1919.
The Migrations of Early Culture, Manchester, 1929.
Smith, William.
A New Voyage to Guinea, London, 1745.
Smith, W. Robertson.
Lectures on Religion of the Semites, London, 1923.
Snelgrave, William.
A New Account of some Parts of Guinea and the Slave-Trade,
London, 1734.
Spencer, Herbert.
Descriptive Sociology: African Races: Compiled and abstracted
by Prof. David Duncan, London, 1875.
Reissue, entirely rewritten by E. Torday, London, 1930.
Stam, N.
The Religious Conceptions of the Kavirondo anthropos, Vol. V
(1910).
Sumner, William Graham and Keller, Albert Galloway.
The Science of Society, New Haven, 1927.
242 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Talbot, D. Amaury.
Woman's Myteries of a Primitive People, London, 191 5.
Talbot, Percy Amaury.
In the Shadow of the Bush, London, 1912.
Life in Southern Nigeria, London, 1923.
The Peoples of Southern Nigeria, Oxford, 1926.
Tribes of the Niger Delta, London, 1932.
Thomas, Northcote W.
Anthropological Report on the Ibo-Speaking People of Nigeria,
London, 1913-1914.
Tremearne, A. J. N.
Tailed Head-Hunters of Nigeria, London, 1912.
The Ban of the Bori, London, 1914.
Tylor, Edward B.
Primitive Culture, Boston, 1874.
Van Gennep, Arnold.
L'£tat actuel du Probleme Totemique, Paris, 1920.
Vinson, Julien.
Les Religions Actuelles, Paris, 1888.
Wake, C. Staniland.
Serpent-Worship and other Essays, London, 1888.
Weeks, John H.
Among Congo Cannibals, London, 1913.
Among the Primitive Bakongo, Philadelphia, 1914.
Werner, Alice.
Natives of British Central Africa, London, 1906.
Westermann, Deitrich.
Die Kpelle, Leipzig, 192 1.
Wilson, J. Leighton.
Western Africa, Its History, Condition, and Prospects, London,
1856.
II. BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HAITIAN VOODOO
Andrade, Manuel J.
Folk-lore from the Dominican Republic, New York, 1930.
Aubin, Eugene.
En Haiti, Paris, 1910.
Barskeet, James.
History of the Island of St. Domingo, from the Discovery of
Columbus to the present Period, London, 1818.
Bird, M. B.
The Black Man; or, Haytian Independence, New York, 1869.
Bonneau, Alexandre.
Haiti: Ses Progres Son Avenir, Paris, 1862.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 243
Bonsal, Stephen.
The American Mediterranean, New York, 1912.
Brown, J.
History and present Condition of St. Domingo, Philadelphia, 1837.
Charlevoix, Pierre Francois Xavier de.
Histoire de I'Isle Espagnole ou de S. Domingue, Paris, 1830.
Davis, H. P.
Black Democracy: The Story of Hayti, New York, 1928.
Dorsainvil, J. C.
Une Explication Philologique du Vbdu, Port-au-Prince, 1924.
Manuel d'Histoire d'Haiti, Port-au-Prince, 1925.
Vodou et Nevrose, Port-au-Prince, 1931.
Ellis, Alfred Burton.
On Vodu-Worship popular science monthly, Vol. XXXVIII
(1891).
Froude, James Anthony.
The English in the West Indies; or, the Bow of Ulysses, London,
1888.
Hazard, Samuel.
Santo Domingo: Past and Present zvith a Glance at Hayti, London,
1873-
Johnston, Harry Hamilton.
The Negro in the New World, London, 1910.
Leger, J. N.
Haiti: Son Histoire et ses Detracteurs, New York, 1907.
Hayti: Her History and her Detractors, New York, 1907.
Madiou, Thomas.
Histoire d'Haiti: Annees 1492-1807, Port-au-Prince, 1922-1923.
Histoire d'Haiti: Annees 1843-1846, Port-au-Prince, 1904.
Mannington, George.
The West Indies with British Guiana and British Honduras, New
York, 1925.
Merwin, Bruce W.
A Voodoo Drum from Hayti university of Pennsylvania
museum journal, Vol. VIII (1917).
Morand, Paul.
Magie Noire, Paris, 1928.
Moreau de Saint-Mery, Mederic Louis Elie.
Loix et Constitutions des Colonies Francoises de I'Amerique sous
le Vent, Paris, 1780.
Description . . . de la Partie Francaise de I'Isle Saint-Domingue,
Philadelphia, 1797-1 798.
Topographical and Political Description of the Spanish Part of
Saint-Domingo, Philadelphia, 1798.
Newell, William W.
Myths of Voodoo Worship and Child Sacrifice in Hayti journal
OF AMERICAN FOLK-LORE, Vol. I (l888).
244 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Niles, Blair.
Black Hayti: A Biography of Africa's Eldest Daughter, New York,
1926.
Parsons, Elsie Clews.
Spirit Cult in Hayti, Paris, 1928.
Price-Mars, Dr.
Le Sentiment et le Phenomene Religeux chez les Negres de Saint-
Domingue, Port-au-Prince, 1928.
Ainsi Parla I'Oncle, Port-au-Prince, 1929.
Une Stape de Involution Hditienne, Port-au-Prince, 1929.
Prichard, Hesketh.
Where Black Rules White: A Journey across and about Hayti,
Westminster, 1900.
St. John, Spencer Buckingham.
Hayti or the Black Republic, London, 1884.
Second Edition (New Matter), London, 1889.
Savine, Albert.
Saint-Domingue a la Veille de la Revolution. (Souvenirs du Baron
Wimpffen), Paris, 191 1.
Seabrook, William Buchler.
The Magic Island, New York, 1929.
Trouillot, D.
Esquisse Ethnographique : Le Vaudoux, Port-au-Prince, 1885.
Vaissiere, Pierre de.
Saint-Domingue : La Societe et la Vie Creoles sous I'Ancien Regime,
(1629-1789) , Paris, 1909.
Weatherford, Willis Duke.
The Negro from Africa to America, New York, 1924.
Wright, J.
Voyage to Saint Domingo in the Years 1788, 1789, and 1790, by
Francis Alexander Stanislaus, Baron Wimpffen. Translated from
the original manuscript which has never been published, London,
1817.
iii. bibliography for jamaica obeah, myalism and revivalism
Anonymous.
Acts of Assembly, passed in the Island of Jamaica from 1681 to
1737, inclusive, London, 1743.
Acts of Assembly, passed in the Island of Jamaica from 1681 to
1754, inclusive, London, 1756.
Acts of Assembly, passed in the Island of Jamaica from 1770 to
1783, Kingston, 1786.
Consolidated Slave Law, passed 22 December 1826, London, 1827.
Continuation of the Laws of Jamaica passed by the Assembly and
BIBLIOGRAPHY 245
confirmed by His Majesty in Council, December 26th 1695, Lon
don, 1695.
Further Proceedings of the Honourable House of Jamaica, relative
to a Bill introduced into the House of Commons, London, 1816.
Hints respecting Christian Education of the Negro Population in
the British Colonies, London, 1833.
Religious Instruction of the Coloured and Slave Population of
Jamaica, London, 1832.
Report of the Jamaica Royal Commission of Inquiry respecting
Certain Disturbances in the Island of Jamaica and the Measures
taken in the Course of their Suppression, London, 1866.
Report of the Lords of the Committee of the Council appointed for
the Consideration of all Matters relating to Trade and Foreign
Plantation, London, 1789.
Review of Hamel, the Obeah Man, London, 1827.
Slave Law of Jamaica and Documents relative thereto, London, 1828.
Barclay, Alexander.
A Practical View of the Present State of Slavery in the West Indies,
London, 1828.
Bastian, Adolf.
Der Fetisch an der Kiiste Guineas, Berlin, 1884.
Beckwith, Martha Warren.
Black Roadways; a Study of Jamaica Folk Lore, Chapel Hill, 1928.
Bell, Hesketh J.
Obeah; Witchcraft in the West Indies, London, 1889.
Bicknell, R.
West Indies as they are; or a Real Picture of Slavery; but more par
ticularly as it exists in the Island of Jamaica, London, 1825.
Bowler, Louis P.
Gold Coast Palava: Life on the Gold Coast, London, 191 1.
Bridges, George Wilson.
A Voice from Jamaica; in reply to William Wilberforce, London,
1823.
Annals of Jamaica, London, 1828.
Browne, Patrick.
Civil and Natural History of Jamaica, London, 1756.
Buchanan, Claudius.
Colonial Ecclesiastical Establishment, London, 181 2.
Burdett, William.
Life and Exploits of Mansong, commonly called Three-finger Jack,
the Terror of Jamaica, Sommers Town, 1800.
Cameron, Norman Eustace.
The Evolution of the Negro, Georgetown, Demerara, 1929.
Cardinall, A. W.
In Ashanti and Beyond, London, 1927.
Cook, E. M.
Jamaica: The Lodestone of the Caribbean, Bristol, 1924.
246 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Cooper, Thomas.
Facts illustrative of the Condition of the Negro Slaves in Jamaica,
London, 1824.
Cundall, Frank.
Jamaica Negro Proverbs and Sayings, Kingston, 1927.
De Lisser, Herbert G.
In Jamaica and Cuba, Kingston, 1910.
Twentieth Century Jamaica, Kingston, 1913.
White Witch of Rosehall, London, 1929.
Duncan, Peter.
Narrative of the Wesleyan Mission to Jamaica, London, 1849.
Edwards, Bryan.
History, Civil and Commercial of the British Colonies in the West
Indies, London, 1793.
Emerick, Abraham J.
Obeah and Duppyism in Jamaica (Printed Privately) Woodstock,
I9I.5-
Jamaica Mialism (Printed Privately) Woodstock, 1916
Jamaica Duppies (Printed Privately) Woodstock, 1916.
Fuller, Stephen.
New Act of Assembly of the Island of Jamaica . . . commonly
called the New Consolidated Act, London, 1789.
Two Reports from the Committee of the Honourable House of
Assembly of Jamaica, London, 1789.
Gardner, William James.
History of Jamaica from its Discovery by Christopher Columbus to
the Present Time, London, 1873.
Gaunt, Mary.
Where the Twain Meet, New York, 1922.
Green, Samuel.
Baptist Mission in Jamaica, London, 1842.
Gurney, John Joseph.
Familiar Letters to Henry Clay of Kentucky, Describing a Winter
in the West Indies, New York, 1840.
Jeckyll, Walter.
Jamaica Song and Story; Anancy Stories, Digging Songs, Ring
Tunes and Dancing Tunes, London, 1907.
Knibb, William.
Facts and Documents connected with the late Insurrection in Jamaica
and the Violations of Civil and Religious Liberty arising out of
it,
London, 1832.
Leslie, Charles.
New History
of
Jamaica, London, 1740.
Lewis, Matthew Gregory.
Journal
of
a West Indian Proprietor, kept during
a
Residence in the
Island
of
Jamaica, London, 1834.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 247
Livingston, William Pringle.
Black Jamaica: A Study in Evolution, London, 1899.
Long, Edward.
History of Jamaica, London, 1774.
Lunan, John.
Abstract of the Laws of Jamaica relating to Slaves, St. Jago de la
Vega, 1819.
Madden, Richard Robert.
A Twelvemonth's Residence in the West Indies, during the Transi
tion from Slavery to Apprenticeship, London, 1835.
Marryat, Joseph.
More Thoughts occasioned by two Publications, London, 1816.
McCrea, Harry.
Sub-Officers' Guide, Kingston, 1903.
Nugent, Lady Maria.
Journal of a Voyage to, and Residence in, the Island of Jamaica,
from 1801 to 1805, London, 1839.
Phillippo, James Murcell.
Jamaica: Its Past and Present State, London, 1843.
Rampini, Charles.
Letters from Jamaica, Edinburgh, 1873.
Rattray, R. Sutherland.
Ashanti Proverbs, Oxford, 1916.
Ashanti, Oxford, 1923.
Religion and Art in Ashanti, Oxford, 1927.
Ashanti Law and Constitution, Oxford, 1929.
Ren ny, Robert.
History of Jamaica, London, 1807.
Riland, John.
Memoir of a West India Planter, London, 1827.
Rose, G. H.
Letter on the Means and Importance of Converting the Slaves in
the West Indies to Christianity, London, 1823.
Samuel, Peter.
Wesleyan-Methodist Missions in Jamaica and Honduras, London,
1850.
Scott, Sibbald David.
To Jamaica and Back, London, 1876.
Shore, Joseph.
In Old St. James, Kingston, 191 1.
Sinclair, Augustus Constantine.
Parliamentary Debates of Jamaica, Vol. XIII, Spanish-Town, 1866.
Chronological History of Jamaica, Jamaica, 1889.
Sloane, Hans.
Voyage to the Islands . . . and Jamaica, London, 1707-1725.
248 VOODOOS AND OBEAHS
Stephen, James.
The Slavery of the British West India Colonies, delineated, London,
1824.
Stewart, J.
Account of Jamaica and its Inhabitants, London, 1808.
View of the Past and Present State of the Island of Jamaica, Edin
burgh, 1817.
Underhill, Edward Bean.
West Indies: their Social and Religious Condition, London, 1862.
Watson, Richard.
Defence of the Wesleyan Methodist Missions in the West Indies,
London, 1817.
Wilberforce, William.
An Appeal to the Religion, Justice, and Humanity of the Inhabitants
of the British Empire, in behalf of the Negro Slaves in the West
Indies, London, 1823.
Williams, Cynric R.
Tour through the Island of Jamaica from the Western to the East
ern End, in the Year 1823, London, 1826.
Williams, Joseph John.
Whisperings of the Caribbean, New York, 1925.
Ilebrewisms of West Africa, New York, 1930.
Young, Robert.
View of Slavery in connection with Christianity, London, 1825.
Index A Places, Peoples, etc.
Abayajidu people, 14.
Abomey, 36, 38, 44.
Accra, 44.
Agauli, 44-
Aguacate, Cuba, vi.
Ake-Eze Edda tribe, 16.
Albert, lake, 10.
Algeria, 41.
Angas people, 13.
Angola, 104.
Annamboe, 33.
Antiqua, 117.
Aquamboea, 27.
Ardra, 23, 24, 25, 30, 33, 57, 61, 67.
Ardra or Arada tribe, 62, 91, 100, 101,
104.
Ashanti, 5, 9, 57, 93, 94, 119, 130, 131,
132, 135. M5. 209.
Ashanti people, 18, 54, 115, 120, 121,
122, 123, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130,
131, 142, 144. 15i. 159. 199, 200, 209,
210, 213, 218.
Asia, 1, 2, 4, 136.
Assinnee, 44.
August Town, Jamaica, 156.
Aztec people, 20.
Badagri, 16, 57.
Bakitara See Banyoro.
Bantu people, 3, 11, 13, 50.
Banyoro or Bakitara people, 9, 10.
Barbados, 117, 118, 182.
Bauchi plateau, 13.
Benin, 12, 16, 53, 135.
Bight of Biafra, 41.
Bini people, 16.
Blue Mountains, Jamaica, 183.
Bonny, 40.
Brass, 9, 16, 41, 44.
Brazil, 81, 83.
Budu, 4.
Bura tribe, 14.
Cameroons, 6, 15, 50, 132.
Cape Coast, 18.
Cape Verde, 132, 198.
Cap Haitien, 75.
Cayenne, 61.
Chaldea, 3.
China, 2.
Clarendon parish, Jamaica, 149, 225.
Congo, 6, 8, 50, 80, 83, 84, 100, 101,
103, 104.
Connors Hill, 18, 19.
Cuba, v, 81, 82, 83, 98, 116.
Dafur, 7.
Dahoman tribe, 30, 31, 34, 38, 40, 45,
83! 90, 93. 119, '209T
Daura, 14.
Dinka tribe, 11.
Dominica, 187.
Dry Harbour Mountains, Jamaica, 158.
Dutch, 26, 41, 55, 56.
Egypt, 2, 3, 4. 14, 15. 16, 17. 20, 33. 95.
110, 118, 132.
Ejagham tribe, 16.
Ekoi people, 15, 16.
Elei Edda tribe, 16.
English, 27, 33, 39, 55, 56, 79. "3, 177.
182.
Ewe-speaking people, 56, 57.
Fanto people, 18, 135.
Fernando Po, 6.
Fezzan, 15.
Fida See Whydah.
Fons tribe, 100.
French, 36, 41, 48, 55. 56, 57. 58, 73,
74, 78, 85, 89, 101, 218.
Fulani people, 9.
Gambia river, 228.
Gan' people, 9.
German, 55.
Gold Coast, 34, 40, 57, 62, 113, 130, 134,
143, 144, 147, 159, 178, 199, 209.
Granada, 117, 137, 138, 139.
Grand Popo, 43, 49, 79.
Guianas, 81, 83, 135.
Guinea, 23, 24, 25, 29, 32, 52, 54. 56,
61, 103, 104.
Habbes tribe, 91.
Haiti, 52, 56-107, 210, an, 212, 213.
249
250 INDEX
Hanover parish, Jamaica, 225.
Haussa people, 9, 13, 14.
Haut-du-Cap, Haiti, 76.
Havana, Cuba, 83.
Hindu people, 2, 20, 21.
Hope river, Jamaica, 156.
Ibo people, 17, oi. 104, 136.
Ijaw tribe, 6, 16, 17.
India, 2, 20, 201.
Jamaica, xvi, xvii, 58, 70, 71, 72, 81,
83, 88, 96, 106, 109-117, 118, 11o,
120, 121, 130, 133, 135, 136, 142-208,
213, 214, 215, 217. 219, 220, 222, 227,
228, 229, 230, 231, 232.
Juida See Whydah.
Katsina, 14.
Kingston, Jamaica, 172, 189, 207, 225,
226, 230, 231.
Kisengwa, 10.
Kona, 14.
Koromantin people, 57, 113, 119, 143,
163.
Lagos, 24.
Lango people, 9, 104.
Le Cap, Haiti, 59, 75.
Liberia, 9.
Louisiana, 57, 81, 83.
Mampon, 131.
Manchester parish, Jamaica, 149, 224,
225.
Manderville, Jamaica, 208, 225.
Mandingo or Mondongue people, 78,
80, 104, 198.
Martinique, 22, 58, 59, 61.
Masai people, 11.
Mauritius, 137.
Mediterranean, 16.
Mondongue See Mandingo.
Montego Bay, Jamaica, 148, 166.
Morant Bay, Jamaica, 166, 172, 194,
196, 235.
Morne Rouge, Haiti, 71.
Mujuzi river, 4, 10.
Mumuye tribe, 14.
Nagos tribe, 100, 104.
Nandi people, 11.
Natal, 6.
Natchez, 20.
Nembe, 12, 16.
Nigeria, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 82,
83. 136, 179-
Niger river, 5, 179, 228.
Nimbi people, 41.
Nkwerri, 12.
Normandy, 59.
Ogowe, 50.
Omi-Akeni, 17.
Owerri, 17.
Pabir tribe, 14.
Papine, Jamaica, 192.
Paris, 59.
Peru, 2.
Petit Goave, Haiti, 68, 71.
Popo, 40, 48, 114.
Port Antonio, Jamaica, 166, 195.
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 58, 72, 104.
Portland parish, Jamaica, 194, 198.
Porto-Novo, 52, 54, 55.
Port Royal, Jamaica, 221, 225, 226.
Portuguese, 34, 43, 56.
Providence Mountain, Jamaica, 199.
Richmond, Jamaica, 208.
Retirement, Jamaica, 158.
Rop, 13.
Sabe, Sabi, Saby or Savi See Why
dah.
Sahara, 6.
S'a Leone, 57.
St. Andrew parish, Jamaica, 100, 225.
St. Ann parish, Jamaica, 224.
St. Catherine parish, Jamaica, 225, 228.
St. Christopher, 117.
St. David parish, Jamaica, 188.
St. Dorothy parish, Jamaica, 225.
St. Elizabeth parish, Jamaica, 143.
St. George d'Elmina, 26.
St. George parish, Jamaica, 194, 195,
225.
St. James parish, Jamaica, 148, 149,
172, 234.
St. John parish, Jamaica, 225.
St. Lucia, 101.
St. Mary parish, Jamaica, 113, 163,
225.
St. Thomas in the East parish, Ja
maica, 225.
St. Thomas in the Vale parish, Ja
maica, 225.
San Domingo, 61, 71, 78, 89, 90, 93,
100, 101, 102, 103, 134, 209.
Senegal, 7.
Shilluk tribe, 11.
Sierra Leone, 24, 82.
Slater's Hill, Jamaica, 151.
Slave Coast, 20, 40, 43, 53, 56, 57, 62,
South Carolina, 81, 83.
Spanish, 55, 57, 58, 61, 68, 71, 115.
£X 251
Spanishtown, Jamaica, 189, 193.
Sudan, 15.
Surinam, 90.
Switzerland, 58.
Tanganyika, 82.
Tombia, 17.
Trelawney parish, Jamaica, 148.
Trinidad, 139.
Tshi-speaking peoples, 57.
Uganda, 7. 8, 9. 1°. 17. 18, 49-
United States, xvii, 58, 59, 73. i<»,
136, 178, 230.
Vere parish, Jamaica, 225.
Victoria Nyanza, lake, 4, 5, 6.
Volta river, 30, 209.
Wa Kikayu tribe, n.
West Indies, xvi, xvii, 56, 57, 61, 80,
88, 101, 102, 11o, 119, 135, 136, 137,
178, 202, 209, 228, 229.
Westmoreland parish, Jamaica, 148.
Whydah, 18, 20, 22-55, 56, 57. 62, 67,
69, 94, 100, 105, 106, 178, 210.
Windward Islands, 61, 137.
Winnebah, 19.
Xavier See Whydah.
Yoro, 14.
Yoruba, 16, 17, 18, 53, 55, 122, 209.
Zimbabwe, 135.
Zulu people, 11, 129.
Index B Topics.
Accompong, Koromantyn Supreme Be
ing, 143, 145, 199, 214.
Adida, serpent deity, 17.
Amazons, female, 56.
Anansi, Ashanti spider, 11g.
Anansi Stories, xvi, 119, 142.
Ancestor worship, n, 12, 13, 15, 20,
38, SO, 53, 54. 81, 93. 143. M5-
Aru-Nga, serpent deity, 16.
Asase, earth goddess, 131, 142.
Audowido, rainbow deity, 55.
Bedwardism on Jamaica, 156, 157, 159,
215.
Birth-snakes, 4.
Bobowissi, priests, 19.
Bonsam komfo, witch-doctor, 130.
Boston College Library, 108, 228, 237.
Botakimaaon, priest, 6.
Brujos, Cuban sorcerers, 83.
Calenda dance, 60, 61, 68, 69, 176.
Cannah customs of Dahomey, 38.
Cannibalism in Haiti, 72, 74, 75-78, 79,
80, 82, 84, 89, 101, 104, 107, 213.
Chica dance, 61, 62, 69, 88, 171.
Congo dance, 61, 82.
Crocodile cult, 40, 82.
Daboa, serpent deity, 35.
Damballa, serpent deity, 97, 98, 100,
104.
Danh or Danhgbwe, fetish snake, 40,
41, 42, 44, 45, 48, 100.
Djwi-j'ahnu, serpent deity, 18, 19.
Don Pedro rite, 68, 69, 71, 73, 78, 82,
97, 98, 104, 105, 106, 107, 210, 213.
Duppy, Jamaica ghost, 88, 151, 154, 155,
182, 208, 220, 236.
Enkya, deity, 10, 11.
Enkyaya Enkya, deity, 10, 11.
Ezi-Aku, serpent deity, 16.
Fandango dance, 61, 171.
Fetish, xvi, 24, 25, 32, 34, 35, 36, 38,
42, 43. 45. 50, 51. 52, 57. 73. 87,
101, 102, 104, 113, 119, 122, 132, 133,
188, 216.
Folk lore, Ashanti, 119.
Folk lore, Jamaica, 142.
Gayatri, Veda text, 2.
Genesis, 3.
"Goat without horns," human sacrifice,
73, 75-78, 79. 84, 86, 88, 89, 98. 107.
213.
Habtu, amulets, etc., 14.
Habtu pwapu, snake charm, 14.
Hamitic influence, 4, 8, 18.
Hoodoo See Voodoo.
Hougan, Voodoo leader, 91, 92, 93.
Human sacrifice, 38, 44, 49. See also
"Goat without horns."
Idagbe, serpent deity, 16.
Idolatry, 20, 21, 74, 102, 106.
Islam or Islamism See Mohammedan-
Jesuits, 24, 25.
Jesuit Relations, 25.
Ki Serki, serpent at Daura, 14.
Leopard cult, 38, 82.
"Long pig," human sacrifice, 73, 107,
213.
Maaon, Fernando Po demon, 6.
Mahou or Mau, Dahoman Supreme
Being, 45, 100.
Mamaloi, Voodoo priestess, 63-66,
76, 88, 211.
Marriage to serpent, 26, 47, 48.
Melim, fetish, 14.
Minto dance, 176.
Mmotia, "little folk," 218, 219.
Mohammedanism, 14, 74, 90, 91, 122,
191, 197, 198.
Monotheism, 122, 212.
Myalism, 72, 11o, 136, 145-151, 153-
160, 163, 165, 167, 172-175, 180, 181,
183, 186, 190, 191, 192, 193. 195.
199, 200, 202, 207, 213, 214, 215, 219,
220, 230, 234, 235, 236.
New Moon rites, 4, 7.
35a
INDEX 253
Ob or Aub, 109, 110, 118.
Obassi Nsi, earth goddess, 15.
Obassi Osaw, Sky God, 15.
Obayifo, witch or wizard, 120, 121,
128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 145, 146,
200, 210, 218.
Obboney See Sasabonsam.
Obeah or Obi, xvi, xvii, 96, 98, 108-
141, 142-208, 213, 214, 215, 217, 218,
219, 226, 229, 230, 236.
"Obi-water," 135.
Ochumare, Yoruba deity, 55.
Odoism See Voodoo.
Ogidiga, serpent deity, 16.
Ogugu, woman's fetish, 17.
Okomfo, priest, 130, 145, 146, 147.
Olokun, Yoruba Supreme Being, 16.
Olosa, Yoruba lagoon-goddess, 18.
Onyame, Ashanti Supreme Being, 123,
131, 143.
Ophiolatry See Serpent worship.
Pantheism, 53.
Papaloi, Voodoo priest, 63-66, 76, 77,
78, 88, 104, 211.
Paradise, 3.
Pedro dance, xv, xvi. See also Don
Pedro rite.
Pocomanism in Jamaica, 172-175.
Poltergeist, 218, 219, 220.
Polytheism, 53, 123.
Priests and priestesses of serpent cult,
4, s, 6, 7. 8, 22, 26, 32, 35, 40, 47, 48,
49-
Python worship See Serpent worship.
QuetzalcoatI, serpent deity, 20.
Racial migrations in Africa, 8.
Rainbow snakes, 4, 55.
Rain cult, 14.
Revivalism in Jamaica, 148, 157, 158,
159. 165, 171. 172-175, 207, 215, 220,
233. 234-
Roufca-rouko, 6.
Ruhanga, Banyoro Supreme Being, 10,
11.
Sasabonsam, Ashanti demon, 129, 130,
132, 144, 145, 146, 199, 200, 214,
218.
See-que-ah-nee, Dahoman ancestor
worship, 38.
Seh, Dahoman Supreme Being, 38.
Selwanga, serpent deity, 4.
Semitic influence, 4, 8, 11o.
Serpent cult and worship, 1-2 1, 22-55,
56-107, 132, 210, 211, 212.
Shadow, Jamaica spirit, 149, 150, 152,
153. 154, 155, »56, 188, 208.
Shango, Egba deity, 43.
Shark cult, 40.
Snake temples, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 24, 27, 32,
35. 36, 38, 39, 42, .44, 45, 47. 48, 49-
Sumankwafo, medicine man, 127, 130,
13', 132.
Sun worship, 2, 4, 20, 35.
Supreme Being, 9, 10, 12, 13, 20, 21, 22,
26, 33, 35, 40, 45, 49. 51, 53. 54. 122,
123, 124, 127, 131, 143, 212, 214.
Ta Kwesi, Ashanti deity, 124, 125.
Tano, Ashanti deity, 123, 124, 125, 127.
Tchanga, fetish, 118.
Tiger cult, 34, 35-
Veda of India, 2.
Ventriloquism, 110.
Voodoo or Vudu, v-xvii, 4, 35, 38, 45,
52, 56-107, 108, 171, 178, 107. 198,
210, 211, 212, 213.
Waldenses, 58.
Wanga, fetish, 81, 118.
Index C Individuals and References.
Agajah, king of Dahomey, 40, 45.
Alvarez, Emmanuel, 24.
Amalkir, Jamaica Obeah man, 183.
Anderson, David, 199.
Andrade, Manuel, 242.
Atkins, John, 29, 30, 237.
Aubin, Eugene, xiv, 102, 103, 104, 105,
242.
Banbury, R. Thomas, 149, 150, 151, 200,
201.
Barclay, Alexander, 188, 243.
Barreira, Balthasar, 24.
Barskeet, James, 242.
Basden, G. T., 237.
Bastian, Adolf, 245.
Baudin, Pere, 52, 53, 54. 233. 334. 237-
Beckwith, Martha Warren, 208, 245.
Bedward, Jamaica revivalist, 156.
Bell, Hesketh J., 137, 138, 139, 140.
141. 245.
Bicknell, R., 225, 226, 227, 228, 245.
Bird, M. B., 242.
Boisrand-Canal, Haitian President,
86.
Bonito, Wilfrid, 208.
Bonneau, Alexandre, 242.
Bonsa1, Stephen, 83, 84, 85, 86, 243.
Bosch, F., 237.
Bosman, William, 26, 27, 28, 29, 41,
chief, 70, 71,
106.
Bowler, Louis P., 134, 135. 245.
Braguez, Pere, 22.
Breasted, James Henry, 237.
Briault, M., 237.
Bricourt, J., 69.
Bridges, George Wilson, 176, 177. 188.
189, 224, 225, 226, 245.
Brosses, Charles des, 33, 237.
Brown, J., 243.
Browne, Patrick, 180, 245.
Browne, W. G, 132, 237.
Bruce, James, 237.
Brugsch, Henri, 237.
Brunet, L., 48, 49, 238.
Buchanan, Claudius, 229, 231, 232, 245.
Budge, A. E. Wallis, 238.
Bullock, J. Maxwell, 87.
Burdett, William, 183, 245.
Burton, Richard F., 40, 41, 42, 43, 57,
238.
Cameron, Norman Eustace, 135, 136,
245.
Cardinal!, A. W., 218, 245.
Carvajal, John, 120.
Carvajal, Peter, 120.
Cejes, Paula, v, vi.
Celie, Maman, Voodoo mamaloi, vii,
ix, xv, 97, 98.
Charlevoix, Pierre F. X. de, 243.
Chaulmer, Charles, 25.
Christaller, J. G., 144.
Christophe, Haitian Emperor, 57.
Clay, Henry, 192.
Clemen, Carl, 3, 238.
Cleveland, Grover, 131.
Confucius, 38.
Cook, E. M., 201, 245.
Cooksey, J. J., 52, 238.
Cooper, Thomas, 246.
Cundall, Frank, 143, 224, 246.
Dale, Andrew Murray, 241.
Dalzell, Archibald, 34, 35. 41, 56, 238.
Dapper, O., 25.
Davaynes, William, 33.
Davis, Beckford, 104, 195, 197-
Davis, H. P., 243.
Deane, John Bathurst, 3, 238.
De Lisser, Herbert G., 144, 145. 158,
159, 246.
Dennett, R. E., 121, 122, 238.
Des Marchais, Reynaud, 23, 24, 25, 26,
27.
Desplagnes, Louis, 91.
Desribes, E., 43, 44, 49. 238.
Dorsainvil, J. C, 70, 71, 99. 100, 101,
243.
Doyley, Edward, 108.
Driberg, J. H, 9, 198, 238.
Du Chaillu, Paul Belloni, 238.
Duncan, John, 35, 36, 37, 238.
Duncan, Peter, 228, 230, 231, 235, 246.
254
INDEX 255
Durkheim, Emile, 69.
Du Terte, Pere, 102.
East, David Jonathan, 234.
Edwards, Bryan, 108, 143, 200, 229,
246.
Ellis, Alfred Burton, 18, 19, 46, 47, 56,
57, 121, 122, 238, 243.
Emerick, Abraham J., 96, 153, 154,
155. 156. 157. 158, 202, 203, 204, 205,
206, 219, 220, 246.
Endor, Witch of, 109.
Eyre, Edward John, 195, 235.
Farrow, Stephen Septimus, 17, 18, 20,
21, 121, 238.
Feraud, L., 238.
Ferdinand IV of Spain, 120.
Ferguson, R. H., 172, 173, 174.
Filler, F. X. de, 59-
Foa, Edouard, 48, 238.
Forbes, Frederick, 37, 38, 39, 50, 209,
238.
Frazer, James George, 10, 13, 55, 239.
Freeman, Thomas B., 36, 239.
Froude, James Anthony, 79, 243.
Fuller, Stephen, 109, 164, 177, 178, 197,
223, 228, 246.
Gardner, William James, 143, 147, 148,
149. 163, 172, 207, 220, 221, 224, 225,
232, 246.
Gamier, J., 239.
Gaunt, Mary, 246.
Gayle, Robert Edward, 195.
Geffrard, Fabre, 86.
Gelele, king of Dahomey, 44.
George III of England, 222.
Gillen, Spencer, 10.
Gordon, George William, 194.
Green, Samuel, 172, 246.
Gurney, John Joseph, 192, 193, 246.
Haddon, A. C., 12, 239.
Hambly, Wilfrid Dyson, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 11, 81, 132, 239.
Hammett, William, 230.
Hastings, James, 239.
Hazard, Samuel, 243.
Hollis, A. C., 11, 239.
Holly, Arthur W., 95.
Hopkins, E. Washburn, 239.
Hovelacque, Abel, 47, 48, 239.
Howard, Esme, 108.
Howard, Robert Mobray, 108.
Howey, M. Oldfield, 3, 19, 239.
Hull, Ernest R., 20, 21.
Hurel, P. E., 239.
Huskisson, W., 167, 168, 169, 170, 171.
James I of England, 110.
Jeckyll, Walter, 246.
Jevons, Frank Byron, 11.
Johnston, Harry Hamilton, 81, 82, 83,
136, 239, 243.
Jonas the Prophet, 156.
Jones, William, 198, 199.
Josephine, Empress of France, 58, 59.
Kaupinipini, medicine man, 10.
Keane, John, 167.
Keller, Albert Galloway, 241.
Kingsley, Mary H., 44, 50, 51, 118,
119, 121, 122, 239.
Kitching, A. J., 9.
Knibb, William, 246.
Labarthe, Pierre, 35.
Labat, Pere, xiv, 22, 23, 24, 25, 61, 102,
198, 239.
Lafayette, Marquis de, 59.
Lafitte, J., 39. 239-
Lebrun, Sieur, 68.
Lee, H. C., 58.
Leger, J. N., 80, 243.
Le Herisse, A., 45.
Leonard, Arthur Glyn, 11, 12, 13, 240.
Leslie, Charles, 180, 222, 223, 246.
Levy-Bruhl, Lucien, 11, 240.
Lewis, Matthew Gregory, 147, 148,
186, 187, 246.
Lindsey, Thomas, 198.
Lippert, Julius, 240.
Livingston, William Pringle, 50, 119,
120, 247.
Long, Edward, 108, 180, 181, 221, 247.
Long, Edward Beeston, 108.
Long, Jane Catherine, 108.
Louis XVI of France, 59.
Lubbock, John, 240.
Lunan, John, 165, 166, 247.
Mackie, Peter, 10.
Madden, Richard Robert, 189, 190,
191, 247.
Madiou, Thomas, 71, 243.
Malte-Brun, M., 48.
Mangin, Arthur, 240.
Mangin, Eugene P., 240.
Manning, William, 192, 193.
Mannington, George, 88, 89, 243.
Mansong, "Three finger Jack," 182,
183.
Marett, R. R., 121.
Marryat, Joseph, 247.
Maspero, Gaston, 240.
McCrea, Harry, 247.
McLeish, Alexander, 52, 238.
M'Leod, John, 35, 240.
256 INDEX
Meek, C. K., 13, 14, 240.
Meinhof, C, 1, 240.
Menes or Misraim, king of Egypt, 151.
Menzies, Allan, 51.
Merwin, Bruce W., 86, 87, 88, 243.
Millapaugh, Arthur C, 212, 213.
Morand, Paul, 243.
Moreau de Saint-Mery, Mederic Louis
Elie, 58, 59. 60-68, 69, 70, 73. 74. 78,
79, 80, 90, 93, 94. 103. 106, 134. 209,
243.
Morgan, Henry, 108.
Moses the Prophet, 3, 109, 156.
Napoleon Bonaparte, 59.
Nassau, Robert Hammill, 50, 51, 52,
178, 240.
Newell, William W., 57, 58, 243.
Newland, H. Osman, 210.
Niles, Blair, 57, 244.
Nord, Mme., 85.
Norris, Robert, 32, 33, 34, 240.
Nugent, Maria, 247.
Ogilby, John, 25.
Ogilvie, William, 198.
Okomfo-Anotchi, fetish priest, 121.
Oldham, C. F., 1, 2, 240.
Oliver, James, 199.
Olivier, Sydney, 88, 219.
Parsons, Elsie Clewes, 101, 102, 244.
Pedro, Jean Philippe, 71.
Perry, William James, 240.
Peter of Lyons, 58.
"Peter Pindar" See Walcot, John.
Petrie, W. M. Flinders, 240.
Phillippo, James Murcell, 193, 247.
Poll, Nicholas, 29.
Price-Mars, Dr., xiv, xv, 69, 70, 89,
90, 91. 92, 93. 94. 95. 98, 106, 211,
212, 244.
Prichard, Hesketh, 79, 80, 95, 244.
Prichard, James Cowles, 240.
Pullen-Bury, B., 186.
Rainey, William, 199.
Rampini, Charles, 196, 197, 198, 199,
247-
Rattray, R. Sutherland, 119, 120, 121,
122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129,
130, 131, 132, 151, 152, 216, 218, 219,
247.
Ratzel, Friedrich, 240.
Renny, Robert, 183, 247.
Reville, A., 241.
Richardson, A. E., 179.
Riland, John, 226, 247.
Robespierre, Maximilien, 59.
Roscoe, John, 4, 10, 241.
Rose, G. H., 247.
Rougemont, Frederic de, 241.
St. John, Spencer Buckingham, 72-78,
79, 99, 212, 244.
Salomon, President of Haiti, 78.
Samuel, Peter, 229, 230, 247.
Savine, Albert, 69, 244.
Sayce, A. H., 241.
Schlegel, J. B., 20.
Schmidt, Wilhelm, 70.
Schweinfurth, Georg, 11, 240.
Scot, Reginald, 11o, 241.
Scott, Sibbald David, 247.
Seabrook, William Buchler, vi-xvi,
82, 91, 92, 96, 97, 98, 99, 102, 212,
244.
Seligman, C. G., 14, 241.
Shore, Joseph, 247.
Simon, Antoine, x, 85, 86.
Simpson, Alexander, 199.
Sinclair, Augustus Constantine, 235,
247.
Skertchley, J. A., 44, 45, 46, 241.
Sloane, Hans, 113, 179, 180, 247.
Smith, Edwin W., 241.
Smith, Grafton Eliot, 2, 241.
Smith, William, 32, 33, 241.
Smith, W. Robertson, 241.
Snelgrave, William, 30, 31, 32, 56, 241.
Spencer, Herbert, 50, 241.
Stam, N., 241.
Stephen, James, 187, 188, 248.
Stewart,
J.,
184, 185, 248.
Summer, William Graham, 241.
Summers, Montague, 11o.
Talbot, D. Amaury, 133, 242.
Talbot, Percy Amaury, 14, 15, 16, 17,
242.
Theocritus, Grecian poet, 128.
Thomas, Northcote W., 242.
Toussaint l'Ouverture, 101.
Trelawney, William, 222.
Tremearne, A.
J.
N., 15, 242.
Trouillot, D., 71, 91, 99. 171. 244-
Trudo, king of Dahomey, 34.
Tylor, Edward B.,
1,
20, 242.
Underhill, Edward Bean, 248.
Van Gennep, Arnold, 242.
Vaussiere, Pierre de, 59, 244.
Venn, John, 228.
Vinson, Julien, 242.
Wake, C. Staniland,
1,
19, 242.
Wallon, M., 41.
INDEX 257
Washington, George, 108.
Watson, Richard, 248.
Weatherford, Willis Duke, 56, 244.
Weeks, John H., 242.
Werner, Alice, 242.
Westermann, Deitrich, 242.
Whidden, B. F., 58.
Wilberforce, William, 176,
224, 248.
Wildman, J. B., 192.
Williams, Alexander, 87.
177. 223,
Williams, Cynric R., 166, 248.
Williams, Joseph John, 120, 142, 143,
144, 248.
Wilson, J. Leighton, 39, 40, 132, 242.
Wimpffen, Baron, 68.
Wolcot, John ("Peter Pindar"), 222.
Wood, J. G., 109.
Wright, J., 244-
Yellow, Gabriel Amakiri, 17.
Young, Robert, 248.
