{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__anonymous___magic_and_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Magic And Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
MAGIC AND MESMERISM
&n ISpteofcc
THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY
AND OTHEE TALES.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
LONDON
SAUNDERS AND OTLEY, CONDUIT STREET.
1843.
8E3
v l
PREFACE.
In the autumn of 184—, a party of friends,
male and female, started from Manheim, on
an expedition up one of the lovely valleys that
shelter those mountain-streams, whose beauties
scarcely yield the palm to the proud Rhine,
whose tributaries they are. The party was
numerous ; and for the first two or three days,
all went right. But just as they were about to
escape from the worst roadside-inn it had yet
been their ill luck to fall in with, a mountain-
storm broke overhead with such fury, and of
IV PREFACE.
such duration, as to render the narrow, pre-
cipitous road —bad enough in fair weather
perfectly impassable for a few days, especially
for the ladies, whose fears magnified the incon-
veniences of the venture.
Thus weather-bound, in the fullest meaning
of the word—an incessant cold rain alternating
with a high sharp wind by day, and early
biting frosts by night, that made the smoky
stoves of mine host, crammed full of green-
wood, and his unswept, uncurtained rooms, a
luxury —the spirits of the society, and the
general stock of patience, was much tried.
Passing under silence those nameless priva-
tions, whose enumeration would fill a volume,
but which any traveller whom chance or ca-
price has led into the more unfrequented parts
of Germany will have no trouble in calling
back to his remembrance, I will barely hint
at the blue-devils that seized upon and tor-
PREFACE. V
merited each in turn; and though to record
the sighs, and yawns, and sundry exclama-
tions, were a hopeless task, I will declare, that a
more complete specimen of immeasurable ennui
—ennui of the deepest, darkest hue—was never
seen.
There was not a musical instrument in the
whole house ! Not one of the ladies had strung
her blue or pink ribboned guitar on the top
of a bandbox—bandboxes having been most
ungallantly prohibited by the male portion of
the society. Not one of the gentlemen had
with him so much as a flute-cane, or had
smuggled even a Jew's-harp into his pocket
The heavy, iron-tipped oak, that helped to
climb the rocks, was alone a Vordre du jour ;
and the gentlemen's shooting-jackets boasted
little more in the way of musical resources
than pocket-combs. Draught or chess board
nay, even the very oldest pack of cards—would
VI PREFACE.
have been hailed with delight, had the landlord
of the Stork been able to produce any such
but he seemed not even to have an inkling of
such town-fangled notions, and there were no
other resources left the travellers but those
of their own conversational powers. As polite-
ness precludes controversy, and people invariably
tire of assenting to each other's propositions,
these soon flagged; and—in default of any of
those pink-bound volumes that Galignani strews
with so untiring a hand over all the highways
and by-ways of the Continent, and of which,
strange to say, not one copy had found its way
in the scanty luggage of the travellers,—it was
at last agreed that story-telling should fill up
the blank; and those who, in the course of
those few days' domestication, had betrayed the
slightest anecdotical powers, were now unmerci-
fully plied to exert those powers on an enlarged
scale. u Anything would do," the ladies said ;
PREFACE. Vll
but when divers subjects were started, it came
to light, that " they did not like pure fiction
it required a master-hand to make anything
of it ; something that had really happened
always had an interest of its own that would
greatly aid the manner of the telling ;"
—in short,
the historical was decided upon, una voce.
Needles were soon plied by delicate white
fingers, whilst the male portion of the audience,
with laudable feelings of tender reminiscences
of their schoolboy days, busied their hands
in cutting out figures on their sticks, or indent-
ing them in mine host's already much-damaged
tables.
The bravest among the gentlemen, then, de-
voted themselves to the slippery task of amusing
others. They succeeded, however, so well, that
it was suggested that the Tales which had whiled
away the ennui of a chosen few, might, per-
chance, render the same service to others, if
Vlll PREFACE.
given a wider circulation by means of the Press.
In vain did he upon whom the chancy task of
Editing them was forced, grumble and represent
how under different circumstances the same
things assumed different aspects, and how much
the partiality of friendly listeners may blind
them to the defects of the productions they
patronise. All was of no avail; the fiat had
gone forth from lips that would take no denial,
and the Editor now, perhaps, stands committed
past redemption.
THE CAPTAIN'S STORY.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM,
VOL. I.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
I was yet a very young man, and but just
gazetted as a second lieutenant, when my ill
luck ordained that I should be sent, with many
other English prisoners, to Toulon ; at which
place, Napoleon's name being held in even
more enthusiastic reverence than elsewhere, our
prospect of comfort was not re-assuring.
Many of my countrymen have complained
of the sufferings they endured, and the hard
treatment they met with, in this time of proba-
tion ; but I must confess much of this was
drawn upon them by their own obstinacy in
refusing to remain at large on parole—an alter-
native generally offered, and which, though it
b 2
4 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
debarred the prisoner from any chance of an
early release, made, at least, the detention less
irksome. Of the few who preferred a compara-
tively free sejour in a town to the gloomy con-
finement of a prison, I was one of the first
and I soon found I had made proof of no small
sagacity in my choice.
The French are, or at least were when I
knew them—but that's a long while ago—
very polite, kindly race, and evinced a generous
sympathy in favour of the poor prisoners who
came in their way, of which I, at least, am a
grateful instance. I could not, however, afford
to remain an idler on the pave, and was soon
obliged to chalk out for myself some plan for
procuring a livelihood. Many in my situation
might have been tempted to adduce, as a motive
for so doing, the difficulty of receiving regular
remittances ; I owned the truth—I had none to
receive.
I knew something of music, more of draw-
ing, could paint very tolerably in water colours
in short, I was not deficient in that smattering
des arts d'aqrtmens, which—for at that time
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. O
artists did not everywhere abound as at present
—might, I thought, suffice to help me out of
my difficulties. I soon, indeed, got more pupils
than I had time to attend to, and found that
their kindness contributed even more to my
comfort than their money. In some families,
acquaintance ripened into friendship, or—what
generally answers as well, if not better, for
social enjoyment—into intimacy unfettered by
the duties and cares that friendship entails upon
its votaries.
Of these families, I must mention one in
particular. The father, though very rich, would
not afford his daughters the accomplishments
deemed so indispensable to modern education
at the usual costs, yet was not unwilling to
bestow board and lodging upon any one who
would consent to instruct them on those terms.
The proposal implied the comforts of a social,
though not a luxurious home, and was accepted
by me with infinite pleasure ; and a source of
pleasure it proved, in every sense, during the
many years of my captivity.
Doubtless, I could dwell with untiring com-
6 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
placency upon these reminiscences of my youth,
and of those with whom its heyday was spent;
but as they might prove more wearisome than
interesting, and do not bear upon the point,
I will at once make you acquainted with the
only member of this family who has any refer-
ence to my story, and whose introduction I
may as well premise by stating, that, although
the most singular mortal that ever fell in my
way, he was at this period my constant com-
panion, and one of the men I have liked best
of all those, young or old, I ever associated
with, not excluding the officers of my mess.
Mr. Chaudon—this was his name—was past
sixty, at the head of no inconsiderable compe-
tency, a confirmed bachelor, and being god-
father, besides, to all the younger children,
great expectations were entertained of him ; a
circumstance that led my friends to make very
flattering advances to the old gentleman, who,
in his turn, availed himself of them in a manner
to justify the presumption that he meant to
repay them one day in full. Thus were we
continually thrown into each other's society;
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 7
and as I spoke French with great fluency,
despite the dissimilitude of our ages, tastes,
habits, and, above all, nationality, we soon
became great cronies.
In order to make you understand our dissi-
militude and points of attraction more clearly,
I must, even at the risk of being thought te-
dious, dilate a little on our characters and pecu-
liarities. Although barely twenty, and rather
good-looking than otherwise, I was more fond
of reading and thinking than most men pos-
sessed of these advantages, especially in the
profession I had embraced. Of a very cheerful
temperament, endowed with that most precious
of nature's gifts—which I have ever striven to
retain, through fair and foul—the power of being
easily pleased and amused, I was thus far quali-
fied to meet half way his natural bibliomania
and national gaiete de cceur*. But the leading
feature of my mind was coolness of judgment
so, at least, I and my friends qualified it ; those
who wT
ere not so well disposed towards me
called it wT
ant of imagination: be that as it
may, anything out of the common routine of
8 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
life and of the beaten track of ideas, has ever
appeared to me extravagant — preposterous,
and never took root in my brain. Some said
this was a happy gift; but so, probably, did
not think my companion, who was in nothing
more opposed to me than in this particular.
Monsieur Jules Chaudon's sixty years had
cooled none of the fire of youth. His over-
abundance of imagination, by leading him con-
stantly from the practical to the theoretical,
and rendering impossible the constant applica-
tion and persevering attention necessary to all
professions, but especially that which he had
adopted—the law—had materially interfered with
his advancement ; and never having risen above
mediocrity, in spite of strong natural powers,
he had, in consequence, retired from its arduous
duties even before his age justified the measure
but his was the contemplative disposition and
the studious habit, which invest a life of ease
with charm.
During the twenty years that my worthy
friend had found himself at liberty to follow the
bent of his own inclinations, he had devoted
MAGIC AND 3IES3IERISM. V
the greater portion of his time to reading. That
reading being, however, of the most promiscuous
kind, and the natural romance of his mind
tinging with peculiar interest the wilder and
more chimerical speculations of his and other
times, he soon suffered himself to be led away
by them, and became what the French so well
describe by the epithet "bizarre" which was
universally applied to him, although he was
otherwise held in great esteem for his acknow-
ledged talents.
" They call me singular, original," he would
often say, " and make this a matter of reproach
but I accept the denomination as the highest
possible compliment, for neither virtue nor
genius are commonplace. Everybody, on the
contrary, must allow they are most unlike what
we observe in the generality of mankind ; and
by their very dissemblance from the inferiority
that, at every turn, meets and checks them,
often, alas ! jar, like a chord too tightly strung,
in the harmony of this world, where their aspi-
rations remain unsatisfied and their efforts mis-
understood."
b 3
10 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
I used to laugh heartily at the frankness of
my friend's vanity; but if, like most of his
countrymen, he was addicted to much talking,
especially about himself, and even to boasting
on occasions, still did he more than counter-
balance these slight peculiarities by his many
and rare qualities. Most of my leisure hours
were devoted to his society; and this circum-
stance was doubly favourable to me, tending,
as it did, to exercise my intellectual faculties,
and to keep me out of harm's way, for the ladies
of the South of France are very fascinating, I
assure you.
One day, calling, according to my wont, to
share his demie tasse de cafe, after a very early
dinner, I was somewhat surprised to find him in
a less vivacious humour than ordinary. His
fit of silence embarrassed me ; and, par maniere
de contenance, I began to survey the various ob-
jects that surrounded me, although habit had
made them perfectly familiar. The small, white-
curtained windows, always opened to the mild
breezes of Provence, letting in the effulgence of
a southern sun through the tempering medium
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 11
of a couple of tall trees which shaded his little
flower garden—the perfume the latter exhaled
in that luxuriant clime—all this I had enjoyed
before. My eye wandered to the well-stored
bookcases on either hand of the door—to the
door itself with its Watteau panels, representing
puffy, rosy swains, making love in a very playful
and becoming manner by the intervention of
a flute or bagpipe, to smiling, courtly-looking
shepherdesses, with a profusion of roses and
sheep and doves, to enhance the poetry of the
conception —the quiet lamp on the console,
placed carefully in front of a dish of waxen
fruits under glass—the landscape over the door,
in which the village church did not forget to
chime the hour with more precision than many
a Bregue—the magnificent boule cabinet, no
longer appreciated for its own merits, retained
in a corner out of respect for the past—the
pictures, all daubs in their way, and merely
interesting as family portraits—the very prints,
hung round the wall, were known to me in
all their details. I gazed, mechanically, from
that representing the death of the unfortunate
12 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Louis XVI. to that of the Jcu de Paume and the
Coronation of Napoleon, lleminiscence, rather
than political opinion, seemed to have guided the
choice of those engravings, several of which
were portraits of celebrities contemporary with
himself—Mesmer, Pu}7
segur, D'Eslon, and a few
others, whose names escape my memory, more
or less famous in the annals of magnetism.
" Strange men and bold, those," said Chau-
don, following the direction of my eyes as they
rested on the last named personages.
" Dreamers ! idle dreamers," I answered, with
a shrug —" dreamers, if not knaves and
villains."
" Far too sweeping a conclusion," said Chau-
don. " May not a science exist, though folly
and knavery may have abused it? May not
the fairest flowers spring up from the same soil
that will bear a toadstool ?"
" Perhaps," said I, " but the mere chimera of
the brain I consider to be a most barren ground,
productive of little better than the thorns of
disputation."
" Then you take upon yourself to deny, al-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 13
together, the existence of Mesmerism, and its
effects for good or for evil ?"
" I should, indeed, feel inclined to do so," I
replied, "but that I do not consider myself
sufficiently master of the subject to give a de-
cided opinion."
" Far be it from me to deny that Mesmerism
has had its charlatans and its victims—but so
has medicine, and yet what science is nobler ?
lias not religion itself had its abuses ?"
"But," I timidly urged, "public opinion has
so completely done justice by the votaries of
magnetism
" It is natural, my young friend," hastily in-
terrupted Chaudon," that the first who wander
through unknown regions, and bring back new
stores of ideas and facts to others, should ex-
pose themselves, by communicating them, to
ridicule and animadversion. For, strange to say,
fond as he thinks himself of change, and eager
as he is in its pursuit, all novelty is hateful to
man—but this is one of the many contradictions
of his nature. Thus we see ignorant people
ever ready to laugh at the simplest truth which
14 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
has escaped their sphere of intelligence. Perfect
incredulity on all points is an infallible token of
the total absence of intellectual development;
none know how to credit what is new to them but
persons of cultivated understanding."
" True," said I; "but if it be folly to reject,
without investigation, any proposition whatever,
surely it is more foolish to admit any theory as
true without due proof."
" Granted," said the old man—" granted
but how few ever pause to balance a question,
however vital its import. The greater portion
of mankind decide at once, without being able
to adduce any better reason for their decision
than caprice or prejudice. I dare say your
opinions, my young friend, are not based on
firmer ground."
Without renouncing my scepticism, I grace-
fully yielded this point.
" I thought as much," said he ;
" without
having duly weighed the arguments pro and con
in your own mind, merely because those are
stigmatized as enthusiasts and dreamers who
have given into the system. Fausse konte, my
young friend, and worldly prudence, are the
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 15
graves of science and discovery. Now, if you
will patiently listen to a few reasons I can
adduce in favour of the existence, if not the
merits of animal magnetism, I think I can con-
vince you, or, at least, lead you on the road to
conviction."
" Most willingly," said I.
" Then we will adjourn to the beach, and, in
the face of nature's sublimest work, discuss one
of her deepest mysteries."
The old bonne had soon helped my friend to
exchange his flowered silk robe de chambre for
a coat of somewhat antediluvian fashion—for he
still clung to former habits, and had renounced
neither his queue, powder, nor shoe-buckles
and having donned this somewhat antiquated
apparel, he sallied forth with me to enjoy the
invigorating sea breeze. Hardly had we come
within view of the waves, when he took up the
subject of discussion precisely where we had
left it, with the air of one who sets regularly in
for a prose. I confess I had forgotten it al-
together.
" Mesmerism," said he, " might, perhaps, as
justly be called sympathy ; that word, more
16 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
familiar to our understanding, will bring the
notion of the thing more clearly to our minds.
It is the great link that binds man, not only to
man, but to the creation throughout all its
parts, and causes everything in nature to act
upon the rest in some way or other. Every
object of which we are conscious must, I hold,
be made evident to us merely by sympathy
and where sympathy ceases, there must percep-
tion cease also. No one thinks of denving the
influence of the emanations from plants, waters,
and mines upon the human body. If, then,
these inanimate things possess a spirit that
escapes them in an impalpable form, indepen-
dently of their more palpable qualities,—if in
animal life we do not doubt the power of the
snake to fascinate its fluttering victim, why
should man, the most perfect of created things,
be incapable of emitting a portion of his spirit
in an invisible, but no less active manner."
" Maladies are catching," said I, laughing,
" but they can hardly be called the workings of
the spirit ; but beyond that
"
" Arc not sighs, yawns, and laughter infec-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 17
tious ?—does not the sight of a clouded brow
chill the spirit as much as that of a sunny one
cheers it? These are the involuntary, sponta-
neous results of this great agent called sympathy.
Its guidance into any given channel by the
power of volition is termed magnetism ; and
since the one can hardly be denied, why should
the other be deemed impossible ?"
" But if no delusion," I persisted, " why
should so simple a theory find so few partisans ?"
" Its very simplicity is its greatest enemy,
1 '
replied my companion. " Remember Co-
lumbus' egg. Why, most of us, in the details of
every-day life, unconsciously practise or yield
more or less to the influence of magnetism.
The low monotonous song by which the nurse
seeks to calm the cries of a troublesome infant
the chafing of the hand, by which the most
ignorant will seek to soothe pain—the stern look,
by which madness may be quelled and brute
nature tamed—all these are results of the same
cause. But let us proceed to bolder specula-
tions, and trace the power of sympathy beyond
the physical, into the mystic world. Whence is
18 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
it that dreams so often shadow forth to us
coming events, though in a misty, doubtful
form? How is it that our own thoughts are
apt to reflect facts, and suggest consequences,
the most unlike what bare supposition founded
on probability would have prompted, which
yet subsequent events justify ; that some people
have been known to foresee the time and
manner of their death years before it actually
took place ; or how to account for that most
ordinary phenomenon—so ordinary as to have
passed into a proverb—the sudden appearance
among us of those we talk of, even when least
expected ; or of the letter, at whose delay we
but that moment wonder; or of an object to
which chance alone directed our thoughts;
and yet who has not often experienced some-
thing of this sort himself? In short, the endless
catalogue of presentiments and coincidences,
sympathies and antipathies, all come, as I be-
lieve, within the range of magnetism, and are
but effects of that primary cause. I will not
pursue this theory in all its branches, it would
lead us too far, and, perhaps, make us lose
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 19
sight altogether of the point de depart, for it is a
field for thoughts as infinite as space."
"Yes," said I, laughing, "your world of
thought is indeed illimited; it is, in good
sooth, that of dreams. Chaudon, of course you,
who admit so willingly and defend so warmly,
the fashionable bubbles of modern philosophy,
will not dare to laugh at the follies and delu-
sions of our forefathers—astrology and its long
chain of errors."
" I consider astrology at best but an idle
question put to nature, which, if answered,
could produce no useful result. But I have
not the slightest doubt the planets have as
much influence upon our constitutions as they
exert over other sublunary bodies. So far there
may be some foundation for the medical system
of the Arabs, so much in favour during the
Middle Ages."
" When physicians," said I, laughing, " suf-
fered their patients to die of the disease, whilst
they were quietly awaiting the proper moment
indicated by the stars to administer the saving
potion."
20 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
"Every system has its flaws. It is in vain
that human ingenuity shifts its ground. Per-
fection is not attainable," said Chaudon, gravely;
" and I am sometimes tempted to fear, that, even
in these enlightened times of ours, excess of
light often blinds us to what our ancestors saw
and our descendants may yet see. Science,
my young friend, has its rotations, like every
other thing in this world. The wheel is eter-
nally revolving, and objects are lost sight of in
the movement, to appear again after the neces-
sary lapse of forgctfulness. It is thus that rea-
lity and speculation now stand forth from, and
then sink back into, the shadows of time ; that
opposite systems are now enthusiastically ad-
mitted, anon rejected with scorn; and that human
knowledge is ever turning round truth, as does
the earth around the sun, like it to feel the
alternation of night and day. There can be no
doubt but many things we now rail or laugh
at will one day be taken up again with avidity.
Magnetism, classified by Mesmer, was known
throughout all ages, and has served, in turn, to
the deceptions of the priests of Isis and those
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 21
of other and more modern creeds—was familiar
to the natural philosophers of the Dark Ages,
and formed the groundstone of those cures by
sympathy that created so much wonder in
these simple days. Magnetism, in fact, and
the vague dreams it may inspire, the errors it
sometimes gives rise to, the crimes to which
it has in many instances undeniably minis-
tered, —magnetism, veiled and unrecognised,
was the source of most of those trials for sor-
cery and magic to which we could find no
key, except by admitting this science and its
phenomena."
" In short," said I, " according to your views,
magnetism existed always and everywhere
cest tout, dans tout."
" Assuredly, my young friend ; that makes part
of my theory of the harmony of nature."
" You feel, doubtless," said I, " the beauty
of these lines
" '
From harmony, from heavenly harmony,
This universal frame began ;
From harmony to harmony,
Through all the compass of the notes it ran,
The diapason closing full in man.'"
22 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" I confess, they have ever appeared to me
fraught with the deepest meaning."
Chaudon listened to my translation of these
beautiful lines, imperfect as it was, with evi-
dent satisfaction.
" We feel alike there," he said, warmly grasp-
ing my hand. " Ah, my young friend, Milton
was a mighty spirit—a natural philosopher, as
well as poet ! I have no doubt, had he lived
in our days, he would have been a devoted
adherent of Mesmer."
I could not refrain from laughing heartily
at a thought which seemed to me so truly
preposterous.
" And why not ?" asked my old friend, red-
dening very much at the same time —"and
why not, pray ? Is it not a sublime thing even
to dream of a power that could heal both mind
and body, renovate the wearied spirit in the
sinking frame, and cause the lamp of life to
burn with a fresh glow, when about to sink for
ever ? Think what a sublime mission were that
of the good man here below, if he could infuse
a portion of his vigour, mental and corporeal,
into the misled and the suffering ; if he could,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 23
by this means, make wickedness openly avow
and turn away from its dark designs, alleviate
but a few of those multifarious evils that afflict
our organs, defeat what is bad, and promote
what is excellent. This was poor Mesmer's
dream—worthy indeed of a philanthropic genius
like his—when he first conceived that respon-
sive nerves could enable the magnetizer not
only to read the thoughts, but even to guide
the will and the feelings of the being subjected
to his influence, empowering him, like a mighty
conqueror, to cast the spirit he had enslaved
into chains."
" You allow, then," said I, " that Mes-
mer was a mere visionary? —his system a
dream ?"
" Nay, I fear, you have misunderstood me,"
he replied. " I would assert, that its happier
influences are still a matter for much doubt.
I must in conscience admit they rather exist
in the contemplation of the well-intentioned
than in the regions of reality; nor am I less
prepared to own that its dangers so far out-
balance its possible and speculative advantages,
as to make its general practice a great evil."
24 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" It were an ample field lor quackery and
the grossest deception/' I exclaimed, " if given
fair play."
" Far worse than that," he replied. " My
views on this subject, delusive, extravagant, as
they are deemed on many others, have been
sobered down by a very sad story, so early
grafted on my memory as to have sunk into
my very soul, and which has inspired me at
once with a firm belief in, and a salutary terror
of, the power of magnetism, by associating it
in my mind with the very worst species of
abuse of which it is capable. This morning,
whilst rummaging among papers long laid aside
as useless, and well-nigh forgotten, my eye
lighted upon some documents referring to this
same affair; and the sight awakened a long
train of painful reminiscences, which your pre-
sence alone, to confess the truth, but partially
dispelled. I have more than half a mind to
relate the melancholy tale to you, in support
of that agency's power whose very existence
you deny, and as, alas ! but too melancholy
a proof of the misery it may inflict."
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 25
" Indeed," said I, eagerly, " you could not
clothe your proofs in a more acceptable form,
I assure you. I'll swallow any hook, if baited
with a story."
" Ay ; but alas ! it is no fiction," said the old
man, with a deep sigh ;
" and, I dare say, enough
of the thousands of volumes written at the time
have escaped the fury of the Jesuits, to enable
you to satisfy your curiosity without the help
of my poor narration."
I had no trouble in seeing through this art-
less coquetry of the storyteller, and pleaded
my preference for verbatim instruction with
so good a grace, that I soon obtained the nar-
rative, which I will endeavour to repeat, word
for word, as it was given me (so far, at least,
as my memory will permit), although I am
afraid I never can do it justice as it came from
the lips of my good old friend.
Here, he began,—seating himself at a point
from whence he could command equally the
town and the sea,—here, in sight of the theatre
where the scenes I am about to relate were
vol. i. c
26 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
enacted, where the heroes of the story fretted
away their hour on the human stage, where
every object our eyes rest upon has probably
been gazed at by them a hundred times over
here, where their feet must often have trod, I
feel I can best talk of them, their sorrows, their
deceptions; and you will perceive that mag-
netism alone can account for things so passing
strange, that they will appear beyond belief,
and yet for the truth of which I can vouch
for my father, from whom I had all the details,
was himself deeply implicated in the affair.
Indeed, he not only related it to me, but talked
of the matter over and over again ; and I still
possess the papers concerning it, which he had
carefully preserved.
It was early in the year 1726, when my
father, Monsieur Jules Chaudon, then a young
man, left his native town, Marseilles, to come
and practise here as an avocat. He knew no
one in Toulon, except an old relation of his,
who had caused him to be bred up to his own
profession, intending to pass over to him his
clientette, when he grew old and tired, and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 27
bequeath him his fortune at his death. The
first epoch had arrived; and it was on this
account that my father, although an only son,
was sent forth from home to try his fortune in
life. The old gentleman was a confirmed vale-
tudinarian; and my father's existence would
have been but a dull one, had not the solici-
tude of his parents provided him with those
means of honest recreation, which are a young
man's best safeguard on entering life, against
illicit and degrading amusements. He had
letters of introduction to two of the most re-
spectable families of the city. One such, in
a provincial town, where society is so confined
to coteries and classes, is sufficient to open to
every tolerably connected young man the doors
of that society to which he b}' birth belongs
and when once admitted, his own misconduct
can alone close them against him.
I know, now-a-days, young men, far from
seeking such quiet circles, vote them dull and
stupid, and avoid them as they would the
plague, caring for nothing but noisy and doubt-
ful company ; that horses, actresses, and orgies,
c2
28 ' MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
appear to them the zenith of fashion and the
acme of enjoyment. But it was not so in my
father's day; and had it been, I think I may
safely aver that such would not have been his
inclination.
One of these letters was addressed to a cer-
tain Madame Cadieres, the widow of a rich
merchant, who kept a very good house, and
was a lady of some figure in this city. She
was the mother of four children, one of whom,
her eldest son, was married, and had left the ma-
ternal roof; but the three others—two sons,
who were preparing for the clerical profession,
and a daughter—still resided with her when my
father first visited the family.
Before entering upon the history of this fa-
mily and its connexion with my father, I think
it advisable to give you an idea of the first im-
pression its various members produced upon
him, and describe his youthful feelings as cir-
cumstantially as I may. This will help to bring
more vividly before you the actors of the drama
which I am about to recount.
His recollection of that first visit was so
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 29
strong, and he so often recurred to it in the
latter years of his life, that every detail of it is
as present to my mind as if I had actually been
there. Upon the strength of his introduction,
given by a very near relation of Madame Ca-
dieres—perhaps, also, upon that of his future
expectations—he was at once invited to join
her party at her country-house, situated within
a convenient walk from the town, where he was
received with a frank and hearty cordiality,
which is now fast fading away even from our
southern provinces.
It was then customary to dine at the hour
when lunch is now served; and this neces-
sitated another meal between dinner and sup-
per, that generally went by the name of colla-
tion, at which, however, nothing solid was ever
offered—fruits and creams in summer, comfits
and cakes in winter, were its only ingredients.
The family were at collation when my father
entered. Madame Cadieres was taking her
coifee with a few respectable-looking matrons,
at one end of the room ; whilst a group of
laughing young girls, clustered round a marble
30 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
table at the further extremity, were enjoying
their strawberries and cream. They were in
the very sweetest season of life, just budding
into womanhood—for the most part, of that
rich, dark, voluptuous beauty peculiar to our
clime, and laughing with the exhilarating
merriment which is a no less distinguishing
characteristic of its sunny influence.
My father was at first so dazzled with this
galaxy of loveliness, that he could scarcely dis-
cern any individuality in the fair assemblage
but his attention and admiration soon became
exclusively rivetted on one as dissimilar in
form and expression to the others as, in his
eyes at least, she was superior. Although
rather below than above the middle stature, her
figure was sufficiently rounded to betray her
age—she was just turned seventeen, and moulded
into the perfection of grace. Her hair, simply
parted on the brow and brought to the back of
her head in a wreath of tresses, which seemed
by their weight to set at defiance the thraldom
of the combs and sky-blue ribbons that con-
fined them, was of so brilliant a hue, that it
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 31
well deserved the term golden. Her eyes
generally sought the ground with a modesty of
expression that seemed the chief characteristic
of her physiognomy, and imparted to it an un-
nameable charm; but when raised, they were
of a blue, brilliant and vivid as the purest sum-
mer sky, and as calm and serene in aspect.
Her features were delicate and regular; no
smile hovered round her small and well-formed
mouth ; her looks were grave beyond her years,
even unto severity ; her skin, dazzlingly fair as
though it had caught a reflection from the
snows of the North, did not contrast more with
the dark complexions of her companions than
did the composure of her countenance and
bearing with the animation that distinguished
them. My father always told me that, in the
midst of this group, she put him in mind of a
Christian virgin surrounded by the houris of
the Mahomedan Paradise.
In spite of all his efforts he could not keep
his eyes off this little circle, and had barely pre-
sence of mind sufficient to answer the polite,
encouraging observations addressed to him by
32 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the matrons whilst sipping their favourite beve-
rage. At last, Madame Cadieres very conside-
rately conducted him towards the party he so
much longed, but had not the courage, to join,
saying, at the same time, it was not fair to keep
him away from the society best suited to his
age.
" My dear Catherine," said Madame Cadieres,
addressing one of the young ladies, " this is the
stranger of whom I spoke to you this morning
—he is to be for the future Vami de la maison,
and it is in this light I wish you and your
brothers to treat him from this evening forth.
Pray, my dear, endeavour to make him as com-
fortable as you can amongst you until their
return."
At this address all eyes were, for one instant,
raised to my father's blushing countenance ; the
next they were demurely fixed on the floor.
Mademoiselle Cadieres invited him to be seated;
the tones of her voice were singularly clear
and decided, but very sweet ; and he perceived
with delight that the speaker was the very girl
whose personal appearance had so much struck
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 33
him. The mother then retired, leaving the
young people to make acquaintance as they
best could.
Like all strictly brought up young men whose
youth has been free from premature excess, my
father was, at this period of his existence, pain-
fully shy in the presence of females, especially
of the young and beautiful ; so that, even while
he felt it a delight to look at them from afar, it
was a proportionable agony to be placed in
juxtaposition with them, and compelled to
endure the formidable battery of their bright
eyes. Happy the man, my young friend, who,
like him, has known youth in the full meaning
of the word—has suffered from the bashfulness
natural to its first phases—has yielded to its
warm impulses—enjoyed its freshness of feeling,
and has not been blighted in the bud by the
hotbed of a forced and premature experience ;
like him will the timid, ardent boy grow up to
vigorous manhood, and know a green old age.
The young men of our days are older at twenty
than the septuagenarians of the past generation.
Manhood, real sterling manhood, such as can
c3
34 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
only be based on regularity of conduct and
steadiness of mind, is fast passing away alto-
gether from my degenerate countrymen. For-
give this digression of an old grumbler. I
cannot omit now and then moralizing, espe-
cially when talking with the young, to whom I
think my opinions and advice may be of some
use.
My father soon found that his awkwardness
excited the risible faculties of his young com-
panions in no ordinary degree, who exchanged
nods and looks and smiles anything but flatter-
ing to his vanity. Mademoiselle Cadieres and
another young lady, called Eleonore Raymond,
whom my father observed for the first time as a
plain, nay, the only plain one of the party,
endeavoured by their gravity to check this
inhospitable merriment, and he felt grateful for
the support thus afforded him.
But vain were the endeavours of the former
to make him take any share in the conversation
that was going forward, or partake of the colla-
tion ; his excessive embarrassment for a time
neutralized all the effects of her kindness, and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 35
of his keen sense of the ridicule attached to his
want of assurance. Still no one felt pity for
him but Catherine ; the others finished by
fairly giving way to their mirth, which Made-
moiselle Raymond, although far from joining,
did not attempt to palliate by any gracious
display of sympathy on her own part, nor did
she in any way assist Catherine in her weary
task of relieving him from his state of trial.
At last his power of volition triumphed over
his sheepishness ; and he became more able to
attend to what was passing around him, if not
actually to mix in it.
The repast, which had seemed to him in-
sufferably long while it lasted, soon came to
what he now considered a too early termination.
The whole party passed into the garden, where
the elder ladies sauntered carelessly about,
whilst the younger sought divertisement at a
swing, and apparently found it, if a judgment
might be formed from the peals of laughter that
soon issued from the thick grove within which
the swing was placed. Mademoiselle Cadieres
stood at the entrance, in the attitude of a not
36 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
very interested spectator ; and my father gazed
at her from the parlour door, with an admiration
which, little as he was conscious of the fact,
was depicted in every line of his speaking phy-
siognomy.
My father, in his day, was reckoned the
handsomest man in Toulon. Cast in a Hercu-
lean mould, his figure was devoid of all clumsi-
ness, and his swarthy countenance bore evi-
dence, in its correct but somewhat stern lines,
that the strength of his mind corresponded with
that of his frame. He looked, what nature had
turned him out, a fine specimen of a vigorous,
fiery, and resolved race ; but his vigour was
tempered by goodness, his fire by reason, and
his resolves were guided by wisdom. In short,
if ever man came nigh unto perfection, that
man was my father ; and I, his son, am not the
only person now living who can bear testimony
to this assertion.
Of his personal advantages, as well as of his
undisguised and ardent admiration of her
daughter, Madame Cadieres seemed very lei-
surely taking cognizance from a short distance,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 37
and after a somewhat prolonged examination,
of which he was scarcely aware of being the ob-
ject, she came up to him, and at once embarked
upon a conversation that caused him no small
surprise.
" My daughter," she said, " seems to have
found favour in your eyes?" My father felt
himself blushing crimson. " Do not be dis-
tressed," she continued, kindly. " If you think
her pretty, you are of one mind with all Toulon,
I believe, and there is nothing offensive in it
but it reminds me that I have a duty to perform
with regard to yourself. Forewarned, fore-
armed, as the saying goes ; I had better let you
at once into the secret of my Catherine's views.
She never means to marry ; so, you see, it were
no use in the world your falling in love with
her."
My father was even more astonished at the
manner than at the matter of the good lady's
communication, but could not help owning in
his secret heart there was some ground for the
warning, premature as it was, since he felt so
unwilling to receive it. Some remark of his,
38 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
trite and commonplace, elicited further expla-
nation.
" Yes," she said, " Catherine is a singular
being — gifted beyond the gifts of ordinary
women—and who, unless I be much mistaken,
will run through no ordinary course of life. I
cannot help thinking, and many of my friends
are of the same opinion, that she will one day
shine forth as a brilliant light of sanctity. She
is, and has always been, an angel—why may
she not become a saint ?"
My father thought it was something very
like a fall instead of a promotion to quit an
angelship for a saintship ; but he was too pru-
dent to give vent to the juvenile sarcasm, and
suffered the old lady to proceed, who, nattered
by his deep attention, opened her communi-
cative vein.
" She intends to devote herself wholly to
religion, and to permit no earthly affections to
interfere with this great object of her life. From
earliest childhood, piety has been the corner stone
of her existence. I could cite to you instances
of her faith and charity for eight days running,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 39
and never have done. So perfect a creature
never was ; so meek and humble—so uncon-
scious of her merits, yet so abounding in Chris-
tian virtues ; her first communion alone would
furnish matter for a volume ; her soul was more
spotless than her veil, and her fervour amazed
and confused even the reverend Father Alexis
himself. One instance of her singular devotion
will suffice. Imagine, sir, that when scarcely
turned of seven, a delicate, puny child—for my
Catherine never was strong,—she insisted upon
tending the sick at the hospital, where, on
account of a contagious disease raging within its
walls, even the most necessary attendance failed
the poor invalids. But Heaven spared her to
me then, to make, I doubt not, an example of
her in this land ; and in these days of growing
unbelief such examples are indeed needful."
" Mademoiselle Cadieres seems, indeed, from
your account, a person of no ordinary cha-
racter,*' observed my father, mechanically, as
she paused in her narration.
" Ordinary ! certainly not !" exclaimed the
eager mother. " In infancy she disliked and
40 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
avoided the idle games of other children—cast
away from her the toys in which they de-
lighted. As she grew, vanity and frivolity, the
thirst for admiration and love of dress, that
mostly influence other young women, had no
hold on her. Books of devotion were her
dearest companions; to aid the poor, to con-
sole the afflicted, her chief pleasures. Thus
has she from day to day improved in virtue
and grace, until she is the wonder of all who
know her. She begins already to be much
talked of. I do not wonder at it, nor shall I
be astonished at anything she may turn out, for
I myself was very pious, and always prayed
above all things that my children might be so
too. I knew I bore no ordinary being in my
bosom even before her birth. I could not
touch aught that had life in it—not a mouthful
of anything coarse or nutritive could pass my
lips ; like the hermits of yore, herbs were my
food and water my drink until after she was
born."
" Perhaps," said my father, " you destine
Mademoiselle Catherine to the veil ?"
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 41
At these words a shade passed over Madame
Cadieres' countenance ; she looked as if they
had caused a disagreeable chord to vibrate
within her, and she resumed, in a less emphatic
and animated tone
u Well, my dear young friend, I have given
you fair warning, so look to your heart. If
you were to fall in love with my daughter, I
should not be the one to rebuke you, assuredly
but I am convinced you would only expose
yourself to a severe disappointment. Now let
me give you another piece of advice, which
may be equally useful if you are wise enough
to avail yourself of it. I know it to be the
wish of your parents that you settle early in
life. Among these young ladies you will find
many unexceptionable matches, and I do not
think you have any refusal to apprehend on
their part. There's Marie Langieres, the best
soul alive, though a little indolent, perhaps
languid, but the duties of a housewife soon
drill activity into a young girl ; she has many
relations in the magistracy, and has good ex-
pectations. Mademoiselle Guyol, too, is very
42 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
lively and pretty, though somewhat flighty and
coquettish, but marriage tames down all super-
abundance of spirit, and once fairly settled, she'll
grow steady enough, I dare say. She has an
uncle, a judge, in Montpelier, who might be of
use to you in your profession. Marie Reboul
and Mademoiselle la Rue, again, belong to
commercial families, and are very well off; the
former is rather heavy and not over bright in the
head, it is true, but some people are of opinion
that fools make the best wives—as to the latter,
her avarice is a guarantee for her economy ; she
would take care of your gains, and a thrifty
housewife causes the house to flourish. Ah ! I
had forgot to mention Eleonore Raymond ; she
is very rich indeed; but though a catholic
herself, has protestant relations, and that's an
objection. However, I have given you the
carte du pays ; you may now think of whom
you please, provided it be not of Catherine."
This abrupt and extraordinary warning,
though doubtless well meant, on the whole did
more harm than good ; for by the pleasure with
which my father listened to the mother's rhap-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 43
sodical encomiums of her daughter, he already
felt himself a lover, for who else but a lover can
understand a mother's praise of her child. But,
with a tact that was at that time rather the
instinct of nature than the growth of experience,
he was at no loss to discover how matters stood
in the family. He saw that the affection of
Madame Cadieres for her handsome, gentle
daughter, which partook of a sort of involuntary
respect for her imagined superiority, was mixed
with no small alloy of pride and ambition. To
make you fully understand how ambition could
be gratified in this circumstance, I must remind
you—or rather inform you, for you may chance
never to have heard of the influence of religion
among us previous to the revolution.
The different classes of society were then so
distinctly marked, that there was no possibility
of passing the boundary which divided the tiers
etat from the aristocracy. Wealth, talent,
beauty, genius, the gifts of fortune and of
nature, were alike inadequate to smooth away
the obstacles that lay between the unprivileged
and the privileged, however deficient the latter
44 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
might be in equivalent merits. Now, as is usual
in such cases, the secondary classes had nothing
so much at heart as to pass the forbidden frontier,
and in proportion as they neared that point,
were they considered and looked up to by their
own society. Such was the power of the
priesthood, however, that what nothing else
could effect, religion could ; and before its
members all doors flew open, all artificial
barriers fell. Royalty itself was fain to humble
its head before the cowl, and the veil had
precedence of the coronet. Hence, perhaps,
the secret of many a misnamed religious calling,
the source of many a fervent devotion and of a
certain mania for saintship, a prevailing distem-
perature of mind at that epoch, which was a
convenient channel for female ambition.
My father perceived, without much diffi-
culty, that Madame Cadieres was silly, bigoted,
and very ambitious. To such a woman the
thought of giving the world a saint, and a
pretty one,—for ugly female eminences are
always at a discount,—would most naturally
present itself; and chance having met her half
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 45
way in the merits and disposition of her daugh-
ter, what more natural than that she should
hail the prospect with delight ?
That Catherine had wholly yielded up her
young soul to the feelings thus carefully instilled
into her was evident, and what might have been
expected. But my father began to suspect that
a warm imagination lay concealed beneath her
calm exterior, and he could not help thinking
that she was more calculated to bless a husband
and children with the sources of love lying as
yet unrevealed within her young bosom, than
for the frigidity of a monastic seclusion. He
approached the object of his meditations, and
timidly asked why she did not mingle in the
amusements of her friends.
" Because they do not amuse me," she re-
plied. " When the thoughts are often fixed
on grave subjects, it becomes difficult to bring
them to bear on lighter things."
Although the observation might have seemed
affected and odd in most girls of her age,
Catherine's manner was so simple and natural
that there was no possibility of misunderstand-
46 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ing her. Whatever she said came spontane
ously to her lips, and was the offspring of her
thoughts ; but those thoughts—her very nature
—had taken a forced and unnatural bent.
" I understand," said my father. " By re-
maining fixed too long on any one object, the
mind is apt, like the limbs, to lose its elasticity.
You are perfectly right, Mademoiselle Cathe-
rine ; but ought we not, in such a case, to apply
the same remedy we use for the body — a
change ?"
" Surely there is no need of remedy where
there is no evil," was Catherine's answer; and
my father dared not yet venture his real opinions
on so delicate a theme.
When the party again gathered together he
felt almost relieved from his former embarass-
mertt, so fast had his imagination familiarized
him with those whom Madame Cadieres had
so amply described to him ; but neither the
languishing, voluptuous beauty of Marie Lan-
gieres, whose long silken lashes fell over orbs
that glowed with passion ; nor the lustrous,
laughing eyes of the merry Mademoiselle Guyol,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 47
whose light step seemed scarcely to touch the
earth, and whose espieglerie lighted up an irregu-
lar, but very pretty face, nor any grace or charm
of any of them, could induce him to change
his former impression of Catherine Cadieres'
incomparable superiority ; in short, he was fast
yielding himself up to the all-delightful illusions
of a first love.
More than once he attempted to enter
into something like conversation with Made-
moiselle Raymond, next to whom he sat ; but
the frigid, disagreeable manner of that young
lady so totally discouraged him, that, although
he could perceive she was the most intimate of
Catherine's companions, he could not make up
his mind to win her good graces ; and, more-
over, doubted the possibility of the achieve-
ment.
The young men of the family came home
very late, but, the evening being inviting for
a walk, they accompanied my father back to
town. During that time he had an opportunity
of perceiving that they partook, in a great de-
gree, of their mother's poverty of intellect, and
48 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
entered fully into her views and opinions with
regard to Catherine, whom they evidently fan-
cied must, one day, become the footstool of
their own promotion in the church, and cause
the elevation of the whole family. My father
listened with apparent acquiescence to all they.
advanced on this subject, but determined, in
his own mind, to carry off the prize if he could,
despite all the saintships in the world.
Now began, for him, the golden dreams
of youth, mingled with the realities of life.
Grounded in excellent studies, gifted with a
fine organ and natural eloquence, he soon made
way in his profession, whilst his good qualities
—intercourse with the world gaining for him a
sufficient ease of manner to set them off
began to develop themselves, and in a very
short time he became a general favourite with
young and old. He was quoted as an example
to the sons, and looked upon as a very desirable
suitor for the daughters. But the parents were
not alone in discovering his merits; he was
not slow in perceiving that Madame Cadieres
had prophesied rightly, in assuring him that he
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 49
had no rejection to apprehend on the part of
their fair scions. Even the languid and proud
Marie Langieres grew more animated in his
presence, and the sprightly Marie Guyol more
pensive ; but his heart, from the first hour of
meeting, acknowledged no other sovereign but
Catherine.
Whether, after all, the mother triumphed
in Madame Cadieres' bosom, and she could not
remain insensible to the advantage of settling
her daughter so happily and comfortably as she
had an opportunity of doing with my father,
and therefore thought it a matter of conscience
to keep her doors open to him, or that she was
actuated merely by a feeling of kindness, he
could never discover; but her house became
a sort of second home, where all his leisure
hours were spent ; his place was marked at the
hospitable board, where a frank welcome ever
awaited him.
He was treated by Catherine with the
utmost cordiality ; and, though her manner
remained as calm and grave as ever, he could
not help fancying that he was daily gaining
VOL. I. d
50 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ground in her esteem, and that her preference
was insensibly ripening into a warmer feeling.
The bare possibility of such a thing sufficed to
gild every hour of his life with sunshine. How
often did he picture to himself the rapturous
joy with which he would clasp the dear girl
to his bosom,—his own, his Catherine, for life.
With what downcast eyes and blushing cheeks
would she still, even when a wife, receive him
on his return home ; and how he would teach
her lip to smile, and something sweeter still.
How quietly, but yet cheerfully, would she
fulfil the little home duties that make home
so comfortable—the only comfortable spot on
earth. How her meek virtues would clothe her
in a lasting beauty, that, like his love, would
grow with coming years. All the dreams of an
honourable love were his. He would sit gazing
on her in silence by the hour together, rapt
in thought, whilst a glowing, ardent admiration
filled his breast, equally inspired by the sun-
beam playing on his mistress' golden tresses,
the passing pallor of her cheek, or the soft mur-
mur of her voice. In short, love made him
a poet.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 51
Having no reason to conceal these sentiments,
they soon became pretty generally known, and
formed the topic of conversations it was sometimes
his chance to overhear. One autumnal evening,
as he was quietly reclining against one of the
prim, tall box hedge rows in Madame Cadieres'
garden, a few of her merry young guests hap-
pened to seat themselves on the other side of
the leafy barrier ; and, unconscious of his vi-
cinity, handled the subject with no great cere-
mony.
" As for me," said Marie Langieres, as if in
reply to something previously advanced, " I am
sure I do not see why the Cadieres should
refuse Monsieur Jules Chaudon. I am even
better connected than Catherine; my uncle is
a judge ; I might hope for a de, at least, before
my name, whenever I chose to change it, and
yet I don't know that I should have refused
him myself, had he proposed to me."
"Nor I," said Mademoiselle Guyol, "although
he is so grave, and likes so little the theatre.
However, if she should marry him, it is a comfort
to think that he will never take her to Paris,
d 2
52 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
where it is my great ambition to reside, for any
srirl with tolerable looks is said to cut an un-
common figure there."
" For my part," exclaimed Mademoiselle
Reboul, " I had rather marry him than that old
Monsieur Renoir, whom my parents wish me to
wed, for all that he is so rich, and certainly, as
most people would think, the best match of
the two."
" Not I, "par ezemple" returned Mademoi-
selle la Rue, whose predilection for money
Madame Cadieres had touched upon in her
first conversation with my father ; "I wish Mon-
sieur Renoir would ask me, that's all ! Were he
fifty times as old and as ugly, I'd accept him at
the very first asking. ' If fortune be not hap-
piness, 'tis the better half of it,' says my grand-
mamma, and I believe her."
" That's dutiful," said Mademoiselle Guyol,
laughing ;
" and now, young ladies, let's see if
we shall each of us be gratified in our dearest
wishes. Here is a daisy I pluck for Marie
Langieres ; I'll tear each leaf off with a yes or
a no, alternately, and we'll see with what word
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 53
the last will fall—that will be fate's decision.
Come, say, pretty daisy,—Shall Marie Lan-
gieres marry a chevalier, or a monsieur de, or
even an officer—she would so fain be a fine lady ?
Yes—no—yes—no. No! ha, ha, ha!" laughed
the merry girl ;
" she'll marry an underwriter
after all, or an usher, or a schoolmaster, or,
perhaps, take the veil. Well—let's see ! now
it's my turn. —Shall I ever see Paris ? Again
the flower says no. Shall Mademoiselle Re-
boul marry Renoir ? no I Well, that's strange !
And Marie de la Rue, shall she find a Croesus
for a suitor ? no ! Well, that's odd ! Shall
any one of us marry at all, I wonder ?" But
the harmless flowret seemed unpropitious, for
again it determined—no !
" Well, that's stupid
!"
said Mademoiselle Guyol, impatiently ;
" I'll
know if Catherine will accept Monsieur Jules?''
My father did not hear the conclusion of the
childish trick, for Catherine herself came up
the alley in which he sat, and he had not yet
sufficient courage to put the question to the
only true oracle, the sweet girl herself.
A short time after this, my father witnessed
54 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
a strange incident, which I must not omit to
relate, for it bears upon the story.
It was a frequent amusement of the inhabi-
tants of Toulon to make excursions into its de-
lightful vicinities, on which occasions the old
axiom of the more the merrier seemed to be the
order of the day ; and, in the summer season,
gay caravans were constantly seen issuing from
the town gates.
Madame Cadieres had invited a large party to
accompany herself and her bevy of young com-
panions on a visit to a cave of celebrity in the
neighbourhood, that had served as a resting-
place to some saint or other, but ninety-two
and ninety-three have so sadly confused these
superstitious traditions, that I cannot precisely
inform you of the whereabouts, nor the exact
object, of their curiosity or devotion. I only
know it was to answer both ends, and that my
father was, as usual, invited to make one of the
party.
This place was at a considerable distance
from the town, to which it was agreed they
should return by moonlight, being too many
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 55
for their servants accompanied them—to have
anything to fear from the unsettled state of the
roads. Gay was the little band, and none
gayer than my father. The warmer glow which
the sun of the south gives to man's spirits, as it
lends a richer hue to its flowers, a sweeter fra-
grance to its breezes, ripening all it lights upon
to a more finished existence, imparted to the
whole cavalcade a tone of hilarity, to which old
and young, master and man, yielded without
control, and all laughed in the face of smiling
nature around them. Even Catherine seemed,
to a certain degree, infected with the general
cheerfulness, though her enjoyment in no way
interfered with her usual repose of manner.
My father rode the whole day by her side un-
reproved by herself, and unmolested by others,
as though his right to that place of honour was
silently acknowledged by all. Catherine spoke
freely and feelingly on all subjects ; and though
not brilliantly witty, her frank and gentle
earnestness imparted to her conversation a
charm which rendered him perfectly insensible
to the gloomy silence maintained by her insepa-
56 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
rablc friend, Mademoiselle Raymond, whose
joyless countenance and chilling aspect made
her like unto a shadow thrown across their path.
The merry devotees reached the aim of their
pilgrimage in safety, performed their somewhat
protracted devotions, and refreshed themselves
with a plentiful cold repast, the ingredients for
which had been brought from town, in large
baskets, wherewith a couple of strong mules
had been laden.
Up to this time every thing had been most
favourable ; but when their meal was finished,
and they prepared to return, the sky, which
had gradually assumed a threatening appear-
ance, poured forth a shower of rain as violent
as it was unexpected, forcing every one to cover.
The same tree sheltered my father and Made-
moiselle Cadieres, nor did either seem to feel
the circumstance an annoyance.
They all fancied the cloud would soon spend
its fury, and the weather clear again, such sud-
den and apparently causeless atmospherical
changes being very common in our climate
but instead of mending, matters grew worse
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 57
with every minute. The thunder growled, at
first indistinctly, and the lightning occasionally
illumined the lurid heavens with a faint flash ;
but soon the storm broke forth with unparalleled
might, and it was as much as my father could
do to prevent his fragile companion from being
dashed to the ground by the hurricane.
He was at first amazed,—then frightened at
the effect of the storm upon her nerves. As it
increased, she grew more silent and more pale,
seemed gradually to lose all consciousness of his
kind attentions, and even of his very presence,
and yielded herself up completely to her terror.
Remonstrances and encouragement were alike
disregarded ; he took her hand, but she tore it
impatiently from him. He then grasped her
by the arm to force, since he could not persuade,
her to leave the shelter of the tree, which bowed
to the wind in a manner to make him dread it
would snap, and crush them in its fall.
The rain was blinding. Large hail stones
were driven furiously into their faces ; he vainly
strove to conduct Catherine towards some
bushes that grew at a short distance, and which
D 3
58 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
afforded, at least, protection from the wind.
Escaping his grasp, she uttered a few angry
expressions, in a sharp tone, such as he never
thought to have heard from her lips; and,
cowering down upon the field amid the rank
grass laid by the rain, panting breathless with
the excess of terror, she lay in dangerous
proximity to the tree.
Fortunately, however, the hurricane was not
of long duration, and the air soon became filled
with calls and shouts, as, one by one, the scat-
tered members of the party emerged from their
various places of refuge. The young ladies
looked all the lovelier for the unavoidable dis-
array of their costume, in spite of pale cheeks
and lank hair ; but the elder dames were greater
sufferers by this trivial mishap, and more con-
cerned for its consequences. They looked
disconsolately at the rain, which, although the
wind had ceased, continued to pelt them most
unmercifully,—then at their dripping clothes,
and at the lowering heavens, to which the dusk
of evening now began to impart an additional
obscurity, and finally called upon the aged
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 59
servant, who acted as guide, to join them in a
hasty consultation.
My father, all this time, stood near Made-
moiselle Cadieres, to whom he did not venture
again to speak. She still lay apparently insensible
in the wet grass, and he was much relieved by
the approach of Mademoiselle Raymond, who
stepped up to the prostrate Catherine, and ad-
dressed her in a decided manner.
"Rise, Catherine—for shame —why will you
ever remain a child ? Rise, I say ! Do you
not see that all is over? I hope these ladies
are not going to remain here all night, or ride
in their damp clothes ; you and I, at least, must
walk forward."
Mademoiselle Raymond spoke rather with
an air of authority than affection, and my father
observed with surprise that it produced an al-
most instantaneous effect. Catherine rose at
her bidding, and walked on with the passive
obedience of a child, looking with reviving con-
fidence into her stern features.
" Ah !" thought my father, " hers is a weak
as well as a gentle spirit, and requires no less
60 MAGIC AND ME8MERISM.
guidance than support—the most amiable of all
characters for a wife. Well, I am able to afford
her both."
" It is not easy to understand," said Madame
Cadieres, in an apologetic manner to the com-
pany fast gathering around, " how so gifted a
being as my Catherine, so superior to others of
the same age and sex, can be afraid of thunder,
and tremble at the wind. To be sure, I was
always a dreadful coward in these things, but
that's no reason why "
" It is the weakness of her nerves," said
Eleonore Raymond, somewhat sharply ;
" they
are singularly irritable, though you will not
perceive it, and I advise you not to expose her
any longer to this cold shower-bath than you
can help."
Though the advice was ungraciously given,
its wisdom went directly home to the mother's
heart ; besides, it accounted favourably for a
weakness in her daughter's character which she
imagined to be a flaw, and she gratefully availed
herself of this opportunity of turning the atten-
tion of the listeners into another channel.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 61
It was promptly decided that they should
proceed on foot along a cross road leading to a
village well known to their guide, where they
hoped to find an inn of some sort or other. The
attendants were to bring up the rear with the
mules and baggage.
Again it fell to my father's lot to escort
Catherine and Eleonore. The latter gave him
little or no trouble; it was but seldom she
needed his assistance, and never his encourage-
ment. Not so his fairer companion; not a
step could she advance alone. As the gloom
deepened, she looked around in vague appre-
hension ; now fancying a bat was flying about
her head—now, that a toad leaped before her
in the pathway; then, that dark figures flitted
along behind the hedgerows; started at the
sound of her own voice, and feared to look
back, lest she might behold—she could not
herself say what.
For all these imaginary terrors Eleonore
every now and then reproved her friend in no
gentle tone; and my father perceived, with
displeasure, that her remonstrances had more
62 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
weight with Catherine than his gentle persua-
sions. He could have wished Mademoiselle
Raymond at the other end of the world; but
still Catherine's trembling hand rested on his
arm. He could distinctly feel her heart beat
against it; she called on his name with soft
and timid accents, and he felt happy, as young
lovers only can feel, and wished it might be
permitted to walk on thus, hand in hand,
throughout all space and time.
" At last an inn was discovered. It was
crowded with wayfarers surprised by the storm
and all that the surly hostess would or could
do, was to allow this new influx of visitors to
dry themselves by the kitchen-fire, and to pass
the night in a large comfortless room, boasting
no beds, and very little furniture of any kind
along the walls of which she distributed heaps of
straw for their accommodation ; and, poor as this
was, they had reason to congratulate themselves
upon it ; for it was with the utmost difficulty
they obtained that no strangers should share
the apartment with them.
i\fter much scrambling and laughing on
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 63
the part of the juniors, and much grumbling on
that of the seniors, the disasters of the evening
were tolerably repaired; and all busied them-
selves in making preparations, as best they could,
for the enjoyment of rest, rendered doubly ne-
cessary by the exertions of the day.
Catherine, who had by this time completely
recovered her equanimity, provided, with the
most engaging solicitude, for her mother's com-
fort. A few cushions, taken from the mules by
her brothers, and arranged by her own careful
hand, and a coverlid borrowed from the hostess
(by a miracle clean and fresh), soon made the
old lady a tolerable couch. Madame Langieres
pillowed herself on her daughter's shoulder;
Mesdemoiselles la Rue and Reboul were equally
eager in displaying their filial affection ; whilst
Marie Guyol kept in exercise the gallantry of
the few young men who had neither mothers
nor sisters to claim their attention.
Eleonore Raymond stood pensively gazing
on the various movements of her young friends,
with an expression of sadness not habitual to
her austere countenance, and which softened
64 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
its harsher lines. My father approached her,
and inquired if he could be of any service.
" No, I thank you," she replied, in a less
abrupt tone than usual.
" I thought you looked as if you missed
something," he said, apologetically.
" You were right," she answered. " When
I behold these happy children and parents thus
occupied, and anxious for one another, I miss
my own mother.
Tears started to her eyes as she spoke, and
her voice trembled. For the first time, she
appeared to him not absolutely repulsive. She
is not pretty, thought he, but decidedly inter-
esting. He would have continued a conversa-
tion begun in a tone so congenial to his own
feelings, for he was the best of sons ; but Ma-
demoiselle Raymond suddenly turned her back
upon him, and moved off to another end of
the room, as if ashamed of her momentary
communicativeness.
" She has not a bad heart ; but what a surly,
uncongenial temper," thought my father.
" At last, every thing and every body was
MAGIC AND .MESMERISM. 65
settled. Catherine, whose exhaustion had for
some time been visible, now lay stretched upon
a couch composed of cloaks and shawls thrown
upon the straw; and her brothers already be-
gan to nod in their chairs by her side. My
father, too, had taken his station at no great
distance, in a situation so shaded, that, while
no motion of Catherine's could escape him, she
could not easily become aware of his vicinity.
Even Eleonore Raymond, who sat at the table,
on which burned dimly a couple of villanous
tallow candles, with her head buried in her
hands, remained so still, that it was impossible
to say whether she slept or not.
That my father felt neither weary nor sleepy
I need perhaps scarcely tell you ; and yet
young men seldom now-a-days possess suffi-
cient freshness of feeling to know the luxury
of a real bona Jide passion—a pure, yet glowing
first love. I am sorry for them; for I think
them great losers by the change. Sentiment
has its epicurism as well as sensualit}7
; and I
consider him a pitiful wight indeed, who knows
too much of the latter ever to have tasted the
66 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
sweets of the former. However, this is a digres-
sion, revenons a nos moutons.
It has often been said, and my father felt
on this occasion the full force of the observa-
tion, that nothing ripens intimacy faster than
a journey, or anything resembling it. Weeks,
months, of almost daily associations in the usual
routine of society, do not mature a budding-
affection, rub off the mutual diffidence, and
efface the doubts, which are its chief impedi-
ments, like a whole day spent together. It has
something of the familiarity of domestic habits
nor is it possible for the fair lady to maintain
herself within the strong ramparts of icy reserve,
when exposed to the incessant skirmishes of
polite attentions, needed kindnesses, and all the
chances that throw young people on such occa-
sions into each other's way. I see by your smile,
my young friend, that you think my comparisons
and sentiments as roccocos as myself; so I will
even on with my story.
For the first few hours, everything was
hushed in the large crowded chamber, and every
one slept, or seemed to sleep. Catherine was
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 67
wrapt in the peaceful slumbers of a child, from
which even the loud snorings of her brothers
were unequal to arouse her. To the young
lover's enamoured fancy she seemed more lovely
in this placid, gentle repose, than in her most
animated moments. But he loved as we of
Toulon and Marseilles love ; whether she spake
or was silent, laughing or sad, kind or other-
wise, her last mood ever seemed the most fasci-
nating, and herself more perfect with every
passing hour.
Midnight tolled from the neighbouring church
in thin, sharp accents, denoting, by the meagre
sound, how much it stood in need of fresh
bells. My father started at the chime, and
looked around. Mademoiselle Raymond was yet
in the same position ; Marie Guyol had drop-
ped asleep, in the midst of her frolics, like a
wearied Hebe ; and her admirers had glided to
a heap of straw not far off, doubtless with the
intention of never losing sight of their divinity,
where, nature having overcome them, they lay
in a state of the deepest oblivion. Scarcely
had the hour ceased to chime, when the moon,
68 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
emerging from the cloud that had hitherto,
veiled her, shone forth in uncontrolled bril-
liancy, streaming full through the curtainless
•windows upon Catherine's reclining figure. My
father, dreading lest the light should disturb
her, was about to seek the means of excluding
it, when suddenly she rose to a sitting posture,
and stretched forth her hands anxiously.
" I must dress my hair," she said, in an
audible, though low voice ;
" but I cannot find
my comb—1 fear it is left behind."
He was surprised at the extraordinary de-
mand, and no less so when the elder brother
gently roused the younger, who immediately
produced the desired object.
" That's right," she said. " Now, bring me a
mirror. How can I braid my hair without one ?
Thank you. Now, take away this odious ker-
chief—so. Joseph, don't stand in my light."
My father was startled; for it was he, and
not her brother, who stood between her and
the light of the moon. He moved off, saying
to Joseph, as he did so
"I am afraid my presence annoys Made-
moiselle Cadieres."
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 69
" Not the least in the world," was the reply.
" She is not even aware of it. If it interests
you to watch her just now, you may do so, pro-
vided you do not attempt to wake her."
" But she is no longer asleep."
" She is," answered Joseph, with a smile.
" Have you never before witnessed an instance
of somnambulism ? My poor sister has been
subject to this affliction since her childhood
it is, however, fast wearing off. But hush
she is about to speak."
(i
Joseph, bring the light nearer."
He lighted a candle and placed it by her
with great precaution, and my father then per-
ceived that her eyes were completely closed.
One brother, at her desire, held the candle, the
other, the mirror,—then removing the silk ker-
chief, she carefully unbraided her tresses and
suffered them to flow in natural luxuriance
down her shoulders.
I have often heard it said by those who had
known her, that Catherine's hair was finer than
any they had ever seen. Of the purest, palest
gold colour, and of the softest, most silken
tissue, it fell in glittering showers about her, and
70 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
literally veiled her person. The only touch of
vanity her friends and detractors had been able
to trace in Catherine, was in reference to this
beautiful ornament of nature. A menial hand
was never suffered to profane it, but she braided
and smoothed it herself with peculiar care ;
and, setting at nought the perverse taste of the
time, when ladies befrizzled and bespangled
themselves most unmercifully, she gathered
them up at the back of her head in a simple
Grecian knot, aware, doubtless, that this sim-
plicity displayed their beauty to the greatest
possible advantage, and would now and then pass
a sky-blue ribbon through them with a coquettish
and becoming grace.
Most men, besides admiring beauty in its
more broad and general acceptation, are devoted
to some separate, individual grace. Some praise
a small foot, others offer their homage at the
shrine of a snowy, well-formed hand, a third
fancies beauty rests in the eye ; my father had
always a caprice for fine hair, and this charm in
Mademoiselle Cadieres, although so strangely
exhibited, made no small impression on his
imagination.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 71
The light caught the long rich locks as she
carefully combed and separated them, and even
occasionally played on her closed eyelids without
discomposing her. At last she seemed satisfied,
and well she might be so, for the most expert
practitioner could not, with open eyes and in
full daylight, have achieved the work better.
She then rose to her feet and made towards the
window, feeling with her hands for a curtain.
"There's no shutting out the moon," she
said. " Well, it can't be helped. It is but for
one night, to-morrow I shall be home again."
" She must be awake," said my father, in a
whisper to Joseph, who watched his sister nar-
rowly, without, however, attempting to impede
her movements. " She speaks quite con-
nectedly."
" She is asleep, notwithstanding, and we must
be careful not to wake her, for that the physician
declares is the only danger."
Catherine walked, indeed, somewhat hesitat-
ingly, with outstretched hands, like ablind person,
or one groping in the dark, yet contriving with
singular nicety to avoid coming in contact with
any person or object that stood in her way, ad-
72 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
dressing herself to Joseph alone, as if uncon-
scious of the presence of any other.
She next approached the table where Eleo-
nore sat, who, by a slight movement, betrayed
that she was either aroused by the circumstance,
or, what is more probable, had never slept at
all. Catherine took up the light; my father
sprang forward to snatch it from her uncertain
hold, but Mademoiselle Raymond interfered.
Gently pushing him back, she took the candle-
stick from Catherine's unresisting hand, saying,
with her wonted abruptness,
" Go to your bed, Catherine ; night is the
time for sleep. Go and rest."
Catherine hung her head like a eluded child,
and moved slowly to her couch. She knelt by
its side and recited her evening prayer in a
sweet, though smothered voice. She never
omitted to cross herself at the appropriate
places, and even gently struck her breast at
certain words expressive of penitence and hu-
mility ; then laid herself down, and, in another
instant, seemed as calm and motionless as though
her sleep were unvexed even by dreams.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 73
My father had heard much and read more
about the singular abnormity called somnambu-
lism, but had never before witnessed this phe-
nomenon. Now that he, for the first time,
beheld its effects in a beloved object, he had
sufficient food for meditation until the early dawn
broke upon the uncomfortable party, and roused
them to fresh exertions. Joseph had warned him
that Catherine, in her waking hours, was totally
unconscious of having walked and talked during
sleep ; and that it was thought advisable by her
friends not to allude, in any manner, to the
circumstance. He therefore greeted her as if
nothing unusual had happened, and, after a
hasty meal, they mounted and rode homewards.
He would have resumed his place by Cathe-
rine's side, but perceived she had fallen to the
rear, and was engaged in an earnest conversa-
tion with Eleanor Raymond, of which, by the
direction of their glances, he could not but guess
he was the subject.
"They are discussing your merits," said Ma-
demoiselle Guyol, in the free gay manner of
childhood which she had retained while woman-
VOL. I. E
74 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
hood and its graces were rapidly growing upon
her; "you never advocated a cause more
warmly than Mademoiselle Raymond does
yours at this moment, I can assure you."
Before he could frame a reply, she had urged
her horse forward and headed the cavalcade.
Her words, whether spoken in jest or earnest,
somewhat disconcerted him. He could not help
fancying they came nearer the mark, as to the
fact of his merits being under discussion, than
the speaker herself was aware of, though he
became nervous at the bare thought that Cathe-
rine might be prejudiced against him by the
harsh opinions which, in spite of Mademoiselle
Guyol's assertion, he doubted not her friend
entertained of him, as well as of all the world
besides.
The weather, though cloudy and uncertain
in the morning, cleared up in the course of the
day, and young and old recovered their spirits,
which had been damped by the mischance of
the previous night. But when my father again
joined Catherine, all his efforts to resume the
unembarrassed confidential tone of the eve
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 75
were unsuccessful ; long pauses intervened in
their conversation, which Eleonore, as usual,
took no trouble to fill up. But whether this
chilling restraint originated with himself or
Mademoiselle Cadieres, he was at a loss to
determine. This trifling check naturally ren-
dered their ride back to Toulon less agreeable
than their departure ; still my father, on the
whole, was sorry when it was over, and felt that
this excursion had rivetted his chains.
Matters remained for a few months in statu
quo. The intimacy continued, obviously en-
couraged by the mother, and anything but dis-
couraged, as he thought, by the daughter. His
parents, to whom he had openly declared his
feelings and intentions, approved highly of his
choice, and thus all things looked propitious.
He fancied, too, that Catherine's disposition
gradually became modified, by some unknown
cause or other, but which he did not fail, with
the sanguineness of youth, to attribute to his
own growing influence. She seemed every day
less of a saint and more of a woman. This
change, while it damped the ambitious hopes
E 2
76 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
and disconcerted the personal views of her
friends, gratified him unspeakably. All parties
appeared to soften towards him; even her
brother's jealousy diminished, in exact ratio,
as the hopes they had built upon their sister
began to wane.
It was again spring. Catherine and her
mother had removed to their country house,
where my father continued to be an every day
visitor; and he determined, at last, to venture
on the grand question, whose answer was to fix
his future happiness or miseiy. But it would
be wearisome to relate, and incredible to believe,
how often he went to the house with the firm
resolution that that very evening should be the
last of suspense, and returned without even
having hinted at the subject nearest his heart.
Whenever he attempted to bring himself to the
point, his courage failed him. Uncertainty was
bliss compared to the misery a rejection would
inflict.
At last he took heart, and made his proposals
in due form to the mother. She was, evidently,
by no means taken by surprise ; her answer
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. ?~
was fair and candid—it revealed her innermost
thoughts.
" It were my duty as a mother/' she said, " to
decide for my inexperienced daughter in so
grave a business, and most mothers in my con-
dition would, unhesitatingly, and gladly avail
themselves of such an offer as yours, so every
way satisfactory are your prospects, your con-
nexions, and especially your own qualities.
But my Catherine is so superior a being, that
what would be wisdom in the mothers of ordi-
nary daughters, would be folly in me. She is
the only authority to whom I can refer you in
such matters : if she accept you, no one can be
more willing than myself to call you son. However
different may once have been myhopes and views
for my daughter—whatever wishes I may still
entertain in my secret heart,—I do not feel jus-
tified in depriving her of the earthly advantages
that Providence may throw in her path ; besides,
if she do not reject you, it is a proof heaven
willed her not to be of the elect ; but if, as I
believe, she be one of the chosen, then are such
proposals as yours merely the test by which her
78 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
virtue is tried. Speak to her yourself, Monsieur
Chaudon—I will not seek to influence her
either way—we must all abide by her decision."
He was received by Mademoiselle Cadieres
with the same kind smile that ever greeted him ;
but, somehow, it assumed a more sisterly ex-
pression than usual, in his disturbed fancy.
She listened to him throughout—and, though
awkward enough at first, he grew eloquent
with his subject—with a calm, grave attention,
and a collectedness of manner, that almost
damped his hopes. She blushed once or twice,
indeed, at the ardour of his expressions, but
never turned away her head, nor trembled, nor,
in short, shewed any of those symptoms of
embarrassment and fear, so reassuring to a
lover's doubts.
" And now," she said, in a firm though gentle
tone, " now that I have listened to all you have
to say, pray do the same by me, and do not
interrupt me. I have long guessed the prefer-
ence with which you honour me. Indeed,
Eleonore opened my eyes to it the day we rode
back from —" (she mentioned the very excur-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 79
sion, the incidents of which I have detailed
to you), "and I would then have renounced
your acquaintance, although a source of much
real pleasure, but for her advice, which I thought
wise, like everything she utters.
i
Do not
judge hastily, Catherine,' she said; 'you are
perfectly aware of Monsieur Jules' qualities
give yourself the time to be just to them, and to
know your own heart. Try it by every test in
your power before you consider it altogether
Heaven's —a mistake might cost you dear.'
She spoke at great length of my being mis-
led by vanity—delusions of all kinds—of the
necessity of giving my feelings fair play. I
yielded to the truth of her observations. I
thought you then, as I still do—and I feel a
pride in owning the fact—a man whom I could
love, because I esteem—to whom I could wil-
lingly, gladly, yield up my destiny." My father's
heart bounded with joy. " But,"—Oh ! those
bats ; how they trifle with our best hopes in
life, and nip them in the bud, as a hoar frost
does the early spring blossoms ;
—" but, though
I could have been content to wed you—could
80 3JAGIC AND MESMERISM.
have loved you—I did not, because I loved God
more, and wished to devote myself wholly to his
service. Interrupt me not, I entreat. I gave my-
self a fair trial —saw you every day—received
your attentions—courted, rather than avoided,
the opportunities of judging your merits—and
every day asked my own heart the question
you have put me to-day. The answer has
invariably been the same. I am not destined
for the calm joys and easy duties of a house-
wife ; my vocation speaks loudly in my bosom,
haunts me in my dreams, and points out to me
the path I must tread."
My father vehemently contradicted her as-
sertion, and blamed her desire for a conven-
tual life.
" You mistake," she said, with a quiet smile,
" I do not wish to take the veil. Nothing can
be further from my thoughts or desires. The
idle, dreamy existence of a nun, appears to me
the most insignificant and useless of any. My
sphere of action and of feeling must be en-
larged, not curtailed. No ! my mind is fixed
on other points. To take up, one day, the
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 81
pilgrim's staff, and turn my steps towards the
holy city,—such is my plan; —to reach it,
through many perils and troubles, and be blessed
by his Holiness, my hope. There, under the
shadow of his wing, will I dwell,—devote myself
and my fortune entirely to the service of the
unhappy—the suffering. All women can be
kind mothers, complacent wives—they but fulfil
nature's instinct ; but it is a noble mission for
a weak, timid woman, made strong by the spirit
of Christianity, to encounter, willingly, danger
under every shape—to bear privation and dis-
comfort—to renounce the deceptions and vain
joys of the world, that she may soothe, in their
excess of misery, the poor, the afflicted, the
abandoned ; smooth the pillow of infirm dotage,
guide the steps of the sightless, bring repent-
ance to the bosom of the wicked, and care for
those who have none to protect them. Oh ! it
is a holy mission, and one to which I burn to
devote myself. Seek not to interfere with my
vocation ; no temptation earth can offer could
induce me to renounce it."
My father listened with mixed feelings of
e 3
82 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
consternation, pity, and admiration. The heart
of an angel seemed unveiling itself. He knew
she spoke not vain, calculated words—that they
welled from her inmost soul. But, beautiful as
he thought the aspirations of that soul, he
deemed her views visionary, and was convinced
that time would prove this even to herself.
Suspecting that, after all, she was more attached
to him than she was aware of, he did not
renounce his hopes at once, and frankly told
her so.
She smiled and sighed at the same time ;
but he obtained the permission to continue the
trial, with the result of which, she said, having
forewarned him—since he was willingly court-
ing error and disappointment—she would not
have to fear the reproaches of her conscience.
The words with which she closed the inter-
view were balm to the wounds she had inflicted
-—" If ever I should change my determination,
which is not likely, rest assured it will be in
your favour only."
After this explanation my father was very
unhappy, but not hopeless ; and continued his
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 83
visits to the house. Indeed, his footing there
seemed exactly the same as heretofore, and a
stranger to the circumstances of the case would
never have guessed but that he was an accepted,
not a rejected suitor.
Upon being informed of her daughter's
final decision, Madame Cadieres' feelings were
of a mixed kind. She was glad and sorrowful,
proud and humbled ; for, should Catherine
accomplish her destiny in obscurity, she, like
most mothers, would not have been best pleased
to see her daughter remain a spinster, whilst
she would have the mortification to behold the
fair scions of almost every other matron of her
set more or less advantageously settled. But
she was consoled by the reflection that my
father's love would, in all probability, outlive his
refusal, and that she could at any time secure
him if nothing better turned up.
My father, as I have said, suffered himself
by no means to be discouraged; he even be-
came, every day, more convinced that he was
gaining ground in Catherine's affections,—that
her childish adherence to early plans and fan-
84 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
tastic notions was giving way to the voice of
nature and the force of truth. He was not the
only one to perceive that she was gradually de-
scending from those imaginary spheres wherein
her young imagination had been foolishly suf-
fered to wander; that the tone of her feelings
was growing more natural, and that her
thoughts were becoming more bent towards the
realities of life. Fools and the envious de-
plored the change; but all people of sense
rejoiced, especially the young men of the town,
for Catherine was blessed with a good inherit-
ance as well as with beauty and goodness.
It was very much the fashion with the
idle youths of the day—not being, as now,
allowed to dabble in politics ere they were
fledged—to make a great parade of gallantry.
It was one of their customs to elect, every now
and then, some fair idol of the hour, who was
adulated, talked over, and rhymed at, until she
either wedded or faded, when a new election
took place. Catherine, from earliest dawn of
womanhood, had been the standard belle of her
own society : but, at this epoch of her life, her
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 85
loveliness ripened into such fulness as to become
the theme of universal homage. Officers and
students, aspirants de marine and seminarists,
all agreed in electing her, with one voice, the
queen of beauty; and strove, with envious
emulation, to throw themselves in the way of
the young girl, who could not take a walk round
the ramparts, or look out of her window by the
merest chance, without encountering a host of
eager eyes, ready to drink in the most casual of
her glances.
My father was more distressed than flat-
tered by the general homage thus rendered
to the object of his affections ; for he dreaded
the appearance of competitors to the prize
which he was so eager to snatch to himself;
nor were his misgivings altogether without
foundation.
One young man, who had just arrived from
a northern province to join his regiment, quar-
tered for the time at Toulon, viewed Cathe-
rine with a deeper, purer admiration, than the
idle throng. He belonged to the privileged
classes; for he not only had a de before his
86 MAGIC AND MES31ERISM.
name, but bore one of those made illustrious
in the annals of our country, by the deeds of
his forefathers. His fortune was not inferior
to his birth; yet he did not disdain, a few
months after his arrival, to depose all these
advantages at Mademoiselle Cadieres' feet, and
entreat her to share them with him.
Catherine unhesitatingly refused. To under-
stand fully the merit of this rejection, I must
again remind you of the state of society pre-
vious to the Revolution. The king in the fairy
tales, who wedded a shepherdess tending her
flock, scarcely conferred upon her a greater
honour, than did the gentleman of those days
upon a bourgeoise, in making her his spouse.
One must bear in mind the different position
of the gentilhommerie at that epoch, and how
inconceivably greater were its advantages, to
understand clearly that such a refusal was
actually a sacrifice.
In this case, too, the young lady could not
reasonably object to the person or mental qua-
lities of the lover. Youthful, tolerably good-
looking, thoroughly enamoured of her, he pos-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 87
sessed besides that high polish of manner,
which it is not prejudice to believe the pro-
perty of those only who have leisure to bestow
on its cultivation.
Still vanity and ambition left the heart un-
touched which love had failed to move ; and the
agonizing suspense my father endured whilst
the affair was on the tapis, gave way to the
most exuberant feelings of triumph when it was
decided. His rival, deeply galled at what he
conceived to be an insult, and yet too sincerely
attached to resent his disappointment by an
affectation of contemptuous indifference, ob-
tained leave of absence, and eventually an ex-
change of regiment ; so that he left the town
immediately, never to return.
Madame Cadieres' ambition, all devotee as she
was, had received a severe blow by Catherine's
determination. But when she pressed her on
this point, the answer was invariably the same
—" If you insist on my choosing a husband,
then let it be Monsieur Jules Chaudon:" and
there the matter rested; for, like most weak
mothers, Madame Cadieres found it impossible
88 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
to take up the reins she had once suffered to
escape from her hands.
Gratified as my father was at this decision of
his mistress, so favourable to his own wishes, still
he felt daily more anxious about the issue of his
suit. His own ardent devotion, together with
that of the rejected officer, contributed to spread
the fame of Catherine's charms ; and he doubted
not but rivals would spring up from every quarter.
They soon indeed became numerous as black-
berries; but Mademoiselle Cadieres was as in-
exorable to her many lovers as ever was that
model of female truth and excellence, fair Pe-
nelope herself. Thus my father's fears again
gave way to brighter hopes. Her manner to
him continued the same as ever; still he fan-
cied he now and then could trace the semblance
of a blush on her countenance, when he ven-
tured to praise ; but her damask cheek was
habitually tinged with so soft a glow, that he
might easily have been mistaken.
Mademoiselle Raymond, who, in spite of
her uncourteous, chilling demeanour, he could
not but think, was well disposed towards him,
MAGIC AND 3IESMERISM. 89
since the kind advice she had once bestowed in
his favour, might perhaps best have informed
him of what he really had to expect; for she
possessed the whole of Catherine's confidence.
Indeed, though constantly surrounded by the
young ladies he had met on his first visit to
the house, Catherine's intimacy dated with
them but from the epoch of her first commu-
nion, having received their religious instruc-
tions at the same time, and from the same
person. With the Catholics, especially in the
narrow circles of provincial life, this often forms
a bond that lasts throughout existence ; at any
rate, is seldom broken during the first few years
that elapse after the event. But Eleonore Ray-
mond was a friend from the very cradle, as it
were, and one whom Catherine could love and
trust without reserve. They were constantly
with each other; and more serious in disposi-
tion, graver in manner, than their youthful
companions, often kept aloof and to themselves,
even in moments of the greatest apparent so-
ciability.
Although my father was fully aware of the
90 MAGIC A.ND MESMERISM.
immense power of a female companion and
confidante in the furtherance of a love affair
and it may be imagined that a certain degree
of intimacy had arisen between them from their
daily meetings for the space of a couple of
years — there was that about Mademoiselle
Raymond which checked all advance to fami-
liarity. Always with Catherine, she seemed
like the shadow-side of a bright picture, in
which objects are so indistinctly represented,
that the beholder can with difficulty discern
them. When spoken to, it was impossible to
decide whether she was affronted or pleased,
amused or wearied, when listening to the con-
versation of others. She was kind to Catherine
alone —communicative with no one else; to
every other individual, without exception, her
manner was cold to repulsion.
My father could not often overcome a cer-
tain disagreeable sensation, when addressing
her, even though convinced she had once acted
a friendly part towards him, and might do so
again. But, one evening, finding her alone in
the parlour, while the company were dispersed
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 91
in the garden, he summoned up sufficient reso-
lution to entreat her good offices with Cathe-
rine. Her answer was of a nature to preclude
all recurrence to the subject for the future.
" I never," she said, " would meddle or mar
in so grave an affair as the marriage of other
people. It is a trouble for which one seldom
reaps thanks, whether success attend the en-
deavour or the reverse. Parents are the only
lawful advisers in such cases."
" I am, then, totally without friendly assist-
ance," said my father, despondingly.
" Catherine herself is your best friend," said
Mademoiselle Raymond, with marked emphasis;
and turning away with her usual abruptness,
she left him to digest the meaning of her words
at his leisure.
The autumn of 1728 had just begun, and Tou-
lon was sadly at a loss for some novelty where-
with to while away the tedious hours of rainy
weather which they had for some time to endure.
Even the little coterie to which my father be-
longed was at a stand still ; for Monsieur Jules
Chaudon's long-protracted attachment to Made-
92 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
moiselle Cadieres had grown to be so stale an
affair, that the intelligence of their marriage
would scarcely have elicited an exclamation,
when suddenly a new star appeared in their
hemisphere, and roused the inhabitants of our
good town from their momentary torpor.
Among the numerous beehives of cowls and
shaven crowns that Toulon possessed, it boasted
a seminary of Jesuits, and several establish-
ments belonging to the order of Mount Carmel.
The latter certainly had more partisans in the
town than the former ; and even the Lord Bishop
himself was supposed to favour them greatly.
The Carmelites had the best preachers, the
guidance of the most fashionable souls, and,
in short, carried it with a high hand over the
Jesuits.
For a lono; while were the latter forced to
bear this mortification—not without complaint
or murmur, it is true ; but still they were com-
pelled to yield the step to their rivals. That
this could not last for ever, that something must
be done, was certain ; but what that something
should be, it took some time to consider—as
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 93
much indeed as a few years, it would seem,
since my father had spent already a couple in
Toulon—before they thought of the expedient
which they finally fell upon.
They had—namely, in one of their commu-
nities at Aix—a preacher, who was singularly
distinguished by his eloquence and fiery zeal.
His reputation had spread far and wide over
the country, and his order considered him as
one of its most useful members. Such a person
only could be opposed to the barefooted Car-
melites with success. He would bear down
every thing before him at Toulon, as he had
done wherever he had appeared : the triumph of
the Jesuits, and the defeat of the Carmelites
would be complete.
This man was accordingly called to Toulon,
under the title of Rector of the Royal Semi-
nary of Chaplains to the Navy. He was ex-
pected with great anxiety by the rival parties,
and with intense curiosity by the whole town
for the Jesuits had artfully enough contrived that
many interesting rumours should be afloat re-
specting their new champion.
94 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
The gossips of the place took up the subject
with avidity. The success of the new preacher
in the pulpit, his incredible zeal for the con-
version of erring souls, the mighty persuasions
by which he brought new votaries to the church,
his power over the hearts of men, or rather
women—for among them, it would appear, his
talents had been chiefly exercised —were the
theme of every conversation, from the highest
to the lowest circles. The Carmelites indeed
assumed a scornful, incredulous smile, as if very
well assured that all this great stir would turn
out much ado about nothing, whilst the Jesuits
looked as if about to celebrate a Te Deum for
victory.
At last, the news of the reverend father's
arrival was spread throughout the town. It was
announced that he would preach at the church
of the Jesuits on the ensuing Sunday ; and
until that hour of trial, he was carefully kept
from prying eyes, lest his novelty should wear
off.
The decisive Sunday at length arrived.
The moment the doors of the church were
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 95
thrown open, a rush was made by the expecting
multitude, as if they were going to a show,
instead of the decent, grave approach due to
the house of God. Everybody who was any-
body was there ; and among the rest, my
father, who was not without some curiosity
about the matter.
When John Baptiste Girard entered the
pulpit, all eyes were bent on him, with the anx-
ious curiosity with which spectators examine a
new actor, on whose merits they are about to
decide.
He was plain to ugliness, which my father
considered detrimental to an orator. Already
past fifty, his tall, gaunt, emaciated frame made
him look considerably older. His skin, sallow
and drawn like parchment, adhered tightly to
the frontal and cheek bones, giving to their ca-
vities beneath a remarkably ascetic appearance
—his pallor, contrasting with harsh, heavy un-
intellectual brows—his large mouth, and ears
that stuck to his head like two plates, formed
altogether one of the coarsest and most un-
gainly exteriors imaginable. His eye was the
96 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
only redeeming point about the man—large,
dark, and fiery, it scanned the assembled crowd
with a glance of fierce assurance that seemed
the prologue to success, and was not devoid of a
sort of rude dignity.
His voice was at first husky, but cleared by
degrees, until it became loud and full, and, like
his glance, seemed to search every conscience
and descend into every heart.
He chose a simple text, and developed it
with singular perspicuity, avoiding to over-
burthen it with hyperbolical amplification. His
periods were well rounded, without exagge-
ration ; every sentence had a point—every word
a meaning; his comparisons were just, though
sufficiently flowery to be graceful ; his argument
was close and rapid ;
—in short, my father said
he might have been a lawyer, and an uncom-
monly good one.
As a preacher that day, his success was
complete. The Carmelites were routed; and
the Jesuits looked that ineffably humble and
meek triumph of which women and monks
only have the secret.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM, 97
From that day the issue of the quarrel was
not dubious. Father Girard's celebrity daily
accrued, to the no small satisfaction of his order.
His eloquence and ambition took bolder flights
as he grew more at home in his new residence
and soon the town was filled with the account
of the proselytes he was making.
Gradually, the churches of the bare-footed
Carmelites were deserted, their preachers voted
tame, their confessors unsatisfactory, and the
tide of public favour was rapidly ebbing from
them. Father Girard understood, marvellously,
the art of warming the zeal of elderly ladies,
and making them denounce and renounce the
pleasures in which they could scarcely continue
to take a share ; but he had for some time no
opportunity of exercising his power over the
minds of the junior members of the community,
and this for a reason which I must explain.
Catherine was considered by all the young
girls of her age, or thereabouts, as their model
and guide in religious matters; and though
many were anxious to try the new confessor,
they dared not even so much as manifest their
VOL. I. F
98 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
desire openly, before it had received the sanction
of her example. But there reigned a great
curiosity among them to discover her opinion
upon the subject; for although resolved to
abide by it, they were naturally desirous that
her views should coincide with their own.
Though she had attended his sermons several
times, without ever dropping the slightest hint
about the matter in question, they did not think
fit to mention it until such time as she should
afford them a fair opening for so doing. They
felt confident that she would explain herself
one day or other, and awaited the moment in
silent but eager expectation.
In their anxiety concerning the all-absorb-
ing question, they forgot other topics that had
lately much engrossed them, such as the ap-
proaching nuptials of Marie Langieres and
Marie La Rue, which promised to be very
brilliant, the former being about to unite her-
self, with the only son of a fermier general, who
had just obtained a savonnette a vilain, as it was
called (a position among the aristocracy, by
means of the purchase of an estate, to which a
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 99
title was annexed—a term applied in derision
by the nobility, who meant thereby to insinuate
that the purchaser had acquired means whereby
to wash off his plebeianism) ; and Mademoiselle
La Rue was shortly to be led to the altar by
Monsieur Renoir, the Croesus of the province.
Thus the taste of the one for grandeur and the
other for wealth was in a fair way to be gratified.
Mademoiselle Guyol's flirtations and inconse-
quences with her admirers among the officers
had also been much discussed, as well as the
obstinate refusals of all proposals by Eleonore
Raymond, whose wealth tempted many families
to seek her alliance. All these interesting: sub-
jects were swallowed up for the moment by the
new interest excited by Father Girard.
Several weeks elapsed before the desired
explanation took place. At last, Mademoiselle
Cadieres formally invited all her young friends
to a species of conclave, on which occasion it
was understood she would explicitly announce
her opinion on the much-mooted point. A
collation was, as usual, to soften the fatigue
of so grave a debate. All the young ladies of
f2
100 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
her coterie joyfully accepted the invitation,
which included no gentlemen, except Cathe-
rine's brothers, and my father, whom she treated
with the same confidence as though he in reality
made part of her family.
The sitting amused him not a little at the
time, ignorant as he was of the influence it
would have upon his own fate and that of all
present. How little did any of those there
reunited, revelling in their youth and their
prospects, laughing rather to ease their heart of
its fulness of joy than at the objects that raised
that laughter—how little did they dream they
were nearing, with careless, dancing steps, the
abyss that was about to engulf them.
Catherine sat, in childish state, in a purple
velvet chair of antique shape, that had been
brought down from the lumber-room for the
purpose of giving the meeting a more imposing
effect. On her right, on a plain tabouret, sat
the languishing Marie Langieres, who already
spoke confidently of soon having a tabouret
a la cour ; and next to her was placed Made-
moiselle La Rue, who remarked on the oc-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 101
casion, that once in her new home, such vile
things as these mesquins settees should never be
seen. On Catherine's left was Mademoiselle
Raymond, and next to her my father. The
two brothers stood behind their sister's chair, as
gentlemen of honour ; and opposite to her sat
the piquante Marie Guyol, whose pretty head
passed that of all the rest by one good half, so
that, as she herself observed, she might easily
have been mistaken for the president.
The girlish fancy that had inspired these
arrangements was a happy augury in my father's
eyes; the more Catherine's character would
lose of its loftiness and austerity, the more
likely and near seemed the realization of his
hopes. When silence was established, and all
were willing to listen, Catherine began :
" I know, my dear friends," she said, rt
that
you have long tacitly awaited my decision
upon a grave and important point—namely,
whether it be best to adhere to the Carmelite
priests, who have hitherto guided and en-
lightened our consciences, or choose a new
director in the person of the celebrated Father
102 MAGIC AND MES3IERIS3I.
Girard, of the Jesuits. I feel flattered by your
reliance on me, but would not misuse it by
seeking to influence you in a matter where con-
science alone can decide. But I owe it to my-
self, as well as to you, to lay before you the real
cause of the line of conduct I myself am about
to pursue, which might otherwise be imputed
to motives furthest from my heart. It is not
Father Girard's brilliant eloquence that has
touched me, nor am I dazzled by his great
reputation ; for I should have resisted both these
impulses, as being too worldly to induce me to
resign my soul into the keeping of a stranger.
No ! it is the will of Heaven. You all re-
member St. John's Day, when Father Girard
preached at the church of the Carmelites. The
service being over, I was about to depart, when,
crossing the porch, I happened to meet him, and
caught his eye, as I had often done before,
resting upon me. At the same instant, an
angel form appeared visibly to me, pointing
towards him, and a voice distinctly murmured
in my ear —(
This is the man who is to lead
thee unto Heaven.' I well nigh fainted with
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 103
surprise, and can well imagine yours in listening
to this extraordinary fact. Yet, when we re-
member how of yore the will of God was re-
vealed in visions to his chosen, we may wonder,
but may not doubt. His voice bids me seek
Father Girard, to whom, alone, the mission of
my salvation is given. I follow not, therefore,
my own blind, erring judgment, which might
deceive, but the guidance of Providence, which
I obey with joyful confidence. But you, who
have not received such direct warnings from
above, should weigh the matter gravely in
your own minds, and submit it to another course
of reasoning, before you follow my example, if
indeed you wish to do so."
The whole party was, as you may conceive,
amazed at this communication, which evidently
was new, even to Eleonore, who looked the
extreme of displeasure while listening to it.
My father, too, felt pained by an announcement,
which exhibited the object of his affection in a
less favourable light than that in which he had
hitherto regarded her. He and Eleonore tes-
tified their disapprobation by a cold silence,
104 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
whilst Catherine's eye—lighted up with the
secret triumph of a devotee, who fancies her-
self singled out by Heaven as an object of
especial predilection—sought in vain for sympathy
in their grave countenances. But the rest of
the party expressed their admiration of the
secret ways of Providence, and obviously at-
tached the most ridiculous importance to this, as
my father then thought it, fantastic communi-
cation.
He could, at the time, scarcely listen to
Catherine with common patience ; but fre-
quently in after times did he remember the de-
tails of her recital with much interest, for they
afforded him the first clue to the unravelling of
a succession of mysteries, upon which for years
his reason could throw no light.
The general curiosity being sated, the suffrage
was loud in favour of Father Girard, who was
henceforth to direct all the tender consciences
there present. For although not favoured, like
Mademoiselle Cadieres, with an especial call,
they conceived that she had merely been the
chosen vehicle whereby Providence deigned to
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 105
make manifest its will unto them. Catherine
was too much carried away by the elation of
her spirits at the moment to notice the reserve
and silence of Eleonore, which was evidently
intended as a reproof. As to my father, he was
merely angry with the fuss made about what he
conceived at best but an extraordinary halluci-
nation, which he thought it unpardonable in
Catherine to bring thus forward. For the rest,
he cared but little who was the director of her
conscience : Girard was old and ugly, and, in
his opinion, would do quite as well as another.
When, however, at last, Mademoiselle Ray-
mond's opinion was thought of and solicited, he
perceived she viewed the matter in another
light.
" I am sorry to say," she answered, " I differ
from you all—most especially from Catherine
but opinion is personal, and we are all at
liberty to think as we please. We have been
trained from childhood by the worthy Father
Alexis of the Carmelites—what we know of
our religion we owe to his care. Hitherto he
has had the sole management of our consciences,
f 3
106 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
and we are not worse than oar neighbours.
Why should we, suddenly, turn ungrateful for
the many benefits which we have so often
acknowledged, and pain our good, kind, old
confessor ? This, I regret to say, seems, to me
at least, a mere love of change, caprice,
imitation. I, for one, am quite certain of having
no part or parcel in Catherine's vision, and I
am not likely to be visited by one myself. I
shall not, therefore, attend Father Girard either
at the confessional or even at mass, though I
allow him to be an excellent preacher."
A murmur of disapprobation went round the
circle, and the words heretic—heretical relations,
more than once reached my father's ear, to whose
memory they recalled what Madame Cadieres
had told him of Mademoiselle Raymond's
situation and parentage.
He was deeply impressed with the good
sense of her remarks, and the clearness with
which they were delivered ; but they had evi-
dently given offence, for the others did not
again address her, and even Catherine's manner
was cooler than usual until the party broke up.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 107
His road led past the house of Elconore's
guardian, and for the first time since their
acquaintance he accompanied her to the door.
Although not alone, they walked somewhat in
advance together, and could exchange some
few sentences unheard. He turned to account
this opportunity of sifting her feelings more
closely concerning that evening's proceeding,
and to his surprise she threw off, in great
measure, the frigidity from which he had not
yet seen her depart.
" I am much grieved," she said, " by what I
have just heard ; and by the manner in which
Catherine has announced her intention, I know
it will be in vain for me to attempt to dissuade
her."
My father begged her to explain herself
further, for he could see no harm in this
caprice de confesseur, independently of the pain
the change might inflict on the worthy man
who had hitherto officiated in that capacity.
Her answer struck him forcibly.
" I could not well convey my real opinion,
or rather, I should say, develop it completely,
108 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
before so many biassed persons as were there
to-night," she said, " because the mere fact of
my poor mother, whom I do not remember,
and her relations, whom I have never seen,
having been protestants, is enough to create a
strong prejudice against me; but you, I am
sure, are not so bigoted, and will not misun-
derstand me if I tell you that I object to Father
Girard as a confessor for Catherine on account
of his zeal. The good fathers who have until
now guided us, used all their efforts to maintain
my poor friend within the bounds of real piety,
and prevent her imagination from taking too
wild a flight. They thought of her happiness
and their duty only, and were not, like this
idol of the day, struggling for notoriety. I
hear that of him which convinces me he will
be but too glad to have such a disciple, and
will make of her an instrument for the ad-
vancement of his own vainglory and ambition.
But I am afraid," she added, hesitatingly, " you
will think it very bold in one so young, so in-
experienced, to advance such opinions."
Being reassured on this point, she continued.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 109
" Next to the danger of over-exciting a
young person so predisposed to religious enthu-
siasm as Catherine is, there will be another and
very serious evil attendant upon this. There
will arise among these young ladies an emula-
tion of holiness, a struggle to get furthest in the
esteem and good graces of their teacher, who
will know how to turn this rivalship to the
advantage of his reputation. His disciples will
no longer consider religion a duty, but desecrate
it into an occupation—an amusement to fill up
the void that must at times be felt in such a
quiet life as ours. The loftier feeling of religion
will be lost, in the hearts of many, amid its
grimaces."
Mademoiselle Raymond had reached home
before my father could utter a reply; he would
have been puzzled, indeed, how to frame one
and he felt grateful for the circumstance that
released him from the necessity of so doing.
He required time to think over all she had said,
and to reflect on the strong masculine good
sense she had that evening evinced. " If she
has not many of the graces of her sex," thought
110 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
he, (l
she has some of the qualities of ours—she
is sincere, clear-headed, and plain-spoken. The
very woman one would select for a friend."
From that hour dated a total revulsion of
feeling in favour of Mademoiselle Raymond.
When once a woman has honoured a man with
any portion of her confidence, however slight,
and finds that he respects it, from that time
forth he is no longer indifferent to her, and it is
his own fault if he do not improve the opening
thus afforded him. The evil spell that had
kept so long asunder two beings formed to
understand and appreciate each other was now
broken; and henceforth, whenever they met,
Eleonore and my father spoke freely and kindly
to each other.
The change which Eleonore had foretold,
took place more rapidly than either she or my
father expected, and extended even to the fami-
lies and friends of the young ladies. Through
its tender offshoots the wily Jesuit was regene-
rating the whole of the Toulonaise society, or
rather filling it with reports of his own fame.
None dreamed of noticing my father's growing
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. Ill
intimacy with Eleonore, so wrapt were they in
their new confessor. They talked of nothing
among themselves but his humility, his austerity,
his surpassing love of God, the severity with
which he scanned the consciences of others, the
hopes, the fears he knew so well how to
awaken; even Catherine's brothers could join
in these discourses, from which my father and
Eleonore only were excluded, knowing nothing
of the subject. It is incredible in how short a
time this want of sympathy estranged them
from her who had but lately prized them so
highly, and how much it threw in the back-
ground those who had hitherto played principal
parts in that limited circle.
What is stranger yet, is the deep pain this
circumstance caused my father, independently
of his attachment to Catherine. To understand
fully his feelings on this occasion, we must have
felt ourselves ousted out of our intimacies and
habits by a total stranger, who comes across us,
and everywhere fills our place. Eleonore bore
the growing coolness of her friend, and the
glances of suspicion and dislike cast askance at
112 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
her by the others, with a stoical indifference,
which my father thought did more credit to her
nerves than her heart.
A change had, indeed, come over everybody.
Marie Langieres seemed, like Pygmalion's
statue, to have become animated under the
hands of Father Girard — and Mademoiselle
Guyol to forget her smiles and to learn the use
of frowns, for the advantage and better teaching
of the young aristocratic officers of the garrison,
whose nighty homage she had but lately re-
ceived with so much pleasure. Even Made-
moiselle La Rue forgot her ruling passion, and
spoke of the blessing of poverty, which gives a
meek spirit. As to the approaching nuptials of
some of the young ladies, it seemed that, by a
tacit understanding, a subject so full of levity
and worldliness was altogether to be eschewed.
They walked as though they dreaded the con-
tact of anything so material as earth, even with
the soles of their feet; and their eyes sought
the ground as if to avoid the subjects of scandal
with which the air around must be filled. Con-
fession, communion, and penance, employed all
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 113
their days—holy converse with each other their
evenings — and melancholy meditations their
nights. The great reform that the rector had
wrought in these lovely young pupils soon
became known, and his power in reclaiming and
purifying souls was the theme of every tongue.
The Jesuits deemed their triumph complete ;
but the Carmelites bided their time with that
quiet, untiring patience of which men of the
world cannot even form a conception; for it
requires the leisure of the cell or the solitary
closet to admit of the constant recurrence of
the same idea, and the tension of the mind on
one and the same point for any length of time.
Hence the patient, enduring resentment which
from time to time has been known to actuate
monks and prisoners — in short, all those
doomed to inactive, incomplete existences.
But of all the alterations produced by Father
Girard's arrival, none was so evident as that
wrought in Mademoiselle Cadieres. Every
time my father beheld her—and his opportuni-
ties for so doing were gradually curtailed—he
found her less like herself—the heroine of his
114 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
first dream of love ; and yet, rapid as was the
process of the change he was watching with
such poignant regret, many months elapsed
before it was complete ; and he was compelled
to confess to his own heart the sad truth that
Catherine was, indeed, a new, but not an im-
proved being.
Her manner was strange and fantastic.
Whenever the subject mentioned before her
had no reference to religion, she either sat ab-
stracted, with folded hands and uplifted eyes,
the image of pious meditation, or testified, by
fretful tones, her impatience of the topic. In-
stead, however, of listening with lively interest
—as might naturally enough have been con-
cluded—when religious discourse was intro-
duced, she was restless and dissatisfied until
she had the lead in the conversation. Then
she would break out in the most flighty rhap-
sodies about visions and martyrdoms, saints and
devils, temptations and submissions ; in short,
her language was mystic and her ideas con-
fused. She assumed a loftiness, a triumph in
look, word, and action, that seemed plainly to
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 115
intimate her consciousness of angel wings fast
growing and spreading around her, shortly to
waft her to the world of fleecy clouds above,
which alone now filled her mind waking or
sleeping. Her feet scarcely touched the earth
when she walked; a painter must have been
struck with the light buoyancy of her figure
when in motion, so dreamy was its grace, and
he might have borrowed inspiration from the
heaven-wrapt expression of her countenance.
But how much soever a painter—especially
one who had an altar-piece on hand—might
have been delighted by a glimpse of the fair
devotee, in spite of the poetic grace this new
mood imparted to her loveliness, my father
remarked, with deep sorrow, that it invaded
every corner of her heart. Eleonore had pro-
phesied but too truly on every point. Not
only had the religious feelmgs of Mademoiselle
Cadieres ripened into enthusiasm,—always dan-
gerous in the young and the imaginative, and
most destructive to his own hopes and wishes,
but, what grieved him yet more, the beautiful
purity and simplicity of her character was
116 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
obviously undermined. Vanity had, indeed,
mingled with, and stained, every thought, every
feeling.
He might still have worshipped the saint,
even whilst renouncing all earthly commune
with her, and enshrined her within the niche
of remembrance as some vision of a better
world ; but there was in Catherine's sanctity
a spiritual pride, a mixture of Saint Theresa's
raptures, in their wild sincerity, with a desire
to unveil the mysteries of her heart to the
world, that it might be amazed and worship,
which, in itself, was sufficient to destroy the
illusion in one so clear-sighted as my father.
Perhaps he would have been more blind, had
his own feelings not been wounded, and his
pride hurt, by the growing and marked coolness
of Catherine, which extended even to her
once beloved Eleonore. She delighted now in
the society of none but those who, like herself
were under Father Girard's direction. The
intimacy of these young ladies, but lately dif-
fering so much from each other in temper,
taste, and prospects, was—to borrow their own
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 117
quaint, exaggerated style of expression—a bond
of union ; they were but as one in submission
and love to Heaven and Father Girard, and
through him, and with him, of Heaven's elect.
It was, indeed, clear enough to the meanest
comprehension, that he was the corner-stone of
this alliance ; for they met, as it seemed, merely
for the pleasure of talking of him, and spent
all their powers of figurative language in the
ever -renewed struggle of outstripping one
another in the most fulsome and extravagant
adulation of his sanctity.
If their evenings were thus devoted to kind
reminiscences of him who had so far succeeded
in insinuating himself into their good graces,
their days were no less so to his society ; and the
time he could consecrate to them within the pre-
cincts ofthe church not sufficing to the necessities
oftheir consciences, towards the close of the year
he began to attend some of them at their homes.
Mademoiselle Cadieres was not yet of the
number thus honoured—a circumstance which
appeared to mortify her not a little, although
her poor friend Mademoiselle Langieres' state of
118 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
health,—so delicate as to cause the delay of
her marriage,—might well justify the preference
which, at this epoch, the reverend father testified
in her favour.
My father's visits at the Cadieres' were now
so evidently barely tolerated, not desired, by
any member of the family, that it required all
the fortitude of a lover to persevere in them.
But what would he not have borne, rather than
be altogether banished from his mistress's pre-
sence? Whilst all were thus occupied with
one object, and he was overlooked, if not for-
gotten, his only comfort was the society of
Mademoiselle Raymond. With her, at least,
he could talk of Catherine, abuse Father Gi-
rard, and dwell on his grievances, confident
in the luxury of a sympathizing listener—for a
change had also come over Eleonore, no less
advantageous to her, than that of Catherine was
the reverse. Her sternness and coldness had
gradually melted in their growing intimacy.
She proved herself a true friend in his afflic-
tion, cheering him to look forward with hope
to the future, infusing consolation for the pre-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 119
sent, palliating his mistress's folly, and, above
all, patiently repeating to him every particular
she could collect respecting her actual state of
mind, and the every-day occurrences of her life;
for she continued to love Catherine,—no longer,
indeed, for the affection she met with in return ;
not for the qualities her friend had gained or
lost ; but because where she had once placed her
affection she could not withdraw it : she could
overlook and forget everything but the fact that
they had once been friends, though she plainly
saw the time fast approaching, when, without
any fault of hers, that friendship would be
broken.
As my father discovered, one by one, the
sterling qualities of Eleonore's mind, his eye
learned to rest with complacency on her features,
which he sometimes wondered how he could
ever have thought so very plain. The evenings
he could no longer devote to Catherine might
have hung heavy on his hands, and the sudden
rupture of the bond of habit have added an
additional pang to those he already endured,
had not this fresh interest in life soothed, in
120 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
some degree, the loss of the first and greatest
his existence had yet known.
Mademoiselle Raymond's store of consolation,
however, diminished rapidly. Her bulletin of
Catherine's state of feelings grew every day
more alarming, so far, at least, as regarded my
father's chance of happiness, and —as both he
and Eleonore conceived it—of her own.
Her situation was, indeed, such as to warrant
some anxiety on the part of her friends. Father
Girard, forbidding all books but those which he
chose to denominate holy, had substituted for
light, moral essays, the dangerous romances of
the catholic religion. The imagination of poor
Catherine was fast ripening at the fires of Saint
Theresa's ecstasies of divine love, and Saint
Anthony's temptations in the desert—both
which, to the reflective mind, must appear but
the self-deceits of poor, erring mortals, who had
lost their path in life in seeking that to heaven.
Her mind, naturally weak, yielding, and affec-
tionate, requiring, to maintain its equilibrium,
a calm, serene state, was, by this constant effer-
vescence of thought, wearied beyond its power,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 121
and in danger of being destroyed altogether.
Already her health began to suffer from this
feverish excitement: her nights were restless,
or visited by the most appalling visions; and
her mother, so obtuse in the ordinary matters
of life, soon became painfully sensible, by the
state of her daughter's nerves, of the necessity
of medical assistance, and earnestly consulted
Father Girard on the subject. But the rector,
who saw, or pretended to see, in the altered
state, sinking frame, and disturbed slumbers of
his young penitent, nothing but the workings
of the Divine Spirit, strongly opposed the inter-
vention of an earthly power, proposed his own
aid,—a measure joyfully accepted,—and, finally,
established himself as a constant visitor at the
house of the Cadieres.
This step was decisive as to my father's foot-
ing in the family. The mother gave the final
blow to his still lingering hopes, which, she said,
Catherine herself would long since have done,
but for her innate dislike to wound the feelings
of another. It became incumbent on her, how-
ever, to speak, since Monsieur Chaudon ap-
VOL. I. G
122 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
peared so very insensible to the eloquence of
silence. She observed that, as Catherine was
decided never to marry, she felt it unjust to
herself as well as to him to continue to en-
courage attentions which could be of no use
to either party, and certainly gave no pleasure
to the receiver ; in short, maidenly modesty in
the daughter, and maternal prudence in the
mother, alike moved them to forbid his appear-
ance at their house for the future.
My father received his sentence of banish-
ment in the deepest silence, suffered no shadow
in his countenance to betray the inward pain,
but permitted Madame Cadieres, woman fashion,
to turn the dagger in the wound without
wincing.
" I really do not know, Monsieur Jules, on
whom you can now turn your eyes for a wife,"
continued the loquacious lady ;
" and yet it is
time a handsome young man like you, and one
of such promise, with such good prospects,
should think seriously of the matter. You
suffered Marie Langieres to slip through your
fingers. It is true, poor thing, she has no
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 123
health, and is obliged to put off her marriage
until, people say, her bridegroom has sworn
that if she makes him wait much longer, he will
cut the matter short by wedding another
youth is so vain and impatient ! Then there's
Mademoiselle La Rue, who has just broken off
her marriage, and she did but what was right
and proper. Fancy that impious Monsieur
Renoir insisting on her giving up Father
Girard, and taking another confessor ! Shock-
ing, was it not ?
—quite her duty to stand firm.
I would have proposed her to you, but then I
know that, like my Catherine, whom she
apes in all things, she objects to marriage
altogether."
Madame Cadieres, during the course of her
address, occasionally paused artfully in the vain
hope of hearing her auditor burst forth in some
assurances, that no female could be thought of
after her incomparable daughter ; but he would
not gratify so far the feminine and maternal
vanity that induced her thus heartlessly to probe
the bleeding wound.
" Well, then," she continued, with a look of
G 2
124 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
evident disappointment, " there's Marie Guyol,
now she has turned off the officers that used to
swarm around her like so many troublesome
mosquitoes,—she might do very well. She has
no money, it is true—is, or rather was, a little
lightheaded, but Father Girard has put lead
enough in it by this time, I warrant you. He
would put some in an air balloon, and cause an
opera-dancer to repent, I verily believe. She
is a pretty girl, Marie Guyol !" Still my father
maintained his perverse silence. " There re-
mains, it is true, that half-pagan, half-heretic,
Mademoiselle Raymond," she continued, with a
frown,—" she has plenty of money to make one
forget her uncomeliness ; but ah ! what can
efface the uncomeliness of the heart that comes
not unto God ?"
" I thought Mademoiselle Raymond gave full
satisfaction to the directors of her conscience ?"
" The Fathers Carmelite ! Lukewarm drowsy
set, as they are—Catherine's soul languished
beneath their care, like a flower in the shade.
No warming up—no elevating—they understood
nothing, felt and saw nothing—they would
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 125
rather have turned away my Catherine from the
glorious path she is about to tread, than, like
Father Girard, borne her onward in it with a
mighty hand."
" I have no doubt," said my father, with a
bitterness he could not check, " that Made-
moiselle Cadieres will shortly stand forth as a
candidate for the honours of the calendar
!"
" And you for the hand of Mademoiselle
Raymond, I doubt as little," answered Madame
Cadieres, with ill suppressed choler.
My father looked full in the lady's face, and
bowed.
This was too much for the mother's patience.
She had expected—nay, secretly delighted in
the idea of having to encounter a lover's ravings,
and, to her amazement, had to deal with a com-
posed, collected man, who did not put himself
at her mercy for one single instant. It is sur-
prising how much women participate, in their
dealings with men, in the feline propensity of
experiencing pleasure in inflicting a pang. I
mean, of course, in love matters, for in all others
I have ever known them compassionate and
126 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
kind ; but this instinct of their nature is so
strong, that it dies but with them. The mother
still indulges in it by means of her daughter.
Yet, after all, it is but the promptings of an in-
nocent vanity.
Madame Cadieres was sadly hurt on this oc-
casion, for she had not discernment enough to
see beneath the surface. When my father took
leave, he uttered none but ordinary phrases,
thanked her for past kindnesses, and for having
endured his society so long,—wished all happi-
ness, for the future, to herself and her fair
daughter,—was very sorry to have troubled her
with a love that had no merit but its sincerity,
and bowed himself out of the room with all the
grace he could assume.
Prepared as he was for this conclusion to the
early romance of his life, it caused him a shock,
and an exquisitely painful one. Not only had
he to lament the loss of a hope, too fondly
cherished, but also to regret ever having suffered
himself to be drawn into illusions, that evidently
never had the slightest foundation in reality.
The preference, the something more than
sisterly affection, he once imagined that Cathe-
MAGIC AND MES3IERISM. 127
rine manifested in his favour in spite of her
own will, existed but in his fancy—Catherine
had not felt, could never feel for him. The
cold manner of his expulsion from the house
a trial in itself, of which she must have been
conscious—not even softened by a word, a look,
a token of kindness or regret, certainly war-
ranted the supposition. My father owned to
me, that the first hours of his return home were
spent in unmitigated anguish, but having paid
this tribute to the weakness of his heart, he
struggled manfully against that morbidness of
feeling, which is so apt, in extreme youth, to
enervate its best powers, when it has to en-
counter disappointment.
One part of Madame Cadieres' conversation
had wounded him more than the rest, and seemed
to him particularly characteristic of that lady's
utter want of refinement and feeling. It was
her allusion to his union with Mademoiselle
Raymond. He was yet too young to know,
that those who are strangers to our own feel-
ings,—and who can read the human heart aright
but he who bade it beat ?—are apt to jump at
conclusions, which the natural course of events
128 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
render probable—nay, almost unavoidable, but
which, at the moment they are broached, seem
to us, from our peculiar state of mind, at the
very antipodes of possibility, and we are in-
dignant at being foretold that, which it pleases
us not to think about ; but the experience of
riper years teaches us not only to bear this
handling of our finer feelings, but even to in-
flict it on ourselves. We have so often fancied
our sorrows eternal, and yet forgotten them,
that we willingly anticipate and permit others
to suggest to us those consolations which are
within our reach, and of which we arc not sorry,
in due time, to avail ourselves. For it is
another and no less approved truism, that en-
durance in woe is a luxury only sought and
yielded to by the extremely young in feeling ;
those whose hearts passion or the world has
tried, recoil from pain as from an old enemy,
whose might they have too cruelly experienced
to be willing to face again. Hence the callous-
ness of age. But I am again at my old trick
of steering wide of my subject.
Although offended at what he conceived to
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 129
be a gross insinuation under the circumstances,
my father was not childish enough to give up an
intimacy which suited him, merely to prove the
falsehood of the lady's suggestion, the more
especially that he cared but little what she
thought, and was but too painfully convinced that
Catherine never gave herself the trouble of
thinking about it all, or indeed anything else
concerning him. On the other hand, he was
not disposed to do anything whatsoever out of
pique, or to make a silly parade of an indiffer-
ence he did not feel; he therefore remained
on precisely the same footing with Eleonore as
before.
I am afraid I have made use of a great many
words to explain a fact, which but a few would
have sufficed to establish—namely, that there
was in my father's character a manliness which
even at this early period of his life displayed
itself in every point of his conduct. He bore his
sorrow well—denied it to none, but obtruded it
on no one ; he felt no resentment against Cathe-
rine or her family, for his sound understanding
told him he had no reason to feel any. They
g 3
130 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
had never deluded him with false hopes—their
conduct had been strictly honourable, from first
to last; but, at the same time that he acquitted
them of injustice towards himself, he gave up, at
once and for ever, all idea of possessing Cathe-
rine, plainly perceiving that they were not suited
for each other, and that happiness, even should
unforeseen circumstances prove eventually fa-
vourable to its completion, could never attend
their union.
From this time forth my father devoted the
energies of his mind to the career he had em-
braced, and all his leisure hours to Mademoiselle
Raymond, whose strong mind could fully under-
stand and cope with his, although she had not
disrobed it of those gentle sympathies which
make the society of women, especially under
affliction, so attractive. She also was soon given
to understand by Catherine, that her friendship
was one of those earthly pleasures which it was
incumbent upon her to resign, as interfering
too much with her religious duties. Had
Eleonore followed the same course with her-
self—nay, if even at that late hour, for Cathe-
rine's sake, she would put her conscience under
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 131
the guidance of Father Girard, then indeed they
might remain to each other what they had ever
been ; otherwise, it would be a great trial, but
one that God would give her strength to bear,
they must not meet again. In short, she sacri-
ficed Eleonore without much scruple ; but it is
fair to state, that the latter renounced her most
unhesitatingly, rather than enlist herself among
the Jesuit's fanatical worshippers.
" This rupture between us may, perhaps,
hereafter conduce to Catherine's benefit," said
Mademoiselle Raymond, when communicating
this new caprice to my father. " She will one
day come back to me, when I may even turn
this breach to account in making conditions,
perhaps, in your favour."
" Not in mine," he replied. " I have ceased
to hope, and even to wish anything connected
with Mademoiselle Cadieres. Her happiness
is, and ever will remain, a subject of deep
interest to me; and should it at any time lie
in my power to serve her, I shall not neglect
the opportunity : love, such as I have felt, may
be overcome, but never forgotten."
" She bade me tell you she would remember
132 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
you in her prayers," said Mademoiselle Ray-
mond ;
" and I still persevere in believing that,
but for Father Girard, she would ultimately
have yielded to your wishes."
" It is better thus," said my father—and what
he said he thought—" far better thus, at least
for myself, if not for her."
He inquired then, with some curiosity, what
spell could possibly have been exercised over
the female imagination, by one whose austere
bearing, and still more austere language, seemed
but little calculated to make amends for his un-
gainliness of person ; and by what means so ill-
endowed an individual as Father Girard had
contrived to revolutionize the whole existence of
those who had been drawn within his circle.
His very austerity, she said, was, to many
women, a charm. Their weakness required a
stay, which his severity afforded ; their self-
love was flattered by the importance which he
attached to every trifle connected with his peni-
tents ; . there was a species of voluptuousness in
this petty sinning, constant reproof, performance
of daily penances, and the necessity of satis-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 133
tying his exalted notions of righteousness. It
was a perpetual excitement, which chased away
all languor from the mind, and kept it in un-
wearied exercise. The divine love, in short,
as taught by Father Girard, had in some sort
the advantage of an earthly one. It kept its
votaries awake.
One of his fair penitents, however, already
began to find all this flurry a bore rather than
a pleasure. This was Marie Langieres. Her
inclination, indeed, for the rector—enthusiasm,
her torpid temperament prevented her feeling
for any one—had been on the wane at an early
epoch of their acquaintance ; for her very nature
revolted against the excitement that fascinated
others, and which had acted so perniciously on
her health, as to cause the breaking off of the
brilliant marriage she had been on the eve of
accomplishing ; nor could she help entertaining
some resentment against Father Girard—the
author, as she conceived it, of her disappoint*
ment. Something of this sentiment had already
transpired before Eleonore, who determined to
avail herself of it, in order to be the better au
134 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
courant as to what was passing among the
Jesuit's votaries.
About this time, my father and Mademoiselle
Cadieres began to excite much of the public
attention, and that in a manner the most flat-
tering to the views of both. He, young as he
was, had so distinguished himself by arduous
study and close attention to his profession, that
he was entrusted with a cause of some note
and difficulty. The brilliant style in which he
won it, and that when opposed to one of the
shrewdest and ablest lawyers of the time, made
a great sensation. The powers of his mind now
ripened and developed themselves under the
sunny influence of public approbation and ap-
plause ; and it soon became evident, that his pro-
gress in the honourable profession to which he
belonged would be attended with no ordinary
success. His parents were proud of the uni-
versal praise he elicited. Eleonore warmly con-
gratulated him; but where was the sympathy
of her at whose feet he would have laid his
budding laurels ? All engrossed with self, as he
had but too much reason to know.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 135
Her sanctity was now as much the theme of
conversation as her beauty had lately been, and
her sayings and doings scarcely occupied the
public less than those of Father Girard himself;
nay, as Mademoiselle Raymond had foreseen,
they even added lustre to his celebrity. The
singular fact of her confessing and taking the
sacrament daily was obviously, the people said,
a proof of a spirit peculiarly holy, whose spi-
ritual necessities were different from those of
less gifted mortals, or the priest would not
grant such out of the way privileges.
Her visions, too, and celestial colloquies, were
much talked of—all crowded the Jesuits' church
to obtain a glimpse of this beautiful and holy
maid; and Father Girard's reputation spread
like a mighty shadow, veiling completely the
radiance of Mount Carmel—at least, in Tou-
lon.
Now that they were full blown, the Jesuits
wore not their laurels meekly. Under their
rector's guidance, saints and angels were trained
for the use of heaven, and the edification of the
world. Surely, few communities could boast so
136 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
many. Eleonore had been right in predicting
that Catherine would become the mere instru-
ment of party spirit and personal vanity. What
mattered it to the Jesuits in general, or to Father
Girard in particular, that her future prospects
were blasted by the errors of her judgment, at
the very period of woman's life when she has
to decide for its weal or its woe ? What mat-
tered it that her health gave way under the
weight of emotions she had not the strength
to bear ? What was she in the eyes of an am-
bitious priest, when weighed in the balance
with the furtherance of his own private views
of elevation ?
" We shall live to see Father Girard a car-
dinal, and Catherine a canonized saint; and
saints are never calendared until after death,"
said Eleonore one day to my father, who an-
swered but by a sigh.
Thus had they each entered on a separate
path of life who, a few short months before,
it was but natural to suppose were destined to
end their days together.
There was now no pause in my father's
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 237
career. Not willing, like many young men,
vain of a day's applause, to rest after his first
success, he progressed steadfastly upwards —
mounting, step by step, the weary ascent;
never pausing to take breath, nor turning
round to admire the prospect, but keeping his
final aim, and nothing but that, in view, he
slowly but unerringly neared the goal of for-
tune. Poor Catherine, too, held on her course
from visions she passed to miracles, and grew
with every day more sick, and more saintly,
drawing towards her all the praise the town
could spare from Father Girard.
Though not her equals in sanctity or in repu-
tation, nor such favourites of Heaven or Heaven's
interpreter at Toulon, as Father Girard styled
himself, the health of his other disciples grew
every day more precarious. This was more par-
ticularly the case with Marie Langieres. Roused
from the natural sloth of her disposition, it was
not to a pleasing animation, but to a state of
nervous irritability, so strong as to render it
impossible to behold her without dreading its
consequences upon her reason, which, Eleonore
138 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
thought, was already tottering on its throne.
This belief she grounded on a circumstance,
certainly of a nature calculated to suggest it:
her former disinclination to her confessor had
ripened into a most vehement antipathy; no
expression of vituperation seemed of sufficient
force to gratify this apparently insane hatred
for she could assign no motive for it, and yet
she could not live out of his presence. So irre-
sistible indeed had this feeling become, that
when he could not come to her, she sought
him out, wherever he might happen to be at
the time. She strove neither to conceal nor
palliate this glaring contradiction—inexplicable,
indeed, except by the adoption of Eleonore's
supposition.
Upon hearing these evil tidings, my father
became seriously alarmed about Catherine ; he
was not, however, without some hope that she
too might experience a portion of that young
lady's feelings of repulsion for Father Girard, a
sentiment which he would have hailed with de-
light, as the first step towards a more happy
and healthy tone of mind. He therefore en-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 139
treated Eleonore to forgive and forget the
unkind and unjust treatment she had met with
on the part of her friend, and endeavour to see
her at this crisis, when the renewal of their
former intimacy might prove so useful to poor
Catherine, and sympathy for her failing health
afford so natural a pretext for making up the
breach between them which had now subsisted
for more than a year.
Eleonore shared my father's feelings ; for her
interest in the poor recluse was still, like his
love, glowing beneath the embers. She, there-
fore, willingly promised to comply with his
request.
" And what message am I to bear from you ?"
said she, with a smile.
i(
None !" was my father's prompt and decided
answer. " To me she can never be anything
more than a cherished remembrance of the past.
When once rudely awakened from his dream,
the slumberer can seldom resume it ; so is it
with that of love. I have been aroused from
my sweet dream, and I would not, if I could,
140 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Eleonore's account of her visit to Catherine
astonished and perplexed my father not a little
at the time. He could not understand or fathom,
any more than Eleonore herself, the pheno-
menon she described ; nor was it until Mesmer
had revived the science of animal magnetism
among the studious, and revealed it to the idle
vulgar, that my father fancied he had at last
obtained the key to the mysteries which, for so
many years, baffled his ingenuity. That I have
adopted his view of the subject is but natural,
considering by whom the tale was told, and the
manner in which it was represented to me at an
age when impressions are most easily received
and retained. The bent of my mind, too,
the systems and studies I afterwards adopted,
confirmed me, at a later period, in the opinion
thus early formed. It is for you, unbiassed as
you are by all such circumstances, to account
for the strange facts I am now about to relate,
if you can, in another and a more satisfactory
manner.
Eleonore found less trouble in gaining admit-
tance to Catheriue than she had expected,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 141
every one being from home at the time of her
visit except Mademoiselle Cadieres, whom ill
health kept confined, not only to the house, but
to her room. Upon hearing she was alone,
Eleonore unhesitatingly took her way to the
well-known little chamber where they had spent
so many happy hours together.
Catherine was reclining, listlessly, on a couch,
her head propped up by a deep crimson cushion,
which, by its harsh contrast, caused the paleness
of her features to be more apparent. At the
slight noise caused by Eleonore's entrance she
started up in nervous alarm, and on perceiving
who was the intruder on her solitude, she be-
came yet more agitated. Uncertainty, hesi-
tation, a sort of reluctant shame, seemed to
overwhelm her ; but when Eleonore approached
with open arms, she threw herself into them,
and sobbed aloud on her bosom. Mademoiselle
Raymond gently led her back to the couch, sat
by her side, and still retaining her hand in
hers, with the other stroked down her hair with
a soothing fondness. Her manner was im-
pressed with an eloquence that needed no
142 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
words ; Catherine evidently felt and understood
it, for when she could control the vehemence
of her first emotion, she said, in a tone of
gentle reproach
" Oh ! Eleonore, why did you leave me for
so long, or ever ?"
" One word of recal would, long ere this,
have brought me to your side," said Eleonore.
" Why did you not speak it sooner ?"
" Oh ! but you know not, you cannot know
how wretched, how miserable I have been—we
have all been—how unhappy I now am—you
have come too late, Eleonore !"
" Hush, Catherine ! Do not as usual fly
into extremes, errors may be repented of and
repaired, Father Girard dismissed, and Jules
Chaudon recalled. Open your heart to me,
Catherine, without reserve ; I am still, as ever,
disposed to do you what service I may."
" I have not deserved this, Eleonore," said
Catherine, again throwing herself on her friend's
neck, and indulging in an excess of feeling,
which, as such exhibitions were most foreign
and uncongenial to Mademoiselle Raymond's
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 143
nature, at once surprised and embarrassed her.
She attributed this lively display of sorrow, in
one of Catherine's susceptible temperament, to
remorse for having severed herself from those
whom she truly loved, under the passing influ-
ence of an utter stranger, and began to ad-
minister consolations on that head, by assuring
her that she had grieved, but not alienated,
their affections ; but her kind words seemed
rather to irritate than soothe the still weeping
Catherine.
u Oh ! it is not that !" she impatiently ex-
claimed—" not that which torments me—not of
that I would speak ! Had I but followed your
advice from the first, and never come near that
man, or that you had never left me !"
" It was not my choice," gently remonstrated
Eleonore ;
" you must not forget that. But
why recur to the past, which is every way so
painful, since you are again the same dear
Catherine as ever, and see things as you were
wont to do ? It only requires a little self-
exertion to throw off your new habits of
thought and feelings, and to resume your
former ones. Leave Father Girard !"
144 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" Speak not of it," was the hurried reply.
" It is impossible, or I had long since thrown him
off. But I cannot. No ! anything but that /"
" So says Marie Langieres, and yet she hates
him."
" Yes ; it is the same with us all, more or
less. Eleonore, he is a terrible man. You don't
know his power ;
you do not dream of it
—you
who never were exposed to its influence. If
you were always there by my side—with your
hand on my burning head, and with those calm,
penetrating eyes fixed on mine, as now,—always
thus, then perhaps I might free myself from
him, from every thrall
!"
" My poor Catherine, your mind wanders !"
exclaimed her friend, for a moment thrown off
her guard ; then, reassuming as naturally as she
could the cold severe tone she had always found
from experience to soothe best any casual
irritation in her friend, she said : — " Come
Catherine—you must exert your reason, and not
give way in this childish manner—you know I
cannot abide it. Come, tell me, as rationally as
you can, all about Father Girard and yourself,
from beginning to end."
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 145
" I will obey you/' said Catherine in a calmer
tone, whilst a sudden and striking change came
over her features, which had assumed a more
languid expression as Eleonore's mannersoftened.
u Suffer your hand to rest on my brow, as you
did before, nothing clears my ideas better—so
that's right—my other hand in yours. Oh •
had you never left me, Eleonore, it had perhaps
fared better with me. I see you are impatient
that I should proceed, and yet I scarcely know
how to do so ; all is confusion in my brain—dis-
cord in my heart. Sometimes I think Father
Girard the best, the most holy of men, and
myself a wretch to doubt him ; at other times,
I see in him but the vilest and worst of mankind.
It has ever been thus with me, since I first
knew him. I have lost all power of discrimi-
nation—I had almost said of thought ; but, no,
that is my misfortune ; I still think, and that, too,
differently from him ; but this is only when he is
away. When he is present, I am his slave
enthralled by his will, even when it is most
opposed to mine. I sometimes cannot help
fancying that he has bound me by some power-
VOL. I. H
146 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ful, unhallowed spell, which I vainly struggle to
break,—at others, I again believe him sent to me
by Heaven, on a special mission of grace ; and
my sufferings, whether in body or mind, a most
signal favour. Then I accuse myself of faint-
heartedness in not being able to bear up against
them, and weep over my own frailty of purpose,
and the weakness that makes me rebel against
the will of Heaven and unworthy of the trials
which are awarded me."
" But of what trials are you speaking ?"
inquired Eleonore, with some curiosity. " Do
you mean the regret you feel, at having per-
mitted a comparative stranger to exercise an
undue influence over your mind, and cause an
estrangement between you and those who most
cherished you ? That, indeed, has been a trial
to others as well as to you !"
" That, it is true, has cost me many a sleep-
less night—many a tearful day," said Catherine.
" The struggle between the impulses of my
heart and what I conceived to be a duty was a
severe one. He bade me discard you from my
thoughts, but this I could not do, and when left
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 147
to myself, loved you as much as ever. Thus
has it been with almost every object of former
affection or preference—nay, even with every
matter of opinion—until all my notions of right
and wrong are confused—and sometimes I feel
exalted in my own opinion and the next instant
humbled to the very dust ; for he has taught
me the holiness of self-abasement—the necessity
of sinning in order to repent—of yielding in
all things to the will of Heaven, blindly,
darkly, with the heart, not with the under-
standing."
" And he, I suppose," said Eleonore, with a
flashing eye and contracted brow—" he is the
oracle of that will ?"
" Not he alone, he merely expounds it—it is
revealed to me in visions, in ecstasies, and the
palpable signs of these supernatural communions
remain with me !"
" The palpable signs ?—I don't understand
you !" said the amazed listener.
" Yes, I can shew them to you as I have to my
mother and brothers. Look here !" and, removing
the hair that clustered over her brow and neck,
H 2
148 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
she exposed to view some rather severe and but
recently healed wounds.
Eleonore was mute with surprise.
" Yes," continued Catherine, "these are the
inflictions, with which the devils are permitted
to visit me, during my trances ; but do not
look so shocked, there is more fear than pain
attending them—my soul alone is conscious at
such times, my body lies in a state of torpor
that deadens feeling.
" This is passing strange,*'' said Mademoiselle
Raymond as she closely examined the marks
thus subjected to her observation. " These are
but too real, and cannot well have been self-
inflicted, even in the worst fit of1
—of
"
" Insanity, you would say," added Catherine,
with a mournful smile ;
" I am not insane—but,
oh ! I often dread becoming so !"
" Do these fits —these trances, come over you
by day or by night ?"
" Both ; they sometimes rouse me from my
sleep, but, strange to say, it is but to another
sort of slumber—a numbness steals over my
frame whilst my mind wakens to activity."
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 149
"You describe but the state of dreaming,
which is common to all," remarked Eleonore.
" Ay," resumed her companion ;
" but dreams
do not extend to the waking moments. This
phenomenon overtakes me when I least expect
it—whilst talking or walking—even at meals."
u I have read of people being drugged into a
forced sleep," said Eleonore, thoughtfully.
" But Father Girard gives me nothing, nor is
he always present at such times. When he is,
my slumber is more peaceful, and I feel more
tranquil on waking. In his absence, the fits are
torture, and on their leaving me I am totally ex-
hausted."
"If you do not attribute these accidents to
Father Girard, how do you account for them
unto yourself and others," demanded Eleonore,
who was desirous to sift the matter to the
bottom, and to probe her friend's feelings to the
uttermost, before venturing on advice, or even
on conclusions.
" Why, I have already told you, I sometimes
fancy he has charmed me ; but am more often
inclined to think myself, like Saint Theresa, one
150 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
of those elected to suffer and to love, and unto
whom mysteries are revealed in visions—through
whom and upon whom miracles are wrought."
" This is a most extraordinary delusion," ob-
served Eleonore, carried away by the feeling of
the moment beyond the reserve which it was
her desire to maintain until the close of the
conference.
" It is, perhaps, natural you should think so,
to whom nothing has been revealed," said her
friend, with a slight shade of hauteur. " But
from earliest childhood I was unlike others,
and I believe destined to higher things : and I
cannot but believe that Father Girard has been
especially appointed to guide me in the path
which I should tread/'
" Fatal error !" burst involuntarily from Eleo-
nore's lips. " And bethink you, Catherine, if it
be an error, it may cost you dear
"
" If it be an error ! ay, indeed, Eleonore
the thought were madness—but no ! it cannot
be—I will not believe it. Listen to facts : I
know nothing else will have any weight with
you ; but surely to them you must yield belief,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 151
even whilst they, perhaps, exceed your compre-
hension. Led away by your views and opinions,
and those of my ordinary associates, I was
beginning to yield to them in all things ; my
yearnings after higher things gradually di-
minished—my fervour of piety was cooling, and
my soul became more alive to earthly objects."
As she spoke these words, a slight flush crim-
soned her cheek. " At this juncture, Father
Girard appeared on the scene. You cannot
but remember the mysterious circumstance that
first attracted me more particularly towards
him?"
A mournful expression pervaded the features
of Eleonore, but she carefully abstained from
breaking the thread of her friend's narrative.
"As you well know, until that moment,"
continued Catherine, " strange to say, his elo-
quence, the theme of the world's praise, was
quite thrown away upon me—I did not always
understand it ; and when I did, his sentiments
failed to strike me as particularly beautiful ; at
any rate, that had no effect upon me ; nor had,
I am ashamed to confess, his extraordinary de-
152 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
votion. On the contrary, an unnameable, un-
accountable feeling of repulsion at times pos-
sessed me, which I could with difficulty control.
Well, this was again counteracted by his alter-
nate severity and praise. Thus, even whilst
secretly disliking him personally, I derived
great benefit from his spiritual guidance. It is
remarkable that Marie Langieres, Anne Guyol,
and all his penitents, have felt exactly like me
in this respect. The bright side of my ex-
istence— I may even call it its glorious sunshine
was the hope I entertained of treading in the
footsteps of the blessed virgins who adorn our
church. He taught me to believe myself called
to the same path as that of my holy patroness,
sweet St. Catherine of Sienna. All the bright
dreams of my childhood came back to my heart
with renewed freshness. I was like one sud-
denly transported to the summit of a high
mountain, whence the eye could bathe itself in
the blue of the heavens, the green of the valleys,
the radiance of die setting sun. I looked be-
yond the very heavens, and I was proud and
very happy. My mother and brothers also
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 153
encouraged me in my new vocation, to the
utmost of their power. They already saw the
halo of canonization encircling my brow ; but
we were all too vainglorious—I especially. In
vain did Father Girard warn me of the dangers
of this self-exaltation ; nothing could damp my
glowing ardour; the warning was overlooked,
but the punishment was not long in overtaking
the fault. One day—I had already been a
whole year under his care—he breathed gently
on my brow, and looked full into my eyes as he
did so. From that hour I have been his slave.
He often repeated this form, and each time it
drew the chain tighter that bound me to him,
until I had no will but his. I could neither
act nor feel as I pleased, nor even think. Thus
I became, if I may so express it, estranged
from my own self. Oh !
—but you cannot un-
derstand me—indeed, how should you, I cannot
myself,—this perpetual struggle between my
own will and that of another, gliding into my
very being, was the dark side of that period of
my existence. At last, you and Chaudon were
excluded from our house ; and since then, how
h 3
154 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ever great have been my mental sufferings in
consequence of that event, Father Girard at
least has no longer tormented me on the sub-
ject. I had already had many visions of a
mystic and holy character, all of a nature to
natter my inordinate vanity ; but now came one
predicted by Father Girard, in which I was
told I should be possessed for more than a year
by evil spirits, to whom the power of torment-
ing me should be given, in order that a soul in
much pain should be freed from purgatory.
From that time, my trances have changed their
heavenly form—foul fiends have haunted me
under every shape, and burnt wounds into my
flesh, which, upon waking, I still found there.
Father Girard told me this was necessary to my
soul's weal and to the perfection of my charac-
ter, as well as implicit blind obedience to him
in all things. All this have I undergone ; but
I have suffered in body and mind enough to
win the crown of martyrdom ; my health is,
indeed, so impaired, that I could no longer
either confess or take the communion, if it
were not that Father Girard attends me daily
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 155
at home, as he has done his other penitents
when indisposed."
" But," said Eleonore, " is it not a profanation
to perform such sacred duties daily ? You can-
not always be in a suitable frame of mind."
" I cannot explain all that," answered Cathe-
rine, looking embarrassed, "but Father Girard
does, and very clearly, too."
" Then, I am to understand," said Eleonore,
" that you are as convinced as himself of the
merit—the necessity of this abuse of things
most sacred. Unbosom yourself to me, dear
girl, without restraint."
" And so I do, Eleonore, you have there
probed the sore to the quick. I should agree
with you were I to follow my own weak and
wicked thoughts: but Father Girard must
know best. He has also forbidden me prayer
saying, that it is not an efficient means of
binding myself to God—that has cost me the
severest pang of all. But since I have fallen
into the power of the spirits of darkness, I can
no longer pray, even when I feel most the
necessity for so doing. There is a moral
156 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
impossibility, a clog on my thoughts, a seal on
my lips, which all the warm impulses of my
heart, and even the force of habit, are inade-
quate to vanquish. This is one of my greatest
torments, which I am sure you, who knew me
when the outpourings of my spirit flowed as
freely from my lips as water from its source,
will be well able to imagine."
" There may be a remedy to all this," said
Eleonore, thoughtfully. " Have you thought
of none?"
" Exorcism might afford a relief to my soul,
and a physician to my enfeebled frame ; but it
is for my own future weal and glory that all
this should be unflinchingly borne. How high
the price at which both are bought, none shall
ever know but myself. Oh ! Eleonore, con-
ceive, if you can, what are my feelings ; when,
in spite of all that he can say, I sometimes
doubt if my path is a right one—dread that I
am altogether misguided—that Father Girard is
the only evil spirit which torments me ! When
that idea crosses my brain, I am for hours the
prey to despairing regrets and the bitterest
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 157
remorse. Then he comes and talks me over,
or barely looks at me—for he reads my thoughts
at a glance—and I repent my miserable guilty
doubts, so that my soul is ever dark and trou-
bled as the most tempestuous night."
" It was once clear as a summer morning,"
said Eleonore, spiritedly, " why should not the
mists that obscure it clear up again ? If you
would but trust in my advice, as you once did,
perhaps all might yet be well."
" How ? What would you advise ?" said
Catherine, looking up into her friend's face,
with renovated hope lighting up her wasted
features, as a ray of autumn's paly sun is often
seen to play on a sickly flower.
Eleonore paused in doubt how to proceed.
Should she discuss the character of the director
with his half-enlightened proselyte, and endea-
vour to convince her of the absurdity and
villany of which she believed her the victim ?
or had she better trace out a plan for the future,
without attempting to throw too much light
upon the past ? A two-fold reason induced her
to determine upon adopting the latter measure.
158 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Iii the first place, she could come to no clear
understanding of the means and ultimate plans
of the Jesuit; and, secondly, the little light that
glimmered forth from the darkness was not of a
nature calculated to suit the capacity of her
friend; for Eleonore, tenderly as she was
attached to Catherine, was perfectly aware of
her own great superiority in intellect.
" Well, Catherine, if you really wish for
advice, listen to mine, which I am willing to
support by every means in my power. I have
friends in Paris, I shall go and visit them ; you,
under pretence of seeking to benefit your
health by change of scene, will accompany me.
Father Girard cannot pursue you thither ; and
you will there find more consoling and gentle
guides, that will soon quiet your alarmed and
disturbed conscience. Other objects, too, will
divert your mind from its present painful ten-
sion. Nerve yourself but with the courage
necessary to break your present fetters, and
time and I will contrive to smoothe your way
before you."
" Never—never !" answered Mademoiselle
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 159
Cadieres, despondingly ;
u you cannot do that,
Eleonore ; no one can. Is Monsieur Chaudon
going to Paris ?" she demanded, with a sudden
revulsion of feeling. " Has he put you up to
counsel this ? You are silent, Eleonore ; you
fear, perhaps, I shall dislike the measure on
that account ; but it is a mistake, I assure you.
Pray tell me, does he wish to see me, too ?"
" I will be quite frank with you, Catherine,
as I always am when aught is demanded of me.
Jules Chaudon has loved you with a love such
as it is seldom woman's lot to inspire—so deep,
pure, and sincere." She paused, and fancied her
friend breathed an audible sigh. "His is a
noble heart," she continued, " and a gift which
I fancy few would have rejected as carelessly as
you did. He suffered much ; a thousand times
more than he would have cared to avow to any
living creature."
The subdued, timid, almost deferential ex-
pression that had pervaded the manner and look
of Catherine up to this point of the conversa-
tion, suddenly gave way to one of another
character; she seemed not unlike a startled
160 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
courser, unrestrained by bit and bridle, about
to spring forward on his mad career. Eleonore's
self-possession wavered before the wildness of
her gaze, and she could not repress an excla
mation of alarm.
" Oh, yes ;
you think me insane, and are
more than half afraid of me," said Catherine,
with a strange irritability ;
" but I care not what
you think
!"
" But, dearest Catherine, why fly out thus at
me for a thought I have never expressed."
" Oh ! because I saw you think it."
This answer somewhat startled Mademoiselle
Raymond, who was not pleased- that Catherine,
contrary to her wont, possessed sufficient dis-
cernment to read her unspoken thoughts
justly displeased, too, with the acerbity of her
manner, she involuntarily assumed a sterner
air.
" I have then been mistaken," she said, coolly,
drawing herself up to her full height, as she rose
from the couch. " I was induced, by the first
glow of your welcome, to believe that it was
sincere, and that your feelings were unchanged,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 161
at least towards me. I see my error ; for had
it been so, you could have declined my advice
without rudeness or scorn. I perceive you
neither know your own mind, nor can appre-
ciate mine ; so I had better leave you, until it
is your pleasure to recal me."
" Do not part thus, dear, dear Eleonore," ex-
claimed Catherine, tenderly, throwing her arms
around her ;
i(
I will do and say whatever you
please. Do not look thus angrily at me, I im-
plore you ;
your love is all that remains to me
of the happy past—do not withdraw that which
youhave but so lately restored to me."
" If this be your wish, Catherine, then try to
be more consistent in your conduct."
"I cannot; it is not my fault. I am very
sorry, and very, very ill, Eleonore,—far more
so than you or any one else can imagine ;" and
again the poor girl hid her pale face in the
bosom of her friend, and gave vent to her agita-
tion in a succession of hysterical sobs.
Mademoiselle Raymond, in spite of her usual
clearness and rapidity of judgment, was com-
pletely at fault, at this moment, what to say or
162 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
do, or even to think. A few hours of undis-
turbed meditation were necessary to enable her
to collect herself, and to decide upon the course
of conduct which it would be most advisable to
pursue. One thing she felt intuitively—namely,
that the least appearance of hesitation or un-
certainty on her part, or any appeal to Ca-
therine in her present odd, unsettled frame of
mind, was so much ground lost in her esteem,
and, in consequence, a forfeiture of that influ-
ence over the unhappy girl, of which she had
once possessed so large a share, and which had
now become so all-important to the welfare,
at least, of one of them. That she might keep
all her advantages, therefore, and gain time to
reinforce her position, she decided on leaving
the house for the present.
" Well, Catherine," she said, gently extricat-
ing herself from the embrace of her weeping
companion, " I will exact nothing of you
just now, but what I believe you both able and
willing to perform. Do not tell Father Girard
of my visit, and let me know when you are
most likely to be alone, that I may come again
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 163
to you ; but mind,—do not tell him of this
meeting, or he will do his utmost to prevent its
repetition."
" You are right—quite right," said Made-
moiselle Cadieres. <(
Yes, if I can, I will keep
this visit from him. Come at this hour when-
ever you please ; I am then always alone, and
perhaps you may ultimately do something for
me.
" I hope so," said Eleonore. " If you are at
all docile and manageable, I am sure I shall
prove the most able of physicians. But, for
to-day, adieu."
When Mademoiselle Raymond had leisure to
think over what she had just heard, she was
not more successful in arriving at a clear, dis-
passionate view ofher friend's case, than during
their interview. The most rational, nay, the
only solution she could find to this problem,
was the admission of a fact, the bare surmise of
which was pain,—namely, that her poor friend's
intellects were deranged. This idea she could
not bear to dwell upon ; and remembered, with
pleasure, many symptoms ofrationality and col-
164 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
lectedness which tended to combat this opinion
yet there were but too many nighty assertions
she had no other means of explaining.
My father was deeply moved by Mademoiselle
Raymond's communication ; but hesitated in
coinciding with her concerning Catherine's state
of mind,
" The constant super-excitement of the brain
under which she has laboured for the last two
years, is, it is true, well calculated to produce
this result," said he ;
" but if really afflicted by
this infirmity, I suspect Father Girard has
hurried it on by some foul practice or other,
which may one day be brought to light. Far
from having the real interest of his church at
heart, I believe him to be one of those men
who, actuated merely by personal motives and
ambition, would not scruple to employ means
to obtain their ends, before which even fanati-
cism would recoil. We must, however, sift this
matter thoroughly before passing judgment."
But when he came to ponder over this sub-
ject in the silence of his own closet, he was to
the full as embarrassed as Mademoiselle Ray-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 165
mond, in tracing out the machinations of which,
he doubted not, Father Girard had been guilty.
He could, indeed, find no clue to them what-
ever, except by adopting Catherine's own ver-
sion of the affair, and disgracing his reason by
admitting the truth of all those tales of enchant-
ment and sorcery which the enlightenment of
his day already began to class among popular
errors.
He pored over the pages of Cornelius Agrippa,
and other writers on the same mystic subjects,
without being able either satisfactorily to refute,
or unscrupulously to admit, the truth of the
strange doctrines they contain.
He found that they described, as a means
of enchanting, or, in other words, mastering the
passions and affections of indifferent persons,
the very acts to which Mademoiselle Cadieres
alluded when speaking ofher confessor—breath-
ing upon the brow, and steadfastly gazing into
the eyes of the person upon whom it is designed
to operate, whilst the fixity of thought was
declared a necessary accompaniment to the fixity
of gaze recommended. This proceeding was
166 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
averred to be infallible ; and, could my father
but have relied on this exposition, not only
might the incoherences of poor Catherine—the
singular description she had given of the state
of her soul under Father Girard's direction,
in some measure, be accounted for, but also his
mysterious power over his other penitents, as
well as the moral changes and contradictions
which each had exhibited in turn.
You will wonder, perhaps, that he did not
laugh at what, in the days of the great philoso-
phers then about to dawn on France,—the
harbingers of the storm that was to shake her
to her very foundation, and root up, for a time
at least, all her ancient and respectable uses,
together with her abuses, —would have been
termed old women's stories. But in his youth
sorcery was yet accredited among the mass
and though consigned to ridicule by a few of
the bolder spirits of the day, the fancy of the
many, even in the better classes, still clung to
the traditional delusion.
My father, whose mind was yet fresh from
Nature's mint, ready to receive every impression,
hovered for some time between the fluctuating
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 167
prejudices of his epoch ; but eventually his own
reason told him, that to deny the secrets of
nature, or to despise them and her all pervading
power, betrayed rather a deficiency of ability in
unbelievers to read her mysteries aright, than
it argued that her dominion was limited. In
short, what Cornelius Agrippa terms magic, and
Mesmer animal magnetism, that much discussed
and not yet thoroughly understood agency,
flitted across his imagination, until facts on the
one hand, and Mesmer's eloquence on the other,
clearly proved it in after times to his under-
standing.
It is worthy of remark, indeed, that in the
exposition of practical magnetism, Mesmer's
directions tally so completely with some of the
fantastic assertions of the talented secretary of
Charles V., in his occult philosophy, that on
these points, at least, it may be said they have
treated one and the same subject. And it is a
no less remarkable fact, that every detail which
has transpired concerning Father Girard and
his penitents can be referred to that system,
and, in my opinion, to nothing else.
You may adduce, and with truth, that by
168 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
playing upon the mind—especially in youth
exalting and debasing it by turns, it is easy,
without the assistance of any extraneous agency,
to affect the reason, if not actually to destroy
its equilibrium. You may further urge, and
with equal truth, that so complete is the power
which he who wields skilfully the dangerous
weapon called enthusiasm may obtain over his
miserable victims, it remains no difficult task to
sway, not only their judgment, but their feelings
also. It is, indeed, the knowledge of numerous
cases handed down to us in history, and even
still ofdaily occurrence, in which fanaticism con-
ducts to crime—to madness—even to death,
that has caused me sometimes to hesitate in
my conclusions.
Had this, however, been the Jesuit's real
hold on Mademoiselle Cadieres, it is not likely
that she would have struggled so painfully with
the influence he exercised over her; she would
rather have yielded cheerfully and wholly to it.
But it is averred by the most experienced
writers on the subject of magnetism, that the
operator has an unlimited power over the
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 169
patient, obtained by the concentration of his
own thoughts, and their transfusion into the
mind of the person subjected to this process,
either by means of manipulation, which supposes
consent in the party concerned ; or by the mere
attraction of gaze, and sympathy with surround-
ing objects submitted to the ordeal of magne-
tism by the one party, and unconsciously much
used by the other ; which does not imply con-
nivance. This was the case with Mademoiselle
Cadieres and all the worthy Father's penitents,
who yielded to, or rather suffered by an artifice
whose very nature and existence was totally
unknown to them.
When once affinity is established between the
master and the patient—or victim, as the case
may be—that strange psychological phenomenon
takes place, of which I have often read in works
on magnetism, but which I have never witnessed,
or even heard of in real life, except in the case
of Mademoiselle Cadieres—I mean that state of
high exaltation of the nerves, which permits
spirit to commune with spirit without the grosser
intervention of the organs of speech,—when
VOL. I. I
170 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the half-formed thought is met by a correspond-
ing thought, and the unspoken, unspeakable
feelings are, at once, conveyed to a heart that
throbs,—that must throb with sympathy ;—
communion so full of harmony that, when we
first contemplate its nature, we are excusable in
believing it to belong to spheres and to beings
of a higher order than ourselves, and the little
world that contains us ;
—but when we bethink
ourselves of the further consequences of this
latitude, and perceive that the will of man, the
noblest, holiest of his attributes, is also to be
enchained by the same mysterious link between
a stronger and a weaker mind, while both are
yet clothed within their frail human tenements,
liable to be shaken and riven by human passion,
we shudder and turn away from the picture of
mental degradation which this subject may
offer to our view.
The antagonists of Mesmer have advanced a
fact, which, if true—as it seems likely enough to
be—would bear me out in my supposition of
his science being applicable to this particular
case. They assert that magnetism is highly
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 171
prejudicial to the health, and, by over exciting,
is apt to cause the most serious derangements of
the nervous system,—that the senses are fre-
quently brought to a state betwixt waking and
sleeping, which can hardly be said to be either
and yet partakes of both,—that this unnatural
condition, in which the intellect is constantly
struggling betwixt its perceptions of the real and
the unreal, is most dangerous alike to mind and
body, and that magnetism can produce other
consequences as fatal to the sufferer as the con-
vulsions which are its usual accompaniment.
All this, I feel, must seem very obscure to
those who, like you, have not dipped much into
this theory. We see, however, by daily expe-
rience, how miserable are good and innocent
young females —and they are the persons in
point—when forced into the companionship of
the bad and the reckless of our sex. That such
trials have often affected their reason is a fact
proved beyond dispute, by the fate of many who
have been induced to marry notorious rakes.
We may suppose, therefore, a close affinity of
spirits, such as is said to be produced by mag-
i 2
172 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
netism between persons of unequal morality,
in which the weaker party has been compelled,
in spite of its purity, to adopt the loose senti-
ments and principles of the stronger and more
dissolute, to be a thraldom past the human
powers of endurance. I see, by your incredu-
lous smile, you believe rather in the possibility
of corrupting human purity, than of forcing its
barriers; well —I think differently. But then,
I am a confirmed believer in this mysterious
agency, whose nature is, I own, startling enough
at the first glance.
Having given you a faint outline of the
pretensions of this doctrine, in order to enable
you to understand in Avhat manner I apply it
to this particular case, I will return to my story.
When Mademoiselle Raymond next called
upon Catherine, she was no longer alone.
Father Girard was closeted with her; and
Mademoiselle Cadieres' confidential maid de-
livered her the somewhat ungracious message,
that she was entreated not to come again to
the house, as her friend could in no case see
her. This was a relapse which Eleonore had
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 173
not expected to take place so soon ; but as she
saw that, for a time at least, nothing more was
to be done in the matter, she departed.
Some weeks more elapsed, during which little
transpired at large of what passed at the Ca-
dieres', beyond the fact of Father Girard's daily
—nay, hourly—presence there, and the rapid
progress of his fair penitent in sanctity. The
chapter of miracles was freely broached by him-
self and her brothers ; the curiosity of the public
was strongly excited ; and even the bishop, the
worthiest soul alive, dropped a few hints, that
proved he began to feel a growing interest in
the subject. The Carmelites still shook their
heads ominously, and shrugged their shoulders
at the bare mention of these things with an
affected contempt, which could not veil their
real mortification. The Jesuits' triumph was
complete, radiant; and they bore the palm
over all competitors at Toulon without dis-
pute.
Such was the state of affairs, when, all of a
sudden, the news was spread about the town
that Mademoiselle Cadieres was about to em-
174 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
brace the veil. Various reasons were assigned
for this step, and diverse convents named, of
which one would be selected by the young
saint to become the theatre of her future glory.
Mademoiselle Raymond was, however, informed
by Marie Langieres, whom she still continued
occasionally to visit, that Father Girard had
appointed the convent of St. Clare of Ollioules
as the future residence of Catherine, whom she
described as most unwilling to enter it. She
declared, also, that Madame Cadieres, though
fully sharing the reluctance of her daughter,
was, like herself, unable to resist the imperative
monk, who would suffer no contradiction.
u She loathes the very idea of a convent," said
Marie Langieres, in conclusion, " and is growing
daily less religious, I fancy. But what then?
If that horrid man wills it, of course she must
take the veil."
These words roused Eleonore's attention.
She found, upon a closer investigation, that all
the peculiarities she had remarked in Cathe-
rine's discourses, as betraying an incipient in-
sanity, were developed almost to a greater de-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 175
gree in Marie Langieres : the same depression
of spirits and faded appearance, the same in-
ward struggle between opposing emotions,—the
natural impulses counteracted and controlled
by an unaccountable, inexplicable inner thral-
dom. She would talk in the same breath on
the same subject, now in her own person, and
with the feelings that might be supposed natural
to her ; and again, with an altered tone, would
utter sentiments unbecoming her sex and her
years, which must have been farthest removed
from her sphere of thought.
The similitude which Eleonore found between
Catherine and Marie forced themselves upon her
notice in Father Girard's other penitents, when
accident brought her near them; and they so
puzzled and confounded her reason, that she
gradually yielded to Catherine's suggestion
namely, that they were all suffering under
some powerful spell which Father Girard had
cast upon them.
My father, as I have already explained to
you, had not sufficiently made up his own mind
on this subject to be enabled to enlighten an-
176 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
other; and indeed, as all personal interest in
the affair was fast subsiding in his heart, he
soon discovered that he had enough to think of
in other quarters, and had no time to waste in
fruitless brooding.
Not so with Mademoiselle Raymond. How-
ever superior in intelligence to the mass of young
women of her age, especially at an epoch when
the education of women was very deficient, still
the monotony of her pursuits left her ample lei-
sure for the development of her feminine curi-
osity ; and this was a subject to excite it to the
uttermost.
" If," said my father to her often recurring
remarks on this subject—" if you think there is
a chance of your being able to move Mademoi-
selle Cadieres from her purpose, I would advise
you, by all means, to attempt seeing her before
she sets off for the convent. Once there, she
will find it perhaps impossible to return to the
world, even should she desire it."
" Could you contrive to speak to her," urged
Eleonore.
Her eyes were keenly fixed on his counte-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 177
nance. The colour mounted to his very brow,
as he felt conscious of the gaze ; but he returned
it, and it was Mademoiselle Raymond's turn to
blush.
" If I thought any earthly exertion of mine
could save Mademoiselle Cadieres," he said, " I
would not spare myself, be assured of that ; but
I am convinced, that any interposition on my
part would but hurry on Catherine to her fate.
If I could unravel the mystery, and prove but
half the villany I suspect in Father Girard, I
would avenge her ; but I must not forget, that
I have no right whatever to interfere with the
concerns of that young lady, when even that of
friendship has been withdrawn from me; and
my position as a rejected suitor should make
me doubly reserved in all my proceedings."
" But will you quietly sit by and see Cathe-
rine take the veil ?"
" You must have too much sense, my good
young lady," was the answer, accompanied by
an arch smile, " not to see that had I even the
right, I can no longer have any reason for
opposing such a measure. After all, if the
i 3
178 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
family Cadieres prefer their Tartuffe to all
else in the world, who may gainsay them ? But
you know very well the opinions I must perforce
entertain on this subject : I cannot understand
why you should insist on making me repeat
them so often."
Mademoiselle Raymond's tell-tale cheek might
have enlightened him as to her drift, and Ma-
dame Cadieres' prophecy, which, when spoken
two years back, had so grievously displeased
him, now flitted across his mind, but this time
certainly without causing any disagreeable
emotion.
That Eleonore was not too deeply hurt at
his being so resigned on the chapter of Cathe-
rine's retiring altogether from the world, was
evident from her manner growing even more
free and unreserved under the influence of his
answer.
The footing on which they stood together
was peculiar, as indeed, Mademoiselle Ray-
mond's whole bearing and character was reputed
to be. Circumstances allowed her, on many
points, a greater latitude than other young
women of her age are ordinarily permitted in
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 179
our country, more especially with regard to the
choosing the society that best suited her; for
her guardians were but distantly connected
with her, and took little or no interest in her
welfare. An impoverished elderly gentlewoman
had been imposed upon her by way of a duenna;
but, beyond this necessary restriction, no control
whatever was laid upon her actions. Though
nominally residing under the roof of her guar-
dians, she kept a separate establishment, and
received in her salon when and whom she
pleased.
The liberty that fell thus early to her lot,
might have been misused by many, so inex-
perienced as herself; but Eleonore, guarded
by a powerful understanding, and the conscious-
ness that her wealth, rather than her looks,
would be generally considered her chief at-
traction, had steeled herself in an impenetrable
armour of coldness and suspicion, that had stood
proof against many a well-directed arrow.
Up to her acquaintance with my father, her
salon, as well as her heart, had been closed
against every intruder ; and when he was at
last admitted into that sanctum sanctorum, it
180 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
still remained inaccessible to others, to the no
small mortification of all the speculative sons
and parents in our good city. Great, therefore,
was the outcry against what was almost deemed
an impropriety—their marriage was spoken of
as a certainty ; then, as neither party took the
trouble to notice the many hints thrown out
before them on this subject, and as weeks grew
to months and the thing remained in statu
quo, and Mademoiselle Raymond refused offer
after offer, and yet solemnly pledged her word,
in so doing, that she was under no pre -engage-
ment, people set down this intimacy as one of
the bizarreries of the heiress, and turned to the
discussion of some newer topic.
My father, as I have said, had accepted Eleo-
nore's friendship as a substitute for Catherine's
love, without much reflection; but, independently
of the gratitude he owed her who had softened the
sharpness of his first disappointment, he soon
discovered in her qualities calculated to fix his
esteem.
The uprightness and candour which she dis-
played on every occasion, even the most trivial,
her fair and dispassionate judgment even in
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 181
those things that concerned her most,—the
generosity of heart that overlooked the foibles of
others,, which her own keenness of intellect
rendered so glaring,—the firmness of her cha-
racter and principles, that kept her in everything
and at all times true to herself and to others
these sterling qualities, so rarely found in the
opposite sex, that we may fairly term them
masculine, made her, at once, an object of his
respect and admiration. Nor was she devoid
of those feminine inspirations, which teach even
the most guileless of womankind how to in-
gratiate themselves with those whom they are
desirous of pleasing. Habit, too, often recon-
ciles men to the very plainest exteriors ; and
my father had long since discovered that Made-
moiselle Raymond, whose figure and eyes were
really fine, did not belong, absolutely, to that
category—her society had become indispensable
to him. Her superiority to all the women it
had ever been his fortune to meet with, was by
this time an established fact in his own mind
and had he been forced to forego her intimacy
and renounce her friendship, the pain would
have been scarcely less, though perhaps of
182 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
another character, than that which he felt when
separated from Catherine. In short, though he
would doubtless have written better verses in
favour of the latter, he would much rather have
chosen the former for the companion of his life,
now that he had a fair opportunity of comparing
their real merits.
But, although the progress of this attachment
was so gradual on his part, that it was almost
imperceptible to himself, Mademoiselle Ray-
mond's preference for him had dated from the
beginning of their acquaintance. It was, pro-
bably, the struggle she constantly maintained
against her own heart, when she perceived that
her friend's beauty had cast her into shade,
that caused her usual reserve to deepen into
ungraciousness and gloom. Too generous to
resent his choice, and too modest not to ac-
quiesce in its justice, she suffered no feeling of
mortification or envy to dim the purity of her
long established friendship with Catherine. She
was careful not to permit the slightest trace of
her weakness to become evident, well knowing
that Catherine would not have encouraged any
attentions likely to distress her, and she was
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 183
too proud to owe anything to pity. Thus had
she sedulously avoided showing my father any
more attention than what the most frigid
courtesy exacted, and it was this line of con-
duct—the principle which influenced it remain-
ing concealed from him—that had so long
blinded him to her rare and high merits.
From the moment the fact became public of
Catherine being about to leave Toulon, Eleo-
nore was constantly on the look out to procure
a final interview; but the vigilance of Father
Girard even exceeded her own, and frustrated
all her efforts. To her great surprise, now that
a powerful motive had made her keep a kind of
watch over Madame Cadieres' house, she per-
ceived that the confessor scarcely ever left it,
nay, even the apartment of his penitent—that
he penetrated into the latter at all hours, and
sometimes banished her nearest relations from
the chamber, whilst he remained alone with its
fair tenant. This displeased to the full as much
as it surprised Eleonore; nor could she view
with patience the degrading, imbecile humility
with which the Dominican and the Abbe,
Catherine's two brothers, greeted or took leave
184 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
of, or indeed even approached the haughty
Jesuit.
She was also struck with the alteration that
had taken place in his whole person and manner.
The latter had grown abrupt and presumptuous
—the former more repulsive than ever. A
restless, fiery look, that seemed at once to dread
and yet defy opposition, gleamed from beneath
his shaggy eyebrows, whilst the hollow of his
cheeks and corpse-like pallor had even increased,
although those who remembered him on his
first arrival at Toulon might have deemed the
thing impossible.
Most of Mademoiselle Raymond's remarks
were made from a house opposite to that of
Madame Cadieres, to which she had contrived
to obtain admission, at first for the express pur-
pose of laying in wait for a favourable opportu-
nity of executing her project of speaking with
Catherine previous to her departure; but she
soon became aware what an ample field was
thus afforded for general observation. In any
other case her innate delicacy of mind, and
indeed, her perfect indifference to the concerns
of strangers, would have made her shrink from
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 185
such a mode of gratifying her curiosity ; but
she conceived that her love for Catherine gave
her a right to inquire more closely into actions
which, but for the baneful influence of a stran-
ger, rising suddenly like a cloud between them,
and which she trusted might yet in time be
blown away, would have been laid bare to her
like her own.
She could often catch a glimpse of Madame
Cadieres, bathed in tears; a circumstance that
convinced her how painful was the sacrifice she
was about to make in suffering her daughter's
departure. But Catherine was so completely
confined to her room, which had no other look-
out but upon the yard, that she could form no
idea of her real feelings. That Father Girard
wielded the sceptre of domestic power with a
most tyrannical sway was obvious from a series
of trivial occurrences that came within her
notice ; and her dislike to, and distrust of the
man, amounted to disgust as she perceived how
unscrupulously he took the most open and
unfair advantage of the weak, almost sottish,
infatuation of the Cadieres.
Finding all her endeavours to obtain speech
186 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
of her friend vain, she had recourse to letters,
with no better success. She soon, indeed,
became convinced that none ever reached their
destination ; and, finally, she had the mortifica-
tion of seeing her friend safely deposited in a
travelling carriage by the side of Anne Guyol,
and another of Father Girard's most devoted
adherents, by that worthy personage himself.
The mode of departure at that time partook
but little of the hurry of our present habits,
nor were leave takings as unceremonious then
as now; so that Mademoiselle Raymond had
time to reach the carriage before, in spite of the
Jesuit's impatience, the ponderous vehicle had
yet been put in motion. Eleonore's bare head
and careless attire denoted the eagerness of the
moment ; and no sooner had the Father's angry
exclamation drawn Catherine's eyes towards
her than she seemed conscious of her friend's
devotion, and grateful for the feeling.
" Thank you, Eleonore, thank you, dearest
I will pray for you," murmured she, in scarcely
audible accents.
" Catherine, do not leave us," said Eleonore,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 187
fixing her penetrating eye on the young girl,
who had already assumed a semi-religious habit.
" You cannot really desire to do so!"
Catherine cast a timid, pleading glance at
Father Girard, which tears soon obscured,
coursing each other rapidly down her pale
cheeks.
Father Girard crushed the mute appeal by a
single threatening look, which seemed at once
to terrify, not only the frail object on whom it
fell, but even the weeping mother, who had
looked up, as Eleonore was speaking, with
something like an expression of hope depicted
on her sunken countenance. The Priest turned
sharply on Mademoiselle Raymond, and dart-
ing at her one of those withering glances which
so well sustained the thunders of his eloquence
in the pulpit, and produced such triumphant
effects on his female adherents, he stood in
haughty expectation of the result; but, in
this instance, it fell short of its customary
effect. Eleonore returned the look with one
of undisguised contempt; and the Jesuit quailed
before the firm, steady gaze he encountered in
188 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the large, dark, severely expressive eyes of
Mademoiselle Raymond.
" Leave us, Mademoiselle," he said, in a tone
of ill-suppressed rage ;
" leave this holy maiden,
whom you never approach but with the attempt
to lead her astray from a path of light which
you have not the grace to follow. Go, I say,''
he continued, raising his voice in the nervous
impatience of the moment, above the pitch of
decorum, and grasping, at the same time, the
arm of the young lady in no gentle or reserved
manner. " Go ! impious heretic—or
—" and
he compressed the arm he held in a rude, rough
manner, equally unbecoming his habit, and the
sex of her whom he addressed.
" You forget yourself," said Mademoiselle
Raymond, coolly drawing herself up, and seek-
ing, by a slight gesture, to release herself from
the bold grasp of the Jesuit, but instantly ceas-
ing the effort upon discovering that it would
not avail her.
" It is not I, it is you !
—you !"
An excess
of resentment, for which there appeared scarcely
sufficient cause, seemed about to transport
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 189
the Monk beyond the bounds of decency. In
vain did the Cadieres, mother and sons, and the
young girls in the carriage exhort him to be
pacified; it was evident that rage was fast
mastering his reason, when Eleonore, bending
her tall form towards him, whispered a few
words in his ear.
No spell spoken by necromancer ever pro-
duced a more magical effect. A hue still more
ghastly than usual overspread his countenance,
—his trembling hand released the frail arm it had
grasped as though no longer able to retain it,
his knees knocked against each other,—his eyes
rolled wildly in his head,—the most abject
terror was depicted in every feature. Had
Eleonore stabbed him, the change could not
have been more sudden, or more striking. It
was so much so that Madame Cadieres ex-
claimed
" Good God ! what has happened to the
reverend Father? —what has she done to
him?"
" Nothing, assuredly, madame," said Eleo-
nore. " But what is he doing to you ? Rob-
190 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
bing you of your daughter, and yet you know
not how to resist
!"
An embarrassing pause ensued, to which
Mademoiselle Guyol put an end by ordering
the coachman, somewhat fiercely, to drive off.
Father Girard seemed to breathe anew as the
wheels began slowly to revolve, and the coach-
man's whip cracked cheerily in the air. Ma-
dame Cadieres re-entered the house abruptly,
as if unwilling to mark the progress of the
vehicle that was bearing from her what she held
dearest on earth. The Jesuit, without speak-
ing another word, hastily darted up the street,
following the carriage with rapid strides, whilst
the brothers remained rooted to the spot.
Eleonore's keen eye caught the figure of Cathe-
rine, at the next turning, as, leaning with her
whole body out of the carriage window, she
stretched forth her arms towards her—the next
instant she was out of sight. Whether the
movement had been an adieu, or an appeal,
was a point which it troubled much Mademoi-
selle Raymond to decide. Luckily, for all
parties, the early hour at which this scene took
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 191
place precluded the possibility of its getting
bruited about. This was especially fortunate
for Eleonore ; for, bigoted as were the times
and the people, had the report once gained
ground that she had insulted a member of the
church, and so holy a man, too, as Father
Girard was considered to be, it might have
blighted her fair fame. She recounted, how-
ever, the affair to my father, down to the smallest
detail. His answer was :
" The Tartuffe will never forgive you, and I
am afraid you have braved his anger to little or
no purpose. I, too, have taken my informa-
tions, and we have little to fear for Catherine.
I understand that the nunnery of St. Clare
belongs to a mild order, and boasts, besides a
very sensible and high-born abbess, many sisters
of distinction. Should she not feel disposed
to take the veil, no one there will exert any
undue authority, or even persuasion, to induce
her to that step ; and, should she really perform
the vows, she has every chance of happiness that
such an existence can afford. At all events, there
she will be delivered from that odious director's
192 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
presence and control ; he will hardly dare to
follow her to the sisterhood—if, indeed, he could
quit Toulon. He believes, however, his object
attained ; her person and fortune are secured to
the church, and he will now turn his thoughts
to some other victim, perhaps Marie Langieres."
w God grant you may be right," said Made-
moiselle Raymond ; but she looked very much
as if she could not bring herself to share his
opinion.
Catherine's departure, and the manner of it,
had put an end to all Eleonore's hopes of a
reconciliation. That unfortunate being would,
probably, now, for the rest of her life, be dead
to them and to the world, as completely as
though the grave had closed upon her; and,
having mourned this easy to be foreseen event
long before it actually took place, both my
father and Mademoiselle Raymond felt them-
selves very much at liberty to think of each
other,—the only other object of interest that
stood in their way being withdrawn from them.
I will cut a long story short—or one that
might be spun out into such—nor detail to you
-MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 193
by what rapid gradations my father became
aware of the real nature of his attachment to
Eleonore —that she alone could render him
truly happy. Neither will I dwell on the man-
ner in which he communicated this discovery,
nor on that in which it was received. Made-
moiselle Raymond was free from all even the
slightest shadow of coquetry, and probably
would have been thought, upon the whole, too
deficient in that respect by a vulgar-minded
man ; but my father was as superior to the
generality of his sex as she was to hers, and was
able to appreciate her every qualit}^. The frank,
candid admission she at once made of the state
of her feelings, even previous to the existence
of his own love for her, was received by him
with delight and gratitude. He wondered, in
his soul, how he could ever have preferred the
rose to the pearl—Catherine to Eleonore ; but,
as he expressed it in after life, one was the
romance, the other the reality of love. It is
right and proper that youth should have its
dreams, and manhood its happiness. The first
choice of the heart depends so much on cir-
VOL. I. K
194 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
cumstances, and on the imagination, and every
man's tastes and opinions alter so much with
time and experience, that the object of his
boyish passion would seldom, if obtained, con-
duce to the happiness of his after years.
My father's proposal came at a most fortunate
and critical moment for poor Eleonore. In a
very short time her minority would cease ; her
guardians had determined on leaving Toulon,
and had she wished to remain there, she would
have found it no easy matter to procure a home.
I will not tell you of all the tittle-tattle of
the town, when this news was made public by
the parties whom it most concerned. After
having loudly predicted it nearly three years
before it had any basis on truth, they would not
credit it, even from the lips of the future couple.
It was not until the parents of Monsieur Chau-
don came from Marseilles, in great haste, to
attend the fianqailles of the young people, that
at last the thing was believed ; and then, again,
it gave rise to as much jealousy and animadver-
sion, to as many heart-burnings and calumnies,
as though such an event had been a flagrant act
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 195
of injustice committed against all the marriage-
ables of the good city.
Now that the beauty and the heiress—Cathe-
rine and Eleonore—were both disposed of, it was
but reasonable to expect they would be forgotten.
So far as regards Eleonore this was indeed the
case. You must not suppose, however, that her
marriage had actually taken place. Matrimony,
like every other thing, was treated then with
far more importance than it is at present ; and
the Jianqailles, or betrothals —a ceremony sel-
dom, if ever, observed now in France—was in
full use at that epoch. It generally preceded
the marriage by many months, but bound the
parties almost irrevocably to the performance
of that engagement.
But Mademoiselle Cadieres did not subside
into forgetfulness. On the contrary, never had
she been so much talked of as since her arrival
at Ollioules. Father Girard having requested
her admission to this convent in no very humble
terms—for he had announced his protegee as
one whose peculiar holiness would shed a fresh
lustre on the establishment, and in whom he
k2
196 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
himself took a special interest, on account of
the extraordinary graces with which she was
gifted—and being, moreover, personally known
to the superior,—she was received with singular
honours; and all the strange, unusual condi-
tions he made in her behalf were acquiesced in
without demur.
But his after proceedings, and her own, at-
tached a still greater importance to Catherine,
and brought her before the public in a far more
glaring manner than heretofore. Abandoning
almost entirely his concerns at his seminary, more
to the satisfaction of his superiors than to the
edification of his other penitents, the whole of
Father Girard's time was taken up with jour-
neys to and from Ollioules; and the soul of
Catherine occupied his attention so exclusively
as to cause much jealousy and discontent among
those whom it had long been his habit, and was
now more than ever his duty, to attend to ; for
they all seemed to live but in his presence.
Marie Langieres, Madame la Rue, and her
daughter, were loudest in their complaints on
this occasion, and stood forth the representa-
tives, as it were, of the malecontents.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 197
Among these, neither last nor least were the
Cadieres; nor were they slow in making their
uneasiness known. Serious rumours now began
to circulate about miracles having been wrought
upon Catherine, visibly and palpably impress-
ing her with the sign manual of special elec-
tion; and they soon became not only univer-
sally discussed, but credited in every circle,
drawing the attention of the clergy and the
great, in a marked manner, towards the con-
vent. The nearer she approached the culmi-
nating point at which they had long desired to
see her, the greater became the mortification
of her relations at having the saint of Ollioules,
as she was now called, removed beyond their
sphere, her glory profiting utter strangers rather
than themselves. This was certainly the first
consideration that roused the indignation of her
brothers, who, if they were not brought into
notice by her means, had but little advance-
ment to hope for in their profession.
The mother, doubtless, was influenced by
tenderer and less interested motives. Her great
source of anxiety, that which really pressed
heavily on her mind, was the state of her
198 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
daughter's health, which seemed materially im-
paired since the last few months. She re-
proached herself constantly with having yielded
to Father Girard's persuasions in delaying to
call in medical aid, whilst she had yet an op-
portunity of so doing. She felt, moreover, se-
verely the loss of her idol—for Catherine might
be called such in the fullest sense of the word
and her confidence in, and reverence for, Father
Girard, began to diminish from the moment she
no longer beheld in him the promoter of, but
rather the bar to, the realization of those plans
and ambitious desires which she had cherished
in her bosom for years. But Father Girard was
not probably very desirous of sharing the glory
redounding upon him for having made a saint
with any one else, not even with the Dominican
or the Abbe, whose interest in their sister was
thus completely neutralized.
At Ollioules, as at Toulon, Catherine had
trances, ecstasies, and fits of a character that
almost bordered on epilepsy. At other times,
she seemed to walk, talk, and exist, like one in
a perpetual dream. The miracles spoken of had
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 199
indeed wrought visibly on her person. She
received the communion, and confessed almost
daily with Father Girard ; and the fame of her
sanctity spread far and wide over the country,
so that priests and laics, grandees and beggars,
devotees of all classes, ages, and sexes, were daily
entreating admittance to this new saint, of whom
the strange fact is recorded, that she could read
the thoughts, and guess the ailings or troubles, of
those who approached her, before they had even
spoken them.
Miraculous cures and heaven-inspired advice
was soon reported to have emanated from her,
and curiosity attracted even those to see the
lovely saint of Ollioules whom credulity did not
bring to her shrine.
The bishop several times meditated a per-
sonal visit to her, which Father Girard was
careful to prevent, in order to keep her humble,
as he said ; but he could not prevent the grand
vicar, and other dignitaries of the church from
doing her that honour. It seemed, indeed, from
the Jesuit's account, that his chief difficulty in
guiding his young votary's soul aright consisted in
200 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
combatting her growing pride in her own sur-
passing sanctity, and the privileges it drew down
upon her from heaven.
My father was much pained at the growing
honours of Mademoiselle Cadieres. A convic-
tion he could no longer repel induced him to
believe they were due to imposture alone ; and
that Catherine herself—his but so lately beloved
Catherine —was the chief impostor. It was most
reluctantly that he admitted this truth even unto
himself; but his reason spoke loud enough to
silence the pleadings of his heart. These mi-
racles and wondrous signs from above—this gift
of prophecy in one so simple-minded and little
enlightened—this power of penetrating into the
secrets of consciences, reading the darkest mys-
teries of the human heart—of diving with equal
skill into the past and future—seemed to him,
not, as to the superstitious and illiterate vulgar, a
voice from Heaven speaking to the amazed mul-
titude through the lips of an innocent and fa-
voured agent, but rather the well-played comedy
of an artful priest, performed by a no less cun-
ning stager. When he reflected how pure and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 20 i
spotless was her mind at the epoch of his first
introduction to her, and then thought of her
actual position, so young, and brought up in
such reserve and obscurity, and yet exhibiting
herself in so glaring a manner to public notice,
displaying acting so consummate as to deceive
and blind men of the strictest honour, and of
no mean capacities, he shuddered at the moral
depravity which so much perseverance and bold-
ness in falsehood betrayed.
These feelings of disgust weighed heavily on
his spirits ; and although he permitted them to
be apparent to no one else, he frankly commu-
nicated them to Eleonore. Her answer was,
as usual, calculated to dispel the clouds from
his brow.
" You are kind enough to say you have some
confidence in my judgment," she said 3 "allow
me, then, like so many others, to perform a pil-
grimage to Ollioules ; I shall then be better able
to tell you how much of all these reports that
affect you so painfully is founded in truth ; for
exaggeration has doubtless laid on its colours
with no sparing brush. I shall, also, I doubt
k3
202 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
not, be able to detect how far Catherine is her-
self the dupe of her own imagination. I will,
at all events, be a careful observer of all that I
may be permitted to see, and will report every-
thing most faithfully, even in its minutest de-
tails. May I go to Ollioules ?"
The approbation she sought was not with-
held ; and Eleonore, always prompt in following
up an idea, was that very day on the road to
St. Clare's. Many, and of various kinds, were
the wayfarers she fell in with—all bound to the
same goal as herself. She addressed several
females, who evidently belonged to the lowest
class, and discovered that their trust in the new
saint of Ollioules was illimited; and as they
seemed sufficiently burthened by misery and
illness already, Eleonore thought it a cruelty to
seek to lessen the comfort which their strange
delusion aiforded them. They recounted to her
the most incredible facts that had occurred to
some of their friends and relations through the
intervention of the Holy Virgin of St. Clare's,
as they called Catherine. The stories they re-
cited, in spite of her utmost efforts to repress
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 203
the rising smile, brought it more than once to
her lips, and once even forced a laugh, the real
cause of which she had some trouble in con-
cealing from her simple interlocutor, whose se-
verest indignation would doubtless have been
roused by her avowed incredulity. The obvious
interest, however, with which she listened to
their lengthened tales of distress and sickness,
ingratiated her with them too much to allow of
their suspecting her real sentiments.
When, however, she was at last ushered along
with the others into the convent parlour to await
Catherine's appearance, she was surprised, on
examining those who surrounded her, to per-
ceive that many were of a standing in life not
only far superior to her own, but some even
apparently of the most exalted station.
These clustered together at one end of the
long dark chamber, whilst the poorer devotees
grouped themselves at the opposite extremity,
thus leaving Eleonore, in solitary dignity, the
sole possessor of the centre immediately facing
the grate. This circumstance might have inti-
midated some young women ; but Eleonore Ray-*
204 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
mond was ever above the trivial occurrences of
life that so often disturb less well-strung nerves
and she sat quietly surveying the scene, uncon-
scious perhaps of the effect her calm demeanour,
and the depth of intelligence reflected in her
lustrous eyes, wr
as calculated to produce on the
beholders. Having been for some time the sub-
ject of much scrutiny, especially from the aris-
tocratic end of the room, she was not surprised
when a young lady detached herself from the
group, and took a seat beside her.
" You are of Toulon, madam, I presume T*
said the stranger, in tones, the slight hauteur of
which was almost veiled by their sweetness, and
whose accent was decidedly Parisian.
Eleonore guessed the rank of her interlocutor
at a glance ; and though certainly not in the
habit of conversing with, or even of seeing
marquises out of their glass coaches, she was
far from being overwhelmed by the condescen-
sion of the pretty sprig of aristocracy who ho-
noured her thus far.
" I am," was the reply, conveyed in Maj
demoiselle Raymond's most ungracious man-
ner.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 205
The lady was evidently shocked at the want
of respect, even of courtesy, to which she had
exposed herself, and was about to turn away in
disgust; but a second thought seemed to pre-
vail with her ; for, pushing aside the profusion
of curls and laces that obscured her features,
she exhibited them in full to Mademoiselle
Raymond, whose gaze, in spite of herself, was
rivetted by their exquisite loveliness, although
time, and the fatigue of an agitated life, had
already somewhat dimmed their brightness.
The impertinence of a slightly turned up, but
most delicately formed nose, was fully amended
by the gentle smile that played on her ripe and
pouting lips. There lay a world of love in her
deep hazel eyes, fringed with darker lashes;
and the grace of courts, and the assurance of
fashion, rather than that of rank, was revealed
in her careless attitude.
" Then," she said, " you must know some-
thing of this—this " she paused a moment,
as if embarrassed to find the fitting expression
—" this young person," she continued, remark-
ing the sardonic smile that lighted up for a
moment the gravity of the Toulonese lady.
206 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" I do," was the blunt answer ; " we have
been friends from earliest childhood."
" Really !
—oh ! charming ! Then, you can
tell us all about her. Come, come," she cried
out, in a gleeful tone to her companion—" come,
we have what we want."
u I do not understand," said Eleonore, laugh-
ing, * what you want ; but if it is me, or any in-
formation I am able to afford, how can you make
sure of securing either.
1 '
The handsome and animated Parisian lady
turned her soft eyes upon her with a stare
expressive of anything but pleasure, and already
her lips opened, doubtless, to utter some
ungracious reply, which would certainly not
have furthered her views with the person she
addressed, when another came forward, whose
countenance, though scarcely less beautiful than
that of the former speaker, was more touched by
time, and evidently had ever been of a thought-
ful cast.
" Ah ! come, my dear Madam, to my assist-
ance," said the repulsed fair one, " if you would
while away time, and procure some light on
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 207
the important subject that has lured us so
far."
" Yes," was the answer, " but above all, I
must remind you, tetefolle, that we are to keep
our incognito, or you will infallibly betray us.
Down with that veil."
" Oh ! it is merely some Toulonese rotuviere?
was the whispered reply, which Eleonore's quick
ear caught, nevertheless, most distinctly.
" Never mind—we must deal cautiously by
her, or she may guess who we are," said the
other, in a tone scarcely less low ; " and if it
were to gain wind that we have been here this
day, it would cover us with ridicule. To have
come so far, and incognito, for such folly—and
I a philosopher too—it is too bad !
—" And the
lady laughed and coloured at the same time.
" No fear for the incognito, if your wit does
not betray us, fair Canoness—
" Or your beauty, thoughtless one !" said the
graver lady.
Not a word of this colloquy was lost upon the
unnoticed listener ; and when the elder turned
to address her, she already knew they were of
208 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
high distinction in the capital—the one an
acknowledged wit, the other a beauty ; but her
utter ignorance of Paris and the exalted sphere
in which such orbs were accustomed to move,
prevented these discoveries from being of any
service to her with regard to satisfying her
awakening curiosity. A Canoness and a Phi-
losopher were two qualities which, united in one
and the same person, might have sufficed to
betray a name but too well known to the public,
had Eleonore been less provincial; but, as it
was, the ladies were perfectly safe from discovery,
so far as she was concerned.
" Being of this neighbourhood, to which we
are perfect strangers," said she, whom Eleonore
had heard complimented on her talents, in a
natural and simple manner, which, in proportion
as it was freer from courtly graces and minau-
deries than that of the other, was more congenial
to the person she addressed, " perhaps you will
be kind enough to inform us if there be any
truth in the extraordinary things that are re-
ported concerning this new marvel of Provence.
Is she so beautiful, so gifted, and, above all, so
trustworthy, as people say ?
? '
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 209
The deep, thoughtful blue eyes of the lady
were fixed 011 Mademoiselle Raymond's, with
an expression that said, as plainly as words
could have spoken it, she felt confident of
obtaining a satisfactory answer to her question.
Eleonore rose with that involuntary feeling of
respect which the mere presentiment of talent in
others awakens in those who are conscious of
possessing some share of it themselves ; and she
unhesitatingly replied :
" The young lady you have come to see out
of mere curiosity has been most lovely and ex-
cellent, and was once truth itself. What she
may have become during the few months we
have not met I can scarcely determine until I
have again seen her; and it is that purpose
which has drawn me here to-day."
" I understand," said the stranger, with a deep
sigh—" she has been during that time in this
convent ; and sincerity is not always the lesson
best taught in cloisters."
During the full hour that intervened previous
to Catherine's appearance, there ensued between
the two courtly friends and Eleonore an ani-
mated colloquy, in which the latter was un-
210 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
consciously drawn out by the extraordinary con-
versational powers of the elder lady, who joined
to much depth of thought a gentle earnestness
of manner that pleased Mademoiselle Raymond,
and made her overlook at the moment, though
it afterwards came back to her memory most
distinctly, a few startling paradoxes, bold views
of religion, and flighty ones of morality, which
were calculated to amaze a mind like hers, firm
in womanly strength of principle, but which
soared not beyond the limits assigned to her sex
by education and society. The other lady tes-
tified, now by her wearied looks and yawns, and
now by a few sparkling phrases, shining through
the discourse like the facets of a diamond, and
bringing a smile even to Mademoiselle Ray-
mond's grave lips, that her wit, more brilliant
than solid, was of that light order which distils
just as much essence from the flower of all
things as it can conveniently retail to a crowd
of admirers, that has no time to be charmed too
long ; whereas the honey the other had gathered,
whether of a good or bad quality, was evidently
extracted for her own use, the world only
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 211
deriving advantage from the overflow of its
abundance. But if this trio was sufficiently
concentred in itself to wait with patience for
the appearance of the saint, not so the poorer
votaries, whose hopes began to cool at the
chill of their reception; and their murmurs
were growing very loud indeed, when they were
silenced by the sound of many steps behind the
grate : then ensued much shuffling of feet
the dragging of some heavy piece of furniture
was distinctly heard, and another awful pause of
suspense followed.
" I wonder they did not prepare their comedy
beforehand," said the wit, in a whisper to
Eleonore.
" The worst of convents is, they are so very
unpoetical in the country," said the Beauty.
"A dark, dingy parlour, with a few high-backed,
hard-stuffed, villanous oak chairs, a rusty grate,
behind which hangs a dirty black curtain of
moth-eaten wool—it is quite chilling. If ever I
made my retreat, it should be, like the Duchesse
de la Valliere, into a Parisian sisterhood, where
the Lady Abbess was a princess of the blood
at the very least."
212 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" Princess Adelaide's, perhaps," murmured
the other.
" Perhaps," was the answer ; but it was ac-
companied with a deep sigh, which shewed the
heart was not quite so light as the gay roving
glance would have bespoken it.
The heavy, dark curtain, so scornfully de-
scribed by the fair advocate of the capital, after
sundry jerks and tugs, was withdrawn ; and a
novice appeared behind the grate, seated in
state in an antediluvian arm-chair, from the
old hard-stuffed arms of which the brass knobs
appeared ready to drop with age. Beside her
was a prie Dieu, to match with two miserable-
looking thin tapers burning before it; and a
flaming heart, surmounted by doves wrapt in a
chaste embrace, cut delicately out of paper by
the cunning hand of some of the sisterhood,
and resembling the lace-like tracery one finds
on some of our bonbons boxes, stood out in
relief on a dark-coloured missal placed upon it.
On either hand of the novice a few nuns had
grouped themselves, self-importance and idle
curiosity being strongly stamped upon their
features.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 213
These mesquine details were taken in at a
glance by the trio, who stood yet aloof from the
grate, and raised a smile, that shewed how
unfavourable to the effect intended are the toy-
like resources of the catholic faith when ad-
dressed to cultivated intellects, or even to such
as have been ripened by the mere influence of
elegant habits and the refinements attendant
upon wealth and rank.
The poorer class, of course, were more edified
with this little display, however simple; but
Catherine herself occupied most their attention,
and they drew nigh to where she sat with an
expression of holy confidence, ennobling in itself
the object to which it was addressed.
The few persons there present that belonged
to the higher order of society grouped them-
selves in the background, as their inferiors
crowded on the first ranks, but occasionally
caught glimpses of the young saint through the
waving motions of her votaries.
Catherine, far from looking pale or dejected
as when last Eleonore beheld her, had a colour
in her cheeks so bright and transparent as to
214 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
contrast with the waxy whiteness of her brow
and hands in a manner that almost betrayed the
hand of art rather than that of nature ; and the
lustre of her eye and the delicacy of her
features were heightened beyond the degree
that is agreeable by this lovely but unnatural
tint. The novice's veil shrouded her slight
figure, and lent additional dignity to the perfect
oval of her physiognomy; but it was not the
well-known lineaments, nor even the unusual
colouring, that startled Eleonore—it was the
expression pervading that once familial* counte-
nance, and making it as strange to her eye as
though it had never rested on it before.
There was a radiance on the brow, a light in
the eye, a suavity in the smile hovering round
the half-unclosed lips, the very impress of hea-
ven itself seeming to surround her lovely head
with a halo of refulgent light, invisible to mortal
eye, except by the reflection it cast upon her
irradiated countenance.
" She's a saint—one has only to look on her
to say so !" exclaimed one of the common
women, in ecstasy.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 215
" Ay, the glory is round her, 'tis plain,"
said another.
" She looks like one in a dream," said the
beauty to Eleonore—" was she always thus ?"
But Eleonore's whole soul was in her eyes,
and there was echo in her breast but for the
words her friend might speak. The concentra-
tion of her faculties was too evident for her
courtly companion to insist on claiming an
attention which was evidently rivetted else-
where ; and the profoundest silence reigned in
this strange and heterogeneous assembly.
u If," said one of the nuns, coming forward,
" you would anything of this holy maiden,
good people, she who would hold converse with
her must give her hand through the grate."
And the nun opened a little wicket for the
purpose.
A woman, in circumstances apparently above
those by whom she was surrounded, advanced
hastily, and said, in a voice half choked with
sobs
"I am not come for myself—but they say
you are a holy maid, and can read the secrets
216 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
of nature as well as those of afflicted hearts.
Here is a lock of my daughter's hair. Oh tell
me—tell me, in the Virgin's name ! something
about her, sweet lady
!"
Catherine looked earnestly at the lock of
soft, dark hair which had been placed by the
sobbing mother in her hand, put it on her
heart, and kept it there some time, when she
said, in low but distinct tones, as audible as if
they had been spoken in the ear of each person
in the room
" I see your daughter ; she is very young
almost a child—and very beautiful."
u She is but fifteen," murmured the grieved
parent.
" She lies on her snowy bed, all decked out
in white. The marriage wreath binds her dark
locks, and the small gold ring glitters on the
third finger of her left hand. But the lights for
the dead are burning at her head and at her
feet; people in mourning are kneeling around
her; a young man is weeping;—yes, she is
dead—I see the seal of death upon her brow !"
" No, no,—not dead !" exclaimed the wo-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 217
man, putting forth her hand and clasping, in
the anguish of the moment, that of the young
novice, who in turn held it tightly imprisoned
within the grasp of her own slender, delicate
fingers.
" Woman ! woman !
—why should you doubt
that the hand of God has withdrawn what it
had given ? But though your lips move in
prayer, and speak of submission, your heart
murmurs and rebels against his will. It is all
of no avail ! The physician has spoken it—the
priest has read the prayers for the dead over
her—friends have wept her loss ! What more
would you know ?"
" Ay, but it must be a trance—a lethargy
!"
said the mother, impetuously, the despair at her
heart drying up the tears at their source.
" But fifteen, and so fair !
—my only darling ! —
so happy, too ! The priest had but just spoken
the blessing—the husband pressed his lips to
hers for the first time—all her little ailings had
ceased—she looked as bright and smiling as the
angels—and as she turned from the altar, felt
into my arms—dead!—no, no! impossible!—it
VOL. I. L
218 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
is false, I tell you ! and so I would tell the
angels were they to come on earth and tell me
so ! It cannot be—they laid her on her bridal
bed, in her wedding-clothes ; but it is now six
days ago, and yet no trace of death has come to
mark her for his prey. Her hand is not yet
cold—her face is pale, but not discoloured.
Oh, sweet Saint of Ollioules ! say the priest
and the doctor are wrong—that she is but in
a swoon !
—oh, say so, and I will worship you
evermore !"
Catherine again looked intently at the lock
of hair which the mother had given her, pressed
it to her bosom, and after a somewhat protracted
pause, replied
" No, you must no longer resist the orders of
the physician, nor refuse the dead the peaceful
grave. Let flowers spring up from the bed of
sod where must rest your innocent child. Her
sleep is that of eternity—her heart is broken."
" Broken !" shrieked the mother, " broken !
Oh, no ! —the lark that sang at her window was
not gayer than she."
" The fibres of that heart were too weak to
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 219
resist its throbs of happiness," murmured Cathe-
rine, gazing intently on the curl. " She is
well—she is happy now—all her little ailings,
the beatings of that fitful heart are over—she
is dead, I tell you. Woman, bow your head in
submission to the Divine decree."
But the mother was alike insensible to re-
proof or sympathy,—she had fainted. The
poor women who surrounded her, manifested
the greatest attention and feeling, but were
evidently more awe-stricken than encouraged
by the scene that had reduced her to this
state.
Mademoiselle Raymond, for the first time
since the appearance of Catherine, cast her eyes
on the mysterious strangers. All trace of mer-
riment or affectation had vanished from the
dimpled and capricious countenance of the
younger, and tears stood in the eyes of the elder
as she gazed sorrowfully on the prostrate form
of the bereaved mother.
The nuns took the lock of hair from the
novice's passive hand, and, closing around her,
for a moment effectually veiled her from sight.
l2
220 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Then, after a short consultation as it appeared,
one of them again came forward and announced
that those who had any more demands to make
of the novice should hasten, as she would not
be much longer able to reply to them.
The humbler votaries seemed now far less
anxious than previously to draw near the Saint
of St. Clare's, and after some hesitation, observed
that, as their betters were waiting, they would
retire for that day. This design they soon
put into execution, bearing the still insensible
woman in their arms, whom, with the sudden
and warm impulse of southern natures, they
were now more intent upon reviving and con-
soling than concerned about the business that
had brought them thither. The few ladies who
were there, lingered not long behind, but, seem-
ingly too painfully affected with what they had
just witnessed to have the courage to expose
themselves to anything of the kind, left the
parlour with looks and gestures sufficiently in-
dicative of their deep conviction of the super-
natural agency visible in Catherine.
As they were moving away, the strangers,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 221
who still stood at Eleonore's elbow, spoke in
low hurried tones that gradually became audi-
ble, discussing the propriety of remaining yet
awhile, or of following the example set by
others.
" After having come so far," said the graver
lady, who was the first to recover her composure,
" it were absurd to depart thus unsatisfactorily.
To have made all this fuss, and yet to lack the
courage to face the matter out ! Nay, if you
go, I stay ; and see, we are not alone," and her
glance plainly intimated that Mademoiselle
Raymond was the presence alluded to.
"May be, but I like not the aspect the thing
has taken," answered the other, tremulously.
" At a distance, it looked a very amusing
plaisanterie, but it is a very different matter
now. I tell you, I do not feel nerve to go
through it."
" Nonsense, my dear !" urged the other, with
reviving spirits
—" it is, I assure you, but a well
got up comedy ; it is easy for this pretended
marvel of the place to gain intelligence of what
has been passing so immediately in her vicinity
222 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the trick is a stale one, and ought not to be
palmed off with success upon a person who
knows so much of the world as you do."
" But really I " began the other, hesi-
tatingly.
" You must, ma toute belle, allow yourself to
be persuaded—overruled even, if you please
by me, in this affair. Let us advance bravely,
hand in hand, and you will soon see that, to
unexpected visitors, of whose identities and
history she must be wholly ignorant, her
answers will be altogether of another nature.
She will get embarrassed, speak nonsense, or
take refuge in an obstinate silence ; and after
what you have this morning seen, it will, per-
haps, be a soothing conviction to your mind
that she is nothing but an impostor."
" Truly, if I could bring myself to believe
so
—" but before the timid beauty had time to
finish her sentence, her companion had taken
her by the hand, and with gentle violence
brought her close to the grate.
Eleonore, who had not lost a syllable of the
foregoing dialogue, although it was spoken in
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 223
loo low a voice to have reached the ears of the
nuns or novice, followed them closely ; taking
care, however, to conceal herself behind the tall
form of the elder of the two friends, for the
other was rather diminutive in stature —that she
might avoid, if possible, withdrawing Cathe-
rine's attention from those whose object it was
to attract it.
Her curiosity was excited to the uttermost
by the scene about to take place ; for, like the
lady who had suggested the idea, she thought
it very likely that Catherine had heard in her
retreat of an event which at that time created
some sensation at Toulon. A pretty young girl,
namely, had fallen dead at the foot of the altar,
where she had but just pronounced vows that
were to bind her on earth—a bond broken
asunder at the very moment it was formed ;
and yet there was nothing in the handsome
bridegroom to excite the suspicion of his having
called down upon himself such a catastrophe by
any dark deed of his own. The wild over-
whelming grief of the mother,—her reluctance
and that of her friends to believe in her de-
224 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
cease,—their formal opposition to the burial
taking place according to custom and police
regulations—all this was a matter of notoriety,
and caused much discussion among the public,
who began to shew manifest alarm lest the
ceremony of interment should be, in some
cases, too promptly performed ; a possibility to
which the rumours excited by this event gave
some colour. What Eleonorc had just wit-
nessed, therefore, was not conclusive evidence
of her friend's veracity. She might still be
acting a part, though Mademoiselle Raymond
was forced to acknowledge that in that case she
had proved a most consummate actress.
" We have been informed you can divine as
well the mysteries of the future as declare those
of the past," said the bolder of the two ladies to
Catherine, with a somewhat incredulous smile.
" We would have a proof of the latter talent, that
we may repose more trust in the former."
The nuns were, at first, struck dumb, with
this irreverent mode of addressing their saint
then suddenly gave vent to their reprobation in
terms of anything but placid reproof. To their
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 225
vehement objurgations the offender replied in
the most winning and honeyed phrases, evi-
dently anxious to make up for her mistake, and
succeeded after a time, though not without
difficulty, in laying the storm she had raised.
The softened sisters withdrew from before their
idol, to whose person they had momentarily
formed an impenetrable barrier; peace was
restored, and the lady prepared herself to ad-
dress Catherine in more appropriate terms.
" It is not to gratify idle curiosity, or to
dissipate an hour of languor, that we open our
gates to the followers of folly or mundane
vanities. Our motives for departing from the
strictness of our rules are of a graver, higher
nature," said one of the nuns, who seemed,
both in manner and rank, above the rest, and
who was addressed as the mistress of the novices.
" It is that the grace and light which it has
pleased God to bestow upon this humble maiden,
and which exalt her above her years and station,
may, peradventure, recal an erring soul from its
career of mortal sin, and turn it to repentance ;
or," she added, with a severe look and marked
L 3
226 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
emphasis—"or to confound, perchance, shame-
less scepticism, that would seek, in the brightness
of the sun itself, a proof of the darkness which
it advocates."
The reproach cut deep into the soul of the
younger lady, who devoutly crossed herself;
but the elder cast an inquiring glance on the
nun, in whom the freemasonry ofeducation and
manner had at once revealed to her practised
eye an equal. Nor was she mistaken. Madame
de L'Escot, the mistress of the novices at the
convent of St. Clare, of Ollioules, was a lady
by birth as well as breeding. The result of this
discovery was a slight bow of acquiescence in
the stranger ; who now, turning to Catherine,
and extending her left hand through the wicket,
whilst with the right she still tightly grasped
her companion, as if afraid that she would break
away, and leave her alone and unassisted to get
out of the dilemma in which she had placed
herself, said, in a grave, submissive tone
" You behold two women, who would wil-
lingly atone by the future for many an error in
the past, if they but knew how ; they are come
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 227
to claim assistance of your holier spirit, that
you may point out to them by what means such
errors may best be expiated, and how they may
deserve that their remaining days should know
nothing of the storms that agitated their youth."
Madame de L'Escot placed the ungloved
hand of the stranger, on which a wedding ring
stood conspicuous amidst many an accompany-
ing gem, into that of Catherine, who had re-
lapsed into a sort of reverie, apparently wholly
unconscious of what was passing around her.
She seemed transported in thought to some far
distant world, whose bright tints were reflected
in her deep, radiant gaze.
She started as she felt the contact of the small,
delicate palm of the stranger with her own,
and appeared gradually recalled by the touch
to a sense of her situation. She stared for a
few seconds rather wildly at this new inter-
locutor, then heaved a deep sigh, as renewed
activity of thought beamed from her bright
eyes. When the visitor had ceased speaking,
she answered, in the same calm, clear, low, yet
searching tone as before
228 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" Yours has been a stormy youth, lady.
Your besetting sin was pride ; it is humbled,
not broken. Ambition was your idol; to it
you have sacrificed duty and honour—for it,
stilled alike the voice of your heart and that of
your conscience—you broke the vows that bound
you to heaven, the tie that bound you to earth
—you forgot your convent, and later, your child,
in the guilty pursuit of a guilty aim. Yes, you
have known the court well, and its hollowness
and deceit. It makes me suffer to think of
such things—to behold them is pain, very great
pain. You have known power, too, but that
dream is over now ; pleasure, pomp, and power,
are alike left behind in the rapid flight of time.
Born to obscurity, fate has elevated you on its
pinions for a time, to fling you back into your
native element. Your son, inheriting your gifts,
and, perchance, some of the errors of your
judgment, will rise on this hemisphere, a brilliant
star, but will deny you in his hour of triumph,
as you have denied him in his helplessness.
You rejected a mother's care—a mother's joys
will never be yours. But the past may yet be
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 229
atoned ;
—to the world by your talents, to heaven
by sincere contrition
"
"Enough—enough !" said the lady, haughtily,
tearing her hand from the novice. " It is now
your turn, madam," addressing her companion.
The latter stood as if rooted to the spot by
some irresistible power. As her friend fell
back, she involuntarily extended her hand to
the saint, who seized, and kept it in hers for a
few moments without speaking, then gazed
intently at it for a few more, as if willing to
read, in the almost imperceptible lines of the
rosy palm, the secrets of the heart whose throbs
were almost audible.
"It is fair to look upon, and yet there is
blood on that hand,'' she said. The lady gasped
for breath and closed her eyes, whilst a slight,
but visible shudder passed over her frame.
" Yes, there is blood—it sickens me to look
at it.
; '
" I have not spilled any," murmured the fair
penitent. " Oh ! if you know aught, you surely
know that."
" Not you,—but it was spilt through you
230 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
your smiles were his destruction. Had he looked
less often into your bright eyes, never knelt
at your feet—had he not been surprised there
by a jealous, a princely lover—his doom had
never been sealed. Yes, that is what weighs
heaviest on your heart. All your manifold sins
—your broken vows—your adulterous amours
your shame—your hours of dalliance and of
guilt, are all light, forgotten offences, compared
with that one fatal consequence of your levity.
He loved you with all the devotion of a reck-
less, an erring, but a truthful heart; and you
accepted the homage that was to prove his ruin,
thoughtlessly—carelessly ; but he was hand-
some, young, high-born ; you loved him too. His
portion was the rack and the wheel—his noble
blood was spilt as though it had been that of
the meanest boor that ever crawled. Yes, he
loved you well—your name was on his dying
lips ; and yet your head rested again on his
princely rival's bosom; you heard him call a
cowardly revenge, justice ; you drank in his
cup, sat in his halls, wreathed gay flowers in
your locks for his banquets, and the pale spectre
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 231
of the dead never rose to your mind—the
thought of your guilt never caused you to turn
pale at the sight of the ruby wine, or to sicken
at the touch of that hand which had signed his
doom. He looks at us even now—there—so
pale and yet so noble in aspect—his fair hair
clotted with blood—he beckons to you "
" Where ! where !
" wildly shrieked the lady.
" De Homes, unhappy de Homes, why torment
me? It was the regent—the regent's insane
jealousy—and not my love, that caused your
death!"
" This is too much !
—you forget yourself,
Madame de Paraberes!" said the elder lady,
authoritatively, tearing the trembling, agonized
female from the grate, and leading her forcibly
away.
" Oh ! Madame de Tencin, you have killed
me," said she, in a broken murmur, as her com-
panion dragged her from the parlour.
All stood amazed and paralysed at this
sudden, unlooked for revelation.
The errors of both these celebrated mistresses
of the Regent had been too flagrant to have
232 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
escaped the knowledge even of such recluses
as the virgins of Ollioules. The literary fame of
Madame cle Tencin had indeed survived, in the
world of Paris, the renown of her beauty and
her intrigues ; but nought could mitigate their
heinousness in the eyes of the nuns, though
swallowed up, for the moment, in the deep
interest created by the supposed heroine of the
tragical event just alluded to—the death of the
young Count de Homes—which was yet fresh
in every mind.
Although all creditable historians have agreed
in charging him with the offence for which he
suffered, yet there were many at the time, espe-
cially among the privileged classes to which he
belonged, who were inclined to doubt both the
justice of his sentence and the Regent's motives
for enforcing it with a relentless purpose so
much at variance with his usual easiness of
temper. The dissolute habits of the Prince
naturally led the suspicious to couple this un-
wonted severity with some portion of the scan-
dalous chronicle of his life ; and they asserted
that jealousy of the Count's success with one of
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 233
the very few objects of his gallantry for whom
he ever professed, or felt, a real passion, the
lovely Marquise Dc Parabercs, was the real
cause of his secret rage against De Homes,
which a chance accident, by involving the
Count in a mysterious and criminal affair, had
favoured. Others there were, who affirmed
that the desire to oblige law, and protect his
system, was the only reason for this act of in-
clemency.
However slight the foundation for such
rumours may have hcen, and however obvious
the motives of those who brought them into
circulation, still none can read the sad fate of
this ill-starred young nobleman without feeling
some surprise, perhaps even suspicion, at such
unwonted, and in some details almost malig-
nant severity, as the Regent displayed, in a case
where so many attenuating circumstances might
have pleaded in favour of the culprit. His
extreme youth, his illustrious origin, his more
than doubtful sanity of mind, his quality of
foreigner—the mean condition and lost character
of his accusers—all these were so many facilities
234 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
afforded to the Prince's mercy. But vainly did
the highest in the realm humble the pride they
almost invariably opposed to the Regent on
every possible occasion, to petition the youth's
life, or at least a commutation of the sentence
into inflicting death in a more humane manner.
Vainly did they implore that his blood, which
claimed affinity to that of the Regent himself,
should not be disgraced by a peine infdmante—
the voice of petition and that of mercy were
alike disregarded; and at the early age of nine-
teen, the handsomest youth of the day perished
like the lowest and worst of malefactors.
The general outline of this sad story was, as
I have said, but too well known to admit of
what had just passed not being fully understood
by all present ; and there ensued at its close a
pause of surprise and indignation, during which
the unfortunate woman who had so powerfully
excited the latter feeling in the bosoms of the
quiet sisterhood, was shoved by her friend, more
dead than alive, into the chaise that had brought
them to the convent door.
It was the rattle of its wheels that first re-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 235
called the wandering thoughts of those in the
parlour. Catherine had fallen back into the
arm-chair, apparently in a state of total exhaus-
tion. It seemed as if an enchanter's wand had
passed over her frame, dispelling at one touch
the magic beauty he had lent, so complete and
remarkable was the change. There she lay,
ghastly pale, with closed eyes and lips apart,
the veil flung back from her emaciated features,
from which all expression had fled except one
of intense fatigue.
" Her fit is coming on," murmured one of the
nuns to the mistress of the novices ;
" we must
remove her."
The little candles were blown out ; after a
few violent tugs, the curtain was again hermeti-
cally drawn to ; the shuffling of feet was heard,
the rolling away of the heavy chair, with its
half insensible burthen ; then that of the prie
Dieu; a banging of many doors ensued, and the
scene was over.
The terrified Eleonore still stood rooted
before the grate, unable to determine if what
she had just assisted to was the representation
236 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
of an excellently got up, exquisitely played
comedy, that only wanted a little better setting
off in the way of decoration to be perfect, or if
it were a strange awful mystery of nature
which she had for the first time beheld. How
long she might yet have remained thus absorbed
and unmindful of time or place, it is impossible
to say ; for a light, though firm grasp was laid
on her arm—she started, looked up in surprise,
and my father stood before her.
" I have been present almost since the very
first moment," he said, "though you did not see
me, lost as I was in the shadow of the entrance
door. I have seen and heard everything ; so
trouble not yourself to relate what it were pain
to describe, nor attempt to explain what hardly
admits of explanation. I am not ashamed to
confess it, it was a womanish curiosity that
brought me here ; but I am glad of the impulse,
let its cause be what it may, since it has brought
me to you at the right moment."
Mademoiselle Raymond indeed had cause to
rejoice at his timely presence. Her nerves,
strong as they naturally were, had been un-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 237
usually shaken, and she needed an arm on
which to lean, a gentle and sympathising but
firmer mind than her own to lead her by
degrees, if not thoroughly to understand in all
its details, or to obliterate the general impres-
sion of that morning's proceeding, at least to
calm the agitation it had excited, and to regu-
late the ideas it had engendered.
As to my father, puzzled and perplexed, he
once more turned over many a dusty volume,
that only perplexed and puzzled him the more,
then ceasing from his unfruitful labour, volun-
tarily, though not without a strong effort, he
dismissed the subject altogether from his mind,
and trusted to the future to throw more light
upon it than his reason, torture it as he would,
could well afford at the present moment.
I may as well here mention that when, at a
later period, Mademoiselle Raymond had occa-
sion to visit Paris, and the ladies De Tencin
and De Parabere were pointed out to her notice,
she had no difficulty, though meeting them in a
calmer, lighter scene, in recognising in them
the strangers of the parlour at St. Clare's ; and
238 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
when, at a still later period, D'Alembert, the
former's natural son, shone conspicuous in the
bright but baneful constellation that for a time
illumined the horizon of French literature,
when his name was pronounced along with
those of Voltaire, Rousseau, Diderot, and the
rest, that name recalled, involuntarily, to all
who had been present at the scene we have
described, Catherine's allusions concerning him.
Nor was the fact thought less remarkable that
when at last, at the request of the physicians
and desire of the authorities, the body of the
young girl whose sudden decease had caused
such general sensation, was submitted to au-
topsy, it was discovered that the cause, though
totally unsuspected, was very natural. The
heart had burst ; which, as the poor child had
been for the last few years subject to constant
and violent palpitations, and was otherwise of a
very delicate constitution, was not a matter of
marvel to the faculty.
The events which led to the sketch I have so
rapidly traced, took, however, many months in
developing themselves; and some time had
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 239
since elapsed when Mademoiselle Raymond,
who was now busily engaged in the arrange *
ments necessary for her approaching nuptials,
was one day startled out of her usual com-
posure by the sudden appearance of Madame
Cadieres, who had never been in the habit of
visiting her, even when her daughter's intimacy
with Eleonore was at its height. The laces she
had just taken up dropped from her hand, and
surprise kept her mute ; but her visitor was at
no loss to explain herself, as indeed a powerful
sentiment or desire seldom leaves room for
embarrassment.
" I feel," she said, " you must think it very
odd of me to come to you in my difficulties,
whom I so unscrupulously offended in my time
of happiness. But do not forget I did so only at
the bidding of another, not from any personal
disinclination, and that that other has deceived
me. I now know you to have been our real
friend throughout."
Had Mademoiselle Raymond consulted her
feelings only, she would have frankly confessed
how very immaterial she considered what Ma-
240 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
dame Cadieres thought or had ever thought of
her ; but the recollection of the daughter soft-
ened her towards the mother, to whose folly
she could not but remember that she owed her
own felicity ; and she said, in a gentle tone
" And so I could wish ever to remain. But,
pray, is there anything in my power by which I
can testify my friendship at this moment ?"
" Oh, yes—many things," replied the old
lady, accepting a proffered seat. " You see, I
am sadly afraid I have been altogether mis-
taken in Father Girard, although not in my
daughter, as you must now admit."
Mademoiselle Raymond not choosing to fill
up the pause which Madame Cadieres here
made for an answer, the latter continued
" Yes, there will be a Saint Catherine of
Toulon, as there is one of Genoa and of Sienna
as for that, heresy itself cannot deny it, although
I have heard it denies saints altogether. How-
ever; that signifies nothing—mine cannot be
talked away ; but I will candidly own you were
right in thinking Father Girard selfish and
overbearing. My son, the Dominican, and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 241
even the ecclesiastic, have come to the same
conclusion."
" And is it merely to impart this discovery
that you have done me the honour of this
visit ?" said Mademoiselle Raymond, whose
patience was ebbing fast.
" Oh, no—not exactly," said the expansive
matron—" I came to ask your advice, your
assistance, on a very difficult point for a mother
to decide about. I have just received a letter
from Catherine."
" Have you it by you ?" said Mademoiselle
Raymond, with reviving interest—" what does
it contain ?"
" Why, you must know that neither I nor my
poor girl ever liked the idea of her going into a
convent. She always declared herself loudly
against the plan. No, no ! Catherine was des-
tined to be a saint, but not a nun. Father
Girard, however, insisted in spite of all her
tears and protestations—he also wrung a forced
consent from me. His taking her to Ollioules,
and that, too, when she was very ill, and needed
nothing so much as a mother's care
"
VOL. I. M
242 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" You might, you ought to have prevented
this ; but perhaps it may not be too late," said
Mademoiselle Raymond, endeavouring to cut
short the wearisome repetition of facts with
which she was well acquainted, and which had
ceased to be of paramount interest to her. " I
hope Catherine is no worse. Have you seen
her lately ?"
" Not very recently ; but when I last saw
her, I thought my heart would break only to
look upon her. She is so changed—she looks
as if she had just risen from her grave."
Madame Cadieres put her kerchief to her
eyes, and Eleonore did not feel wearied by the
sight of this natural sorrow, nor at the mode in
which it was expressed, but pressed her visitor's
hand in sympathizing kindness.
" Well, Father Girard's power being at an
end with Catherine, it will be easy to put a
stop to all this," she said. " Exert yourself but
a very little, and you will recover her."
" There's the difficulty ; the poor child is
completely in his hands—she can't withdraw
herself from him, but wants us to do it ; she
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 243
needs our assistance, she says, to counteract her
own passive obedience—her blind submission
to his will,—in short, to take her from the
convent."
" Then, if she has so decided a will of her
own, why does she not express it to her di-
rector?—perhaps he might be prevailed upon
to yield to it."
" There lies the mistake : she has begged
and entreated him on her knees to let her
return to me ; she has sobbed at his feet
besought him by all he holds sacred; but he
will not hear of it, and punishes her severely
for what he terms her disobedience to the will
of God. But as the abbess, who is a lady of
great discernment and kindness, has found out
that Catherine has no vocation for a monastic
life, and does not, under such circumstances,
approve of her embracing it, he speaks of
removing her to a severer order, that of the
Carmelites of Premole, where she will be so
cut off from all communication with the wr
orld,
that she had as well be entombed alive. Indeed,
I am sure she will not survive her noviciate."
m 2
244 MAGIC AND MESMERISM,
" What can be his motive for this strange
insistance?" said Eleonore, thoughtfully, en-
deavouring in her own mind to find a clue
to the seemingly aimless labyrinth of the Je-
suit's system of persecution.
" He says it is to humble my poor Cathe-
rine's pride ; but, if you but saw her, she
already looks more dead than alive. The con-
vent kills her by inches, and yet the order
of St. Claire is very mild. What will she not
have to suffer if forced into one of a more
austere description ! I cannot bring myself to
think of it."
" But after all, my dear madam, what can
Catherine object to so much in a convent life ?
she dislikes marriage." Mademoiselle Ray-
mond blushed deeply as she spoke.
" Yes ; and some people, doubtless, think
themselves lucky that she does.''
Eleonore forbore from answering the taunt
with one in the same bad taste, for which the
efforts of Madame Cadieres, at one time, to
obtain her hand and fortune for one of her sons,
might have afforded her an ample opportunity
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 245
but, as I before have had occasion to say, she was
superior, if not to all the weaknesses of her sex,
at least to those that take their rise in narrow-
ness of mind or badness of the heart. Her
spirit was as noble as her feelings were ge-
nerous. She could utter a reproach, but never
a sarcasm—she could blame, but never turn
any one into ridicule. I fear there are not
many like her, or we should sec the world
abounding with better brought-up families.
But this is again a digression—forgive it me, I
entreat, I have cause to dwell on this subject
with pleasure.
Madame Cadieres was utterly unable to un-
derstand such sentiments, and accordingly,
without paying any attention to the delicacy of
the young lady's silence, she added, in the tone
of one deeply affronted
" But although Catherine does not like the
notion of matrimony, as you say, she loves her
home and her mother."
" She is happy in possessing either," said
Mademoiselle Raymond, with a sigh.
" Besides," continued the mother, in eager
246 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
vindication of her child, " you should remem-
ber that the life she leads is not an easy one for
a sick girl, accustomed to all the indulgences of
home. To be roused in the depth of night
from sound, refreshing sleep, to attend mid-
night prayers—to kneel on the cold marble
and, above all, to abstain from meat all the
year round—are physical sufferings which ordi-
nary beings, such as you and I, can easily com-
prehend. But to these are added moral strug-
gles, of which we can have no notion. The
latter of course come from Heaven, and can't
be helped ; but it is my duty to spare her those
unnecessary trials which can be of little use in
elevating such a soul as hers, but must bring
her body to premature decay. I am proud and
happy to see the palm of the saint in Cathe-
rine's hand, but I have not the courage to see
her wear the crown of martyrdom."
" Nor I, could I but see in what manner it
were possible to extricate one who will not be
extricated
!"
" That is just the point on which I came to
consult Having fully explained my motives
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 247
for withdrawing her from St. Clare's—for should
she once enter on her noviciate at Salette, I
doubt if we could ever get her back again,—
implore you to point out to me by what means
I can effect my purpose, and to aid me in so
doing. I am but a simple woman myself, and
my sons are but inexperienced youths, rendered
more than usually cautious and timid by their
profession. It would never do for them, you
know, to put themselves in too marked an op-
position to Father Girard."
" Well, really, deeply grieved as I feel for
your daughter, since neither you nor your sons
are willing to exert your lawful authority, I
scarcely know what advice to give."
" I did not exactly expect you would," said
Madame Cadieres, at last coming to the point
" but you have one at your disposal who can,
and, at your bidding, probably will give the
best of advice —perhaps even aid us ; and you,
I am sure, for Catherine's sake, will not refuse
to bid him."
Mademoiselle Raymond stared at her visitor
in undisguised astonishment.
248 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" But, my dear madam, if it is Monsieur
Chaudon's advice you require^ why not ask it,
personally, of him ? You know him, and must
be convinced of his kind feelings towards you
and yours."
" That is what I could not feel sure of; and as
he has experienced so much disappointment at
our hands, of course we feel delicate in asking
any service of him."
a But, surely, not now, when his being in a
state of consolation is officially announced,"
answered Eleonore, laughing. " It is, at the
best, an exaggeration of delicacy. Go to him
I can assure you of a kind welcome."
" Oh, I have no doubt. Still, he might resent
the past ; my sons, and even I, were obliged to
treat him with great distance ; well, you know
it all, and so
"
" I see that you totally misconceive the whole
affair, my dear madam," said Mademoiselle
Raymond ; " but if you will follow my advice
though, it seems, after all, it is not for that you
came here—you will sit quiet for a few minutes
longer, when Monsieur Chaudon, whom I ex-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 249
pect every instant, will be able to satisfy all
your doubts."
This was said with a malicious smile, and
produced, instantaneously, the desired effect.
Madame Cadieres rose and took her leave ; but
in so doing she thrust a sadly crumpled note
into Eleonore's hand, saying
" This is from Catherine. Oh ! do not
abandon us
!"
Eleonore willingly forgot the silly, vain wo-
man, the moment the mother spoke in Madame
Cadieres. She promised her assistance, and
her promises were sacred as oaths.
The letter contained but these words :
" If you do not withdraw me hence, my
mother, I perish
" Catherine."
On reading these few words, Mademoiselle
Raymond's emotion was great; but, of course,
its first impulses were controlled by the wise
hand that in future was to guide her destiny.
It was agreed that both her future husband and
herself should go to Ollioules, and try to gain
M 3
250 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
admittance to the saint. They had even fixed
the day for this joint visit, when a sudden fit
of sickness interfered with Mademoiselle Ray-
mond's wishes, and my father went alone.
After some demur—for, at first, he was not
willing to let Catherine know who sought an
interview with her, apprehensive of a refusal
he gave in his name, which proved the real
sesame to the parlour grate of St. Clare's ;
where, in the habit of a novice of that order,
Catherine awaited him.
Had he not been prepared to meet her, he
could never have recognised, in the colourless,
worn, emaciated being who now stood before
him, with pendant arms, half open lips, and a
wan brow, from which all intelligence had
faded, the object of his early adoration.
Her vestments hung loosely round her
shrunken person, that no longer exhibited the
graceful outlines of ripening womanhood which
had once distinguished it. They were, too,
donned with a negligence contrasting much
with the scrupulous neatness of attire which
she was wont to display ; but the change that
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 251
most startled him was the careless arrangement
of her beautiful hair. This object of her former
pride and delight, as well as of his own admira-
tion, was now thrust under the novice's veil,
from beneath which a few locks struggled for-
ward, unrepressed and untrained, whose paly
gold glittered no longer.
" Her mother is right—she is dying," was the
thought that involuntarily suggested itself to
his mind, as he gazed on this wreck of human
loveliness. The next was, " She must be saved,
cost what it may," and compassion, deep and
ardent, was now the predominant feeling with
which he regarded the wretched being before
him. All unpleasant recollections of the past
vanishing at once from his mind, he approached
her no longer as a lover, but in a character that
partook little less of devotion in one whose soul
was so highly toned—that of a friend.
" I am here, partly at Eleonore's request," he
said, "who is too ill to come herself, and
partly at your mother's. I hope you will
receive me as you would them."
This prelude eliciting no answer, he con-
252 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
tinned, with the familiarity of past times, that
all awkwardness might be removed on her part,
should she feel any in addressing him for the
first time since she had so unkindly dismissed
him.
" Arc you sorry to see me, Catherine ?" he
said, gently, looking steadfastly at her as he
spoke,—for he remembered Eleonorc's asser-
tion, that this was the most effectual means she
had discovered of securing her attention.
The novice turned her e}r
es languidly from
his fixed gaze, and answered in a low, toneless
voice, that struck painfully on his ear, like the
harbinger of approaching decay.
" Oh, no ! why should I ?—I am never glad
or sorry at anything now/'
"But you would be glad to leave the con-
vent, I presume ? At least, I have been told as
much."
" Yes, if Father Girard will allow me ; but
he won't—he never will." She uttered these
words despondingly, and suffered her head to
fall on her breast,
" Exert vour own will but for a moment, and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 253
you arc free," urged my father. " Your mother
is ready to receive you back to her arms, so
arc your brothers, so is Elconore,—all who have
ever known and loved you ; and here am I,
with fall authority, to claim you in their name,
if you will but allow me to do so."
"You!—you want to take mc away from
here ! This is very, very kind, and more than I
deserve at your hands,"—she blushed slightly
as she made this allusion to the past,
—" but it
cannot avail me. You had better not put your-
self forward in this matter ; don't thwart him
he will not bear to be thwarted."
" That is spoken more like your former self,
dear Catherine, though not in the same tones.
You seem very feeble ; you must really return
home, were it only for your health's sake. As
for me, I neither seek to offend, nor yet dread
to do so, in a fair cause, any breathing mortal;
monk or soldier are alike to me in that respect.
Besides, why should this redoubted Jesuit wish
to immure you here, or any where else ?"
" Because he wishes my speedy death now
he has ceased to like me ; that is why he wishes
254 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
me to go to Saletta. He may cheat others with
fair words, but from me he cannot hide his
thoughts."
" I dare say you know him thoroughly," said
my father, delighted at seeing the soulless
apathy, which, at first sight, had seemed to him
to have usurped in her the place ofevery faculty,
gradually giving way, as something more of life
and human interest lighted up her eye. It was
to him as if the mists of night were slowly
rolling away from before a well known prospect.
He rejoiced in the change, slight as it was, and
was pleased to ascribe it to the beneficial effects
of his presence ; but her voice had still the same
monotonous, husky, powerless sound that so
painfully grated on his ear, on which still hung
the soft, silvery tones that had once charmed
him.
" But, knowing him and his purposes well,"
he continued, " why not defeat them ?"
" I may not," muttered the novice, with a
slight shudder.
"Then why write to your mother to take
you away ?"
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 255
" I don't know," was the disconsolate answer.
" This is more like moody madness than
sober sense. She must be roused from this,"
thought my father ;
" but first I will try her."
" If Father Girard be persuaded to let you
go,—if he give his free consent, what then ?"
" Then—then I should be saved !" exclaimed
Catherine, with some vivacity. " But, no ; he
never will consent 1"
" He must have strange reasons for this
insistance, Catherine."
" Of course he has. It would never do if
the world at large were to learn that he is a
magician—a sorcerer—and has bewitched me !
But the lady abbess and all this community
know it, and do not approve of my vocation,
nor of him,—that is why I am to be withdrawn
hence."
" Catherine, give me your hand through the
grate in sign of renewed amity ; do not hesitate,
mine is pledged to Eleonore ; there, that's right.
Now, look at me, and answer me succinctly and
frankly, as though I were Father Girard, and
do not trifle with me. You know I bear no
trifling."
256 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Although well aware how powerful are the
rays of the human eye on all those to whom
reason is denied, cither in our own species, or
even in the most wild of the animal creation,
my father had recourse to the means recom-
mended by Eleonore to command both Cathe-
rine's attention and goodwill, without much
trusting in their efficacy. Severity, indeed, he
believed to be operative, to a certain extent,
over all weak intellects, even when not actually
disordered; but never had he so strong an
evidence of that doctrine's truth as in this
instance, which, he frankly owned to me, made
him fully understand the nature of animal mag-
netism, though, at the time, he vainly struggled
to class it under any received denomination,
or define its boundaries.
The manner of the young girl underwent a
marked change, at the same time that her whole
person assumed an air of passive obedience
an animated expression instantly pervaded her
features, nor did she attempt to withdraw her
hand from the firm grasp that held it.
"Yes," she said, as if in communion with her
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 257
own thought rather than with reference to the
subject under discussion—" yes, you mean it
well by her and by me. Oh, no ! you are not
like Father Girard ! Your hand cools, it does
not burn."
" Well, then, let yours rest in it, and answer
freely and frankly—Do you love Father Girard ?"
"Oh, no, no!" almost shrieked Catherine.
" Ours is a bond of hatred, not of love. He
has bewitched me, I tell you —that is our only
tie. But, do not mention this. It maddens
me to think of it
!"
" I must insist," continued my father, authori-
tatively, "painful as the interrogatory may be
to both. In what way has the spell you com-
plain of worked ?"
" You see me after months of absence, and
you ask ?" said Catherine, reproachfully. " Is
there anything left of what I once possessed ?
Youth, beauty, happiness—he has wrenched
everything from me ! His words have mocked
my ears, his thoughts bewildered my brain,
his wickedness seared my heart. From the first
hour his unhallowed breath warmed my brow,
258 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
fever has throbbed in my pulses, madness burnt
my brain, remorse gnawed into my heart. My
nights have known no rest, my days no joy,
my conscience no peace. My life has been but
a protracted torture, and you ask me in what
manner the spell has worked ?"
My father was startled at this sudden display
of vehemence, and though prepared for some
such ebullition by Eleonore's account of her
own observations, still this strange exhibition
of feeling aroused his deepest interest.
" You have suffered much !" he mechanically
exclaimed, still retaining within his the passive
hand which Catherine thought not of with-
drawing.
" Much !" she repeated, with a bitterness of
accent that seemed, for a moment, to restore
some tone to her voice. " Much !
—more, a
thousand times more, than you, or any human
being who has not been in that fiend's power,
can guess ! Oh ! but,'were I to speak for hours,
I never could tell all I have suffered. My
whole existence is wrecked in this world, and,
perhaps, in the next ! All I loved he bade me
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 259
hate ; and I hated and loved the same objects
at the same time, until the furious struggles of
these contending passions threatened to break
the fibres of my heart, too weak to contain
them. Yes, I could have loved you, I did
love you. I was on the eve of giving up my
imagined vocation to the loud dictates of my
heart, when he came, like a thunderbolt, to
blight every honest feeling—every happy pros-
pect! But I loved you even when my lips
denied it—even when they pronounced the
doom of our eternal separation—of my own
misery
!"
She looked full into the face of him whom
she thus frankly addressed, and scarcely did the
faintest blush tinge her sallow cheek, so intense
was the concentration of her feelings upon her-
self, whilst she lay the secrets of her heart bare
to the analysis of another.
A man of ordinary and superficial mind
would, on this occasion, either have felt a per-
fect indifference on hearing that he had been
the object of a sentiment in one whom he no
longer cared for, and, perhaps, considering the
260 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
circumstances, have felt a mean triumph in it
or, admitting that he was influenced by more
gentle and gentlemanly feelings, some weakness
might have come over him, and the past become
blended with the present. Not so my father.
His character was as firm as it was noble. The
latter quality, indeed, rarely exists where the
former is missing. That which had been, was,
in his mind, irrevocably separated from what
was. Constitutionally free from the infirmity
of melancholy brooding, he never looked back-
wards in life, but ever cheerily forward. When
he heard, therefore, this confirmation of a fact
long since suspected by him, he was grieved
for Catherine's sake, but not for his own, for his
affections were now unreservedly in the posses-
sion of Eleonore ; nor was he depraved enough
to misunderstand the words of the wretched
inmate of St. Clare's, as they welled from the
depth of uncontrollable feeling.
As he paused to consider in what manner he
should avoid uttering anything consistent with
the truth without offending the young girl, she
continued, with increasing warmth :
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 261
" Oh ! you cannot fancy such an existence as
mine has been. I could not love—I could not
pray—that was worse than all beside. I thought
blasphemies, even whilst the world called me
holy. My soul is lost ! lost for ever—that fiend
has possessed himself of it!" and suddenly
tearing her fingers from my father's grasp, she
wrung her hands in the very wildness of
despair.
" Brighter days"—began my father.
" Never —never !" she exclaimed. " You
know not—I am lost, irretrievably lost, in this
world as in the next—he has robbed me of
everything—my faith and my hope—even of
innocence
!"
"Nay, Catherine, you speak wildly; your
innocence who could taint ?"
She covered her face with both her hands,
and the tears forced their way through her
slender fingers.
" What can this mean, Catherine ? I must—
I insist on knowing."
" Yes," said the poor girl, slowly withdrawing
her hands, and exhibiting on her wan cheeks
262 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
two hectic spots—" yes —I know what I say—
am disgraced—he has robbed me of everything
—home and friends—my God and my early
love—he has left me nothing—nothing—not
even a woman's honour."
My father was speechless with amazement.
Much as he had pondered on Father Girard's
character, and the possible motives of his
strange conduct towards Catherine, this leading
one had never struck him; and when Made-
moiselle Raymond recited how she had caused
the Jesuit to tremble at the mere epithet,
" seducer," which she breathed in his ear on the
morning of Catherine's departure for Ollioules,
he had not suspected the full meaning which
both the young lady and the priest attached to
the word. He fancied, indeed, she meant to
reproach him with seducing a young girl from
her home and friends, inducing her to adopt a
course of life diametrically opposed to her real
inclinations and their wishes; but the coarser,
broader acceptation of the word he had deemed
inapplicable in reference to Catherine, had not
even Father Girard's disgusting appearance
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 263
been a sufficient warrant against such a sup-
position.
Mademoiselle Raymond's feminine tact had
dived into the secret sooner ; but, on perceiving
how unconscious was every one else but herself
she had deemed it best to confine her suspicions
to her own bosom.
Even now, when my father heard the fact
admitted by the unfortunate victim of abomin-
able arts, he could not credit his own senses.
That her director had driven her mad was the
inference he drew from her whole behaviour
and manner. As this thought presented itself
to his mind, he gazed on her with unmitigated
pity ; and as the ravages of disease forced them-
selves upon his notice, as he viewed thus, at
one glance, the havoc that the hypocrite's tam-
pering with so fine a spirit had produced, he
felt every nerve thrill through him with rage,
the fiercer because he knew how impossible it
was to procure redress, and visit with deserved
punishment the Jesuit's villany. As he con-
tinued his interrogatories, and Catherine,
swayed as usual by the more or less firmness of
264 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
those with whom she came in contact, answered
the questions he put with almost childlike
frankness, the whole web of iniquity was laid
bare to his scrutiny. Father Girard's aim, he
now plainly saw, was to elevate himself in his
order by means of his votaries and proselytes
but his ambition, though strong, was not the
master passion of his soul. His baser, grosser
instincts came athwart it, and neutralized his
other well-ordered plans for bettering himself.
This had been more glaringly the case with
Catherine Cadieres ; whose peculiarities of
mind had presented him with a glorious oppor-
tunity of satisfying his ambition, had not her
beauty too fatally tempted him from the pursuit
of his primary object. He would, however,
have succeeded in blending the glory of pro-
selytism with the indulgence of his cynical
libertinism, had not Catherine's violent remorse,
and the moody melancholy that preyed on her
health, together with the general attention she
excited, agitated him with the fear that his foul
secret might be discovered.
This, then, was the reason why he insisted on
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 265
her removal to St. Clare's, where he hoped all
chance of discovery would be buried with her
beneath her nun's veil. The resistance, how-
ever, which Catherine and her friends opposed
to his wishes on this point, both incensed and
embarrassed him ; but he was determined to
overcome every difficulty ; for his profane and
licentious passion drew him still towards his
wretched victim, by a spell as powerful as any
that he himself could raise.
But, either fear getting the better of his
inclination—as a marked change in the lady
abbess's manner warned him that her suspicions
were roused, or, as usual with depraved beings,
the very violence of his passion wearing it
out, he finally saw less of its object; and, at
last, formed the project of removing her alto-
gether from any communication either with
himself or others—hence his diabolical deter-
mination to bury her wrongs and her sorrows in
the living tomb of a Carthusian cell.
What a mass of vices—what a tale of mis-
fortune did the few words he elicited from
Catherine's lips reveal to her companion ! He
VOL. I. N
266 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
could have wept over her as a father over a
favourite child ; and he felt it would have been
a pleasure, at that moment, to crush the vile
Jesuit, like a venemous reptile under his heel.
But his was a profession that teaches self-
control better, and tames the passions earlier,
than perhaps any other. His warm and gene-
rous nature had not, indeed, become chilled,
but merely guided by the habits of self-posses-
sion it imposes. He dared not trust himself to
speak, lest he should utter aught that he might
repent of; but his flashing eye and quivering
lip betrayed the secret struggle within, and his
sympathy with the victim more than words
could have conveyed. When he felt conscious
of having sufficiently mastered his first indig-
nant emotion, he gave vent to the grief that
filled his heart, for the ruin of one whose wel-
fare, in spite of his alienated affection, he yet
held so dear, and whose overwhelming wretched-
ness—whose very loss, made her still dearer.
" My poor Catherine !" he exclaimed, clothing
his sympathy in the words of tenderness with
an almost feminine intuition of compassion
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 267
"Dear, unhappy Catherine, redress for such
wrongs as yours is impossible. The revenge it
might afford us upon"—the mere allusion to
the wretch caused a gulping sensation at his
throat which he paused to repress—" would be
barren, productive of evil to others, perhaps,
but chiefly to ourselves—yourself, I mean, my
poor Catherine. The world, in such cases,
stamps with infamy the brow of the innocent
victim more than that of the cowardly aggressor.
An attempt at redress must be attended with
publicity ; and the public ought never, with
your free will or that of those who love you, to
be made a participator in a secret which would
blast your name for ever. Innocent you still
are and must ever appear to the thoughtful ; but
to the unreflecting multitude ! Oh, Catherine
Catherine ! that you should have been the vic-
tim ! I had as soon believed the brightest star
of heaven would have fallen
!"
Catherine listened with a half- bewildered air,
but when she beheld large drops of moisture
glitter on his dark lashes, which, after a vain
struggle to repress, he was obliged to dash away
N 2
268 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
repeatedly with his hand, her look became still
more strange.
" You have loved me well," she said ; " your
advice must be the best ; but you must not be
so sad, or my heart will break. If I could only
get home again, I should then, at least, sink
quietly into my grave."
" You shall return home. I promise it," said
my father; and his words seemed to convey
assurance to the poor sufferer.
" But," continued he, " surely you can afford
me consolation on some points. Make my mind
easier on the past and the future, by confessing
yourself the involuntary agent of a fraud, not
a participator in it, —a pretended saint, in short.
Say so, my dear girl; for your sake as well
as mine, say so."
The tone of my father had become gentle
and imploring as he tried to coax Catherine
into a conviction, which he conceived an indis-
pensable preliminary to any steps he might
think fit to take on her behalf. But, to his
great surprise, his manner produced exactly the
contrary result to that which he was desirous of
effecting.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 269
" I am not obliged to think like other people,"
answered Catherine, the permanent irritability
of her shattered nerves being in nothing more
obvious than in the fitfulness of her mood ; it
seemed to vary with every tone and turn of her
interlocutor. " I may be a saint, or a sinner,
or both, for aught that others may wish me to
be. I scarcely know myself what I am; it
is not likely, therefore, I should be able or
willing to tell even you."
" Catherine, I hoped to have listened to
kinder language, the expression of gentler feel-
ings on your part. I am sure, if the most
devoted, the most brotherly sentiments can
deserve such, I may claim as a right some return
of friendship."
" Doubtless, you are very good ; and if my
poor head were not so confused, if my pulses
did not throb so, I am certain I should be and
should say all you desire ; but, I do not know
how it is, I cannot fix my thoughts. The
pleasure I had in first seeing you is ebbing
fast. Perhaps," she added, with a slight degree
of embarrassment and perturbation, " perhaps
you had better go."
270 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
To be thus coolly discarded after having met
with so warm a reception, and especially after
having been made the depositary of her sad
secret, appeared to my father a conclusive
evidence of insanity in the poor girl, and a
momentary doubt of the truth of all she had so
lately narrated flashed across his mind.
* I were worse than an idiot," he thought,
" to take offence at her inconsiderate, uncon-
nected conduct,—and most unfeeling as well as
unreasonable." Reassuming, therefore, the se-
vere aspect, which the knowledge gleaned from
that morning's experience pointed out as most
calculated to gain his end, he said coldly
" I shall depart, Catherine, when I feel in-
clined to do so, but certainly not before I have
obtained from you a promise
"
" Go—go !" she exclaimed in a low, hurried
tone, interrupting him, as it appeared, without
even being aware that he spoke. " I feel
nervous, uneasy—I am sure something is wrong.
Oh, now I have it! He is at the convent
gate. Leave me, I entreat, or he will visit
upon me your presence here ; if you have any
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 271
affection left for me, oh ! do not let him meet
you."
As she spoke thus strangely, a marked change
came over her. She stood before the grate that
divided the convent parlour in equal parts,
and which she had approached so near as almost
to touch it, with the appearance of being trans-
fixed to the spot. Her limbs gradually stiffened,
and her eyes became fixed on the opposite wall
with a deep, intense gaze, as if watching the
movements of some visible object beyond it
her lips were parted, and her attitude was one
of the most rigid and strained attention.
After a pause of some minutes, during which
not a muscle relaxed from its tension, she said,
in a husky, guttural voice :
" I see him—he is passing the portal—he
has answered the portress's greeting—his hands
are meekly folded on his breast. He crosses
the yard with rapid strides that cause his long
black robe to hang more negligently than ever,
—his flat cap is pressed deep over his brows
its points seem like the horns of Satan. But,"
she exclaimed, looking directly at my father,
272 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" why do you thus remain rooted to the spot ?
Go ! perhaps you may yet have time to evade
him by gliding for a few moments along the
cloisters until he is passed. But no !" she con-
tinued, after another slight pause, "it is too
late,—his foot is on the stairs,—in two minutes
he will be here
!"
Surprise kept my father mute. The solitary
parlour window la}' outside the grate at the
other end of the room, and, though of favour-
able dimensions, it would have been impossible
for Catherine to glance through it, even had
she looked in that direction ; but her eyes had
fallen, as I have said, on the opposite wall, with
an intensity of gaze as if desirous of question-
ing the dark, oaken panels with which it was
adorned. The singularity ofher manner absorbed
him, at first, too much to admit of any inter-
ruption on his part ; but, when he had re-
covered from his astonishment, he was about to
tax her for yielding to so strange an hallucina-
tion, when a heavy step was heard outside the
parlour—then, a hand was laid on the lock—it
turned, and Father Girard entered the room,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 273
with a perturbation of spirit which he could
scarcely conceal beneath the veil—and thin
enough it was—of common decency. His
countenance, moulded by Nature into a most
scowling aspect, looked absolutely savage with
scarce contained rage. His step, as he entered
the parlour, was even more haughty than usual
he walked up at once to the grate, behind which
stood his victim, trembling in every limb, con-
templating him with a fixed and mournful
gaze, as the poor bird must gaze at the snake
that is said to fascinate ere it destroys.
" How is this ?" exclaimed Father Girard, in
a loud, peremptory voice—" I had forbidden
you to receive any more visits, even from your
nearest and dearest, and I find a man with you.
Catherine —Catherine ! are you, then, decided
to forfeit the last particle of my good-will ?"
" It was not I who wished —who asked
—
faltered the poor, overawed creature, as she
clung to the grate for support; and her lids
drooped heavily on her moist orbs, and her
head fell back on her shoulder, as if her senses
were about to leave her.
n 3
274 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" But," resumed the monk, in his hoarse
tones, that fell on the tympanum like the eroak
of a disturbed crow—"but you consented to
speak to him. It is lucky I was on my road
hither, else
"
" Else what, Sir Jesuit ?" said my father, in-
terposing his person between the confessor and
his fair, stricken penitent—" Else what ? It is
I rather who ought to say '
Go hence,' and you
to obey. It is my respect for her alone that
shields you. Take a timely warning—meddle
not again with her, or anything concerning her,
or
" Leave us —leave us this instant !" almost
screamed the priest, in the excess of his rage.
" Depart, and let us never meet again on earth,
who never can meet in heaven !"
" Beware, canting hypocrite, what words you
speak, and, from this hour forth, what deeds
you do ! There is a place on earth where we
should have met, face to face, but for her sake !
Now, you know me her avowed protector, be-
ware of foul dealings, for a brother's eye is
upon her I"
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 275
" Impious, unchristian man, avaunt thee!
Satan speaks his wickedness from your lips
leave me, and this dear child; and think not
your idle threats can terrify me. I bear no
sword by my side to avenge my honour as a
man; but you insult your faith in aggressing
its minister, and it is my turn to say beware
We have thunderbolts wherewith to strike the
unbeliever and the scorner."
" Your eloquence is lost on me, and your
villany known, and may, perhaps, one day be
avenged. I go now, not at your bidding, proud
priest, but because I care not to stay any
longer."
As he spoke, my father came close up to the
Jesuit, and gazed full in the malignant, fierce,
dark eyes, that gleamed like those of a tiger at
bay, from beneath his shaggy eyebrows. " But,
if we meet again," he said, in the deep, clear,
slowly accentuated tones of suppressed but in-
tense wrath—" if we meet again, it shall be
your fault, not mine ; and then, though neither
of us may use the sword, yet will it be a struggle
of life and death between us—a struggle to
276 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
which, as I live, I will bring all the energy,
every capability with which God has gifted me,
to blast, to ruin, to kill you, as ruthlessly as you
have blasted, ruined, and killed kef. But one
step further, one little act of injustice and op-
pression more, and then we meet."
With these words my father turned away,
and strode hastily out of the apartment, with-
out casting a single glance behind at the faint-
ing form of his once beloved Catherine, as,
releasing her hold of the iron bars that sup-
ported her, she sank heavily on the floor; nor
did he mark the terrified, quivering Jesuit, who,
lost in his fears, was not even aware of his com-
panion's situation.
My father felt that the ecclesiastical arm
alone was long enough to overtake the priest—
its grasp alone strong enough to compel him
the only influence, indeed, that could be brought
to bear, in order to save Catherine, since the
inertia and timidity of her natural friends and
protectors would paralyse the effects of their
sympathy. But how to implicate himself in
this affair, without injury to Catherine in any
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 277
way, he scarcely knew. Chance, however—as
so often happens, at the very moment when an
affair seems most complicated to our puzzled
brains, and we in vain endeavour to find the
right way out of it—served him very satisfac-
torily at the present crisis.
A family council was to be held at one of
the aristocratic mansions of the town that very
evening, where, as matters of interest were to
be deliberated upon, and contending claims dis-
cussed in private, previous to their being de-
bated in public, most of the parties brought
with them their legal advisers, among whom
was my father. As he never allowed private
feelings to interfere with the duties of his avo-
cation, on his return from Ollioules his first
care was to prepare immediately for the even-
ing's task. This he did, not only by bestowing
upon his toilet the necessary degree of atten-
tion, but by forcibly banishing from his mind
every thought unconnected with the interests
he was about to espouse.
Always scrupulously punctual, it was often
the young lawyer's fate to find himself the first
278 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
at his rendezvous of business, especially when
he had to do with patrician clients. It was so
on this occasion. When he had denied through
the double row of expecting footmen who stood
ranged along the anteroom awaiting the guests,
and was formally ushered by the valet whose
duty it was to announce, into the grand saloon,
brilliantly lighted up, as if for grand reception,
he found himself the solitary tenant of its splen-
dours. Its many candelabras revealed without
dispelling the gloom of its rich crimson hang-
ings. The light of the tapers fell cold and un-
friendly on the white polished surface of the
marble consoles and tables that stood between
the tall windows, glittered on the gilding of their
bases, and played mysteriously in the depths of
the mirrors that overhung them. The stiff-
backed sofas and chairs, ranged in awful preci-
sion against the walls, sombre and rich, looked,
to his unaccustomed eye, like so many Spanish
dons awaiting for the king's presence. In short,
the cold magnificence of an apartment furnished
a la Louis XIV., and of dimensions of the most
lofty description, not much relieved from the
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 279
drilling sensation of solitude that pervaded it by
a few tables in the centre, ostentatiously covered
with paper, pens, and ink, and surrounded
with not very elegant, dark, leather chairs
especially and exclusively set apart for the men
of business—all that offered itself to the eye
was not of a nature to exhilarate his spirits.
He mechanically approached the immense
chimney, under whose mantel-piece, tall as he
was, he could stand with ease. Although no-
minally autumn, summer yet lingered in this
favoured clime ; the hearth was fireless and
obscure, and he was almost concealed within
its shade.
He was not long left to his solitude, however,
nor the meditation which it might have inspired.
A tall dignified figure slowly advanced from one
of the doors leading to the inner apartments, in
which my father had no difficulty in recognising
the Bishop of Toulon. He soon remembered,
as he gazed on the mild benevolent countenance
of the venerable prelate, that he was nearly .re-
lated to the nobleman to whom the house be-
longed, and ceased to wonder at his presence.
280 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
The old man looked wistfully round, as if
seeking some one whom he expected to meet
there; and as my father stepped respectfully
forward to greet him, he became aware that he,
and no other, was the individual of whom the
Bishop was in quest. In a few brief, simple
words, but full of apostolic eloquence, in which
he sought to bring over my father to the views
of peace, for the establishment of which he had
forced his own presence and counsel on the
conflicting parties, he communicated the object
that had induced him to precede the others.
He succeeded, perhaps, all the better in his
Christian mission, that my father was extremely
averse to the meaner parts of his profession,
which often consist in fanning into a devastating
flame the passions of men—sometimes even of
those between whom nature and duty should
form an indissoluble bond. Far from considering
the worthy Prelate's interference in any way
disadvantageous to himself, he entered eagerly
into his views ; and promised to open them to
his colleagues, in a manner that should prepare
them to support, or at least prevent their
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 281
opposing, the amicable arrangements which it
was the Bishop's wish to promote.
The Prelate mingled in his conversation a
few paternal remarks, and eulogiums on my
father's conduct and talents, with the grace
peculiar to the sphere in which he habitually
moved, and with the sincerity of a kind
heart.
The young lawyer was much flattered by
this proof of his dawning reputation. -
He had
scarcely dared to hope that his merits should
be acknowledged in circles where the names of
the obscure of other classes seldom penetrate,
and where, consequently, to be known at all
argues no small degree of notoriety. By the
way, it is worthy of remark that those young
men who so loudly proclaim their carelessness
of praise, their indifference to public opinion,
and think thereby to stamp themselves with the
seal of superiority, seldom, if ever, rise above
the most vulgar mediocrity. It is only he who
has an aim in view, who urges forward in the
lists of life, and meets bravely the shock of com-
petition—he only who values the laurel wreath
282 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
that can ever hope to win, or deserve to wear it.
The poet—the painter—the hero—all need the
spur of some such ennobling influence to charm
or dazzle the world. Oftener, too, does this
unnatural affectation of disdain in the young
arise from the consciousness of utter nullity and
want of those powers which enable the more
favoured to gain applause, than from any real
insensibility to its value. The heart that beats
with joy at merited distinction is the only one
worthy of receiving it.
My father's heart was elated at that instant
with a justifiable pride, but still he forgot not
those who had an interest in it, even in his
hour of triumph. Availing himself of the
moment when the Bishop, having obtained his
aim, and apparently exhausted every topic of
conversation, was evidently meditating a retreat,
he arrested his attention by introducing at once
the subject uppermost in his thoughts.
" I have this day heard," he began, " that
Toulon is about to lose one of its palms of
glory, and yield it up to Saletta. It is said,
too, in a secret manner; but I can scarcely
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 283
believe that any one would dare to transplant
any sprig out of your lordship's garden without
your special permission.'
" I do not understand you," mildly answered
the Prelate —" pray explain, if indeed it be a
matter that may concern me," he added, ner-
vously ;
" for if it be relating to some young
person or other whose vocation parents are anxi-
ous to promote, I love not, except the case be
urgent, to interfere with the privileges and
rights of the heads of families in my diocese.
Still, it is my duty to interpose my authority in
cases of too flagrant an abuse of these privileges
but this requires caution —great caution. Such
dealings are extremely delicate—admit of much
misrepresentation,—in fact, Monsieur Chaudon,
unless the matter be very imperative, it had
better be submitted to my grand vicar."
My father having permitted the flow of words
to subside, in which the great and those high
in office are apt to indulge, in order, probably,
to avoid hearing certain addresses from their
inferiors, which, for divers reasons, they may be
willing to escape, and having listened to them
284 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
with the respect due to the rank of the speaker,
he replied, with apparent carelessness
" Oh no—this is no case of domestic tyranny
—it is referable merely to the Saint of Olli-
oules, whom Father Girard, it appears, wishes
to remove to the community of Carthusians at
Saletta, that she may, as he says, shine else-
where, having edified enough at St. Clare's
and Toulon."
All the nonchalance of the grand seigneur
gave way at once in the Bishop, before the
roused and instinctive feelings of the priest.
M How is this ?—the Saint of Ollioules to be
snatched by the Carthusians of Saletta from our
dear sisters of St. Clare's ! You must be mis-
taken, Monsieur Chaudon—this cannot be !"
" I have heard it this day from the novice's
own lips, and yet, when I heard, too, that your
lordship's sanction to so important a measure
had neither been obtained nor even solicited, I
unhesitatingly declared my disbelief in the
power of any member of the clergy to effect it."
" Your clear and quick insight, young sir,
does your judgment credit," answered the
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 285
Bishop, warmly. " We bear meekly, we trust,
our honours and dignity—wield, also, our apos-
tolical sceptre mildly, and with due reserve in
all things, whenever we can in conscience do
so ; but for the sake of ourselves, of our succes-
sors, and, above all, for that of the church, we
may not permit that dignity to be slighted,
that power to be braved, nor that sceptre to be
put aside."
" I dared to believe so," modestly put in my
father, "and even to predict that you would
not think it meet to permit any other diocese to
appropriate the glories of your own ; for, I
argued, the high dignitaries of the church have
to consult policy as well as all other rulers;
and such a step would be an error, as tending
to displease our many excellent religious com-
munities, the boast of this town, who all con-
ceive they have a greater right to a native
celebrity than those of other territories—but I
am afraid I weary your lordship."
" Nay, proceed, young man—proceed," im-
patiently urged the Bishop, now evidently
deeply interested in the conversation, and ap-
286 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
prehensive lest the arrival of the expected
guests should put an end to their colloquy.
" Your lucid views are peculiarly agreeable to
me—they perfectly coincide with my own."
My father, whose artful pause had only been
made that he might ascertain, to a certain
degree, the impression produced by his words,
now continued, with increased assurance
" I also urged that the town, as well as the
clergy would expect their beloved lord to pre-
serve to them their young countrywoman, in
whom they take so much pride."
" Of course," said the venerable Bishop—" of
course, sound policy and duty, and the care of
my own dignity, alike require my interference
in this affair—require, I may say, an instanta-
neous, resolute interference ; unless, indeed,"
he added, " the Saint of Ollioules herself has
been guided in this, as in former resolves, by a
heavenly voice, which to disobey were sinful
even in the highest and most mighty of this
earth."
My father perceived, by these words, the
shoal on which he might strike in his endea-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 287
vours to guide into the channel of his wishes
the gentle, but irresolute, timid, malleable spirit
of the Bishop, whose mental abilities were not of
the highest order, though his heart was most
excellent. Every instant was now of the ut-
most importance—he might never again com-
mand so favourable an opportunity even of
addressing, far less of influencing the high
personage before him ; and he, too, began to
feel nervously alive to every sound that seemed
to announce an intruder, and to tremble lest he
should not have time to utter all he was desirous
of grafting on his listener's mind.
" It is far from being the desire of Mademoi-
selle Cadieres to exile herself from her native
town," he replied, " and to carry her fame into
other and strange communities ; but Father
Girard is a bold man—a very bold man. I
suppose he presumes on his reputation as a
preacher of eminence, and believes that it
emancipates him from all ordinary restrictions
and the respect due to his superiors. At any
rate, I think—and so, I am sure, will all Toulon
—that he is very presumptuous in thus acting
288 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
upon his own authority in a case of so much
delicacy, when our good town is honoured with
the presence of a lord bishop."
" Oh ! but he shall be taught, and Toulon
shall see, that none can brave with impunity
their lawful superiors," replied the Bishop, with
dignity. " Providence has placed me at the
head of the flock, and I were a bad shepherd if
I suffered the sheep to be stolen from me in the
dead of night, as it were. I thank you, my
young sir—heartily do I thank you, for your
timely warning. It would not have been
seemly in me to have learnt this too late, and
might have involved me in great difficulties
with our neighbours of Saletta; but
—" the
prelate slightly hesitated ; then, resuming the
air of calm dignity habitual to him, which, in
the uncommon animation of the moment, had
been somewhat ruffled, he continued — " of
course, the latter part of our conversation and
its subject will remain strictly private for a time
—perhaps only for this evening ; I must impose
secrecy on you, and "
What more he might have added was in-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 289
terrupted by the arrival of my father's col-
leagues ; his reply to the last words of the pre-
late was therefore conveyed in a mute but low
obeisance, which was acknowledged by his
lordship with a most affable nod as he retired
from the apartment ; nor did he reappear until
the valet of the chambers announced the arrival
of the expected parties, who awaited nothing
but his presence to open the evening's debate.
The worthy prelate was received by all pre-
sent, however hostile their feelings towards
each other, with the deepest reverence ; the
doors were then closed, and the business of the
evening began in earnest
The difficulties that opposed the bishop's
pacific mission were not small, for bitterness
of feeling was at its height, and many of the
profession gave advice the most contrary to his
desires ; nor would he, perhaps, in spite of the
high veneration in which he was held, have
succeeded, had it not been for the eloquent
manner in which my father laid his views and
wishes before the assembly, not failing to point
out adroitly to each, individually, how a fair
vol. i. o
290 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
accommodation would best further the personal
views of each ; so well did he perform this self-
imposed task, that his success was complete.
All the preliminaries to a fair compromise
were then settled; and the delighted bishop
reaped the grateful thanks of the soothed as-
sembly before the deliberations of the evening
closed, which, considering the habits of those
days, had been, indeed, protracted to a very
late hour. It was midnight when my father
was summoned to the door of the good bishop's
coach to receive his acknowledgments for the
able manner in which he had supported his
measures during the last few hours, hinting, at
the same time, that his services should not be
forgotten, any more than his timely warning
about the saint of Ollioules. My father re-
turned home, too agitated by all that had passed
in the course of the day to court even the sem-
blance of repose ; but, pacing the narrow limits
of his bachelor's apartment with hasty strides,
he, according to his wont, resolutely endea-
voured to class and arrange the chaos of
thoughts and emotions that filled his breast,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 291
and to test them by the calm light of his
reason.
He was still very young, although five years
had elapsed since his arrival at Toulon, his first
entrance into life ; and his mind, though equal
to the effort, had need of all its powers to regu-
late itself with the hot blood of youth yet
dancing through his veins.
It was impossible for one whose heart's first
and purest offering had been made at the shrine
of Catherine's virtue and beauty, to behold the
idol thus broken into fragments, —the shrine
desecrated,—the blossoms of his early love torn,
leaf by leaf, and scattered to the winds, with-
out feelings of the most vehement indignation
against the author of so much evil.
He felt even more than a brother's sorrow for
Catherine's fate,—more than a brother's humilia-
tion in her shame ; and his anger, whenever his
thoughts reverted to the infamous agent of her
ruin, partook somewhat of the violence which
generally marks the emotions of us children of
the south.
To calm the more bitter feelings, to soothe
292 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the sadder ones, could not, he felt, be the result
of a single night of meditation, although it
afforded sufficient leisure to trace out, both for
himself and the unfortunate object of his solici-
tude, the line of conduct most advisable to
pursue with regard to Father Girard, and to the
rest of the world.
There is, perhaps, no better composing draught
to administer to the human passions, when
excited, than a well-weighed, firmly-embraced,
formal resolution, on any point whatever. This
is, for most people, of all difficulties, the greatest,
for the very simple reason that weak minds are
more abundant in this world than strong ones ;
as my father's, however, belonged most de-
cidedly to the latter order, he did not experience
any such embarrassment ; and, in pursuance of
the measures he had resolved upon, the very
first rays of the sun escorted him to the house
of Madame Cadieres, where he was soon
closeted in earnest conference with Catherine's
brothers.
A couple of hours later, the Dominican was
on his way to the Carmelite convent, where he,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 293
too, claimed and obtained a long interview with
Father Alexis, the former confessor and director
of Mademoiselle Cadieres; and not long after,
Father Alexis was seen on his road to the
episcopal palace, where, in his turn, a pro-
tracted audience was granted him.
For the rest of the day great animation
seemed to prevail within its usually quiet walls.
Members of the divers religious orders were to
be seen gliding in and out of the gateway, with
visible traces of agitation on their ordinarily
impassible countenances. The lights burned
late in the good old Bishop's chamber, and the
Grand Vicar, who shared, with a few more
privileged councillors, the honours of his table,
left him not before, the evening meal being
concluded, the Bishop retired for the night.
Whilst the train he had laid was thus slowly
taking fire, my father kept himself aloof from
it, and was, to all appearance, a careless, unin-
terested observer ; but Eleonore, with whom he
spent the better portion of the day, knew better
than to suspect him of indifference as to its
results.
o 2
294 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Nor were they backward in manifesting them-
selves. At twelve o'clock precisely, next day,
the Grand Vicar was seen, accompanied by two
other of the most confidential satellites of the
Bishop, all three seated, in great pomp, in the
Grand Vicar's phaeton, exhibiting, in their
whole air and manner, an increase of dignity,
that seemed to proclaim the importance of the
mission on which they were bound.
Many idlers stood still, gazing after them,
as they rattled over the roughly-paved streets,
and here and there a casement was flung open
at the sound, and a curious female head thrust
out. In the streets through which they had to
pass in order to gain the Marseilles gate, there
were, however, a few houses whose occupants
denoted a greater interest in their proceedings,
and who evidently were no strangers to them.
At the first floor of the one might be seen my
father and his affianced bride, joyfully watching
the progress of the clerical vehicle, although its
tenants did not appear aware of the circum-
stance. But shortly afterwards, as they en-
countered the watchful glances of Madame
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 295
Cadieres and her sons, who were also orna-
menting the front windows of their small dwell-
ing with their rubicund faces, they interchanged
mysterious nods and smiles. Heartfelt happi-
ness beamed from every face—there was an air
of rejoicing and festivity throughout the estab-
lishment, proclaiming the celebration of some
gladsome event, such as a marriage, a christen-
ing, or the return of a very dear and long-absent
friend. The most savoury perfumes escaped
the kitchen, as the females of that department
opened its window to obtain a glimpse of the
phaeton. Flowers everywhere met the eye in
wreaths and bouquets ; and Clara, Mademoiselle
Cadieres' own maid, had departed for once, and
that without reproof, from her usual soberness
of habiliment. The little white dog, too, that
had once belonged to Catherine, was decked
out with most coquettish pink knots and bows,
shewing off to advantage the carefully preserved
snowiness of his coat.
As the reverend fathers drove past the Col-
lege of the Jesuits, they examined its long, im-
posing front in vain for any trace of the atten-
296 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
tion which thej seemed to imagine their passage
must excite ; nor did their investigating glances
detect any emotion of curiosity or surprise in
the visage of the well-trained porter, whose
brow was as dark and chilling as his habit.
Not such, however, was the appearance of
the Carmelite convent. Heads were to be seen
in every quarter, and anxious eyes peering from
beneath every cowl, at the very first glimpse
of the Grand Vicar's well-known equipage.
The reverend fathers within and those without
exchanged glances of intelligence, which were
soon converted, by the former at least, when the
latter were out of sight, into looks of the most
uncontrollable triumph ; for if the Jesuits, un-
conscious of the cloud that was lowering so
near over their heads, had paid little or no
attention to the all-important fact that the Grand
Vicar was on his road to Ollioules in company
with the Prior of the Carmelites,—whose zeal
for his order was as notorious as the talents
which enabled him to display it to advantage,
the Carmelites were better instructed as to the
impending storm, and enjoyed already in antici-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 297
pation the victory they were about to achieve
over their proud rivals, though little guessing
how complete—how immeasurable it was des-
tined to be.
The next day explained satisfactorily the
movements of the preceding one. It was now
publicly reported that the Grand Vicar had
proceeded to Ollioules to claim Mademoiselle
Cadieres in the Bishop's name ; that she had
been most willingly delivered into his hands by
the Lady Abbess herself, who, contrary to
expectation, seemed anything but mortified at
the loss ; that, in short, Catherine was restored
to her home and her friends, and the Bishop
had issued forth his interdiction against Father
Girard, to prohibit him from attending her any
more in the light of confessor, and had ap-
pointed Father Nicholas, the distinguished Car-
melite I have already alluded to, in his place.
This intelligence sounded like the trumpet of
judgment in the ears of the Jesuit; like the
bells of a Te Deum in those of my father and
Eleonore ; resolving, however, that his own
participation in this event should remain per-
298 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
fectly unknown—perhaps, indeed, it was already
forgotten, or still unsuspected, by those whose
more active interference had been but the mere
result of his adroit instigations —my father
formed a determination to resume his visits at
the house, which he felt certain none would
now forbid. All motive, indeed, for refusing
him admittance had long ceased to exist ; and
it was a matter of moment to poor Catherine
that some wise hand should now re-unite and
guide the broken threads of her destiny.
END OF VOL. I.
T. C. Savill, Printer, 107, St. Martin's Lane, Charing Cross.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM
^n lEpielotre
THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY
AND OTHER TALES.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. n.
LONDON
SAUNDERS AND OTLEY, CONDUIT STREET.
1843.
823
MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
It is easier to set a stone rolling than to fore-
see or direct the course it will take, or the spot
where it will cease all motion ; easier to excite
into action human passion, than to say to aught
so wayward, there thou shalt stop ! When my
father advised the brothers of Catherine to
appeal to the jealousy of the Carmelites in
order to get their sister out of her tyrannical
confessor's hands, he had no idea that the
latter, not content with so signal a victory over
their rivals, would not rest until they had pur
sued that advantage to the uttermost ; and that
Father Nicholas, in his way, would prove as
efficient and unflinching a champion for the
VOL. II. B
2 3IAGIC AND iMESMERISM.
interests of his convent, as even Father Girard
himself, had that personage been able to adhere
strictly to the line of conduct which duty to his
order should have dictated.
It was, perhaps, enough for the personal
vanity of Father Nicholas that the spiritual
guidance of this candidate for the honours of
canonization was remitted to his care ; but it
was more important to his community to dis-
cover that the pretensions of this young saint
of a Jesuit's training were, in good sooth,
Jesuitical ; and accordingly, both in and out of
the confessional, he directed all his attention
and efforts to that anticipated discovery, which
would naturally establish a fresh victory of
Mount Carmel over the rival college.
But this charitable purpose was for some
time defeated by the torpid state in which
Catherine remained for many weeks after her
return home ; for the delight she experienced
in finding herself once more restored to familiar
objects had been but of short duration. Her
debilitated frame, already much exhausted by
the journey, slight as it was, sunk under this
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 3
new and powerful emotion, the first pleasurable
one she had experienced for months. The
exaltation of every faculty, which had deve-
loped in her such strange phenomena, had
completely departed; and whilst nature was
probably gaining fresh strength during this
pause, her existence was reduced to a state
purely vegetative.
Eleonore's interference at this crisis most
probably was the means of saving Catherine's
life ; for she continually dwelt on the necessity
of not disturbing this quietude in any manner,
especially by allusions to the past. Long and
uninterrupted slumbers, a strengthening diet,
and complete repose of the mind, was the course
she recommended, which Madame Cadieres
implicitly followed, confident that should it
not prove successful in dispelling her daughter's
ailings, it could not by any possibility increase
them. Both Eleonore and her betrothed were
constantly in attendance ; the former regulating
in great measure the house, and presiding over
the cares necessary for her friend, which she
was herself solicitous in administering ; and the
B 2
4 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
latter admonishing the young men in the most
earnest manner of the silence and reserve which
it behoved them and their sister to observe
relative to Father Girard ;
pointing out the
extreme danger that would inevitably attend
any indiscretion on their part ; and endeavour-
ing to convince them, that for the sakes of all
it were wise to hush up the saintship altogether.
He met with the greater difficulty in persuad-
ing them to adopt this line of conduct, that he
was unable, without betraying more of the
truth than he thought fit to entrust to their
inferior capacities, to make them feel its im-
perious necessity. The house, too, soon became
crowded with visitors of all ranks, eager to
gain admittance to the holy maid, or, at least,
to obtain some trifling relic.
These visits and demands—the lively interest
shewn by the whole clergy, but especially by
the Lord Bishop, in their young relative,
strongly opposed my father's salutary endea-
vours, and served to strengthen that fatal
ambition and silly vanity which again revived
in the bosoms of the Cadieres. My father
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 5
begaa to tremble for tlie consequences of these
renewed delusions to the poor girl, whose only
chance of at least closing her days in peace
wholly depended, in his opinion, on the past
being buried in oblivion, and the future in
obscurity ; for if he did not dread any adver-
sary, however powerful, he knew the world and
his own times too well not to see the whole
extent of the danger to be incurred in a colli-
sion with one so well protected and artful as
Father Girard. This important truth he most
strenuously endeavoured to impress on the
weak but stubborn intellects of Catherine's
brothers, but, alas ! to little purpose, as tl|e
sequel will shew.
To the first few days of stupor succeeded a
general and feverish excitement, which plainly
indicated that the appearance of repose ex-
hibited by the invalid was but a lull, not a
calm. This sad relapse terrified my father even
more than the anxious females who surrounded
her ; for he was ever apprehensive lest a ^vord
should disclose to her friends a secret which,
he was well assured, they would not have suffi-
6 3IAGIC AND MESMERISM.
cient tact to dissimulate from the world. Eleo-
nore, indeed, retained her suspicions of the
truth, without being able to ehcit a confirma-
tion from his lips; for he desired above all
things to keep her aloof from the disagreeable
occurrences which he could not help antici-
pating in the future. Conscious, however, that
her sound advice, and calm, steady way of de-
livering it, constituted her the best support for
her poor friend to lean upon in her affliction,
he would not unnecessarily deprive Catherine
of her friendly sympathy. But whilst he thus
permitted her almost daily visits, he continued
to watch carefully the tide of events, that he
might not lose the pilotage of those crafts which
it was his most earnest desire to guide safely
into port.
The first symptoms of uneasiness exhibited
by Catherine occurred generally at those times
when, the grosser faculties being at rest, the
mysterious agency of the finer and more subtle
powers is most active. It was when about to
sink into slumber, or sometimes when, to all
appearance, actually plunged into the deepest
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 7
sleep, that she suddenly started from her sem-
blance of repose, and broke out into the most
bitter lamentations at being so cruelly deprived
of him who was at once her comforter and her
tormentor. She would moan and complain like
a sick child after its nurse, and express her
desire for Father Girard in terms so wild and
passionate, that, unsuspicious as were those
who surrounded her, they could not listen to
them without being alarmed at the nature and
energy of her feelings. Sometimes, even in the
dead of night, she would seek to escape the
vigilance of her friends, and, laying aside the
modesty and timidity of her sex, which had
once shone so conspicuously in her, attempt to
hurry to the Jesuits' college.
This circumstance first roused Father Nicho-
las's suspicions as to the real state of the case.
He perceived that there existed a stronger tie
between his young penitent and her late con-
fessor than mere gratitude, on the one part,
and kind solicitude, on the other, which their
late position might be supposed to generate.
His desire to penetrate further into this matter
8 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
it was easy to satisfy in the Confessional, where
the admonitory glance of my father could not
pierce to w^arn his penitent of the necessity of
silence on some points, and those the most im-
portant, of her sad history. It is probable that
no consideration, however weighty, would have
interfered with what Catherine considered the
discharge of a duty, or prevented her from seek-
ing the only balm that could heal her bruised
spirit, reconciliation with Heaven. But this
great consolation w^as not hers to enjoy; for
every attempt on her part to resume the feel-
ings, and especially the practice, of that devo-
tion which had once been the very essence of
her existence, brought on those terrible struggles
between her own pure nature and the dark,
fearful one that had, as it were, been forced
into her; whose more immediate consequences
were those fits and trances, which lasting many
hours at a time, and recurring with frightful
frequency, again brought her to the very brink
of the grave.
It was impossible, whilst she was in this state,
that some things should not escape her lips tend-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 9
ing to enlighten those who surrounded her ; and
even the brothers were at last, though most un-
willingly, compelled to coincide with the opi-
nion of Father Nicholas, as to the infamy their
infatuation for the Jesuit had brought upon
their house. They were not long before com-
municating their suspicions to the Prior, who
did not fail to confirm them by every argument
in his power. The mother, too, was unavoid-
ably made privy to these facts, the truth of
which, after her first indignation had worn off,
she was at no trouble in ascertaining the very
first hour she spent alone with her daughter,
whose artlessness and ingenuity were such as
to baffle all the lessons of prudence my father
and Eleonore Raymond had endeavoured to
instil into her. Thus had her fatal secret fallen
into the very worst keeping to which it could
have been confided —the Carmelites, whose
own purposes it was calculated so powerfully
to fiirther—and her poor mother, whose dis-
cretion was as slender as her excellency in
other respects was great.
Father Nicholas's first step v/as to announce
b3
10 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
to ^he family his intention of proclaiming to the
world at large, and to the Bishop in particular,
that what had been declared by Father Girard
a work of divine grace, was nothing else than
a delusion of the Evil One ; and that, instead
of a being, a saint, worthy of worship, Catherine
was a miserable object, whom the exorcisms of
pious and holy men could alone deliver from
the possession under which she laboured. The
Cadieres' family did not much rejoice at this.
But reflection soon taught them that the Prior
could not in conscience allow the silly report of
her saintship to continue, especially as the whole
clergy of Toulon, and the venerable Bishop
himself, had shared the common error, or at
least had given it the sanction of their approval.
Thus his first care and duty was to put an end
to this idle rumour, which might otherwise soon
be accredited in a way that would make recanta-
tion dangerous to the interests of his church.
As to Madame Cadieres, the blow that had
lighted upon her head bowed her to the very
ground. The calamity had, indeed, like a
two-edged sword, wounded her at once in her
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 11
dearest affections and her proudest hopes ; her
maternal love, her pride and vanity, were equally
blighted. She had nothing now before her but
apprehension and sorrow ; nor could her thoughts
revert to the past without the bitter conviction
forcing itself upon her that she, and she alone,
was the cause of her child's misfortune; less
blind zeal, a little more worldly prudence, had
saved her beloved Catherine !
The disgrace was doubly felt by one whose
faults had ever been mere errors of judgment,
but whose whole life, so far as the performance
of every duty went, had been like unto a po-
lished mirror, whose purity no passing breath
ever tainted. The trial was a severe one ; but
she had something better than mere philosophy
to oppose to it. Her simplicity and weakness
were converted into strength by her Christian
fortitude; and she bore up well against her
affliction. That she should do so tacitly, how-
ever, was hardly to be expected; and though
she cautiously concealed the worst facts, she
dwelt, more loudly than prudence should have
dictated, upon the possession of her daughter
12 MAGIC AND 31ESMERISM.
beiifig the work of foul magic and unhallowed
arts, and upon Father Girard, whom she most
unadvisedly denounced as an impostor and a
sorcerer.
Eleonorc was the first to inform my father
of the sad state into which Catherine had re-
lapsed, and of all the surmises to which it gave
rise in her domestic circle. Nothing, in his
opinion, could be worse than the turn affairs
were taking. At that period, when the Jesuits
were all-powerful, he well knew the danger of
exciting the wrath and revenge of a body,
whose unjust and unwise policy it was inva-
riably to side with any member of the com-
munity whom it had once received within its
bosom, let him prove ever so undeserving, or
even guilt3^ He would have given worlds to
spare the poor, suffering Catherine, the fearful
struggle, and the still more fearful consequences
that must inevitably result from a contest so
unequal.
" You cannot really see or speak to Catherine
to-day," was Mademoiselle Raymond's positive
answer, when summoned from her friend's side
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 13
by the eager message of my father. " It would
be only inflicting unnecessary pain on yourself,
and that for no earthly advantage. Pray, do
not attempt it."
" Is she in one of her fits ?" was the natural
query.
*'
No—not exactly; but in one of those strange
moods w4iich I really cannot, in spite of the bat-
tling of my reason, help thinking border on the
supernatural."
" I must see her, let her fancy steer whatever
way it pleases," was the answer. " You know
not how much may depend on my being able
to force my advice upon her in time ; and you,
Eleonore, must come to my assistance to further
the plans I have laid down for her."
When my father opened his views to Made-
moiselle Raymond, she most fully entered into
them, but doubted his being able to bring any
of the Cadieres into his way of thinking.
" They are now as completely under the
Prior's guidance as they were formerly under
the Rector's. None of them are sufficiently
gifted, in the way of brains, to have an opinion,
14 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
far less a will of their own," said Mademoiselle
Raymond, as she led the way to Catherine's
apartment.
" It is really a fatality," exclaimed my father,
in bitterness of spirit, " that the best are seldom
the wisest of mankind! Man were, perhaps,
too glorious a creature, if a sound heart and a
sound head were always united in him."
" It is a no less strange fatality," answered
Eleonore, " that the simple ever despise honest,
plain truth, and suffer themselves to be led by
the designing, were their schemes even to lead
to ruin
!"
Catherine was seated in the very crimson
velvet, antique arm-chair which she had, on a
former occasion—and all present had cause to
remember that occasion well—in youthful spor-
tiveness, transformed into a temporary throne,
from whence she had solemnly announced her
intention of putting herself under the Jesuit's
guidance. My father had never forgotten how
lovely she looked that evening; her delicate
fairness reheved by the rich, sombre hues of the
framework in which she unconsciously sat. The
MAGIC AND MES3IERISM. 15
reminiscence was yet fresh in his mind, as though
it had been but the day before, and made the
contrast between the past and the present pain-
fully striking. The old chair had been again
brought down, in comphance with the capricious
desire expressed by Catherine but a few hours
previous; and in it she now sat, clothed in a
simarre, as the loose white robe that formed the
deshabille of that day was called, as pale and
colourless as her vestment. Her eyes were
closed, as if in sleep ; and her long fair lashes
rested on the wasted cheek, darkening the deep
shades encircling the veiled orbs, that betrayed
but too clearly the ravages of disease. Her lips
were firmly compressed—her head was listlessly
thrown back, as if the slender throat was not
equal to its support—her waxy hands hung by
her side—and her whole attitude was that of
leaden slumber.
" We must not awake her," said my father,
in a whisper to Eleonore, as he prepared softly
to retreat.
" She is not asleep ; if you wait but a few
seconds, you will hear her speak, although in
16 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
such a strange fashion as to justify the vulgar
creduUty of her maid, who has just fled, fearing
lest it be a demon speaking from within her
;
and, Jules," continued Mademoiselle Raymond,
fixing on him a glance fraught with the deepest
meaning —" and, Jules, it is really passing
strange. I am not afraid—but awed !"
" You are too often present at such scenes,"
replied my father, with a reproving, grave look.
" It is not a wholesome food for the imagina-
tion, Eleonore, and may bear its fruits even in
after years."
" But, surely, I cannot abandon Catherine in
such a state ?" she said, warmly. *^^
You, of all
men, are, I am sure, the last to advise such a
course."
" My opinion on that point, and many others,
will depend wholly on the more or less weight
Catherine and her family may choose to give
to my counsel; and I am wxll assured, Eleo-
nore, that you at least will abide by my
wishes."
Eleonore was spared the trouble of an answer,
for their whispering discourse had brought them
MAGIC AND 3IESBIERISM. 17
close to the apparently unconscious object of it,
who moved restlessly in her chair, as if rendered
uneasy, though not actually roused, by the
slight disturbance around her. Eleonore pressed
forward, and gently replaced the pillows that
propped her up, and which her action had
slightly deranged. As she did so, she imprinted
a soft kiss on her friend's damp brow ; for her
feelings were moved by the sentence of sepa-
ration which she had distinctly read in my
father's eyes.
" Thankyou, Eleonore, thank you," murmured
the invalid. " You love me truly and kindly,
but you must not resent Monsieur Chaudon's
having a warmer affection for you now than he
has for me. He once loved me more than
aught else on earth. His friendship is, at least,
as warm and sincere as yours, Eleonore, and
still neither can avail me. I see into your
hearts quite plainly—as plainly as ever I saw
into his. —But his was like a murky den filled
with wild and unhallowed feelings, the offspring
of his vile passions—yours are pure and true as
gold."
18 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Although Catherine spoke, her lips moved
not, nor did her eyes unclose ; the sound of her
voice, much altered by the circumstance of not
issuing forth in the usual manner, was, however,
singularly clear and distinct, though very low
;
and the utterance calm, but slow, and hesitating,
almost like that of a child reading with difficulty
its imposed task.
" We had better profit of every chance in our
way," urged my father in a low tone, and
approaching Catherine, he gently seated himself
on the footstool at her feet, and took one of her
hands in his, whilst Eleonore, kneeling beside
him, seized the other. A long pause ensued,
which none chose to break. At last my father
said, addressing himself to the slumberer
—
" You can read the purposes of the heart as
well as its infirmities, Catherine ; can you tell
what brought me to you this day—w^hat I at
this moment wish ?"
" I can,"—murmured the sufferer. " But I
have more trouble now than I once had. My
internal vision is dimmed."
" Try, Catherine," urged Eleonore, watching
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 19
with anxious cuiiosity the result of a scene in
which no acting was possible, and which would
enable herself and my father to form a correct,
definitive notion of her veracity.
" I will—^but I must have time"— she slightly
bent forward at these words, which she still spoke
with closed lips, and without raising her eyelids.
A tint of red, faint at first, but gradually in-
creasing until it became a brilliant hectic spot,
fixed on either cheek; her hands and brows
became clammy, and she assumed altogether
the appearance of undergoing no ordinary
mental or physical exertion. After what seemed
a severe, though silent struggle, during which
she placed her hand upon my father's brow,
she spoke in still slower, more hesitating tones
than before.
" You would persuade me to leave my
mother for a time—to quit Toulon—to go to
Paris—to put myself under the care of a phy-
sician—a married man—he has many children
—
is a relation of Eleonore's—a heretic! You
wish me to reside with him, unknown to all my
friends, until—until this affair is blown over
—
20 MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I.
until Father Girard and myself are forgotten I
You even think it best for me never to return
—
to die in peace elsewhere !"
Mademoiselle Raymond and my father ex-
changed glances of surprise.
" You think, once fairly removed from this
place, you would persuade my mother to follow
me. That is your plan, and you have come
expressly to urge me to it."
She removed her hand from his forehead,
and sank back into her former passive attitude,
continuing, however, to speak, but with more
rapidity and fervour.
" It camiot be—it cannot be," she said. " I
am bound here in iron fetters, which none
can break but he who forged them. I cannot
go so far from him ; I must turn back ere I
had reached the gates."
" This is inconceivable—she loves him after
all !" exclaimed Eleonore.
" No ! no ! I hate him, and he fears me, and
yet we cannot live asunder. I shall perish if he
come not to me—Oh ! if any one ever loved
me, bring Father Girard back to me, he only
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 21
can bid me be well, or tranquil, or liappy, or
wise—he only can bid me live. Without him I
perish."
At that moment steps w^ere heard on the
stairs rapidly approaching. My father rose
hastily from his seat, cast one more glance at the
simple arrangement of the little chamber, that
had once occupied so large a portion of his
thoughts, another at the poor sufferer, whose
frame was now violently agitated, and hurried
from the scene, his mind a prey to the wildest
suppositions, most painful anticipations, and
saddest regrets, that ever perplexed and tor-
mented man.
" I can easily guess your feelings, Jules, by
my own," said Eleonore—" but is there not an
unfathomable mystery in all this ?"
" Let us not talk of that,'' said my father,
earnestly, " at least for the present."
" And yet," she replied, " I wish I could pre-
vail upon you to accompany me to Mademoiselle
Langieres. I have heard that her state is exactly
similar to Catherine's—pray come. I was once
somewhat of a favourite, and though I have
neglected her since my time has been more
22 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
agreeably engaged, I am sure of not being
refused admittance."
My father mechanically consented. They
had not the slightest difficulty in gaining access
to this young lady*s presence, whom they found
reclining on a couch, surrounded, as it seemed,
by sympathizing friends.
" Here at least," said my father, in the lowest
of whispers, " I think we may fairly trace pre-
tence."
But here, too, a nearer view convinced them
of the utter groundlessness of such a suspicion.
Where were the distinguishing traits of the once
handsome Marie Langi res? The contracted
brow, the pale-blue lips, the sallow, faded com-
plexion they now gazed upon, announced, but too
truly, that her beauty had departed for ever
!
Eleonore, who had not seen her for some time,
exchanged a look of surprise with my father at
the extraordinary change wrought in so short a
period. She advanced towards the sofa with the
intention of apologizing for their intrusion ; but
before she reached it she stopped suddenly, for
to all appearance its occupant had swooned.
" I think we had better retire," said Eleo-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 23
nore, the moment she became aware of the cir-
cumstance.
" Oh, do not go !" interposed the female
attendant who stood at the head of the couch.
" She will be better presently, and delighted to
see you. She would have sought you out long
ago had she not been so very poorly all this
time. I have been run off my legs to get the
rector here, who is the only physician that can
avail her."
" How so—does he practise medicine ?" in-
quired my father.
" Not that I know of," said the woman
;
" but it is a fact, that however ill or convulsed
she is before he comes, he is not fifteen minutes
with her but she is quite well again, and happy
and quiet, for a time at least, as of yore."
" And what may be the means he employs
whose efficiency is thus prompt?"
" I know not," said the woman, shrugging
her shoulders.
One of the ladies present belonging to the
family now stepped forward and addressed my
father :
—
24 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" I dare say," she said, ''
you will think it
more cruel than kind of us to stand thus by,
watching, with eager curiosity, the development
of infirmities whose source and nature, being
alike unknown to us, it is beyond our power to
assuage. But there is something so strange in
this malady, that it excites our curiosity to the
uttermost."
" I can perfectly understand feelings which I
am not ashamed to confess I share," said my
father ;
*^
but is Mademoiselle Langieres asleep
or in a swoon ?"
" Neither," replied the young lady—" she is,
and has for some time been, unconscious, it is
true, of what is passing around her; but this is
an infallible sign that her fit is at hand."
A few convulsive movements at this moment
warranted the truth of her assertion. Sighs
and moans escaped, at intervals, the lips of the
sufferer, and grew louder and more frequent, as
though proceeding from one in great pain.
She presently started up to a sitting posture,
and, wringing her hands in utter desolation,
gave vent to her feelings in broken sobs and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 25
mutterings. The words she uttered were so
wild—the phrases so incoherent, that Uttle could
be distinguished except her pressing and pas-
sionate instances that the Rector might be called,
as he alone, she repeatedly averred, could afford
her the least relief.
" Oh, bring him to me ! —fly, Jane ! —tell
him I die if he come not
!"
" Why do you not go ?" said one of the
assistants, greatly moved, addressing the wait-
ing-woman.
*^
And so I would, had I not done so on almost
every similar occasion, and been ever received
with the most violent show of anger. Especi-
ally of late, the Rector wont hear of it. He says
that if we ahvays call him in, instead of a doctor,
the end of it will be that the people will take
him for a wizard or a quack. Since the return
of the Saint of OUioules, he is not to be come
at; however, I'll try once more." And with a
sigh, denoting how useless she deemed her mis-
sion, the faithful woman left the room.
" I think I had better go," said Eleonore,
VOL. II. C
26 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
looking towards my father, " since Father Gi-
rard is coming."
" He will not come, depend upon it—he
never does," said the young female who had
first spoken ; " so let not the fear of meeting
this truly awful and mysterious person drive
you away. I assure you I am perfectly con-
vinced he will not come — he is too much
alarmed at the strange rumours afloat in the
town respecting him."
This sounded so rational, that Eleonore and
my father suffered themselves to be convinced,
and remained where, indeed, their help did not
seem superfluous.
A succession of convulsions ensued that
frightened all present; none, however, offered
any assistance except my father and Mademoi-
selle Raymond. While they were thus en-
gaged, a hasty stride was heard without, and
Jeanne, the maid, burst into the apartment,
breathless with pleasure, exclaiming, at the top
of her voice,
—
" Here's Monsieur le Recteur—the Rector is
coming !"
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 27
Eleonore started, turned pale, and receded a
few steps. My father, fancying she needed the
support of his arm, darted to her side. His
hasty motion deranged a large, heavy curtain
extending at the back of the couch, and hiding
a recess, wherein a settee was placed, into
which she mechanically sank. Whilst he gently
expostulated with her on this weakness, so un-
Hke her usual self-possession, the curtain
dropped into its place, screening them com-
pletely from view.
A few words from the haughty Jesuit, whose
temper a hot walk had by no means tended to
cool, drove the others from the chamber—
a
measure he never failed to take preliminary to
any effort towards quieting the poor crea-
tures who might be termed, with equal pro-
priety, his patients and his victims. There
was now but one alternative left for the unwil-
ling and hidden spectators of his next move-
ments—either to push honestly back the curtain
and face the Rector boldly, or to maintain the
advantageous, but not very honourable position
which chance had assigned them, Mademoi-
c 2
2S MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I.
sclle Raymond was in the act of pursuing the
former course ; already' her hand was laid on
the curtain to withdraw it, when my father
arrested her motion.
" No," he said, in a whisper so low as to be
inaudible to any one whose senses had not
been rendered more than ordinarily acute by
the excitement of the moment. " The finger
of Providence is distinctly marked in this inci-
dent, trifling as it seems ; and we may be the
chosen instruments to bring this mysterious
affair to light. He is a villain at best, and one
ought not, in justice, to treat with him as with
a man of honour.''
The fair hand that had raised the curtain
did not suffer it to fall, retaining it in such a
position as to enable those within the recess to
see and hear distinct!}^ everything that was
going on in the room.
The place where the poor sufferer lay w^as so
near the curtain as to have rendered conceal-
ment difficult, had not the Rector been whollv
engaged with the pitiable object before him,
obviously in a great hurry to get his task as
quickly over as might be.
MAGIC AND MESiAIERlSxAI. 29
His first care was to raise the prostrate form
of the still straggling girl, and place her upon
the couch, addressing her, as he did so, in the
language of severest reproof.
" And now, for the last time, do I ease your
silly head," he said, roughly ;
" never send to me
again, even were you dying, for I should not
come—you never will be quiet until you see me
burnt at the stake for a wizard."
A slight pause ensued, during which Eleo-
nore and my father watched his movements
from their place of concealment, with as much
surprise as curiosity.
His proceedings were, indeed, singular, and
seemed but ill calculated to produce the perfect
success which crowned them. They consisted
in slow movements of the hands, which w^ere
now brought in close approximation to one
another, near her person, and then thrown
about in large circles in the air, as it appeared,
w^ithout either rule or motive. This was done
for the space of more than ten minutes con-
secutively, during which not a word was
uttered by the Rector ; whilst the convulsive
30 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
motions of the patient visibly and rapidly
declined. Her breathing became easier as the
airy evolutions were performed nearer to the
region of the heart. The sobs—the gasps—the
nervous spasms of the limbs, all gave way;
until not one of the symptoms of the fearful
agitation remained, which but a few minutes
before seemed to threaten dissolution to her
whole system. The Rector appeared satisfied
with the result of his operations, and put both
his hands on the crown of her head, as if in
the act of bestowing a blessing. He held them
there for the space of five minutes, when a
deep sigh escaped the young sufferer, imme-
diately upon which she spoke, but in a mild,
submissive tone, very unlike the choked and
hurried accents or violent language she had
before used.
" Thank you—thank you—I am easy now
—
quite well. I feel as strong as ever, and as
calm ; my heart, too, is lighter ; in less than a
quarter of an hour I shall fall into a natural,
sound sleep, which will last for a couple of
hours or more, and refresh me completely."
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 31
" Sleep, I command you, till four this after-
noon ; and speak not of me, or to me, either
during your slumber or upon waking."
" I will obey you ; but my fit will come on
to-morrow, precisely at the same hour as it did
to-day."
The Rector, without vouchsafing another
look or word, strode rapidly towards the door,
which, when opened, shewed the group in the
inner apartment, awaiting with anxious counte-
nance the Jesuit's return.
" She is well now," he said, in a hurried
manner ; " her conscience is lightened by open-
ing itself to me ; a little rest is all she requires :
but I beg that all further messages of this
nature may be spared me for the future, as they
interfere too much with my time, every moment
of which is of the last importance, not only to
myself, but what is of far more consequence, to
the service of my God, and the weal of poor
sinners."
Accompanying these words with a proud-
humble look, such as none but the most detest-
able hypocrites can ever command, he departed.
62 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
leaving the company much edified by the self-
importance and virtue they betrayed.
They now returned to Marie Langieres,
whom they found composed, and even cheerful
;
but as she was in need of rest, her desire of
being left alone was instantly complied with
;
they again retired to the outer chamber, where
they presently received the intelligence that the
invalid had sunk into the peaceful slumber of a
child.
" My mind is at least now made np as to the
course it must be mine to pursue, should events
take the turn which I think unavoidable," said
my fothcr to iNIademoiselle Raymond, when
they again found themselves in the street. "It
is to me an inexpressible comfort that I shall
know, should, as I suspect, the day of battle be
at hand, what arms to select, and the right I
shall have to use them; for deep as was my
interest in Catherine, strong as was my trust in
her purity, yet there were moments when I
have had to combat two suspicions, equally
irksome and painful to me : —one was, that all
she alleged about Father Girard was the mere
MAGIC AND MES3IERISM. 33
creation of a disordered brain—the other, that
after having been tntorcd by him into serving
his private ends, she had at last turned the
weapons he had put into her hands against him-
self, for some secret motive for which I could
not account ; that is to say,—understand me
rightl}^,—at times I thought so ; at others, the
persuasion of a mysterious agency, which I
could not reason aAvay, came across all my
calmer, more rational deductions, and puzzled
me sorely. At any rate, whether she were mad
or bad, he had been the cause of either evil
;
and as a monster of iniquity, who had profaned
and ruined so sweet and holy a shrine of every
gentle and womanly virtue, as such I was his
bounden foe—the sworn avenger of her wrongs.
But still the thought would occur to me : —' Of
what wilt thou accuse him, that may bring
down upon him a punishment adequate to his
crimes?' There was one fearful accusation
raised against him by the Cadieres, the Prior of
the Carmelites, and a few old women about
town, which if taken up might, indeed, be
made an instrument of justice. But justice is
c 3
34 MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I.
an awful word, and human life, even that of
the most criminal of men, must not be de-
manded on a false pretence, even when a legiti-
mate cause nerves the heart against him. To
call him a seducer, a cheat, an impostor, a fiend
under a human shape, were nothing ; but to call
him, to prove him a sorcerer, were his doom.
To do so without faith in the existence of such
a thing as magic, were the act of one utterly
devoid alike of principle and honour —the
revenge of a midnight assassin, not that of an
open, honest enemy."
And my father owned that he trembled at
the bare thought of a possible conflict where his
conscience, perhaps, might not have permitted
him to side with the injured victim.
" But," said Eleonore, who had grown paler
with every word he uttered, fixing her dark
eyes upon him, as though her very fate hung on
his answer,-—" Will you then, should such a
conflict take place—will you now—I mean,
under existing circumstances, be her cham-
pion ?"
" Would you forbid it ?" demanded my father.
MAGTC AND MESMERISM. 35
returning her glance of inquiry with one that
sent every drop of her blood back from her
heart to her cheek. " Do you doubt the purity
of my motives in so doing—do you doubt the
truth of my heart in aught, Eleonore ?"
" Oh ! no—not so," she hastened to reply, as
she perceived a dark cloud gathering on her
affianced lover's brow ; for she was well aware
—
such being of rare occurrence with him—that
these signs bore a deeper meaning than the
more violent but often causeless rage of other
men. She knew him too well already to attempt
braving the approaching storm, and with femi-
nine tact endeavoured to turn it aside.
" But the Jesuits," she gently urged, " are
fearful enemies ; it is you yourself who have
taught me to think so."
"Assuredly, neither safety nor honour will
attend the task of unveiling the crimes of any
who bear their habit," answered my father;
" therefore is it that, even had Catherine been a
stranger to me, I should have stood up in herjust
cause against the oppressor, mighty as he seems.
Mine, Eleonore> to a man of feeling, is a
36 MAGIC AND JMESMEUISM.
Quixotic profession, and like the knights-errant
of old, I will brandish my lance sans j^eur et
sans rqiroche. There is a triumph, too, in the
very thought of a daring act," continued he,
suffering the generous warmth of his temper to
betray him beyond the bounds of that calm
reserve which it was the chief study of his life
to acquire, and wherewith he was anxious to
veil from the eyes of an unsympathizing world
the best, the noblest features of his character.
" Yes, if it come, as I believe it eventually
must, to an open struggle between our poor,
lost Catherine, and that monster of hypocrisy
and vice, I will arm myself for the combat
—
arm myself with justice and with truth, and in
such cause I shall expect the lady of my love
to bestow on me her best wishes."
This was said with a smile, evincing that
some of the feelings of the eager warrior would
accompany my father to the disputed field; and
that the struggle itself, independently of its
merits, would not be without a charm for the
young combatant.
*'
But if you fall," observed Eleonorc,—"for
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 37
justice does not always triumpli in this world,
—
what then, Jules ?"
"I am prepared for that," said my father,
gravely, "but I wdll fight to the last. You,
Eleonore
—
"
"Oh! as for me," she exclaimed, with an
earnest gaze, " my lot is cast with yours
—
whilst pleading for you I was pleading for
myself."
" Not so, dear girl ; nay, do not start ; but
this may not be. The dangers I may have to
encounter must be braved alone—even for my
sake, Eleonore, it must be so ; the best swim-
mer gains the shore with difficulty, when his
efforts are impeded by any extraneous weight.
This argument is not, however, the only one I
have to bring forward why you, dearest, should
abstain from coming forw^ard in this business.
I v/ould not, for any consideration whatever,
that my wife's name were brought into an affair
where female honour and modesty must be so
roughly handled. You cannot imagine, Eleo-
nore, how the law and its plain-spoken inter-
preters deal with these matters. Your name is
38 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
already as sacred to rac as my own, into which
it is so soon to merge. You must quit Toulon,
my dear girl, and that immediately, and stay
away until all this is blown over."
However strong might be Mademoiselle
Raymond's objections to this arrangement—and
nothing could be more opposed than their views
at that moment, she felt the uselessness of
resistance ; and with a heavy heart she yielded
compliance to his wishes, leaving even the time
of her departure and the place of her resi-
dence to his nomination. It was, indeed, tender
forethought that induced him to select his
paternal roof for her abode, until she could
return and share his home, that was her greatest
comfort in this trial ; for should matters termi-
nate in a disagreeable crisis, there, she knew,
all hearts would sympathise with the anxiety of
her own—her fears would be shared, and her
opinions fully understood.
The very day that my father accompanied
his future bride to Marseilles, the circumstances
that dictated this measure were already in their
climax.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 39
The oblivion to which it was the desire of
Catherine's friends to consign all the facts con-
nected with her saintship, by no means suited
the personal interests of the Carmelites. She
had been the tool by means of which the
Jesuits had triumphed over their order. Father
Girard had caused their confessionals to be
deserted, their churches to be emptied, had
thinned their flock; it was now their time to
turn the tables against the wily Jesuits. Their
intrigues must be unmasked, their most-valued
soldier disarmed and prostrated, their pride
humbled, and Mount Carmel proudly rear, once
more, its own haughty crest; and again poor
Catherine was to be put forward, the expiating
victim of crimes not her own. The quiet,
unsuspecting, easy-tempered Bishop was again
to be made party to these monkish discussions,
and at last was duly informed how, instead of
a divine spirit having descended from Heaven
upon this presumed holy maid, it was a devil
from the infernal regions that had taken posses-
sion of her.
Had, from the midst of a blue and smiling
40 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
heaven, a tliiindcrbolt fallen at the poor Bishop's
feet, it could not have surprised him more, and
probably would have frightened him less; it
was many days before what he so ardently
desired to know could even find its way to his
comprehension; and when at last, by dint of
much trouble, he was made to understand, he
would not believe. After^ much hesitation, he
formed a resolution which evinced his deep
interest in this awful discovery. He determined
to investigate the affair in person, and examine
the late Saint of Ollioules himself; which, under
the circumstances, certainly was the wisest step
he could have taken. Though not likely to
bring to bear upon the subject any very strong
blaze of intellectual light, his purposes were
honest, his heart was good, and when left to his
own unbiassed judgment, he was pretty certain
to err, if err he did, on the side of leniency and
forgiveness.
Catherine, worn out in health and spirits,
and nearly exorcised to death by Father Nicho-
las since he had become assured of her being
possessed, had, however, experienced a great
MAGIC AND raESMERISM. 41
mental change under his care. Although still
subject to fits and convulsions, they came at
rarer intervals ; and her prophetic visions—her
power of divining the unspoken thoughts—were
on the decline. The darkness of her mind,
except during the fits, was fast giving way to a
more wholesome intellectual state. Her thoughts
again became tinged with the piety of past days
;
her lips could move in prayer—the spell that
sealed them seemed broken,—and except, as I
have said, when a relapse came over her, her
whole mind assumed a more vigorous tone. B
nature and training, Catherine had ever been
truthfulness itself, nor was her imagination
brilhant enough, or her self-assurance sufficient
to the task of inventing and bearing out a
deception, or even of giving it the particular
colour which might best suit the occasion.
What, therefore, the Bishop asked in his plain,
straightforward, paternal manner, was answered
by her in a simple, unvarnished tale, delivered
in a spirit of filial trust and veracity, well calcu-
lated to enlist his feelings in her favour.
His indignation on hearino; of the Jesuit's
42 »IAGIC AND MESMERISM.
unworthiness knew no bounds, and he swore
the ravenous wolf should be driven from among
his flock.
Whatever the wishes of the Carmelites might
have prompted at this moment, there being none
of their order present to suggest them to the
parties concerned, they obeyed their own un-
biassed impulses. Revenge made no part of the
gentle victim's feelings towards her destroyer, and
the rest of the family dreaded the Jesuit quite as
much in Father Girard as they hated the man.
All knelt, therefore, at the good Bishop's feet,
imploring him to forgive the past, and suffer it,
for the sake of those concerned in its disgrace-
ful revelations, to lie buried in forgetfulness.
The sight of a whole family pleading for their
honour moved the Bishop ; their tears and
entreaties were not disregarded by one whose
benevolence laid him, perhaps, but too much
open to persuasion. The Cadieres supplicated
that their disgrace might remain a secret, even
though that secresy should shield the guilty
;
and such a course was too consonant with his own
disposition for him to refuse it his sanction.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 43
He promised occasionally to give his spiritual
succour to the afflicted young girl, who had
been made more alive to the shame attendant
upon exposure by the earnest pleadings of her
brothers and mother than she had hitherto felt,
—assured them of his discretion and of the
warm interest which Catherine had awakened
in his breast, and departed, carrying along
with him the blessings of every member of the
family, who, after trembling at the possible con-
sequences of the visit, felt doubly the relief and
assurance it had been the means of affording
them.
Had matters rested there, all had been well
;
and my father, when informed of the transac-
tion by Catherine, flattered himself that all
difficulties were removed, and wrote in a spirit
of comfort and gladness on that subject to his
fiancte. But he had not sufficiently calculated
on the various springs that were at play beneath
this apparently obscure family drama.
The Prior of the Carmelites having been
duly informed of the event—the Bishop's visit
might well be termed such,—built upon it many
44 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
a hope doomed to be disappointed. The chief
one was, that Father Girard Avould be dismissed
from Toulon by the indignant prelate, with an
eclat that w^ould reflect his shame upon his
college ; nay more, he expected no less than
the expulsion of the whole body of the Jesuits
from the good city, and flattered himself that,
having restored Catherine both to health and to
sanctity, he might lay claim to all the honours
of a conversion. Prompted by these considera-
tions, he continued, with the help of a few more
persons, among wdiom was the highly-revered
and venerable curate of the cathedral. Monsieur
Gondalbert, to exorcise the ci-devant saint, but
now possessed one,—for such was the name
which her mother's indiscreet avowals, and
Father Nicholas's perhaps more intentional ad-
missions, had affixed to her. On the other hand,
the Jesuits w^ere not slcw^ in learning from
those of their order who more immediately sur-
rounded the Bishop, the position of affairs as
they then stood ; and, in their turn, began
to consider seriously the dilemma into which
they had fallen, and the means of extrication
MAGIC AND 3IESMERISM. 45
that might remain at their disposal. They were
soon hard at work poisoning the mind of the
good-natured but vacillating prelate against the
unfortunate girl, whom it was their savage reso-
lution to sacrifice on the altar of their indo-
mitable pride.
My father continued to urge the temporary
absence of the Cadieres' family, in order that
Catherine might be removed beyond the reach
of any further annoyance. ^ Out of sight, out
of mind,' was the old proverb with whose truism
he strove to impress them ; but all his eloquence
was lost on the perplexed and harassed minds
of his listeners, who, now advised one thing
and then another by well-meaning but meddling
friends, scarcely knew which way to turn, or
whom to believe.
In the meantime the anticipations of Father
Nicholas did not promise a speedy realization.
The whole affair, indeed, seemed hushed up as
if by enchantment. Father Girard walked
about the town wrapped in his hypocritical
sanctity as in a coat of proof, and the success
which crowned the Prior's efforts passed un-
46 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
noticed, at least in the quarter where it was
most important that it should be appreciated.
Whether party spirit or personal vanity alone,
or a mixture of both, prompted the Carmelite's
further proceedings, it were difficult to decide ;
but certain it is, that he made no mystery of
his powers to break the spells and dissipate the
enchantments wrought by Father Girard.
The Jesuit, on his side, was not backward
in denouncing to the world as an unworthy
impostor the unfortunate girl whom he had
ruined ; declaring his unwilhngness to remain
any longer her director from the moment he
discovered himself to have been the dupe of a
gross deception, and the saintship little better
than a paltry fraud played off upon his cre-
dulity.
Some lent a willing ear to this assertion, not
wholly devoid of plausibility ; but there lacked
not those who listened with scepticism to the
story of a Jesuit of fifty being fooled by a girl
of eighteen, brought up in the shades of do-
mestic retirement, and whose life, spent among
them, afforded not a single act to justify the
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 47
suspicion. The curiosity of all classes of per-
sons was excited to the uttermost by the idle
and, in many cases, erroneous and exaggerated
reports, wherewith a portion of the population
sought to divert the rest of the community.
Madame Cadieres' house was besieged from
morning till night by visitors, oftentimes of the
very highest distinction, eager to obtain sight or
speech of her daughter—a boon but too easily
granted,—whilst the more plebeian and there-
fore less favoured crowd, stood without, listen-
ing with eager delight to such scraps of intelli-
gence as they could extract from the servants
or gather from the chance sounds or sights, the
in-comings and out-goings, which their close
observation of the house permitted them to
profit by.
No one witnessed these signs with a more
boding heart than my father. The storm, he
saw, was lowering on the horizon. He drew
in sail accordingly, and prepared everything
aloft to meet the gale. From his head, indeed,
were all his resources to spring ; and to ballast
it properly for the occasion was now his chief
48 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
care. Every spare hour was devoted to the
heavy task of poring over musty, voluminous
volumes, on which the dust of centuries seemed
to have accumulated, and whose bare titles were
enough to scare the sober-minded Latinist who
had vouchsafed to look on them. Solomon's
*^ Clavicula," that corner-stone to magical lore
—the secrets of the great Albert—the occult
philosophy of Cornelius Agrippa—and many
less known and still darker commentaries and
wilder theories on the secrets of nature, lay
scattered on his table, sufficiently enriched in
their margins by his own annotations to make
it evident that, turning away from the more
ordinary routine of legal studies, he now wholly
devoted himself to those more fanciful researches,
which, hovv^ever fascinating to the solitary stu-
dent, v.'hose speculative powers afford ground
more favourable to their development, were, it
might be imagined, but little congenial to the
mind of one who had devoted himself to what
many term a dry profession, and whose habits
of thought belonged so decidedly to the realities
of life. That he should thus waste the hours
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 49
which he might have allotted to rest, or dis-
posed of in a more rational manner, might, in
good sooth, have puzzled those who were not
aware of the real and urgent motives that made
these dusty volumes, and the visionary specu-
lations of the great and poetical minds which
they recorded, of paramount importance to
him.
He had never yet been witness to any of
Catherine's fits, nor even to the exorcisms by
which Father Nicholas and Father Cadieres,
Monsieur Gondalbert, and others, succeeded in
calming them. Neither had he any opportu-
nity of private conversation with his former
mistress since her departure from OUioules.
Her constant state of suffering, indeed, had
been such as to make a conference far from
desirable. Now, in pursuance of his private
plans, he resolved upon soliciting the permis-
sion of the Prior to be present at his operations,
in order to satisfy himself upon both points;
but chance anticipated his purpose.
Midnight had tolled from all the churches at
Toulon, when my father issued from a house
VOL, II. D
50 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
in the suburbs, where he had been detained at
supper with some of his colleagues until that
hour. In order to reach his lodgings, which lay
at the further extremity of the town, he had
to traverse, together with many another, the
long street in which the Cadieres' house was
situate.
On many accounts unwilling to remain out so
late, he was hurrying along at no moderate pace,
when, as he passed Catherine's abode, his eye was
accidentally arrested by many lights in the win-
dows moving to and fro. This, at an hour when it
would have been natural to suppose so quiet an
establishment buried in the deepest repose, sur-
prised him not a little. He paused to discover,
if possible, the cause of the disturbance ; and
had not stood many minutes, when stifled
screams reached his ear. The next instant the
door flew open, and a maid, breathless with
excitement, rushed from it in the direction
where he stood. He laid his hand gently on
her arm.
" Jesus Maria, don't stop me !" exclaimed
the agitated woman ; " my young mistress is
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 51
dying—the devil is killing her !" and with these
words breaking from him, she darted down the
street with a velocity which, had he been so
disposed, would have rendered it difficult for
him to overtake her.
For a moment he stood uncertain how to pro-
ceed. Again suppressed groans reached his ear.
The thought flashed across his mind that Father
Girard might have attempted to silence his vic-
tim for ever. The door was yet ajar—the next
instant he found himself in Catherine's chamber,
scarcely knowing how he had come there, or
how to act in the exigency of the moment. She
lay extended lifeless, as it seemed, on the floor,
full dressed, as if for a party ; whilst the rest of
the family, roused from slumber by her cries, had
rushed to her assistance in all the varieties of
deshabille. No one knew exactly what had hap-
pened; but, accustomed to the recurrence of
similar periodical attacks, this paroxysm was
unanimously recognised as one of them, only
more violent than ordinary.
It had been her brother, the Dominican's, first
care to send for the reverend father under whose
d2
52 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
direction she was then placed ; but the mother,
still more anxious for the body's weal than that
of the soul, had laid her secret injunctions on
the maid to secure the attendance of the phy-
sician before she took any steps towards calling
in the priest.
It was a painful, but, at the same time, an
almost ludicrous sight to behold the bystanders
gazing, in mute consternation, at the poor girl,
without offering the slightest assistance : Father
Cadieres with his right hand besprinkling her
plentifully with holy water from the end of a
gigantic govpilloyi, whilst with the left he held
on high a crucifix.
My father was the first to suggest the pro-
priety of placing the poor sufferer on a couch,
and of making some efforts towards restoring
her. His suggestions had not time to be com-
plied with, however, before Catherine began to
give tokens of reviving ; at first in low moans
and broken murmurs, which, although her lips
still remained firmly closed, gradually became
more intelligible, and at last burst forth in clear,
audible, even sonorous tones, as unlike her usual
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 53
low and toneless voice, as though the sounds
had proceeded from another person. To my
father's surprise, she recited the mass in Latin
;
and he has often declared no priest could
have done it with greater accuracy. After this
she seemed much troubled; her face became
flushed, her hands felt hot and feverish, and
her temples throbbed violently, though she
preserved throughout the appearance of one
plunged in the deepest sleep.
The weeping mother at this juncture pointed
out to the witnesses of this singular scene the
strange swelling of her daughter's throat, which,
increasing every moment, really grew so serious
as to alarm my father, who, indignant at the
inactivity of all around—fearing, too, lest the
maid should have neglected the wisest part of
her errand—flew to a neighbouring doctor for
assistance.
When he returned, accompanied by the me-
dical man, in whose good sense and high prin-
ciples he knew the greatest confidence might
be reposed, he found the bed of the sufferer
surrounded by priests, and many other persons.
54 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
whom chance or curiosity had brought together.
Sensitively alive to the importance of secresy on
every point connected vrith Catherine's infirmi-
ties, he seriously remonstrated with her friends
on the unnecessary exposure thus incurred ; but
the Prior would hear of no interruption what-
ever to the work of exorcism on which he was
engaged.
The responses of Catherine to his various
questions, touching different points of faith,
were very remarkable, being delivered in Latin,
and evincing a sceptical, hardened spirit, erring
from a false philosophy : anything but such as
could be supposed to originate in the mind of
a young girl so little conversant with the subtle-
ties of theology or any abstruse argument.
The physician examined, with curiosity and
wonder, the symptoms of a malady which he
pronounced to be purely nervous, although he
confessed that, during the long course of his
practice, one of a similar nature had never come
within his notice. The priests, still insisting
that it was one of a spiritual nature, continued
strenuously their exorcisms; whilst those who
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 55
could in no manner account for the moral phe-
nomenon thus developed to their astonished
senses, were no less awed than amazed.
** After all," my father ventured to say to the
Prior, " what wonder, if she speak the words
which Father Girard may have taught her, and
entertain such sentiments as he may have in-
spired ? This is a sort of sorcery which all men
think lawful, and find it easy enough to practise."
" Nay," said Father Nicholas ; " but you will
hear herself confess to her diabolic possession,
and even name the fiend."
Having fi^amed the question, he was answered,
in a distinct voice, by the name of the Jesuit at
full length.
" You hear !" said the Prior, triumphantly
;
" she admits it herself."
A change now came over the invalid, that
recalled the attention of all present from the
discussion to which her former state had given
rise. Her frame was agitated with convulsions
so violent, that, debilitated as she was from
long sufferings, and despite her fragility of
form, the strongest men in the room held her
56 MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I.
down with difficulty. Her shrieks were so
harrowing, that many left the chamber, unable
to bear them, whilst they attracted the atten-
tion of others from the street and neighbour-
ing houses, who, thus disagreeably roused from
their sleep, conceived they had a right to in-
quire into the cause of the disturbance.
The little apartment was soon crowded with
strangers, whose presence only interfered with
immediate assistance, now absolutely necessary.
My father, by dint of incredible exertions, at
length succeeded in clearing the room ; and
Catherine was then left to the care of the
females of the establishment —those truly in-
terested in the result of their efforts remaining
in the little parlour below, whilst the rest sought
their homes with bosoms full of mysterious
feelings, that threatened to banish slumber from
their pillows.
The next day, the reports of Mademoiselle
Cadieres' health were satisfactory, and my father
busied himself for the rest of the morning about
his own affairs. Before returning home to his
early dinner, he again called, and heard that
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 57
Catherine had just been seized with another
terrible fit, which she had, however, declared
would be her last, and had relapsed into a quiet
sleep. Having occasion to pay several visits that
afternoon, my father ascertained, to his regret,
that Catherine's indisposition, and all its accom-
panying incidents, had been bruited about, and
everywhere formed the topic of conversation.
He resolved to return that evening, and again
try what his eloquence could do by way of ter-
rifying the Cadieres into his plan of retiring,
for a time at least, from Toulon; for he fore-
saw that, even if they could command sufficient
prudence to keep themselves quiet, others would
not let them.
He found the house in the greatest possible
consternation. The bishop, indignant at the
scene of the preceding night, had that very
morning interdicted all the reverend fathers
who had figured in it. This step seemed the
prelude to some great act of oppression ; and the
whole family, unable to form any plan to meet,
or think of any means of escaping the coming
storm, were terrified by the unexpected blow.
d3
58 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" Well, then," said Madame Cadiercs, on
whose weak mind the Bishop's indignation had
evidently made the deepest impression, " I think,
with Monsieur Chaudon, that we ought to leave
Toulon for a while, and avail ourselves of the
letters Eleonore has kindly left with us for her
friends in Paris. I am thinking of starting this
very night, before any one can possibly guess at
my plan, and hinder it. You will be glad to
hear this, Monsieur Chaudon T
" No," said my father, earnestly ; " far from
it—it is now too late—you must not go."
" And why not T inquired the whole of the
party, as it were with one breath.
" Because, after the measures taken by the
Bishop, it were a flight, not a departure ; and
the aspect it might give things would be your
ruin. It is here only, in the midst of your
friends and country people, of those before
whose eyes all these transactions have been
unfolded, that you can be fairly judged."
*'
Judged !" repeated all around, in dismay.
" Yes
—
-judged! I did not use too strong a
term, as you will but too soon discover. It is
MAGIC AND MESMERISlAI. 59
necessary, therefore, that if any attack be me-
ditated upon you, it be perpetrated where the
gross injustice of such proceedings may be ap-
preciated, and the public voice, at least, be raised
in your favom'."
" At any rate, our departure must be deferred,
until Catherine's perfect recovery," said Madame
Cadieres' daughter-in-law, gently. " Ever since
that last attack, she has been plunged in a le-
thargy that would be alarming to behold, had
she not, whilst the fit was upon her, foretold
this change. She particularly dwelt on the ne-
cessity of permitting her long sleep to remain
undisturbed; for she would awake, she said,
not only refreshed and strengthened, but, from
that time forth, the devil would have no more
power over her."
" Then, be heedful that you do not arouse
her," said my father, earnestly ;
" for she will
need all her energy to encounter the Lord
Bishop's next visit."
It was evident that this counsel sounded any-
thing but consoling in the ears of the timid
listeners. Still he persevered in his painful task
60 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
of preparing them for the events which he saw
impending over them; but at the same time,
he bade them keep up their courage, and rely
on him throughout, in spite of every difficulty.
" Whether I can best assist you with my
counsel, my pen, or my credit, events only can
determine ; but in all cases, depend upon me
—
I shall prove myself what I have ever been, a
stanch and unalienable friend."
Leaving them to ruminate on the purport of
these parting words, my father left them, anx-
ious in his turn to prepare for, and if possible,
to scent out, the turn that affairs were likely to
take.
The morrow, however, brought but too ample
confirmation of his worst fears. Although every-
thing was tranquil enough in appearance, the
whole town was, in fact, agitated by the intelli-
gence that the Lord Bishop was about to pur*
sue the Cadieres family, in a suit for conspiracy
and defamation against Father Girard, the
Jesuit.
This news was the more startling, that it was
well known throughout all coteries and classes that
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 61
Catherine was no more of an impostor than any
of the other young females who had come within
the fangs of the wily priest ; that all had been
alike seduced from the path of innocence and
honour, many of whom were even more unfor-
tunate in the consequences of their fault than
poor Catherine. All these were facts too well
established to be disputed ; and public opinion
altogether flowed in her favour. :,
';
,''
Many persons of note and distinction, on
whom my father called, for the purpose of en-
listing them in favour of his client, had already,
either in their own persons or through their
friends, taken the measures he would have re-
commended, and others cheerfully promised to
enter into his views. In fact, all the higher
classes dreaded the scandal of a prosecution,
the issue of which, turn as it would, was calcu-
lated to reflect no credit on the church; and
looked forward with apprehension to its but too
probable tragical termination.
If, however, the perturbation was unparal-
leled among the privileged classes, indignation
was at its height in the lower. My father's own
62 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
heart was heavy and oppressed; but though
aware of the fearful odds to be encountered, he
prepared to buckle on his armour of proof, soli-
loquizing, as he figured to himself all that might
ensue : —" My motto must be, like that of our
ancient preux
—
sans peur et sans reproche. And
am I not about to wield a lance in favour of
virtue and oppressed beauty? They say, the days
of chivalry are gone by, and with them all the
ennobling self-devotion of manhood towards the
fairer, the weaker sex. Maybe, that with them
is departed the glow of patrician virtue ; at least,
one is fain to think so, when contemplating the
mean, degrading profligacy into which, under
late reigns, our nobility has plunged, and how
they have sullied the emblems of honour trans-
mitted to them by their ancestry, whose heroic
exploits are obliterated by the deeds of their
descendants, and whose blood, spilt on the
battle-field for the sons of France, has been
long since washed away by the tears and the
shame of her daughters ! Yes—the patricians
have lost their manhood, their high daring,
their chivalric honour, in the midst of shameful
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 63
pleasures, weakened Sybarites that ' they are !
Let the loud blast of danger be heard, and they
are scattered to the four winds of heaven ; nor
would they know how to defend the home they
have ceased to love, the country they no longer
illustrate by their virtue. But to the Middle
Ages, on whose dark canvas the golden light
of chivalry stood conspicuous, have succeeded
those days of calmer, steadier light, when moral
courage is a man's best shield; and thought,
written or spoken, escaping the student's pen
or the orator's lips, is the most powerful weapon
man can wield. Now, it is the author's task to
reveal to the country at large the abuses that
claim redress—that of the lawyer to raise his
voice against individual oppression. The lance
and the sword are now remitted to us of the
middle classes ; let the world, then, see that we
are not deficient in courage, and can stand to
our arms."
These, and such as these, were the thoughts
that fired my father's imagination, though
justice, doubtless, and remembrance of the past,
was the strong stimulus that induced him to
64 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
embrace Catherine's cause as his own. But let
me enlighten you on a subject on which you
might easily be misled by my admissions. My
father, though an ardent, enthusiastic believer
in the possibility of gradual reform and im-
provement, was no friend to political convul-
sions. He never considered, noble-minded and
liberal as he was on all points, how personal
interests and interests of caste could interfere
with the natural development of those germs
of good, and bring on a fearful harvest of evil
in the place of the pleasant fruits that might be
expected to spring forth to rejoice the world.
He lived to admire and sympathise with
Mirabeau, but Robespierre killed him. I may
well say so ; that man, sir, though they never
met, was his death. As for me, I never had a
political or a moral opinion that did not hinge
upon the apophthegm, so forcibly spoken by your
own immortal Shakspeare
—
" The time is out of joint
;"
though I do not feel myself, like Hamlet,
—
" Born to set it right."
My father, at his next visit, found the whole
31AGIC AND MESMERISM. (j5
family assembled; none of its members were
missing, not even Catherine. A great change
had taken place in her personal appearance, for
which he was at first at a loss to account.
Something of other days seemed to have re-
tm:ned to her brow and eye—the former was
unruffled as of yore, the latter full of gentle
meaning. A sad, sweet smile played on her
hps, and, though paler, thinner, weaker than in
her palmy days of beauty, it appeared to him
all of a sudden as if the Catherine he had once
loved again stood before him.
She greeted him with sisterly frankness and
cordiality. It was evident, by the way in which
she spoke of his approaching union—of Eleo-
nore—that she was unaware or unmindful, he
could not well divine which, of all she had
previously confessed to him relative to her own
feelings. She spoke on every subject with the
easy, unembarrassed manner of by-gone days
;
no trace lingered about her of those strange
starts, incoherencies, and absorptions, which
had made all regular intercourse with her for a
length of time impossible. She was attentive,
66 , MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
collected, calm, and perfectly sensible on all
points, without exhibiting greater or less per-
spicuity than might have been expected from
any young person so situated. My father was
amazed, but turned immediately this happy
mood to account, by laying before her all the
reasons he could command for urging her mother
to remain, pointing out how ruinous would be
the consequences of a flight—for a departure
under such circumstances could be considered
nothing else. She listened to all he had to say
with a composure that contrasted most happily
with the agitation of her relations. When he
had done, she replied, with a look of quiet,
meek endurance that went to his very heart,
—
" My fate in this world is sealed. Monsieur
Chaudon ;
you are too fair to deny it ; and why
should any one think it kind to veil such a
truth from me. I was a mere child when I first
knew you, but now I am a woman in feeling
and in thought. All delusions, of whatever
kind, have faded from my mind. The inno-
cent, happy joys, the dreamy hopes that once
were mine, have vanished for ever. My own
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 67
peace of mind I may—nay, I have recovered ;
but that is all I have now to claim on earth.
Had I been the only one injured by the craft
and malignity of that
—" she hesitated and
coloured deeply,—" Father Girard," she con-
tinued, with a strong effort, " I could be con-
tent to bury his crimes in the obhvion I would
fain court for myself. Perhaps, even, had he
not attacked my friends and protectors so ruth-
lessly as he is now doing, I might have thought
a silent forgiveness most beseeming a Christian.
But there are limits even to endurance. I can-
not permit those to suffer through my cowardice
or personal scruples, whose only fault has
been credulity, truthfulness, and above all, love
for me. Since he seeks to brand the innocent
with disgrace, I will let the world know the truth,
even though my own dishonour be the penalty.
Let me stand before the eyes of the whole
world disgraced—as much an object ofcontempt,
perhaps, as of pity—I shall have the courage
to bear it, if that courage can save others from
the abyss into which I have fallen. My resolve
is taken, Monsieur Chaudon, and nothing can
68 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
shake it. If questioned legally—publicly, be-
fore assembled thousands, or even on the rack
in a sohtary dungeon, as is not unlikely, I will
proclaim the whole truth, and am decided to
abide by it even unto martyrdom, if such be
necessary."
Catherine delivered herself of her sentiments
with such warmth and decision, that my father,
as well as the others, contemplated her with
surprise, which, in his breast at least, soon gave
way to admiration. He could not refrain from
assuring her that as this was the most honour-
able, so it was the safest course to pursue. She
answered, with a smile,
—
" Whether it be wisest, it is doubtless your
province to determine. Monsieur Chaudon ; but
my resolution rests on firmer grounds than mere
expediency. I will stand by the truth for the
truth's sake, and for that alone."
" But should your friends not be as firm as
yourself, and as faithful to the polar star which
you have chosen," said my father, "then are
you indeed in the most imminent peril. Could
they but be made to feel the importance of
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 69
never being at variance with you on any
point
"
"It matters little," said Catherine; "even
should others deny me, I shall be true to myself.
But be not uneasy about me. I fear nothing,
nor am I ashamed. I feel strong in my own
innocence ; it may seem strange to some that I
dare yet claim such an attribute, but I am
innocent, let the world or the law send forth
whatever fiat it chooses against me."
My father was struck with the unconscious
loftiness with which her simplicity and rectitude
of purpose invested her, and confessed to his
own heart, that had she ever been such as she
now stood before him, that heart had never
changed allegiance. But his was not a mind to
yield to such impressions. What he now wit-
nessed he conceived to be an additional proof
of her former state of possession—the moment
that this strange, mysterious agency had been
put an end to, Catherine was herself again.
Had her reason been unsettled by her fanaticism,
as he and Eleonore had often been tempted to
imagine, the obscuring mists could not so com-
70 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
pletely have rolled away. In over-excited
imaginations, one delusion invariably follows
another, and calm, sober sense has scarcely time
to reign alone. That she had been an impostor
at any period of her history, was an idea which
he now discarded altogether from his mind. If,
then, this state but lasted, he could enter on the
affair with a sound conscience and an assured
spirit ; his only fear was, not that Catherine's
high resolve would fade away, but that her
power of acting up to it would fail her—that
she would again grow weak, bewildered, and
pull down, in an evil hour, upon her devoted
head, the whole edifice of truth she was so
anxious to raise.
He inquired into the steps they were desirous
of taking ; whether they were disposed merely
to remain on the defensive, or if they were
willing that he should repress, perhaps quell the
enemy at once by a bold attack.
" And will you really be our champion in the
latter case ?" demanded Catherine, with a look
of some surprise, but more pleasure.
" Doubtless, doubtless !" put in the mother,
hastily, aware of the opening her daughter's
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 71
inconsiderate words afforded my father of slip-
ping out of a situation certainly anything but
pleasant; for the good lady did not reflect, that
had such been his intention he would not have
thrust himself into it.
" Assuredly," said my father. " Although,"
he added, after a moment's consideration, "if
there be any one in the profession whom you
would associate with me—
"
This was declined, and that upon very good
grounds ; for there was perhaps no other lawyer
in all Toulon whose zeal could in any way be
relied upon in so unpromising a cause.
Before they had come to any decision about
the material point—the tack on which it were
most advisable to proceed, Father Nicholas
stepped into the apartment. His haughty brow
and curling Hp sufficiently attested with how
little of canonical meekness he bore the un-
merited disgrace that had befallen him. He
greeted my father warmly, and owned it was
with great pleasure that he saw him take upon
himself the arduous task of pleader in a cause
in which he himself was implicated.
Nothing could be more gratifying to the
72 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
vanity of the young lawyer than this confidence
reposed in his powers by one so capable of
appreciating them, on an occasion, too, so all-
important to the Prior, involving, indeed, not
only his own, but the reputation of his Order.
The assurance of Father Nicholas that he had
been to his lodgings for the express purpose of
securing his assistance, was already like a fore-
taste of triumph. There was a resolution, too,
that increased his own, in the calm look and
firm air of Catherine ; and only when gazing
on her terrified, unhappy mother, and on
her timid, hesitating brothers, did he feel that
his hopes of success had been too hastily en-
couraged.
When he communicated to Father Nicholas
his plan of meeting the attack of the Jesuit
with one as formidable—his denunciation to the
Bishop and the clergy of Mademoiselle Ca-
dieres, her brothers, and new director, as impos-
tors and calumniators, with the bold accusation
before the justice of the land, of magic and se-
duction, two crimes than which, for a man in
his situation, no worse could be committed—his
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 73
auditor was at first somewhat startled at the idea
of a trial of such import, with all its awful array
of publicity. The Cadieres were perfectly
aghast, with the exception of Catherine, who
quietly assented to the charge by a mute incli-
nation of her head. But when my father pro-
ceeded to prove, by very logical conclusions,
that the choice lay between private and public
persecution, and that the latter was more diffi-
cult of execution than the former, all were con-
vinced. As for Father Nicholas, the moment
it was pointed out to him that this action would
bring the Jesuits and Carmelites into a fair,
open field, clear of the ambushes from behind
which they occasionally pounced upon each
other, he viewed the affair much in the light of
a battle, where victory or defeat would at once
decide all dispute between the contending parties.
He was, indeed, far more sanguine of success
than my father. At any rate, his good name
depended upon matters being set in a proper
light.
" And will you, my poor child, have courage
for such a trial ?" said the mother, tears stream-
VOL. II. E
74 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ing down her cheeks as she strained Catherine
to her bosom. " Will you be equal to it ? I
feel that I would willingly consent to die this
very hour rather than hear your shame revealed
—revealed to a cold, cruel world, who will,
perchance, think you guilty I"
" The world can neither dismay nor shame
me," was the calm reply ;
" my conscience will
be my strength ; and when I dare again to
approach the Lord's table, shall I think myself
too humbled to stand before the children of
men?"
The scruples of the Cadieres were not easily
overruled ; but soon all their hesitation was dis-
pelled by an incident as alarming as it was
unexpected.
One morning, a few days after the foregoing
interview, my father, wishing to collect some
further evidence, had called rather early upon
his client, and the whole family were in earnest
conversation, when their attention became roused
by a loud knocking at the house door. My
father stepped to the window ; and his accus-
tomed eye immediately recognised the myr-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 75
midons of justice, who, upon their admittance,
formally claimed Catherine as their prisoner.
Her mother's heart seemed about to break when
she beheld her child in the hands of these low,
untutored wretches, about to be dragged along
to a dismal, solitary dungeon, from whence she
might, perhaps, never return. But Catherine's
fortitude never deserted her even for an
instant.
" God will be with me there, as much as
when I was sheltered in your loving arms, my
mother, in the days of happy childhood. I
shall not be alone even there ; comfort and
counsel will come to me from above, and support
my weakness.—May He who makes my heart
so strong dry up your tears."
Deeply moved by this appeal to the strongest
feeling of her nature—a sincere though misguided
devotion, the mother checked her convulsive
sobs as she imprinted a parting kiss on her
daughter's fair brow. My father accompanied
on foot the chaise in which Catherine was con-
veyed to the prison, and only parted with her at
the threshold.
76 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" I offer no earthly consolations to one so
much above them as you are, Catherine," said
he, as he respectfully pressed her hand to his
lips. " Farewell ; this is a great—a bitter trial to
me, if not to you."
" Let it not weigh on your mind, my friend,"
she answered, with a responsive pressure of the
hand ;
" be my fate what it may, remember I am
ready to meet it."
The rough, rude men who had her in charge
could not suppress a natural emotion of pity
and respect at the sight of so much resignation
in one so lovely and so young ; and the sacred,
mysterious halo still lingering around her, from
the fame of her former saintship, added to this
feeling a slight touch of awe. My father
watched her movements until the last fold of
her. garment swept past the massive iron gate ;
he then returned home with a heavier heart
than he had borne in his bosom for many a
weary day.
It had probably been the hope of the Jesuits
that the active, decided measures they thus
adopted, and above all the favour of the Bishop,
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 77
whom they had adroitly succeeded in gaining
over to their side, would strike dismay into the
bosom of the unprotected being whose reve-
lations might prove so disagreeable to them
—
(these they imagined to have smothered in the
bud)—that Mademoiselle Cadieres, as well as
Mademoiselle Langieres, and so many other
votaries of Father Girard, would be frightened
into a salutary silence. Great, therefore, was
their surprise, and no less their indignation, at
the new turn which the fearlessness of Catherine
gave to the whole affair. Now it was theirs to
tremble ; and although in public they put on a
bold front, in private, as my father had occasion
to ascertain, they brooded over the matter in no
very enviable state of mind.
One morning, as he was sitting alone in his
study, rapt in thought, his papers and notes
strewn about him, the door of his apartment
was suddenly opened, and, unannounced even
by the usual tap, Father Sabatier the Jesuit
stood before him.
My father knew this man only by rcp«)rt
;
and the decidedly hostile part which he had
78 MAGIC AND MES3IERISM.
taken against Catherine had certainly not in-
spired him either with respect or sympathy.
He was at a loss to guess the real aim of this un-
ceremonious visit, and was disposed to consider
it in any light but that of an honour ; still the
conventional respect due to the monastic habit
did not admit ofany manifestation ofhis feelings,
and it was in vain for him, as he received his
self-imposed visitor with due formality, to extract
from his looks any clue to his object. There
was neither menace to be read on the brow,
flattery in the smile, nor yet promise in the eye
;
his astucious countenance bore no definite ex-
pression whatever, beyond that of habitual
cunning. There was besides, perhaps, something
sinister about the pent brow, somewhat of in-
stinctive cruelty in the lines of the thin, blanched
mouth; but these were parts of the natural
conformation of the face, and at best betrayed
but the general character. My father saw, at a
glance, how important it was to be strictly on his
guard during the interview about to take place
;
and summoning all his acquired coolness and
self-possession—for I have already told you that,
like most men of great abilities, he was full of
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 79
ardour, aiid like all men of strict honour, very
candid,—he prepared to stand on the defensive
;
leaving the enemy to unmask his weak points
one by one, if such a result were possible.
" I am come," said Father Sabatier, after the
first awkward moment had passed in mutual
silence, "at the request of my Lord Bishop,
who has condescended to express much regret
on being informed that a young man of so much
promise is about to embrace a cause so pre-
judicial to the interests of the church, and
therefore so destructive to the future weal of its
children. These were his lordship's own, kind
expressions, which it was his particular request
that I should repeat to you, in whom he appears
to take a lively interest, which ought, I think, to
gratify your feelings in the highest degree."
My father bowed a respectful but silent
acquiescence ; but seeing that the Jesuit paused,
as if decided to extract a direct answer, he
muttered some few commonplaces by way of
thanks for the Bishop's kindness in remembering
him, especially as he had had so few opportuni-
ties of recommending himself to his notice.
It may not be unnecessary to remind you.
80 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
that Upon the sohtary occasion ' afforded my
father of acquiring his lordship's favour, he had
deserved and obtained it in a signal manner,
quite as much in reference to the family ar-
rangements which the Bishop was desirous of
effecting, as with regard to the Saint of 01-
lioules—a service, doubtless, become somewhat
problematical by the force of subsequent events;
but still the former claim remained good.
Now my father, as most young and inex-
perienced men in his situation would have
done, had on that memorable evening conceived
hopes of patronage, which he understood too
well his position in life not to appreciate ; but
he had found, what many striving youths have
found before, that " out of sight out of mind" is
especially applicable to the great. A little
reflection, however, not only consoled him for
the circumstance, but convinced him that the
safest, even should it not be the swiftest or most
brilliant path to success, is that which one
chalks out for oneself His mind had also
been too much absorbed by other matters to
dwell long on the neglect of the Bishop, and he
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 81
now felt—circumstances compelling him to take
up contrary ground—that it was, on the whole,
fortunate that no kind passages had taken place
between them, which would have greatly tended
to increase the difficulties of his positionu Fa-
ther Sabatier had become possessed of the
details of that one meeting through the Bishop,
who remembered my father well enough the
moment he was thus forcibly brought back to
his notice, and his wily adviser had formed his
own plans accordingly.
" Yes, Monsieur Chaudon," continued the
Jesuit, with the same cold unconcern of man-
ner with which he had introduced the subject,
" the Bishop is much struck with your abilities,
and the propriety and modesty of your deport-
ment; he has, indeed, conceived so good an
opinion in your favour, that he cannot help
thinking you, although misled at present by
false statements and erroneous conceptions,
formed to be an ornament to society ; and he
feels that an effort is due on his part to turn
you away from the unadvised, dangerous, and,
above all, discreditable course you are about to
E 3
82 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
pursue. He wishes to hold out a saving hand
to you, and I am here at his express desire
to persuade you—to open your eyes. This,
sir, is my mission ; but before I enter upon it
with all the zeal and charity which my pro-
fession and the Bishop's desire make a duty, it
is no less due to myself to ascertain how great
may be my chance of success or even of being
hearkened to."
My father had not allowed a muscle to stir
during the reverend father's prologue—he even
listened to it with an appearance of the deepest,
most respectful attention. " This," thought he,
" is the entree en scene—it does not mean much
—there is nothing in it to compromise the
adverse party. I must be content with not
committing myself, for I cannot expect such
weakness on his part."
" I will listen with deference to anything
you may have to state on the part of our good
lord the Bishop, as well as to any argument you
may think proper to adduce, reverend father
;
but I cannot promise to be convinced."
" Nor persuaded ?"
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 83
" Nor even persuaded," said he, shaking his
head, coldly.
" Do you, then, reject the Bishop's inter-
position in behalf of your own happiness here-
after?"
" I can but regret that the Bishop does not
share my opinion with regard to this strange
case, for then he never could assert that the
cause of the unfortunate and the innocent
could harm me, either in this world or in the
next."
" With regard to the consequences of your
conduct, so far as your worldly interests go,
the Bishop does not make himself the judge.
It would seem to me, however, that loss of
reputation, at the very least, is the necessary
evil that must attend a measure such as that
you meditate. Nor is it likely to procure you
many friends, for, thank Heaven! all influential
persons are faithful to the church."
*«
I must beg to interrupt you," said my
father—" I do not see that the unmasking of a
villain, even though he has assumed the guise
of holiness, is rendering the church a bad
84 MAGIC AND MES3IERISM.
service. I can no more view the matter in
that light than I could consider it a crime to
warn my king of a favourite's treachery, had
I chanced to discover it, or an unsuspecting
master, of the vices and evil designs of a fair-
spoken but deceitful servant. The Bishop has
himself declared Father Girard to be a wolf in
sheep's clothing, which he would expel from
his flock. I am but the faithful hound who
helps, to the best of his ability, the good shep-
herd to effect his purpose."
" The Lord Bishop never spoke such words,"
answered Father Sabatier, with forced com-
posure ; but an anger spot crimsoned either
cheek, and the upper lip slightly quivered.
" These are but the devices of wretched im-
postors to mislead those who are
—" he paused,
as if to seek a more appropriate w-ord than that
which rose to his lips
—" who are," he resumed,
with some effort, " good enough to trust them.
I assure you. Monsieur Chaudon, the Bishop
may have been—nay, doubtless was at first—
a
little imposed upon by the comedy got up, I
doubt not, for his especial benefit ; but a yery
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 85
little reflection has enabled him to triumph
over the weakness of his heart. He now sees
the whole affair in its true colours, and will act
accordingly."
" Ha !" ejaculated my father—" and pray
how will that be ?"
Artful as the Jesuit was in those things that
came within his competence, he did not see
through the real aim of this simple question,
and answered, without a moment's considera-
tion
—
" By drawing up a memorial with his own
hand in favour of Father Girard. So public
a testimony of the Bishop's respect for our
Order, and of his private feelings in this parti-
cular matter, will not be without its weight
with the court, the public, and even the wit-
nesses. You are engaging in a bad, and, what
you perhaps may consider worse, a losing
cause."
My father was glad to have obtained this
timely hint of the proceedings of the enemy.
Weak as the Bishop was, there was no knowing
to what lengths he might go, under the careful
86 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
management of such a person as Father Sa-
batier. He replied, therefore, in a manner,
if possible, to elicit further communication.
'^ This is a very decided measure," said he,
throwing into his looks as much concern as
he could well assume—"very strong indeed;
but it may come too late to make a very gene-
ral impression. Moreover—''
he paused, as if
unwilHng to trust what more he could have
said to the eager ears of his listener. This, too,
took effect.
" Of course it will be our care that the
Bishop's view of the case gets pretty well blown
about beforehand, so that the vile calumniators
may not gain time to choke up every channel
with their venomous insinuations. The opinion
of our worthy prelate will carry everything
before it."
" Opinion is but opinion after all," said
my father, with a shrug. " If nothing be
added to that
"
" You must be sensible that those who side
with the Bishop—with the church, will be con-
sidered as friends, and treated as such. This is
3IAGIC AND MESMERISM, 87
but fair, Monsieur Cliaudon, and will be pretty
well understood when the Bishop is seen so
decidedly on our side."
This was speaking in a general and vague
acceptation; my father would willingly have
brought the enemy to closer quarters.
" If," said he, after another pause, during
which, although not looking directly at him, he
felt the keen eye of Father Sabatier scruti-
nizing every feature of his countenance—" if I
but knew exactly what my Lord Bishop desires
—what he would have, that is, of me especially
—in short, situated as I am, what would he
have me do ? To recede were cowardly, and
likely to do me as much injury as advancing
boldly on the open course."
" The Bishop would, I have no doubt, if the
matter were properly represented to him, con-
trive your being removed from hence in a way
at once to justify your withdrawing from the
affair, and to shew others that the friendship of
the good is better, even in a worldly point of
view, than that of the wicked."
" This is the fair side of the question, most
88 MAGIC AND 3IESMERISM.
reverend father— what were the reverse of the
medal?"
*'
Revenge belongs unto God, not unto man,"
said the monk, with a somewhat conventual
droop of the lid and sniffle through the nose,
whilst he mechanically folded his arms on his
narrow chest, and screwed up the corners of
his mouth; but the next instant all conven-
tuality vanished, and the Hashing eye of the
Jesuit rested, with a withering glance, upon the
young lawyer.
" Nevertheless, be war}^. Monsieur Chaudon,
how you offend the powerful—it is a very un-
wise policy."
" Well, I don't mind being explicit with
you," said my father—" a written promise
might tempt some young men—I do not abso-
lutely say it would me. A threat of any posi-
tive nature might alarm—but, my dear sir, you
must think me very youthful indeed to imagine
that vague and mysterious insinuations, so
vague that you might deny—nay, perchance
forget them hereafter, can influence me in a
matter of such importance. Had I any clear
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 89
proposal before my eyes, — anything tan-
gible—"
" That you might produce it to the court by
way of proving bribery or intimidation," said
the Jesuit, with a smile de caste, which is un-
translatable. " No, no, Monsieur Chaudon !
You are yet green in your profession, indeed, to
think of naming such a thing. Your proposal
at once unmasks your real purposes."
My father felt the justice of this remark, and
that he was not yet an overmatch for his wily
antagonist; but he had obtained some useful
information already as to the enemy's motions
—
more he would not be able to extract, now that
his awkwardness had put his opponent on his
guard. He much regretted the false move he
had made, but saw it was too late to recover it
;
he decided, accordingly, on a bolder avowal of
his principles.
" Well, I do not deny my youth and inex-
perience, good father, but this is precisely what
warms me towai'ds a just cause, and permits me
to overlook the dangers I may incur in support-
ing it."
90 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
"But it is not a just cause," said Father
Sabatier, losing patience, whilst all the terrors of
the Inquisition fostered in a less happy country
by his merciless Order lighted up his eye and
darkened every feature. " It is a vile, un-
worthy cause, embraced through vile and un-
worthy motives. I will tell you your motives,
young man ; they are carnal lust and worldly
vanity. The impostor is pretty, and the law-
suit may make the whole of France ring with
your name. Den}^ this if you dare."
"Yes, I deny both positions," said my father,
whose own southern impetus of temper, although
generally carefully kept under, was now tho-
roughly roused, more by Father Sabatier's
manner and looks than by his words. " What
you advance is as false as all your statements
against the innocent victim whom you would
even deprive of the means of self-defence.
Now let me in turn tell you. Father Sabatier,
the motives that influence you. Nay, interrupt
me not !
—here, as well as in court, I wiU be
heard ! You are actuated by the inflexible,
unjust, oppressive rule of your Order, odious
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 91
alike to God and man, which bids you support
every criminal—^justify every crime that ema-
nates from it. Nay," he continued, as the
other w^aved his hand, indignantly, to command
silence—" Nay, listen to the voice of humanity
and justice—abandon the cause of a miscreant
—
let his own Order, by rejecting him with scorn
from its bosom, and handing him over to the
arm of secular justice, shew their sense of his
guilt, and separate it from their own innocence,
as our Lord will divide the wheat from the chaff.
Let all men say—* Father Girard is a wretch
whose commimity has justly been the first to
brand him,'—and that one act of honesty will do
more towards rehabilitating your Order in the
esteem of men than a thousand bulls. Protect
Father Girard—shield his pitifulness vdthin the
ample folds of your garment of might—and
you proclaim at once to France, to Europe it-
self, that such faults as his are venial in your
eyes, and that your robe sanctions every sin,
however deep its dye. It is impolitic, as well
as cruel."
During this burst of irrepressible indigna-
92 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
tion, although he made many fruitless attempts
to check it, and obviously endured it with the
utmost disgust, the Jesuit gradually regained
his own composure. He now answered, with
calm severity
—
" Are you wise or prudent, young man, to
utter such rank heresy in the presence of one
invested with a sacred character ?"
" What I have said," answered my father,
" may be heresy to the Jesuits, but cannot be
so construed against my faith or my church.
You stand yourself accused of heresy ; forget
it not, reverend father, ere you fling the stone
that has lighted upon your own head at that of
others."
" Envy and malignity ever pursue the godly !"
again snuffled the Jesuit, with an upturned eye
and a sigh that might have done Tartuffe
credit ;
" but we are not without power ; though
jealousy may seek to undermine it ; it is ours,
and"—he looked steadfastly at my father
—
" although we use it with discretion, we can
wield it also with decision when needful."
" You have power—you may well assert a
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 93
fact, reverend sir, which none can deny—
a
power which would fetter alike the liberties
of the people and the authority of the sovereign
in every land you flourish in : and you are
proud as powerful ; but the Templars were once
great and presumptuous—and they fell."
" When the Bishop sent me here, it was not
to expose me to gross insult or to threats. He
thought, mayhap, that his name—the title of
his messenger—might shield me from such, if
not my ministry—my years. I withdraw, sir,
in sorrow; but chiefly grieved on account of
the pain which I am sure my report of the
manner in which his fatherly message has been
received will give his lordship."
Had Father Sabatier acted up to these last
words, delivered in an impressive, dignified
manner, doubtless my father would have had
cause for regret, on many accounts, at the
lengths to which passion had hurried him, and
Father Sabatier might have enjoyed a complete
triumph over his inexperience and youthful
sincerity. But the wily priest turned away
only for a second ; the next found him peering
94 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
anxiously into my father's countenance, evi-
dently mindful how to turn every passing shade
to advantage. My father soon perceived his
drift by the way his apologies were received
;
for he did apologize, not for the sentiments he
had expressed, but for the manner in which
they had been uttered. He frankly owned that
he had spoken with a freedom which would
have been excusable before the bar, but which
was inappropriate when addressed to a visitor,
especially the emissary of one whom he was in
every way bound to honour. His frank ad-
mission was received with an apparent show of
mild forgiveness, which was not without its
effect; but the very next words of the Jesuit
proved that, acting up to the knowledge he had
acquired in his seminary of the sudden and
generous revulsions natural to the youthful,
which so often lead them beyond the line drawn
by prudence, he was about to ascertain how far
he had profited by his experience in such
matters; at least, so it seemed, when he said,
in dulcet tones, which, far from allaying, roused
my father's suspicions
—
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 95
" The next step in order to manifest the
sincerity of repentance, when the fault is once
acknowledged, is to repair it. In your case,
Monsieur Chaudon, nothing would be easier.
I do not say, be with us ; but be not against
us—remain neuter. Surely such forbearance
would please my Lord Bishop greatly, and spare
him the mortification of hearing, at the same
time that it would enable me to forget alto-
gether, the unbecoming heat of temper into
which you have been betrayed."
'* This may not be," said my father ;
" this
may not be, reverend sir. I will not deceive
you, as, indeed, honesty is the best policy after
all"—he said this with marked emphasis. " Not
only have I a conviction of Father Girard's
guilt, but I have proofs ; so that my conscience
and my mind are equally at rest on the subject."
" Delude not yourself with the idea that you
will be able to establish such proofs ; when the
day of trial comes you will be foiled, indeed
you will. I know you reckon much on the
testimony of the ladies of St. Clare ; but you
may find yourself mistaken as to its weight,
96 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
wlten opposed to my Lord Bishop's clear and
candid statements. You also lay much stress
on the jealousy entertained by the inferior
orders against us, but you deceive yourself
singularly if you believe that they can in any
way support you. It is a losing cause, and you
will break down with it, Monsieur Chaudon."
" I must abide by it, and do my best, trusting
the rest to Providence."
"Is that, then, your answer to the Lord
Bishop?"
"It is," said my father, calmly; "though I
hope you will deign to couch* it in the most
grateful and respectful terms
"
" Which the feelings that / entertain for his
lordship may enable me to frame—is it not so ?"
My father silently assented; for he was
decided not to moot the point further with the
Jesuit, having made up his mind to lay his
views before the Bishop either in person, if he
could obtain admittance, or by means of a me-
morial of his own, trusting but little to the
fidelity of the mediator between them.
" Well ; he will be sorry to hear how matters
MAGIC AND MESMERISM, 97
Stand with you, young man, though of course
Monsieur Thorame, our adviser, will be per-
fectly equal to the approaching struggle."
My father was rejoiced to see his troublesome
visitor move to depart, and bowed him, with
every mark of outward reverence, into the
street.
" And so," said the Jesuit, when finally about
to take his way home ;
" and so it is war with
the church—you have decided upon it?"
" Not with the church, but with the Jo "
" Our Order, you would say," muttered the
monk, with unconcealed bitterness. " Our
Order will have cause to tremble, indeed,
before such an opponent."
" The Jesuit Girard is the only person who
has any cause for apprehension from me," said
my father, firmly ;
^^
but, certainly, between
myself and him it is war unto death."
Without vouchsafing another word to the
o])durate young man, Father Sabatier, brimfiil
of ill-suppressed rage, directed his steps forth-
with towards the episcopal palace, where doubt-
less it was his intention to let it ilow over.
VOL. II. P
98 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" After all," was my father's first thought on
re-entering the little chamber, the scene of the
late conflict, " every stratagem is thought fair
in war, but surely, surely, this is a detestable
association that owns a Father Girard, and
sanctions such acts as his. I have, however,
shewn myself weak and hot-headed enough
to shame a boy. If I do not keep my temper
better at the bar I am a lost man. The Bishop
must be rightly informed, and that without loss
of time, or matters will even be made worse by
misrepresentation. By the way, for all the
cleverness he may think himself possessed of.
Father Sabatier has given me many a clue
worth having, and it will be my fault if I do
not turn them to account."
Indeed, either from unwariness, or, what is
more probable, from unconsciousness of the ad-
vantage he thus afforded the adverse party.
Father Sabatier had let out a few facts, which
it much imported my father to be possessed of,
and which, as he had no facilities of ascertain-
ing them with exactness, had already puzzled
him not a little. For instance, it was important
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 99
that he should learn the name of the advocate
who would be opposed to him, that he might
have sufficient leisure to prepare himself for the
peculiarities of that person's pleading, and know
beforehand whether he should have to resist an
eloquence directed especially towards the feel-
ings, and calculated to carry them along with
the speaker, or whether it would be his lot to
battle it out with a close arguer. He now
knew he should have both these advantages
to compete with, in one of great talent and
long experience at the bar, whose overthrow
would be a great, but somewhat doubtful
achievement. This circumstance, however, far
from discouraging, even animated my father,
whose spirit was of that order which rather
rises against, than sinks before opposition. He
was also well pleased to have timely notice of
the Bishop's memorial and certitude on a point
which caused him no slight misgivings—namely,
what part the community at Ollioules would be
disposed to assume in this affair, for he well
knew the peculiar difficulties that would beset
their path. Catherine had, it is true, repeatedly
f2
100 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
assured him that the worthy sisters were good-
ness itself, and that the Lady Abbess was a
highly distinguished person, in every sense of
the word; that she and the principal sisters
had been entrusted with her fearful secret, and
had themselves seen and heard many things
corroborative of her own statements. Still he
doubted their unwillingness to appear publicly,
until Father Sabatier's own words had con-
vinced him of Catherine's reliance on these
ladles' honour being w^ell-founded.
'* I must lose no time in ascertaining to what
"their evidence w^ill amount," was his next re-
flection. But whilst thus summing up w^hat
had passed in the late agitating interview^, and
laying to his soul the flattering unction that
his own talents must be anything but con-
temptible to have caused interference from such
high quarters —for he easily traced to Father
Sabatier himself, the organ of his order, the
measures of the bishop—another and a hast}^
tread was on the stair, another unceremonious
turn of the lock, and again a monk interrupted
his solitary musing. But Father Nicholas and
MAGIC AND MES3IF:iUS3f. 10
1
my father were, on many points, kindred spi-
rits ; and at this juncture they stood in a pecu-
liarly interesting situation towards each other.
" Father Sabatier has been here—for what
purpose ?" began the prior, breathless with
eagerness.
My father explained, briefly, the substance
of that person's visit.
" Well, it greatly relieves my mind to find
you as watfihful as you are true," said Father
Nicholas. " You are yet young, my son, to
figure in, perhaps, one of the most important,
extraordinary trials ever brought before the
French bar."
" I think I feel equal to it," said the young
advocate, with a proud smile.
" Pray God you may," said the prior, fer-
vently; but, perceiving a slight cloud pass
across his friend's face, he added, hastily
—
" and I beUeve you to be fully competent to
all we may hope and desire. But remember, the
task is no light one. Come, what is, in plain
terms, your plan of accusation ? What are the
presumable grounds of their defence ?"
102 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" Why, as I have already hinted to you, the
counts stand thus," answered my father, draw-
ing forth a small paper from among the many
that littered his table. " This is it :
—First,
seduction —motive, his unhallowed passion;
secondly, magical practices, through which
alone he succeeded in perpetrating his crime;
thirdly, breach of trust, abusing of the confi-
dence reposed in his sacred character; and,
fourthly, extension of his threefold offences to
all those of his penitents whom he thought worth
his while to pervert."
" I thought so —I thought so !" exclaimed
Father Nicholas, with an impatient start. " You
have forgotten the worst, the most essential, the
very most essential part of the accusation, the
perverseness which deserves most to be made
an example of."
" And what may that be ?" inquired my
father.
" Quietism—quietism, my son ; the abomi-
nable heresy with which the Jesuits infect the
land. Surely, our proofs of this are sufficiently
abundant, in the case of Father Girard, to bring
it triumphantly home to them."
MAGIC AND MESMERISBf. 103
" You are right," said my father ; " nor can
this important point be overlooked. But I have
yet a heavy task before me—the collecting of
evidence. I need a clear, distinct statement of
all that has passed between Catherine and the
Jesuit since their first meeting. Everything I
have hitherto heard has been so fragmentary
and disjointed, as to make the case very diffi-
cult of clear comprehension in its details, al-
though I am pretty familar with its general
outline."
" Mademoiselle Cadieres is now perfectly re-
covered," said Father Nicholas, *' and able to
give you as distinct and coherent an account
as you may desire. I myself, and the Fathers
Giraud and Gondalbert, can testify in what
condition we found the penitents of Father
Girard, infected all alike with the pernicious
dogmas of Quietism. The respectable physi-
cians, who have declared her convulsions and
trances unnatural and mysterious, will surely
not deny their own words, when called upon
to repeat them before the court. The sisters
of St. Clare, and Mademoiselle Cadieres' maid,
will prove sufficiently his gross misconduct with
104 MAGIC AND MESMEKISM.
regard to that lady ; and his other votaries can
shew in what manner it extended to them. I
think this is all clear and open ground: but I can-
not imagine what can be alleged in the Jesuit's
favour, beyond that unfounded, ridiculous plea
of calumny, which must fall to the ground."
" Not so easily as you fancy, reverend father.
We must expect a se^'cre struggle, and be pre-
pared to endure much : what Father Girard
will want in proofs he will amply make up in
interest."
* The prior, clear-headed, able to encompass
at a glance the general bearing of an affair,
and yet not disdaining to enter into its minutest
details, had a great capacity for business ; and
my father found it no disadvantage to claim his
attention on many points of intricacy.
The lawsuit soon assumed a very formidable
aspect. The reverend Fathers Girard, Nicho-
las, and (Jadieres, whose habit had for some
time spared them the mortification, were all
prisoners as well as Catherine, but treated with
greater leniency. The unfortunate young girl
was indeed actually debarred from communi-
MAGIC AND xMESMERISiM. 105
cation with cany human being, except her con-
fessor and legal adviser ; and her treatment, in
all small matters connected with her personal
comfort, was harsh even unto cruelty.
My father attended sedulously upon her,
aware that she had no other source of worldly
consolation, and no other means of obtaining
the smallest tidings of her family. He found,
however, that she needed but little the ordi-
nary routine of condolence. She was miracu-
lously supported, in the midst of her troubles,
by a spirit of resignation, and a lofty trust in
Providence, to which earthly sympathy could
bring no additional solace.
At this period of her agitated existence, she
was truly sublime. No privations dismayed
her, no threats intimidated, no insult roused
her spirit; it lay placid like a limpid lake,
reflecting nothing but the tranquil tints of
the heaven within. Not only did she bear
with cheerfulness the miseries of her situation,
but, what is stranger still, her health, so
weak and shattered when under the shelter of
her own roof, and fostered by the tenderest
F 3
106 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
care, daily fortified itself under eircumstances
so calculared to have irretrievably destroyed
it.
As my father gazed on the damp, unwhole-
some, dungeon-like apartment, in which she
was confined, deprived alike of fi-esh air, and
light, and warmth, whose low ceihng and dark
rafters seemed to weigh with even pressure on
the mind and on the lungs of those doomed
to linger beneath its heavy canopy, and whose
extremities deepened into that sort of gloom
which tends vaguely to alarm excitable imagi-
nations and susceptible nerves—as he gazed on
this rude abode, from which every even the
meanest article of furniture had been removed
beyond a couple of wooden stools, a small
truckle-bed, and a half empty box, the only
accommodation afforded for the few articles of
personal apparel she had been permitted to
retain—and as he felt, even in the delightful
autumnal air of Provence, chilled and aguish
during his long conferences there, —he could
not help suspecting that her enemies were not
without hope that a long and solitary detention
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 107
in a place like this would break her spirits, if
not actually terminate her existence.
What would have been the feelings of her
poor mother, had she beheld the coarse, scanty
food, the cold neglect, the total absence of all
comfort to which her beloved child was re-
duced—she, for whom the tender parent had
thought a conventual rule, however mild, too
severe ! Happily, as much in conformity with
Catherine's especial request as with the dic-
tates of his own compassion, he carefully kept
these afflicting particulars from her knowledge,
and cheered her, to the uttermost of his power,
by dwelling with unfeigned admiration upon
the heroic courage and calmness with which
her daughter bore her unjust captivity.
From Catherine, too, he anxiously concealed
the extent of her mother's sufferings, her har-
rowing regrets for the past, her agonizing ap-
prehensions for the future. He did not even
make her acquainted with the circumstance
that, valuable as was his time at that moment,
he devoted those hours which, out of respect
for his health, he ought to have allotted to
108 MAGIC AND .MESMERISM.
repose, to the difficult and fatiguing task of in-
fusing courage into one who had none at her
own heart.
Being provided with the materials necessary
for the purpose, Mademoiselle Cadieres now
drew up a statement of the sad transactions
of the last two years, which, though it bore
evidence, in its negligence, and, in many
passages, incorrectness of style, to the very
imperfect education received at that time by
females even of the highest respectability, was
still remarkable for its extreme simplicity and
natural eloquence of feeling.
" This will do," said my father, as he glanced
over the memorial, " though there seems no
small confusion as to dates ; but we will try to
set that right. Now, you must endeavour to
remember, dear Catherine, something of the
substance of those letters which have passed be-
tween you and Father Girard, since the originals
have been so shamefully extracted from you."
He alluded here to a circumstance which had
deprived him of the most powerful weapons
wherewith he had thought to confound the
3IAGIC AND 3IESMERIS3I. 109
enemy. Letters, namely, of a very important
nature—for Catherine had repeatedly assured
him that they contained the most flagrant con-
firmation of guilt, and bore evidence to eccentric
doctrines on points of faith—had been carefully
withdrawn. The craft of the Jesuit had been
too much for the inexperience of the young
girl. Immediately upon his ceasing to be her
confessor, he had sent one of his most faithful
female adherents to claim the whole of his cor-
respondence from the unsuspecting novice, who
suffered it to pass from her hands without the least
misgiving or surmise.
My father had long since been apprised of
this important loss, but saw no means of repairing
it, except by noting carefully the dates and sub-
jects of such of them as Catherine should
remember, that he might reclaim them in due
time and place.
He now turned his attention towards the con-
vent of St. Clare, for from among its simple but
just-minded inmates his chief witnesses were to
be drawn. In the Lady Abbess, Madame
d'Aubert, and in Madame de L'Escot, the
110 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
mistress of the novices, he found persons whose
education and abilities were by no means inferior
to their birth. He was so favourably impressed
with all he saw and heard in this house, that he
sincerely regretted for her sake that Catherine
had ever quitted it. True it is, that all the
members of the sisterhood were not persons of
so much merit as those who formed its head
;
but Catherine herself was not so marked by
brilliant parts, as to feel this quiet, inoffensive
association distasteful to her. He could, indeed,
scarcely comprehend her repulsion for the
monastic life, unless he attempted to account
for it by supposing her mind too distracted
whilst yet under the malefices of Father Girard,
to admit of repose, even in so well regulated an
establishment.
His collection of witnesses left nothing to
desire as to respectability of character, and for
the most part, as to social position ; and his
client's frame of mind was everything that was
satisfactory. Even her brothers bore up better
than he could have expected. They endured
their confinement with extreme patience, and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. Ill
seemed perfectly easy in their consciences;
having determined to state the facts simply as
they had occurred, and to suffer truth to take
care of itself My father placed more reliance
on their veracity than a mere glance at their
colourless, unmarked characters would have
seemed to •warrant. Their very intellectual de-
ficiencies were the best guarantee for the stead-
fastness of their purpose. Too grossly ignorant
not to swallow any morsel offered to their
credulity, their firm conviction of their sister's
spiritual elevation, and of her suffering for the
truth's sake, inspired them with an honest bold-
ness which made them invaluable in a court of
justice.
But whilst my father was thus advancing with
some confidence and more energy towards the
goal, the adverse party was not idle. Everything
that money and intrigue could do, had been at-
tempted by the Jesuits to screen Father Girard,
not only from punishment, but even from con-
viction. They were moving heaven and earth ;
exhausting at once their credit and their
treasur}^, to save a wretch whom it would have
112 MAGIC AND MESMERtSM.
been wiser, cheaper, more honest to have left to
the justice of his countrymen. The most
shameless and persevering corruption was tried
upon the witnesses. Some, whom promises
could not seduce, were intimidated by threats
—
anonymous letters were dispatched to those who
could not be openly addressed in the strains in
which they were penned—in short, every engine
was at work to crush, if possible, the accusers
along with the accusation. My father was
himself much annoyed by these mysterious
missives, and by the advice of many well-meaning
though timid friends ; but neither these uncalled
for interferences, nor the disapprobation of his
family, nor the ill-suppressed displeasure of his
future bride—for Eleonore, superior as she was
to the common herd, was a woman still, and
could not view with satisfaction so much devotion
on her lover's part to any other than herself
—
notliing of all this could move him an inch from
his purpose. He must, indeed, have taken
shame to himself had he even entertained the
thought. When Catherine, whom they had
threatened with the rack and the faggot if she
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 113
persisted in her vile falsehoods—thus the Jesuits
were pleased to style her artless admissions, so
unwelcome and disparaging to themselves
—
menaces, which she well knew were not idle
breath, yet remained unshaken in her high
resolve of unmasking vice and villany, let the
consequences of her bold but virtuous deed be
what they might—when a young and tender
maiden could nerve herself thus to bear and defy
the worst, could a man dare to recede and yet
boast of his manhood ?
In the meanwhile. Father Girard in his con-
finement offered the most striking contrast to
Father Nicholas. The latter, confident of ulti-
mate success and of having right on his side,
bent his ardent, eager mind to the study of the
principles of Quietism, and followed it with
untiring patience from its first source—a schism
in the Greek church, opposed by some of its
members, but not interdicted by its patriarch
—
down to the time when, brought forward by a
Jesuit in Rome, the too celebrated Molinos, it
drew down the anathemas of the Catholic
church even upon the Pope himself, who, ac-
114 MAaiC AND MESMERISM.
cused of entertaining this loose doctrine, was
called to account by the Inquisition at Rome.
Father Nicholas pursued the subject through
pages of heavy theological treatises, until he
plunged into the very marrow of the disputes
and schisms that caused such dissensions be-
tween the Jesuits and the other religious orders
in France at that moment. His clear, forcible
abridgments of this abstruse lore was not with-
out use to my father, who in this manner had
much severe work taken off his hands.
But whilst the Carmelite prior was thus
whiling away the monotony of confinement,
Father Girard occupied his own leisure and
that of the public with all the grimaces of a
hypocritical sanctity. He feared not to profane
those objects which he ought to have held most
sacred, but approached the Lord's table daily
without care or preparation, as unceremoniously
as he would have sat down at his daily board,
vdth less of respect than we are in the habit of
bestowing upon the hospitalities of our neigh-
bours. This impiety was lauded to the skies
by his partisans, though of course viewed with
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 115
disgust by the right-thinking and truly pious.
As to his confessions, they were not only daily
but almost hourly ; but whatever gratification
this exercise may have afforded himself, or
however much it might edify his fellow-
prisoners and his adherents at large, they ap-
peared of no avail with regard to bringing
repose to his mind.
This was the situation, and these the feelings
of all parties during the necessary lapse of time
between the day when the first hostile demon-
strations manifested themselves and that ap-
pointed for the trial.
No cause pleaded at the French bar ever
created more sensation throughout the whole
country even upon decision as this one in the
bare anticipation. Nay, it involved so many
interesting points of faith —would touch on
grounds so ticklish—the heresies of which the
Jesuits were accused,—that the clergy every-
where stood up, as it were, breathless as to the
issue of the pendant suit, but too eager, perhaps,
to bring conviction home to the Jesuits ; whilst
the world stood g^hast at the character of the
116 MAGIC AND MES31ERISM.
crime, deepened as it was by that of the perpe-
trator.
Now, my young friend, that I have, I think,
sufficiently touched u})on the unfortunate divi-
sion about the dogmas of Quietism, I must
once more beg your attention for a moment to
another subject, still further removed from our
present point of thought. Every epoch has its
prejudices, its Utopias, its extravagances, and
delusions. The predominating one of past
times—a sad legacy of the darker ages—had
not yet, as I have already said, been totally
cleared away by the more brilliant light of our
days—I mean the belief in sorcery—an agency
much disputed, indeed, in some instances, stre-
nuously denied in many, but still accredited by
the mass.
Cases of this nature were constantly sub-
jected to criminal proceedings, not always con-
ducted in a manner creditable to the impar-
tiality or common sense of the judges, but too
often proved the gross ignorance and super-
stition that still disgraced the early part of the
eighteenth century. You must have heard of
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 117
the horrid and unjust affair of Father Grandier,
of Loudun, and its sad termination in that un-
fortunate victim of popular error ascending the
funeral pile. This took place considerabl}^
before the events which I am recording; but
Father Grandier had not severer, if so severe,
accusations brought against him as those which
lay to the charge of Father Girard.
In those days, indeed, it would have been
difficult to advance anything more calculated to
poison the most cultivated understandings, and
to exasperate the people, than an accusation of
this kind, involving, as it did, a supposition of
foul dealings with the spirit of darkness. Jus-
tice, too, at that time might with more propriety
be termed cruelty, so inordinately savage was
its mode of administering its awards. In most
cases, the punishment far exceeded the offence.
Death by fire was the doom of any man con-
victed of sorcery ; how heresy and seduction
were ordinarily dealt with I cannot at this
moment precisely remember, but I dare say it
was not over leniently.
Now picture to yourself, if you can, the ex-
118 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
citement that would naturally arise from a cause
so complicated in its facts of interest when
it came to public trial. A church dispute, a
philosophical doubt, and a case of egregious
scandal, being all thrown into the balance of
guilt between a young and very beautiful fe-
male, hitherto remarkable for her surpassing
virtue, and an old Jesuit, whom talent and
holiness, or the mask of it, had brought no less
before the public. Imagine the young girl and
the old man, each requiring at the hands of
justice the life of the other—for, as I have ex-
plained to you, it amounted to this on either
side. Fancy a crowd of witnesses drawn from
almost every class of society, but especially
from the more exalted. Imagine, too, the host
of piquant revelations that would be ministered
to the rapacious curiosity of the idlers of the
higher orders—the prospect of an auto-da-fe
held out to the mob, equally eager for stimulus,
but requiring it of a rather coarser and more
racy nature than their betters,—I say, having
considered all the incidents of this strange case,
picture to yom'self, if you can, the pressure
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 119
within, the crowd without, and the intensity of
feeling that strung every nerve to the utter-
most, of every single individual in that multi-
tude, not one of whom but expected a tragic
issue to the pendant cause.
I need scarcely tell you that carriages with
emblazoned panels lined every avenue, and
that most of the noble persons they deposited
had arrived direct from Paris to follow in person
this singular affair, either fearful lest no public
channel for diffusing the truth would dare to be
correct in detaihng it, or wishing to dissipate
their vapidity by means of this artificial, yet
strong and sustained excitement.
I repeat it, no heart there could be quite free
from anxiety. The troubled brows of the judges
themselves betrayed sufficiently that even theirs
did not lie very light within their bosoms
;
whilst party spirit, which of course ran fearfully
high, lent an eager, ardent look to all the spec-
tators, such as, perhaps, many a listless counte-
nance among them had never worn before.
It was a remarkable spectacle, and might well
have attracted the eye and awakened the medi-
120 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
tations of a philosopher—that breathless crowd
of fashionably, nay, in some instances gaudily,
dressed persons of both sexes, there to feast
their eyes with the visible signs of mental
ag-onies, their ears with the moral sin and de-
gradation of their kind! The highly rouged
cheeks of the ladies, red and glaring as the
wheels of their vehicles—their immense breadth
of gorgeous petticoats —their huge fans and
mincing graces—contrasting as quaintly with
the mean, almost naked appearance of the court
as the flowing, curled, scented perukes, pale-
coloured, satin embroidered coats, lace ruffles,
delicate snuff-boxes, and bejewelled fingers, of
their lords offered to the dark flowing robes,
anxious, perplexed countenances, and simple
severity, of the twenty-five judges who were to
pass sentence on this grave occasion.
The groups, however, which attracted most
attention were those of the contending parties.
On one side stood my father, in the pride of
manly beauty—and I think I have already
mentioned that his person was singularly hand-
some—his natural dignity of form enhanced by
MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I. 121
the energy of purpose with which he had armed
himself, a look of almost womanly pity soften-
ing the expression of his dark eye, whenever it
turned on his fair young client. Close behind
him stood the Prior of the barefooted Carmel-
ites, Father Nicholas, in the flowing white
garments of his order, whose tall, commanding
form seemed to tower in the dignity of inno-
cence, whilst his strikingly prepossessing,
though, perhaps, somewhat too marked and
ardent physiognomy, tinctured, and that not
slightl}^, with hauteur, presented one of the
finest samples of southern blood that Toulon
could have produced. Near the Prior stood
Catherine ; no more vivid or picturesque a
contrast could be imagined than she formed to
her companions. Her loveliness had during
the last few months changed its character. Her
complexion had lost something of its freshness,
and her form shewed symptoms of strength
undermined by her rigorous confinement. Her
feebleness w^as, however, but physical ; her
calm, serene look, whenever the golden lashes
that veiled her deep blue e^^es were for an
VOL. II. G
122 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
instant raised, betrayed that no doubt, no
apprehension, no passion whatever, disturbed
the spirit within.
Not immediately fronting her, but still on
the opposite bench, sat the Rector of the
Jesuits, with looks blacker than his habit, and
whose person, forbidding to repulsion, seemed
desirous of shrinking into itself.
The eyes of all present, even those of
the grave, anxious judges, whose responsibility
weighed so obviously on their spirits, were
turned, with ill-suppressed amazement, from
the beautiful young victim to the hideous old
seducer ; and to those who were at all familiar
with Catherine's previous existence, the many
advantageous offers of mamage she had
declined, the universal homage her charms had
elicited, the mystery seemed more inexplicable
than ever. Here sat youth, loveliness, fortune,
every charm re-united, which, separately, forms
a woman's boast—there age and some of its
dawning infirmities—a being capable of mis-
leading neither the eye nor the imagination,
and possessed of none of those factitious advan-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 123
tages of wealth or position which, in such cases,
sometimes compensate for other deficiencies.
How such a being, so critically situated, should
have dreamed of those offences of which he
stood accused, and should have been able to
accomplish them, was, indeed, a problem to
baffle ordinary ingenuity ; nor is it surprising
that they who gazed upon him should deem his
success due to no common agency. As he there
sat, with a scowling, sullen look, he seemed, in
good sooth, the very archetype of those figures
which the imagination sometimes pictures to
itself as holding familiar colloquy with the imps
of darkness. Around such a being could they
be supposed to perch, whilst conning over the
forbidden pages of mystic lore, and the females
began to feel a mingled sensation of dread and
horror tingling through their veins, that was not
without some secret charm. The men contem-
plated him with contempt and disgust ; whilst
all read guilt in his downcast eyes, and shiver-
ing, spiritless attitude. Many curious looks
were directed to the witness bench ; most of
the ladies, however, had their faces concealed
g2
124 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
by veils, whose rich tissue formed an impene-
trable barrier to the bold, rude stare which, in
in many instances, would doubtless, have other-
wise searched the countenance of the wearer.
Conspicuous in this row sat the long train of
the ladies of Ollioules, with Madame D'Aubert
their superior. They, too, had drawn their
wimples so close to their faces as to shroud
them from impertinent curiosity, and were
silent, motionless observers of the scene. Not
so poor Catherine's mother, who, though sup-
ported by her eldest son and his wife, was
overwhelmed with grief, shame, and nameless
terrors concerning the issue of the day.
At length the cause was opened by my
father, who laid the indictment before the
Court in brief, but emphatic language, careful
not to draw too early on the stores of his elo-
quence, before his experienced, talented oppo-
nent had been compelled to spend some of his
own ammunition.
He began with a few, but touching allusions
to the happy innocent life which the plaintiff
had enjoyed before infernal machinations
MAGIC AND 3IES»IEKIS3r, 125
blighted at once her every prospect, and made
her home, which up to the period of her
acquaintance with the defendant had been a
little earthly paradise of peace and content, the
desolate abode of a broken-hearted mother.
When he spoke of the decided aversion of
Mademoiselle Cadieres from niarri^^e, his voice
faltered a little, and his manner became slightly
embarrassed; a circumstance which, by the
alternate glances they cast at him and his
strangely successful rival, it was evident most
of the Toulonese were at no loss to account for.
He pointed out that had she been light-minded,
there was no necessity for tarrying until the
arrival of such a person as Father Girard to
have exhibited some symptoms of flightiness,
even though the esteem in which her whole
family, but especially her mother, was held
in the town had not formed of itself a
sufficient rampart, to screen her youth and
inexperience against the wiles and deceits of
the world ; of whose wickedness, indeed, she
was as ignorant as an infant, until her intimacy
with the prisoner.
126 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
Having done ample justice to Catherine's
unblemished character, he entered upon the
subject of Quietism; and, after dilating upon
it sufficiently to explain the offensive nature
and tendency of this doctrine, he at once
brought the charge home to Father Girard.
He could prove that he had sought to inculcate
the pernicious dogmas of this demoralising
system into the innocent minds of his pupils,
by repeatedly assuring them, both in his private
and public instructions, that mental preparation
of any kind, even prayer itself, were super-
fluous forms to approach the Divinity—that
self-denial was useless—on the contrary, the
indulgence of every, even the worst propensities
of human nature, not only justifiable, but even,
in some cases, meritorious; that impure
thoughts and culpable actions could no more
affect the purity of the immortal spirit, than
the cloud that for a moment intercepts the
light of the sun can sully its brightness. Such
tenets, he held, might well be considered so
many proofs that the prisoner was infected with
those detestable heresies with which repentance
is as incompatible as virtue.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 127
As my father entered upon this part of the
indictment, which tended to shew that Father
Girard had sought to complete the ruin of his
victim by perverting her inmost soul, the
agitation became very great in the court ; and
the interest was visibly on the increase as he
proceeded.
From this charge, to the culprit sufficiently
formidable, he passed to the gravest of all, that
of sorcery. At the very approach to this
argument, a general thrill passed through the
assembly. The sceptical permitted their faces
to assume a very perceptible sneer; the fans
dropped from the hands of the ladies, all trem-
bhng with eagerness and excitement; the
judges exchanged glances fraught with the
deepest perturbation and perplexity; but my
father went on calmly with this critical and
doubtful subject, one which he felt exposed him
at once to the ridicule of the thoughtless, the
contempt of the thoughtful, and the suspicion
of all.
Nerved by the purity of his motives in bring-
ing forward such a charge, and by his own inner-
most convictions, he did not quail before his
128 3IAGIC AKD JMES3IERISM.
self-imposed task even at this most difficult
crisis. He continued to ciuimerate, without
shrinking, the many undeniable instances upon
record of a mysterious agency, which might
well be classed among the supernatural, from
its nature never having as yet been explained
or understood ; and then proceeded to charge
Father Girard with having used such unhal-
lowed practices to throw Mademoiselle Cadieres
into fits and trances—of having abused her in
the latter state, and, by the former, of having
reduced her to the very brink of the grave.
He then eloquently dwelt upon the agonies
of mind, bordering on madness, which she had
endured, when her soul, no longer, as it were,
under her own control—her thoughts, hereto-
fore bent on Heaven alone, became sullied by
doubts of the most hideous scepticism and infi-
delity—when her lips uttered blasphemies which
burnt into her very brain —when the pure
instincts of her nature were not sufficiently
powerful to break through the spell that en-
slaved her, and made her pulses throb with an
ardent, insane passion for a being whom her
3IAG1C AND MES3IE11ISM. 129
conscience and licr heart made, alike, abhorrent
to her nature. He depicted in glowing terms
the horrors of her mental state—debarred of
the comfort of prayer—of that of self-com-
munion—thinking herself the guiltiest of the
human race, yet forced to remain so.
Passing from the description of feelings and
systems to more tangible facts, he went on to
depict the singular phenomena observable upon
her at the time of possession—mentioned the
stigmas found upon her head and hands, which
could never have been self-inflicted, but had
most probably been dealt in one of those long
trances, during which, as many persons could
testify, she was as insensible to every outward
object, to every sensation, as though death had
actually taken place. He informed the Court
of the opportunities he had had of so doing
unobserved, when abusing the implicit trust
reposed in the sacredness of his character, the
prisoner had spent hours locked up alone in his
penitent's chamber whilst she was in this passive
state, both at home and at the cloister of St.
Clare. And after alluding to the peremptory
g3
130 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
manner in which Father Girard had enforced
his wishes on this head with Catherine and her
mother, he proceeded to detail^ at some length,
the conduct of the Jesuit at the latter place.
He shewed how his especial request, that the
correspondence passing between him and his
penitent should, contrary to the rules of the
cloister, not be submitted to the eye of the
Lady D'Aubert—the indiscreet frequency of
that correspondence —his almost daily and
lengthened visits—his insistance to be allowed
the privilege of entering her chamber, another
unheard of infringement of the rules and pro-
prieties of a convent—the ardent passion which
every chance look or word betrayed, all these
dubious circumstances had early awakened the
suspicions of the lady abbess to the real state of
the case, which were afterwards confirmed by
the candid and even unrequested admissions of
the young novice herself.
From the moment when the nature of the
intercourse between the confessor and his
penitent had been thus made evident to the Su-
perior, and the sanctity of Mademoiselle Ca-
MAGIC AND 3IESMERISM. 131
dieres was no longer a matter of doubt, but the
imposture a certitude, it became her warmest
desire to get rid of the parties, yet in such a
way as to avoid so great a scandal as the revela-
tion of the truth would not fail to create. Act-
ing upon this plan, she very plainly intimated
the revulsion of her feelings to Father Girard
by the frigidity of her demeanour, and greatly
encouraged the desire of the novice to return
home.
The watchful eye of the criminal was not
slow in marking these symptoms that his secret
was on the eve of discovery, perhaps of expo-
sure. Hence his determination to bury his
victim in the eternal silence of a Carthusian
cell, the severity of whose rules he hoped would
soon put an end to an existence which his
magical practices had already made precarious,
and which had now become an obstacle in his
path—an obstacle that he was determined to
remove at every cost. ''
Herein," continued my
father, "we may behold the unvarying con-
catenation of crime. One evil action leads to
another as inevitably as the foot mechanically
132 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ascends^ one by one, the steps of a ladder, when
the will points upwards."
He then stated the base manner in which the
Jesuit had persecuted, or caused to be per-
secuted, all those who had dared to extend a
friendly hand towards the unfortunate object
of his unpriestly passion and unmanly hate
;
how he had, finally, even ventured to attack a
worthy and zealous member of the church,
because he had devoted, in obedience to the
Bishop's express orders, his talents and his care
to the poor sufferer, in order to rescue her from
the horrible state in which he found her. He
dwelt in glowing terms of heartfelt gratitude
on the success that had attended these charitable
endeavours, and using the very words applied
by Catherine to the subject, he depicted how
the darkness and gloom of night were gradually
dispelled from her soul by a pure and bright
effulgence, the light of a never-forgotten or
unregretted truth, which filled her bosom with
comfort and endurance as of yore. The power
of praying was restored, and with it the pure
devotion of past days—her thoughts, polluted
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 133
no longer with the evil promptings of an
accursed spirit, flowed again in their accustomed
channel—all strange, wild, rebellious desires
and doubts had vanished, and she was the Ca-
therine of former days, at least in conscience.
She would even have forgiven the author of her
past sufferings had not her present line of con-
duct been forced upon her by his own machina-
tions. Then, having dilated warmly upon the
persecutions that followed, he continued :
—
" The dark spirit that has wrought the ruin
of a fair and innocent being who had never
wronged him, now demands the life of his
victim as a sacrifice to his own security, that he
may screen his guilt behind the rack or the
wheel on w^hich she may expire. This he re-
quires ; and for the honour he has sullied, for
the life he now claims, I, on the part of my
client, in turn demand the punishment of the
ravisher, the quietist, and the magician I"
When my father resumed his seat, the sen-
sation created in the court was immense, as
might have been expected from the exorbitant
interest of the case itself, heightened, perhaps,
134 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
a little, by the manner and person of the advo-
cate. Indeed, not only was justice on the side
of the plaintiff, but every prepossession that can
influence the judgment through the eyes or
prejudices.
During many parts, and those the most strik-
ing and essential of my father's harangue, the
culprit had betrayed much agitation, whilst
Catherine maintained throughout the same
composure that had marked her appearance
when she entered the court. It was impossible
not to be convinced as to the real offender the
moment the eye rested on either.
The reply of Monsieur Pezeray Thorame
was less lucid, less terse, and, above all, far less
powerful than my father had anticipated. The
subject was, indeed, sufficiently difficult. To
prove that a man past fifty,
—grown old, not in
the retirement of a cell or an hermitage, but in
the bosom of populated cities, where the nu-
merous consciences laid bare before him must
have given him a thorough knowledge of the
world, and especially of the human heart,
—
should have been imposed, grossly imposed
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 135
upon, in the first instance, by a young girl of
nineteen, brought up in the deepest retirement,
and utterly ignorant of the ways and wicked-
ness of mankind so familiar to himself; and
that when at last his eyes were opened to the
deception practised on his unsuspicious frank-
ness, this same J'^oung girl, her brothers, and
her confessor, had reunited in a base conspiracy
to punish him for refusing to become the par-
ticipator in a fraud—the accomplice in an im-
posture calculated to compromise the interests
of the church,—all this was too preposterous
to lay much weight upon. That such would
be the ground of Father Girard's defence my
father was well assured ; but he was not pre-
pared to hear it in a great measure supported
by aspersions upon poor Catherine's temper and
disposition ; for to her character, of course, no
evil could be ascribed—that was placed beyond
the power of even the most malignant calumny.
He was also not a little surprised at the falla-
cious representation of many facts brought
forward in support of the charges thus boldly
advanced.
13G 3IAGIC AND 3IES3IERISM.
This could, however, in some measure be
explained by the distorted accounts, in pos-
session of which Father Girard and his friends
would doubtless have put the advocate retained
in his defence. But these accusations could
not be substantiated, and were, in themselves,
even of too trivial a nature to disturb my
father's plea.
It was not Monsieur Thorame's fault, nor
could it cast any discredit on his talents, that
the subject he had to discuss was barren of
those many points favourable to the display of
eloquence and pathos, in which the discourse
of the adverse party might well abound. Al-
though he evidently felt embarrassed, he did
not fail to seize hold adroitly of every straw
within his reach; but the plausibility of his
observations did not carry conviction. In vain
did he urge the possibility of a man of un-
bounded devotion believing in miracles, saints,
and visible, tangible tokens from above, although
he admitted that the more mundane could not
be supposed to appreciate feelings which they
did not share, and might, therefore, have avoided
MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I. 137
falling so easily into the snare laid out by an
artful, vain girl, and a designing family, to en-
trap simplicity and innocence.
The incredulous smile that met this sally
from all sides did not prevent Monsieur Tho-
rame from maintaining his ground, and dwel-
ling upon it at great length, which produced
no other effect than that of wearying many of
the auditors. Having proved, to his own satis-
faction at least, that his client's timely disco-
very of the comedy played by Catherine and
her friends, upon him and the public at large,
had alone induced him to renounce the direc-
tion of that young lady's conscience, and, also,
to attempt every possible means of compelling
her to bury her pretensions, and the scandal
to which the whole story might give rise, within
the walls of a cloister—a precaution, as he said,
of course more for the young lady's sake than
his own,—he pointed out how^ this opposition
to her intrigues, and those of her brothers, had
exposed that virtuous man to their deadliest
hatred and revenge.
He then expatiated on the infernal plot
138 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
which these cruel enemies had fallen upon to
destroy the innocent bar to their wily pur-
poses, with an energy of language that might
not have been without effect, had not the pre-
sence of the oppressed and the oppressor, so
powerfully dwelt upon in high-sounding lan-
guage by Monsieur Thorame, rendered the
comparison ludicrous. As well might he have
described a dove as a bird of prey, ready to
pounce upon, and rend to shreds in her tiny
claws, some dark and antiquated crow; for
Father Girard could not, even in the dizziest
flight of eloquence, be compared to any nobler
species of the feathered tribe.
The charge of sorcery the orator left to
disclaim itself; for who, in the eighteenth
century, could for a moment be led into the
field of error by such a mere Will-o'-the-wisp,
as had thus been held up by his learned
opponent. After a few brilliant, disdainful
flourishes, he declared himself unwilling to
argue a matter so far beneath the enlighten-
ment of the epoch, and passed to the ques-
tion of Quietism, which, my father thought.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 139
he lingered too long upon, considering how
little demonstrative of erudition, happy thought,
or rational argument, he in reality brought for-
ward. Finally, he denied the charge of seduc-
tion, denouncing it as a calumny invented to
give colour to the other absurd charges; for
of course the crime of magic must be based
on some criminal motive ; and he declared his
opinion, that the whole accusation would have
fallen to the ground, had not party spirit fanned
the flame, and designing priests taken up the
weapons offered them by worldly plotters, who
entertained scarcely more malicious designs,
and whose intrigues he relied upon justice and
equity to unmask and to punish.
When Monsieur Thorame resumed his seat,
if any conclusion might be drawn from the
dead, chilling silence that ensued, public feel-
ing was evidently not with the Jesuit. He
had denied all the facts alleged by Catherine,
and announced a few which, if satisfactorily
proved, w^ould certainly go far towards justi-
fying himself; but still much remained un-
explained, obscure, or very ill accounted for;
140 MAGIC AND 3JESMERISM.
and my father saw plainly, that not only truth,
bat even its outward show, would rest on his
side.
When the witnesses were called, the interest
of the spectators, which had visibly flagged
during the lengthened harangue of Monsieur
Thorame, became again intense. Mademoiselle
Langiercs' beauty, her obvious distress, and
reluctant avowals, excited at once pity and
indignation —Mademoiselle Guyol, giddy no
longer — Mesdemoiselles Batterel, Reboul, all
the once happy and bright satellites which, in
former days, revolved around that star of purest
loveliness, Catherine Cadieres, now fallen, like
herself, a sunken constellation, extinguished for
ever by the same ruthless, unsparing hand,
—
presented for the most part cases so similar to
Catherine's, that nothing could be more corro-
borative of her statements than their evidence.
In admitting their individual dishonour, they
one and all, like her, swore to breathings on
the brow, fixed and prolonged gazes, that be-
wildered their senses, and declared their con-
viction that their ruin had been accomplished
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 141
by means of foul, dark acts of magic. Indeed, in
spite of the enlightenment of that or any other
period, it was next to impossible to assign a
rational cause for the errors of so many youth-
ful maidens in favour of the prisoner at the
bar. It was difficult to believe these young
victims, all equally perjured, willing abettors
of a detestable fraud; and yet human reason
was confounded in the inextricable labyrinth
into which their disclosures were well calcu-
lated to involve it.
Thus ended the first day; and with per-
turbed, agitated spirit, did every single indi-
vidual of that countless throng return to his
home or his inn, as the case might be, to dis-
cuss throughout the livelong night possibilities
that seemed to verge on the impossible; and
dreamy questions, that led to anything but the
sweet oblivion of slumber.
Had Mesmer but been there to give a new
name to that mysterious phenomenon of na-
ture, whose definition in darker ages, by their
few and much calumniated philosophers, has
become a despised and contemptible byword
—
142 MAGIC AND MESMERISM,
had Mesmer proclaimed his startling proposi-
tions to those whose minds the artless revela-
tions of a few simple, uneducated young women
had so much perplexed—all would been ex-
plained. Father Girard had been held a ma-
gician no longer ; but a perfect adept in animal
magnetism would have been unmasked at once.
Let no one henceforth say there is nothing in
a name, though your incredulous smile, my
young friend, would indicate that to your ear
both are alike empty, equally void of sense
and truth. But facts are facts; and how, by
the process of ordinary reasoning, will you
account for those which are registered, and
were but too well substantiated on this eventful
trial to leave any room for doubt.
The next day, and the next, and a few more
were entirely devoted to the examination of
witnesses. Their name, indeed, was legion, but
to my father they certainly proved no evil
spirits, for throughout they confirmed every fact
he had advanced—every word he had uttered.
Nothing could exceed in dignity the bearing of
Madame D'Aubert; the most cursory glance
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 143
was sufficient to establish her claims to respect,
even in the lightest minds. Her depositions
were all and wholly in Catherine's favour ; and
so concise, so clear, so complete, that no more
conclusive evidence could be desired. Nor was
the testimony borne by any one of her com-
munity less definitive. The mistress of the
novices, the numerous sisters, down to the very
domestics of the establishment, all represented
the facts in the same light.
Thus a serious clause in the indictment was
established by the most indisputable evidence,
and the deep personal interest lay exposed, that
was alleged to have driven Father Girard to
those magical practices which formed now the
darkest part of the charge brought against him.
The singular phenomenon of an exalted state of
clairvoyance and artificial somnambulism of
which the unfortunate Catherine had furnished so
striking an example, was deposed toby physicians,
doctors in divinity, nuns, and chance witnesses
of every grade and station, and details were
furnished which, as might well have been
imagined, excited the court even more than all
144 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
that had gone before. In short, to avoid wearying
your patience as much as possible, no case was
ever more complete as to evidence. There was
not the least shadow of a doubt left wherein to
conceal Father Girard's shame, nor outlet, how-
ever small, for him to creep through.
The effect of his disgrace was yet enhanced
by the truly admirable conduct of Mademoiselle
Cadieres during the whole of the trial ; never
for a single moment had she faltered in her de-
positions, never in a single word or expression
departed from the truth. Though repeatedly
cross-examined, and that in no gentle or fair
manner, she had steadfastly clung to her first
statement with a calmness, an equanimity of
temper, that vouched at once for her sincerity
and the generosity of purpose that had made
her place herself in so trying a situation.
Father Girard, on the contrary, broke down at
each question, contradicted himself at every
word, and, finally, became so perplexed in his
own falsehoods as to stand repeatedly exposed,
not only to the rebuke of the court, but to the
ridicule of the assembled crowd, whose disgust
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 145
and contempt could with difficulty be restrained
within ordinary bounds. His embarrassment
seemed to accrue with every instant ; his pre-
varication and imbroglios became so palpable,
that finding every word he uttered involved him
deeper, crimsoning under the consciousness of
his exposure, he folded his arms across his
breast, and turned away his face, apparently de-
termining thenceforth to maintain an absolute
silence.
But it was when confronted with Catherine
that the little presence of mind he had 3^et pre-
served, failed him altogether. He could not
bring himself, despite his most strenuous efforts,
to gaze on her lovely countenance, and serene
blue eyes fixed on him with cold, but not bitter
reproach ; Ijut shrunk from her gaze, as an owl
shrinks from the brightness of day, and sought
the darkness of his own breast. When her
sweet, clear tones rang close to his car, a slight
but perceptible shudder thrilled through his
frame ; and when, at last, compelled to answer
the few leading questions put to him in the same
calm, firm tone which she had hitherto main-
VOL. ir. H
146 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
tained, remorse, fear, or a lingering tenderness
for the object of a passion perhaps but ill ex-
tinguished—one or all of these feelings combined
so overwhelmed him, that, unmindful even of
the semblance of manhood, he fairly sobbed
aloud. His weakness set the seal to public
opinion. No witness could have given a more
unfavourable impression of him than the Jesuit,
humbled, perplexed, lost in an ocean of con-
tending feelings, eflPected for himself.
One link in the chain of evidence had been
lost —that, namely, of the mysterious corre-
spondence averred to by the abbess and others,
but of which it was not in Catherine's power to
produce the least trace. Father Girard now
swore to the destruction of the letters—now
owned they were still in his possession ; but all
efforts to induce him to deliver them up, or to
be explicit about their contents, failed com-
pletely. This gap in the demonstrative evi-
dence, otherwise so clear, could not, however,
weigh the balance in his favour. The very fact
of his having withdrawn them tended suffi-
ciently to prove how damning he considered
their contents.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 147
A more decided, more triumphant case could
not possibly await the final sanction of a judg-
ment. Public feeling—nay, one might almost
say public passion—was completely enlisted in
flivour of the plaintiff. Her personal beauty,
youth, and, above all, her feminine modesty,
meekness of demeanour, yet firmness and recti-
tude of purpose, joined to the justice of her
cause, the power of her enemies, and the suff'er-
ings she had already undergone^ justified the
enthusiastic sympathy inspired by her mis-
fortunes; nor was there one heart within the
city of Toulon, however humble the breast in
which it beat, that did not throb with a fervent
desire that her wrongs might be avenged, since
reparation was impossible.
On every day of this eventful trial—and it
was an unusually protracted one—the people
had never ceased crowding to suffocation every
approach to the hall of justice ; but on the last
day the press was fearful; and it was with the
utmost difficulty that ingress or egress could be
obtained to or from the court. An expression of
unusual animation pervaded every face, which
in many of those ardent southern countenances
h2
148 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
was deepened into ferocity—a peculiarity not
altogether foreign to their impassioned natures.
The Jesuits, ever since the beginning of the
affair, had scarcely ventured to pass through
the mob, so intense was the execration in which
they were held at that moment by the very
people who had worshipped them with slavish
respect but a few short days before. The ex-
citement within and without the court was at
its height.
The spectators had nosegays of white flowers
at their breasts, as if in joyous expectation of
the triumph of that innocence for whose em-
blem they had been selected. Catherine looked
still more beautiful than on the previous days,
though somewhat more moved than usual ; a
slight blush suffused her face at almost every
alternate minute, and her eyes more frequently
sought those of her trembling mother, who was
scarcely less an object of deep sympathy and
interest than herself.
The judges seemed more perturbed and
gloomy than ever, and turned no friendly
glances towards the plaintiff and her advocate.
JMAGIC AND MESMERISM. 149
Their collision with the Jesuits was too evident
to make it doubtful which way their judgment
would go, had they but dared to follow their
inclinations—perhaps their fears would be the
truer interpretation of their feelings—in the
undeniably critical position in which they were
placed ; but my father heeded not their frown-
ing aspect. Although the eighteenth century
yet retained all the seeds of the feudal and
justiciary system of the dark ages, and justice
was yet almost synonymous with barbarity,
power with abuse, still so flagrant and outrage-
ous an act as the condemnation of Catherine,
especially considering the ferment of spirit
throughout the town, he could not bring him-
self to believe possible.
The proceedings of that day he estimated as
mere child's play, to delay as long as possible
an unavoidable sentence, which, however, older
practitioners warned him not to look forward to
so very sanguinely. Once, and once only, did
his eye light, perchance, upon the Jesuit's
countenance, whose every movement he had
hitherto watched, nevertheless, most carefully
150 MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I.
—he seemed moody and absorbed, but in great
measure recovered from the abject consterna-
tion and terror which had overwhelmed him
throughout the proceedings of this harassing
trial. My father remarked that in the course
of that morning he had helped himself re-
peatedly from a water-flask that stood near, in
order, as he thought, to calm his inward per-
turbation ; and when his glance fell on him, he
was in the very act of raising a glassful of the
pure element to his lips. There was nothing in
this simple movement to excite any attention,
and my father soon turned his thoughts to
other objects. Shortly afterwards, Catherine
feeling much exhausted, one of the inferior
officers about the court approached her with a
tumbler of fresh water, which was accepted
and drained at a draught. As she returned the
glass to the man, who waited for it with ex-
tended hand, she observed to him—and many
besides my father, who scarcely heeded it at the
moment, heard the remark—that the water had
a very salt and disagreeable taste, and rather
excited than slacked her thirst.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 151
The examination of other witnesses went on,
and, finally, Catherine was again confronted
with Father Girard. Her behaviour in public
had been, until that moment, in such perfect
accordance with the sentiments she expressed
in private, that my father no longer watched
her with the same keen, sickening apprehension
which at first his doubts of her stability had
occasioned. But now there was something so
strange and unsteady in the sound of her voice,
as to cause him to start and look round, when
the change that he beheld in her whole mien
and bearing riveted at once his eye and his
attention.
Had the wand of an enchanter touched her,
and that wand been invested with all the mys-
terious quahties ever bestowed on it by the
most generous imagination, it could not have
wrought a change more complete, and to her
friends and well-wishers more appalling. Her
eyes wandered with uncertain, dreamy gaze
fi:om object to object, or sought the ground,
not, however, fi:om natural bashfulness, but
firom a heaviness that seemed to press the lids
152 3IAGIC AND 3IESMERISM.
forcibly down ; her lips and brow were con-
tracted as if by an intense effort at collecting
thought ; her answers were broken, dark,
vague, unconnected ; and the light from within,
that had irradiated her countenance and dif-
fused its brightness into every lineament,
seemed fading aw^ay from her perplexed brow^,
on which the mists that had lain so heavy on
it at St. Claire's were slowly again gathering.
Gradually as Catherine lost her self-command
—and that, too, at the most critical moment of
her fate,—Father Girard assumed an air of
growing courage, as much at variance with his
hitherto abject timidity and unmanly incohe^
rency. His manner grew proportionably as-
sured, as that of his opponent lost firmness ; my
father gazed in speechless amazement; whilst
the judges exchanged smiles, that shewed how
much this change relieved their minds at that
decisive hour.
The rest passed with the rapidity and, my
father has often assured me, with the indis-
tinctness of a dream. He more than once
made a violent effort as if to awake from some
MAGIC AND MES31ERISM. 153
troubled vision, as he heard Catherine, in a
hurried, confused manner, recant, one by one,
every word she had before spoken, deny every
fact that had been proved by irrefragable evi-
dence,—assert herself a mean impostor, the tool
of a vile conspiracy,—Father Girard, an injured
saint,—herself, her friends and supporters, the
vilest of sinners that ever trod the earth.
Father Girard's scowling glances, fraught with
darkest malignity in the hour of victory—the
exclamations of uncontrollable wonder that burst
from the spectators—the sobs of the agitated
mother—the indignant rustle of the veils of the
nuns of St. Clare, as they drew them closer to
their faces in speechless indignation at the
inconceivable, shameless prevarication of the
plaintiff, whom they had hitherto regarded with
feelings of the purest commiseration—the thun-
dering eloquence of Monsieur Thorame as it
came pouring down from the Alps of his
imagination like a headlong avalanche—his own
weak and confused refutation spoken in a hoarse,
indistinct tone of voice—the summing up of the
judges—the fatal condemnation itself—all that
h3
154 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
passed around him sounded to my father hke the
horrid mockery of a dream. But an hour ago
a victor, standing proudly opposed to humbled
foes, whose evil designs he had so valiantly com-
bated, now prostrate and vanquished without
a final struggle—taken by surprise—thrown off
his guard—never had knight fallen so low or
lady proved so false ! How he left the court
and reached home he could scarcely tell; nor
was it before a few hours of calm and solitude
had restored his wonted elasticity and energy of
spirit, that he felt himself again able to look
about him and to think.
Heaps of letters, bearing the post-mark of
Marseilles, lay on his table ; most of them bore
the quaint, straggling characters of the period,
which he recognised as his sister's ; one or two
only were written in the regular, firm, round
hand of Eleonore. His affianced bride had
never approved of the self-devotion of her
lover, to her friend, nor had she been flattered
by the necessary delay of their union which it
enforced. Too frank to conceal her displeasure,
too maidenly to admit its extent or motive, her
JVIAGIC AND MESMERISM. 155
letters were few, and those few cold and con-
strained. No casual peruser could have guessed
the tender devotion of the writer from such
unmeaning gleanings ; but my father read the
spirit aright that lay concealed behind the
barrier of reserve, an insight into the truth, for
which he was as much indebted to his sister's
detailed and ample communications, as to his
own sagacity. As he was too fair to expect the
object of his choice to be faultless, he was
neither surprised nor angry at the feminine
weakness she thus displayed ; he was not sorry
to find his bride a woman still, though a superior
one, and had sufficient vanity or self-love—
I
scarcely know which to term it—to feel a plea-
sure in knowing himself the object of an ardent
attachment. Had Mademoiselle Raymond
performed the heroics of feminine friendship on
this occasion, it would certainly not have satis-
fied him so well as this little display of nature.
As he glanced rapidly firom page to page,
gleaning consolation from the gentle sympathy
therein expressed, the bitter feelings of dis-
appointment and indignation that swelled his
156 3IAGIC ANB 3IKS3IEKISM.
heart well nigh to bursting, gradual^ softened,
and the long detailed account which he sat
down to write rehevcd it more and more. As
he vented his grief and anger on the uncon-
scious paper, and poured out his whole soul to
the being in whom he already felt that bound-
less confidence which makes an affectionate,
sensible wife the most peerless friend on earth,
he felt the weight on his spirits by degrees
give way ; and with reviving courage, the
resources of his mind awoke anew. More than
once he was compelled to lay down the pen to
follow some new train of thought, as a w^ord, a
phrase suggested it, and his epistle, begun in
despondency, ended with words of a nature
peculiarly characteristic of himself: —" This
engagement is lost, but not the day. We may
rally and wdn after all. My honour is now
yours, or will be so soon enough to enlist your
good washes on my side in another struggle,
should I be successful in getting one up ; if I
fail in this measure, I shall shortly be in Mar-
seilles, if no untoward chance hefaV^
The latter words w^ere dashed, and the letter
3IAGIC AND MESMERIS.M. 157
which was to convey so paiiifiil an inteiUgence
to his whole family, through his chosen inter-
preter, was entrusted, not to the chances of the
post, but to a special and trustworthy messen-
ger, to deliver it with his own hands into those
of Mademoiselle Raymond.
Having thus performed a somewhat protracted
duty, and lightened his own spirits of their
heavy burthen, by confiding it to those of an-
other, his ideas being cleared up by the mental
labour he had just undergone, and the keen
edge of his own disappointment somewhat
softened by the few hours of uninterrupted
reflection which had passed by, his thoughts
naturally reverted to the miserable sufferers
—
the afflicted mother—the doomed daughter.
The more vividly the sorrow of the one and
the fate of the other presented themselves
before him, the more rapidly and completely
did his mind recover its tone. What were his
egotistical and vain regrets, his humiliation,
compared to the abyss into which they had
fallen.
Although evening had already crept upon
158 MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I.
liim—for it was the close of autumrij and the
days were shortening fast—my father hurried to
the poor desolate mother, whom he found, to
his great surprise, shut up alone in her room.
Her son and daughter-in-law informed him
that she had obstinately refused to receive the
consolations tendered by her many friends, and
even by a large number of the most respectable
people of Toulon, who had called on her in
person to testify their respect and sympathy.
She had resolutely denied herself to all, even,
to those who had every claim upon her atten-
tion —her afflicted children —her confessor.
The house was, indeed, one of mourning ; nor
were her feelings soothed, but her sufferings
rather sharpened, by the ceaseless clamours of
the populace, who, unconscious of Catherine's
fatal recantation, which afforded some sort of
colour to the sentence pronounced against her,
were incensed beyond measure at this fresh
proof of the boundless power of her perse-
cutors, and the ruthless manner in which it was
wielded.
Discontented groups hovered the whole day
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 159
about the college of the Jesuits and Mademoi-
selle Cadieres' dwelling. The former with
strictly closed gates, seemed haughtily to defy,
from within its high grey walls, the taunts that
could not pierce them ; thus irritating the mob
as much as the weeping faces that met their
curious gaze in and about the dwelling of the
Cadieres excited their tumultuous sympathies.
Never had that fickle but powerful adjunct, the
favour of the people, been more completely
enlisted in any cause. But whilst Catherine
was proclaimed in every public place and street
by the busy tongues of the multitude, and in
theluxurious salons of almost every member of
the Toulon society, except such as might be
influenced against her by their connexion wdth
the Bishop, as an injured saint whose grievous
wrongs cried aloud for vengeance, the victim
of unheard of injustice and oppression; her
mother, dead to all around her—dead to all but
pain and anguish—spent the whole of that
eventful day in her chamber, which she had
carefully darkened ; and so hushed, so still was
everything within^ that more than once the
160 3IAGIC AND 3IES3IERISM.
minds of her children had been visited with the
most fearful apprehensions. Had not the blow
aimed at the offshoot struck the tree ?
" I will obtain admittance for myself," said
my father. " Hope is the best of all consola-
tions, and that I will make it my duty to
inspire."
He had, however, to repeat, again and again,
in the loudest tones he could command, his
assurances that the evil was not irreparable—
that there were yet many steps to be taken, of
a nature to change altogether the face of affairs
—and that he had come expressly to consult
with her on those very points, before the slight-
est stir was heard within the apartment. All
seemed silent as the grave ; and as appeal suc-
ceeded appeal without effect, he began to feel
no inconsiderable share of alarm, when sud-
denly the door was flung open, and Madame
Cadieres stood before him.
A few hours had altered the poor mother as
though as many years had passed over her, yet
there was no trace of recent tears on her ashy
countenance—it expressed that silent, stubborn
grief, which gnaws the very heart away.]
MAGIC AND MESiMERISM. 161
"And do you really bring comfort, or are
you commissioned by those who love me, to
perform some charitable office of deception.
It were but mistaken kindness, and utterly
thrown away."
My father had the greatest difficulty in con-
vincing her of his sincerity ; but he was at last
successful in obtaining her consent to the further
measures wdiich he deemed it necessary imme-
diately to take.
"Activity and promptitude," said he, "are
our best, indeed, at the present crisis, our
only means of safety. We must, without
loss of time, make an appeal to the Parlia-
ment at Aix; if unsuccessful, we will not
even then give up the game. Do not there-
fore, dear Madam, despair, before at least we
have exhausted our resources."
"But if Catherine should really have de-
ceived us all, Monsieur Chaudon ? It is a
horrid, a maddening thought ! But if it were
so, would not every further effort be only an
aggravation of guilt ?" And for the first time
since the awful sentence had been spoken, the
mother wept.
162 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
The scalding tears relieved her bursting
heart, and my father suffered them for a time
to flow unrepressed; for he considered that
these were saving tears, and too precious to her
reason, perhaps her life, to be interrupted ; but
when the first strong fit of emotion had sub-
sided, he took her hand within his, and said in
the gentle, soothing tones of a son:
—
"And can you doubt Catherine?—/ never
did. Who that knows her can for a moment
douUr
" That were, indeed, a blessed thought," said
the sobbing mother, clasping her hands tightly
together, and raising a grateful look to Heaven ;
"but if it be as you would infer, wherefore
that horrible confession, which sounded in my
ears like a death knell ? That can never be
explained away."
" Her words cannot turn aside such evidence
as that borne by the whole sisterhood of St.
Clare, and other witnesses. I consider her
extraordinary recantation as an accidental wan-
dering of the mind, occasioned by its over-
tension. The bow too tightly strung will snap.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 163
It was nothing more, I am assured ; though I
confess nothing could be more unfortunate at
the moment, or more perplexing. I taught
myself to look forward to something of this
kind—I mean, to much weakness and vacilla-
tion of thought—when first I undertook the
task which has this day been defeated. But
she had won the respect and admiration of all,
and my fullest confidence, by the simple truth-
fulness of her manner. Had I been prepared
for the change, I might, perhaps, even have
turned this infirmity to advantage. The trial
lasted too long—it wearied her,—I am well
assured that nothing else caused the melancholy
error."
" You pour balm, indeed, into my wounded
spirit ;
you bring hope and comfort in the hour
of my utmost need, and when I thought it be-
yond man's power to afford either. Alas ! alas !
but for my folly and vanity—for it was not my
better feelings, but my worst, that misled me,
—
you, who have performed a son's part through-
out, would now be my son in good sooth, and I
a proud and happy mother."
164 MAGIC AND MESMERISM,
" You could never, under any circumstances,
have possessed more of my friendship than is
now yours," said my father, hastily interrupting
the train of self-recrimination on \Yhich Madame
Cadieres had entered, and which, natural as it
was, he did not feel much pleasure in listening
to.
She understood the check, and passing her
handkerchief over her eyes, and suppressing
with difficulty a rising sigh, she said ;
—
" Well, then, we will make the appeal, and I
am very, very sorry I could for a moment en-
tertain a doubt of my Catherine's innocence,
whilst you—you—but you once loved her
well."
" I do so still," he gently answered, " and
will bear her, to-morrow, the most efficacious
of all cordials in her heavy affliction, one which
will strengthen her, I am sure, beyond any
other that earth can aiford, the knowledge that
you bear up with vigour against this calamity."
My father did not leave the house until its
other inmates had recovered in some measure
from the first stupor of the shock ; then issuing
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 165
once more into the open street, he turned his
steps towards the prison, where he deemed his
services might prove equally essential.
He found the Carmelite Prior somewhat de-
jected on his own account, but mainly sorrow-
ing for poor Catherine, whose condemnation
had filled his breast with the deepest compassion.
He fired up at the idea of a second trial, and, it
would appear, had been revolving precisely the
same subject in his own mind. To save the
intended victim of the Jesuits at every cost and
risk was the generous desire at that moment
predominating in his bosom, and they long
talked over the means of effecting this new plan
of action. When my father left the Prior, he
obtained admittance to the young men, Cathe-
rine's brothers. They were both a prey to the
most fearful agitation, but which their sister's
situation so amply justified as to call forth pity
rather than reproof. Here, too, my father re-
mained faithful to his self-imposed task of
charity ; nor did he leave them until they were
more composed, and able to look forward to
the future with sufficient confidence to render
166 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the present more tolerable. Catherine he had
previously determined not to visit until the
morrow, in which decision he had been con-
firmed by hearing from the gaoler's wife that
ever since her return to the prison, whither she
had been brought back in a swoon, she had lain
senseless on her bed ; and though she had occa-
sionally given some slight signs of life, had
neither unclosed her eyes nor opened her lips.
My father, with a deep drawn sigh, left the
prison, grieved at what he could not but con-
sider a relapse into one of those mysterious fits
from which he had hoped Catherine was for
ever delivered. He had felt how painful their
meeting would be that day, and on leaving the
court, had slipped into her hand a card, on
which were pencilled, in a hurried scrawl, these
few words : —" Do not despair—put your trust
in God; one way or the other, you shall be
saved."
But these encouraging words, traced more
with a view to soften the first pangs of her grief
than with any definite, clear view of the subject
at the moment, were not permitted to produce
MAGIC AND MESMERISM, 167
the desired effect. The card, hastily thrust
into her bosom, had not been removed thence.
What consolation, indeed, did she need, who
felt no pain ?
My father's first movement on the ensuing
morning was towards Madame Cadieres', whose
revived appearance sufficiently paid him for his
cares ; his next was to Catherine, who, he was
informed, had already anxiously inquired after
him. He found her still in the clothes of the
previous day, her eyes sparkling with a feverish
lustre, heightened by a hectic flush. She looked
wretchedly ill ; and as she extended her hand
towards him, which he raised to his lips, he felt
it hot and dry. In the other, she held his
hastily-scribbled lines, which she had been, for
the first time, perusing.
"What must you think of me. Monsieur
Chaudon," she impetuously exclaimed ; " how
unworthy have I proved of your generous exer-
tions! The thought of how cruelly I have
committed you, and of my poor mother, dis-
tracts me."
My father, delighted to find her so rational
168 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
and connected—a thing he had scarcely dared to
hope—having tranquiUized her fears with respect
to her mother, dehcatety veered towards the
dangerous shoal, on which her composure would
inevitably be wrecked, if her senses were as un-
certain as he imagined ; but, to his no small
wonder, she reverted to the subject without the
slishtest embarrassment or confusion.
"You say my mother is well, my brothers
too, and that I have the forgiveness of all;
their love, indeed, I could not doubt ; but you
—
can you forgive, and, above all, believe me
again ?"
As she said these w^ords, she fixed a keen,
searching glance on my father, as if she would
read his very soul.
" Yes," he replied, solemnly. " I have already
declared my conviction, that your yesterday's
error was an involuntary, unpremeditated weak-
ness—the effect of overwrought sensibilities."
" No ; not so !" said Catherine, with singular
earnestness. *^
Repeat again that you will
implicitly believe me, for that assurance alone
can give me courage to reveal the truth."
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 169
My father now seriously entreated, if she had
anything to state, that she would lose no time
in so doing, owning that an explanation of so
strange a circumstance would not be ungrati-
fying.
" It is difficult to advance anything that
must seem preposterous and absurd to others,
however deeply we may feel convinced of its
veracity, without some reluctance. In spite of
your kind assertions to the contrary, I am afraid
you will hardly credit me when I state, that it
was that fatal glass of water which bewildered,
scattered my reason, and that I am certain
Father Girard had, by some means or other,
contrived to charm it. It seems a wild suppo-
sition, and yet I am positive it is the case.
Scarcely had the draught passed my lips, when
I felt its intoxicating qualities mount to my
brain. I was lost in a world of deception;
everything appeared under a new light—my-
self a monster ; lie was again, for the hour,
the master of my soul, and I felt, thought, and
spoke as he desired ; the spell was again on my
brain, on my heart, and my lips obeyed its sug-
VOL. II. I
170 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
gestions. Oh ! how could you imagine that of
my o^^^l free will I could have uttered such
horrid falsehoods —have thrown shame and
danger on the innocent to save the guilty
—
sacrificed Father Nicholas, my brothers, my
poor mother, for whom?—for that monster?
No ! surely you cannot think that, left to my
own free will, I could ever have done this. It
is impossible
!"
During the delivery of this impassioned
appeal, my father suddenly remembered that,
almost immediately before Catherine had taken
the glass of water which she imagined to have
been tainted by the Jesuit, he had seen one in
his hand. Might it not have been that which
he had contrived to send her ? The coincidence
struck him as singular, to say the least of it.
^^
The cup," said he, "may have been drugged,
to produce a partial derangement of faculties."
" No, it was not drugged !" said Catherine,
impatiently—" not drugged, but charmed by
some incantation or other device of the evil
spirit, such as that emissary of darkness has at
his command. It was a state which I have too
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 171
often been in to mistake its operation, followed,
too, by one of those death-like trances. But
now the effect of that noxious draught is over,
I am myself again—ready to bear all things
—
to proclaim my innocence to the whole world,
if it stood by to listen."
" Do you remember the awful conclusion of
the scene yesterday?"
" The condemnation !" said Catherine, with
a majesty of look' such as my father had never
seen her or any other mortal being assume
before. " I do ; but it is not that which affrights
my spirit. I am ready to seal the truth with
my blood ; and the words which I shall speak
at the last hour will be believed, will they not,
Monsieur Chaudon ? Surely the dying accents
of innocence will be recorded amongst the
living, for methinks my spirit could not rest in
other and happier realms, were yesterday's
error unrepaired."
" Perish you shall not !" said my father, with
emphasis, as he gazed on her inspired coun-
tenance, lighted up with the expression of high,
unflinching resolve.
I 2
172 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
" I thank you from my heart," she replied,
with a sad smile, as she slightly glanced at his
card, which she still mechanically retained in
her hand ; " but I cannot avail myself of your
generous kindness. I may not fly without bring-
ing danger on others—disgrace on myself. No !
Let Father Girard and his friends do their
worst by me, and may my untimely fate be a
warning to others."
" Nay, I do not speak of flight," said my
father, gravely, " nor will I yet seek to combat
your enthusiastic notion of self-sacrifice. I will
content myself with offering you the means of
rehabilitating yourself in the eyes of the world,
and of obtaining, perchance, a more equitable
verdict, if justice be left in the land. But,
Catherine, before I venture the appeal, I wish
I were convinced that your strength would
carry you well through your second trial.
Another relapse were a fearful contingency,
and would involve even the honour of your
defenders."
Catherine seized eagerly upon the thought.
" I am more grateful than mere words can tell,"
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 173
said she, " that I may yet be afforded an oppor-
tunity of vindicating my character. You can-
not possibly imagine the pang of knowing one-
self judged guilty, whilst the consciousness of
innocence is at one's heart. It is an awful
thing for a woman to stand arraigned before
a court—to gaze in the frowning countenances
of men whose hearts are steeled against her
by opinions formed beforehand or rooted preju-
dice—to steal a timid glance at the crowd of
fellow-creatures ready to smile her back to life,
or to turn away in cold disgust, and fling its
portals too against her, at a word, a beck of those
dark men who cannot read her heart or fathom
the hidden truth. On a chance—a word—her
name, her life depends. Innocent or guilty,
presumption, prejudice, or private passions and
interests are against her. When I heard my
sentence read. Monsieur Chaudon, and saw the
cold eye, the steady lip of him who delivered
it, and remembered I had never done wrong to
any being on earth, and yet that my fellow
creatures found me worthless to remain in this
poor world of ours beside them, I could not
174 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
help thinking human justice an awful respon-
sibility !"
A slight shudder thrilled visibly through poor
Catherine's frame as she spoke the last words,
and she fixed her eyes on the gloomy wall
of her dungeon, as if carried back by the vivid-
ness of her reminiscences beyond their narrow
limits, to the impressive scene whose effect
on herself she had described.
My father, too, grew thoughtful, for he re-
membered but too many cases where human
justice had been warped by human passion, and
though he had not yet witnessed the judiciary
murder of the family, Calas, who, although
accused of the most heinous offences, expiated
on the wheel no worse crime than that of ad-
hering to the Protestant faith,—yet sufficient
instances were on record of trials in which
power had bought over justice, or compelled it
;
and the recollection made him tremble for
Catherine.
" Do not look so downcast, my friend," she
said, rousing herself from her reverie with a
smile so sweet that he could have wept to see
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 175
it. " We are all in the Lord's hand, and should
bow our heads meekly to his dispensations."
My father's philosophy was put to shame by
this calm resignation, whose source was so much
higher and purer than that to which he some-
times applied for comfort ; and he left the prison
with such an increase of admiration and pity for
his client, and of fervour for her cause, as to
make it in the fullest sense of the word his own.
Weeks elapsed^ during which little was
changed in the general aspect of affairs. The
cause was removed from Toulon to the Par-
liament of Aix, and Catherine transported from
a bad prison to a worse —from harsh to cruel
gaolers—from among the people in the midst of
whom she had grown like a violet beneath its
sheltering leaves, to a city where she was little
known except by reputation,—where Father
Girard had been a ruling star for above ten
years, and where the Jesuits had a flourishing
estabhshment. But she endured all these ad-
ditional hardships with a serenity and fortitude
which, though it failed to touch the hearts of
her tormentors, inspired them with involuntary
176 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
respect ; and she bore up miraculously under
the soul-wearying delays which law always im-
poses as a cortege tVetlquctte to its majesty.
Father Nicholas continued deep in theological
studies, successfully whiling away time and
anxiety, whilst the brothers Cadieres were both
ill-treated and tormented with harrowing cares,
which my father made it his constant task to
alleviate by an assumption of more hope than
he was, in reality, sanguine enough to entertain.
Madame Cadieres' restless misery preyed on
her spirits in a manner greatly to enfeeble her
health. Her daughter's final condemnation was
the sword of Damocles, which, waking or sleep-
ing, she ever saw suspended over her head.
Afflicted on her friend's account, anxious on
my father's, distressed at the prospect of her
own happiness being involved, perhaps wrecked,
in this unfortunate business, Mademoiselle Ray-
mond's letters were constrained in spite of her
efforts to make them otherwise, for she con-
tinued unwilling to dwell on her real sentiments
and forebodings, and yet was too candid to veil
them altogether. Her lover, on his part, had
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 177
no time to indulge in long or frequent effusions.
lie had to strain every nerve to the difficult
task before him. The Jesuits were moving
heaven and earth to get Father Girard out of
his difficulties, whilst not only France, but the
whole of Europe, swayed by diverse rehgions,
moral and philosophical opinions, breathlessly
awaited the issue.
My father's spirits were always invigorated by
his visits to Catherine, for however much his
feelings might be roused by the indignities he
saw heaped upon her,—however deeply he
might feel for the privations she was compelled
to endure, still the cheerfulness which she ex*
hibited under these trying circumstances, and
her confidence in him and herself, ever inspired
him with an assurance and hope which, when
left to himself, did not always visit his bosom.
She never complained, and seemed reconciled
to everything ; neither damp nor foul air faded
the rosy tints of her cheek, nor dimmed the
lustre of her eye. On the contrary, they grew
brighter with every day.
One morning, however, he turned away front
I 3
1/8 3IAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the grey massive pile which enclosed her with
an elation of spirits, a renovation of hope, such
as he had not experienced since the signal
failui'e at Toulon. He frequently, almost me-
chanically, thrust his hand within his vest, and
felt for something evidently deposited there, for
each time he unconsciously smiled. Catherine
had remitted a treasure to his keeping, which
Providence itself seemed to have accorded them,
so great was its import at that moment, and so
unforeseen the trove.
In a box containing a few articles of imme-
diate necessity, which Madame Cadieres had
recently sent her daughter, and which had not
been touched since Catherine's return from
Ollioules, she had found one of those letters so
cunningly abstracted by Father Girard, and
which would, doubtless, have been given up
with the rest had it not chanced to have lain,
unknown to herself, in another place than that
wherein she was in the habit of depositing
them.
This epistle was sufficiently conclusive to
prove at least the seduction, and the ardent
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 179
flame with which his unfortunate client had
inspired Father Girard. It was, also, in other
respects corroborative enough of all that had
been advanced to make it a document of the
utmost importance. If Catherine had by her
spoken words implicated herself so deeply, in
what Hght must a written admission of guilt,
signed and dated—and that, too, under no com-
pulsion whatever—place the other party ? Was
not this the most triumphant of all arguments
against Catherine's insane recantation ?
Great as was the trust my father placed in
this paper, he did not fail to communicate its
contents to those who were in any way inter-
ested, in order that, in case of untoward acci-
dents, he might avail himself of their testimony
at the trial, which was now expected very shortly
to take place.
It was on the eve of that trial when my father
thought fit to see in what mood he should find
Catherine. He had, it is true, left her as re-
solved as ever in the morning ; but, taught by
the unlucky occurrence that had already proved
well nigh so fatal, he trembled lest he should
180 MAGIC AND MES3IERISM.
discover the symptoms of wavering, in which
c^se he determined to give a different colour to
his pleading from that he had settled upon.
" How glad I am you are come," said she
;
" I have but just received this letter, and am
much agitated by its contents. There—read
it yourself; I know not what to make of it."
My father took up with surprise a paper
hastily scrawled over with characters, whose in-
distinctness did not prevent him from immedi-
ately recognising as the handwriting of Father
Girard. He approached the dimly burning light
and began to decipher the hieroglyphics with
an absorbing interest. He could scarcely credit
his senses as he read the following lines :
—
" I cannot face you to-morrow, Catherine,
without having, for the first, probably for the
last time, exonerated myself in your eyes of what
will appear to you the most cruel and inexpli-
cable part of my conduct. What must you have
thought—you, whom I had already so deeply
aggrieved—when you beheld me sueing for your
death and denying the truth in your presence.
You must, indeed, have believed that the fury
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 181
of hatred had taken possession of my breast.
Alas ! I almost wish it were so ; but I cannot
allow you to remain in that belief, or to misun-
derstand my motives of action, when remorse,
the bitterest regret, shame, and contrition are
the feelings that torture me. Had I uncon-
trolled power over my own destiny, I should
not for a moment hesitate, but at once, by
pleading guilty to the accusations wherewith I
am charged, save you and, by my self-sacrifice,
perhaps atone in your remembrance and that of
the world for my crimes. But my shame would
recoil on the order to which I belong—my
avowals commit, my dishonourable end disgrace
it. My principles allow me to deny or admit
what I please, and as I please. Care for the
weal of my order is the first of my duties, and
to that alone do I sacrifice you, Catherine; to
an obligation that binds my very soul. This is
why you will see me to-morrow—poor wretch
that I am, torn all through life by contending
passions, now swayed by one and now by
another—resisting, denying the truth, whilst it
tortures my heart. Remember then, Catherine,
182 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
whatever the issue of this fearful struggle, that
it is not against you, not for myself that I stand
up, but for them—that all my wishes, my sym-
pathies, alas ! my guilty weakness, are still en-
listed on your side, and yet I must—nay, more
—
I will listen to your condemnation. Hate me
—
despise me for the past as much as you may,
you cannot do so more than I do myself, but
still for what is to come, believe me, I have no
choice."
The paper dropped from my father's fingers.
" Can this be real ?" he exclaimed. " And
yet it seems his hand."
" It is," said Catherine. " I have but too
much cause to know it well ; it is signed too."
My father, again taking up the letter, care-
fully reperused it; and this time he scanned
carefully the Jesuit's signature.
" This is a most perplexing affair," he at last
said. " Either Father Girard has become mad
with remorse and fear, or this is some device
of the enemy, whose clue it will be next to
impossible to sift."
" I leave it to you to decide on these points,'
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 183
said Catherine. " As for me, nothing shall make
me turn away from the truth. I am happy to
think that Father Girard has enough of Chris-
tianity about him to feel repentance ; but I do
not see how such a conviction can influence
me.
My father was delighted to find her so per-
fectly rational, and soon took his leave, more
astonished at the chance that had put so all-
important a confession into his hands, and more
puzzled as to the use he should make of it,
than he had been about any one link of this
portentous afiair.
But the next morning solved all his diffi-
culties in a somewhat curious fashion. He
had, on his return home, carefully deposited
the document in a secret drawer of his writing-
desk ; and on opening it, the paper was indeed
still there, but beyond a dirty yellowish ap-
pearance, it exhibited not the slightest trace of
ever having been sullied by pen and ink.
Vainly did my father expose its surface to
the rays of the sun, the flame of a lamp, and
employ all the known means of bringing out
184 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
the sympathetic ink, with which he was now
aware the letter had been written. During
the many hours of night, the characters had
faded beyond recovery ; and he saw all further
attempt would only be time lost. " Well,"
thought he, " honesty and fair deahng are on
our side, and we may yet prove a match for
them, though cunning be on theirs. I had
better not mention the circumstance at all,
having not even the shadow of a proof to
adduce —it looks too preposterous." And he
discarded the incident from his mind as futile,
at a moment when other and graver thoughts
oppressed it.
Early on the following morning, active pre-
parations were made for the trial. I will not
dwell on its circumstances, for they too closely
resembled those which I have already detailed.
The mob without—the crowd within—the Je-
suits' dark figures gliding through both with
boding looks : everything wore about the same
appearance as on the former occasion. The
twenty-five judges alone exhibited a striking
contrast. Instead of the heavy brows and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 185
anxious looks observable in the court at Tou-
lon, theirs were indicative of the liveliest in-
terest; and their manner, though partaking of
the usual gravity wliich may be termed the
etiquette of the court, had nothing inordinately
severe to either party. My father saw, at a
glance, that he stood before a more impartial
bench, and felt proportionately relieved.
Catherine displayed even more of that mixed
dignity, composure, and yet sweet modesty, which
had before so prepossessed all beholders. Father
Girard, on the contrary, behaved with a weak-
ness utterly discreditable. He wept almost in-
cessantly, and broke down at every answer;
and when his own miserable doublings and
shiftings were brought home to him, his only
reply consisted of tears and groans. His coun-
sel seemed more than once heartily ashamed
of his client; whilst my father, secretly con-
gratulating himself on having dealt so sparingly
with his resources in the first struggle, tri-
umphed in the consciousness of increasing elo-
quence. Monsieur Thorame had very little
that was new or interesting to advance; the
186 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
only fresh argument, indeed, at his call was
based on the egregious absurdity of asserting
that a glass of water could have influenced
Mademoiselle Cadieres' recantation. He owned
he could understand that a draught might be
drugged with such ingredients as might pro-
duce death, madness, or imbecility, an exag-
geration, or a suspension of the intellectual
faculties, but was at a loss to imagine what
compound could guide them at the will and
pleasure of the compounder. This, he con-
tended, was a story fitter to adorn a tale-book,
than to be submitted to the examination of
men whose sagacity and talents stood too high
in the estimation of the public to be thus tested
by child's play. On this theme. Monsieur
Thorame descanted at great length, making
the most of his advantage, as his adversary
had done before, with regard to the recovered
epistle. My father felt this to be his weak
point, despite his own inmost convictions. It
was not at that time in his power to adduce
the singular fact—since so often averred, and
firmly maintained by the professors of mag-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 187
netism—that great power can be infused into
any liquid, by the mere contact of the open
palm, for the space of a few minutes, with the
vessel that contains it, and the breathing gently
on the surface of the fluid for about the same
time. The more ardent practitioners go so far
as to state, that they can, by this simple, and
seemingly most inadequate means, produce the
effect of any medicament they may be in need
of, without being necessitated to apply to the
apothecaries. And though the system seems
odd enough at a first glance, and is repug-
nant to our preconceived ideas, which we are
inclined almost, in every case, to decorate with
the name of reason, still this memorable law-
suit tends to prove that these assertions, so
extravagant in appearance, rest on a more solid
basis than at a cursory observation may seem
probable. Throughout its heroine's sad history,
every single hypothesis of Mesmerism is brought
forward and attested, and that at a period when
Mestnerism was not classed among the known
sciences, though evidently slowly creeping into
existence ; for what reflective mind will not be
188 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
led to suspect some no very dissimilar agency
kt work in the singular affair of the " Convul-
sionnaireSi^ which, though the miracles of the
Abbe Paris's tomb were limited to the capital
where that monument stood, created so much
scandal but a few months later throughout the
whole of France.
I repeat it, the knowledge of magnetism
—
and with it, as usual in the state of infancy of
any science, its abuse—was gradually creeping
upon the world. Still swathed in mystery, the
cause slowly revealing itself by the effects, it
remained for Mesmer, bolder than the rest, to
define what he saw, and impress that definition
with his name.
But my father had not the resource of ap-
pealing to his or subsequent works on this sub-
ject; and was, therefore, compelled to avail
himself of those more antiquated records of the
same truth, described under a different deno-
mination, by which he was, likewise, obliged
to profit ; and the plea he brought forward was
at that time more calculated to find an echo
in the minds of his auditors, than would now-
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 189
a -days assuredly animal magnetism, were it
made the groundwork of an accusation; at
least, I think so.
Of course, he kept a vigilant eye on Cathe-
rine, that no further attempt might be made
upon her susceptible nerves ; and Father Girard
more than once shrank from his watchful glance.
The trial lasted even longer than the preceding
one ; for the judges, more impartial than those
of Toulon, were anxious to possess themselves
thoroughly of the state of the case, before ven-
turing to commit themselves by a sentence,
the importance and consequences of which they
fully estimated.
The part imposed upon them was, indeed, of
a somewhat embarrassing nature. Should they
punish so dark, treacherous, and systematic a
villany as it deserv^ed, the bold deed might not
be unaccompanied by disagreeable results to
those who dared it. On the other hand, with
what face could men and Christians condemn
to a martyr's death a poor young creature, who
stood arraigned for her misfortunes rather than
her crimes? Humanity and shame ahke for-
190 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
bade so dastardly an act. What would the
annals of their country—nay, their contempo-
raries—say to so vile a truckling to power, so
glaring an abuse of it ? A middle course only
could conciliate all difficulties, shield their
honour, and ease their consciences, without ex-
posing them to the full wrath and fury of party
spirit. That middle course was singular enough
in its results ; for Catherine was declared inno-
cent, and Father Girard not guilty, A very
contradictory verdict, you will say, on the face
of it ; but it was, after all, the very thing most
ardently desired by Catherine, and certainly
relieved the parliament from much difficulty.
Indeed, when fully explained, it seems more
rational than one would at first sight be in-
clined to suppose ; for after a protracted sitting,
on the last day twelve of the judges declared
Father Girard guilty of Quietism, or heresy,
seduction, and sorcery, and adjudged him to
be burnt alive ; nine declared his guilt not
adequately proved, and voted his discharge;
the three remaining found him guilty of the
charges, but did not think them deserving of
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 191
capital punishment, and therefore agreed with
the nine preceding. The laws of France having
provided, in cases where there exists a just
balance of voices for and against a criminal,
that mercy should weigh in his favour. Father
Girard was merely sentenced to be delivered
up to his superiors, and left to their justice.
This decision, drily, almost severely delivered
by the president of the chamber, amounted to
a moral declaration of the prisoner's guilt ; but
at the same time manifestly betrayed their ex-
treme unwillingness to award its punishment.
As to the charge of conspiracy brought against
Father Nicholas and the Brothers Cadieres, it
was at once thrown out una voce ; and Cathe-
rine, although declared innocent, was never-
theless condemned to pay the costs, having
drawn upon herself these proceedings by her
recantation at Toulon.
As the president concluded, he directed on
Catherine a glance of benevolent compassion,
that caused her eyes for a moment to fill with
tears, the first that had glistened in them
throughout this protracted trial. The pearly
192 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
drops rested on her long lashes, until she felt
her mother's arms thrown about her, and her
fervent whisper—" God be praised, you are
safe !" reached her ear. Then the tears fell fast
down her flushed cheeks. But, presently dis-
engaging herself from the close embrace of her
fond parent and the congratulations of her
friends, she turned hastily to my father, and
put forth her hand to him, with a look that
spoke more eloquently her thanks than could
have done those words which she sought, but
which w^ould not come to the relief of her over-
charged feelings.
The throng sympathized most warmly with
her. Flowers and wreaths were showered on
her from fair and aristocratic hands ; the young
girls especially, in every class, vied with each
other in testifying a feminine and sisterly
interest.
My father did not remain to share the happi-
ness of the domestic circle, of which he was
now considered the dearest member, but flew
to Marseilles to claim the prize that there
awaited him. He was, indeed, impatient to
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 193
attend to his own happiness, now that his soul
was relieved from the harrowing fears and
anxieties that had for months oppressed it.
The mere sensation of such a relief was bliss
—
to share it with those who had suffered with
him was a duty ; and to make them participate
in the first exultation of his triumph was to
increase his happiness tenfold. He knew, it
is true, that his place would be missed quite
as much in the reunion of that family whose
every member had for months lived and hoped
but through him, nor was he so free from self-
love as not to feel a pleasurable emotion in the
society of those who looked up to him as to a
demigod; but in the little circle to which he
was sacrificing the Cadieres, warmer interests
and still more powerful affections bound him.
Nor was he unwilling to make Catherine and
her mother feel that, with their necessity for
his support, their claim on his time and inti-
macy must diminish likewise ; for he saw more
clearly than, perhaps, the former would have
cared to allow, even to herself, how to her their
familiar daily intercourse had become a part,
VOL. II. K
194 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
and that the dearest part, of her existence, and
how livejy were her regrets for the irretrievable
past. He knew of what sophistry the human
heart is capable, to deceive itself ; and deeming
it possible that unbidden, unsuspected hopes
might spring up if not checked in the bud,
he was determined to break the charm of habit
as soon as might be.
On the same evening that restored to Madame
Cadieres her three children, my father was
folded in the embrace of his own fond parents
and gentle sister ; and hisJiancee, half blushing,
gratified not a little by his impatience to hurry
to her side, was compelled at last by his earnest
entreaties to fix an early period for their union.
He had soon, however, to return to Toulon on
matters still connected with the recent affair;
and, by the merest chance, arriving on the very
day when Catherine returned with her family
to her native town, he witnessed the triumphal
entrance which her fellow-citizens had pre-
pared for her. For many miles, indeed, the
people had congregated by thousands to greet
her, and proclaim the triumph of her innocence
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 195
with that wild enthusiasm which is so charac-
teristic of our southern population, by whom
everything is felt for the time being with intense
ardoiu*, and expressed accordingly. Men, wo-
men, and children, of all ranks, crowded on her
passage, and vied with each other in testifying
their delight at seeing her safe amongst them,
and their satisfaction that the Jesuits could not
pervert altogether the justice of the country.
Flowers were strewn on her path—she passed
beneath many a verdant arch bearing her
cipher—the bells pealed, and the shouts of the
people rang loud and far as she entered her
native city. From the windows streamed all
sorts of festive decorations—her own house was
blocked up with the throng that had assembled
before it. There were but very few dwellings
that remained cold and dark on this day of
public and national rejoicing ; that the college
of the Jesuits was of the number was but
natural.
Catherine was unaffectedly elated at this
public testimony of the esteem in which she
was held, and of the sympathy of her towns-
k2
196 MAGIC AND MES3IERISM.
men for her unhappy fate. For some weeks
she seemed almost restored to happiness and
forgetfulness of all that had gone before, and
her health rapidly improved under the fostering
care of her mother.
The first visit of Eleonore, upon her return
to Toulon as my father's wife, was paid to
Catherine, whom she found fully prepared to
meet her as Madame Chaudon,—happy, as she
said, to see the two persons whom she esteemed
most on earth, and had most cause to love,
united. There was not a shadow on her fair
brow as she spoke, and if, perchance, a slight
pang shot through her heart, no mortal eye
could detect it.
" I, too, am about to become a bride," said
she, with a calm, sweet smile ; then, as she
saw her friend's look of amazement, she added,
with a deep blush—" the bride of Heaven.
Having already performed the better part ofmy
noviciate at St. Clare's, and having ever}^ reason
to revere the lady abbess of that convent—to
love its kind sisters—I shall shortly take the
veil there, when, though dead to the world
—
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 197
indeed, how could I ever again belong to it ?
—
I hope not to be lost to you, my earliest, my
best friend. I should not have selected an
order of this sort from choice. I would rather
have been a Beguine in Flanders, or a Soeur
Hospitaliere in Rome ; but, as it is, no choice
is left me, even if my impaired health allowed
of those benevolent exertions which I once
contemplated as the only useful mode of dedi-
cating my life to God. Great was my ambition,
as you know, to have become a minister of his
charities in this world ; but it may not be. All
I ever dreamed of has been dissolved, like a
dream, into nothing. But it is useless for me
to dwell on this, and cloud, for a single instant,
your fulness of joy with a thought of my sor-
rows. The onty reminiscence of my mun-
dane existence which I shall think fit to retain
beneath the nun's robe, will be that of your
generous, unfailing, much-tried affection. You
still loved me, when others might have spurned.
Your husband, too, has been to me well,
there is no use in dwelling on such topics. I
have but thanks to offer for all you have both
198 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
done and endured for my sake, and even those
thanks I have not the eloquence to express as I
could wish. But I can pray for you both, and
ever will. You know, Eleonore, how the ge-
nerosity of your husband has enabled me to
take my little fortune almost entire to the
convent. I did not attempt to make him accept
the remuneration he refused, because I was
glad not to go portionless to my new home,
and because I consider Monsieur Chaudon in
the light of a brother."
" Jules is one to you in affection," said the
young bride, deeply moved by the tone and
manner of her friend.
They talked almost with the confidence and
tenderness of former times,—still there was a
reserve on either party that had crept so gradu-
ally and imperceptibly into their feelings as to
make it apparent to neither.
Eleonore could not gaze on the surrounding
objects—for they were sitting at the marble
table in the parlour of the little villa outside
the town—or on the lovely creature before her,
to whom fast improving health had restored
MAGIC AND MES3IERISM. 19^
beauty, without a painful recollection of the
first time she met her husband, and how little
his thoughts had then turned towards her.
Such reflections must, she conceived, haunt
Catherine's mind, and she was woman enough
to find that disagreeable. She was, therefore,
not sorry when, upon rising to take leave,
Catherine, detaining her by a gentle grasp,
said
—
" Do not be offended, dear Eiconore, nor
misunderstand me, when I beg that neither you
nor your husband may seek to see me before
my retirement from the world. The little time
I have yet to spend at home must be wholly
devoted to my mother."
Her wishes were strictly complied with ; her
friends did not again see her until the day on
the morning of which she took the veil, when
thejr with difficulty obtained places in the over-
crovded chapel.
The ceremony, under existing circumstances,
was fraught with peculiar sadness to reflective
minds. Catherine possessed everything which
in this world is thought equal to ensure happi-
200 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
ness ; it smiled once upon her like an opening
Eden, but the serpent came across her path and
fascinated her unto destruction.
An expression of sublime resignation illu-
mined her featiu'es, and made her look tridy
angelic. Her eye often rested on the young
couple whom she then saw together for the
first time ; but the thoughts that caused those
glances who might unravel ?
The only trace of worldliness visible about her
was when the long, rich, golden tresses were
ruthlessl}^ detached from her head. She cast a
lingering look at the glittering mass at her feet,
then smiled—that smile was her last. Adieu
to all earthly vanities ! From that time forth
my mother,—for you surely have guessed,
by this time, that Mademoiselle Raymoad
became my respected, beloved parent,—visited
sister Marie des Douleurs once every year,
introducing at each visit a little stranger, whom
the recluse would fondly bless.
I, the youngest of fifteen, remember her but
slightly ; for her shattered nerves never rlilly
recovered their tone, and, having never ceased
MAGIC AND MESMERIS3I. 201
to be more or less of an invalid, she did not live
to sec ns all launched into life. But a faint
recollection of her haunts me yet, even at this
remote period—so concealed beneath her veil,
you could scarcely trace the graceful oval of
her pale countenance behind its folds—licr slight
figure rendered more emaciated by the close,
black garb of her order, whilst her features,
preserving to the last an unrivalled delicacy,
when a chance movement revealed them, wore
an expression so strangely in accordance with
her name, that the thought involuntarily rose
to the mind that she, and she alone, must have
inspired it. There was the seal of exquisite
sorrow set upon her brow—a resigned, a gentle,
but never-fading sorrow ; no trace of tears
existed in her eyes, but it was pain to meet
their mournful gaze, or to watch the smile that
rested on her small mouth ; no tears could have
spoken a tale of woe with so much eloquence
—
so sweet, but so sad ! Never saw I a human
being that looked more stricken. Poor Sister
Marie
!
I remember well an observation she once
k3
202 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
made before me, which, young as I then was,
struck me very much from the tone and air
with which it was spoken. My mother had
brought a young girl with her, who wished to
become a novice at St. Clare's on account of
some disappointment in love which she had
taken to heart.
" A nun's cell is not the place wherein to
fly from thought, my child," she said, in the
soft, plaintive tones that were one of her pecu-
liarities. "Here it is ever awake, and grows
with what it feeds on. It is in the active
pursuits and shifting scenes of the world that
one learns to forget. If you are not compelled
to the step, never take the veil ; it is but court-
ing protracted, never-dying regret."
I have no means of ascertaining how far such
sentiments are applicable to a monastic life in
general ; but these words are a sufficient proof,
that poor Catherine lamented the course which
her misfortunes had necessitated her to adopt,
and that she found neither peace nor happiness
in the cloister.
Father Girard was, according to his sentence.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 203
returned to his order ; he shortly afterwards
was said to have left Toulon for Dole, his native
place, and two years later was reported to have
closed, in that obscure retreat, a life that but for
his errors had never been recorded.
It may, however, be permitted to doubt how
far this common-place termination to a very
uncommon scandal was natural to a society
whom he had so deeply oiFended—whose laws
he had broken—whose treasury he had ex-
hausted—whose credit he had impaired—of
whose temple of pride he had been a fall-
ing pillar—and whose principles were by no
means at variance with the vindictive feelings
which such an occurrence might be expected to
call forth, and may, therefore, be inferred to
have been merely a blind thrown out by the
Jesuits to veil from the curious eyes of the
uninitiated the severer forms of their own jus-
tice. Indeed, it was the opinion of many, that
Father Girard's guilt had been as fully atoned
for behind the secret, silent walls of his convent,
as it might have been had the severest bolt of
the law been hurled at him. That is, however.
204 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
a mere matter of conjecture, for it had been
idle to seek any trace of the truth even had
such surmises been correct.
As to the domestic feUcitj of my parents, no
shadow that I know of ever crossed it ; they
hved to a great age, surrounded by a thriving,
prosperous, and affectionate family. When I
was a young man, and the heroine of this story
had long been dead, my parents spoke freely of
the circumstances preceding their marriage
before me; and later, when I began to dive
into the mysteries of magnetism, my father,
who was deeply versed in them, and wished me
not to dabble in such pursuits beyond mere
speculation, related to me all the facts con-
nected with his first love, and his first brilliant
success at the bar which founded his celebrity.
To me, as to him, the leading features of this
case from beginning to end appeared to coincide
fully with the accidents of Mesmerism. Those
trances during which Mademoiselle Cadieres
was insensible to all exterior sensations whatso-
ever, even to being cut or wounded, whilst at
the same time she was visited by wild and
MAGIC AND MESMERISM. 205
fantastic visions ; her subsequent state of clair-
voyance, when she sought to predict futurity,
or read the unspoken thoughts, and, as it would
appear, in many instances with singular success;
her lassitude and exhaustion, whenever she was
not supported by factitious and febrile excite-
ment; her subsequent fits or convulsions,
during which, as was averred by numerous
witnesses, she spoke clearly through firmly
closed lips; the manner in which, also, by
breathing on the brow, and repeatedly making
the signs of the cross over her—a practice, as
you wall please to observe, not very dissimilar
from those of actual magnetism—the charm was
broken that bound a young and lovely girl to an
old, disgusting, decrepit monk ; and, above all,
the magical influence of the fatal glass of water,
every circumstance, even that of the decisive
vision that called her to Father Girard, are
completely in the due course of Mesmerism.
Starting from the fact of her beins: from
childhood upwards afflicted with natural som-
nambulism, thus predisposed to magnetic slum-
ber, and by her constitutional delicacy laid
206 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
open to every attack on the nerves, hovyr easy
for a man like Father Girard to practise upon
her the dangerous skill which he had, doubtless,
long before acquired by a close study of the old
occult philosophers and mediciners.
As has already been seen in the course of
the narrative, my father had no doubt but that
primarily the Jesuit used this pov^erful agency
merely as a means of exalting and guiding the
human susceptibilities, in such a manner as to
confer honour upon himself and his order ; but
that his unbridled licentiousness, in spite of his
better reason, led him away from his original
design. Such a supposition is, however, but
speculative.
It is easy, in many instances, to trace the
numerous miracles and saintships that agitated
France about that period to the same cause,
shewing, as I presume to think, that Father
Girard was by no means the first monk who
had made himself master of this mystery,
though, perhaps, few ever adapted it to such
vile ends.
But where unfair means are put into the
MAGIC AND MES3IERISM. ^07
hands of weak erring mortals, who can vouch
for the purposes to which they may be applied?
The moral of my tale is, therefore, that though
I most firmly believe in the existence of such
an agency as Mesmerism, and even think it
might, in some cases, be turned to a good
account, it is my conviction that it would for
the most part be made an abuse and a nuisance
of; perhaps, even, as I have shewn, admit of
crime to which, unhappily, there are but too
many inlets into the world without human
ingenuity seeking to add to them.
Yes, I know that such a science exists ; but
I am of opinion that no government should
allow it to be in any way practised within its
boundaries; that no conscientious person should
meddle with it, and that no prudent one should
expose himself, or any member of his family to
its influence ; and that, as a thing more likely
to lead to evil than to good, it should be just
sufficiently accredited to put people on their
guard against it, but certainly not made the
object of particular research or inquiry; its
208 MAGIC AND MESMERISM.
eventual utility to mankind not being suffi-
ciently established to make it worth the student's
while.
*^* This singular trial is recorded in " Pitta-
val's Causes Celebres,^'* together with one pre-
cisely of the same nature, and almost similar
circumstances, but of an anterior date, that of
Father GaufFredy, who perished at the stake.
THE STUDENT'S STORY.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
THE
OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
In the year 1440, Haarlem was already a flou-
rishing city ; and on the opposite bank of the
Sparr, which now divides the town into nearly
equal parts, there appeared even then many
houses of stone, whose more solid masonry,
greater pretension to architectural elegance,
together with the armorial bearings above the
door, denoted them the dwellings of the wealthy
and the noble. Yet here and there still re-
mained some small wooden tenements, where
resided persons of the poorer class.
In one of the latter description—distin-
212 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
guished from the rest l^y being situated nearer
the river's edge^ so that the water ahnost laved
its threshold—apparently tottering with age,
half rotten from the damp, a species of green
moss extending in fragmentary lines along its
dank walls, dwelt a fisherman ; a circumstance
made evident by the boat filled with fishing
tackle, that lay high and dry at the very door.
That he was not thriving was obvious to the
most superficial observer. The boat and nets
were in a miserable state ; the door of the cot-
tage and its small shutters all but fell from their
hinges; and the little garden lying behind the
hut was but a patch of overgrown weeds. One
single large willow in front extended its pale
foliage sparingly around, its branches sweeping
in the untrimmed luxuriance of nature, until
their extremities tipped the water. The squaUd
appearance of the place was not diminished by
a couple of long poles, placed on the side of the
cottage nearest the water, as if to afford the
dilapidated structure indispensable support.
The air of neglect and wretchedness thus ex-
hibited formed a striking contrast to the neat-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 213
ness and cheerful comfort that prevailed
throughout the country, whose people have
been long renowned for industry and cleanliness.
But there were strong reasons for this exception.
The fisherman was the infirm son of a poor old
widow, who had, for a person of her class, known
easy and even affluent circumstances. He was
the youngest of a once numerous and happy
family, of which he, too, had promised to be-
come, one day, a useful member; but, the
dread inundation of the year 1421, that
rolled its waves over eighty flourishing villages,
innumerable castles and places of strength, en-
gulfing thousands in its deadly embrace, and
sending as many to wander over the face of the
country as houseless beggars, had spared of this
family—Kluyn by name—but two individuals.
The mother and her youngest born—a mere
boy at the time—were absent on a visit further
inland, when the convulsion of nature took
place that extended the limits of the mighty
Zuidersee, and created the lake of Haarlem.
We will not paint the horrors of the return
—
or rather the intended return of the poor woman
214 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
to that home which existed no more. Her
despair was such that her surviving the catas-
trophe and retaining her reason would have
been a cause for marvel, had there been any-
leisure to attend to individual son'ow in so
general and overwhelming a calamity. But she
was yet a mother—the mother of a helpless
boy—and this thought gave her courage for the
strong effort. She lingered long near the place
of her former happiness, in the vain expectation,
which thousands shared with her, that the sea
would withdraw as suddenly as it had advanced.
Her boy caught a complicated fever, caused by
the damps and exhalations, from which the
poor child recovered, indeed, but only to remain
infirm for life.
Friendless and destitute, she now saw the
impossibility of remaining any longer a burthen
on the afflicted people around her—that she
must leave the spot if she and her child would
not perish with hunger. When they accord-
ingly set forth, hand in hand, pale, thin, like
two apparitions risen from the dead, none
guessed the sublime resignation which guided
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 215
her first steps along the path of a hopeless
wandering. She was one of those who had
dwelt between Dort and Gertruidenberg ; and,
it was a weary road she had to traverse before
she could reach Haarlem—weary, for the eye
rested on naught but sights of distress, and the
ear heard nothing but the groans of the
wretched. When, at last, she came within
sight of the thick wood, that then served the
inhabitants as their chief source of amusement,
she sat herself on one of the numerous stone
benches interspersing the wood for the con-
venience of the walkers, and took out of a small
basket a fresh loaf and some cold meat—be-
stowed upon her by the retainers of a noble house
as she passed along—together with a few pieces
of money, her only and last resource. After
having with a sigh contemplated the scantiness
of both supplies, she put the money into her
bosom and began to divide the food into sparing
portions—giving her child the largest—and re-
turned the residue carefully into the basket,
saying :
—
"We must not squander carelessly the last
216 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
means we can make sure of, for God only knows
when and how we may procure more !"
As she spoke, the twigs rustled gently behind
them, and a figure, gliding from the underwood,
approached with the timid hesitating step—the
frightened eager look of a starved dog. It was
the tall form of a man, bent apparently by age,
although his physiognomy did not bespeak him
much past seventy. A few grey hairs still
lingered round his temples, though they had
left the crown of his head totally bare. His
small grey eyes glistened with a peculiar ex-
pression that denoted the miser, a notion which
his sharp, meagre features, and shrivelled ap-
pearance, tended to confirm. His peaked nose
and pointed chin almost met across his thin
blue lips, and the corners of his mouth were
lost in the hollow of his cheeks. His eyelashes
were blanched, and so thinl}^ sown as to have
left his grey orbs inconveniently exposed, had
it not been for the protection of the protruding
bones above them, which boasted but two red
streaks marking the place where the eye brows
should have been. There was in the whole
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 217
man a general appearance of craft and cunning,
mingled with a certain air of severity, which
served to excite, at the very first glance, a feel-
ing of mistrust and dislike towards him. The
habiliments of this individual were so tattered
and discoloured as to make it difficult to reco-
gnise their original hue and form ; still, such as
they were, they appeared to belong to a sea-
faring man.
^* Good woman," began this strange figure
—
but at the very first sound of his voice, the
widow Kluyn started from her seat, and, clasp-
ing her hands over her head, exclaimed, in tones
of the greatest surprise — " Good heavens !
Lord Wonter the Rich !"
" For the sake of the Virgin, woman, speak
not that name—it lies buried, with many a fair
and goodly treasure, beneath the sea of Haar-
lem. It must never be heard again—never
—
never." He laughed wildly as he spoke. " I
am Wonter, the poor Wonter, the beggar
!
But," he added, suddenly sinking the shrill tone
in which he had spoken to a whining whisper,
*^good woman, I am very hungry—I am a poor
VOL. IL L
218 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
man—I have lost my all ; for the sake of Jesus,
give me some bread."
The woman pressed her hands to her heart,
and held them there, as if to still its beatings
;
then raised her eyes to Heaven. " But he has
asked it in thy name," she murmured, " and
may not be refused." She put the portion she
had destined for herself into his hand, and mo-
tioning him to sit down by her son, placed her
basket beside him, saying—" my share may be
too small."
"And you, mother?" inquired the boy in
surprise.
" Oh ! I—I am no longer hungry," she re-
plied ; and, folding her arms upon her breast,
stood at a little distance, watching her small
stock of provisions disappear before the keen
appetite of the old man, the growth, as it seemed,
of many a day's fast. There was a slight con-
traction on her brow and round her mouth, as
if a sudden pain shot across her heart.
"It is thy will," she murmured, "that we
should repay evil with good. Truly hast thou
dealt vengeance with thine own hand. If yon
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 219
bad man be now poor—if the assertion be not
one of his thousand falsehoods—then, indeed,
has his punishment begun on this earth ; and
what evil could weigh down his hard heart,
but that poverty to which he has reduced
thousands
!"
At last the meal of the stranger came to a
close. He had not left a fragment of meat or
bread, and the old woman, with a sigh, silently
helped him from a horn flask filled with beer.
" Now, good woman, you who seem to know
me," said he, returning the horn, " tell me your
name ?"
" Kluyn," said the woman, sternly, " I am
the widow of Jan Kluyn, who bought the
Steenhuys of you."
" Ah ! an excellent bargain that," said the old
man, with a twinkle of the eye, that seemed,
however, rather the consequence of habit than
of any peculiar feeling of exultation at the
moment, for it was instantly changed to one
of deprecatory humility. " I hope, good woman,
you have no faith in all the calumnies that it has
pleased the people to spread concerning me."
L 2
220 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
**
It matters not what I believe," she replied,
" nor what I know. It is sufficient that I did
not mingle reproaches with the bread I gave,
nor will I betray you to the incensed people, to
whom your name is an abomination. What
more would you have of me ?"
" More—much more. Do not leave me, good
woman, I beseech you—I dare not go on my
road alone, nor beg my bread, for fear of being
recognised and murdered ; for, I know not
why, the people hate me. Take me with you, I
implore you, lest they find me out and slay
me. Surely you would not abandon a helpless
old man, who has lost everything, even his
children
!"
" Did you love them in life, that you mourn
them in death?" inquired the old woman,
sternly.
Wonter hung his head, and returned no
answer.
" Come, Jan," said the mother to her boy, who
stood listening in silent wonderment to the
foregoing dialogue.
•' You are going," said the stranger, with a
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 221
look of wild alarm. " You leave me to perish
—
you will have to answer for this one day—I call
upon Heaven "
" Blaspheme not !" said the widow, casting a
fearful look around; "I never yet knew one
thrive on curses. The orphan, the widow, have
cursed you, Wonter the Rich—Wonter the Bad.
And what are you now ? a miserable outcast
like ourselves ! But, such as you are, come
and take your portion along with us. You are
poor now, and may well share what charity may
afford ; and pray God that those of whom we
may demand bread, bear not in their bosoms
such hearts as yours."
The widow perhaps imagined, that after this
reproof the old man would not follow. If so,
she was mistaken ; he bore her rebuke like a
chided child, and pressed hard upon her foot-
steps.
Many months elapsed, during which the old
woman, her companion, and child, entirely sub-
sisted on the alms of the charitable, which we
are compelled to own did not afford them a
very substantial existence. It was a luxury not
222 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
often enjoyed, when they were permitted to
abide for a time by a cheerful kitchen fire. For
the most part, their fare consisted of cold
broken victuals, and they were compelled to
seek their rest in miserable sheds and out-
houses; for the objects claiming compassion
were so numerous, that the most humanely dis-
posed were obliged to restrict their benevolence
towards individuals, that they might benefit the
multitude—to give but little that they might
give to all.
The once competent farmer's wife felt the
change even more keenly than the Baron.
Accustomed to all the decencies of life, and its
gentle charities, this vagrant life contrasted
painfully with all her habits; but the fallen
lord had been so stunned by the shock of his
reverse of fortune, that he barely retained
enough consciousness of existence to seek to
prolong it by every means in his power. He
had, moreover, in his happier days, been charac-
terized by a certain obduracy of mind, which
had caused him to set at naught all principles
of honour and rectitude. He had gloried in
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 223
overreaching those who were more honest and
trusting than himself, and had dignified low
cunning by calling it sagacity. This peculiarity
did not abandon him, even in the half imbecile
state into which he had fallen ; and it was re-
markable how gleeful he would feel, when, by
any pretended tale of moving distress, in which
the power of his imagination would display it-
self to the uttermost, he received any pecuniary
donation that he conceived due to his ingenious
falsehoods. Such sum, however trifling, he
would hug to his secret bosom, concealing it
carefully from his benefactress, watchful not to
betray his possession of it, even though she had
not tasted food that day. If the gift were eat-
ables, he would retire to some out-of-the-way
comer, and devour them alone and unperceived.
During the first months of their singular as-
sociation, more than once the widow thought
Wonter's intellects would entirely desert him
;
and after a time, he sank into a state from
which it seemed improbable that anything
would rouse him. It was not madness, nor
was it altogether the imbecility of second
224: THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
childhood ;
yet it partook of both. His recol-
lection of the past was not, indeed, always fal-
lacious as to details, and remained singularly
tenacious of the leading events of his life,
especially such as reverted to his ruling passion
—the love of gold. But the energy and vi-
gour he once possessed had completely departed
from him, whether from the effect of age, or of
a mean spirit suffering under adversity, it were
difficult to decide. His selfishness was in no-
ways abated from what it had formerly been;
but it had changed objects; and to secure or
augment his small stock of personal comforts
seemed now to be the aim, the mainspring, of
all his actions. Though he mechanically obeyed
the habit, long since acquired, of hoarding what-
ever he could lay hold of, yet the thought of
retrieving past losses, or raising himself at least
from his present abject condition, to all appear-
ance, never once occurred to him. Far from
wishing to vindicate his former station in the
world, he dreaded nothing so much as the dis-
covery of his real name and identity. And,
sooth to say, he had reasons for this reserve.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 225
Wonter, Baron of Oosterstecn, wherever he
had been known, was hated for his hardness of
heart and griping disposition. Whosoever had
come in contact with him, high or low, had suf-
fered for it; and so great had been the dread
he inspired, such the universal detestation in
which he was held, that the name of Wonter
the Rich, which he had long borne, had been
exchanged for that of Wonter the Bad, or the
Bad Lord of Oostersteen. His equals had with-
drawn from him in contempt—his inferiors in
dread. He had therefore nothing to hope
from being recognised, but much to fear from
the effects of some unforgiven offence. He
had no kindred to claim, or rather, none who
would not have beheld in him their bitterest
enemy; the very mob would have triumphed
in his fall. For this reason, he had not dared
to approach the only property he had left in the
world, a stately mansion in Haarlem, situated
near the banks of the Spaar.
But the young Kluyn and his mother were
not so disposed to content themselves with a
life of idleness as the septuagenarian ; and
l3
226 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
though the lad was but young, weak in body,
and sickly in health, he managed to earn his
bread by performing odd jobs for the fisher-
men, until, finally, he so distinguished himself
by his docility and good-will, that he obtained
permanent employment among them. In his
leisure hours, he and his mother occupied them-
selves in mending or making baskets and nets.
In short, what with one little traffic or another,
a great stock of industry and patience, without
fortune having favoured them with any extra-
ordinary turn, in a very few years young Kluyn
was able to afford his mother the shelter of a
tolerable roof, under which she might hope to
close her days in peace. It is but fair to state,
that during this time they had cared for all
the wants of the old man, without once mur-
muring at the charge, or bidding him begone.
If he continued to beg, it was rather in com-
pliance with his own caprice than at any re-
quest of theirs, who indeed never touched or
even saw a penny of his gainings, whatever
they might be.
Chance, as well as predilection, had led Jan
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 227
to fix his home at Haarlem, in the very tene-
ment we have described, where they had all
three resided at the period our story opens, for
upwards of twelve years. The old woman had
by this time grown too infirm to increase in
any way their stock. All she could do was to
keep house, and that not without the help of
a young maiden of thirteen, the fruit of her
son's one year of marriage ; for his wife had not
survived the birth of her child. The task,
therefore, of supporting the old lord of Ooster-
steen, his aged mother, and his helpless daugh-
ter, had entirely devolved upon poor Jan, who,
unequal to great exertion, found it difficult
enough to provide the bare necessaries of life.
His little daughter had her hands fully occupied
in keeping the cottage tidy, and helping her
grandmother in all the domestic arrangements.
Thus, in spite of Jan's diligence, and his child's
good-will, their dwelling looked, as we have
described it, dilapidated and forlorn.
As to Oostersteen, no one expected the
slightest aid from him ; and accordingly, he was
left to do very much as he pleased. The small
228 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
closet he slept in had but one window, looking
out on the Spaar, and facing the very house
hd dared not claim, which having become, for
lack of heirs, the property of the town, and
being as yet undisposed of, was hermetically
closed. This circumstance tending to awaken
reminiscences of the past, made him naturally
averse to his home ; and, having been reco-
gnised by none in the town, he ventured by
degrees to beg about the streets, according to
his wont, without the least anxiety or embar-
rassment.
About this time a new idea took possession
of his mind. His chief pleasure— if indeed
what constituted his torment can be designated
by such a name—consisted in sailing upon the
recently created sea of Haarlem ; and his whole
soul seemed concentrated on such adventures.
Now he would cast his nets like a fisherman,
in the hope that some of his lost treasures
might be thus recovered, glancing suspiciously
at every boat that skimmed the lake, which,
he believed, was either seeking or taking away
a fragment of his wealth ; then he would throw
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 229
himself backwards in despair, in the stern sheets,
as the thought flashed upon his mind that no-
thing could remain of all he had once pos-
sessed—that the waves had yielded everything
up to the indefatigable exertions of the poor
fishermen, who would not have failed to make
this spot the object of their search; and again
he would delude himself with the idea that he
and he alone could ever discover them.
But vain his fears, and vain his labours!
The waters yielded up their prey to no mortal
desires. His hoarded gold, bought with so many
a sin—his towers of strength—his broad lands
—all that he felt conscious of having once pos-
sessed—lay parted from him but by a few feet
of water—yet irretrievably lost! He fancied
he might, by a mere plunge of his hand, tear
up his own banner from the turret on which it
waved ; and yet, for all his jewels and gold—
the riches that lay beneath that flag—he was
a beggar !
—he, the lord of four castles, all of
which stood deep below the keel of the boat
that bore him—he, whose name was yet a pro-
verb in the mouths of all,—a pensioner on the
230 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
charity of a poor fisherman ! Often and often
did the people yet speak of the fabulous riches
of Wonter the Bad ; and tears would involun-
tarily spring to the eyes of the old man, as the
thought flashed upon him that they were now
to him but as the shadows of a dream.
Sometimes, in spite of himself, he could not
help talking of his former prosperity, and the
people would smile as they listened to what
they conceived to be the ravings of a distem-
pered fancy. His passionate desire to recover
his treasures grew more rooted every day, until
the remembrance of them became the fever of
his brain, and seemed to bum it.
This feeling waxed so strong, increased to
such a pitch, that he could neither enjoy his
proper rest nor food, that the people —from
whom, as well as from her family, the widow
Kluyn had concealed the real name and cir-
cumstances of her strange inmate, and who
only knew him by the appellation of the old
man—frequently added the epithet, mad. Dur-
ing the many long years he spent in Haarlem,
no other denomination was given him ; and he
was well satisfied to abide by it.
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 231
On a raw, gusty, autumnal evening, the family
was reunited round their cheerless hearth, list-
ening to the mournful wailing of the wind with-
out, that now rose into a threatening blast, and
then died away in repining moans, like an ac-
cusing, injured spirit, that could not rest. The
loud hissing of the Spaar, as it rolled tumultu-
ously by —the occasional sounds of the bells
ringing from neighbouring churches, wafted in
feebler, more melancholy accents than usual
across the troubled air, —all tended to make
the comfortless hovel still more desolate.
" It is a fearful night !" said the child, creep-
ing up closer to her father, and putting his
rough hand upon her head, as if it could shield
her from the storm without.
" Holy Virgin !" exclaimed the old woman,
" I never hear the wind howl in that manner
but I bethink me of the eve of St. Elizabeth.
Ah! when my husband and children listened
to the growing storm, little did they guess, as
they closed their doors and shutters against it,
as we have done this night—little did they
guess the fearful eve would have no morrow!
They perhaps named me—perhaps thought of
232 TUE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
me—my brave sons ! —my pretty daughters I
—
all grown up, too—my poor husband I —and to
think that I have survived them all so long
—
that my heart has not broken ! It always seems
to me, on such nights as this, that their voices
are borne past my window\ Sancta Maria I
what a night
!"
"And hark! father," said the httle girl, in
trembling accents, **
how the Spaar dashes fu-
riously along. Wont it enter our house, and
wash us all away? And see how the walls
tremble ! If they were to fall and crush us
!"
" The child is right," murmured IQuyn,
thoughtfully. " I'd better go and see if there's
danger."
" Nay ; what you hear," said his mother,
" is the step of the old man in his closet. On
nights like this he cannot sleep—and no won-
der. He has that to think of that prevents the
eyes from closing."
" Oh ! grandmother, you promised," said the
child, " to tell us all about him ; if you w^ould
do so now, I would forget the storm."
Jan's hand, which was on the latch of the
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 233
door, was arrested by these words; and the
most intense curiosity was depicted in his
weather-beaten countenance.
" My child, I have said it," answered the
grandmother. " Should I survive him, you
will know the secret of his mysterious exist-
ence ; but if I go to my grave before him, his
secret dies with me."
Jan Kluyn, without uttering a word, left the
hut ; for though past thirty, he was as submis-
sive to his mother as an infant ; and the little
girl hung her head, and listened to her father's
retreating footsteps. Another step was soon
heard on the creaking stairs—a cautious, stealthy
step ; then an inner door opened, and the old
man made his appearance.
" I can't sleep," he said, as he came in, and sat
himself down on a low stool between the females.
" No doubt —no doubt," said the widow.
" It is a night to make one think of one's end,
and repent of one's sins."
" No—I was not thinking of that," answered
the old man. " I have been hanging out one
of little Dortje's aprons from my casement, to
234 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
see which way the wind blows. It is seaward
—seaward—think of that !" and he rubbed his
hands with glee.
" What if it be ?" said the widow.
" What if it be ! Don't you see, that if a
storm rises, equal in strength to that of St.
Elizabeth's Eve, blowing towards instead of
from the sea, all the waves which cover my
castles may be driven back ; and then, you
know, we'll come into our own again."
" And if such a thing were to happen, would
it restore the lost—the dead ?" asked the widow,
severely.
" The dead!" he mechanically repeated.
" Yes—the dead ! They never can claim any-
thing. There is that rich chalice that the
monks of St. Alexis have pledged to me; they
never can claim it ; they are all at the bottom
of the sea. But, alas ! the chahce, too, is buried
in the lake of Haarlem, and so are the rich
pearls of the Countess of Namur. I caught
her rarely ! She pawned them for a trifle ; but
she knew not to whom to apply, that the trans-
action might remain a secret to her husband.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 235
It was as much as her Ufe was worth, she said,
if he should discover it. And, later, when she
would have reclaimed the jewels, I took care
she should never have speech of me but in her
lord's presence. Ah—ah—ah! she dared not,
for her life, claim her own again. Ah—ah
—
ah! was not that shrewdly done? But woe's
me !" he continued, the transient gleam of satis-
faction fading almost instantaneously from his
features, and giving way to one of extreme
wretchedness — " Woe's me ! they lie at the
bottom of my iron chest, in the wall on the
right hand of my bed. Woe's me ! I shall never
behold those glorious pearls again
!"
" Instead of bewailing the objects of your
sinful desires, should you not rather lament the
means by which you obtained them ?"
" Nay, they were all good bargains," said
the old man. " If people did not understand
what they were about, sure it was no fault of
mine. If I had more sagacity—more foresight
than others, it was a gift of nature, of which I
had a right to profit."
" Alas I what is human wisdom, or human
236 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
foresight, that we should pride ourselves on
them!—God alone can see into the future,"
said the widow, crossing herself devoutly.
" You foresaw many things, but could you,
with all your sagacity, predict that the waters
would cover your own high towers ?"
" I might, I ought to have known it—that
w^as my folly !" said the old man, striking his
head violently with his hands. " I should
have deduced that knowledge from the same
circumstance that made me foresee the inunda-
tions in the North ; but who could believe the
waters would have extended so far I"
Kluyn reappeared at that moment.
" The house shakes fearfully !" he said, " but
I think there is no danger; the props stand
fast, nor will the Spaar overleap its banks
to-night. Though the waters are violently
agitated, they have not risen an inch."
" Ah ! but I will tell you," said the old man
;
" the Sea of Haarlem has fallen at least the
breadth of my hand since it first appeared—
I
have measured it year after year myself, on
different points along the margin."
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 237
" Foolish man !" said the widow. " And if
it should every fifteen years sink by so much,
do you expect to live to see it dried up ?"
The old man looked confused.
" If I were you," said Kluyn, laughing, " I
would seek a bladder large enough to put
myself in, get at the bottom, and take out all
the fine things you are always talking about."
" Oh that I could !" exclaimed Wonter, with
an almost youthful energy—" I have thought
of it by day and by night, so that I could nei-
ther take food nor rest. But I can devise no
feasible plan —none —none whatever." He
leant his elbows on the table, and extending
his hands, buried his face within them.
A. long pause ensued, which no one in the
cabin felt inclined to break, and the bowlings of
the wind were alone heard.
*^ It is in vain," he continued, starting wildly
from his languid posture. " If I could recover
my iron chest, it would not restore my four fair
castles, my villages, my vassals. I am a
wretched—a ruined old man ! But," he added,
turning to Jan Kluyn, " if you can recover that
238 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM,
chest for me, half of its contents shall be yours.
I Vill cover this table with gold. Where this
wretched hut of wood now stands shall rise a
palace of stone. Little Dortje's neck shall be
covered with pearls of price and precious stones;
she may then, like the fisherman's daughter in
the old ballad, marry the king's son. Think of
that, fisherman—think of that
!"
" And if your treasures were in this hut, my
curse would light on him if he dared to touch
but one stiver of them !" said the widow, in a
deep emphatic tone, which agreed well with her
austere, withered features, on which a keen,
preying sorrow had left deeper furrows than
the flight of time.
" You need have no care," said Jan, again
laughing—and that feeble sound of merriment
rang discordant through the desolate-looking
dwelling. " Could I this moment deliver into
his hands all and more than ever he called his
own, whatever that may have been, he would
not give me out of it so much as would suffice
to purchase a new net."
" That's true !" cried the little girl, with a
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 239
sudden burst of anger. " This spring, when
you lay so ill of the fever, and granny knew
not where to find money to pay the apothecary,
who would not trust us with the physic, I once
went to the old man in his room, in the middle
of the night. I knew he was not asleep, for I
heard him walking up and down overhead, and
I went partly to beg him to be quiet, for it
annoyed you, and partly to ask to be taken the
next day to beg with him. He did not per-
ceive me as I entered, and he had on the table
before him a heap of money."
" My poor alms," said the old man, impati-
ently—" the few pennies I have found so hard to
collect together. Wicked child, to mention
them, when you promised me to be silent
!"
"But I will not be silent!" repHed the child,
indignantly. " When I saw the money, I en-
treated him for the smallest part of it —only so
much as would buy the physic that might save
my father's life. He said no—not to save
the whole world. Again, when we wanted
bread but a short time ago, he refused to give
me a few stivers, and that with hard words,
threatening to beat me if I asked any more."
240 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" And is this the man," exclaimed Jan
Kluyn, a fierce expression Ughting up his at-
tenuated features, which, in spite of the joint
evils of poverty and ill health was not familiar to
his countenance—" is this the man to tend
whose old age—to warm and clothe whose old
limbs I have toiled for years—to satisfy whose
hunger my mother and my child have lessened
their share ! A wretch, who cares not whether
I famish or die on straw like a masterless cur
!
And he would beat my child, would he ? but,"
he added, with increasing violence, striking the
table as he spoke, " it shall not be under this
roof—he shall remain here no longer !"
The rage of the storm without was silenced
for a moment by this sudden outbreak of hu-
man passion.
" Forbear, my son !" said his mother, with
her usual severity of tone and aspect—" respect
his white hair, and bethink you that he is our
guest
!"
" And who invited him ?" insisted Jan,
whose anger, once fairly roused, was not so
easily assuaged. " Who invited him ?—not I
!"
" It was I who invited him," continued th e
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM, 241
widow, in the same cold, assured manner;
" and at my bidding he shall stay
!"
" But he shall go at mine !" cried young
Kluyn, with ungovernable fury in eye and
voice—" he shall, by the Virgin ! I will no
longer rise earlier and work harder than other
folk, to shelter and feed an ungrateful
"
" Hold !" exclaimed his mother, in an autho-
ritative tone, displaying, as she rose and drew
herself up to her full height, the dignity of
nature in look and mien. " Dismiss him from
the shelter of this roof, and you drive me forth
with him—together we will quit this inhospit-
able hearth, nor will my blessing rest on the
head of a disobedient son
!"
Her solemn tones and implied threat, the
deep respect for her authority which progressive
years had by no means impaired in Jan's simple
and manly bosom, reduced him at once to his
usual state of passive obedience. He slunk
back into his chair, muttering, as his wrath died
away,—
" Who and what is he to us, that we should
VOL. II. M
242 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
thus bear all things from him ? What good turn
h^s he ever done us ?"
" I will tell you," said the widow, impressively,
" for what reason we should cherish him as
though he were one of us. Because it is easy to
love our friends, and no merit ; but to love our
enemies is a hard task to learn. We are told it
is God's will that we return good for evil. He
has done us wrong—the greatest wrong man ever
did to man—therefore, and for the love of Him
who commanded it, shall we administer to his
wants even until the latest hour."
The old man, during the foregoing discussion,
looked, frightened and abashed, from one dis-
putant to the other; then fixed his ej^es im-
ploringly on the widow as she advocated his
cause. When she quietly resumed her seat,
like one assured of victory, he again breathed
freely and glanced triumphantly at little Dortjc,
who, however, had so thoroughly fixed her
attention on her grandmother, whose every word
appeared to enter her very soul, that for some
time his regards were wholly thrown away ; but
when the widow had ceased speaking, she rose,
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 243
and, coming up to the old man, said, as she
stretched forth her little hand,
—
" I forgive you, then, and will pray again for
you, which I have not done since you treated
me so harshly."
" Pray that I may find my treasures, Dortje."
" But if you had them," said the child, " you
are so old you could not keep them long—the
people are always wondering that you are yet
alive, and ask me when we mean to bury you."
"I cannot die—I will not die away from
them !" answered the miser, impatiently.
For some time Jan's ill temper continued to
vent itself in muttered grumblings, then all
became unbroken silence in the hut. The
tempest, too, gradually softened, and finally died
away in the patterings of a heavy incessant rain,
and lulled nature appeared no longer likely to
disturb the repose of night.
Though all four retired to their appointed
places of rest, it was rather to court that blessing
than to experience its actual enjoyment ; for the
roughness of the weather had reawakened in
the bosom of two, at least, in that lonely cot,
M 2
244 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
reminiscences which banished sleep. The widow
spent the remainder of the night in prayer;
and the old man continued to walk restlessly
about in his den, absorbed in those passionate
regrets and wild desires which time, instead of
softening, seemed to heighten into madness.
At break of day every trace of the storm had
passed away, and nature looked as bright and
smiling as if no convulsion had ever ruffled its
calm expanse. The widow and her son resumed
their ordinary work, and the old man proceeded
unquestioned, as usual, to betake himself, it was
supposed, to his accustomed rounds. He did
not, however, on this occasion, place himself,
according to his wont, in the principal streets
or squares, or at the doors of churches, to
implore the charity of the passers by—a change
had come over him, which none were suffi-
ciently interested in him to observe, except the
boys about the streets, who remarked one to
another, as he went along,—" How proud our
old man seems to-day ; he struts as if he would
not dirty his hands with copper."
In sooth, Wonter bore himself as he had not
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 245
done since the eve of St, Elizabeth. The load
of twenty years was apparently removed from
his shoulders. His step was feeble no longer,
nor his person bent—there was not on his
shrivelled features the humble, fawning aspect,
which, for the long series of years he had spent
in Haarlem, had characterized them. The old
man had assumed an air of triumph, which did
not conceal nor mitigate an expression of harsh-
ness, that seemed also to have revived from the
ashes of the past.
On the threshold of one of the houses stood a
young girl, who had frequently proved herself
his benefactress, and who had never seen him
without bestowing upon him some token of re-
cognition. As he walked by, she stretched forth
her hand, with a smile, to bestow the customary
grant of hard coppers, which the old man
generally received with a childish joy, but he
shook his head scornfully, saying
—
5] J' Keep them for yourself, my pretty lass ;
you
arc more likely to need them than I."
" Indeed !" said the young girl, laughing.
" And what sudden prosperity makes you so
disdainful ?"
246 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
"I am coming into my own again," he
ariswercd, with a somewhat wild smile, "and
then, you know, who so rich in all Haarlem as
I?" And he passed on with a Hght step for
one of his years.
" Poor deluded being !" thought the young
girl. " A beggar in rags—and yet the owner of
wealth ! But, may it not, after all, be happiness
to imagine oneself possessed of that which one
most longs for ?"
After wandering some time, as it appeared,
without object, Wonter betook himself to follow
the windings of the Spaar, and soon stood op-
posite to his own house, before which he stopped,
and gazed intently upon the grey walls. It
was the first time he had done so since his
return to Haarlem in his character of a beggar.
" I will claim this, too," he said, as he leaned
on his staff, " for who dare gainsay a rich man ?
Besides—it is so many years ago, the people
must have forgotten all about it
!"
A passenger, struck by the earnestness of the
old man's gaze, arrested his steps, and turned his
eyes in the same direction, in order to ascertain
what so attracted the attention of the beggar
;
TUE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 247
but seeing notliing to justify it, he addressed
him.
"Are you of Plaarlem, my good man ?" Wonter
shook his head impatiently, angry at being in-
terrupted in his reverie.
'^
Because, if you are, you must know the
history of him to whom this mansion once
belonged—mayhap you have seen or even known
him, and you are standing here to vent a curse
against the walls, for there are few of your age
who have not some in store against the Lord of
Oostersteen."
" Ay, this house belonged to Lord Wonter
the Rich," said the old man.
" Wonter the Bad !" answered the stranger.
" It matters not whether he was good or bad
;
he was rich !" querulously retorted the old man
;
"very rich! and that is, after all, the only
thing important. Rich !" he repeated, with
increasing energy. " Is not all that life has
of joy contained within that word ? And for
twenty years I have been a beggar .'"
" The sick man," said the stranger, " knows
no other desire but health ; but, beggar as you
are, you would not have exchanged condition
248 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
with Lord Wontcr some twenty years ago,
when, had he put his foot within this town, it is
a chance if the mob had not torn him limb
from hmb."
"It matters not—and, though but for one
day, I will be rich !" exclaimed the old man.
" If the wish could be father to the fact,
so would many," said the stranger, laughing.
"I will"—continued Wonter, muttering to
himself—" I will !" and he resumed his course
in the direction of the lake.
To the storm of the preceding night had
succeeded a calm, serene day, such as is often
enjoyed in the vicinity of the sea; a clear sun,
cheering without warming, permitted the fresh
breeze to invigorate the limbs and the heart.
The tints pervading the horizon and the
meadows, harmonized by an universal pearly
hue, imparted to the landscape that tranquil
character so peculiar to the countr}^
The sea of Haarlem, however, retained, from
the bad weather of the preceding eve, an un-
usual agitation—a circumstance deemed favour-
aljle to the fishing ; it was accordingly studded
with boats, which, gliding past each other in
THE OLD MAN OF UAARLEM. 249
every direction, and stationary long in none,
seemed like so many water-birds skimming the
water after a gale. In one of these light crafts
the old man soon took his place. He did not,
as on former occasions, ask or obtain this as a
favour on the part of the fishermen. On the
contrary, he beckoned the nearest boatmen to
the shore with an imperative air, and demanded
how much they would take to put themselves
at his disposal for the day. They first replied
only by a laugh of derision ; but when he
actually shewed them gold, and spoke as one
not only willing but able to pay, they changed
their tone ;
—perhaps the air of command natural
to him, but which for years he had not ex-
hibited, convinced them, even more than his
words, of his claim on their compliance. They
placed themselves at his disposal accordingly^,
not, however, without insisting on receiving the
sum stipulated in advance.
"There," said he, throwing his purse into
the boat, " I will double it on our return."
The men were inclined to think their old
customer crazy,—an opinion which would lonji
M 3
250 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
since have prevailed in the country had it not
been for the glimpses of shrewdness he some-
times displayed ; but on the present occasion
there was so much of self-possession and assur-
ance in his manner, that they discarded the
thought at once. The various gyrations, indeed,
which he commanded, would have appeared
strange enough to persons in whose minds the
catastrophe of St. Elizabeth's eve had not been
so fresh as it was in those of the fishermen
;
but they well knew how many persons in their
vicinity—especially among the old—had actually
escaped its immediate horrors, to suffer through
life under its consequences. Among suiferers
of this class the old man had long been ranked
;
it was therefore with pity, at first, and then
with increasing interest, that they observed
him endeavouring to retrace the haunts of
former days over the broad surface of the
waters.
It soon became evident that such was the
purpose on which the old man was bent.
Now throwing an inquiring look across the
horizon, and scanning the four points of the
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 251
heavens—then suffering his glance to wander
over the shore, he seemed desirous of fixing
upon some marks whereby he might guide him-
self—and again, leaning over the boat's side,
his eye anxiously questioned the depth of the
waves, as if to discover the mysteries that lay
beneath them.
His efforts, however, did not seem likely to
be crowned with any success. Scarcely had he
urged the boatmen forward in one direction,
when he bade them put back in another. His
perplexity grew with every instant, and hour
after hour passed away in this fruitless manner.
In vain did he scan the sky and the water.
With every fresh disappointment his eagerness
increased—his cheek, ashy with age, became
tinged with the crimson spot of feverish excite-
ment —his eyes brightened, and his whole
person betrayed the impetus of the soul within.
" Nay, good man," said one of the fishermen,
persuasively ;
" you see it will not do—the
waters give not back what they have once
swallowed up. Come, let us put to shore."
" No, no !" exclaimed Wonter. ^^ It is true
252 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
what the child said; I cannot Uve to enjoy them
long—but it matters not. If it were but for
one day—one single hour—if I recover them
but for one instant, I were content to die the
next !"
" It is useless, good man," persisted the
former speaker. " Be what you seek ever so
valuable, it is past all recovery."
" But, I tell you, I loill recover it !" answered
the old man, querulously. "There—listen
—
we are touching on the very ground !"
The boatmen lay on their oars. A faint
sound reached their ears that seemed to come
from the bottom of the lake ; jjut whether it
was the rippling of an under current, or the
tingling of bells—as popular tradition asserts
—
it is not our province to decide. The super-
stitious credulit}^ of that time was more willing
to accept the latter supposition, and the old
man did not even hesitate between them.
" That's the bell of my own castle !" he ex-
claimed, rapturously. " I am sure of it !
—
I
recognise its tones ! Now it comes clearer on
the ear ! Rest on your oars, my men ; if we
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 253
succeed you shall have gold—if we fail, the
dungeon shall be your portion ! Ha, ha !" he
laughed, wildly, " it is mine !"
The men looked at each other in amaze-
ment as they listened to his broken exclama-
tions. His air was so commanding, there was
such an impress of truth upon his brow, that
they no longer doubted the real rank of the
man w4iom they had up to this day con-
sidered only as a beggar. In those days the
feeling of servitude was as much the natural
instinct of the lower classes as revolt against all
authority is at present ; and the lowly fisher-
men looked up to the ill-clad, miserable lord
with awe, although the little dignity yet linger-
ing around him was but a shadow of the past.
Wonter stooped over the boat's side until his
silvery hair almost touched the water.
" I see my tower !" he « said. " Its blue-
pointed roof pierces through the water ! My
flag still rises above its summit—see how the
tide waves it to and fro !"
" It is but some torn weeds hanging by a log
of wood floating by," whispered one of the
254 THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM.
men, though not in so low a tone but it was
overheard by Lord Wonter.
" And the bell !" said he, raising himself up
indignantly. " Hear ye not the toll of my
castle beU ?"
"He is right"—said the man—"there it
comes distinct enough, though God wot who
rings the peal."
" It sounds like a knell," said another ; " it
is awful to listen to. Holy Virgin, speed us
!
I wish we were safely off this spot
!"
The desire found an echo in the breasts of
all except the old man, whose delusion in-
creased with every moment.
" It is fearful to look on him—he is quite
wild !" muttered one of the men, crossing him-
self. " If I get safely home to-night, I'll lay a
taper on St. Elizabeth's shrine no later than
the morrow."
" There—there !—I knew I should find my
castle—my treasures !" shouted the old man with
ecstasy, throwing his arms triumphantly about
his tall, spare form, whilst the few thin hairs he
still retained were blown back from his fore-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 255
head by the fresh wind. The feebleness of age
supported by the intensity of passion, beheld
at that moment in the person of the beggar
lord—the visible struggle between the perish-
able and the imperishable—^was indeed awful
to behold.
" I now plainly see the battlements"—he
exclaimed—" they are deserted ! Ha ! I knew
it would be so, but I will soon man them again.
My turret, too, there it is! —my daughter's
windows—my son's chamber—they are empty
!
Pshaw !
—but mine—ah ! there, I see my own
casements—the chest, too, is there yet—I see
it
—yes—but who has dared to unclose the
niche within the wall ?—that's strange !"
" Give way, my men !" said the man at the
helm, in low and quivering accents. " For the
Virgin's sake give way, or harm will come of it
!
He'll rouse the spirits of the dead
!"
" He is mad—stark mad !" muttered another
with suppressed anger, as he dipped his oar.
" Stir not, I charge you !" screamed Wonter,
shaking his fist at them with impotent rage.
" Stir not, I command you ! Know, that the
256 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
poor old man of Haarlem—the despised—the
Ijeggar—is no other than the Lord of Ooster-
stccn
!"
" Jesu Maria !" said the helmsman, falUng
on his knees. "We are on a haunted spot,
and the spirit of the bad Lord Wonter is
among us
!"
" Lord Wonter the Rich—the Rich—do you
hear?—vassals !—slaves ! Ha! lam a beggar
no longer, and you are at my mercy—within
my castle gates! But you are moving off!
My chest—my castle—my gold—my treasures
—no ! you shall not again escape me !"
x\s he spoke, with outstretched arms and
straining eyes, he leaped into the waves. They
closed upon him with a gurgling sound, which,
to the terrified mariners appeared that of a
distant chime, growing fainter and fainter as
their sinewy arms urged forward their light
craft.
When the strange end of the old man became
known in the town, enriched with all the em-
bellishments the teeming fancy of the mariners
could lend it, and at the same time his realcharac-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 257
ter was revealed, the circumstance revived the
memory of his fauks and history ; and the widow
Kluyn's narrative was not the only one where-
with, after so many years of deprivation, Jan
and Dortje sated their curiosity.
For a time, indeed, nothing else was spoken
of, among high and low, but the retributive
justice which had lighted on the head of one,
who, after having made gold the idol to which
he had sacrificed every human feeling, had thus
fallen a victim to the very sin he had cherished,
—whose days had been lengthened beyond the
ordinary span that he might drain to the last
drop the cup of bitterness.
As no heirs remained to claim his house,
it w^as sold ; and the magistrates, struck with
the generous conduct of the family Kluyn
towards its late proprietor, gave the money
paid for it to the widow and her son, which
enabled the former to spend her few remaining
days in comfort, and assured the fate of her
family.
Among the many laborious monks who took
the trouble of recording so minutely the prin-
258 THE OLD MAN OF UAAllLEM.
cipal transactions of their town and neighbour-
hood, it was impossible that the remarkable fate
of Lord Wonter should escape mention ; and
to this circumstance we owe that we have it in
our power to lay before our readers the follow-
ing fragment.
monttx f^t md).
The castle of Terwick, where the Lord of
Oostersteen usually dwelt, was situated at no
great distance from the wood of Haarlem. It
consisted, like most of the smaller edifices of
that period, pretending to this style of archi-
tecture, of a square building, flanked by four
towers, surrounded by a broad moat. Although
denominated a fortress, it was tolerably insignifi-
cant as a place of defence ; but, according to
the limited views of the time with respect to
comfort, it was a very eligible place of resi-
dence—more especially as the Lord Wonter
was by no means inclined to the perils and
glory of warfare. His patrimonial estates lay
TUE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 259
between Dort and Gertruydciiberg. Upon this
territory, near the first mentioned place, stood
proudly pre-eminent, the fair and strong castle
of Oostersteen ; but, either in consequence of
his possessing a mansion in Haarlem, where he
often spent a few months, or, on account of
having married a lady of that city, by which
alliance he had acquired dominion over Terwick
and its dependencies, he much preferred abiding
in its vicinity.
There were, too, perhaps other motives for
this predilection. His only daughter, by a
former marriage, was entitled, in right of her
mother, to no inconsiderable domains, and to
a fine defensible castle, in that immediate
neighbourhood ; whilst, at a very short distance
from his own dwelhng, rose the turrets of one
whose person and property lay under his sole
guardianship. Terwick formed thus a central
position in the midst of the scattered objects of
his solicitude.
Lord Wonter was the last of a house more
distinguished for its wealth than for its prowess.
Averse to deeds of arms from his youth, he
260 THE OLD 3IAN OF UAARLEM.
never had recourse to violent measures, except
when it became necessary to cover some of the
numerous acts of petty fraud or oppression which
his pecuHar disposition induced him frequently
to commit. In those days, when might was
right, he knew as well as most men how to
apply that great lever to his own purposes ; and
the ruling passion of his whole life, to whose
gratification he applied all the resources of a
shrewd and cunning mind, was avarice—that
avarice which seeks to grasp, even more than
to retain—the thoughtful calculating avarice
which, when it once invades and takes posses-
sion of the human bosom, excludes thence every
other thought and feeling.
His first marriage had been one of interest,
nor had its fetters weighed long upon him; and
his daughter, left so early an heiress, had not
proved, it was reported, an unprofitable ward.
He had been influenced in his second choice
by the same calculations—the lady was rich and
an orphan—and so perfect was Wonter's ma-
nagement of all the affairs of life, especially with
regard to property—so well did he understand
THE OLD MAN OF HAAULEM. 2G1
how to lay out small sums on large securities,
whether in lands or jeweller}^, and so successfully
did he back his rights as a creditor by his power
as a lord, that he soon trebled the wealth
originally his own.
In the days of which we speak, the ordinary
method of raising money consisted in ' engaging
houses, lands, or moveables ; and it was no un-
frequent practice among the princes and lesser
nobles, either to apply to the towns or clergy to
obtain money by such pledges or deposits, or to
pawn their jew^els to each other. Such accom-
modations disgraced as little the creditor as the
debtor—it w^as not considered more disreputable
to lend or borrow money on such securities, than
is a mortgage in our time.
It was also no unusual occurrence, when the
clergy and the corporations of towns under any
embarrassment, applied to the richer nobles for
assistance under similar conditions ; and Lord
Wonter had, by such means, increased his pro-
perty to a considerable amount.
By an arrangement of this nature, perfectly
in accordance with the customs of the times,
262 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
the fiery young Lord Henry of Matenesse,
desirous of raising a large body of lances to
assist the Duke in his wars, had, in the head-
long impetuosity of youth, pledged his castle
and lands to the Lord of Oostersteen for a sum
which he could never hope to redeem. On his
return—a knight renowned for his prowess, but
whose poverty was rendered more grievous by
his having burthened himself with a portionless
bride—he was glad enough to accept the pro-
posal with which Lord Wonter greeted him
—
that, namely, of overlooking his claims for the
moment—and, large as they were, this was a
great concession—upon the sole condition that,
should Henry de Matenesse predecease the
Lord of Oostersteen, leaving no heirs of his
body, he should name the latter as his successor,
or, in case of male issue, at least appoint him
guardian.
This proposal, proceeding from one consider-
ably his senior, appeared so advantageous to the
young lord, that it was unhesitatingly accepted.
But matters were not to remain thus. Wonter,
a few years later, contrived to fan into flame a
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 263
feud between Henry de Matenesse and one of
his neighbours—the fiery youth flew to arms,
and after a few severe conflicts, remained upon
the field, leaving his helpless widow and son
—
the only offspring of their union—in a manner
he had little anticipated, wholly in the hands
of his perfidious creditor; thus, personal in-
terest, as well as inclination, strongly bound
the Lord of Oostersteen to the vicinity of
Haarlem.
One of the four towers we have mentioned
as flanking the castle of Terwick, contained the
apartment of the Lady Aleyde Oostersteen
—
Wonter's second wife—in the solitary enjoy-
ment of which she was seldom interrupted,
either by the presence of her husband, or by
that of any guest ; for hospitality, the virtue of
that rude age, and of all nations at an early
stage of civilization, was not known to the Lord
of the castle; nor was it probable that the
soothing power of love, to whose sunny influence
his youth had been a stranger, should melt the
snows of age. Thus, she would have been con-
demned to complete solitude but for the com-
264 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
panionship of her daughter in law, and that of
her maidens.
To this tower was attached a smaller turret
which formed an inner recess, commanding an
extensive view over the fertile plains beneath.
Within this bower, on a calm summer evening
of the year 1420, Ale3^de and her friend Ger-
trude sat in confidential discourse, the maidens
having descended to attend the evening meal,
leaving them free leisure to disburthen their
minds to each other.
The Lady Aleyde had the advantage of Ger-
trude in years but by very few summers, and
was scarcely less beautiful, though her features
were of a less commanding order. The eyes of
both ladies wandered ever and and anon wist-
fully over the verdant meadows, that extended
far and wide, until they blended in the distance
with the blue waters of the Zuydersee.
" If I did not know you are so good, dear
Aleyde," said the daughter of Oostersteen, " I
should half suspect you of envying my approach-
ing happiness."
" Because I advise you to postpone it ? You
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 265
would greatly wrong me there, Gertrude, but, I
repeat, I mistrust your father s joyful consent to
so disadvantageous a union—he who has refused
your hand to so many good and rich knights."
" And do you, too, value wealth and pomp
above all else ?"
" I, once in my life," answered Aleyde, with
a deep sigh, " valued them too highly, and
I am not likely ever to fall into that error
again."
" I know it, my poor friend !" said Gertrude.
"And it is warned by your example, that I am
determined to act upon another principle."
" But fall not into the contrary error," said
Aleyde. " Beware of extremes ! the knight of
your choice has not the qualities that could
have inspired you with a real love. Beware,
dear girl, lest the infatuation of a moment, and
an ardent desire for change, conduct you to
your ruin."
" You speak, perhaps, from experience,
madam," replied Gertude, bitterly, for hers was
a spirit impatient of control.
" Nay, Gertrude, for all the anger I may ex-
VOL. n. N
266 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
cite by speaking my mind freely, I am decided
to give you my best advice on this matter ; and
it was for the purpose of so doing that I refused
attending the evening meal, which, luckily, the
absence of Lord Wonter has enabled us to
escape without animadversion."
" But, I repeat. Madam," continued Gertrude,
still offended, " as I suppose all you can say
on this subject must be dictated by your ex-
perience "
" Well ! be it so—I will not deny it," said
Aleyde—"I will not deny that, when your
father demanded my hand, I, scarcely escaped
from the trammels of childhood, accepted it
merely with the view of exchanging the dul-
ness of my guardian's isolated castle in the
marshes, for the pleasures Lord Wonter depicted
in so tempting a form, and of which he promised
me so large a share. T was to have been the
queen of every tournament—to wander from
court to court, and everywhere to meet with
the most flattering reception as the wife of a
rich and puissant baron—I was to go on distant
pilgrimages, attended by a numerous and gay
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 267
retinue—in short, my dear, nothing was to have
been too bright or too good for the bride of
Oostersteen. But it all ended in the exchange
of a dull prison for one more desolate, from
whence there is no hope of release."
^* Granted," said Gertrude, " yours was a sad
mistake."
" Say rather a cruel deception, Gertrude."
"Well, perhaps; but here the case is very
different. My intended bridegroom is both
young and good-looking, truly devoted to me,
and were he not so, my wealth alone would
give me all due preponderance in my home
:
and if it be, indeed, as you say, for liberty and
pleasure that I pine, and not for my lover, surely
by this marriage I shall secure both. My wealth
is sufficient to cover all the deficiencies of my
husband in that respect, and moreover, I shall
be free to do with it what I please."
" Possibly so ; and yet you may buy regret
with it. You may, one day, blush for the in-
significance of your choice in every respect,
—
rank, fortune, knightly accomplishments—for
he is deficient in all. And you, forgive me for
n2
268 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
hinting at the truth, are changeful in disposition,
proiid, fond of show, and value your own ad-
vantages but too highly. Do not look so dark
and frowning at me, Gertrude—I do not wish
to offend, but to warn. No one knows and can
appreciate your good qualities so well as my-
self, though I am not blind to your faults."
" I thank you for your candour," said Ger-
trude, with a look anything but grateful ; " but
as I love both the knight and the prospect of
liberty which this marriage affords me, and as
he is, moreover, the only suitor my father will
hear of, I will even try the venture."
" I repeat it," insisted Aleyde, shaking her
head thoughtfully,—" I mistrust your father. His
hasty consent to this marriage is, to me, an in-
explicable mystery which, I am persuaded, must
conceal some plan discreditable to himself, and
disadvantageous to you."
" That's impossible," said Gertrude. " What
plan can he have ?"
"I know not—I cannot sift it. His plans
always lay too deep for my poor brain to un-
ravel ; but, taught by the experience of many a
THE OLD 3IAN OF IIAARLEBI. 269
paiiiful year, I ever suspect him most in his fits
of good-nature. If I were you, Gertrude, I
would not marry this poor powerless knight, or,
at least, would postpone the event until I could
see clearer through my father's motives. For,
say yourself, Gertrude, why should he suffer
his daughter, an heiress, to marry a penniless
obscure knight, when he refuses his son, in so
harsh a manner, an alliance with a lady so un-
exceptionable, in every respect but fortune,
as our friend, Marie de Matenesse." She
pointed as she spoke to the dwelling of the
young widow, which lay between them and
the Zuydersec. Gertrude's eyes followed the
same direction, and, for a few minutes, both
remained lost in thought. At last x\leyde re-
sumed the thread of the discourse.
"I have made it a rule, the prudence of
which, young as I am, I have lived long enough
to appreciate, ever to oppose the measures which
your father recommends."
" Then how is it that you have consented to
reside alone in my house at Haarlem ? for you
know, dear Aleyde, though equally at your
service, it is mine, not his, to dispose of."
270 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" First, it was not he who offered, but I who
asked it of him," repUed the lady ;
" secondly,
my dear child, I did not wish to live there
alone, but with you ; and if you will grant me
the pleasure of your society, still do I desire it.
Besides, to confess the whole truth, though I
much doubt your father's acquiescence to the
plan of your removing with me to Haarlem, I
could not resist this temptation of withdrawing
myself entirely from his society. But reflect
well on what I have said to you,—be wiser than
myself in resisting the force of your own wishes,
and, above all, guard against your father's per-
suasions and deceitful promises,"
So deep did the advice of the Lady of Oos-
tersteen sink into the mind of her step-daughter,
that her affianced bridegroom, who entered
the castle by chance during the absence of
Lord Wonter, was imperatively put off for an
indefinite space.
The estates of the Lord Wonter lay, as we
have already stated, between Dort and Ger-
truydenberg, a fine flourishing country, which
the number of dikes and other irrigations ren-
dered unusually fruitful. Nowhere did the
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM, 271
meadows offer softer, more velvet-like pasture.
Nowhere did the corn more luxuriate—each ear
growing double the dimension of the ordinary
produce. Li none other of the provinces, rich
and populated as they were, was there to be
seen so many smiling villages with gaily painted
huts, and tall steeples, scattered like summer
flowers on the verdant plain ; whilst here and
there a well moated battlemented castle threw
out its black mass in relief against the pale blue
northern sky, by its gloomy aspect breaking in
upon, though not destroying, the cheerfulness
of the scene.
There was a breathing life along the whole
district, which, like the hum of bees, never
ceased from morning till night. The chimes
of one village answered to that of another across
the plain—the lowing of the cattle, the loud
blast of a warder's horn, and the occasional
glee of some boors returning from the fields,
or the solemn chant proceeding from some
near monastery, continually greeted the ear of
the wanderer over this favoured ground. Pro-
perty hereabouts was not to be had for love or
272 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEiM.
money ; and there were none among those who
possessed any parcel of it, however small, who
could not boast wealth, according to their
comparative situations. But no one had so
large a share of these lands as the Lord of
Oostcrsteen, and no castle was to be compared
with his in strength or importance. He had,
therefore, much to overlook in these parts,
which necessitated his frequent and prolonged
absences from home, and many wondered he
had not selected the residence of his ancestors,
instead of that which he had acquired by his
alliance ; but though the Baron w^as already ad-
vanced in life, he had lost none of the activity
of his youth—the eye of the master was never
wanting to the prosperity of his estate, large as
it was, nor was its care ever entrusted to the
vigilance of strangers.
The same autumnal evening on which we
have described his ladies engaged in discussing
his character and plans, found him occupied in
surveying part of his property in the vicinity of
Dort. He had dismounted, and leaving his at-
tendants on the road, had entered one of his
THE OLD MAN OF HAAllLEM. 273
meadows to examine the cattle browsing there.
He was accompanied by the only one of his
menials who possessed his confidence, or rather,
so much of it as it was possible for one of his
disposition to grant. He was the intelligent
remorseless agent of his master's mean, and
sometimes cruel schemes, bold and intrepid as
a man at arms, a discreet and silent confidant
—
exactly, in short, the sort of tool of which
Wonter knew the use.
The Baron slowly followed the course of one
of the large dikes that enclosed his meadows,
surveying, with a satisfied glance, the beasts
whose heavy sides proclaimed the richness of
their nurture, occasionally suffering his eye to
wander over the neighbouring corn fields, whose
golden produce was already ripe for the sickle.
As he was thus employed, the man, who followed
at due distance, and observed with exactness
each movement of his master's eyes, perceived
the Baron start suddenly, and look with strong
interest into the ditch beneath. It seemed to him,
at the same time, that a frog had leapt from the
grass into the water, for he heard a splash
N 3
274 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
though he could not sec the object which had
caused it.
This circumstance, in itself so trifling, excited
the curiosity of the man ; for he knew his
master, whom nothing escaped, be it ever so
minute, capable of deriving benefit from things
in appearance the most unimportant. Wonter,
indeed, bestowed more attention on the inci-
dent, whatever it might be, than the occasion
appeared to justify. He looked long and wist-
fully into the water—then stooped low, and,
taking some in the hollow of his hand, raised it
to his lips. Apparently he was but half
satisfied; he shook his head, and tasted it
again,—then, to the amazement of his com-
panion, crouched down, and put his ear to the
soft grass, as if listening to the gentle sound of
the insects that lay concealed within its verdure.
He remained long in this attitude—so long, in-
deed, that his attendant began to fear that some
fit had prostrated him, and hesitated whether
to run to his assistance or to call further aid
;
but before he had made up his mind, his lord
sprang to his feet with a look so thoughtful, and
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 275
a brow so contracted, that the favourite dared
not hint at his surmise, nor comment, even by
so much as a look of surprise, upon his late
extraordinary movements. He had recourse,
however, to his usual expedient for leading his
master into conversation, one which hitherto
had never failed him. As they were retracing
their steps along the meadow, he at once
entered upon this topic.
" It is a fair pasture land," he said, " My
lord may well admire every blade of grass that
grows upon it. There is not such another to
be seen throughout the whole of Holland
—
there's many a one laments he can't buy a rood
of it with his hard gold."
This encomium extracting no answer, he
proceeded with unchecked volubility :
—
" The Lords of Oostersteen had ever reason
to value the domains which it was their happy
lot to be born to ; and lucky it is for the des-
cendants of that illustrious house that each
successive lord was as chary of it as his prede-
cessor. When I think," continued the man,
with upHfted hands and eyes, " of the sums
276 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
which my lord has refused in my day, for very
small portions of this same land !
"
" Have I though ?" said the Baron suddenly,
" the greater fool I
!"
The attendant was struck dumb with amaze-
ment, nor did he again venture to break the
silence that ensued until they reached the spot
where the retinue and horses were waiting.
When Wonter had remounted, he rose in his
stirrups, and cast a long, inquiring glance in the
direction of the sea, and suffered his eye to
sweep over the landscape, so as to embrace
every object within the range of sight. He
then bestowed on the ground near him a no
less investigating examination. Still he did not
seem satisfied, but continued this mute scrutiny
for so long that it began to excite the curiosity,
and awaken the alarm of his men. They, too,
looked anxiously abroad to discover, if possible,
what could justify their lord's abstraction; but
their efforts were in vain. No glittering spears
—no floating pennon appeared in the distance,
announcing the approach of a knight, possibly
of an enemy ; for they knew their lord did not
THE OLD MAN OF IIAARLE3I. 277
lack such, though he very prudently kept out of
their way—but peer out in what direction they
would, there was nothing—absolutely nothing
to be seen.
Wonter rode on a little in advance, then
halted, and looked perplexed as before. He
repeated this strange manoeuvre several times,
until at length, seized, it would appear, with a
sudden thought, he struck his forehead with his
ungauntleted hand, and exclaimed aloud :
" I
have it !" and, turning his horse's head, rode
furiously back on the very road up which, but a
short time previous, he had been advancing.
" Urge the men, Jost," he exclaimed, " I
would reach St. Alexis betimes."
" But, my lord, we have just left it
!"
" What's that to you ?" answered Ooster-
steen sternly. " Obey my bidding, and ask no
questions."
Jost knew his master too well to draw his
anger upon himself by insistance ; and falling
silently to the rear, retained his position until
they had reached the gates of the convent.
Great was the amazement of the monks, and
278 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
small theii' pleasure, on witnessing this speedy
and linlooked for return ; for Lord Wonter was
seldom a desired guest anywhere, but least of
all was his presence agreeable at the convent
of St. Alexis ; which had, but that day, made
itself his debtor to a considerable amount. The
Abbot had, since his departiure, betaken himself
to his own apartments, to meditate in quiet
upon the pressing and heavy embarrassments of
the community, which had forced him to pawn
the best part of its dependencies, upon the
hardest conditions, to the grasping Lord of
Oostcrsteen—he being the only one within his
cognizance capable of affording immediate
relief. Certainly, he thought, there was no
chance of redeeming the pledges he had that
day sanctioned on the part of the monastery,
short of a miracle ; but its total impoverish -
ment, its ruin, perhaps, could not take place for
some years ; and, in all probability, he would
be at rest with his predecessors before the final
consummation of the evil. For his lifetime, at
any rate, he had secured rest—but whilst the old
man, alarmed at the magnitude of his conces-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 279
sions, was soothing his mind with these reflec-
tions, he was most disagreeably aroused from
his reverie by the inteUigence of the Baron's
return.
" Holy St. Alexis !" he exclaimed. " Our
patron saint protect us ! What can that bad
man want of us ? Well, I suppose I must see
him—a sufficient penance for the worst sin I
have committed for many a long year."
The words of welcome dropped . slowly and
coldly from the frightened Abbot's lips, as he
re-entered the chamber where he had so
recently bidden adieu to the Lord of Ooster-
steen.
"Nay," said the latter, "I am about as
welcome as a white frost in May. All the
brethren looked scared at the sight of me, as if
I were a walking malefice—but it is because
you know me not. You think me hard-hearted
and griping, because I have been represented
as such by some discontented boors or envious
neighbours. But I assure you, good father, in
harbouring such an opinion you do me great
injustice."
280 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLE3X.
" Indeed, my good lord," replied the Abbot,
somewhat pettishly, "what we think cannot
be a matter of much importance to you ; nor
do I suppose you have taken the trouble of
retracing your steps merely to discuss this point
with us poor brothers of an impoverished
community."
" There again you do me wrong, good
father," answered Lord Wonter with a pecu-
liarly disagreeable smile, which he meant to be
conciliating. "It is for the purpose of justify-
ing myself in your eyes, and of recovering
your good opinion—which I value much more
than you seem to imagine—that I have again
sought your abode. The fact is, I overheard
this morning, at my departure, some expressions
which dropped from you, as it seemed, invo-
luntarily, plainly intimating, that in your
opinion, I had not acted the part of a true son
of the church in the matter which passed
between us. Is it not so, good father ? I ask
it in all humihty."
"I do not exactly remember what I said,"
repUed the Abbot, hesitating ; for he began to
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 281
fear Wontcr had returned fur the express
purpose of retracting his loan if possible. " I
must, however, confess that for a loving son, I
think you have dealt hardly with the church.
But," added he, hastily, the bargain is made,
and such as it is we are content to abide by it
—
so, mcthinks, you should be; and I cannot
understand what more 3^ou have to say on the
subject.
" Good Father, I have returned with the
best intentions towards you; repulse me not,
I beseech you, in your peevishness. Grant me
but your patience for a short time, and you will
see how much the world and you have wronged
a man naturally cUbonnaire, and ready to make
any concessions to the interests of others, which
those of his o\vn family will admit of. You
insinuate that my conditions have been hard;
I am willing to propose lighter ones. Your
lands are, in sooth, much above in value the
loan I have placed upon them. With this my
conscience was forcibly struck as I rode along.
I felt, indeed, that I was despoiling the church
of its rights. Keep them, therefore, good
282 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
Father, and long may you and the brethren
Uvc to enjoy their produce. Instead of this
valuable pledge, I shall be satisfied to receive
what you at first proposed—the golden chalice,
and the vases of the holy sacrament, the reli-
quary and tabernacle ; in fact, the little trea-
sures that decorate your church on occasions
of high festivities. They are scarcely equal
to
"
" Nay, my Lord," interrupted the Abbot,
with brightening eyes and expanding brow;
" they are equal in value to the sum you have
lent us; and our chapel will miss them even
more than the church lands and vassals. But,
if the exchange can in any way oblige you
" It is for your accommodation—not mine
—
that I offer these terms," said Oostersteen, with
habitual caution.
" Well," said the Abbot, with a glow of rap-
ture he could not suppress, " I will be fair with
you, my lord. This proposal fills my bosom
with delight and gratitude ; for we retain enough
of relics to make our church rich in sanctity.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 283
if poor in gold. What matters it that the casket
be gone, if the gem remain ! he, he, he !" and
the fat Abbot laughed heartily, rubbing his
hands with glee; and Wonter, in echoing it,
assumed the malicious grin of a monkey, rather
than the smile of congratulation he meant to
convey. " And we wdll trust," continued the
Abbot, recovering his gravity, " to the piety
of some good souls, to make up to us the losses
our church will this day experience. If the
sacred deposit were to remain unredeemed in
your hands, you would still be a gainer to a
considerable amount ; but as you had it in your
power to exact much more, and out of con-
sideration for the sufferings of our community
resigned your advantages, I will frankly confess
I think the world has much wronged you. For
my own part, I freely recant my opinion, and
will offer up for your weal the prayers of the
church in return for your kindness."
It was not till the next morning that Wonter
departed from the convent, when, having sent
on the previous night for a reinforcement of
men-at-arms—for he dared not venture fortli
284 THE OLD MAN OF UAARLEM.
laden with his treasures without insuring at
onde a strong escort and the light of the day
—
he made the best of his way towards Terwick.
Here he remained only a few hours, during
which he did not so much as see his family;
but having rested himself, and concealed his
precious deposit, he set out in another direc-
tion.
He now proceeded further inland towards
Utrecht. He soon, however, diverged from
the high road; and, approaching one of the
smiling villages that lay embedded in trees at
no great distance, and which he had often
occasion to frequent, he stopped at the door
of one of its wealthiest inhabitants —a small
farmer, named Kluyn. The honour of his visit
was acknowledged with a mixture of frank cor-
diality, and the respect due to his rank, with-
out the slightest touch of that servility which
the inferior classes generally observed towards
their superiors.
" No, my good friends," said Wonter, ad-
dressing himself, as it appeared, more to the
wife than to the husband; for, in Holland, the
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 285
women were, for the most part, all-powerful in
the government of their homes. " I have not
called here to-day merely for a stirrup-cup ; I
wish to have some words with you on a matter
of business. I am disposing of my lands be-
tween Dort and Gertruydenberg ; and, know-
ing you to be both honest and industrious,
have thought of you; for," he continued, after
a moment's pause, " to deserving persons, I
will let them go at the same price as other
land."
"Indeed!" said Jan Kluyn, with a deep-
drawn breath.
" And," continued Wonter, " you well know
it would be no mean advantage to have them
at any price."
Jan Kluyn looked into his wife's face, in order
to ascertain her opinion of this proposal.
" We are comfortable where we are," said
the woman, in rather a rough tone ; for her
manner was naturally ungracious. " Those
only can gain by change who are badly off
at home. If the Baron seeks to sell his lands,
he will not lack buyers."
286 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" True, my good woman," said Oostersteen.
" I can have no trouble in selling them, and
at a high rate too, I promise you. There are
some rich lords I wot of, who would be but
too glad to possess them; but I chose rather
to parcel them out to benefit the many."
" I understand perfectly," said the woman.
^^
The lords would not pay ready money."
" Wife, wife ! what are you saying ?" inter-
rupted Jan Kluyn. " My lord has been very
good to think of us ; the ground is better than
ours by a great deal ; and if I can, for the price
I sell mine for, have as much of his, we ought
ever after to look up to the Lord of Oostersteen
as our benefactor."
A strange malicious smile passed over the
bloodless lips of Wonter ; and he did not leave
the tidy farm-house, in whose visible comforts
the prosperity of the family was revealed, until
he had arranged the terms of the sale. Vainly
did his confidential man attempt, more than
once, with due deference, to hint at the im-
policy of his proceedings. The old Lord, with-
out even so much as noticing the remonstrance.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 287
repeated this manoeuvre, with more or less suc-
cess, with all the rich farmers whose properties
lay on his road. But still greater was the asto-
nishment, almost dismay of Jost, when, on
their return to Terwick, he was entrusted with
the commission to sell as much of his master's
remaining estate as he could parcel away among
those who, though humble in station, might be
considered able to afford instant payment; for that
seemed the chief aim of the Lord of Oosterstecn.
Success in this matter was not the work of a
day, and the ensuing spring was fast ripening
into summer before Jost had got rid of all the
large possessions between Dort and Gertruy-
denberg. When this great affair was brought
to a happy conclusion, chiefly owing to the
desire of the citizens of Haarlem to become
purchasers, Wonter found himself possessed of
considerable sums in his iron chest, but without
a rood of his once-extensive patrimonial estate
to call his own. But this did not seem to dis-
concert him ; nor was there much cause, for
reasons that will appear in the course of this
narrative.
288 THE OLD MAN OF IIAAllLEM.
On Oostersteen's return to Terwick, he was not
a little surprised to find that his daughter had
given up all thoughts of marriage—at least for
the present—and that she had expressed a desire
to accompany her mother-in-law to Haarlem.
Lady Aleyde, who communicated this intelli-
gence, beheld his brow contract with fury,
which he did not even try to dissemble.
'^ And this is at your instigation," he said.
" You are passing bold, madam, to put your-
self between a father and his daughter. How
dared you to give advice unbidden ?"
Aleyde grew pale, and it was not without
effort that she was able to answer in a mild,
deprecatory tone
—
" I did not mean to offend my good lord,
but surely it is early for us to part with our
daughter. Is it a crime ts wish to retain her
longer by my side ?"
" And what right have you to her society
—
is she your child ?"
" The right of affection," murmured the
lady, growing more and more embarrassed.
" Nonsense !" said Wonter, scornfully. " Tell
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 289
me not of such follies. I know the world too
well not to know what female friendships are
worth—ay, and for that matter, friendships of
any kind—so think not to deceive me, madam.
You have some design in thwarting my inten-
tions, which I will fathom ; but, depend upon it,
it will be the worse for you."
" I do not know," replied Aleyde, " what
you mean by talking of deception. It seems
to me, if any one here has a right to complain
of such a thing, it is not you. But I will not
return unjust reproaches with recriminations."
"You have none to make," said Wonter;
" for tell me, is there a woman in Holland who
can boast a richer lord than you ?"
" As that does not make me the richest lady
in the land," answered Aleyde, with that readi-
ness at retort which the gentlest of her sex will
sometimes exhibit, " I do not see how that
consciousness can contribute to my felicity."
" Nay, I know you love nothing but plea-
sure"—said Wonter, scornfully—" senseless, idle
pleasure, which is but the breath of a moment.
I know your weakness, madam ;
you need not
VOL, IL o
290 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
boast of it ; but if you would not be for ever
debarred, not only from the pleasures, but the
liberty you value so highly,"—the lady stared
with amazement, for she was not conscious of
enjoying either,—" you will henceforth beware
how you interfere with my daughter's affairs,
or any of my wishes. Now, send Lady Gertrude
to me."
It was in his own chamber that Wonter
awaited his daughter, but not a trace of the
anger for which Aleyde had prepared her was
visible on his countenance when she entered.
He was as composed as,, and seemed more com-
plaisant than ordinary.
" I read your astonishment in your eyes, my
child," he said, as he gazed fondly on her.
" Lady Aleyde has, doubtless, threatened you
with my indignation ; but, my dear Gertrude,
it is with her, not with you, that I am angry
;
and justly so, as you would see if it beseemed
a father and a husband to dwell on the secret
miseries of his union."
" But, my lord," said Gertrude, bluntly,
" Aleyde seems to me an angel of gentleness
and resignation."
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 291
" Yes, SO she seems,"—said Wonter, laying
a strong stress on the word,—" so she seems
;
none know the truth but myself, and it is a
secret that must go with me to my grave."
Here the Lord of Oostersteen drew himself up
with the majesty of sorrow. " But believe me,
my dear girl, the saddest hour of my life was
that when, forgetful of your mother, I wedded
a second time—I, an old man, with white hair,
and my bride a young and giddy creature.
Mine the fault, Gertrude—therefore it is but
fair that mine should be the punishment."
Gertrude listened with amazement, and with
a look of incredulity that did not escape her
father.
"Yes, my dear child," he continued, "I
repent my choice bitterly, and yet few men
would judge their wives more leniently than
I do mine. I make every allowance for the
circumstance of my white hairs and her black
locks having been brought into unnatural con-
junction, but I cannot forgive her seeking to
alienate from me my daughter's confidence
when most I need it."
292 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" Indeed, sir, you are mistaken," said Ger-
trude, seeing that her father paused for an
answer. " Never has Aleyde, to my know-
ledge, attempted aught that was not consistent
with her duty to you."
" Ay, there again, so it seems—but so it is
not ! Has she not dissuaded you from a mar-
riage calculated to ensure our mutual happi-
ness?"
" I do not really see
—" said Gertrude, looking
anxiously at her father at this preamble.
" No ; but I will shew you," continued
Wonter, without giving his daughter time to
argue the point—" I will shew you how my
happiness is no less interested than yours in the
union which I design for you—to which I could
force, but would rather persuade. One word
—
one revelation will make this clear, and you will
admit that the greatest tenderness could alone
induce me to give you a similar explanation.
Aleyde loves the knight I would have you
marry. Possibly she imagines that at my death
she will be able to satisfy, with the aid of my
wealth, the desires of her heart ; but this I am
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 293
determined shall never be ! Now you have my
secret, Gertrude,—and hers. Keep them well
;
and, as you value my affection, prepare to
accept without murmur the suitor I have chosen
for you."
At these words, a new light broke in upon
Gertrude—she had been betrayed by her mo-
ther-in-law; and being by nature of a temper
easily roused, and not possessing an over-shrewd
judgment, she felt all the anger necessary to
prompt her to a rash resolution. Had Lady
Aleyde, she thought, openly avowed her weak-
ness, though she must have blamed, she could
have pitied and respected her feelings—she
would not have submitted to become an instru-
ment of revenge, even in her father's hands,
against one whom she had called her friend;
as it was, her indignation was awakened, and
she gave a glad consent to an immediate union
with her rejected lover, in order to punish that
friend's hypocrisy.
No sooner were the nuptial festivities over,
than, leaving Gertrude mistress of the castle.
Lady Aleyde withdrew to Haarlem, where her
294 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
daughter-in-law, disgusted at her imagined
treachery, would not so much as visit her.
In the meantime, Floris, the Baron's only
son, returned from an expedition undertaken at
the desire of his sovereign, the ill-fated Jacque-
line of Bavaria, Countess of Holland, in which
he had reaped great honour, but small profit
;
a circumstance calculated to ensure him the
cold reception, if not the censure of his sire.
He was surprised to find his sister already
married, and to a man whom he regarded much
in the same light as his mother-in-law had
done ; and this extraordinary concession, as he
conceived it, on the part of his father to the
wishes of Gertrude, encouraged him to hope
much on his own account ; for his first thoughts
were devoted to her whose image had filled up
every moment of absence.
END OF VOL. IL
T. C. Savill, Printer, 107, St. Martin's Lane.
MAGIC AND MESMERISM
^n iSpiiSotre
THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY
AND OTHER TALES.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. HI.
LONDON
SAUNDERS AND OTLEY, CONDUIT STREET.
1843.
8£3
V.3
THE
OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
The Castle of Matenesse was, as we have
said, not far from that of Terwick ; and this
close proximity had, perhaps, originally served
to fan the flame which the charms of its mistress
were well calculated to kindle.
Marie de Matenesse was seated near the
window of her turret chamber, with her boy
reclining upon her knee ; the rays of the even-
ing sun fell full upon her countenance and that
of the child, revealing a strong resemblance
between them. She was one of those women
from whom juvenility seems loth to depart;
VOL, III. B
2 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
and though her little Henry was nearly six
years old, she possessed a purity of expression
that approached nearer to the conception of the
Virgin mother than is usually rendered, even
by the most skilful artists. Her features, in-
fantine in their delicacy, agreed well with the
rich masses of dark-brown hair that floated
around them—the paleness of her cheek spoke
of thought and care ; and in her deep blue
eyes, intently fixed upon her boy's face, there
was an expression of ardent but sorrowful love,
—
such as proceeds only from a mother's heart.
She had remained absorbed, nearly in the same
attitude, for more than an hour, when a firm
tread was heard on the narrow, ^vinding, stone
stairs leading to her chamber. She started
from her reverie, and listened with a mixture of
surprise and pleasure to the long-missed, but
well-recognised sound. A slight flush passed
over her countenance, which faded almost as
instantaneously, when the door opened, and
Floris entered the apartment. The next in-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 3
stant, her boy glided from her knee, and the
delicate, fragile woman was clasped in the arms
of the stalwart knight.
When the first eifervescence of their feelings
was calmed, Floris communicated his hopes
that their union would no longer be deferred.
Marie shook her head doubtingly. In vain did
he plead the marriage of his sister with an ob-
scure and penniless adventurer.
'* He may have had secret reasons for fur-
thering that match," said she, " for which we
are not able to account. Believe me, Floris,
your father values nothing but money, and he
will never suffer his heir to wed a dowerless
widow. To speak the truth, I know not if I
have acted rightly in encouraging your hopes
—
I who can offer you no portion, and but half a
heart, in return for your glowing first love. It
is not acting fairly towards you, nor, perhaps,
towards my son, who, deprived of one parent,
has the more need of the undivided affection of
the remaining one."
B 2
4 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" You are wrong, Marie, in both inferences,"
said the young knight, with warmth. " As for
me, I am well assured of your love, and that
mine is necessary to your happiness—at least, I
trust—I believe so. You are a tender plant,
Marie, and need support ; but even were it not
so, the interest of your child, which you have
at heart, should prevail upon you to give him a
father. How can you rear him yourself? how in-
struct him in the noble exercise of chivalry, such
as beseems the son of one who, in the flower of
manhood, died in his stirrups. Unassisted, you
will make a mere drivelling monk of him, un-
able to assert his dignity or his rights."
" The spirit of his father is likely to awake
in him but too soon," said Marie, checking a few
drops that hung trembling on her long lashes.
" Suppose it does," replied Floris. " Is it
not, then, probable that he wdll grow up into a
petty tyrant in the solitude of his castle, where
there are none to control him ? Besides, how
can you protect yourself and him through the
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. O
many long years that must elapse before he is of
age to wield a lance ? It is true my father is
bound to protect him, but you know he is old,
and not much disposed to enter into feuds or
quarrels with his neighbours."
" Would you protect my child against him f
demanded Marie, raising her eyes, fraught with
meaning, to those of her lover.
" Against him ! —against my father ! Why
that question Marie ?'*
said the knight, some-
what severely. " Surely from him you have
nothing to fear ?"
Marie made no answer, but suffered her head
to drop on her bosom, whilst a sigh she could
not repress escaped her lips.
" Moreover," continued Floris, after a pause,
during which he narrowly examined his com-
panion's countenance, " if he should wish to in-
terfere with your child more than you desire,
though I might not to a certain degree oppose
my father, yet it would be easy for us to avoid
all such discussions, by a timely retreat from
b THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
these parts. My name will be a sufficient re-
commendation to our good duchess, and at her
court, you may be quite confident, my father
will never seek us."
" Could we—could we, indeed, get far away
from him?" said the young mother, eagerly.
" If I were sure of that
"
" You would accept me," said Floris, smiling.
"But I assure you, Marie, I have long con-
sidered myself as plighted to you, and in spite
of your, no doubt, very wise objections, shall
still continue your true knight."
Marie answered by a gentle smile ; and when
Floris had left her, she fell into a deep train of
thought, from which she was only roused by the
caresses of her boy, who claimed the evening
song with which she was wont to amuse him be-
fore sleep closed his young eyelids.
" He already makes me forget thee, my poor
Henry !" she said, as she covered the child with
kisses. " Alas, alas ! what ought I to do ? But
fate will spare me the pain of deciding, for
tHE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 7
Floris, all loyalty and honour, little knows what
his father's heart can encompass !"
Floris had soon an opportunity of ascertaining
the correctness of Marie's forebodings. It was
dark when he reached home, and his father had
retired to his own chamber, where he loved not
to be disturbed ; but so eager was Floris to
prove to his own satisfaction the groundlessness
of Marie's fears, that he ventured to demand an
audience, which, somewhat to his surprise, was
instantly granted. Before, however, he had
time to expound the object of his visit, Wonter
addressed him, in a harsh and angry tone.
'*
I know what you are come about," he said,
" for I saw you ride by, and I am fully prepared
to answer your demand at once. You are again
come to torment me about Marie de Matenesse,
and I, again, declare to you, I will never consent
to your union."
"But wherefore, my lord?" urged Floris,
whose dark eyes flashed with the spirit within.
" When a few years ago I made a similar request.
8 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
you said I was yet too young to talk about so
solemn an engagement as matrimony. You told
me that my love for Marie was a mere boyish
caprice—that travels—entering on life, would
soon dispel the feeling—that if it were the same
a few years hence, it would be then time to
speak of it, —that you would be the first to re-
compense my constancy. Well, my lord, here
I am—I have been in camps and courts—have
won and worn the price of honour given by the
fairest hands at the most brilliant tournaments ;
but I come back to claim the reward of my un-
changed feelings ; for they are unchanged, and
will remain so to the hour of my death."
" Then am I the more son-y for your folly,"
said Wonter. " The more sorry that as a man
you should remember the foolish words with
which I tried to appease a foolish boy, who gave
me much trouble at a time when I was engaged
with graver thoughts. But now, if you will
have a reason and a rational one, I will give it
you at once,—the lady of Matenesse is too
poor."
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. ^
" I understand, sir ;
—you do not wish me to
be a charge upon you ; but, as Marie's husband,
you will find me no burthen on your treasury.
Until her son is of age the castle will be mine,
and by my good sword will I fill up the blank in
my revenues."
" No doubt—no doubt. Like the German
knights we hear so much about, you would rob
on the highways. Only, I would have you
remember that our country does not offer, like
theirs, fastnesses within which to find pro-
tection. Moreover, to cut the matter short, I
will tell you once for all, that I have a rich bride
in view for you. Ah, Floris !" he said, leaning
his hand heavily on the young knight's shoulder,
*»
you are mad to think of throwing yourself away
in this manner—you, who will be one day so rich
:
for I must die, Floris—though the day may be
very far off,—then you know, my son, I cannot
take my money away with me. Come, Floris,
you must think no more of this, for if that brat
Matenesse dieS) are we not the heirs of all ?"
b3
10 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" We the heirs !" exclaimed Floris. " Ha ! I
remember!" and a dark suspicion crossed the
youth's mind, as the uncertainty that still hung
over his mother's fate, and Marie's fears and
misgivings, rushed back upon his recollection,
and for a moment he remained silent. Again,
he thought upon his father's indulgence to Ger-
trude, and he could not help alluding to the
subject.
" Oh !—ay—true," said Wonter. "By the
way, Floris, I am by no means satisfied with my
new son-in-law, and already repent my weakness.
The insolent fellow, who, considering how
doubtful is his right to his spurs, should have
considered himself too honoured in being
allowed a place at my board, and the love of my
daughter, dares to claim her heritage. As if she
had any, forsooth ! But you, Floris, must help
me to chastise this foolish conceit of theirs, for
Gertrude has suffered herself to become infected
by some of her husband's silly notions."
These words caused a new light to break in
T?HE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 11
upon the mind of the young knight. He knew,
and had been assured by those who had seen it,
that in the marriage settlement of his mother, a
great heiress, her fortune had been awarded to
her daughters and younger sons, that of Lord
Wonter descending by right to his eldest. But,
these witnesses were dead : so were the friends
of his mother ;
—indeed, she had possessed so few,
that when Wonter had reported her dead, no
one inquired when or where she died, or whether
she had left issue. Who, therefore, was to prove
the will ? Gertrude might, indeed, throw her-
self upon the justice of the Countess of Holland
;
but that lady would not find it easy, perplexed
as she was by her own troubles, to assist her
;
and, for the first time, his father's policy dawned
upon Floris, when he considered how impossible
it would be for Gertrude's obscure, powerless,
vassalless husband, to struggle against the Lord
of Oostersteen. He was struck to the heart by
the cruel, selfish calculations that had condemned
his sister, in the bloom of life, to a lot so mean
12 THE OLD 3IAN OF H^VARLEM.
—she who might long since have been wedded
to a Baron more powerful, though less rich, than
her father.
To these thoughts he could not, of course,
give utterance, but he warmly pleaded his
sister's cause, though he could perceive that, in
so doing, he was uselessly endangering his own.
However earnest his eloquence, it was fruitless.
His father's resolution with respect to himself
was as irrevocable as that he had formed towards
his daughter. He considered all feelings chi-
merical that were not connected with the object
of his own especial idolatry, and did not even
believe in the existence of those sorrows, by
the description of which his son sought to move
him. He could not perceive why a state of
dependence on him should humihate Gertrude;
for the pride of his daughter, as well as the
passion of his son, were sentiments equally
foreign to his nature; he had never known such,
and could, therefore, feel no sympathy with
them.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEBI. 13
" For yourself, Floris," concluded Wonter,
" I will prove to your satisfaction, that you are
mistaken—deceived. I tell you, she loves you
not—she loves nothing but her child ; and
would sacrifice you without a scruple to that
puny brat. This I will prove to you, before the
sun is many days older."
A few days after this conversation, Marie de
Matenesse was busily engaged at her spinning
wheel, accompanying its monotonous sound
with the more melodious one of a plaintive
ballad, ever and anon casting an anxious glance
towards the sun, fast sinking behind the horizon.
Her little boy appeared to divine the cause of
his mother's anxiety, and said, with the licensed
candour of his age
—
" Floris of Oostersteen is late to-day ; and
mamma is afraid he wont come. It is very
naughty of Oostersteen to make my mother
wait so."
The maidens looked at their lady to observe
the effect of the child's artless prattle, and
14 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
Marie bent low to close his lips with a kiss, and
conceal her blushes in his dark ringlets. At
that moment a heavy tread was heard. The
thoughtful maidens rose unbidden but un-
checked, and, according to their wont, retired
from the apartment as the steps of the expected
comer drew near.
Scarcely had they disappeared by the door
that conducted to the inner chambers, when the
opposite one opened—a figure advanced from
its shade, and Marie, at the very first accents of
the intruder, recognised Lord Wonter. She
started from her quiescent attitude, and instinc-
tively cast one arm round her boy ; a gesture
which, apparently, passed unnoticed by her
unwelcome visitor.
"You are surprised to see me, and I am
afraid not agreeably so," said the old lord.
" My son has, I suppose, already informed you
of my opposition to the marriage you medi-
tate."
Marie merely bowed her assent.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 15
" Nor has he, perhaps, neglected to acquaint
you," continued Wonter, "with the reasons
which have dictated this refusal on my part?
In your heart, doubtless, you attribute it to the
very worst motives that your imagination can
suggest"^"
"I know but one likely to influence you,
messire," said Marie, somewhat contemptuously,
"and however much I may grieve at your
determination, as the want of money does not
argue the absence of other qualifications,
neither my pride nor my vanity are wounded
by your disapprobation of an alliance other-
wise in every way suitable to your house."
" Is the grief you speak of very great f
demanded Lord Wonter, with a significant
shake of the head ; " I frankly confess I doubt
it."
"And what reason have you for doubt?''
inquired the lady, somewhat haughtily. " I
can have, assuredly, no interest in asserting
what is not true."
16 THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM.
" By my honour but you can, though !" said
Oosterstecn, gruffly, " or your regrets proceed
from the head rather than the heart. You may
remember, as well as I, though Floris, silly
bo}^, seems so willing to forget it, that he is
heir to a princely fortune."
"And do you suppose my heart is fixed
upon his fortune ?"
" Give me a proof that it is not so,'' said
Wonter, with the insulting smile so peculiarly
his own ;
" I shall then have some reason to be
convinced of the sincerity of your affection-
satisfy me but on that point, and you shall have
to your union, not only a willing, but a glad
consent."
Marie gazed in astonishment upon the
speaker.
" Say, Marie, you who forsook your natural
friends for the Lord of Matenesse—for they
had destined you to the cloister, I know it well
—you, who once made to love so great a sacri-
fice, if now you indeed love again, will you
hesitate to make another ?"
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLE3L 17
" Assuredly not, if it be such as may beseem
me to make. Propose your terms—but, I
guess them, and accede to them in advance
—
I will even spare you the shame of speaking
them ; you wish me to renounce all dowry.
Oh ! if it be but that, it has not even the merit
of being a privation."
" You mistake me, Marie, I demand a con-
cession still more easy to grant. Floris must
rule alone in the heart that owns him for its
master—give up Henry to my care, and I will
yield Floris to yours."
" Good heavens ! what do you mean ? What
can you mean ?" exclaimed the young mother
in extreme agitation.
" Something very simple and rational. Suffer
me to remove your little Henry to a cloister
;
where, under the guidance of the good monks,
he may pick up some lore ; and after the ex-
piration of a few years, I'll restore him to you.
Now, he were little else than obstacle to my
son's happiness—a rival in your affections."
"Enough—enough!" almost shrieked the
18 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
mother, snatching the boy to her bosom. " I
will hear no more of this. You have decided
about your son; abide by that decision, and
trouble me no more
!"
" Come, come, Marie," urged Oostersteen,
with the hypocritical softness of manner that
formed so peculiar a feature in his character,
and which increased in suavity, in exact propor-
tion to the pain he inflicted—"if you value
Floris, as you would have me believe, you will
surely consent to exchange, for a few years,
the insignificant society of a child for that of
the man you love. That answer of yours tends
to confirm my belief
"
" Believe what you please," exclaimed Marie,
passionately, " but leave me my child, my own
Henry. Be merciful, my Lord of Oostersteen,
and do not even breathe the thought. Oh !
if you but once had him in your power—
"
she held her child with a tighter grasp, and
shuddered.
" Simple girl—and can I not have him when-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 19
ever I please ? Is he not my ward ? What is
it you fear on his account—and from me ?"
The light was waning too fast for Marie to
perceive the red glow that mounted to Wonter's
very forehead; and her heart beat too thick
and too painfully to admit of her remarking, or
even hearing, his altered tones.
**
I know it—nothing," she murmured faintly.
" But, oh, leave me ! —leave me instantly
!"
**
Yes, Marie, I will leave you—you shall be
tormented with me and mine no longer. Say, do
you really refuse to resign Henry to my care for a
few years, for the sake of Floris ? If you but
agree to this
"
" My choice is made. Oh ! leave me but my
child. Lord Wonter, and take from me every
other joy. Let me but keep my Henry, and I
will bless you evermore."
" Then, rest you content lady, it shall even
be as you desire ; and you, Floris, I hope are
satisfied that my wisdom is not folly after all."
" Yes, I am satisfied that I am not loved as
20 THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM.
I fondly, foolishly imagined," said a deep voice,
issuing from the gloom of the thick arch door-
way, and the young mother recognised the
tones of Floris. She turned her head in the
direction whence they proceeded, but could
scarcely distinguish through the dusk, his tall
massive form as he leant against the wall. He
paused, obviously in expectation of some words
of kindness—of comfort ; but Marie dared not
trust herself with an answer—a choking sensa-
tion rose to her throat, and she felt that utter-
ance would fail her.
" Farewell, then, Marie de Matenesse," con-
tinued the young knight, less firmly than he
had before spoken. "I would have been a
father to your child, loved and protected him
for your sake, but then I thought—it matters
not what. This was but a trick to discover
your real feelings. May your heart's idol repay
you in the future, for the true affection you
have this day cast from you." The reproachful
words expired on his lips, as he turned and left
the turret chamber.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 21
The heavy tread of the young knight was, for
a time, the only sound heard in the stillness
around. At last his retreating footsteps died
away, and Marie, raising her eyes from the
ground, perceived that she was alone. Wonter
had glided noiselessly from the room.
Marie, still holding her child on her lap,
leant back in her chair, and wept silently, but
bitterly. There was a conflict in her bosom of
regret for the past, and of vague apprehension
for the future ; and, above all, she experienced
that dreary blank which a violent rupture with,
or the sudden departure or loss of, a beloved
being generally produces. It seemed to her
affrighted fancy that life itself had become a
desolate waste, without one green spot of hope,
one incitement to exertion. Few there are,
however smooth their course of existence, who
have not, at one time or another, felt this
mental darkness gathering around them. The
true wisdom of some, the buoyant tempera-
ment of others, may have successfully wrestled
with this worst of human moods; but happy
22 THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM.
indeed are those who have escaped such alto-
gether. The moon shed its mild light over the
landscape, and tipped with silver the projecting
angles of Matenesse castle, still Marie sat at the
open casement, unconscious of the flight of
time, until her women, seriously anxious, ven-
tured to rouse her from her abstraction, and
their young lord from the peaceful slumber he
was enjoying on his mother's agitated breast.
It was not long after Gertrude's pretensions,
supported by her husband's counsels, became
known to her father, ere the latter found means
to rid himself of her presence. She departed
from Terwick with a haughty brow, imagining
it would be an easy matter to establish her just
claims ; but in this expectation she soon found
herself deceived. As Floris had foreseen, use-
less was her appUcation to the Sovereign, and
her husband strove in vain to possess himself
of her inheritance by other means. Oostersteen
had thrown a strong garrison into the castle, and
though his son had refused to command it, and
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 23
he himself seldom acted in such a capacity,
he had found a sufficiently active coadjutor in
his favourite man at arms, Jost. It was im-
possible for the knight to baffle these measures
ofhis prompt antagonist. He had no vassals of
his own to bring into the field,—no money
wherewith to purchase mercenary aid,—no al-
liances from which to derive support,—nor was
Holland a land where adventurers thronged, as
in other countries, who might be glad to collect
together under any specious pretext, for the easier
perpetration of their own freebooting trade.
Standing thus alone and unfriended by the
side of one as helpless as herself, but less lofty in
mind, less vigorous in purpose, the haughty
Gertrude soon felt in its full force the misery
her folly, or rather her father's perfidy, had
brought upon her. She soon learnt how false
was his assertion with regard to his wife's alleged
preference for her chosen knight ; and the little
of illusion that a momentary caprice had cast
over the lover's insignificance, faded rapidly
24 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
away from the husband. She even exaggerated
his fauhs, and he now appeared in her eyes,
what Aleyde had so often described him, mean-
spirited, craven-hearted, and altogether deficient
in that personal strength and animal resolution
which constituted, in those rude days, the chief
merit of man. Poverty and its train of evils
soon overtook her. With none by to listen to,
or soothe her complaints—had she stooped to
relieve her heart by such ebullitions—Gertrude
bitterly lamented the fatal error, which had not
only induced her to disregard Aleyde's sage ad-
vice, but also to quarrel with the gentlest of
friends; the only one, indeed, she had ever
possessed. Great, however, as was her repen-
tance, and good as were the feelings momentarily
engendered by it, her stubborn pride crushed
in the bud the fruits of both. Floris, too, her
last hope and stay, had departed from the land
of his birth, and, as far as she knew, without
any motive. None could tell whither he had
gone, or wherefore he had departed ; but Ger-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 25
trude suspected he had been driven forth b}^
some new machinations of her father.
Little did Oostersteen, as he watched with
keen dehght the success of his schemes, know
or care for the anguish he caused. The aching
hearts of so many beings whose bloom of life he
sacrificed to his ruthless thirst for gold—Floris
—Gertrude—Aleyde—Marie de Matenesse
—
neither the closeness of the ties that bound him
to them^ nor their personal merits and grace
—
no consideration could move his heart, steeled
as it was by one mighty passion against all
natural affection. Vain would have been any
recrimination on the part of the sufferers, had
they been tempted to move him to compassion ;
and as vain were the indignant murmurs of the
inhabitants of Haarlem, who beheld his inno-
cent, rejected wife pine away in the solitude
he had assigned her in their town, and his
lovely daughter gradually sinking into absolute
destitution.
Autumn and winter glided away imper-
VOL. IIL C
26 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
ceptibly whilst these changes were slowly brought
about ; and the green leaves did not bud forth
more abundantly from the trees on the ensuing
spring, than did fresh devices from the fertile
brain of the Lord of Oostersteen ; nor did he
wait till the first blossoms fell from the trees to
ripen them into execution.
The castles of his first and second wives veere
now wholly under his control, and his estates at
Dort sold ; but the delicate boy of Marie de
Matenesse had thriven under her fostering care,
and outlived another rough winter, and a few
of those infantine diseases to which heirs ap-
parent look with scarce less hope than to the
increasing feebleness of old age. That estate,
also, must be his, and matters be forced to a
crisis in that quarter. The cunning Oostersteen
knew enough of the young widow's character
to be perfectly sure, that what she had not
yielded to love no mode of persuasion could
wring from her ; he therefore determined to have
recourse to other means. Open violence he
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 27
abhorred, but in treachery he delighted—
a
crooked path ever appeared preferable in his
eyes to a straight one, be it never so fair and
promising.
Marie had found the winter months long and
wearisome ; but, once her first grief for the loss
of Floris at an end, her heart grew lighter as
she found herself neglected, and hoped she
was forgotten by his father. She began to
flatter herself that her fears had been ground-
less, and though her lovely boy was never
allowed to stray a minute from her side, it was
less from any of those vague apprehensions of
danger to his person which she had formerly
entertained, than from an excess of maternal
love. She now more frequently left her apart-
ment to walk with him round the limited battle-
ments of their moated dwelling, never venturing,
however greatly she might be tempted by the
genial influence of the warm spring season
or her little Henry's prayers, to pass the draw-
bridge and guide his young steps along his own
c 2
28 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
domain. Her thoughts would, indeed, some-
times wander to the absent—oftener still to the
dead. Personal hopes and joys had faded from
her breast, but a thousand bright chimeras would
rise to her fancy for her darhng boy. His life
was to be a tissue of gold and silver, in which
no dark thread should be mingled. The heroic
ballads she loved her maids to sing seemed but
the prophecy of his fatm-e deeds of chivalry,
and her visions by night were but the reflection
of her day dreams, in a shape scarcely more
flitting, more impalpable.
One night, however, her slumbers were less
fortunate. She had heard but that very daj^,
by a wandering pedler who had seen him, that
Floris of Oostersteen was distinguishing himself
greatly in distant parts, but that he was so
altered as to be recognised with difficulty ; and
though much looked after b}^ the dames, he
disregarded their soft glances, being, as it was
currently reported, already bound in the fetters
of some unhappy love.
TIIK OLD MAN OF IIAAllLEM. 29
Marie had need that day of gazhig more than
usual on her heart's idol—her sweet child ; and
the castle bell tolled many a chime before sleep
closed her eyelids; nor was all consciousness
lost in the troubled slumber that at last stole
upon her.
The light of the moon, but ill excluded
by the tapestry hung before the casement,
fell on her boy's cradle, and revealed, as she
fancied, his little form, together with some dark,
indistinct figures surrounding and endeavour-
ing to seize him. She strained in vain to catch
a clearer view of these moving shadowy objects ;
as she gazed they vanished from her sight, to
reappear the next instant plainer than before.
Once or twice she fancied a half-stifled shriek
reached her ear, then again it would seem but
the cry of the owlet nestled in the chapel
tower. Vainly did Marie strive to break through
the spell of her dream—to awake—to call
;
her lids seemed pressed down by leaden weights,
her lips forcibly glued together. At length
30 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLExAI.
a clearer, louder scream freed her from the
horrible nightmare with which she was struggling.
She awoke completely, and gazed fearfully
around her. The heavy curtains of her bed
were closed, and her trembhng hand had scarcely
force enough to tear them asunder. Her first
look sought the light that usually burned before
the image of the Virgin in a niche above her
child's crib—it was extinguished. To glide
firom her bed—to feel for her son—to miss him
—to call upon him by name, and pause in the
vain hope of an answer—then to shriek wildly
for assistance, was for Marie the work of an
instant ; but when her women, at last alarmed
by her cries, entered the chamber, their mistress
lay stretched in blissful unconsciousness across
the empty couch of her boy.
Upon awakening to a sense of her bereave-
ment, Marie immediately divined whence came
the blow ; but her frantic endeavours to trace
her child, or to bring Oostersteen to a confession
of his being the instigator of the abduction.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 31
were inefFectual. The men who guarded her
castle were all his creatures, and to gain any clue
from them was next to impossible. A rumour
current among both soldiers and menials but too
soon reached the ears of the unhappy mother
—
the child was believed to be murdered ! So deep
did this conviction sink into poor Marie's mind,
that she ceased after a time to make any effort
towards ascertaining the truth, but gave herself
up to a mute grief, which it was easy to foresee
would lead her to an early grave. Contrary to
the expectation of all, Wonter never even so
much as hinted at her ejectment from the
castle—his by right, supposing the child dead
or irrecoverably lost ; he appeared, rather, per-
fectly willing patiently to bide his time.
Soon after the event just narrated, Oostersteen
was seen slowly riding along the banks of the
Spaar, with a thoughtful brow and abstracted
air. The few burghers who passed him on their
quiet-pacing mules, in spite of their richly
furred robes and caps, and the heavy gold
32 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
chains round their necks, extracted as little
attention from the baron, as they humbly un-
bonneted to him, as the rude fisherman who
tossed his woollen cap aside with a sulky look
—
for to the poor he was an object of unmitigated
hatred ; his thoughts were evidently far from
the scene. When he reached the house nomi-
nally his daughter's, but where the Lady Aleyde
resided by his permission, he reined up his
horse, but did not immediately dismount. His
e3^e wandered, unconscious of what it dwelt
upon, from the calm surface of the Spaar to the
various houses that bordered it. A mean hut,
neglected, uninhabited as it seemed, and nearly
opposite to his mansion, although parted from it
by the river, at last attracted his observation.
" Jost," he said to his never-failing attendant,
" I wish I could have that rotten concern pulled
to the ground; it mars the prospect of my
house—makes it less valuable—eh?"
" I don't see, my lord, how that can be done,
unless, indeed, by buying it; it would cost a
mere trifle."
THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM. 33
" Why, Jost, it belongs to nobody—it is good
for nothing."
" And yet," said Jost, shrugging his shoulders,
" there's many a beggar would be glad to find
shelter for his old limbs even there."
" A beggar !" said Wonter, with a curling lip,
expressive of the most impatient disgust, as if
something ineffably horrible had been men-
tioned. " A beggar ! who cares for beggars
—
how can such beings exist ?"
" My father was a beggar," muttered Jost
between his teeth, " or I had not become your
vassal—your bounden slave, as I may say—
I
warrant you."
Oostersteen, dismounting, slowly ascended the
steps conducting from the street to the door of
the house, and mounted the stairs with the
same leisurely gait ; but, once in Lady Aleyde's
presence, all trace of hesitation disappeared
completely both from his manner and coun-
tenance.
Ilis wife turned pale as he entered, not from
c 3
34 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
surprise—for, having viewed his approach from
her casement, she was fully prepared for the
meeting—but from aversion, not unmixed with
terror. The hour he had chosen for his visit
was late,—her apartment was far from the
menials, very few of whom had been allowed
her,—and the rumours she had often heard con-
cerning the fate of his first wife, rushed back
to her recollection in a manner noways calcu-
lated to allay her fears. She began to tremble
at the suggestions of her imagination.
" I hope the leisure you have had for sober
reflection has not been thrown away," said
Oostersteen, gruflly. " I have reckoned on its
influence, and am come with a hope of finding
you tender as a dove and pliable as a reed."
" When have you found me otherwise ?" said
the lady, in a low, timid voice.
" Well, provided you are amiable and yield-
ing to day, I shall rest perfectly satisfied."
" What is it 3'ou would have of me ? My
duty as a wife you have rejected, my castle and
THE OLD MAN OF UAARLEM. 35
land you have in your own possession—what
else can you ask of me, or I grant ?"
" Your jewels, my dear ; they arc more
valuable than the handful of land and the
nut-shell of a castle you make so many words
about."
" My jewels !" exclaimed Aleyde. " But I
may not give them—they are an heirloom !
You are not—you cannot be in earnest in de-
manding of a woman the decorations of her
person. How can you possibly need them ?"
" Let it suffice that I do need them, Aleyde ;
and, having said so much on the subject, I am
sure you will not trouble me further for reasons
which it may not suit my humour just now
to give."
Aleyde, conscious of the advantage the reve-
lation of her terror would give her husband,
had endeavoured to conceal it under an appear-
ance of coolness, which, if it did not deceive
him, afforded her at least the consolation of
thinking so; but his extraordinary demand,
36 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
meek and submissive as she was, subdued for a
time this feeUng, and roused the woman's spirit
within her. A scornful smile curled her lip
as she answered, in a bantering tone that scarcely
veiled her anger and contempt
—
" Really, Lord Wonter, I cannot sufficiently
marvel at the grave manner with which you
urge so strange a request. Husbands are ge-
nerally expected to bestow such objects on their
wives, not to deprive them of them. If I were
of a jealous temperament, or you likely to give
cause for its development, I might then, indeed,
divine some probable reason for a demand so
extraordinary ; but as it is, such as you are,
who never, I am well assured,"—she tossed her
head contemptuously as she spoke,—" even in
your best days, won any heart from duty's
path "
" And who tells you, madam," interrupted
Wonter with a malignant look, " I have never
achieved the triumph of which you speak, and
even indulged in the connexion you seem to
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 37
hint at? Who tells you that, even now, I am not
enthralled in the chains ofan unhallowed love ?"
" You, Lord Wonter—you !" said the lady,
with an incredulous look and smile. "Nay,
say what you will, you will find it hard to con-
vince me of that."
" And what if I were to tell you, Lady
Aleyde, that you yourself were the light para-
mour, whose existence 3^ou so greatly doubt."
He smiled, in his turn, a smile of fiend-like
triumph, before which Aleyde's spirit for an
instant quailed; but the next, the dignity of
her sex awoke at the insult.
" You cannot—you dare not repeat these
words to me ; unprotected as I am, I warn you,
I will not endure it
!"
" But, by the mass, you shall though. What
I have told you is the truth—do you hear? an
undeniable truth, which I can prove any day,
and will, too, if you drive me to it. But rest you
content, Aleyde ; one free love is worth ten
fettered ones, and procrastination in marriage is
38 THE OLD MAN Of HAARLEM.
a wise thing, as you have so often and so sagely
preached yourself."
Aleyde could not gaze on the old man's
withered features, illuminated as they were by
a Satanic sneer. She shuddered and turned
away, but answered firmly enough
—
"You may disgrace yourself, my Lord of
Oostersteen, by heaping upon me insults which
I have not the power to repel ; but your words
cannot wound me, for it is impossible to credit
such wild assertions. I am not a child, to be
frightened by so poor a subterfuge, I who know
your every word a falsehood, your every thought
a deceit ! This is another invention to further
some scheme of your own. Oh ! say it is so.
Lord Wonter—in pity, say. But no, you need
not speak—I know it is not true—I will not be-
lieve it."
" Alas ! would to God, my child," said Won-
ter, suddenly changing his manner, " I had not
this great sin on my souL I would fain think
I repent of it, for it was in some sort the sum-
THE OLD MAN OF ilAARLEM. 39
mens of my conscience that brought me here
to day."
" Oh, spare me your hypocrisy !" said the Lady,
with an expression of disgust. " Of all your
sins, numerous as they may be for aught I know,
to me that is the most revolting. What is it
you would have of me—explain yourself in
clear terms ?"
" I forgive your reproaches, madam, for truth
is sometimes unpalatable ; and that which I
have announced to you even now, might excuse
more bitter recriminations. I judged you would
find it difficult of belief, and have, in conse-
quence, ordered Gertrude's old nurse to meet
me here to day, a woman whom you trust be-
cause you think her honest, and like because
she hates me. She who attended the mother of
Gertrude, and nursed my children on her knee,
will tell you, madam, that my first wife is not
dead."
" Not dead !" said Lady Ale^^de, breathless
with astonishment. **It is impossible !"
40 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" Bat SO it is. She loved me not—met a gay
foolish German Knight at a tournament—
I
was not jealous—not I—suspected nothing."
As he spoke an infernal smile passed over the
lips of the old man. " She fled, and, in another
country, wedded anew. I, too, seduced by your
youth and graces, became equally guilty
!"
" Proceed," said the Lady, waving her hand
impatiently.
**Well, madam. The rest is very clear I
think—you are not my wife. That point being
established, you are wholly in my power. Now,
listen to my final determination—you shall re-
tire into a convent, but before doing so, 3^ou
shall yield me up your jewels, and sign over to
me your possessions in consideration of my
respecting 3^our secret—so far, at least, as the
world is concerned. Your honour, and that of
your noble family, demands my silence ; and
the concessions I have named only can purchase
it. (^ome, madam, you will gain nothing by
procrastination—and resist me if you dare ! I
THE OLD 31 AN OF HAARLEM. 41
will provide you an entrance into some distant
convent, where your history and your name will
be aUke unknown ; and where, having awarded
you a suitable portion, you may spend the rest
of your days in quietude, for I will report you
dead to the world."
"And claim as your own my estate and
castle? No, Lord Wonter, think me not so
weak. If I were inclined to bury the shame of
others in a convent—for of shame on my own
part I am unconscious—I would, at least, endow
it with my lawful inheritance. That would be
my irrevocable resolve."
"Say not so," retorted Oostersteen with a
contemptuous smile. " Women's resolutions are
seldom so obdurate, and in your case, I will
point out a small obstacle. Your fate is inevi-
table, therefore do not puzzle your brains wdth
vain endeavours to escape it ; for know, that I
am determined to keep your castle and all your
estates, except such a portion as I think suitable
for you."
42 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
"But I will appeal to the justice of my
Sovereign—I will throw myself on the laws of
my country
!"
"Ha! and be pointed at by the finger of
scorn as the leman of old Oosterstecn—sully the
spotless name of your ancestors !"
Lady Aleyde fell back in her chair and wept
bitterly.
" And where is the man of honour who now
would wed you ?—where the spotless maid or
wife who would consort with you ?"
" But you dare not publish your own crime."
"What should hinder mc ? The Duchess is not
strong enough to punish me, I trow—^you have no
friends likely to interfere, were they even desirous
of doing so. You see, there you stand at my
mercy ; attempt to oppose my will, and I can
either brand you before the world, or claim you
back as my wife ; for, mark me, you have no
proofs to the contrary, and what happiness have
you now to expect in either case ? Better with-
draw to a convent, and there pray for me," as he
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 43
spoke, he assumed an air of insolent exultation,
"and lament the sinful love—for once you
thought it sin—which you bore my Floris."
" You are mistaken," said Aleyde, with dig-
nity. " Judge not of others after your own
dark heart ! I might, indeed, have loved your
son, and I know, too, he could have loved me
before he knew Marie de Matenesse ; but when
that love became a sin I struggled with and
overcame it, until it was as pure as that of
a sister. But the happiness you destroyed
in coming between our two young hearts
—
oh. Lord Wonter, you have much to answer
for!"
" I may have much more than you dream of,
if you urge me too far," said Oostersteen,
sternly. " To-morrow, after the sun is set, you
must be ready to accompany me—the woman
down stairs will be your attendant, and I your
escort."
So saying, Oostersteen, without taking a more
ceremonious farewell, left Lady Aleyde to her
44 THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM.
terrors, and to take counsel of her own desolate
heart.
Gertrude, in the meantime, had become
deserted by her last prop, feeble as it was. Her
husband, perceiving that a life of penury and
incessant reproach was likely to be his portion,
when he imagined himself a made man by so
splendid an alliance, grew disgusted, and follow-
ing the instinct of a mean and sordid nature,
left his unhappy consort without even perform-
ing the ceremony of leave-taking, to seek his
fortunes elsewhere; and, to enable him the
better to support the exigencies of his wander-
ing career, he had conveyed with him their few
remaining resources.
Thus, at a time when Gertrude most needed
the soothing offices of her sex—for she was
about to become a mother—and those of a
mediator between herself and her irritated
parent, Floris, Aleyde, her husband, all failed
her ; nor would she have known where to lay
her headj had it not been for an ancient serv^itor
THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM. 45
of her mother's house, who, though many years
a retainer of Lord Wonter, still cherished the
memory of the past, and loved Gertrude for her
mother's sake.
The poor man could not, it is true, aiford his
young mistress the shelter of a home he did not
himself possess, but having been ordered to
attend his lord, with a handful of the more
trusty retainers, on a secret expedition by night
to the castle of Oostersteen, he resolved to
avail himself of the darkness, to smuggle Ger-
trude into the party under a favouring disguise,
when she might either seize the opportunity to
effect a reconciliation with her father, or take
up her abode at the castle, unknown to him, at
least for such time as he should remain at
Oostersteen.
All those in any way acquainted with Won-
ter's habits were accustomed to see him walk in
mysteries, an attempt to penetrate which was,
in his eyes, a most serious offence, and for the
most part resented as such. Gertrude, there-
46 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
fore, did not lose time in speculating on this
strange mode of proceeding, but at once gladly
embarked in an adventure whose issue, how-
ever doubtful, could in no possibility leave her
in a more painful plight than she was at that
moment.
When Gertrude joined the little party at the
spot appointed by the faithful servant, who held
a led horse ready for her use, the darkness was
already so great, that she could scarcely discern
the persons of whom it was composed; but,
after having ridden some time, in spite of the
increasing obscurity, and the unbroken silence
maintained throughout the little band, she
became convinced that a female rode in front,
and that the horseman by her side was no other
than her father. Who the lady might be she
could not conjecture, but her heart beat quicker
as the possibility suggested itself to her mind of
its being Aleyde.
Dawn had not broken when they reached the
castle. The portcullis being raised, the riders
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 47
passed through two arched gateways succes-
sively into an inner court; but, after giving a
few brief orders in an authoritative tone to the
men at arms who had crowded around, and
exchanging a few sentences with the muffled
lady in a low tone, the leader rode away alone.
The fall of the heavy drawbridge, the creaking
of the chains as it rose again, and the grating
of the massive bars and bolts, plainly told
Gertrude that retreat was now impossible.
Chilled, benumbed by the heavy night dew of
a damp climate, but exhausted in spirits even
more than in frame—weary at heart of an
existence so wretched, she scarcely cared to
know what would become of her. One
thought, however, supported her, and darting
forward, with a bold hand, she withdrew the
muffler that concealed the face of her com-
panion in misfortune, and beheld her suspicions
confirmed—her hope realised—her fellow pri-
soner was, indeed, Aleyde, the friend of her
brighter days. She, too, looked pale and miser-
48 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
able, but this was not the time for questions
;
they fell into each other's arms, and mingled
tears of joy at the happy chance—for such they
considered it—that had thus united their evil
destinies.
No explanation of Gertrude's presence was
either given or required; for all, except the
man under whose protection she had entered
the castle, conceived her to be in the same pre-
dicament as Lady Aleyde, whom the Baron had
delivered over to their charge with the assu-
rance, that her escape would cost them their
lives. Gertrude joyfully accepted the fate she
had thrust herself upon, and in very few words
conveyed this pleasing intelligence to her terri-
fied ally, who was already trembling at the
dilemma into which he had brought her.
Aleyde and Gertrude shared once more the
same apartment; and the sympathy that had
formerly bound them to each other was
strengthened by the bond of affliction. It was
impossible for them to conjecture whether
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 49
Oostersteen would adhere to the resohition he
had formed with regard to his unfortunate wife,
of eventually forcing her into a convent, and
detain her at the castle during the time neces-
sary for taking a few preliminary measures to
that effect, or whether it was his intention that
she should linger out her days in the solitary
confinement of his own towers, whilst he, per-
haps, formed another and no less advantageous
alliance. The assurances of Gertrude's old
nurse, but lately returned from Germany, where
she had seen and spoken with her former mis-
tress, had completely cleared away all doubts
from Aleyde's mind as to the truth of his
assertion. To return to the world under such
circumstances was difficult; yet she could not
make up her mind to the alternative of embrac-
ing the veil. She and Gertrude had yet so
much more of life before them than their per-
secutor that, even were they to remain in his
power for a few years more, they might still
look forward with certitude to the recovery of
VOL. in. D
50 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
their liberty, fortune, and happiness. This
view of the case, which invohintarily forced
itself upon her consideration, enabled Aleyde
to contemplate with resignation a prolonged
existence in the castle. Gertrude's delicate
situation, moreover, opened to them a new
source of interest, to render the solitude of
their prison less irksome.
Weeks grew to months, without bringing the
slightest change in their position. The desired
event was drawing nearer with each day, and
every preparation was made at the castle of
Oostersteen to welcome life ; whilst at that of
Matenesse, the dead and the lost were mourned
with unceasing sorrow.
The heavy rains of November had set in,
and the dulness of the shortening days harmo-
nized with, and seemed to soothe Marie's gloomy
mood. Well pleased was she that the thick veil
of intervening fogs hid from her sight the glad-
ness of the land without, and the proud banner
of her child's unjust guardian triumphantly
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 51
waving from the neighbouring castles. No
stranger's foot had been heard within her hall
—no strange voice had rang in her ear for
months ; the pedler, the minstrel had been
turned away from the gate with unvaried seve-
rity; the begging friar, or wandering pilgrim,
had been, indeed, admitted to such hospitality as
the castle could afford, but not to the presence
of its mistress ; and no recluse under her veil w^as
ever more completely cut off from communica-
tion with her fellow-creatures, than Marie de
Matenesse. She had gradually sunk into that
apathy of sorrow from which it is painful to be
roused, and found a sort of pleasure in its very
monotony. To sit for hours in the same chair,
near the very casement where so often she had
awaited the approach of Floris, or toyed with
her boy, listening to the same ballads that had
awakened so many glorious visions in her breast,
—these, when not engaged in the chapel, where
most of her hours were spent, were the habits she
still found a melancholy satisfaction in indulging.
d2
52 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
The approach of winter, severely felt in so
close a vicinity to the sea, had already long
introduced the blazing logs of wood within the
large chimneys ; and Marie loved to watch the
capricious bickerings of the flames, and the
gradual formation of the embers into strange
fantastic shapes. One evening, as she thus sat,
so completely buried in thought that she was
scarcely conscious of surrounding objects, her
women at the ever-going spinning-wheel, intent
on their silent occupation, at a respectful dis-
tance, the party was suddenly roused by un-
wonted sounds, that proclaimed a strange horse-
man at the gate. Attention was succeeded by
surprise, when it grew evident that he had ob-
tained admittance; and surprise in its turn
gave way to a feeling bordering on fear, so
unusual was the circumstance, when they be-
came aware that he was actually making his
way towards the turret-chamber. They rivetted
their eyes upon the door, in breathless curiosity,
mingled with an apprehension natural in their
THE OLD MAN OF lL\/vUL?JI\I. 53
lonely mode of life ; but a cry of })lcasurc burst
from the lips of all, as the door opened, and
Floris of Oostersteen stood before them.
Marie gazed in speechless anxiety upon his
altered mien. He, too, looked long at her
before he spoke. On a sign from their mis-
tress, the maidens withdrew, when Floris took
her hand in his, and said, in a tone which im-
plied sadness, but not reproof
—
'' How unlike our last meeting, Marie
!"
" How unlike, indeed !" exclaimed Marie,
gently, but firmly withdrawing her hand.
" This is, again, your father's work, Floris."
" Had I known your misfortune sooner, I
should have returned on the instant. A mere
chance revealed it to me ; and see—I am here."
" To go away again, Floris, " said the lady,
firmly—" at least, from me—we can never meet
again
!"
" And wherefore ? You repulsed me in your
happiness. I have forgiven that ; but why drive
me from you in your son'ow ?"
54 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
" Because it is your father who has made me
childless ! You forget that, Floris."
The young knight remained silent.
" Yes," continued Marie, her pale cheeks
suffused with the crimson-tide of indignation.
" Much can be forgotten in this world—most
things, by a Christian, forgiven; but murder
and "
" Murder ! By heavens. Lady of Matenesse,
you do my father wrong! But indeed," he
added, softening the momentary asperity of his
manner, " he has much injured you."
" He has, most cruelly," murmured Marie,
the passing energy she had evinced fading alto-
gether from her look and manner. "He has
left me nothing to live for,"
" Say not so, lady !" exclaimed Floris. " Your
child may yet be restored to you; for," he
added, a slight blush tinging his embrowned
visage, " he is often unjust—harsh, perhaps
;
but he does not kill. Believe me, your child
yet lives."
THE OLD MAN OF llAARLEM. 56
" Do not, for the Virgin's sake," interrupted
the young mother, " attempt to hold out to me
a false hope! You know not what additional
misery you may inflict."
" I seek not to deceive, Marie. It is my
firm, my solemn conviction, that your child is
living, and well ; and has not, in all probability,
experienced the slightest discomfort."
" Then, where can he have concealed him ?
Oh, Floris ! if you speak not without reason
—
if you know aught about the matter, reveal
everything to me. It were inhuman to increase
the agony I have so long endured."
** K I had any certain tidings to communi-
cate, think you I could keep them from you?
No, Marie ; at this moment, I can say nothing
positive. That the child is kept hidden by my
father, and that he intends his concealment to
be eternal, I have no doubt; but I have re-
turned for the express purpose of restoring
Henry to your arms ; nor will I again present
myself before you until my object be achieved
;
Ob THE OLD ?IAN OF HAARLEM.
nay, having brought him to your gate, I tshall,
perhaps, go back whence I came, without churn-
ing of you so much as a last farewell
!"
" No —no, Floris!" exclaimed Marie. "If
it be the will of heaven that I recover at once
all I love on earth,—oh, let us never again be
severed
!"
A glow of ineffable dclio;ht crimsoned the
countenance of the knight ; and those hearts
which separation had tried, as the touchstone
tries gold, proved the true ore of their affec-
tion in the happy hour of meeting. Marie was
deeply moved by the sincere devotion and noble
disposition of her lover. She felt a necessity
in her weakness to cling to his strength for
support, as the tendril to the oak. Floris found
it now an easier task than he had anticipated
to induce her to share his hopes, and consent
to his plans; and before he rode away from
the castle, it was agreed between them, that
the moment he made any discovery, he should
dispatch his confidential squire to the castle
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLE3I. Di
of Matenesse; and that Marie should, in the
meantime, prepare everytliing for an imme-
diate departure for the court of the Duchess,
where they could presume themselves secure
from Wonter's pursuit. Their journey thither,
it was understood, must assume the appearance
of a flight; for Floris could evade, but not
oppose his father's will. Thus, no time was to
be lost, in order to avoid the possibility of an
intervention arising from that person's well-
known vigilance.
During the days that elapsed before the
arrival of the promised messenger, Marie was
an altered woman. The listlessness of despair
was succeeded by the nervous thrill of eager
expectation. Every horse galloping across the
plain caused her to rush to the battlements;
every horn in the distance brought the blood
in wcUing tides to her heart. Might not an
evil chance delay the emissary on the road, or
prevent him from ever reaching the place of
his destination? In those days of violence,
D 3
58 THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM.
no occurrence could ];c more ordinary. Might
not Fioris himself fall a victim to his generous
purpose? But even this time of trial passed
by; and the glad tidings reached her, at the
close of November, that Fioris, after many
fruitless researches, had succeeded in tracing
little Henry of Matenesse to the convent of
St. Alexis. Feeling convinced that it was
Lord Wonter who had placed him there, he
had formed the determination of claiming the
child boldly in his father's name, at whose
bidding only, he felt assured, he would be
given up. The messenger further stated that,
should his master succeed in possessing himself
of the young Lord Henry, he might be ex-
pected each day at the castle. Later than
St. Elizabeth's Eve he certainly would not be,
and he hoped to find the Lady of Matenesse
prepared for an instant departure.
Now, indeed, gladness alone filled a bosom
long inured to sorrow; and Marie gave herself
up again to the impatience and ardour natural to
youth, and so long controlled. Minutes seemed
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 59
hours, and hours eternity, until the sun rose that
was to set on her reunion with all she held dear
on earth.
She wondered, as she unclosed her eyes with
the dawn to watch that happy day's progress
to its close, that its aspect did not correspond
with the tumultuous gladness of her bosom.
But nature often smiles on our sorrows, and
weeps when our joys are full.
The weather, for some time past, had been
unusually stormy. Ships had suffered much
at sea, and the coasts had been lined with
wrecks. Travellers by land had been subjected
to great inconvenience, by the partial floods
which they frequently encountered in a coun-
try so inundated as North Friesland and Zea-
land ; but the threatening aspect of the sky had
been lost on Marie, who had seen in it but a
spirit congenial with her own sorrow ; and she
did not remember to have beheld, for many
a day, the face of nature so gloomy and frown-
ing, as when she opened her casement at dawn
of St. Elizabeth's Eve.
60 THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM.
The incessant north ^vinds had crippled the
finest trees, unroofed cottages, broken down
fences, and, by causing many fires in the vil-
lages, had given the whole line of coast a sadder
appearance than ordinary, even at that time of
the year.
" Again a bad day for the traveller by land
and by water," sighed Marie, as she gazed to-
wards the sullen Zuydersee, whose dark waves
were ever and anon crested with a wreath of
snow, and on the lofty trees around the castle
bowing to the blast. She listened with a palpi-
tating heart to the wailing of the wind through
the tall chimneys, the harsh and incessant grat-
ings of the iron vane, and the heavy flap of the
mourning banner, that still floated from the tower
for the loss of its last lord.
" The gloom of the heavens," thought she,
" pervades all things in nature, even unto my
own heart, that ought to overflow with joy.
Does this portend some catastrophe to me and
mine ? Well, be it so ; and let my life, troubled
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 61
ill its beginning like this gusty morning, resemble
it in its progress and close : be the omen for good
or for bad, I accept it."
The wind rising in tornado on the plain,
driving the dust in clouds before it, and howl-
ing along the battlements, forced Marie to re-
treat within her chamber, and seemed a melan-
choly answer to the mental interrogation her
superstition had put to nature. Nor did matters
mend as the day advanced : the fitful gusts
of wind increased in violence with every fresh
blast; the spray of the sea was driven far
inland; everything creaked and shook in the
storm ; and the few sails boldly hoisted on the
waves, were, in an instant, rent into shreds.
So fearful a tempest existed not in the
memory of the oldest fisherman. The distant
roar of the angry ocean sounded like approach-
ing thunder, and seemed echoed within the
bowels of the earth. The trembling cattle bel-
lowed in the stalls, and the birds flew in rapid,
capricious gyrations through the air, with cries
62 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
of disquietude, or sought the shelter of the
steeples and turrets. Not a soul ventured forth
who had iio absolute need. In hall and bower
—in the fisherman's hut, and in the burgher's
comfortable tenement, —all watched the pro-
gress of the storm with astonishment and awe.
At Enchuysen, traditions of former suffer-
ings caused the boldest to quail. The inha-
bitants of Medenblick, familiar by habit with
the danger of their position, were now fear-
fully alive to it. Dort, too, and especially the
many islands that crowded the coast of Zealand,
exhibited the wildest terror among those accus-
tomed to the rage of the ocean ; and at Haar-
lem, the Spaar careered madly along, like a
frightened courser, tearing away in its passage
whatever opposed it. The day closed in ear-
lier than usual; and the people became more
seriously alarmed at the tempest, whose horror
was increased by the growing darkness, and
which, unparalleled as it was in violence, still
seemed to gather fury with every instant.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 63
Marie yet stood by the open casement, for
all its defences had been wrenched from their
sockets. She listened with indescribable feelings
of desire, and yet of fear, for the sounds that
should announce the arrival of Floris and her
little Henry, and she offered up many a mental
prayer that her lover might not have attempted
to brave such a hazard. She had remained ex-
posed to the inclemency of the weather for many
hours, regardless of its severity, lost in the all-
devouring anxiety that filled her bosom. The
feeble light that glimmered in the lanterns
placed in various recesses of the wall—for no
torch or taper could stand the night even in the
most sheltered spot—now revealed, and now
left in darkness, her slight form, as she thus
stood a prey to conflicting emotions, whose
violence, contrasting with the delicacy of her
frame, imparted a superhuman expression to her
pale countenance.
Obeying a girlish impulse, which her years
were still few enough to justify, Marie de Ma-
64 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
tenessc, in honour of the day which she anti-
cipated would prove the most eventful of her
life, had donned her bridal attire, that had not
seen the light since the morning of her espousal.
It consisted of a pale sea-green silk, adhering, ac-
cording to the fashion of the time, closely to
the form, so as to reveal its every curve from
the throat to the waist ; but, gaining breadth as
it descended to the floor, it fell in graceful folds,
and lay in easy undulations about her feet—
a
style of costume peculiarly advantageous to the
few blessed with the excellency of perfect grace
of outline, and of these few, Marie, although
somewhat beneath the middle size, was an ex-
quisite type. Her long air, divested of the
graceless pointed cap of that epoch, escaping all
control, floated wildly in the night wind, which
now blew with such a strength that it was with
difficulty she could retain her position near the
casement.
" Sancta Maria ! what a night," exclaimed
one of the frightened maidens, clasping her
THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM. 65
hands with Icar,—^" but, hark, is not that the
sound of a horse's hoofs clattering across the
drawbridge ?"
" It is—it is !" said Marie ; then murmured in
a lower tone, " thanks be to St. Elizabeth, they
are safe at last." She pressed her hands against
her heart, as if endeavouring to still its beatings.
" But no, it is not Floris. Sweet Virgin, have
pity on me !" she exclaimed, in sudden alarm,
as the door opened and the intruder entered the
room, for, though his visor was down, she had
recognised her tormentor, the old Lord of
Oostersteen.
Loud as was the howling of the tempest
without, the fierce tones of his voice domineered
over the blast, as, raising his helmet, he shewed
to the trembling Marie a countenance darkened
by an expression of furious passion which it had
never before assumed in her presence.
"You are a bold schemer. Lady of Mate-
nesse," he exclaimed, " who have dared to mis-
lead a son from his duty to his father, and at-
66 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
tempted to steal a ward from his guardian.
You look confused—frightened ;
you shake now
like the aspen leaf, and yet you are daring
enough in venturing to cross me. You answer
me not, madam, but you are discovered, and,
what is better, defeated
!"
Marie remained mute and still, like a carved
effigy of despair—as completely without the
power of giving her feelings vent in tears, or
words, or even signs. One of her women, the
youngest yet the boldest, came forward in her
stead,
" And is this the time for a brave knight to
come and terrify a helpless lady, when the
meanest hind keeps within the shelter of his
hut, and the very beasts creep to cover ? But,
well is it said of you, bad Lord Wonter, that
you neither fear God nor man, and never spare
woman."
" Silence, maiden !" shouted Oostersteen in a
voice of thunder, that caused the women to
huddle together at the other extremity of the
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 67
narrow chamber, like a timid herd of deer.
" Your speech smacks of a boldness that courts
chastisement. Marie de Matenesse," he con-
tinued, in the same abrupt stem tone and
manner which he could on occasion assume and
maintain, " most solemnly do I assure you
—
mark well my words—never shall Floris be your
husband
—
never shall your child be restored to
you
—
never, do you hear me ? and no later than
to-morrow will I claim this castle in my ward's
name or my own,^^
Marie lifted her hands to Heaven in silent
agony.
" Yes," continued the old man, with savage
triumph, " to-morrow you may wander whither-
soever you please ; your late husband fixed you
no dower—indeed, he had not left himself the
power to do so—but as it is
"
" I will go when and where you please,—
I
will do anything, —only,for mercy's sake, tell me.
Lord Wonter, are they safe fi:om this dreadful
storm ?" exclaimed Marie, in accents that might
68 THE OLD MA-N OF IIAMILEM.
have moved a heart of stone, but Lord Wonters
was proof against them.
" If my messenger reach the convent of St.
Alexis in time, your son will remain safe within
its walls." These words were spoken with a
strange emphasis and smile, for which Marie
was at a loss to account. He then added with
renewed energy, " I have not power over the
storm, nor the sea, the mighty overwhelming
waves, nor the wind."
Marie and her women began to suspect that
some strange influence had disordered the in-
tellects of the Lord of Oostersteen ; a suspicion
which the extreme excitement of his manner,
usually so calm, tended to confirm.
" Well," he continued, after a pause, during
which he appeared to reflect deeply, " prepare
to deliver up to me this castle on the morrow,
and should they even reach it to night, that will
avail you nothing."
" If I were you, lady"—said the damsel who
had already braved Lord Wonter.
" You would curse and rail at me like a spite-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 69
ful toad as you are," exclaimed the knight, " but
little do I care for women's curses."
"May those of widows and orphans never
rest upon you," said Marie, meekly. " / will
not curse you, but pray that your heart may be
softened."
" Should they even come, I doubt if you
would think of flight this night," was the only
answer her words elicited. " Now, lady, I
commend you to St. Elizabeth, whose fete has
already begun so cheerily," and turning abruptly
he left the apartment.
Beyond the drawbridge he found his faithful
ally and attendant, awaiting his return with ill-
suppressed impatience.
" Let us away with all speed, my lord," said
the man eagerly, the moment his master came
within hail :
" the very furies of hell are loose
to night, —we shall be happy if we reach the
castle without accident—such weather, too, for
paying visits to dames," he muttered, as he
helped his lord to mount.
" If you were not all a pack of cowards, I
70 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
need not have done so, but I knew I could trust
none of you to watch the castle, or prevent mis-
chief; therefore, the next best thing was to
frighten her out of her wits ; for should that
knave of a son of mine succeed in bringing
back her brat to night, she will never dare take
a bold measure, intimidated as she is, and if she
but procrastinate till morning "
A tremendous explosion at this moment
caused Wonter to pause. Something came
crashing through the air, and fell within but
a few feet of the barbacan near which he stood.
His high mettled steed started, reared, and
then stood stock still, shivering through all his
limbs, with his jet black coat covered with foam.
The mourning banner, and part of the tall tower
above which it had floated, lay in the dust.
" Prostrate is the house of Matenesse," said
Oostersteen, coldly, looking on the crumbling
heap—" that of Oostersteen must rise upon its
ruin. But now let us ride for it, for black as
the night is, it will grow blacker ere morning."
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 71
When they reached Terwick, Wonter ordered
his man to accompany him to his apartment
;
and, seating himself within a recess of stone
that had formerly contained an altar, but now
canopied his bed, he addressed him in tones
of placid content, singularly contrasting with
the severity he had so recently displayed.
" So you are sure, Jost, the man you dis-
patched to the convent will have arrived in
time ?"
" He 77iust,'^ answered Jost, with a savage
smile.
" Well ! so far, so good ; and did he perfectly
understand his errand ?—for 1 would not that
my son were delayed at the convent this night."
" I ordered him as you directed. He was
to tell the young knight to return in all haste,
that you were dying of a fall from your horse
and wished to take a last farewell of him ; and
to tell the monks they were on no pretence
whatever to let the little lord go ?"
" That's right. And now, Jost, what do you
72 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
look into my face so like a fool for ? By
the blood of the Lord, you stare like a mad-
man !"
" It is, my lord, because I used to fancy I
knew you, and could guess your reasons for
every action, however trifling ; but ever since
last autumn, a yea.Y and more, I am as much
in the dark as a blind puppy."
"Well, Jost, for all that, I know you are
a keen, clever dog, and I care not if I waste
some breath in shewing you how what you and
others may often have deemed folly, was the
height of wisdom."
" Had I not better, my lord, look to the men
in the guard room ? They may get dead drunk
to chase away fear, and in case of need we'd
find them as helpless as a barrel of oysters."
"No, Jost; leave the men—we shall not
want them this night, nor will they find it easy
to procure so much liquor as that comes to.
But say, did you not wonder at my selling the
rich lands near Dort to a pack of boors, who
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 73
could not even give me their full value ? Now
listen, and wonder still more at my foresight
and prudence. Do you remember the day
when first the thought struck me ?"
" Perfectly, my lord ; and even the most
trifling circumstances connected with that most
extraordinary decision."
" Very well ; looking mechanically into the
ditch, as I was treading the path along it, my
eye was attracted by the light striking now and
then some glittering object within it. My
attention became roused; but great was my
surprise when, on closer inspection, I discovered
this object to be a sea fish—a herring. At first
I doubted the testimony of my own eyes—then,
wondering how it could exist out of its native
element, I was induced to taste the water—it
was brackish. This was passing strange. I
began to suspect something was wrong, without
clearly understanding what. I next fancied the
earth was softer—more yielding to the tread
than usual ; and wishing to ascertain the cause,
VOL. IIL E
74 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
which I began vaguely to guess, I put my ear
to the ground, when I plainly, distinctly, heard
a hoarse, low, continued sound, that seemed
to proceed from hidden waters. It was some
minutes before I could account for all this in
my o\vn mind ; but, on casting my eye in the
direction of the sea, a sudden thought struck
me. It occurred to me that the dikes were
being slowly undermined by the waters, which
had found some secret passage through their
foundations, and were stealing gradually into
the bowels of the earth, making it soft and
spongy. Time, or a sudden convulsion of na-
ture—a tempest like this night's, for instance
—
must inevitably enlarge the passages, and the
land be overwhelmed by the mighty flood. Do
you now understand me, Jost ?"
" Perfectly, perfectly !" said the man, lifting
up his eyes and hands to Heaven. " That is
why you would send after Lord Floris in such
haste."
" Yes ; the weather has been so rough of
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 75
late that such a catastrophe may be daily ex-
pected in that quarter, and I am mistaken if
convent or castle will be able to stand it."
Oostersteen's visage expanded into his peculiar
smile as he spoke ; and its expression, even
more than his words, caused the whole truth to
flash on his companion's mind.
" That's why," said he, after a slight pause,
—
"well, my lord beats King Solomon, whose
wisdom we hear so much about, quite hollow
—
thafs why, then, Lady Aleyde is at Oostersteen,
and Uttle Lord Henry at St. Alexis
!"
" I am not the master of the flood, Jost, nor
of the tempest. None can say / harmed them."
" Just so 1" said Jost, with a cunning leer.
" But, holy St. Joseph, what is that ? It sounds
like thunder, yet it is not ; ah I my gracious
lord, it is like the night of judgment. Sancta
Maria, ora pro nobis /"
" But observe, Jost," continued Wonter, un-
moved by his attendant's terror—" observe how
success attends all my steps. If I can but
£ 2
76 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
drive that pale-faced chit into a convent with
whom Floris is so madly infatuated, I may then
push him forward in the world. He is hand-
some—very—at least all women think so ; he
is foolhardy, too—nothing they like so well.
There is our gracious lady of Holland, fair
Jacqueline of Bavaria, all disconsolate for lack
of a mate. The English Gloucester will hear
no more of her than she would of the Duke
of Brabant. Thus is she neither wife nor
widow. This cannot last; and, with a little
management, Floris might presume "
" To become a sovereign ?" said Jost, for-
getting the storm for a moment, in his amaze-
ment at the boldness of the thought.
" No, not a sovereign ; but I would for a
time make loans to the countess—^in short, get
all her affairs in my hands—eh, eh, eh ! Her
jewels alone, if one could but get at them "
The fury of the tempest at this moment
rose to such a pitch, that the frightened Jost
could neither give further attention to what
his master had to communicate, nor even
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 77
remain in the large, gloomy apartment in
which the spirit of the storm seemed revelling
;
and when Oostersteen came to this plain expo-
sition of his designs for the future, he suddenly
raised his eyes and found himself alone.
At this crisis of the storm the Lady Aleyde
was wringing her hands in despair ; for Gertrude
had hovered between life and death for the
space of many hours, and yet no succour what-
ever could be procured. Had the men been
even willing to brave the tempest, it is more
than doubtful if they could have procured as-
sistance from the distracted village matrons;
but nothing, they swore, should tempt them to
sally forth, and Aleyde had nothing wherewith
to try the steadfastness of their resolution.
Gertrude bore her sufferings with an energy
natural to her disposition; but the long sup-
pressed bitterness of her feelings welled over in
those hours of agony, and the curses Marie de
Matenesse had spared Oostersteen were heaped
upon his head by his own deserted child.
The alarm bells ringing from all the villages
78 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
around were occasionally distinguished from,
and then mingled with, the howlings of the
tempest. The roaring of the infuriated ele-
ments sounded like the trumpet of destruction,
announcing to man the end of all things ; and
the lofty tower, at whose very pinnacle Aleyde
and Gertrude had been deposited—their apart-
ment consisting of a single room, only acces-
sible by means of a ladder, which the men
were careful to remove after their periodical
visits—shook to its very foundation.
It was in one of the lulls of the storm that
a feeble cry, mingling with the wail of the
wind, announced that one more being had
been ushered into life and to pain. For one
moment Aleyde felt a sensation of joy ; but
when she looked at the ghastly state of the
mother—bethought herself of her helpless posi-
tion, and her own inability to afford assistance
—
the certitude that the poor infant would be an
orphan ere the day had dawned, and probably
perish for want of sustenance, made her shudder ;
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 79
she leant over the sufferer in the vain hope of
yielding her the comfort she did not feel.
" Keep up your spirits, Gertrude ;
your boy
is safe and well. This fearful hurricane can-
not last; to-morrow we can procure help, and,
surely, when your father sees your child he
will be moved to pity."
" He ! ever !" exclaimed Gertrude. " We
shall both perish in this night of anguish ! Do
not be deceived, Aleyde, I am going; and
before you can provide assistance the innocent
spirit of my child will have joined mine. And
is this what he or I had a right to expect? I!
whose father is the richest in the land, and who
yet should have perished with hunger, but for
the compassion of a menial, and am now dying
for lack of succour ! Where is the velvet bed
in which every female of my line has given
birth to her first-born ? Where the rejoicing
vassals to welcome their young heir to life?
Where is my mother—where my husband, who
should have stood by me in my hour of trial ?
80 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
far from me ! I am robbed of my affections
—
despoiled of my inheritance—and who is the
despoiler ? my own father
!"
" Gertrude, do not excite yourself so fear-
fully," said Aleyde—" your looks arc so wild,
they terrify me."
" Let me speak whilst I may—I am dying,
Aleyde ! dying through him. His cruelty has
killed me ! But you will see him again—tell
him—mind well, you must tell him my very
words—let him hear that his daughter cursed
him with her last breath !"
" Oh ! do not die with such words on your
lips," said Aleyde, clasping her hands in sup-
plication. " A daughter cursing her father
!
It is too horrible I"
But the fever of her veins had communi-
cated to Gertrude's brain. Her cheeks were
glowing ; and her eyes were lighted up with an
unnatural lustre.
" I will curse him ! and the evil spirits that
are abroad to-night shall record that curse.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 81
lie has lived but for gold—for gold he has
killed me—may that gold, from this hour forth,
never be his to enjoy—never—never ! May he
live to the extremity of life—a lord no more
—
rich no more—but that thing he himself most
despises and abhors, a beggar. Do you hear
me ?" she screamed, wildly, " a beggar ! a beg-
gar !" and fell back exhausted—a corpse !
" Saints forgive her," murmured Aleyde,
" and there is not even a priest at hand. Oh !
what will become of me ?"
The flickering light of a lamp, protected
from the eddying blasts b}^ the deep recess
within which it burned, cast ever and anon
what appeared a bright effulgence compared
with the darkness it revealed. The wind
tossed about the dishevelled hair of her who
had ceased to be conscious of all pain, and
agitated her drapery in a manner that startled
Aleyde, and made the appearance of death still
more awful.
Now the storm burst again as if it would
E 3
82 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
sweep from the earth everything living and
breathing that crawled upon its surface. The
crashing of parts of the building, as they were
rent and driven down one after the other,
crumbling to the ground, and the roaring of the
mighty element, which, forced from its bed,
came thundering on like the Angel of Desola-
tion, mingled together in horrible confusion.
But more dreadful to the ears of Aleyde than
the wind and the ocean, was the plaintive wail
of the helpless infant that lay on its mother's
cold bosom, and she had no means—not one
—
of yielding to the cry of despairing nature that
assistance which her woman's heart bled to
afford. She cried—-she shouted through the
windows—in vain. Could any human sounds
have been heard that night, there were none by
to hear. The gates were thrown open—the
drawbridge down—the stables deserted—every
man had fled—the very dogs had broken loose
and sought safety elsewhere. She looked down
the trap door, leading from her chamber—the
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 83
men might have forgotten the ladder, and have
left it in an erect position—but no, it had been
withdrawn ; and the space from her floor to the
guard room beneath was a fearful chasm. Thus
alone—unsupported by human sympathy, the
bond of mutual suffering that robs even death
of its worst terrors, Aleyde prepared to die ; or,
what is more awful still, to wait for death—to
watch its coming inch by inch—nearer and
nearer ; she crossed her arms on her bosom and
wept, not that she was to perish, but that she
was alone.
But though unseen by the wretched inmate
of Oostersteen castle, thousands were, at that
moment, sharing her terrors and encountering
the same doom. The messenger sent in such
haste by Wonter to the convent of St. Alexis,
had but arrived in time to threaten the poor
monks with the consequences of the error they
had committed, in delivering over their young
charge to the son of his guardian ; but as the
day advanced their fears of man gave way
84 THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM.
bcf(jrc that of the contcndmg, infuriated ele-
ments. The messenger who had started off
again in pursuit of Floris, turned in dismay,
and followed the terrified monks from chapel
to refectory, and from thence back to chapel, as
disconsolate and helpless as themselves.
In fact, a more distracted community had
never been : they clung to each other's robes,
forming thus a long chain, and whithersoever the
Abbot moved, all followed like a drove of
cattle, using neither thought nor discrimination
of their own. Their ashy faces and quivering
limbs—their muttered aves and credos, that
escaped the lips rather than the heart, over-
whelmed as it was by blind terror—would have
made them fit objects of contempt but for the
awful scene of which they formed a part.
"It is the eve of St. EUzabeth," muttered
the aged sacristan querulously ; " I ever said
some disaster would happen on her day. Her
altar has been sadly despoiled and neglected.
I knew the extracting of her precious stones
TlIK OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 85
and the replacing them with false ones would
bode us no good; and her picture has been
allowed to rot in the dust—she has long been
without an eye, and, of late, the rats have eaten
part of her nose, but the holy father would
never have her retouched, and now is this evil
come upon us, and no wonder !"
" Oh, God, inspire us !" nmrmm-ed the Abbot
in accents of despair ; " where shall we fly from
the sound of thy wrath. Let us again to the
chapel, my children, and mingle our feeble
voices with that of the Lord—but hark ! I hear
a trampling as of men's feet and horse's hoofs
hurrying by, and human cries, which the fearful
hurricane cannot silence. See, some of you, if
they need what little help we can afford."
Not a monk stirred ; and the Abbot would
have repeated his command in vain, had not
one of the novices exclaimed ;
—
" They are flying—perhaps some fresh dan^
ger is upon us—let's hear the tidings." And
he rushed from the long gallery up which they
86 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
were proceeding to chapel, under the guidance
of their superior.
The words and example of the youth wrought
like magic. The long train of monks hurried
on his footsteps, and for a moment the Abbot
stood alone ; but the next instant he was again
surrounded by his scared brethren.
" The sea—the sea is upon us !" they ex-
claimed—" the dikes are broken down, and
the waves are advancing with the speed of the
wind! Men, women, and children, are all
scouring the fields, let us also seek safety in
flight."
The confusion was, however, so great, and
the design so sudden, that but few succeeded
in putting it into execution ; nor could mortal
swiftness avail in the fearful race. The sound
of rushing waters soon drowned the cries of
man and beast. The certitude of their fate
excited many to madness—some called aloud
for wine with the fury of despair ; others betook
themselves to the chapel and clung by its altars.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 87
Some wept and moaned like children—some
hurried to the stables to betake themselves to
flight. Alas ! before the mule was saddled, the
wine tasted, or the prayer half muttered, the
ruthless element had enshrouded one and all in
its arms of might, and hurried on its mission of
destruction.
Jan Kluyn, the comfortable farmer to whom
Oostersteen had been so anxious to sell a por-
tion of his lands, when, at last, much to his
wife's regret, he had suffered himself to be
persuaded into the bargain by that wily per-
sonage, had settled in a thriving, lovely village
farther inland, and on a position of some emi-
nence near Gertruydenberg. Whilst, there-
fore, the waves were tumultuously breaking
over the grey walls and Gothic gables of the
cloister, and were dashing up against the tower
of Oostersteen castle, wherein Lady Aleyde
watched—which from its considerable height
and strength stood isolated in the world of
waters, like a lonely lighthouse in the midst of
88 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
the roaring sea—the unconscious inhabitants
scarcely deemed the mighty foe so near.
" Go, boys,—secure the shutters and the outer
gates well ; and you, my girls, to your beads
!"'
said old Jan, in a voice he meant to render
cheerful and encouraging, but which died away
in quivering—half-audible accents.
" We cannot, father—the shutters and gates fly
from the hand in fragments ; and as to seeking
others, no man can stand against the wind this
night."
" Chastise those howling dogs !" shouted the
father—" what are they making such an infernal
whining about ?"
" They are scraping holes in the yard, father,"
said the youngest daughter, timidly; "people
say that's meant as graves for their masters."
" Nonsense, girl—let the brutes be taught
better cheer with the whip, if they wont hear
command."
" Oh, father ! such a night as this, who would
harm man or beast ?"
THE OLD MAN OF UAARLEJI. 89
The father felt the rebuke and was silent—the
sturdy sons moved not—the force of the appeal
was understood, and the consciousness of their
own weakness softened even those rough, un-
tutored hearts, towards the helplessness of a
species weaker than their own.
"The bells are ringing fearfully," said one
of the boys, in a low tone, " as if the enemy
were upon us."
"The enemy is upon us!" said a couple of
rustics, of Herculean mould, who entered at that
moment, pale and quivering, like timid maidens.
" He is upon us, by St. Elizabeth ! who this day
brings us a curse instead of a blessing. The sea
has broken through the dikes—Oostersteen and
St. Alexis lie buried beneath the waves !"
" Then up, my boys !" said the father ;
—
" help the maidens, and let us fly !"
" It is too late," answered the youths ; " the
waters are oozing beneath the sand all round us,
—the ground yields and gives way under the
tread—we are surrounded by the waters, go
90 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
where we will they'll overtake us. Let us rather
prepare to die as we would have lived, all
together." And the manly youths clasped Jan's
daughters to their bosoms, for they were their
affianced brides.
" Oh, my Mary ! my wife—my friend—where
is she ?" said the husband, mournfully. " It was
but a few days ago, that, yielding to her desire
to be back at the old place, I gave her leave to
go and try to settle the matter with the present
proprietor. Oh, had I believed her all along,
we should this very night have been snug inland,
far, far away from these feeble dikes—but, per-
haps you are mistaken, boys—one more effort
—
let's all up, and see what may yet be done."
The father and one of his sons ventured forth,
but soon returned to the frightened group at
the cottage.
'*
The boys have spoken but truth," said Jan
mournfully ; " the waters enclose us on all sides
—we are done for, or I am much mistaken—the
church steeple, even the roof is covered with
THE OLD MAN OP HAARLEM. 91
people who seek safety there—to attempt joining
them were madness, they have scarcely sufficient
room for themselves, and will suffer no sharers.
Let us climb to the loft, and there abide our
fate ! Thank God, my children, your mother
and the boy are safe !"
They scaled the ladder that led to their lofts,
and sat on the floor, hand clasped in hand, with
tearless eyes and mute lips, awaiting what Pro-
vidence had ordained for them, with that passive,
unmoved resignation, which distinguishes the
brute creation, the savage, and frequently may
be traced in the uncultivated and the rude. It
is one of nature's loftiest instincts, which is often
destroyed by the softening influence of reflection
and sentiment. For a time the deepest silence
reigned among them ; when the cries of the vil-
lagers, half drowned by the roar of the advancing
tide, warned them that the crisis was at hand.
" Thank God," exclaimed Jan Kluyn, " that
my wife is safe, and the boy ! My children,
commend your souls to Heaven !"
92 THE OLD MAN OF IIAARLE3I.
" But father," murmured the youngest daugh-
ter—*^ if we took to the boats?"
" No boat can hve this night !" said one of
the sons, dcspondingly ; "but we may yet
escape ;
people have outUved inundations."
" Hush, my children—kneel and receive my
blessing—your mother will remember you in her
prayers
!"
The whole family knelt at the feet of its
chief. No murmur, no wild burst of sorrow
escaped them ; and they, too, soon slept beneath
the deep waters, that rolled on, m'ged by the
tempest, engulfing castle and village in their
irresistible career.
Oostersteen, unmindful of wind or wave, or
rather fearless of the one, unconscious of the
other, had, when left to his solitude by the retreat
of his companion, opened the well-concealed
niche he had caused to be made in the wall
behind his bed, for the better secreting of the
iron chest that contained his wealth, and which
was so contrived, that he could, without with-
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 93
drawing it, open the treasure box, and contem-
plate its glittering contents.
" Yes," he muttered, as his eyes gloated upon
the amassed riches, " the pearls of the Countess
of Namur were peerless, but for those of the
Countess of Holland—I shall know no rest till
they lie side by side in this same chest of mine.
Surely they cannot fly to-night—besides, my
son's first care will be to come to me, and if I am
obliged to use force—I loill; and once this cursed
storm over, I will take care they never meet
again. There are fine rubies, too, in this chalice
of St. Alexis—bah! they'll never want chalice
more, or I am a poor prophet. It was cunning
of me—ay, very excellently cunning, to keep
back the rest of my loan—if this storm break
not through the dikes, and cut not further pay-
ments short, I am not the Lord of Oostersteen.
Was I not wise to foresee all these things ! But
the chest is not more than three quarters full,
and yet Aleyde's jewels have been added since,
and the moneys produced by the sale of my
94 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
estate.—Ha ! ha ! it will produce fine fish in
future, and will be well worth the gold in herrings.
Hark ! what do I hear through the howling of
the storm? 'Tis a horse's hoof clattering on
the wet ground ! Who can be abroad on such a
night ? By the Mass, I must look to this !" So
saying, Oostersteen mechanically flung to the lid
of his box, and ran with unwonted agility down
to the hall—the frightened menials had deserted
it, and thronged in the guard room.
" Ho ! my men !" shouted Wonter—" torches
here—quick—torches to the gates,—and tell me
who's without on such a night
!"
Two or three rushed to the gate with torches,
which, as they stood within the arch, looking
out into the obscurity, flared wildly up for a
moment, playing like the lurid Hashes of light-
ning round their dark forms, then went out.
From where Wonter stood, he could distinctly
hear the pattering of the rain. It seemed to
fall on an echoing surface, and the sound
blanched his cheek.
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEWf. 95
" Well, my men—what, or who is it ?"
" A knight, my lord, mounted on a powerful
steed, bearing a child in his arms, galloping
across the plain."
"Hither?"
" No; he passed the castle as we looked out."
" Then saddle my brown horse, and mount
—
we'll to the pursuit."
" To-night, my lord ?—No I no ! no !" said
the men, boldly and with one voice.
*'
It is your young lord—he is on the brink
of destruction ! Mount, I say, and follow me !"
So saying, the old lord advanced rapidly
towards the stables; not a man stirred.
" Get to the horses," said Jost, in a low tone,
to the refractory troop—" we need not go on
this madcap's errand with him, but Haarlem
may prove safer on a night like this than the
plain." And he hurried after his master.
The men were soon mounted ; but no sooner
had they passed the drawbridge than with one
consent they made for Haarlem. The knight's
96 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
horse, frightened at the tempest, combated for
a time all the efforts of his master to guide him
in the opposite direction, and at last, seizing
the bit between his teeth, he galloped furiously
along the road his companions had taken.
Meanwhile, Floris flew rather than sped to-
wards Matenesse Castle. The very animal he
bestrode seemed to feel the necessity of speed,
for though covered from head to heel with
foam, and bearing other traces of having been
ridden fast and far, he still rushed on with un-
abated vigour, as if borne forward by the raging
element behind him. On came the waters,
and onward rode the knight ; and for a space it
seemed doubtful which would gain the advan-
tage in the mortal career.
'^
Courage—courage, my little fellow," said
Floris, pressing his young charge closer to his
breast—"do not cry so bitterly! See—yonder
are the strong towers of Matenesse ;
you will
soon be in your mother's arms."
Marie de Matenesse had taken refuge in the
THE OLD 3IAN OF HAARLEM. 97
chapel of the castle, which, from its situation in
the heart of the building, surrounded by but-
tresses, walls, and towers, was greatly protected
from the storm. Her women had all followed
her thither, and even some of the men stood at
the entrance.
Many tall lighted tapers were before St.
Elizabeth's shrine, round which the maidens
flocked, offering word upon word to the
saint, whom they supposed all-powerful on
that night ; whilst the rudely carved, and indif-
ferently-coloured image smiled vacantly upon
them, according to the intention of the some-
what primitive artist.
Marie knelt alone and apart by her husband's
tomb. Her sweet, pale face was bent over the
stony hand of the knight's effigy, which repre-
sented him in the attitude of slumber, in full
armour, with an open visor, displaying a hand-
some countenance, on which the bold, almost
fierce, expression of the warrior was well pre-
served. His right hand still held the sword he
VOL. III. p
98 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
had loved so well to wield ; the other was ex-
tended with open palm, as if to grasp at some
near object.
" Henry, thou knowest I loved thee more
than all on earth ! I shall not quail at our
meeting, even should it be this night," mur-
mured Marie, as though the cold substance she
invoked could either hear or answer her appeal.
« Yes —though I am grateful to him—have
loved him perhaps,—it is not with the affection
I bore thee—my first, my early love. Henry,
intercede for him and for thy son ! May thy
blessed spirit watch over them this night!
Sweet Virgin, protect them! Henry—Henry!
I would not he were to perish too—the last of
thy line—the living image of her thou didst
love so well. Sancta Maria ! what a night
!"
she exclaimed, in louder tones, throwing back
her head in dismay, as the storm shook the
strong walls of the castle, and caused the ban-
bers and shields hanging on the walls to fall
rattling to the earth.
THE OLD 3fAN OF HAARLEM. 99
" St. Elizabeth, it is tliy eve !" murmured
some of the females, faintly.
" We shall never outlive this night !" said
Marie, clasping her hands passionately, " I
shall never see them again—never know that
they are safe ! Hark ! my maidens,—was not
that a noise as of a galloping horse ? No—
I
am again deceived. Henry, forgive that my
sonl clings not wholly to thine, as of .yore ! but
my hand shall never rest in his, if hark !
—
there again !
—" and, rising to her feet, she
strained every nerve to catch a fainter sound
that mocked her ear in the loud din of the
tempest ; " but no
—'tis but that fearful storm !"
Again she knelt—she prayed. She rose
again—the damps of fear stood on her brow
—
her face was colourless as the stone against
which she leant.
" Hark !" again she exclaimed, in the accents
of agony, as, along with rushing waters, she
distinguished the sound of a horse tearing
furiously along. " It is—it is ! Oh, Floris !
#* f2
100 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM.
To the gates—to the gates, for mercy's sake !
—
unbar them this instant—I command!" The
timid, fragile woman had suddenly assumed the
energy of despair. "I command !" she shrieked
the word, but the wind, eddying through the
chapel, bore the sound faintly away. ^'
Cowards
!
you desert me ! Could Lord Henry rise from
that tomb but for one instant, you dared not.
My maidens, I entreat—I implore, for sweet
charity's sake, help these weak hands to undo
the bolts !" She rushed, as she spoke, towards
the gate ; none attempted to follow or to pre-
vent her. As she reached the postern, the
flying steed was clattering over the drawbridge.
Her name rang in her ear—then a loud shriek
;
an awful pause ensued—and the tumultuous
dashing of the element, breaking over tower
and turret, and forcing its way through the
apertures of the edifice, was alone heard.
When the morrow dawned, and the storm
was lulled, which seemed sent to destroy the
world, Dort was an island ; and where once
THE OLD MAN OF HAARLEM. 101
bloomed smiling verdant plains, lay the Sea of
Haarlem. According to the ancient chronicler,
a hundred thousand souls perished; whilst
miles and miles of land were thus torn away for
ever from the industry of man.*
Lord Wonter and his men, as we have seen,
reached Haarlem in safety ; though, owing to
the darkness of the night, the former was not
conscious of riding in the same direction as the
latter, nor did they enter the city together.
The trusty Jost, beUeving that his lord had
ridden towards Matenesse, and had consequently
perished in the storm, did not keep secret his
deeds and intentions ; and the indignation of
the citizens, many of whose relations had be-
come purchasers of his lands, was raised to such
a pitch at his having knowingly betrayed them
unto so fearful a fate, that it would not have
been safe to shew himself among them. Of
this circumstance he was made aware by acci-
* For a more detailed account of the inundations of 1421,
vide " Chron. of Jean Ic Petit."
102 THE OLD MAN OF HAARLE3I.
dent ; and, overwhelmed by the blow that had
fallen upon him, he concealed himself, not
daring to divulge his existence. The w^idow
Kluyn had heard how he had cruelly boasted of
the bargain to which her whole family had
fallen victims, and could not help remembering,
when first she saw him after the catastrophe,
that but for him she might have been in pros-
perity, and surrounded by those whose welfare
constituted her happiness ; but she remembered
—as a Christian should remember offences
—
only to forgive.
THE ANTIQUARY'S STORY.
MARGARET LAMBRUN.
MARGARET LAMBRUN.
John Stowe, in his naive black letter chronicle^
records yearly, through many centuries, the
following interesting facts.
"In this raoneth (as afore) fell continually
raines every day or night.
" This moneth of June, and also the moneth
of July, was every day raine (as afore) more or
lesse to the end.
"This yeare, in the moneth of May, fell
many great raines ; but in the moneth of June
and July much more, for it commonly rained
day or night till St. James' eve ; and on St*
James' day, in the afternoone, it had begun
again, and continued for two dayes together.
f3
106 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" In the monetli of November, December,
and January, fell such rainc that thereof ensued
great iloudes, which destroyed corne fieldes,
pasture, and beast. Then was it drie till the
twclth of April, and from that time it rained
every day and night till the third of June."
The moisture peculiar to our climate, thus
established past all doubt by the veracious
Chronicler of this rain-favoured land, as it had
been by (Jaesar long before, may still be certified
by any one of the many thousands of London
idlers who may feel any curiosity or misgivings
about the truth of his assertion. Nay, if he
would ascertain it to a nicety, he has but to
make it a rule to walk out every day for the
space of one year, or thereabouts, without an
umbrella, and on his return home when dry,
make a cross against the davs marked out in his
calendar, and we shrewdly suspect the unmarked
days would greatly preponderate in number.
It was in the early part of September, in the
year of our Lord, 1587, the 31st of Elizabeth,
MARGARET LAMBRtJJf. 10?
that, after some tolerably fair weather, the
heavens began to shew evidence of that lachry-
mose propensity which the aforesaid Chronicler
has so faithfully commemorated. One of these
days in particular calls for our own especial
notice.
It was twelve of the clock ; all dinners were
over; but still the thoroughfares were quiet.
Scarcely was there aught else to be seen in the
streets but the heavy water-spouts, tumbHng in
tiny cataracts down upon the foot-path, from
almost every roof, or aught heard but the full,
sonorous pattering of the rain as it dashed
against the houses, or fell with steady vigorous
aim upon the hard round pebbles that then
paved the best parts of London. But such rain
as it was 1 Heavy, close, incessant, now driven
like a cloud of spray beford the wind, enwrapping
all far objects in a glistening grey veil, now
coming down in perpendicular columns of large
thick hurried drops, which seemed aware, singly
and collectively, that they were about to be
108 3IARGARET LAMBRUN.
recorded to posterity, and that it became them
to make tlie most of themselves.
A solitary individual was plodding slowly up
High-street, in Southwark, with a carefulness
which the style of his costume fully justified
;
but which, alas ! seemed to avail him but little
against the inclemency of the weather. The
wayfarer was a middle aged man, but his whole
appearance had something strange and startling
about it, so as to come within the pale ofthe ludi-
crous, an effect to which nature and art had con-
tributed in equal shares ; to the former he was
indebted for the quaint fashion of his person,
and to the latter for that of his dress.
He was tall and thin ; and the undue length
of his nether limbs, and the exiguity of their
proportions were set off to the worst possible
advantage by the tight dark hose of the period,
which, together with his puffy trunk breeches, of
dull brown woollen stuff slashed with black,
swollen out even beyond the exaggerated mode
of that day, imparted to the wearer, from the
3IARGARET LAMBRUN. 109
middle downwards, no small resemblance to a
balloon. Above this protuberance appeared so
tapering a waist—so tightened, too, by the black
leather belt from which depended his sword,
and arms so long and emaciated, swinging to
and fro as he walked, and terminated by so very
spectral-looking hands, that a philosopher would
have paused involuntarily to ponder, as he
gazed at him, on the possibility of spiders
spiriting themselves into the human form by
way of a frolic. But his head, resting jauntily
on the top of a scraggy, crane-like neck, had
nothing venomous in its aspect. His round
eyes, hooked nose, and pointed chin, although
boasting but little of grace or harmony, and,
taken separately, of expression, yet produced in
their combination a general appearance of
great good-nature and hilarity, not unmixed
with shrewdness.
He had carefully wrapped his short cloak-^
which was of more costly materials than the
rest of his vestment—round his arm, with the
110 MARGARET LABIdRUN.
lining turned outwards, exposing thus his per-
son, without the sHghtest seruple, to the pelting
of the storm, that he might save his finery—
a
precaution which argued either poverty or an
over-careful spirit. A close investigation of his
physiognomy would have led to the latter con-
clusion, inasmuch as poverty seldom bears a
contented or self-satisfied aspect, and much of
both these feelings could be traced in the coun-
tenance of the cloakless stranger. Even whilst
the rain assailed him most furiously, defenceless
as he was against it, he occasionally smiled as
though comforted by some warm thought within,
that helped him, better than umbrella or Mac-
intosh of our days, to ward off the cold moisture
from without.
But umbrellas, jarveys, and M^Intoshes were
then equally unknown, as well as M^Adam's art
of smoothing the asperities of roads and streets,
for which the tender of foot must ever feel
deeply grateful. The humble pedestrian, in
the sixteenth century, had to struggle with
MARGARET LAMBRUJ^. Ill
many difficulties, unknown to, undreamt of by
the present happy citizens of this oft-meta-
morphosed metropoHs. Like our friend of the
brown jerkin, he was compelled to jump aside
at every step to avoid the drippings from the
roofs, or the heavy flap of some huge sign board,
which hanging too low, threatened, as it swung
in the wind, to catch the bonnet of the unwary
passer by, especially if he were at ail of an
aspiring height. And as these boards were
generally fastened to the extremities of long
iron bars protruding almost into the middle of
the street, the gutter by which it was divided,
lying there apparently for the very purpose,
generally received in its miry centre the un-
guarded passenger who sought to avoid the
multifarious evils of the foot path. Such was
more than once the fate of our wayfarer, as,
startled now by one inconvenience and now by
another, he endeavoured to guide himself un-
scathed through them. Many a smile did the
rapid and often inelegant evolutions to which
112 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
he was thus compelled elicit from those who,
snugly ensconced behind their casements, were
the casual witnesses of his progress. A few
points about his attire denoted him to be from
foreign parts ; but above all the manner in which
he stared about him as he steadily kept his way
towards the bridge, announced him as one not
altogether famiUar with the city and its
environs.
London was not then what it is now, but
Southwark might truly be termed in its infancy.
Except a few houses and gardens extending
along the river, and the already mentioned
street up which the stranger was proceeding,
—
whose houses, gradually thinning, gave way,
not far behind the pedestrian, to the bare, open
country,—there was nothing yet of that second
city now hovering on the skirt of the metro-
polis, and whose rapid growth may perhaps
lead, at no very distant period, to rivalry with
the mother town.
When the bridge came fairly in sight—and
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 113
that was not, thanks to the drizzling, misty
weather, until he was right upon it—the stranger
suddenly checked himself, and gazed wist-
fully at the frowning massive gate that guarded
its entrance. But it was not the solid mass
itself, flanked on either hand by a stalwart
tower, its strength, nor architectural merits,
that riveted his attention. Nor was he lost
in the remembrance of those disasters which
in times past it had helped to ward off; his
mind was wholly, and as it would seem from
the blanching of his cheek and contraction of
his brow, painfully engrossed by the spectacle
exhibited on its battlements. There, stuck on
long poles that they might the better be seen,
bleached a row of human skulls, holding forth
but too forcible a lesson on the demerits of
treason not to convince eight out of nine be-
holders into the most zealous loyalty. It was a
lesson which, to surmise from the awed and
horror-stricken meaning of his fixed look, the
fascinated stranger was obviously grafting on
114 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the tablet of his memory in never-fading eha-
racters. At last, he removed his eyes from the
hideous objects of his prolonged contemplation,
and, suddenly wheeling round, turned his back
upon the bridge, and ]:)egan hastily to retrace
his steps.
He had not, however, proceeded twenty
paces, when, struck by a new^ thought, his crest-
fallen bearing gave way to one of renewed
confidence, and once more pacing the bridge,
but keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the
ground, as though unwilling to test his resolu-
tion b}^ a second view of that which had so
sadly discomposed him, he darted at once through
the gate like an arrow shot from the bow.
Having performed this achievement, he paused
and looked behind him ; when, behold ! a
similar archway—the same towers and battle-
ments, with like decorations above them—met
his fearfid glance. Not choosing to linger
in order to familiarize himself with these, to
him, evidently most disagreeable novelties, he
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 115
hastened to pass the bridge house—a second
gate, before which an enemy might be brought
to an inconvenient stand, supposing the four
towers which frowned on its front to be manned
with merry men and true. Emerging from
this dark portal, he entered the narrow passage
formed by high, quaint houses encroaching on
either side, and converting the bridge into ai^
obscure and not very commodious street, shut-
ting out all view of the fair Thames, and of the
proud vessels that decked its bosom—nay, almost
that of heaven itself ; for, gaining dimension as
they ascended, each floor overhanging that
immediately beneath,—the upper stories, too,
being adorned with turrets, curious, protruding
gables, and out-spreading galleries or balco-
nies,—the space they lacked below was in this
manner amply made up above, at the expense
of both hght and air.
Although the stranger occasionally bestowed
a look right and left, or rather upwards, at these
tenements, still he remained thoughtful, and as
116 MARGARET LAMBRtJN.
he approached the drawbridge he again paused
irresolutely. "Yes" and "no" were visibly
balanced in his puzzled brain ; but the affirma-
tive triumphed, as, with a still more thoughtful
brow, he slowly paced between the massive
chains. Beyond this third gateway the activity
of the town began to display itself more satis-
factorily than heretofore. People came and
went with busy, active gestures, and as he
looked up into the bluff but hearty faces that
he met, the stranger seemed greatly comforted.
He stopped before a very neat though small
dwelling, cheerfully ornamented with sundry
painted devices of lions' heads and monkeys'
tails that ran round every frieze, and tugged at
the bell-rope with an assured air, plainly indica-
tive of a certitude of welcome.
" Master's not at home," was the answer that
his queries elicited from a cross-looking old
woman who had opened the door, but which
she held in her hand ready for the bang she
meant to give it the very next instant.
MARGARET LAxMBRUN. Il7
" And when may he he expected, good wo-
man ?"—inquired the visitor, with a very blank
look,—" or rather, where is he gone ? Perhaps
I might find him out."
" No you mightn't ! He is in the country at
some friend's, and will remain there no one can
tell how long."
" Worthy Master Ross so far from the Still-
yard ! I'll never believe it"—said the spider-
like gentleman, with an incredulous shrug—
" that's not possible !"
" If it an't possible, it's true," replied the
querulous dame, who viewed his woe-begone
and perplexed aspect with no favourable eye
;
" but," she added, prompted doubtless rather by
feminine curiosity than any precautionary mo-
tive, " what is your name ? I may tell him
you've been here 'gainst he comes back, when-
ever that may be."
" Oh ! it's immaterial," said the stranger, re-
luctantly turning away.
This denial, aided by the instinctive feeling
118 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
of a mystery lying concealed beneath its appa-
rent carelessness, roused the housekeeper's thirst
for knowledge ; and after a moment's reflection,
which allowed him to get a few strides a-head,
she stood at his elbow, saying, in a softened
tone
—
"Master, sir, is always very particular to
know the names of those who call when he is
from home. He is indeed, sir
—pray, please to
tell me your name ?"
" I wont, woman—that's flat !" impatiently
exclaimed the stranger, and, shaking himself
free of the old woman, he hastened forward.
Until now the stranger had, in spite of the
weather, proceeded with a careless air, and exer-
cised his visual organs without restraint ; but
as he passed through the arch of the belfried
tower gate, leading into the busy haunts ofmen,
he grew more cautious in his movements, and
a close inspector might have detected him in
taking great pains to conceal the irrefragable
evidence of foreignism 'about his person, and
3IARGAUET LAMBRUN. 119
as far as possible to screen hin^self from observa-
tion. But if indeed a foreigner, his familiarity
with the complicated windings and turnings,
leading through intricate lanes from behind
Fishmonger's-hall, in a westerly direction along
the Thames, proved that he was no stranger in
London.
The Stillyard was reached at last; and
having shaken out his mulberry velvet cloak,
and thrown it over his shoulders, he pushed
boldly into the building. His appearance there
excited little or no attention, and he had to
address the rough porter several times before
he could obtain the unsatisfactory intelligence
that Master Martin Ross had not been near the
place that day, nor the day previously.
" Think you I may chance to find him at
Blackwell Hall,'' he asked, with an anxious
brow.
The man did not even deign a reply, beyond
a shrug, which plainly intimated that he could
not or would not tell.
120 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" If you seek worshipful Master Ross, who
resides on London Bridge," said a whispering
voice in his ear—and he felt himself at the
same time tugged by the sleeve—" follow
me, and I may chance to give you news of
him."
The stranger looked nervously round, and
beheld a man at his elbow, whose dress and
bearing had so decided a smack of the sea, that
he unhesitatingly pronounced him the master
of one of the many ships in the offing. There
was nothing in his smiling, youthful face to
awaken mistrust, and after having, by a sly
glance, ascertained this circumstance, the
stranger readily followed him through the busy
hall into the court beyond, which was crowded
with carts laden with wheat and corn, recently
imported from Dantzic.
The cranes were creaking away lustily as
their heavy loads swung lazily in the air
;
carters and packmen shouted to one another;
respectable, self-satisfied, and evidently im-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 121
portant personages stood watching these pro-
ceedings with careful scrutiny from a porch,
consisting of a jutting fragment of the main
building, which served as a granary or loft,
supported by four pillars of wood; affording
thus, in foul weather, a canopy for those whose
duty or interest it was to superintend the move-
ments in the yard. Few of these privileged
personages even deigned a stray glance at the
foreigner as he brushed by them, following in
the wake of his guide, who received and
returned a few familiar becks and nods, that
shewed him to be no stranger there.
They reached the opposite wall, and gliding
unobserved through men, beasts, and packages,
slipped round the crane, and made towards
another small wooden fragment of a building,
littered with a heterogeneous mass of objects,
the exact use of which it would require no small
speculation and time to decide.
Into this shed the skipper conducted, and
the stranger followed ; when, placing themselves
VOL. III. G
122 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
in such a way as to keep the entrance in view,
and yet to screen their own persons from ob-
servation, the younger broke silence.
" You inquire after Master Martin Ross—is
it in the way of business or of friendship ?" he
demanded, in an earnest manner.
" Baith, my good maister," was the reply,
conveyed in an accent so decidedly Scottish,
that no doubt could remain in the listener's
mind as to the nation to which the speaker
belonged.
"Ha! a countryman, I see," muttered the
sailor, " perhaps, something more. Well, he
must be warned. May I ask your name and
business ?"
" You may—but I'm no jist at leeberty to
answer," replied the other, with a scared look at
the interrogator. " I've not been aboon twenty-
four hours here, and every one puts that very
same question to me. I am bound to say I
don't call that manners. But to my simple
question no one will reply, however politely I
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 123
make it; and simple enough it is, too, I'se
warrant."
" Not so simple as you fancy, friend," said
the young sailor, with a smile ; " however, I wish
to surprise no man's secret. But if you be, as
I suspect, what Master Ross himself is—
I
needn't say what, for if you are a friend you
know it, and if not, the least said the soonest
mended—you had better not tarry here, but be
off as quick as you can. Master Ross himself
is under a cloud for the present, and he does
not like to shew himself much abroad ; any
small message you may have for him, however,
I will take upon myself to deliver."
" Gude guide us !" exclaimed the stranger,
in rueful tones—" what am I to do ? I shall
be quite lost in this great Babel, without my
worthy friend and countryman. He was to have
helped me through with my business, for I
would fain make short work of it, and be off
again as soon as I may; I know not another
soul in all London. Well, to be sure, what a
g2
124 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
sea of troubles I've fallen into ! Had he but let
me know in time, I should not have been found
here in a hurry.
" Give me but a token by which he may
know who seeks him, and he may, perchance,
devise some plan to assist you; I myself,
perhaps ; but we cannot trust in the dark."
" Allah—Allah ! as the Turks say when they
are in trouble—and that's not half often enough
for their deserts, the dogs !
—what shall I do ?
Well," he continued, after bestowing another
long and anxious glance at the young mariner,
" I will trust you thus far :
—one who has served
the Turk, and now lives under an even worse
master, but once had a gracious mistress, would
give much to have speech of him before night-
fall, for his heart is very heavy at having thus
unexpectedly missed his friend."
" To-night ! that's too early—say to-morrow."
"That's too late for my wishes," said the
stranger.
" Ay, but it cannot be sooner ; and perhaps
3IARGARET LAMBRUN. 125
you had bettor, on the whole, depart without
an interview."
" I canna' weel do that," repUed the Scoteh-
man ;
" I'll even tarry till to-morrow night ; but
when and where shall I again meet you?"
" At your lodgings—where do you stay ?''
The canny Scotsman smiled.
" I'm no so free to tell that either," he said,
—" can I not see you here ?"
" Not here, it might be observed ; no, not
twice running at the same place. But say the
Coal Harbour, at the saiiie hour, eh ? We are in
no danger of meeting there the same faces as
here, and it is but a step."
" Yes, yes,—I know it well ; 'twixt this and
Fishmonger Hall. I'll be there punctual
enough, I'se warrant."
They now nodded significantly to each other,
and the elder left the hut, the younger remain-
ing a few minutes behind, in order that his late
companion might gain the advance ; he had not
patience, however, to stay long, and in crossing
126 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the hall they again encountered. Neither gave
the slightest token of recognition, and whilst
the Scotchman departed through the opening
towards the street, the sailor hurried along the
vaulted entrance leading to the Thames, and,
careless of all the busy toil, of rolling barrels,
cursing watermen, and sliding barroAvs, he leapt
nimbly into the boat awaiting him at the foot of
the steps, and the next minute was rowing
lustily towards the middle of the stream.
His late companion was not so fortunate in
extricating himself from the turmoil of the
city, which then, as now, bore chiefly upon the
river's banks. His brow was full of care ; and
he occasionally halted, and looked wistfully
round, as if willing to take counsel of some
one of the passing crowd. But it brought no
familiar face to his eye, no familiar voice to
his ear; and he proceeded, with a deep sigh,
to skirt the Thames along the narrow, ill-built
streets and alleys lying in the direction of
Whitehall; for the many buildings of public
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 127
necessity, built on the water's brink, broke up
the Strand between London Bridge and that
part where the towers and massive structures
of the nobiUty, divided from each other by the
trees of their gardens, completely obstructed it,
throwing their broad flights of stairs down to
the very edge of the river.
No reflecting person could wend his way along
the tortuous, narrow streets of the city, pre-
vious to the great fire, without being struck with
the manifold dangers to health and safety with
which their peculiarities of construction threat-
ened the overstocked population penned within
its limited precincts. The houses were, for the
most part, built of timber, and left but scanty
room between their opposite bases for the pas-
sage of heavy wagons. Enlarging as they
rose, each additional floor projected further into
the street, so that the occupants of the attics
might, without difficult}^, shake hands together,
or leap into each other's balconies, if need or
fancy prompted. Thus, with the aid of curious.
128 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
fanciful, irregular additions, which the caprice
of almost every proprietor induced him to make,
in the shape of turret, gable, or belfry, the
streets above were choked up; and, not only
were the purifying rays of the sun absolutely
prevented from penetrating into the cold, dark
region beneath, but the free circulation of the
air was impeded ; whilst the many blind alleys
and closed courts that intersected the streets,
were anything but outlets to the mephitic va-
pours stagnating in the regions where they
originated.
The scanty proportion of dwellings to the
number of the inhabitants, especially in those
parts where traffic was most active, was such
as to justify the poorer and more busy classes
in cramming themselves into the smallest pos-
sible space. Thus, family upon family, trades
of the most various, sometimes of the most
offensive kinds, were huddled together, in a
manner that may well account for the general
insalubrity of London at that period, and the
annual visitations of the plague.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 129
The cruwding, too, of this part of the me-
tropoHs together, with the horrid abuse of sanc-
tuary granted in some of its most gregarious
and intricate mazes, and many other impru-
dent, absurd privileges, that seemed granted
but for the express encouraging and faciUtating
of crime, rendered the city insecure. Few in-
deed, if any, of respectabihty, ventured out
on foot or unattended ; and the occasional ap-
pearance of mounted horsemen—if gentlemen,
with a swaggering train of liveried footmen at
their back—or of staid personages on mules,
attended by their clerks, if merchants—made
our friend of the Spanish cloak start more than
once from his abstraction,—lost in which, he
frequently obstructed the way. At such times
he would gaze after the riders with a concerned
air, as if suddenly reminded that his pedestrian
tour at once stamped him as one either little
versed in the customs of the town, or of but
slight standing in the world.
" But it is an act of common humanity," he
G 3
130 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
frequently muttered to himself, as he slowly
made his way through the many obstacles in
his path.
His recollection of the localities now began
to fail him. At every fresh turning, he was
sadly puzzled how to proceed ; but rather than
put the simplest question to any one concern-
ing the road, he would treble his fatigue by
running up one street and down another, to
find himself at almost the very same point
whence he had attempted to diverge. He even
more than once retraced his steps towards the
bridge; but, still recovering himself, he pur-
sued his weary w^ay, until the streets naiTowed
into alleys, the houses became with every turn
smaller, more dirty, less ornamented, and, as
he advanced, the smoke began to issue from the
doors and chinks instead of the chimneys.
The squalid, filthy, ragged population here
hung idly about their premises, watching their
ill-trained and half-fed urchins frolicking in the
unwholesome gutters, or exerted their malig-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 131
nity upon them, or upon each other. The
scene of misery and depravity—misery unre-
lieved by industry, depravity in its most repul-
sive nudity—deepened at every step he took,
and gradually assumed an air of mystery and
cunning, that clad it with a garb of dread. The
faces were no longer begrimed with the dust
and filings of the workshop, but darkened by
ferocity, or bloated with intemperance —the
steps of the passengers were either ruffling and
insolent, or creeping and stealthy. The females
were scarce; and, such as they were, in pity
one could have wished them in the cold
churchyard, when the Scotchman entered upon
the purlieus of Bainard Castle and the Savoy.
The latter had been once the palace of Peter
Duke of Savoy, and derived its appellation from
that valiant prince; and after having passed
through the hand of some few noble possessors,
had been adapted to the noblest of purposes,
that of charity. It had been an hospital until
suppressed under Edward the Second, when.
132 BIARGARET LAMBRUN.
affording the disastrous advantage of sanctuary,
it became not only the home of poverty and
vice, but the refuge of crime. It was enough
to make a stout heart quail to look up into
the countenances there to be met with. The
sounds, the sights were enough to try the
toughest nerves, supposing either to belong to
an honest fellow.
But toughness and boldness were not, as we
faintly indicated, the leading features of our
mysterious adventurer ; and no wonder that he
became paler and more pale as he proceeded.
Still, strengthened by some powerful motive, he
struggled against the inward feelings, and man-
fully kept his way.
Avoiding the meaner tenements, he was
making straight for the palace, whose outline
was but dimly visible through the unwhole-
some, foggy atmosphere, when a strong arm
was suddenly, and rather roughly, passed round
his neck.
" You've been in Spain—so have I !" shouted
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 133
a rude voice in his ear. " Let's be buon caiiie-
rados; I'll take you to a rare jolly place for
roystering blades like you and me."
" Unhand me, ruffian," said the Scotch-
man, sternly, the blood mounting to his very
temples at feeling the disgusting touch of his
assailant. " Unhand me, I say! or, by St.
Andrew "
" A Scotchman and a Papist ! Ha, ha, ha
!"
roared the other.
A few slouch-beavered, raggamuffin rascals
joined in the jeering laugh, and approached
the embarrassed stranger, whose secret was thus
rudely divulged. As they closed in upon him,
and while he was struggling to free himself
from the insolent grasp which still detained
him, a tall black whiskered fellow, who seemed,
from the style and condition of his apparel,
somewhat above his comrades, endeavouring
to convey to his debauched features a mild,
conciHating expression, advanced apparently to
his rescue.
134 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" Leave the gentleman alone, can't you ?
Don't you see how much you distress him ?"
This announcement was received with peals
of laughter.
" I tell you he is one of us," persisted the
first speaker, still maintaining his hold.
" Will you let that Scotch lord alone, when
I bid you !" retorted the second, laying his
hand on the sword-belt of the other. A slight
scuffle ensued, during which the subject of con-
tention, gliding away from the scene of action,
turned hastily towards the palace, not per-
ceiving, until he stood in the first narrow court,
that his cloak of fine Genoa velvet, which he
had again carefully folded up the moment he
found himself nearing the disreputable quarter
into the heart of which it was his intention to
penetrate, was missing.
More ruffled by this loss than by anything that
had yet occurred, he hastily retraced his steps
to the spot where he had left the disputants;
but not a trace of them was visible, and least
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 135
of all, of the fair cloak. The sounds of boister-
ous mirth that filled the air sufficiently be-
trayed that the ruffians were making themselves
merry at the expense of their dupe, at no great
distance. His first impulse was to pursue them,
and claim his property ; but a moment's reflec-
tion convinced him how little likelihood there
was of such a measure producing an agreeable
result ; and angry with himself at the loss he
had experienced, more especially at the manner
of it, he again turned into the Savoy, muttering
to himself as he went along
—
*' Mea culpa, mca
maxima culpa, but I'll be d—d, if I'm ever
caught in a mistake of this kind again."
To the small yards and turreted walls of the
original building had been added, as expe-
diency or choice dictated, here one fragment,
and there another, until the back part of the
palace was so blocked up with narrow courts
and blind alleys, that it required much patience,
and more sagacity, to discover any one indivi-
dual dwelhng in the confused irregular pile.
136 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
and no small degree of perseverance to pene-
trate into the main building. It is more than
probable that the stranger who had so boldly
ventured into these to him evidently unknown
regions would have given np his object in
despair, but for the timely services of a young
lad, who, seduced by the promise of some
few pennies —pennies, in those days, were
worth half-crowns at this time —undertook to
pilot him safe through the shoals of this peril-
ous adventure.
" And now," said he, when he had brought
the stranger to the last inner court, " you have
but to ascend those steps, pass that little door,
then straight up the staircase—you can hardly
miss that, provided you follow your nose ; then
turn to the left, and at the third or fourth
door, you'll find the woman you seek."
" Well, if ever I'm caught doing another
kindness to any one, and that on a rainy day,
and in the Savoy !" murmured, disconsolately,
the Scotchman, as he looked after his youthful
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 137
guide, who had no sooner clutched the pro-
mised pence than he disappeared like a sky-
rocket. " A pretty figure I cut—lost so goodly
a cloak, too! Men are right, in England, to
prefer the furred gown—they can hardly tear
that off one's back. To meet a lady, too ! A
pretty fellow I am for such an adventure. Well,
well, I have come too far to recede ; but, catch
me here again—that's all
!"
So saying, he slowly mounted the slippery,
foot-worn steps ; and having succeeded in
squeezing himself through the narrow, low,
arched doorway, he came to another pause,
and taking off his plumed cap, attempted to
shake the wet from its once glittering tassels
and gay plumes. But, alas! the feather was
literally soaked through with the rain, the tas-
sels dimmed for ever ; and from his dark lank
hair he felt sundry streamlets trickling gently
down his neck, finding a sly entrance between
the ruff and the throat. It was in vain he
sought, like the privileged of the quadruped
138 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
race, to discncambcr himself, by a few vigorous
shakes, of the but too visible and penetrating
tokens of the weather, that lingered in large
bright drops on every part of his garments. He
saw the case was a desperate one; and every
efficacious remedy being out of reach, he re-
resigned himself to his fate, and began to
ascend the steep, rugged, winding stairs, ren-
dered insecure by the loose and broken state
of many of the flags. As he was cautiously
toiUng up this precarious ascent, a shrill female
voice was heard from the passage to the right
on the ground-floor, demanding what was the
matter, and if any one were there? Upon
which another voice, whose careless tones re-
vealed juvenility, answered, from the foot of
the stairs up which the speaker was probably
peeping
—
" Oh, dear, no—it is only a spider crawling
up the wall ! Bring your broom, granny, and
we'll soon brush it down."
A loud peal of cracked laughter joining the
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 139
gay sound of the young girl's voice, it appeared
that the granny had by this time caught a
view of the stranger, and approved of the joke
highly. A little annoyed at the disrespectful
insinuation as to his outward properties which
it conveyed, the stranger hurried on, and soon
found himself in a long, narrow, cloistral pas-
sage, scantily lighted from a few small slits
looking out upon the yard. Here were many
blackened doors, from which time and filth had
obliterated the numbers that had once marked
the different wards of the hospital.
He knocked hesitatingly, then more resolutely
at the first, the second, the third ; laid a regular
siege to the fourth ; but all in vain—they were
fast locked, and none came to answer his loud
summons. Doubtless the reckless or miserable
tenants were following elsewhere their diverse
pursuits of gain or pleasure, as the case might
be, and they were deserted for the day.
He stood before the fifth, a picture of blank
perplexity, and was about to apply a fresh sum-
140 3IARGARET LAMBRUN.
mons, when it was cautiously opened, and a
timid juvenile countenance peeped at the
aperture to ascertain the cause of this unusual
disturbance.
" Pray tell me, my little lad," said the stranger,
" if you know where I can find a certain Mis-
tress Finch, who ought to dwell somewhere here
abouts."
" What do you seek her for ?" answered the
boy, without opening the door.
" For her own sake, not for mine, be assured
of that, or I had never sought her in this stew
of a place."
" Have you any token—the pass word ?" still
persisted the boy.
" Then she does live here ? Open the door
without delay, there's a good little fellow, for I
have no more time to waste."
" Not without the pass word, master," said
the boy, firmly.
The stranger looked puzzled, as well he
might, for, in good sooth, he had clean for-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 141
gotten it ; but he had that day gone through a
sufficient quantum of trivial annoyances to have
tried a spirit more patient than his own, and so,
without further ceremony, he pushed against
the door with a degree of strength which the
youth could not resist, and stood face to face
with him.
Although scarcely above thirteen, the boy
was tall and strong of his age, and determined
not to submit tamely.
'' You shall not pass further," he said, with
a glowing cheek and flashing eye, " unless you
give the pass word ;" and he put himself in such
a position, that to proceed to the inner chamber
the Scot must remove him by main force.
"Go—go, you foolish youngster," said he,
with a good-humoured smile. " By St. Andrew,
but you are a cock of the game. Luckily I
now bethink me—*for the sake of auld lang
syne'—ay, that was the phrase, or something
like it." And pushing aside his no longer re-
sisting opponent, he entered the room beyond.
142 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
It was nearly as bare and comfortless as the
first, but looked less dismal from the circum-
stance of the light pouring freely into it from
its lofty windows looking out upon the Thames.
Its solitary occupant was a middle-aged
female, whose mean apparel and faded looks
harmonized well with the abode which she had
selected. She started on seeing a stranger,
—
rose in haste, and with a somewhat flurried air
;
but the moment she fixed her visitor, she raised
her eyes and hands to Heaven, as if in mute
thanskgiving—then extended them towards him.
" And so we meet again, Roger Achamber !
I had scarcely dared to hope this wish of mine
would be fulfilled in this life."
" I wonder you know me at once," replied
the new comer, " after the lapse of so many
years, and altered as I must be—I had scarcely
recognised you, Margaret, if I had not been
prepared to meet you, and none but you in
this place."
" Grief is a canker-worm that blights even
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 143
more than time," answered the woman, so-
lemnly. " I am altered indeed, but more so in
heart than in outward looks, great as the change
wrought in the latter may seem to you."
" I am sorry to hear it. Indeed, news from
home, public or private, has been a source of
much grief to me for many a long year."
" You have not then forgotten your country,
your friends, and above all, your allegiance, over
the seas? exclaimed the female, with visible
emotion. " You are still the same kind, honest,
faithful Roger xoe all thought you. Do you
understand the full meaning of that we^ Acham-
ber ?" she added, mournfully.
" I do, I do," said he, hurriedly, as if unwil-
ling to dwell on a disagreeable subject. " He
too is gone, I see it by your dress."
"Yes, I am a widow," she resumed, in a
scarce audible tone. "All those I loved are
gone—all but one. You have seen him in the
outer room, have you not ?"
" Yes, and a bonny laddie he is," said the
144 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
Scotchman, kindly, taking the woman's hand
and warmly pressing it. " What a comfort he
must be to you in your afflictions ; he is a fine
spirited boy. But tell mc, Margaret, why do
I find you here ?—in such a place ! I, a man,
could scarcely make my way through it in
safety—and 3'^ou, who have dwelt in palaces "
"This is one still," replied the woman, with a
sad smile, " and it is besides, what few palaces
are, a sanctuary. Here none may lay hold of
me, and drag me forth for punishment on ac-
count of my creed, my feelings, my regrets.
Here, too, my poverty is no sin—my tears, my
Bufferings, my very existence, are hid from the
observance of men. But poor as this home may
be, you are welcome to it,—welcome as a last
hope sent from Heaven to cheer my over-
burthened spirit! Come, sit by me, and I will,
for the first and last time since the weight has
sunk on my heart, which must eventually break
it, speak of my sorrows."
"That's right, my good friend," said he.
MARGARET LAMBRUN, 145
whom the woman called Achamber. " That's
right—depend upon it, there's no better relief to
sorrow than to talk about it, especially to those
who can feel for one. And so let's sit down,
and, in God's name, to business !"
An expression of displeasure, which gradually
gave way to one of deeper sadness, overcast the
countenance of the female as she listened to
her companion. They sat down, opposite to
each other, on the stone benches occupying a
parallel position in the deep embayment of the
window, commanding on a clear day the oppo-
site shore of Southwark, and a fine view of the
noble Thames, curving towards Whitehall ; but
which generally, and on the morning in question
more especially, assumed the appearance of a
vast ocean of fog, whence, at rare intervals, a
near mast indistinctly loomed.
It were hard to say whether the female had
been wounded by the word "business,"—so
offensive to feminine organs, especially when
applied with reference to themselves personally,
VOL. in. H
146 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
or anything connected with them,—or if the
giving vent to feelings so long pent up within
her own bosom were an effort to which she
scarcely felt equal, but it was some minutes ere
she broke the silence, which her visitor devoted
to a closer examination of her features. He
remembered her a tall, comely, though some-
what masculine woman, with fine lineaments
and finer eyes, whose impassioned expression
had frequently betrayed the inward fire which
the reserve of Scottish manners sought to veil.
Nought of youth and beauty now lingered
about her countenance or person. An ashy
paleness contrasted harshly with the widow's
weeds she wore, and the few locks of hair that
straggled from beneath her cap, though still
retaining the raven blackness of their pristine
hue, betrayed here and there the marks of
time or care. The bold contour of her phy-
siognomy was disagreeably exaggerated by
thinness, and her deep-set, dark eye gleamed
restlessly from beneath the harsh brow, speak-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 147
ing in but too legible characters the fever that
preyed on the unfortunate woman's soul. ,
" Well, Margaret, you wished to see me, and
I am here, ready to assist you with all my
might and main if you would but tell me
how," said her guest, at last breaking a silence
which he began to feel irksome.
" Ay, true," said the woman ; and starting as
if from a dream, she removed her own keen
glance from the good-natured, friendly face
she had been anxiously scanning, and suffered
it to wander from object to object till it
finally settled on the ground. "True—most
true. Well, you have prospered abroad I hear,
and have probably bound yourself to the land
of your adoption by the strong ties of domestic
affection."
" No ; I am still a bachelor, and, please God,
mean to remain so to the end of my days," was
the answer, given with a sly, meaning smile.
" You know well enough, Margery, that when
I was a poor, penniless lad, the lassies did
H 2
148 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
not take to me ; now I am comfortable and well
off, I do not mean to take to any of them. So,
you see, I am pretty much in the same predica-
ment with the merry miller of Dee
—
" I care for nobody—no, not I
—
For nobody cares for me."
"I see your early disappointment has sunk
deeper into your mind than I at the time ima-
gined it would. You were aye light-hearted,
Roger !"
" But not unmindful of injury nor ungrate-
ful for kindness—that's why I am here to-day.
You and yours have ever been friends to me,
even when it went hard enough in this world with
poor Roger Achamber—ay, even before we had
all the luck to enter the same service. Ah, me !
I have never forgotten those days of careless
childhood, when we played together on the
heath of our native hills."
" Nor, I hope and trust," eagerly interrupted
the woman, " those which we spent in Holy *'
" Stop, stop !" interrupted Achamber.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. ]49
" Nor," persisted the woman, " those which we
spent in
"
" Hush, hush ! ''
urged the visitor, with a look
askance towards the door. " We cannot be too
cautious in talking of those times."
" There's no danger," replied his companion.
" My boy keeps watch without, nor is this the
place for spies. Surely you are not ashamed,
Roger, to name the home of your young days
—
the mistress," she added, with a bitter smile,
whilst her dark eye rested upon him with a
slight yet irrepressible expression of scorn
—
" the mistress whose bread you have eaten ?"
" Not exactly ; not ashamed, but afraid,
Dame Margery. Yes, despite your frowning
look, I will say afraid, and think it no stain on
my manhood. By my troth, I saw a sight on
the bridge to-day that is enough to make a man
of prudence and substance—I say substance,
too—look twice to what he says or does in this
fair city."
" I thought as much," said the female, after
150 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
a pause, during which she evidently struggled
to repress some ungracious expression of dis-
pleasure. " You were ever prudent and cautious,
Master Achamber."
" Had I not been so by nature, experience
would have taught me that lesson," responded
her companion, gravely. " A slave once to
the Turk, and now scarce anything better in
my quality of subject to the Spanish king, I
have learned to bow my head and keep my own
counsel."
" So much the more fortunate for you ; but
that is not my way, Roger. I cannot bow my
head to crime even when enthroned."
" But to the dispensations of Providence you
surely can, and ought, Margery."
" I am afraid I cannot^'* answered the woman,
with a wild, almost fierce look. " No ; I have
tried to conquer my rebellious thoughts, my
brooding heart—but I cannot. The spirit of
my ancestors is roused within me at the bare
thought of my trials, and of my triumphant
enemies
!"
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 1^1
" I hope not," hastily exclaimed her friend,
shaking his head reprovingly. " If our tradi-
tions speak true it was no gentle one. Your
forefathers oftener drew their dirks than be-
seems good Christians."
** May be, may be !" she said, impatiently
;
" but I, at least, have wrongs to resent."
" To forget—to forget, Margery ! Think
you, when I was the bondsman of a vile infidel,
cursed at, buffeted, reviled from morn till night,
think you I might not have indulged in spite
and hatred ? Yet, so help me God, I never did
!
I toiled cheerfully—lulled suspicion to rest
—
made myself easy, and, when the opportunity
offered, slipped the leash. Well, there was I,
—
a free man once more, it is true, but free to
starve, had it not been for a good Easterling,
who took compassion upon me, besides wanting
me for the little of Turkish lingo that I knew.
Well, King Philip is not a gentle master, God
wot; and yet here am I, quietly anchored at
Antwerp for a good time, as I hope, and well
152 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
to do ill the world for all that I have known of
hardship."
" It does not signify arguing upon the
difference of our natures just now," said the
female, hastily. " Yours is the happiest—per-
haps, too, no less acceptable to God than to
man—nay, I make no doubt it is so. But you
do not know what it is to suffer through those
we love. It is nothing to bear with personal
injury, and personal suffering; but, oh, God!
to see the anguish, the struggles of those a
thousand times dearer than self—it is that
which fires the brain, and maddens thought.
You remember me in the days of early wedded
felicity, the object of the most devoted attach-
ment, when love gilded the darkness of poverty.
You afterwards saw me basking in the smiles of
fortune, for were not in those days her smiles
and those of fortune synonymous ? You have
known, too, what she could be to those who
shared her palace home, and can remember how
she favoured us above all others ; but you, who
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 153
have seen her and us but in prosperity, know
not—cannot imagine, the tie that bound me by
every fibre of my heart to that ilkistrious—that
murdered "
"But," interrupted Achamber, "when the
death of her first Scottish husband broke up
her household, I thought you had been dismissed
as well as myself, and obliged, like me, to seek
your fortunes elsewhere than in that dismal
castle—so dark a casket to enclose so bright a
pearl!"
" We were not with her in those few perilous
and troubled days, but her bounteous hand was
still upon us, and those that loved her well, at
her request became our friends for her dear
sake. Nor were we long exiled from her pre-
sence. We followed her here, and shared her
captivity—would to Heaven we had shared her
fate ! It w as then, and then only, that I knew
what it was to love Mary Stuart. Start not at
that sacred name—if indeed you be friend or
countryman of mine, start not at the name of
h3
154 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the murdered, the unavenged! These walls
hear it repeated in my orisons and nightly vigils,
until the echo is as familiar to them as that of
my sighs and groans."
" Say rather she was sacrificed to policy ; and
I fear, my good Margery, it is such blind en-
thusiasts as you who have caused her doom.
Plot succeeded plot, and the plotters never per-
ceived, whilst they sent head after head to
bleach upon those horrid London gates, that
they forced the axe into the hand of the exe-
cutioner."
" Silence, silence! if you would not have
me " The woman paused, but her flash-
ing eyes so eloquently filled up the blank, that
Master Roger Achamber started fi:om his seat as
if uncertain of his companion's purpose. Of
her sanity, indeed, there was room for doubt,
from the startling energy of her manner, arid
the fearful wildness of her look, but he checked
himself as she motioned him to resume his seat
with a lofty gesture.
" Forgive me," she said, ^^
for my impetuosity
;
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 155
but it maddens me to think that you, who have
looked upon her day by day, who heard the
tones of her voice, who felt the sunshine of her
smile—to think that you can thus talk coldly of
her death !"
" Twenty years' absence from my home," said
Roger, soothingly, " have calmed the acerbity
of my feelings,—influenced, perhaps, in some
measure my views —
"
" Cooled yom' heart you should say—frozen
the warm current of your blood," said the
woman ; then, hastily checking herself, she added>
" but no, were that the case, you had not been
here to day. You cannot feel what I feel, nor
even guess at the hundredth part of my suffer-
ings. It was nothing to behold her surrounded
by regal splendour—to grow in the sunshine of
her power ; but to see her day by day, in her
time of trial, pining away in her youth and her
beauty—a queen, a wife, a mother no longer,
but an isolated, lonely woman, debarred from
the pleasures of princes-—nay, even deprived of
those mere physical enjoyments which belong
156 MARGARET LA31BRUN.
in common to the great and the most despised
of God's creatures—to sit, hour by hour, watch-
ing the tear ofregret slowly stealing down her pale
cheek as her thoughts reverted to the blythe days
that were past never to return, or to sec her
cast a longing glance at the bright blue summer
sky, beneath which Earth's children were re-
joicing. But, oh ! that look—it spoke of such
soul-sickening misery, that I have often wept
the livelong day at the slow lingering martyr-
dom she was silently enduring—a look, a smile
of irrepressible soul-wearing anguish were the
mute appeals of her tortured heart. It was but
rarely her lips disclosed its burthen ; but when
she would confess her willingness to lay down
the rest of a miserable existence for one short
day of life under Heaven's free sun, that she
might warm her frozen heart in its cheer-
ful rays—to hear her speak of those happy
times when her life was all sunshine, flowers,
and love, and to see that peerless loveliness fade
away in the dark, gloomy walls of a prison,
where naught spoke of love but the tears of a
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 157
few trusty servants—then it was that I thought
my own heart would break. She who had
drunk in so many an impassioned glance that
bore on its ray the soul of the chivalric, the
handsome, the regal—her gaze now fell on the
withered, downcast looks of a few sad followers,
or the frowning brows of her enemies. Those
fatal graces that had decked her brow with
woman's fairest crown were fast fading away
!
To see her waste, day by day, in that hopeless
solitude, her step grow more languid, her smile
sadder, the tones of her voice falling more
mournfully on the ear, like the cadence of some
dying strain,—and yet to see her meek and
patient to the last, even when years were added
to years, and the best part of life's fitful dream
was over, and the future a blank—a dread blank,
which thought dared not to fill up,—all this,
Roger, you have not felt as I have felt, or you
could not talk of political expediency. When
a hope, a faint ray of hope, penetrated to the
poor sufferer's heart, it was but the mere
mockery of destiny—the wound torn open to
158 MARGARET LAJMBRUN.
bleed afresh. The eager swhnmer, struggling
for Hfe, who sees the shore in view, friendly
forms beckoning to him in the distance, life
and hope in port, and whom the ruthless waves
dash away in spite of his most vigorous efforts,
knows not a worse despair than did the royal
Mary of Scotland, when knight after knight fell
in her cause,—when, one by one, the lights of
her destiny were extinguished. Had you seen
her thus—had you watched her, day by day, in
her woe, as ive did, you had better understood
our love—our devotion."
The woman paused for a few minutes, over-
come with her emotions, but soon continued :
—
" But when came the fatal day on which the
news reached us that she was to prepare for
death—she gave it us herself,—then, and then
only, we knew our own hearts. Oh, that
never-to-be-forgotten anguish ! We thought
—
we knew, that we had no hope ; and yet, when
that last blow came upon us, then only did we
feel that all was indeed over with us. Yet it
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 159
seemed too horrible to be believed—we deemed
it the deception of a fiend. Can you image to
yourself the horrors of the intervening days
—
the counting the hours of life, and marking
them ebb away like the sand in the hour-glass,
and death nearing with every one—the seeing
her sit with folded hands, listening to the
chimes that brought it nearer yet and nearer
—
to watch its coming—to hear, as it were, the
flap of its black wing ? How she—how we bore
it, I know not. Then that last morning, concen-
trating in its short and flitting space the agony
of years of thought—that last toilet ! She bade
me braid her long tresses with more care than
usual. * Never will your skill be again tried
on poor Mary Stuart !'
she said. * Margaret, do
your best.' Oh! the feel of those soft, long
tresses, the only diadem that had still been
spared of the many Fate had given ! As I
gazed on their dark waves, I fancied them
already clotted with the crimson stains; and
when chance brought my hand in contact with
160 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
that snowy neck, I shuddered as though an
aspen had stung me. Words can never—never
tell the feeHngs of that hour ! More than once I
would have given up my task m despair, but
for her look, so fraught with reproach and sorrow.
* Grieve not, my trusty Margaret,' she said,
* they who have left me nought but life, which
they have made worthless and desolate, may
take that too. But if the woman has wept, the
queen must not. At this awful moment, let
not those who still love me try my courage
by their weakness.'
"Her injunctions nerved me; but what a task
was that of performing those every-day duties
whose frequent recurrence makes almost mecha-
nical, but which such circumstances invested
with a nameless, sickening importance. That
mourning robe which never was to fall again
from that regal and lovely form—it felt in my
hands like a pall. It was death divested of all
the worldly pomp with which it generally ap-
proaches princes—devoid of the common sym-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 161
pathy and Christian charities that soothe its
approach to more ordinary mortals. It was an
appalling death, to be encountered alone and
unsupported ! The sound of that castle bell, as
it doled out the last fragments 4of time to the
unfortunate queen, has haunted me ever since !
I fancy I still see her raise her drooping head,
and listen to the strokes with a sweet, sad
smile ; and none were by to witness or record
her lofty resignation but a few faithful menials.
Where were the friends—the allies—the sub-
jects whose life-blood should have been shed
ere one drop of hers was suffered thus ignobly
to flow ! Then came the cold summons—
a
few dark, grim satellites conducted her to a
blackened hall, where three hundred English
gentlemen had assembled to witness severed by
the glittering axe the head of a woman—of a
beautiful, a crowned princess ! What a feat of
chivahy ! I cannot tell you the rest. Ever
before me, in the tedious watches of the night,
in the long, weary hours of day, it was a sight
162 MARGARET LA»IBRUN.
that has blasted my mental vision. All the
anguish that preceded—that followed—is alike
lost, forgotten, engulfed in that one awful
moment ! His faithful heart broke when hers
ceased to beat?—the hori'ible scene was too
much for him—the same stroke that ended her
chequered, wretched existence made me a
widow !''
" Alack ! alack ! poor queen !
—her cruel end
may well atone for all her " The Scotch-
man paused, as the eagle glance of the female
encountered his own; and obviously anxious
to soothe her irritated feelings, he substituted
another expression for that which had nearly
escaped him—" all her errors. Poor Margery !
it is no wonder that such sorrows should have
well-nigh turned your head
!"
" At times, I fancy they have done so," she
replied. " The remembrance of that one horrid
deed never departs from me. It fevers my
pulse, and lies heavy on my heart. Never can
I escape from that one dread image, but when
one more horrible still rises to my mind. I
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 163
have wrestled with the thought until my
strength is spent. I may struggle no longer
—
it has conquered me !"
"And what may that be?" inquired her
listener, with an anxious, eager gaze.
" It matters not," answered the woman, with
an impatient wave of the hand—"it matters
not for the present." And she drew a deep
breath, as if exhausted with the vehement out-
poinring of her feelings.
Roger Achamber, much affected with what
he had heard, looked on her with a mingled
expression of deep commiseration and doubt,
which resolved itself to one of solicitude, as,
taking her hand gently in his, he said
—
" You have suffered much—but let byganes
be byganes, as we used to say in 'our bonny
country. You were ever a mettled, high-
spirited lassie ; but where is the use of grieving
overmuch, or of indulging in dark and gloomy
thought! You've wept the dead—turn now
your thoughts to the living."
" It is kindly meant of you," said the woman,
164 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
rising—"you mean well by me, bat you can-
not understand me, Roger; 1 should have
known this ere now; nor has it lightened my
grief to pour it into careless ears. I will even
speak the language you best understand. I am
in need of your assistance, and for the sake of
auld lang syne I make bold to claim it. I
have neither husband nor home, nor even a
friend left to care for me or my helpless boy."
" I guessed as much—you are poor—nothing
has been left you ?"
" Nothing—absolutely nothing. For months
naught has been 'twixt me and starvation but
the few trinkets she gave me during the many
years of my service—not one remains to me
now."
" I guessed as much," repeated the merchant,
pulling out from his inmost vest a long leathern
purse well filled with gold pieces —" lucky it is
that the swash-bucklers who stole my cloak took
not this also."
" Nay—nay—put up your broad pieces," said
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 165
the woman, motioning the proffered purse
haughtily back.—" It is not a few gold coins that
I stand in need of—it is more, far more than
that. Not the paltry charity of an hour, but the
fate of a life—such, Roger Achamber, is the
boon that I ask at your hands."
Something of the impassioned, wild expression
of her fierce, dark eye, faded as she spoke, and
gave way to one of eager, almost impatient
anxiety, as if her very soul hung on the
answer.
" Whatever I can, that will I most certainly
do," said Roger, " nor is that little, for I am—
yes, to you I may say so—rich—very,—and have
no kith or kin of my own to hinder me from
doing what I please with my gains. But listen
to me : I have formed a plan of my own for you
and the laddie, which, I think, will do as well
as another, if not better. What say you to
following me abroad, where I will make you as
snug as possible, and we'll bring up the boy be-
tween us to be a comfort and an honour to
you."
166 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" Something of this sort I expected of you,
Roger, and will accept your offer in the spirit in
which it is tendered. As for myself, my lot in
life is cast ; all farther care bestowed on it were
vain and unavailing. But I have one more duty
to fulfil in this world ere I quit it, and nothing
must interfere with its performance. It is for
this that I would speak with you, for this that I
sent you a message through the Dutch skipper
who brought you over, for when he mentioned
your name perchance in my hearing, I fancied,
I hoped that it might be yourself of whom he
spoke. I had not forgotten you, Roger, even
through so many years of absence, and trusted
you would not refuse to come to me. Now you
are here, let me briefly tell what I would have of
you. I wish to give up to your care my only
son—my poor boy. He is intelligent and high-
souled, but gentle withal, and quiet as a lamb.
He will give you but little trouble, nor will he
require your fostering care long ; for though but
a boy to-day, a very few years will make him a
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 167
man, and enable him to take care of himself.
Will you grant me this boon ?"
"But surely you will not part from your
child," gently insinuated the visitor—" especially
seeing there is no cause."
'^
There is cause—great cause," said the woman,
sternly. " If you will grant what I demand, do
so at once—unconditionally ; take my boy and
a mother's grateful blessing with you, and ask
not further after me or my ways."
Master Roger Achamber would willingly have
remonstrated further, but there was something
about Margaret Lambrun which froze on his lips
the words he would have uttered.
" I see, by your silence," she continued, " that
my desire meets not with your approbation
—
that you would fain sift my purposes and views.
That may not be, Roger—for your own sake and
his."
" I'll be a father to your boy," said Achamber
in answer to the anxious searching glance of the
mother. " A son in everything shall he be to me
;
168 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
but, of course, I am not going to remain here
any longer than I possibly can help. Skippers
know my name, it would seem, and go hawking
it about in low places, the haunts of those who
would not, perhaps, scruple to deliver me up as
a Papist and a plotter, when, God wot, I am
nothing of the latter and less of the former than,
in good sooth, I ought to be ! But times like
these we live in harden the heart, Dame Lam-
brun. Here one may not be a Catholic, and
over the water one dares not so much as look on
a Protestant ; whilst further south Paganism is
all the go, and one mayn't be a Christian at all.
Well, it is a cross world we live in, where we can't
all be at peace, and love one another after God's
own law—but then men's fashions differ. Let
not that distress you : I shall soon have gathered
enough money to serve me for the rest of my
days, and mean to retm*n to bonny Scotland,
where I will settle in a handsome house of my
own, with, may be, a stone shield over the door,
bearing my coat-of-arms—and the boy may
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 169
share it with me, too, an' he like—though I'm
afraid mine is but a quiet hfe for young blood like
his."
" Myboy has been nurtured in silence, solitude,
and sorrow. He drew his first breath within the
walls of a prison, and never crossed its threshold
but to pass into the scarcely less gloomy confine-
ment of this sanctuary. You will find him all
you can wish—and as for your plans, they meet
my inmost desires on every point. You cannot
leave this place or return to Scotland too soon
to gratify me. Mary—Mary !"'
she loudly
called, and the next instant the boy, who had
hitherto stood sentinel in the outer apartment,
was at her side.
"Mary, my darling, look up; Heaven has
sent you, at last, a friend and a protector."
The lad did as he was desired, and raised his
mild blue eyes to the whimsical countenance of
worthy Master Achamber. If the latter had
already been struck with his prepossessing
exterior in the cursory glimpse he had had of
VOL. III. I
170 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
him during their short discussion without, he
was still more, though not agreeably so, now the
light, such as it was, revealed to him more fully
a face of remarkable, though feminine beauty.
The singular delicacy of the features and com-
plexion harmonized well with the pensive, soft,
dreamy expression which they bore, and with
the flowing ringlets that framed the pale thought-
ful brow.
" That lad wants air and exercise sadly,"
thought his new patron, as he took cognisance
of the boy's appearance with a long, examining
glance. " There's no life under that white skin,
—no promise of manhood in that dulled eye
and fragile form. It is a sickly plant, and must
perish, if not speedily transplanted to a more
vigorous soil."
A slight shade of disappointment might have
been traced in the mother, as she beheld her
son the object of less admiration than she,
doubtless, thought his due. But she soon mas-
tered the womanish vanity that lurked beneath
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 171
that passing feeling, as she listened to the sim-
ple, but hearty words that escaped her visitor.
"I will be a father to your child, Dame
Lambrun ;
you need be under no apprehension
whatever, either as to the present or the future,
should God grant that I live to perform my
promise."
" A promise such as that, given to the orphan
and the widow, is a solemn pledge," said the
woman, with emphasis.
" I mean it as such, most assuredly ; and if
his departed parent's spirit be hovering around
us at this very moment, as our creed teaches us
to believe possible, I cannot speak the words
with more sincerity."
" God hears and will record the promise, and
will not forget the deed. I have but thanks to
offer, and can express those but poorly."
"Mention them not at all, Margery," ex-
claimed Achamber—" we understand each other
thoroughly. But why should the boy lose one
parent because Providence sends him another
i2
172 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
in the place of him he has lost ?" he continued,
lowering his voice to a whisper, as he led the
reluctant woman somewhat apart, that, if pos-
sible, the boy should not overhear his words.
" Come, Margery—what on earth can chain
you to this country now ?"
" Question me not—you must not—shall not
know. It is on account of what I have to do
that I am so anxious to part from my only
child. I have prayed morn and night that a
friend might be raised to him from this wilder-
ness called the world, that I might, unfettered
by any earthly tie, follow the promptings of
my own heart ; and, lo ! my prayers have been
heard. A friend has risen even at the last
hour, and is this not a visible sign that Hea-
ven itself smiles on my wishes, and permits
their execution ?"
" Many a fallacious design of our hearts here
below may be considered the instigation of the
Evil one, rather than of Heaven's inspiration,"
said Achamber, gravely. " Take heed, Mar-
gery, that yours be not of the former."
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 173
" I tell 3'ou, man, I have wrestled with my-
self in vain. Whether it be for evil or for good,
what I would I must do. Those who would
seek to hinder me, would do so at their peril."
" I hope you are not engaged in any plots ?"
" It matters not what I am about, and least
of all to you, Master Achamber, of whom, if
you keep your own counsel, none will ever be
able to say that you were in any way connected
with me. Mary," she said, striding up to her
son, and taking him by the hand, " Mary, I am
about to yield you up to this kind gentle-
man."
As the boy turned his head gently away to
conceal the burst of natural grief which the
bare mention of this sudden change in his fate
naturally enough called forth, Roger Achamber
exclaimed, with surprise :
—
" Mary ! but that's a maiden's name !
—how
comes your boy to bear it ?"
" She was his godmother," was the answer,
which Margaret Lambrun delivered in a husk}^,
smothered tone. " She blessed him at his birth.
174 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
and gave him her name—Mary Stuart is one
which no deed of my son could make him
worthy to bear."
" Ay I ay ! 'Twere but a poor shield against
harm in these days, my good dame, and might
raise him more enemies than friends—in Eng-
land, at least, he must not bear it. Come, my
bonny laddie," he continued, in a more encou-
raging tone of voice, " come, do not be down-
cast ; a man cannot stick for ever to the apron
strings of his mammy ! Come with me, and
you'll see more of life in a fortnight, than
you've yet done in your whole days, I'll warrant
you."
"And, Mary," added the mother, impres-
sively, ** I give you up altogether to this gen-
tleman—my early friend, and that of your father.
He was, too, once her servant as well as our-
selves. I give you up to him for ever. Your
love, your duty, your obedience must be trans-
ferred to him, in the same measure as it now
belongs to me. From this hour, when in his
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 175
generous kindness he has adopted you, a friend-
less, helpless orphan, you are as much his as
though Heaven had wrought the tie between
you, and angels blessed the bond."
The boy could resist the tide of his feelings
no longer, but flinging himself on his mother's
breast, he sobbed aloud. The stern woman
was moved, and folded her child in her arms
with a look of utter despair. Master Achamber,
wisely deeming that the pleadings of her own
heart might do more than all his eloquence,
charm he never so wisely, determined to yield
her up to them ; and he came to this resolve,
the more readily that he was one of those men
who, having but seldom occasion to give way
to their emotions, disliked above all things to
have them brought into play at any time.
" Well, my good dame," said he, " I cannot
take the boy thus upon my hands without any
preparation whatever. I will leave you to
make what arrangements you may think ne-
cessary, whilst I do the same thing my own
176 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
way, and to-morroWj since you know my lodg-
ings so well, you may bring him to me, when
we may have aome more talk respecting our
mutual plans for the future. The parting, too,
will, perhaps, come off all the easier."
" You are right—quite right," said the mother,
gently disengaging herself from the boy's pas-
sionate embrace. "It is best as you say—
I
have neither leisure nor means to attend to
external arrangements of any kind, and leave
all that to you, kind Roger ; but I will employ
the few hours that you thi^s afford me in pre-
paring him to receive with gratitude and joy
the benefits you are about to confer, and for
the new life which is opening upon him. To-
morrow, then, at an early hour, Mary will be
with you."
Achamber, whilst in the act of taking leave
of his young protege, glided, unperceived by
the mother, a few gold pieces into his hand,
with a significant glance at Dame Lambrun,
which the child, by his slight, almost imper-
MARGARET LA3IBRUN. , 177
ceptible nod of acquiescence, evidently under-
stood. His obvious—nay, ungovernable joy, as
he pressed his slender fingers tight over his
treasure, would have convinced the worthy
visitor of the need in which the mother and
son stood of pecuniary aid ; if, indeed, their
pale, wan appearance had not already revealed
it to his keen apprehension.
As he stepped into the outer chamber. Dame
Lambrun followed him alone, where, laying her
hand upon his sleeve, she detained him for a
moment.
" God bless you, Roger, for what you have
this day done for us—I never can ; but let what
may befal me, you have reaped the thanks
—
the prayers of one who is still innocent. Think
of that in after-times, and be indeed a father to
the orphan."
He would have questioned and remonstrated
further, but pushing him with a gentle force
from the room, she bolted the door behind him,
i3
178 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
and he found himself once more in the dark,
narrow passages of the Savoy.
At that period, as we have said, the main
part of the ancient structure still existed,
although its courts and wings had been so
gradually widened, extended, and added to, as
to form an aggregate of blind alleys and intri-
cate passages, not always, as we have seen,
agreeable to a chance intruder ; but towards the
Thames the palace still retained its original
features, its irregularly pierced windows, its
turrets, and two main towers, through the left
of which a gate opened upon a broad flight of
steps descending to the river, where boats
generally lay in readiness. It was to this point
that Master Achamber now bent his steps;
choosing rather to brave the wind, and the fog,
thai hung low, on the water, than incur the risk
of retracing his way through quarters of such
questionable respectability as the purlieus of
the Savoy. ^
Before, however^ quitting for ever, as he
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 179
hoped, this abode of misery and vice, he had
the curiosity, or was, perhaps, prompted by a
better feehng, to enter the chapel. Indifferent
as he had appeared on such matters, it was with
irrepressible bitterness that he gazed on the
denuded walls, which once had been honoured
with many a gilded cross and carved image of
the Virgin, but one glance at the emblem of
meekness which, sculptured on the roof, seemed
to appeal to the better and more peaceful feel-
ings of his nature, changed the current of his
reflections.
" Yes," thought he, " it matters but little
;
Catholic and Protestant steer equally wide of
Thy law. Here one is hanged and quartered
for adoring the Virgin and recognising the
Pope ; one is burned abroad for renouncing
either. Woe's me! when will the holier spirit
of peace descend upon this world, and make it
one of pleasantness !" The worthy man turned
away as the recollection of dangers at that
moment surrounding him on all sides, was thus
180 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
brought more forcibly to his mind. lie was
keenly alive to the disadvantage which any
evident connexion with one so deeply dyed
with Papistry and Stuartism as Margaret Lam-
brun might prove, and though much moved by
the lively picture she had drawn of her own
mental sufferings, and still more at that of the
miseries endured by the illustrious victim
whose fate she deplored,—still he did not think
himself by any means called upon to sacrifice
life or limb to such emotions.
" I have done my best for the poor creature,"
thought he, as he took his place in the stern of
a dingy, paintless little wherry, moored at the
bottom of the stairs, "and no man can do
more."
He resolutely turned his back upon the palace,
fearful lest, by the merest look, he should betray
an undue interest in the pile. Nay, he carried
precaution to such a length, that he actually
caused himself to be rowed to Lambeth, re-
solved rather to undergo another long walk in
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 181
the rain than land at the steps of St. Mary
Overis, from which he could have reached the
door of his hostelry in five minutes.
" And yet," thought he, " how vain my pre-
cautions, if such false knaves as that cursed
Dutch skipper will go bawling one's name and
business about town, in such a place, too, as
that Savoy ; and the woman she sent with her
message, that one found me out easy enough,
I'll warrant. Well, one never can make sure
of lying snug and safe anywhere in these
troublous times. If one had wings, like a spar-
row, to soar in air, there would still be a
hawk to strike one down ; and were one to
burrow in the earth like a fox, there would yet
be your wire-haired rascal of a terrier to drag
one out. To think that worthy Master Ross
has been obliged to leave his quiet house, where
he lived like a mouse in its hole, and that I had
not spent above a night in this great city before
a message found its way to me ! And now a
pretty charge has fallen on my shoulders. True,
182 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
I am a lone and solitary being in this crowded,
busy world—have no kith nor kin to care for
me when I get old and peevish, or to look after,
now^ that I am stout and vigorous. Some people
find pleasure in training a hawk or a hound,
and call it a noble task ; others waste their leisure
on rare flowers, and call it pleasure. Is it not
a nobler task and a greater pleasure to foster an
orphan, and to train a fresh member for a suc-
ceeding generation—to drop some good seed
into a human heart, that it may ripen and bear
the fruit of a finer humanity—to leave some
reminiscence of one's earthly passage here be-
low? Some such thoughts have often flitted
across my fancy, although they never before
assumed so tangible a form. Well, the die is
cast ; and I do not regret it, if the lad be but
docile, as he seems likely enough to be, though
I could have wished him younger, perhaps, and
the son of a less rampant dame ; but the father
was a good, meek soul as ever lived, and maybe
he'll take after him, and that would suit my
books better. However, we'll see*"
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 183
When the worthy man came to this point
of his cogitations, the sudden shock of the
boat against the steps reminded him that
this was neither the fitting time nor place to
indulge in such reflections. Having satisfied
the insolent demand of the boatman,—which
was about double what it ought to have been,
but which, eager to escape all observation,
Achamber did not take the trouble to dispute,
—
he bent himself in earnest to the long walk
which lay before him, through open fields, ere
he could reach Southwark.
Thoroughly drenched, cold and shivering,
plodding with difficulty along the heavy roads,
the already mentioned merciless rain pouring
down upon him its unexpended fury, his con-
dition was certainly not calculated to sweeten
the milk of human kindness in a less stout
bosom than that of our adventurer.] But though
by no means insensible to the disagreeable
predicament in which he stood—his exposure
to the mighty weepings of a disconsolate
heaven—he was fair enough to absolve the
184 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
objects of his sympathy from causing the suffer-
ings which he thus boldly encountered for their
sake. Nay, he more than once congratulated
himself upon his escaping the necessity of
again facing the dread spectacle over the bridge
gate.
"By St. Andrew, I wish I could well see
through Margaret Lambrun, though, and her
wild, reckless purposes !
—I'm afraid Satan hath
his finger in them rather than any Saint I wot
of; and yet I cannot fathom her. Does she
mean mischief to herself or to others ? Well,
Gude guide us ! I'll just get the boy under my
wing, give t'other chap a meeting to know what
is become of Ross, and leave the town by the
morrow's eve, an' I can, ere worse come of it."
As he came to this very wise conclusion.
Master Achamber turned into the lowly inn
that he had selected in preference to the more
frequented Tabard, which has passed to pos-
terity through the grateful pens of the choice
spirits that met and revelled within its dusky
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 185
limits, and whose loud glee often caused the
low, smoke-blackened rafters to re-echo to a
merriment which even their dull canopy could
not smother. Those were, indeed, rougher and
hardier—we had well nigh been tempted to
say, healthier—times than the present, when
pleasure smiled within dark, confined, comfort-
less walls, or paraded the dirty, narrow, insecure
streets; whereas it so seldom lingers in our
rose-coloured boudoirs, or can be traced in our
safe, large, brilliantly- crowded thoroughfares."
Southwark, although in those days, as we
have elsewhere observed, but a mere fragment
of the metropolis, was one of its gayest off-
shoots. The lupanarias,—which had long made
it a place of moral desolation,—having been
expunged by Henry VIIL, had given way to
two circular buildings, rising from amidst the
refreshing foliage of surrounding gardens, in
which the purest and the loveliest, the highest
and the noblest—nay, royalty itself—did not
disdain to seek divertisement.
186 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
But how different were those divertisements
whose proximity lay so near ! The Paris—or
bear-garden—was, as its name sufficiently pro-
claimed, the scene of that cruel kind of sport
which disgraces the spirit of gentler humanity
—
a remnant of the savageness of past centuries,
when man, unreclaimed by Christianity or civi-
lization, loved the sight of blood as we do that
of beauty, and in whose ears the cries of mortal
agony were dulcet as is to us the melody of
song; whilst in the adjoining building—the
Globe—the mightiest enchanter that ever wielded
the magic power of thought worked his nightly
spells, to which, with a prescience of what that
power was to become, the crowd that still clung
to the barbarity of the past by so many tangible
ligaments bent in accordance with the growing
spirit of the future.
Not far from these places of public entertain-
ment, towered high, in the noble and romantic
Gothic architecture, two stately piles, in close
vicinity to each other. The one nearest the
MARGARET LAMBRUN. IS^
bridge was the church of St. Mary Overis,
whose many graceful towers, and slender,
dentalated spires, rose conspicuous from amidst
the humble dwellings by which it was sur-
rounded. The neighbouring structure — the
palace of the ancient lords of Winchester—yet
more dignified in its simplicity, presented a
range of wide and lofty arched windows, whose
brilliant tintings caught and reflected every
passing glimpse of the western sun. The
houses immediately behind these buildings
seemed thrown there with a view to contrast
;
but in reality denoted but too plainly the
poverty which, in those days as well as now,
lay grovelling in the vicinity of wealth.
Among these uninviting tenements stood
Master Achamber's inn. It was more desolate
and filthy than its popular rival, but less noisy
;
and, having in view concealment rather than
pleasure, the worthy Scot did not quarrel with
its discomforts. Every now and then casting
an admiring glance at the palace and the
188 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
church—both of which he commanded from
his Ccosement—he busily employed himself in
removing all traces of the merciless pelting
from which he had been so severe a sufferer.
The task w^as a long and a weary one ; nor was
the small apartment allotted him sufficiently
fenced against the weather to shield him com-
pletely from the damp atmosphere without. It
was no wonder, therefore, if he felt impatient
for the comforts of the tap-room, such as they
were, and that he should lose no time in hurry-
ing thither when the laborious task on which he
was engaged had come to a happy conclusion.
When Achamber took possession of a table
in the vicinity of the huge chimney, whose dark
canopy protected a blaze of no ordinary magni-
tude, with the exception of the landlord the
room was empty. Contrary to the custom of
those days, when my host was, in real truth,
the Amphitryon of his hospitable hearth, and
whose warm welcome w^as considered an essen-
tial part of that hospitality, the master of this
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 189
obscure place of entertainment was both distant
and surl}^ a circumstance to which probably
was due, that his tavern had not risen in public
favour. Perhaps, too, he was indebted to this
peculiarity that it had not sunk to be the haunt
of the low rioting skippers and vagabonds of
every description in Southwark, at a period
when the sanctuaries of the mint afforded them
so central a point of resort and refuge.
With this personage, therefore, there was
little or no talk to be had ; and though Master
Achamber prolonged his repast as much as was
possible, by way of dissipating ennui, even the
keen edge of his appetite acquired by his morn-
ing's expedition was well nigh sated, and a
sense of loneliness came over the worthy man,
whose jovial, hearty nature and cheerful habits
were sadly at variance with his present condi-
tion. Had prudence warranted the measure,
doubtless the poor disheartened traveller would
have sought a less retired haunt of revelry,
where such a thing indeed might be found ; but
190 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
as it was, when he had washed down his last
crumb of very stale bread, with the last drop of
very indifferent ale that had but too evidently
been tapped from a cask not waterproof, there
was nothing for it but to resign himself to the
tediousness of his chamber.
" Well," thought he, as he gazed on its chill-
ing nudity, " to-morrow will not find me alone,
nor I trust in this miserable hovel," and throw-
ing himself on his bed, he calmly yielded to his
fate, and dozed away the weary hours until that
which called him forth to another meal, renew-
ing this interesting process, until the chimes of
St. Mary Overis warned him, in sonorous peals,
that it was time to court sleep in earnest,
which, strange to say, despite his previous draft
upon his kindness, Morpheus did not deny to
his ardent votary.
Although Master Achamber was on foot at
an early hour the next day, he had not time to
descend for liis morning meal before a single
knock at the door roused his attention. Mine
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 191
host, who appeared at the chink, announced a
lad below stairs, desirous, he said, of speaking
with his guest. The cautious Scotchman was
about to inquire why the boy had not sent up
his name, when it occurred to him that this
could be no other than the son of his old friend
Margaret Lambrun, and desired that he might
be sent up. The moment his eye rested on the
soft, effeminate, blanched countenance of the
youth, who, with eyes swollen with weeping, and
an expression of blank despair legible in every
line of his fair young face, followed close upon
the heels of mine host, the worthy patron reco-
gnised at once the future object of his cares.
" I'm glad you're come, at last—eh, eh, hem
—
my good little cousin," he said, extending his
hand in token of welcome and encouragement to
the lad,'who hung timidly back on being thus un-
ceremoniously addressed by the utter stranger who
was to be henceforth the master of his destiny.
" You see," continued Achamber, as if by way
of explanation to the retiring host, " this is a
192 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
lad sent me from the country by—his father
—
a sort of country cousin, you see," but ere this
needless elucidation had come to an end, the
silent and incurious personage to whom they
were addressed had reached the bottom of the
wooden stairs, and Master Achamber was alone
with his protege.
"I did not expect you so soon," he said,
again turning to the lad, and with a kindlier air
than before—" and so your poor mother would
not join you, after all ?"
The boy shook his head in sign of negation,
but could not answer.
Perceiving and compassionating his distress,
the well-meaning merchant tried to soothe it
after his own fashion :
—
" You see, my good lad," he said, as he
busied himself about his final arrangements for
the day, " you are going to begin life ; and
that's the time for smiles, not tears, I take it.
Ay, ay—it is a time worth sighing for when it
is over. The world is before you, and you
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 193
have a fair chance of a good start, Ever^'thing,
in the long years that come after, depends upon
that. If boys could but take that to heart
—
could but know it ! All's before ^^ou, you
young dog—it were not seemly in me to tell
you all that may be, but I can tell you this
much : —The year has but one spring, and so
has life ; and the tree that hasn't flourished in
the early part of the season will bear no fruit at
its close. So up and be merry, my little man
;
sure these tears disgrace your dawning man-
hood !"
" I can't help it, sir—my good master, I
should say," blubbered the boy, unable to
restrain his emotion any longer, and giving
it, unreservedly, vent in a flood of tears. ^*
I
am very—very sorry," he continued between
his sobs—" my mother warned me against this ;
but I cannot—indeed I cannot help it, or my
heart would break. But all my other promises
I will keep—faithfulty keep, as beseems a man.
I will be grateful and submissive, and strive to
VOL. III. K
194 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
do my best in all things, for her sake—oh
!
indeed I will, sir
!'' *
" I make no doubt of it, my little fellow,"
said Roger, as he looked into the ingenuous
countenance of the youth; and then, appre-
hensive of increasing the boy's agitation, he
paused, hesitating to put those queries to Avhich
he so earnestly desired an answer. He ga-
thered, indeed, from his broken sentences, that
his mother had spent the weary watches of the
night in preparing him for the coming separa-
tion, and impressing on his mind the duties
and the struggles of the long years that were to
intervene ere they should meet again. Under
these circumstances, he felt aware that this was
not exactly the most suitable time for moral-
izing, and sought to divert young Lambrun's
thoughts into a fresh channel.
" We must work ourselves gradually out of
this lachrymose humour," thought the worthy
man. " One cannot take content by storm
;
like everything that's worth having, one has, at
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 195
times, to wait for it. Well, my young friend,"
he said, aloud, after casting another rueful
glance at the disconsolate boy, whose convulsive
sobs, far from subsiding, seemed rather to gain
fresh impulse from his sorrow—"well, well,
when you can, dry your eyes ; and when you
have wiped away those tell-tale tears, I will
take you out with me. Now, let us lay our
heads together, and find you a suitable name
for the future."
" My name is Mary Stuart," retorted the boy,
with some spirit ;
" it is a good—a holy name,
and I never mean to change it, nor that of my
poor father."
" Why, my little fellow, that's all very well at
the first blush of the affair, but Mary is not
a name fit for a boy to bear. All the girls will
laugh at you who hear you so called, especially
by and by; and as long as we are here, the
circumstance would create suspicion which
might not only place me in a disagreeable pre-
dicament, but even your mother."
k2
19G Mx\RGARET LAMBRUN.
The boy hung his head, and murmured
—
" ril do whatever j^ou please, sir."
" There's a sensible lad. We'll go to the
Globe this evening, and if you like, you may
christen yourself after one of the heroes of the
hour. There now, there's a prospect for you.
I'll not take you to breakfast with me," he con-
tinued, with a smile, " for I'll be bound you are
not hungry just now ; and I'll take the liberty
of locking you up in this chamber whilst I go
and transact some business of my own in town,
after which I'll come and fetch you, and we'll
make the best of our time together."
The next moment. Master Achamber was
carefully extracting the key from the lock and
committing it to his pocket; and the young
prisoner was left to the uninterrupted enjoyment
of his sorrow, whilst his kind jailer partook of a
very simple, and, to his pampered taste, not
over-succulent repast.
When the hour of his morning's appointment
drew nigh, throwing a fresh maroon-coloured
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 197
velvet cloak over his shoulders, and drawing the
cape close to his throat, Master Roger x\chambcr
took his way past St. Mary Overis to the steps
in its vicinity. There he took to water, deter-
mined not again to face the dread objects that
had so scared his imagination the day before
;
and in order to effect this, he pertinaciously sat
with his back to the bridge, keeping thus its
noble gates and curious houses scrupulously out
of sight.
No sooner had he landed at the opposite
shore, than he made with all speed the Coal
Harbour, where he soon descried the seafaring
man of the eve, impatiently striding up and
down the narrow, encumbered court.
" Your token was a true one, worthy master,"
he said, in a low tone, as Roger drew near.
" Master Ross acknowledges it, and would like
to see and welcome you ; but being in trouble
himself, he fears that such a measure might
place you in the same category. He bid me,
however, put myself entirely at your disposal."
198 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" And wherefore is my poor friend in trou-
ble ?" inquired Achamber.
" Why, that is a long story, although but a
few words will suffice to tell it, only they had
better be spoken as much out of earshot as may
be. However, here it is," he said, in a whisper,
so low as to be almost inaudible : —" he preferred
a Catholic to a Protestant queen; and—hark
in your ear—had Mary Stuart lived, why mat-
ters would have gone well with him ; as it is, he
has been hiding himself for months, and hopes
to be forgotten. But come to a tavern hard by,
and I'll tell you all about it more comfortably
and more safely than I can here."
The distance was short ; and at the back of a
filthy, noisy, overcrowded hostelry, the young
sailor led the way to a private, secluded closet,
evidently much frequented by him ; when,
seating himself, and motioning his companion
to follow his example, he continued :
—
" My unfortunate relation had entered into a
plan, headed by most distinguished adherents
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 199
abroad and friends at home, to re-establish the
true owner of the English crown in her lawful
rights. Letters —papers were discovered, in
which Queen Elizabeth was termed a bastard,
and reviled in no very measured language.
Master Ross had harboured agents of the court
of Rome, whose feehngs were of no very miti-
gated colour—in short, his conduct and opinions
gained vent. The poor Queen of Scots was put out
of the way : and he keeps himself concealed as
much as he can, until either all personal danger
is blowTi over, or he and those who think like
him have an opportunity of avenging her. If
you entertain similar opinions. Master Ross
bade me speak without reserve, and tell you
where and when to meet him, and many more
brave spirits who share his views."
" Gramercy !" exclaimed Master Achamber,
with a look expressive of the deepest consterna-
tion at these unwelcome tidings—"gramercy!
I am no man to put my neck in a noose for any
Queen, living or dead—nay, Godforgive me—not
200 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
even for the Queen of Heaven herself! You see,
fair sir, it is b}^ all these plottings and plannings,
that put her throne in jeopardy and threaten
even her life, that we Catholics—God assoilzie
our souls for the same—have forced a great
Queen to a dark deed—for, say what you will,
Elizabeth is a great Queen."
" A}^, but the blood of the martyr cries for ven-
geance," said the young man, impetuously ; " until
that crime had stained her name, I too thought
Elizabeth a great Queen, and a noble mistress,
and served her faithfully, but
"
" Do so still for your sake, if not for hers," said
the Scotchman. " Had the Catholics been wiser
and quieter, the Queen had not perished. If
you force your craft on the breakers, you can
accuse no one but yourself if it founder."
" I understand what you would say, but
surely you, an ancient retainer of the Queen of
Scots, do not excuse her death because the crime
was a political, not a personal one ?"
" It is a crime that has saved En2;land, and
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 201
perhaps Scotland, from the nameless horrors of
civil and religious wars; which had you but
witnessed, young man, as I have, you would
think less of the solitary victim whose life-blood
ebbed, that that of thousands might be spared."
"You speak strangely for a Scotchman, a
Catholic, and one that once eat the bread of that
unfortunate lady. Whether what you now
speak be truth, or the result of that callousness
of heart which time and experience bring in
their train, I wish not to be in the way of
profiting by either."
" If you follow the steps of Master Ross, your
inclinations are likely to be gratified," answered
Master Achamber, testily. " I have regretted my
royal mistress—I have wept over her misfortunes
and untimely end ; I do not hesitate in calling it
a crime ; but why seek to bring on the miseries
which her tragical end has averted. I am a
philosopher, sir—I have had time and oppor-
tunity to cool my passions."
" And your heart, if ever you had one," mut-
k3
202 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
tered the young man. "Well, be it so, my
worthy master—our conference is at an end.
—
As you love the murderess of your mistress so
well, go and betray me to her agents if you
like."
"I will not do that, young man," said
Achamber. " I consider my business quite put
an end to by your unwelcome communication
about Master Ross, and having most certainly
no wish to thrust myself on the same course, I
shall leave this city without delay."
" Then, sir, our interview has come to a close,
and, as I consider, in a manner to give neither of
us the wish to meet again."
Master Roger Achamber took no notice of
the young man's scornful, bitter air, but departed
without another word, and hurried back to his
tavern, where he arrived in a state of mind the
least enviable that can be imagined.
Here, indeed, were motives to spread his wings,
had he but possessed any, to make away with
himself without delay. After numerous inquiries
MARGARET LAMBRUN. ^03
he learned that no boat was to leave London for
Holland that night. A Dutch skipper, influ-
enced by a large bribe, promised, indeed, to
weigh anchor early next morning ; and with this
prospect of a speedy termination to his troubles
the impatient traveller was fain to rest con-
tented.
The sight of the still weeping boy, who had
never stirred during his absence from the spot
where he had left him, roused Master Achambcr's
sympathy, and dissipated something of that
egotism which is apt to encrust the heart of an
old bachelor.
" Care killed a cat," said he, patting the long
flaxen ringlets of the youth; "let it not kill
either you or me, but let us do our best to
murder it after the most approved fashion."
The boy, too timid to raise any objection to
this proposition, effaced as well as he could the
traces of his tears by the aid of fresh water, and
endeavoured to compose himself.
" I never will bo so weak again, sir," he said.
204 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
ia an apologetic tone to his patron, " whatever
mysorrow, I will never shew it in this way again.
But it is our first and will be our last separa-
tion."
" Well, well !
—never mind—we'll make a man
of you after all, my fine lad ! But now let's be
moving, that we may be home in time for dinner.
By the way, before I take you through the city,
let me know if you have ever been seen there
before?"
Lambrun assured his patron that he had
never, for the few months he had spent in
London since his expulsion from Fotheringay,
stirred beyond the precincts of the Savoy,
and that he had been very httle seen even
there.
" That accounts for your pale cheeks and
girlish air. Master Lambrun," said his friendly
protector, eyeing his delicate-looking protege
with a dissatisfied expression. " Well, we must
contrive to amend all that. You shall not be
stuck at once behind the ledger; that would
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 205
make bad worse. We'll see to that ; and now,
let's be jogging."
Again Achamber took his way to the water-
side; and, pushing his young charge jocosely
into the boat to accelerate his tardy move-
ments, they set off for the opposite shore. The
yesterday's rain had not set in with the same
relentless virulence as on the previous day
;
but from the lowering clouds fell every now
and then a rapid succession of heavy drops,
that seemed to foretel the lull was but tem-
porary.
Master Achamber and his companion were
proceeding towards St. Paul's, which the former
felt a curiosity in revisiting, and fancied the
least likely place in the world where a plotter
would be suspected of exhibiting himself, when
he became aware that a large concourse of
people were hurrying in the same direction.
Willing to avoid, if possible, the crowds that
preceded, surrounded, and followed him, he
altered his course several times, still keeping
206 MARGARET LAWBRUN.
his main object in view. He vainly strove,
however, to escape the shoals of people, decked
out in their holiday attire, who on all sides
pressed upon him. Fearful to put any ques-
tions to the passers by, lest he should draw,
unnecessarily, attention upon himself and his
companion, the gay dresses, and gayer looks
of the crowd could alone lead him to the very
natural conclusion that some public rejoicing
was going forward.
Trusting to the axiom, that nowhere is one
more alone than in a crowd, Master Achamber,
by no means averse to sights, and confident
that such would prove the best balm to his
young protege's sorrow, far from turning away
on perceiving how matters stood, proceeded
eagerly along with the rest.
Indeed the open air, damp and heavy as it
was—the walk, and the most unusual spectacle
of so many gay groups and faces around him
—
had already produced their effects on the boy.
Bewildered, half frightened, and more than half
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 207
interested in the scene, it was with great diffi-
culty that he managed to keep up with his pro-
tector; and, for the moment at least, all sense
of the bitterness of his regrets was lost in the
novelty of his situation.
At last, they caught a view of St. Paul's,
and both paused in involuntary admiration of
the noble pile. It yet stood in its original
splendour of proportion and design—an elon-
gated fabric, enriched with massive buttresses
and high oriel windows, above which rose a
solid square stone tower of immense altitude,
from whose summit an elegant wooden spire,
of singular height, ascended into the air.
As they gazed on the venerable building in
absorbed and delighted attention, they alto-
gether overlooked the swarms that hurried past
them, eager to gain the western gate of the
churchyard.
" High as that proud tower soars in the air,
and a fair and comely sight it is," said Acham-
ber, turning to his protege, " I will shew
208 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
you that below its base whieh is yet more
worth seeing. The subterranean choir and
aisles of St. Faith, extending immediately be-
neath the whole of St. Paul's, are perhaps
unique in Europe, and, though forming, as it
were, but one mass, both churches, the one
above, the other under ground, belong to two
different parishes. But what are you staring
at, with open mouth ?"
" At that wooden house near the gate, sir,
yonder," pointing to the spot towards which
the people were pressing.
Master Achamber's eye now fell, for the first
time, upon a large booth erected at the w^st
end of the churchyard, more, as it seemed,
with a view to space than to solidity. It was
a temporary enclosure for some unexpected
emergency, composed of boards put together
in a manner to bear testimony to the dispatch
of ihe workmen ; and as all people, of whatever
degree, appeared free to enter it at their pleasure.
Master Achamber made direct towards it.
MARGARET LA3IBRUN. 209
The interior presented, indeed, a motley as
scmbly ; for in those days, the variety and rich-
ness of costume gave a general light and glow to
a crowd, which, to modern uniformity of attire,
and prescribed dulness of colour, is unknown.
How far variety and brilliancy of hues may,
through the medium of the eye, promote health
and cheerfulness of spirit, among inhabitants of
cities, is, perhaps, a matter deserving of more
consideration than has hitherto been bestowed
upon it. It was the opinion of one whose wit was
never questioned, and whose views were often
singularly philanthropic, the celebrated Prince
Charles de Ligne, that if houses were, as in
olden times, painted with gay tints instead of
sober tones, such as custom has long esta-
blished, and if the same principle were adapted
to costume, it would produce the most bene-
ficial effects on the humours and moods of
men. Something towards recreating the dulled
spirit, in a climate so eminently calculated to
depress it, is, as it seems, about to be achieved.
210 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
in the many decorations contemplated with
regard to the interior of our public edifices.
Dark, gloomy fanaticism —Cromwell's worst
legacy to his country —may, perchance, gra-
dually be dispelled by the softening and reani-
mating power of the fine arts ; and could every
influence tending to gladden man's pilgrimage
here below be successfully exerted towards
that great aim in this country, the national
spirit, without losing any of the loftiness and
dignity which makes England pre-eminent
amongst nations, would perhaps gain in gentle
humanity and content
But far from such speculations were the
thoughts of those who gazed on the animated
scene within the booth. On a high estrade,
at the further end, was a group of officials,
busily engaged in superintending certain ar-
rangements, on which a quantity of varlets
were employed. The sides of the booth around
this platform were hung with rich dark velvet,
on which was suspended a variety of very beau-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 211
tiful armours, some damascened, some quaintly
and richly embossed, some of furbished steel,
and others of pure silver. Some there were
—
in the eyes of connoisseurs the most precious
—
of dark, dull-coloured iron, but wrought with
so cunning a hand, that heavy indeed must be
the blow that would rend them. A brave show
of helmets, adorned with streaming, gay-coloured
plumes, large petronels, and gauntlets, whose
steel scales seemed instinct with life, lay on
the tables drawn up on either side the platform.
In the centre stood two huge jars, and near
them several young children gorgeously and
fantastically arrayed.
A single look at these preparatives sufficed to
enable the quick eye of Master Achamber to
divine the business of the day, but the youth at
his side stared wildly around, utterly incapable
to comprehend what he beheld. On perceiving
his embarrassment, Roger Achamber hastened
to explain that a public lottery was about to
take place—a fact soon confirmed, not only by
212 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the remarks of those more immediately smTound-
ing them, but by the business of the day, which
shortly afterwards began in earnest. Here, as
everywhere in those times, the aristocratic pre-
tenders to the smiles of fortune were separated
from the mass, and made doubly conspicuous
by the advantageous position they occupied, as
well as the richness of their attire, and, in many
instances, the insolence of their followers.
As the proceedings advanced, the delight of
the poor boy, whose young life had hitherto
been wasted behind the bars of a prison
—
whose young heart had never yet beat with the
excitement of pleasure, was boundless ; and as
the tiny hands of fortune's ministers for the
nonce drew forth, and called out in shrill tones
the lucky numbers, and the handy knaves
quickly caught down from their hooks the rich
prizes, his eyes glistened with delight. Ills
looks anxiously followed the men as, upon given
signals, they disappeared and returned with a
fresh supply of cuissards, brassards, gorgets.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 213
knee and breast plates, groaning under the
weight of their splendid burthens—then his
glances flew back to the young children, whose
nitercsting avocation did not prevent their often
manifesting very visible signs of fatigue. Some-
times, too, but more rarely, he permitted his
eye to rove over the assembled crowd ; so deeply
absorbed was his every faculty, that he did not
even hear the words which his companion every
now and then addressed him, nor even felt the
few gentle tugs by which he endeavoured to recal
his wandering attention. Perceiving how mat-
ters stood, and that for a while, at least, the
lad's tears had dried up at their source, and
conceiving this to be an auspicious beginning
to their acquaintance, and one likely to recon-
cile the poor boy more speedily to his new
existence. Master Achamber yielded him up to
his novel sensations.
Hours passed thus away like minutes, nor
was either Achamber or his charge aware of
their flight. It is even probable that, hke most
214 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
present, forgetful of all previous arrangements
and unmindful of the cravings of nature, they
would have sat out the lottery, v^^hich was to
last night and day, had not an incident occurred
which disturbed, at least, their relish for the
game.
A trusty coat of mail of antique fashion was
about to be awarded to the lucky winner, whose
delay caused some murmur among the impatient
spectators. Master Achamber was diverting
himself with the study of the physiognomies
around, when suddenly, as the figure of him to
whom the mail shirt was about to be delivered
appeared clearly in view, a slight scream at his
elbow made him start. Dismayed at the sound,
Achamber turned and beheld his young com-
panion pale as death, with his body eagerly bent
forward, and with straining eyes endeavouring,
as it appeared, to trace some particular object
through the dense crowd. The cry, and more
especially the scared look of the yonth, brought
a formidable array of eyes to rest on him and
his conductor.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 215
" You arc not well, lad," whispered Roger, in
his ear ; " have you seen any one whom you
know ?"
Lambrun nodded assent—he could not speak.
" Then must we up and away, lest harm
come of it," said his protector in the same key,
and continued in a loud, indifferent voice. " The
heat has overcome you ; let's to the open air,
and when you are better, we can return ;
per-
haps our kind neighbours will keep our places
for us."
Achamber with some difficulty reached the
entrance through the almost impenetrable crowd.
The air did not, however, calm the boy's agita-
tion ; and the multifarious questions with which
his compassionate friend assailed him, far from
assuaging, seemed to add greatly to his per-
plexity.
" I ought not to tell you, my good master
—
indeed I ought not"—he at last found courage
to say, finding that his silence and his gathering
tears did not shield him from those inquiries
which he was obviously anxious to evade.
21
G
MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" Well, be it so !" said Master Achamber, after
a moment's reflection ;
" it is, perhaps, better for
myself not to press the matter further, especially
just now : the lad seems to be first cousin to
Arethusa, if not the Nymph herself in disguise.
If we are to be friends, this must not last. How-
ever, just at first a little patience is necessary, of
course, and allowance must be made for the
peculiarity of his distressing situation with re-
gard to his only surviving parent, and for his
strange mode of education.
"Come, you Sir Nameless- one, we must home
and to dinner with what appetites we may. As
for mine, I am pretty certain it will not desert
me at a pinch ; I only wish I had better fare on
which to satisfy it."
The return home was performed in absolute
silence ; both parties seemed wrapt in their own
thoughts ; they had better, however, have been
wrapt in camlet cloaks, for the rain had by this
time resumed its sway, and, before they reached
their hostelry, literally washed the streets. The
3IARGARET LABIBRUN. 217
repast they found ready on their arrival was so
far from satisfactory, as fully to justify the worst
anticipations of Master Achamber. The roast
beef was tough and luke-warm, and the addition
of faded greens did not tend to mend this im-
perfection of the main staple. The ale was
swipes; and, as Master Achamber pithily ob-
served when the meal was over, the boy had
lost nothing by having no appetite. As there
was little or no conversation possible between
him and his young charge, having once more
deposited him safely under lock and key, he
proceeded to take another look at the boat that
was to bear them away on the morrow. But
the skipper was sulky, and dropped a few
hints about wind and weather, that sounded
very much like a knell to poor Achamber's
hope of speedy release from his intolerable
situation.
He left the wharf with a heavy heart, and
though he found young Lambrun more com-
posed than in the morning, he read in his eyes
VOL. III. L
218 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
that his was not a hght one. To yield to
despondency, however, was against the prin-
ciples of the worthy merchant, who deemed
such moods unworthy of a spirit which, like
his, had been tried in so many different ways,
and had ever triumphed over difficulties.
When, therefore, the hour came at which Will
Shakspeare's divine witcheries were to be dis-
played at the Globe hard by, assuring himself
that there the chances were against their being
recognised or otherwise annoyed, he determined
on proceeding thither with young Lambrun,
whose mind, since their hasty retreat from
St. PauPs Churchyard, was evidently harassed
by some fresh anxiety. Achamber forbore
from distressing him with any recurrence to the
subject, but trusted to the powerful enchant-
ment of scenic effect on the mind of one to
whom such was perfectly new, to dispel the
cloud.
Thither, accordingly, he went, and was not
displeased to find that, owing to the state of
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 219
the weather, the lottery, or some other cause,
the theatre was nearly left to the occupation of
those whose legitimate area it was. Here and
there, indeed, an individual might be seen, and
a straggling party, whom love for the drama
had irresistibly drawn thither ; but these were
few, and so widely scattered that, at first sight,
the house appeared empty.
Doubtless, a theatre embowered in foliage
and verdure, whose openings admitted the fra-
grance and coolness of its own and surrounding
gardens, had something more enjoyable about
it in the hot season than is to be found in the
heavy piles of modern London, closely wedged
in on all sides by houses and streets; but on a
gusty autumnal evening, such as that on which
Achamber and his protege sought amusement
at the Globe, this circumstance did not much
enhance the charm. The mournful rustling of
the trees sounded dismally enough between
the pauses in the play; and the knowledge that
for miles around the country extended, whilst
l2
220 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the town, revelling in its many lights, was felt
to be oat of reach, as it were, far over the
mighty river, caused a sensation of chill to
come over the spectators, as they witnessed
a very cold representation of that most genial
and glow^ing of an immortal poet's immortal
conceptions, Romeo and Juliet. But the au-
dience was, as we have said, scant}'^, and not
of a very select kind. Shakspeare himself w^as
not present ; and the actors appeared only
eager to get through their task as rapidly as
might be, in order to finish their evening, in a
merrier mood, at some favourite tavern. For
the most part, they were beneath mediocritj^
Juliet was, in especial, an unfortunate personi-
fication of that Psyche-like conception which
scarcely yields in grace to its classic prototype.
She was but a too visible specimen of sprout-
ing manhood ; and the virile intonations of the
supposed youthful maiden of the south were
not less jarring to the ear than were the ener-
getic strides, and very careless gestures with
which she topped her part, offensive to the eye.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 221
Master Achamber, as he smiled more than once
at these burlesque incongruities—the contrast
between the real and the fictitious personage
—
declared to his youthful companion that the
illusion of the play was completely destroyed
for him; muttering something, at the same
time, about a bore that women were excluded
from the stage.
As to young Lambrun, forgetful of all the
cares that had, but a moment before, weighed
him to the very earth, his soul swam in an
ecstacy of delight; and despite flaws and in-
congruities of every kind, such as would dis-
grace a party of strollers in these enlightened
times, he was soon, by privilege of his happy
age, borne on the wings of the Poet's spoken
thoughts into the realm of fancy. Had the
Juliet on the stage boasted the most sylph-like
charms, she could never have seemed more
translucent and fairy-like to him—had her
voice been of syren softness, it never could
have sounded a sweeter " Good night," into his
charmed ears. Had Romeo looked the glow-
222 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
ing ardent lover which his words expressed,
whilst he carelessly fiddled with his points and
ribbons, he had not appeared more full of
youthful ardour and manhood—nay, the very
south, with its, as yet, unknown, unguessed at,
starry skies, deep blue heavens, balmy perfumes
—its music and its balconies—its fierce loves
and sudden hatreds, was as vivid to his mind,
as suddenly revealed, as though Titania herself
had borne him thither on her gossamer wing.
Oh, Fancy ! thou rarest, richest, dearest
boon of Heaven, why do thy pinions ever
droop, and fail at last to elevate us to those
regions of light and life for which thou didst
start in youth ? But thou wouldst seem to
love the lightest burthens best; for in after
years man knows little of the spells thou dost
fling so prodigally upon his boyhood ! A new
world was opening upon young Lambrun—
a
world of feeling and of thought; which, se-
cluded as his existence had hitherto been, and
shadowed by maternal caution, he had never
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 223
even guessed at. Thus was he again lost, as in
the morning, to everything not immediately
connected with the object of his intense interest.
He was at Verona, not in the Globe at Lon-
don ; nor did it seem strange that Romeo and
the pale apothecary should look fixedly at him,
in rather a marked manner, when they might
fairly have been expected to look at each other.
Nay, a similar token of unpardonable absence
of mind in the gallant lover, in the very pre-
sence of his adored Juliet, even failed to rouse
his attention.
Master Achamber, however, began to feel
seriously annoyed at the circumstance, naturally
concluding that his young friend was not so
unknown about town as he had represented
himself to be, and he bitterly repented the im-
prudence which had induced him to exhibit
him thus publicly. He rose more than once
with the intention of withdrawing himself and
his companion from the notice of the stagers, so
obviously directed towards them ; but the pas-
224 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
sionatc entreaties of the boy prevailed, and he
had the endurance to remain until the cork-
blackened eyebrows, coarsely painted cheeks,
and chalk-white forehead and nose of Romeo,
and Juliet's whitewashed countenance, with its
budding beard, were finally lost to the public
behind the closing curtain, and, to Mary Lam-
brun's imagination, in the depth of an untimely
grave.
Again was the way homeward retraced in
silence ; but this time care and anxiety w^as the
portion of the elder companion. The younger
was unconscious of everything but the new world
of wonders which had that evening opened upon
him ; and moral excitement tending to promote
a like result in the physical system, it happened
that their parts w^ere reversed, and whilst his
patron looked moodily on, the lad devoured his
supper with the keen appetite of his age,
" I thought I should bring him round," was
the reflection that suggested itself to Achamber's
mind, as he looked, with a bland smile, on the
MARGARET LAMDRUN. 225
achievements of his young friend. " Well ! it
is something to have some one by one to care
fur, even though that care should be mingled
with anxiety," was his next idea, leading to a
not unpleasing train of meditations, which the
incomings and outgoings of a few inferior cus-
tomers did not interrupt. But soon the entrance
of new and—as became apparent from the host's
manner—unaccustomed, and in his estimation
most important visitors, disturbed at once the
course of his reverie and the boy's supper.
Though ruffling, noisy, and brave enough in
their apparel to pass, perhaps, at a cursory glance,
for vfild young blades about town, a closer obser-
vation discovered their braveries to be soiled,
and their swa2;";er devoid of real assurance—
-
their loudness, habit—their mirth, hollow ; and,
though unable to define to what class they
exactly belonged, and led to infer much from
the subservience of manner assumed by the
surly host, the cautious Scotchman doubted
both their quality and their breeding. He oIj-
L 3
226 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
served with displeasure that they made straight
towards the table at which he and the boy were
sitting ; nor was he better satisfied when the
landlord drew another close beside it, which
the boon companions, after a leisurely survey
of the chamber, took possession of without
much ceremony. Still, considering its close
vicinity to the fire —and the evening was raw and
gusty—he felt he had no right to resent an
intrusion upon his retirement; but not much
relishing his neighbourhood, especially on the
lad's account, he desired him, in a whisper, to
hurry over his repast, for he would fain retire
early.
" This place is not the Tabbard," said one of
the new guests, glancing contemptuously round
the dark, comfortless apartment; "here the
laugh will not echo, nor will the song pass the
throat moistened by such a vile compound as
this!" he exclaimed, pointing ruefully to the
beer just placed before him. " We must have
a posset of burnt sack at the very least to raise
MARGARET LAMBRUN. ^27
our spirits, that, God wot, were low enough
before ! How detestably that affair went off at
the Globe to-night, eh ! We must wash all re-
membrance of it from the tablets of memory,
or the memory of such things will drown us in
an ocean of tears."
" My good fellow," responded another, " you
ought to write tragedies yourself, not
"
" Not witness them, you would say," hastily
interrupted the first speaker* " I know that is
what you were going to say."
" But, no ; I meant "
" I know full well what thou meant'st, thou
dolt ! thou braying ass ! better than hadst thou
spoken thy dull thoughts, or even taken the
trouble to think at all; but," he continued, waving
his hand gracefully, " let us fly discussion, nor
contaminate the ears of listening juvenility with
our usual bickerings and wranglings."
As he spoke these words he pointed to young
Lambrun, who stood staring at him and his
companions with unmitigated curiosity.
228 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" Yes, a likely youth and a proper," said
another, in a lower tone, but not so low as to
escape Achamber's quick ear ; " I wonder what
man's brat he is."
" Some nameless offshoot of the great social
tree," retorted the one who took upon himself
the air of a leader. " Unsuspicious and inves-
tigating juvenile," he suddenly exclaimed, turn-
ing full upon the startled Lambrun, " why
lookcst thou so intently upon one who would
fain inquire with his tongue, in sober, vulgar
language, what thy parentage—thy home ?—for,
as I take it, yon respected sir is not the author
of thy days."
During this apostrophe—delivered in a strain
that was meant to hover between the mock-
heroic and the facetious, but partook most of
impudence—Master Achamber's blood mounted
to his very temples, and it required the liveliest
recollection of the decorations on the bridge
tower to keep down his temper ; he said, how-
ever, with as much calmness as he could com-
mand
—
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 229
" This boy is mine, sir. Please let him alone
;
you distress him."
" Nay, God forbid ! But say, thou pensive
Jacques, say,—is this thine honoured parent?
If so, I should honour thy honourable mother
as little as she has honoured her honour."
" This is too much, my masters !" said
Achamber, rising angrily, as loud, rude peals of
laughter burst from the boisterous set, incens-
ing him even more than the insolence of the
speaker.
" Nay, nay ! don't take offence, pr'ythee I" said
another of the party, interposing, soothingly.
" We mean no offence ; quite the c(mtrary.
Why, man ! instead of standing there with legs
apart, like the Colossus of Rhodes, draw them
under thee, tailor-fashion, and quaff a cup of
burnt sack with us."
" Ay !
—why not ?" repeated the others, in
chorus.
" I thank you very much, but had rather
retire, an' you please."
*•
Ay !—but we don't please !" exclaimed the
230 MARGARET LAMBRtN.
former speaker, throwing himself into an atti-
tude which, though apparently assumed in
sport, must effectually bar the boy's passage.
In the meantime the latter had been plied
with so many questions, and was so little able
to parry them, that two important revelations
had already been extracted from him—namely,
that Achamber was not his father, and that he
did not know his own name—a naivete which
was received with a vehemence of applause that
seemed to indicate how very pleasant his tor-
mentors found the task of teasing him. But
his patience was now beginning to ebb fast as
well as that of his patron. The latter, indeed,
curbed his choler to the best of his ability ; but
even the kind solicitations that he would join
the mirthful party, though repeated with more
earnest and sober politeness by its graver mem-
bers, could not soften him towards them suffi-
ciently to receive their overtures even with
common civility, far less to avail himself of
them.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 231
" But sec, my master, we really mean it
kindly by you—we take an interest in you and
this fair lad of yours, and would fain tell you of
something that might turn up to the advantage
of both. He owns he is an orphan, and belongs
to you and the world by no tie but that of cha-
rity. Well, that's a virtue which all men are
bound to exercise towards their fellow-creatures,
and must not be monopolized ; and as you do
not seem, on the whole, over able to squander
such a commodity, we might relieve you, per-
haps, of a great burthen, by taking the boy
altogether off your hands. That's what I call
Christianly ; so let's have a quart of burnt sack
upon it, and make it a settled thing*"
The tranquillity with which the cautious
Scot listened to this harangue had encouraged
the speaker, a burly and somewhat authorita-
tive looking person, to go on with it, until at
last it came to an end of itself, the subject
being, as it were, exhausted. But, in fact.
Master Achamber was rooted to the earth with
232 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
surprise. What could this wild and strange-
looking set of revellers want with his protege ?
What could be their possible object w^ith regard
to himself or the youth ? As his reason sug-
gested no satisfactory answer to these mental
queries, he laid the whole down at once to the
unbridled licence of a drunken frolic, and con-
ceived it just likely that the idea of hoaxing an
old bachelor on so ticklish a point was the
groundwork of the strange proposition. But,
then, how could they from the first have dis-
covered the relative position of himself and
young Lambrun ? The suspicion pressed itself
on his mind that these merry brawlers were
not unfamiliar with the purlieus of Baynard
Castle and the Savoy—that they had certain
means of discovering his late visit to that
quarter—and that they had traced him to his
inn with some evil purpose either towards him-
self or his charge. Recollections of his lost
cloak, and the manner of that loss, again oc-
curred to him ; and he sought, but in vain, to
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 233
trace in the half-jovial, half-serious countenances
around him, the features of the fellows who
figured on that occasion. To this mystery
there seemed, at least for the moment, no
solution at hand ; but Master Achamber, ever
dreading the worst, felt in no small degree
anxious to rid himself of these troublesome cus-
tomers. Desirous, nevertheless, of doing so
without risking the chances of a brawl, he strug-
gled hard to keep down his temper as he re-
plied
—
" Gentlemen, I seek neither good nor evil at
your hands; trouble not yourselves, therefore,
with my concerns, but please to let me take my
own way. Indeed, I never suffer myself to be
hindered by fair words or by foul ; ^nd you are
wasting on a stranger that time you might as-
suredly spend better among yourselves."
" He has refused our sack and our company
;
he must be a very owl thus to fly from the
lightning-flashes of our wit!" exclaimed the
forward babbler who had constituted himself
234 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the spokesman of the party. " Let us entwine
him with chains of roses and links of gold : he
and that most juvenile juvenility must not stir a
foot from our magic circle."
" Come, my masters," said the Scotchman,
with an indignation he could no longer sup-
press, " let me pass, I say, or by St. Andrew
!
I'll sheathe my dirk in the first of you who shall
stand in my way ! Follow, boy !"
This sudden explosion of wrath, for which
Achamber's hitherto quiet manner had not pre-
pared them, startled his assailants. They fell
back at once with a precipitancy that threw
their own party into no small confusion, as,
proudly marshalling the way, the victorious
Scotchman Jed oif his unconscious prize. A
heap of clean straw, over which his fatherly
friend threw a riding-cloak, in a comer of the
chamber, was the only pallet prepared for Mary
Lambrun ; but, such as it was, the youth lost no
time in availing himself of his couch, and, over-
come with the manifold sensations of the day,
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 235
and the fatigue of the previous night, he was
soon wrapt in profound slumber.
Achamber, perplexed and annoyed at the
various occurrences of the day, and doubly so at
the ill-omened prophecies of the skipper, spent
the better portion of the time he should have
allotted to rest in listening to the ominous wail-
ing of the wind. He had not been long sta-
tioned at his casement when the dark forms of
his crest-fallen antagonists, emerging from the
inn door, met his eye. He softly opened the
window, to catch, if possible, some passing word
that might serve as a clue to their singular be-
haviour ; but he listened in vain—they spoke
not, or, at least, until they were at too great a
distance for him to profit by their conversation.
The jaunty swagger which they had exhibited
on entering the inn was no longer observable,
as they silently took their way down High
Street towards one of the more indifferent
quarters of Southwark. At length silence was
broken by the most sober-looking of the party,
236 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
who spoke in little above a whisper to the indi-
vidual who had conducted the attack on the
Scotchman :
—
" All your fine plan has ended in nothing, as
usual—in nothing, quotha ! I ought rather to
say in a verj^ lamentable fashion, seeing that
ten good men and true were forced to gulp
down such a poisonous compound of ditch-
berries and rain-water as never was drank be-
fore. You shall pay us a quart a-piece of some
conscientious stuff at the Tabbard this very
night, in punishment for such dire offence, and
in token of failure."
" I'll own to having been foiled to-night, but,
an' thou livest, man, thou shalt see if sharp
Dick's brain will be at fault another time!"
was the answer given, in a decided and assured
tone, that rather pertains to triumph than to
defeat.
" If your fine plans are to end in a taste
of the Scotchman's Andrew Ferrara, or of any
more of the hateful vinegar of mine host of the
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 237
sour grape, as yon churl by rights should style
himself, 1 am not with you !" exclaimed one of
the party.
" And unless you spirit the lad away, I see
not how we can push the matter further, with-
out encountering both risks, of which I hold the
latter to be the worst."
'•'
Then let's back in all haste to our wonted
nook at the Tabbard. I'll pay the piper to-night,
that you may spare me your jeers and gibes, and
listen to the fresh plan I have formed."
The faint morning tints barely streaked the
horizon, and the light was scarcely sufficient to
permit objects to be seen indistinctly detaching
themselves from the gloom, when Master
Achamber, unable to bear his suspense any
longer, determined again to seek out the skipper,
who had, indeed, appointed him an early, though
not quite so early an hour for the final settling
of his departure. He forgot not, as usual, to
secure the door carefully behind him, and
placing the key within his inner vest, together
238 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
with his purse, he descended the steep ladder-
Uke stairs as noiselessly as possible. He was
meditating on the propriety of waking the land-
lord to let him out, and the thought of so doing
had induced him to hesitate more than once in
his purpose, when chance came to his aid. A
young, half-starved help of mine host, indeed,
with himself, the only human being of any kind
ever visible on the establishment, was in the act
of slipping through the house door as Master
Achamber reached the bottom of the stairs;
and being, probably, on some private excursion
to which he was unwilling that his master should
be privy, by cautiously leaving the door ajar he
had prepared himself an easy return. To follow
in his wake was no difficult matter for the long-
limbed, active Scotchman, and the next instant
he was making for the river side with no
measured strides.
Southwark lay still plunged, to all appearance,
in the deepest repose—not a soul was stirring
;
and the very buildings, vague and undefined as
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 239
they stood out, half-revealed, from the heavy
river fog, assumed the air of something fantastic
and unreal. The mint and its unruly bands,
—
the Clink and its miserably lodged tenants,—St.
Thomas' suffering inmates—the Tabbard and its
gay, attic-witted visitors—the very King's
Bench-yard, where still hung the vile carcases of
those whose viler souls had been divorced from
them by the force of the law—the venerable St.
Mary Overis—the still more antique St. Olave,
whose pious congregations lay scattered in the
surrounding tenements—all was still as death
;
and crime, and woe, and mortal error, and piety,
and virtue, and innocent mirth, the groans and
curses, the laugh and the prayer—all was hushed,
as though there were nought in this world to
stain or to redeem it.
To Achamber this state of things was par-
ticularly agreeable, and though it was difficult to
judge of the weather at that time of day, still it
seemed to him that the wind stood in the right
quarter, and he hoped, by means of the per-
240 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
suasive little yellow arguments he had safe in
his bosom, to prevail upon the skipper to sail
that very morning. Completely absorbed in his
busy thoughts, occasionally diversified by some
reflection appropriate to the scene and hour, he
had, mechanically, passed the boat he was in
search of, which lay close to the Surrey shore, and
was about to retrace his steps, when his attention
became suddenly roused by the sound of whis-
pering in his vicinity, and raising his eyes, he
perceived that he was about to fall in with a
party of men issuing from a hovel hard by.
The insecurity of those times extended to ever}^
place and hour ; but the river side —the time of
day—a lonely part of a small suburb, afforded
facilities to crime which might shun broad day-
light and a more frequented thoroughfare. Of
this circumstance, all stranger as he was to the
metropolis, and accustomed to a better regulated
system of public safety, Master Achamber
seemed fully conscious, for it brought him to a
sudden halt of a few seconds' duration, his keen
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 241
eye the whilst marking the steakhy steps with
which the party under his observation was
endeavouring to gain the water's brink. A very
shght splash as of an oar, but which was not re-
peated, convinced him of the correctness of his
surmises with regard to these men's characters
and movements. As well as the dawning light
permitted him to ascertain, he fancied he had
distinguished a heavy burthen borne between
them, which, though concealed by a large and
dark drapery, assumed the outline of the human
form. Whatever their avocation, they did not
appear to have become aware of his presence,
and after a slight self-commune, imagining that
he could effect his retreat unperceived, as he had
advanced, Achamber turned round, and began
to move away as softly and rapidly as possible.
He had not, however, proceeded many steps,
when suddenly he felt himself secured from
behind in the arms of a couple of stout fellows
—others flung over him a large horseman's
cloak, and drew it in such a manner round his
VOL. III. M
242 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
head and shoulders as to stifle his cries. His
feet and hands were then tied, and he felt him-
self lifted from the ground as if he had been but
an infant in the nurse's arms. The whole
transaction was but the affair of a moment, and
ere the amazed and half-stifled victim could
recover breath, he was sensible of being wholly
in the power of the miscreants whom he had
so confidently hoped to evade. Even at that
moment, whilst in a predicament the most
calculated to absorb him in his own personal
fears, his thoughts reverted to the wretched
plight of his adopted son, when, upon awaking,
he would find himself alone, penniless, and for-
saken,—a pledge in the hands of an unsatisfied
landlord ; and bitterly did he lament the fatal
impatience which had separated him from his
side.
When young Lambrun, however, was at last
roused from his leaden slumber, it was not by
the loud knocking of an angry innkeeper, nor
even by the rays of the sun falling full on his
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 243
rude couch, through the curtainless windows,
for neither had yet risen ; but a slight noise, of
whose real nature in the confused state of his
senses he could form no very accurate notion,
caused him to move in his bed. As the sound
seemed to proceed from the casement, he con-
ceived, between sleeping and waking, that
Master Achamber had arisen, and was looking
out in order to judge of the state of the weather
;
but drowsiness prevailing, his head dropped
heavily back on his pillow of straw, and he was
again lost to consciousness. Had it been other-
wise, he might have become aware that a human
face was brought in very close approximation
with the casement, and peering through it with
very marked interest.
" There is no one in the room besides the
lad—I am pretty certain of that," whispered
the man at the head of the ladder to one a
little lower down.
" Mind what you are about, Dick ;
you'll
never rest until you get yourself into hot water,"
M 2
244 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
was the answer. " Whatever you do, do quickly
;
day is coming fast, and it will never do to be
found here. I, at least, will be off in a jiffy."
" Why quaileth thy coward spirit ? Hie thee
hence, craven; never let me see thee more."
Whilst delivering this speech, in a voice as low
as circumstances required, but with his usual
emphasis, the man nick-named Sharp Dick
continued to peer intently into the narrow
chamber where lay the unconscious youth.
" He is alone, in good sooth," resumed the
adventurous Dick, and the next instant he
leaped into the room. The casement, indeed,
yielded to a very slight pressure ; for Master
Achamber, who had spent the better portion
of the night at it, had only drawn it to, without
fastening it.
It was a rather rough shake that again broke
young Lambrun's slumber; but second sleep
being generally more heavy than the first, it
did not completely rouse him. But the next
tug was of a nature to dispel the drowsiness of
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 24o
any one less torpid by one degree than the
famous seven, and the boy was on his feet in
an instant, standing in the middle of the floor
rubbing his eyes, and endeavouring to recal his
wandering senses.
" Master Achamber, is it you ?" he exckiimed,
'twixt sleeping and waking ; " or was it all a
dream? Am I yet in the Savoy with my
mother ?"
" An' thou speakest, thou diest !" murmured
his unexpected visitor in the boy's startled
ear. " Follow, an' thou lovest the Scotchman
or thy mother."
" But you !
—who are you ?'' said the affrighted
and astonished youth. " Where is Master
Achamber? Master Achamber!" shouted the
bo}^ as the first attempt proved unsuccessful.
" Speak not that name again ! Beware, boy
;
follow, I say. Be silent, and swift, or the grave
shall close on thee and them."
But the lad had already flown to the door,
hoping to gain the stairs, and rouse the house.
246 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
He shook and rattled at it in vain. The lock
was sound, and the key safely lodged in Master
Achamber's vest. The host slept too far off to
be easily made aware of what was passing at
this end of his house, and the faithless ostler
was out. The impotent efforts of the boy, who
sought with might and main to force the door,
only exhausted his own strength, without giving
him the slightest prospect of a rescue. Again
the deep, firm tones of the man rang in his
ear.
" Foolish boy, follow, without any more de-
mur, or 3^our fate is sealed, and his, and hers.
Antonio, hand me the dagger ? It is a silent
work, and sure !" The last words were addressed
to another man, whose figure now darkened the
casement.
" There," responded this fresh antagonist
;
" there—and make short work of it, a' God's
name—the day's coming apace !"
Master Achamber was nowhere visible. All
was dead silence around, and the boy utterly
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 247
at the mercy of those who seemed about to
take his hfe ;
yet, young as he was, he instinc-
tively looked about for some weapon of de-
fence, or any object that might serve for the
purpose, but none such was within reach even
had his strength been equal to the task of
wielding it. What alternative remained, there-
fore, but to yield or perish. It is no wonder
that the lad chose the former. Passively obey-
ing the men's injunctions, he descended the
ladder, and was received by the first, who had
alighted, whilst the other came after by way
of a rear-guard. They then bandaged his eyes,
and that pretty tightly, and hurried him along,
a prisoner.
Master Achamber, in the meantime, was in
a scarcely more enviable position. A very few
minutes after his capture, he was again set
down, but not upon his feet, nor even on kind
mother earth, but, as he felt pretty well assured,
sprawling on his back at the bottom of a very
wet boat, which he every second expected to
248 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
exchange for a still wetter grave. But the
wherry shot ahead, propelled by the vigorous
and well-feathered strokes of his captors, under
a most profound silence, which, coupled with
the perfect regularity of their movements, in-
creased poor Roger's apprehensions. " They
belong to some smuggling craft," thought he,
" and will take me out to sea ; for, daring as
they may be, I hardly think they would mur-
der me so near the shore, under the very
houses, and in the face of day, which will soon
dawn."
His suspense was not oflong duration. " Boat,
ahoy!" shouted a stern voice hard by as he
thought. " Adrians, sir," was the ready response
given close at his ear, followed by a shrill whistle
from above. Then ensued some bustle in the
boat; the men talked, and even laughed. But
though immediately aware that the language
they spoke was English, he could not compre-
hend their meaning. The next instant^ he felt
himself springing in mid air, caught up and
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 249
cast roughly down, like a bale of damaged
goods ; then he distmctly heard the order pass
to set him at liberty. Eager hands were soon
busied about the knots that bound his arms and
legs, and in removing the cumbrous cloak in
which he was enveloped. All these hinder-
ances were removed in an incredibly short
time, and with a dexterity that amazed the
prisoner, who, ere he was well aware of his
own condition, was raised to his feet, unhooded
and unbound, free to speculate on his situ-
ation.
Still winking and blinking from the effect of
blind-folding, and not very well assured on his
recovered legs. Master Achamber cast a hur-
ried glance around. Yes—his worst fears were
realized—he was on board a vessel with a war^
like range of teeth alongside, and a fierce-
looking crew, in whose costume the blue and
red contrasted most awfully; and before him
stood a short, sturd}^, and not very gentle^
looking personage, who, he at once felt assured^
M 3
250 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
was the captain. Achamber's senses nearly
forsook him at so formidable a discovery of
his predicament. His head swam; still, with
a strong effort, he mastered sufficient energy
to exclaim
—
" Surely, sir, you dare not take the life of a
freeborn Briton ?"
'' Indeed, sir, but I dare," said the little gen-
tleman, with a doubtful smile. ". Our gracious
mistress needs the lives of all her subjects at
this juncture—that is to say, of all such as are
able-bodied and get-at-able—though, God wot,
it is hard enough now-a-days to get at any-
thing good; but you are a tall man and a
proper."
" For mercy sake, listen to me, sir ! Here's
my purse—all I now possess. But if you will
but land me safe on the coast of Holland, I will
consent to treble—nay, centuple the sum."
" Sir !"
—the fiery little gentleman receded
three steps with amazement at the straight-
forward proposal —"Sir!" —all that indigna-
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 251
tion, surprise, and savage rage could possibly
suggest, seemed implied in the varied intona-
tion of that little monosyllable —" Sir! you
dare to offer me a bribe ! and that to my face,
in the face of my crew ! D—n it, sir, what do
you mean ? Land you safely in Holland ! To
be sure I will —safe enough, I warrant you
—
to receive the first bullet that may chance to
come across your mug, and spoil your ugly
face
!"
Achamber, rendered desperate by terror, be*
gan to plead in passionate terms for life—that
dearest of earthly boons, ever prized so highly
when in jeopardy, and often so lightly risked
—
so much abused, and carelessly undermined in
our hours of ease.
The captain cut short his eloquent appeal
mth no gentle grace ; and, turning to some
rude specimens of Neptune's followers stand-
ing in a respectful attitude at no great distance,
apparently in readiness for some such mandate,
he said
—
252 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" Down below with the fellow and his money,
and take care they be not parted. Close the
hatches carefully over him and the rest, or
they'll drive us deaf with their clamour. Once
in salt water they'll be less noisy, 'specially if
we get a tight breeze as seems likely."
Again the poor struggling Achamber was
dragged along; but when near the hatchway,
and at such distance that a whisper might not
reach the ears of his captain, the marine giant
at his elbow bent towards him, and said, in a
suppressed growl :
—
"Why didn't you shew the shiners onshore,
since you had them; may be they'd have
softened our hearts, 'specially as 'twas so dark.
Those in the boat could never have seen it."
" How could I tell," murmured the disconso-
late Scotchman, "what were your intentions?"
" A pretty d—d fool you must have been not
to see we were press men," said the colossus,
rudely pushing Achamber down the gangway.
"Howsoever, it doesn't signify so much—the
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 253
Queen wants sodgers, and a nice gumption of a
sodger you'll make ; and as you want to go to
the Low Countries, you'll have your wish in a
trice, I take it." So saying, he flung to the
hatches, and left Achamber so stunned with
the discovery he had just made, that it is a
query whether it was a relief to know himself
on board an English transport ship, instead of a
piratical smuggling smack.
Despite the bandage tied over his eyes, young
Lambrun, when his conductors halted, had no
difficulty in guessing that he was still in South-
wark, and at no great distance from the inn.
lie heard a key grate in a lock ; but by the ex-
treme difficulty with which it revolved, it was
evident that it had long been in disuse. When
at last it yielded to the joint efforts of the men,
and the door creaked on its rusty hinges, the
softness of the sod under foot, and the rustling
of foliage, made it apparent that it opened upon
a garden, or some other pleasure-ground, into
which they penetrated. A similar difficulty
254 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
had to be encountered at another door ; then
the velvet softness of the turf was exchanged for
a damp cold floor, a creaking uneven staircase,
and he was unceremoniously pushed into what
might be a large square apartment.
" Remain there patiently until our return,
which will be presently," said one of the men
soothingly ; " don't attempt to jump out of the
window—you'd only break a limb. We mean
you no harm, so be quiet, there's a good boy."
" If he could fly like Ischarus, or flee to
Neptune's crystal home, I'd find wings to spread
after him, or dive into the depths of the sea to
drag him forth. Escape is impossible—death
certain
!"
" Pshaw, don't fool it out any longer, Dick
;
you'll only make the boy uncomfortable."
The remaining part of his remonstrance, and
the flowery reply it elicited, were lost, as again
the poor lad heard the key grate harshly in the
door.
Hardly had the footsteps of his captors died
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 256
away, than he hastily tore away the bandage.
One glance shewed him what he had already
partly guessed ; namely, that he had been thrust
into a ruinous out-house, in a neglected part of
very neglected grounds. The door did not look
strong in its fastenings, nor were the windows
at a very formidable height from the ground,
still he hesitated to essay either means of escape.
Some one might have been left to watch below^,
who would, of course, should he attempt it,
arrest his flight, and the leap, at a second in-
spection, looked sufficiently hazardous to be only
ventured upon in the last extremity. The one
trial might make matters worse ; the other was
well nigh certain of fatal consequences; and
upon the whole, he was inclined to think no
real harm was meant him. Little as he knew
of life, young Lambrun had an intuitive notion
that highwaymen and cut-throats would speak
less, and do more ; and upon reflection, it ap-
peared to him that the strangers had merely
wished to frighten, rather than force him into
256 MARGARET LAMBRtJN.
compliance with their wishes. What these were
likely to prove, he could by no means conjec-
ture ; but the dread lest his poor mother and
friendly patron were at the mercy of these
strange men as well as himself, tormented him
nearly as much as apprehension of bodily harm
could have done.
His alarms would, however, have been dis-
pelled by one glance at the countenance of his
chief captor, could he at that very moment
have seen him enter the principal chamber of a
small house situated at the opposite side of the
garden, in which said room sat half a dozen
men, busily engaged in canvassing the merits of
a few cold pies, and the contents of certain
tempting long-necked bottles. His dancing
step and joyous laugh spoke of anything but
meditated crime.
" Successful, by Jove !" exclaimed some of
the company, rising to make way for the new
comers. " Romeo has not only won his Juliet,
but wears her
!"
MARGARET LA3IBRUN. 257
" All by my consummate skill—the conquest
of my bow and my spear ;" and Dick pointed as
he spoke to the partner of his morning's adven-
ture, " he is a very FalstafF for cowardice—he
dare not face a mother goose, if he wanted a
gosling."
" Nay, nay ; but geese and Christian folks'
children are different things to deal with, espe-
cially under the reign of our gracious Queen
;
and we, of all her Majesty's subjects, are the
very last who should venture upon breaking her
peace."
" 'Twas but a frolic, man !
—don't look so sober
upon it !" exclaimed the other, looking somewhat
crest-fallen.
" Well, let's hear : we trust, Dick, your high
spirits have not carried you too far ; a mad
freak may sit well on a young gallant who
ruffles it at court and elsewhere, but her gra-
cious Majesty's poor players should look twice
ere they commit themselves by any outrage or
ill-timed levity." These admonitory words were
258 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
Spoken with earnestness by the same elderly
person who checked Master Dick's impertinence
on the previous eve, at the inn,
"You are always such a stickler about
trifles," retorted Dick, in evident discomfiture,
obviously feeling he had gone too far, although
he sought to brave it out with as good an air as
he might. " Why you have all been as anxious
as myself—nay, a great deal more so, about pro-
curing a personable youth to enact our female
parts. Jones is grown too old, and too masculine
to keep them up with any degree of illusion. He
is perfectly ludicrous, and stares and storms more
like a Brutus about to poniard Caesar, than any
female of them all: even Lady Macbeth is
getting too soft for him."
" That is all very true ; no one has felt the
deficiency more than myself," said the older
and graver looking personage. " Alas ! none
but a manager can understand all I have en-
dured with that fellow Jones. First came his
mustachios,—then his whiskers,— every night
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 259
has added an inch to his height, I'll be sworn, for
the last few days,—and his breadth of shoulders
might do for a porter or a plough boy. He a
Juliet ! He an Ophelia, or the Regal Kate of
France, or the playful Titania ! The witches of
Macbeth, the untutored Bottom, were charac-
ters in which, I grant, he might shew to ad-
vantage, for he is grown ungainly enough for
anything unsightly. Your pretty boys ever
grow up such infernal louts !"
" Jones never was a pretty boy, and what is
worse, never was a clever one," remarked
another of the party, scornfully ; "the fellow is a
mere parrot—nothing more."
" Now this lad is a proper lad and a hand-
some—a rare catch, I can tell you, Master
Manager—old enough to get through a play,
and what is better, to feel it, yet slight and fair-
skinned, with such small features and timid look,
that, provided we can keep him from overmuch
exercise and strong diet—boys get so soon men
when not kept a little from the air—he'll remain
260 3IARGARET LAMBRUN,
serviceable for the next six or seven years, at the
very least. After that he may pass, like Jones,
to the male characters ; but I don't think, with
that complexion and voice, he'll ever come up
to me in the tyrants, robbers, murderers and
heroes—he'll never have the right strut, though
I dare say he may oust me out of the tender
lovers, by and by."
" You, Dick !
—you are always the same im-
pudent puppy, by lamp-light or by sunshine.
Yourself, alwa^^s yourself, and nothing but your-
self, at all times and places."
Upon hearing this pithy remark. Master
Dick, bridling up, was about to answer with
some acrimony, when silence was imposed by
the manager, who, with a chagrined air and
heavy sigh, exclaimed
—
" Ah, me—ah, me ! None know better than
I what this boy is worth to us, especially at this
crisis, when I really know not what to do about
that masque at Richmond. It will be in broad
daylight, too, and all the painting and daubing
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 261
in the world wont wash the Ethiop white.
You all know as well as myself how hard I've
hunted for some one who would answer our
purposes, and how I have met with nothing but
ingratitude from the foolish parents to whom I
made my applications. Alas ! my disappoint-
ments on this trying subject are but too con-
stantly before my eyes. I was quite willing,
yesterday, when you pointed out this lad to my
attention at the theatre, to do my best to get
him, especially if he could be engaged in time
for the royal sport ; but when you, Dick, swore
he should be ours, I expected you would use
gentle means—those of persuasion. It was
upon an express condition of this sort that
I accompanied you last evening to that infernal
tavern of the grim host and sour wine. Your
surmises proved true ; the boy did not belong
to the man, nor is the man a gentle in any
sense of the word. What then ?—all our per-
suasive arguments failed. What are those with
which you have succeeded ?"
262 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" Please, sir," said Dick, " I merely enacted
a Romeo balcony scene, and a fragment of a
banditti one."
" It is quite true," asseverated his companion.
"He entered by the window, which was not
well closed—found no one but the boy, whom
he overwrought by fear to follow him like a dog,
quite willingly and softly—upon my faith, he
used no other means but his own disjointed
phraseology and scraps of plays."
"But my consummate acting was such,"
—
continued Dick, looking triumphantly round,
—
<' I spoke of daggers
"
" And shewed one, I'll be bound !" said one
of the company, uneasily, whilst all begun to
look very grave.
" Behold my only weapon, but small where-
with to guard my life !" retorted the accused,
flourishing on high a long and heavy corkscrew,
an old pocket companion which had often proved
useful to the party, whose spirits and laughter
were raised at the sight.
" Well, well I This gear must be looked to.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 263
however," said the manager, " or we may get
into a mess about Master Dick's foolish prank.
We must to the inn, and see the man in whose
charge the boy has been left. We'll again ply
him with fair proposals, that he may leave us
the lad until, at least, the Richmond bother is
over ; but should he persist in refusing, we have
no option left."
" What ! Return the brat to its owner," said
Dick, impatiently, " after all my trouble ?"
"Just as you say," returned the manager.
" But one of you get the youngster here, and
let's make a good impression upon his mind, if
we can ;
perhaps, after all, he may wish to be
one of us."
Dick fell back with a sheepish, angry look,
disappointed at reaping censure where he ex-
pected praise. He soon, however, recovered
his usual light tone, and proposed himself to
head the party in their visit to the offended
guardian of " abducted juvenility," as he per-
sisted in calling the poor boy.
Under pretence of a morning cup, they
264 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
accordingly entered the hostelry a little after
sunrise, and renewed their inquiries after
Achamber and his protec/e, expressing their desire
to have speech of the former. Followed ]jy the
whole train, the ready host mounted to the
chamber and knocked at the door ; but upon
no notice being taken of his repeated summons,
he applied a duplicate key, which he carried
about his person, and entered the apartment.
No words can describe his amazement on find-
ing it tenantless ; and though for one of his
guests the witnesses of his surprise were well
able to account, the absence of the other was
inexplicable to them as to him.
The additional absence of the stranger's
money—a fact which the worthy innkeeper, by
tossing about the sundry effects of Master
Achamber, lost no time in ascertaining—might
have led to strange presumptions, had not the
window—open, indeed, but shewing no evi-
dence of having been forced, and the utter
want of any, even the slightest, trace of a personal
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 2G5
Struggle, sufficiently indicated that the exit of
the strangers had been perfectly voluntary, and
that the host was the only one likely to prove a
sufferer.
Seeing how matters stood, the confederates
thought it best to withdraw without divulging
unnecessarily their share in the transaction
;
being, moreover, well aware that Achamber
had taken his departure before they came on
the scene, their consciences perfectly acquitted
them of any injustice with regard to the boy,
who, thus deserted, would have been in a more
miserable plight at the inn than amongst his
new friends.
When the actual situation of the latter was
communicated to him, he could scarcely believe
in its reality ; and even when convinced by his
own eyes of his protector's sudden flight—an
evidence which, favoured by a slight disguise,
was easily afforded him—he had the greatest
difficulty in comprehending it. When, at last,
a full sense of his misfortune was forced upon
VOL. III. N
266 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
him, he felt himself indeed deserted. Whither
Achamber had removed himself, and wherefore,
was an insoluble mystery. His mother, he
knew, had determined to leave the Savoy for
ever on the same day that he joined his patron,
but of her ultimate plans and views, or possible
place of refuge, he knew at the present moment
as little as of the fate of his absent friend. Where
to lay his head in that vast aggregate of roofs,
called London, the poor boy could not tell,
unless he should consent to throw himself at
once upon the kindness of those whom he now
conceived Providence had sent to him in the
time of his utmost need. Summoning up, there-
fore, his resolution, he made known his sub-
mission with the best grace he could, forming
at the same time the mental reservation of em-
bracing some more congenial line of life the
moment any such should offer.
Thus, as necessity knows no law, the proud
Scottish boy, the godson of a queen, and but a
few hours ago not without some fair prospects
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 267
for the future, was fain to content himself with
associating, at least for the nonce, with low
wits and players. But more than this he de-
termined, in his secret soul, he would not do
;
and although caprice or sentiment had imposed
upon him a name belonging to another sex,
nothing, he internally resolved, not hunger
itself—poverty he knew, but starvation he had
not yet faced—should ever force him into
renouncing his sex, evening after evening, before
the eyes of assembled hundreds. Against this
emasculation his very inmost spirit revolted;
but with laudable, though somewhat premature
wisdom, he kept his sentiments upon this sub-
ject to himself, trusting, with the hopefulness
of his age, to the turning up of some unforeseen
chance in his favour.
The manager had every reason to rejoice in
his good fortune, for that very evening orders
came express from Richmond, that on the third
day from the present, should the weather prove
propitious, as there was every reason to expect,
N 2
268 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
the players should proceed thither at an early
hour, in order to surprise her Majesty with a
masque in her garden. Preparations were im-
mediately commenced to meet the wishes of
the court; and though so very decided that
nothing should induce him to submit to that
indignity, young Lambrun, by the mere force
of the one little, magic word, "queen," was
prevailed upon to try on his new costume, and
to attend to what was expected of him con-
cerning the part he was to assume in the ap-
proaching pageantry. Yes, it was to see the
Queen that he consented to don the hateful
clothes, which, in good sooth, fitted him so well
as to render his sex, to the uninitiated, proble-
matical. It was for this that he spent the better
part of three successive nights in getting by
rote the few words which were deemed abso-
lutely incumbent upon him to speak.
Although, on the morning of the third
day, the sun was pale, and suri'ounded by a
watery nimbus, the weather—having, despite the
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 269
Strength of habit, shaken off its dull mantle-
was mild and summer-like. The gardens
at Richmond, though still damp from the
heavy showers of the last few days, smiled in
autumnal beauty. The rich foliage of the wide-
spreading trees caught, here and there, a golden
ray, that enhanced its crimson or yellow tints.
There was that sweet repose which, in the
fading year, rests in the heavens and on the
flowers, pervades the atmosphere, and is inhaled
into the spirit through every pore. The few
hours of relaxation from the cares of the state
were generally spent by Elizabeth in these
walks, consecrated to her pleasures, but at no
time of the year were they so congenial to
her harassed spirit as at the lingering adieu
of the dying summer.
Her expanded brow, on which sat enthroned
the most divine of God's gifts, a high intelli-
gence,—her searching, commanding eye, and
mouth so expressive of firmness—that noble
attribute second only to intelligence—all seemed
270 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
on the morning in question influenced and
softened by the agreeable sensation of the hour.
She, too, Uke the tall trees around, had known
storms, had now yielded like the ash, now
resisted like the oak—but they seemed over,
these earthly trials ; and the sear and yellow
leaf of life might, perchance, linger on in as
stilly an air—bathed in the golden hues of
prosperity—as those of the forest world around
her. Some such thoughts, perhaps, smoothed
the Queen's often ruffled brow into the placid
calm which it that morning wore. True, for
this autumnal peace she had foregone the
dearest hopes and wishes of woman's spring
;
sacrificed every impulse of ordinary nature to
the sterner duties, the loftier impulses of a
nature and a position equally exalted above the
common herd of mankind. In other and better
times such sacrifice had been needless—and,
because needless, of no value ; but Scotland,
England's foe no more, but her bounden ally,
would make Britain strong, and in the strength
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 271
of nations lie their happiness ; and never did a
more truly British heart beat in a British
bosom, than that of Elizabeth of England.
Her policy had often been cruel to others—had
crossed many an idle wish—a secretly treasured
feeling of her own, but in every circumstance of
moment the queen had invariably triumphed
over the woman.
It has frequently been asserted, as the highest
possible compliment to the merits of that great
princess, that she was rather a king than a
queen. This is, to say the least, a not very
philosophical turn of thought or expression
;
for, as woman's passions are often said to exceed
our own, their patience and perseverance in
pursuing the object of those passions an acknow-
ledged fact, it would seem a natural result, that
where personal and national glory are the aim
—although we grant that to pursue such argues
a masculine, to say the least, a not ordinary
nature—woman should follow it up with a zeal,
even more fiery than that which the opposite
272 MARGARET LA3IBRUN.
sex might exhibit; the minor passions and
duties, even the reproaches of conscience are
all conquered, broken down, or disregarded ; of
which truth, Catherine of Russia, Catherine of
Medicis, Margaret Waldemar, and a few more,
have aiforded striking instances.
The hxdies and courtiers in EUzabeth's train
followed with a practised step, so as not to press
too closely on her Majesty in this one little hour
of relaxation; but everything was prepared
that ennui should not clog its enjoyment.
When the slightest trace of weariness should
become visible on her countenance, at a given
signal the gay maskers were to appear, and, in
appropriate words, lament the passing season
and hail the approaching one. The chief
speaker on this occasion was to be Master
Dick, in the character of a rustic swain, whilst
young Lambrun, who, as his listening Daphne,
had little or nothing to say, should kneel to
strew flowers at the royal feet.
Lying perdu with his companions in a thick
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 273
grove, awaiting the expected signal, the poor
boy's heart beat thicker at the sight of the
Queen, than even at his approaching appear-
ance on the unwonted scene. There stood She
whom he had been taught to consider the
murderess of his leal sovereign —of his own
father—the cause of all his mother's tears—of
the anguish that had burnt her brain, and had
well nigh unsettled her reason. There stood
the heedless power that had unconsciously, by
the consequences of its deeds, crushed his
young life as a worm is trodden under a care-
less foot. Blindino; tears came so fast into his
eyes that he could scarcely distinguish the
object of his dread and hatred—of dread, ever
since his soul had awakened to consciousness
—
of hatred, since the best loved of his parents
had sunk into his grave, and the surviving one
had sought to implant in his young bosom feel-
ings most alien to the soft, yielding disposition
he had inherited from his father. He would
see EUzabeth ; but now that the Queen stood
^'3
274 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
before him, he could scarcely look upon her.
He had, more than once, been permitted to
gaze on the far lovelier features of Mary of
Scotland, and her gentle smile had often beamed
upon him ; but though years had robbed Eliza-
beth of her early charms, the loftier impress of
genius was stamped upon her brow in such
indelible characters that instinct made the boy
quail before the inborn majesty of the spirit of
England's Queen. He gazed after her, awed
and subdued, hardly daring to remember his
long - cherished resentment in so august a
presence.
The Queen had already passed several times
the cover in which the masque was ensconced,
and still neither step nor look betrayed fatigue.
On the contrary, so keen an enjoyment of the
passing glimpse of sunshine was depicted in
her every feature—so sweet a sense of the mere
animal pleasure of existing under its cheering
influence, that her well -trained attendants
vvould rather have renounced the little episode
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 275
with which they had imagined to amuse her
than have obtruded it upon her presence at
such a moment. They hung back still more
completely, as, with brisk movements, she re-
traced her steps along the avenue, and when
she was again about to pass the pregnant bush,
they had dropped so far to the rear, that trees
and parterres intervened betwixt them and their
royal mistress.
Elizabeth, on becoming aware that she had
so far outwalked her train, paused to allow them
time to come up with her, and in so doing,
turned half round with her back towards the
players. At that instant the leaves of a neigh-
bouring bush became slightly agitated, but not
sufficiently to attract her attention—it might
have been caused by the circulation of the air
—and she still continued to gaze, undisturbed,
after her tardy followers. It soon became
apparent, however, that the foliage was dis-
turbed by no passing breeze ; the crackling of
a few twigs succeeded—and stealing cautiously
276 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
from beneath the leafy canop}', a man stood in
the same path with herself, not five paces from
her. His purpose did not long remain doubt-
ful. Drawing a pistol from his belt, and cock-
ing it, he proceeded to take a calm, deliberate
aim at his intended victim, on whom his eye
remained intently fixed. His finger slowly
sought the trigger, when, as he was in the act
of pressing it, a light figure bounded forward,
and at one single blow dashed the pistol to the
ground, and a soft voice murmured —" Oh,
God ! rather death than this !"
The Queen turned hastily round at the
report, for the pistol had exploded in falling
—
her deliverer had disappeared ; and there stood
before her a man, young in form, but through
whose coal-black hair the silver threads were
already mingling, and whose eyes rolled wildly
about like those of a maniac. His hand
grasped a fresh pistol, which, no sooner had the
other been wrested from him, than he had
drawn from his vest. The vest, too, hastily.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 277
carelessly adjusted, revealed beneath its folds a
shirt of mail, the bright links glittering in the
rays of the sun.
Elizabeth's life had hung by a thread, and
even now seemed at the mercy of a madman,
yet her cheek did not even change colour
—
every nerve was firm.
" What means this ?" she said, sternly facing
the wretch who stood before her, mute and
aghast, as if turned to stone by the unexpected
check to his meditated crime. " God's death !
we've a traitor here! and ye—be ye more of
them ?" she added, with angry frown, turning
to the players, who now, by surrounding the
stranger, threw themselves effectually 'twixt
him and the Queen, but deprived so com-
pletely of their presence of mind, that they
did not even attempt to disarm the foiled
murderer.
From where they stood loitering listlessly,
the train could not well witness the transac-
tion ; but the report of fire-arms having startled
278 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
them from their quietude, their alarm literally
lent them wings, so soon did they reach the
place of action. To their incoherent expres-
sions of terror and sympathy Elizabeth answered
by a smile, as tranquil as though nothing had
occurred to ruffle her. But the angry frown
was again on her brow% as, pointing to the be-
wildered and terror-stricken mummers, who
each individually looked a detected assassin,
she exclaimed, in loud, angry tones
—
" Who be these men ?"
When the presence of the poor devils was
explained, the Queen's serenity returned. She
ordered all to make way, that she might herself
confront the criminal.
" Strange," she muttered, as all made way,
and her bold, clear, blue eye scanned the fea-
tures of the stranger with a look that had re-
called her royal sire to any who had ever gazed
on him—" Strange! —this man seems old in
youth; his bearing is above the condition his
mean vestments would denote. But now he
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 279
looked a desperate madman, and now seems
humbled to the very dust—a craven, at best
—
a carrion-crow. Who or what art thou? A
base-bom churl and a vile, I'll be sworn; no
gentle spirit could stoop so low. Who art thou,
man ? Speak !'^
" One whom thou hast made desperate, proud
Queen, and who fears not thy wrath; for it
has done its worst by her already," said the
stranger, folding his arms across his breast,
and returning the Queen's look with one of
haughty defiance. " I am a woman, madam
—
a wom.an, whom your deeds have driven to
despair, to madness, and to death. My name
is Margaret Lambrun. I am of gentle blood,
though it be but Scottish. Nay, why tarry in
sending me to my doom ? Have I not deserved
it threefold, even ere your eyes lighted on me ?
Was I not a Scot, a Papist, and a devoted
subject to her who claimed England as her
lawful inheritance ? She, whose mother was of
royal lineage, and pure
!"
280 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
" She raves, madam ! Listen not to her, we
entreat," said several of the nobles, starting for-
ward, as they perceived a deep crimson spot
upon the Queen's brow.
" Stand back, my lords," she said, angrily
—
" Stand back; and if this be really a woman,
unhand her—there—gently, my lords, and let
me speak to her. Go on, woman—go on. What
more wouldst thou say ?"
" That I once was happy, in my mountain
home, with the husband of my choice, and a
bountiful, gracious mistress, whom Providence
had permitted that I should serve—the royal
Mary of Scotland. I followed her to Fother*
ingay—I saw her die ! —my husband, too, who,
like a faithful hound, could not survive the
hand that had fed him. I gloried in his fide-
lity ; but I could not die like him—life had too
resolute a hold upon me. But if I lived, it
must be to avenge them. I imagined Heaven
itself had marked me to be the instrument of
its awful decrees. This day has proved my
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 281
error; it was my own blind passion, not the
will of Heaven, that whispered me to under-
take this dark deed. But it is too late—the
guilt is on my soul! It is England's Queen,
and not the humble Scottish matron, that is the
chosen instrument of God's wrath
!"
" This is strange, indeed," muttered Eliza-
beth ;
" and yet, as says our favourite, poor
Will, ' there's method in her madness.' But
sorrow has turned her brain. What think
you, woman, are your deserts at our hands
—you, who would have murdered, who have
insulted us, a crowned Queen ? By our faith,
we would fain hear your own opinion on this
head."
" Would you hear what I liave deserved of
the offended laws of this country, or of indi-
vidual resentment? Or shall I say what I
expect the Queen will do?" answered the wo-
man, with composure. " If you speak as a
judge, you will send me forth to expiate on
the scaffold my meditated crime. But the
282 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
Queen would bid me go in peace—repent, and
sin no more."
" That were easily spoken, though lightty,
methinks," said the Queen, laughing, " con-
sidering that you might return to-morrow with
fresh pistols."
" Easily spoken, indeed, madam," resumed
the woman ; " but this were not all. You
would order some trusty persons to see that
I am permitted to depart this country in safety.
This will you do, if you would shew yourself
a Queen."
Elizabeth remained silent for a moment, as
if absorbed in thought; whilst the woman,
whose life hung, as it were, by as light a thread
as that of Elizabeth had done a few minutes
back, stood calm and firm as ever. At last, the
Queen looked up, and said
—
*' You are free to go or to remain ,* in either
case, you are safe. I would to Heaven Eng-
land's welfare never wrung harder concessions
from its Queen !"
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 283
The woman's pride was broken. She fell
on one knee, and scalding tears fell down her
cheeks, as she murmured
—
" Forgive, gracious lady, forgive ! and may
God, at that awful hour of utmost need, to
princes as to slaves, remember this day's le-
niency, and forgive your offences, as you have
forgiven mine. It is not for myself that I
return you thanks for this poor boon of life;
but there was another hard by, but for whom
—however, the guilt is the same, whether I
expiate it with my blood or with my tears ; I'll
go and mourn it in sackcloth and ashes
!"
She rose from her humble posture, her face
still bedewed with tears, and turned to depart.
At a few whispered words from the Queen, one
of her train hurried after her. Then Elizabeth,
without uttering another word, made towards
the palace, closely followed by her anxious at-
tendants. When about to tm'n into her apart-
ments, she dismissed them, without making a
single remark on the morning's adventure ; but
284 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
there was more of thought and melancholy in
her countenance than it had exhibited for many
months past.
Upon the retiring of the Queen, the disre-
garded and now superfluous players had been
unceremoniously thrust from the gardens, when
all the issues were instantly closed, and the
guards everywhere trebled. Whilst they yet
stood huddled up together in confusion at the
gate by which they had been ejected, Margaret
Lambrun, escorted by several persons of the
Queen's household, came by, leaning on the arm
of the gentleman to whom she had been given
in charge. As she passed the stagers, her dark
eyes rested for a moment full on that of her son.
" We shall meet again," she murmured, and
jiassed on, without any further token of reco-
gnition. The next instant. Master Achamber
was descried hurrying furiously forward with
some very suspicious-looking personages at his
heel, at sight of whom, as if they were old ac-
quaintances that they felt no desire to meet.
MARGARET LAMBRUN. 285
Master Dick and his party scampered off in an
opposite direction, leaving young Lambrun to
bear the brunt of the meeting alone,—and a
glad one it was to both parties. Thanking the
constables who had, at his request, accompanied
him so far to assist in the recovery of his pro-
tege, he dismissed them with a handsome reward;
and without allowing the boy time to question
him, dragged him rapidly along, recounting
his adventures by the way.
After having detailed his captivity at great
length, he went on to tell how, for the mortal
space of three long days, he had vainly intreated
for his liberty. Although he had represented
that he was no subject of the Queen of England,
but plainly shewed they must consider him
either the bounden vassal of Spain or of Scot-
land, they would listen to nothing ; and he
must infallibly have sailed that very morning,
had not, by the merest chance. Master Ross's
nephew come on board, who, the moment he
recognised him—being besides a friend of the
286 MARGARET LAMBRUN.
captain—had him restored to freedom. This
youth was in the Queen's service, and com-
manded a small transport ship, in which, being
about to sail on the morrow, he very politely
offered a free passage to Master Achamber, in
gratitude for some advice tendered a few days
back, which, though rejected with the utmost
scorn at the moment, had since, it appeared,
been remembered with pleasure, and even acted
upon.
The offer had been joyfully accepted, and
Master Achamber had hurried back to his inn,
merely to pay his score, and to ascertain what
had become of his protege in the meanwhile.
He had learnt the truth from the host, who, in
his turn, had the whole story as a second-hand
joke from the Tabbard, where many a good
tankard had been drained on the strength of it.
The rest was soon told. Young Lambrun's tale
was longer. He began by explaining how his
having seen his mother at the lottery, habited
in male attire, had enabled him to recognise
SIARGARET LAMBRUN. 287
her in the gardens at first glance, under her dis-
guise, and then gave the details of that morn-
ing's adventure, which were of a nature to
reawaken the merchant's timid fears, and the
ghastly monitors at the bridge gate rose again most
distinctly before the " eye of his imagination."
He insisted on embarking that very evening on
board the friendly craft that was to bear them
away on the morrow ; and when at last it
weighed anchor and swept by the battlemented
Tower, he kept beneath, nor did he breathe
freely until restored to his own home.
After the expiration of a few more years he
returned to his native country, accompanied
by his adopted son and eventual heir, young
Lambrun, who—his own name having become
odious to him since the morning when he had
seen his mother about to commit a deed, the
bare thought of which caused him to shudder
with shame and disgust—had himself entreated
to bear that of his benefactor.
Deeming herself thenceforth unworthy to
288 MARGARET LAMBRUX.
remain in a world whose laws she had broken,
Margaret Lambriin retired into a nunnery
abroad, where the miserable woman, weighed
down even more by remorse for her intended
crime than by the severe penances she inflicted
on herself, did not survive many years, but
died in a spirit far more becoming a Christian
than that which had influenced her life. On
her tomb no name was inscribed ; and, but for
the page of an obscm'e and foreign historian,*
she had been, together with her mad attempt,
consigned to that oblivion from which, per-
chance, his short paragraph fnay not have
redeemed her.
* Gregorio Leti.
THE END.
T. C. Savill, Printer, 107, St. Martin's Lane.
