{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__taylor___fox-taylor_automatic_writing_1869-1892.pdf","mytitle":"Fox-taylor Automatic Writing 1869-1892","mylang":"de"}
FOX-TAYLOR
AUTOMATIC WRITING
1869 - 1 8 9 2.
UNABRIDGED RECORD
Edited by
SARAH E. L. TAYLOR
(1828
- 1906)
Preface by
W. G. Langworthy Taylor
Printed by
Tribune-Great West Printing Co.
Minneapolis, Minn.
If t 1.
Copyright 1932
W. G. Langworthy Taylor
Lincoln, Nebraska
PREFACE
By W. G. Langworthy Taylor
This volume is made public as a memorial to
the intelligence, insight, character, social spirit,
and indomitable perseverance of my father and
mother, Dr. and Mrs. Geo. H. Taylor. Chaldean
conquerors erected stelai in order to hand down
to posterity their victories. A French general,
having succeeded in leading his column through
the gorge of Chabet-el-Akhira in Algiers, sent a
detail to inscribe a record of the achievement on
the face of the cliff. They returned to report that
"Legio 111 Augusta" had been there before them.*
Who shall decide what is worthy of commemora
tion? Publishers mop up best sellers, which must
not be too long and are soon forgotten. The
world-moving treatises of a Spinoza or a Schopen
hauer first see light after their authors are dead.
Many an inglorious Milton has had his labor
for his pains. I do not assert that even then the
labor is lost. However, the competition of screeds
is an unavoidable part of the competition of
ideas; and it would seem that in the ratio that
it works for the long-time influence, its beginnings
are modest and precarious.
This record of mirror writing done by Katie
Fox in the third and fourth quarters of the last
century does, in many ways, speak for itself.
Extended comment either historical or philosophi
cal would unduly swell the present volume.
As the text stands (and it has not suffered
material alteration), a large part of it consists
in a simple relation of what took place and of
the precautions scrupulously observed against
mistake, fraud, and deception. These may not
satisfy modern researchers. But to me who lived
through them during twenty-three years of family
life under the parental roof, they seem, even now,
to have been rigorous. They were certainly not
precisely the prescriptions of sealed cabinets, tape-
tied limbs, and water-bottle, now in vogue for
the silencing of sceptical, materialistic professors
and of reporters aching for a scoop. But really
twenty-three years was a long contract to keep up
•Alexander Powell, 7n Barbary. 265.
81*
conscious deception. As to unconscious deception
or self-deception, that is another matter, which
however, should be discussed and studied respect
fully.
The gnotbi sauton was not spoken in vain.
The Athenian hoplite who, in the rigors of a
northern campaign, stood for days before Poti-
daea without thought of rest, was absorbed in
the larger problems of life, mind, and personality
to which our text specially applies, problems
which evince well tried staying power.
The automatic writing itself comes in for chief
attention. This is a very great mass of it. I
cannot discover that a greater or longer con
tinued story was ever written in this way. Com
position of this sort can, of course, be specifically
distinguished from ordinary authorship, on the
one hand, and, on the other, from the sacred
writings of different races and religions, and even
from the visionary works of a Swedenborg. The
numerous books of alleged, supernormal author
ship, in some respects to be classed with this
Record, books of inspiration in the modern
form, vary greatly in quality, in class, in knowl
edge, in vividness, in grasp.
Unaffected directness and simplicity of language
possess of themselves power to convey conviction.
One marvels that in all the travail of this Record
not a single erasure was made.
The characters, communicators, or operators
are faithful to their roles to an extraordinary
degree. They stand 100% true to type. They
tread the stage with Shakespearian assurance.
They neither froth with pseudo science nor hint
dark doings nor ordain cults. The light of moral
day and the bases of manly character permeate
every page, every line. The unseen group admit
their failures in experiments, especially in their
proposed materializations in full form, which
appear, in the immediately preceding period, to
have succeeded better in the Livermore sittings,
also conducted with Katie Fox, which had
materialization chiefly in view. 1 By insisting
on the essential mystery of life on earth they
disarm scepticism about life in heaven.
The man who is ready to admit that his own
words spoken or written are supplied spontan
eously will want to know whether the same
Unconscious which prompts him may not equally
infuse and inspire distinct unseen entities, and
whether they be not, after all, a part of that
hypostatized Unconscious.
The early years of the Record are chiefly
busied with the drawing of spirit portraits. The
successful accomplishment of these masterpieces
furnished the main theme and the thread of con
tinuity of the sittings. Copies are supplied with
the text. The remaining years offer a rather well-
connected account of heaven and of life there.
Personal and business advice is interspersed to
fit the passing hubbub of earthly struggles. At
this late day, there is nothing novel about all
this, save that it is so well done, so complete,
so informing.
It has been well observed that grief from loss
of children makes credulous sitters, blunts
criticism, and discourages precaution. The ef
fect in the present case was exactly the reverse.
It makes a difference, who compose the circle.
The sitters were, Dr. and Mrs. G. H. (Sarah E.
Langworthy) Taylor, the medium was Mrs. Kate
Fox Jencken, and the sittings were held (1869-
1873) at n. e. corner Sixth Avenue and Thirty
Eighth Street and (1873-1892) at the old Madison
Avenue Hotel, n. w. corner Madison Avenue and
Fifty Eighth Street, New York City.
The question will be asked, "Why have you
waited thirty to fifty years to print this matter?"
(1) On the Livermore sittings consult Robert Dale Owen.
The Debatable Land. 482-499.
Persons of a decidedly suspicious frame of mind
put such questions. If, perforce, the whole had
been offered for printing in 1892, there would
not have lacked those to counsel waiting. The
simple fact is that I was only ten years old when
the manifestations began. To-day is really the
first opportune moment for publication. Then,
the chief dramatis personae were, of course,
already dead. While many associated with them
have since died, it is still not too late to test
genuineness through the usual channels.
Why do we of to-day so dote on hieroglyphics,
on excavated pottery, on reopened tombs, on
papyri unrolled from mummies and from mummy
cases, and on palimpsests from garbage dumps
of Delta cities? It is because of their internal
evidences of truth or of half-truth. Apply this
principle to the Fox-Taylor Record.
It is to be regretted that only a scrap of the
original mirror writing survives. The reader of
this Record can infer that, in its first form, it
was a bulky mass ill adapted to follow a modern
family in its frequent changes of residence. It
was a hard thing to keep. The four manuscript
books have rested, along with the pictures, in
safety deposit boxes. The books are all in the
handwriting of Mrs. G. H. Taylor.
My hope is that multiplication of copies by
printing will prolong and spread the usefulness
of my parents' work.
The four volumes are provided with separate
indexes as originally compiled by Mrs. Taylor.
The page numbers of each original volume of the
manuscript written by Mrs. Taylor from Dr.
Taylor's dictation are inserted at the proper
places in the printed text. It is to these numbers
that the indexes refer.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Volume I IX
Volume ll 61
Volume Ill 129
Volume IV 261
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Facing
Page
Facsimile of Mirror Writing '. 1
Frankie 67
Leila 137
Franklin Independent Message 197
Grandma and Leila 269
Olin and Leila 325
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD
1869-1892.
Volume I
INDEX TO VOLUME I
A family meeting *. 94
An unhappy spirit enters our circle 197
Again they promise to show themselves to us 155
Children desire to return to their mothers on earth 78
Dr. F. loses control of the electrical power 80
Electrical lights are shown us 113
Frankie interrupts Olin's writing 11
Frankie desires Olin to ask Dr. F. to help him come to us 16
Frankie makes an effort to give us a curl of his hair 20
Frankie pins handkerchief to his Papa's gown 75
Frankie's picture presented to us Feb. 11-1870 88
Frankie speaks to Willie and of his own life here 98
Frankie pins my curls to the window shade 125
Frankie makes presents of immortelles and evergreens to Dr. and myself 129
Frankie and Leila play and talk and give me a rose-bud 151
Frankie and Leila promise to show themselves to us 155
Frankie and Leila trim my head with flowers 182
Frankie and Leila play and talk with us 192 also 189
Frankie opens his Papa's watch and tells the hour 187
Frankie repeats poetry and Leila gives me an evergreen 170
Four crayon pencils are taken from the room Jan. 7 25
Invisible hands strike matches 116
Invisible hands strike matches and light candle 121
Invisible hands write upon handkerchief 118
Leila gives me a flower and plays with a string 176
Leila cried for her Mamma after she went to heaven 177
Leila sits upon my lap, leans upon my shoulder, etc 199
Linen handkerchief pinned to window casing 68
Olin tells of an excursion made with the children 15
Olin tells of "a little boy dancing with delight" 22
Olin sees our future home 79
Olin tells of Lincoln's entrance into their world 136
Olin says these interviews are stepping stones to their world 143
Olin says Leila is a pensively, sweet child 147
Olin tells his acquaintance that Frankie and Leila are his sisters 150
Olin says that only a veil hides them from our vision 160
Olin says our acts here affect the beauty of their home 184
Pencils returned and again taken away 36
Paper taken from the room Jan. 12-1870 33
Paper taken and two pencils Jan. 22-1870 52
Paper taken from the room Feb. 15-1870 103
Pencils are sharpened by unseen hands 159
Prof. Kenyon writes for Olin 47
Something not material leans against my knee and rests upon my hand 138
The Dr. is clapped by strong invisible hands 142
LETTERS
Olin's on pages —
1 .2-3-6-7-9- 10 - 12-15- 17 - 18- 19-
22 - 26 - 28 - 29 - 30 - 31 - 34 - 38 - 40 - 41 -
44 - 45 - 48 - 51 - 54 - 57 - 58 - 60 - 63 - 64 -
66 - 67 - 68 - 69 - 71 - 72 - 76 - 78 - 81 - 82 -
83-84-86-93-95 -98-99- 101 - 105 - 106-
108 - 109- 110 - 112 - 119 - 120 - 125 - 127 -
128 - 130 - 131 - 132 - 133 - 136 - 139 - 140 -
141 - 143 - 144 - 145 - 147 - 148 - 154 - 156 -
158- 159 - 161 - 165 - 167 - 168 - 172 - 188 -
194 - 201 - 204 - 206 - 207 - 208 - 210 - 217 -
222 - 224 - 226 -
Ma's—
5 - 95 - 144 - 213 -164 -
Frankie's —
5 - 9 - 17 - 18 - 24 - 25 - 35 - 99 - 130 - 162 -
165 - 167 - 180 - 181 - 182 - 225 -
Dr. Franklin's—
62 - 67 - 86 - 88 - 111 - 126 - 135 - 215 - 219 -
225 -
Prof. Kenyon's —
4 - 12 - 47 - 57 - 174 - 221 -
Dr. Hare—
127 -
Sabra —
23 - 79 -
Autograph Letters
Frankie's - Page 21 Olin's - 92 - 124 Dr.
Franklin's - 74 - 91 - 223.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD
1869-189Z
Volume I
Nov. 1869.
The Doctor called on Katie for a moment in
the evening and the following little note was
sent to me.
"Tell dear Sarah, I will give her some sweet
messages tomorrow. Tell her the dear little ones
are playing among the roses and ivies. They
will be with her before she sleeps to-night. Give
her my blessing, accept many for yourself.
Olin."
A day or two after the above, Katie called
and the following was written.
"My dear Sarah. I am here, so happy to come
here! Oh! so happy to tell you the little ones
are here with me. They are so anxious to say
always 'dear Mamma, dear Papa.' The day is
coming Sarah, when I shall be able to talk
with you face to face. I wish that I could tell
you how happy the little ones are. They call
me often to come to them and explain things
that they cannot understand. I love to teach
them, to hold them over the pure waters, and
show them their faces in a mirror.
Tell George how much I want to take him by
the hand and guide him in pleasant paths green
and beautiful. (2) To-morrow Sarah, I will
speak with you and George. When the atmosphere
is clear I will bring the little darlings and place
them in your arms. Be happy. All is well, the
atmosphere is unfavorable to-day. I can not
say more until we meet again. The harps are
sounding for the children. Oh! What joy, what
heaven! God bless you! They call me, I must go.
Olin."
A few days after the last, Mrs. Stowe, Mrs.
Hooker and Miss Beecher were present and each
had received messages when the following was
addressed to me.
"Yes, Sister, 1 have a word for you, do let me
have a few moments to say a few words. Sarah,
my dear Sister, I have the little ones here. They
are happy little angels watching over you, drop
ping blessings down upon, and gently leading
you. Yes, dear Sister, 1 am here. I bVc you. Be
not depressed. Your little ones are' hot 'steeping,
but preparing a home for you.
Olin."
(3) "My dear, dear Sister. I am happy to
come here this beautiful morning. Oh! How good
our Father above is to let the sun shine upon his
children of Earth, and warm their hearts with
kindness to all mankind. Grieve not for the
removal of your little ones to a happier world.
They went, pure little lambs to the land of sun
shine and happiness. There were no weeds to
spring up among the roses, no more sorrow or
pain for them. Oh! Sarah how I grieved for
you when I saw your little angel lie by your side,
a beautiful shell, but the soul was not there, we
were bearing her spirit away from your grief.
I was sorry for you but little Frankie laughed
with delight.
Dear Sister, I am with you in pain, in joy,
when you are sad, when you repine for your
darlings. God bless you.
Olin."
In answer to inquiry about our sins he said.
"Sarah, mistakes, errors and sins are all with
God. Suppose you sin to-day in a (4) moment
of thoughtlessness, the next hour you will prob
ably do an act of kindness which would wholly
wipe out that sin.
The act of kindness would be a beautiful flower
in your future home. God is full of mercy and
forgiveness.
Olin."
In answer to another question he said. "I can
not see the end, which is the close of life, there
fore can not see the suffering which purifies and
causes all the weeds to be withdrawn."
Dec. 7, 1869
Prof. and Mrs. Stowe, Miss Beecher, Mr. and
Mrs. Hooker, Doctor and myself were together
2 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
with Katie and among the many things written
to us individually was this.
"My dear friends. Again we meet! Again I
say, I am happy to meet you. Oh! My dear
friends life.
is.
short/ eternity long!
I
will be with
you and. help you through the winter. You have
.
some patients, a- very 'few in the house who can
not recover.
I
speak of one who was here when
I
was and
who
is
here now. But work on, Doctor, happy
changes are coming.
I
will invent
a
cure for
some diseases. Be patient!
Prof."
Dec.
8,
1869. Morning directly after break
fast. Sister Em. and
I
were with Katie and these
were written.
(5) "My Dear Children, Sarah and Emeline.
I
am with you very often, but seldom speak
except through Olin and the children. They
express my thoughts often and you know
I
do
not love you less for my silence.
I
am not silent,
there
I
make
a
mistake, for
I
speak to you
through my little flowers. We are all very happy.
Your mother."
"My Dear Mamma. Grandma
is
holding my
hand for me to write you
a
little letter.
Mamma and Papa,
I
love you better than
flowers and music, better than any one here.
The big spirits last night held me back and
I
could not come to my own, blessed, precious,
darling, Papa and Mamma.
Frankie."
Dec. 16, 1869. Morning.
"My Dear Children, do not think that
1
for
get you. Never. My love to-day
is
as strong as
when
I
held you in my arms.
I
have the little
ones, they are happy and full of love for you.
Give my love to George and when Willie sleeps
I
will kiss him.
Eliza L."
A
little later the Doctor came in and this came.
"Papa, Mamma, we love you precious, darling
Mamma. What
a
great many spirits are here.
Papa now we will go.
Frankie."
The Doctor had attempted to leave the room
while (6) this little note was being written and
had been called back by the raps. Now Frankie
says they will go. There had been long com
munications from other parties and Frankie
evidently felt
a
little crowded by the "great many
spirits."
Again.
"My dear Sister, Oh! rejoice and be happy.
There are many clouds on the lives of many
human beings, but few (like you) have Angel
hands to waft them away, for few believe and
trust.
Faith
is
a
great thing,
a
sacred, holy gift.
Doubts retard progress, keep back our influence
and protection. Dear Em. you will be happily
settled in life.
I
see you in the future. Be happy.
All
is
well.
Olin."
Dec. 17, 1869
Katie came in to breakfast and then came up
to my room. Mrs. Stowe came in and while
we were talking these beautiful and sweet words
were written.
"My dear Sarah.
I
see your questioning mind,
your desire to know more of our lives, our duties
and wanderings. Would that
I
could condense
an explanation in
a
few words. For instance,
Sarah,
I
am here now with you,
I
am by your
side invisible at present, but were the conditions
right you could see me.
Wonder not at this. Think how wonderful all
things on earth are. The seed has to be planted
under the earth before
it
can produce
a
flower
or germ. We have houses corresponding with
yours, (7) only far more beautiful, divine and
holy.
We see each other's minds, we answer often
with looks and have our vocations. Our duties
are many. We have to amuse our little children,
make them happy, teach them the way, guide
their little footsteps.
Teach them to know those they leave on earth.
We have to guard our dear ones on earth, keep
them from evil for many are their temptations,
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 3
many are the snares that beset them. I speak
of our earthly cares. Dear Sarah this shall be
continued.
God bless you.
Olin."
Again.
"Sarah when you come here, Leila will be a
beautiful girl, grown and advanced in the knowl
edge of all things, a fair lily in the home of
the blessed.
She will meet you and with open arms ask you
if you do not know your Leila? And you will
know her.
Olin."
After reading the above my tears fell thick
and fast, and in a few moments the following
note was written.
"Dear Sarah, the rivers of the heart are open.
Let the tears that flow be not tears of regret and
sorrow, rather rejoice and thank God. We must
not linger longer now. Meet to-night.
Olin."
(8) During the time we were together Willie
came into the room. We ceased conversing upon
the subject until he left and while we were waiting
this little word was written.
"Mamma why not let Willie talk with me?
Frankie."
"Mamma is this not pretty?
We did not understand what this last question
referred to and upon inquiry the explanation was
given.
"He thinks his name is written prettily, I held
his hand.
Olin."
On the evening of Dec. 17 we met with Mrs.
Stowe, Mrs. Howard, Mr. Livermore and while
sitting around the table my dress was very
vigorously pulled at the bottom and the Doctor
was warmly shaken by the hand and the raps
said. "My angel Mamma, I will come to you
in the morning."
Katie remained through the night and directly
after breakfast the following little letter was
written which is marvelously characteristic of
the decided little fellow he was when with us.
(9) Dec. 18, 1869.
"Mamma, darling Mamma here I am with dear
little Leila, Leila with the golden hair. Mamma
you can not have her back. She is ours now.
Mamma what do you say to that?
I crept in through the crowd last night. Oh!
Mamma if you could only have seen Uncle Olin
carry me above the crowd you would have
laughed, then he put me down between you and
Papa, and I took Papa's hand and I pulled your
dress.
So Mamma no spirit can keep me out, for I
will come. 1 must go down to Papa and see
him work.
Good bye,
Frankie."
Dec. 19, 1869.
We were making inquiries about different
families that have already gone to the bright land
and the following was written.
"Dear Sister. You ask if we are a separate
family? Not in that sense, (10) the separation
is not like yours, we are separate in our vocations,
but mingle together in amusements. Now, to-day
I am going to take the children to see a family
of other children and give them amusements. It
is a lovely sight to see children play and sing
and throw flowers upon each other.
Olin."
I directly asked what family they were to
visit? The reply was:
"You would not know them were I to tell.
They came here one year ago. One is Mrs. Hunt's
child who came here some years ago."
After a little further conversation about
various subjects Katie's hand wrote:
"My Dear Sister, do not let your thoughts be
troubled; when perplexed come to me, I will give
you hope.
When you are burthened with care, call upon
me for aid. I will come.
(11) To those who say that this conflicts
with the Bible, answer them in this way: All
things are mysterious except to the Great Being
who created everything, who sends the light and
darkness, who breathes upon the opening flowers,
4 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
and yet, not understood. You feel the wind at
times when fierce enough to blow you down, yet
you see it not, neither do you know from whence
it comes. For instance, you see a child, a baby.
Year by year flows on, that child keeps growing
like a plant, but you can not see it grow, you
cannot see how its little limbs are to become fully
formed and matured, still you know that in the
course of time that child will be a man. Think
of all these things Sister when you marvel "Oh
Uncle Olin I think you are preaching, I do not
like it."
Frankie."
When we read the above we saw (12) the
great change in the hand writing and saw from
the sense that Frankie had crowded his Uncle
away. Upon our asking why the change the reply
was:
"He interrupted me many times, calling me
and pulling me, therefore the message is not
complete. You have an illustration here this
morning. 1 Willie's coming in and dressing
going on. You have to stop all and listen to
daily cares even while I talk with you.
Olin."
The writing ceased and there was no more
communicating for some little time when I re
marked that perhaps Olin and my children had
gone. Katie at once commenced writing as follows.
"Yes, Mrs. Taylor, your beloved ones are
gone, call them not back.
They have gone to their peace, their happiness,
(13) their joys. Your children are his especial
care. I have come to say a few words. Here I am
often with you. I see the work go on and joy in
your prosperity. Some improvements can be
made. I suggest that you get more help, and let
your rules be strictly followed out.
I was pained to see my wife show such an
unchristian spirit, especially toward you. I do
not see a change for the better, but knowing your
true and noble natures, I feel sure you will not
forget me, nor let any memory become less dear.
(1) Willie was running in and out to me and sister Em. was
dressing for church, requiring aid of me.
I often blame myself now for not learning
this truth before I left this world. It would have
been a stepping stone to the world of light and
happiness. You do not know what joys you are
planting in your future world, what seeds you
are sowing in the Garden of Eternity. Go on
with your (14) investigations. Never give them
up.
Prof."
After reading the above message we expressed
our gratification and wish that we might hear
more and often from the Professor and the
response was.
"I am glad to be called and will soon (by
practice) become more of an adept in this mode
of communicating with you on earth. 1 shall
become more schooled and then be able to give
you important advice. You let me say one word,
' Do not say you dislike me, at all events
when I am present, for I hear all. We can say
no more now but when an opportunity opens I
will come in often.
Prof."
(15) I begged the Professor not to go, to
say more to us in his own way and the reply
came.
"My dear child I must leave you now and give
you a chance to dress. God ordains all for the
best, therefore rejoice in your friends who are
in heaven. Good bye,
Prof."
Dec. 21, 1869.
Katie sat a few moments with me in the
morning and this followed.
"My Dear Sister. Since we last talked together
1 have been over many planets with many little
children. Yours were my first charge. We
wandered free as air, in fields of beauty and
flowers. The trees were filled with angels who
looked down upon us with loving eyes and music
filled the air.
Oh my Sister, what a painting of beauty
everlasting, of joy undying, of flowers immortal.
(1) Katie had been asking who this Prof, was? When I
described him to her, she finally recollected having seen him
here and said that she did not like him. She had never spoken
with him.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 5
Do you wonder that the children (16) love to
be here, and sigh not to return?
I see you this morning, there are no lasting
clouds near you, all will vanish with the close
of day and happiness will come again.
The little children wish to make efforts to come
to you in form, and I think I can help the little
creatures to come. Frankie will do his best to
come visibly; even now he is urging me to see Dr.
Franklin and implore his aid.
Dear Sister be happy, we are in your path, in
your household, by your fireside, everywhere,
unseen we look upon you, unseen we sit down by
you and what can you ask more?
This afternoon I will go with you, think of
me and I will impress your mind. No more now.
Katie, we will protect to-day. Go not into
temptation. Stronger minds have been tempted
and stronger persons have fallen. We can not
blame, we pity. We open our arms and say come
unto us weary ones. Earth weary and weak (17)
come to us and we will comfort. Far be it from
us to put aside the erring, fold our arms and
frown upon the transgressor. Far be it from us
to leave our children on earth to suffer. Oh!
Would to heaven that people understood Charity !
It is not a name but God's choicest blessing.
Now dear Sarah I will close and let Frankie say
a few words in his own little way while I hold
his hand. God bless you!
Olin."
"Mamma 1 want to wish you Merry Christmas
before Willie or Papa does. I wish you Merry
Christmas and Happy New Year. Mamma, my
own darling Mamma, my precious, I am going
to bring you a present, a very pretty present.
You need not laugh.
Your Frankie."
After reading Frankie's note this was written.
"Yes, dear Sarah, meet for the little fellow
Christmas Eve. I am going to give him some
thing for you, to gratify him.
Olin."
(18) I asked what he wished to give me?
The raps began to spell out a sentence, evi
dently by Olin, but the little raps interrupted
completely and the following was at once written.
"Mamma what do you think of a little curl,
a little curl off of my little head? Katie come
for me cause my Mamma does enough for you.
Frankie."
But Katie did not come and the dear little boy
had no chance to even try to make me a present.
Did not see Katie again until Jan. 3, 1870,
when she was quite ill. On the Mb little Frankie
made an attempt to write but could not, the
following little message came.
"I will speak for Frankie, as the power is
not strong enough for him. He will come to-night
and prepare to give his present. We wish you to
meet at eight for preparation and directions. To
morrow night for the manifestation of his power.
We will aid him and all will be well.
(19) Be happy! Life is short, weave well the
threads which are immortal for the life to come.
Farewell for a little while.
Olin."
Willie had not been well for some days and
now grew so sick that we did not meet on the
evening of the 4th, but at about 10 o'clock on the
evening of the 5th the following was written.
"My dear Sarah I have magnetized Willie
nearly all the evening. He has been a very sick
child. I will return to him in his restlessness
often to-night, but your absence from him now
disturbs him and makes him wakeful. You too
Sarah and George need rest, so I will be with you
all the time I can, which will be often. Take him
(Willie) not in your arms, that 1 may be near
him. Oh! how happy I am to be able to aid
you. George, the man coming to aid you to
morrow can not aid you, I am sure of that.
Yes, you better go now and my blessing will
follow you.
Olin."
(20) On reading the above we could not in the
least understand to whom reference was made by
"the man coming to aid you."
We asked and the reply was "to cure a person
for whom there is no cure." Then we understood
for early in the evening Miss Beecher had been
6 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
in and said to Dr. Taylor that a certain Physician
had just come in possession of a certain cure
for a certain class of invalids or for a certain
disease one case of which is now and has been for
a long time under the Dr.'s care. That Physician
proposed to come the next evening and cure the
invalid.
Before retiring Olin wrote, that Miss C. was
improving and that he would look and tell of
what he (Mr. H.) promised.
On the evening of Jan. 6th we sat around the
table. Dr., Katie and myself to give dear little
Frankie a chance to bring me the present he so
much wished to on Christmas.
The evening was very unfavorable, the rain
came in torrents, but Frankie tried hard to bring
the curl, finally after repeated efforts he said by
the raps. "Oh, Dear! I never saw anything like
it,
it
flies and melts away in my hand! The air
is
so wet." After (21) trying
a
little longer, he
seemed to give
it
up and said. "Papa
I
shall do
something!" Then he took pencil and paper out of
his Papa's hand, carried them
a
little way from us
and wrote, we all the time holding both of Katie's
hands and hearing the pencil upon the paper,
heard the paper folded to-gether, then the raps
asked the Dr. to take
it
or hold his handkerchief
in his hand. He did so. Frankie directly took the
handkerchief away and placed the paper back in
his Papa's hand, then brought the handkerchief
and put
it
in my hand, then dropped the pencil
heavily upon the table.
On the blank sheet which was taken from the
Dr.'s hand was written.
"Oh! Mamma
I
can't keep the little
1
turl long
enough to-night
it
is
so wet.
Frankie."
Again.
"I am proud to write, but Uncle Olin holds my
hand, my own dear Mamma and Papa.
Frankie."
Olin had previously told us that he wished us
to meet the next night for still another purpose.
He wished us to have crayon board and black,
red, brown and (22) white pencils. He did
(1) He used when here to call curl, turl.
not tell us what he wished to do with them. But
before we left the room on this evening this was
written
"I want the paper at all events to-morrow and
no failure.
My dear Sarah and George do not fail to get
paper. Have all well. We are sure that every
thing will be.
We are happy to-night for we have
a
little boy
with us who
is
dancing with delight. And now
we say God bless you and Good-night.
Olin."
Morning of Jan. 7th Katie was in my bed-room
and the pencil said.
"My Dear Sarah we are all here this bright
morning, the children and all your loved ones.
The sunny rays fall upon your earth to cheer
your hearts, on the cold shivering child they fall
more genially, and all should be grateful for these
blessings. Oh! dear Sarah how little some think
of the great hereafter! Onward they go thinking
only of dollars and cents. On they walk! This
life
is
all to them! This Summer's rose which
falls to pieces, not (23) of the ivy that spreads
and expands to all eternity, for Sarah this life
is
only
a
Summer flower, quickly over, but the
life to come, Oh! Who can measure its length,
or count its years. That life which all should hold
in
view, and pause, and ask their own souls, what
shall
I
do to-day to be more worthy of my
Father above? What shall
I
do to-day to make the
flowers in my home above more fresh and beauti
ful? What to-day shall
I
do to merit
a
new plant
in
the paths immortal? Dear Sarah to-night meet
at half past eight. We must magnetize the paper.
The little ones will look on with joy. This
is
all
I
can say now.
Olin."
After
a
little pause Katie began to write in the
most distressed and cramped hand, the letters
were badly formed and the spelling poor.
It
read thus.
"Do you remember me
I
often held you
in
my
arms
I
am not old" The paper was passed to me
to read.
I
could not divine who this new visitor
could be.
I
asked to have something further by
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 7
which I could recognize the (24) person. The
pencil added. "I am white now." Then I at once
recognized an old colored woman that I loved very
much when I was a little girl. When I spoke her
name she manifested great delight and wrote
again.
"I have the little girl now in my arms. Yes
I kissed you and held you in my lap. Do you
remember how I cryed and you cryed for me?
S."
When I read it over I wondered who the "little
girl" was? Wondered if she could be mine? The
pencil at once wrote.
"No Mamma, not Leila, her own little girl.'
Frankie."
I said "Oh! Frankie do you know Sabra? She
was a dear old woman."
The pencil wrote.
"Often see her and do now with a nice, big,
white cap on her head.
Frankie."
Then I asked "does she come to see Grandma?
Grandma loved her."
The pencil said.
"That is the way I see her, when Grandma
talks with her.
Frankie."
Then I remarked, "She is white now." (25) The
pencil wrote very quickly.
"Why Mamma! how would her friends know
her if she were white, when they come here?
Good bye. Frankie."
Jan. 7, 1870.
At half past eight that evening Dr., Katie and
I were alone in my room. We placed crayon
board and pencils on the table and sat down.
The evening was very pleasant and we hoped
the dear ones might succeed in doing what they
desired, but just what that was we had no idea.
After sitting a little time with our eyes closed
the raps directed me to tie the pencils together.
I did it with a small piece of twine. We were
directed to keep our eyes closed and not to listen,
so we chatted away, telling stories and relating
incidents until by the raps we were told to open
the window. I went directly and threw up the
sash. The Dr. and Katie both heard the moving
of the paper and pencils as I went to the (26)
window. As soon as I sat down again the raps
commenced the peculiar chiming sounds sig
nificant of great joy.
They told us they had magnetized the paper
and carried the pencils away.
We looked upon the table and there was nothing
but the paper there which had been moved across
the table. Then the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George we are so happy.
We used great power to take the pencils, as earthly
objects are hard to handle. Put paper carefully
away in a pure white linen, do not touch it till half
past seven to-morrow, after placing it away. Call
us not again to-night.
Olin."
Jan. 8, 1870.
On Saturday evening at the appointed time we
were in our places with paper upon the table
and were holding each of Katie's hands. We sat
with closed eyes for nearly one and one half
hours. Chatting (27) and observing nothing
with our ears even when the raps requested us to
draw our feet back and a handkerchief to be put
over the Dr.'s hand. Both were done then the
Dr. was asked to take the card paper in his
covered hand without touching it with his un
covered one, and hold it under the table.
He did so and the paper was immediately
taken from his hand and seemed to be suspended
or held in the air, while it was beat upon in
regular time, making a very pleasant rattle for
several minutes. Then the power or form hold
ing the paper, seemed to approach close to the
Dr. (we judged by the rattling of the paper)
and suddenly sat down upon his lap. He was
startled and of course opened his eyes and saw
indistinctly a figure holding the paper upon
his lap and felt the pressure the entire surface of
his lap and against his body, not heavily, but
distinctly and positively. (28) Katie was all the
time sitting in her chair, the Dr. holding one
hand and I the other without once letting go.
The paper was then put back upon the table
and the following was written.
8 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My dear Sarah and George. Oh! rejoice, for
all is now sure. There will be no failure Monday
night at eight. 1 Much is against us, anxiety
above, anxiety with George, and still we have to
contend with it all and be patient.
Now do let nothing come between Monday and
us. Meet at eight. Carefully put away paper.
Olin."
Jan. 9— Morning— 1870.
Katie was in my bed-room and the pencil wrote.
"Last night dear Sarah we would have been
able to take the paper, had the night been free
from interruptions.
To-morrow night have all free and (29)
undisturbed, then there will be no failure. We
shall feel so rejoiced when we get the paper, for
we will have to spiritualize it as we have the
pencils in order to keep them in our presence.
Do you realize what a great thing it is for us
to be permitted to do this for you? Therefore be
happy, be thankful and rejoice.
Olin."
At Dinner Time, Again.
"Dear Sisters Sarah and Em. You are both
going down to your dinner, down to earthly
things. While you are rattling among the dishes,
1 shall be flying from bower to bower in the
immortal fields walking with the children among
the roses, in the genial sunshine where it is
always spring.
Olin."
Jan. 10, 1870.
Monday evening came, a very warm damp
evening, still at the appointed hour we (30)
took our seats and sat as before for about an
hour, after which time we were directed to light
the gas and they wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George the atmosphere is
against us. Oh! how happy we shall be when we
succeed which we are sure to do. My dear Sarah
be not disappointed for great will be your reward
in a day or two. Meet Wednesday night at eight.
Do not fail. We think it will be clear and there
will be no failure, only deferred, and we are as
(1) In the room directly over ui, a party were lmpatiently
waiting for Katie. The Dr. had two very sick patienta about
whom be waa greatly worried.
impatient to succeed as you are to have us.
We keep the pencils and they are spiritualized.
We wish a knife on Wednesday night. Oh! how
we are preparing for the great manifestation.
Another spirit will aid us at our next meeting.
We have called on him and he will come. The
earth is full of dampness, very little electricity
in the air, therefore we failed to-night. But be
patient! We are and you must (31) aid us by
being so, as we require all these conditions. All
is well!
The flowers lift their sweet petals to us, and
the bugles sound our welcome. Meet at eight
Wednesday. No failure.
God bless you.
Olin."
They told us that Dr. Franklin was the spirit
who had kindly consented to assist them and at
noon on the 11th this was written.
"My dear Sarah we are making every prepara
tion for to-morrow night. Do not fail to meet!
We will succeed.
We love to anticipate this great event for we
know what happiness it will bring. Have every
thing ready. to sit down at eight o'clock. We
will be here at the moment.
Oh! how beautiful our homes are. No shadows
are upon our paths and little children rejoice
in their days as they go on bringing new happi
ness. Daily they expand in knowledge and their
little hearts are full of joy.
Olin."
Jan. 12, 1870—at Noon or About 2 o'Clock.
"My dear Sarah 1 am so happy to know that
I can come to-night and take (32) the paper.
Have all prepared. At eight o'clock we will all
be here. Dr. Franklin will aid us and we will
succeed. We wish the power kept fresh and Katie
to be here at half past seven. Do not let company
detain you, but be firm and steadfast to that
which we have promised, and believe that you
will receive that which we have promised. You,
dear Sarah, air the room well, have paper on
the table at seven, covered, and leave window
open a little. All is well. God bless you.
Olin."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 9
At seven o'clock I opened wide the windows,
set the table out in the room, locked each door
(as I always did on these occasions) placed the
paper, still folded in linen, on the table and left
the room. Katie did not get here until eight, so
the raps said wait until half past eight. Katie
lay down on the bed in an adjoining room and
did not rise until we called her, the time having
arrived for us to sit.
(33) The evening was not very clear but at
about fifteen minutes before nine we turned down
the gas, uncovered the paper and sat down by the
table, with doors locked and Dr., Katie and I
alone in the room. We sat as before for perhaps
a half hour when the raps directed Katie and
the Dr. to go to the further side of the room,
about twenty feet from the table. They went
leaving me sitting by the table. As soon as they
started I heard the rolling up of the paper. They
were directly called back to their seats, but as
soon as seated, we were all three told to stand
by the window and throw it wide open. We did
so and as I reached my hand high in throwing
the sash entirely open, 1 felt something rub past
my arm out of the window. We were told at once
to close it again and get light.
We did so, and saw the linen cloth upon the
carpet by the side of the (34) table, but no card
board to be found.
The pencil immediately wrote.
"My dear Sarah we have succeeded and now
rejoice. You must meet early Friday for us to
take knife. We will bring pencils here to be
sharpened, meet Friday early, we will only require
a short time. Dr. Franklin has been our aid, and
all our power is exhausted.
We go now, and must not be called back for
we must get better control of paper.
We must go now, and you all go and rest also,
while we rejoice in our power.
Olin."
As soon as we read the above we were con
scious that their excitement was much greater than
ours. We left the room immediately and occupied
ourselves with something foreign to the subject.
The next morning Katie was in my bed-room and
the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah 1 am happy to come and say
that all is well and we are happy to have control
of paper and pencils.
We must have meeting in order to aid (35) us.
We will succeed, but in order to do so we must
have directions followed. Meet at seven to-morrow
night and have knife ready to sharpen pencils.
We are so happy to be so blessed and bless you.
George does not realize what a great thing this
is,
what
a
great event. He must be ready to meet
to-morrow at seven.
Katie must not fail to meet us and we will
not keep her long.
I
had great difficulty in taking the paper home.
The children were so anxious to get hold of it.
Frankie pulled
it
out of my hands several times
and twice
I
thought
it
would fall to earth again,
but Frankie at last gave up to me and now we
have it.
Olin."
The pencil immediately wrote again in the
awkward hand of
a
child.
"Oh! Mamma we have the paper!
I
did pull
it
out of Uncle Olin's hand and
I
can't wait, but
I
will try to.
I
am going back now.
Frankie."
(36) Jan. 14, 1870
At seven o'clock. Doctor, Katie and
I
were
in our seats as before directed, but we had little
hope that the pencils could be returned for sharp
ening, the evening being very dark and the air
thick with coming storm. We had sat for about
a
half hour, (the sleet was now beating against
the windows,) when the Doctor felt some one
press against his knee and almost immediately
the raps asked for the knife. We did not know
whether they wished us to use the knife, or use
it
themselves, or take
it
away.
I
got
a
small pen-knife and gave
it
to the
Doctor. He asked
if
he should open
it
and
they said, "No, hold
it
under the table." He held
it
there and the knife was at once taken from his
hand. Then the raps directed Doctor and Katie
10 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
to go by the door, the same as at the previous
meeting.
They went, the Doctor feeling something pull
ing the bottom of his trousers as soon as he
got there. Immediately we were (37) all three
directed to stand by the window and throw it
open. We obeyed as quickly as possible, and as
soon were told to close it again and take our
seats, but before we could get to our chairs we
heard the pencils rattle upon the table. We were
then told to resume our talk and not listen.
We chattered away as best we could still we
heard the moving about of persons we could not
see, and heard the cutting of the pencils. After
a few minutes spent in this manner, the Doctor
and Katie were again told to go by the door.
While on the way the Doctor felt the touch of
spiritual bodies and during the moment they
remained there a pencil was put into and taken
out of his hand.
We were all directly sent to the window and
to open it. We heard pencils rattle against the
mantle-shelf as they came along and the Doctor's
coat skirt was vigorously pulled hastening him
towards the window. As soon as this was ac
complished, the raps said, "Close window and
take seats." And immediately upon (38) so
doing the knife was dropped upon the table, and
the order was given. "Get light."
The light was instantly made and there the
knife lay open upon the table. Notice, it was
closed when it was taken. The pencils were not
in the room but had been brought and taken away
in a heavy storm of sleet.
I had prepared my room on this evening as
before, aired it well and locked each door. Katie's
hands were held by either Doctor, myself, or both,
all the time.
We were in the room less than an hour, the
following little note being the last they said on
that evening.
"My dear Sarah and George we have succeeded
and now we depart to our happy home. All is
well. Meet again Monday night, but meet for
full directions to-morrow morning.
Olin."
Jan. 15—Morning— 1870. Katie in My Room.
"My dear Sarah I am rejoiced to have the
directions followed. I can not (39) convey to
your mind perhaps that this is a very difficult
thing for us to do, and to overcome all obstacles
you must all aid us. When we work on the picture
we become quite materialized and have to par
take of the earthly elements in a measure, there
fore do not wonder at our proceedings, our work
ings and directions. On such a day as this we can
do very little.
How we wish you to believe, be patient, do not
cavil, but wait and see.
All is well at present. When you meet again,
which will be Monday night, if clear, we will have
to make further requests of you. The paper and
pencils are with us and the children rejoice with
us in all we do.
Dear little Leila is our pet in the land of roses.
Every one loves her and pets her. Oh! Sarah you
shall have something nice, something that will
reward you for all your patience. We can not
say much this morning, the clouds are full of
rain, full of dampness, (40) and although our
garments are not soiled by the drops from the
clouds our spirits become disturbed by the fog
through which we pass. Oh! How lovely our
homes are! How happy you will be when you
come here!
I will say more before Katie goes."
Olin."
Katie took a little sleep and came back to my
room asking for the pencil.
"The rain falls upon the earth but our paths
are fresh and watered only by dew. No clouds
cross the sunny line of our walks, therefore we
call our home perfection. When you are Earth
weary think of the picture we daily draw for
you and live on the bright hope of some day
enjoying it with us. We are happy to be able
to speak to you. Now the children are playing in
their garden, but often I call them and they
come with happy hearts. Dear Sarah we (41)
will want the whole evening at our next meeting.
Better meet Monday morning for directions as
we will be better able to judge of the weather.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 11
God bless you! To-night we shall be busy, and
Monday we shall have much to say, till then dear
Sarah rest in peace, knowing that I am with
you, watching that no evil comes to you and
often dropping a choice blessing in your life.
Olin."
Jan. 17, 1870—Monday afternoon Katie called
and the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah I am happy to come here again
and spreak through the medium of the pencil.
I fear that the atmosphere is against us now
and unless it clears we shall not be able to work
on the paper in your presence. However dear
Sarah we will meet twenty minutes before eight
and do the best we can.
Now let us appoint Wednesday night at half
past eight for working (42) on the picture. It
will be clear then and we can do so much more.
Katie, go to Brooklyn and come home early
Wednesday noon, so that there will be no dis
appointment.
At least, to-night we will give directions about
the paper.
We want you and Katie to go to-gether Thurs
day morning, in order to let us choose a new kind
of paper and crayons for another purpose which
we will explain then.
Be happy for all is well! And you will feel
overjoyed when you see with your own eyes.
Olin."
Jan. 17— Evening— 1870.
With Monday evening came heavy clouds and
thick fog, still, agreeably to appointment, at
twenty minutes before eight we were in our
accustomed places.
After sitting as before for perhaps a half hour,
Doctor and Katie were sent to the further end
of the room and I was told to open the window.
They were also directly called to (43) the window.
In about one moment we were directed to close
the window and take our seats. No sooner were
we seated than we heard the rattling of paper
and the heavy friction of pencil upon it. This
heavy sound lasted but little time when the paper
seemed to be moved to the table and continued
to be marked upon, but the sounds were light
and quick.
We tried now to keep from listening by talking
of the most absorbing things we could call up,
still we heard the pencil upon the paper, when
ever our voices were not heard, for about an
hour. During this time the rain fell very fast
and we greatly wondered how they could take
the paper away. At about fifteen minutes past
nine we were told to open the window and stand
by it. The rain seemed that moment to cease, and
we stood longer by the window than at any
previous time, before they said. "Close win
dow and get light." No paper or pencil were to
be found, but when that kind of articles were
produced, the pencil wrote.
(44) "Dear Sarah and George, we are happy
to have had this meeting. When we want great
power, when we feel weakened in electrical power,
then you can aid us by sitting for us, even when
we are not in the room. We can receive great
aid by your keeping your appointments with us.
Do not say it is strange! Why George nothing
is strange! God works by laws, sometimes per
forms miracles.
Now do not wonder or marvel, for we are
doing all we can to convince and satisfy you,
and also give you happiness as great as we enjoy.
Be of good cheer!
Be child-like, and down from our happy homes
shall be handed blessings which will last to all
eternity. Meet us Wednesday night at half past
eight, and now we will go. If time permits we
will say a few words to-morrow, and a full ex
planation we will write with our own hand at a
future time. Till then be patient! God bless you
both!
Blessings attend you George.
Olin."
(45) Jan. 18, 1870.
Katie waited a few moments before starting
for Brooklyn in the morning and the pencil wrote.
"Dear Sarah all is succeeding well. We did
better than we thought we could last night in
the damp atmosphere.
12 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
I have looked in upon you often during the
night and tried to give you pleasant thoughts.
The children are very happy. Little Leila we
keep very near us for reasons which you shall
soon know. Frankie wishes to be first in every
thing that gives happiness, therefore we have to
work for the happiness of both. All is well!
Be bright! Meet to-morrow night. At half past,
we shall be all ready.
Olin."
Jan. 19, 1870.
Evening came, clear and pleasant. At precisely
half past eight we went to our room and took
our seats. In less than fifteen minutes the raps
asked to have the window opened.
I opened and stood by it a minute, then by
direction closed it and took my (46) seat, the
Doctor and Katie not having moved. Im
mediately we heard the paper rattle and soon
the marking of the pencil upon it. It did not
sound very near us, but we could not conclude
at all where the paper was. We as before, tried
to abstract our thoughts, from the strange phe
nomenon so near us, by conversation upon all
sorts of matters.
This state of affairs continued for one and a
half hours, at which time Doctor and Katie were
sent to the door at the further side of the room.
As soon as they arrived there, we heard the paper
rattle and it was placed upon the Doctor's head.
Then we were all sent to open the window. The
paper approached the window with them, was
held close to the top of my head for an instant,
and directly the raps said. "Close window and
get light." (Katie's hands were held, as always,
by us.) Immediately upon so doing the following
was written.
(47) "My Dear Friends.
Olin came to me to-night at about six, and
requested me to be present when he departed with
the paper, in order to write you directions. He
desires me to say that he is overjoyed with your
punctuality, and that he must make two pictures.
It is the request of those he loves and you hold
dearer than life. You and Katie better go on
Saturday afternoon for another sheet of drawing
paper and Olin wishes to choose it himself,
therefore he wishes Katie with you. I may be
wrong in the day and will leave that for him to
set in the morning. He and your children are
now far from me.
God bless you! There are no thorns in the
roses of your present life.
Your friend and well wisher.
Prof. K."
(48) After reading the above, we asked the
Professor if the paper was upon the table while
they worked upon it? The answer was "No!"
We asked was it upon the carpet? Answer "No!"
We asked was it back of us? Answer "No!" Then
we asked where was it? The pencil wrote.
"On further bureau." A bureau stood in the
corner of the room about twenty feet from
where we sat and near the door where the
Doctor and Katie were always sent. We now
asked the name of the artist doing this work?
The pencil wrote. "You will receive with the
pictures a full explanation. Dear friends, good
night.
Prof."
Jan. 20, 1870—Thursday Morning.
Doctor, Katie and I in my bed-room also Miss
Wells a friend of mine from our little girl days.
The pencil said.
"My dear Sarah and George I am happy to
come and say, good morning!
I took the paper at once and feel sure of great
success. I wish to make a perfect (49) thing of
this and will have to take time.
You must not feel hurried in the least, for if
you do, you will retard my progress.
I wish you to get the paper to-morrow without
fail, not to-day as I am engaged in important
duties, but to-morrow I wish you to get and have
it in the house, so that I can magnetize and pre
pare it for use.
Sarah I am with you. I read your thoughts.
Golden clouds float above us and their light falls
upon you. Do you not feel calm and happy,
knowing how near I am to you? So near that I
can catch even your sigh and waft it away for
happier thoughts to take the place of sighs and
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 13
tears. Oh! Dear sister! Is it not a joy to know
that there is no death, no separation, only to the
visible eye?
Dear Sarah did you hear from the Professor
last night? I have not seen him, but he
promised (50) to give you a message which I
know he must have done.
H'here is no use examining her lungs, for she
has confirmed consumption which time can not
cure.
I will appoint another meeting to-morrow
morning. Katie keep free to Saturday.
Olin."
The pencil wrote again in a very different
hand.
"My dear friend Emma. I am sorry to see the
discouraged feeling in your heart. Keep up your
hope for brighter days will come, they are wait
ing for you and when your footsteps touch upon
their borders you will feel strong and well. So
cheer up, look to the future, not the present, for
now you suffer.
Still, dear child I can not forbid your feeling
depression. Pain and suffering will always
remind one of mournful events. But hope Emma
hope, and you shall have peace.
2 Eliza."
(51) Jan. 21, 1870
Friday morning we went out as desired to get
paper and pencils. We visited at least six shops
and walked more than one mile before we could
find the kind of paper they wished. At last we
came to a large sheet of French crayon, cream
colored, and that pleased them.
They selected two pencils, one black and one
brown. As soon as we were home the following
was written.
"My dear Sarah and George. All is well ! I am
rejoiced that all is so well arranged for our
purpose.
We can ask no more regarding the paper. It
is just what we want and will be easy for us to
work upon.
(1) I had just requested Doctor to examine Miss Wells' lungs
and he was doing it when I took the above to read.
(2) Emma was Hiss Wells. Eliza was my Ma who died in 1860.
Emma had lived much in our family and Ma was warmly
attached to her.
I was sure dear Sarah that with care you could
get the paper.
I want you to meet to-morrow just at dark,
about six for me to magnetize and take the paper
if the power is (52) sufficiently strong, which, if
clear we will accomplish. Do not fail to meet
then and we will be all prepared.
Undo the paper and place it on the box in
a very thin linen cloth.
Meet a few minutes before six in order to be
free from fatigue and undisturbed. We want to
try all the crayons, and if you are punctual we
will work with power and rapidity, as Dr. Frank
lin has promised to give his aid. We may want
Monday night, we can not yet tell.
Katie come home early in the morning.
We will be with you dear Sarah at an early
hour to-morrow. God bless you!
Olin."
Jan. 22, 1870.
Saturday evening came, the air was clear and
pleasant but we were not ready at precisely the
time specified. Katie did not come until twenty
minutes before six, then her tea detained us at
least a half hour, so that it was ten minutes past
six when we were ready with crayon paper and
pencils on (53) the table before us. We sat in
our usual manner until half past six, when the
raps asked to have the window opened. But
after a minute or two they wished it closed and
said, they must gather more power. So we sat
about ten minutes longer, when the raps came
thick and fast, and said "My dear friends, I am
here I was unavoidably detained." "Dr. Franklin."
Then the raps gave those peculiar chiming sounds
indicative of great joy, the power lifted the table
several times, took hold of the Doctor and Katie
and seemed anxious to manifest their delight, in
every possible way.
We sat perhaps fifteen minutes longer when
the Doctor and Katie were sent to the door
and told not to listen, but all the time we could
hear the paper rattle.
The order was directly given to open the
window and all stand by it. Then the raps said.
"Do not call us back, we will come at ten o'clock
14 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
to-morrow and give directions." We closed the
window and got lights but the paper and pencils
were gone.
(54) Jan. 23—Sunday Morning Ten o'Clock.
We sat down in our private parlor, Olin having
spoken to me at nine saying he should have a
friend with him at ten, and the pencil wrote.
"My heart is full of joy this morning. We
have the paper smooth and well prepared. You
will see when it is returned that it is free from
all defects. We had very little difficulty last night,
in taking the paper, when Dr. Franklin came, but
as you were a little behind time he did not come
until later. So you see the importance of being
punctual at all times.
Dr. Franklin says, that was the first lesson
taught him, punctuality, and won laurels for
him. He is here this morning. He who brought
lightning from the clouds and did so much for
the good of mankind, and who now works even
more faithfully and arduously than when in the
form. How gratefully we should all (55) feel
to him, for he has done and is doing much for
us, and in that way we can do for you. Mr. L.
would never have seen his wife, had it not been
for Dr. Franklin. Sometimes those who are most
blessed are the least grateful when the first
excitement passes off. I do not allude in the
least to any one present. The paper is just what
we wished, and now you may anticipate a great
joy forever.
Oh! Dear Sarah and George how anxious those
who love you are to make you happy. These
dear little children, whose little hands are ever
grasping for new blessings to place in your
pathway. These dear little ones, whose eyes
sparkle with delight when they are permitted to
touch you; playing with each other, hiding
among the roses, throwing flowers upon each
other. Oh! How happy they are, and in the
midst (56) of their joy they will stop and say,
"Let us go and see Mamma and Papa."
Dr. Franklin is here and now appoints Tues
day at half past eight for our meeting. He wishes
you success, and says he will stand by us till
our work is accomplished.
We will talk with you to-morrow, the little
ones and I. Now dear Sarah and George farewell.
Olin."
The pencil went on writing in another hand
and it was this.
"My Dear 'Emeline, I see that you feel a
little neglected. We do not forget you, dear
child. Your interests are mine. When a mother
forgets her child the sun will cease to shine. My
dear child I approve of F. I like him and will
keep watch over you both and I hope some day
to see you very happy.
Your Mother."
(57) After reading the above, we remarked
that Dr. Franklin could hardly like us! We were
not prompt enough for him! The pencil then
wrote.
"He likes all good, honest, intelligent hearts
and 1 love him. He will write you the explana
tion with his own hand. No more now.
Olin."
After Olin had gone we asked if the Professor
was here and if he would write us? The pencil
then wrote.
"My dear friend. I see your disturbed mind.
Now give yourself no uneasiness, for the paper
is just right, and you will have a beautiful paint
ing. Yes, 1 have been here all the morning. My
dear friends I am always afraid of intruding but
I see a welcome in your hearts for me. I will
help you dear friend in your cures. Be patient!
Be happy! (58) Be free from troubles!
1 think Katie better be here at five o'clock
on Tuesday. So Olin telegraphs to me in order
to tell you.
No more.
Prof. K."
Monday, Jan. 24, 1870—The Pencil Wrote.
"My dear Sarah. I am here, happy to come
with the children, who are comprehensive of all
that 1 am doing.
They are sweet angels and one is now our
model. I will not tell you which one until I
bring the paper and then you can judge for
yourself.
( 1) Emcllne is my sister.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 15
Oh! Dear Sarah and George do not fail to
meet to-morrow night.
Katie come home to-night, at least be here
early in the day so that the power will be fresh.
Dear Sister there is a little jealousy with one of
the children but that will soon be dispelled.
The atmosphere is very unfavorable to-day. The
little ones send you kisses and blessings and say
they will be here to-morrow night. (59) Half
past eight is the hour. Be sure and fail not. No
more now.
Olin."
Jan. 25, 1870.
Tuesday evening was clear and beautiful. At
precisely half past eight we were in our accustomed
places. We had been but a short time sitting when
I felt my dress gently pulled from the bottom.
This pulling continued several minutes before
I mentioned
it,
when the raps said
it
was
"Frankie" and said also.
"My dear Mamma,
I
am going to be
a
good
boy and give Leila the power."
The raps then asked to have the window opened
and immediately after
it
was done we heard the
paper and the pencils upon
it
as before. This
continued for half or threequarters of an hour,
when the Doctor and Katie were sent to the door,
and directly all were sent to open the window.
By direction we closed the window, when the raps
said. "Open
it
again, we took the pencils, but
did not the paper."
We opened
it
the second time and after
a
minute or two closed
it,
then my (60) dress was
very vigorously pulled at the bottom and the
Doctor was also touched.
We inquired
if
it
were Frankie and Leila?
The raps said "Frankie not Leila." "Leila has
gone."
I
asked
if
they had all gone and left
Frankie to go alone? Olin replied. "Leila has
gone with Dr. Franklin and Mother, Frankie
will go with me."
Then the following was written.
"My dear Sarah and George
I
myself remain
to speak to-night, words of comfort, of love and
hope. Hope you have, Sarah, bright as the stars
above us, bright as the eyes that look lovingly
upon you when you listen for our footsteps.
Have faith! Hope on dear Sarah and George!
You shall not be deceived! You shall not be dis
appointed! All shall be as you have been promised
and as you anticipate. So far the directions have
been followed, and let us compliment you for
your punctuality. Meet to-morrow at nine
if
clear, not unless
it
is, only wish
a
few minutes.
(61) Oh! How happy we are! We have exhausted
our power and can say no more at present. God
bless you!
Katie good spirits have control over you now.
Oh! Let
it
ever be so, that your record here
may be
a
golden page of golden acts. We will
give important directions to-morrow night. Dr.
F. will be present, and now, good night.
Frankie and
I
are going but we leave you
our blessing.
Olin."
Jan. 26, 1870.
Wednesday evening came bright and perfect.
We were ready before nine, but had been
in
our
seats only
a
few minutes when the raps asked
to have the window opened.
I
did so, and leaving
it
open resumed my seat.
We sat for threequarters of an hour noticing
no sounds outside of ourselves.
The Doctor and Katie were now sent to the
door, and we heard the paper rattle loudly.
It
was then laid on the Doctor's head, on his hand
and presented to various parts of his body.
It
rustled near them all the way from the door
to the open window, where (62) we were all
directed to stand. The inside blinds were open
and as soon as we were there one blind was
pushed to the window.
I,
supposing the Doctor
had accidentally hit
it,
pushed
it
back again and
in so doing put my hand against
a
spiritual body.
The Doctor said that he had not touched the
blind, and the raps said, they did
it,
and then
repeated the act as soon as
I
let go.
*
As soon as they were through with us at the
window, we lighted the gas and found the candle
and candlestick, which we had left upon the
bureau, standing on the bed. By the raps Frankie
said that he did it. The pencil then said.
16 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My dear friends, we have been here in full
form to-night, and I can give you encouragement
by telling you that the picture will in every way
fill your expectations. You are very punctual.
Let me commend you all for your promptness.
My friend George I am going to write you a full
explanation with my own hand. A true, learned
explanation. Therefore be patient, and all will
(63) be simple to your understanding.
Next Monday night keep free. There are
greater things about to be given you. The con
ditions are splendid and we can work well. On
Saturday at half past four P. M. I will come with
your brother and give directions.
Be patient, and with God's blessing which has
already fallen upon us, I say good night, and
depart with your little son.
Yours in friendship united with progress.
B. F."
Jan. 27—Thursday Morning, 1870—The pencil
wrote.
"My dear Sarah, I am happy to say a few
words this morning. Bright and beautiful the
rays of the sun fall upon the earth to give hap
piness to the children of mortality. Oh! Rejoice.
The flowers bloom, the Spring is coming, and
the birds will sing their welcome; then dear Sarah
I shall be among the first to bring you a fresh
spring flower filled with blessings. Dear Sister
I shall come often in the interval to (64) speak
with you. The little ones are happy and singing
merry songs.
Let me dear Sister cheer you on through life,
make the little graves beds of flowers to please
and comfort you.
I must say good bye for the present.
Olin."
Jan. 29, 1870—Saturday afternoon half past four.
Katie was now sick and in great discomfort
still the pencil wrote, though evidently not the
important directions before referred to.
"We foresaw this cloud, but could not see the
cause, therefore we named Monday night for our
special meeting, when we hope nothing will come
between.
Meet at eight on Monday and be happy, as
the conditions have everything to do with our
success. Let your minds be free from anxiety.
We want to finish the picture true to life and
you will feel repaid when you receive it. Have
both doors closed and no interruptions at our
next meeting. Meet for preparation at five to
morrow.
(65) Katie rest till Tuesday, then you will
feel strong to commence your work. Let us
shelter and protect you from another such cloud
of sorrow. It is with difficulty we can speak to
day owing to the conditions and atmosphere.
We will on Monday give you an idea when
we can bring the picture.
We want a thin piece of linen placed on the
table before you sit down, have it ready to
morrow at five, and now God bless you.
Olin."
Jan. 30, 1870—Sunday Evening at Five O'clock.
The air was clear and pleasant, and we closed
the blinds, placed the linen cloth entirely open
upon the table, and sat down with closed eyes.
We sat thus for nearly an hour when the Doctor
and Katie were sent by the door. During the
moment they stood there the Doctor's dressing
gown was pulled being the only touch we felt of
them. We were then sent to open the window,
then to close
it,
get light and lay the cloth away
as they had left it. On procuring light, the cloth
still lay upon the table, but was folded (66)
together three times. The pencil then wrote.
"We have been working every moment, the
atmosphere
is
good for our purpose.
To-morrow we wish to retain all the power
until eight o'clock. Meet then free from fatigue.
We are so happy that no meeting has been
broken. We have worked carefully to avoid
this as you have, now, proof. Now dear Sarah
and George
I
need not tell you to be punctual.
Have
a
bowl of pure cold water placed on the
table.
1
George let the shadows pass away for all
is
well —You need rest and to-night you shall
(1) While the pencil was writing the above.
I
said to the Dr.
"You look sober, what
is
the matter?" He replied, "Nothing"."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 17
retire early. 1 am so anxious to make you happy
and to bless you.
You see, Sarah saw your feelings as distinctly
as I did. Look to us for peace, for joy and
prosperity. No more now. George be happy to
morrow! Be free from anxiety."
As he commenced writing his name I ex
claimed "Is that all! Stop so soon!" The pencil
wrote again.
"Well Sarah I love to talk with you but duty
calls me elsewhere now. Olin."
(67) Jan. 31, 3 P. M., 1870—The Pencil Wrote.
"My dear friends meet to-night rain or shine,
we will be here according to appointment, and
in that case you will have nothing to blame
yourselves for.
We will to-night give the nights we wish kept
for especial work.
Better say nothing about the picture until you
have received
it,
then you can show
it
to your
friends and tell them the facts.
B. F."
1
"My Dear Sarah give yourself no trouble
about the missing things.
1
can not now tell you
who was the perpetrator of the deed, but some
time you shall know. This thought
I
saw in your
mind not long ago.
I
will soon give you all information which will
fully satisfy you.
We feel
a
little disappointed about the
weather, but trust that
it
will clear before eight.
Olin."
The pencil went on writing.
"All we wish
is,
that your minds are free from
anxiety and that will aid us. We worked for
Katie and she must work for us. Keep out of
all temptations and God will work through
(68) his angels for you and those who love truth.
B. F."
After reading all of the preceding
I
said, "Olin
do say more to me!
I
wish you would!" The
pencil then said.
"My dear Sarah do not feel desirous now for
more, as my desire to please you
is
so great that
(1)
I
bad a few hoars before been talking about some things
that were taken from the hoase two years ago, but Katie was
not present and had heard no mention about it.
I
would use the power against my will. You know
I
love to talk with you, and there shall be
many letters of love and interest written to you
from me.
Olin."
Jan. 31 — Monday
8
P. M., 1870, was very
damp and disagreeable. Having laid the cloth
upon the table folded as we found
it
the evening
before, we sat down and many echoes of different
sounds came at once, and we wondered very
much what
it
was all about, and asked Katie
if
she knew the meaning? But she did not. No
explanation was given but the echoes said "Turn
off the gas." Which we did and sat ourselves
down with closed eyes. After fifteen minutes,
by direction
I
opened the window, and in per
haps five minutes closed
it
and took my seat.
We now heard noises about, still did not know
exactly what and the echoes said "Do not listen."
The Doctor and Katie were sent to the door,
soon (69) we were all sent to open the window,
then close
it,
and get light. As soon as done
we missed the linen cloth which we left upon
the table. One of us remarked "Perhaps they
have taken it." The echoes said "No!" We could
not see it. The echoes said "Look behind Sarah!"
There
it
was pinned to the casing of the window,
and the pin pressed so hard into the wood that
I
was obliged to use both hands to take
it
out.
The echoes said "We put
it
there to show you we
had used it." They again wished us to lay
it
away.
The pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George we have succeeded
well to-night. Oh! How happy we are! One
more was admitted into our circle to-night, and
she
is
as happy as we are, and almost as
anxious. We wish you to feel happy, and know
that we are with you, all the time you are giving
us your attention, working for your happiness.
Do not dear Sarah feel hurried in this case. Let
us take (70) time and perfect our work.
Meet Wednesday and Friday nights. Had the
atmosphere been clear we could have done much
more to-night.
Be not impatient,
if
all goes well you shall have
the picture in two weeks, but much depends upon
18 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the weather over which we have no control. Meet
on each occasion at eight. We can say nothing
but in favor of your meeting punctually and
faithfully. We have had to invent colors as yours
were not just what we desired. That is why we
were obliged to call for aid from Dr. Franklin.
He invented the colors we needed in order to
perfect our work, and you will be able to see
for yourselves how delicate they are.
We will talk with you in the interval. Our
power has all been given to this one object over
which we rejoice. Dear Sarah you felt our
magnetism to-night. God bless you and help you
to do right. I am not (71) alone in giving you
blessings, and the night we name for bringing
the paper we shall come in great force, perhaps
some of us may become visible.
Then we shall require two days for preparation.
One thing you forgot, a bowl of water. Well
Sarah have it next time.
Mother was here to-night. She was the spirit
who requested to come here to these especial
meetings, and we are so happy to have her. No
more, our power fails.
Olin."
After reading the above I felt and expressed my
regret at having forgotten the bowl of pure cold
water. I asked them why they did not call for
it? The pencil answered.
"The night not being clear made it less im
portant. Next time we will admonish you. We
wish the cloth kept as directed. Did you notice
the number of echoes at the beginning of the
meeting? We were (72) consulting about the
water and concluded that we had better wait
till our next meeting, but do not then forget it.
Sleep with our blessing upon you all. Dear Sarah
and George the little ones will watch over you.
Olin."
1870 Feb. 1st Tuesday morning the pencil wrote
again.
"My dear Sarah, we wish you to place the
cloth and water on the further bureau, and also
pencil and paper, I mean this kind of paper.
Let there be no mistakes in the nights, to
morrow and Friday at eight o'clock. All will be
well and the picture shall be given soon. Oh!
Sarah how happy you shall be in this gift of
one of your dear little flowers. You shall know
how they look at this age, and then judge for
yourself how you shall know them in these spheres
above. (73) And you will have from this picture
a clear knowledge of how we progress and still
retain to all eternity resemblance true to life
which we last wore when on earth. Rejoice! Be
happy and Friday we will name the days we
wish kept for us. Follow every direction strictly.
God bless you.
Olin."
Feb. 2—Wednesday 8 P. M.— 1870.
The air clear and perfect. We ready with linen
cloth, bowl of water, writing paper and pencil
on the bureau twenty feet from the table where
we three seated ourselves a little before eight
o'clock. At just eight, by order I opened the
window, and stood back from it for a minute,
then closed it and took my seat. We at once
heard the rattling of the paper which lasted
but a minute after which we heard no more for
an hour.
Finally Doctor and Katie were sent by the door
and remained there five minutes perhaps. While
there the echoes said (74) "Papa, I am here
standing by your side." They were now told to
take their seats. This was repeated at intervals
three times, and once the Doctor was sent by the
door alone, Katie and I being sent at the same
time to the window.
During these "times" they asked for a knife
to be placed upon the bureau and the bowl taken
away; and all the time we could hear them at
work upon the paper in some way. They were
particularly desirous that we should not listen, so
we made efforts in all the ways we could suggest
to keep our attention diverted. We finally at
half past ten by order opened, and closed the
window and lighted the gas. We found all the
things we had left, but the paper and pencil
had been moved and on the paper the following
was written.
(Autograph)
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 19
"My dear friends. We to-night have used the
power in working on the picture. We are satis
fied with the progress and as the conditions to
gether with the atmosphere are favorable we
wish you to meet to-morrow night (75) instead
of Friday. Friday meet for preparation at four
P. M. and fuller directions. We may want Sat
urday night, we will tell Friday. God bless you
all.
Benj. Franklin."
Feb. 3—Thursday Evening — 1870.
The atmosphere clear and cold and we sat down
as directed, having first placed the linen cloth
upon the bureau.
Very shortly, the echoes asked to have the
window opened and in a moment closed again.
We sat now for about an hour. The doctor and
Katie were twice sent by the door, for a few
minutes each time, and we all hearing the paper
and pencils from time to time.
Finally we were all sent to open the window
and do something to keep from listening. The
echoes repeated a request they had several times
made on similar occasions. "Mamma pull your
dress." Wishing me to rustle it and thus make
a noise.
After closing the window the echoes said. "Oh
Papa how you will laugh when the light comes.
I am laughing and Uncle Olin is shaking his
finger at me."
(76) The Doctor struck a match and laughed
heartily, for the first thing he saw as the match
lighted, was the linen cloth swinging over his
left arm, being pinned to the collar of his dress
ing gown. We asked if Olin did it? They
answered. "No, Frankie." The pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah we have had the picture here
and Oh! how we rejoice for we are succeeding to
perfection.
How happy and thankful we are to the Great
Giver above for these blessings. Why Sarah and
George there is no death! All is life without
decay. We will only be too happy to come and
place it before you. We shall give very important
directions before we bring
it,
which must be
followed strictly. Three days before we bring
the picture we will give you these directions, which
will be to hold three days and nights free and
uninterrupted. These will be days and nights in
succession, therefore be prepared and be able to
forego everything for this one thing. We are
doing and working when the conditions permit us.
Sometimes (77) the atmosphere forbids. To
morrow meet for preparation at four P. M.
Have this room darkened, and all be present. We
require day as well as night for this work.
When we have time to explain, we will, but
marvel not, for think how strange all things are.
The works of God are wonderful and mysterious,
clothed with
a
thin veil that the earthly eye can
not behold that which should be concealed. Be
satisfied
!
Tomorrow afternoon we will appoint our next
evening meeting. We think
it
will be Monday
as we have duties to attend to in the meantime
and work on the picture in our own homes.
Dear Sarah and George you can have to-morrow
night to see your friends and attend to duties,
as we also shall be at work. All
is
as we desire.
To Dr. Franklin we owe much. Can you realize
that he has been here and aiding us? Of this you
shall have proof. God bless you! Now
I
go to
join the choir in the home of the blessed. All
is
well. Good night.
Olin."
After reading the above we asked
if they would
meet at three instead of four on the Doctor's
account, his office duties coming at four. He
wrote—"I will see Dr. Franklin and tell you
to-morrow morning.
Olin."
(78) Again we went on querying over the won
ders before us, talking and yearning intensely
to know more, and the pencil wrote again.
"We work both here and
in
our homes, we
will explain. Oh chain me not!
\
must depart
and love chains me here while duty calls me.
Olin."
Feb.
4,
1870.
Friday morning very pleasant. Katie being
with me the pencil wrote.
20 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"Yes Sarah the morning is beautiful, the
atmosphere clear and we are happy, but there
are little ones coming to us for enjoyment and
pleasure. Sometimes their little hearts yearn for
that which we alone can give. We are their min
istering angels as well as yours and it is one of
our duties to see that they are satisfied.
Our care is greater than yours, especially for
those little ones, who have mothers on earth, as
they cling to them, and would nestle in their
arms were they permitted; like little Frankie
who finds no greater happiness than in coming
here to you.
Can you understand this Sarah? Yes, I know
you can, for even now, knowing as you do, that
he is happy in heaven, you would still hold him
on earth in his earthly form, were it possible.
He is so impatient to do more than any one else,
we always (79) wish to gratify him. To-day we
will meet to oblige George, at three, Dr. Franklin
will be here. To-night he can not, but we shall
do all that is necessary on this occasion.
His aid is so great, that we do with him in
one sitting what we could not in two (without
him.) So dear Sarah, you see that we have to be
subservient to his will.
You will be not only satisfied but surprised.
To-day make as dark as possible, do not feel
hurried, all is well ! Monday night hold free and
remember to keep out all intruders.
The flowers open this morning as we walk
through them in welcome to our footsteps. See
how good God is to us that we may not weary
of Eternity.
Sarah and George I will tell you soon of a
place that opens dimly to my view. Four years
from now it will be yours. I will see it more
clearly soon, then you shall see with my eyes.
Now I go Sarah, to return to you again at
the appointed time.
Olin."
The pencil wrote still further in the cramped
hand we had before seen. It read.
"My dear child, I heard you speak of me (80)
the other day. I love you and I am proud to
be remembered by you. S."
Feb. 4, 1870.
A clear, cold day and at five minutes before
three, we closed the blinds, placed linen cloth on
the bureau and sat down by the table. In less
than five minutes we were told to open and
close the window as usual. The sitting, and
trying not to listen to the pencil upon the paper
and going "by the door" and returning to seats
were much as on the previous occasions, but once
while the Doctor and Katie were by the door
a very loud noise was heard.
I started, thinking something heavy, I could
not fancy what, in the room above us, had
fallen. The echoes said at once.
"Dear friends do not fear, I could not control
the power.
B. F."
It seemed to be an explosion of the power
they use.
The Doctor said it appeared to strike the door
just above his head, and for the moment stunned
him. My sister afterwards told me that she was
sitting by the window upon the noisy street, there
being three rooms and two closed doors between
her and us, and she was startled by the loud
noise and could not see the cause, said it sounded
(81) like the near report of a gun.
Dear little Frankie talked with us very sweetly,
and the paper was again taken as always, after
which the following was written.
"My dear George and Sarah. We are all happy
to have had this meeting.
Three new spirits have joined our circle, in
order to make a noise, while we work, and attract
your attention. This will aid us very much at
our next meeting which must be on Monday at
half past eight.
We to-day all agreed upon the time and hour,
and we will each be present five minutes before
the time. Let us ask you to be free from all
annoyances and intruders.
We will then work with great power and do
much. Feel not hurried.
1 Tell George that he must be at ease.
(1) The Doctor left the room as soon as the meeting commenced.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 21
There are now flowers in little Leila's hair
to-day, and she looks lovely as well as Frankie.
They will keep their vigils even when we call
them away.
(82) We would like a little table next Monday
night placed near the folding-doors. Do not forget
this as it is one of the important things. Have
upon it only the magnetized cloth, and bowl of
water and knife. Have it all ready before half
past eight. Meet us with happy hearts. In the
meantime we shall be preparing great blessings
for you, and come to you with words of love and
remembrance.
God bless you. Our power has been used. We
go to our homes but shall not lose sight of you.
From the starry windows, from which we send
you rays of light, we will look down upon you
and bless you.
Olin."
Feb. 7, 1870— Morning.
Katie came in and the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah 1 wish you to meet at eight
(instead of half past) punctually. Let there be
no mistake, have the little table ready. The pic
ture will be given this (83) week, and although
there is much feeling on the part of the little
ones, we are obliged to return one first; then
we will if you desire give the other. We have
succeeded well. Let all the forces be reserved.
Let your hearts be happy and all will be well.
Thursday, Friday and Saturday keep free. Two
days and three nights.
Olin."
Monday night was clear and at five minutes
before eight we had everything ready as directed
and were in our seats. At precisely eight by
order we opened, and after waiting a minute,
closed the window. We sat at the table one and
one half hours, the Doctor and Katie having been
sent by the door, four different times.
Each time, while there, the table, upon which
the things were laid, was moved about, apparently
to get it in proper relation to them. At half
past nine, by direction, we opened and closed the
window and lighted the gas. We found the little
knife, we had left on the small table by the
folding doors, stuck in the top of the table before
us. The pencil then wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George, to-night all has
gone well and we are satisfied. We can not talk
to-night as we have to take care of the paper
and to-morrow (84) we will direct. You meet
in the morning.
We have used our power on the picture. We
wish you to meet Thursday at half past eight,
Friday afternoon and evening, Saturday afternoon
and evening. At five and eight. We can say no
more now. The picture will be given Friday or
Saturday. Be not too anxious. We will make
you happy as we are ourselves. We must depart!
God bless you.
Olin."
Feb. 8, 1870.
Tuesday morning the snow falling fast, but
the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah the darkest hour has a bright
star near
it,
so this will be with you; before night
you will feel the rays of the sun warm your heart.
I
speak of hope not of
a
sunny day. Hope points
you onward and whispers in your heart, that all
will be well. We feel happy but would not were
the shadows on your pathway now of long dura
tion.
I
tell you Sarah, that we look over the
present into the future and see that all
is
bright.
No life can be all brightness, there are always
shadows mingled in order to complete the picture
and make
it
beautiful for the inner eye to behold.
God loves those who can feel the sorrows of (85)
others and partake of them.
I
do see a cloud
which will pass away soon
I
hope, —Yes,
I
know
it
will.
You must not let
it
affect you.
The heart of that person
is
unjust, therefore
I
can say but little in her favor.
Now let me appoint the meetings for our work.
To-day in our home above we will work in com
pany with Dr. Franklin. Thursday night we
require
a
meeting, not till then. We do not ask
you for more time than we have already named.
The time
is
agreed upon by the whole, and
I
will
be with you to cheer you as often as
I
can.
The children are happy, they are now playing
22 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
with their Grandmother and little children in the
garden where it is always Summer, where the
flowers daily expand and open in full bloom. We
hope the atmosphere will be clear on each occa
sion.
We can say no more owing to the atmosphere,
the dampness. Keep well in body and spirit. We
will help you, and now for the present 1 say
Good-bye.
Olin."
(86) Feb. 10, 1870— Thursday morning.
Very pleasant and the pencil wrote.
"Dear friends we wish you to meet at twelve
and five today. There is a change coming in the
atmosphere which will prevent our working on
the picture, and as we wish to present the picture
on Saturday night, we require these two meetings
today in order to give it on that night. I will
myself present
it,
and also try to show you the
little face before giving you the picture, which
will show you how true to life the picture is.
Now dear friends let nothing come between to
prevent our meetings; surely as you do not the
picture shall not be delayed. Have the little table,
water, cloth and knife ready, half an hour be
fore the time, and let no one enter the room after
it
is
darkened, not even one of the circle, neither
look upon the table after
it
has been arranged.
Yours with the kind wishes of the circle.
B.
F.
Benj. Franklin."
Again
"My dear Sarah warn George to be prepared,
and not hurried today; better let some person
take charge of his affairs during (87) the meet
ing. We magnetized Katie last night and will
again this morning. Poor Katie this shall be
kept still, only ourselves shall know it. We want
her happy dear Sarah on Saturday night as we
shall be so near, that we (like the sensitive plant)
shall feel the least shadow.
Katie do not write to-day to Albany. We have
seen your thoughts and wish you to wait. All will
be well
if
you shun temptation. We shall work
with great power to-day on the picture.
Olin."
The day was fine and we met according to ap
pointment at both twelve and five o'clock.
There was but little
in
these two meetings that
differed from the preceding. The Doctor and
Katie were sent by the door four times at each
meeting. We were all three distinctly conscious
of the presence of other individuals besides our
selves, especially at the five o'clock meeting. We
heard their footfalls upon the carpet and finally
by the echoes we heard. "Dear friends
I
am here."
Who? we inquired. "Prof. Kenyon." Are you
here
in
form? we asked. "Yes."
The occasion was very impressive. Their pres
ence was as actual and positive to our conscious
ness as we three to each other. (88) When they
were ready to go they said. "We have used the
power, now we go to our duties, call us not back.
B. F."
Directly after they consulted together and
appointed meetings at half past two and at eight
for to-morrow, then left us entirely.
Feb. 11—1870.
The morning
is
perfect and the echoes have
asked, because of the fine atmosphere, that we
meet at twelve.
At twelve we went into our room, having first
prepared
it
by darkening the windows, and leav
ing one open and the doors locked for
a
half hour
before the time. We entered the room with closed
eyes and were at once told to close the window,
then the echoes said "We have had contending
circumstances but have done our best. We hope
that you will be pleased." The Doctor and Katie
were immediately sent by the door for
a
minute
only, then sent back to their seats and the echoes
at once said. "Dear friends note this day and
hour.
1
have aided in bringing the picture. Meet
to-night at eight for the little ones. Look at
the picture only by gas light to-day and to-night
we will finish it.
I
have now to stand by the
death bed of one with whom
I
have often (89)
talked and promised to open to him the Golden
Gates.
B. F."
Olin expressed
a
preference that we should not
look at the picture until after the evening meet
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 23
ing, and asked to have it placed in the drawer.
I went to the table and there lay the sheet of
crayon paper, folded once, and the linen cloth
lightly upon the paper, as though it had been
dropped there. I did not raise the cloth, but
placed them as they lay in the drawer. We three
were completely overcome by the solemnity and
sacredness of the moment. Words are not mine
to express the strange awe with which we were
deeply impressed. We locked the drawer, put the
key in my pocket and left the room having been
in it less than twenty-five minutes.
Evening came very damp but no rain. At
eight, I placed the crayon paper with the cloth
upon
it,
on the little table, turned off the gas,
and before
I
could get my seat was told to open
the window. Scarcely was the sash entirely up,
when the pencils touched the Doctor and Katie
and rattled upon the table. We now sat for
a
little time when the Doctor and Katie were sent
by the door as usual. There was
a
good deal of
moving of the table and the treading about of
(90) feet not our own. The echoes now said that
the atmosphere was unfavorable for us to see
their forms. Frankie asked us several times
if
we could not see him?, said he stood beside us.
We pulled away the curtain from the window,
but we could not. with our eyes, see the precious
child. As he stood by the side of his Papa and
leaned against him, the Doctor said he seemed
as large as
a
child eight years old should. He took
the handkerchief from his Papa's eyes and
dropped
it
again
in
the Doctor's hand. The echoes
said, "We are here in form, but the atmosphere
is
so damp that we can not make the electric
light by which you could see us." They also
wished us next time, to have
a
lantern by which
we could throw the light upon them and thus
distinguish their forms. They said the children
were disappointed that we could not discern them.
Now they asked for pen and ink.
I
got them
and sat them upon the farther bureau. After
a
little time they asked to have them moved to the
little table.
I
did that also.
We now sat again by the table, sang hymns,
rattled newspaper, and were startled several times
by the noises and movements of the spirits and
finally the echoes said.
(91) "Dear friends, Be thankful! Be trustful!
Enjoy these blessings while you have them!
Grasp them! Hold fast to them for there will
come
a
time when they will not be as freely be
stowed. You shall see your children.
Benj. Franklin."
They said "get light."
We then went to look at the picture and there
was the purest, sweetest, most spiritual likeness
of our Frankie, who had been more than five years
in heaven.
We gazed upon
it
through fast falling tears
and
in
speechless wonder. The head
is
surrounded
with rays of light. The echoes said. "All chil
dren's heads are thus surrounded with
a
halo of
light like
a
crown." Its beauty, its purity, its
sweetness grows upon us every moment.
Next we noticed the drawing board, the half
sheet they first took from us, which had been
returned apparently since we came into the room
and upon
it
the following, partly in ink and
partly
in
crayon pencil was written.
(With ink) This Paper
is
not suitable for
a
picture, on
it
we cannot with
(With pencil) We cannot write with ink. This
paper we cannot make
a
drawing upon.
(92) We have done the best we could under the
conditions. Have the picture framed and photo
graphed.
A
glass over
it
will make
it
look finer.
You must remember that the little boy has grown
here and although we cannot give his beauty on
paper, we have shown you our power.
We will take one of the little girl. To work
with earthly materials
it
is
impossible to give the
fine spiritual expression. We can make earthly
objects so magnetized that we can make them
invisible to the earthly eye.
We will produce another in perfection soon.
B. Franklin."
On the margin was written with the brown
crayon.
"I want you to get more drawing paper for
Leila. The next trial will be perfection.
Olin."
24 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
We now looked for the crayons. But two of
the six taken were returned. One black and the
brown.
(93) Feb. 12—10 o'clock— 1870
Katie with us and the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George we were not only
happy to assemble here last night with the little
ones and give you that which we knew would
make you happy, but we were filled with deep
sympathy for you, and sacred gratitude to the
Giver of these great blessings. Few are the num
ber permitted to receive them.
We wish you to go and get the same kind of
drawing paper on Monday morning if pleasant.
Go at all events for we shall want to get perfect
control of
it,
and on Monday night we shall meet
for that purpose at half past eight. We can not
meet to-night as we will not have the power to
work with. The atmosphere
is
very humid and
has no electricity.
Little Leila shall be given next with her blue
eyes open and looking with love upon you. We
will all meet Monday and decide upon the time.
Oh
!
Sarah how happy you and George should be.
We are and the children are supremely so.
You have not Leila's eyes now to look upon,
but you shall have soon, with (94) all her beau
tiful expression.
We will meet you here at half past eight on
Monday to magnetize the paper.
Dear Sarah the picture brings with
it
the halo
it
received while with us. The little sacred face
is
beautiful to us, and you will love
it
more and
more every hour. Do not let careless eyes look
upon
it,
keep
it
for those who know and under
stand the pure, the good, the great. We can say
no more now. God bless you.
Olin."
A
little later the pencil wrote again.
"Dear Sarah and George we will have
a
family
gathering here at half past two.
Tell Em. and E. Wells that they can be present,
but our power will not admit of much physical
demonstration. We will then give you each
a
message. Have the inside blinds closed and we
shall be here at the moment. We will some clear
night admit them to our circle when they can
see, feel and hear.
Olin."
Before the time arrived the echoes told me to
have the picture out at our meeting.
(95) We placed the picture
in
good position, then
the Doctor, Katie, sister Em., E. Wells and
I
sat
down around the table. The echoes at once began,
very slowly and measuredly, and the sound was
entirely new to us. We wondered very much who
it
could be? This
is
what was spelled out.
"My friends,
I
have come to see the picture as
I
was, when on earth,
a
great believer
in
all these
things.
I
think
I
can aid in the next.
Prof. Hare."
Again. "I think you had better place
a
little
of your little girl's hair on paper at next meeting,
as here
it
is
very fine and spiritual, and we want
to give
it
a
little earthly look, that you may be
reminded of her as she looked when on earth.
Farewell.
Prof. Hare."
Then followed
a
consultation among the spirits
signified to us by
a
continued succession of little
echoes. As soon as that was over they said.
"
Katie
take the pencil," and wrote.
"Dear Em.
I
need not tell you that you are
loved and watched over by me, that you know.
I
need not tell you that
I
love to surprize you
and bring you blessings for already
1
have assured
you of this. (96) Oh! My sister.1
I
wish
I
could
open the mysteries to you, take away the dark
clouds and show you ourselves as we really are.
Nothing should seem strange to you for all we
do
is
clothed in mystery, which
is
ordained by
our Father above.
It
is
the law of heaven, and
marvel not when strange things are done. Frankie
has been trying to give you
a
little token of his
presence. Seeing that you were depressed, at times,
he has left us and gone to you often.
The little fellow has tried to get Frank's photo
graph and draw upon
it,
but
I
have persuaded
him not to lest he might soil it. With his own
(1) Em. had missed Frankie's picture from her album for
several days. She had mentioned
it
and wondered very much
about it. Finally the evening before the above. Frankie said
that he took
it
out and now Olin
is
explaining.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 25
things be will do as he likes, so sometime when
you are not looking or expecting anything strange
I do not know what he may do. Now Em. let me
speak of things nearest your heart. You see the
present, so do we. To you it looks dark; to me
the bright reflection of the future makes it
beautiful and bright; for there is a home for you
all peace and you will be well suited to fill it. A
home and a family to love you. (97) Frank writes
as he feels, as his circumstances affect him, but
soon he will step up the ladder of success, and then
you will see him and he will make your heart
glad by fixing upon his plans for life.
Now Em. no matter what you hear, believe
this, for I have had it foreshadowed to my vision.
Some night very soon 1 will come and place lov
ing hands upon you. Blessings attend you. Ma
is going to speak to E. Wells in a few minutes.
Olin."
After a few moments the pencil wrote.
"My dear friend, My child I will say, for I
tried once to shelter and protect you from trials,
I am pleased to have you here and hope you will
see bright changes.
Your health naturally throws about you a sad
ness which makes life seem dreary but have hope.
I had many trials to endure, but Oh! how bright
my life is now.
There are those who love you here and some
day will speak to you. In the spring you will
return to your other home. You will receive warm
welcome, but leave behind you truer hearts than
you will meet else where. Your love for the mar
velous I know, and you shall be gratified (98) by
my son Olin at a favorable time some night next
week. You shall see our lights and feel our hands.
Oh! My dear Emma believe this truth! It will
comfort you in trying hours, yes, and at all times.
I will speak to you at a future time.
Eliza."
As soon as we had read the above the pencil
began again.
"My dear Sarah your faith casteth out all fear
and we love to come to you.
On Monday go for the paper, and Katie be
happy, reserve your strength as much as pos
sible, rest as often as you can, for we can do so
much more when you are fresh.
Now dear Sarah we have said all we can. You
have a little face to shine upon you to-morrow
and every day. A face of heavenly beauty. And
when you look upon
it,
he looks through back
to you. Good bye.
Olin."
At about six o'clock, Katie, Willie and
I
were
talking of Frankie, telling over what he used to
say, and when we repeated his words about his
crib, the little echoes said "Mamma where
is
the
crib now?"
It
had been moved from our room
a
few days before.
I
soon took out his picture and
we were looking at
it
and Willie was crying very
hard, when the little echoes said, "Dear Willie
I
love you more than you can me." The Doctor
had already come in and we talked on about the
darling boy.
I
finally asked him
if
he (99) re
membered anything of his life here? The echoes
said "Yes." The gong now sounded for tea,
I
remarked that
I
did not care to go down and at
the same time Katie asked for pencil and
it
wrote.
"Yes, Mamma go down to tea, but first let
me tell you how
I
remember looking
in
your dear
face early every morning, (but do not cry Papa,)
I
never called you did
I
Mamma when your eyes
were shut.
Frankie."
The above we could fully understand, for
I
never wakened in the morning, as long as he was
by me, without meeting the first thing, the soft,
waiting look from his black eyes fixed intently
upon me. He would never speak or stir until I
opened my eyes, then he would exclaim "Frankie
wants to come over here," and spring over the
side of his crib into my bed, lay his little face
by mine, place one hand under and the other
over my cheeks to hold my face towards his, and
then make his little sweet remarks, every one of
which
I
shall ever remember. Each morning he
waited for this pleasure until my "eyes were
open."
I
asked him
if
he remembered anything of his
suffering sickness? He wrote.
26 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"Do not ask me. I remember the pain in my
head."
His last sickness was Tubercular-Meningitis.
Feb. 13—1870.
Katie came in and the pencil said.
"My dear Sarah the day is one of great beauty
to us for we can soar above, so high above earth
to higher (100) spheres where those whom we
have often read of in history are. Those of whom
we loved to read and wished that we might have
known. History tells of them and I dear Sarah
have met them.
I wish you could go out early to-morrow and
get the paper, as we wish to get control of it and
thoroughly magnetize
it,
before we take
it,
and
the meeting better be at three, have the room
darkened and little table as before. Dr. Franklin
thinks that this will be the most favorable time
for him to give his electrical power. There will
be
a
large circle here to magnetize the paper, and
the pencils we will retain.
We cannot take the paper the first time, will
when
it
is
thoroughly magnetized. Be of good
cheer and go early to-morrow for the paper.
We feel rejoiced to be able to do another, for
we know that success will follow our efforts. The
children are happy in their Eden home, often
coming to look in upon you. Now dear Sarah
and George we have made the arrangements
according to directions. You can also arrange for
your own house-hold duties. We will not require
more (101) than an hour, or an hour and half.
All
is
well! We can say no more to-day only God
bless you! Be happy! Trust in our love and
promises, call upon us always
in
time of trouble.
No more. We go.
Olin."
Feb. 14—1870.
1
went out in the morning and got the sheet of
crayon drawing paper and at three o'clock, the
air very damp, just ready to rain, we sat down
with closed eyes; having arranged the room as
directed
a
half hour before. The little table was
moved about, the paper rattled as though
it
were
being rolled. The Doctor and Katie were sent
by the door for some minutes. Then they were
sent back to their seats and
I
was sent to move
the little table by the side of the one we were
sitting at. This being done the paper rattled and
table was pushed quickly and hard against the
large one. Finally the echoes said place the paper
away as before and they would write directions.
"We were all here dear Sarah and George, but the
atmosphere was very unfavorable and we could
not retain the electrical power longer; as we
always (102) have to form when producing such
a
manifestation. We have however control of
the paper now, and will be able to take
it
when
the atmosphere
is
clear after three more meet
ings. Dear Sarah this must not be hurried.
The atmosphere
is
too damp for us to come
again to-day, meet
if
clear to-morrow at half past
twelve. We will be able to get control and mag
netize
it,
then we hope to name the time when we
can take it. We cannot make you conscious of the
difficulty we have
in
taking the paper. When we
take
it
the night must be clear no dampness in
the air. We are happy to have been able to come
to-day and do so much. We feared at first that
we could not come. Little Leila understands that
this
is
for her and both she and Frankie are very
happy.
Meet at twelve or half past to-morrow, have
paper on the table twenty minutes before the
time and allow no one in the room. All
is
well
!
Be happy! We find that there will be no use of
meeting to-night as we have now used all the
power. We want the circle to feel at ease, not at
all anxious. We can work so much better
(
103)
when all are calm and free from fatigue. God
bless you and give you the blessings you long for.
Olin."
1870.
At twelve on the \5th Katie was very sick and
the air was thick with dampness still the echoes
would have us sit. We sat down by the table,
Katie resting in my arms. They as usual sent
the "Doctor and Katie by the door." He had to
about carry her she was so very sick, he brought
her back and put her in the chair and my arms,
she perfectly unconscious.
I
heard the paper rattle as they came back and
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 27
was sure it had got some way on the floor. They
allowed me to get it. I placed the poor helpless
Katie on the Doctor's arms and looked under
their feet and there the paper lay with a bad
break in it. I put it back upon the little table
and the echoes soon allowed us to close our sitting.
The paper was so much defaced that the Doctor
went out and got a fresh sheet, I however folded
the tumbled sheet in the linen cloth and put it
in the box with and under Frankie's picture, cov
ered the box, and put it in the bureau drawer,
(104) locked the drawer and put the key in my
pocket. As soon as possible we got poor, uncon
scious Katie in bed.
The rain fell thick and fast all the afternoon
and evening and Katie knew nothing until be
tween nine and ten she aroused very sick and
vomited severely. As soon as she stopped vomit
ing the echoes asked us to sit by the table, but
1 was not willing. I told them that Katie was
too sick. They insisted and I positively refused.
They then said "Her condition is very electrical
you must sit." I then called the Doctor, we set
out the table, wrapped Katie in blankets and sat
her by it. The echoes now told me to unlock the
drawer and open it a little way. I did as directed
and saw the box with the cover pushed one side
and Frankie's picture lying on the cover. The
echoes at once told me not to look but 1 had seen
enough to alarm me, and I asked them if they
were going to take Frankie's picture? They an
swered "No." We turned off the light and sat
down by the table. I think it could not have been
one minute before the Doctor and Katie were
sent by the (105) door. He as before took her in
his arms and the echoes immediately said, "Open
window." I threw the sash wide open, put my
hand out and felt the rain still falling though not
thick and heavy. I wondered and said "What
can they want, the rain would spoil the paper
even if they could take it in such an atmosphere?"
By the time I had finished my comments the
echoes said.
"We have taken the paper. Prof. Hare aided
us. Get light." We lighted the gas and looked in
the bureau drawer and there lay Frankie's pic
ture on the cover of the box and nothing in the
box. Not only was the paper gone but the linen
cloth that was folded about it was gone also.
The pencil then wrote while Willie was stand
ing by the bureau looking at Frankie's picture.
"We have taken paper and will give a perfect
likeness. Our robes sheltered the paper. Poor
Katie! have great patience with her, for when
her vitality goes she is weak. Have patience!
We had great power as Katie was near the thresh-
hold of eternity. We all gathered here. Willie
shall know Leila. Meet Thursday at half past
twelve. The circle."
I think, while we were reading the above (106)
message, the echoes said "close eyes and open the
window." We all, Willie included closed our eyes
but did not turn down the gas. I opened the win
dow and the Doctor and Katie were directed to
stand by the bed.
After a few seconds the echoes said "Close win
dow and open eyes." The first thing we saw was
the linen cloth on the bed having no dampness
upon it.
Feb. 16—Wednesday morning — 1870.
Very clear, the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah Oh! how happy we are to
have the paper in our possession.
We had all day been gathering power and a
large number of spirits were present. Dr. Frank
lin was here and aided in raising Katie. Our
power was great and we took the magnetised paper
which is now smooth and clean. Little Leila will
sit for her picture, or stand in a garden of roses.
Bright and beautiful is the day!
Oh! Katie try again, 'If at first you don't suc
ceed try try again.' Put a glass of water under
the table to-morrow and we will magnetize the
water for you to drink and it will cure you if
you are faithful to it.
Dear Sarah golden days are over you! Bright
visions before you! Blessings falling upon you!
And all is well!
Be happy to-morrow! Be free from anxiety!
Be happy is our wish.
Olin."
28 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(107) Feb. 17—1870.
The atmosphere clear and delightful, but Katie
was suffering from sick-head-ache, so that the
echoes postponed the meeting until two o'clock,
at which time we darkened the room and took
our seats. After sitting perhaps fifteen minutes
the echoes asked to have the window opened and
soon closed.
Now we sat as before, the Doctor and Katie
going from the table to the door and back some
three or four different times; the table by the
door pushing about and coming with great force
against them when they stood near it.
Presently the echoes asked for the glass of water.
I had one in readiness on the bureau, which 1
now placed on the carpet under the edge of the
further side of the table at which we were sitting.
We sat still a little longer, when the order was
given for Doctor and Katie to go by the door
and the window to be opened, and all three stand
by the window. These changes being made we
remained by the window a few seconds when, by
direction, we closed, and opened our eyes. The
first thing we noticed was the linen cloth which
I had left on the table by the folding doors,
doubled and spread smoothly over a little stand
that was by the window behind us, and upon it
was standing the glass of water which I had put
upon the carpet.
(108) The pencil then wrote this.
"My dear Sarah and George we have been suc
cessful and all is well. Our next meeting we
appoint Saturday night at half past eight and we
hope that Katie's vitality will not be used too
much as we want good conditions. We have not
much power to write now. The water is mag
netized for Katie to take; one tablespoonful be
fore going out, one now and one before going to
bed. Better take some with her in a little bottle,
it will be a sure cure. Meet at half past eight
Saturday. We are satisfied. Be happy! Be faith
ful and hopeful! The circle were all here.
Olin."
Feb. 19—1870.
Saturday evening was warm and rainy. Katie
was very sick, not able to sit up and I thought we
could not meet at all, but the echoes insisted upon
it,
so we did as directed. After about an hour we
were excused, nothing out of the usual order hav
ing transpired, excepting the appointing of the
next meeting being made by the echoes and no
written directions given.
(109) Feb. 20tb— 1870.
10 o'clock was the hour for our next meeting
and the air then was clear and cold. We met and
did as directed for an hour, nothing novel occur
ring and at the close the following was written.
"Dear Sarah and George we have done as well
as we could under the circumstances. We will
have better success this afternoon. To have suc
cess these directions must be followed. Be free
from fatigue! Be punctual! Be happy! Have no
interruptions and all will be well!
Meet at four this afternoon, and
if
there
is
any
thing can quiet and comfort Katie's mind do
it
by all means. JNow the enemies are conquered
let them not get the better of you again. Give
no thought to the painful past, but look to the
future for blessings. We only ask that our direc
tions may be followed. We go now! Call us not
back!
Olin."
An hour or two after our meeting,
I
found in
the pocket of my dress the little knife
I
(110)
had placed upon the table for their use.
I
showed
it
to the Doctor and asked him how
it
could have
got there, telling him that I placed
it
upon the
little table before we sat and had not thought
of
it
since. Katie was not present when
I
men
tioned
it,
and
I
neither spoke nor thought of
it
again.
At four o'clock, cloudy and snow flying. Our
meeting was but
a
half hour's duration and was
as always. The Doctor and Katie were sent by
the door,
I
believe, four different times, and while
we were in session the echoes said "Dear Mamma
I
put the knife in your pocket."
After we were excused the following was
written.
"We are succeeding well now, and we will work
while the sun shines and all hearts are happy. We
(1) This m to Katie
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 29
will have a fine picture and one that will in every
way please both you and us. Now dear ones be
happy for great blessings will fall down upon
you.
Meet for further directions to-morrow at nine.
God bless you! All is well! Be happy!
1There is no use of making yourself unhappy
or borrowing trouble, only do better in future.
To-night return home and to-morrow you will
get up bright and well. We will hide your faults
and help you this time if you will only be faith
ful. We go now to work upon the picture.
The Circle."
(111) Feb. 21— 1870.
Monday morning Katie came in and this was
written.
"My dear friends I am happy to come this
morning and give you the directions which are
so important to success. We will leave you for
a few moments till we look!
B. F."
After five or ten minutes the pencil again wrote.
"We will all meet at twelve this morning. Have
the little table and water. Thursday night will
be our great meeting. I do not convey that the
picture will be given, but it will be a great meet
ing at seven o'clock, Dr. Hare.
B. Franklin."
At twelve o'clock the air was clear and cold
and the meeting seemed very satisfactory.
We were greatly startled by something sound
ing like a roll of paper being struck with great
force against the Doctor's head. We all jumped
and 1 opened my eyes but closed them as soon.
We wondered what paper it could be? Was it
the picture? Is there any other paper in the
room? Suddenly 1 recollected that the part of
the sheet I had cut from Frankie's picture, was
rolled in a piece of wrapping paper as when I
took it to get the second for Leila's, and was left
upon the bureau. I mentioned the fact and the
( 1 12) echoes said "Yes and it is mine." Papa now
asked why he struck him? The answer was "You
were too quiet." We three were soon engaged in
conversation, and whiz went the roll of paper
(1) This is addressed to Katie.
across the table in front of us lodging on the
carpet beyond. Now we were all three sent by
the folding doors, and the little table was pushed
suddenly with great force from the wall against
me. Directly we were sent to open the window,
and as soon as closed the following was written.
We have been successful dear Sarah and
George. We have used great power. Meet Wed
nesday at three and have no one in the room
for a half hour before. All is well! We will talk
with you in the mean time. Now be happy and
blessings will fall upon you!
Olin and the Circle."
Feb. 23, 1870.
Katie was detained and did not get here as
early as appointed, but when she did come the
pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah we will lose nothing. Katie
has done the best she could and we will all
gather here at ten minutes after six. Have room
dark. We are all (113) better pleased with this
hour owing to the beautiful atmosphere. All is
well ! Tell George to be punctual. Have both fold
ing doors closed, the little table standing by the
doors and covered with handkerchief. No water
on the table but on the bureau. Now I go. We
saw this early this morning and all agreed upon
the time.
Olin."
As soon as I read the above I asked if they
could not make the appointment a little earlier
as we had company and the time would interfere
with tea. The pencil then wrote.
"My dear Sarah meet fifteen minutes before six.
All will be well! Have room dark.
Olin."
The afternoon was beautiful but the Doctor
by the slowness of his clock was about twenty
minutes late which troubled me so that when we
finally got in the room at five or ten minutes after
six I felt unhappy and worried. The room had
been for more than a half hour ready with win
dow open and doors locked. As soon as we entered,
they wished the window closed.
(114) Very soon the Doctor and Katie were
30 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
sent by the folding doors. Directly after they re
turned to their seats the echoes said.
"Dear Mamma would you like to catch a little
glimpse of me?" I answered affirmatively. The
echoes then said "Look on the bed." We looked
and saw a beautiful light on the middle of the
bed. The echoes then told us to go by the side
of the bed, but not touch the light. The light
was much larger and brighter as we looked
down upon
it,
than
it
seemed from our seats at
the end of the room. We looked upon
it
several
minutes, then took our seats and the echoes said.
"We showed you this to quiet you." The sitting
now went as before until the echoes said "Open
eyes." And there on the table almost under my
face was the beautiful light again. We watched
it
many minutes and to the Doctor
it
looked —
I
will give his own language.
"On being told to 'look'
I
opened my eyes
and saw near the middle of the table, what ap
peared an oval luminous body, of about the size
of the upper half of
a
person's head of medium
size.
I
bent forward and partly over
it
at its
side. The body had for the most part, distinct
and defined boundaries against the darkness of
(115) the room, quite smooth and regular over
its upper surface; the under side at the edges
was very irregular with deep indentations, espe
cially at and towards its right end.
I
supposed
it
to be upon
a
newspaper knowing that one was
there, but
I
could see absolutely nothing beyond
the luminous object itself.
The color of the light was light or yellowish
rather than reddish.
It
appeared somewhat like
a
mass of metal, heated so as to be luminous, but
its edges or boundaries were more distinct than
a
heated object could present to the eye. The
light gradually diminished, and then reappeared
several times. Sometimes
it
diminished so much
as to render
it
invisible, but in diminishing the
size of the object appeared unchanged. Sometimes
however the body was not luminous throughout,
but then
I
had
a
distinct impression, and
it
ap
pears to me to be gained from sight, of the
continuous uniform size of the object, which was
throughout the time of seeing
it
quite immovable.
After its degree of luminosity had several times
undergone these changes,
it
ceased altogether,
though
I
was not conscious that the object had
moved away." "To my vision this (116) show
ing of light seemed more like the opening of
a
flower as
it
became very luminous, and the clos
ing of
it
as
it
darkened again. At times
it
would
almost flash up and scintillate."
1
am quite certain that
I
saw the electrical
spark although the Doctor did not. This light
was the same that Katie and
I
saw upon the
middle of the bed; but the Doctor standing by
us could not see
it
at all, but saw
a
smaller blue
light upon the foot of bedstead. He has but just
told me this fact, and says that
1
kept saying
"how large and beautiful
it
is;" he asking
"Where?" and
I
repeatedly saying, "On the
middle of the bed;" but to his eyes
it
was total
darkness there.
We finally could see
it
no more and the echoes
said "It was Leila." Then they said "Come little
girl we want you." Our sitting continued perhaps
fifteen minutes longer when they appointed half
past twelve for our next meeting, had us open
the window and went away. The linen cloth
which
I
had spread upon the table by the door,
was folded very small and lay on the table be
fore me.
Feb. 24—1870
Very clear and bright. We prepared the room at
twelve and left the window open. As soon as we
entered
it,
at half past, they wished the window
closed. The Doctor now felt something press his
foot strongly and soon the echoes said. "It
is
so
big
I
cannot (117) take
it
in my little hand."
The Doctor was moved about upon the carpet
while sitting in his chair, but soon they were still
except the pencils upon the paper at the further
end of the room.
They frequently made exclamations of joy and
rolled the table about the room several times.
Finally the echoes said. "Dear friends we are go
ing to use all our electrical power on the picture
at this meeting we have such good conditions.
We require patience from you. Meet for directions
at half past three to-morrow. Dr. Hare, B. Frank
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 31
lin and the Circle." Now they seemed to work
steadily, sending the Doctor and Katie to the door
from time to time. In the midst of all this we
heard a match strike close by us and saw the flash
of light through our eyelids. Katie screamed,
opened her eyes and was greatly alarmed lest she
should be set on fire. The echoes now said. "You
did very wrong to open your eyes." In a minute
or so, one, two and three matches were struck, we
seeing through our closed eyelids the burning of
each match.
Directly they asked to have the window opened,
said "Farewell," and went away.
We opened our eyes, and the round stand which
we left by the window, stood close to our table,
on it lay a large blank (118) book which I had
on the table before me. This book covered the top
of the stand and on the book stood a heavy china
candle stick with candle, which we left on the
further end of the mantle shelf. The burnt
matches lay about the carpet.
Feb. 25, 3 o'clock— 1870.
A clear cold day. We arranged the room and
seated ourselves as usual. Everything seemed to
work satisfactorily. The Doctor and Katie were
sent from time to time by the door and the Prof.
walked about with his firm, heavy tread.
The Doctor was twice sent by the door alone,
Katie remaining by me, the echoes saying they
wished to show him that he aided them.
As he returned the second time, the linen cloth
I had spread over the table by the folding doors,
was thrown over my head so as to entirely cover
both my head and face. At another time while
the Doctor and Katie were by the door, I left my
seat and stood by the register. The Doctor or
Katie did not know that I had stirred for I made
no noise in my slippers. The echoes said "Sarah
go back." At four o'clock we three stood by and
opened the window. (119) After closing it I at
tempted to put away the linen cloth, but the
echoes prevented me. The Doctor attempted to
leave the room and they detained him also and
told us to "examine the cloth." We found written
upon it with pencil. "Dear friends meet at twelve."
The pencil then wrote.
"My dear George and Sarah. We have all been .
here! Oh how happy we are! How happy for
we have succeeded! Happiness is in our home, the
flowers look gay and bright with joy, and the
birds welcome us.
The spirits of your departed loved ones will
dress in robes of white and flowers. Monday night
at half past eight.
To-morrow meet at twelve, Monday our great
meeting. All is well! Rejoice and be glad! Call us
not back."
Olin."
After reading the above I told Olin that we had
another engagement for Monday evening and
asked if they could not appoint Tuesday evening?
The answer was.
"I will answer you in one hour. Farewell."
(120) At the expiration of an hour he came and
said, "We will meet Tuesday evening."
A few hours later I remarked that Olin had
written but little latterly and I wished so much
for something more: Soon Katie asked for pencil
and this appeared.
"My dear Sarah and George. We speak to you
in language better than words, for we speak
through deeds such as few can receive. We are
happy to be able to give you these rare blessings.
All now is as we wish. The conditions are favor
able and the atmosphere also. There must be no
disappointment on Tuesday night as that is one
of the most important nights. No clouds surround
our work. God's sun shines upon us with benign
light and new flowers daily open for us. We will
drop some upon you.
Tuesday meet at half past eight, to-morrow at
twelve. God bless you and keep your faith holy
that we may work under that influence. Ever re
member to (121) thank God, not us.
Olin."
Feb. 26—1870.
The air clear and electrical. I prepared the room
at half past eleven and at twelve with closed eyes
we entered, closed the window and sat by the large
table. Our sitting went on for an hour much as
usual, the Doctor and Katie going several times
by the door, and once he alone, the treading about
32 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
of the Prof., the rolling around of the small table,
the swaying of the hand glass which hung by the
side of the mirror on the top of the bureau, a
sound like the chirping of birds, the continued and
prolonged rustling of substances or materials we
could not define, etc. Finally a match was drawn
across the carpet and lighted and held before our
eyes and so close to our faces that we felt the heat.
When that was well burned, another was lighted
and used in the same manner. A candlestick with
candle in it was standing on the shelf, but was
brought where we were and lighted from the
match, was passed backwards and forwards before
our eyes and was extinguished (122) in putting in
the Doctor's hand which was under the edge of
the table. Another match was struck, the candle
again lighted and after more passing and holding
it before our eyes many times the candle-stick
was set in the Doctor's hand on the table. The
echoes said. "We have used great power on the
picture. Meet Monday at three o'clock. Remem
ber Tuesday evening! Rest happy, we are! All
is well."
Soon we were sent to open the window and close
it,
after which we looked at the burning candle
which still stood upon the table, picked up four
burned matches, or ends of matches from the car
pet, found the cover upon the match box;
a
clean
towel which we left, folded, upon the bed, was
spread entirely open, over the little stand that
stood by the window, and the linen cloth which
1
spread over the table by the folding doors, was
nicely folded and lay upon the towel on the stand.
I
left the room immediately to look after
a
mat
ter which demanded my attention, but Katie soon
found me and said, "They want you.
I
(123) at
tempted to extinguish the candle, but they said
'Call Sarah'
"
As soon as
I
came they said. "Dear
Sarah put out the light made by unseen hands and
we bless you. You be the first to extinguish the
light made by the angels of Heaven.
Olin."
At ten minutes before ten Katie came quite un
expectedly to me,
1
was just on the point of retir
ing. We sat by the fire
a
few moments and the
echoes said, "Meet to-morrow at twelve."
I
in
quired
if
they had made the arrangement since
she came? The answer was "No before." Upon
inquiry of her
it
appeared that by some unseen
influence she had been brought back.
Feb. 27—1870.
Cloudy with
a
little rain. At half past eleven
the room was ready and at twelve we were in our
places having closed the window. We had been
but
a
few moments seated when the echoes said,
"The conditions are good but the atmosphere
is
unfavorable, still we can do that which will aid
us greatly." The Doctor and Katie went three or
four times by the door and we heard the Prof.
walking around. We sang the greater part of the
time, they keeping time with (124) us, both with
the echoes and with their feet.
Suddenly they sent the Doctor and Katie by
the door in great haste and wished the window
opened. We did
it
quickly and found the linen
cloth upon the carpet under the window when we
opened our eyes. They said their haste was be
cause of the atmosphere, having detained us only
forty-five minutes, while the day before our meet
ing was an hour and half long.
They now asked us to read and upon
a
piece of
paper which lay upon the table before us was
written, "Meet at three to-morrow. We have all
been here. Your tears dear Sarah we have seen.
Olin."
After reading, the Doctor and Katie both
wanted to know what the last sentence meant?
Neither of them knew that
I
had been shedding
tears, which had run down my cheeks, and
dropped on the table before me, but that unseen
brother saw
it
and knew how tender the spot was,
touched by some of the music we were singing.
The Doctor found the pencil which
I
had laid
upon our table, and with which Olin had written,
in his pocket.
At about four o'clock Katie sat down by me
and asked for the pencil. She at the same time
was talking about (125) going down to Wall St.
in the morning to attend to some business that
troubled her.
"My dear Sarah we have been with the children
to-day and are yet. We worked with great power
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 33
this morning and feel that all is going well. The
conditions are splendid and in that we can ask no
more. We wish you all to keep happy and soon
you will rejoice in the reward which will follow.
Yes; Katie better go and have her mind free. Oh!
Sarah how happy you will be!
Olin."
Feb. 28—1870
Thick clouds hung heavily over the earth and
fine snow was falling at three o'clock, still we took
our seats and waited the moving of the spirits.
Soon the echoes spelled. "We fear to bring the
picture in this atmosphere. We will hold a con
sultation."
While they were in counsel Frankie said, "Dear
Mamma I have found something of yours." I
asked, "What is it Frankie?" He replied. "I will
not tell you now."
We were then quiet for a few moments while
the echoes were still making the peculiar sounds
significant of consultation, when Frankie again
spoke. "Oh! Mamma (126) 1 have such fun. You
will laugh."
Now the echoes asked us to be quiet, so we sat
in silence some minutes after which they said.
"We fear to expose our work to the elements;
open eyes. Get paper and pencil." As soon as we
looked we saw my curls pinned to the shawl that
darkened one of the windows.
When we sat down the curls were in a box,
with the cover on, upon the bureau but now the
cover was on the bureau and the box on the stand
by the windows. The pencil then wrote.
"My dear friends never feel in haste to receive
promised gifts, wait the time of those who know
better. Now to-day were we to bring the picture,
in its magnetized state through the dampness part
of its beauty would be lost. Meet at half past
eight to-morrow and all will be glorious, if we
have a favorable atmosphere. I wish you joy and
happiness. p„
The pencil continued to write but in a different
hand, it was the following.
(127) r'My dear Sarah to-night I will with
(1 ) The Dr. and I were going and went with Willie that evening
to a fancy dress ball. It was beautiful and we all enjoyed it,
especially Willie. Did Frankie and Leila too?
Frankie and Leila glide in and look upon you.
The children will be pleased to see Willie and
partake of his pleasure. Oh! How little you can
realize how near we are to you and how we love
to see you happy. Sarah think of me, I will an
swer your thoughts by giving you peace.
All is well ! Never have the conditions (yours.
George's and Katie's 1 mean) been better. We
will all come to-morrow night with power, and
now may God bless you.
Olin."
Again the pencil wrote.
"Have no meetings to-morrow with any one.
Call not upon us. Meet at half past eight.
Dr. Hare."
At five o'clock the pencil wrote again.
"My dear Sarah, I have come to give directions.
To-morrow night at eight have the room darkened,
and go in with closed eyes. Let your hearts be
happy and trustful. Meet with your minds free
from imaginings and we will succeed. (128) I
would like you to get a few immortelles with ever
green if possible. We will all be here and hope
to find the room nice and pure. God bless you.
Olin."
March 1st— 1870.
At about two o'clock I received a letter telling
me that some relatives whom I was expecting on
the following day would be here on this evening
instead and 1 knew that their coming must neces
sarily interfere with our half past eight meeting.
I came up from dinner and we talked it over, but
could not see how it could be well arranged. At
five o'clock the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah under all the circumstances
I think you had better meet at seven. Since three
o'clock 1 have been trying to make arrangements
for an earlier meeting. Meet at seven.
Olin."
Tuesday evening was clear and pleasant. 1 had
the room prepared as they desired and laid the
immortelles and evergreens, with a pair of scissors
upon the crib near the folding doors. At seven we
were in our seats. The entire circle of spirits at
once announced their presence by saying. "We
are all here. We could not bring the picture
34 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
yesterday on account of the atmosphere, therefore
we shall give our (129) attention to it this eve
ning, and will not show our faces.
Benj. Franklin."
We now sat for a half hour or more, the Doctor
and Katie being sent to the table and to the crib
(where the immortelles and evergreens lay) sev
eral times, until the echoes said, "Sarah get a
spool of white thread." 1 got a spool but could
not tell from the touch whether it were white or
not. Frankie said "Look and see for they are all
busy." I went into an adjoining room and made
sure of the wlrite cotton, then put the spool upon
the little table. The Doctor and Katie were sent
again and again by the door and we could dis
tinctly hear the rustling of the evergreens for
many minutes, perhaps fifteen. We sang and
talked and the Prof. walked about us until
Frankie said "Papa hold down your hand." And
in it Frankie placed a sprig of evergreen and said
"Always keep it."
Almost directly he said "Mamma's is the
prettiest," and asked me to put my hand down
and placed in it a sort of a cross made of the
immortelles and evergreens and tied with the
white cotton. It is very sweet and precious. The
long stems had been cut from the flowers and
more than three dozen were arranged in this little
gift. He said (130) "It contains blessings for you
Mamma."
Soon we were told to stand by the open window
after which they wrote.
"We wish to meet again Thursday at half past
twelve. All is well! We have used all our power
and can say no more now.
Olin."
March 2nd— 1870.
I went out in the morning and while I was gone
the pencil wrote to the Doctor.
"Dear Papa. My brother Willie was the
prettiest boy on the floor the other night.
Mamma was the. prettiest woman and you the
prettiest man. I am helping Leila. Oh! how I
love her.
Frankie."
Before the afternoon was over Katie said to me
that she and the Doctor both felt that the "spirit
circle" did not succeed in doing what they wished
at the meeting on the previous evening. In a little
time the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah meet us at half past twelve
to-morrow. We did succeed last night, and all is
well! We will talk further this evening before
any interruptions. x Be happy! We are with you
and blessings shall follow you.
Olin."
(131) 9 o'clock evening
"My dear Sarah we are always anxious to please
and add to the happiness of others. You must find
out the movements of Uncle and we will try to
fall in with them. When we present the picture
we shall require some changes in this room. We
want you to feel secure, knowing that we are
never idle, always busy, happy to see your hearts
free from doubts. We can work so much better at
such times. Mistrust with its deadening power
will ever bar out all holy influences and put us
far from the presence of such persons. Keep your
own counsel! All is well! Oh! How happy we are!
Meet at nine or half past in the morning for
directions.
Make Uncle happy for he will not be able to
come here much more. The children are very
joyous. Leila's eyes are sky blue. They will look
in yours and you will look in hers, and you shall
have an impress of them so long as you live on
earth. Now good night.
Olin."
In the morning he repeated his wish for the
(132) meeting in the following words.
"My dear Sarah meet at half past twelve, you
will be less likely to be disturbed than at any
other hour, and the circle have appointed that
time to be present. All is well!
Olin."
March 3rd— 1870.
The air cold and electrical. At half past twelve
we met as directed, and were in session one hour.
No new or unexpected thing occurred during the
time. We sang hymns in the intervals of the
Doctor and Katie's going "by the door," and re-
(1) We were expecting callers during the evening.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 35
turning "to seats" again, heard the Prof. as usual,
and finally stood by the open window.
When we opened our eyes, we found the linen
cloth upon the carpet under the window, and the
little knife, which we had left upon the table by
the folding doors, we found stuck through a sheet
of paper and into the table at which we were
sitting. The pencil then wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George, all is going well
with us and we are satisfied. Meet Saturday at
three. We will in the mean time give directions.
Keep your own counsel! We will try to fall in
with your arrangements. Important directions we
will give you on Saturday. God bless you, be
with you and soon may He enable us to raise the
curtain that you may see your little Angels, so
happy, and so bright.
Olin."
(133) March 4th— 1870. Nine o'clock morning.
"We were with you very early this morning in
order to come and give you a few important direc
tions. There is a change in the atmosphere and
we think that if it is clear you had better meet at
half past twelve to-day. We are so fearful that
it may storm as now the elements are disturbed.
You can make arrangements can you not?
Olin."
1 told him I could arrange but the clouds were
now gathering. He then said.
"I am at a loss now, but will go and let you
know in half an hour."
At the expiration of the half hour he came and
wrote.
"My dear Sarah we have all talked together
and concluded that to-morrow may be a more
favorable time. We will perhaps have a clearer
atmosphere then, and all cannot be present to-day,
therefore it will be better to fulfill the first ap
pointment. We also see that the chain of events
will work better to-morrow, and you must all be
here at the moment so that we are not kept wait
ing. Oh! My sister, you who live on earth feel
the changes of heat and cold, feel the pains and
cares of life. (134) Clouds cross your pathway
and you see not the sun, while we are walking in
the flowers and fields of immortality, only pained
when grief overcomes the happier feelings of your
hearts. Be happy. All is well ! What would life
be to you now were you without our words of
promise, our guidance and care? Life is not life
without the immortal.
I leave with you the blessings of the circle.
Olin."
March 5—1870.
Fine snow in the air until three o'clock when
it ceased, but the sun could not be seen. At just
the time they desired, we were in our seats and
the Prof, was as soon walking about us.
The meeting was of the usual order, lasting
nearly an hour and closed by our standing by the
open window. We looked for the linen cloth after
they were gone, and found it folded and hung over
the cord which encircled the waist of the dressing
gown the Doctor had on. The cord hung loosely
about the Doctor so that the cloth could easily be
slipped in without attracting his attention. They
requested us to meet Sunday ten minutes before
eleven for directions.
(135) March 6— 1870.
Sunday morning 10 minutes before 11.
"My Dear Friends. We have all been consult
ing together in order to know what is best, and
how we better proceed to perfect our work. The
atmosphere has been against us of late but we hope
now to be able to accomplish our work soon.
You will understand when we present the pic
ture why we have taken time and why we have
been longer at work.
You will be rejoiced, so be patient!
Meet us Tuesday night at ten. Then all must
be quiet, no interruptions, no opening of doors.
We must have that meeting and no failure. Our
materials require to be replenished and we have
much to do. Be punctual ! Have the little table,
the cloth on the table, a knife and flowers, only a
few, and do not during the meeting ask questions.
Be patient, all shall be made clear as the pure
waters, as clear as an icicle—all in good time. No
more directions until after Tuesday. Now you
know your work.
B. F."
(136) "Dear Sarah and George. We feel happy.
36 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
We feel calm. Our souls rejoice in the promises
of God, and while we sit in our Ivy-homes with
roses under our feet we look upon you and send
you blessings. We have been constantly with you.
Our lives are not to retire with folded hands. No,
we work! Our lives are full of usefulness, ever
doing something to make others happy, and here
also, not in our own immediate presence but where
our eyes can see, are many spirits weak, unhappy,
dissatisfied and wandering without hope, who need
our hands to lead them, our voices to cheer them,
our words to teach them. You see how we are en
gaged. When Abraham Lincoln first came here he
required the aid of happier spirits, as much if not
more than any one, to raise him and show him
the way. His work was not finished which was
his continual regret. Then Washington came forth
and showed him his own past and present, a mir
ror of heaven, and with (137) holy thoughts, he
opened to that good man the avenues of peace and
resignation.
We must all help each other, and now let me
say dear sister that I am happy, for I know that
some day you will find all that I now tell you
to be true. Oh ! be not depressed ! You are becom
ing daily more spiritual in your knowledge of
heaven, that home where your loved ones dwell;
and often your spiritual form walks here with us,
while you sleep and dream.
They call! We must depart leaving blessings
with you.
Olin."
March 8^—1870.
Tuesday evening ten o'clock was very pleasant
and before the appointed hour we were ready,
and they also at fifteen minutes before ten an
nounced their arrival and requested us to go then
to the room. Our sitting was not distinguished by
any especial act. They spoke several times to us
that everything was well, and as the Doctor and
Katie came from the folding doors at (138) one
time we heard the pen-knife fall upon the carpet
and in a little time after, Frankie said "Mamma
hold down your little hand." I laid my arm upon
my lap and my hand a little beyond it. Soon I
felt the apparent leaning of a child against my
knees, and then something upon the out-side of
my hand; it did not feel like the knife, it did not
feel like the human hand, but very soon I did feel
the knife and it was put through between the
fingers into my hand. They went away in the
usual manner and expressed great satisfaction
with the meeting, requesting us to meet at half
past nine in the morning for directions. While we
were standing by the open window Frankie pulled
my dress so strongly at the bottom as to draw me
slightly over several times. Then they were gone,
gone to their spirit borne.
(139) March 9—9y2 A. M.— 1870.
"My dear Sarah. We are here to give directions,
happy to have had success last night and now we
wish to say that all goes well. There are blessings
falling upon us from the world above and we let
them rest upon you with peace and joy. Now we
wish to appoint our next meeting to-morrow at
three if you can all be present. The picture shall
be given soon. Oh! how beautiful is the home
from which we come! No dark shadows to fall
upon our golden walks! No withering flowers! No
dark hours! And when we fold you to our arms
in the world immortal you too shall enjoy all that
we do in company with us.
Do not fail to keep our appointments but let
there be no interruptions, for any disturbance will
cast shadows upon our work and wishes.
God bless you! Make your arrangements (140)
at once that we may make ours. Be happy my
dear Sarah!
Yours to all Eternity.
Olin."
After reading the above I consulted with my
family and decided that we could arrange for the
time mentioned and told Olin so. Then he imme
diately wrote.
"My dear Sarah. I will acquaint now the circle
and we will all meet at three to-morrow. The way
will be clear and all will be well.
We will come and let you hear from us before
the hour of meeting.
Olin."
At about noon the Doctor expressed a strong
preference for the meeting to be a half hour earlier
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 37
and at about two o'clock the echoes changed the
appointment to half past two on the morrow, but
at four o'clock this same afternoon the following
was written which shows that they could not
change, even though they wished.
(141) "My dear Sarah we think you had better
meet at the old hour, the first named time, three
to-morrow. We can not so often change our plans,
and still we want George gratified. We may be
able to meet a little before, but we can not all
gather before three. Keep your own counsel.
Katie better come home to-night if possible. All
is well! Be happy! 1 will say much after the
picture is finished.
Olin."
March 10—3 P. M.— 1870.
Pretty clear and good air. We met according
to the wishes of those dear ones who are doing
so much for us, are so very near us and "still
unseen." We never enter that room however, after
having prepared it for our meeting, without feel
ing that they are there, without having a distinct
consciousness of their personal presence. At some
times this sense is stronger than at others, but we
always possess it. (142) Today the power seemed
good and they impressed us as being busy about
their work. They signified that it was approach
ing completion. The order of exercises was much
as usual, though no two meetings have ever been
alike in all the details. To-day the Doctor was
warmly clapped upon the shoulder, making him
cry out and Katie and me jump, the little table
was rolled about a good deal, the knife was
dropped upon the carpet, the immortelles and
evergreens, that lay loosely upon the bureau,
were beautifully arranged, besides noises that I
do not know how to describe. The meeting was
closed as always and the next appointed for ten
Saturday night. The linen cloth was left upon
the carpet by the open window and no writing
was given us at all.
March 11—1870.
Friday morning Katie sat down by my desk
and the pencil wrote. (143) "My dear Sarah. We
have been speaking to you in your heart this
morning, and impressing you with our presence.
This day to us is beautiful for it revives your
hearts and lets the sunlight through.
I am happy to come to you and tell you of our
success. We will all meet at twenty minutes be
fore ten, that all may be well and no interruptions.
You have favorable conditions now in every
sense as far as earthly elements go, but often the
atmosphere prevents our working as fast as we
would were the elements clear. Have patience and
trust in our promises, our love and protection.
Sarah you are receiving blessings now, which wijl
be stepping stones to the world above, golden
steps upon which your beloved ones will stand to
receive you. Your children will be the first to put
out their little hands. An hour with us is never
lost, better than gold to the poor hungry (144)
child; therefore dear Sarah think of this, and
know that God's hand is in all. Meet to-mor
row at the time named. You will see then how
we have progressed. To-day we shall be busy,
gathering flowers of immortality for the paths of
the living on earth. God bless you all!
Olin."
The pencil went on writing to sister Em. about
personal matters and closed with these words.
"I will say more soon but now we go, for the
harps sound and the children call for our aid.
Olin."
I read sister's communication and sat in far off
thought about them all. Not only about my chil
dren and brother, but my Ma, and many others
and particularly of dear Aunt Sarah. The pencil
then wrote.
"Dear Sarah all your loved ones will come in
good time. Your desires call (145) me back, but
I must go. Your wishes shall be answered fully,
believe me.
Frankie is flying all over, in the Park, here, in
my arms, and everywhere.
Olin."
The Doctor was at this very hour and moment
riding in the Park.
March 12—Saturday 10 A. M.— 1870.
"My dear Sarah, we are all here and to-night
we will have a successful meeting providing it
does not storm, but at all events meet even though
38 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
it should rain. We will require a little sharper
knife than the last and a bowl of water. Little
Frankie is here hand in hand with Leila. He sends
his love and many kisses to you his "Angel Mam
ma," to use his expression.
He will be here to-night and talk with you. He
says that you must understand his little echoes as
his voice which speaks love and hope. Oh! Sarah
how happy we are to be able to come to-night as
we (146) appointed. The clouds have disappeared
and all is bright on Katie's pathway. We will
protect her and make her strong to-day, and to
night we shall be able to accomplish all we wish.
One spirit will stand by Katie all day and we can
say that there will be no failure.
Oh! How bright are all things here above, how
true, how pure, how good. No threatening clouds,
no coming storms to cross our sunny paths. Our
loving Father forgives His erring children and
folds them to His soul. Oh! Believe and trust in
us.
Do not use the power to-day for writing or
echoes. All is well! Be happy!
Olin."
Saturday evening brought with it the storm
they feared and although we sat by the table as
desired, they could do nothing and after a few
moments the echoes said, "Dear children we must
defer the meeting until Monday at ten P. M.
B. F." We lighted the gas and (147) the pencil
wrote.
"Dear Sarah and George, we found as the sun
went down that we would not be able to bring the
picture. We cannot say that our disappointment
is caused by any act of yours; however we will
be able to come on Monday at ten, when your
condition dear sister will be better. To-night we
will give you rest, and in the morning you will
awake refreshed, for fatigue causes the sickness in
your head.
The children are here but not in form. They
looked in upon your faces and saw the flowers,
which have souls, for their perfumes live here in
their correspondences: therefore never think that
they are lost though their loveliness fades.
Oh! Dear Sarah and George what a patient little
angel Leila is! Frankie is all life, all excitement,
always playful; while Leila is often quiet and ever
submissive to all our wishes, a little less playful
than most children here, (148) very mature, not
always laughing unless something unusual at
tracts her attention.
Such a child is she, and so she would have
been had she lived on earth with you. Dear Sarah
feel not sad about them. They are so sweet to us.
We watch over dear Willie and give him strength.
To-morrow morning meet early as eleven. We
will all be here.
Now go to rest, our hands shall smooth your
pillow and soothe your head. No evil shall come
to you. All is well ! God bless you !
Olin."
March 13—11 A. M.— 1870. Snow storm.
"My dear Sarah, we hoped to have been able
to have worked on the picture this morning, but
we cannot overcome the atmosphere to-day. To
night the storm will abate and by to-morrow night
we think that it will be perfectly clear, then we
will work with great power. We must ask that
there be no meeting to-morrow (149) during the
day. Follow the first directions and all will be
well. Meet at ten.
We have great difficulty always in coming
through damp atmosphere. We live so in the ele
ments that we are governed much by our sur
roundings. We can come so much more easily
when the weather is dry. We cannot make you
understand this, because you must have experience
to comprehend and feel as we do. You are daily
learning from the great masters and soon you will
see through knowledge our conditions; for there
are spirits here who intend to come and give you
a full explanation and descriptions.
Be happy Sarah and George! The little ones,
our flowers of purity and happiness, feel deep love
for you and will never cease to watch over your
future. They are here, and will come to you to
morrow night in form. They are so happy in this
promise and anticipation. (150) You must all try
to feel happy so as not to repel their loving hearts,
their souls of purity. Leila will do something
which will surprise and cheer your hearts for a
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1S69-1892 39
long, long time. They both send their love, kisses
and blessings.
1VVhen we come to you to give an explanation
and description of many things have no interrup
tions. They disturb and disquiet us.
George you are doing right and will be success
ful in your labors, in your business also. We will
help you and there can be no failure when we are
all in your favor. We will meet to-day in our
homes above and talk and advise with each other.
We shall to-day make visits, call upon old friends
and talk of those we love on earth. Your memory
shall be echoed here in our circle, and although
there will be many who will not know you, they
will be pleased to hear from those 1 love. Often
1 am asked (151) whose little children are these?
And I always answer. "They are the children of
my dear sister on earth, who still has one little
boy left in earthly paths to bloom a bright flower
in her affections."
Sarah call us not back now. We can say no
more! All is well! God bless you all!
Olin."
March 14— Monday 10 P. M.— 1870.
A beautiful clear, sparkling evening. At a little
before ten we were in our seats with everything
arranged in the room as they desired. At once
they said "We are all here." Again. "Little Leila
is here in form, but if we use our power in making
her visible to your eyes, we can not work with
success upon the picture."
Now the Doctor and Katie were sent by the
door, and directly after they asked us to sing.
Neither of us seemed to feel in the mood and I
remarked, "1 can't." The echoes answered. "Dear
Mamma on the tablet of memory there is no such
word as can't. Frankie." We listened in surprise,
for it did not sound like the child. He then added
(152) "Do you not think you have a smart boy
here?" We still felt amazed and I exclaimed Why
Frankie! He then said. "Do not tell who helped
me Uncle Olin." The whole flashed upon me,
somebody had been helping Frankie to say some
thing smart, and I now recognized Prof. Kenyon's
style of speech in the first sentence. I said. "Oh!
(1) I had already been called upon several times since he had
commenced writing.
Frankie I see. Professor has been helping you!" 1
"Yes! Yes!! Yes!!!" by the echoes and all seemed
full of glee at Frankie's playfulness. We finally
sang some of the old tunes and hymns for perhaps
fifteen minutes when the little echoes said. "Dear
Mamma do not speak."
I could not imagine what she meant but in
stantly felt the touch of something cool against
my forehead. I jumped and, of course, spoke.
Little Leila then said (for it was she) "I have
dropped
it,
do not step on it." We now did not
know what to do, not knowing where the flower
had gone, and we asked
if
1
might feel upon the
floor for it? They did not answer, but directly
I
felt
it
against the back of my hand which
I
had
to my eyes.
1
then laid my hand upon the table
(
1
53) and
a
beautiful opening rose bud was placed
in
it
and she said by the little echoes, "Keep my
first gift." She had selected
it
from
a
vase of
fresh flowers that stood upon the bureau. Olin
said "Her little hands have held this gift."
Frankie then spoke with real boy's spirit. "I
can do more than Leila!" and immediately put
the vase with the remaining flowers into the Doc
tor's hand, which seemed to gratify him greatly.
I
very much desired to feel my angel baby in
my arms again as
1
had at
a
previous meeting,
but
I
could not. Whether my anxiety or Frankie's
quickness in using the power prevented
I
can not
tell, probably
it
was my intense feeling.
The Doctor and Katie were again sent by the
folding doors, and this time as before the little
table began to roll about and push around as they
advanced towards it. They were detained there
but
a
moment. We sang and chatted until eleven
when they said. "We have worked with great
power, call us not back, but meet at half past eight
Thursday evening and on Wednesday at twelve
for directions. All three stand (154) by the win
dow and open it." After closing window and get
ting light, we found the linen cloth upon the round
stand and the little knife stuck into the table at
which we were sitting, both of these articles hav
ing been left, as always on the table by the folding
doors.
At this time
I
received an invitation to visit
40 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Washington with a party of friends. I felt very
undecided about the matter when the pencil wrote
on the morning of
March 15**—1870.
"You dear Sarah and George call this morning
beautiful, so do we, but all our mornings and eve
nings in our world are beautiful. When earth is
clouded and the rain comes down, we can not so
well approach you, therefore we often find our
way blocked up. The days are often dark, cold
and damp which affects the finer nature and the
spirit would gladly fly to brighter fields, but God
ordained this from the beginning that you may
appreciate the holier part of life and (155) not
become too wedded to this world, transient in its
joys, fleeting in its loveliness. I am happy to
come and tell you that success follows our pencils.
We can not be hurried! Who ever heard of a per
son hurrying spirits? How little we and our con
ditions are understood! Perhaps the world will
grow wiser some day! We hope so.
Oh! How happy the children are! Leila had so
much power which she manifested in giving you
the bud, emblematical of her own little self.
They are away with their Grandma, telling her
wonderful little events, roaming through beautiful
paths of buds and blossoms.
Sarah and George these things are not to end
here. Greater things will be given.
We are coming to you life-like and natural.
Sarah you will give us an opportunity, knowing
as you do how much happiness it gives us. We
are so very happy when we can come.
Meet at twelve to-morrow.
Dear Sarah if you wish to go away for a little
rest, we will all give our consent. ( 156) God bless
you! What are your wishes dear Sarah? Tell us
now! The opportunity will not often be offered
and I advise you to go. This afternoon I will come
and advise with you, we cannot now. We can say
no more at present but I will come with the circle
at four.
Olin."
March 15—4 P. M.— 1870.
"My dear Sarah we have seen your resolution,
and give our full consent to your going. We will
go with you, and be with you, and help you to
enjoy yourself. In the mean time we will not put
aside our preparations for greater things. You
will return with new life and electricity and we
shall be better able to work through you.
We will often speak to George in your absence
and direct him when to meet.
Now dear Sister be happy, and I will when you
return give you that which will make you happy
for years, yes, till we meet here face to face. Now
be happy Sarah, let me make the flowers bloom
fresh in your soul and give you new hope. Let me
point you to the brightest stars in heaven and
know that ( 157) they are not more brilliant than
the unseen light which we shed about you.
God bless you! We shall guide you safely to
your destination and welcome you back.
Olin."
On the following day 1 went to Washington and
returned on the night of the 27th.
During my absence the Doctor and Katie met
several times to enable the spirits to keep control
of the material things they held.
An account of these meetings is given here in
the Doctor's own hand.
(1) March 18.
"My dear friend.
I am happy to come through the gilded paths
of happiness to you and give you a few directions.
1 have been with your family in the skies above,
who compose a very happy circle. You must re
member that we will have to meet once for prepar
ations before your wife returns. We wish to give
the picture a beautiful finish, and we can if our
directions are followed. I wish also to give you
an explanation of our work. Meet to-morrow at
three, here, for preparation, and I will appoint
another meeting. All is well. God bless you. Katy
can go to-night to the theater. It will only benefit
her condition, and to-morrow at three we will
meet, as we have some important advice to give,
also preparations.
No clouds are on the future; be of good cheer,
keep up your hope, let your faith be perfect, and
we will stand by you to all eternity.
I think I can magnetize some water for your
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 41
patient whose case is almost hopeless, but I think
this will help her. There are blessings daily be
stowed you by your children and other spirits. No
more now. B. F."
(2) Sunday P. M. March 20
"My dear George,
Sarah wishes me to tell you that she is well and
happy. The cloud that was over her the morning
she left home, has vanished. Meet us to-morrow
at half past two for preparation. I think dear
George, you had better take Katie with you this
afternoon and get her strong for to-morrow.
Olin."
Monday 2J/2 P. M. March 21.
"My dear George, 1 am here to keep my ap
pointment, and also to advise you. We will give
the picture soon after Sarah's return. We have
only to ask that our appointments may be kept,
and not broken. I think you will understand why
I wish them held sacred as every time an appoint
ment is broken, we fail in accomplishing our work,
and also lose power.
You had better meet in a darkened room to
morrow at half past three, and when Sarah returns
I will appoint an evening meeting. Get the lamp
in order, so as to enable us to show the children.
All is well, I will be here at three and hope to find
the room ready. Sarah is feeling a little depressed,
but will be benefited by (3) the change. 1 shall
return to her again to-day.
You dear George, feel the importance of ful
filling the appointments, but you have not Sarah's
determined spirit, therefore we can do better when
she is here and now let me once more put out my
hands in help and hope for those who need us. The
water will be magnetized to-morrow, as we require
a dark room. Let nothing prevent you from meet
ing. All is well. 1 see that you are a little de
pressed, let your heart be happy. Sarah longs to
see you and dear Willie. All is well. You better
have the room clear to-morrow, and we will fol
low out our preparations. Little Leila remains
close to her Mama, Frankie follows you, I am go
ing to send you a new blessing very soon. No more
now, only be faithful for we are easily disturbed
and grieved, have no doubts; suspend your judg
ment and all will be made clear. God bless you.
Olin."
% past six, P. M. March 21.
"My Son; I am happy to come and get control
of the writing. I often come through your Mother,
I have been here with you during the meetings for
Leila's picture, and will continue to meet until it
is finished. I am with the (4) dear little ones. Oh
how they love me and how I love them. I am not
versed in the knowledge of electricity enough to
give you an explanation of the picture. Dr.
Franklin will himself explain most perfectly to
you and so that you will fully understand, wait
patiently my son, and the reward will come. Your
Mother is well. Feel not disheartened, all is well.
Your Father."
March 22 V2 past 2 P. M.
Met in accordance with appointment, the room
darkened, and a bowl of water on the table we
sat by. As soon as the window was closed the
rustling sound of paper and apparently of pencils
also, was very clearly heard, both against the legs
and other parts of the table and against the wall
of the room and mantel, when we passed to the
other end of the room to the little table, also at
the little table. The evidences of power were un
usually strong. We soon smelled the perfume of
flowers at the little table. In half an hour, after
being sent two or three times to the little table,
we were directed to open window, and then after
closing it to open eyes. The bowl of water left on
the table, we discovered under
it,
covered with
a
piece of paper, other pieces of paper left on the
table were by its side;
a
tumbler with
a
small bou
quet left on the bureau, had been transported (5)
to the other end of the room and was found on the
little table, where we had detected its odor. After
the curtains were removed from the window, the
pencil wrote.
"My dear son,
I
have been here with you and the circle, who
have succeeded
in
all their intentions. The direc
tions are left for me to give. Put the water in
a
bottle and cork
it,
give the patient half teaspoon-
ful, twice
a
day, morning and evening.
It
is
for
Miss
P
All
is
well, we can say no
42 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
more, as the power is gone. We have all worked.
Meet at half past twelve Thursday. In the mean
time God bless you.
Your Father."
Thursday March 24, 12% o'clock.
We met as desired. The day, clear, continued
meeting one hour; had no special manifestations
of power; was not even touched by the unseen
hands as is usual. Went to the little table four
times. After the sitting, the following was written.
"My son. All is well, and we feel happy, en
couraged by Katy's resolve. And now meet to
morrow at three. We found that we were not go
ing to succeed well with the Picture without these
meetings. God bless you. I will return soon and
say more.
Your Father."
(6) 6 o'clock Thursday evening
"My son,
What can be more cheering to the heart than
the warm rays of the sun, upon an earth full of
changes and troubles. I am happy to come. The
little ones are with me often. They sing, they
play, and rest on baskets of beautiful flowers.
We will give you a perfect likeness of Leila,
her eyes are now being taken, and oh, they are
so lovely, for they look love, and feel love. I am
rejoiced for 1 know the joy it will give Sarah to
have her beautiful face. We will place it in her
hands.
Your mother gets messages often through me,
and 1 am her help, her staff.
Do not fail to meet the circle to-morrow at two,
then there will be no more meeting for the picture
till Sarah returns and is well. I am now going
to your mother, who is calling me, and wishes
to hear from me. I am progressing daily, up to
higher spheres which I will soon explain to you.
No more now, as the forces are weak.
Your Father."
(7) March 25*6
Met at about 2%, in the room prepared as
usual. There was but little demonstration, but the
working upon the little table was plenty heard in
spite of the noises we made to prevent hearing.
After going to the table three times and returning,
the raps said, keep eyes closed. As neither of us
had opened eyes, this indicates that some demon
stration was at hand. I presently felt something
near my collar on the right side. The raps said,
"Papa, you will laugh." The window was directly
opened by order of raps and a pencil that I had
laid on the table slipped down from my person
on to the floor. The cloth that was on the little
table was also found there. It is probable that
both had been fastened in some ludicrous man
ner upon my clothes, but had become displaced
by my efforts to make a noise, while the paper
was passing from our presence.
The pencil directly wrote as follows.
"Dear George, all is well. We have succeeded
and our hearts rejoice in being able to keep the
power where it was when Sarah left. We wish a
meeting Tuesday if Sarah is here, and Oh may
we ever find the forces pure and good as we have
to-day. We love to have the channel through
which (8) we work, pure, not dark and troubled.
We will be so happy to have Sarah where we can
talk with her. We have been with her, and yes
terday she felt calm, happy and peaceful ; to-day
she reposes in the warm sunshine. You better not
go to her, wait till to-morrow. Keep happy and
no cloud of sorrow shall fall on the gilded side of
your life. Rest now.
Olin."
March 28—1870.
The next morning after my return Katie came
in and the echoes instantly said, "Welcome back
dear Sister." After an hour or so Katie took the
pencil and it said.
"My dear Sarah, Oh! How happy we are to
have you here, home again, where true, loving
hearts wait for your care, and welcome you when
you return, and sigh for you when you go out
Oh! Yes, home is where true love hallows the
threshold. We are happy to have the circle com
plete again, the chain made whole. Little hands
are put out in joy to you, for this seems more
(158) like their home than the place from which
you have just returned. We have tried to keep
the power where it was when you left here, and
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 43
Oh! how happy we are that we have been able to
do so.
We want you to meet at half past eight to-mor
row night. Have the room prepared at quarter
past eight.
We need to replenish our materials, and we
wish you all to be happy.
Oh! How glad we are that Katie is well and
happy. She will we know be firm. And now with
the Angels to walk with you, the bright sky above
you, the blessings of those whom God has blessed
to follow you, we leave to fulfill other duties. Rest
my dear Sarah to-day, and try to close your eyes,
for peace only comes with rest. All is well! God
bless you.
Olin."
March 29, 1870.
The evening was very clear and we met as
desired. The meeting was quiet. The unseen
friends seemed to be silently (159) gathering up
the threads of the web which had been broken
by my absence. After an hour the window was
opened and closed and upon looking at the little
table we found a quantity of chips from the pen
cils they had been sharpening. The pencil then
wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George, we are well
pleased, well satisfied, all is well now. Be patient!
All will come in good time. We rejoice in having
good conditions. There is great joy for you, soon
to be winged to you by two little angels, bright
flowers in their Father's Land.
Dear Sarah our power to-night is exhausted,
and we wish you to meet for directions at twelve
to-morrow.
Olin."
March 30, 1870.
Before the clock struck the first stroke for
twelve we were sitting with pencil in Katie's hand
and paper before her waiting their arrival. When
the first stroke came down the pencil moved.
"My dear Sarah we are all on time and we are
happy to find you so prompt. Many a victory
has been wan by being one minute before the
appointed time.
(160) The room is filled with our little ones,
yours also. They are happy spirits and sing all
day long when they are not reposing on their
beds of roses. You should be happy dear Sarah
to know that the way to reach them is being
made so easy. You have only a veil between,
which, when the time comes will only require a
gentle breeze to draw aside.
You are not losing time when with us. When
listening to our words you are laying up treas
ures in heaven, planting new flowers in the gar
dens of your children, making their hearts happy
and satisfied.
This alone should make you realize our pleas
ure in being able to come to you.
Dear Sarah and George, we appoint for our
next meeting tomorrow at half past two. Let
nothing come between, for we have only now
overcome all difficulties. You are all doing right
and well. George! Sarah is right, —You should
be firm with your patients. Do not let them com
plain to (161) any one except yourself. A little
change is going to take place here, —something
in the house. — Something which will cause a little
trouble. I can not see further! Do not grow im
patient! All is well! Sarah you are again back
to care and anxiety, back to the trials of life.
No rest in mind for you in this house, but 1 will
help you bear them. A little hard it is for you to
get back to the old desk. Oh! Would that I
could take your place and do your work for you.
Good bye now Sarah with love to all eternity.
Olin."
At half past two Katie said her "hand felt like
writing." This followed.
"My dear Sarah, all will be bright and success
ful, but directions must be followed. To-morrow
the room must be darkened. One pencil we can
not longer use and will require the Doctor to
sharpen
it,
so we will bring and have
it
prepared.
The little ones are throwing flowers down upon
you, and so real they are to them that they think
you must (162) feel them. This
1
cannot explain
to them until they are more comprehensive.
Sarah, toil, trouble and care are woman's lot,
but this Summer you must rest. You shall go
somewhere dear, where you shall find pleasure
44 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
and feel like a girl again. This will make me
happy and the children also.
To-night 1 shall hover near you and rest your
bead, your eyes also dear Sarah. God bless you.
Olin."
The pencil continued writing but in the awk
ward hand of a child.
"Mamma Leila thinks that you can see her,
but I tell her you do not, and that makes her
put her little hands over her face.
^h! Here comes Willie! I love Willie! We
will make him a great man. Good bye.
Frankie."
After reading the above I remarked. "It is
really true that they see and hear us when Katie
is not here?" The pencil wrote.
"Mamma we always hear you just as well only
Katie is our speaking tube. (163) Now Mamma
what do you say to that? Am I not a smart boy?
We will come to-morrow, —bye-bye until then. I
will rest near you to-night.
Frankie."
March 31st, 2V2 P. M.— 1870.
The day perfect. Great power manifested as
soon as we were seated. The little table was rolled
about, the large table lifted, the Doctor whirled
around in his chair, the penknife brought from
the little table, closed and dropped into the Doc
tor's sleeve, the Doctor's and Katie's gowns pulled
vigorously, the Doctor's whiskers pulled repeat
edly etc.
A pencil was rattled against the legs of the
table many times, then placed in the Doctor's
hand and he asked to sharpen it. He took it into
an adjacent room and found it to be the blue
pencil, and that it had been much whittled since
last he saw it. He sharpened and then placed it
upon the little table where they work. Some little
time passed in their effort to again control the
pencil after being touched by mortal hand. Soon
as (164) they succeeded, they signified their suc
cess by rapping it vigorously against the side of
the little table and then threw the "linen cloth"
over my head entirely covering
it,
immediately
asked to have the window opened.
(1) Willie entered the room white Frankte wee writing.
They did not make another appointment, but
Katie said they wished us to meet at twelve on
the next day for directions. The Doctor and
I
did not understand
it
and at about six in the eve
ning we were talking about
it
and the pencil
wrote.
"My dear Sarah, my child. The message sent
by me,
is,
for you to meet for directions at half
past twelve to-morrow.
Olin
is
near, but not free. He knows your wish
which to him
is
a
prayer and sends these words
to you, sigh not, grieve not, bright are the days
opening for you. All
is
peace.
Your Mother."
We now made some remarks about when the
picture would probably come.
The pencil immediately wrote. (165) "We have
chosen
a
Sabbath day,
a
day of peace. Frankie."
A
little later in the evening,
a
forward girl of
about eight years, came into our room and
directly began very noisy attentions to Willie.
He did not seem annoyed by
it,
but the pencil
wrote.
"Mamma what
a
bold girl she is? Leila does
not like her and
I
know she plagues Willie.
Mamma make her go out.
Frankie."
I
read the above to myself. Presently the child
went out, then
I
asked Willie
if
she teased him?
He said she did.
I
then read him what Frankie
said.
April 1st, 12V2 P. M.— 1870.
Katie did not get here until one o'clock. The
pencil then wrote.
"My dear Sarah
I
am here, not long waiting.
We will not scold this time, but in future try to
be punctual. We have been with you, and all the
clouds have vanished, leaving
a
peace in which
our souls rejoice.
(166) There are many here who take an interest
in
you and in the manifestation which we are pre
paring for you; but when we open the door to
the new and beautiful things we are preparing
for you, then great will be the circle of those who
come to take part with us. We are preparing to
give you what the new world has never witnessed.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 45
The people of olden times, in Bible times, wit
nessed them and called them miracles. Oh! Sarah,
can you realise how near we are to you? how
thin the veil is? how great our happiness is in
thus being able to bless you?
Meet to-morrow at half past twelve. Have the
room darkened and all prepared, for we want
more pencils sharpened and that requires power.
Make no change unless we do ourselves.
Remember, we are not like you. We are disem
bodied, ethereal, spiritual, sensitive even to a
breeze, therefore try (167) to adapt yourselves to
us, try to come more in our spheres, then you
will be more receptive, and we will be better able
to do what we have undertaken. All is well.
Olin."
I now asked Olin if he could see more dis
tinctly what the trouble was or is to be, to which
he made reference a few days since? He wrote.
"Only annoyances, troublesome women, selfish
and hard to please. Do not let it worry you.
Olin."
In the afternoon the Doctor was talking about
his "old machine," saying it was worn out and
that he must make it over when the pencil wrote.
"Dear Papa, let your old machine alone for
the present. The Professor is going to help you.
Frankie."
My next inquiry was if Dr. Franklin still as
sisted in their work upon the picture?
"Yes, dear Sarah, Dr. Franklin still aids us in
our work. He is ever with us when we meet here.
Olin."
(168) April 2nd— 1870— 12 M.
The rain came down in torrents and the pencil
wrote.
"We think it may be a little clearer at half
past two, therefore we have concluded to meet at
that hour. George rest in the interval.
Olin."
At half past two the rain had ceased but the
air and earth were full of dampness. We met,
and they manifested great power, rolled the little
table around, took hold of the Doctor several
times very strongly, brought my portfolio from
the bureau and dropped it on the table before
me with a loud crash which startled us to the
soles of our feet. Once when the Doctor was taken
hold of he jumped and cried out. The echoes
said "Why shrink from me!" We recognized the
Prof.
When they asked to have the window opened,
I rose to do it and felt the linen cloth brush down
the back of my head to the floor. We found it
there upon opening our eyes. The pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George, had the atmos
phere been clear we would (169) have given you
great and striking evidence of our work, but it
was very unfavorable, still, we succeeded in bring
ing the pencils, and to-morrow at half past ten
we will bring them to be sharpened, so do not fail
to meet at that hour, have the room dark. We
have prepared this afternoon for a successful
meeting to-morrow morning.
We have exhausted much power and feel satis
fied. Be happy ! We were never more happy than
now! Dear Sarah you are doing right and your
way will be made easy. I will help you to step
over the obstacles. All were present today.
Olin."
April 3rd 10y2 A. M.— 1870.
No storm and no sun, a little fine rain has been
falling. The power seemed very great. The Doc
tor's knife was taken from the table and placed
in his hand before I had got my seat and Frankie
soon said "Mamma the picture is here." The
most interesting occurrence during the meeting
was this. (170) Frankie said "Mamma do you
feel Leila?" I replied, "No, but I wish I could."
They said, "Keep eyes closed." Immediately I
felt something brush across my forehead, then
again. By this time I recognized the touch of a
twig of evergreen which was left upon the bureau.
I told what it seemed to be, then it was placed
in my hand and the echoes said that "Leila did
it." Upon my making some remarks about her
Frankie said.
"She is like a little bird,
Listening for every word
That comes from thee.
Gentle as a little dove
46 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
In the Heavenly spheres above
She wanders free.
What do you think of that Mamma? Am I not
smart?"
We replied that the Professor was helping him.
They all said "Yes." "Yes."
1 talked a little with Leila, but the echoes said,
"Don't talk to her now."
After the usual going by the door, we (171)
were told to stand by and open the window.
In due time we found the pen knife stuck into
the window casing and the linen cloth hung upon
it. The pencil wrote.
1 "My dear Sarah I have lingered behind to
tell you that we are perfectly satisfied and all is
well.
The pencils we have to break off often for use
ful purposes.
2 Willie told no story. We hear his remarks
and his little heart can be at rest. I am going
now to join the circle and consult regarding our
next meeting. Meet for directions to-morrow at
half past twelve. All is well!
Olin."
(172) April 4 12l/2 P. M.— 1870.
"We are all here dear Sarah.
Yesterday at seven we had our consultation.
The meeting will be to-morrow at three. We find
that the atmosphere is unfavorable now, but to
morrow we think it will be dear, in which event
we shall rejoice. We are here to tell you that each
one, of us, thinks of you and works for you as
your daily lives go on. There is nothing to come
between our interest in your welfare, no petty
feeling, no anger, no offence. We are placed too
high above such things, and the more you go
astray the harder we work to bring you right,
to bring you back to the path of peace.
Sometimes we wonder and marvel to see how
much discord comes out of little trifling things;
but then reflection comes to us and we realize
that we are immortal and unfettered by earthly
(1) I should have mentioned that we found a Quantity
of chips from the pencils they had brouitht and taken with
them, from the blue pencil also, which the Doctor had
sharpened for them but two days airo.
(2) Willie had been questioned, while we were meeting, about
where his Papa was and he feared he had told a ttory.
having been told not to tell the fact.
cares and our hearts go out towards you with
love, charity and mercy. We have passed the
(173) river of tribulations and sorrows.
Were we on earth we too would feel as impa
tient as you who are left to work with heavy
hearts.
We are always happy when we see those we
love peaceful, too high minded to be influenced
by lower minds; and Sarah that is one virtue
which attracts us to you, which gives us pleasure
when we follow in your footsteps.
I will be brief and say that we are your guide.
You shall be helped out of all difficulties.
Bear patiently with the quarrelsome, sick, ner
vous people with whom you are often annoyed.
Trials, troubles, sorrows, all will pass away and
peace with blessings will come in their place.
The children are to-day with Mother, (our Ma)
are bright, happy and contented. I shall soon
return and they shall accompany me in my duties.
(174) Yours in every trial.
Olin."
The pencil continued to write.
"Friends, dear friends I must call you for such
you are to me. I meet with you at all your sit
tings and am happy to be one of the circle. 1 am
sure dear friends you will succeed in your work.
I did not have the aid 1 hoped to have found in
Europe, but it was all for the best as my life,
to say the most, was stormy. I am now with those
I love better than those 1 left on earth, for they
appreciate me and make me happy in these heav
enly spheres.
I am educating, at his own request, little
Frankie. You will soon be astonished at his
philosophy — his soundness.
I wish you success and happiness.
Prof."
(175) April 5th 3 P. M.— 1870.
The weather was neither pleasant nor stormy.
As soon as we were seated in our prepared room,
three pencils were placed in the Doctor's hand
with the request that he should sharpen them.
He went directly into an adjacent room and
while he was gone they said "Hurry."
He soon came in and laid them upon the little
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 47
table. They now, apparently, went on joyfully
with their work, the children diverting themselves
by playing about us. Frankie rapped often on
his Papa's feet, pulled his beard repeatedly,
brought the pen-knife from the little table, closed
and placed it in his Papa's hand, etc.
He said, by the echoes, "Mamma, Leila has the
string that was around the pencils. Its color is
the emblem of love."
Then I remembered that I had tied these three
identical pencils, one white, one red, one black,
and one blue which we had received a few days
before, with a piece of red and white twine, and
they were taken from the room three (176)
months ago, and now not only the pencils had
been returned but Leila had the string also. A
little after, they said "Keep eyes closed." Directly
I felt the touch of something cool against my fore
head and at once thought 1 recognized a flower.
The stem was soon placed between my lips and
upon taking it in my hand I found it to be a
white rose-bud from the vase of fresh flowers upon
the bureau. Leila had given it to me.
I now felt something tickle my fingers. I felt
with my other hand but could not find anything.
She spoke. "Mamma did you feel the string?"
I understood then that it was the string which
Frankie said she had. Now she said, "They want
it," and she did not speak to me again.
Her little echoes are very delicate, but of her
presence 1 am distinctly conscious. When she
plays about me, comes as near and touches me
as much as the Angel form can touch the coarse
material, my desire to get nearer, to bold her on
my (177) lap, fold her in my arms and press
her to my longing heart is great, Oh! how great
poor words can never tell.
At five o'clock they went away, saying they
had worked well, were pleased, had used all their
power, would come to-morrow and give directions.
April 6r*— 1870—2l/2 P. M.
"My dear Sarah the atmosphere is clearing and
electricity is coming into the elements, which will
enable us to meet to-morrow at three. The circle
all met this morning and, we agreed upon the
time. You see dear Sarah that we never forget
our duty and it gives us great pleasure, for we
know that the day is near when you will be made
very happy and in your gladness we shall rejoice.
We are all pleased with the conditions. They are
good and electrical as far as your earthly bodies
are concerned. When you are all strong we work
with great power and we advise that there be no
meeting till three for (178) this circle. By fol
lowing directions we can see no failure.
Let me say dear sister that I have looked in
your pathway, in the future and I see that the
blessings of God are with you. The flowers bloom
fresh and peace is there unfolding new joys, new
pleasures for you and yours. Let this cheer you
for I speak from knowledge and not to please for
the moment, but to give true hope; and hope is
the brightest angel in the human soul, stands by
the dying, the oppressed, the condemned, and by
those who are living for the life to come.
Between your world and ours the distance is
but little, the steps not hard to climb if the de
sire be to reach the haven of rest where no sor
row comes. On every step a loved one stands
robed in purity, and ready to help those who can
not help themselves. I have been to our old home
and saw Father (our Pa). He seems a little dis
turbed, a little impatient with the (179) events
of his life, but the clouds will pass away. Tell
Em. she must not feel worried nor depressed. She
has done right and her reward will come. We
must all work, all help each other. I have often
felt like speaking to brother Ralph but circum
stances would not let me, and I fear we shall not
again exchange greetings until we meet this side.
Dearly as I should love to talk with him I can
not come without a welcome.
Meet to-morrow at three.
Leila seems to think that this is her home, that
she was born here, for here she first awoke to
knowledge of a life. She will understand better
by and by. Her love for and memory of her
parents will never die, that strengthens with time.
When she first came here she cried for you, her
Mamma, and we were obliged to nurse her as
carefully and lovingly as though she were our
infant.
48 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(180) Often when it was night on your earth we
would place her in your arms, and in such ways
satisfy her little heart. All is peace now and she
is happy as a little bird.
Olin."
I read the above and sat thinking how very
hard for them and for us, that we had not pos
sessed sufficient wisdom to keep them, our darling
children with us, as God and Nature intended it
should be. The pencil wrote.
"Mamma I do not wish to come back here. 1
have everything just as 1 wish it. 1 I want
Willie to think of me when he gets his lessons
so I can come and help him.
Be happy Mamma! Only think, you have a
little Boy and Girl in heaven. You ought to be
very proud of us in such a beautiful world.
Frankie."
(181) I read Frankie's little letter and sat think
ing earnestly about them, and the pencil wrote.
"Mamma who is Eunice?" It was handed me.
I read it. I replied that I had never known but
one Eunice and she was an old lady, cousin of
my Ma's that died many years ago. The pencil
then wrote.
"She came to me just an hour ago and told
me to give her love to my Mamma, and ask you
if you remembered Eunice."
I asked Frankie who was then helping him
about his writing? The pencil said.
"Mamma Uncle Olin helps me always. One
thing more I want to tell you. I often plague
Grandma by coming to look for you, when she
wants to take me to see some nice old ladies.
Frankie."
(182) The Doctor told Frankie to ask Dr. Frank
lin if magnetism could be applied for the cure
of the sick? The pencil wrote.
"Papa tie a magnet on their toes, on their fin
gers, around their necks, that will charge them.
Well Papa, no jesting, I will ask Dr. Franklin.
Good bye now.
Frankie."
April 7th 3 P. M.— 1870.
(1) Willie wu sitting near me with his Arithmetic, studying
his lesson.
A spring day, cloudy but no storm. We took
our seats on time.
We had been but little time seated when we
heard the Professor around the room and the
Doctor felt the pressure of his hand. Frankie
pulled his Papa's whiskers and we heard my
portfolio moved from place to place upon the
table. Soon Frankie said, "Mamma don't lean
forward on the table for I am fixing something
for you."
At three different times after this I felt little
fingers on the top of my head. (183) Our sitting
continued for three quarters of an hour, during
which, the Doctor and Katie were sent from time
to time by the door, and at the expiration of
which they asked to have the window opened,
said they were very happy, had worked well and
should admit one new spirit to their circle at the
next meeting; bade us ask no questions, but meet
the next day at twelve for directions.
When we opened our eyes, we found in my
hair on the top of my head two blue violets, one
small white flower, and one green leaf. On the
table exactly in front of me lay the hand-glass
with the face up, upon it stood a small glass vase
of water, and near it upon the table lay the
flowers, very tastefully arranged in three separate
groups, one wilted flower having been thrown one
side. I can give but a poor idea of the sweet little
picture made by this arrangement, so noticeably
that of a (184) child's fancy. The vase with the
flowers in it we left upon the bureau, and the
hand-glass upon my portfolio, face down and
upon the backside of the table. Frankie said that
Leila put the flowers in my hair and he helped
her.
April 8th— 1870.
Twelve o'clock came but Katie did not come.
At three she appeared, having been in bed during
the morning with sick-head-ache. At half past
three we sat down and the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah, we never complain when cir
cumstances, which could not be overcome by mor
tals, prevent our meetings. We saw how things
were this morning and know that they could not
be otherwise, therefore we did not gather here
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 49
at the appointed hour. We are all here now and
feel happy to have the chain unbroken. (185)
The atmosphere is very clear and the conditions
will be good to-morrow afternoon at three. We
want the room as before well prepared, darkened
and clean.
Dear Sarah all is well! Heaven is filled with
beautiful fresh flowers which keep company with
Spring. We have all seasons here, only far more
beautiful, more spiritual, all seasons except win
ter and here there is no winter nor old age. Occa
sionally our flowers droop and close, but that
is only when we neglect some duty and take not
the care which God puts upon us. There are
times when our homes are not so full of flowers
as we would wish, for instance, Sarah our home
is one day to be yours, and it depends much upon
you to beautify the part which you will call your
own. You can cause a beautiful tree or flower
to grow there daily, yes, hourly by your own
acts. (186) I have been walking over our grounds
to-day. 1 am well satisfied, I cannot give a sigh
of regret so beautiful is our home. The fields are
green. The violets all in bloom. The apple blos
soms will soon be out then I will drop you one to
look upon for an instant. You better get no
flowers to-morrow for reasons.
The children are busy making little chains out
of flowers. Oh ! how happy they are ! How happy !
Can you wish them back Sarah* No! No! you
must not.
The day is bright, the hour drawing near for
our little gathering. We are going to make visits
and repose in peaceful flowery avenues, so dear
sister "Good bye" for the present.
Meet at three to-morrow and Katie come fresh,
free from fatigue.
God bless you. Olin."
(187) April 9* h— 1870.
A beautiful, clear, bright Spring day and at a
quarter before three we took our seats, with
everything arranged as desired.
The manifestations were very positive and
strong. The Professor was around the room and
the children full of play.
The Professor took the Doctor by the arm with
a firm grasp, Frankie patted his knee, pulled his
dressing gown one side, took out his watch, un
hooked the chain from the button-hole of his vest,
laid the watch upon the Doctor's knee, took it
up, opened
it,
said
it
was ten minutes to four,
(which was the time) held
it
to the Doctor's ear,
snapped the case together, put
it
back in the Doc
tor's pocket, and the hook into the button-hole
again.
Before this,
I
heard
a
little noise near me and
soon felt something at my lips. On taking
it
in
my hand found
it
was
a
wilted flower, then an
other was placed
in
my hand.
I
could not tell
what they were until after the meeting, when the
first proved to be
a
wilted white rose-bud, and
the other
a
little sprig (188) of immortelles.
Where they got these we can not tell. There were
no flowers
in
the room on this afternoon, neither
were there any in the house, excepting three or
four perfectly fresh
in
another room and none
of those was missing. There was but one rose-bud
when they were given me, and that one was still
in
the vase. There were many immortelles
in
a
drawer of my bureau, but that was closed. We
may suppose they opened the drawer, took out
the little sprig and closed
it
again, but we can
make no supposition where the wilted rose-bud
came from.
They went away saying. "Call us not back,
meet to-morrow at half past ten."
April 10
8
A. M.— 1870.
The pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah the atmosphere
is
very elec
trical and we want you to meet at half past ten
precisely. We are very happy to have good con
ditions. **********
Sarah you can not see the little ones, but they
are about you this morning, bright as the sun
beams upon earth.
(189) God bless you! Oh! Would that you could
see them
!
Leila
is
now holding her hands out to
you. Little thing! Innocent child, thinks that
you can take her in your arms. We shall work
with great power to-day.
Olin."
The day was charming and at half past ten
50 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
we met. The echoes said "Sing, but first thank
God for this beautiful atmosphere." We could
not seem to sing, there was no music in my soul,
and while we were talking about
it,
Frankie said,
"Dear Papa you must not speak about my Mam
ma's eyes unless to call them beautiful. Leila's
are just like them." This referred to remarks
made before breakfast, but Katie could not un
derstand
it
and thought
it
meaningless.
Directly there was
a
loud thumping upon the
table and Frankie said "Mamma
I
have found
something." Then he put against my face and
into my hand
a
large awl.
(190) Soon Leila passed
a
rose-bud over my face
gently and lovingly, then placed
it
in my hand.
She had taken
it
from the flowers upon the
bureau.
Directly she took my handkerchief from my
pocket and held
it
to my eyes. These are the
principal demonstrations, there was the usual roll
ing of the little table, the walking of the Profes
sor, and after they were gone, we found the pen
knife upon the commode, and the linen cloth upon
the carpet by the window. They asked us to meet
at half past eight to-morrow night.
April 11—1870.
Half past eight came but Katie did not. At
ten she came but in no condition for sitting. The
pencil wrote.
"Dear Sarah and George, now go to bed. Meet
us at half past five in the morning. The picture
is
near. (191) Murmur not at God's works!
Fail not to meet at the time, half past five!
Ask no questions!
Olin— Circle."
We awakened Katie at half past five and the
echoes said. "The forces will be better at half
past twelve. Meet then."
After we had prepared the room at twelve
o'clock, and were waiting for the sacred, unseen,
loved ones to take possession, the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah, while they are gathering
1
will speak to you
a
few words. All the Circle are
now approaching the room with picture and pen
cils.
I
am happy to come through the sunny
paths, no atmospherical conditions to contend
with today and we shall succeed. Blessed are
the ways of Providence! Our souls rejoice, our
hands raise
in
(192) gratitude! All
is
well! Be
happy
!
After your read this, go in the room which
is
sacred with the presence of sacred beings.
Olin."
April 12 12i/2 P. M.— 1870.
The air clear and the day perfect. We took
our seats and very directly Frankie said "Mamma
do you hear Leila?" We listened to her delicate
little echoes. Some other remarks were made
about her which
I
cannot recall, but
I
do remem
ber Ma's saying "She
is
our bud, our blossom,
our pink, our violet, our Angel: and she knows
all her pet names." Soon the Doctor felt her
touch upon his head, and he remarked, how sweet,
how beautiful! Frankie said. "Is
it
sweeter than
mine?" His Papa replied "No, both are sweet."
He answered. "Little folks are always jealous."
(193) As usual, they wished us to sing, and as,
often, we did not feel like it. Frankie very soon
put his request in this shape. "Dear Mamma
let us hear your sweet voice."
They seemed to manifest an unusual amount
of good feeling. Upon our noticing
it
they said.
"The Professor's wife
is
here." She was the "new
spirit" they had told us would be admitted.
When an hour had nearly expired, they asked
us to stand by the window, and after they were
apparently through with their work and had
taken the picture away, (for we heard them as
usual working upon it) Frankie said "Mamma
1
am going to make you laugh!" "Keep eyes
closed." "I must look for something that 1 want."
"I have found it." (194) "Stand around Mamma."
Another moment passed, my dress was pulled
vigorously at the bottom, he said, "Open eyes."
We found the linen cloth pinned to the skirt of my
dress on the back side.
A
pin was the "some
thing" he "wanted" and "found."
April 13 10 A. M.— 1870.
Katie asked for the pencil and wrote
a
few
words, the pencil dropped from her fingers as
always, when the power or presence leaves her.
It
read.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 51
"The circle is coming. Your Mother."
In perhaps ten minutes the pencil wrote.
"My dear Sarah and George, we had a consul
tation this morning when the first ray of the sun
shone in upon your window. We all gathered
in the bower of immortal flowers and appointed
the meeting (195) for to-morrow at three, when
we hope that all will be as favorable as our last
meeting.
Yes, dear Sarah, we are all here, and take this
time and hour and circumstance to give these
directions, as the power is fresh and the condi
tion good. We also have new born souls to take
care of this day. Many are entering the new
world and anxiously gazing for some beloved
one to help them over the line which separates
earth from Heaven. Sarah, we are always ready
to help those who need us. This is one of the
Great duties marked out for us by our great
Creator.
Marvel not, that we are not always present.
Our duties are great and when we can come to
you in love, hope and faith, with all the feelings
we possessed when in the earthly form, we gather
the ( 196) flowers of peace in our garments and
rejoice in your presence, knowing that we leave
you happier, less depressed, more resigned to the
will of God, and while you sigh for your little
ones, you at least have the sweet assurance that
they are spotless children in the Eden of the
blessed. Grieve not for those little lambs, those
angels, they are so happy.
To-morrow at three, remember the hour and
directions. Be free from fatigue and all will be
well! We all leave you our love, our blessing, our
protection. God bless you! George you require
much rest. You have too little. We will help you!
No more now.
Olin— Circle."
After reading the above, we inquired who the
"new born souls" were? Answer (197) "We do not
ourselves always know whom we are aiding. I
would like to say much more, but dear Sarah
cannot now.
1 I see E. Wells is troubled, tell her that her
mind shall soon be peaceful — for good news is
near. Olin."
April 14 3 P. M.— 1870.
The air pleasant and summer like. The Doctor
had been called as a witness in the trial of Mc-
Farland for the shooting of Richardson. He re
turned from the court about a half hour before we
retired to our room. We were talking about the
case when we went in and had remarked that we
did not wish him hung, but thought he had done
a very wicked thing. Immediately there came
heavy, loud raps, first upon the floor, then upon
the table before us. They sounded as though
they might be caused by the heavy very heavy
slap of the palm of the (198) hand, still it was
not quite like it. The Doctor thought it more
like the tremendous blow of the fist, still it dif
fered from the sound made in that manner. The
fearful noise spelled these words. "Don't you talk
against my brother." At once the dear, loving
echoes of Olin said. "Sarah, open the window
wide and let this troubled spirit depart." I did
so, and after a minute. "Close window." Then
Olin said, "The unhappy one was McFarland's
brother." Neither of us had ever heard that Mc-
Farland had a brother dead. That evening the
Doctor inquired, of some gentleman, about it and
ascertained that a brother had died some years
ago.
I was greatly excited by this demonstration.
The atmosphere was so very different from any
thing we had felt before. We were all frightened.
Some minutes passed before we felt at ease again.
Frankie brought my portfolio and dropped it on
the table (199) before me, the small table was
rolled rapidly around and various other demon
strations made of a familiar sort.
Soon the skirt of my dress was pulled and the
dearest little echoes said. "Darling Mamma let
me get in your lap." I pushed back from the
table and begged her to come.
Now she tried, and tried to get herself up. I
could feel her against my knees and partly on
my lap. She seemed to be unable to raise her-
(I) When we went to Emma we found she had been crying
and was much worried.
52 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
self completely. I wanted to help her and asked
if I could not. She answered "Try to." I leaned
forward and "tried to," but she was gone. Olin
spoke. "Remember she is but a little child."
Meaning that she was too little to understand
that I could not help her. Then I asked Olin to
help her, to bring her, and set her on my lap.
Very soon I felt the pressure squarely upon my
lap. Only an instant at a time but repeated with
varying degrees of weight many times, only once
as heavy as a child of four years would naturally
be. Olin told me to lean (200) my face over to
ward my shoulder. 1 did. Then she seemed to
stand or kneel upon my lap, lay her head upon my
shoulder and her face against my face. She did
this three times. The first and second, there
seemed to be a fabric of some sort between her
face and mine, but the pressure was firm and
slightly prolonged. The third time there was
nothing intervening, and the touch was exactly
like the flesh of a child's face, warm, soft and
life like.
They all expressed great joy at her success and
said she was very happy. They said also—"You
shall hold her on your lap on the evening of the
20th. Note the day. I tell you, you shall see us
face to face."
Katie's hand now wrote in the dark and no
human eye saw it until after they had gone.
Frankie ran his fingers through his Papa's hair,
the Professor took hold of him several times and
the work upon the picture seemed to be (201)
rapidly going on all of the time. We could in
fact hear the pencils upon the paper when ever
we were sufficiently quiet. The following was
written in the dark.
"My dear Sarah I take this opportunity to
write a few important directions. Meet for the
directions to-morrow at twelve. Katie must re
main for us, as we can meet at no other hour and
we have great success now. When we say, open
eyes. Call us not back to-day. Katie must not
fail to meet precisely at twelve.
Oh! How happy Leila is! She must go and
tell every one before she is satisfied! All is well!
Olin."
Katie disappointed us on Friday and did not
come until ten o'clock Saturday evening. She
came in very bad condition, was unfit for any
sort of service until she had slept. Sunday
morning found her tolerably well and at nine
o'clock the pencil wrote. (202) "My dear Sarah.
God has in His Infinite Goodness again granted
us another interview. The appointments we will
make now in advance in order that they may be
kept.
To-day at eleven, but have room darkened at
half past ten, as we will require more time to
get the picture in owing to the atmosphere. To
morrow at three, Tuesday at three, Wednesday at
half past twelve, Friday at three and Sunday next
at half past six. No failure must be made or
we cannot do as we wish on Sunday. Remember
that is the day on which we intend to give the
picture. All will be well if these directions are
followed. God bless you! Tell Em. not to feel
that I neglect her. I do not forget to sprinkle
sunlight in her pathway. The little ones are here.
Olin."
April 17—11 A. M.— 1870.
The atmosphere cold and damp. Rain had been
falling all the morning. (203) Soon after we were
seated the echoes said, "We are all here." The
Doctor and Katie went repeatedly by the door,
Frankie took a pencil from my portfolio, played
with it upon the table, wrote his name in reverse
hand, requiring a mirror to read
it,
upon each of
his Papa's linen cuffs, and put the pencil back
where he found it.
While we were sitting by the table we noticed
the peculiar echoes, significant of consultation, for
some minutes, after which, Olin said.
"Dear Sarah we shall consult with each other,
and
if
there
is
any change in the hour or day we
will let you know
in
time. Katie must be here
daily and had better stay here each night during
this week, then she will be well." When they were
ready to leave they said. "Now all
is
well again.
You must not break another appointment."
They went again to be disappointed.
(204) At
3
P. M. just before Katie went out
the pencil wrote.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 53
"My dear Sarah and all. I am here, very happy
to be able to say a few parting words, not parting
for I shall hover near you to-day. The atmosphere
is against us but we can speak. Our Mother is
here dear Em. She is walking by your side re
moving the obstacles, and although you may feel
lonely here, when the dearest object of your
existence is not within your reach, still you know
other dear ones are, and the unseen are floating
about you, leaving blessings to cheer you on
your way.
My dear Sarah 1 will be with you at times
when your heart calls me, when you reach out
for those little ones whose forms you can not
catch. Yes dear Sarah, then I will be with you
to satisfy (in a measure) that unsatisfied longing.
(205) Are you not blessed? You are most
supremely. George also! I speak to both. It
gives us so much real happiness to gather here.
We look in your faces and hearts. We see you
as you are, not as the outside world does, but the
interior, and we feel happy. We will all meet
to-morrow and talk with you in the morning
at half past ten; be sure to meet then as the
atmosphere may require an earlier hour for our
meeting. We will be able to judge then. We can
say no more now.
Emma I have a word for you from our Mother.
She sends her love and blessing to you and wishes
you not to be worried. Clouds can not last always,
for the sun must shine and dispel the darkness;
so be happy. Little Frankie is overjoyed to be
able to use the pencil himself. Wear the cuffs to
please his eye (206) to-day. He thinks he has
done great things and tells all who meet him of
his great success. God bless you.
Olin."
Some of our affairs were pressing heavily upon
us and I asked Olin if he could tell us whether
we should get smoothly through? He answered.
"Dear Sarah, I will look and see and tell you
when I know. I can not now as my vision is
confined to things beyond your earth.
Olin."
Katie broke her appointments and did not
return until the evening of the 19th and came
in the worst possible condition. We put her in
bed and did for her the best we could. At eleven
she woke and said, her hand felt like writing. I
hastened for the paper and pencil and this fol
lowed, in a miserably poor hand.
N. B. Katie says that the echoes compelled
her to return by saying "Go to my Sister Mrs.
Taylor!" with so much force and constant repe
tition, that the woman where she was became
alarmed and sent her here.
(207 "My dear Sarah. I am here. Oh, how
happy that I have Katie again in our power.
You must not let her out again until after 1
Monday." Then there was something written
about fresh flowers and companions above. I
could make nothing out of
it,
but he then followed
with this. "Sarah
I
wish you to meet at
2
half
past ten to-morrow and at three. God bless you.
Oh! How
I
feel for this poor child. Let her not
again out of your sight.
1
will be here again.
God bless you.
Olin."
1
wish here to insert
a
communication which
was given on Thursday or Friday when Katie
was quite over her spree. Although much
transpired between the two messages, which will
be here recorded, still this second belongs here.
I
had the above message in my hand trying to
decipher (208)
it
and asked Olin what
it
was.
Katie asked for the pencil and he said. "Katie
was on the very step almost of eternity and we
knew that
if
she went out the next day, Wednes
day, death would have come from the suffering
she would have endured.
She would have drank her last; and we meant,
that
if
Katie would only abstain for
a
length
of time, she would have health and happiness
and sweet flowers, sweet friends and angels should
be her companions, instead of those vile roots
which grow to weeds and drag down the good
and those who are easily led.
We had the most serious consultation, which
will save her. She was so sick when we tried to
(1) The first appointment, he changed to quarter past seven.
(2) This was Tuesday night.
54 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
write Tuesday night that we could not place our
meaning understandingly. Dear Sarah, I have
been with you for the past twenty minutes, for
I saw your heart called me. (209) All is well
and we go on rejoicing. The Professor will have
Katie here by ten.
Olin."
April 20—7 A. M.— 1870.
At about seven we took our seats. The first
thing they said was. "My dear child, I am sorry
you took your dress to that woman. Mrs. Taylor
knows her." This disclosed a secret of Katie's
that she was determined to keep from me. She
was greatly vexed and I was much surprised. Our
circle were all present and worked, for we heard
them. They said but little, appointed a meeting
at three and went away.
Katie was in a very bad condition, so sick that
she left the room twice during the three quarters
of an hour we were in session and vomited freely
each time.
At three we met as directed. Katie was still
sick and our meeting was very quiet. The
Doctor and Katie were sent a few times by the
door and the next appointment was at eight and
a half.
(210) At half past eight we met again. They
could not work as they desired, felt Katie's
depression and spoke of it. At about the middle
of the meeting however, they said. "Now the
chain is whole."
We noticed the frequent and prolonged use of
the echoes of consultation. We as always, won
dered what it was about but they went away and
we did not learn until two days after. They
appointed the next meeting at half past eight
on the following evening.
April 21, 1870.
On this morning, I was preparing to go down
town, and made the remark that I would go
then as we were to have no meeting until evening.
Katie asked for the pencil and this was written.
"My dear Sarah, I am here with words of
promise. There were between us words of con
sultation last night and we wish you to meet
at quarter before three.
We will do all in our power to (211) leave
happiness in your paths to-day, and we do wish
you could understand how delicate the condi
tions are. We work not with joyful hearts; when
your minds are disturbed our presence cannot
come in contact with you, and we must do all
that will be for the best. The chain is whole,
the golden threads again brightening and all will
be well.
We wish these directions followed strictly, for
without them there never can be success. We
must not blame Katie for having these feelings
of uncertainty, they are natural to a tempera
ment like hers, therefore as we have consulted
and decided again on the hours for meeting, we
advise that Katie shall do all in her power to
bring peace to her soul. It would do her good to
see how things progress.
We advise some reliable person to go with
her, get her dress and as our meeting is at quarter
before three, to-night, we will let her go and
attend to her own little affairs. To-morrow our
(212) meeting will be at half past eight, but
to-night we shall have a meeting for other
purposes.
All is well and we will soon have the power to
come visibly. The dear little flowers are here
and happy. They are anxious to make their faces
visible and will be able to do so. We will have
our meeting on Sunday at five and Katie can
keep her other engagement which should make
her happy. We have made this appointment
earlier as we may require more time than usual.
Have the room nice and be happy. There will
be no trouble about dress. Let some one go with
Katie and she will return satisfied and our meet
ing will be a successful one. No more now. God
bless you!
Olin."
After reading the above I said. Olin shall
we meet to-night too? He wrote.
"We shall have a meeting to-night for our own
.
particular purposes.
' Dear Sarah you did not emphasise correctly,
(1) This referred to a mistake I made in reading the above.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 55
read over again. (213) We have had to put aside
duties and to-night we shall have other things
which belong to us alone. All is working well.
Olin."
April 21. 1870.
The day was pleasant and at quarter before
three we were in our places.
The usual demonstrations, the rolling of the
table, the going by the door etc. were made.
Leila played with her Papa's hair, put her fingers
into mine, brought a white rose bud from the
vase on the bureau and put it in my mouth. The
pen-knife was brought from the little table closed
and put in the Doctor's hand.
At 6 o'clock that evening the pencil said.
"My dear Child. How the circle has worked
to have all right. They are happy now and go
to rejoice in the heavenly light where they will
receive new power. I am one of the circle but
in a quiet way and am better able to talk as I
do not take an important part.
(214) You shall have rest some time when
your cares become less. I have looked in the
future and see that all will come out right. You
will not be embarrassed much, so have no more
anxiety. I will come with Olin and advise you
and help you make your plans. All is well!
I see the children, and often Willie is made
happy by his little brother and sister. They
follow him when he rides and protect him. Often
he is kept from falling by their power.
Sweet little flowers. Leila is very loving to her
brother Frankie and will leave me at any time
to be with him. She is learning to be patient
daily and is amused when she can make the
echoes.
I can say no more now Child. Tell Em. that
I am with her and do not cease to care for her.
When she is discouraged, I then approach her
with gentle love. A Mother's love is only perfect
when her children are happy and good. I can
say no more now.
Your Mother."
(215) April 22—8 A. M.— 1870.
"Our meeting will be at three this afternoon.
Now let me advise. The atmosphere is favor
able and electrical. We will improve the time.
1 do not think best that you should know the
time when the picture will be placed in your
hands, as the anxieties, the excitement would mar
the conditions. We have considered this with
great care.
I advise you to let this girl go and see Charles.
Let her mind be made free from these horrible
suspicions which are death to all peace. I know
her and the effect will be good. Go free from the
wish to touch or taste that vile and killing poison.
Make that firm determination and we will again
trust her as God trusts and believes and forgives
with renewed strength and hope for His children.
Then she will sit down contented with circum
stances which we will once more turn into sun
shine. Meet at three and Sunday at five. Meet
as though you were (216) in reality going before
the opened eyes of those who compose your circle.
Katie how little you realize that we see more
clearly than earthly eyes. God bless you! I will
speak to you after the circle but now must go to
duties, and as I am a punctual man at all times,
I shall not expect you to be behind time one
moment.
B. F.
April 22—3 P. M.— 1870.
Katie did as directed and at three we had a
very fine meeting. The air was delightful, Katie
was happy, the Doctor was rested and the spirits
were filled with joy. As my hand lay upon the
table I noticed something brush across the ends
of my fingers that felt like cloth of some fine
sort. I felt it again and mentioned it. The Doctor
soon noticed something of the same kind pass over
and cling to his shoulder. The fabric seemed
(217) to be detained or held by roughness of his
coat. The echoes said that each time it was Leila
and her dress we felt. During the session they
said "Now we will tell you the cause of our not
having a meeting last night. First, we had our
own duties to attend to, secondly —no, we will
write it for we do not wish Katie to hear." Then
Katie took the pencil and in the darkened room,
with her eyes closed the pencil wrote as follows.
56 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"First dear Sarah and George, we had our
duties, and we felt the need of reposing in the
sunlight, after which Dr. Franklin called us all
together and we had a most profound consulta
tion about Katie, how we should keep her in the
right path. As we are not always able to be with
her, and as we saw clearly that something had
to be done without the least uncertainty, we
gathered for that express purpose. The circle
(218) were all present. Dr. Franklin consulted
with a power even higher than himself, and out
of the whole number he chose Professor Kenyon
and his wife to stand by Katie almost constantly,
for a time unlimited. When they repose from
that duty it will be when Katie is in other hands
as good. This is Professor's duty, designated for
him because of his love for you and our family.
It will be as sacred a duty as any we have here.
She shall not sleep out of his influence, and it
will be far greater than earthly vigils. Now
Sarah, you can feel at ease. No anxiety, no care,
no feeling that Katie is going to fall, at least
for a long time, as we have in preparation greater
things, after the picture is given. Let her keep
her engagements with others also, when we have
none. She can go with these invisible watchers
and always return as she (219) goes, spotless
from that poison which is death. Yes, death to
everything. Now Sarah feel no anxiety, take no
thought but witness the power of the circle who
surround you. Katie's Mother has not the power
to do all this. Are you not happy? We are and
now you will have a proof of our power and also
the greatest test you have ever received. Dr.
Franklin will linger to make the next appoint
ment. Be happy! All is well!
Olin."
"I am here with the circle. Mrs. Kenyon."
"I went with the circle, and now seeing you
have finished the message I am here to appoint
our next meeting at twenty minutes after nine
to-night. I think that there are persons on earth
who require the care of immortal beings here.
It is a duty as great as duties here, specially when
they are persons who are the channels for good,
pure spirits to come (220) through. You have
all our signatures to this. Be free from anxiety
under all circumstances, only say I trust. Re
member we never deceive. B. F., Olin and all the
circle." "Your friend and teacher Professor K.
and all."
"The next appointment will be made to-night.
Farewell.
B. F."
April 22, 1870.
At twenty minutes past nine we were in our
places. The evening was fine and all were happy.
The Doctor was greeted in the usual manner by
the Professor and I felt Leila and her clothing
distinctly on my shoulder at two different times.
I thought she would sit upon my lap, but that
was expecting too much. They asked for paper,
and put the pencil into Katie's hand and wrote
the following in the dark.
(221) "We must bring pencils in the morning
quarter before eight. You need not darken with
blankets if you will keep eyes closed faithfully.
1 This paper will do. We want to try the pencils
on white paper after we sharpen them.
All is well ! Be happy ! You see how we guard
and watch! God bless you!
Professor and Circle."
April 23— A. M.— 1870.
At quarter before eight we were waiting for
them, but not one half minute passed before
they announced themselves. They rattled their
pencils and after a little delay took the blank
paper from the table and tried their pencils, gave
one to the Doctor and said, "We are through
with this and will leave it." They asked Katie
to write and handed her the blank sheets as
fast as they were needed. Katie's eyes were
blindfolded. The following was written.
(222) "My dear Sarah. Bright and lovely is
the morning, bright the hour, lovely the flowers
and we are all here. Oh! How happy we are
for now no shadows fall upon our prayers. We
know that the strength and power Professor
Kenyon has will keep all anxiety from you; and
(1) They had already told ub, by the echoes, to have blank white
paper at the next meeting.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 57
no matter where or under what circumstances
Katie is placed she will be protected.
Sleep with this sweet assurance and know that
the power above is the only saving power. Meet
at three. Better be ready at half past two.
There will be no meeting to-night, one at eleven
to-morrow and one at five. Call us not again
until we make our presence known.
Be as free in mind as the birds whose warblings
greet your ear. All is well !
Olin."
"George you felt my hand, this morning, touch
yours. It is a helping hand.
Olin."
1
"Meet at three. There will be no meeting
to-night. The Circle.
B. F."
(223) April 23— P. M.— 1870.
At three we were again in our places. The
work went joyfully on. I should say here that
at each of these meetings we heard almost con
tinually the pencils upon the paper. After an
hour and half, while we stood by the open win
dow, the echoes said, "We had not power to put
signature, it should be B. F. and the Circle."
This was the first hint we had that there had
been any writing done during the meeting. After
they were gone we found the following, written
in a firm clear hand.
(Autograph)
"My Dear Children. We are so happy. All
is well. Meet at eleven to-morrow. We do hope
that the atmosphere will be clear; at five all will
be well. We all go now and will speak after the
morning meeting. God bless" Here the power
failed.
April 24—1 1 A. M.— 1870.
One of the sweetest days the Spring ever
brought to mortals was this 24th. The dear
invisibles worked so quietly that we could but
notice it. We heard no rustling of paper or
moving of pencils. The Doctor and Katie were
sent twice by the door, and at (224) one time
they remained several minutes much longer than
(1) This was written on the blank sheet by B. F. himself.
ever before. The Professor, Father Taylor and
Frankie each took hold of the Doctor. Father
said. "Write to your Mother. She will not re
main long. Her heart is lonely." Frankie or Leila
put fingers in my hair. They told Katie to take
pencil, and they wrote the subjoined messages,
in the dark. As soon as the pencil dropped the
echoes said "Dear Sarah and George, the birds
are singing for the children, and with the blessing
of the whole circle we say farewell. Open eyes,
get light." While they were saying this I felt
Frankie's or Leila's fingers still playing in my
hair.
"Twelve o'clock and all is well! We are all
here. We are doing our work. We shall do all for
the best and all we ask is that you will not hurry
us. We cannot now, after retaining the picture
so long, give it without giving it as we desire.
We want it to please us, to be like Leila, and a day
or more detention will not harm you but help us,
therefore be happy. We have all the conditions
on (225) your side that we can desire. We do
not feel a shadow. You must not know the day,
but have faith. The time is very near and you
will rejoice. Meet at five. We find that it is a most
electrical day for our work. We wish you to have
paper on this table. We will require time, so be
ready at five to come in the room. Marvel not!
Be happy! Full directions and explanations shall
be given this day. God bless you ! We are happy
for all is well. When we are ready we will make
known our presence.
Olin."
"We have been working above on the picture
this morning. It has not been in the room, but
this afternoon have room all ready and window
open at half past four. We had to work on the
picture in our own homes this morning, therefore
we were silent.
B. F."
"Mamma I am so happy and so is Leila.
Frankie."
April 24—5 P. M.— 1870.
The afternoon was just as fine as the morning.
At fifteen minutes before five the echoes told us
to "Go in." We took our seats and heard the
$8 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
work upon the paper very directly. (226) The
Doctor and Katie were sent by the door as usual,
the little table was rolled and pushed about, the
round stand was walked up to the table at which
we were sitting, the Professor saluted the Doctor
with his usual slap and grasped him firmly by
the arm, Frankie took one of the curls that was
hanging over my bosom, lifted it up and said,
"Mamma, pretty curl." Katie's dress was pulled,
but they seldom take hold of her in any other
manner, owing perhaps to the fact, that every
touch alarms her greatly. At six they told Katie
to take the pencil. After the writing (which is
now always done in the dark) they went away
in the usual manner.
"My dear Sarah and George. We had to efface
some marks on the picture this morning in our
own homes, therefore we are not able to bring it
to-day, but be not disappointed, it will be all the
more beautiful and perfect. We ourselves are
delighted, overjoyed with our success and so you
will be. Remember these words, God works in a
mysterious way His wonders to perform. Be con
tented and (227) happy, knowing that we are
watching. We have used all our power and can
not talk freely. Meet at three to-morrow and in
the meantime be free from anxiety of any kind.
Katie will be guarded and will keep all of our
appointments.
The work is pleasing to us and we all rejoice,
and in a few moments angels will be looking down
upon us, to see us approach our homes with our
charge.
Dear Sarah all is well! The conditions are per
fect. Call us not back to-night.
God bless you!
Olin."
April 25 3 P. M.— 1870.
The day had been very cloudy with some rain,
but at about three the air cleared, the clouds dis
appeared and the sun shone gloriously. At three
we were seated around the table. The Doctor
felt the touch of the Professor and we heard his
step almost at once. The Doctor and Katie went
as usual by the door, the table rolled about etc.
While at the table the echo said, "We shall want
the knife no more." At a little before four they
said "Katie take pencil." I reached for the pa
per which lay upon the table, but it was too far
away, still it was handed to me by some one; not
the Doctor or Katie. I asked who? The echoes
answered "I did."
FOX -TAYLOR RECORD
i869-i89X
Volume II
INDEX TO VOLUME II
Page
Again they promise to show their faces to us 6
Again they promise to show their faces to us 63
A friend of Prof. Kenyon's enters their world 58
Dr. Franklin rubs and claps Dr. Taylor 83
Dr. Franklin continues the work he commenced on earth 91
Dr. Franklin commends Dr. Taylor 125
Dr. Franklin calls us his children for the first time 132
Dr. Franklin can not control the electrical power 50
Frankie gives a flower to, and takes it from his Papa 5
Frankie hides his Papa's hat 6
Frankie tells Maggie not to touch his pencil 12
Frankie lays his hand against Willie's 20
Frankie sits on his Papa's shoulder 30
Frankie writes poetry 44
Frankie takes a slipper of Leila's out of the drawer 67
Frankie brings two figures from the mantel shelf to the table 85
Frankie takes off and puts back his Papa's ring 93
Frankie pins a handkerchief to my hair 93
Frankie gets upon his Papa's shoulder 109
Frankie brings his Papa's watch to me 112
Frankie braids his Papa's beard 146
Frankie brings his Papa's pocket book from the parlor 170
Frankie brings my needle-book and scissors 172
Frankie tries to put a bracelet on my arm 174
Invisible hands bring a pot of flowers to our table 9
Invisible hands return pencils 16
Invisible hands pull my dress etc 39
Invisible hands take crayon paper from room May 17, 1870 39
Invisible hands take two pencils from room May 18, 1870 41
Invisible hands take three pencils from room May 22, 1870 42
Invisible hands fan us with a fan and without one 76
Invisible hands rub my face with toilette powder 91
Invisible hands pat Dr. Taylor's cheek 129
Isaac T. Hopper is introduced 141
Isaac T. Hopper brings a leaf from his grave 185
Katie is told that a friend is coming 12
Katie promises not to touch wine again 43
Katie goes with us to Greenwood 70
Leila gives me a pink 4
Leila's picture presented April 30, 1870 13
Leila sits in the little rocking chair 30
Leila wraps her dress about my head and face 134
Ma says she can not give back my children 22
Ma says they have oceans, rivers and all things beautiful in their world 121
Ma says she can roam in her beautiful Paradise when we are happy 126
Ma describes her home 131
Ma expresses her desire to see me with less care 142
Mrs. Kidder speaks 162
Messages destroyed 35
More messages destroyed 120
Olin is interrupted while writing by callers on himself 15
Olin says they have forms at all times 25
Olin tells us we must be calm when the children come visibly 30
Olin promises to go with us to Greenwood and take the children 34
INDEX TO VOLUME ll
Page
Olin tells why they love their world so very much 36
Olin says God sends the circumstances which permit them to come to us 46
Olin expresses sympathy for our bereavement 48
Olin describes the dress they wore at one of our meetings 50
Olin takes my place in the circle 53
Olin says their sight is limited 55
Olin describes the children's dress 60
Olin remarks upon marriage 78
Olin says faith is necessary, that they may help us 79
Olin speaks again about marriage 86
Olin expresses sympathy for us that we must still remain on earth 92
Olin tells us further of the necessity of faith 94
Olin tells of a man and woman he saw at the "Golden Gate" 106
Olin tells me to always say that I have three children 106
Olin says the children love to go to Greenwood 108
Olin says they do not think it as pretty as their own gardens Ill
Olin says that disturbances hurt them when they are in form 115
Olin predicts our future 115
Olin tells us of the Doctor's journey 118
Olin tells us further of the Doctor's proceedings 118
Olin tells us again of the Doctor's proceedings 120
Olin says Ma dresses my children etc 129
Olin says Ma is preparing to receive company 130
Olin tells of their beautiful walks, gardens etc 133
Olin says heaven is full of change that they may not weary 134
Olin tells what Grandma is spending her time over or in 136
Olin tells how near the two worlds are to each other 137
Olin announces Grandma's presence 139
Olin tells her feelings towards us 140
Olin gives a few lines of poetry 143
Olin tells us more of precious Grandma 144
Olin says "faith saves" 147
Olin tells us where our beloved are 148
Olin tells us of Frankie and Leila's planting a rose-bush in their garden 174
Olin speaks again of the rose-tree 174
Olin says the children kiss us as in life 176
Olin further describes their world 186
Our meeting disturbed by my maid Maggie 114
Prof. Kenyon entreats me to trust him 11
Prof. Kenyon tries in vain to protect Katie 29
Prof. Kenyon talks of our business etc 1 10
Prof. Kenyon says Washington has been with us 186
The children make a cross of flowers and tie with thread 3
The children come when I look over their wardrobe 46
The children play with their clothes and talk with us 60
The children try to place flowers on our faces while we sleep 78
The children play about us 89
The children want Willie to go with them 130
The Doctor and Katie awakened by the echoes 49
They tell us what to do with Katie but she knows nothing of it 56
The spirits of darkness enter our circle 64
They (our circle) leave the paper with us. It rains 103
The pencil stops writing. We are asked to note the place 140
LETTERS
Frankie's —
16-44-93-138- 165-
Ma's—
22-46-96- 102- 121 - 126- 128 - 131 - 142-
155 - 161 - 169 -
Olin's—
3 - 5 - 7 - 8 - 10 - 14 - 20 - 23 - 24 - 25 - 28 -
29 - 30 - 32 - 33 - 34 - 35 - 37 - 39 - 40 - 42 -
45 - 46 - 47 - 48 - 49 - 50 - 52 - 53 - 54 - 57 -
59 - 60 - 62 - 64 - 66 - 68 - 70 - 71 - 72 - 74 -
75 - 77 - 78 - 79 - 80 - 81 - 82 - 84 - 86 - 88 -
89 - 90 - 92 - 93 - 94 - 96 - 98 - 100 - 101 - 104 -
105 - 108 - 1 1 1 - 1 13 - 1 14 - 1 16 - 1 18 - 120 -
124 - 127 - 129 - 130 - 133 - 134 - 136 - 137 -
138 - 139 - 143 - 144 - 147 - 148 - 151 - 153 -
159 - 160 - 163 - 166 - 168 - 171 - 172 - 176 -
180 - 182 - 184 - 186 - 187 - 188 -
Grandma's—
149 - 151 - 153 - 158 - 161 - 175 - 177 - 178 -
180 - 184 - 189 -
Dr. Franklin's—
1 - 10 - 18 - 28 - 33 - 69 - 85 - 87 - 91 - 123 -
125 - 132 - 164 - 179 - 182 - 184 - 186 - 189 -
Prof. Kenyon's —
1 - 2 - 1 1 - 23 - 29 - 38 - 42 - 43 - 54 - 66 - 73 -
88-96- 102- 107- 109- 110- 119- 122- 125-
133 - 148 - 154- 156- 161 - 170- 177 - 181 -
186 -
Isaac T. Hopper's—
141 - 143 - 146 - 158 - 168 - 169 - 170 - 171 -
174 - 176 - 178 - 183 - 184 -
Mrs. Fox's —
122 -
Sabra's —
23 -
Autograph Letters
Olin's— 163
Dr. Franklin's— 16-113
Frankie
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD
1869-189Z
Volume ll
April 25 4 P. M.— 1870.
"It is a pleasure for us again to record, that
all is well and the conditions are well. We have
a good atmosphere and our work goes on as we
wish. We are very much pleased and happy.
The whole circle is here and rejoices in the
blessed day of purity and freshness. Dear chil
dren be you also happy and know that the day is
near when your hearts will be made glad.
Meet for directions at half past ten to-mor
row. We have no power now to say more. The
little ones are bright with flowers, 1 and you
will know when to get some, after ten to-morrow.
We will soon fly away with the picture, veiled
from the careless eyes of the world, too sacred
to be looked upon by them.
No more now. Farewell.
B. F."
April 26—101/2 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Friend. The circle are all engaged
and I have only come to give you our directions.
They send me and these are our wishes. Meet
at three, the atmosphere will be so clear, and all
will be well. We will all come then and talk.
I must keep my eye on Katie and also other
things. Have no anxiety all is well.
Prof."
Katie had come in fresh and well. She had not
tasted the horrid cup for nearly a week. The
pencil continued writing thus. "Do you not dear
child see that (2-Vol. ll) I have power given me
to protect and keep from evil? Have no anxiety
for there is no danger. Oh! How much I shall
have to say in a few days.
Prof."
After a few moments he wrote.
"There is a spirit here who wishes to talk with
you, but as she is not strong we can not let the
power be used at this time. One word she can
say through me.
Prof. K."
( 1) This referred to remarks made by us about flowers for
our meetings.
This followed.
"I lived there, I live here with children.
Polly."
On reading the last sentence I exclaimed Aunt
Polly! The echoes said "Yes." Aunt Polly was
a dear woman who died the next year after Ma.
She was not a relative of ours, but was every
body's Aunt and everybody's friend. She had
never attempted to speak before although I had
several times inquired after her, but now a grand
son of hers was calling on us and at this moment
was in an adjacent room. I at once inquired if
his coming had brought her near us? They an
swered "Yes." I made another inquiry and the
pencil wrote. "Sarah wait until after the meeting,
and then she can come and I will help her. Call
no more.
Your Friend and Teacher."
April 26 3 P. M.— 1870.
The day was perfectly beautiful and our meet
ing apparently satisfactory. The children were
particularly happy over a vase of fresh flowers
which stood upon the bureau. There was a soli
tary flower put between the Doctor's lips and
very soon one given to me.
(3-Vol. ll) The echoes said, "Dear Mamma
we are going to make something for you." Soon
they put the vase into the Doctor's hand and
he found it empty of flowers.
They now wrote through Katie's hand, but
when she wanted the paper, they would not let
me reach across the table as before, but had me
go around to the opposite side for it. This gave
us an intimation that the "something" they were
making was on the table. All the other demon
strations were as usual, the going by the door,
the rolling of the table, the pencils upon the paper
etc. After they were gone we found a beautiful
cross made of the flowers and tied with spool-
cotton, the thread still unbroken from the spool.
The arrangement was exquisitely sweet. The
spool they must have taken from a drawer which
68 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
we left and found closed. The writing in the dark
was.
"My dear Sarah and George. We are rejoiced
to say that not one thing is wanting now. The
picture will be given one day this week, so ask
not when, the day leave with us. It is almost
finished. To-morrow meet at three precisely. I
could tell you now the day but I am not per
mitted to for reasons. Are you not happy? George
be not impatient, you must not be. We are not
working in vain, so be patient, the great reward
will come. (4-Vol. ll) The little ones are so
overjoyed. They have arranged the flowers and
feel so happy. Their little hands have placed
them as you see them. Are you not blessed to
have them so near? After the picture is given
there are many friends here who wish to come
and talk with you; but we, the circle, think till
then, you and they better wait as we want to
introduce them and have a family gathering. The
next night after the picture is given we want a
meeting for our whole family.
Have the lights bright for them, the room nice,
and flowers. They will prepare too for this visit.
Have Em. present, and Oh! how happy we will
all be. Call us not back. God bless you.
Olin."
April 27 3 P. M.— 1870.
Another pure, perfect day. Just before three
we entered the room, 1 was last and as I left our
parlor I took the Doctor's hat with me and laid
it on the bureau in the intermediate room, fas
tened the door after me and followed them. Our
room was as usual, with the addition of a pot of
white pinks which sat upon the table around
which we seated ourselves. The Doctor was
directly accosted by the Professor, who said, "My
efforts have not been in vain even with Katie. I
will continue to show my power." Very soon the
stem of a pink was placed between my lips and
Ma said "Dear little Leila gave you that." I
asked who broke the (5-Vol. ll) flower from the
stalk? Ma said, "She did. I held her."
Now Frankie put a flower from the vase in his
Papa's hand and then the echoes directed the
Doctor and Katie to go by the door. As they
were getting up, or leaving their seats Frankie
took the flower from his Papa, and when they
returned gave it to him again. The next time they
were sent by the door he did the same thing, re
turning the flower as his Papa was seated. This
was repeated three times. They wrote in the dark
and went away. We returned to our parlor, and
Frankie said immediately, "Mamma look for
Papa's hat." My sister and Katie exclaimed
"What does that mean!" "Where was the Doc
tor's hat?" We all went in to look for it. I
looked on the bureau where I left
it,
but
it
was
not there. We looked by the bureau on the car
pet, on the bed, under the bed but could not
find it. We then went into my bed-room. The
echoes said "Mamma you are cold." We went
back to the intermediate room and looked again.
When
I
touched the bed, he said "Hot! Hot!"
On taking up
a
large feather pillow, the hat lay
close in the corner, behind and entirely hid by it.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The whole circle
are happy with our success which will soon
gladden your eyes. We are all going to meet
after this sitting for consultation and to-morrow
meet for directions (6-Vol. ll) at half past
twelve. The room will not require darkening.
We wish no appointments made for Friday, none
at all, and this you will understand after our
directions to-morrow. We only hint this to Katie
in order to prepare her
if any one should wish
an appointment.
If
we appoint
a
meeting for
Friday night, there will be, must be no meeting
during the day. Oh! How happy we are, the
chain
is
so perfect, and after the picture
is
given
we will have such good conditions that we can
go on with other things and make our explana
tion of heaven so plain that you will see us walk
ing
in
our paths of glory. That which you long
so much for, Sarah, shall be explained. We will
raise the curtain! You shall see your children
face to face. We will keep the conditions pure,
the chain whole.
We shall go on with the explanations and
everything, every word as promised shall be ful
filled. Why this
is
not to end here! This
is
the
step to very great things, and while these bless
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 69
ings are bestowed so freely hold fast to them for
God gives us power to do all these things through
our love for you and our children. Be patient!
Ask not when! Believe the hour is not far off.
God bless you.
Olin."
(7-Vol. Il) April 28 12y2 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. It is pleasant to sit down
with you alone, undisturbed, and without feeling
the chilling influence of curiosity. Sarah can you
understand this? Yesterday we had our consul
tation, and now let us prepare you for an event
which will not in a long time occur again. To
morrow meet at three, and Saturday call not upon
us till we call you to witness your heart's desire.
The meeting will be at half past eight Satur
day P. M. How happy we are, how rejoiced, for
now all our plans are sure, our hopes to be
realized. We do not wish you to feel anxious or
excited. Be calm and let your soul be peaceful
for great are the blessings, which in a very short
time, will be placed in your hands. 1 We wish
you could meet without the confusion which at
tends these great meetings, at least do all you
can, you can do no more. We shall be happy to
give you this sweet tribute, and as the colors may
fade, or the picture become marred, we advise
you to preserve it in some way. We know you
will feel a happy sadness when you look upon
the picture, but it will give you great peace all
through your life, and happiness which the world
can not take from you. To-day there will be no
further meeting. The little ones are so near you,
almost in your arms, and Oh! would that I could
(8-Vol. ll) make their faces shine upon your
vision. Let me beg you to be free from fatigue
on Saturday. We have duties to perform, and
still we shall be near to advise if we are needed;
let us judge of that.
2There are influences dear Sarah which we
can not over-come. We find it difficult now to
write, seeing the thoughts and feelings, the spheres
in the back room. It is this keen perception, sen
sitiveness, inward feeling which makes Katie the
medium she
is,
and although the cold world can
not understand
it,
you can. Be patient! All
is
well! But now let me speak on
a
subject foreign
to this. Feel no anxiety about your business
affairs.
I
see that you will come out clear as gold.
One thing we blame ourselves for.
It
is
this, that
we did not sooner take Katie under our special
care, that we deferred the time so long. Surely
she was worthy
a
consultation, she through
whom we can do so much. But we rejoice now,
for no power on earth can overcome the greater
power. Keep your own counsel.
We can say no more now, but remember the
directions, which are to meet at the named times,
rain or shine.
Olin."
April 28
7
P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah.
I
wish to advise to-night.
iTo-morrow at three
I
will know
if
you can meet
at (9-Vol. Il) ten the following Saturday night.
Katie, I know will have no meeting, and all will
be well. I think however that she requires rest
and better go to bed early here, and to-morrow
she can go and meet her friend as early as she
pleases, but to-night do rest in order to be strong
to-morrow. The picture
is
so beautiful and so
nearly finished that we feel now like walking
in
flowery paths and sun-lit groves.
If
Katie goes
now she will be urged over to Mrs. Tyler's and
no rest. God bless you Sarah and Em.
Olin."
This last message, with the exception of the
sentence about the picture, was all answers to
different matters we were discussing.
April 29
3
P. M.— 1870.
Rain fell during the morning and the afternoon
was damp. Directly after we were seated the Doc
tor and Katie were sent by the door and we
heard the pencils with perfect distinctness upon
the paper. We wondered how they could bring
it
through the wet atmosphere. We found our
query answered
in
the message they left. While
we were sitting by the table
I
felt flowers falling
over my face and soon found near me the large
(1)
I
was called upon several times while he was writing- the
message.
(2) In the back room were Louise and Mrs. Wells.
(1)
I
had asked to have the half past eight appointment
deferred to ten.
70 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
pot of pinks which we left on the stand by the
window. We heard a great deal of rattling of
paper, but our meeting was very short. They
wrote the following before we admitted light.
(10- Vol. ll) "My Dear Children. We have
nearly finished the picture. Meet to-morrow at
three, and at ten P. M. Oh rejoice! We shielded
the picture with a thicker paper, and we have
now all as we wish. We will not say whether we
return it at three or ten. We have had the ele
ments against us, but we are satisfied, and now
let me beg that all future appointments will be
kept faithfully, for we can come face to face.
Call us not again to-day and try not to think
of us.
All is well! Have no anxiety! We will not
defer our promises ! God bless you ! To-day ends
nearly all our work on the picture. Meet at three
to-morrow. The picture is smooth and beautiful.
Fear not!
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. We wish the meeting at
precisely three to-morrow afternoon. It will be
a short meeting, as the great meeting will be at
ten in the evening. All is well! The pencils will
be returned when the picture is finished and we
wish you to note this: there are no shadows, no
obstacles, nothing to interfere, and we all con
gratulate you on having a beautiful picture. We
will at a future time give one of our Ma.
The meeting of all our friends will take place
the same night that the picture is placed in your
hands. We are only too happy to be able to tell
you this; (11-VoI. ll) so sleep happy. We give
your our word, our promise that all shall be well
with Katie. And now let us say; be happy! Call
us not again until we announce ourselves."
Katie has come in this afternoon in very irrit
able mood, with the manner she usually has when
she has imbibed slightly. She was going out again.
I was distressed with anxiety. Judging from the
past I knew the appointments for the next day
could not be kept. I thought that her bad humor
had shortened the afternoon meeting! My heart
sank down, down.
The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. All is well; be not in the
least disturbed. You shall not be disappointed.
We did not require a longer time to-day. Let me
say that you should trust me. There are times
when I wish to speak in an audible voice, and
say, trust me, trust us. Katie has not, I will an
swer for her, taken ardent spirits and I will keep
her from it; but we influence her when you least
expect. Being nervous she mistakes kindness for
unkindness. To-morrow the picture will come.
We can not say at which hour, three or ten, but
believe us and fear not. The drops for stomach
ache did not help Katie and she did not do wrong
to take them for she knew not their effect. (12-
Vol. ll) At all events I am sentinel and watch
at the door. Katie better come here to-night and
sleep. Sunday night we will give her liberty to
stay at Mrs. Townsend's. All is well! The pic
ture is lovely. I am delighted with it.
Prof."
After reading the above message Katie was
happy and did not wish to go out until after tea.
Later in the afternoon while Maggie was ar
ranging some cologne bottles on the bureau, she
took up, without thinking or knowing, the white
crayon pencil which they had returned to us.
Katie and I were at the opposite end of the room
and did not notice her when the echoes said
"Maggie do not take away my pencil." Maggie
came as soon as she heard her name, and when
the sentence was finished did not know its mean
ing. I explained to her, then she said she had
taken the pencil up and laid it down again.
After tea I was to send an escort with Katie.
At half past seven she started up and said, "Now
I will go." The echoes answered "No! Wait!
Some one will come to go with you." She said,
she did not believe
it,
that her impressions were
pretty correct and she felt
it
was not so; but
finally consented to wait
a
little, and see, saying
it
would be
a
good test. In about fifteen minutes
the door - tender announced one of her best
friends, who took her (I3-Vol. Il) to Mr. Town
send's and back again.
Just before we retired the echoes said "Meet
at half past seven
in
the morning. The atmos
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 71
phere will be fine. Meeting will be short. Need
not darken."
Saturday April 30 7V2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was exquisitely fine, and after
we had prepared the room in the usual manner,
except that we did not darken
it,
and laid, by
their request, Frankie's picture, which they gave
us three months ago, upon the little table, we
seated ourselves as always.
Directly we heard the rustle of paper on the
table before us and the echoes said. "Dear Sarah
we are going to leave the picture with you, but
do not look upon
it
until after our meeting at
three. We could not of course give her great
spiritual beauty, but we have done all in our
power.
The blessed atmosphere has aided us to come
with this sacred gift. Examine the hair and the
little band which the child now wears."
We thanked them and God for their great
pains in doing for us. They answered. "Thank
God first for He gave us the power. Remember
and secure the pictures from being marred." We
now inquired
if
we should open our eyes? They
spoke almost simultaneously and said. "First my
dear Sarah let me fulfill my promise." And at
the commencement of the sentence the picture was
placed in my hand, (14-Vol. Il) and at the same
time Frankie's was put in the Doctor's. The very
same paper that was taken away by angels three
months before, and had been kept in the realms
of the blessed, and worked over and upon, so mys
teriously, by the hands of the purified, now lay
again in my own material hand, now was looked
upon with my own mortal eyes.
It
was now eight o'clock, our breakfast hour
and Olin wrote the following as
I
laid the precious
pictures away carefully under lock and key to
await their next bidding.
"My Dear Sarah and George. You are now
going down
in
the crowd with the knowledge,
that you have that which the world can not give
nor take away. Oh! How
I
do shrink from hav
ing curious eyes look upon this little face.
Olin."
As soon as the above message was read, we
made further inquiry and the pencil wrote again.
"Wait! Call us not until we make our pres
ence known! We are going to have
a
meeting
and will talk with you in an hour.
Olin."
9
A. M. At the expiration of the hour he was
here.
"My Dear Sarah. We wish the meeting for
seeing the picture at three, with you, George and
Katie, (our circle) no more. Then we leave
it
to
your discretion to show, as you have good judg
ment.
(15-Vol. ll) Are you not happy? We have put
aside much to-day in order to get all the dear
ones together for the meeting to-night. Now we
want to give directions for the purpose of show
ing the little one to you.
If
you follow strictly
our directions there will be no failure; and we
are happy to have
a
good and lasting control
over the conditions. To-day all will be well, we
will watch when the sun rises, and when the
mantle of sleep falls over those we love we will
stand and watch. Oh! How happy we are! And
now soon you shall have
a
picture of your Mother
(our dear Ma), who
is
now holding Leila
in
her
arms to let her pull down the flowers which she
can not reach without aid. We shall to-morrow
take these little ones and meet in our own lovely
bowers.
Meet to-night at ten. Tell Em. to be present
as we are all coming. Wait till
I
see who
is
call
ing me." The pencil was still several minutes after
which
it
continued as follows. "You remember
Aunt Polly? She desires to come and
I
have
given my consent. Caroline also.
I
would like
to have you punctual, as all will wish to say
a
few words. Dr. Franklin shall speak first. Wait!
I
am called again." The pencil was again still,
and longer than before after which
it
commenced
as follows. "Prof. Hare and his (16-Vol. ll)
friend. Rev. Pierpont.
I
should be happy to have
them, but more will not be able to talk, there
fore our number
is
now full. All are happy and
satisfied. You dear Sarah must have
a
welcome
for all. Meet at three.
Olin."
72 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Willie was present when we read this last mes
sage and 1 asked him to meet with us at ten, to
which he gladly assented. The pencil then wrote.
"Oh! Willie. I am so glad that you are com
ing! You will not be afraid to feel my little hand,
will you?
Frankie."
April 30th 3 P. M.— 1870.
The day still perfect. I did not darken the
room, laid the two pictures on the little table and
we took our seats. We had been but a minute or
two in our places when a white pink, from a vase
upon the table, was placed in my hand, the long
gone pencils rattled upon the table, and one of
them was slipped into the Doctor's sleeve and
one into mine as 1 held my hand to my face. The
echoes then said, "Get baby's picture, bring it
here. Let us all congratulate you! Joy be with
you." The picture was again laid in my hand.
Now they bade us "Open eyes, read and look at
picture." The following had been written while
our eyes were closed, by an unseen hand.
"Let us all wish you joy. Meet at ten to-night.
We will all speak then. Benj. Franklin and the
whole (17- Vol. ll) circle. We can say no more
now." Then we looked upon the picture, the pic
ture of an angel made by the hands of angels.
Sweet little Leila with her golden hair; longer
and more curly than when she went away three
years ago. A plain blue band around her head
with no loops or ends, (while here she wore a
blue ribbon tied on the top of her head.) Her
heavenly blue eyes are raised upwards and Olin
says she is looking at the birds which are singing
above her. Her cunning little nose and sweet,
loving mouth are there true to life, her little
double chin and plump round face are all there,
and the whole is infinitely sweet and sacred, mar-
velously beautiful and the work is exquisitely
fine. The first look at the picture gave us the
impression of a darker complexion than she had.
They saw our thought and said. "We will make
it lighter if you wish."
The entire process of this wonderful work has
been and is to us a grand and surprizing revela
tion. The glimpses we have been able to catch
and the ideas we have obtained of the next world
are dearer and sweeter than any views or knowl
edge we have gained besides. The two worlds are
blending together, and our children there are our
children still, and are here so much and so often
that we feel their presence and converse with them
at times as freely as with our precious (18- Vol.
Il) Willie, who is still left to our care. And Wil
lie too talks with his brother as though he saw
him by his side. And now let me state here, that
during all this long time, through each of the
meetings described, Katie's hands have both been
held all of the time, and no other human being
but we three has ever been in the room, so that
the possibility of deception of any sort does not
exist.
I thank my God and my angel loved ones for
my knowledge of and acquaintance with this poor,
helpless Katie. So simple and childlike, still
bright and quick; as sensitive as a quivering leaf
and irritable as an inflamed eye.
April 30 10 P. M.— 1870.
I arranged our private parlor for this great
meeting, placed the angel pictures of our angel
children in a conspicuous position and at quarter
before ten our unseen friends announced the ar
rival of some of the company. Katie took the
pencil and the speaking commenced.
"My Dear Friends. After the picture is photo
graphed we will make it lighter if you desire.
You will see Artists, who will make all clear to
your mind. B. F."
We made some reply to this, then he continued.
"We will take it and make it lighter, fair as a
lily which she
is,
just as soon as you are through
with
it,
and
if
you desire to have
it
done before,
we will, (19-Vol. Il) but
it
will not take so good
a
photograph.
B. F."
Now Frankie said by the echoes "Mamma what
do you think of your little boy and girl?" After
a
little more conversation about the picture the
speaking really commenced.
"Dear Friends. We are all here and
it
is
the
wish of the circle that
I
should speak first. We
have all felt
a
great desire to give you
a
perfect
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 73
likeness of your little one. The picture is a fine
one, the features and appearance of the little girl,
but much darker as we from the first, desired
you to have it taken in a form that you could
always retain. The picture shall be taken Thurs
day and made to please your eyes, for she is fair
as a lily and we will make it so. We are all happy
to come here. We have done the best we could
and you must not feel one shadow of disappoint
ment. We will keep the picture but a very short
time, only a few hours. We have got control of
the conditions now and we can do almost any
thing in the way of showing our presence.
I feel an interest in you and your family and
when I can aid you, it will always be a pleasure.
Let these meetings be a fresh green, ever in
your hearts, and remember that you are blessed.
My power to aid in showing the faces of your
dear little ones would be greater than in making
pictures, as I never had artistic skill. I can aid
and direct, but not paint. You must be happy,
for as we have told you before, (20- Vol. Il)
greater things are coming. I will give way now
to others as the room is filling with anxious
friends.
I admire your little son now living in his
earthly home. Fine little boy, who will live to
be a good man. I hope and know he will as I
shall ever have an eye on him. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. I believe that
I come next to wish you joy, happiness and long
life, a life to guard and help the living who look
to you for aid, a life to help your child who
looks to you for support.
I see the little shade of disappointment on your
hearts. Oh! Cast it off, for we can make the
little face fair and just as you desire. Think no
more of the shadows, they are easily effaced and
shall be.
Sarah and George we are here : through flowery
paths we have come. Leila and Frankie are now
on their way, with their Grandma hand in hand,
skipping along, laughing, playing, singing and
kissing each other every alternate step. They
want to touch Willie before he sleeps, so that he
will feel them."
At this point Frankie said by the echoes. "Wil
lie, let me touch you, then you go to bed." Willie
assented. "Willie bring the flowers." He brought
the vase and set it upon the table. "Willie set
it under the table." He did that. "Now Willie
put your hand under the table." He did so, and
a beautiful rose-bud from the vase was placed
in
it,
and Frankie laid his (2I-Vol. ll) hand
against Willie's. Willie was delighted, said
Frankie's hand felt warm and as soft as
a
pin
cushion. Frankie then said. "Now dear little
brother go to bed." Willie answered "Good night
Frankie." Frankie said "No." Meaning
I
sup
pose that he should be with him. After Willie
went out flowers were put in each of our hands
from under the table until the vase was emptied,
then Frankie said "Papa put hand low under the
table." When done, the vase emptied of flowers,
but full of water, was put in the Doctor's hand.
The Doctor, Em. and
I
felt the hand, distinctly,
that placed the flowers in ours, but we did not
see it. The gas was burning and our eyes were
open throughout this meeting, but we reached our
hands under the table to receive the flowers. Dear
little Katie sat with her hands upon the table,
and while we were receiving the flowers and
bringing them above the table, she said "Oh!
I
do
wish they would give me one." At our request,
she placed her hand under, and when they put
a
flower
in
it,
she was filled with delight. Now the
writing was again resumed and continued until
the power was exhausted.
"We have all enjoyed this meeting. The giving
of the flowers were the children's gifts; and chil
dren are flowers.
You dear Sarah and George have taken many
steps upwards. Oh
!
How easy
it
will be for you
to go through the Golden (22-Vol. Il) Gates.
There will be no hesitations, no reading of rec
ords. Your little ones will stand with open arms,
a
youth and maiden in their Father's mansions.
You will like their garments and say how beau
tiful. Dear Em.
I
feel sorry to see you not
in
your
usual health and
I
do think that you require
a
74 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
day or two rest. There is a tree of buds in the
future for you; each one will bloom into a beau
tiful flower, and you will leave all dark clouds
to walk in freedom and happiness. Changes come
daily, but let me tell you dear Em. the happiest
change in your life is yet to come. You have that
knowledge, that bright star to make all your
trials easy to bear. Be happy and I will come
often. Now, 1 wish you pleasant dreams and a
brighter morning.
Your Brother Olin."
"My Dear Children, George included. There
is no night with us, no late hours. We only feel
the changes when we draw near earth and come
directly in your presence. What shall I say? My
heart is full of affection for you, and while part
of yours lives with me, the dearer part, I feel how
near the two worlds are together, and that there
is no separation.
Little Leila and Frankie are in form here. You
can not see them, would that you could. The veil
is very thin, but patience children, you shall see
us some day. I have no anxiety for you as I know
(23-Vol. II) that you are all doing well. I love
you all and will help you. Em. you must all, call
on me often. My arms are open. We can say no
more now. Oh! Sarah I would not give up these
little ones! I could not give them back! They
are mine now, but sometime they shall be wholly
yours.
Now rest your heads on your pillows and my
blessing shall be there with you.
Ma."
"My Dear Friend and Pupil. You will be
pleased to hear from me. I shall continue my
watchful care over Katie and you shall have evi
dence of my presence in this way. God bless you !
My wife joins me in love to you all.
Prof. Kenyon."
"Well! Well Sary do you think I am going to
be out of the way when all the rest are here? God
love you.
Sabry."
"Dear, Dear Em. This is new for me. My life
here is more beautiful than I expected. 1 did not
wish to leave earth you know, but I am now
reconciled. I wish you joy Em. in future reali
ties, anticipations of which make your life happy
now. I will come again at a future time. Ever
thine
Carry."
"The power is too far exhausted, we speak the
sentiment of all who are here and now dear Sarah
we can say no more. We must now take up (24-
Vol. ll) the chain of duties and shall not be able
to talk again for a day or two. Call us not unless
we announce our presence, but our promise for
Thursday shall be kept, and on Monday we will
give directions for other things. We can say no
more.
Olin."
"We will each say good night through our
separate echoes.
Olin."
It was nearly twelve when they went away.
May \st 10 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. How beautiful the morning
is,
nothing to complain of but your own feelings
and
I
see that Em. feels heavy. Go to church Em.
or ride and you will come back feeling better.
This week will bring you good news, so be happy.
The sweet companionship of the unseen loved
ones should cheer you, and mine may at least,
so
I
flatter myself.
I
wish you to meet to-morrow
for directions. Katie come home to-morrow by
eleven and
I
will announce my presence when
I
am ready to give directions. All
is
well!
I
am
now going to join another circle and leave my
blessing with you, Sarah. God bless you
!
All join
me in this.
Olin."
On reading the message
I
said, "Olin did you
mean my feelings?
I
am not unhappy!" The pen
cil wrote.
"No! My dear sister Sarah,
I
did not mean
your feelings, for while
I
look in your heart
I
see
a
(25-Vol. ll) peace there which gives me joy.
A
mind at rest with itself needs no outward beauty
to rob
it
of its desolation. The heart when heavy
can not be made light even though flowers and
music cheer and gladden. The heart when happy
will not be saddened by leafless trees and rainy
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 75
days. You my precious sister understand this.
I have looked in the little faces of my children
flowers and they will use the whole day in their
description of last night's meeting. Now, dear
Sarah, not long will we be away. Remember, I
can hear you call.
Olin."
Katie did not come on the 2nd but on the
morning of the 4th she was here and the pencil
wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are so happy to have
another interview, another opportunity to talk
and manifest our presence. We have been with
you and witnessed your feelings over the picture.
We know it is beautiful and can bear criticism.
Still dear Sarah we have made it a little lighter.
Now you will see what a beautiful photograph it
will take. To-morrow night we want you to meet
at half past nine for preparation as we want to
make Leila's face visible; and we want you all
in good condition. Dear Sarah we always have
forms, but when we come to earth we materialize
our forms and robes in order that (26- Vol. ll)
you may be able to see us more distinctly. When in
our homes above we are very ethereal and purely
spiritual. We wish no meeting during the day
to-morrow as we shall need all the power. I am
willing that Mr. Gurney should come before the
meeting and see the picture. We are all satisfied
with it. We shall to-day be engaged with our
duties and to-morrow night be with you. Have
a cover made so as to subdue the lamp light when
it falls upon the face. All is well ! Dear Sarah be
not anxious the future is bright and you will meet
all your expenses without difficulty. I will an
nounce my presence if any changes are to be
made before to-morrow night. 1 I was here in
form last night when 1 made the echoes. You
shall know from the Artist himself, who painted
the pictures as we shall all be present. We can
say no more now. All join me in love to you.
Olin."
We met on the evening of the fifth as directed.
May 6—10 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We are happy to come this
(1) We heard his echoes in the night when we were all in bed.
Katie in the next room.
morning for the conditions are not disturbed, and
when we find them so, we are always happy to
manifest our love, our presence and our care.
Yes, we are here to give full directions. We want
the little ones to come face to face, for the vision
will be a lovely one, and we want the conditions
so that they can come. (27-Vol. ll) Prof. K. will
again take his post and guard Katie more ef
fectually than ever. Now Sarah these are the
directions which we want followed. The prep
aration is very much like the preparation for
the picture.
You know they have to get familiar with com
ing in your immediate presence. They must be
come acquainted with the earthly conditions,
therefore we wish you to meet at half past twelve
for preparations, and if you keep your eyes closed
there will be no need of hanging up the curtains.
We want to have the conditions so that they will
be able to come first at twilight, but in case they
cannot we would like the lamp prepared. My dear
Sarah all is well, we will require but little time
for preparation, not many meetings, but suf
ficient to enable the little ones to come easily.
We will appoint to-day, to-morrow and Sun
day morning, and Monday morning for prepara
tion and Monday night for coming visibly. In
the meantime Katie be happy and may God bless
you and help you. All is bright again. The birds
are singing, the children are happy and so is the
spirit who will guard you this day. Sarah on the
wings of the wind the children send kisses, bless
ings and flowers of peace. 1 We will control the
echoes and make them gently.
Olin."
(28- Vol. ll) We met at half past twelve, were
in session about a half hour and they appointed
another meeting at ten that evening, but a heavy
storm came down at night and when the time
arrived the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Friends. We are here to fulfill our
promise and appointment, but as the weather,
the atmosphere is so very much against us, we
would only harm ourselves by trying to come
in form; therefore my friends wait patiently and
<1) An invalid occupied the room beneath us.
76 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
all will be as we have promised and as you
anticipate. Oh! How your little ones wait, how
anxiously, how impatiently, they will come and
you will recognize them.
Be happy! Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. I almost controlled the
pencil, so anxious was I to come. I know that
the flowers bloom to-night as freshly as when
the sun shines, but you do not know this, some
day you will. We can say no more now and as
we are not able to come in form we will go to
our own duties. God bless you. To-night we will
soothe and comfort you, give you rest and quiet
slumbers.
Olin."
May 7—Saturday— 1870.
The house was full of confusion, sweeping,
dusting, sewing and dress-making going on. In
stead of meeting the pencil wrote.
(29-Vol. ll) "My Dear Sarah. I see the con
fusion, and utter impossibility of our meeting.
I once told you about the conditions, how delicate
they are, like a pure stream, when a pebble is
thrown in the waters are disturbed. Sarah the
dear little ones are very happy. We would deprive
them of much joy were we heedless of their
requests, their desires, which are prayers from
their pure souls and we never let the conditions
be such as to harm or distress them.
Olin."
Saturday evening Katie kept an engagement
with a very fashionable family on Fifth Avenue.
She went well and happy, but came back at
ten o'clock, sick and crazy with brandy. The next
morning May 8th the pencil wrote. "Oh! How
I tried to enter the circle last night in order to
protect this poor girl, but I could not for the
spirits there were dark and powerful.
Prof. K."
May 8th—9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. I am here this morning, so
happy to be able to come free from shadows. I
read your thoughts yesterday, but could not come
near enough to you to say what I wished to; and
as the circle were all here I felt disappointed and
had to occupy the time in explaining to them.
Now we will meet at eleven.
+ + + + Olin."
(30-Vol. Il) May 8th— 11 A. M.— 1870
We met for the children. Soon Frankie
said "Uncle I can't get on Papa's shoulder."
After a little time, the Doctor felt the weight of
Frankie's body on his shoulder, or what seemed
to be
it,
and so heavy as to make his shoulder
yield for an instant; Uncle Olin, apparently,
having come to his aid. After
a
little longer
sitting Frankie said, "Mamma, Leila
is
sitting
in
the little chair so very near you."
I
listened,
but thought, she could not be particularly near
me for the little chair was at the further end of
the room. They wrote with Katie's eyes closed,
and went away. When we opened our eyes, the
little chair stood on the table in front of us.
Now
I
understood what Frankie meant by her
being so close to me. The chair had been placed
there without the least noise. The following had
been written.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning, the dear little ones almost in form
and will soon be able to make their beaming
faces distinct to your vision. Do you want to
know what they are doing now?
I
will tell you.
Learning the way to approach you in visible
form with ease and patience, with quiet and
firmness, for their great joy, their impatient de
sire to get in your arms would so destroy the
conditions that they (31-Vol. Il) would not be
able to retain their forms. You too must be calm
and let them imbibe your feelings, this you can
do
if
you try.
George one little word of advice to you, do
enter
in
this with Sarah, feeling the same in
terest, the same love and let not shadows come
over your pathway for Sarah feels and bears all
that you do, and often there
is
a
cold breeze from
your appearance which enters
in
her spirit
although
it
comes not
in
yours.
I
see your heart
which
is
an evergreen of affection for Sarah and
that gives me joy beyond expression.
I
am very
happy to be able to write these few words to you.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 77
We are in a world of light, a world of peace, of
blessings and when we can strew some in your
paths we are happy. This morning early we stood
by the bed of that poor, departing soul. She
had other friends to greet her, but we were able
to give her pleasant visions. She was dying last
night.
We will come to-morrow and see when the
way will be clear, the atmosphere favorable, and
appoint the meeting for the little ones. It must
be at night when there are no interruptions.
I must go now and help the children although
Dr. Franklin is the principal aid. Call us not
back until we announce our presence.
Olin."
(32-Vol. ll). Here now occurs a serious break
in these sweet and to us precious messages. I
could not always copy them as soon as written,
and when Katie came often and I was very busy
the papers accumulated to dozens of pages. This
was the case here and when I looked over my
papers, a long one containing several messages,
and at least six pages for this book was missing,
also a second paper containing two pages, but
not next in order to the first. The date of this
part of a message which follows I believe to be
May 1 1th, 1870 "and all the circle will prepare
to come with me. Oh ! How we long to give these
little ones an opportunity to show their love and
affection for you. God bless you. All is well in
every thing. Dear Sarah I will bring the little
children very near you to-night and that will
make them happy. George fear not for the future,
all is well.
We can say no more now. Get up fresh and
let us talk with you when the power is fresh.
Olin."
May 12—9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. This is the first
time for some days that we have been able to
come without difficulty. The clear atmosphere
is lovely for us and we can now appoint to
morrow at half past nine for the children, half
past nine P. M.
We see no clouds, no shadows on the pathway
(33-Vol. Il) in which you tread. Read this now
while the circle are here and tell me if it meets
your approval.
Olin."
As soon as we read this the pencil wrote again.
"My Dear Friends. I think that I better under
stand this thing, better understand the conditions,
and as you are going out to-morrow and circum
stances will call upon you to give a meeting, I
see that the power will be much used, therefore let
the meeting be at half past nine, or nine the
following night. I want the first power, the first,
fresh conditions are always better and there is
little use of our trying to make a physical or
visible manifestation after a previous meeting.
I will be here at the moment. You need have
no flowers as we can supply them spiritually. My
friend you can invent anything that will be of
use. You see I can read your thoughts. And now
let me say God bless you and farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. I will go with you to
morrow and give you a pleasant day : Should you
be prevented from going I will come and bring
the children and give you many tokens of our
actual presence. I was with Em. last night and
I know she is better this morning.
All is well! Be happy! The flowers, where
we are, open and close at every gentle breath and
we feel how much (34- Vol. Il) quieter our lives
are than the earth can afford. We keep the Golden
Keys in our hands in order to unlock the doors
for the pure and good to enter where the pure and
good above dwell. Angels of light and love are
singing continual praise."
Here is the second break caused by the missing
paper, and it was at this point we discovered that
any were missing. I made inquiry of Maggie (my
maid) and she looked as I had already done but
could not find them and in the meantime the
pencil wrote.
May 15—8 A. M.— 1870.
''My Dear Sarah. We are going with you to
Greenwood this lovely morning. The birds will
welcome you and the children will walk by your
side. Oh, would that they could be seen, would
that their little forms were visible to your eyes.
78 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
They will follow you but they dwell not there.
The sweetest flowers in your pathway will be
your two little ones. Now they are here, so
spiritual that the earthly eye cannot behold them,
so fine, so pure. Greenwood is not the home for
the disembodied, for the living beautiful forms,
but for the shells which are thrown aside. I
want to talk with you Sarah, when you return.
I will have much to say, for you will feel sad.
But know this Sarah, that you do not leave the
children there.
(35-Vol. ll) Prof. K. was here this morning,
the meeting will be especially for him next time
as he wants to make a few explanations.
I see that two of our papers have been de
stroyed. Dear Sarah take charge of them or there
will be more taken. God bless you.
Olin."
This last sentence surprised me and I asked if
the servants had touched them? "No." If some
one took them to read. "Yes." Who? You had
better not ask." But I did ask and he told me.
I then inquired from what place they were
taken? And he wrote. "Dear Sarah, you left
them under the little table or they would have
taken more. It was for want of access to them.
Olin."
I remembered then, the circumstance of a por
tion of the papers rolling off from the little table,
and my setting it back over them hiding them
from view.
Some one present now inquired if I should
speak to the abstracter. The pencil answered.
"Bear it patiently Sarah, for they would not
own
it,
and
it
would create hard feelings for life,
mean words, and strife." Katie did not come
again that day but did come the next morning.
May 16—10 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We were with you yesterday,
over the grounds of the bodies of the loved ones,
who now with their new forms walk unseen those
sacred (36- Vol. ll) paths. How few understand
the reality of life. The reality
is
here Sarah, the
perishable
is
on your earth. The flowers fade, the
grass withers, the world mourns and sorrow comes
even when all things seem the brightest. There
fore Sarah, do you wonder that we love our homes,
our eternal world, our life, our duties? No!
I
see
a
response way down
in
your soul which seems
to say No! No! And were you not to feel so,
our sensitive plants would wither, and grow dis
contented and wish they were back again with
you to grow and thrive, so little do they under
stand this world. We are educating them and
as they grow
in
knowledge they will be less
affected by the feelings of those dear to them.
We were all with you.
I
mean Ma, the children,
Prof. K., his wife and myself.
I
heard you sigh
Sarah, saw the feeling of regret, and
I
appreciated
your tender grief.
I
thought, my sister has
a
vacancy in her heart which cannot be filled. The
bright flowers that were taken away, took
a
part
of her life, and
I
can not chide her
if
she grieves.
But Sarah, let me say, that you have so many
comforts, so many holy blessings that you must
be happy, such pure love and tender hands to
smooth your way.
Now
I
have
a
request to make.
It
is
this,
that you get another sheet of paper, drawing
paper (37-Vol. Il) such as Leila's, and crayons.
Prof. K. wants to take them himself, for what
purpose you had better not know until
it
(the
paper)
is
returned. To-morrow when Katie
returns we will appoint the meeting which will
be at night when others will not come between.
The Professor loves you all and will be of great
service to you and George.
Poor Em.
I
am sorry to see you sick,
1
but
be of good cheer, you will soon get over this
and come out all right, better than you have
been for years! Remember
I
love you and will
guard you. Dear Sarah. God bless you! We
all do, and ever shall.
Olin."
May 17, 1870.
On this morning money had been taken from
one of our servants and Maggie told me that
a
pin of some value had been taken from her room
on the evening before. She was much troubled
about
it
and at just this time Katie came in
and the pencil wrote.
(1) Sister Em. was ill with jaundice.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 79
"My Dear Sarah. We appoint to-night at nine
for our meeting, as we will then have power to
do as we wish. Now we have not as our duties
call us elsewhere. We want the paper placed on
the little table and the room darkened. All is
well! Tell Margaret she will get her pin.
Olin."
After reading the message, I told him about
the money. He said. "I will call the Prof. I
was not here."
(38-Vol. Il) "My Dear Friend and Pupil. To
discover such things we are obliged to enter in
an entirely different atmosphere, almost revolt
ing, but I see that there is a thief about the house
who will be discovered. Who I am not now able
to tell.
God bless you! I will be here at nine to-night.
Prof. K."
At about two o'clock Maggie's pin was returned
to her and the $25 was returned that day and we
are yet in complete ignorance about who the
thief is.
May 17—10 P. M.— 1870.
Katie did not get here at nine as appointed,
but came at ten. We went at once to our room,
placed the drawing paper on the little table,
turned off the gas and sat down. No sooner were
we seated, than the Doctor and Katie were told
to go by the little table. They went and im
mediately we heard the paper rattle and the
echoes said "Stand by the window." Doctor and
Katie stepped towards
it,
and the blinds rattled,
but they were hooked so snugly that the spirit
hand could not get them open. The echoes now
sent the Doctor and Katie to their seats and told
me to open the window. As soon as done the
Doctor and Katie were again directed to stand
by
it,
but as they reached the window,
a
servant
came to the door and
I
was obliged to speak with
her, (39-Vol. ll) and while doing so the Doctor
and Katie took their seats again. As soon as the
door was locked, the echoes said "Open both
windows." As
I
stepped to the second window
my dress was strongly pulled repeatedly, as
a
child does when
it
wants attention.
I
said "Yes!
Yes!" And as quickly as
I
could get the blinds
back and window open,
I
turned around and my
dress continued to be pulled, now in front, and
then
a
little hand was laid on mine as
it
hung by
my side. The touch was soft but firm, was not
cold, neither did
it
feel like the human hand.
The Doctor as always held both of Katie's hands,
and from the time the gas was turned off until
it
was again lighted, they both felt distinctly
a
per
son or form moving about with them and standing
between them. Now they went away, the paper
also went, and we lighted the gas,
it
having been
turned off less than ten minutes.
Before retiring the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We were all here at nine
and could with difficulty retain the power. You
see how important
it
is
to be punctual.
We are more than happy, we are rejoiced. The
Prof. has great power and now you see what we
can do. We wish to meet at three to-morrow
for positive directions. Sarah we see (40- Vol.
1
1
)
all prosperity before you, and we are very anxious
for this to be accomplished. We have been with
poor Katie all day. She can and shall be saved
by us. All
is
well! The house
is
going on well,
only
a
little dishonest person who
is
not vicious,
who will return all. Be happy!
Olin."
May 18—9 A. M.— 1870.
In the morning Katie recollected an engage
ment which would prevent her being here at
three so now the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah.
I
am happy to come for the
Professor and give his directions.
We were so happy to have had such great
success last night. Our power was great, our
work will be still greater. We wish to meet, when
Katie returns to-night, in the same room for the
purpose of admitting the whole circle and then
we can give positive directions. We can not now
as the circle has arranged to meet at half past
ten to-night. Be happy, for all
is
well
!
We will not let shadows come, we will keep
them all away, and soon, very soon you will again
be very happy and rejoice with us in our happi
ness. Can you realize how great the meeting was
last night? How like the work of heaven, that
80 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
unseen world? Little hands pulled your dress,
little hands touched yours and (41-Vol. ll) we
were happy. No earthly power, dear Sarah, could
have done what was done last night, what is daily
being done. God bless you.
Olin."
May 18— IOI/2 P. M.— 1870.
We had made no preparations for the meeting
because we had received no directions and did
not know its object, but at about five minutes
before the appointed time, the echoes said "Go
in the back room (our bed-room) and get
crayons." We did so. "Sharpen black and white
ones." That was done. There were two black
pencils and they selected the softer of the two
and directed me to tie a string around them, the
black and white. As soon as the knot was tied,
we opened the window, turned off the gas and
sat down. We were scarcely seated when the
echoes said, "George take pencils." He took them
from the table in front of us and at the same
time felt some body or substance against his
knee. They took the pencils gently from his
hand and at once said "George and Katie go by
the window." As they approached
it,
the blinds
slammed and the echoes said "Meet Friday at
five for directions." We got light and the two
crayons were gone.
It
was now thirty-five minutes
past ten, the gas having been turned off less than
five minutes.
(42-VoI. Il) May 22— IOI/2 A. M.— 1870.
Katie did not come on Friday and we had no
meeting until this Sunday morning. We were
directed to get brown, red and blue crayons;
sharpen and place them on the table. When done
we took our old seats with closed eyes but win
dows not darkened. In
a
very few minutes they
took the crayons away and the pencil wrote with
Katie's eyes closed the following.
"My Dear Sarah. We have now all we wish to
work with. Meet at half past eight to-morrow
P.
M.
in
this room. Do not fail as the Professor
desires that day and hour. We can say no more
now as we are called and must attend. God bless
you
!
I
will meet you tomorrow at half past seven
and talk with you before the sitting. All helped
to take the pencils. All send love to you.
Olin."
May 24—4
P.
M.— 1870.
Katie did not come the next day, but came
Tuesday afternoon with
a
very unsteady head,
still she was going out to meet an engagement
that evening. Before she left the pencil wrote.
"I, the friend of your youth, the friend of all
your hours of study, come to you now begging
that you will give me an opportunity to try my
power. Send for Katie at ten (43- Vol. ll) and
then
I
can come as
I
desire. Katie better go now
so that we can get through, but send at ten.
Prof. K."
May 25—9 A. M.— 1870.
Katie came back and the following morning
Mr. Robert Dale Owen called, and obtained
from Katie
a
promise not to touch wine for six
months. Several messages were written and
among them was this.
"My Dear Friend and Pupil.
I
have hard work
to retain the paper and pencils, but there
is
no
use of meeting till we can have all the conditions.
We want the first power and
I
now appoint Friday
night at half past eight.
Oh! how happy we are when all goes well.
The mantle of peace is now over this little circle
and happiness
is
on our spirits. Sarah you must
be happy and enjoy the blessings which we are
permitted to give to you.
We are happy to have Mr. Owen here this
morning, and we will register Katie's promise in
heaven, in the home of her Mother: we will
register
it
in flowers and her eyes shall some day
behold it. Mr. Owen we will tell you how Katie
can be kept from touching wine
;
by keeping from
temptation.
Now go and rejoice Katie, and live. (44- Vol. Il)
There are two paths, one happiness and peace, one
misery and death! Choose the former and great
will be the golden reward.
Sarah we can say no more now. All unite
in
love and blessings to you. Olin
is
throwing in
his sentiments also and wishes me to say that
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 81
he will come on Friday and bring the little ones.
Prof. K."
In the afternoon I had a severe headache and
lay upon the sofa. Katie sat by me reading some
story to herself. I finally dropped into a doze
from which I awoke much refreshed and at the
same instant Katie said her hand felt like writing.
This followed.
"Mamma
The roses are all in full bloom,
The lilies perfuming the air,
And when we glide in your room
We twine some into our hair.
The birds sing low and sweet
While we gather about your bed
And we dance with delight to greet
Our Mamma and soothe her head.
Frankie."
May 26 3 P. M.— 1870.
Miss Emma Wells was intending to leave the
next day for Western New York. We had de
signed letting Willie accompany her to my
Father's in case (45-Vol. ll) she remained here
until the weather was warm, but it was so very
cool at this time, that we had already told Willie
we preferred to have him wait two weeks longer,
still I felt a little anxious for I feared he would
have to make the journey alone. The pencil said.
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am here to
speak to you, to say a few loving words, a few
words of advice, and to let you know that I am
conscious of your surroundings, your thoughts
which to-day seem to hover between sunlight and
shadows; and I want before I leave to dispel all
the shadows and leave only sunshine. I have been
looking into the future, in the paths of those dear
to you, and if my advice can be taken, I shall
feel that all is well. Since Emma is going home,
and as Willie is willing to go, I do advise her to
wait till next Tuesday morning or evening; then
if your hearts respond, and feel that your judg
ment coincides with mine; let Willie go with her.
He requires a change and will gain great strength
in a different atmosphere. I can tell you daily
how he is. Oh! Sarah how happy we all shall be
to-morrow night. Meet at half past eight, then
we will all come. Now my sister say to George not
to worry, he has no cause to be anxious. God
bless you ! Olin."
(46-Vol. Il) May 27tb—\870.
On this morning I got out the wardrobe and
toys that my children in heaven had left behind;
and as I looked them over, unfolded and refolded
them, took up, looked at and talked about the
little worn out and half worn out shoes, Olin sent
for me from an adjoining room where Katie was.
At once the pencil said.
"My Dear Child. The little clothes brought
the children very near you, and Leila wanted
me to put the little shoes on her feet, but I con
vinced her that I could not. They have gone
home happy with my Mother. God bless you.
Your Ma."
I read the above, and expressed my surprize
that Ma's Mother was here. I had not heard
them speak of her before. She died when she was
only thirty-four, and I think forty-seven years
ago. I also made some remark about this "ward
robe of dead babies' clothes." The pencil wrote
again.
"Dear Sarah and George. Ma lingered behind
to speak a few words to you and the little ones
went home with Grandma who is a lovely spirit.
Now Ma has gone to them and oh! how happy
they all are. Sarah are you not blessed? The cup
of sorrow that has been yours to drink has been
emptied, and blessings overflow it. (47-Vol. II)
Feel no more sadness, this sweet, this holy com
munion is a recompense, and God has sent the
circumstances which permit us to come; let us
cheer your hearts and leave them happy.
No, my sister, not a "wardrobe of dead babies'
clothes." Oh! Say not so, for they live and have
only gone to put on brighter garments, more
fitting for their purity. All is well! We will use
no more power now, but meet at half past eight
to-night.
Your Brother Olin."
May 27 th 8V2 P. M.— 1870.
We met at last but the evening was very damp,
almost rain. The sitting was conducted as usual.
We heard the paper rattle and the pencils on the
82 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
paper. Before they went away they gave one
pencil to the Doctor and said, they would leave
it for him to sharpen. It was the black crayon.
I asked Olin to look at Leila's picture and see
if it was marred. I was afraid some one had tam
pered with it. The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. All goes well! We cannot
say much to-night as we have used the power
and the night has been unfavorable. We wish
you to place the cloth on the little table and place
Leila's picture on it before you go to bed. If
there are any marks we can remove them. To
morrow morning we will give full directions.
(48- Vol. ll) We see all bright and are glad that
Willie is going. We will return to-night when
you are not conscious of our presence.
Olin."
May 28tb 10 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We were with you last night
after you had fallen in the repose of quiet slum
ber, and looked at the picture. There is no mar
upon it and we thought best not to touch it.
We are going to give you a great surprise in
the next, but ask not what or who. The uncer
tainty helps us very much and keeps your mind
off of the point. All will be well ! We are happy
to have the means of accomplishing our work and
we hope now that nothing will interfere. We
would like a meeting at five but all must be
present. There are bright changes weaving into
the conditions brighter than have been for a long
time.
My dear Sister how sorry I felt for you yester
day, but did you not feel calmer, better and more
resigned, when you were looking over those sad
things than you have before? Knowing that we
were with you in life as much now as ever we
were?
We will all be here at five and the Prof. will
then give his own directions. This is the request
he left with me early this morning. He is engaged
now and can not come. George be not worried,
for your pathway has no thorns to pierce your
feet (49- Vol. Il) and we stand in your road to
keep evil away. Go and attend to all you have
to, and then be fresh for five o'clock. Willie will
be well protected. He requires the change and
will be well.
Your Brother Olin."
May 29 Sunday morning — 1870.
Katie did not come at five o'clock, but at ten,
and in very bad condition. We put her in bed
in an adjoining room, and the echoes told us to
place the pictures again upon the little table be
fore retiring. We did so and laid the crayon,
which they had not yet taken, there also. In the
night the Doctor and Katie were awakened by
loud and continued raps, but he thought that
some one was rapping at the door of an adjacent
room, and Katie was afraid of disturbing us by
calling the alphabet, so the unseen and unseeable
friends went away without speaking. In the
morning we asked what they had desired to say.
The pencil wrote.
"The Prof. wanted the pencil on the picture,
and you to stand near the little table while he
took
it,
as he had power and could have used it.
We will take
it
this morning. Meet at half past
ten. You must keep your eyes closed and then
there will be no need of hanging up the curtains.
Katie ought to have minded her (50- Vol. Il)
Mother and not gone with her sister to that place.
We hope she will keep away now.
Olin."
May 29 10y2 A. M.— 1870.
We spread the linen cloth on the little table
and arranged as we did of old. On the cloth we
put the black pencil. Very directly after we were
seated we heard the pencils and paper and very
many evidences of great electrical power.
At one time there was
a
loud explosion, appar
ently on the table
in
front of us, which startled
us greatly. The echoes said. "Dear friends
I
could not control the power."
B. F."
Just before they left the pencil wrote with
Katie's eyes closed the subjoined message, and
when we opened our eyes we found the names
Eliza, Olin, Frankie, Leila written one
in
each
corner of the large linen handkerchief which was
spread upon the little table and the hand-writing
was distinctly Ma's.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 83
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here! Oh how
surprised you would have been if you could have
looked in this room and have seen us gather. We
were as real, as palpable as you are. How we
greeted each other hand in hand and then when
the door opened we so quietly withdrew from
your eyes. Ma wears a light purple to- (51-Vol.
Il) day, ivy in her hair. The Professor's wife
wears a rose color and a wreath of roses in her
hair the same color of her dress. Leila wears
white, rose-buds of white for the trimming, a
blue band in her hair, blue sash, blue shoes and
white stockings. Oh! How beautiful she is, her
hair is long and thick, her eyes blue as heaven,
oh! how surpassingly lovely. Another spirit here,
is very beautiful, our Grandmother, young, fresh
and fair. I do not call her Grandmother, I call
her Mother, and our Ma, Ma.
Be patient dear Sarah and George, you will be
rewarded. Oh! How beautiful is faith, and yours
my darling sister is without a blemish. Your
faith will save you from danger, from evil, from
sorrow for we can easily approach you and put
protecting arms about you. Always trust Sarah
and you shall not be deceived.
We wish a meeting at quarter before six to
morrow; till then we shall not be able to say
much. JThe hurry, the confusion will be over at
that hour. Let Willie go without tears, without
sighs, without sadness. He will return well and
strong. Fear not, we will shelter him, watch over
him and daily bring you tidings of him. You must
not fail to meet to-morrow at the appointed hour.
Call us not back. God bless you!
Olin."
(52-Vol. Il) May 31 9 A. M.— 1870.
Katie did not come at "quarter before six," but
at half past ten, saying as she came in that the
spirits had commanded her to make no engage
ments where she was for the next evening, but
to keep it free. In the morning the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have our
selves, saved this night for our meeting. We are
all here. Meet at nine to-night. The painting
is in progress, and we wish no other meeting to-
(1) Mis a Wells and Willie were going* Monday morning (in
stead of Tuesday) to my father's.
day. We hope you can all be punctual at nine.
I have been with Willie, he is well and very
happy. You need have no anxiety about him,
he is impatient to go on his journey and I will
keep you informed of him. God bless you! We
are now on our round of duties and will return
to our appointment at nine: have room prepared
a half hour before the time. We see the future
bright and cloudless. Now my dear Sister, trust
in our protection.
Olin."
9 P. M.
At evening I was ill, unable to leave my bed,
but the Doctor arranged the room, placed the
table at which we sit by the side of my bed, put
the linen cloth upon the little table by the fold
ing-doors, opened a window wide and left (53-
Vol. ll) the room with me in it. When he closed
the door I closed my eyes. I heard no sound dur
ing the half hour, but as soon as the Doctor and
Katie came in, the echoes said "close window"
and we heard the paper and pencils. The Doctor
and Katie were sent by the folding-doors two or
three times and finally after a half hour, were
told to open the window. As they approached it
from the folding-doors, they felt and heard the
paper, and when near the window they were dis
tinctly conscious of a third person standing with
them, got between them once and pushed the
blinds together after the paper and pencils had
passed out. The Doctor said that it seemed ex
actly as though I were in my place. After getting
a light we found the handkerchief from the little
table on the pillow just above my head and
touching my hair, and the pen-knife which was
left, upon the little table, we found on the table
before us.
The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The Professor
has gone with his treasures. Oh! How happy we
are and now we will leave the handkerchief on
your head Sarah and gently magnetize you and
give you strength. God bless you! To-morrow
you will feel that we have helped you and you
will be happy. God bless you! Meet for (54-
Vol. Il) directions at nine to-morrow morning.
84 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
We have had a good meeting. I took your place.
Olin."
June lrf 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Friend and Pupil. I am happy to
say a few words this bright, lovely morning. Last
night I could only make my presence known by
signals. I was here with my 'treasures' and was
obliged to depart with them as soon as I was
through. I want you to mark this. Dr. Franklin
and I are great friends. I can aid him in some
things, I hope; and now I want to tell you that
you are going to have something that will always
last and show you that Dr. Franklin is in reality
here as much as you are yourself. I wish a meet
ing to-morrow at quarter before six and hope then
to have your dear presence at the table as I can
not spare Olin out of the circle. All is bright,
well and cheerful in the circle who attend you.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here,
your little circle of loving kindred. We gathered
about your bed last night and tried to soothe
your head, but time did much for you as well
as the loving hands who would ever keep sorrow
from your pathway. The children we kept (55-
Vol. Il) from realizing that you were ill and Ma
took them to see the flowers open this morning.
They are here now and happy. We are going to
take them to see Willie to-day, and they will
enjoy his pleasures. He is well and bright.
Sarah, some pleasant, peaceful arrangement
must be made for you this summer, you must
have diversion and change after this paper is
returned. I want to tell you what is coming, but
the hand of Dr. Franklin is raised and I obey, so
wait patiently and you shall see; but you are
going to have a great and wonderful vision. We
have talked it over. Do not feel depressed my
dear sister, there is no grief in the future as far
as I can see and you should be happy. I will
come and gladden your heart, constantly give you
little surprises and make your life pass sweetly
on while beloved ones wait on the shining shore.
God bless you! Next meeting will be at quar
ter before six to-morrow, no more now.
Olin."
June 2nd— 1870.
Katie came in at half past one, tired, com
pletely exhausted and very irritable. She had an
engagement with Mr. Owen at three in Madison
Ave. and I saw she would be in no condition to
meet with us at quarter before six. (56- Vol. ll)
She was putting on her gloves to go when she
drew them off again saying "my hand wants to
write." She wrote a few words and stepped to
wards a mirror to read
it,
saying "It
is
about me.
I
know my name
is
written there."
I
at once took
it,
telling her that
I
must see
it
first.
1
read this.
"Private. We will meet at nine, but say nothing
to Katie. B. F." She returned before five to be
ready for our meeting and the pencil wrote. "My
Dear Sarah. Put Katie to bed. Poor child, her
strength has been tried. Ask her about yesterday,
and
I
can tell you Sarah, she deserves great credit.
We were with her and she must not go to see how
Maggie
is
to-day.
Olin."
Then she told me
a
sad story of "yesterday's"
experience with her sister Maggie whom she found
away from her home
in
a
fearful state of intoxi
cation; and
it
was over this sister that she had
worn herself out for the day.
I
persuaded her to
go to bed, assuring her
I
would call her
in
time
for the meeting, but did not tell her the hour
was postponed. After her hair was down and she
in
complete undress so that she could not with
out much effort prepare herself to go out they
wrote. "Meet at nine. B. F. and Olin." As soon
as she read
it
she said "If
I
had known this
I
would not have come back now,
I
would have
gone to see Mag." They are continually doing
this sort of thing through her own hand in their
effort to keep evil from her.
(57- Vol. Il) June 2nd
9
P.
M.— 1870.
The evening was damp. We met as directed.
The echoes soon told us that they were all here.
During the first half hour of our sitting there
was very fine piano music
in
the room over us,
and all the windows being open we heard
it
with
perfect distinctness. The echoes said "The music
aids us, we work with double power." The Doctor
and Katie were sent by the door many times;
a
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 85
rose-bud and a white pink were taken from the
vase on the table and put in my band. Just be
fore they went away the Prof. said by the echoes,
"I am very happy, for I shall to-night receive
an old friend. He is now passing into Eternity.
Meet to-morrow at seven."
June 3 7 A. M.— 1870.
A fine mist hung over the earth and we felt
sure the paper could not be brought, still they
long ago told us to keep every appointment
whether it stormed or shone, so we took our seats
at ten minutes before seven. Directly the echoes
said. "We are all here" and very soon told Katie
to take pencil, and she with eyes closed wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The atmosphere
will not admit of our bringing the picture, we
are however happy to have the chain whole and
continued. We will have a meeting at half past
twelve; if the atmosphere clears we will bring
in our "treasures." (58- Vol. ll) All is well! Be
not disturbed, be not anxious.
The Prof. wishes me to say that his friend old
Dr. Morse, came to his home last night. He is
still unconscious of his existence in the world of
light. You see now dear Sarah and George how
our time is engaged, how useful, how happy to
make beds of roses for those we love, when they
have done with earthly cares. We are all here.
The weather will not permit us to form, but we
see you and rejoice to see all going well. We wish
that we could take you in our pleasant paths
to-day, while clouds obscure your sky. You would
find our earth sunny and beautiful. Life dear
Sarah and George goes on here daily, but no end,
while yours must have an end; and to cares, to
strife, anxieties, pains and suffering, these all end
and you step into higher holier duties.
We will meet at half past twelve. Willie is well
and Frankie has learned the way to find him. No
more now. Olin."
June 3 12i/2 P. M.— 1870.
At twelve the room was prepared and at half
past we went in. The power seemed excellent.
The Doctor and Katie were kept very busy going
to and returning from the folding-doors and we
three continually singing for more than a half
hour.
(59- Vol. ll) We heard the pencils upon the
paper a large portion of the time and they moved
with great rapidity. The manifestation was very
little besides. The pencil wrote with eyes closed
as follows.
"We have all been here at work with great
power! We are satisfied. Our next meeting will
be Sunday morning at half past ten, have room
prepared as now. Katie must sleep here to-mor
row night, in the mean time we will protect her.
All is well! We can linger no longer to speak.
Olin."
Before retiring the echoes told us to meet
directly after breakfast. They had changed their
plans.
June 4 8V2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning damp. We took our places and
the work upon the paper at once commenced. The
sitting was as usual; the going to and from the
door and the Doctor feeling from time to time
the hand of the Professor: Sometimes it is a slap
upon the shoulder, sometimes a clasp about the
wrist, at other times a sudden and firm grasp of
his leg when sitting and again the hold is gentle
but still firm. Frankie took hold of his Papa's
foot and said "Dear Mamma, Willie is well and
thinks of me." Katie's hand wrote with eyes
closed and the dear ones went away.
(60- Vol. ll) "My Dear Sarah. I am rejoiced
to give the directions for the circle. We have all
been here this morning and all goes well. We will
meet at half past ten to-morrow morning and
trust that the atmosphere will be clear as there
will be nothing else to interfere. And now since
a shadow is over Katie let us tell her, that she
will be well enough to keep her engagement, and
we will return her home safely to-night. She
must not leave till five this afternoon.
Dear Sarah our avenues are all in blossom, the
children roam through the fallen flowers and the
leaves rain down upon them leaving blessings on
their little heads. Leila is dressed to-day in pure
white, no colors except the blue band on her hair.
Frankie is dressed in white also and according
86 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
to the fashion of the day which distinguishes him
from a girl. I wish you could see him and dear
little Leila. They see you and wonder that you
do not grasp them. We will keep all sorrow away,
and now call us not until we announce our pres
ence. The Prof. is happy and satisfied. All is
well! Olin."
June 5 10l/2 A. M.— 1870.
The day was fine and the room prepared in the
usual manner except that upon the crib lay the
"little clothes," of which mention has been before
made, (61-Vol. ll) in a large rough-dry mass,
having been brought up from the laundry the
previous evening. We left the room and locked
the doors at quarter past ten: At half past the
echoes said "go in." We obeyed and the dear little
echoes spoke at once "Mamma do you hear us
laugh?" I answered "No, but I wish so much I
could," and at the same time I felt Leila against
my lap pressing strongly some minutes. Frankie
continued, "1 am helping Leila do something that
will make you laugh." "We have been among
our little clothes." The Doctor and Katie both
heard the tumbling about and pulling over of
these clothes each time they went by the folding-
doors, the crib standing very near.
The Doctor was several times touched; the
rattling and moving of the paper was very loud
as was also the pencils upon it. Father Taylor
and Frankie both talked with the Doctor and
once Frankie said "Papa, you are a great, good
man." "Papa I am here in form, cover your
hand." After which he grasped his Papa's finger
so firmly that the Doctor felt it for fifteen
minutes.
During the meeting the Doctor mentioned with
considerable anxiety his failing eyesight, and at
times, dullness of hearing. We discussed the mat
ter somewhat and presently they told Katie to
write.
I went to the bureau to get paper and pencils;
took (62- Vol. Il) up the paper but could not
find one of the pencils. I felt about and thought
they had taken it. I inquired and they answered
"No." I then asked if it was on the bureau? An
swer "Yes." I now felt carefully over the pari
where I left it and Frankie said "Cold." I moved
to the right "Cold." I moved towards the left
"Hot." I continued to move in the direction to
which he continually responded "Hot," "Hot,"
until at the left corner of the bureau, close by the
edge I found the pencil. After Katie was through
writing and they had gone, we found on opening
our eyes, the little rocking chair, on the table
before us, which we left in the corner of the room,
and in the chair were two little short dresses fixed
as though the form had slipped out of them.
"My Dear Sarah and George. This has been
one of our most happy meetings, the children
have been so overjoyed and delighted to come
as in life. The power has been great and is very
much exhausted. Leila and Frankie brought the
two little dresses and were here in full form. Oh!
Sarah are you not blessed as few are, thus to be
able to have your dear ones back to life?
There is no death, no shadow of decay here,
we are life-like and pure, free from sorrow, sin,
sickness, or death; yours forever. 1George your
(63-Vol. ll) profession will never end, you will
go on treating the sick on earth. You will come
back and give others power to help and cure the
sick, just as physicians are helping you now.
Fear not, you will not get deaf or blind, but read
not lying down, neither let your mind become
morbid upon the subject.
My darling Sister the day is approaching when
your children shall stand face to face with you!
Do you doubt this after all the proof you have
had this morning? No! No! doubt not but be
lieve. We must go now to other duties, I can
not say all I wish, but meet for directions to
morrow at half past five. God bless you!
Olin."
June 6 10 P.M.— 1870.
Katie did not come at five but at ten and had
just taken ale. The echoes asked for a meeting
at once. We prepared the tables, left the room
and in a moment were ordered in. The paper
was there even then, and it went from one end
of the room to the other. We all felt it on our
(1) Georse had remarked that there would be no use (or his
profession there.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 87
heads, brush against our arms, rattle in our ears,
and once it was placed against my face and
mouth. We were all pulled and everything
seemed very strange and uncomfortable. We
could not understand the proceedings and asked
questions but no response, still the paper rattled
fearfully and the echoes said "get light." The
Doctor (64- Vol. ll) struck a match and when the
light blazed up the paper still rattled, but the
echoes said "Open window." As soon as the blind
was pulled back the paper with its rattle was
gone.
The sensation left with us was that of great
discomfort, so great, that I told my husband, if
such were to be repeated it would be my last
sitting even though the paper were never returned.
They wrote a few words but gave no explanation
of the strange proceedings.
"My Dear Sarah. We told you to meet at five,
we retained the power. The Prof. has gone with
his 'treasures.' Nothing but great good has been
accomplished. We can not speak more. Willie
is well. God bless you!
Olin. B. F."
June 7 8Y2 A. M.— 1870.
As soon as Katie was out of bed the echoes
said "Meet immediately after breakfast." The
morning was very damp, but by half past eight
we were in our seats. Everything went on beauti
fully and sweetly. We as always heard the writ
ing upon the paper and they wrote with eyes
closed, as follows.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here
all the circle without the intrusion of other spirits:
Spirits of darkness who love to come and show
their antics as when in life. We were (65-Vol.
11) here in form last night but quickly withdrew,
as the spirits who were present would have in
jured the paper. Now we are here free from
shadows.
The low spirits who accompany the men with
whom Katie met early last evening, still lingered
about her and we were obliged to withdraw al
though we were sorry to leave you in fear and
sorrow. You know my dear Sister that this only
proves that our world is like yours, with different
spheres and different people. Your own judgment
tells you, that men and women, who die in sin,
with no desire to progress, cannot enter our world
of happiness and purity. We are often almost
human. Your children express this, from their
desire to remain with you, to dress in their little
earthly clothes and stand before you. Feel not
depressed, be happy, for when poor Katie is right,
we can keep away all evil, all shadows. God
bless you; we are so happy to have this quiet
meeting, this unbroken chain. To-morrow night
will be our great meeting, and nothing shall in
terfere if the atmosphere is clear.
Dear Sarah and George, Willie is well, happy
as the birds that sing about him in the air: Be
not anxious. While I write the Professor is work
ing in his quiet way. Blessings sur- (66-Vol. Il)
round you! Joy is in our souls and from each
one of us falls a blessing upon you our dear ones.
Meet at half past nine to-morrow night, in the
meantime be happy!
Olin."
"My Dear Friends. I am happy to have had
this meeting, but must now take my 'treasures'
out of this damp atmosphere. To-morrow night
will be a great meeting.
Olin, your brother, dear Sarah, has given you
a true explanation of the last evening's manifes
tations. I can say no more on that subject as
he has spoken to the point. Be good children,
and meet well and happy.
Prof. K."
June 8—1870.
In the morning the Prof. wrote "Meet at nine
to-night, as we shall require more time."
At noon we received invitation out for the eve
ning, and at three we heard that we were to have
company to tea. We made no remarks about
these, but an hour or so later the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. I have not been very far
from you to-day, and as I am watching the con
ditions, the channel also through which we come,
I can advise you so that there will be no trouble.
We have all had a consultation. (67-Vol. Il)
The meeting was first appointed at half past nine
in order to favor Dr. Franklin, and as he can
88 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
not be present before we now wish the old hour,
half past nine observed; have the room prepared
at quarter past nine. And dear Sarah, if you
desire to go out to tea or have company, you can
without doing the least harm. The conditions are
good, have no anxiety, none whatever. We have
charge over Katie this day, full charge to keep
from harm. Willie is well and happy! God bless
you! Some day I want you to take Katie with
you to Greenwood, and there we will manifest
in a new way.
1George do not worry about that business, it
will all end well. The party is passably honest,
but we do not think they will cheat you out of it.
Olin."
June 8 91/2 P. M.— 1870
The day and evening were beautiful. Before
nine the room was prepared and at half past we
went in. We had been but a moment seated
when the drawer to the commode was drawn out
and hit the back of Katie's chair, she sitting
directly in front of it. Frankie now said "I have
got it! Leila wants it! Mamma shall I give it
to her?" 1 answered (68-Vol. ll) "Yes" although
in complete ignorance of what "it" was. We all
wondered, but not long for soon Leila said "The
ones I am now wearing are prettier." And at
the same time placed in my hand a little slipper
of hers that I have always kept in this drawer.
The meeting now went on very quietly and
was long. They made little manifestations that
we could hear, save the pencils upon the paper,
still we were clearly conscious that they were
having unusual success. They went away with
out writing a word, simply asked us to meet after
breakfast for directions.
June 9 8I/2 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We were much
pleased with the meeting last night: We worked
quietly but surely and with power. The Professor
stood in full form by the little table and worked
with satisfaction. You would have recognized
his frail form had you been permitted to open
your eyes. I wish you could have seen the chil
dren, how happy they were to be with us while
(1) The Doctor was anxious about some Western investments.
we worked. Their childish play would come in
and we were happy to lend them power.
1 see no shadows, dear Sarah, on your pathway
so be happy, and let not your soul be disturbed
by any thing, for I know that all is well ! (69- Vol.
Il) Your soul shall be made glad and your feet
shall walk in the sunshine of your heavenly
guides.
I see much happiness ahead for you and George.
We are fulfilling our promises slowly, but every
one shall be witnessed in due time.
All is bright in the home above where we abide,
and where you shall be with us.
Tell George that he will come out all right,
but not to place too much confidence in the party.
We are all happy, and now we will watch over
Katie and keep her well.
The atmosphere is very unfavorable for us this
morning. Our next meeting will be Saturday eve
ning at half past nine; in the mean time we will
be with you and give directions as the conditions
admit. We may make changes, that will depend
upon circumstances. Be not over anxious, we do
all for the best and as the laws of God admit.
Willie is well! You will always hear from him
through us. We can say no more now.
Olin."
Katie came Saturday night but was not able
to have a meeting. She had been with a wealthy
family on Fifth Ave. and was not now herself.
The pencil wrote. "Curses will follow those peo
ple! To give her drink and keep her over night!
I know all! Pity them I do not. You had better
(70-VoI. ll) let them know that you know it.
B. F."
They desired us to meet the next day, besides,
the Doctor and I were going to Greenwood, so in
the morning of June 12, Sunday, they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We have all been here this
morning and consulted with each other in order
to find which would be best, and concluded that
you had better go and have the meeting after you
return ; the conditions will be so much better that
we can work with greater success.
We will be able to say much when you return
from that quiet and beautiful place where the
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 89
loved forms repose. You will see the judgment
we have used. Katie will be stronger then and
in better condition and we can work so much
better through a clear channel.
We will be with you. Try to be here by five
for our meeting.
Olin and Circle."
June 12—1870.
The day was glorious! We went to Greenwood
and Katie accompanied us. Olin and Frankie
each spoke to us through the echoes while we
were sitting under the arbor of roses and honey
suckle at the heads of the two little graves, sacred
to us. Frankie said "Dear Mamma angels are in
the air." Presently Olin remarked. "Sarah we
will have a good meeting this afternoon." Frankie
soon (71-Vol. ll) added, "Dear Mamma we are
preparing to come in the afternoon." Again "We
are very happy among the roses." Upon our in
quiry if they cared for them he said "They please
our eyes." As we were about leaving Frankie
said. "Take our parting love echoes through the
birds." We asked if they would go with us home?
The answer came. "We shall be there before you."
We did not get back until five consequently our
meeting was at six. Nothing new or strange oc
curred during its session, everything seemed very
agreeable, and the work we heard distinctly upon
the paper. Katie's hand wrote with closed eyes.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
The circle has done well and the work goes on
well. We are satisfied.
We were with you in the city of the dead ! Yes,
dead! for all that is perishable is there. The life
is above; all that pertains to decay is there, there
fore we can say the "city of the dead." You did
not leave the little warblers there! No! for here
they are by your side all life and beauty. Grieve
no more.
We saw the flowers on the grounds of the little
graves; the leaves had fallen, but the soul of
sweetness had flown above.
(72-Vol. Il) We are happy to have good con
ditions and to come when no impure influence is
about.
Meet for directions at half past twelve to-mor
row; in the mean time be happy and Katie only
be punctual to your appointments and no evil
shall come. We will watch over you. Be true!
George you are doing all you can for that 1poor
girl, I fear she will have a bad time to-night. We
can say no more at present for we must work.
God bless you! Willie is well.
Olin."
June 13 12y2 P. M.— 1870.
Clouds and rain.
"My Dear Sarah. We are happy to have the
opportunity to say a few words regarding the
appointment for our next meeting which will be
to-morrow at nine, therefore make no other en
gagement and all will be successful.
We have been with you and last night I tried
to give you rest. We were not far away, we lin
gered on your threshold. We knew that you
needed us. We see some changes taking place
for the better and rejoice in them. We see no
clouds, all before you is bright. There will be a
new circle after the picture is given and we wish
you all to be faithful and happy. Prof. K. is here
silently dictating. (73-Vol. ll) Dear Sarah be not
troubled for the sun shines beyond the clouds
which dim your sky to-day.
To-morrow we hope to have a clear night and
find our avenues lined with flowers from which
we can bring you blessings. All is well! The
children are happy and pleased with their meet
ing here with you yesterday.
There is sunshine in your business George, keep
on faithfully as you ever have and you will come
out clear and free from anxiety or drawbacks.
We will soon complete a fine picture! Be of good
courage! Help one another daily as we help you
and when sorrow comes, much joy will mingle
with the shadows. Be happy! Trust and believe
and then we can do much for you. No more
now.
Olin."
On reading the above I asked if they saw sor
row near us? The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Friend. Sorrow comes in every life
at times and when one aids and lends helping
(1) Miss Kidder.
90 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
hands to those who suffer, there is always a sweet
peace in knowing that you have not neglected
such. Sorrow is followed with blessings of this
kind. Do you not understand that you can now
bear sorrows and trials better than those who live
for themselves alone and (74- Vol. ll) think not
of the beautiful life beyond?
Prof. K."
June 13 10 P. M.— 1870.
The air was clear and the evening beautiful.
Katie came in unexpectedly at this hour and no
sooner was the door closed than they asked for
a meeting at once, the evening being so fine. We
were very soon in our places and the meeting
was remarkably quiet. I believe we had been
a half hour seated before the Doctor and Katie
were sent by the folding doors and he remarked
that it was a long time before they commenced
work. After they went away the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have been
so happy to come through the clear atmosphere
to your earth. Never say we were long before
we commenced our work. We began at once,
though your ears could not hear. We are happy.
To-morrow dear ones rest early for there will be
no meeting except as we announce our presence.
We brought you blessings! We leave them with
you! George, you require rest, we supply you
with much strength, and now as we have used
our power we can say no more. Meet Wednesday
at half past (75-VoI. ll) twelve for full direc
tions. Now go to rest! Sweet be your sleep, un
disturbed by care and may your faith be ever a
balm. Sarah how happy I am to see your heart
happy. May I be egotistical enough to think that
I may have left some brightness there? Yours
forever.
Olin."
June 15 121/2 P- M.— 1870.
I had just got our front room or private parlor
in order for the summer, having taken up the
heavy wool carpet, and down the curtains; and
covered the floor with straw matting and the pic
tures with pink tarlton, giving to the entire room
a fresh, cool look. At this, the appointed time
Katie and I were seated in the back room, our
bedroom, but the Doctor was in his office, two
floors below. He came in soon after the pencil
began to move and at the very instant indicated
by the text.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
and happy to meet you in spirit, for George your
spirit is here and our eyes see you coming and
now you are here. We are happy to come in the
sunlight, in the roses, and through the garden
of immortality. God's blessing is over us and
clothes us with garments pure as dew drops on
the morning glory. (76- Vol. Il) Let your hearts
be happy and let not clouds come where all is
gladness; for we, your guardian angels, seek to
comfort, to give joy, to give peace unto you who
trust in us.
We are happy to see the room so pure, so pretty
and we shall present the picture in that room and
the joy will be great to you as well as us. Be of
good cheer.
Meet at half past three but have all ready at
three. God bless you! All is well! We will be
with you at quarter past three. No more now
except love and blessings from all.
Olin."
June 15 3 P. M.— 1870.
The day was very fine, but extremely warm.
We met as directed and while sitting around the
table oppressed with heat, we felt from time to
time little gusts of air pass over us; these were
finally continued in quick succession for several
minutes, and we now became conscious that we
were being fanned. We spoke of
it,
but the fan
ning went on, sometimes upon all three of us at
once, and sometimes upon one, then passing to
the next. After several repetitions of these series
of fannings,
a
Japanese fan, that had been lying
somewhere
in
the room, was placed
in
my hand.
(77- Vol. ll) Very soon we again felt fanning,
but not so strong as before, still
a
pleasant little
breeze was stirred about us from time to time.
We wondered greatly from whence this came for
I
still held the fan
in
my own hand, and we had
all of the time held Katie's hands. They finally
said "We are fanning you with our garments."
They wrote the following and went away.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 91
"My Dear Sarah and George. The Professor
desires me to say that the atmosphere is so warm
that he will be slow with his work but sure, there
fore you must be patient and not get discouraged.
We are happy to have this meeting to-day and
wish you to meet Friday at three. Better also
meet Friday at half-past twelve. All is well! We
shall now go to our shades of heavenly coolness,
where we roam untouched by changes of heat and
cold. Joy be with you! Feel happy and know
that all is progressing. The Prof. is now at work
while I write but will leave very soon for our
power is exhausted.
Willie is well.
Olin."
Later in the day he wrote, in response to some
remarks and questions of ours, the following.
(78- Vol. Il) "My Dear Sweet Sister. Marriage
here is purely holy. Yes, when two loving hearts
come together on earth, and are separated, pre
vented from marrying there; in heaven those
souls seek each other and are eternal companions.
I will give you a whole page upon this subject,
when the conditions are right. No more power.
Olin."
June 16—1870.
Katie passed the night here and occupied an
adjoining room to us. We arose at six. The Doc
tor had already left the room and I was just
doing so when the echoes said. "Mamma we
were about last night. Do not leave them on the
floor. We tried to put the flowers in your face
when you were asleep."
I now looked for the "flowers" and found scat
tered on the carpet by the bed-side quantities of
immortelles, every one of which we had left in
a vase upon the mantle shelf in our front parlor.
Katie did not come again until Friday evening
at twelve o'clock, in the worst possible condition.
I got her in bed and hoped to keep her in, until
she was well again, but in spite of my vigilance
she was off again in the morning. She returned
at bed time worse than before. (79- Vol. ll) We
took care of her through that night and the next
day she began to grow penitent and remorseful.
We met for a few moments but Katie felt too
sick at heart to care for her person.
June 20 8i/2 A. M.— 1870.
Katie still very miserable but we had a short
meeting and they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here
and hope to have a good meeting by to-night.
The trials will end this week. Be patient! We
are and ever will be. Katie try to take courage
once more, to feel some ambition, and remember
you are with those who see you although unseen.
Dress as well as you can and try to be happy in
order that we may succeed.
The Circle."
At three we met again and they wrote.
"We now want to build up Katie's strength
and spirits. The past is sad and her heart is more
sorrowful, but redemption can alone come by
doing better in future. If Katie will always tell
truthfully where she goes and keep all the ap
pointments, she shall have an invisible guide,
one who can save her, but faith must also be hers.
Walk out free from fetters, better for having
suffered.
Sarah we will try to keep this sorrow away.
Meet at nine.
Olin."
(80- Vol. ll) At nine in the evening we met
again and before dismissing us they affirmed
that the chain was not whole again. They did not
write until some minutes after the paper had
been taken away. The particular disappointment
referred to in the message is unfavorable atmos
phere.
"The Professor is now in his home of rest. We
were all here and although our disappointment
is not like yours still we were a little disturbed
by the sudden change; but all is well and to-mor
row at three we will have our next meeting. We
are happy to come at all times. Let events take
their own course. We cannot be hurried, we must
not be as our surroundings will not permit.
Katie we will magnetize your eyes to-night;
bear it patiently, the sun will shine in a day or
two. Do guard the strength God has given you.
Why this is a divine gift, to be able to talk with
92 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
those who are waiting for you on the other side.
Why you do not realize it! What happiness
should be yours! Try to be sensible and under
stand that you are blessed.
Dear Sarah and George you are doing all you
can in the house and success is ever on the wing.
The dear little ones are reposing in baskets of
flowers, very happy; soon they will come and
give (81 -Vol. Il) you joy. We leave our bless
ings with you but can say no more now.
Olin."
June 21 8l/2 A. M.— 1870.
We met for a few moments, Katie still suffer
ing from the remorse of her wrong doings, and
they wrote.
"This meeting is for directions. There can be
no success under these circumstances. We do
from our hearts, our souls pity this girl, and we
know not how to give our time, our power when
the telegraph wires are all out of order. We can
not as you know from experience. Now there is
but one way and that is to quiet her, to give her
peace, which will be when she has seen her friends;
therefore let her go to Mrs. Townsend's where
she meets her kind friend, and 1 think, in fact
we all do, that you had better write these few
words. 'Be patient with Katie, for she is now
penitent, sorry, and will do better in future than
to go in the unhappiness of wrong. 1 am patient
with her and as we have a desire to see her do
well, I must give her all the happiness I can,
therefore give smiles instead of shadows.'
"
We can do more in one sitting when Katie is
peaceful, than in five when she is as now. We
watched her early this morning and sought to
know what we should do, this is the best (82-Vol.
ll) course. Katie must not take her hat off, but
return when she sees that all is right. We know
that she will go nowhere else. Now if these
directions are followed we can say no failure.
The picture will astonish you with happiness and
we long to see your eyes behold it. God bless you
all.
Olin."
At three we had a very satisfactory meeting.
They felt happy and so did we for Katie had
returned as light as air and as peaceful as snow.
Our meeting was long and they wrote.
"The clouds have gone, none remain to dim
our sight, keep back our work, therefore rejoice
and think not of the past for that will not come
soon again. We have had to keep up the chain
by our constant meetings but now it is as strong
as ever and we rejoice. Our next meeting will be
at three to-morrow. We see far enough in the
future to know that you will all be happy then.
The Prof. is silently at work while I write. Sarah
the little ones are with Willie most of the time.
We see that he is well and happy. All is well !
We shall soar far away in less than half an
hour, gather new strength, rest with our beloved
ones and see what new duties will (83-Vol. ll)
be ours to perform. Now be happy all, each one.
George rest to-night early or this afternoon. We
commend you for your punctuality. God bless
you.
Olin and Circle."
"I have long neglected dear Em. in words but
not in thoughts. We are also with her and yes
terday I fully appreciated how she felt. I am
glad the shadows are passing away. There is
joy on the way for her. Em. be of good cheer.
Olin."
"Papa I was with Willie, he is getting bigger
I think, and darker. Mamma, Grandma will help
you with your dress.
Frankie."
I was that day making a little change in a
dress and it bothered me much, but I had said
nothing about it. Ma had great tact in fixing
bothersome things.
June 22 3 P. M.— 1870.
The weather extremely warm and the Doctor
sick, still we took our places and very soon the
echoes said. "I will magnetize you. Throw back
your gown.
B. F."
And immediately a strong hand was laid upon
the Doctor's stomach and another upon his back
and commenced rubbing, shaking, patting and
clapping, which was kept up vigorously for sev
eral minutes, the Doctor (84- Vol. ll) all the time
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 93
exclaiming how good! how delightful! The oper
ation made just as much and the same kind of
noise as the Doctor makes in doing the same to
an invalid. The Doctor's suffering stomach was
at once relieved and from that moment he
mended rapidly.
Frankie took his Papa's watch out, unhooked
the chain from the vest, opened and closed the
watch and after they were gone we found it
wrapped in the linen cloth on the carpet near
the window and in the opposite side of the room
from the Doctor. They wrote with closed eyes.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are glad
the chain was not broken. We have done a little
but must defer further meeting until twelve to
morrow for directions. We have magnetized
George. He will now improve, but we think he
better take a little stimulant, such as he thinks
best. He better rest now. This will only last
to-day and to-morrow. Fear not! Be happy! We
will hover near you to-night and give you rest
and peace. Dear Willie is well.
Olin."
June 23—1870. Directions
"Meet at three. Be not worried about any
thing, there will be only blessings following in
your (85-Vol. ll) paths if you do right. George
is now on the mend and we are glad for we are
a little selfish and he is a great aid to us. God
bless you.
Olin."
"Katie the greatest, the very happiest joy of
your life will take place if you remain as you
are till the flowers wither and the grass disappears
and Summer dies. Then the Autumn will come
in her new dress and you will be a happy woman.
We all say this. Do not think that you will have
to wait till the expiration of this time. No. One
month from to-day it will dawn upon you and
when the light shines out you will believe and
go on doing right. Save this to look back upon,
and your friend Mrs. Taylor shall receive bless
ings in the mean time which will bless her beyond
any yet given. Mark this, signed this day June
[23rd) twenty third, in the year of our Lord.
B. Franklin and the whole circle."
June 23 3 P. M.— 1870.
The weather decidedly hot! We took our places
and work upon the paper immediately began and
continued for more than an hour. But one thing
out of the ordinary course occurred. Sometime
during the sitting Frankie said "Papa and (86-
Vol. ll) Mamma I am coming, one for Papa and
one for Mamma, but I am afraid I shall let them
fall." And at that instant two bronze figures from
the mantel-shelf were set before us, one before
the Doctor and the other before me. The pencil
wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are so happy!
We work so well, so successfully now the condi
tions are perfect.
Sarah in answer to your question, your query.
There is a union of souls here like marriage. Here
the true are mated. No uncongeniality in this
home, this land of rest. Families are singled out
just as on earth, only without earthly desires.
Pure and holy, they live, and enjoy their lives
better than when on earth. Those who do not
marry on earth find their companion here, a mate.
If disappointment, grief and unhappiness were
theirs when on earth, here all is made up to them
and they are met by the lover of their youth.
The betrayed, the deceived, here in our land find
their crown of glory, their wreaths of happiness.
They leave the withered flowers, the sick scenes
and we show them their new happiness and they
live again their lives as earth lives (87-Vol. Il)
only sanctified, and all is made clear. On this
subject I will say more at a future time.
Olin."
"My Dear Friends. We hope to reward you
for your patience. We will. Your little ones are
here happy as they can be.
I wish you to read my last message over three
times every week, all will then be well. Read it
to Katie, follow directions and fear no evil.
George you must retire early, and take good diet.
All goes well!
Meet for full directions at the same hour to
morrow, three. As we do not tell what our work
will be, at all events know that we do all as the
laws of God permit.
94 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Faith, how lovely it is when perfect, when no
wind can blow it out of the soul. Faith is the
heaven of the soul and calls down blessings daily
upon the believer's heads.
George and Sarah. I call you so as I was a
Quaker, a plain man, your work will +e great in
this truth. Fear no one.
Meet at three for full directions.
Your Friend
Benj. Franklin."
(88-Vol. 11) June 24 6 A. M.— 1870.
Just as we were retiring on the previous eve
ning the echoes said "Meet in the cool of the
morning. The heat exhausts our power too much."
We fixed upon six and at that hour we met. The
morning was bright and beautiful and our meet
ing though not long, seemed satisfactory. Katie's
hand wrote with closed eyes.
"My Dear Friends. 1 have every day spoken
to you through others of the circle, but I have
been too absorbed in my work to give time for
writing. All is well!
I find it very difficult to come in the heat as
it exhausts our power very much and our own
spirits also. We will hereafter choose an hour
when the sun's rays are not so piercing.
You need have no fears for us; we watch the
conditions and to-morrow at the hour of six pre
cisely we will all be present and be able to work
in the cool atmosphere. We must not be hurried,
and now dear Sarah and George fear not inter
ruptions, none shall come, but call us not until
we announce our presence. George be not worried.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sarah and George, you are so faith
ful, so patient that our souls go out to you (89-
Vol. Il) with love and blessings, yes, and you
shall be rewarded. We can only give you a little
knowledge of our own faithfulness by comparing
it to yours. Never will you miss us when we are
needed, when a helping hand is wanted we are
here. We shall require water to-morrow morning
also knife. All is well! We are successful! God
bless you!
Olin."
10 P. M.
"My dear Sarah, George and Katie. We want
you to rest early to-night that you may get up
bright and strong to-morrow morning at six, at
the table. All is well dear Sarah and George, fear
no evil. Em. be of good cheer, you have no rea
son to be drooping in spirits. The flowers are
bright and earth holds many blessings for you.
I can not say more now as I must go to my greater
duties.
Olin."
June 25 6 A. M.— 1870.
The morning clear and hot. We took our seats
on time and the children at once made themselves
manifest. Frankie took hold of his Papa's hand
two or three times and with a decided squeeze,
then gave his Papa a pair of gloves which he had
taken from the Doctor's pocket, and said, "They
are too large for me, I have had them on." Now
I felt some one against my feet, and the echoes
(90- Vol. Il) said, "It is Mamma's little girl."
Then I felt her against my knees, then by my
side for several minutes. Oh! How I wanted to
take hold of her, how I longed to fold her in my
arms, press her to my bosom. The echoes said,
"Dear friend you shall see your child. B. F."
They worked long and joyfully and wrote the fol
lowing with closed eyes.
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am requested
by the Doctor of the circle to say that there will
be no meeting till Monday at quarter before ten
P. M. Ask no questions, neither call the circle
until we announce our presence. Our work is such
that we can not explain. There are hidden laws
which we must obey ourselves without asking why
and wherefore.
Monday night's meeting will be most impor
tant. We are satisfied with our progression, all
goes smoothly. Go on doing your duties and be
here in time, happy and free, then we can ask no
more. The children have enjoyed this morning
and are now happy in their own bright, beautiful
homes. They are relating their little feats to
their companions and we are happy to let them
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 95
come. Be happy and remember the night and
hour for our next meeting."
Olin."
"Of Katie we have no fears. B. F."
(91-Vol. ll) "My Dear Friends. There never has
been a morning when all the circle have been in
more perfect form. This morning we have all been
in full form. I am happy to be able to still go
on doing good. The work I began on earth is
being continued now.
We will be here on Monday night at the hour
previously named, till then call not the circle.
Copy my last message for Katie to keep with her.
At all events we trust you Katie! Is that not
great? Are you not proud that we, disembodied,
immortal beings trust you? Be a good girl, and
I who never deceived will again promise you that
every word shall be fulfilled. You are all doing
well.
B. F."
June 26 7 A. M.— 1870.
The morning clear and hot, hotter, hottest!
We were directed unexpectedly to meet at this
hour and had been but a moment seated when
the echoes said. "Mamma, we were here first."
"I saw you dress." "Keep your eyes closed." And
almost immediately my face was rubbed nearly
all over with pearl powder on a piece of flannel,
taken from a covered toilette urn on my bureau.
This rubbing was repeated, after which the urn
with powder and flannel in it and cover on it was
set on the table close by my hand. The meeting
was short and they wrote.
(92-VoI. Il) "My Dear Sarah and George. The
atmosphere will not permit us to hold our forms
long this morning, therefore we will not be able
to remain long. We will not again be able to
meet till quarter before ten to-morrow night. We
are happy to have had this meeting as it will aid
us at our next. We hope the atmosphere will be
clear. As far as you are all concerned you are
doing all you can, and we are grateful. The pic
ture is here but we must get it away as soon as
possible.
The children have been happy in their little
demonstrations of love and presence. We shall
now go to our cool shades, our lovely bowers
where fountains flow pure and beautiful to be
hold. Poor, weary children of earth, how happy
you will be when you come here, to our beautiful
abodes where there is no weariness, no sorrow,
no pain, but a continual joy.
Be happy until we are able to speak again, we
can not say more to-day, but dear Sarah and
George we will bless you and give you peace.
Tell Em. to keep up her spirits as all is well with
her. Be happy! God bless you all !
Olin."
June 28 3 P. M.— 1870.
Monday evening being rainy, Katie did not
come but Tuesday morning instead and the echoes
appointed (93- Vol. ll) a meeting at this hour.
The day was excessively warm but the whole
circle were happy. Frankie played with the Doc
tor's finger ring, took it off and after a few min
utes replaced
it,
pushing
it
entirely on, and
it
passes snugly over the last joint. The pencil
wrote with closed eyes.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The atmosphere
is
so against us that we can not do much. Our
next meeting better be at six to-morrow morning
before your atmosphere
is
heated by the sun, how
ever all
is
well
!
The picture
is
only delayed! Be
patient! We are sure of all our circle! We are
with you dear Sarah and George and when the
weather changes we will say much. We have all
given our power to the picture this sitting. We
beg that you will all rest early to-night in order
to be fresh to-morrow morning.
Olin."
June 29
6
A. M.— 1870.
The morning clear and warm. This meeting
like the others was
a
busy, happy hour. Nothing
new occurred save Frankie's saying "Mamma
I
will make you laugh." And at the same time
I
felt some one at my back as
I
leaned upon the
table. After they were gone we found
a
large
linen handkerchief pinned to the end of one of
the braids of my hair which was hanging down
my back. (94- Vol. ll) They wrote (as usual now)
with closed eyes.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
96 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
The Professor is as delighted as a child when he
succeeds. All is well! If we only had a cool,
clear atmosphere there would be no difficulty,
and we would not be long in placing before your
eyes this picture, but be patient! The reward will
follow, then you will rejoice and thank God that
you were patient. When we tell you to meet at
ten in the front room, you will know that our
work is fully completed.
We are here in form this morning. The chil
dren are both here with their white dresses, happy
to be able to be with you and touch you with
their gentle hands and they leave you blessed.
Angels pass by you and touch you as they pass
with their garments.
Sarah, you are to us what children are to their
parents. The child goes to its mother fretful and
complains. The mother takes her child in her
arms and tries to soothe it. The child is good
and quiet for a while, but comes again and again
complaining; the mother whose love is so great
wearies not, but takes her child aside to cheer
it,
her patience never exhausts. So
it
is
with you,
Oh! children of earth, (95-Vol. ll) you who put
your trust in us. Come to us, we weary not!
Complain to us, we hear you and will comfort.
Seek us in sorrow, we will give peace. The tears
we will wipe away with our garments. The sick
heart we will make glad. (To all who believe.)
But on the other side, when one
is
perverse and
seeks no comfort but that which the world can
give, we can not approach them to lift them up,
neither can we bless them. You are indeed
blessed, and this circle who watch over and guard
you, will never let dark clouds obscure your sky
of happiness. Be happy! All
is
well!
I
know
that all
is
bright above and below. New flowers
are beginning to bloom in Katie's Mother's home,
some day to be hers! Are you not happy? God
bless you! Sarah, tell Em. that
I
am with her
and hope she will be happy when
I
tell her that
her future
is
bright.
Olin."
June 30 6Y2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was fine and our meeting was very
satisfactory. We chatted while they worked, and
in the course of our talk the Doctor remarked
that they, our spirit friends, had grown to have
great confidence in us. They directed us to meet
at ten on the next evening July \st and the pencil
wrote.
(96-Vol. ll) "My Dear Sarah.
I
am with Wil
lie at home often. He
is
well. Frankie and Leila
are both happy. They are here with me this morn
ing. Their eyes open with wonder at the pro
ceedings.
Oh! how beautiful they are as they grow and
advance. Frankie's eyes are large and black with
beautiful dark curling hair. Leila
is
fair,
a
per
fect lily, but you must not wish them back.
I
want to say
a
few words to dear Em. Tell
her that
I
approve of her choice and hope that she
will let our promises cheer her.
I
shall be glad
when she
is
married, as her mind will then be
more at ease and her health good. Tell her that
there are no withered leaves in her future, nothing
that will bring her unhappiness, for
I
have looked.
She will get up
a
little depressed. Tell her that
I
am with her very, very often and yesterday
I
went with you shopping.
I
was pleased when
I
saw you suited. God bless you dear Sarah. Your
Ma. Eliza."
"My Dear Sarah and George. Do you know
that you are not separated from those you love?
Those gone before you? Those you stood by as
the breath was leaving are (97- Vol. ll) now visit
ing you in far more beautiful forms. Few under
stand this, but you do. Now we are all here, we
see you and George, we know your wants. Yours
are ours to look after for you have placed your
selves under our protection and shall be ever
guided. Oh! how our souls go out to you this
lovely morning, how we love to breathe blessings
upon you. Confidence! George! Without
it
we
could do nothing, we would flutter in your pres
ence and withdraw. So great an aid
is
confidence.
We trust you and come bodily before you. We
can pay you no greater compliment.
It
is
want
of confidence that prevents our coming in the
immediate presence of our dear ones, therefore
I
hope that you will ever continue faithful.
The atmosphere
is
not heated this morning and
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 97
we have worked with power. The Prof. wishes
me to tell you that he is doing well and taking
time. He knows that you will be patient. He
loves this communion and regrets that he did not
learn it when on earth. Sarah and George be
happy! God bless you!
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah, My Child. To-morrow night
at nine. Can you be patient a little longer for
my sake?
Prof. K."
(98- Vol. ll) Katie went out directly after
breakfast on the morning of the thirtieth, and
did not return until half past nine on the eve
ning of the fourth of July. She was nervous and
unhappy as she always is when she has been
doing wrong, still our friends wished us to meet
in the morning and prepare the little table before
retiring.
July 5—61/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning clear and delightfully cool. The
band of spirits expressed their joy in being able
to be again at their work, remained in session
about three quarters of an hour during which
time the following was written.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We worked last
night and now only a few more meetings will be
necessary to complete our great work. We are
satisfied and happy. We will give you a full
explanation when we are through. The atmos
phere now is perfect and our next meeting will be
ten minutes before ten. Be not after the time,
ten minutes before ten to-night. We shall use
our power on the work this morning therefore
we cannot say much.
There are blessings passing from us to you
at this moment. You will feel them and live in
them. All is well! Be happy and know that we
are watchers over you, with (99- Vol. ll) bright
robes keeping you all safe from danger. God
bless you ! Willie is well.
Mr. Wyatt is arranging the business right, but
trust in the Great Power above for blessings in
this life.
To-day we will send a spirit to follow in
Katie's footsteps and see that she is punctual
to all her appointments. Her Mother wishes her
to see Mrs. Townsend this morning and tell her
that she is sorry for being so unjust to her. We are
sorry. Then return early and do right. Never
too late to mend.
*Be honest with that person and keep her
not here upon uncertainties. You can not say
at this moment when you can go.
The little ones are here very happy, very play
ful. We go to our homes after this meeting to
prepare for this evening, in the mean time let
not your hearts be sad.
Olin."
When we read the above Katie had to explain
about Mrs. Townsend and "that person" for we
were in complete ignorance of the facts referred
to.
July 5—10 P. M.— 1870.
The night clear and an exactly comfortable
temperature. Our meeting was long and very
still. The Doctor and Katie were sent but twice
to (100- Vol. Il) the folding doors and not a
word was written but as they went, directed us
to meet at quarter before seven the next morn
ing and added, "Our work is so nearly done that
we can tell you that we are making two pictures."
July 6—634, A. M.— 1870.
The morning pure as crystal. We were promptly
in our places and they immediately at their work.
Katie wrote with bandaged eyes, and they went
away leaving us, as always, lonely, the same as
though we had seen them in the flesh. The yearn
ing desire to have them remain with us.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here
with power and happy to speak through the clear
atmosphere. We are happy to have good con
ditions. There are joys for you all.
Do you know that you have not heeded the
message Dr. Franklin gave to Katie? He told
you to copy
it,
to let her wear
it
in her pocket.
This may have seemed small
in
your mind but
we know
it
would have been
a
great thing and
now he desires
it
written in
a
firm clear hand
for Katie before she leaves this morning, and
it
(1) Addressed to Katie.
98 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
shall be again made whole, the promises shall
retain all their truths and it shall be dated from
this day, but we will not be able to renew it after
to-day.
(101-Vol. ll) Dear Sarah and George how
faithful we are all with you, how we work to do
good and you shall have the proof in a short time.
All will be well to-day. We will give strength to
the weak, peace to sad hearts and blessings for
ever.
We wish a meeting at the old hour to-morrow,
three P. M., so do not fail as it would be dreadful
at this time. Be as happy as possible, we can do
so much finer work when the sunshine comes
from your souls. God bless you! We will do all
for the best. No more now! No failure!
Olin."
Sister Em. was thinking and talking of going
home on a visit, but was not quite decided about
when to go. Olin has spoken of it already in
several different letters and now notices it again.
The Doctor's business interests in the West
which have been before spoken of, now assumed
an annoying and threatening attitude. We were
on this evening undecided about what to do and
much perplexed.
(Morning)
"Tell Em. that I do not know at this moment
how to advise her but the change will do her good.
Olin."
July 6—11 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. Be not troubled
(102-Vol. Il) for all is well! Be not disturbed
for we will advise from time to time. All we see
is bright, and although there seem to be clouds
they will pass away like clouds upon damp, rainy
mornings. We are with you in every trial! Be
patient and think of the brightness ahead!
Now about Em. we think she better go as she is
prepared and the way clear, still follow your own
judgment. We will go with her, protect her from
danger and return her safely. All is well! Be
happy and trust to those who watch over you.
Olin."
"My Dear Friend George. You have got in a
yarn and it is tangled but we will do all for you
that we can and help to untangle the knotted
threads. All is well!
Prof. K."
"My Dear Children, rest your heads on quiet
pillows, let your thoughts be happy and peaceful.
You will come out right and look back with
wonder upon the dark times now, and rejoice to
know that you stand free. You will have good
advice to-morrow or in a day or two and follow
it. Em. be not worried, you will know all in
good time. Your Ma,
Eliza."
(103-Vol. Il) July 7—3 P. M.— 1870.
The afternoon was damp and warm. We met
as directed. Soon after we were seated I noticed
the sound of heavy rain and remarked "Can that
be rain?" The Doctor replied "Yes." And the
echoes added, "And our paper is here." On our
asking if they were anxious in consequence they
said, "Yes." In a few moments they decided what
to do and said "If the rain continues, open the
lower drawer of the bureau."
After about fifteen minutes sitting, the rain still
falling, they said "Open the drawer."
As soon as that was prepared the Doctor and
Katie were sent by the folding doors and when
they returned and stood near the bureau we heard
the paper placed in the drawer and the drawer
pushed in quickly, Katie's hands (as always)
were held by the Doctor and she standing by his
side. Then they wished the window opened so
they could take the pencils with them.
At ten minutes before six we were to meet
again. The rain ceased before that time and
after preparing the room, at half past five, I
unlocked the drawer and with closed eyes drew
it out and immediately left the room, securing
the door after me.
We entered the room at the time, as always,
(104- Vol. ll) and soon heard the paper upon the
little table and found the drawer closed. Very
soon the echoes gave their delightful signal of
satisfaction by which we knew that everything
was as they desired. Our meeting was not more
than a half hour. They took the paper away with
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 99
them after which they wrote with our eyes still
closed the following.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have all
been here. You must note this day down for it
is important and will be a great proof of our
power in future when you refer to it. We have
been near earth nearly all day and there will be
no meeting till Saturday morning unless the air
is very clear to-morrow night at half past nine.
Do not call us till we come of our own free will
as we shall be engaged.
We are happy and very glad that the channel
through whom we come is now all right. We
will go with her to-night and if we desire her
presence here we shall send her, so fear not.
1
Dear Sarah, you have a lucky number on
your finger. Seven is a number we often go by.
All is well! Oh! how happy we are to go again
to our fields of peace and beauty. Be of good
cheer! Tell Em. I see her anxiety, her desire
and to-morrow evening I will write (105-Vol. ll)
her a message. Tell her to look for me.
George be at ease, your business is coming out
better than you think. We see this.
Now good bye! From our happy home we
will look down upon you.
Olin."
July 8—9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Em. I will talk with you first, as
you are more needed in the front room.
I am with you and see your surroundings; for
instance Em. you see this dark, dull morning;
soon the sun will shine, and the tears from the
clouds will cease and the sky will be bright and
beautiful to look upon. So it will be with you.
Life is sunshine and tears, sorrow and joy; and
it is often better to be sad than gay, for when
the heart is made glad it can better feel and
appreciate the sunshine. My dear Em. never let
your mind brood on anticipated evil nor disap
pointments; for imaginary ills are often the
greatest trials, and you wonder, after, how you
could have felt so depressed.
Ma and I both wish you were settled happily
(1) Refers to the number of diamonds in my ring.
with Frank. I like him, for he has a kind, good
heart and loves you and you will both be very
happy. We hope to see him placed in a situation
soon to accomplish (106- Vol. ll) his ardent
wishes. Wait not for wealth. Make your wealth
together and when life is at its close you will
be the happier to know that you have journeyed
together in trials as well as in happiness and
prosperity. All is well dear Em. so be happy this
morning! Let the day be bright. Let your "soul
look through happy eyes and I will bless you.
Your Brother Olin."
"Sarah and George, dear too are you both and
this makes me love to speak to you and come in
your presence. I love so much to make you happy
by doing pleasant things for you, therefore I am
often engaged in viewing your future. George
have no faith in the promises of that man; money,
money is all he wishes and his promises are air.
Tell him that you can do no more. You must be
severe with him, but be not disturbed. You have
had good advice; follow it. We will be with you
and help you.
Sarah I have come to you this morning through
beautiful paths, and as I passed out of the Golden-
gate, I saw standing at each side a lovely woman
and man; they were repeating their vows of love
and eternal reunion. I was interested in them
(107- Vol. ll) and shall make their companion
ship. As yet I know not who they are; but it was
a lovely sight for the maiden was sad and I be
lieve that she was talking of her trials on earth.
Oh! how like your life is ours. Like
it,
but sanc
tified and holy. Here all
is
made plain.
The children are with Willie and very happy.
They are all well. When you are asked how
many children you have always say, 'three; one
with me and two in the summer land of flowers.'
We cannot bring the picture to-day, but to
morrow at three we will be here and happy to
make manifest our presence
in
an audible way.
God bless you! We go to our homes now, happy
to get out of the damp atmosphere.
Olin."
"Katie read your message! Count the days!
100 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
See how near the expiration the month is and
be happy! I fear not for you now.
My dear Sarah and George, I can not say
much to you now as we have duties and are
called. You have my prayers for your happiness
always with you.
Prof. K."
July 9—3 P. M.— 1870.
A clear, beautiful day. We met according to
(108-Vol. ll) appointment and everything was
agreeable. Before leaving they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. How glorious
is this atmosphere. How happy we all are to
have this day to work in ! You are our children,
for we protect and guide you; we pick you up
when you fall and our glory falls upon you like
the beautiful sunset upon the mountain tops. You
feel our blessings but see them not always, for
in sorrows we often send them down.
Sarah and George, I have been looking in
your future; and we wish you to talk with Wyatt
once more; he is careful, wise and judicious. We
think this matter better be settled soon as pos
sible, for your sake, to get you free from anxiety.
I do not like delays.
There will be no meeting till half past nine
to-morrow night, therefore you can take the op
portunity to go where your hearts call you. The
little beds in Greenwood are very sweetly made,
and the birds sing there very gaily. We took the
children there last evening and they were much
pleased with the white monuments about them,
but could not comprehend the meaning. So I
told them, there was where Mamma and Papa
came to see their (109- Vol. Il) little garden. Then
to-day I had to take them again to let them choose
their different portions. Frankie would call one
spot his and Leila would call one hers; at last
they both called the seat theirs, Mamma's and
Papa's. Oh! how happy they are and how happy
you should be. Be patient! Be happy! All is
well! God bless you! We can say no more now.
You will be very happy in a few weeks from
some new change. Call us not.
Olin."
"Let your minds be at ease. I am doing well,
my circle and I, so dear ones be happy be patient.
Meet at half past nine to-morrow evening.
Prof. K."
July 10—9V2 P. M.— 1870.
We went to Greenwood in the morning and in
the evening at the appointed hour we met.
The air was delicious and our angel loved ones,
as always when the conditions are good, were filled
with delight. Soon after we were seated, Frankie
said "Mamma, did you like our little garden?
We heard you speak of us."
Once when the Doctor was standing he felt
Frankie against him and finally upon his
shoulder; both he and Katie heard the moving
of the child's garments. They directed us to
meet the next morning for directions, then went
away.
(110-Vol. ll) July .11—8y2 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Friends. I am happy to have the
time to come and say a few words; well, to have
a little conversation; I am so deeply interested
in you both, in your success, in all that pertains
to your earthly good. I think you had better take
Wyatt's advice and attend to that matter. I wish
you had Sarah's business faculties, I wish you
had her brain, George. You are too easy some
times, but you do well, after all no one can com
plain of you. I think much of you and will help
you always.
George, we have not been all the time at work
upon the picture; remember that we have other
duties; now, you must not be impatient; we have
work here. God's angels never stand aside when
they are needed, and we are often called.
Sarah you are just what I always thought you
would be, a wise, good, great woman ; uncommon
and well suited to go through duties assigned you.
Your Sister E. is too apt to feel in moods, which
are often uncalled for, and unless outlived will
cause disease. I would like to write her a lecture
but think I better not at present. All is well!
Meet at three to-day, and now I leave (111-Vol.
ll) my blessing with you.
Prof. K."
"My Dear, Dear Sister. I am here by your
side. I rejoice to come to you and George. I love
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 101
Sarah to give you these assurances of my presence
for I know your heart appreciates all; yes, even
the response of the little echo, no matter how
slight; for this reason 1 love to come to you. The
flowers we throw at your feet are not trodden
down, the blessings we give you are not thrown
aside; all is living, blooming for immortality. We
were with you yesterday, yes in that quiet spot.
We heard your sighs, we listened to your words
of us, we read your thoughts. The birds sang a
sweet welcome to you and we placed the children
on the seat near you and once Frankie took hold
of your dress but you did not feel him. Their
little garden, they say, is not so pretty as the
one they play in with Grandma. Oh! how happy
they are! Sarah what a life within a life, the
spiritual within the natural. Sometimes the
heavenly light shines through the natural eye,
it is then the spiritual sees things in their heavenly
light.
Are we not blessed, to be able to come and
meet each other as in life? Only the forms
(112-Vol. ll) are invisible to you. God bless
you.
Sarah and George the following fall will be the
most successful one you have had, and I want
you to be careful what you do. Do not give any
more money to Hunter or his party, but settle
up as soon as possible. You will come out better
than you think for and I wish every thing made
over to Sarah at once.
Tell Em. to try to be happy. She can go soon
and have a rest. I saw she was depressed last
night, but when one feels so it is hard for a
beloved spirit to speak to them as their souls
cannot take in our thoughts. Why anticipate evil?
I have so often given her hope, so often painted
her future to her, and yet she forgets and still
looks on the dark side. We can say no more. .
George compare my sister to other women, have
you not a prize? All is well!
Olin."
July 1 1—3 P. M.— 1870.
Another divine day. We were seated in our
accustomed places fifteen minutes before three.
Work began directly and went on cheerfully and
we were happy. While we were sitting Frankie
took his Papa's watch out of his pocket, unhooked
the chain from the buttonhole (113-Vol. ll) of
his vest, brought the watch around the table and
reached it over my shoulder, the one furthest from
Katie, placed it in my hand and left it there. I
made some expression in words of my intense
desire to take the child in my arms and embrace
him as I was wont; thereupon the pencil wrote
the subjoined after which they went.
"My Precious Sister. You shall do all this
some day before the flowers die; before the. sum
mer flowers fade you shall do this. Meet at half
past nine to-morrow night. Our power is ex
hausted! We can say no more to-day. All is
well! God bless you!
Olin."
July 12—91/2 P. M.— 1870.
The evening was wet, rain fell until the hour
and it was ten before they were able to get the
paper here. They did but little work apparently
and went away at half past ten, telling us as
they went to read. We found upon a blank paper
the following, in clear, fine hand.
"My Dear Son, My Children, we are all here.
Meet at half past six to-morrow A. M. We hope
to have a clear night soon.
B. F."
July 13—6I/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was perfect and we did not awake
until exactly the hour. We sprang from our beds
(114-Vol. Il) and hastened our preparations so
that we were but a few moments behind, Katie
having been awakened by the echoes was in
readiness. They had told her to speak to us but
she was too tender hearted to disturb our peaceful
sleep.
During our session and while they were vigor
ously at work upon the paper, and the Doctor
and Katie were standing by the folding doors,
the echoes came thick and fast. We all started,
and Katie said "Something is wrong." The echoes
continued and soon we heard some one approach
ing through our parlor, we having purposely left
the intermediate door open to keep the air as
cool as possible.
102 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
The door from the parlor into the hall had been
thoughtlessly unlocked and my maid Maggie had
entered the parlor and was coming towards the
door of our sleeping room. The disturbance was
soon over. The Prof. said, "Sarah, I now put
you in charge of the doors." And then went on
with his work. They took hold of the Doctor
several times during the meeting, and assisted
him, when we first entered the room, in tying
the bandage over his eyes. They wrote with closed
eyes. . . ; :
'
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here with
success- ;and:
satisfaction.
All is well ! (11 5-Vol.
II) We were "ready at the moment and so were
you, but next time we manifest our presence pay
attention Katie and tell those who do not hear.
We have a clear atmosphere this morning. It is
almost impossible for us to come in the heated
atmosphere, we find it next to impossibility,
therefore we are happy to come when we have
not these draw-backs.
The disturbance caused us a little uneasiness.
We saw her coming and had to make the paper
invisible. Such interruptions when we are in form
hurt us more than we can explain, but we have
now overcome them and in future you can be
more careful. The Prof. was a little disturbed
in his spirit, he is not now.
My dear Sarah and George, we have been very
near you, seeing and feeling all your trials, know
ing all that causes the shadows to fall across your
pathway; but we look ahead, we see the future,
therefore we can give hope. When the lamp seems
not to burn we look beyond and read your fu
ture. Do you think that we could be happy and
conscious of sorrows, losses and adversities for
you? Let your hearts answer. Now away in the
darkness I see a bright star which will (1 16-Vol.
Il) light you to success. Those who have been
dishonest with you will be the ones to be covered
with a darkness that they can feel. So let that
star be your hope and anchor. All will be bright!
You are arranging everything for the best.
Sarah your children are all well and happy.
Willie writes of his happiness, Frankie's and
Leila's can not be conveyed to your mind. They
are happy without one shadow.
Meet Friday at three. Be happy for joy is on
the wing. God bless you! I am joined by the
whole circle in love and blessings.
Yours forever,
Olin."
On this morning we heard that a lady in the
room below us had made some disagreeable re
marks about the noise in our room. Olin was
not pleased with her. The Doctor's Western mat
ters were drawing to a focus and seemed to de
mand immediate action. He was advised to go
to Michigan and started on the evening of this
day. The pencil wrote at
9 A. M.—July 13—1870.
"My Dear Sister Sarah. We will not let our
echoes be heard by the ears of those who cannot
tell a pearl from a stone. In future we will guard
our sounds. We will help (117-Vol. ll) you with
these patients who are hard to manage.
Be happy my Sarah all is well! Have I not
told you that you would lose no more? Have
faith! have hope! have no fears! for all is well,
and the light will not diminish. I am called and
must go with the circle. I have not left you once
this morning. God bless you!
Olin."
George started before six, in the hour previous.
The pencil said.
"Sarah feel not depressed, let George go with
a happy heart. We will stand by his side. Be
careful George, be shrewd, give no notes. You
will do better than you think, if you are careful,
judicious and wise.
Sarah I will keep watch over your dear one
and bring you news of him every day. He will
return far happier than he goes.
Why, Sarah, you are looking on the dark side,
which is just as well for you will be pleasantly
disappointed. God bless you!
Dear Em. you are waiting for some good pur
pose, you will see wisdom in all. The flowers
will open when you do go and the birds will sing
a welcome for you.
Olin."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 103
"George I will see that no evil comes. 1 will
lay my work aside and walk by your (118- Vol.
ll) side. Think of me.
Prof. K.
July 14—8 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. I have come to give you hope
and tell you George is well and I shall be with
him to-night and to-morrow morning through his
arrangements and meet you at two to-morrow; till
then dear Sarah be happy and sleep well. God
bless you!
Olin."
I made some inquiry after reading and he
added "I will tell you to-morrow as I have to
follow through George. You shall know the
prospect from time to time, now dismiss all
anxieties. I am now going to fly to him.
Olin."
I supposed now that the Doctor was at his
journey's end, but on receiving a letter from him,
learned that he was detained and at the time Olin
came to me the Doctor was waiting at a depot
from which he started at nine o'clock. Hence
Olin's haste to be back before the train took the
Doctor away. Olin being a stranger there had "to
follow through George."
July 15—2 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. 1 am happy to come and
tell you of George and his arrangements. 1 have
been with him ever since last night and although
his mind is perplexed I see that there is a clear
road before him and if he goes on right (1 19-Vol.
ll) and is wise, he will succeed and do well.
I heard the conversation with the lawyers. He
has succeeded in getting a good one, but no action
will begin at once. He has to go again this eve
ning. George is full of hope; first he was dis
appointed in not meeting the party he wished to,
but all seems to go smoothly now. I can say no
m ire about him till to-morrow at half past nine
as he will not do much before then. George is
writing now, you will hear Monday. The flowers
are blooming freshly in your pathway and all
goes well! The sky in the future is bright! The
sun is not hidden by ill fated clouds, not
obscured, therefore dear Sarah look up and be
happy!
Willie is well and all three of the children are
happy.
Olin."
"My Dear Friend meet at eight for me. 1 The
paper is all right. I shall speak to you of George.
Call us not till then.
Prof. K."
When the Doctor returned the next week and
told this day's experience it corresponded exactly
with Olin's statement, save, that the appointment
with the lawyer was for the next morning instead
of evening.
According to appointment the Prof. came at
eight, but I was detained by company until half
past when he said.
"My Dear Sarah. I have been waiting for you.
(1 20-Vol. ll) I left George an hour ago. His
interview was quite favorable, not exactly suited
to his mind, but will close better than he thinks.
He does not see his way as clear as he wishes but
we see his way clear. He thinks of my advice to
be wise and I hope he will be shrewd. He will be."
Here occurs another break like that of two
months ago, occasioned like that, by a paper hav
ing been abstracted from those not yet copied.
Thus two days, sweet messages from heaven are
lost.
Sunday the 17th was oppressively hot. Ralph,
Mr. Bradley, Sister Em., Katie and I took the
morning steamer to Rockaway and passed the
day in comparative comfort. We took sea-bath,
ate our luncheon, sat and walked upon the beach,
listened to the breakers until towards sun down;
then returned home, had tea and got to our rooms
at nine. At ten Em., Katie and I were alone and
the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We were with you to-day.
You have all had a far better day than you would
have had here. Sarah be happy ! You have every
reason to be. There are no dark shadows to burst
upon you and leave you sighing and grieving for
what might have been.
(1) I inquired about the paper he was working on for us,
the picture.
104 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Ralph enjoyed himself as he always does
(121-Vol. Il) when he is a free agent. Em. you
may look for a pleasant letter from your dear
one, it is on the way and will give you peace.
Dear Sarah, poor George was almost discon
solate, so lonely, so unfitted to be alone. A letter
is here for you, almost here.
Dear Sisters I say 'good night' with blessings
and prayers for your happiness.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. I too will speak for I
have not left you to-day. You have been listening
to the music which chained me when I was in
the form and made a part of my happiness. Are
you not blessed to have us all with you? To
know that we are with you in affliction closer than
when all is joy within your souls? My boy, my
Olin is so much comfort to me! We go to our
ocean in our blessed home, and listen to the break
ing of the waves, and watch the pure streams as
they flow on and on. We do not have to come to
your earth to see and hear these things. We have
all here, all purified therefore we never weary of
our Eternity. God bless you! All is well! I
can say no more now. George is well, not heart
sick as when he wrote you so be of good cheer.
Rest on the peace I strive to give and you shall
feel my spirit hovering over you.
To all Eternity Your Ma—Your Mother."
(122-Vol. ll) "My Dear Mrs. Taylor. I want
to express my gratitude to you for your kindness
to my child; words can not, but deeds can and I
will join my prayers with all who love you, in
wishing you all the peace, all the success that
makes life glide on smoothly. When my child
is nervous and trying to your patience, oh! bear
with her and you will be rewarded.
Your friend Mrs. Fox."
"Sarah,. I see something that has happened, that
will make you unhappy. I will not tell you to
night but I am displeased.
Prof. K."
These four letters were written before we took
up the paper or read a word; now the pencil
dropped and I read aloud from the beginning;
on reading the Prof.'s we looked at each other
in amazement. I had left my rooms in the
morning in the care of my maid who was to
lock, after putting them in order and leave the
key with the head-waitress, as Maggie was going
out. I had found the key under my plate at the
tea table, and now what did the Prof. mean I
inquired.
"I am not going to give you a wakeful night
and I cannot tell the name of the person. I saw it
go, that is all. Nothing valuable, nothing stolen,
only destroyed. Good night.
Prof. K."
(123-Vol. Il) Now we all thought of these
papers, so precious to me and of no value to
another. The Prof. had said "good night" and
of course would not speak again, so I went to
the drawer of my desk where I keep all of these
valuables, and looked over every paper of every
sort then missed the paper before referred to.
They had written upon that paper after ten on
the previous evening and I laid it away with the
rest before retiring. How it got out, or who took
it was the marvel. I felt that no person but
Maggie had had access to my rooms or even
knew about these papers; and while I had believed
her perfectly trusty I thought she must know
something of this; so I determined in my own
mind to speak to her as soon as she entered my
room in the morning but said nothing. Before
retiring the echoes came and said "My child
say not a word till after I speak with you in
the morning.
B. F.
July 18—9 A. M.— 1870.
A little before this hour the Doctor came and
at this hour the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. The paper I do not see. I
wanted time to look in your maid's heart, which
I have done and do not think she has it. If 1
judge rightly she is innocent. I will have to look
further; (124-Vol. ll) at present it is shrouded
in mystery, but will not be long. George has
acted wisely and well. I am satisfied. He will not
fail in gaining all that he hopes to now that he
has the ascendency over them. Be of good cheer.
B. F."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 105
July 18 9 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We can not meet for the pic
ture until the atmosphere changes which will be
in a day or two. I hope that you will not feel
disappointed as we do everything for the best,
but we can not form while this atmosphere lasts;
the air dissolves our power and weakens our
electricity. This cannot be easily explained to you
in few words.
We have been with you, very near, very faith
fully. We feel a little disturbed to think that
there are hands wicked enough to destroy impor
tant papers; but it will not happen again, that
we are sure of, for we will be on the watch.
George let nothing trouble your mind, throw away
all doubts, all misgivings now the worst is over
and you stand on sure ground. No more going
down hill and you will soon stand on the summit.
Dr. Franklin is lifting you up with his strong
arms, so be happy! God bless you all! I am
glad Em. is going home, she requires the change
and will not regret (125-Vol. ll) going. All is
well! No more to-night! Now rest dear ones and
get up with happy hearts. „
"My Dear Son. I have been with you; once I
feared you would not have the heart to go on
with your work, but you were made strong and
did all that could be required of you. I am glad
the lawyer is coming here. I want you to give
him a room here, and also want Wyatt with him
here that I may read them and study their mo
tives, that I may advise you freely. You have
done right! I commend you! All is well! When
I say these words I mean much. All is well !
I have not yet learned who took the papers,
but be assured I shall find that person. Wait my
time and be not anxious. We will go on with our
work when the atmosphere changes, which will
be soon.
B. F."
"Good evening George, I am happy to meet
you in your own home again. You have returned
not faint hearted for which I am glad. I am for
your interest, therefore advise you for your good.
You have a good lawyer and are fortunate.
Prof. K."
As soon as the Doctor returned Em. decided
to go home the next day, and very directly I told
him of the missing paper and tried to repeat some
of Ma's dear words, but (126-Vol. ll) could re
call only a sentence or two, when the pencil wrote.
"I will come when the conditions are favorable
and write you a long letter. Be not unhappy, all
shall be made up to you. My words shall be
spoken or written in words you will not soon for
get. I am going with Em. to-morrow.
Your Ma."
July 19 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Children. 1 am here to speak words
from a Mother's soul; that divine channel
through which I can come and bless you; which
never dies nor wearies but continually grows
stronger.
Yes dear children, I am here to tell you that
all is brightness. Your paths are not distracted
by failures; so cheer up and let my soul touch
yours with peace and blessings. I am going with
you dear Em. and will see you safely at home.
You do right to go and will have a pleasant time
with a quiet rest. Remember that you will not
be alone. I will know your wishes, although I
can not manifest my presence. I am happier now
and can roam in my beautiful paradise free from
care. George is again with those he loves and his
duties, therefore I am happy.
The circle is not here now, but will come in
good time to appoint their next meeting. Katie
better come here to-night.
Your Ma.
Your Mother to all Eternity."
(127-Vol. Il) July 20 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
Although the Doctor returned from Detroit on
the morning of the \8th we did not meet for the
picture until the 20th the weather being so exces
sively warm.
On this morning there was a cool breeze and
our circle availed itself of it promptly. The sit
ting was as usual, the going by the door and Katie
writing with closed eyes. The writing itself was
different, one line requiring a mirror to read it
and the next not readable with mirror but by
looking directly upon it. One line read from
106 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
right to left and the next from left to right; thus
alternating over a paper nearly two feet long.
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am happy to
come this morning. The atmosphere is cool and
favorable at present therefore we are happy to
work again in form. But the chain has been
broken and we must establish it again and make
it perfect. We have almost accomplished it; one
more meeting and it will be formed as before,
then we will be able to work with great power,
as the conditions are good and all goes well.
Be happy! We are, for we see that you have
passed the worst part of your trials and the way
is no longer dark. You will not have your patience
tried by long delays, which should rejoice you
to know. Now my dear Sarah be not disturbed.
(128-Vol. ll) The golden clouds are floating
above you, and the lamps on the other side are
lighting you through the changing scenes of life
and ever will.
Oh ! How I love to give you hope when 1 know
it is hope from the fountain of truth. You shall
never want for our protection and care. The
Prof. and all the circle appoint for our next meet
ing half past nine to-morrow P. M. We think
it will storm to-day and will be on the safe side.
God bless you! We will protect you!
Olin."
"My Dear Child, JI will go with you and help
you choose your carpet. Em. is tired but well.
Willie is well, and my little Frankie and Leila
are happy, sending blessings to their dear Mamma
and Papa.
Your Ma."
"Meet for the perfection of the circle at three
to-morrow and let your hearts all be happy.
Prof.K."
Before retiring they wished us to meet in the
morning.
July 2 1 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
The air clear and delightful, rain having fallen
during the night and cooled the burning stones.
We were all on time and our meeting was really
joyous, so delighted were our invisible loved ones.
They brought their paper still they stated to us
(1) The carpet was for my Bleeping room.
again that the object of the meeting was to per
fect the chain binding us to them. They wrote.
(129- Vol. ll) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We are all here this morning. We thought best
to meet now instead of three as that hour is in
the heat of the day.
To-night we will meet for the picture at half
past nine. All is well ! We are happy to see you
getting along with your house and hope soon to
come when there will be no confusion. We love
quiet! We love peace! We love to see the heart
happy and oh! how we rejoice when our advice
is heeded. Yes, these meetings will link you to
our world and teach you the way up the golden
steps. Yes, Sarah, Ma dresses Frankie and Leila.
She arranges their garments and we have houses
but not like yours. Ask no questions and soon
I will give you a full description of everything
that lies in my power. Em. is home. Ma is with
her. Willie's joy is great, Frankie and Leila are
also there. Ma likes the carpet. She gave me
her watch to keep while she went with you. Now
we all go to our duties. Call us not.
Olin."
July 21 91/2 P. M.— 1870.
Clear warm evening. Mr. Wyatt, the Doctor's
city lawyer, called and we were a little delayed,
but as soon as he left the room (our parlor) the
echoes asked us to go in to the "sitting." We
started and before we were half way to the door
an invisible (130-Vol. ll) hand patted the Doc
tor's cheek so that both he and Katie heard the
pats distinctly.
Our meeting was long and very quiet. I was
so weary and worn with the fatigues of the day
(having our immense house put in order for the
Autumn) that a sort of stupor was much of the
time upon me, though I made no mention of my
feelings. They went away saying "All is well!
Meet in the morning for directions. God bless
you! Good night!"
July 22 8I/2 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We could not do so much
last night owing to your fatigue, but will be able
to come to-day at three. There will be nothing
to interfere and we hope to have a good meeting
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 107
at that hour. We saw Wyatt last night and read
his mind, he is for your interest alone and I like
him. George chose wisely, and the best lawyer
at Detroit and we feel sure that all will go right
now. We are happy to see you coming out so
clear, you can not see it but we can.
Ma is preparing her home for the reception of
old and new friends. She enjoys her life with
her friends now more than she did when on earth.
We are happy and want you all to be, as bright
changes are taking place
in,
your daily lives.
(131-Vol. ll) We are getting so great that we
can come almost face to face. Willie can not be
with the children
in
their beautiful rambles
to-day; they wish him but
I
have explained why
he cannot come.
r'
I
will not use much power. To-morrow night
we want to leave you free, we will not limit you
in
your time. Be happy and know that all
is
well! God bless you!
Olin."
July 22
3
P. M.— 1870.
Very warm, clear day. We met according to
appointment. Nothing of especial note occurred.
We heard the pencils on the paper and knew they
were at work. They wrote with closed eyes and
left.
"A home of peace, of beauty which
is
impos
sible to paint in words.
A
home made of the
choicest flowers, the choicest leaves, climbing
roses, clinging vines,
is
ours.
Our seats are made of green turf, our paths are
gemmed with costly pebbles, our doors are filled
with the choicest stones and our forms repose
on sofas of the most delicate flowers. Oh
!
Sarah
the most beautiful flower on earth can not be
compared to the simplest moss in our garden.
Can you imagine this? Then we have rooms of
a
different description, plain and neat so that
we will not weary, where we go to commune with
the past, where we (132-Vol. Il) pray for our
beloved ones, where we go to receive our duties,
where we watch the new spirits enter their new
lives. Oh! would that
I
could explain clearly to
your understanding; but dear Sarah
it
is
in
my
palace of beauty where
I
am mostly with the
children. Oh! our world
is
beautiful, holy and
ever-changing in its beauty. Some new joy
is
daily meeting our eyes. Often when
a
dear friend
passes by
a
token of love will be left in our win
dows, or at our doors, or
in
our gardens. To-day
Prof. Kenyon left an evergreen filled with birds
for the children. Oh! How happy we are!
I
will write you
a
full description when we have
more power.
I
am now going back to my friends
as they are waiting for me. Olin
is
helping me
write. Your Ma."
"My Dear Children.
I
have been with you
to-day. All the clouds have disappeared and the
sky
is
golden with blessings for us to bestow upon
you. Your business George should be successful
and to-morrow night
if
that lawyer comes
I
will
read his mind like an open book. Katie must be
here. B. F."
The Detroit lawyer did not come on that eve
ning, but after the other lawyer left the pencil
wrote.
(133-Vol. Il) July 23 10 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We have all been here to
night.
It
is
night on your earth, but
a
beautiful
golden sun-set here. The pure river reflects thou
sands of white robed angels; flowers are opening
with dew upon them
;
the children kiss the flowers
and love their perfume. We are happy! Oh! how
happy! Our beautiful walks, our flowery paths,
our gemmed skies; nothing on earth can be com
pared to the surpassing loveliness of our home.
We shall float off, while you sleep, to the
streams of pure waters, where we can glide down
their surface in gondolas. Music will accompany
us and
a
choir of angels with sacred hymns. We
shall think of you and send you blessings.
We have concluded to meet early to-morrow,
half past nine, in the cool atmosphere, when the
heat does not fall too severely on our garments
and weaken our power. We shall all be here at
the moment. And now my dear Sarah do rest.
Do not weary your feet and hands with toil. Do
not weaken your back by being so constantly on
your feet; this
is
the wish of all who love you.
All
is
bright, and all
is
well!
Olin."
108 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Dear George, you are coming out right.
Rest with our faithful protection over you.
Prof. K."
(134-Vol. Il) July 24 9y2 A. M.— 1870.
The air was clear but still warm, the mercury
standing at 88° in the room. We found our in
visible loved ones awaiting us, for as soon as we
entered the room we heard them moving things
and the Doctor felt them about his head and
face. He felt distinctly time after time, and over
and again the fine texture of their dress, and dis
tinctly inhaled the peculiarly pure odor that ac
companies them. After a little time they touched
me also and immediately said, "Mamma, did you
feel us?" They did many sweet, childish things,
pulled a white hair from the Doctor's head and
brought it to me; leaned against my face while
their robes lay upon my hands so soft and deli
cate. I asked who it was? They answered. "Your
own little girl." Again they said "both of us."
They enveloped almost entirely my head and face
in their garments, leaned upon my shoulder, the
back of my neck and my bosom. It was all so
sweet! so lovely! the touch so gentle! so mag
netic! It was of heaven, heavenly! Before leav
ing they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. In the atmospherical changes
we are often mistaken. We hoped last night that
we would have had a favorable time this morning
but we are disappointed, still, we will watch for
a favorable time and hope it will come soon. All
we wish is true patience on your part. You know
that (135-Vol. ll) what we have promised will
be given in time, and at an hour put aside for us,
when angels keep watch at the portals. We will
not try to meet for this great event till a favor
able change comes in the weather. To-morrow
during the day we will give full directions.
You see how real we are. The children have
been gratified this morning by coming in their
thin robes and caressing you. They will soon be
able to come visibly, now they are beginning to
understand.
You wonder George if we have twilight? and
how it can be? I will tell you. We have the beau
tiful morning, the shadowy noon and the lovely
twilight when our spirits walk as in a flood of
moonlight. The only comparison I can make is
this. You have walked out in a very bright
moonlight when every object is made visible,
such are our nights, which we call twilight.
My dear Sarah were we not to have these
changes we would weary. God has ordained all
these beautiful realities. Eternity is forever, and
we exist forever, therefore we must have change
and happiness daily. Life is so beautiful here,
so beautiful in its changes that we never have a
desire to return to live on earth as we once did.
We have worked this morning and done all we
can. We can do no more to-day. We shall recline
in our lovely groves and watch that no evil (136-
Vol. ll) comes to you, our loved ones. Willie and
the two angels are well and happy. Frankie and
Leila are overjoyed with their success. We shall
be so happy to-day, free to roam in our heavenly
home. You shall hear from Grandma Lang-
worthy when the time is favorable. We are all
together but her interests and pleasures are in
searching for knowledge, to visit different coun
tries, therefore she does not make one of our
circle. All is well! We shall go in a few minutes.
Our power is exhausted.
Olin."
July 25 10 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. You have not minded me
and rested your back! What shall I do? Scold
you? Now do not be so much on your feet! I
have been with you to-day and I will come in
the morning when you are fresh and talk with
you on important matters. I saw the lawyer to
day and he is all right; but now my dear Sarah
rest and after breakfast come to me. Come and
I will give you words of love and truth and make
you strong for your daily duties. To-night I
will watch over you. I am happy to see the room
being prepared. We would prefer to present the
picture in that room as it is well magnetized.
We will talk about it to-morrow morning before
the heat of the day, for Sarah it is very hard
for us to (137-Vol. ll) write in the heated atmos
phere. God bless you! Sleep on a pillow made
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 109
peaceful by our hands which soothe your head
when it aches.
Olin."
July 26 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here, one and all
to speak and give you comfort. Is it not pleasant
to have old and dear friends come and give you
welcome? Those who are part of your life? Those
who have passed over the river, over to the shin
ing shore, and now hold out their hands to grasp
yours; eyes that you have seen closed forever
on earth, open with eternal life to look in yours
and watch that no evil comes? This alone should
cheer you, this should show you how near the
two worlds are together, how closely linked. Let
your heart be happy for we are living in a coun
try very near yours, where you are journeying,
and where the golden car will bear you gently on
to those who are now walking by your side.
Soon as you get the room in order we will be
able to meet; by that time at least we hope to
feel a change in the atmosphere. + + -(- + Be
of good cheer! Get your house in order and it
will be filled with new comers, good worthy people
and those who will bring success.
Sarah and George these golden links, these
(138- Vol. ll) interviews enable us to walk before
you and remove every stumbling block. The little
ones are here and will say through my aid a few
words.
God bless you ! Sarah be careful of your back.
I will not let you fall for my arms are ever ready
to catch you but you must help me to keep you
strong. Dear ones the conditions are going to
be greater than ever, more lofty, more powerful,
pure and holy which rejoices our souls.
Olin."
"Mamma and Papa. Leila and I are here. Who
do you love most here? In my world I mean?
I know, Uncle Olin knows too. Willie is well, I
go every day to see him, and, Mamma, I laugh
so loud that he could hear me if he were a little
angel like me Grandma says. We are very nice
children Grandma says when she shows us to
her friends. I am learning to draw flowers. Mam
ma, and I am going to draw you one. Oh! Won't
you be happy? Papa too? Good bye.
Frankie."
July 27 10 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have all
been with you to-day and yesterday also. We
want to say much, but dear ones, we think you
had better go to bed and rest, get up fresh in the
morning and meet us in your (139- Vol. ll) fresh
garments, without fatigue, without weary feet,
then we too in our garments of purity and with
our souls full of love will come and bless you.
Yes, dear Sarah, bless and comfort you.
Grandma Langworthy is here to-night. She
wants you to know that she has not forgotten you
and that her arms are open for you. She will
speak herself soon but cannot to-night. Life is
sweet! Life is holy always, for it is a continua
tion of the spiritual, the immortal.
George, you have done right, I will bring a new
spirit to commune with you to-morrow morning
at nine. Sarah I want to say much, to do much
for you, but now dear ones go to rest while we
commune with our own souls. All is well! Be
happy! Let the mantle of peace cover you and
we will guard you.
Olin."
July 28 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here,
happy to come and look in your faces and see
you well. We are always contented to roam free
in our paradise of glory when every day a new
flower opens with perfume and beauty. Often on
these leaves are beautiful emblems which denote
the purity of our work and the approbation of a
higher power. Thus our work goes on and we
rejoice in our daily life. We want you to (140-
Vol. ll) understand our world and its adaptations,
its duties, its pleasures, its joys. We are trying
to teach you this and we will make it clear that
even a child will understand.
I am happy to be in company with Grandma
Langworthy. She loves you and will speak to
you herself very soon. She does not understand
how to use the pencil, but will learn soon. She
has not seen us write often. Now she stands by
110 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
your side, holding her hands above your head
with a blessing. She is often with our Ma and
your children. Her love for you is as great as
ever. Here the affections strengthen and become
immortal; when real there is no withering, no
dying, no fading, no forgetting. Like the soul,
the affections grow pure and become the chains
which link the mortal with the immortal; there
fore love is a flower of everlasting growth and
will always grow more beautiful with time.
JWe are happy to see the room advancing and
becoming inhabitable. We can not meet before
for our especial purpose. We will appoint Sat.
night at half past nine in the back room (our
room). We will be the first to echo sounds from
the brighter world on the new covering.
I want you to get very soon some paper for
(141-Vol. Il) Frankie to draw a flower upon.
He will copy one in his garden. Of course we
shall help him. We will give directions in good
time." At this point the pencil stopped and after
a minute or two the echoes said "Remember
where the pencil hesitated." I marked the spot
and after a little more delay the pencil continued.
"The little fellow does not wish me to tell that
he will be aided. Consider Sarah and George
that he does it all by himself. All the brightness
of heaven is shining upon these children and we
are purer for having them.
I have said all that I can and must now give
way for the new spirit who wishes to come. I
must help him.
Olin."
"Friends. I am most happy to come and talk
with you. There are reasons why I come. I feel
a deep interest in your work which you are en
gaged in now and also in the manifestations you
are receiving. I am often with Franklin and those
who were the study of my mind when on earth.
Now you have heard of me and you see that I
am here and when you come where I can shake
hands with you we shall not be strangers. I be
lieve George, (I think that is the name they call
you here) that I can help you in your business.
++++++ + +
(1) Our sleeping room waa being cleaned and newly carpeted.
I will join your circle Saturday night. Fare
well. Isaac T. Hopper."
(142- Vol. ll) July 28 2 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Child. How happy I shall be when
you are free from this toil! How glad I shall be
to see you rest and feel that you have not a load
upon your mind! Oh! Then I will come and
soothe your brow and talk with you about mat
ters nearest our hearts (yours and mine).
We are roaming now happy and contented in
paradise, for we see that all is well, and no sor
rows chain us to earth. The children are well
and happy. I was with dear Olin this morning
when he came and will come again Saturday eve
ning, but we will before that give further direc
tions. You are weary Sarah and my arms are
open to give you rest when your duties will per
mit. All will be well soon and rest will come and
peace will be your carpet. No more now for the
power is exhausted.
Your Ma."
July 30 9% P. M.— 1870.
The evening was gloriously fine. We had not
met for the picture since Sunday the 24th, for
two reasons, one, the excessive heat; the other,
my sleeping room (their room) was being cleaned,
recarpeted etc. The room was now in perfect or
der and the weather delightful but I was so tired
and worn that I could not sit quietly in my chair.
They soon came in (143-Vol. ll) force and sig
nalized their joyful presence by many and con
tinued echoes. The meeting was not long neither
did they make any new demonstration.
After they had taken the paper away they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have used
nearly all our power. You had none to spare. I
am sure dear Sarah you will now rest and we
then shall enjoy so much to come. We wish the
meeting to-morrow at half past ten. The weather
is now very favorable and we will improve the
opportunity.
Gentle as the zephyr that wafts from the shore,
Are the sounds that greet your ears once more.
Sweet as music are the voices that breathe
Love and blessings, which daily we leave.
We are all here, each one, but we can not talk
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 111
freely. George you have done right and are our
patient to teach. Sarah go to bed and rest your
weary head.
Go to thy pillow, where peace will be sweet,
And in the bright morning again we shall meet.
Get up fresh and at peace with your own souls.
Good night my dear ones! Good night!
Olin."
"Friend George, 1 am not a man to break my
promise. I have just come. 1 have looked over
your1 work and I like the foundation, the point
you are reaching. I will efface one or two lines.
(144- Vol. ll) Go on writing. You will finish up
well. All is well!
Farewell. Isaac T. Hopper."
July 31 10i/2 A. M.— 1870.
A pure, beautiful day. We were in the room
on time and received a joyful greeting from our
spirit friends. Our meeting was very pleasant.
Katie was very soon asked to take the pencil.
The children were full of play. Frankie took
hold of his Papa's ear, and pulled his hand.
Leila took a pencil from my hand, (Katie was
writing with another) and put it in her Papa's
and after a moment returned it to me. She seemed
to play around my lap, pulled and moved the
skirt of my dress many times.
Presently the echoes said "Sarah, I am here."
I asked "Who?" Ans. "Grandma."
Katie still kept on writing and when a sheet
was filled it was taken out of the way and laid
on the carpet a little distance from us. We in
quired. "Who did it?" Ans. "Grandma." The
Prof. said "I am going to work silently on the
picture," and when they were ready to leave, he
added, "When the picture is finished I shall give
you something that will interest you. My word
is law."
"Again we come to you under circumstances
very pleasing to us. The room is pleasing to us;
no confusion; now we will enjoy it and we wish
you to also. While you live, weave the brightest
flowers (145-Vol. ll) you can in your acts and
let your hearts be glad.
We will all combine our thoughts in this letter,
(1) The Doctor was writing his "Diseases of Women."
each one drop a word from their separate souls
and you can rejoice, knowing that we are with
you in spirit and love. We are happy to speak
words of comfort, words of peace. Oh! How
glad our souls are and how full of light which
we diffuse in your paths. We have a holy calm
in our homes, a peace which belongs to heaven
alone. Grandma Langworthy is here with eyes
full of love and contentment as she views you
and your peaceful surroundings. She is satisfied
with you and loves you as dearly as ever; and
last night she wanted to rock you to sleep in her
arms. We are one family here and not a shadow
crosses our sunny paths. We travel together, we
study in each other's society and weave our his
tories from the same events.
The children have been in their garden at
Greenwood. The flowers are falling to the ground,
the leaves are giving their perfumes to the winds,
but their souls are not lost, for angels catch the
odor and mingle it with theirs, so you see that all
which is beautiful and pure lives. God is our
father! We are His children and we do His will
most faithfully.
We are here in your room! How thin is the
veil between, seemingly one breath of air would
(1 46-Vol. Il) open to your eyes the other side,
so exquisite in its beauty; there is sphere upon
sphere, plane upon plane and so we go on pro
gressing. Heaven is unbounded; no end to our
world and our palaces are large. We shall all
meet here someday.
Meet at three to-morrow. We can say no more
as we must aid the Prof. in keeping the paper
and pencils. God bless you!
Olin."
"My Friend George. Your work is well writ
ten and after you have completed
it,
I
will cor
rect the mistakes
if
there be any.
I
am satisfied
with your course and treatment.
Isaac T. Hopper."
August li*
3
P. M.— 1870.
A
fine, clear day. We took our seats and were
warmly welcomed by the invisible members of
our circle. All seemed happy! The children
played about us. Frankie pulled his Papa's long
112 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
beard (which he does at almost every sitting)
and handled it several minutes. The Doctor
spoke of it and wondered what the child was
doing, for he could distinctly feel the form touch
ing him first at one side, then the other, but no
remark came from them; and when the handling
of the beard ceased, several delicate pats were
lovingly left upon the Doctor's shoulder. When
we (147- Vol. Il) opened our eyes we saw the
Doctor's beard had been and was then braided
in three separate, three stranded braids, and a
comical sight it was. We believed Frankie then
laughing over his exploit.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
happy to meet in our quiet room around 1out
table, which can now mirror your own face. We
place blessings upon it and you must enjoy them.
It is sweet to know that in this city of crimes and
anguish, misery and depravity, we make a heaven
about you and guard you from these evils. Yes,
dear Sarah and George, we guard stronger and
with more safety than bolts can, and your faith
shall save you from falling victims to those who
fear not God or man. We are now about to take
our treasures and wind our way through azure
paths and velvet groves to repose in our bowers,
to weave garlands for those who are just awaken
ing into the new life, and to look in your future
and see what awaits you. God bless you! All is
well! Be happy!
Olin."
Aug. 1 10 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
happy to meet you with open arms, hands full
of blessings to scatter in your pathway and your
souls catch the infinite and sleep with (148- Vol.
Il) sweet dreams to refresh your bodies. Oh!
Sarah how happy I am to come and give you the
immortal part to mingle with the mortal and un
lock the gate which holds all that is beautiful
beyond the shadow land; that world of beauty
and precious gifts. Now your beloved ones are
walking arm and arm up and down the Elysian
fields, their shining robes floating behind, their
forms radiant with glory from the eternal sun.
(1 ) The black walnut table had been newly dressed.
We will watch your slumbers! The children are
well. God bless you all!
Olin."
"George, My Son, go to bed, weary from watch
ing and working, weary from toil of mind; rest
and I will soothe you with loving hands, breathe
life, long life in your soul and give you the art
of writing your articles well and successfully.
You have our friendship to all eternity, and we
never grow weary, we never change, never grow
cold in affection. Come to us weary and heavy
laden, we will give you peace.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My Dear Sarah. I have brought Grandma
Langworthy here this morning to talk with you.
She is so happy to have the opportunity of prov
ing her presence and we are happy to help her.
Sarah and George we are vigilantly guarding
your future which we looked into a short time
since and could see no lasting clouds. God bless
you!
Olin."
(149-Vol. ll) "How shall I commence Sarah?
How open the avenues of affection which for
years have mingled, so many years, speechlessly
in that silent conviction which always tells the
heart that you are not forgotten. My child oh!
would that I could with one demonstration show
you how much I still love you and how dear you
are to me. I love everything that belongs to you.
The children and their flowers. They have a
garden for you, and I will leave many an affec
tionate flower, a tribute of love, of long cherished
love, like a casket safely put on a sacred shrine,
there to nourish the soul until God makes us one
for all Eternity. Do you remember how much I
loved you? and I always shall. When you came
to me with your loving heart how silently happy
you made me dear child. I will bless you and
yours. This is my first letter to any one on earth.
You are the first who has opened the little streams
and called forth the flowers. I shall visit you now
very often. I was with you when George and
you were united and I approved of your mar
riage. I wanted you to get a good husband and
you have darling, which will be a joy forever.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 113
I have travelled all over your world and am mak
ing a tour over this. I am going to (150- Vol. Il)
wait till all can join me, and go in company with
all I love. My husband will go with me until
the family is ready to join us. You know how
many dear precious ones I have here. I have been
so surprized with everything here, so happy.
There is so much to study, to learn.
Now my dear child I leave you to talk with
my dear husband about you and my interview.
I wish dear that your Uncle Isaac would make
you a pleasant, sociable visit, his mind requires
change. The circle have aided me, and I am grate
ful to them.
Your loving Grandma
Sarah."
Aug. 7 7 A. M.— 1870.
On the evening of the third, Katie by accident
met her sister Maggie, who was fearfully in need
of care. She remained with her and tried to do
for her, but the consequence was she went down
under the breakers herself instead of gliding
smoothly over as she had been doing for four
weeks and more. The sea she met in her sister
and her sister's surroundings was too heavy for
her frail bark and she returned to us Saturday
evening the sixth, sad, sad. Sunday morning was
clear and beautiful, not uncomfortably warm at
the hour of seven. We took our seats (151-Vol.
ll) and after remaining in perfect quiet for per
haps fifteen minutes the echoes told Katie to
take pencil.
But little was written after which the Doctor
and Katie were sent by the folding doors, and
from there, we three to open the blind and stand
by the open window. In a moment more they
were gone, not another move having been made,
not another word having been spoken.
The writing was mostly about Katie and their
work which I will not copy, but they spoke for
the first time I believe, of Mr. Bradley, the Doc
tor's assistant whose health was failing.
"Sarah the children are well and happy. Poor
Bradlev. he is coming home and he feels that he
is drawing nearer to the new life. He becomes
more spiritual as his days shorten. All is well !
Olin."
Aug. 7 91/2 P. M.— 1870.
The air was fine. We met as usual. Nothing
new occurred, except that we were sent from the
room before the paper was removed, they evi
dently taking it away as they bring
it,
without
our immediate presence. In the front room the
pencil wrote, the room being dark.
"My Dear Sarah.
I
am here, oh! so happy to
be able to talk with you, to let you know that
I
am with you and understand your wants, (152-
Vol. ll) your wishes, to know that we are not
separated, but still united we live in spirit, in
affection and love. We look through our starry
windows upon you and feel
a
joy unspeakable.
All these seasons, each one
is
made for our en
joyment, but you dear ones would never wish to
leave earth were you to have all so beautiful;
so be contented and happy with this knowledge.
I
would not leave my home, no, not for all the
enjoyments of my early youth. My life
I
would
not live over, this
is
such
a
sweet exchange Sarah.
Some day, darling, you shall find this out. Let
no shadows touch your soul! To-night be happy!
Olin aids me and
I
aid you. The companion of
my youth
is
ever with me. Eliza
is
often with
me, our visits are frequent and we enjoy these
meetings.
I
will come again to-morrow and write you
a
letter. To-night we will give you sweet sleep.
No more! Your loving Grandma
Sarah."
Aug.
8
6V2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning very damp. We took our seats.
Katie was unhappy. The pencil wrote many pages
and from them
I
will take this, omitting Prof.'s
which was about Katie and his work.
(153-VoI. ll) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We are here, happy
in
spirit, happy when we see
you happy. Take rest and change for
a
day or
two, we will be aided in that way more than any
other at present.
Sarah,
a
picture given of
a
friend not known
to you when on earth
is
not satisfactory; there
114 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
fore those near and dear to you come. Oh! how
much we have to say, to explain.
Grandma is here, but not strong in power, still
as she never fails in promises, she will write a
short letter. We have come to your earth when
our power has been used while passing through
the heated air. This is as inexplicable, as hard
to convey to your minds as life. Who can ex
plain the wonderful particles of life, the soul
when it is born in this world and opens in the
immortal?
I see the surroundings this morning, the
shadows, the dark forebodings. Hope, hope, that
blessed messenger comes to you through the in
fluence of angels, scattering flowers in your souls,
giving joy in the darkest hour, therefore be happy.
Frankie and Leila are happy in their lovely
enjoyments, purest innocence and pleasures. We
hope when we meet again to see you all happy.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. We are here, on earth in
visible, learning the way to make ourselves more
tangible. (154- Vol. Il) I am having a new life
open to me. I am so interested in this way of
manifesting my presence. It is no new thing, ever
since the world began and ever will be. This
generation is more enlightened, more spiritual,
therefore God opened the way, and the truth
shone out more clearly in this nineteenth cen
tury. I love to come to you, and daily I will give
you some little token. God bless you! I am go
ing now to kiss the children for you and tell them
that you sent the kisses.
Good bye Sarah, till the conditions permit me
to come again.
Your Loving Grandma
Sarah."
After reading the above, I asked for Ma. The
pencil said.
"Your dear Ma is with her husband, and Erne-
line who is feeling depressed this morning.
Grandma."
Aug. 9 9 P. M.— 1870.
"We are here. I deem it best to wait till morn
ing to give the directions; examination, consulta
tion, careful consultation is important in thi<!
case, therefore to-morrow morning, soon after
breakfast, meet for this purpose. I was always
a careful man and never did things in haste.
There are blessings falling like gentle dew upon
you, Sarah and George. The directions we give
to-morrow, will be for your good, each one of
you. Where advice is followed when it pleases
(155-Vol. ll) and gratifies, there is little merit;
but when we see things that will turn out immor
tal blessings in the end, even though our direc
tions are not pleasing, not for the present pleas
ing and gratifying, then if followed the bless
ings stand at your door folded in the bright robes
of your angel guides. Bear this in mind children
and be not impatient. Now we shall on leaving
you, meet for this especial purpose, each one of
us; just as judges meet to decide their most im
portant case.
Yours with lifelong affection and interest.
Prof. Kenyon."
"George, Bradley must not take so much of that
medicine."
"My Dear Child. I have not spoken to-day,
only in your heart breathed my love.
Em better return soon. We see that she wishes
to. These gloomy moods are retarding to the im
mortal soul, to its expansion and growth. The
sooner persons overcome these moods the better
for them here and hereafter. I speak these words
for others, not to you Sarah, for there is no rea
son why I should. All is well! Blessed words to
speak! Blessed thoughts to leave with you to
sleep and dream of. All is well! My son Ralph
is dear to me. I keep watch over all my children,
have no fears. We shall now all go and meet that
consultation. Each one shall give time (156- Vol.
ll) and thought. My dear child I am not so near
now. Be happy. No sound of earth reaches my
ear at this moment.
Your Ma."
The letters of the last three lines were very
far apart and formed with as few marks as
possible.
Aug. 10 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Friends, George and Sarah. We are
all gathering and will soon be in this room.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My dear Sarah and George we find that we
can not overcome the atmosphere, and as your
busy time is approaching, we think you had bet
ter go on making your arrangements wholly for
your own interest, not regarding us, as we can
not give the picture until we have the conditions
to suit us, favorable, cool and clear air. We do
not wish to give you the least idea of the subject
of the picture as we wish to surprize you. This
weather will last some time, and now is the time
for you, dear Sarah and George to improve the
leisure and quiet lull in your business. The fitting
and getting ready for your Fall business will be
upon you sooner than you think; so I advise you
without reference to us, to make your arrange
ments and improve this hot debilitating weather
in going where you wish. We can not succeed or
accomplish what we so much (157-Vol. ll) desire
to, under these unfavorable conditions. We have
retained the pictures so long that we wish to give
them perfect. You have all become weak in giv
ing out electrical force and we want you to get
physical power. Change is the only step towards
this. We are not compelled to meet more than
two more nights for preparation. The laws by
which we are permitted to do these things are so
very delicate that we are often prevented from
fulfilling our promises by some little change in
the conditions. Now dear Sarah and George, we
will do the best we can, and wish at the same
time to work for your interests. There will never
be another picture given like this and there never
has been one. We see no shadows on your sky,
we see none in the future.
When you do decide to take a trip, or visit
friends, agree upon a time when you can all meet,
and advise with us. Dr. Franklin orders these
directions. He knows more than I do about the
electrical power and I am willing to be governed
by him. Let your understandings take this in.
Sarah you can and rightly appreciate it. The
golden clouds which link us can never be broken,
but we see that your presence will be needed here
later far more than now. Carefully we have ex
amined in (158- Vol. ll) every thing and this
advice is purely for your interest as a loving un
selfish friend.
Again I subscribe myself Yours in the happy
land.
Prof. K."
"My Darling Child. Each one of us has been
present and are still, all but Dr. Franklin. We
all let our souls flow in the sentiments of the
Professor and we will all come again after you
have considered the directions. All is well! Let
your heart be happy, your soul rejoice.
Grandma."
"George as soon as your work is completed I
want you to read it to me. I will correct all mis
takes.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Aug. 14 9 P. M.— 1870.
Katie went out on the morning of the 9th and
did not return until this morning, sick and as
unhappy as she could possibly be. She had not
taken brandy since the evening before so her
mind was clear, but her body and soul were sick.
At nine o'clock the air was cool and clear and
everything except poor Katie's disturbed con
science, was favorable for our invisible loved
ones, but that one disturbance they could not
overcome although we sat very long. They went
away as on the evening of the 7th and wrote the
following after we went to our parlor.
(159-Vol. ll) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We are happy to have had this meeting. We
came through the clear cold air and we are happy
although disturbed. Our spirits can not come
so clearly when we have not good conditions,
when we have not pure waters to come through,
when we have not a bright channel ; but the morn
ing will bring peace and the shadows will sink
into brightness, oh! then we will all come and
speak. We can not say what we wish to, to-night;
we can not although the mind effects us not in
our sentiments, but in our spirits, our expres
sions. We partake of the surroundings, of the
dimness, the unhappiness; we can not overcome
these shadows. We can hope, we do hope, we
shall hope and encourage so long as we see a
desire on the other side to do better.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD- 1869- 1892
116
We know that there are so many fetters, so
few able to break them, especially where one is
easily influenced. Now Sarah and George meet
for directions soon after breakfast, meet for those
who are anxious to speak. All is going to be well !
we hope, we will pray. Now sleep with angels
on the wing, angels to watch while you sleep un
conscious of their presence. The absent ones are
well.
Olin."
(160-Vol. Il) Aug. 15 3 P. M.— 1870.
Katie went out early to call upon her neglected
friends and returned quite herself, so that we had
a pleasant sitting for the picture at this hour. No
new demonstration marked the occasion. The
pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here,
happy to come as formerly, as when the sun shone
through the telegraph. Oh! What joy to come as
we can now when no clouds follow the pencil we
guide. We have had a successful meeting, and
feel a safety (in Katie) that we have not ex
perienced in many days and we want your hearts
glad. There are bright blessings falling upon
you! We will bless you when you lie down and
when you get up! Oh! Be happy! We echo so
many times these words. My dear Sarah, Grand
ma, our blessed Ma, also our blessed friends have
all been here and with gentle loving eyes looked
in your faces. How little you can realize this,
and still I think you do Sarah. Well my dear
sister, much are we going to do for you in the
way of blessing you and caring for you. I am
going with you to protect you and keep evil away.
Be ever grateful to the great Being who gives us
this power to guide and direct you. We are very
happy. (161-VoI. Il) A new spirit will join the
circle to-morrow, do not ask the name. God bless
you!
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah, My Dear Child, I am so re
joiced to speak a few words, so happy to tell you
how I love you. We are anxious to help all, all
who require aid. There are blessings continually
flowing from us to you, upon your pathway, with
in your souls. We want to guard, we want to
bless each one of you. Frankie and Leila are
with Willie but to-morrow they will be here.
Eliza and I enjoy our frequent visits, we do
enjoy them. Be not uncertain about our tangible
presence.
Good bye! Your loving Grandma."
"My Dear Child. One wish of your heart I see
and wish to help you to receive. You shall if I
can help to bring it about and I think I can. God
bless you !
Your Ma."
Aug. 16 9 A. M.— 1870.
Olin requested us to meet at three and bring
some fine paper with my initials upon it.
At twelve, Mr. Bradley, Doctor, Katie and I
were in our parlor and the echoes said "All go
in our room." (the back room) We obeyed and
the pencil wrote.
"My Friend Bradley. How you wish to hear
from us we have known and felt. It was this
desire which this morning brought us to you. I
remember you with interest, with pleasure also,
(162-Vol. Il) although you were not conscious of
my regard. I see your state at present and I sym
pathize most deeply. Be of good courage! We
are with you, your own immediate relatives and
these dear friends. They (George and Sarah) are
guardian angels to you and will be when sick
ness makes you weary and your body too weak
to bear physical duties.
Yours
Prof. K."
On reading the above we noticed the first few
lines were very poorly written and not like the
Prof.'s hand. The pencil then added.
"A new spirit tried to control the pencil, there
fore my words were rather disturbed. Your own
relatives guard you, this new spirit thinks much
of you. Prof. K." We inquired who the new
spirit was? Ans. "She is anxious about her child."
We asked is it his mother? Ans. "No." Now we
could not understand at all. The new spirit was
anxious about her child, but was not his mother.
We now said please tell us the name. Ans. "Mrs.
Kidder." All was perfectly transparent at once.
This mother had been two months dead, her sick
suffering daughter was here still and she longed
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 117
to express herself to her child, but she had closed
the way while here by scoffing at everything of
the kind and by obtaining a promise from this
same child to never listen to anything of the
kind.
(163-Vol. ll) Aug. 16 3 P. M.— 1870.
We met according to their desire and brought
with us the "fine paper with your initials." We
sat for an hour but had no new demonstration as
far as we could hear or feel. After they were gone
we found written upon the "fine paper" in a clear
hand the following.
"My Dear Sarah and George. Again we meet
to give you private directions about Katie. Take
the trip you have in contemplation. We will meet
you as usual the evening of your return. Leave
Bradley in Katie's care, it will occupy her time
when she is not with Mrs. Townsend. When she
wearies of Mrs. Townsend, instead of her going
to Miss Hallock's have her come here as Bradley's
nurse.
Blessed little Leila is here violets in her apron,
rosebuds in her hair and on her shoulders.
We are preparing now to bring the picture
visibly. This we will do if you only have pa
tience. To-night at nine the new spirit will come.
Olin."
On the coarse paper was written in the usual
manner.
"We are here each one of us and happy to make
our presence so sure. We wish you to do what
ever will add most to your happiness and be free
from all doubts at nine. The lamps will burn
brightly to light our way down to-night, down to
you; let no dark cells be found in your hearts
(164-Vol. ll) and let peace shine out when we
approach you that our flowers may not wither
by coming in contact with doubts. Doubts de
stroy everything. God bless you!
Olin and the whole circle."
Aug. 16 9 P. M.— 1870.
We met again at this hour and were in session
two hours but our dear ones could not accomplish
their desires. Before leaving they wrote.
"My Dear Friends. The difficulty to-night has
been the giving out so much power to-day. We
did not realize how great the power was that we
expended. We will at another time be able to
better judge as we drew from you also. We did
not have force to supply our needs, our wants.
Meet at half past eight to-morrow morning if
you do not go. Now we promised at first to give
this picture in visible form and we must; there
fore be patient and let us gather power sufficient
to do it. We want to accomplish it for we know
we can; but your bodies must be renewed with
new electrical power and we hope that Katie will
not let her power be exhausted while you are
gone. A few days' rest for all will be the greatest
boon we can ask. You are all exhausted in the
electrical parts of your bodies.
In tangible perfect form one of us will give
this picture; so be patient. All is well! (165-Vol.
ll) Go to your beds with happy hearts and know
that all is well! Ah! Yes, even with the dying!
All is well even with that poor dying man Brad
ley, for he is passing from earth slowly but surely,
passing from life, a life perishable to an eternal
existence, where life commences, the flowers for
ever to bloom, no more sorrow, the old garments
are thrown off for the immortal garbs and the
soul sees clearly where hitherto all has been mys
tery. So it
is,
the summer comes and rests in the
lap of autumn, autumn dies on the noonday of
fall, then winter cold but beautiful in its icy
sheets. All on earth die to be born again
in
this
perfect, beautiful existence. Weave life well!
Weave
it
well, that you may be among the blessed
here and join the choir who sing far more exult-
ingly than those you heard last night. God bless
you. Deborah
is
here with us. The whole circle.
Benjamin Franklin."
We asked, who
is
Deborah? Ans. "My blessed
wife. B. F." They then told us that she was the
new spirit they had admitted to their circle.
"Mamma and Papa. Willie
is
well. Good news
is
on the way. Oh! How happy you will be! We
are going with you! Good bye.
Frankie."
(166-Vol. ll) Aug. 17 8i/2 A. M.— 1870.
We met and our meeting was apparently,
118 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
simply ordinary. We were in session about an
hour. They wrote.
"Sarah and George. What can earth give like
this? What joy? Those whom you once believed
dead restored again to you. We are all very
happy this morning. We have been successful
and made sure of one thing, which is that we can
come in form and present the picture, visibly to
your eyes. We will some of us go with you and
give you pleasure, peace, health and a safe re
turn. God bless you!
Olin and the whole circle."
Aug. 27 10 P. M.— 1870.
We returned on the morning of this date hav
ing had a delightful trip. Katie had been here
daily to see Mr. Bradley and we found her well.
At ten the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
happy to give full directions. Meet to-morrow
at half past ten in our room. We want the little
knife and water. There are many spirits about
you, all come to welcome you. We are so happy
to be able to talk with you, to again enter your
souls, commune soul to soul, face to face, and
you too Sarah, feel this, do you not? Oh! How
little is the world compared to this heaven, for
we make (167-Vol. Il) a heaven for you. There
are flowers that bloom only once a century and
the blessings you now enjoy are as rare, so sacred
in their bestowal.
We have been with you and taken care of you.
You will feel the benefit of your trip more in a
few days, at present you need rest. Joy be with
you and God bless you! Welcome back to duty
and those who need you dear Sarah and George
and to us also who have missed the sweet inter
views.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I am here with your little
ones. All day they have been with Willie par
ticipating in his joys. They are happy little chil
dren and I am proud of them. My darling it is
a calm night and I have winged my footsteps
down, down to you. The lamps of love guided
me, and I would that I could take you in my arms.
Sleep will restore you and we will all visit you
to-morrow.
Your Grandma Sarah."
I inquired for Ma, I wanted to hear from her.
"Your Ma dear Child, is with Em. I will see
that she hears your wishes, but call heV not.
Grandma."
"Meet me to-morrow dear Sarah and George.
The music from the holy harps calt*us and we
depart, but some will watch.
Prof. K."
(168-Vol. ll) "Sarah dear, bright are the
flowers in your pathway, bright are the flowers
in our souls, they bloom for you and your future
life. My soul rejoices in the blessings that are
opening for you.
Olin."
"Good evening friend George, happy to see you
back to your post again. I will meet you to
morrow. I have taken you to my arms and I
call you my son.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Aug. 28 101/2 A. M.— 1870.
The day was fine and we met agreeably to ap
pointment. Our meeting was joyous. No new
demonstration was made. They had the picture
here and wrote before leaving. I should add that
we were a few moments behind the time.
"There is nothing dear Sarah and George like
Punctuality, nothing so great as promptness.
Faith, obedience and love combined with these
qualities are the brightest flowers in the crown
of glory and make life sunny and glad. We have
succeeded and will soon place the tribute of love
and affection in your arms. You will be happy
and satisfied. We are happy to have such good
conditions and as there are some things which
we can do here in our heavenly homes towards
your happiness we will work with double power.
We do all we can, all we are permitted to always,
remember this. Dr. Franklin has been here this
morning, but is not (169- Vol. ll) now. He is
always ready to help in a good cause.
Ralph would like to talk with us but he will
not yield his will to yours. To-morrow meet at
twelve for full directions. The atmosphere is
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 119
changing and we do not know as we can meet
for the picture. The Prof. will add further direc
tions after I am through. He knows best as he
is the principal actor. All is well!
Yours forever Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I am happy to come to you
although the chain is weakened by giving out
power for physical uses. My dear Sarah 1 have
been with you and watched over your dear ones;
protected them from danger and made the little
ones happy. Your Pa is well, Em. is well but
low spirited. Willie, dear Willie is well and
begins to wish to return to his Mamma and Papa.
You will soon see them both.
I am so happy to have you hold communion
with your Grandma. She is so lovely. We are to
gether very often. Now my child you are back
again to duties, try to enjoy life in the midst of
them and daily I will bless you. Our delicate
particles feel the changing atmosphere, never
theless we are near you.
Your Ma."
"Friend George I am here. You shall not miss
me from the busy circle. You will have your
hands full this Fall and Winter and I am glad
you have been resting. My son 1 am helping
you in your great desires. God bless you!
I. T. Hopper."
(170-Vol. ll) "My Dear Friend Sarah, my
child and pupil meet to-morrow at half past
twelve. Olin said twelve but I cannot then be
here. I have not much power now. After the pic
ture is given I am coming to have a long conver
sation with you.
Prof. K."
About this time the Doctor remarked I will get
the "Life of Isaac T. Hopper." The pencil said.
"George do not get my life until I say you may.
I have a reason.
I. T. H."
Aug. 29 12y2 P- M.— 1870.
The air clear and delightful. We met on time
and before I had taken my seat the echoes said
"Mamma is there any one in the front room? I
want to get Papa's pocket book." I opened the
door between the two rooms and went with
Frankie into the parlor. In a moment they called
me back. As soon as I was seated they told us
to join hands, after which the "pocket book,"
which had been missing all day and searched for
in vain, was placed in the Doctor's hand. I did
not do it and Katie could not for both of her
hands were held. The echoes were very joyous,
baby hands pressed and patted my head, little
hands clasped my knees and pulled my dress,
little arms leaned upon my lap. Other demon
strations were made, for instance we found the
bowl of water (which we left upon the small
table by the folding doors) upon the carpet under
the table at which we were sitting.
(171-Vol. ll) "My Dear Sarah and George how
beautiful it is to see the little ones draw near to
you, to see them clasp your knees and interest
themselves in everything that concerns your
earthly life. Truly, you are blessed, and we in
being able to come to you so closely. We are
aiding you more than you can realize, helping
you up, giving you hope and strength. Oh! How
happy we are! The new joys we have spoken
of, the blessings we have promised are unclosing,
opening on your pathway, never to close in sor
row or sadness, never to droop for want of un
seen hands to keep them with you, to nourish
you and protect you when clouds cross your
sunny sky. All is well my dear Sarah and while
we have charge of your little ones we will not
forget you. Willie is well.
Olin."
"It is a blessed thing to know, dear friends,
what kind of a world you are traveling to, where
your greater life is to be born. It is a blessed
thing to know who are the inhabitants of that
Eternal world, and oh what joy to know how
to reach that glorious world. This we are teach
ing you daily, and you are advancing in that
spiritual knowledge which enables the soul to
expand.
The Prof. is at work. I love all honest men
and I love him. George, my son you are doing
well with your patients. Think of me sometimes
and I will have more power to aid you. The
120 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Prof. says meet at three to-morrow. He is happy!
Your father in spirit.
Isaac T. Hopper and the circle."
(172- Vol. ll) Aug. 31 3 P. M.— 1870.
Katie went out of the city on the 29th and did
not return to our appointment on the 30th but
on this day at twenty minutes before three she
came in saying Olin had made an appointment for
three o'clock. We quickly prepared the room and
left it. The air was perfect. We entered the room
at the moment and Frankie said "There Mamma
I have done something for you." The flannel
leaves of my needle-book were laid in my hand,
my scissors came next and Frankie said "Be care
ful, I have made a letter. Grandma stood by
me." After they had written and gone we found
upon one of the flannel leaves the letter L. made
by sewing the darning cotton into
it,
the needle
being still attached to it. Frankie said "The L.
is
for Leila." Upon our bed lay
a
nainsook dress
folded for the drawer, having just come from the
laundry. When we opened our eyes the upper
skirt was entirely open and up against the pil
low. The children had been playing with it. The
bowl of water we found as before under the table
at which we were sitting.
"My Dear Sarah and George. All are here,
none are absent, the dear ones who sheltered you
when you were not able to shelter yourselves,
those who have rocked you to sleep, all are here.
To-day
is
the last day of Summer, the last day
of summer flowers, but others will bloom as beau
tiful, other roses will bloom as fresh, so there will
be no requiem of last (173- Vol. ll) rose of Sum
mer, the queen of flowers. Sarah
a
few short
years ago God placed in your garden of life two
little buds. They bloomed long enough for your
soul to live
in
them, but they became too frail
and heavenly for this world and He called them
to dwell forever more in the Elysian bowers
among the pure white rose-buds which open
in
an
eternal and immortal existence; little Frankie and
Leila. To-day
is
the last day of summer and we
are with you weaving garlands for your head,
unseen by your eyes, but visible to ours, and
when we leave you we shall plant
a
rose bush in
your garden which shall bear roses all seasons
and the children shall nurse
it
until you join us
here. God bless you! Ma, Grandma and all unite
in God bless you! Willie
is
well.
Olin."
We made some inquiry about the planting of
the rose bush and he continued.
"Yes, in our garden, the home of your children,
for there will be your home also. We will speak
of the tree hereafter. Sarah and George be not
depressed, how happy you should be to know
that your dear ones have an existence in your
atmosphere.
Do you think often enough of Dr. Franklin,
who
is
going to give you
a
tribute of affection
now very soon?
The Prof. loves him beyond earthly love and
I
want you to think of him. Meet to-morrow at
three. Good bye! We go now.
Olin."
(174-Vol. ll) "My dear friend and son George,
I
have been here and now go with my wife to
her dear ones.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Sept. \st
3
P. M.— 1870.
A
clear, delightful atmosphere and we all in
excellent spirits or condition. Our meeting was
very pleasant. The children spoke occasionally
and all were extremely happy. Frankie said
"Mamma hold up your hand."
I
did so but he
soon said "I can't put
it
on," and dropped
a
bracelet upon the table before me. He had
brought
it
from the bureau but had not power to
put on my wrist. They wrote, while we were
sitting, with Katie's hand, and after they had left
and we returned to the parlor, the Doctor found
the other bracelet in his coat pocket. Frankie we
believe put
it
there, Katie's hands, as always,
having been carefully cared for by us.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
so happy to meet again, so happy to have our
appointments kept. The conditions are very good.
Sarah the tree of roses
is
blooming in your
home of beauty,
it
is
bending with the weight of
roses and the children are keeping them fresh.
Grandma, Ma and all the circle gathered around
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 121
it last evening and Grandma said "Oh! how de
lighted Sarah would be to see this emblem of our
affection." She was so happy to see it in your
garden; so you see what care we have over you.
When the last rays of the sun (175-Vol. ll) were
disappearing we were with you to watch the stars
take the place of the summer sun, we tried to
make you conscious of our presence. To-day we
meet again the first of Sept. This month will be
long remembered by you for we are going to
make it sacred. How lovely is this day, you feel
inspired with new hope for you know that you
are blessed. Our souls wish you joy! Here sor
row is turned into holy pleasure.
To be able to come to you so forcibly is joy
which we can not explain. The windows of
heaven are open, the birds are singing in our
doors and we all look down upon you with love
that can never die. Here are bright faces looking
in yours and delicate hands weaving garlands of
bright flowers for you. No cypress leaves are
woven among them for there is no sadness here.
The cypress we often weave in garlands for the
new born spirit and place them on their brows
just as they are passing into immortality; then,
when they become happier we place a wreath of
pure white flowers upon their brows. All is well!
Let no little graves be in your hearts, for we
are roaming in beautiful fields; let no tears flow
from your eyes!
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I am here to give you a few
words of love and remembrance. Oh! My child,
how deep is my affection for you; it is immortal
like the sun and can I see you grieve? Oh no!
Can I see (176- Vol. ll) your heart sad? No, my
child and I shall ever be near for you to drop
your burdens upon. The children are beautiful
and happy as birds. I hope to have some pleas
ant talks with you alone, therefore I wish you
and Katie would give me the opportunity on
Saturday. I will bless you. Sarah I will protect
you. God bless you! Your Ma is with Em.
Good bye.
Your Grandma."
"My Son, I rejoice in the success of our circle,
in your success also. I like your article and your
pathway is full of golden light. Dr. Franklin
is here preparing a gift for you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"Meet at half past nine to-morrow P. M.
B. F."
Sept. 9 914 P. M.— 1870.
Katie went out as soon as our meeting closed
on the \st and did not return until nine this
evening. The air was clear as crystal and we
met at half past nine. The echoes were many
and joyous and said. "So happy are we to have
such good conditions." The children played about
us and pulled my dress many times. We heard
them work upon the picture and go away as usual.
They wrote after we returned to the parlor.
"We are here! All so happy, full of joy to
meet you, all our circle, we, your faithful circle
are all here, not one absent, all, who have lived,
loved and suffered, here in perfect form, to clasp
our arms about you and imprint upon your brows
silent kisses. (177- Vol. ll) We have done all this
to-night dear Sarah. Can you dear Sarah realize
that your dear little ones have imprinted upon
your brow kisses real and sacred, such as they
would in life have given? Their little hearts feel
all the affection they had for you when they
throbbed against your own. So you dear Sarah
and George should let this make you happy; it
does us and we shall ever let you feel how dear
you are to us. There are three more who wish
to speak and I will leave an opening for them.
Olin."
"My dear friend and pupil, my dear Sarah and
George, this meeting was very successful. Be
patient! I need not tell you so for you are, but
I will give you the great assurance, that all is
well! Have no anxiety George, business will not
be dull but on the contrary successful, and I will
help with that soon. There are blessings flowing
from us to you as waters flow over the falls pure
and sparkling. All is well!
Prof. K."
"My Dear Child. I am here also with the dear
circle who gather in love and hope to give bless
ings and joy to your hearts. We ever will. I
122 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
am so happy to leave no clouds on your hearts.
We love to see happiness about you. We love
harmony, peace and love. I wish you to know
how I love your little children; how 1 watch them
play about you and kiss your cheek and twine
their arms about your neck. Oh! Be happy for
all is brightness. Meet me early, soon after
breakfast. 1 am anxious to say much to you. I
am ever near to (178-Vol. Il) drop flowers upon
your head, and while they fall in wreaths about
you they are watered by the dews of heaven.
Your Grandma."
"George my son I will soon have much to say
to you of great moment, after the pictures are
given. Be of good cheer, your patients are doing
well, but never let them go against your direc
tions. All is well! God bless you!
Isaac T. Hopper."
Sept. 10 8 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was fine. They directed us to
lay Leila's picture on the little table, open the
blind and close our eyes. In a moment we heard
them at work upon her picture.
Dr. Franklin and the Prof. were both present
and the children were full of joy. Leila said,
"Dear Mamma I am here in full form." Frankie
made several characteristic remarks and con
cluded with "Here Mamma I am" and placed
in my hand the crayon likeness of himself, which
was standing on the bureau. He added, "Grand
ma helped me." I asked if he meant his Grandma
or mine? Ans. "Your Grandma, good Grandma."
They wrote while we were sitting and told me to
put Leila's picture in the box and not look at it
till they were through. Dr. Franklin said, "You
see what we can do when we have good condi
tions."
"My dear Sarah, Oh what can equal this happi
ness ! We bless the hour when first the light shone
on your soul and opened the many beautiful
avenues to the many beautiful paths here, where
so (179-Vol. ll) numerous are your friends.
Why, my darling, we live here; we live with you
in your affections, and can you wonder at our joy
in being able to put on our spiritual robes and
permitted to become so lifelike that were your
eyes to behold us you would see that we are real
and the same as when we were mingling with you
here, frail and earthly; spiritual now; frail no
longer, the material robes thrown aside for
heavenly garments. My child, no stranger will
you be here, familiar with every tree and flower,
you will come home to the arms of your beloved
ones.
Blessed are they who believe! Blessed are they
who say "Thy will be done" to the great Master
above. Thy will be done! Oh! Marvel not,
for mysterious are the ways of Providence.
George be not fearful of failures for the future
is full of blessings. Yes, we know for a certainty
that your success will be great this fall and winter.
No failures. God bless you my children. Sarah
the little ones are here in form. An explanation
will be given by the hands employed on this
beautiful work. God bless those hands. Last
night part of the circle was here making prep
arations for this meeting. Yours forever.
Grandma."
"The little picture we wish kept in the box,
and at every meeting we wish the drawer left
open (180- Vol. Il) and the cover taken off. Fol
low these directions and we will take care of the
rest. The change we are making in the little face
will please you.
B. F."
Sept. 13 3 P. M.— 1870.
Katie did not return to the appointment on
Sat., did not return at all until fifteen minutes
before three of this day. Willie and Em. returned
in the morning. The day was gloriously fine. At
three we met our charmed circle. The session was
pleasant in every way. Frankie said "We are
all three here," referring to Willie, and made
several little demonstrations of his presence. They
worked, wrote and went away in the usual
manner.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here! God bless
you! The day is beautiful, the power is excellent
and we have guided this poor girl back to truth
and herself. Thank God! The picture is open
before us; it is beyond description; it gives you
an idea of the life to come, of the world beyond.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 123
I must not say too much lest 1 mar the bright
ness. You will feel rewarded for your patience.
My dear Sarah rejoice in the new morn, rejoice
in the new day. You are receiving that which will
last forever. We are with you silently imparting
kisses on your brow. Do you feel us darling?
And do you know how much we love you ? Great
will be your reward for your kindness to this
(181-Vol. ll) poor child Katie. + + + Oh!
How we love these children Frankie, Leila and
Willie! They are ours. My dear child I will help
you in every thing in your daily life, in all. We
are glad to see Em. and Willie back. Joy be
with them! My dear Sarah we all join in senti
ments of love to you and George.
Grandma and Olin."
"George be of good cheer! You are my son
and I am guiding you. I am going to present
you with a gift from my own hands next Saturday
night.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Friends, My Children we are almost pre
pared to give the picture. Meet at seven A. M.
to-morrow.
B. F."
Sept. 14 7 A. M.— 1870.
Another glorious morning and we were in our
places betimes, but in the midst of our session
Willie arose from his bed in an adjoining room
and unknowingly walked in upon us. He with
drew immediately, still his presence so disturbed
the power that the Prof. could not take his paper
away, so he placed it in the box with Leila's pic
ture, I covered, and placed it in the drawer. They
wrote.
"My Dear Children. This meeting was of great
importance. Now only be punctual and all will be
well. Bear these little trials, they will not mingle
with your future happiness. Meet as soon as pos
sible after breakfast.
Prof. K."
We hastened from the breakfast room and met
again. They gathered up their disturbed forces
and (182-Vol. ll) after a half hour or so took
the precious paper away with them. Before leav
ing they said.
"My Dear Children. This is a new experience;
one which will be another leaf for your chapter
in this great work. All is bright and well! The
clouds have disappeared and a golden sky is above
us through which we sent blessings to you our
beloved ones. This meeting has been successful,
we are satisfied. We see that you have no cause
for depression, not while we work and live to
bless you. The next meeting will be at three
to-morrow. We will have all finished soon. Be
happy and all will be well! George the article
you are writing will prove successful. Be of good
cheer! -\
—|
—|- Dr. Franklin has written most
of this letter but was called to aid the Prof.
therefore we all join in blessing you. The little
ones are happy.
Olin."
Sept. 15 3 P. M.— 1870.
The day was all we could desire and our meet
ing was altogether pleasing. They wrote but little
and made no uncommon demonstration except
that they wrote, upon the paper, without the aid
of Katie's left hand, these words "We are all here
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
happy to have good conditions. We will soon
have our pictures finished, so be of good faith
and cheer. We are writing while the work is going
on, and as it (183- Vol. ll) draws near its close
we can not write much, after its completion we
will meet purposely for writing. Our meetings
now are for the finishing touches. Are you not
happy to hear this? Saturday night reserve for us.
Olin."
"My Darling Child. I come to you on the
wings of love through flowery fields. I have left
my kisses on the lips of those you love and
brought you in return their blessings. I will help
you always. When depression is upon you I will
cheer your spirits and bring your little ones to
rejoice your heart. They have been with Willie
to-day, but they were not pleased with his Sur
roundings. He is guarded by others, who love
him, while in school. Be happy and tell Em. she
(1) Willie had entered school two days before.
124 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
must dream over her pleasant news, and waken
with echoes of happiness from the music it makes.
Grandma."
"My Dear Friends, meet at three to-morrow.
We are now finishing the picture and have not
power to say much. All is well! I wrote a few
words with my own hand but was fearful of
absorbing the power. God bless you!
Isaac T. Hopper."
Sept. 16 4 P. M.— 1870.
The day was fine but 1 was detained an hour
so that our meeting was at four. During this
detention our loved ones had the room to them
selves and worked upon the pictures while they
waited my return. The children were (184- Vol.
ll) in form for I felt them about my head. The
delay rendered the writing difficult though they
said their work was satisfactory.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have been
waiting long. We have held the power as well as
we could but now we must work not write much.
Our whole circle will have a consultation this
night and must not be called until half past nine
to-morrow night. The pictures are so nearly
finished that we have to consult over the manner
and time of presentation. We go through a prep
aration with only our own circle. You see that
I cannot write freely as the power is divided, but
all that is important I have written and it was
directed by Dr. Franklin. God bless you!
Olin."
"George, be not depressed! You will have all
you can do! Be not fearful! Know that all is
going to be successful in business!
Isaac T. Hopper."
"Great will be your reward! Be not cloudy!
Rest in a mind at peace!1 We could not talk
for we were in this room retaining the power.
Meet as directed.
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dear Darling Child. Oh! How this mat
ter interests me. I am one of the circle now. In
the future I have much for you and I know that
I can be a comfort to you.
Grandma."
(1) The Doctor had desired to talk with them while waiting
for me.
(185-Vol. ll) Sept. 18 11 A. M.— 1870.
A heavy storm prevented our meeting Saturday
evening so the appointment was made for this
morning when the air was clear and conditions
excellent. As soon as we entered the room Isaac
T. Hopper said through the echoes, "My dear son
I have brought you a leaf from my Bible, a leaf
from my grave. I call it my Bible, a mark. I
have kept it long in my presence. Get mucilage."
After setting the mucilage reservoir upon the
table before us, we heard the moving and rustling
of paper, when the echoes said, "This must wait
until we are through. B. F." Then they went to
work upon the picture and things moved in the
usual manner for a half hour. They wrote through
Katie's left hand, we sang and talked until we
felt the table move back a little from us and the
echoes said "Do not feel upon the table."
Now by their order we unfastened the blind
and stood by the open window and they were
gone. We opened our eyes and upon the table,
at which we had been sitting, stood the small
round table or stand, and upon it was a piece
of card board sixteen inches long and six inches
wide. Upon this card paper was an oak leaf
pasted and above it was written in a clear hand
"For one over whom I have a care.
Isaac T. Hopper."
The mucilage reservoir which I had placed upon
the table we found upon the commode. The little
stand we left by the window and the card paper
upon the table at which we were sitting, but the
oak leaf we had never seen before.
(186-Vol. Il) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We are all here! Oh! Rejoice in the sunlight of
heaven. There is music sweet and holy floating
from our sphere to yours. There are little feet
who come to you here on earth and you shall
hear them when all the conditions permit but be
not too anxious. We are doing much for you,
lifting the clouds off your hearts and giving you
that which can never be given again. The car
pets are spread for us, the carpets of flowers, roses,
leaves and ivy, violets lift their heads and their
sweet perfume floats through the air. This is the
carpet which is spread for us, lovers walk here,
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 125
brides walk here, children play at our feet!
Sarah! Oh! Sarah, how beautiful is this world!
We have had our consultation and decided how
to present the pictures. We shall ramble in our
sunshine and gather power for difficult is the
work we have undertaken. Peace be with you.
Olin."
"Our power has been great. Meet to-morrow
at three. No failure. Call us not till then. Make
a note of this morning.
B. F."
"My Dear Ones. God bless you for being punc
tual. Great will be your reward. No joy can
equal that which the angels give, so be firm and
steadfast.
The great father of our country, he to whom 1
have so often looked for aid, has been here; but
this (187- Vol. ll) you can not realize until you
have the proof which will be soon now. My heart
rejoices to be his student. Sarah can you realize
this? Yes I know you can for I ever loved the
great. Now believe this and know that he too
feels pleasure in this heavenly truth when he can
give blessings, such as you can appreciate. Cast
not pearls before swine. He sees your hearts and
is happy. All is well!
The picture will be given on Wednesday night
if the atmosphere is clear. The flowers must now
bloom afresh in your hearts knowing this.
Peace be with you forever and ever!
Prof. K."
Sept. 19 3 P. M.— 1870.
The day was perfect and all the conditions were
apparently so. Our meeting was very pleasant
but in no way remarkable to our senses. They
wrote but little.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here!
Oh! how happy we are to have these good condi
tions. We are drawing to a close with these pic
tures but let it not end here. Oh! no, for our
hands and souls are in our work. All is well!
Know that you have the approval of all the circle.
We will give directions after Katie returns to
night, now we cannot as we need all the power.
Olin and Circle."
Sept. 19 11P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
to give directions. We are happy to be with you
and to renew (188- Vol. ll) our promises for
great success. We want the meeting at half past
six A. M. Have water, knife and scissors on the
table. Do not fail to be punctual and we will
see that all is well. Bright flowers shall bloom on
your pillows to-night, and peace shall be with
you to all eternity. The little ones are whisper
ing in your ears their "good night." Yes, Sarah
they are breathing blessings in your soul. Go to
bed now and gather strength for the angel band
who will wait with watchful care at the portals
of heaven. God bless you! Sleep Sarah and
George without anxious thoughts for the future.
Olin."
Sept. 20 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning clear and bright. We were in
time and tune. The sitting was entirely similar
to the majority of our meetings. After they had
written and gone the Doctor found the scissors in
the pocket of his pants. I left them on the table
by the folding doors when I prepared the room
for our meeting.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
with you in the pure atmosphere of electricity.
We are able to do much. We have no need of
sleep but we know your wants, your needs, there
fore never think that we are unconscious of your
powers of endurance, we are watchful of that,
have no fear of our ever directing that which
would in any way injure you. We have watched
in our own homes over you to see that no evil
comes to darken your (189-VoI. ll) happy hearts.
Our flowers bloom brighter this morning than they
have for a long time and we will try to keep them
thus blooming. When any sorrow comes to you
they droop and fold their leaves as a sensitive
plant does when it is touched : the proof you have
before your eyes and need no better illustration.
Can you understand how important it is to be
happy and live in the sunlight?
We are all here and so happy to be able to do
our work. Katie must meet us here at half past
nine to-night. We wish to give full directions.
126 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
To-day we shall meet in our own homes and we
may have to make changes, half past nine to
night will do well for us. We can say no more
this morning but know that all is as we wish and
therefore we are blessed and you are blessed.
Dr. Franklin calls you his children and rejoices
when all is well. Feel not depressed George; keep
up your spirits and look forward.
Olin."
"Meet at half past nine for directions, if not
at half past nine, as near that hour as possible.
All is well! We commend you for your faithful
punctuality.
B. F."
"My Darling Child. The little ones are here.
They are as joyous as their little garden birds.
Often they call Mamma, Mamma in your ears,
but you do not hear them and your silence makes
them wonder. They love me and I guide them,
Willie also.
Grandma."
FOX -TAYLOR RECORD
1869-1892.
Volume III
INDEX TO VOLUME III
Page
Christmas greeting from our circle 109
Dr. Franklin describes Prof. Kenyon's looks when in form 9
Dr. Franklin says it hurts them to form under certain circumstances 10
Dr. Franklin leaves the picture with us 18
Dr. Franklin explains their tangible, real existence 66
Dr. Franklin selects and takes from the room four pencils Dec. 7, 1870 78
Dr. Franklin takes from the room crayon paper Dec. 8, 1870 81
Dr. Franklin presses his hands upon Dr. Taylor's head 107
Dr. Franklin promises that we shall hear a strain from Leila's harp 1 19
Dr. Franklin tells what he has given our children 179
Dr. Franklin urges the necessity of punctuality 210
Dr. Franklin stops Olin while giving directions 255
Dr. Franklin sees that Katie will go to Europe. Wishes us not to seek them through another 273
Dr. Franklin advises us to keep this house 295
Dr. Franklin advises us again about the house 298
Dr. Franklin remarks upon the Circle's differing from him in opinion 300
Dr. Franklin says he will meet us in Ma's palace 301
Frankie rocks himself in the little rocking chair 7
Frankie goes to play in the clover 10
Frankie tells Willie of Ellen's baby 13
Frankie and Leila come here with flowers 24
Frankie tells about their parties 26
Frankie grieves that he cannot make us a present on Oct. 22 27
Frankie speaks cheerfully of his disappointment 28
Frankie lays his garments about his Papa's head and face 35
Frankie brings his Papa's watch to me 41
Frankie and Leila call "Mamma? Mamma?" 61
Frankie presses his fingers on his Papa's forehead etc 84
Frankie brings his Papa's vest to him 94
Frankie wants to bring Margaret Fuller's son to see us 101
Frankie makes us a Christmas present 1 10
Frankie's shadow on the wall; brushes his hair across my face 148
Frankie brings my watch to me 229
Grandma talks of Pa (her son) etc 3
Grandma says she stood by and tried to lift the darkness when our children left us 5
Grandma sees only the good in us 11
Grandma tells of her renewed youth and Leila's need of nursing 15
Grandma sends word to us by Olin 18
Grandma expresses great sympathy and love for us 26
Grandma tells of their tangible existence, dress, parties, etc 67
Grandma puts her hand on my face 98
Grandma's ideas of the next life when in this 122
Grandpa Lewis attempts to speak. I frighten him away 160
George Fox speaks to us 183
Invisible hands bring pictures of Grandma and Leila Oct. 7, 1870 19
Invisible hands leave their work upon the little table 42
Invisible hands put the round stand upon the little table 43
Invisible hands take paper from our room for picture Nov. 13, 1870 45
Invisible hands give us picture of Leila holding her harp Dec. 2, 1870 64
Invisible hands take a handkerchief away 1 16
Invisible hands bring stand and place cologne bottle on it 137
Invisible hands again bring stand and place cologne bottle on it 152
Invisible hands take crayon paper from our room May 28, 1871 254
Invisible hands cannot work in another room but ours 288
INDEX TO VOLUME Ill
Page
Isaac T. Hopper tries to raise Sup't. Jordon to a higher sphere 29
Isaac T. Hopper says our wishes hold our children to earth 71
Isaac T. Hopper promises the Doctor a present 214
Isaac T. Hopper brings his promised present 264
Isaac T. Hopper says nothing in heaven exceeds the beauty of Ma's palace 287
Isaac T. Hopper advises us to build 300
Isaac T. Hopper promises his aid to the Doctor always 322
I write to Dr. Franklin 325
I feel a hand that I do not recognize 341
Leila says we shall have her in my Grandma's arms 13
Leila tries to get on my lap 29
Leila sits in a "doll's" chair 100
Leila sits in "doll's" chair on the table 104
Leila makes us a New Year's present "9
Leila plays upon her harp 131
Leila plays upon her harp again 146
Leila plays upon her harp third time 169
Leila plays upon her harp fourth time 251
Leila plays upon her harp fifth time 267
Ma says Frankie and Leila are her greatest blessing 88
Ma sees a shadow over Ralph and his family 46
Ma tells of their youth; wishes for Preachers, who know the truth 55
Ma tells how they will dress for the Banquet-hall 58
Ma says a spiritual form is ever beside us 122
Ma writes of the children's happiness 140
Ma meets Mrs. Kenyon at my bedside 142
Ma talks of her love for Pa 150
Ma speaks further of her love for Pa 158
Ma tries to give comfort ; 172
Ma tells of Grandma's love for our children 209
Ma wishes we had the peace she feels 216
Ma says they see us as distinctly as we see each other 218
Ma with her family take possession of the new palace 258
Ma refers to Leila's death 305
Ma refuses to receive a caller in her palace 342
Mrs. Livermore speaks 128
Olin tells of Grandma's, Frankie's and Leila's beauty 2
Olin tells where Grandma is 5
Olin advises us to keep these manifestations to ourselves 8
Olin tells much of their lives 20
Olin sees our future 27
Olin tells the meaning of a certain wreath of flowers 31
Olin says they visit both there and here 33
Olin awakens me from a sound sleep 35
Olin describes the awakening of the spirit in their world 39
Olin gives us a few lines of poetry 48
Olin describes the Banquet-hall 51
Olin tells of Frankie's joy; describes their repose 53
Olin brings messages to us from the children
Olin describes fully a visit at the Banquet-hall 74
Olin speaks of sitting often by my side 83
Olin describes Frankie at his work 85
Olin says they are particularly blessed in being permitted to make pictures for us 87
INDEX TO VOLUME Ill
Page
Olin tells how they became acquainted with Washington, Dr. F. etc 88
Olin tells of Dr. F.'s indulgence to Frankie. Describes visit at B. L 90
Olin tells of meeting Margaret Fuller and child 91
Olin tells us to rejoice that we have children in heaven 94
Olin describes their Christmas at Banquet-hall 1 14
Olin congratulates us upon the record of the closing year 1 18
Olin describes their preparations for and the arrival of new spirits 125
Olin tells of their gratification when we hear them 129
Olin says doubts chill and repel them 134
Olin says their pleasure in these manifestations equals ours 140
Olin tells of an entertainment the children are to have 144
Olin describes a visit at the Banquet-hall 145
Olin describes the children's entertainment and the chariot ride 156
Olin says their dress is "purple to-day" 159
Olin brings Grandpa Lewis again 161
Olin expresses great sympathy for us 164
Olin gives words of hearty cheer 167
Olin tries to drive our anxieties away 171
Olin tells of the goodness of God 174
Olin wishes me to leave earth and go with him for a few minutes 178
Olin says quiet is necessary for their coming to us 181
Olin tells of his great delight in the Banquet-hall 184
Olin tells of flowers that indicate our future 186
Olin says suspicion withers the brightest flowers 192
Olin says they breakfast and tea at the Banquet-hall 195
Olin says a palace is being prepared for them etc 195
Olin tells of the beauty of their world etc 200
Olin desires to bear all our burdens 203
Olin expresses their joy at meeting again in "our room" 207
Olin draws a contrast between the two worlds 208
Olin describes the palace 211
Olin says the children repose at certain times 212
Olin says a requiem is being sung 213
Olin tells when they will take possession of their palace 221
Olin says they would not return to earth, to mortal life etc 223
Olin describes further the palace 230
Olin says he was with us when Frankie died 235
Olin tells further about the palace 247
Olin more fully still describes the palace 261
Olin tells when the palace will be dedicated 267
Olin says they cannot approach earth on the 4th of July without harm 293
Olin says they take pleasure in making themselves look beautiful 325
Olin says they cannot progress while they cling to earth 342
Olin says the children whisper messages to the birds for us 351
Olin says they have an unpleasant duty to perform 352
Orville speaks to me 254
Prof. Kenyon promises to bring a familiar token 9
Prof. Kenyon brings the promised token 14
Prof. Kenyon cannot take the picture because of our feelings 32
Prof. Kenyon writes of Frankie's capacity 69
Prof. Kenyon tells us "Never urge communications" 80
Prof. Kenyon says this knowledge will be of great service to us 168
Prof. Kenyon promises eternal friendship 210
INDEX TO VOLUME llI
Page
Prof. Kenyon wishes he had a palace ; 214
Prof. Kenyon promises to give his experience on awakening in that life 220
Prof. Kenyon fulfills his promise 237
Prof. Kenyon expresses great delight in these manifestations 269
Prof. Kenyon advises us to build at once 300
Sixteen children follow Frankie and Leila to our room 154
Uncle Albert's first manifestation 224
Uncle Albert teases Leila 228
Uncle Albert tells where he went when he left earth 231
Uncle Albert tells of his consciousness of passing events here 249
Uncle Albert says our family is the happiest of any there 259
Uncle Albert sees us in the future etc 278
Uncle Albert says Grandma and Leila make a beautiful contrast 296
We look upon Grandma's and Leila's pictures first on Oct. 9, 1870 21
We hear the first sound from Leila's harp Jan. 1, 1871 120
LETTERS
Aunt Sarah's —
172
Frankie's —
10 - 26 - 28 - 32 - 34 - 40 - 42 - 54 - 81 - 94 -
109 - 120 - 128 - 136 - 163 - 211 - 214 - 339
Grandma's —
3 - 5 - 11-12 - 15 - 26 - 28- 34 - 37 - 47 - 52 -
67 -98- 121 - 127 - 138- 152
Grandpa Lewis' —
162
Ma's—
16 - 38 - 42 - 46 - 49 - 50 - 55 - 58 - 63 - 71 -
79 - 98 - 102 - 104 - 1 13 - 1 17 - 122 - 127 - 135 -
139 - 142 - 144 - 149 - 155 - 158 - 163 - 169 -
172 - 176 - 177 - 184 - 187 - 193 - 196 - 198 -
201 - 204 - 209 - 216 - 218 - 220 - 221 - 229 -
233 - 238 - 270 - 284 - 290 - 303 - 31 1 - 327 -
332 - 352
Leila's— 163
Olin's—
1 - 2 - 4 - 8 - 10 - 1 1 - 12 - 17 - 19 - 20 - 22 -
23 - 25 - 26 - 29 - 31 - 33 - 36 - 39 - 41 - 42 -
43 . 46 - 48 - 51 - 53 - 62 - 63 - 64 - 65 - 66 -
70 - 71 - 73 - 74 - 80 - 83 - 85 - 87 - 88 - 90 -
92 - 94 - 96 - 98 - 99 - 100 - 104 - 106 - 107 -
108 - 1 1 1 - 1 14 - 1 16 - 1 18 - 120 - 124 - 128 -
133 - 134 - 137 - 139 - 140 - 143 - 145 - 148 -
149 - 152 - 153 - 155 - 156 - 159 - 160 - 161 -
164 - 166 - 170 - 171 - 173 - 176 - 178 - 180 -
181 - 182 - 184 - 186 - 189 - 190 - 194 - 197 -
199 - 203 - 206 - 207 - 211 - 212 - 216 - 218 -
219 - 220 - 221 - 222 - 225 - 226 - 227 - 229 -
231 - 232 - 234 - 237 - 239 - 244 - 246 - 247 -
250 - 252 - 256 - 257 - 265 - 267 - 268 - 271 -
274 - 275 - 277 - 279 - 280 - 283 - 285 - 286 -
287 - 289 - 290 - 292 - 294 - 297 - 299 - 303 -
304 - 305 - 306 - 308 - 311 - 312 - 313 - 314 -
317 - 320 - 324 - 328 - 330 - 332 - 337 - 342 -
344 - 345 - 347 . 349 - 351.
Uncle Albert's—
224 - 226 - 228 - 230 - 233 - 236 - 242 - 253 -
255 - 258 - 259 - 264 - 275 - 276 - 283 - 286 -
299 - 308 - 313 - 314 - 317 - 320 - 325 - 333 -
348
Father Taylor's—
5 . 159 . 185 - 258 - 280 - 285 - 290 - 293
Emma's —
285 - 291 - 301 - 309 - 315 - 318 - 326 - 338
350
George Fox'— 189
Prof. Kenyon's —
8 - 20 - 31 - 32 - 34 - 38 - 41 - 42 - 44 - 47
48 - 50 - 5 1 - 54 - 62 - 69 - 80 - 97 - 99 - 102
103 - 105 - 107 - 113 - 117 - 123 - 124 - 127
128 - 131 - 133 - 134 - 136 - 140 - 145 - 152
155 - 159 - 166 - 168 - 173 - 185 - 190 - 192
194 - 198 - 199 - 202 - 210 - 214 - 220 - 224
225 - 231 - 235 - 238 - 242 - 250 - 252 - 254
258 - 269 - 281 - 286 - 301 - 321 - 326 - 338
348 - 349
Sup't. Jordon's— 121
Mrs. Fox'— 237
Dr. Franklin's—
4 - 8 -10 -15 - 62 - 66 - 74 - 79 - 82 - 98
100 - 108 - 1 10 - 1 13 - 1 18 - 1 19 - 120 - 127
134 - 136 - 138 - 140 - 143 - 145 - 146 - 148
153 - 155 - 158 - 170 - 179- 182 - 185 - 190
191 - 194 - 198 - 199 - 201 - 206 - 210 - 216
219 - 220 - 222 - 225 - 226 - 227 - 229 - 232
234 - 235 - 239 - 247 - 248 - 251 - 253 - 256
257 - 258 - 264 - 266 - 268 - 269 - 271 - 275
276 - 277 - 279 - 284 - 286 - 287 - 288 - 291
293 - 294 - 297 - 298 - 300 - 304 - 305 - 308
309 - 311 - 312 - 313 - 314 - 317 - 320 - 323
327 - 332 - 335 - 344 - 345
Isaac T. Hopper's —
3 -12 - 25 - 29 - 34 - 42 - 47 - 71- 74 - 80
97 - 102 - 117 - 143 - 168 - 205 - 210 - 223
224 - 251 - 257 - 264 - 266 - 275 - 287- 300
311 - 322
AUTOGRAPH LETTERS
Ma's—
250 - 283 - 301 - 305 - 339
Olin's—
131 - 261
Dr. Franklin's—
7- 130-202 - 215 - 240- 272 - 277-279-281
295 - 302 - 315 - 318 - 322 - 329 - 333 - 336
339 - 346 - 350 - 353
Uncle Albert's —
245 - 249 - 269 - 278 - 281 - 291 - 295 - 301
309 - 346
Leila
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD
1869-1892.
Volume Ill
Katie went out on Tuesday morning, leaving
her most sacred promise to return that night, but
no Katie did we see until Saturday night after
ten. Very soon she asked for pencil and the fol
lowing was written.
"Through the shadows the sunlight comes
again. The time is only deferred for a short
period. We have not been idle, and now let our
meetings be to-morrow, at half past nine and at
half past three. Be happy Sarah and believe in
our promises, be not distressed, neither be dis
couraged. We are too thankful to have our meet
ings to-morrow. To-night the shadows will melt
into sunlight, new blessings come, and the wait
ing and watching will be over sooner than you
think.
Oh! my dear Sister Sarah, let us not grieve
but hope, and while we hope work, and while
we work bless. I am here in form and have been
with Katie and told her to return; at last we
succeeded. I have been with all the dear ones.
The children are happy and linger in their gar
den of flowers and sunshine.
When clouds gather over your heart, they can
not darken your soul Sarah, for that is always
bright and we will not allow them to. God bless
you! Rest to-night while we prepare for to-mor
row. We all unite in saying that all will be well !
Let your hearts be happy!
Olin."
Sept. 25 91/2 A. M.— 1870.
The day was divinely pure. We took our seats
and joyful echoes greeted us over and again.
They spoke (2-VoI. IlI) often. Once it was
"Sarah, child we are all here. Prof. K." Again
the delicate little echoes said. "Mamma, do you
hear me? Dear Mamma I am going to bring you
a present soon, Leila and I." The church bells
rang. The pencil wrote. They left.
"We are all here. This week the picture will
be given. We will tell the day and hour at three
o'clock on Tuesday. We are happy to have kept
it in a perfect state. When we meet this afternoon
we do not wish the little picture out as we will
retain all the power to make up for the breaks.
We wish you George to feel at ease, do not worry !
We hear the church bells, but do you not enjoy
more the sounds of your little ones? Oh! Sarah
be not grieved that they were called before a
breath of sin touched their pure souls; spotless
dewdrops, rosebuds and lilies. Leila will be a
beautiful maiden when she meets you on the
threshold of Eternity, and Frankie a handsome
youth. They are never separated for any length
of time. They wander hand in hand, talking with
the birds, learning histories from the faces they
see, growing with the flowers. Sarah, Grandma
wants to talk with you this afternoon, after the
meeting. She is here this morning. Do you re
member her face distinctly? The loving eyes,
the gentle voice, the tender tone, here, so much
more beautiful, so purified. All is well dear Sarah
and George so be happy! I can say no more, but
this you know, that we have met and talked with
you. There is no separation, no death.
Olin."
(3-Vol. IlI) "Do not be one moment behind the
time to-day, nor one moment before. We will do
all in our power. There is brightness before you!
At an hour when you least expect the blessing you
crave will be given. Doubt not! I feel for you
in every change and in every sorrow. Why, you
do not yet know our power! It is great! Be
happy ! Let us cheer you with promises and leave
hope in your hearts.
Your friend and father Isaac T. Hopper."
Sept. 25 3V2 P. M.— 1870.
We were exactly on time and the meeting was
conducted in the usual manner. Our invisible
loved ones spoke many times. "Sarah, dear child,
I am here; we read your heart; you can be happy.
Grandma." Again. "Be not startled when you
hear of a sudden death. You ail know the per
138 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
son." And at last just before they left. "Rejoice,
for all is well. B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. No one so fully knows the
human heart as the invisible friends about you;
and I have studied yours. I know the yearning
there, the vacancy. Let us hope that some day it
will be filled, and you will be blessed as you de
serve to be, and as my soul would rejoice to see
you. I have been with your father of late, very
often. It is not all congeniality there. His mind
is disturbed and anxious; often his thoughts go
back to his wife, his own wife with sighs and
tears which only angels see, not mortals.
I wish often to sit down with you in this way;
many things I shall be able to say and you will
be made very happy. I cannot say all I wish to
(4- Vol. IlI) now, the power is being exhausted,
besides I cannot write well without Olin's aid
and he must now go and assist the circle. All is
well! Hope, believe and trust first in the Al
mighty power, then in those who guard you. God
bless you!
Yours forever. Grandma."
"Now Dear Friends. Meet to-morrow at half
past nine in the evening. All will be well. Hope
for the best! There will be no failure, no failure.
There are bright changes coming! We have ex
hausted our power for this day. Now let the
flowers bloom again freshly.
B. F."
Sept. 26 91/2 P. M.— 1870.
The evening was fine and clear, our meeting
very quiet. Olin told me to get three sheets of
note paper, and when they were about leaving
told me to lay them on the box containing Leila's
picture. There was no writing upon them and
the object we did not understand. After the gas
was lighted they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are happy
to say that all is well with you and with us. We
are going to make the first attempt to come in
visible form to-morrow at half past two.
Oh ! how pleasant, how satisfactory every thing
is when all goes on smoothly; we have no broken
chain to mend to-night. Sarah and George be not
worried! You will have so many occupants this
Winter that you will not know where to put
them. Cheer up! Lift your souls out of the
depths and sigh not while we guard your paths.
We speak without restraint. Tell Em. that I
have often looked in her heart, over her shoulder,
into the (5-Vol. IlI) heart of her loved one also
and find that when she looks upon the dark
shadows they are but temporary. Tell her so and
that all is well.
Grandma wants you to meet her to-morrow at
nine. She anticipates much happiness at that
hour. Do you know where she is now? Walking
with the children in a field of clover. She is
youthful and lovely. No more. George is tired.
Olin."
"My Son I have just come from your Mother.
Do you not neglect her a little? 1 do not scold,
neither do I blame, but remember that her days
are only lent now, her time is short and the door
of heaven stands ajar for her. You and Sarah
must visit her. I want you there when Charles
is not, and he is not there at this time. God bless
you!
Your own Father."
Sept. 27 9 A. M.— 1870.
At this hour I met Grandma agreeably to her
request and she said to me.
"My Dear Sarah. I am happy to come this
morning in the morning light when others are
not around to disturb and interfere with the
spiritual chords connecting souls immortal with
the earthly part. I am happy to come my dear
Sarah, happy to cheer you in all your daily
trials; in your quiet peaceful hours, then I sit
down by your side and try to take up the thread
of your communings and answer back thought
for thought. You know my dear child my life
was not all brightness, nor all colored (6-Vol.
IlI) with golden hues. The shadows were there
often but I made the best of everything.
I have stood by your side when you least ex
pected, when you knew not that angels hovered
about you. The morning Frankie was about
leaving the form, I with your own Ma and Olin
stood by your side, and Oh! how we tried to
cheer you, to lift the heavy weight, the despair.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 139
Then Sarah, the way was not open for our souls
to touch yours with peace, with that peace which
God gives to his angels for the mourner to par
take of. Then when Leila flew away I was near.
Others came and talked with you but I knew not
the way. I have since become as familiar with
the telegraphing, as the circle who daily come
to you with their perceptible forms. All is well
and bright with you my child, only, often weari
some days will come from fatigue and overwork.
Have we not had a pleasant meeting this morn
ing and will we not meet often? I will use no
more power, but all send their love to you. God
bless you!
Your Grandma."
Sept. 27 2l/2 P. M.— 1870.
The day was very pleasant and we met for
them to prepare to give us the picture. Before I
was seated the echoes said "Get the note paper
and count the sheets. I took it from the drawer
and counted three sheets and left them with the
pencil upon my bureau. We now sat very quietly
for a half hour, the Doctor having been once
clapped vigorously on the shoulder, and he and
Katie sent (7-Vol. IlI) by the folding doors.
They spoke from time to time. The first was,
"I am here. B. F." Then Frankie said, "Mamma
I am here in form." Again, "Mamma did you
feel that biting fly? I drove it away." Olin said.
"He means a mosquito." Some five minutes be
fore I had heard the singing of a mosquito and
felt it light for an instant on my forehead. A
little later Frankie said, "Papa place my little
rocking chair upon the table." Very soon after
it was done he wished us to "feel it," and it was
rocking gently and continued the motion several
minutes. Frankie said he was sitting in it and
rocking. They wrote with Katie's hand and went
away as always through the open window. As
soon as we opened our eyes the echoes said. "Read
my letter. B. F." We now looked for his let
ter, first upon the bureau where I left the three
sheets of paper, (each stamped with my mono
gram) and the pencil, but there we found only
two sheets of paper with no writing and no pen
cil. We looked further and upon a table twenty
feet from the bureau and from us we found the
third sheet of paper and the pencil. The paper
was folded with great precision and was nearly
covered with writing in a firm, round, clear hand.
The letter was as follows.
"We are all here to-day. We are happy to be
able to come, to have the power. We are making
the greatest efforts to come to you visibly with
the picture in our hands, so be patient. There
will be no meeting till Thursday at nine in the
evening; fail not to be punctual. (8-Vol. IlI)
We have not the power to tell you, as we hoped
to, the day and hour of the presentation, as we
had not then decided to give it in form. We have
to form gradually, carefully and therefore you
must be patient. You are our children. We guard
you in the morning, at night and we are not ever
the masters of our own time. All is well. Remem
ber the hour, nine Thursday night. Farewell.
Benj. Franklin."
Now follows that which was written with
Katie's hand.
"These are preparation meetings. We are all
pleased with the success of this one. When we
come so that you can open your eyes and behold
us, we will come when daylight has passed away.
Dr. Franklin has written the report and directions
or is now writing them. All is well! You have
great happiness to look forward to.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
walking noiselessly about you; soon you are to
behold us, then you will know how real we are;
but let me advise you all to say nothing of this
to your most intimate friends, not till all is ac
complished. We have reasons, heed our advice.
We are all going to our homes now, our happy
homes to partake wholly of heaven. We have
been long in the atmosphere of earth. Be happy
and know that all is well.
Olin."
"This meeting has been of the greatest impor
tance although you may not know it. The laws
of heaven are strange, clothed in mystery; even
our souls have not the privilege to question the
Divine power, not the privilege to say why or
140 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(9- Vol. IlI) wherefore. We only work according
to the rule of a higher power. Now dear chil
dren let your hearts be glad. The Prof. was in
form but not life-like therefore you could not be
permitted to see him. When he comes again he
will be more perfect and so gradually form until
he becomes life-like and as you loved to see him,
perhaps delicate, but life-like. Now he has gone
and will have to repose in his home above in or
der to get strength for our next meeting which
will be at half past nine to-morrow night. My
children, if clear early in the morning improve
the time, meet then for directions as we shall
have to do as the atmosphere permits. All is
bright in the future, successful, and full of bless
ings. May you live long to enjoy all that we
will have the power to give you.
Farewell. B. F."
Sept. 29 91/2 P. M.— 1870.
A fine clear evening and we met as desired.
Our precious invisible friends were here and all
were happy. They spoke often to us. Once it
was. "Dear Children remember we are trying
to take the form you can behold. Now your
friend the Prof. is in form but not a pleasing one
to your eyes, therefore we are obliged to form
with care. These are important meetings for
preparation. B. F." Very soon after, the Prof.
said. "George, here I am in form! Do you hear
my feet? I will bring a familiar token at our
next meeting." And we did hear his feet. He
walked about with the same positive step as when
in the flesh.
After writing they went again away. The last
(10-Vol. Ill) letter from B. F. commencing near
the bottom of the 8th page and closing on the 9th
was written at this meeting and belongs exactly
here. A mistake of the transcriber. Directly after
that letter comes the following.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We learn from
the first spirit who forms from the invisible how
to come ourselves and we watch with interest
each attempt. Oh! how happy we are!
My dear sister the meeting has helped your
cold and will benefit you greatly before morning.
Rest now my dear and meet us early in the morn
ing. Worry not about anything! Keep up your
spirits! Let the light from our souls gild your
sleep with peaceful dreams. George, we approve
of your work. Keep good courage Sarah, you
will have our hands to soothe your body to-night.
To-morrow you will get up feeling much better.
No more. Go to bed. Olin and circle."
"Are you sick Mamma? What makes you
sick? I am so sorry! but good night, I am going
to play in the clover garden and listen to the
birds.
Frankie."
Sept. 30 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Children. We will meet to-night at
half past nine if clear. We would be afraid to
form in this atmosphere, it would injure us, there
fore we will be here at that hour and judge by
the atmosphere of our power. You must be pa
tient for these things we cannot help. Never
murmur at the decrees of Providence. He sends
all things in good (11-Vol. IlI) time, and we
will bring all in good time. We were with you
last night but soon were obliged to go to our
heaven of rest. 1George this woman will be a
little troublesome but have patience with her.
If clear, meet to-night and God bless you!
B. F."
"My Own Dear Child. I am here with you
in the dull morning atmosphere. The rain falls,
but the sun shines behind the clouds and your
little ones are playing in their sunny home and
Eliza has charge of them.
Be of good cheer my dear Sarah, you are loved
by all here. Oh! what a joy to be able to look
in the soul and see the light that purifies it. The
shadows we overlook and see only the pure part.
You shall see beyond the veil and see clearly.
Now you see through a glass dimly, but we will
remove all darkness and heaven will seem clear
to you. We can say no more, the atmosphere is
too heavy, and we will go to our duties while
you attend to yours. My dear child
Your loving Grandma."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are so happy
to be able to come through this unfavorable at-
(1) A patient who had juit come to the house.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 141
mosphere and say a few words of love. All is
well! God bless you! The Prof. sends his love.
We go to our duties.
Olin."
Oct. 1 10y2 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We are happy to come to
night and give you important directions; they
(12-Vol. IlI) are important for the day draws
near when we shall be able to give our beloved
treasures. The pictures are finished. Sarah you
will see how sweetly Leila rests in the arms of
those she loves, when her heart cries for you. The
artist deserves great credit. The picture is true
to life. It portrays the spiritual affection and
existence. There never has been given one like
it,
there never will be again, so be appreciative
of it. Grandma has been with us from the com
mencement of this picture only she was not at
first able to talk. The painting was done while
she was holding Leila. Oh! how beautiful
it
is.
Meet to-morrow morning at ten punctually,
and we will all be here prepared to go on with
our preparations. Gentle hands are outstretched
to you filled with blessings and often they drop
lovingly upon you. Be happy
!
George cheer up
!
Let your spirits not droop or the flowers in your
spirit garden will close.
Olin."
"My Darling Child. We will all talk to-mor
row morning. Be happy and we will all come to
bless you.
Grandma."
"George my son, thou art not sad but thy spirit
is
a
little tired. Thy work
is
progressing finely,
and
I
am pleased with thee.
I
like the pictures,
they are so true; the idea
is
perfectly true to our
natures.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Oct.
2
10 A. M.— 1870.
The air was cool and clear. We prepared the
room soon after nine and waited
in
our parlor
with Willie, reading
in
the interim. In the midst
(13-Vol. IlI) of
it
little echoes said "Dear Wil
lie,
I
know something you do not." We all looked
at each other wondering what Frankie was up to
now, and Willie said, "I suppose you do."
Frankie continued, "Mamma shall
I
tell,
I
was
here when Maggie came in last evening." Now
I
understood the whole, but made no explanation,
only told Frankie he might tell. Then he said.
"We will go and see the baby." Willie asked,
"What baby, Frankie?" Ans. "Ellen's." Willie
looked amazement. His nurse Ellen, who had
lived with us eleven years and was loved dearly
by all three of the children, was married about
thirteen months ago, and late last evening Mag
gie came
in
saying, Ellen had
a
nice baby.
I
told
her not to mention
it
to Willie until Ellen was
well so that he could go and see them, but Frankie
told him, child-like.
We went into our meeting as soon as they were
ready and the first thing
I
did, as always, was
to close the open blinds. Almost as soon as seated,
fingers tapped me lovingly on the shoulder, and
the echoes said, "Open the window and let Mr.
Hopper in." In an instant, after
I
had thrown
back the blinds they said, "Close them, we are
all here now." Soon after my dress was pulled
gently and the little echoes said "Dear Mamma
you are going to have me again, have me in
Grandma's arms."
I
asked which Grandma? Ans.
"Your Grandma."
We now talked of their wonderful patience
in
doing so many things for us, and trying time
after time,
in
the face of apparently insurmount
able obstacles, to accomplish what they felt would
please and improve (14- Vol. IlI) us, the echoes
joined us by saying, "Patience
is
God-like and
worketh miracles." We heard noises in the room,
and they said, "Dears did you hear our feet?"
We did hear their feet distinctly walking and
treading. They now added, "The Professor
is
in
delicate form." He walked around with his cane,
hit
it
repeatedly against the Doctor's chair and
rapped the Doctor on his face kindly but de
cidedly. The ring of the raps against the chair
was exactly like that of
a
cane made of material,
hard substance, and the feeling was the same to
the Doctor. The Prof. said. "Remember what
I
told you last, about the signal." Neither of us
could recall or catch an idea of what he now re
142 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
ferred to, and not until after they had gone and
we looked over the minutes of the 29th did it
occur to either of us, but in those minutes we
found that he at that meeting said, "I will bring
a familiar token at our next meeting." Now the
Doctor and I understood, for the Prof. when here
always carried a heavy, strong cane.
They asked, if we heard the electricity? We
did many times repeated, hear the fine crackling
sounds.
During all this meeting both the Doctor and I
felt them touch us and pull our garments often
and heard noises about the room almost con
tinually. They often gave many and prolonged
echoes, significant of their happiness and satis
faction. They wrote in the midst of the session
and when they were ready to leave, had us open
the blinds of the already open window and leave
the room without opening our eyes.
(15-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child. You must re
member that I am young now. When I was born
again into the spiritual existence, I was born
with youth renewed. Oh! How happy I am to be
able to come to you purified, without the touch
of age. God loves to see his children pleased and
satisfied with their homes, their eternal life. When
the spirit is pure and the heart good while exist
ing on earth, here it takes a most beautiful form
and is clothed in garments beautiful to look upon.
Leila is often very much like a baby and has to
be nursed and cared for. She grieves when you
can not take her in your arms, therefore I love
to take her close to my breast and cover her with
kisses. She wants Mamma here. But I tell her
to be patient and Mamma will come some time,
but not now. Oh! We are human in our feelings
only gone to another country, there to wait for
our loved ones.
I will come often to you after the pictures are
given, and explain many things, but at present
we can not. The circle who work for you and
mingle with you are all united. They work with
one mind and for one cause. God bless you! All
is well !
Grandma."
"My Dear Children. We prepare and form at
these daily meetings in order to come in perfec
tion the night the pictures are given. We are more
than pleased, thankful to the Almighty power,
for permitting us to come and do this work. It
is not an easy (16- Vol. IlI) thing, it requires
much more than you can understand. We have
been in form and our power has been greatly ex
hausted. We will make one more trial before we
leave this morning. I write first fearing that we
shall not have power after we are through form
ing, as we shall return to our homes in order to
repose, in our spirit homes, and recover our for
mer spiritual strength. Meet to-morrow at half
past nine in the evening.
B. F."
"My Dear Child. Olin and I will speak to
gether. We are here with you; we have made
you a visit and now return to our homes, there
to talk over the future and the interests of those
we love. We will soon give the pictures, and the
following night we wish a meeting with you all,
a family meeting. Em. must be present. We will
be your guests on that night. Our power fails.
Your Ma. Eliza."
"Now Dear Children. Keep in happy spirits.
We must say Farewell!
Your friend in the cause of truth. B. F."
Oct. 6—1870.
We saw no more of Katie until half past two
of this day when she came, saying she had been
sent to have a meeting at three. The afternoon
was damp and unpleasant; and the Dr. had gone
"down town"; and more than all, during Katie's
absence an Aunt of mine had come to visit us
and was to be disposed of before we could meet
at all, her prejudices being so strong that no light
of this kind could (17- Vol. IlI) possibly reach
her: Still we prepared the room and waited or
ders. The afternoon waned and the Doctor did
not come. At about five they told us to enter
the room with closed eyes. We heard our charmed
circle about us. Once they sent Katie and me by
the folding doors. They wrote as usual and then
directed me to open the window wide and both
of us to stand by
it,
very soon told us to take
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 143
our seats and after a moment's sitting allowed
us to open our eyes.
The meeting was not more than half an hour
and was the first Katie and I had alone for these
physical purposes.
"My Dear Sarah. I am so happy to come with
the circle who are preparing to present the beau
tiful pictures in form. They have been forming
here this afternoon. The Prof. has succeeded and
we have aided him. It is just as well that you
were late, the atmosphere is so unfavorable that
he required much time. We have the pictures in
our keeping well cared for and protected.
1 see Aunt Elizabeth here. I hope she will en
joy herself and not interfere with our meetings.
She will not I feel sure. Sarah, we are all with
you. The children have been with Willie to-day.
He needs some little amusement after his studies
as he is a most sensitive child.
Ma has now taken the children to the bower
of meditation. She has chosen this hour to re
pose and think and study what is best for her
children. You will hear from her soon, she will
advise you. Oh! how beautiful our (18-Vol. IlI)
surroundings are, we dip our fingers in the crys
tal waters and water the flowers, with our love
we send you blessings and remove the dark
thoughts which care and anxiety cause. Grandma
is whispering her love to you through the beau
tiful paths. She wishes to tell you that she thinks
of you when the sunlight plays in the golden
hair of Leila, that she sends her blessing to you
when the children sit upon her knee. George is
doing right and will succeed. He will have to
be patient and bear the delays with manly resig
nation. We will help him and now Sarah let us
give you hope, there are no shadows so deep that
the sunlight can not pierce through them. Grand
ma whispers me to tell you this. "Hope is belief
in God." And Sarah there are no real shadows
on your pathway as it continues in mine and
therefore has no end.
Our next meeting will be at quarter before ten
to-morrow evening, rain or shine; but do not let
Aunt Lib know who Katie
is,
it
is
better. And
now with the united love of your beloved ones
here,
I
say, God bless you.
Olin."
Oct.
7
10
P.
M.— 1870.
The evening was perfectly clear, but Katie
was
a
half hour behind time and the Doctor had
given her up and retired. As soon as she came
in the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. We can not retain the
picture and form, therefore we will leave the pic
ture with you to-night, and exact
a
solemn (19-
Vol. IlI) promise from you all, that you will not
look upon the picture until we are able to come
and present
it
in form, which will be on Monday
night.
B. F. and Circle."
The Doctor dressed and we quickly prepared
the room and went in. Directly after we were
seated the Doctor and Katie each felt the paper
placed for
a
moment on their heads, then the
echoes said, "Dear Sarah we leave
it
in your
charge." At the same time the precious paper
that had been carried from earth to heaven many,
many times by angels, and as often returned to-
our room, made sacred now not only by love, but
by the visits and occupancy of these same angels,
this paper was placed in my hand. They said
"The face
is
upwards, cover
it
with this thin
handkerchief" (and at the same time handed me
the handkerchief which
I
had left upon the bu
reau by their request). "Do not look upon the
picture to-day but put
it
away carefully." They
now allowed us to open our eyes and
I
laid the
paper in the box with the other pictures and put
it
under lock and key. After we came into our
parlor they wrote.
"Oh
!
How we rejoice to have been able to give
this picture so beautiful, so holy. Leila
is
in
Grandma's arms, flowers in her hands, her little
feet bare, her golden hair over her neck, Grand
ma pointing earth-ward while she and Leila are
ascending from your presence to her home in
heaven. We have been in form ever since you
first went to bed. You sleep to-night with great
gifts, sacred, and holy. Good night.
Olin."
144 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(20-Vol. IlI) "Children, go to bed again. I
am spiritual, invisible to your eyes. You have
something very beautiful and we may be able
to present it to-morrow night if the atmosphere
is clear. We can tell better in the morning. All
is well! Be happy!
Prof. K."
Oct. 8 8 A. M.— 1870.
We met for directions, but before they wrote
they asked me to open the box that they might
look upon their work. With closed eyes I took it
from its safe deposit and held it for them to ex
amine. After a few moments they desired it re
turned to its place and said they were perfectly
satisfied. Then they wrote.
"We retained the picture as long as possible.
We could keep it no longer and form. We will
now have power to form and do as we wish. We
will meet to-night at half past nine and if we
possibly can, we will present it in full form. We
will for a certainty give it on Monday night, but
we wish you to feel calm and undisturbed; do
not be too anxious, or have your mind too much
upon it. We can not convey to your minds, how
great is our joy to give the picture unmarred and
beautiful. Remember that Grandma is young,
spiritual and delicate, beautiful. When we come
here we are clothed in beautiful garments, we are
young again and never go back, never grow old.
You will be pleased with the picture we know,
for it portrays our lives, our spiritual existence.
When we come to earth we come in vapors and
when we depart we rise as through clouds (21-
Vol. IlI) which we have portrayed. Leila is re
posing, almost sleeping, her eyes are closed, the
cloudy vapor through which we pass is still over
them. Oh! Angels are beautiful! Be of good
cheer! Have happy hearts! happy minds! Do
not feel petty annoyances. All is well! The
golden chain is perfect! All is bright in our heav
enly home, our beautiful paths. Ask not about
the crayons, we have them and are not through
with them. If we are able to give the picture to
night, we wish Monday night reserved for a
family meeting.
All is well! We are all happy. We will all
gather here to-night. Each one sends love to you,
and now with blessings numberless we will leave
you till to-night. God is with you in your work
George, and you will be successful.
Olin."
Oct. 9 9 A. M.— 1870.
Katie, as so often, did not keep her appoint
ment and we retired discouraged and annoyed
beyond measure. She however got into the house
sometime in the night and by the request of our
invisible circle we met at this hour. The morning
was cool and clear as crystal. I placed the box
containing the picture upon the bed and we took
our seats. Our circle was here and in form; we
felt them, they took hold of us, moved furniture,
moved the Doctor in his chair and presently said
"Dear children we alt present this picture to you.
Look upon
it,
but not upon Leila's. We will give
you that in visible form. B. F." The picture
was again laid in my hands. Katie's hand wrote
the following and then they directed (22-Vol.
IlI) us to open our eyes.
I
lifted the handker
chief and there lay before us that which rivals
all description.
I
don't know how to speak of it.
The beauty of every line, the perfection of limb
and form, and above all, the exceeding beauty
and purity of Grandma's face. Words are so poor
and meaningless! I am overpowered by this
presence! The work of the hands of real angels,
of those who have left all of earth behind and
still have come time after time and worked with
earthly substance long and patiently for our
pleasure and instruction. Not only this, but they
have had every conceivable obstacle to overcome,
long and excessive heat, storms, confusion and dis
turbances in the house, anxieties of our minds in
consequence of business cares and disappoint
ments, the inquisitiveness and speculations of
friends around us, and above all poor Katie's
repeated short-comings; yet in spite of all of
these here lies before us the finest specimen of
crayon penciling ever executed by any hand we
believe.
It
bears the name of Mount as artist.
"We present the picture this beautiful sabbath
morning. We were all here last night, but do not
know that we could have come
in
visible form.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 145
We are just as fully formed this morning, and
although your eyes can not behold us, we give you
the picture in form.
We hope that nothing will prevent our meeting
to-morrow night. Cut the picture off and leave
the other part in the box, for we intend to give you
a drawing upon it without taking it (23-Vol.
IlI) away. You see how we progress, from step
to step. iBe not disappointed for you shall see
us soon. All is well! We looked down upon you
from the crystal sky last night. We felt grieved
but we do not condemn, we do not rebuke except
gently. We were grieved.
Sarah, we will go with you this day and while
your heart is full of great joy we will pour bless
ings upon you. Be happy! Our next meeting we
appoint at nine to-morrow night, make your ar
rangements accordingly.
With our blessings. Olin and the circle."
When we found the artist's name on the pic
ture, we asked, Who was Mount? The pencil
wrote.
"Long Island was his home. The picture was
mostly made by the Prof. aided by Mount.
Grandma had Leila in her arms this morning and
appeared just like the picture.
Olin."
The Doctor then recollected having met many
years ago, this same artist and knew that he was
dead. As they took their final leave Olin said.
"All is well ! Be happy, for we go now to walk
in the garden of immortal flowers."
Katie did not come the next evening, did not
come until one week from the following Tuesday
when the pencil wrote.
Oct. 18 3 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sister. I am so happy to come, to
say a few words of encouragement and hope. I
see your despondency, your sadness. Now my
dear (24- Vol. IlI) Sarah let me tell you to have
courage. Believe me, when I tell you that all is
well! and that the tide will soon rise and over
flow! The tide is low now, but this will not last
long, and your house will be filled with worthy
(1) Notwithstanding their great grief at Katie's repeatedly
breaking her engagements they entreat us . not to feel it,
want to cheer us though they are hurt.
and influential people. I long to have my words
verified and your heart made glad. We have
been with George who is more nervous than there
is any occasion. Now dear Sarah, you have so
much good reasoning. You must encourage
George. He is the weakest just now.
Glad to see you George! I can give you
strength. My dear Sarah and George oh! how
little the world understands this truth, this bless
ing. How strange it seems to me when I look in
Aunt Lib's heart and see the dark vague ideas
there which will be a dark veil over her spiritual
vision long after she has passed away from earth.
My dear Sister, you will be free from anxiety
soon. When Aunt Lib. leaves we will come with
new life and power, and you will feel like coming
back to your dear ones, and we will feel like com
ing in your midst and being a part of you as we
always are when we come in your presence. We
are not idle, we are consulting together and mak
ing experiments. We would like to try water
colors on a face. We will not tell the name at
present. So you see we are not idle. We wish to
speak often to you.
The little ones are here with their beautiful
flowers. Leila's apron is full and Frankie's hands
are filled. He is scattering them at his (25-Vol.
IlI) feet a,nd Leila holds fast to hers. All is
well! God bless you! I will hover very near you
and talk with you daily. Blessings rest upon
you! The children will guard you and we will
all watch at your door.
Olin."
"My Son when this bigoted friend of yours
leaves we will all meet you with open arms again
and not feel restrained. I am aiding you in your
work. All is well!
Isaac T. Hopper."
Oct. 21 11 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. I am looking into the future
for you and George, been looking to see if all is
well, and the sky clear. It is one of our duties
to look after the loved ones over whom we have
a care, and when we see an evil, to avert it by a
warning. We will come and speak with you to
morrow and tell you what we have seen.
146 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Sarah it is not pleasant for us to come when
the surroundings are not pleasant. We partake of
your feelings, feel a trembling sensation, a draw
back, which is utterly inexplicable to you, to us
perfectly and distinctly felt, portrayed on every
nerve in our bodies. We feel the shadows before
we reach earth and draw back while we view you
from a distance. Sarah, the little ones are happy,
they feel not the shadows of earth, and when
they visit you they see only the flowery side.
They are with you now. Frankie has been with
his Papa the most of the morning, but weary of
the noise, he left, to play in the Elysian fields.
Now Leila and he are here again.
Sarah be happy! The love of your little ones
(26- Vol. IlI) should be the star of your life,
and our protection the safeguard of all your
footsteps. Now, Sarah, tell George that we are
with him helping him. Do not let one shadow
linger on your hearts for all will be well.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. How well I understand your
feeling, how well I appreciate your sensitive
spirit. Do not dear Sarah feel alone in every or
any care, we are with you ; could our hearts bear
your burdens we would; could our hands relieve
you from labor, how gladly would we take up the
task. Oh ! Sarah, step by step we are leading you
up the golden stairs, where your dear treasures
are weaving emblems of love to greet you when
you come. Your way will be bright with lamps
from the other side. I will be with you.
Grandma."
"Mamma, do let me say a word. I love you
oh! so much, my precious, darling Mamma.
Leila is all covered with flowers, and every
birth-day we crown her and have a party. We
have flowers and pretty presents to place all
around her. Oh! Mamma how happy we are.
We are coming to tell you all about it.
Frankie."
Oct. 22 10l/2 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. The morning is beautiful.
We come to you through the sunny rays of our
own sky, the same that is above you, the same
sun shines upon us all alike. Few know how to
appreciate this beautiful (27-Vol. IlI) fact,
nevertheless Sarah there are those who do, and
to such we love to come with love and gifts.
You shall be among the number to feel the first
kisses from heaven, sweet and holy kisses, from
lips you love, in the day of reunion.
Oh, Sarah, what a sweet thought, to know that
we shall all meet again, never more to part. I
looked in your future last night and saw no deep
sorrow. I see cares which every one must have, a
few crosses; but a happiness which will cover all
the cares and cause your eyes to look upon them
as almost naught. I saw a picture of your future.
You and George were living in a home of your
own, Willie a fine youth, all the comforts of life
about you, the reward of faithful labor. Be
happy, Sarah, our hearts all rejoice in the hap
piness that is in store for you. Dear Sister, if
the present seems dark to you, cares many, money
not so plenty, let the future come before you as
we have tried to portray, and your spirit will feel
a calm and a certainty, which ours feels, when
we see that nothing will come between happiness
and our beloved ones. Grief shall not cause your
eyelids to droop, neither shall disappointment
wither the flowers and make earth seem gloomy.
All shall be bright, the earth, the flowers, the
duties which you must undergo. George is well
and will be able to fulfill all his duties and hard
labor.
The children are here. Frankie feels a little
(28-Vol. IlI) petulant because he cannot give you
the little present he had intended to, 1 this day
of his birth into the spirit land. He wanted to
draw a wreath of flowers, and we were to aid
him. The little fellow has been sitting under a
tree alone grieving. I have succeeded at last in
bringing him to you. Oh! How like your world
are all things here. Leila is playing in the garden,
happy as the birds who welcome her as she comes.
Meet us Tuesday at half past nine. All is well!
Olin."
"Mamma, that is what I wanted to do a good
while ago so I could give it to you to-day. I will
(1) Frankie died Oct. 22.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 147
have a nice Christmas present for you Grandma
says and so I will be happy. I wish Willie would
play with me to-day, but no! Mamma, he cannot
see me as I see him. Don't feel bad Mamma, 1
am happy, and now I am going to catch Leila.
Frankie."
Frankie seemed still afraid that I would be un
happy, so he writes playfully.
"The sweetest little boy in all the world is here
Mamma; the prettiest little angel boy.
Frankie."
I asked, "Who is it?" Ans.
"Why, Mamma, Willie would know 1 mean
myself. Tell Papa I kissed him this morning be
fore he awoke.
Frankie."
"My Dear Child. I shall be with you to
morrow and bring the children. You can think
of us but there will be no opportunity for us to
talk with you except through thought. I shall
(29-Vol. IlI) be very near you to give you peace.
Grandma."
"George, a circle of spirits have met in the court
of heaven for the purpose of consulting over a
spirit who has lately come here. He was a man
of good principles, still his near relatives were of
low principles and care not for progressing to
higher spheres, which kept 1
Jourdon's spirit
among low associates. I, who saw his good
qualities, have used all my influence and power
to raise him where he is at present, in a happy
sphere. You see, 1 am not idle.
Isaac T. Hopper."
In answer to some inquiry of the Doctor's he
added.
"I worked as hard and faithfully as you would
have worked to get a friend out of prison.
I. T. H.
Oct. 29 2l/2 P. M.— 1870.
We met for a little time and enjoyed a pleasant
conversation with our invisible loved ones. Aunt
Lib. had gone, but another Aunt had come who
knew nothing of these truths, so we were still
not quite free. Frankie and Leila played about us,
took hold of our clothes repeatedly.
(1) Jourdon was Superintendent of Police of this City, who died
a few weeks ago.
Frankie said "I look just like Papa," Leila
added, "And 1 look just like Mamma," and at the
same time pulled my dress and made great effort
to get into my lap. The desire to clasp my chil
dren at such times is overwhelming, so real, so
tangible do they seem. The following was written.
"My Dear Sarah. We are waiting with patience
to commence our work. Our hands (30-Vol. IlI)
are ready to work, our souls are open to pour out
blessings upon you, and we shall bestow them
doubly now that all goes well. Oh! My dear
Sister, how we miss the opportunity of talking
with you, of whispering in your ear hope and
words of peace. We will soon have the way clear
for I believe, Sarah, that your opposing friends
are nearly through, then you will feel free and
take up the thread again without having it
tarnished by the mists of those who oppose you.
Be patient a little longer and when we meet
again, get some nice note paper, not too thin and
Frankie will give you a specimen of his skill. At
the same time get some flowers, and if possible
get a blue one, as he will paint the flowers you
get. Get a few new crayons. Let this meeting be
at half past nine next Tuesday night. Do not
feel depressed Sarah, you are doing right and will
do well.
The clouds will pass, the sun will shine forth
and you will feel its rays. There will be no
shadows in your heart, no rivers of sorrow, for
we will look through your spirit and show you
things as they are and not as they seem.
The little ones are here, they are happy.
Frankie is playing little tricks all the time, which
you occasionally see.
My dear Sarah, I will be with you to-morrow
and make your cares less. God bless you! All is
well ! A wreath of flowers is over your head. The
leaves do not fall from them, which indicates that
your life will be bright this (31-Vol. IlI) winter.
Such emblems we have monthly to show the fu
ture of our loved ones. Sarah and George, I am
requested by the circle to give you their united
love and blessing.
Olin."
148 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Dear Children. I am once more able to
manifest my presence. I will with the circle, again
get control of Leila's picture, so we can work
more rapidly when we have our regular meeting.
All is well ! This little sentence we are ever happy
to give you, as we know all is well, when we tell
you so. God bless you!
'E. A. K. is here and will aid me in giving
power to the Doctor in his efforts to cure."
Here the pencil stopped for several minutes.
We opened the window for them, read all they
had written, and then the pencil added.
"I was obliged to break off there as the circle
came and I had to join them. I can say no more
now.
Prof. Kenyon."
Nov. 3 6 P. M.— 1870.
Katie did not come until this evening and was
very far from well. The pencil wrote.
"We are all here. The picture we wish you to
get out ready for us to-morrow at nine. We will
then go on with our work. All is well! Dear
Sarah we have been with you but we can not
talk much, owing to the conditions. Be of good
cheer and know that all is well! The children
are here. They have missed this way of coming.
Frankie will speak a few words. No more now.
Olin."
(32-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Mamma and Papa.
I am here with Uncle Olin. 1 am so happy to come
where Willie is. I will help him get his lesson.
Frankie."
Nov. 5 9 P. M.— 1870.
Katie came next at this hour. She was sadly
out of order, still our circle desired us to meet
that they might get Leila's picture under their
control. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. Take the picture out of the
box and place it on the table. I will take it.
Prof. Kenyon."
I took the picture out, placed it on the table,
arranged the chairs, got Katie, (poor helpless
Katie now) into one of them and called the
Doctor. He objected decidedly to their taking
it,
(1) Dr. Kittrese of Boston with whom Dr. Taylor wu ac-
ouainted twenty yean ago and who had been many years dead.
so fearful was he that some ill would befall it.
Nevertheless we were seated, and instantly the
picture was taken from the table and laid upon
the bureau. After
a
moment the Prof. said.
"Dear Sarah, place the picture back in the box.
We cannot take
it
while George's feelings remain
as they are. Meet at ten to-morrow morning."
Nov.
6
10 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was very clear. We met as
directed, and were gratified by their repeated and
oft repeated echoes of joy. The children were
full of play, touched both the Doctor and myself
several times. Dr. Franklin greeted us with his
accustomed words, "I am here." They wrote and
left.
(33-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We are all ^iere this morning and very happy
to have good conditions.
We will be so rejoiced to give dear little Frankie
the opportunity to present you his Christmas
tribute and we will have no difficulty
if
the ap
pointments are kept, and
a
feeling in our souls
tells us that they will be held sacred.
We will give blessings which cannot be taken
away, and when the shadows come let us dispel
them. We visit among our friends often Sarah.
We find those we love on earth, well and doing
well. Here we visit also, making new friends
daily,
I
might say hourly, for the gates of
heaven are ever open for shining feet to enter.
Be happy and we will enjoy your society, as real
as when in life. Prof. K.
is
as busy as ever, and
he says that he would not be happy now without
this occupation. He loves to astonish, he loves
to give happiness. Your future
is
still bright, the
flowers droop not, they are as fresh as the day
we described them to you. Let your souls rejoice!
We are keeping watch over Willie and keeping
danger from him. You need have no anxiety
about him. All
is
well! You will meet all ends
without embarrassment.
Now dear Sarah and George, we wish the next
meeting to-morrow morning at half past six. We
will then have fresh power, and be able to ac
complish much. The power
is
always stronger
in the morning. The circle are busy on the picture
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 149
but their power will (34- Vol. IlI) permit them
all to speak a few words of hope and love. The
children are also anxious to say a word to Papa
and Mamma.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. The children are with me;
Leila and Frankie with my own dear children.
They cling to your Mother and myself. I see no
shadows on the little streams running through
our paths. They have no shadows, except the
faces of immortality. Your future is mirrored
bright and golden. Be happy and believe me
when I tell you that all is well!
Grandma."
"George, My Son. Finish your article, get it in
press and it will read well, and have a good effect
which is better than all. I am with you daily.
You are doing right.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Friends. All that is needful we have
done this morning, and we feel satisfied. These
are but few words, still they express much. We
can say no more. Call us not back. Our power
must be replenished for other duties. Fear no
evil!
Prof. K."
Nov. 6 12 M.— 1870.
"Yes, Willie, you must go out more and read
less. Mamma, I and Leila, or Leila and I are
going with Grandma to another country now, so
Willie we will not be with you much to-day. Good
bye Mamma.
Frankie."
I asked. "To what country?" Ans.
(35-Vol. IlI) "Where the battle is." I asked.
"Are you going to the French battle field?" Ans.
"Yes."
Katie went out for the evening, and was to
return for the night. Ten o'clock came without
her and she so seldom keeps her promise that we
all retired. At half past eleven 1 was awakened
from a perfectly sound sleep by the sensation as
of a lighted candle passed directly before my eyes.
1 thought instantly of Olin and that he wanted
something of me. While 1 lay thus musing the
street-door bell rang; after a little delay it rang
again. The porter being in too heavy sleep to
be awakened by
it,
I
stepped into the hall and
rang his bell which brought him directly to the
street door.
1
waited
a
moment over the banisters
to see
if
it
possibly were Katie, and soon heard
her voice. She came directly to me and the loving
echoes said "It was I."
I
recognized dear Olin's
voice. He had awakened me to assist Katie in
getting in.
Nov.
7
6i/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was clear and we gladly met
our dear circle, dearer and more dear at every
interview. Dr. Franklin saluted us. "I am here.
B. F."
I
responded, "I am glad to see you Dr.
Franklin." He promptly returned, "There
is
where
I
have the advantage over you." The
children were full of joy. They touched us and
Frankie laid his own soft garments about his
Papa's head and face, so fine and delicate (36-Vol.
IlI) that the Doctor was in ecstacy at the touch.
Frankie pulled his Papa's beard and patted my
head. At the close of the hour they wrote
a
few
words and left.
"We have all been here. Meet at half past nine
and we will give directions;
if
George can not be
present
it
will be as well, but have room darkened
as
it
is
now. All
is
bright and beautiful this
morning.
Olin."
Nov.
7
91/2 A. M.— 1870.
Katie and
I
met with our precious circle at the
hour designated. The Doctor was present
a
little
or small portion of the time.
"My Dear Sarah and George.
I
will write first,
as
I
have the power to come almost in form.
1
have lingered at the door from early dawn till
now, while the circle have been busy about their
duties.
1
have been looking about the house and
into the affairs of your daily lives, looking to see
if
all the flowers are fresh and bright, none of the
leaves fallen off; and my soul rejoices to give
the glad response that all
is
well!
You must be patient George, for your health
is
good, your business prosperous; when
it
comes
it
will come with
a
rush. Now be patient.
I
know
you are, but there are moments, hours in every
150 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
sensitive heart when the gloomy side of life seems
to be made more visible to the earthly eye, and
the beautiful golden side hidden ; then the spiritual
sight is closed and refuses to penetrate through
the clouds. To you and dear Sarah this is per
fectly plain and you can appreciate our senti
ments, (37-Vol. IlI) our love and our advice,
and feel that we sympathize with you in every
thing. We can sit down with and soothe you,
we can bear with you when others would become
impatient, therefore we are your true friends.
We will give you great blessings this month.
The paper we will examine for little Frankie
and help him to present his gift. We will not
take it till we are through with Leila's. He is
growing patient now, for he begins to see that
time works miracles. We pass hours in giving
these little children their lessons. Some learn
very quickly, according to their perceptions.
Frankie and Leila are very apt scholars and we
love to teach them. Be of good cheer Sarah, be
happy, for all is well! The Prof. will come and
give directions about the meetings. I will now
give way to Grandma and others. With love to
all eternity.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. Dear Eliza and I took the
children to a different country, but we will not
go to another such scene again.
Frankie wished to go and visit the battle field
with his 1
Grandpa, so we all went, but we shall
not go again, to such a scene of pain, unless to
help the dying out of their misery.
My dear child, I am so happily situated here,
with my little family. I have them all with me;
those I once thought lost forever to the knowledge
of recognition after death, are in life now, real as
when they were in my arms. Is not that a holy
joy? 2
(I often have to get dear Olin to help
me with power to write.) (38-Vol. IlI) The
Langworthys are a good people. I like them. I
love most of them, but some of them have made
unwise selections of wives. Some are so selfish
that I even turn from them. How happy I am
(1) Father Taylor took great pleasure when here in showing
children strange things and places.
(2) The hand-writing* had become poor.
to speak with you. I will come often. God bless
you.
Grandma."
"My Own Dear Children Sarah and Emeline.
I am with you in your daily routine. Your
duties are not performed alone! Oh! No, my
hands help you, give you strength, give you hope.
My little Leila and Frankie are my occupation,
nearly all my time. Although their loss was sadly
great to you, they are my greatest blessing. You
gave me much when you gave them. God trans
planted those little flowers Sarah, to bloom for
you in the garden of Eden, free as birds and
away from all evil. Let your heart rejoice with
out a shadow. Dear Em. life's shadows are not
yours, this may remain for a while, you may taste
them for an hour, but they can not last. All is
bright in the future, and all will be well in the
change you are sure to experience, for you will
be settled, happily situated.
All is well! With my blessing and a Mother's
undying love I now leave you to go with my
family.
Your own Ma."
"My Dear Child. Our next meeting will be at
half past two to-morrow. Do not be one moment
past the time. We are more interested than ever
in our work, therefore meet just at the hour,
half past two, and I (39- Vol. IlI) will have all
the circle present. They are now giving me the
directions for you to be punctual, as they will
have to attend some dying, departing friends
of friends here in the spirit world.
Tell George, all is well!
Prof. Kenyon."
Nov. 8 2% P- M.— 1870.
The day was gloriously clear and bright. We
were exactly on time. The echoes soon said "I
am here. B. F." As usual the children played
about pulling the Doctor's beard and patting my
head. They expressed great joy as always. Be
fore leaving they wrote the following.
"My Dear Sarah and George. Again we are
with you, again the conditions are good, and we
are rejoiced to meet for the purpose of accom
plishing our work, for work it is, and in future
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 151
years will be looked upon as the greatest miracles
ever performed; therefore preserve each picture
with great care. We have walked through our
beautiful avenues to-day, and our feet have
touched the beautiful flowers in heaven's garden.
We have touched the brows of the dying and
shall hold the lamps for some, in a few hours, to
light their way to happy visions, then, when they
awake to consciousness, they will find themselves
in a beautiful place surrounded by long lost
friends dear as life to their souls, and the greet
ings will come, the clasping of hands, the gentle
kisses of love and explanations. The new born
souls first think they are dreaming. This, dear
Sarah, is the first awakening, then another scene
opens, they seek to find the way back to their
friends and homes (40-Vol. IlI) they have just
left. Bewildered and astonished! In sadness
mingled with joy these new born spirits listen
to the explanations of those who have been here
and learned the different paths and links between
the two worlds. Soon they grow satisfied and the
soul rejoices in the glory of heaven. We often
have cause to pity many who come here without
knowing this truth, this intercourse between
heaven and earth. When you come here, dear
Sarah, you will not be astonished. You will first
clasp your children, then Ma, Grandma and all
those you love, and the first vision you have you
will say 'Oh! I understand all, this is the beau
tiful place Olin has told me so much about.' Oh!
How happy you will be. Now I have given you
this little explanation that you may glean from
it an idea of our constant duties.
Sarah and George, the flowers are bright, no
leaves have fallen from the wreath of destiny and
we are happy beyond description, happy as birds.
We want your hearts happy. We are all here.
No clouds are over you. We are succeeding with
the picture and all is well. Be patient, all will
come in good time. The Prof. will give the
directions for the next meeting. God bless you!
Frankie wants to write a few words and I
must help him.
Olin."
"Papa and Mamma. I am going to make all
the flowers myself. No one shall touch my paper.
I am taking lessons every day. Leila and I are
very happy little children.
Frankie."
(41-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Children. We will
soon finish the picture now. All is well! Meet
at the same hour to-morrow, half past two. Now
be happy with our blessing upon you.
Prof. K. and the circle."
Nov. 9 2y2 P. M.— 1870.
The day was pleasant and we met agreeably
to order. We were soon greeted by echoes which
we know well, in the oft repeated sentence "I am
here. B. F." The children played about until
Frankie said, "Here Mamma," and at the same
instant laid his Papa's watch in my hand. He
had, as three times before, unhooked the chain
from his Papa's vest, taken out the watch and
brought it to me, six feet distant. The watch and
chain are large and heavy. They worked upon
Leila's picture and brought it across the room
and put it back in the box themselves when they
were through. They wrote and left us.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here happy, and
all goes well with our work. We are satisfied!
The picture will be finished this week. Remem
ber we have not been able to progress very rapidly
owing to the frequent breaks, but now we are
progressing finely. You must not hasten us! All
is well.
Dear Sarah and George, blessings are breaking
in upon you gently but surely and everything goes
well. There are no shadows, all is golden hued
and our blessings are upon you. Be hopeful and
know that we are with you. We are happy to
say these few words.
Olin."
(42-VoI. IlI) "We have succeeded splendidly
to-day and we will soon finish the picture. Meet
at half past six to-morrow morning. Dr. Frank
lin will be here. Katie must come home early
this evening.
Be happy George you are doing right and daily
we follow you with a blessing. Be not depressed !
I know that you are not. I only say so that you
152 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
may know that the sun shines behind the clouds.
Prof. Kenyon."
"Dear little Frankie can not use his paper till
after Leila's is finished. He has promised me,
to be patient.
My dear Sarah and Emeline I am watching
over you. Ralph will soon be made happy and
I hope he will remain so but I see a shadow com
ing. Dear Emeline all is bright for you. I leave
my blessing for you both dear children.
Your own Ma."
"Mamma and Papa. 1 will do just as the good
spirits tell me and wait. I am happy all day, and
so is "Sister Leila.
Frankie."
"My Son, I will speak with you to-morrow.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Nov. 10 6i/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was clear, the full moon shining
sweetly into Katie's room when 1 awakened her
to come to our meeting. We were not in session
more than three quarters of an hour and nothing
uncommon occurred except the directions, which
we found upon reading.
"My Dear Sarah. Meet at nine, directly after
breakfast. Leave the paper on the table (43-Vol.
IlI) covered with another handkerchief until
after that meeting. Do not take it from its place
but leave it there. All is well! Be happy. We
have everything as we wish. Be happy as a bird
Sarah, for all is well. Never think that we would
mar the picture, we would not mar our own work,
therefore never give it a thought. Meet punc
tually at nine. The circle are busy now with the
picture and I am ordered to give the directions.
Olin."
Nov. 10 9 A. M.— 1870.
I observed strictly their orders and before time
we were ready and waiting. Very soon after we
were seated, the pencil wrote and directed us to
step into an adjoining room to read. It was.
"My Dear Sarah. I want you to separate the
pictures. Can you do so and not look upon the
face? We have made Leila's face a little lighter.
We did not wish to work on her face much for
fear of injuring
it,
therefore we have done our
work on the other side, but you must not look.
Can you separate the face of Leila without look
ing upon either? Do
it
with your eyes closed and
we will tell you which
is
which.
Olin."
Leila's picture was still attached to
a
blank
leaf of equal size and this was our first intima
tion that they were putting
a
picture upon it.
I
got the paper cutter, took Leila's picture, folded
it
down, cut
it
off and laid the leaf, which, they
said, had her picture, upon the bed, and placed
(44-Vol. IlI) the remaining leaf upon the table
by the folding doors and then took my seat.
After
a
little time they told me to bring the box.
As soon as
I
took the cover from
it,
Leila's pic
ture was put in, and in
a
few moments the paper
from the little table was laid there also.
I
was
holding the box upon the large table and the
Doctor was holding Katie's hands, as always.
They had not left their seats.
I
covered the box
and returned
it
to the drawer. As
I
took my seat
I
touched something on the table with my head.
I
felt for the object and found the round stand
upon the table around which we were sitting.
The pencil wrote and they went. Upon opening
our eyes we saw on the stand
a
sheet of paper
which
I
had left upon the table, and on
it
was
written "All
is
well!
B. F."
"My Dear Children. We have accomplished
a
great work this morning. Meet to-morrow at
three. Do not fail! We are so happy, every one
of us. Bless you Sarah and George and although
we have only power to say, 'all
is
well,' you can
go rejoicing. We have no more power.
Call us not until our appointed time as we
must get our power replenished. Look not
in
the box. Let us direct.
Prof. K."
At three in the afternoon they again asked for
the pencil and said.
"My Dear Sarah. We are now enjoying the
sunny paths of flowers and evergreens. Paths
where angels tread and where we receive bless
ings to bestow upon those we love. To-morrow
we (45-Vol. IlI) are going to take the paper from
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 153
the box ourselves and finish the picture, so that
we may present it Sunday morning. All is well!
Be happy! Ma is off with the children and we
are taking views. We all go together on such
occasions. I refer now to the circle who meet
for your work. One word from all the circle. Do
not fail to be punctual to-morrow. We will say
much then. Our work this morning exhausted
our power so much, that we have to remain in
our own atmosphere until we are replenished.
The children are playing and jumping and laugh
ing and singing.
God bless you dear Sarah and George. Have
no fears or misgivings for the future. All is well !
Olin."
Nov. 13 9 A. M.— 1870.
On the evening of the 10th the Doctor was
called to Bergen to see Ralph's wife and did not
return until the morning of the 12th. I too had
been there for about twenty hours, so that we
not only had missed our meeting on the eleventh,
but were too exhausted to have one on the 12th.
The 13th was bright and clear and although
we were both going to Bergen that day, still we
were delighted to first meet with our circle. The
children were full of play, touched the Doctor
and me several times, pulled his whiskers and
played with the crimps of my hair. Very soon
the echoes said, "I am here. B. F. And I am
going to take the paper with me to our own home
and work on it there. Open the window." We
opened the window and stood (46- Vol. IlI) by
it at once. In a moment they wished the win
dow closed and us to take our seats.
They now wrote and talked for nearly an hour,
then directed us to read before looking at Leila's
picture, having told us at our last meeting that
we might see it at this. We read and then looked
at the pictures. Leila's was there, scarcely
changed to our eyes, Frankie's and Grandma's
were there also, but the leaf I cut from Leila's
was gone. They had unmistakably taken it with
them through the open window.
"My Dear Sarah. The Prof. has the paper.
We have made Leila's picture one shade lighter.
We did not like to do much to it as it can not
be photographed if lighter. The artist objected
to our taking off one shade more until photo
graphed. Now it will make a perfectly beautiful
picture.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I have been with Ralph and
his wife. I had no fears for her then for I saw
that all would come out right; still Sarah there
is a cloud over them which I can not penetrate
at present. I want to see my children all happy,
but dearly as I love Ralph, his wife does not
seem a part of him. All is well now. I am glad
you are attentive to them. I am glad you are
going dear children. Do all you can so that in
future they can not say, you neglected them. I
will take the children to see them when Willie
goes. I have the little flowers with me and they
are very happy. (47- Vol. IlI) The day you
went to Ralph's I had to take them to see new
scenes, to keep them from following you.
Now, my dear children Sarah and George, I
can aid you, the whole circle can aid you, for
your belief, your faith draws us to you ; it is our
lamps to your souls; therefore you are in less
danger of misfortunes than those who do not hold
communion with the spiritual world.
JMake the little stranger comfortable in every
way possible and blessings will follow you. Tell
Em. to be of good cheer.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. We have longed for this
morning, this electrical atmosphere, in order to
do as we wished with our work. George, the
business will soon be better. I am anxious to see
you free from every incumbrance, and your own
master. That day shall come, and you shall live
to see it. Meet for directions to-morrow at half
past nine in the morning.
Do please be satisfied with the little picture
and have it photographed. Be careful when you
cross the ferry. Olin will protect you. God bless
you.
Prof. K."
"My Son. I am satisfied with your article. You
(1) Ralph's wife became a mother on the 11th.
154 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
have made no mistake. Think of me, for I think
of you with the blessing of a father.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. We have all been here
this morning. Go happy and we will go with
you. Oh ! How I love to come and meet with you.
Your Grandma."
(48- Vol. IlI) "The flowers shall blossom freshly
in thy cup to-day.
While angels guide thee safely on thy way
And waft thy footsteps back to those you love
While loving eyes are looking from above.
This is my parting breath Sarah.
Olin."
Nov. 14 12% P. M.— 1870.
Katie did not get here at nine, but at mid-day.
The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We can do as well now as
in the morning. We only wanted to give direc
tions and talk with you. All is bright in our
land of flowers, all is beautiful as summer's eve,
no cloud over our walk, no anxious thoughts to
mar our souls; for we look deep into the future
and see that all is well with you and yours.
We were with you yesterday and protected
you from danger; and we will ever do so Sarah
for you have placed yourself under our protec
tion.
Be not depressed! The future is golden, and
will yield you fruit and lasting blessings. There
shall be no untimely graves for you to shed
tears upon. Are you not happy to know this my
dear Sarah? Ma took charge of the little ones
yesterday. She let them have their own way and
they were happy.
I do not think Ralph's wife is as well to-day.
The cloud still hangs there. I can not tell you
further about it.
Em. feels a little down this morning. Tell her
to unfold the leaves of her heart and (49-Vol.
Ill) repeat from memory those golden promises,
and let them keep the roses fresh. Our words
are not lost upon you dear Sarah, therefore we
love to repeat them, we love to hold the bright
painting before you and let your soul borrow the
light that comes from it. Joys and sorrows, lights
and shadows, tears and smiles, partings and re
unions, all make up life and you can not expect
to glide on smoothly without an occasional
break in the waves. Let your soul be at rest and
when the clouds appear, which indicate sorrow,
I will warn you and turn you where the sunshine
beams.
Dear Sarah, we are all so happy. You are sen
sitive and feel the spirit of another; if gay and
cheerful, the light reflects upon yours. You will
always have these conditions. A sensitive nature
must ever feel the spheres of others. It is better
so, dear Sarah, for you are more in rapport with
our world.
We shall all meet in our banquet hall to-day.
To-morrow we will tell you about it. God bless
you!
Olin."
"Sarah My Dear Child. Did you hear me call
the children last night? Did you know that I
was near you?
Oh! My child do you know, my children are
dear to me? That I love to soothe them, and
place blessings under their feet, that they may
walk in pleasant paths? Yes, I was with you last
night and I am with you now.
Your Ma."
(50-Vol. IlI) "My Child. Meet us to-morrow
at half past six in the morning. The circle will
all be present. All is well! Tell George I will
look into his matters, his future, and tell him
what I think. Tell him to be of good courage.
Do not fail to meet at half past six.
Prof. K."
Nov. 15 6% A. M.— 1870.
The morning was fine and we met as desired.
No new thing occurred. The children touched
us, as they always do at our sittings now; the
Doctor and Katie were sent to and from the fold
ing doors. The familiar sound "I am here. B. F."
came from the echoes, whose ring is as charac
teristic as the sound of the human voice. They
wrote and left.
"My Dear Children. We are all here this morn
ing. The circle is at work therefore I come for
them and with my dear Olin's aid I speak to you.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 155
Dear Sarah and George, we are happy in your
presence, happy to work for you and meet at
your table with the knowledge, that our presence
is pleasant to you. We are not at all anxious for
your future success. The times are dull now,
business put back for awhile, but it will not last
long. Money shall be plenty soon, now it is
scarce. Be patient! We are sure that you will
succeed. This lull in business is nothing discour
aging George, so cheer up and go to work with a
happy heart.
I have seen Ralph's wife this morning. (51-
Vol. IlI) She seems easy and I think it will do
for you to defer going till to-morrow, then both
go-
All is well with you my dear children. Be
happy! The children are well and joyous. They
are here. Your own heart tells you how much
they love to come where you are. Now my chil
dren be happy!
Your Ma."
"George, you are doing right. 1 can not chide
you for anything except becoming gloomy. Now
I have looked in your affairs and all will in time
work out more for your success than you think.
Wyatt advises you well, and I see that you will
step over all those clouds. Meet at half past six
Thursday morning. There will be no meeting
to-morrow. All is well!
Prof. K."
Nov. 15 10 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. I come in place of Ma, for
she is at her vocations. The children are with
her and she is exchanging greetings with dear
friends. You have her sweet influence upon you,
and ever will have. I am listening to the music
as it flows from sphere to sphere.
Yesterday we all met in the banquet hall, which
is purposely for those who are in the closest
unison, to meet and hold communion, sweet con
versation, while music is going on, and children
dancing among the flowers. There is no beauty
left out of this lovely place. We have hours to
go there. Some spirits, who have not been here
so (52-Vol. IlI) long, pass by the door, they look
in, sometimes they walk through, but when they
see no one to whom they were attached, they
leave to seek their friends on earth. We were all
together in our banquet hall yesterday.
When I first went in, Ma and Grandma were
sitting on a sofa made of evergreen and roses.
They both arose to give the accustomed welcome,
then the Doctor's father walked in with the chil
dren. Oh! what a sunshine they made, first in
Ma's lap, then in Grandma's, in my arms, around
my knees, holding Prof. Kenyon's hands, going
from one thing to another. Oh! How happy they
were. We met there again Thursday afternoon.
You are to meet us in the morning and our pleas
ure will be great, to talk over our events with
you. We have looked in the future. No clouds
are over your home. The birds sing joyously,
and the sweet welcome of their tones, tells us that
you will be happy and live long to enjoy life.
Be happy my dear Sarah, rely on my promises
and you shall never be deceived. 1 can say no
more. Olin."
"Do not feel worried dear Sarah. All is well!
Never borrow trouble ! I am sure you have much
to cheer you in every trial.
Your Grandma."
Nov. 16 10 P. M.— 1870.
Katie came in at this hour to pass the night
(53-Vol. IlI) and be ready for our morning
meeting. Before she retired, the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am here to tell
you that I have been with you to-day. I have
looked in your paths and saw the flowers bloom
ing fresh and green. You may rest peacefully.
It is best for you to retire and get up fresh in the
morning for our meeting.
We have no chidings to give, even in a gentle
way for all is well! Oh! Sarah your eyes are
heavy, and little hands are waiting to close them
and give you sleep. Frankie is so busy in his
preparations for Christmas presents. I would not
have the darling disappointed for worlds of bless
ings. Sarah and George you can learn much from
JDr. Scott. His spiritual vision is often open and
the future portrayed to him.
Olin."
(1) J. L. Scott a medium but not known in the world or
among his best friends as such.
156 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Nov. 17 6y2 A. M.— 1870.
Again all was agreeable in atmosphere and our
personal conditions, and we were punctually in
attendance. The Prof. signified his presence by
his perfectly natural, firm tread. The welcome
sound "I am here. B. F." came from the dear
echoes. The children played about and touched
us many times. Katie's hand wrote and they
left.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here not
more faithful than you for which our souls re
joice. We repose but never sleep. Long we have
been at our duties; early the hour would seem to
you on earth, but we love to come to you (54- Vol.
IlI) at the first dawn of day and see if all is well.
The children were with you last night. Twice
little hands brushed over your face after you had
fallen asleep; then Ma took them to their home.
You see how near you have them; how they love
to come to you, which should make you
supremely happy. No cold winds can pierce their
little forms. They rest in the arms of peace and
pleasure and when they sleep the little doves
nestle down by them and they lie among the
flowers in a dreamy state. You should be thank
ful that they are here with us, so tenderly cared
for. Grandma is here this morning and the chil
dren are with their Grandpa Taylor to whom
they are telling their wishes. A happy day is
before them. 1 see no clouds over you but the
sun begins to shine more radiantly than it has for
a long time and you are safe.
I must now go with the circle and aid them
with their work. Prof. will come, when he is
through, and give directions.
Grandma and Ma wish you to meet at half
past nine this morning, and be punctual as they
have other duties which will call them. All is
well! God bless you!
Olin."
x"No Papa I only took your hair in my hand,
my little hand!
Frankie."
"My Dear Children. All is well! I sent Olin
to tell you that I would give directions. Meet
(1) A reply to a remark of the Doctor's.
at nine Saturday night. We will all be present
and finish our work. (55- Vol. IlI) I heard Dr.
Scott talk last night. He is wise in his spiritual
knowledge and nearly all the time prompted by
some spirit. I like him with his faults. George
keep cheerful, work with good will for bright
things are coming.
Prof. Kenyon."
Nov. 17 9Y2 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Child. We write in unison: blessed
are the pure in heart; blessed ate those who be
lieve; blessed are they who comfort in the hour
of affliction ; blessed is the mantle of charity, and
blessed, thrice blessed are those who bless. We
see God as you do, in the light of day, in the sun
shine, in flowers, the grass, the air, in the falling
of the leaves, in all the changes of the seasons.
Look out upon the trees, see how beautiful they
are in their change. Another season and they will
come forth again green and fresh. So everything
revives, so it is with us, with humanity. We pass
from youth to age, from age to youth. The best
illustration we can give is the change in the leaves.
They turn from bright beautiful green, to yellow,
then dry upon the ground and their beauty seems
gone. The tree is left leafless, nothing but the
dry branches; but then, spring comes again, they
are born into a new life and their dress looks
fresher and younger than ever. So with old age.
So with your Grandma. She threw off the old
shell like the butterfly, and expanded (56- Vol.
IlI) into a beautiful young woman. Here her
life commenced again, she was a girl with all her
youthful feelings and beautiful to the eyes of
other angels. The picture portrays this visibly
to your eyes. My dear child, would that some one
could go forth and preach this to the world,
preach this truth, so pure, so holy when rightly
understood, so sad when used for evil purposes
which is often done as a cloak to shield from
other eyes.
Blessed are those who believe as you do, and
come to us with their hearts pure, throwing aside
the cares of life and all that would mar our com
ing. Would that another Bible could be written.
You are writing one Sarah. Keep it for it is
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 157
purely good, and some day it will be worshipped
by those who now scoff. The most deplorable
thing, Sarah, is to see so many passing away with
out knowing this truth. We grieve to witness
the griefs, the sorrows that might be healed
through this intercourse. But patience! patience!
every heart is not prepared for such truths. We
must abide our time and teach thoroughly even
though it be a slow work. Some hearts are so
difficult to reach! Gladly would we raise the
crushed heart when we are repelled, but we can
not overcome conditions.
We go, to-day, to our banquet hall. Already
the children have been to me to see how they are
to dress. 1 wanted Leila to (57- Vol. IlI) wear
white, but Frankie wants her to wear pink, and
white flowers, so that will be her dress. Frankie
will wear all white with a blue girdle. I shall
wear stone color.
Would that you could see us. There will be
music and every amusement that heaven can give.
Nothing will be left out. New spirits will go
there to-day for the first time and we shall make
them welcome. Oh! What joy we shall all feel.
I have not talked with Olin to-day, there I shall
talk with him. And only think, Sarah, your name
will be often mentioned. 1 anticipate much pleas
ure in meeting Mrs. Scott and her daughter
to-day. The Prof. will be there with his wife.
All Sarah's (your Grandma's) children will be
there. I will tell you all about it when we meet
Sunday morning.
Grandma has been here all the time and often
put her words upon this paper. She says, "Tell
dear Sarah, I send her kisses, blessings and love."
I watch over all my children. 1 Dear Ralph is my
boy still although his thoughts do not often come
this way: and Daniel, I often seek him, but you
and Emeline are my especial care.
I was drawn so near to you soon after my de
parture, there were so many trials for you and
Emeline to bear, you felt my loss so keenly that
I was drawn more closely to you. Tell Emeline,
she need feel no anxiety. All will glide on
(1) He was much interested in these truths before his marriage,
but his wife scoffs and he seems to have fallen in with her
feelings.
smoothly and she will (58- Vol. IlI) be happy.
My dear Sarah we can say no more but know
that the children shall never grieve for I have
charge over them. God bless you!
Your Ma to all eternity with a Mother's im
mortal love."
Nov. 20 10 A. M.— 1870.
The air was not good and Katie was nervous
on Saturday evening so we did not meet until
this morning. The atmosphere was clear and
cold, the conditions all excellent and our circle
full of gladness. Dr. Franklin, Prof. Kenyon,
and Isaac T. Hopper, each in his own particular
way announced himself.
The Doctor was slapped upon the shoulder
several times by a strong, firm hand. The pencil
was taken from the table and placed in my hand
by Ma. Olin said "Sarah, Uncle Thomas sends
his love to you." Uncle Thomas was a brother
of Pa, who died when I was an infant.
Frankie said "Mamma, Leila has a harp and
I guess you will see it painted."
These were the particular things that occurred.
The usual going by the folding doors, the writing,
the departure through the open window, trans
pired. Then we read.
"My Dear Child. I promised to come here this
morning and tell you all about our banquet hall
and its beauties. I am here my child to fulfill
my promise. We were all there. When I went
in with the two children, Olin was talking, in the
music room, with Prof. Hare and his wife. (59-
Vol. IlI) The children saw him first and bound
ing from me, ran to see which would be in Olin's
arms first. Frankie's speed was broken by Prof. H.
and Leila was the winner. Then your Grandpa
and Grandma came in and reclined on a sofa near
the entrance to the hall in order to see all who
came in. A young man of great intelligence in
troduced himself to me and wished me to help
him open the way to his Mother, that he might
be able to comfort her. He departed this life in
Cincinnati. His name is Alfred Burns. He is an
only son, aged twenty-two. I am going to try to
impress his Mother to go to some medium in that
158 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
city, when she will hear from her son. I will have
more to tell you about that at a future time.
iEmma Taylor and her Father were there. She
is a pretty girl and very pure as her dress indi
cated, it was white, trimmed with violets. Your
Uncle Thomas, his Father and Mother, Olin,
Prof. Kenyon, Prof. Hare, Mrs. Kenyon, Mrs.
Hare and I went out upon the veranda and there
we talked about the things nearest our hearts.
1 told them how I had just left you, and that you
still remembered them with appreciation, which
pleased and gratified them. While I sat talking
with these beloved friends, Leila came to me with
her harp in her hand which had been presented to
her by Dr. Franklin, and this shall be portrayed
to your eyes. (60- Vol. IlI) She was a beautiful
picture with her fair hair flowing, 2her pink dress
and fine face, her white rosebuds and wreaths
over her dress. Oh! how beautiful she looked to
all our eyes. So she came for me and wanted me
to thank Dr. Franklin for her beautiful harp of
so many strings. I went with her and found him
walking up and down the hall, holding Frankie
by the hand. In deep, fatherly tones, he asked
"My son what can I give you? What would please
you most?" Frankie answered "Oh! Teach me
how to paint flowers, such as in my home for my
Mamma's and Papa's Christmas present, and I
will ask no more for a long time." Then the an
swer from that good man came tenderly and lov
ingly, "My son you shall paint your flowers, a
beautiful wreath of flowers for your Christmas
gift to your Mamma and Papa and I will help
you. Go my son rejoice in the sunshine, catch
the butterflies but do not keep them, and when
the hour for you to paint comes I will send a
little dove with a rose in its mouth as a token
that I am ready to teach you." Frankie was so
happy that Leila could not make him listen to
her harp, but to-day they are both sitting under
the blossoming trees playing upon the harp.
One circumstance occurred which caused a
shadow to fall on the gaiety of the scene. A young
woman came in the side (61-Vol. IlI) door. She
was dressed in dark clothes, her spirit was sad.
(1) The Doctor's Stater who died in 1841.
(2) She was dressed as Ha said Frankie wished her to be.
At first 1 did not recognize her for her face was
veiled to keep out the splendor that was too much
for her vision. She motioned me to come to her.
I did so and recognized 1Mrs. Scott who wished
to be excused from the banquet as her soul was
dark with forebodings, and she wished me to
make 2Sarah happy. This threw a little sadness
over me. You see how real our lives are.
I met people I knew when I was a child and
was rejoiced. I met, in passing from music and
flowers into a more quiet part, John Brown walk
ing arm in arm with Abraham Lincoln. I was
happy, for I read in his soul, that nothing could
give him more joy than walking with that great
good man President Lincoln. He has his reward
now. The chant of the angels closed the amuse
ments, but the children would not leave till the
Prof. took them by the hand to their own homes.
Sarah let me tell you another little circumstance.
You must not feel the least sadness after you
hear it.
In the midst of all these great, glittering joys,
Leila and Frankie called for their Mamma to
come and see their beautiful place. Leila ran out
calling "Mamma come" and I left the circle to
comfort her and play on the harp. She soon un
derstood and was as happy as ever. All is well!
I am with you and Emeline daily, and (62-
Vol. IlI) when clouds threaten I will warn you.
Trust in me! I can say no more. Your Grandma
and Olin have both combined their sentiments
in this communication and now with our united
love and blessing I leave you to go with the chil
dren.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. I do not want you to
feel in the least hurried as I want you to see how
Leila progresses and when she is holding her harp
she is so beautiful, but ask no questions. I have
not the power to tell you as your expectations
would prevent our success. All is well! Meet
Tuesday at half past six in the morning. George
be of good cheer.
Prof. Kenyon."
( 1) The wife of J. L. Scott, who died in about 1858.
(2) Their daughter who died in infancy and about the year 1846.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 159
"My Dear Children. God bless you.
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dear Sarah and George. All is well! We
go now all together. God bless you!
Olin."
Nov. 21 IP. M.— 1870.
At half past twelve Katie came. She was not
sick but quite irritable and would remain only
two hours. The Doctor had gone out not to re
turn until four, still we (Katie and I) were asked
to meet at once. We prepared the room, opened
the window, closed our eyes and sat as usual.
We were twice sent by the folding doors, I hold
ing each of Katie's hands on both occasions, just
as the Doctor does when present. The pencil
wrote and they went away and left the linen cloth
(63- Vol. IlI) on the carpet directly under the
window, more than twenty feet from the table
on which I spread it. This was the second meet
ing held by Katie and me without the Doctor for
the painting of pictures.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here now and
have the picture. We will work on it to-day and
to-morrow so as to present it to you Wednesday.
We are glad that we had the power to direct
Katie's footsteps here in time to have the meet
ing. We will require a meeting at three to-morrow,
it will be better than in the morning as we would
have the atmosphere to contend with. We also
take the time now instead of the morning, but
wish George to be here at three to-morrow after
noon. We may be able to give the picture then.
All is well! Be happy! Dr. Franklin, the Prof.
and all are here. The future is bright! Tell
George to feel no misgivings. Oh! How happy
we are to be able to come now. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. We were happy all day yes
terday. The children were joyous and had no
wish that was not gratified. Your children dear
Sarah! Are you not happy to know they are so
well cared for, so sheltered, so beloved! Oh! Let
the winds of heaven not waft one sigh of regret
from your heart to ours for we are with you daily
and protecting you from all sorrow.
Your own Ma."
(64-Vol. IlI) Dec. 2 2i/2 P. M.— 1870.
Katie did not come the next day, Nov. 22, as
they appointed. She did not come again until
this day noon, having been very sick in her own
sad way. The day was fine and when I was pre
paring the room, Olin told me to bring in a sheet
of tissue paper. We sat very quietly for a half
hour, hearing nothing of them except Frankie
said "Papa I see you." Now the echoes said,
"Dear Children, it is accomplished. B. F."
Katie's hand wrote and then they told me to
open the tissue paper. As soon as done, the absent
crayon paper was dropped upon the tissue paper,
and the echoes said, "Cover the picture with the
tissue paper." Again "Read." We read.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have re
tained the paper so long, often in the damp at
mosphere, that it is not as fine as we hoped to
have it. The idea is beautiful and well portrayed.
Leila was first in pink and Frankie wished her
taken so, but the dress was changed to blue and
she is rising out of a lily. We have given a
matured expression as we were obliged to in this
position. The crayons were dull and bad. Now
we will let Frankie make the flowers for Christ
mas. We will have a meeting for that next week.
Meet to-morrow morning for messages from
your loved ones, as we have much to say and
have not the power now. We have used it on the
picture. Do not open the (65-Vol. IlI) paper
until after our next meeting as it is not finished.
Only look upon it through the tissue paper. All
is well! God bless you! Now look upon the
bright side of life and sigh not. Do not tell this
to any one as it would injure the Doctor's busi
ness.
Olin."
Dec. 3 7Yz P- M.— 1870.
The evening fine. Katie was nervous and too
tired to get here in the morning, so we did not
meet until this hour. For a half hour we sat
quietly, the pencil wrote a little; then we, by
direction, lighted the gas, read their writing and
looked upon the picture.
We found it exactly as they had told us, an
outline picture, imperfectly filled, partly with
160 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
crayons and partly with water colors, of Leila
standing in a magnificent lily, holding and play
ing her golden harp. Her head is slightly bent
forward, her hair hanging in curls to her
shoulders and her fingers running lightly over
the strings of her harp. The face is strikingly
mature for her age. The lily is large and natural
with its two green leaves colored green and they
have had neither water colors nor green crayon
from us.
The conception is beautiful, and they affirm,
perfectly true. The paper itself is much tumbled.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We had to roll
the paper once, in order to bring it in your
atmosphere and we were obliged to put the
crayons on the inside. Meet early to-morrow. (66-
Vol. IlI) We will all come and talk. We will
give directions. The greatest picture we have ever
given is about to be given and we desire Katie
to be here much of the time.
Olin."
When we looked upon the picture we remarked
upon there being several colors in the picture
which they had not received from us. The pencil
wrote.
"Do you not remember? We told you we
could manufacture some few colors of our own.
Read your messages. We think that you all bet
ter rest early and be very fresh to-morrow for
your beloved circle.
Olin."
Dec. 4 10 A. M.— 1870.
We sat down most gladly to hear from our un
seen loved ones. Very soon the little echoes said,
"Dear Mamma and Papa I see you." I responded
"Oh! my children! Where are you? I can not
see you!" The answer came. "Dear Child, you
can not see the air but you can feel it. B. F."
I asked, "Do you mean, Dr. Franklin, that they
are as undefined as air?" Ans. "I only wish to
give you the idea of the possibility of their stand
ing by your side and still invisible to you." Then
the pencil wrote the following.
"My Dear Children. You ask me where your
children are? You say, you 'can not see them.'
I answer, you feel the air and still you see it not.
Now by this I mean, that your children are as
real (67- Vol. IlI) and palpable, as fully formed
and spiritually life-like as you are to each other;
and they sit in your midst, sometimes in your
arms, often by your side, still you see them not.
These little ones often wonder why you do not
answer their demonstrations of love, they see you
so distinctly. This morning when you came in
the room, they ran to you with open arms and
took hold of your dress but you saw them not,
therefore you could not answer their greetings,
which made them wonder.
Oh! There is nothing strange upon the earth,
there is nothing strange beneath the sun; then
marvel not.
B. F."
We read
it,
and
I
inquired
if
they saw the chil
dren run to us, and all their, and each other's
acts, as distinctly as we here see acts performed
before our eyes? Ans. "Yes."
I
asked
if
the children were as large now as
they would have been, had they remained here?
Ans. "Yes, just the same."
I
again inquired. How tall
is
Frankie? Ans.
"As tall as Willie,
a
little more delicate in form,
beautiful, spiritual." The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child.
I
am here this morning with
the children. Oh! Would that the little thin veil
could be removed, and your spiritual vision be
opened, and you behold us as we are real; but
the shell, the earthly outside removed and the
beautiful spiritual put on, so that we are the
immortal beings (68- Vol. IlI) of another world,
permitted to come to you and visit you and in
a
measure become materialized while with you, but
that
is
only when we become visible to your eyes,
or perform some work in your presence. When
you hear us walk about the room and take the
paper, we are
in
a
measure materialized. Dr.
Franklin has the power to materialize himself
more perfectly than any other spirit. Can you
now, better understand, my child, from this littre
explanation?
I
hope you can, for
I
am sorry to see you desire
any knowledge which lies
in
my power to give.
We love to tell you about our lives, but there
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 161
are things we cannot explain, for instance, the
fact of our existence, no more than you can ex
plain your coming upon the earth. But we know
that we are blessed and that we can bless. We
know that our wishes are prayers and a higher
power answers them.
We dress, we sing, we have amusements, we
have tea-parties, we have duties great, oh so
much greater than yours. We often have to repose
after a long trial of duties.
Now my dear child, let me speak of things
closely linked with my soul. We were all with
you Thanksgiving day; we were here in the room
with you; we were all dressed in our most beau
tiful robes; we were happy. Frankie and Leila
were here with wreaths of flowers for you. They
brought them for their Mamma and Papa. You
should be very happy for we are. We have looked
in your future, it has (69- Vol. IlI) no heavy
clouds. Turn from the graves; look upon them as
little garden spots where the flowers bloom for
your beloved. Now there are no graves, no
withered flowers. Oh! Rejoice, rejoice, your two
Grandpas, your own beloved Ma, and I, your
Grandma bless you with our eternal love.
Grandma."
P. S. My children all send their love to you."
On reading the above I remarked "And you
have great trials." The pencil wrote.
"For instance; had it not been for two guardian
spirits of 1this girl, for the past week, she would
have fallen into wicked hands; perhaps died in
her weakness.
Yes, George and Sarah, I am teaching both the
children. Frankie is a very charming boy. His
intellect is great. His flowers will show that. He
has a great mind for a little boy. I often look
upon him and think how happy you would have
been, how proud of him, had he been spared to
grow up by your side. A little wish that he might
have lived obtrudes, but for an instant. He is
better off here. He came an untarnished gem and
was placed in the glory of the sinless world, to
work for and protect you. George I want you to
have all the work you can do. I know you are
(1) Katie.
happiest when you are doing good and making
money.
Do not look upon the present as dull. (70-Vol.
IlI) Never shall you be in a place that you can
not step out of. Your work will bring you suc
cess. I am very busy this morning. I will now
give directions. Meet next Tuesday at half past
six A. M. for Frankie and have his paper on the
table. We do not wish him disappointed. All is
well! God bless you! prof ,,
"My Own Dear Sarah. You have not called
me! Do you know that, my sister? Would you
have forgotten that I was here? You know that
I always come first, but this morning I gave way
for others. Now I come, my sister, to speak for
I know, I am welcome, and that your heart would
grieve to have me go away without saying some
thing.
Dear Sister, I believe I understand you better
than all the rest. 1 feel that if 1 was in the form
you would come to me and I could give peace by
placing your head upon my breast. Sarah be not
depressed for I can give you joy. I help you with
my love and sympathy. There is a constant flow
from me to you and from you to me. 1 can feel
your spirit if happy, I am conscious of it if un
happy. I am by your side to cheer you, beloved
one.
Tell Em. that I see her thoughts, I read them
and I keep watch that all is well with her absent
one. Tell her he will do well and by Christmas
she will be very happy. Tell her to keep cheerful
and be a good girl as I always (71-Vol. IlI) find
her. I can say no more. We are all going soon
on our way rejoicing. God bless you!
Olin."
"My Dear Child. We are so happy, our family
in this world of light and love. We never forget
you! Oh! No! No! We are ever watching that
no evil comes. Be not worried. Tell Emeline,
that I am with her and that 1 shall rejoice to see
her happily situated, which she will be at some
future day not far off. I am now going to take
charge of the children. God bless you!
Your Ma.
Your Mother to all Eternity."
162 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Son. The labor of every honest man is
hard for he has trials to endure. The whims and
caprices of others to combat with. 1 speak of
your profession, but the bright star of your life.
Success not failure, shall be your reward, so be
happy and rejoice! We can say no more. The
power which permits our coming is weakened,
exhausted, therefore open the window and let us
depart. Chain us not by wishing us to remain
for your wish keeps us here, especially your chil
dren, and they require now the pure atmosphere
of heaven, and their robes must be changed and
their flowers arranged. God bless you!
Isaac T. Hopper."
Dec. 5 9 A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sister. The air is filled with elec
tricity and we are happy to talk this morning.
(72- Vol. IlI) We wish you to know how near we
are to you when the atmosphere is clear. We
came in with Katie last evening and we were
happy for we knew that we could speak freely
this morning.
We are all going to the banquet hall this after
noon at half past four. We are to meet there for
conversation and a consultation and also to look
into the future of those dear to us. Our circle
will have a room in the center of the building,
where no others will look in. You must not ask
for us as it will be an important day and we will
have to look with careful eyes without the chain
being divided and you must, dear Sarah, try to
avoid thinking too much of us. We shall be free
at six in the morning to talk with you. Go on
your way happy and look not back into the dark
past if it be sorrowful; look to the present, see
how beautiful the sun shines, the spirits float
about you, they hand flowers to drop upon you
and leave them sometimes with you, blessings of
the choicest kind, such as angels alone can give.
Oh! Be happy! Rejoice and live in our presence
for we are with you, as real, as life-like as we
ever were. We hear the harps sounding! We hear
the little ones singing. Some are anxious to go
on little errands to their Grandparents or their
Mothers. Some are anxious to play on the harp
and some to weave garlands. Be happy! Leila
and Frankie are dancing with delight for there is
no place they love so much to visit (73-VoI. HI)
as the Banquet hall. No more now Sarah.
We will all give you a full detail and your
future shall be well read. God bless you ! All is
well! I hear the children calling 'Uncle Olin,
tell Mamma we love her and that we will bring
her something from the banquet hall, something
pretty.' Now these little prattles I give you for
they come from your children. I hear my name
called by the whole circle. I must join them.
Good bye Sarah. All is well!
Olin."
Dec. 5 4 P. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. Now we are preparing to
start for our pleasure spot. I am ready and the
others are preparing, and we are happy, for we
shall all meet happy as birds. We are just as
happy as you would be were George and Willie
in Europe for some months and you just expect
ing them home. Do you understand the illustra
tion? All is well! I go. I go. Now the choir
calls.
Olin."
Dec. 6 6i/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was very damp, still we met punc
tually. B. F. said "We are all here." I responded
"And are you here Dr. Franklin?" Olin answered,
"The father of electricity and the discoverer of
the spiritual telegraph between the two worlds
is here. The present generation owe all to him."
The echoes now directed the Doctor and Katie
to go by the folding doors, and almost as soon
as they returned to their seats, sent them back
and at the same time Dr. (74-Vol. HI) Franklin
made this explanation. "The child is anxious to
paint now, but it would not be fine in this atmos
phere and I am trying to show him this fact.
Come little boy." And away they went again by
the folding doors. The pencil wrote and they left
us at seven.
"My Dear Sarah. The atmosphere is too un
favorable for us to take the paper. Oh! How
good Dr. Franklin is to show the cause, the rea-
(1) The banquet hall.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 163
son why, it cannot be done, to these little ones.
Meet at nine for messages, you and Katie. All
is well.
Olin."
"I have shown to the little boy that it is im
possible to handle the paper in a damp atmos
phere without injuring
it,
leaving
a
blemish up
on it.
B. F."
"We are all very happy.
Prof. K."
"George, thy heart calls me.
I
am here. Do
not let thy mind be worried. The jewels will
soon flow from it. xThy nervousness chained me
to thy bedside. Now do not let thy mind be dis
turbed for thy work will come out right.
I
feel
sorry for thee when sleep
is
denied thee. These
words are true and they should comfort thee.
Isaac T. Hopper.
B. F."
Dec.
6
9
A. M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. Just as the sun's rays were
lengthening across our paths and the flowers open
ing we all followed in the avenue that led to our
banquet hall, two by two; (75-Vol. IlI) Grandma
and Grandpa, her children, Ma, Frankie and
Leila, Prof. Kenyon, his wife and other members
of his family, Isaac T. Hopper and his family.
Dr. Franklin and his wife led the way. We fol
lowed those two immortal beings, so pure and
holy. While going along there were acquaint
ances, young girls and youths throwing flowers
before us and upon us.
The children were dressed in golden tissue
spotted with little blue flowers.
I
speak of
Frankie and Leila, their robes fell loosely about
them and they looked like angels as they were.
Leila wore
a
wreath of forget-me-nots, but
Frankie would have nothing but his little curls.
We were met at the door by the great father of
our country and his family, for they were there
first. They were happy to lead us where we could
exchange sentiments. They reminded me of the
time when as
a
boy
I
used to look upon their pic
tures.
(1) The Doctor had puud a restless night as he often did
when writing.
I
said to them "We exchange words face to
face here, we clasp hands.
I,
General, am most
happy to meet so great
a
man."
He answered, and his voice was full of love,
"Except ye become as little children, ye can not
enter the kingdom of heaven."
Here the children ran to me, and holding the
hand of this great and good man, we passed
to our room where we found our seats prepared,
our pleasures ready.
It
was beautiful to see the flowers open when
the children touched them.
It
was (76-Vol. IlI)
amusing to them. Frankie touched
a
large lily,
it
opened, and
a
beautiful dove came out which
flew to Dr. Franklin, then back to him with
a
message written in gold letters, telling him that
he would meet him this morning.
First, let me tell you Sarah, that on entering
there
is
the most soothing music, low, but so
distinct that
it
can be heard throughout our
world.
It reaches the ears of every pure spirit,
and they follow the sound and often go to the
hall, without a
desire to go in, merely to see, as
all spirits find not their families
in
this beautiful
place.
They walk about, look in, and
if
they feel in
clined, go in. Some are timid; then we step for
ward and take them to the most pleasant parts,
but they do not at first understand, and go away
before they see the great beauty of the place.
Mr. Hopper
is
going to bring some new spirits
here at the next meeting. You know them by
reputation. Some of them have not been here
long and seem discontented.
My Dear Sarah we will now tell you of our
meeting, how we read the future. We sat down
together. Ma, Grandma, Grandpa and family
all sat down together. We were parted off in
families. We sat before
a
pure stream. First,
I
saw your future six months ahead.
It
was
a
beau
tiful, peaceful landscape. Yours and George's
are on one landscape. Near (77- Vol. IlI) George
was
a
little darkness,
a
few little clouds and
hills. But they will all be overstepped and he
will stand bright and clear in successful paths.
He will have
a
few trials at first to endure and
164 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
he must be cheerful under all difficulties, for all
will pass away and you and all dear to you
will be happy. I saw you Sarah, at the bedside
of some sick, very sick person. I am not per
mitted to tell who, some one in your family.
I saw you gliding along safely, with flowers at
your feet. You must guard Willie from disease,
from too much study. We will from time to time
advise you and prevent much evil. Do not feel
a shadow for all is well.
Tell dear Em. that she has no cause for shad
ows. I can not tell her now what I saw mirrored
in her future as I am not permitted, it is not
best. Ralph has much sorrow before him. The
mirror came no more and we arose from our seats
to walk the beautiful halls. While we were read
ing the future, the children were out in the bow
ers, made wreaths of flowers one for Mamma,
one for Papa and one for Willie; so they prat
tled, and sang, and danced, and played.
Dr. Franklin desires a meeting at half past six
to-morrow morning. He will then choose the
crayons and paper. God bless you.
(78- Vol. IlI) Dec. 7 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was perfectly clear. 1 placed
three crayon sheets of different shades upon the
little table by the folding doors, and eight cray
on pencils of different colors or shades upon the
large table by the window where we sit. I left
the room and closed the door. In about fifteen
minutes we were ready to enter and as we ap
proached the room the door was opened for us.
Dr. Franklin saluted Dr. Taylor with a vigorous
slap upon the shoulder, told us they were here,
sent the Doctor and Katie two or three times by
the folding doors and then told us to move the
small table up to ours. I moved it squarely
against the large table and on the opposite side
from Katie.
Now by Dr. Franklin's order I took up one
crayon pencil at a time and marked upon the
crayon sheet designated by him until I had used
three, and was taking up the fourth, had my fin
gers upon it when another of those still upon the
table was put in my hand displacing the one I
was taking. After trying this fourth pencil he
said "That will do; tie them together." 1 wound
a thread about these four pencils some half
dozen times, tied it securely and was about lay
ing them down when he said, "Keep them in
your hand and hold them under the table." I
did so and immediately (79-Vol. IlI) felt a large
cold hand against mine, then it took the pencils.
The Doctor held both of Katie's hands during
this, but soon she took a pencil and it wrote.
While it was still writing the echoes said "Open
window." I opened it and took my seat, the pen
cil still writing. After five minutes they told us
to close the window. I did that and again took
my seat, the pencil all the time continuing to
write.
When they were through, they bade us open
our eyes and read.
"My Dear Children. I have taken the pencils
as they are the hardest to control. Wood is hard
to come in our sphere. I will retain them to-day.
To-morrow at half past six I will take the paper
weather permitting. The most difficult is over
and I hold them still in your presence. I want
the little boy to succeed as well as any one here
and I am going to give him my aid. We will not
be able to say much until this picture is finished
as we are all going to aid him. Meet at half
past six to-morrow morning. Be of good cheer!
There are no shadows in your pathway. All is
bright and we are happy.
B. F."
"My Dear Child. I am happy to come here
and talk, to say a few words, to tell you that
all is well. The flowers are open, the sun is shin
ing brightly across our pathway and we are
walking in shining robes over the sunny paths.
Oh! Sarah (80- Vol. IlI) how happy we are.
Frankie and Leila are reposing in your Grand
ma's arms and I am now going to take them
with me as they are calling me. I must be by
their side. Oh! Would that you could see them.
My child I came to tell you not to feel worried
about Willie. He is not going to be sick but he
must not study too hard. Now I must leave you
to go to my work.
Your own Ma."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 165
"George, I am here. Your Father amused me
this morning, he is going to every bower where
the children are reposing, taking them in his
arms, dancing them up and down. I am sure he
is happy with all his innocent duties. Now my
son you are getting along well and you will not
fail.
Isaac T. Hopper."
The Doctor asked, "How came our friend so
familiar with Washington, Franklin, Prof. Hare
etc.?"
"That shall be explained. Get no ideas of
your own, merely wait. Never urge a communi
cation. Never urge. Let it flow freely. The ex
planation will be given by Dr. Franklin.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My sister, I am not going to let the circle
close without saying a word. We are happy this
morning, you must be. The flowers of heaven
send forth their sweet perfume (81-Vol. IlI)
through the air, and I send the blessing the soul
of them to you. God bless you. Tell Em. I
was with her last night. Tell her all is well.
Olin."
"Mamma, I am so happy! Mamma, Papa do
you see how happy I am? I have just seen the
pencils, for I was reposing when they were taken.
I will be on the spot before Dr. Franklin to-mor
row.
Frankie."
Dec. 8 6V2 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was very fine, the moon shone
with silvery whiteness. I placed the crayon paper
upon the table by the folding doors, we got ready
and were in the room on time.
Before we were all seated Frankie said, "Mam
ma I am here." Then Dr. Franklin's, Prof. Ken-
yon's and Olin's echoes greeted us joyfully. We
were ten minutes seated when the Doctor and
Katie were sent by the folding doors. They re
mained but a moment or two and as they re
turned the small table followed them until it
struck against that around which we sat. By
their directions, I placed it in the same position
as on the previous morning, opened the window,
we all stood by
it,
closed
it
and lighted the gas.
The crayon paper was gone and we had been in
the room less than twenty minutes. They told
us to meet at nine for directions but wrote not
one word at this sitting.
(82-Vol. IlI) Dec.
8
9
A. M.— 1870.
"We have had great success this morning. The
paper and crayons are now ours. Your little son
is
full of delight. He wants to do his best, and
he shall.
I
wish to impress upon your minds that
your son does the work with my aid. He thinks
that he can do more than paint the flowers, but
I
tell him constantly that he will make
a
great
achievement to paint the flowers.
1
will stand
over him and direct with care.
I
have the little
fellow here with me this morning and
I
want you
to assure him that he will gratify you by paint
ing the flowers alone.
It
is
well to help these
little ones and
1
am happy to be able to.
Meet Saturday at half past six in. the morn
ing. Do not break one of these appointments.
You will be rewarded. So far we are rejoiced,
the conditions are good, the channel
is
pure for
which we are more than rejoiced. We can not
express our joy any more than you can convey,
to the minds of others, the strains of an organ.
All we ask
is
that our directions may be fol
lowed. We will then be able to follow out our
own wishes. We are very happy for we look be
yond the present, into the future. Before we
commenced this work we looked into Katie's fu
ture and we saw that she would be true to her
promise. All
is
well!
B. F."
(83-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sister Sarah. We were
all here this morning. Ma left our circle early and
looked in your face before you left your bed, and
waited till your lamp was lighted. When you were
ready she gave us
a
sign and we all came through
our shining paths. We have no darkness to walk
through, no lamps to light. Our lamps are lighted
by One who gives you light, life and blessings.
We are so real, so human and yet divine. We
love enjoyments, we love pleasures, we love to
meditate, we love to come down to our beloved
on earth, to cheer them, to lift them up when they
are sad and make them feel more worthy of them
selves.
166 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Ma, often when you are writing up your ac
counts, sits down by your side with the children,
and makes you a visit when you are not conscious
of her presence. Often we mingle with you when
you are thinking of your daily cares. Oh! My
Sister how happy I am to see that all is well.
No dark clouds. No dark shadows over your
future. I looked at the flowers this morning, they
were all fresh, their sweet heads were up and I
went my way with a happy heart. I have a heart
Sarah, it beats like yours, but beats no requiem;
a life throb of immortality. Ma, Grandma and all
send their love to you. Tell Em. she must not
droop in spirits, tell her not to fold her wings, 1
mean, not to fold her arms in sadness, not to let
(84- Vol. IlI) the drops of disappointment fall
from her eyes, for I know that she has yet to
enjoy her happiest days. The golden clouds float
over her now and she must be happy.
We can say no more for the power is exhausted
and we must refresh ourselves in the atmosphere
of a higher power and dear Sarah, we must con
sult together therefore call us not back. God bless
you and George.
Olin."
Dec. 10 6i/2 A. M.— 1870.
Another clear, cold and bright, moonlighted
morning. We found our invisible loved ones full
of power and happiness. We heard the pencils
upon the paper with great distinctness and the
Doctor felt the touch of Frankie's hand several
times. He took hold of his Papa's uncovered
hands and placed his fingers on his Papa's fore
head and held them there for a little time. He
pulled my dress with great strength. Their echoes
to each other were particularly joyous.
At seven o'clock, by their direction, we opened
the window and left the room with eyes still
closed. As soon as we were seated in our parlor
the pencil began to write and continued to do
so for more than twenty minutes, when it stopped
and the echoes said, "I am waiting for directions."
Soon it commenced again and immediately some
one rapped at the door. The Doctor went and
opened it but could see no one, still he, Katie,
Maggie (who was in (85-Vol. IlI) the room) and
I heard the rap at the door with distinctness. Now
Olin explained, "It was Dr. Franklin knocking
good bye as he left."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We have had a
glorious beginning and now we are happy. Dr.
Franklin and the children are still in the back
room and I am ordered to come and give
directions.
We are happy not to have breaks in the chain.
All the circle have been here for Frankie's benefit,
we are aiding him, his little hands use the crayons
with great ease. We watch his delicate fingers
move in his work, we watch the animation of
his face, his happy spirit and we feel rejoiced to
give him this pleasure.
His mind expands as his days go on, he is able
to teach Willie. This little boy, who is as real, as
life-like as Willie! only the earthly is thrown
off. We wish to let you see through the veil ! And
we can! We can! I want to tell you in few
words that all the flowers are bright in your
garden here, none have closed their leaves with
disappointment, they are fresh and that indicates
happiness.
See how beautiful, how clear the sky is. We
have been able to do much. For flowers the
conditions are entirely different.
Ma, Grandma and Grandpa are together. They
placed Frankie in Dr. Franklin's arms (86-Vol.
IlI) long before you had arisen. He felt a little
darkness as he approached you but soon his
eyes opened in the glory that surrounded him
and he was not troubled with earthly shadows.
All is happy here.
We go to-morrow to the banquet hall at an
early hour. We shall have much to tell you the
following day.
Meet Monday at half past six and at nine.
George, Dr. Franklin has been talking with me.
He says that you had better go right on with your
work and finish it up. Do not delay, you will
get through well and successfully. All is well!
Worry not! Let your hearts be happy! Your
minds at ease and blessings will follow you.
We will be with you to-morrow before we dress
for the banquet hall.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 167
Dear Sarah, we all go now to consult with each
other.
Olin."
Dec. 11 6V2 A. M.— 1870.
The air was cold and perfectly clear. As soon
as we were seated Frankie said, "My own, dear,
precious Mamma and Papa 1 am here." Dr.
Franklin and Prof. Kenyon each signified their
presence in his own peculiar way. We directly
heard them working upon the paper and they told
me to furnish them a bowl of water at the next
meeting. Katie wrote as usual and at about
fifteen minutes past seven the echoes said "Get
the box out of the drawer, put it on the bed
and (87- Vol. IlI) take off the cover." When
this order was given the Doctor and Katie were
standing by the little table. They did not move
while I obeyed. Almost as soon as done the
echoes added, "Spread the linen handkerchief
over the box, then the cover." This I also did
while the Doctor and Katie still stood by the
little table.
On taking our seats they said "We shall linger
near until after nine. Open the window that we
may make our presence invisible." In reply to
an inquiry they said their paper was in the box.
We opened the window, closed
it,
opened our
eyes, locked the box in the drawer and read the
following.
"My Dear Sarah. We are here this beautiful
morning, we, your loved ones are here. Do you
dear Sister realize how greatly you are blessed?
We have asked ourselves
if
we realized how
greatly we are blessed in being permitted to come
to you and do these things? All spirits have not
the same power. Many look at us anxiously and
longingly. Many ask our aid. They too would
love to bless their friends but few know how
to receive these gifts. Therefore, all are not
blessed alike. We are going to our banquet hall
soon, for we have much to say to each other and
we have new friends to meet. Dr. Franklin and
Frankie are at work. We are aiding them. We
are working successfully. We have chosen this
early hour. No calls from outside, no prying
eyes, no suspicious minds at this hour, this calm
and peaceful hour. The Professor
is
here with
his kind aid. All are here. Ma
is
(88-Vol. IlI)
going to stand very near Frankie by the table.
She
is
never far from the children. We left Leila
for the first time reposing in her cradle of flowers.
Grandma sits near her to clasp her in (her) arms
as soon as she opens her eyes. We want
a
short
meeting at nine. Be punctual. Dr. Franklin will
be ready to give directions.
Olin."
Dec.
1
1
9
A. M.— 1870.
I
unlocked the drawer, placed the box on the
bed, put
a
bowl of water on the bureau near the
little table, opened the window and as soon as
the Doctor and Katie were in their seats we
closed our eyes; then
I
took the cover and the
handkerchief upon the little table and took my
seat. Again we heard working upon the paper
with firm and apparently precise touch. Katie's
hand wrote and they left us by the open window
taking with them their paper. We do not yet
know why they left
it
with us from seven to nine.
There appeared to be no reason in the atmosphere
for the air was clear and cold. We found the pic
ture of little Leila, with her harp, standing upon
the bureau near us. It was in that "box."
"We are all here. The paper we will take with
us. The children are dancing with delight. As
soon as this meeting
is
over we will dress for
the banquet hall. You say, dear Sarah and
George, that you would like to know how
it
is
(89- Vol. IlI) that we have the company of these
distinguished men?
I
will tell you. As a
bird
seeks its rest
in
a
tree, so we seek those who are
above us
in
intellect. Our spirits attract by our
desires, and more especially
if
we had that desire
before coming here. You always had
a
wish to see
President Lincoln and shake hands with him.
You would have gone some distance to sit down
at table with him. You would make the effort
to see him. So
it
is
with us, only our wish
is
a
prayer and attracts the spirit so that
it
seeks us
and the way
is
opened for our souls to mingle.
Those who come here without
a
desire to know
more, without
a
wish to see these historical per
168 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
sons, never behold them except at a distance.
They are repelled, instead of attracted.
Now, my dear Sarah have I given you an idea?
Dr. Franklin knows that he is beloved here by
every spirit that is able to express itself in
language, and he is always ready to aid and
instruct. He feels it a happy duty. You will find
him in every home, where the inmates are worthy,
bending over the dying, cooling the feverish brow,
bringing before the dying beautiful visions,
moistening the parched lips. Unseen he ad
ministers these blessings and they are realized
when the lips move not.
Long we have lingered in your atmosphere and
we must go to our own pure skies where our power
can be replenished and our most beautiful gar
ments put on for the banquet hall. (90- Vol. IlI)
We will talk with you about it at nine to-morrow.
Do not call us back or think too strongly of us
or our circle may be broken.
One word to Em. Tell her we have not for
gotten her, no shadows, sing and be happy. Frank
is well. All is well! We can say no more.
Olin."
"Meet at half past six to-morrow morning.
B. F."
Dec. 12 12 M.— 1870.
At half past six the rain fell in torrents and
they postponed the meeting till nine. At nine
it was just the same and they postponed the
meeting till twelve. At twelve the rain continued
moderately. Katie and 1 sat a little time for
them to write. While Olin was writing the echoes
said "Sarah I am here. Chance brought me in
your way. I am going to visit other friends and
just stopped a moment to see you. Good bye." 1
asked who is it? Ans. "I am Sarah Langworthy's
son Thomas." My Father's brother, more than
forty years on the sunny side.
"My Dear Sarah. We come with difficulty
but we are here. Frankie was very much dis
appointed not to have his meeting. He un
derstands now why he could not go on with the
work and is now a happy little boy in bright
paths above all dampness and clouds.
This morning he pulled Dr. Franklin and
begged him to come with him. That good man
went with him as far as the atmosphere would
permit and Frankie (91-Vol. IlI) was glad to
return to his home. You feel the change in the
atmosphere, so do we when we approach your
earth. We feel the drawbacks. We love so much
to come when the sun shines and the atmosphere
is clear. We all went to the banquet hall yester
day. We had a beautiful day and a charming
time. No drawbacks, no clouds. We remained
till five this morning as no other duties called us
away. Mr. Hopper was there with friends of his
youth. He introduced us to them. There was
Henry Clay, George Fox, Mr. Hicks and many
whose names were I to mention you would not
recognize.
Mr. Pierpont was with him and I was pleased
and gratified to meet them all. He met some
friends whom he only knew through history.
It is a pleasant sight to behold these meetings.
They clasp hands and exchange greetings just as
you do on earth. The children do not care so
much to be with other children as they do with
us. They were favored with a room by themselves
yesterday. Frankie drew some flowers on the
table by which he sat, then he gathered the most
beautiful he could find for Leila; when through
with that he made numbers of little bouquets for
our party and presented them to us. We were very
happy. And Sarah who do you think looked in
upon the children while they were sitting there?
Margaret Fuller and her child. She knew Mr.
Hopper and as her child is a sad little fellow, she
thought she would like to have him join Frankie
and Leila which will be at our next meeting at
the banquet hall.
How Margaret Fuller finds happiness? She
came (92-Vol. IlI) yesterday for the first time.
My spirit was drawn towards her gentle spirit.
When the hour arrived for us to leave, the organ
played a farewell in the most exquisite strains.
At the first echo of the organ, we all, every one
in the hall gathered before
it,
and knelt as the
heavenly strains sounded forth its parting hymn.
When we arose we all went our different ways
and were happy.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 169
We will linger near you to-day but it will not
be possible for us to talk, the atmosphere is so
unfavorable. Dr. Franklin told me just as I was
approaching earth, that the meeting would be
to-morrow at half past six in the morning, weather
permitting.
All the flowers are open and bright. We have
no dark clouds over us, no rain to wet our gar
ments. But murmur not at God's will, never com
plain, it is wrong. He sends the rain as well as
the sunshine, be thankful for both.
My dear Sister we are overjoyed to look in
the future, for we see that we will have good
conditions. No more.
Olin."
Dec. 13 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
The rain finally ceased and although the earth
was full of dampness we met punctually at the
appointed hour. As soon as we were seated
Frankie said "My dear Mamma I am here." We
heard them use the pencils upon the paper, they
touched the Doctor twice, wrote in the usual
manner and left as always.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The shades of
night are upon you, still the clouds hang over the
sky above you and you need the light of a lamp
to guide you. (93-Vol. IlI) Not so with us, we
have always light, always beauty. Here there
are no cares, here there is no painful suffering.
We can not say that we do not suffer when those
we love suffer. We feel suffering in a different
way, we grieve and participate in your feelings.
To lift your heart up is our greatest wish at such
times, and were you to lean on us we would bear
you safely above the clouds and shelter you in
our arms. When we see a beloved one suffer we
at once look into the future to see how every
thing is going to end. If bright we give hope, if
the contrary we say very little but advise as cir
cumstances admit. I tell you this that you may
know how real we are. This morning we are all
here happy, there are no clouds which can not
be dispelled, therefore be happy in your hearts.
Frankie thinks that he is a man already since
he takes lead in this work. He is very happy.
He was ready to approach earth long before the
time. We were obliged to call him back. We have
not had one break, for which we are grateful.
There will be none we see.
Ma, Grandma and all are here. They see you
although you do not see them. We shall all
make your holidays days of joy. Christmas morn
ing we want an early meeting as we all want to
speak.
I wait now for directions from Dr. Franklin.
Meet at half past six Thursday morning, day
after to-morrow. All is well!
Olin."
(94- Vol. IlI) Dec. 15 7 A. M.— 1870.
At fifteen minutes to seven I was awakened
from a sound sleep by Katie tapping at my door.
I sprang to my feet and we made the room and
ourselves ready in the shortest possible time.
I regretted very much having over slept, but
the Professor assured me that no harm had come
from it. The morning was clear and cold. The
meeting was very pleasant, and each time they
wished the Doctor and Katie to go by the folding
doors, they gave the Doctor a little push in that
direction and gave no other indication of their
wish.
The Doctor dressed himself in such haste that
he omitted his vest. It lay some ten feet from
where he was sitting, with his watch and glasses
both attached to it. Frankie brought the vest
with all the attachments to his Papa requesting
him to put it on. They wrote.
"And so my little Mamma over slept this morn
ing while I was dancing with Leila by her bedside.
No matter Mamma! All is well!
Frankie."
"My Dear Sarah and George. I looked in this
morning and saw you sleeping, then I informed
Dr. Franklin and awakened Katie in time. We
are all here and perfectly satisfied for the con
ditions are good and all is well.
The flowers will be beautiful. We work with
power. We have had no breaks and that rejoices
our hearts, we do not lose time to mend the broken
links. Dear Sarah let me make a little explana
tion. When we have work to do like this (95-Vol.
IlI) we give the time that is allowed us for this
170 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
purpose; then our duties come in and we perform
them. We, are our circle, and our power is ex
pended alike. We never want our power exhausted
during these meetings therefore it is well to call
on us as little as possible while we retain the
paper and crayons. Sometime Dr. Franklin will
make this all clear to you. We choose the morn
ing for Katie is fresh and the power good. We
can do very little after she has had a long
sitting.
We want you to be as punctual as possible now.
We are all happy! Your beloved ones all send
their love to you. There are no shadows, there
are no clouds. All the flowers are open. We are
so happy to have had this meeting, so happy not
to have a break. This is the first time we have
been so favored. I wait now for directions from
Dr. Franklin.
Meet at half past six to-morrow morning.
Olin."
Dec. 16 6y2 A. M.— 1870.
We were ready and waiting on this clear, cold
morning before the appointed time. At twenty
five minutes past six we went in, but before we
were seated the loud full echo of Dr. Franklin
said "We are all here." They worked vigorously
upon the paper and at seven said "Sarah take
out the box." Directly after they said, "Sarah
take this picture and place it on top of the
box. I have taken it out fearing it would be
marred." The little picture of Leila holding her
harp was now placed in my hand. I covered the
box and did all as directed.
(96- Vol. IlI) "We are all here, happy to go
on with our work. All is well! We will place
the picture in the box until nine when we wish
you to meet for a short time.
Olin."
We were wondering if they had put their
paper in the box from which they had taken the
picture which they handed me. While we were
wondering the pencil wrote.
"The picture, our paper, is in the box. Do not
open the box. Meet punctually at nine. Follow
directions strictly now for we are just at the
most important part.
We all go to the banquet hall in a day or two.
I will not know until our next meeting.
Olin."
Dec. 16 9 A. M.— 1870.
We were in the room a few moments in
advance. They worked again upon the paper
for we, as always, heard them. When they were
through they took the paper with them. All was
pleasant.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
again. The meetings are very successful, now
there will be no failure. We will not be able
to say much until the picture is finished.
We have these two meetings this morning as
we have other duties which require our presence
and watchfulness. The glass of the future mirrors
much happiness for you. After the holidays
you will have more work to do yourselves.
Dr. Franklin is now busy with the picture.
The children are perfectly happy. Dear little
(97- Vol. IlI) Leila would like to draw the flowers
for you, but she can not understand it sufficiently.
I have told her that they should both present it.
Frankie wishes you to know that it is his gift,
his Christmas present. I think Leila will be able
to give something, perhaps a kiss from her own
lips. I am often obliged to explain to these little
ones in order to keep them happy.
You should rejoice every hour of your life,
to think that you have such treasures in heaven.
My dear Sarah be happy and let not your
heart sigh nor grieve for you have the companion
ship of these little ones daily.
We all come together this morning. On our
way here we paused to look at the flowers, found
them all open, not one was closed.
Ma, Grandma and all send their love through
me to you. Let no clouds come in upon the bright
landscape. When we are through with this meet
ing we shall soar in the sunny paths of summer
flowers and gather more power for we have
lingered long upon your earth. Meet Sunday
morning at ten o'clock. God bless you!
Olin."
"George My Son. Do not be disappointed, dis
couraged I mean, for your work will bring its
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 171
reward. You are getting along well with it and
it will be successful. We are all interested in it.
God bless you ! We go now.
Prof. Kenyon and Isaac T. Hopper."
(98-Vol. IlI) Dec. 18 A. M.— 1870.
The morning was cold and cloudy. At ten
minutes before nine the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. We are preparing to go
to the banquet hall as soon as our meeting for
the picture is over, and your friends have given
you a few messages. We hold a consultation there
on various subjects of importance. You shall at
some future time know all about it. Meet
punctually at ten minutes before ten.
B. F."
At ten minutes before ten we entered the room
and found them waiting for us. They were full
of peace and happiness. Frankie said, "I am
at work dear Papa and Mamma. 1 am a smart
boy Dr. Franklin says." He touched his Papa
two or three times and me quite as many. Just
before they left I felt fingers in my hair, down
the side of my face, on my ear, etc. I said, "Is
that you Frankie?" Ans. "No, it is your Grand
ma." While they were still working upon the
paper with the crayons the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this
morning."
f Olin."
"Oh! How happy we are to meet you, so true
to your appointment.
Grandma."
"Yes My Dear Child. We are all here dressed
in our beautiful garments, only our circle are
here, those who will join us, after this meeting,
to go to the banquet hall are now preparing. We
prepared long before the light of day (99-Vol.
IlI) touched your earth. Tell dear Em. that we
are with her and see no clouds over her. God
bless you my children. George, I include you in
this light. My son also. Dear Sarah, I dressed
the little ones this morning. As we were approach
ing your earth, many spirits followed us and
wished us joy in our beautiful robes.
Your Own Ma."
"Dear Sarah and George. Little Frankie has
done all the work himself with the aid of the
circle. Can you realize that his little hand uses
the crayons very finely? He never looks up from
his work except to get directions from Dr.
Franklin. He is so intent upon this one object.
Leila often looks over him. Now at this
moment his little hands are busy. You will
receive it Christmas morning at precisely nine
o'clock, clear or not. The child must not be dis
appointed.
Olin."
"George and Sarah. I am as deeply interested
in your children here, as you are in the one you
have with you on earth. He, Frankie, progresses
finely. Your book George will be a success. Do
not get discouraged. I am aiding you.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My Dear Sarah and George. Frankie is now
making a bud, separated from the stem, to
represent a flower falling from him upon you.
It is very beautiful. You see how each one of
us has spoken.
We will have to linger sometime in our own
atmosphere, before going to the banquet hall, in
(100-Vol. IlI) order to gather power.
Olin."
"Follow directions. Meet at half past six
Tuesday morning. Be punctual my children for
you will soon be rewarded. We are perfectly
satisfied with you all.
B. Franklin."
"Now we fly with the picture and crayons.
Olin."
Dec. 20 3 P. M.— 1870.
Tuesday morning was too wet for them to
bring their work, but at quarter before three
Katie came in and said our circle desired a
meeting at three. We prepared the room at once
and were in our seats at the moment.
Our friends were all present and manifested
great power, worked upon the picture, the chil
dren touched us, the pencil wrote, and we were
very happy. When we opened our eyes, after
they had left with the paper and crayons, some
one of the circle who lingered behind, said to
172 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
us, "Look at the little chair." I had just pur
chased a tiny cane seated chair for Willie to
present to Ellen's baby. This chair I had left
on my bureau, now it was standing on the carpet
some three feet distant. Ma then said "Leila
put it there, she has been sitting in it."
"My Dear Sarah and George. All is well! Oh!
How happy we are! We are all delighted with
the progress of our work. Frankie is doing justice
to his intellect, and you (101-Vol. IlI) will have
for a life long remembrance a painting done by
his own hands with the aid of Dr. Franklin. On
Sunday morning it will be given. It is beautiful.
Sarah, I want you to have it photographed.
We went to the banquet hall. We had an im
portant consultation. Frankie and Leila were
made familiar with Margaret Fuller's child and
soon became great friends. They talked of their
homes in this world, how beautiful they were
making them for the arrival of their friends;
and some day Leila and Frankie are going to
bring the little fellow here to see you, their
Mamma and Papa.
Our consultation was very important as on
Christmas day we have appointed an hour when
we are all to meet again at the banquet hall and
we can not be separated on that day. First we
are coming here. The meetings must be at half
past six and at nine. Be punctual and we will
present the greatest gift that has ever been be
stowed upon mortals. In the first place the gift
comes from those who are not of your earth,
executed by hands that you have held in yours,
commenced and finished by those dear little
hands.
When we met in the banquet hall a circle of
spirits wished to know what course we took in
order to be successful in doing such things. We
told them that they would have to find the channel
and other surroundings which would be almost
impossible for them to find (102- Vol. Il1) and
that they better not try to undertake the work
under so many difficulties. The spirits related
to the 'family who occupy rooms here, interrupt
ed our conversation with each other, by solicit-
(1) Mr. OgdenV
ing our aid for their friends. We told them we
could not aid them as our souls did not mingle.
We are always willing to aid when we can, but
there are instances when we can not.
We have changed the hour for meeting until
the dampness passes off. Meet at quarter after
three to-morrow.
George keep good courage! There are no
clouds. After the holidays all will go smoothly.
I see the sun shining brightly upon your future
landscape. Now my dear sister be happy! God
bless you all!
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I am pleased with all you
have done. I like your pretty little gifts, tokens
of your love. Leila likes the little chair and
would sit in
it,
so she has used
it
first. Tell
Emeline to have no anxiety, all
is
bright for
her. We are all very happy!
Your Own Ma."
"George be not disturbed; you are coming out
as bright as the sun which will soon shine through
these clouds. Now persevere and
I
will stand by
you. We will stand by you.
Prof. K. and Isaac T. Hopper."
The Doctor's book "Diseases of Women" to
which reference has been repeatedly made for
several months past, was still upon his hands.
Twenty four pages had been printed, we had
corrected them, and now we had the pages from
(103-Vol. IlI) the stereotyped plates and dis
covered on these pages several glaring mistakes
which had escaped our notice.
I
felt helpless and
discouraged, and when our meeting was through
I
wrote the following letter while the Doctor
and Katie, at the opposite side of the table were
talking, neither of them having any idea to whom
or about what,
I
was writing.
"My Dear Professor. We are
in
great anxiety
about the Doctor's book. We feel incompetent
to correct the manuscript, much more the proof.
Now
I
want to ask
a
great favor of you or
Mr. Hopper or somebody that
is
acquainted with
or knows of
a
literary, medical man: one that
we can engage to go over the manuscript care
fully and" critically and then see that the proof
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 173
is right. I know that I ask much but our need is
great and I know that you will gladly aid us if
you can.
Your loving pupil,
Sarah E. L. Taylor."
Before 1 finished the above Katie took the
pencil and the following was written.
"Now, My Dear Sarah, you know that I
sympathize with you and George, but there will
be a way for you to overstep the great obstacle.
The means will come more smoothly than you
think. You have good judgment and if you follow
it you will not go wrong. Just follow the judg
ment God has given you.
Wait a few days, 1 think I see a person com
ing here that will aid you. I will see Mr. Hopper
and talk with him before our meeting to-morrow.
Prof. Kenyon."
(104-Vol. IlI) Dec. 21 \2y2 P. M.— 1870.
The sun having cleared the atmosphere of its
dampness, "our circle" called the meeting at this
hour rather than quarter past three. Their power
was wonderful. We heard them walk and work
and heard the warbling of birds in the room.
Some of our loved ones took hold of us and finally
just before they left they asked us to take every
thing off the table at which we were sitting. As
soon as done we heard the little "wee" chair upon
the table; after a moment it moved directly in
front of me and the bow at my throat was pulled
several times so strongly that it drew me for
ward. These manifestations were very marked.
We have become so familiar with them that they
do not excite us mentally, still every nerve in
my body prickled as though I were receiving
electricity from a battery. As the chair was
placed upon the table the pencil wrote.
"Leila must detain you, to sit in the little
chair. She loves this little chair. Your own Ma."
The pencil had previously written.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this bright,
beautiful, clear morning. The beautiful picture
is here. The little artist is at work, his noble
master stands over him and all goes well. We
have great power. The picture will be finished
very soon. We have never had such conditions
before; there will be no failure even though the
rain should fall, for if the atmosphere should be
very damp we shall ask for your portfolio to
enclose the picture. (105-Vol. IlI) 1 We shall
rejoice when your minds are free from this
anxiety, you will then enjoy the meetings so
much more. Do not let your minds be worried,
it will all come out right. My dear Sister there
is not one link broken in our chain! Are you
not happy to know it? For that reason we have
been able to do more. On Saturday night we wish
you to be free at half past nine for a few moments,
but our next meeting will be Friday morning at
half past six, thus directs Dr. Franklin.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. I think your course is well.
I think a way will be opened for your work which
will wholly satisfy you. I am not well enough
acquainted in your city to know to whom to send
you and Mr. Hopper has been so long here that
he has lost sight of those who might aid you.
Believe me, your way will be opened, and you
will not fail. Sarah your judgment I rely upon
because it is careful and good.
I think I see some one coming who will aid
you. The worst is over. Ask and you shall find,
seek and it shall be given to you.
God bless you!
Prof. Kenyon."
P. S. The picture is nearly completed and it is
beautiful. The butterfly upon the large rose is
an emblem of immortality. We shall be here to
witness your joy upon receiving it.
Prof. K."
"We go now with the picture and materials.
The Circle."
Dec. 22 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
Katie came in at ten on the evening before
and the echoes immediately called for the alpha
bet, (1 06-Vol. IlI) before she repeated
it,
she
said "They have sent me home for
a
meeting
in
the morning" then she called the alphabet and
the "circle" said "Meet at half past six. We sent
Katie home. She
is
a
good girl to mind us."
(1) Our anxiety was about business matters, as well as the
"proof" before spoken of. This "proof" was just now really
the (treat "buK-bear" to me.
174 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
We had a pleasant and thoroughly working
meeting. At all of the sittings for this picture
the circle has signified its wish for the Doctor
and Katie to go by the folding doors, by giving
the Doctor a gentle push, when he would say
"Come Katie." She repeatedly, during the first
days of their being directed in this way, answered
him after this manner. "Why! How do you know
they want us?" It was so strange to her for the
spirits to signify their wishes and she know noth
ing about it. When the invisible circle wished
them to take their seats the Doctor would be
gently but firmly pulled in that direction.
They completed the work of the hour, wrote
and left us as always.
"We have every praise to give you all. You
are worthy of golden rewards. We are all here
in the room as fully formed as we ever were.
Oh! could your eyes only behold us how happy
we would be, happy on your account: but be
patient, the conditions are changing and you will
yet have that blessing bestowed upon you. This
picture will be finished at the next meeting except
the name which will be worked in just before it
is given to you. We will all come on Christmas
morning and talk with you. We will give you
the first Christmas greetings. I wait now for
directions from (107-Vol. IlI) Dr. Franklin. He
directs while he stands by the table and just be
fore leaving. Frankie is in high glee. Meet Sat
urday morning at half past six precisely.
We see that you will soon get through with your
1 trial Sarah. You are working faithfully and
soon you will rise above all the clouds. We go
with the picture and crayons.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. My friend and pupil I am
sorry to have your mind made anxious, but my
child be of good courage, all will be well. God
bless you! Farewell.
Prof. Kenyon."
Dec. 24 6y2 A. M.— 1870.
Our meeting, apparently, was very satisfactory.
No new thing occurred except the Doctor com
plained of a pain or fullness in his head which
( 1) Correcting proof.
he believed to be occasioned by want of sleep.
Almost immediately two large, firm hands were
laid upon the sides of his head and pressed long
and strong upon it. Dr. Franklin said that he
was trying to give him relief. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The day of
pleasure and enjoyment is near and Frankie is
delighted. The picture is nearly finished, the
name will be worked in on Sunday morning and
presented to you. Now let us tell you that we
are grateful to you all for your punctuality.
It is a sweet pleasure to do these things for you
when you follow our directions. There have been
no breaks, the chain is perfect and all goes well.
No word of rebuke have we to give, no sigh to
send forth over (108- Vol. IlI) broken promises,
no crushed flower to drop at your feet, therefore
rejoice. My dear Sarah and George we are happy
and we bring happiness to you. All is well.
We want a short meeting to-night at nine. We
will now go with the picture.
Olin."
Dec. 24 9 P. M.— 1870.
The picture was brought and worked upon and
left on the table before us with the following ex
planation and directions.
"The picture is nearly completed. They are
working on the inside now. You must not examine
it but quietly place it in the box and we will leave
it,
as we fear the atmosphere may be damp early
in the morning. Meet punctually at half past
six in the morning; rest early as we wish all the
power we can possibly have. The gift
is
not
bestowed upon you,
it
is
not yours yet.
It
will not
be finished until to-morrow morning. We will
work upon
it
one hour more and we must have
the power. Little Frankie
is
so charmed, you
will see how happy he
is
to-morrow. In every
respect he
is
satisfied. The beautiful flowers!
Sarah and George rejoice for great are your bless
ings. We must now go to our duties but we will
be the first to wish you 'Merry Christmas.'
Olin."
"My Dear Children.
I
have given your son
my faithful attention.
I
know you will be pleased
and gratified with his skill. (109-VoI. IlI)
I
do
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 175
not think that another person on earth will be so
favored and remembered by unseen hands. Meet
at half past six. Carefully place the picture in
the box. Look not upon it.
Farewell. B. F."
"Mamma and Papa I wish you 'Merry
Christmas' now for fear Willie will wish you
'Merry Christmas' before I have a chance. I
was afraid Willie would say 'Merry Christmas'
before I could speak. My flowers! My beautiful
present! My beautiful flowers! Do not look
upon them Mamma and Papa! Do not look! I
have kissed them. Good night Papa and Mamma.
Frankie."
Dec. 25 6y2 A. M.— 1870.
Christmas morning came cold and clear. We
took the picture out of the box, placed it on the
little table and took our seats. Immediately the
echoes said. "We all wish you 'Merry Christmas,'
Dr. Franklin, Prof. Kenyon, Ma, Grandma and
every one of the circle." During all the time that
this was being spelled, some one was pulling my
dress across my bosom and arms. I asked who it
was? Ans. "Leila and Frankie." Then we heard
loud, firm slaps upon the Doctor's shoulder and
at the same time the echoes said "My Son I wish
you a 'Happy Christmas.' Isaac T. Hopper."
Again the Doctor felt a hand upon his knee and
the echoes said "My dear Son and Daughter 1
wish you a 'Merry Christmas.' Your Own Father."
(1 10-Vol. IlI) They proceeded with their work
until after seven when they wrote the following
directions and left.
"My Dear Children. The pictures are finished,
all except the name and I will engrave that at our
next meeting which will be at half past ten. We
have some duties to attend in the mean time and
I want to give Frankie a few trials at his name.
After I have engraved
it,
I
think he can finish
it
under my directions.
It
will take one hour to
finish the pictures entirely. Look not upon these
pictures but place them carefully in the box. God
bless you, my children, for your faithfulness. We
are happy. We will talk at our next meeting.
Farewell till then.
B. Franklin."
Dec. 25 101/2 A. M.— 1870.
We placed the paper, as before, upon the little
table and then took our seats. Katie's hand soon
began to write while we chatted about indifferent
matters. She had to drop her pencil twice to
accompany the Doctor to the folding doors.
When they returned to their seats the last time
the small table followed them and came close to
the side of the one at which we sat, and into
exactly the same position that
it
stood when
they took the paper from the room the first time.
As soon as they were seated the echoes said,
"Dear Mamma, Dr. Franklin and
I
present you
with these pictures for Mamma and Papa," and
at the same time the paper was laid in my (111-
Vol. IlI) hand. Then the echoes said "Look."
We opened our eyes and opened the paper and
were amazed to see upon one leaf
a
beautiful
wreath of rose-buds of all sizes, with the word
Frankie, all ornamented with tiny rose-buds, in
the center; and on the other leaf
a
large bouquet
of roses tied with
a
blue ribbon. On one large
rose stands
a
butterfly which Frankie said
dignified "Immortality." One large rose-bud has
parted from its stem and
is
falling to the ground.
They are wonderfully, wonderfully beautiful. We
can not appreciate them fully, still we try and will
continue to try. We are blest beyond anything we
can hope to merit. That this work was done by
hands not earthly we know, for, as in the previous
pictures, either the Doctor or
I
always held Katie's
hands and
I
always kept watch over the room
as well, so that we know that what we state
is
true.
I
gladly record here that Katie kept each
appointment for this work. She says she never
did such
a
thing before. She and we are filled
with happiness to-day, this merry, merry day.
They wrote as follows.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The picture
is
now receiving its finishing touches and its idea
represents much that
is
beautiful, flowers falling
down upon you, oh, how happy we are. There
are no shadows, no tears to let fall, we have smiles
and blessings to give you this Christmas day. My
dear sister we have all been so interested in this
176 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
painting. Frankie has done nearly all with his
own hand under Dr. Franklin's directions.
(112-Vol. IlI) We are all here dressed in our
beautiful robes for when we leave you we are
going to the banquet hall. How long we shall
remain we can not tell but my dear Sarah and
George we shall give you an account when we
meet again. We shall have for the children at
the banquet hall a very beautiful Christmas-tree
and many other amusements. We all go there to
keep our Christmas day.
Ma brought you a beautiful wreath of flowers
while you were sleeping and I placed one over
Em's head. Ma kissed you both. We are a happy
family. Dear Sister receive my prayers for your
peace, for your success. May you never step on
thorns and may the roses you gather be beautiful
and heavy with blessings from those who love you
here. All is well! George I wish that this year
could close all your anxiety but I fear you will
have to work some time to come, however, be
of good cheer the harvest is not far off and your
reward is drawing near so look not for crosses.
We wish you 'Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year.' I will now say a few words to Em.
and then close. Dear Em. I am happy to see you
enjoy your Christmas presents. I have made you
one which you can not see until you come here.
It is a beautiful tree which changes with all the
hours in the day. In the morning the leaves are
all open, at noon golden and a little closed, at
the twilight-hour they all assume a silvery hue
and wave beautifully in the air, the soft air of
heaven. All wish you 'Merry Christmas.'
Olin."
(113-VoI. IlI) "Sarah, My Dear, Dear Child.
We have come to you through our golden paths;
we have scattered flowers as we drew near you
until we came into your very presence. 'Merry
Christmas' my children. The children, your
little treasures, are impatient to go where we
have promised to take them. Now my child re
joice for we are with you, and as my dear Olin
told you, I have kissed you. 'LeiIa has been
(1) A tw of flowen had been in thU room but were now ln
the parlor.
looking for the flowers in order to take out one
for you but she cannot find them. Frankie's work
is beautiful, you will be gratified with his gift.
Grandma sends oceans of love and kind wishes.
She can not speak this day as the power has been
exhausted on the pictures. They are forming now
to present them. Dr. Franklin is gathering the
materials. 1 must close. Your own
Ma."
"My Dear Sarah and George. God has given
you blessings which few can enjoy. I am happy
to be here this memorable morning. Merry
Christmas! Be of good cheer! We will all help
you.
Prof. Kenyon."
"We cannot my dear children make another
appointment before Wednesday at twelve, then
meet for directions. We all go now to prepare
for our day at the banquet hall. I shall present
the pictures with Frankie, then the circle will
follow me.
Farewell,
Benj. Franklin."
(114-Vol. IlI) Dec. 28 12 M.— 1870.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here. Dear Sarah
and George we were happy to see you pleased
with the pictures. We did all in our power to
make them beautiful, and this being the first
gift from Frankie we were desirous to have it
done in a way that it may be preserved. You
can have it photographed which will please his
eyes when he looks in upon you.
We had a happy day in the banquet hall. We
all met and talked together. The children were
very happy with their Christmas-tree. They were
not limited in their pleasures, they made the
acquaintance of many children of their own age.
Once dear Sarah the scene in the hall was so
dazzling that the children were wild to have
you both here. They implored Dr. Franklin to
bring you here just to see them for a few minutes.
Dr. Franklin explained to them that they could
come to you but you could not yet come to them.
After some delay they were satisfied. I met many,
many dear friends Sarah, yours as well as mine.
Now I am going to tell vou something that will
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 177
make you smile for the children were greatly
pleased.
You remember 'old Sabry! She was in another
sphere with her enjoyments. We take occasion
often to visit those who are in lower spheres and
see what we can do to add to their happiness.
In one part of the pleasure grounds I found Sabry
with her family. I then went back and took
Frankie and Leila with me to see (115-Vol. IlI)
Sabry. We each took her a beautiful wreath of
flowers and we left her happier than she ever
was in all her life. She talked of you until we
were out of the sound of her voice. Oh Sarah
what a playful little fellow Frankie is. He pulled
old 2Sary all over her grounds in the garden
and in the house and then sat in her lap, kissed
her 'good bye'; but Leila, my little serious Leila
stood and looked quietly on, silently amused. We
were a party by ourselves.
When we went back to the hall we found that
we had been missed by some inquiring friends.
Ma, Grandma and those nearly connected with us
knew where we had gone. Dr. Franklin knew, but
there were acquaintances, those whom we have
met in pleasure, in happiness, those who know
not our different paths, that wondered at our
absence. We made old Sabry happy and we
enjoyed our banquet pleasures all the more.
I met Horace Greeley's children. They are beau
tiful, bright, intelligent children. They were with
Margaret Fuller and her child. We were all very
happy, very joyous. We remained long. Some par
ties wished to hear how we succeeded with the
flowers. We talked it over with those who under
stood our feelings and they seemed very desirous
to see the work of our little boy. We have
promised to let them be present at a meeting here
which we wish to take place next Saturday evening
at half past eight.
I want you to get a linen handkerchief and place
it on the little table at nine to-night (1 16-Vol. IlI)
We wish to paint a "New Year's" gift for you from
(1) Old Sabry was a colored woman, who has been mentioned
in Books I and II. I loved her very much and saw her last
in the summer of 1859, a few months before her death. Her
age was 105 years.
(2) Old Sary was a sister of Sabry's but many years older.
She was my Grandma Lanprworthy's nurse. I remember well
to have heard Grandma talk of this old Sary and her great
love for her when she (Grandma) was a child.
Frankie and Leila if it be possible to accomplish
it. Meet at half past nine.
George your work is getting along finely, you
are working out of the clouds into the sunshine.
Sarah we think you had better gratify Ralph and
all go and dine with him on Monday and be as
happy as it is possible to be. We will be with you!
God bless you ! We go now, call us not back.
Olin."
Dec. 29 2i/2 P. M.— 1870.
At last evening's meeting they directed to have
the handkerchief starched and ironed, and that we
should meet at this hour.
We followed directions strictly. The air was
clear and cold. After a half hour passed as usual
they left through the open window and we could
not find the handkerchief we had left upon the
little table. Katie's hand had written the following.
"Again we meet, again we are with you, the chil
dren more joyous than ever, more beautiful for
their souls are glad and look through their eyes
with a sense of understanding which has never been
there before. My dear Sarah and George we are
happy to try to produce for the children a New
Year's gift. We shall take this handkerchief with
us.
My dear, faithful sister how happy we all shall
be when your eyes can rest from 1this labor. May
you be rewarded and may blessings follow you
through this New Year without (1 17-Vol. IlI) sor
row or clouds. I looked in the garden of your
future this morning and all the flowers were open.
All is well ! I can say no more but I will see that
peace and health abide with your little household.
Meet at three to-morrow.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. We are all here, the guests
of your quiet hours. How sweet to turn aside
from care and commune with us, how sweet to
know that we are with you. We are happy! May
you be happy!
I shall be with you all on Monday. Sarah think
of me, the children will be with me and you shall
feel that we are near. Give my love and blessing
(1) "Proof" for the Doctor's hook.
178 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
to Emeline. Now we depart to plan this work
upon the handkerchief.
Your own Ma."
"My Son. Do you think I have forgotten you?
I have not said much but I am all the time doing,
working and influencing you. I am happy to see
your work progressing for 1 know it will be a
great success. I shall not leave you until it is all
finished and when you make a mistake 1 will
advise you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Sarah. M fully agree with Miss
Catherine Beecher. George has a faithful wife,
none more so for which I know he is grateful.
God bless you my child.
Prof. Kenyon."
(118-Vol. IlI) Dec. 30 3 P. M.— 1870.
Clear and cold as yesterday. The meeting was
very similar to those previously described. The
only new thing that occurred was Dr. Franklin's
touching me on the shoulder. He often touches
the Doctor but never me. They wrote.
"Meet to-morrow morning at half past six pre
cisely. All is well! These words never come from
me except when I have looked into the future,
therefore rejoice.
B. F.
Dec. 31 6l/2 A. M.— 1870.
The air like bristling steel. We in our room
and everything as they desired. They worked but
a half hour. Katie's hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this last morning of the old year. The 'New
Year' will dawn upon you to-morrow driving
away entirely the old year and leaving sorrows
far away. You can not look back upon the past
year and feel that it has been ill spent; you can
not look back upon the past year and say that
you have not faithfully fulfilled your duty. It
is a record we are happy to contemplate. Some
records make us grieve; some bring not a pulse
of light with them; some cause many flowers to
wither: but in your home Sarah and George,
where the children meet for you, all the flowers
are open, the wreaths are green and new flowers
(1) This allusion is also to the Doctor's "book."
just opening into life. Oh! What a beautiful
vision for you when your eyes behold the home we
have tried to describe to you. We hope this 'New
Year' to be able to (119- Vol. IlI) give you a
true picture of our homes here and so visibly por
tray everything to your minds that you will al
most behold the other world.
All is well ! I heard Dr. Franklin say when we
were approaching earth. My mind is divided
when other work is going on therefore dear Sarah
and George I do not write freely. The children
are happy and joyous. Meet to-morrow morning
at half past six.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. To-morrow you shall hear
a strain from Leila's harp.
B. F. Prof. K."
We knew that Dr. Franklin had made Leila a
present of a "golden harp" but that we should
hear it amazed us and the Doctor said "We can
not realize it." Ans.
"You can not realize
it,
but you shall hear
a
strain from her heavenly harp.
B. F."
Jan. Irf 6V2 A. M.— 1871.
New Year's morning was clear as could possibly
be. We entered the room promptly, and before we
reached our seats the little "echoes" said "Mamma
a
Happy New Year." We seated ourselves and
the echoes continued "Dear Mamma Leila will
present our gift." Again "We had not time to
make
it
more beautiful. B. F." Then the hand
kerchief was placed in my hand. We lighted the
gas and upon the handkerchief was
a
large star
made with the crayons and beautified with eleven
rose-buds,
a
few leaves and five small stars. There
are six or more colors in the stars and they had
but four from us. They wrote.
(120-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
Frankie did the whole work with our aid. Dr.
Franklin will teach him to do far more beautiful
things. Leila was so disturbed because she had
nothing to give that Dr. Franklin put this
in
her
hand for you. Now she
is
happy! Be careful of
it
for her sake. The handkerchief has been
in
our
presence all of the time. The harp will be so
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 179
materialized soon that you will be able to hear it.
Meet at nine this morning. We wish you joy!
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet precisely at nine.
Leila will be here with her harp. She is happy
now, before she was grieving. I wish to show you
how real everything here is. We go to prepare.
B. F."
"Mamma and Papa, Happy, Happy, Happy
New Year.
Frankie."
Jan. \st 9 A. M.— 1871.
The Doctor, Em. and I went with Katie to our
room "on time." They (our invisible guests)
chatted with us through the echoes and wrote. We
heard a few little tingles from Leila's harp.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The harp is in
Leila's hands. She does not exactly understand
holding it in the earthly atmosphere. This is her
first trial. Next time she will play a tune which
you will all recognize. For this purpose we wish
preparatory meetings, on Tuesday, Thursday and
Saturday mornings at the usual hour. Sunday
morning you will hear the first real sound and the
'air' will (121-Vol. Ill) accompany your voices.
You see how you have progressed. Leila is in
perfect form. Her harp is beautiful. She is robed
in white and blue. These preparatory meetings
will be short as we can not retain the harp long
in your atmosphere, and their purpose will be to
materialize the harp. God bless Dr. Franklin for
his aid. We will now take Leila to her home
where she can leave her harp.
Olin."
We were now told to stand by the open window
and after standing there a few moments were told
to take our seats again when the writing continued
some of which follows.
"I believe that I have seen you before Dr. Tay
lor, once when you were in a car beside me. I
am grateful to your friend Mr. Hopper for his
aid. The murderer of Nathan is not in custody.
I will not intrude longer, your friends are waiting
to talk with you and I will come again later in the
year. Good morning.
Jordon."
"Sarah, you have called me in your heart. I see
your wish and I am here with Eliza, your Ma.
There was a time when a day like this made all
our hearts glad even when those about us were
saddened, our childish hearts were made joyous
by a single toy. I am happy to see these little
ones express their love, to see their pleasure in
giving little tokens of their love and undying
remembrance. I am with (122-Vol. IlI) them,
their duties are not marked out for them, in their
childish hours here they are treated like children,
amused and made joyous. Leila was here with her
harp. Before she came into your presence she
would have a blue ribbon tied on her harp. She
will not rest until she plays a tune that you can
recognize. Oh! Sarah how chilly my life was when
one by one my flowers withered on the stem. I
never told my doubts, but I feared that I should
never again behold my children.
How false and vague the preaching in former
years! How uncharitable. I am so happy now
that I long to have all those I love believe in the
reunion of souls hereafter. Dear Sarah and Eme-
line I love you both. My protection will perhaps
be a shield to you in the hour of trial. George,
you too have a place in my heart.
I can say no more.
Your Grandma."
"My Dear Children, Sarah, Emeline and
George, I always come with my dear boy Olin.
He aids me when I speak. We are both here now;
we hear the bells ring, we hear your voices and
we see the spiritual part of your existence. There
is always walking beside you a spiritual form
which accompanies your earthly form. There is
ever beside you unseen forms to guard you, un
seen hands to protect you, walking when you
walk, stopping when you stop, soothing you when
you grieve. Dear children I do live again in you.
I do protect you, I love and bless (123- Vol. IlI)
you. I shall be with you to-morrow at Ralph's.
I hope there will not be one word to mar your
pleasure. I hope the day will begin and close
brightly, and be one of sweet remembrance.
My dear children God bless you ! We have the
happiness of seeing you enter a New Year; we
180 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
hope that it will bring you peace and happiness.
We are going with the children, after we leave
here, into new gardens. You shall hear all about
our New Year's day. All the dear ones send their
love to you.
Yours to all eternity with a Mother's holy love.
Your own Ma."
"My Dear Children Sarah and George. Another
New Year has dawned upon you; another New
Year of hope, of joys, of new blessings. I can tell
you this for I have looked in the future. It is
pleasant to watch the New Year come in ! I have
renewed your flowers this morning. Just as the
clock struck twelve I went in your garden and
saw the flowers all open. I left some bright ones
at the entrance. You will know them when you
come here, so you see I have not forgotten you.
The organ sounds for our presence and we all
go now. I wish you joy, I wish you happiness!
All is well !
Prof. Kenyon."
Later in the day Katie was with my family in
our private parlor and I was thinking but not
speaking of those other members of my family
when Katie's hand wrote.
(124- Vol. IlI) "Sarah I have heard your wish
and I have come for a few moments. I can not
linger but a short time for our circle is made up
and I have left them just to give you a few
parting words. Your New Year's day has nearly
passed away, ours has just begun. The children
are at play and everything is beautiful. The
paths are newly spread with fresh flowers and
Leila is playing on her harp. We shall be with
you to-morrow. May you have a happy time. I
must leave you now with these words. God bless
you ! May you have rest to-night on a pillow of
roses and may you awaken rested and fresh. I
leave my blessing with you. Good bye !
Olin."
After reading the above, I spoke of Frankie
and Olin wrote quickly "Call him not away from
the children."
Jan. 8 9i/o A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not keep one of the appointments for
last week but on this morning we sat about the
table agreeably to the wish of our charmed circle.
Soon the deep sonorous echoes said, "I am here.
B. F." This was immediately followed by milder
sounds saying "I am here. Isaac T. Hopper." No
sooner was the last sound of his name given than
the quick positive echoes said, "I am here. Prof.
K." And Olin added "We are all here." The fol
lowing was written.
"We are all here this morning dear Sarah and
George, happy to come and speak after the (125-
Vol. IlI) lapse of one week. We hoped to have
been able to come with the harp this morning
but the conditions have not been fulfilled there
fore we shall have to wait till we can get control
of the instrument and materialize it sufficiently
to play notes that you can understand. Before we
leave this morning Dr. Franklin will give direc
tions for this purpose and we hope they will be
sacredly followed.
Now we will talk about our own pleasures, those
which you cannot participate in.
We went to visit new gardens that are being
prepared for the entrance of new spirits. This is
a very beautiful sight. I can only compare it to
the preparations you make on and about the
graves of your beloved ones. You place flowers on
the little mounds, trees about them and every
thing to make them look beautiful. So with us
when we prepare a home for some dear one on
earth. The difference
is,
here we prepare
a
home
full of similar beauty, we leave out nothing that
will cheer the spirit. We do not make the home at
first dazzling
in
its beauty, we make
it
sublimely
sublimed. Those who prepare the homes here, do
so under the direction of
a
higher power than
those who talk with you.
The children were delighted to see the beautiful
flowers placed in the leafless paths. First they
were all pure white. The entrance
is
always
bounded with pure white flowers and as the new
born spirit advances the flowers grow brighter,
more in unison with the soul. (126-Vol. IlI) The
shadows make golden lights on their paths.
All heaven rejoices when
a
happy spirit comes
here, when the soul longs to fly from earth, from
care, from sorrow. The children were very quick
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 181
to perceive the happy faces in the new garden.
There was a mother and daughter placing wreaths
of flowers, festoons of roses through the bowers
where they gather to receive the loved ones, and
when this is all prepared there is a circle of spirits
who consult together as to whose face shall first
greet the departing spirit. I give you this descrip
tion in order that you may have an idea of the
great perfection of everything here. We are pre
paring a means by which you shall behold some
of our faces. You must be patient and take every
thing as for the best.
We were with you last Monday and we were
all pleased to see everything go off so smoothly.
That day will be a bright memory for years. Ma,
our dear angel Mother was so happy! Oh! we do
so love peace! There are no clouds over your sky.
Your future will be so bright that the annoyances
you are going through will pass away like autumn
which only leaves a shadow for an hour. We are
all happy! May this year be full of blessings,
for you, and everything that adds to happiness.
Now my dear Sarah we have a consultation this
evening over our own duties. We have great
duties to perform. Our time is not always our
own. It seems that we can not make (127- Vol.
IlI) those on earth understand this great fact. It
is this which often grieves us, causes great weari
ness, many mistakes and repels us. Some day
people will understand this and that will give us
joy.
God bless you, Sarah and George! Dr. Frank
lin is approaching earth to give directions. All is
well !
Olin."
"I have come my dear children to appoint a
meeting for the purpose of perfecting the sense
of sound. I think if you fully comprehend the
great privilege we are bestowing upon you in per
mitting your ears to hear the sounds on the harp
of a beloved one, you will forego everything to
keep the appointments we make. I will name
Wednesday at precisely seven o'clock in the morn
ing. Be punctual!
My son, in a few words let me say that you are
doing right with your book. I can make no sug
gestions. Your friends here will aid you all in
their power. Farewell.
B. F."
"We will speak in unison my dear children,
Sarah, Emeline, and George. We leave our bless
ings with you. The children are both happy and
satisfied, they are now going with me. My soul
is full of love for you all. Your Mother to all
eternity and your Grandma."
"George and Sarah be not disturbed about your
work, it is all coming out right. I will aid you
all in my power. All is well ! We bless you daily.
We will never cease to guard you. We will all
be present Wednesday morning.
Prof. K."
(128- Vol. IlI) "Dear Mamma and Papa Leila
and I will soon come with the harp." "I write as
the children dictate. They are going with me.
Prof. K."
Jan. 11 7 A. M.— 1871.
We met as directed and sat a half hour with
closed eyes. Dr. Franklin then told us to sing
the "Lord's Prayer" but we knew no tune in
which we could sing it. A new spirit spoke "Try
Sweet Home." We asked "Who speaks to us?
The voice is strange." Ans. "Mrs. Livermore."
We were surprized and pleased. We knew it was
her great love for Dr. Franklin that brought her
to our circle for neither of us had ever seen her.
We sang as requested. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
the little ones with the harp. It is so delicate that
we are obliged to handle it with especial care.
On Sunday morning you shall hear the strains
and oh what heavenly peace they will leave. You
must sing that we may become familiar with
your voices, and different tunes that we may
choose the easiest. We are sure of success! All
is well! Meet at half past nine this morning for
directions.
Olin."
Jan. 11 9y2 A. M.— 1871.
Katie and I met Olin as requested. He wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are not all here but I
can speak for all. I can leave in your heart a
word of love from all those who love to visit
182 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(129- Vol. IlI) you. On the tablet of your mem
ory I can engrave sweet memories that will cheer
you in your busy hours. We are happy when
we can make our presence manifest audibly, when
your ear can catch one sound from our world we
feel repaid for all the difficulties we are obliged
to overcome in order to produce these things.
1Ma wishes me to say that she is very happy
to see that you have written to Pa and we all hope
he will come here. She loves him still with all
the devotion of her early days. She is his true
companion and they will be reunited in this
world of immortality; true hearts can never be
separated; here all is made right; here all mis
takes are made clear; here the souls are opened
and the thoughts are read as you would read an
open book.
"Sarah we shall be happy when you are through
with this work which occupies your brain so much
and also your time, but the crown of glory will
come so be of good courage. I always stand by
you Sarah to give you strength, if you should
faint I would catch you, 1 could save you. Now
this should make you happy, for my arms are
strong. The children are now with Ma and Grand
ma. They feel a little disconcerted because the
harp could not sound in your home as it sounds
now in theirs, but Ma will make everything clear
to them.
This day we shall all dip our hands in the
pure fountain of life, the waters of heaven, and
refresh the new flowers that have been placed in
(130- Vol. IlI) our homes. Every flower has its
meaning. Every flower is emblematical, nothing
exists here without its history. Be happy dear
Sarah and anticipate no trouble for you will over
come all and every shadow.
"The atmosphere draws us not to earth to-day,
we like the sunshine of heaven, but we will watch
above you and see that all goes well. If trouble
comes we are not so far off that we can not fly
to you at once.
Dr. Franklin says meet at three to-morrow.
(1) I had sent for Ps to viait us. Hl* home ls in Western
New York.
(2) "Proof for the Doctor's book still occupied me almost
entirely.
(S) A damp, cheerless day.
Sarah all our circle knew that I was coming
and sent their love to you with their blessings.
All is well! Be happy! May every choice bless
ing fall upon you this New Year. I leave you
now.
Olin."
Jan. 12 3 P. M.— 1871.
The day was pleasant and we met as directed.
We sang "Sweet Home" many times and arranged
the Lord's Prayer to the notes. Dr. F., Prof. K.
and Olin each spoke to us frequently. While we
were sitting around the table singing, Dr. Frank
lin said "I am going to write" and then took a
pencil out of my hand and a long strip of paper
from the table and wrote in round, clear and
firm hand the following.
"These meetings are for the purpose of perfect
ing the means of sounding the harp audibly in
your ears. Very little else can be done in the mean
time. You will hear the first echoes of the harp
on Sunday morning. You will have one more
meeting before, which will (131-Vol. IlI) be on
Saturday at precisely half past twelve. During
these meetings we can communicate to no length.
George your work will be of great good, also
prove a great success. I am in form with you
to-day and write this with my own hand. All is
well. Call us not back when we say we must
depart.
Farewell. B. Franklin."
Then Olin wrote in a beautiful clear hand (his
own).
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here to-day. The
glorious sun shines beautifully upon you and we
have accomplished much. Your heart shall re
joice on Sunday morning, and above all let me
impress upon you the importance of guarding
and appreciating the great blessing the Divine
Father has given you in permitting you to hold
communion with departed spirits. It takes great
power to write with our own hands. Farewell.
We all go.
Olin."
While the above was being written, we were
singing, practicing. Just before they left us
Katie's hand wrote.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 183
"My Dear Children you need go no further.
You have the right notes only practice in your
minds. You have it perfect enough. We are
satisfied. All is well.
Prof. Kenyon."
Jan. 15 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
Katie forgot the appointment for twelve on
Saturday but Dr. Franklin told her it made little
difference the atmosphere was so damp. This
morning was very unfavorable. The streets and
(132-Vol. IlI) flagging stones were wet with the
dampness in the atmosphere still no rain fell.
As soon as we three entered the room we heard
strains of music. We seated ourselves by the table
and Leila said "Mamma I am here with my harp
and in Dr. Franklin's arms." Dr. Franklin then
said "Sing the Lord's Prayer." We commenced
and were immediately accompanied by the most
exquisitely toned instrument but not quite
steadily played. We now sang the Lord's Prayer
through eight times and the instrument led us
rather than accompanied us (after that first time)
in full round tones and just as distinct as those
of a material harp or instrument ever were. The
notes were clear and penetrating as the ring of
the silver bells in the finest music boxes and the
sweetness of the strains no language can describe.
Leila finally said "I will play alone." Now we
listened breathlessly to the purest, sweetest air
mortal ears have ever heard. I can tell nothing
about it. It thrilled every nerve and fibre of our
spiritual and physical beings. They waited a
few moments. Katie's hand wrote a little.
Frankie said, "Papa I help Leila," then they com
menced again and went through another Divine
air, which if possible was sweeter, purer, holier
than before. We felt like prostrating ourselves
before it! We wanted to hear it always. Three
times she played alone going entirely through
with an air each time. At the close of the (133-
Vol. IlI) third Dr. Franklin said "Open the win
dow. Stand by it." Then he took the sweet angel
children with their golden harp away and left
us the memory and the impression which will
remain with us until we hear their harps upon
the other shore.
The Doctor in his own hand says "When we
first heard the harp it appeared to be near but
behind us and remained there until Leila said
'I will play alone' when it was brought very
near our heads and played not more than one
foot from my ears.
These musical sounds resembled mostly those
of a first class music box, yet were different. They
penetrated the organs of sense more than any
music I ever heard however loud. They gave a
feeling of the most supreme delight that can,
apparently, be produced by musical sounds. They
had not the regularity of music produced by
machinery."
"Sarah and George, you have heard the harp,
you have listened to its heavenly strains. Leila
has played her sweet hymn of love and praise for
your ears. Dr. Franklin held the harp for her
and she rested in his arms. Oh! You are blessed
a thousand times blessed. There was never greater
happiness here. The children are so joyous.
To-day we all meet at the banquet hall and
we shall relate this great event to our friends.
God has blessed you this morning. Call us not
back for our power has been greatly exhausted
and (134-Vol. IlI) we shall require time to re
pose and prepare for our duties. All is well!
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet next Tuesday at
precisely twelve o'clock. These heavenly strains
will linger for a long time in your souls. We
go now.
B. F.
Jan. 17 12 M.— 1871.
We met as desired. Nothing unexpected or re
markable occurred. The unseen ones talked with
us and wrote the following.
"Again we come with the harp but you can
not hear its heavenly strains to-day. We must
bring it twice more before it is sufficiently
materialized to sound. It is the most delicate
instrument in our world and we have to handle
it with great care. You will notice that we have
to meet for preparation always two or three times
before we play upon it. Leila is learning a new
hymn to play at the next meeting. When the
184 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
time comes right we shall meet for the purpose
of coming in form with Leila holding her harp;
and if you are full of faith you shall not be dis
appointed. One doubt will keep us from succeed
ing. One doubt will chill us and keep us from
forming. This will take time and patience. Now
dear Sarah, George and Katie can you have faith
and patience? You will be rewarded in a way
that God has seldom blessed his children. We
all went to the banquet hall and met all our
friends; those who are bound to us by close ties
and those whose friendships have out-lived mor
tality. We all assembled in (135-VoI. IlI) a room
by ourselves, and Dr. Franklin related, to listen
ing ears, the fact of his bringing Leila in your
presence with her harp, how she played while he
held her in his arms, and how heavenly the strains
fell upon your ears. All, who were permitted to
hear, were pleased and gratified, and some were
astonished, but all were made happy. You can
imagine Sarah and George our pleasure at see
ing our friends and talking with them. The ban
quet hall is our diversion, our pleasure and there
we find much happiness. To describe it would
be impossible.
Leila is still here with Dr. Franklin. They are
great friends. My dear sister we feel so happy
to know that we can come so near you, so happy
to have the children come life-like as they do.
What happiness can be greater? Now let the
flowers continue to bloom as freshly as they do
at this moment. Every one is open, dew is upon
them, they close not from neglect. Your souls
keep them blooming for your acts are in accord
ance with our will. Pure and undefiled are the
spirits who come to you. Rejoice and be happy!
Know that all is well! God bless you!
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah I am here. Leila and Frankie
are with me. All are here, not one of the circle
absent. Flowers and sunshine mingle with our
robes, blessings fall from us to you. Our souls
are at rest. The waters reflect happy faces and
mirror a peaceful future. Oh! How could we
rejoice in the beauty of heaven were you my dear
(136- Vol. IlI) children surrounded with clouds.
When we say we are depressed it is for you, whom
we love on earth, when we are sad it is for you,
when the flowers close we know that all is not
well. Are you not happy to know that the chil
dren are coming visibly? That you shall see their
faces again on earth? Have faith! Tell Emeline,
dear Emeline that I watch over her when she
sleeps; that I often look in upon her and leave
her with a blessing. I pray that no evil will come
to her and that happiness will reward her wait
ing. I say this prayer and go back to my home.
1\ hope Pa will change his mind and come,
certainly he can come if he tries. He is not as
strong as he was when he was last here. God
bless you my children.
Your own Ma."
"George your work is progressing splendidly
and we are very happy. What great things we
are having in our circle. You value them I know.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Children. Meet Thursday at twelve
precisely. The information that you are to see
your child with her harp is true. Follow the
injunction to have faith. God bless you my dear
children. We depart now.
B. F."
Later in the day Katie's hand wrote.
"Mamma I have been with you but not able
to speak. I have left them all at home to come
and speak these few words. O how I love you
Mamma. They have missed me and are looking
for me. All is well! Grandpa Taylor says that
Uncle Charles (137- Vol. HI) don't trouble him
much for he 2(Uncle Charles) is not very sick.
Good bye Mamma. Willie, my darling dear
brother Willie, 1 can write. I help you get your
lessons. My teacher is Prof. Kenyon.
Good bye. Frankie."
Jan. 19 3 P. M.— 1871.
Katie came in at one saying Olin had told her
that three o'clock would be a better hour than
twelve. The atmosphere was heavy with damp
ness. At three we had a pleasant quiet meeting
but not as joyous as often. We heard the round
( 1) Pa had written that he could not come.
(2) The Doctor's brother Charles thought himself very ill at
this time.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 18$
stand moving over the carpet and when we looked,
it stood by our table with a cologne bottle from
my bureau upon it. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
to-day. Dr. Franklin and Leila are in form. They
have rested the harp upon the little table which
allows us more power to use. We will very soon
give you the joy of hearing Leila play her new
hymn which is so beautiful and sacred in its
strains.
I have been very near you Sarah and all is
bright in your future. You will be called upon
to minister to the wants of others. Your time
will be very much occupied in soothing others
but I will stand by your side to give you strength.
1 see that you will be a comfort where you least
expect. I am not permitted to tell more than this.
Be happy dear Sarah, to know that your treas
ures, George and Willie, will be spared to you
years. This (138- Vol. IlI) we see in the future.
-|
—|
—f- While the stars were shining in our sky
above us, while the birds were singing and the
harps sounding. Ma, Grandma, Frankie, Leila
and I glided into your room and made you quite
a visit, noiselessly we left you with our blessing.
Tell dear Em. that the flowers in her path way
are bright. She sees them not but feels the bless
ing that breathes from them. + + + 'Your
brother, George, I am not well acquainted with
and have no affinity for him, but his state is a
very miserable one.
Qj-n „
"My Dear Child, I know you called me yester
day but I could not come, I was fulfilling my
duties and could not leave. Oh how happy we
all are in our sunny home, our bower of roses.
When I used to be earth weary I little knew that
I should find a rest like this, a home where all
my beloved ones were waiting and watching for
me. Thank God for the knowledge you are daily
imbibing through this source my dear child.
Your Ma and 1 are almost one in spirit. You
will hear from your Pa soon and the news will
be good. With kisses, with blessings, with love
immortal.
Your Grandma."
"Meet Sunday morning at half past ten. All
is well my dear children.
B. F."
(139-Vol. IlI) Jan. 23 3 P. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come Sunday (the 22nd) as
directed but on this wet day. We met and they
wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George we are here but
we cannot make our presence known as we would
like to, however the chain can be mended and the
preparations go on for our next meeting. We were
some disappointed yesterday morning but we will
not chide this time for we are glad to begin once
more.
We wish you to know that we have been with
you faithfully. Let your hearts be glad. Look
upward, see how bright the future is and let hope
be your star. Dear Sarah, Pa will come I am
quite sure. Write him just as you feel and the
effect will be good. We are happy to see every
thing so harmonious. Our homes are so beautiful,
the flowers bloom with renewed fragrance, all
are open and we rejoice to see you well and doing
well. God bless you. + + We do not soil our
garments by coming here in this dampness, but
we can not robe ourselves in the garments that
we love best when the sun shines not. -|
—|- Our
whole circle send their love and blessing to you.
Ma and Grandma wish to say a few words and
I will close. It is difficult to write in this atmos
phere.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. We are here but the chil
dren are in the summer land playing on the harp
and gathering flowers. All is happy with them
and they feel not the shadows, (140- Vol. IlI) they
feel not the cares of daily life for they are not
conscious of having suffered on earth. Little
buds on earth, flowers in heaven. JFrankie has
a dim recollection of having suffered in his last
illness. He was so happy when the pain in
his head ceased and his eyes opened upon his
Grandma. Oh Sarah are you not happy to know
that your little ones are at rest in our arms? No
more sorrow for their little hearts. No more pain.
(1) Charles Taylor. (1) His last sickness was Tubercular-Meningitis.
186 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
All is well! Let the lesson again be learned, learn
to say "Thy will be done and be resigned. When
God takes these little ones to live with Him He is
always wise, always right, full of love, full of con
solation. God bless you my child! I want to meet
you on Wednesday. Your Pa may come, we hope
he will. My dear Sarah, Olin has aided me all
through. We can say no more. Call us not back.
Your Mother to all eternity.
Your Ma."
"Dear Children. Meet Wednesday at three.
All will be well!
B. F."
"We will all be present at next meeting.
Prof. K."
Jan. 25 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here for we want
to give directions. We are happy to tell you the
purpose of these preparatory meetings for they
are more important than anything else at present
for they are the opening of the great event. We
have told you that faith and punctuality (141-
Vol. IlI) would be the means by which we could
show the faces of the children. Do you doubt
this after all we have given you? I beg that you
will have confidence, as it will give us as much
happiness to do this as it will for you to see us.
All is well now only be patient and happy under
all circumstances. We can then work so much
better. I have seen all that will follow for the
next two months. I see no clouds for you Sarah,
on the contrary I see success in many points and
when you look around and feel that the way is
not clear do not judge the future by the present
or the past. The clouds are under your feet.
Clouds are sorrow. We wish you to feel con
tented and peaceful about your future for it is full
of brightness and happiness. There are no dark
spots on the landscape.
Our souls rejoice, our hearts are glad, our flow
ers are bright, all are open, not one closed or
drooping. George you are doing right. Tell
Emeline I have read her wishes. I see something
taking place now that will cause the flowers to
bloom fresher than ever in her pathway. She need
not feel anxious about anything. Home is sweet,
duties are sweet, pleasures are sweet, so is sorrow
when it softens the feelings.
Sarah about Father, our dear Pa as we were
accustomed to call him, there is nothing to grieve
over. Ma has come to speak and I will aid her.
Olin."
(142- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child. I am here with
my noble boy. No dampness in the air prevents
us from robing ourselves in our favorite garments
to-day. We come dressed for our pleasure, our
banquet hall. We are going to have a happy
time, going to turn from earth. I left the children
with your Grandma as I explained to them that
this was not a meeting for preparations and they
might weary of looking on since they had been
here with me before to-day and so I have left them
playing and singing with hearts that have never
been touched with care. When I came here this
morning I met standing by your bedside Mrs.
Kenyon. She was here from a desire to see you.
She had been talking with her husband about you
and came to see if all was as bright as when she
last saw you in the circle. The Professor was en
gaged with some duties outside of herself. You
see dear Sarah that true friends watch and guard
at the portals of those they love. I think too that
she expected to meet me here and felt a little silent
as the Professor was disturbed by the surround
ings of one he thought much of when in the
form. My dear child I see that there are draw
backs to your Pa's coming, others hold him back
although his heart is here with you all. Tell
Emeline that I love her and no sorrow shall come.
My dear child the sweet harps sound above me,
the children call me, and the flowers droop down
as a signal for me to come. I go, but my blessings
I leave with you.
Your Ma."
(143-VoI. IlI) "Tell George, the son whom I
have adopted, that I see him daily, that I watch
to see when the storm approaches, that I watch
to drive away the clouds. All is well !
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. I now come to give
(1) I asked Ma to whom she referred T "To the Mrs. Kenyon he
left on earth." He had been twice married.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 187
directions. The meeting to-morrow will be at half
past eight in the evening as we shall be engaged
during the day. We are preparing to come in
form. I am going to stand at the head until it is
accomplished. We all go now. No clouds.
B. F."
Jan. 28 1 1 A. M.
Katie did not come the next day nor for three
days, or rather upon the third day we met and
they wrote.
"It is with pleasure we can tell you, no longer
doubt ! We are progressing in the power to come
visibly. We do not want you to see us before we
are perfectly formed. We have all aided in giving
Dr. Franklin power to bring Leila with her harp
and the time is near when you shall see her face
to face. At every preparatory meeting he makes
a change either in the position of Leila or the
harp which takes time, but all this is very neces
sary, very important. We form for our own spir
itual vision to behold during these preparations
and were you to open your eyes upon us it would
affect us very painfully. This may seem strange
to you but it is nevertheless true.
Sarah and George I omitted to tell you (144-
Vol. IlI) what preparations are going on in our
world for the next banquet. We shall to-day get
all the little children together from Leila's age to
Willie's. They will be all mated according to size
and age. Every child whose intellect and refine
ment admit will be present. Many a proud
mother will look on. We shall look upon these
little ones. The sight will be a beautiful one as
the banquet will be composed of children only.
Ma, Grandma and Mrs. Kenyon will go together.
The Professor and I will go by ourselves and Dr.
Franklin will lead the way. So you see what
duties we have before us. The atmosphere would
not permit us to sound the harp. All is well ! We
must now leave you for we have been long in
form.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. It is Sunday morning and we
are with you. The atmosphere is against our
demonstrating our love although we are in form.
Olin has told you about our looking up all the
little children for the next banquet. I wish you
could behold the lovely sight for your angels will
shine there. However dear child you must try to
see all in your own vision. 1 am with you my dear
child. I approve of all you are doing. I am happy
again in my children. Tell dear Emeline I heard
her sigh this morning. I was with her and kissed
her. Tell her that depression should be for those
who are crossed and disappointed in life, not for
those who have a true and faithful heart to love
them. (145-Vol. IlI) God bless you my children.
We can remain no longer.
Your Ma."
"All is well Sarah and George. My child I will
let no evil come to you. We must go now for we
have been long in the form.
Prof. K."
"Meet at twelve next Tuesday. We are pro
gressing. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F.
Jan. 31st 12 M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
We have had to come through dampness and un
favorable atmosphere, still we are here.
When we left you last we were going to the
banquet hall. We went and were happy beyond
description. Those with whom we have been ac
customed to come here, were all there and joyous.
This time your children were dressed in the colors
of the rainbow which you have seen so often. They
looked beautifully.
We reposed there, we consulted with each other
regarding those we loved on earth, looked in their
futures, then we had dancing. We call it here,
floating and gliding to the time of music. The
hall glistened with ornaments like diamonds.
Every thing was so beautiful that no earthly eye
could have beheld it without bewilderment. A
beautiful group, a mother and daughter, grand
father and grandmother, were sitting near us when
suddenly a bird flew to them with its wings folded
and rested on the head of the mother. The bird
bore a pure white flower in its mouth with (146-
Vol. IlI) one black leaf which indicated a great
sorrow about to befall her husband on earth. She
understood the signal and instantly left. We all
188 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
felt the shadow although we were not permitted
to look upon her grief which is as sacred here as
it is upon your earth. We never intrude upon
the griefs of others, but even here we feel shadows.
Why Sarah we would not retain our affections,
our individuality were we not to partake of your
griefs, your joys and trials. We help you bear
your trials, we feel pleasure when you do, and
shadows when you are sad. Sometimes we see
that your trials are only momentary, then we try
to soothe you without feeling your trouble. We
are all very happy.
All the circle leave you their love, their bless
ings and will talk with you to-morrow. All is
well!
Olin."
"Meet at half past ten in the morning to-mor
row.
B. F."
Feb. 1 3 P. M.— 1871.
The day was very damp and warm. The
ground was covered with snow and the air filled
with moisture. Katie came in at noon saying
that Olin desired the meeting at three. We entered
the room at five minutes before three and as soon
as we were seated the echoes said "We are all
here." 1 think we had been in the room but five
minutes when the echoes said, "We have devoted
all our power to this object. B. F." What Dr.
Franklin (147-Vol. IlI) meant by "this object"
neither of us knew, but we were not kept in sus
pense for as soon as Dr. Franklin ceased speaking
we heard a clear, full sound from Leila's harp. We
started for we had not expected
it,
but we sang
the "Lord's Prayer" through once and the harp
accompanied us. Then we kept perfectly still, held
both of Katie's hands and listened in rapture for
about three quarters of an hour to music perform
ed in our room by an angel, on
a
harp brought
from Paradise, from Heaven. The notes were
clear, full, strong and penetrating. The music
sweeter than anything
I
had ever heard. Ten
pieces were played and one was long and none
were familiar. At an interval between the tunes
Dr. Franklin said "I am proud of my pupil."
Then she struck the strings again and with full
power played and played. At the close of next
to the last tune Frankie said "I help Leila." Then
the harp was brought so near me that when the
first note was touched
it
hurt my head and again
she played stronger, sweeter, purer than before.
When they were ready to leave fine rain was
falling and they were anxious about getting their
harp home. They asked for
a
large handker
chief but did not use it. They wrote the sub
joined and left us. The music from the harp was
so loud and clear that the people in the next house
must have heard it. The ladies on the floor above
us went to their windows, opened them and lis
tened but did not know (148- Vol. IlI) what the
instrument was. Afterwards, that same evening,
one of the ladies remarked to me that the people
in the next house certainly had some new instru
ment and inquired
if
I
had not heard it.
"We have all been here. Our efforts have been
great to play upon the harp so that you could
hear its heavenly strains. Leila
is
guarded by Dr.
Franklin and
I
assure you we are more than
pleased for we are awed at our own power
in
thus
being permitted to come. Few on earth have ever
been so blessed and oh few there are who will ever
be permitted to listen to those strains. Be thank
ful and happy. We are happy! We can expend
no more power. We are still collecting the little
children for the banquet. Leila
is
perfectly wild
with delight and so
is
Frankie, and we feel awed
with gratitude.
Olin."
"Now do not call us or think of us as we shall
have to shelter the harp with our robes and
forms. Meet to-morrow evening at nine.
B. F."
Feb.
3
8y2 P. M.— 1871.
Katie did not keep the appointment for Thurs
day but came this morning and soon after they
appointed this hour for
a
meeting. The evening
was particularly clear and the moon light lay like
silver over every spot and thing
it
could reach.
We were but
a
few moments seated when Frankie
said "Leila and
I
are in form." Almost im
mediately the blinds began to rattle, (149- Vol.
IlI) the slats were turned up and down many
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 189
times and Frankie said that he was doing it. The
Doctor and Katie were sent by the folding doors
when Frankie said "Papa open your eyes and see
my shadow." The Doctor obeyed and Katie
opened hers also and they both saw the dim
shadow of a child, the head and form upon the
wall. Frankie had turned the slats so that suffi
cient moonlight to make a shadow was admitted.
Then the Doctor and Katie were told to close
their eyes and in less than one minute a head of
soft, loose hair was pressed against and brushed
across my forehead and face. 1 asked where it
was? Frankie answered, "It was my head and hair
you felt Mamma." They soon left but required
both windows opened wide for them to pass out.
They left these lines.
"We have progressed finely. You will have to
behold us by degrees and very cautiously as we
are so easily disturbed. The window will have to
be thrown open when you see the children. You
will see them first by moonlight. Leila and Fran
kie want to approach together and we wish to
have them. We are perfectly satisfied with this
meeting. Dear Sarah meet us to-morrow morning
at half past ten for writing. God bless you and
give you sweet rest my darling sister.
Olin."
Feb. 4 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Child, 1 am here this morning with
your Grandma and Olin. We have been waiting
for you. Now we are here to talk. (150-Vol.
IlI) I am glad dear child that your 'Father is
coming here. You will have a happy visit. I
want you to give him every moment of your time
and make him as happy as it is possible for him
to be as you will seldom have such visits from
him, perhaps never again. It is impossible to tell.
Life is uncertain, it often closes before we see the
change in the beloved face. The change comes
and the flower closes on earth to bloom in the land
of Immortality. My dear child I shall be so
happy to see you all together. I shall mingle with
you. I shall bless your reunion. I shall float in
when you are all together and you will know that
I am near. Do you know that I still retain the
(1) Pa had concluded to come.
same girlish love for your Pa that I had when I
first became his wife? Do you know that I would
love to meet him and talk with him and touch
his hand and feel his pressure in return? All this
I would love and watch for oh with so much joy.
But on the other side perhaps to recall the past
to him would only be painful and make him dis
satisfied, disturb his quiet dream and make home
seem less attractive; therefore dear child I think
it best to say nothing to him unless he should first
speak to you. I feel differently from you. I feel
very delicate. I am his wife still and he has an
other. I shall be the first to meet him on the
threshold of Eternity, then he will know that I
have lived for him all these long years. I am glad
that you are going (151-Vol. IlI) to have Pa
here. Oh so happy! I see that Ralph is anxious
to see Pa again and to be with him. Yes my child
make him happy.
I have had the children with me. Frankie and
Leila were in form last night, but it is necessary
to unveil gradually, with care. You cannot fully
understand this, neither is it in my power to
explain, so delicate are the surroundings of spir
itual forms, so ethereal; so frail when coming
in contact with earth. Have patience and you
shall be blessed with the vision of your dear
children. You shall behold them. Then my child
only one step more and you will clasp them to
your bosom. We are daily becoming more per
fected and will soon be able to stand in your
midst without feeling like frightened birds ready
to fly as soon as looked upon. It is our composi
tion, our peculiar formation, our spirituality. All
is well! We have all the children together and a
more lovely sight you have never beheld and you
never can until you come here and are one of us.
Tell Emeline that I am with her. There are
no dark shadows, the future is bright and bless
ings are unfolding for her. She will hear good
tidings soon. The time is approaching when she
will realize her dream.
My child have we not had a pleasant meeting
this morning? and do you not feel that we are
very near you? God bless you!
Through all Eternity. v Ma „
190 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(152-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah. Good morn
ing. Your Ma has spoken to you. I will say a few
words. I love to come in when you are alone. I
love to look in upon you when your thoughts are
calm and point you to the home of peace and
flowers. Angels are in your pathway, blessings
are showered upon you by them, they keep evil
from your door and keep the golden key to the
gates of Paradise. Loving hands shall unlock
them for you to enter. Every day you are draw
ing more in unison with us. We shall all be here
this afternoon till then 'Good bye.'
Your Grandma."
"My Dear Friend and Pupil. I am very happy
to see you this morning. You are ever the same
dear girl. I love you however ^careless' you
may be. George is getting along well with his
book but 1 think you merit as much credit as he,
as much commendation. I see that all is well.
The future is bright and cloudless. We will all be
present at three. We have at last gathered all
the little children together. Your friend and
teacher.
Prof. Kenyon."
"One word Sarah. We are all here, happy to
give you a word of love. We shall meet you this
afternoon at three. All is well! Be happy!
Olin."
Feb. 4 3 P. M.— 1871.
I placed a vase of fresh flowers in our room
when I arranged it for our meeting and we ( 153-
Vol. IlI) met as directed. We heard the in
visible members of our circle move about the
room, heard them take the round stand from its
place by the wall and set it by the table at which
we were sitting and when we opened our eyes a
cologne bottle from my bureau was upon the
stand, having been placed there by these same in
visible hands, for Katie had not left her seat be
tween the Doctor and me and we had kept the
same charge of her that we invariably do at each
and every meeting. Her hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are happy to come in
the perfume of flowers. They make the atmos
phere seem pure and more like our own. We
(1) Thia refers to a remark I had just made about myself.
are so glad that Pa is coming here. I think it
will be the happiest visit he has ever made. Get
your work as nearly through as possible so you
can visit with him and enjoy yourself. We are
now seeing how much of our faces we can make
visible. We will not be able to come face to face
in the day time but at night.
To-night we shall hold a consultation regarding
the banquet hall and our children.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. This meeting has been
successful. We progress and feel that there are
no obstacles in the way. We will require several
more preparatory meetings. I can not now name
the night for our great meeting, it is not far off.
Now I want you to meet at precisely half past
ten to-morrow morning as we shall take ( 154-Vol.
IlI) the little children with us at once after leav
ing you. I say at once, we shall take an hour
together after leaving you and the meeting can
not be over an hour, therefore you must be punc
tual. I am satisfied. The whole circle approve
of your faithful attention. We go now. All is
well!
B. F."
Feb. 5 A. M.— 1871.
The morning was cold and clear. We went
into the room the moment they desired us and as
soon as we were seated we heard many and con
tinued, low raps upon the floor. We asked each
other the meaning? We had never heard the like
before. Olin answered "Sixteen children have
followed Frankie and Leila here." The low
echoes continued, each echo sounding distinctly
although there were more than a dozen at a time.
After five minutes, perhaps, Olin said "Wait ten
minutes and I will take these children back. Open
the window." The window was opened wide and
several minutes passed before they wished it
closed. In about ten minutes Olin's return was
announced. The Doctor and Katie were sent
twice by the. folding doors, we sang, the pencil
wrote and the echoes then asked to have the win
dow opened. We knew by the movements that
they were not through with us and we could not
see why they wished the window opened. Olin ex
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 191
plained, "Dr. Franklin is going now." The win
dow was opened and closed in less than a minute
and the writing again commenced. When they
were through we (155-Vol. IlI) again opened the
window and stood by it until they had all passed
out. When they are in form, as now, it usually
takes the circle about five minutes to pass out of
the room. At each of these last three meetings we
have been particularly conscious of the presence
of many individuals. I felt as certain of the ac
tual presence of the unseen as of the Doctor and
Katie whose hands I was holding and with whom
I was chatting.
"Our next meeting dear children will be at half
past eight Tuesday evening. Do not fail to meet
then. To break the chain now would undo all
and our efforts would be lost. Do not ask ques
tions or wonder what we are doing. Keep passive!
All is well! All the circle are not here as some
have to remain with the children where we start
from. All gather after leaving you. We have
been successful and feel happy. We shall return
on Tuesday and give you a full description and
it will be very instructive to you. We have been
your guests this morning. We have all looked in
your faces and are satisfied. We all leave our
blessing with you. Now I must depart with the
circle and prepare for the great jubilee.
B. F."
"I have lingered my dear children to say a few
words, I can not say much for our day is all oc
cupied. I only want to tell George how happy
and busy his Father is now with the children. He
is perfectly happy. I am so glad that Ralph is
coming. Impress upon his mind (156-Vol. IlI)
my dear child all that I have said regarding your
Father. Do not understand me that I wish him
to think it comes from me. Impress him with
your own thoughts and tell him to make Pa very
happy. God bless you. All is well ! I must leave
you now.
Your own Ma."
"Keep the drawing paper always on the little
table. We desire it.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sarah. Good bye. We go now but
shall remember you in our golden paths and hours
of exquisite happiness.
Olin."
Feb. 7 9 P. M.— 1871.
I had some weeks before written Pa urging
him to visit us but there had been much delay
about his coming. It was to these facts and the
circumstances connected therewith that reference
has been frequently made in the preceding letters
from Ma and Olin. Now Pa had come and
we could not meet our circle until he retired,
which he did at nine. Then they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
to-night. We have much to say and as the atmos
phere is against our coming in form we will say
all we can now. We told you that we had gathered
all the children and that we were going to the
banquet hall. We have been there two days. The
opening was most sublime. The whole scene was
beyond description. The parents or grandparents
accompanied the children and coupled them off,
boys and girls in sets for dancing. They were
dressed ethereally (157- Vol. IlI) in gauze and
looked, as they were, like angels in the world of
angels. The children then exchanged gifts in the
way of flowers. After dancing the children were
taken in the arms of those who accompanied them
to a feast. Each child was permitted to take from
the gardens around the banquet hall a tree of rare
beauty to plant in their own gardens in remem
brance of the day of their jubilee. You will know
this tree when you come here by its exquisite
beauty. A prayer is on each leaf and it is always
new when we look upon it. After the banquet, a
chariot was prepared for the children to float in
over different parts of the world. This they en
joyed beyond everything else. This beautiful car
was hung with wreaths of flowers and a band of
music accompanied it. We could hear the children
laugh as they floated far from us. Their joyous
laugh filled the air with music. Only a few spirits
accompanied the children in the chariot. They
were spirits who have been here for many years.
After their tour they all came back to the ban
quet hall where we waited for them. Oh, if you
could only have been with us, if you could only
192 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
have looked in for a few minutes! But patience!
The day will come when you shall be blessed as
we are now. We are not permitted to give you
more than a faint outline of these things. We are
limited in giving you more than a slight knowl
edge, and it is only to a few dear Sarah (158-
Vol. IlI) and George with whom we can speak
upon this subject at all, therefore, read these
descriptions to few. It is forbidden that many
should know of these banquet joys.
We are so happy to have Pa here. Ma has
been about him all the evening. She sees him
more clearly here than she has since coming to
this world for she has kissed him four times this
evening already. You will see that Pa has been
guided here this time. He was made to come here
by a higher power and he heeded the heavenly
vision. All is well! Sleep peacefully! Fold your
hands knowing and feeling that you have done
your duty and left blessings in some hearts. I
can say no more to-night. Meet us all at three
to-morrow for directions. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Child I am watching over your Pa
to-night. I have broken the circle a little by
lingering so near him, my husband, so marvel not
that we do not come in form to-night. I have left
my husband's room just to say these words. Now
I shall return to him and give him pleasant
thoughts, perhaps he may dream of me. Tell dear
Em. to keep up her spirits for there are no
shadows in the future. Good night.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. I thought as you had pre
vious company, that we would only talk. We
have all been here. I will give you directions to
morrow at three. My Son, I will help you in
completing your work. When you give the (159-
Vol. IlI) finishing touches I will stand firmly by
your side.
B. F."
"Sarah I am happy to see your Father here.
Enjoy every hour with him and don't treat us
like company. All is well!
Prof. K."
P. S. I would send my love to him but he
would only smile.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Son George. Your Mother is well.
I want her to come next. I tell you I had a
grand time with the children. No more to-night.
Your Father."
Feb. 8 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here, not
in power, not in full form for the atmosphere is
against us, but we are here with you. Our robes
are purple to-day, rich, bright purple and gold.
We are happy for all is well. The snow falls, the
earth is damp, wet and unpleasant, but we see
the spiritual paths before you and flowers spring
up in your separate paths. The children are
happy and frolicsome. They wonder why your
world looks so dark. They will learn this at a
future day.
1 forgot to tell you that Leila and Frankie
played a duet on the harp before leaving the
banquet hall. Everyone was pleased and I was
very proud of them. We looked on with as much
pleasure as you would had you been present. Now
Ma wishes me to say that she has talked with
Dr. Franklin and made arrangements to have
no meetings while Pa is in the house that noth
ing may seem (160- Vol. IlI) strange to him,
nothing concealed. Louise will ask him if he
saw Katie Fox here in order to find if you
absented yourselves from the room. She is more
curious than you imagine.
Whenever there is an opening we will be near
to greet you and appoint meetings. Ma is right.
We will meet you again before Pa gets back
from Ralph's. Pa must not go out alone at night.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. I have talked with the
wife of Mr. Langworthy and there will be no
regular meetings while he is here except when he
is occupied out of the house. We will be near to
direct, to guide and bless you. All is well !
B. F."
Feb. 8 9 P. M.— 1871.
Katie sat with us in our parlor, Pa being still
(1) Ralph's wife.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 193
at Ralph's, when the echoes came loud and heavy
upon the floor. I said "Hush!" fearing the people
in the drawing-room beneath might notice the pe
culiar sound. I thought the echoes were 'Grandpa
Lewis's and asked him to speak on but not so loud.
No reply. I asked again and 01 in wrote "You
checked him and startled him away dear Sarah."
1 inquired how I had alarmed him and expressed
my regrets. The pencil continued, "You said
'Hush!' You know Sarah he is not as familiar
as we are and does not so well understand. I
will explain to him when I can. Dear Grandpa
Lewis I love him very much. They (Grandpa
Lewis and family) love you just as much but we
have been drawn (161-Vol. IlI) more closely to
you. They will speak when the right time comes.
I shall linger near you but the atmosphere is too
heavy for me to speak much. I will come with
the circle in the morning at nine. God bless you!
Good night. Your loving, faithful brother who
watches over your future.
Olin."
Feb. 9 9 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are here this morning.
2The atmosphere prevents us from coming very
near, but still I have brought Grandpa Lewis
with me to speak to you. He fully understands
now for I have explained to him. He is happy to
stand by your side. He sees you and will say a
few words to let you know how much he still
thinks of you. Every feature he remembers as
well as when he talked with you and fondled you.
He loves you the same. Ma loves to have him
with her. So many happy talks we have together.
Ties are strong in this world. They are the golden
links in the chain of immortal flowers, these
family ties. We are here Sarah and if we can
leave sun rays in your heart this dreary morn
ing we shall be happy for there is little outside
to cheer the heart and gladden the soul. Ma still
remains with Pa. 'He will feel happy to get back
with you again.
1 have left the children making wreaths of
flowers in their summer home. They knew I
was coming here this morning and sent many
kisses. Tell Mamma they said that we are think
ing (162-Vol. IlI) of her and making pretty
wreaths for her here. So I left them prattling
with each other, happy in their innocent amuse
ments.
Oh! Sarah to compare the two worlds! You
see your world but when I attempt to paint ours
to your eyes, my attempt fails. I turn aside
from the description and feel that no pen can
do justice to the beautiful reality; for everything
is real here. One great happiness Sarah, you will
never feel strange in our world not half as strange
as you would feel in Europe. You have friends
here, you are familiar with our vocations, our
pleasures, our gardens, our beautiful flowers. All
will seem like friends to greet you.
Pa will soon be here. All is well! I see no
shadows. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. Good morning. I was here
last night but I thought that you wanted to be
quiet so 1 withdrew. I understand my child and
many visits you shall have from me. I know
that it is necessary to keep the house quiet from
hearing these things. 1 know the importance child
so you need make no apologies. Your Father's
presence attracted me the first day he came. I
saw your "Aunt Sarah and 'Uncle Albert this
morning. They wished me to tell you that they
would talk with you at some favorable time when
the air is clear and the sun shines brightly. They
have much to say. Your Aunt Sarah bade me
tell you that she has put aside for you (163- Vol.
IlI) in a choice corner of her heart, sweet mem
ories of you and a spot always green with the
undying love she bears you. I will come again
sometime. Give my love to George and Emeline.
Grandpa. D. L."
Feb. 19 9 A. M.— 1871.
1 went with Pa to R. I. on a visit. While I was
away Ma and Olin wrote long messages for me
on my return. We were at this time greatly
troubled about our business matters and as soon
(1) Ma'a father.
(2) A wet day.
(3) Pa was just now at Ralph's in Benren.
(1) Pa's sister and brother. She died in 1843, age 28 yrs. He
died in 1845. age 37 yrs.
194 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
as I was home Olin wrote a most energetic and
excited letter about them which I will not copy
because so many explanations would be required.
At the close of his letter he said that Ma would
say a few words but first came the following.
"Mamma, my own Mamma, Grandma shall
not come first. I will speak my love first. Mamma
I love you better than anyone here except Leila.
1 am going to help Leila say a word. Oh Mamma
what will I give you soon? I will give you some
thing nice soon. That's all!
Frankie."
"Mamma, 'Grandma has told me that my name
is like hers and I don't like Eliza as well as Leila
for it is like Lily and I love lilies. They grow
here.
Your little girl."
"My Dear Child. There is nothing to make
you feel depressed, there is nothing to make you
feel low spirited. Olin is so in (164- Vol. IlI) con
nection with your feelings, feels your spirit so
keenly that he does not at this moment look
ahead. I see that this embarrassment is only
for a short time. Olin if he were here would take
your affairs in his own hands, advertise in every
place etc. Olin wrote hurriedly, did not express
himself as he wished. Now be happy. I love
to be with you and I will be with you my dear
child and may God's choicest blessings follow
you is the prayer of
Your Ma."
Feb. 21 9 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. Again we are together. In
unison our hearts always beat, in spirit we are
closely united and therefore you can not wonder
that 1 feel every shadow that rests upon your
spirit, so closely are we united. Oh! Sarah how
happy my soul would be were you free and unem
barrassed, were your feet walking on a carpet of
flowers, real flowers that would send forth their
perfumes as you tread upon them, this would
rejoice my soul. Now my sister I have read the
future, the present 1 know. 2Miller does not at
tend to business promptly enough, he should stop
(1) Her name wu Sarah Eliza but we called her Lela. They,
however, on the other aide always wrote it Leila.
(2) The Doctor's lawyer in Michigan.
all call upon you from that source and not drain
your pockets by allowing them to dispose of any
more of your property. Write him a strong letter
telling him his duty.
Now as to the future, it is bright. 1 see but one
cloud and that will trouble you only a short
time. All the flowers are blooming brightly here,
they are fresh and fragrant. (165-VoI. IlI) No
longer let your spirit fold its wings and droop
when these beautiful emblems are happy and
blooming for you. I wish the house was full. It
will be in time to relieve you of all anxiety. Noth
ing will come between you and success in time.
Dear Sarah and George I speak to you both. The
banner of triumph waves above you, gentle hands
are held out to bless you, and I, my sister, look
daily in your pathway to see that no black flowers
take the place of the pure ones now blooming
there. George I know not that you can do more
than you are doing. Sarah feels more troubled
than you for her nature is more sensitive. You
must not for one moment feel disturbed and still
it is almost impossible for you to feel differently.
Your labor which is worthy will not be in vain.
No not in vain. George you need rest, my sister
Sarah needs rest and while you sleep I will look
further in the future and give you more direct
information to-morrow.
*Ma is with Pa. You must not call her back.
Leave her to guard him for danger is ever in the
path of life, joy and pain, life and decay, danger
ever follows on the track of safety so leave her
spirit free to follow him with all the power she
possesses. When she left me she bade me not to
call her back. We have had a happy time with
our Pa have we not Sarah? Life is sweet to him
for his hearth is not lonely. Invisible forms take
their seats by (166-Vol. IlI) his side when he is
alone, watchful eyes guard him when he sleeps.
The circle are not all here. Prof. Kenyon has
been receiving directions and is now hurrying
here to give them, but I will add a few more
words. God bless you! Fear no evil for faithful
as a star I will watch over you.
Olin."
(1) He was on his journey home.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 195
"My Dear Sarah and George. I have just come
to say that I can not give full directions until
three to-morrow. 1 saw Dr. Franklin for one
moment. He made an appointment for the whole
circle to meet him to-morrow at three o'clock here
in this room. You need not enter till twenty
minutes after three. The room must be left alone
but you can come in with your eyes open. Now my
child, my pupil, let me say that you must not
feel discouraged. The tree has been planted and
it is full of fruit which will yield you gold. Be
patient! 1 can afford to say so now. God bless
you! Sweet be your sleep. Your children are
chanting to the music of their harp. Good night.
Farewell.
Prof. Kenyon."
Feb. 22 ly2 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah, my dear sister we are all
here. Ma has left Pa a few minutes in order to
speak a few words to you, her child, too. I am
so happy in Ma's society. We have what you
call real comfort. We work together, we visit to
gether, we sing together, we go to amusements to
gether, in one word, we are happy. (167-Vol.Ill)
We all gathered here at three. This was our tryst-
ing place to-day. Dr Franklin was here to give
directions to us. Prof. Kenyon will repeat them
for him. 1 will say a few words and then let him
come.
I looked in your future last night. You need
feel no depression. I am satisfied now but 1 felt
a little anxious last night. Since looking carefully
I feel at ease. You will rise out of all this em
barrassment as beautifully as a star rises out of
the clouds. Now tell George this and feel at ease.
No sorrow, no clouds, nothing that you cannot
overcome is pictured on the map of your future,
so be of good cheer. The little ones are here.
They are dressed in spring flowers. Oh how beau
tifully they look. Day after day they seek some
beautiful spot and call it theirs. Then they go
with other children to make pretty baskets of
flowers for someone they love. These little ones
are sweet to us. They have never known sin
therefore they feel no cares or shadows from the
world over which they have no charge only to
watch over you, their Papa and Willie, but we,
who lived in the world long enough to know
what sin
is,
feel
a
great responsibility, for we
feel that our protection can often shield and save
from danger.
I
will now give way for others.
Olin."
(168-Vol. IlI) '"So you thought, Sarah, when
you entered, that we were not
in
the room. So
you thought, 'They may be here but we cannot
see them.' Your guests, all but one, were here
when you entered, invisible to your eyes but
really here and they looked at you and you
looked in their eyes and as you approached the
table you touched their garments but you knew
it
not. You could not see the flower
I
held up to
you!
It
was the flower of hope and success. Oh!
how
I
did want you to see it. The spiritual, the
natural, the material, the ethereal, all blend.
I
find out now that
I
knew but little before
I
came
here. Sarah
I
just begin to see that
I
knew very
little. You will be much wiser when you come
here than
I
was. You will understand more than
I
did. This Divine knowledge will be
a
great
lamp for you as you walk up and down the ave
nues of heaven.
I
am happy to be one to give
you
a
little of this beautiful knowledge. You will
meet to-morrow night at half past eight o'clock.
We will all be present. God bless you!
Prof. Kenyon."
"George, my Son,
I
am here to give you en
couragement.
I
have been working with you. The
pen
is
a
great weapon and you are using
it
well.
You are using
it
at this present time to great
advantage. You will get along well
!
Never look
back after you have anchored.
Isaac T. Hopper."
(169- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child.
I
have been
with your Pa and
I
am anxious to see him
in
his
own home and will before
I
return to you again.
Pa
is
well and he will find all well at home.
I
am going to make his life more peaceful, his
trials less. God bless you my child. Tell Emeline
that
I
leave my blessing for her as well as your
self. Good bye. Your Ma.
I
go now."
(1) My thoughts war* jtut u be uyi.
196 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Feb. 23 3 P. M.— 1871.
Katie came at noon saying that Olin desired
the meeting at three instead of half past eight.
We prepared the room and closed it as they di
rected and entered when they desired. The air
was thick with coming storm and we expected
no particular manifestation, but as soon as we
were seated the little echoes said "Mamma we are
here" and immediately I felt them leaning against
my lap. Very soon Dr. Franklin told us to sing.
We sang the "Lord's Prayer" and as we were
going through the second time we were greatly
surprised to hear notes from Leila's golden harp.
It accompanied our voices several times through
the tune, then played three or four tunes, none
of which did we know. They were exquisitely
sweet and the Doctor thought there were strains
in one that resembled some opera music he had
heard and he remarked something to that effect,
but they instantly responded, "No! No!! No!!!"
Sister Em. heard the harp distinctly in another
room. When she first noticed it she wondered
where it was and (170-Vol. IlI) what stringed
instrument it could be with such clear and pene
trating tone and still so sweet. After a little she
heard our voices, then she knew it was Leila with
her harp. She listened a little while then went
away fearing she might disturb them by her at
tention. They left us as usual after writing the
following all of which was written through Katie's
hand while the harp was still being played.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The harps of
heaven are sounding in your ears. You are listen
ing, you hear our strains. You know that we live,
that we are very near you.
Now in order for us to perform our work we
must have clear atmosphere. We were prepared
for this to-day, we came in form and we are
happy that Katie followed our advice. Oh! How
happy we are. Sarah cheer up, be happy. Oh
let me bear your sigh to my home and waft it
back to you in a blessing. Katie return here to
night for I want to speak to Sarah directly after
breakfast.
Olin."
"I will meet you again Sunday morning (the
26tb.) The power is all exhausted. We must
now go to our homes. Does the music from the
home of your children not soothe your hearts?
Oh! Do you not know how greatly you are
blessed? Now call us not back. Farewell.
B. F."
"P. S. Pa has arrived home and is well. Good
bye.
Olin."
Feb. 24 10 A. M.— 1871.
(171-Vol. IlI) "Morning dull and dark and
damp with the shadows of dark thoughts upon
the sunniest side of life. I see my sister in the
shadow this morning, but 1 see a light opening a
little beyond the bushes. I see the roses opening
beyond, only a little way off. The spring carpet is
about to be spread over your pathway and your
feet will lightly walk upon it. 1 see dear Sarah
that you are now in the darkest hour, soon, very
soon these heavy clouds will pass away. I look
in your heart and see its risings and fallings, its
lights and shades. I see all its joys and all its
sorrows. I would lift every shadow off your heart
and leave only the joy. Now my dear sister you
must try to have faith and you will have strength
to bear all your trials. Ma is here and wants to
talk with you. She is happy for she looks beyond
your vision and knows that all is well with you.
We want you to be just as happy as you can be.
We will stand by you, help you take up the
thread of your present work and help you find
out all mistakes. Do you remember the painting
I drew for you not long ago? Have you not faith
to believe it? Sarah read it over at these depress
ing times and you will find comfort. On Sunday
morning we will have our happy meeting, till
then we will look and watch and see what is best
for you. Ma is waiting. God bless you!
Olin."
(1 72- Vol. IlI) "My Child. Your soul calls
me and I come. 1 have been near you all night.
I tried to give you rest, that rest which restores
the spirit as the rain revives the parched flowers.
I left you early this morning and I was troubled
and anxious for I knew that your labors would
commence with the morning and your heart would
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 197
feel heavy with the weight of its burthens. My
dear child were you here 1 would take you to my
arms and soothe you, I would bear every trial
for you. Grandma, your Grandma Langworthy,
came with me and looked lovingly upon you. She
dropped some bright flowers upon your pillow.
Softly we tread about you when world forgetting
you sleep the sweet sleep of restoration.
All is going to be bright. No more changes
except for good. No more sorrow. Keep your
spirits happy. Now, I have assured you that I
am with you to aid and guard you. I have told
you that there are happy changes coming.
Work! My child work with a faithful hand
and a peaceful heart. Be brave! You always were
my brave little girl. Pa is well and everything
looks bright to me. God bless you.
Your Ma."
"Sarah I do love you, nor have 1 forgotten you.
My love has not been manifested or demonstrated,
it has been blooming here in the garden of Im
mortality. My dear Sarah I have taken Frankie
and Leila in my arms this morning. I have
kissed them. Oh to think (173-Vol. IlI) that my
eyes can behold them and yours not. I feel sorry
when I am permitted to see your heart grieving.
My child I will every day kiss your children
for you and send you a blessing. I am happy in
the society of all our dear ones, you can imagine,
dear Sarah, how happy we are all together. We
visit each other and we have every amusement
the heart can desire.
I suffered once Sarah a long time ago and then
my flowers commenced blooming here where I
have found perfect peace. I will visit you again.
Aunt Sarah."
"My Dear Pupil. I am here this morning only
to let you know that I am cognizant of all your
troubles. Tell George his book will be the direct
cause of his great success in business. You will
have plenty of money. Do not feel worried. I
am going to stand by you all of the time for I
love you. I have but one important direction to
give. Meet Sunday morning at half past ten and
in the mean time do not call for us as our circle
will be engaged and a great part of the time in
your business. All is well! Rejoice for we do.
God bless you! We all go now to renew our
strength.
Prof. Kenyon."
Feb. 26 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
"The day is dark but not dreary, how can it
be when we are with you? The rain falls and
darkness is upon the earth but the beautiful
world from which we come is full of (174- Vol.
IlI) God's light. The lilies, the dew-drops, the
roses are all in bloom, no rain falls there. We
are happy for we are no longer inhabitants of a
world of sorrow and change. Our days are holy,
our homes sacred and beautiful to our eyes, and
our souls live in peaceful enjoyment. Yet dear
Sarah and George we are not without shadow for
when we look from our celestial homes and see
the trials and troubles which follow in the lives
of those we love our souls are troubled and we
long to take these weary ones to our homes for
rest and happiness. Oh bear everything patiently,
daily you are becoming more prepared to join
our choir, therefore it is well to suffer and endure.
You are our children and as such you will come
to us. I see the misgivings of your hearts and
the vacancies that have been made. These are
things that should not vex your spirits nor trouble
your hearts. The remedy will come and as the
grass shows its life, after its winter covering drops
off, and gradually but surely becomes a green
carpet to please the eyes, so my dear sister will
your trials pass off and new joys come to clothe
your spirit in new light. Be patient! As dew
drops to the flower, as light and shade, as the
cooling breeze on a feverish brow I will be to
you, and the day however dark will not be dreary.
Would that I could bring my beautiful abode
before your eyes. Every day we bow in adoration
and praise before the throne from whence all
blessings come and offer up our thanks. (175-
Vol. IlI) We thank the Great Giver of all good
for our happiness, we thank Him for permitting
us to bless you. We are His servants, His mes
sengers, His children. Churches become disorgan
ized, creeds change, but there is One who, never
changes. God in His perfection. We adore Him,
198 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
we thank Him, we know He is here, we feel His
presence, we know that He exists for our signs
from Him are many. Some who came here with
out fear of God, without love for Him, heed not
the beautiful signs He gives of His presence, and
the flowers close and the sun refuses to shine in
their abodes and all seems dark. God's patience
and forbearance can not be measured when ap
proached with a desire to become His child. Oh
praise God! He makes our homes for us. He
blesses us that we may bless others and we feel
that we are not grateful enough.
Have faith that we may be able to accomplish
our work for without faith we can do nothing.
You are pursuing the right course and have done
right. I have looked in your future and every
thing looks so bright that my spirit is free and
happy. I can say no more. Meet at three to
morrow if clear, and Ma will talk with you. She
is now engaged in important vocations and can
not come.
Have I cheered you in this interview? Have
my words given you comfort? If you feel more
peaceful I am repaid for battling with the ele
ments. God bless you!
Olin."
Feb. 27 3 P. M.— 1871.
(176-Vol. IlI) ^'My Dear Sarah and George.
We are all here but will not attempt to take the
paper because of the atmosphere. We will wait
until it is settled then we will feel no anxiety on
our way to our spirit land. I am happy to see
your hearts a little lighter to-day. 1 can assure
you again dear Sarah that you will be able to
meet everything only have patience. This has
been a trying winter for you but the worst is over.
Have faith and believe me all is well. To your
dark vision things look dark. You see only the
present and the past. We see the future. Oh let
the sunlight stay, let it not be dimmed by the
shadows of your spirits. If the world without is
dark make a heaven within by your sunny
thoughts and we will sit down with you and
partake of your joys, when you laugh we will
rejoice and send you blessings.
Sarah and George you have us with you. Friend
after friend departs, or sometimes worse there
are friends, those who flatter and caress when
summer roses bloom, but when misfortune comes
where are they gone? Only while the roses last
do their friendships remain. We are firm friends,
always, in the darkest hours we come to raise you
up, to lift the heavy load off your hearts and
clothe you in joy and sunlight. Then trust us,
come to us we will guard you with our spotless
mantles and throw them upon you when you
sleep that your eyes may be unveiled to blessings.
(177- Vol. IlI) This morning we all (our own
circle) rambled together. We walked under the
drooping trees by the water side. We took the
children with us, Leila played on her harp. We
are going to give her a garden of lilies. She loves
so much to see them open with their pretty
emblems.
Frankie is becoming quite an artist. Dr. Frank
lin will to-morrow occupy much time in present
ing gifts. Leila will be delighted with her bed
of lilies for she will have it all to herself and
some night not far distant she will bring one to
you and let you inhale its perfumes. Sarah and
George there never can be a happier family than
we are. 'Frankie and Leila have been here in
form and have been busy with the cards. Wed
nesday at three the circle will all be here and you
must be punctual for we shall have much to
say about our gifts and other things. I can say
no more my dear sister.
Yours forever. Olin."
"My Dear Child I have come to let you know
that I never forget you. We are happy to see the
obstacles rolling from you. Peace be with you.
I approve of all you are doing. To-morrow will
be a great day with us. We will talk with you
on Wednesday. My dear Sarah our family enjoy
themselves as much if not more than any other
family here. Some are comparatively happy and
look upon us with wonderment when they see
(1) We knew that they wished to take more crayon paper.
Farther than that we knew not their purposes.
(1) A pack of cards lay upon the back of the top of the
bureau. When our meeting was over we found the cards in
five loose piles on the front of the bureau.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 199
us so joyous. God bless you my dear child.
No flowers are closed.
Your Ma."
Feb. 28 3 P. M.— 1871.
(178- Vol. IlI) Katie was here and unexpect
edly the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We bestow our gifts this
afternoon therefore we cannot say much. We are
almost in the midst of it now, still I am happy
to come and say a few words for 1 know they will
be acceptable to you and certainly it is a source
of great pleasure to me. I am with all the dear
ones to-day. Oh how I do wish that you could
for a few hours throw off the mortal part, that
which bars the mortal from the immortal, and
be one of us to-day, you would enjoy it so much.
I wish it could be so, but my wish is fruitless,
without a response it must be.
Dear Sarah when the morning opened on you
I was with you to see if your heart was heavy.
I saw that you would rise not with depression and
I left you happy in my own spirit. I know that
all is coming out right. You will be happy and
free. Worry not! Over the shadows a beautiful
golden light is gleaming.
I will be here with the whole circle at three
to-morrow. We shall rejoice to tell you of this
day's work and you will be happy to learn how
we progress. Be of good cheer knowing that we
keep watch over you and that no real evil, with
out a warning first from us, can come to you.
Oh! How sweetly the harps sound. The organs
are pealing forth and all the air is music, music.
You see that my ears even now are not deaf to
the heavenly sounds. (179- Vol. IlI) Would that
you too could hear all that I hear. Would that
your eyes could behold the beautiful visions.
When I return I will give your love to the whole
circle and speak of our interview.
Now my dear Sarah I leave to join the circle
above. Can your imagination picture us in our
beautiful world, all our own? You can not con
ceive the holy beauty, therefore you cannot im
agine one half. Think not that I leave you from
a desire not to be with you, not so, but I must
depart, already there are loving eyes watching
for my coming. God bless you!
Olin."
March 1 3 P. M.— 1871.
I placed the paper on the little table as directed
and when they were ready to leave they told me
to return it to the box without touching it with
my uncovered hands. They wrote.
"My Dear Children. I will give directions now.
Do not touch the paper till we give permission,
and never touch it with the naked hand, always
place the handkerchief between your hand and
it. We shall thoroughly prepare it before taking
it. We would like the next meeting on Friday
morning at half past six. You remember my
children that our time is precious and that we
cannot come to your earth at all times. Can we
impress this on your minds? Our time is not at
our disposal. Now, do not complain at time but
be patient.
Yesterday I took your little children and pre
sented them with some beautiful gifts. (180- Vol.
IlI) To your little girl I gave a little garden of
violets which she will take pleasure in cultivating
and watching. I also gave her a large harp. To
your son I gave a room, all to himself, filled with
beautiful paintings. This room is for him to paint
in and study the science of life, the immortal
life. He can invite those he loves best to visit
him there. It is his room. Other children re
ceived gifts from their guardians. It was a day
of rejoicing. Here I stop. Here I stand silent,
to explain what came after would be impossible.
My pen would too feebly obey the wish of my
spirit and were I to tell you the great joy, the
beauty of the scene, the holy faces of the little
children, it would merely be a faint idea con
veyed in words that would not do justice to the
effort, so here I stop. I leave your imaginations
to picture heaven in its dazzling loveliness. Never
wish one of your dear ones back. They are happy
and away from temptation. God bless you!
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. The children are
away with their gifts to-day, oh so happy.
Ma, Grandma and all our circle are so happy
200 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
to have had Dr. Franklin present the gifts to our
dear little ones. We go to the banquet hall Sun
day afternoon. Ma has been here but is now
gone to the children. God bless you!
Olin."
March 3 6^ A. M.— 1871.
(181-Vol. IlI) We did precisely as at the pre
vious meeting with the paper and returned it to
the box in the same manner. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning and our souls go forth in praise for
the blessings we are permitted to bestow upon
you. How beautiful to come in the morning fresh
ness when the gray of early dawn shadows earth,
then disappears with the sunlight, God's sun
light. We feel a holy peace that we do not ex
perience when the world is busy and curious ears
open to hear and know what we are doing. We
feel the outside influence and rejoice in this tran
quil hour. Here we all meet and no one outside
is the wiser. They know not that while they sleep
you are in communion with the world unseen to
your eyes. In the summer mornings when the air
is perfumed with flowers we shall meet you. How
sweet to know that we can make you happy. We
are with you and all is well. We look ahead and
see the golden paths, the flowers and the bright
sky above you.
We love to have you open and close the meet
ings with singing the Lord's Prayer. Soon our
other duties will commence in the bright world
beyond and we shall think of you and send you
blessings. God bless you.
Olin."
(182-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Children. Ask no
questions, neither complain of time. We do all in
our power and for the best. No clouds are over
you that can not be removed and I am going to
help you follow up your 'proof,' also will your
friend Prof. Kenyon. Surely your object is
worthy and must be successful. The tide will
soon rise. I have seen your son William and he
is a noble child. Tell him that he will come off
with honors before long. Our next meeting will
be at ten Sunday morning. My children we now
go to our other duties. Call us not! God bless
you ! Farewell.
B. F."
March 4 10 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. I am here to-night and I
want to say a few words of love, consolation and
hope. All the clouds that to-night hang over your
earth affect not the beautiful paths we are walk
ing in. No gloom hangs over you for there are
no sorrowful eyes looking upon you. Happy eyes,
bright with love, immortal love look down on
you, without a shadow for they know that all is
well.
My dear Sarah and George will you retire and
let sleep refresh your wearied bodies and in the
morning meet us fresh and happy? Our spirits
will come clothed for our happy meeting in the
loved world beyond this, and when we leave you
it will be to greet those whom we see only on
those occasions at the banquet hall.
You must also be dressed and ready for us at
(183-Vol. IlI) ten as we want the room to gather
in and you must not enter until quarter past ten.
George I would have the 'machine' put in
perfect order. There is one place that wants fix
ing and you will notice it Monday morning.
I will be near you all night. God bless you.
Olin."
March 5 \0% A. M. — 1871.
The air was clear and sweet with early spring.
The room was prepared and the paper in the linen
handkerchief placed upon the table by the fold
ing doors and all left to the invisible circle who
met and exchanged greetings while we waited in
our parlor. While waiting I took up and read a
sketch of the life of George Fox by Macaulay.
I read portions of it aloud and we commented
upon it.
At the appointed time we entered the room,
took our seats and sang the Lord's Prayer through
twice when my dress was pulled and strange,
strong, heavy echoes said "Your reading about
me has drawn my spirit to you. I will come and
talk with you next Tuesday at half past twelve.
Put it in your diary. (Again my dress was pulled)
Good ^ George Fox."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 201
We heard our loved friends about us, heard
them move the round stand and heard them mov
ing paper. Katie's hand wrote and when we
opened our eyes after they had left we saw that
the stand had been moved several feet and upon
it was the crayon paper, which I had left upon the
table by the folding doors, with the handkerchief
nicely folded about it.
(184- Vol. IlI) "My dear Sarah and George.
We are all here this morning. Dr. Franklin has
so arranged the paper that you need not touch it
with your hands in returning it to the box.
We are so happy to have this clear, beautiful
atmosphere. Our souls rejoice. No shadows on
our spirits. We are dressed in our most beautiful
garments. Our robes are too purely spiritual for
us to remain long in your earthly atmosphere.
We are going to meet our friends, our beloved
ones to-day at the banquet hall.
We feel the joy of their souls now while here
with you. We feel their sweet influence, their de
sires. We feel their loving spirits anticipating the
meeting in the banquet hall. We are so in unison
with each other that we can commune soul with
soul even when at a distance from each other.
Thus it is with us and there is the charm of
heaven. We are all happy at these meetings and
grateful for them.
We will make a harp of flowers to-day and call
it yours in the banquet hall. We will talk with
you about it at our next appointment but over
some things we shall have to draw the veil as we
are not permitted to tell everything. Think of
us in our bright homes and we will think of you,
but do not think of us with the wish to have us
return or our spirits will not be free. -\
—|
—\-
God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I am here now with the chil
dren but shall leave in a few minutes. I want you
to know my dear child that (185-Vol. IlI) I am
watchful of you, that I think of and love you
with my whole heart. A little shadow is over
Ralph which makes me a little anxious, but it
will pass away. I sometimes see dear Daniel in
trials and troubles. To-day we must all be happy
for where we are going there is no sorrow. I love
my children, but my Olin, my treasure, my sun
light oh how happy I am to have him here. Give
my blessing to Emeline. We are now preparing
to go.
Your Ma."
"George and Sarah I give you great credit for
the neat manner and dignity with which you are
preparing your work. I shall watch its progress.
We are all here, your heart and home circle. Be
of good cheer.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My Son your Mother is well. I shall take
charge of many children to-day. Good bye. Do
not forget to send for the old lady.
Your Father."
"My Children I want you to be patient. I
have an object in view which I do not wish to
explain. All progresses well. Meet Tuesday at
seven A. M. We all go now. Do not call one of
our circle. God bless you. . Farewell.
B. F."
March 7 7 A.M.— 1871
The air was bad and they remained but few
moments and we remarked that they could do
nothing. They wrote.
"Meet at half past nine. We have all been here
and have not failed. We can not come (186- Vol.
IlI) again in this atmosphere. It injures us.
The Circle."
March 7 9y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are here again to speak
to you. How blessed to be able to come in your
very midst, to be able to see you so distinctly.
Would that you could see us. Every feature of
yours is indelibly imprinted on our souls which
we carry with us to our homes and there we watch
and work for you.
We all met at the banquet hall Sunday. We
had a happy time, a happy meeting. We clasped
hands in loving silence. Do you know dear that
we meet friends there whom we can see in no
other place? Friends whose duties and paths are
in different directions? These friends we love
dearly and look forward to these banquet meet
ings with sublime pleasure. The children. Ma
202 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
and I made a wreath for you resembling a harp
with your name in the center woven with flowers.
It hangs there now. The flowers were all open
except three buds which we left to unfold in our
absence. I hope to see all opened and not one
leaf withered. This will foretell much regarding
your future. I can not explain to you till after we
have our next meeting at the banquet hall, then be
it good or sad the tale the flowers predict I will
tell you frankly. This is the first sign of the kind
that we have been permitted to try and we can
read much of your future (187-Vol. IlI) in this
emblem which now hangs in the beautiful draw
ing room of the banquet hall. Aunt Sarah and
Uncle Albert were there.
The most striking circumstance was this. 'Mr.
Taylor hearing you speak of this beautiful place
found the way through some parties who went
to the banquet hall and he came in. I saw that
he had a keen sense of the beautiful, his eye was
pleased, but seeing no friends of his youth he
soon left but not without noticing some of the
most beautiful girls who glided from flower to
flower and from room to room seeking their soul's
companions. I think I will help him next time
and direct him to the happiest paths. I will try at
least. My dear Sarah how happy the children
are. They have been with you this morning, now
they are busy in their gardens.
The directions were left for me to give. You
are to meet on Thursday morning punctually at
seven. I need not repeat that we want to give you
a great picture. We do not say much about it as
we do not wish your minds fixed upon it. All is
well and we are happy. The clouds are passing
away. I mean your troubles. Tell George that
Prof. Kenyon and Mr. Hopper are following him
in his work. God bless you!
Olin."
"My Dear Child. My dear boy Olin has fin
ished talking now I will speak. The dear boy
never likes to touch upon (188- Vol. IlI) anything
that might cause you the least shadow. He has
told you how happy we were last Sunday, there
(1) Junes B. Taylor of Madison Ave. died in the summer of
1870.
was not a cloud upon our happy spirits, but to
day I feel a little shadow. I will tell you my child
what it is. I love peace and affection between
brothers and sisters. You remember I predicted
unhappiness for Ralph. The cloud I fear is gath
ering a little more heavily. 1 am sorry Ralph
feels so unpleasantly. Can you not dear Sarah
make him feel differently? He has a wife now.
To her he goes with everything and she puts a
different coloring on causing him to feel unkindly
and hard to those who have ever been dear to
him. My child I hope I have not worried you or
caused your tender heart to feel oppressed. Oh,
do not let me leave one shadow my darling child
for all will be well. Have faith and be happy.
Give my love to Emeline. God bless you!
Your Ma
to all eternity with a Mother's undying blessing
for her child."
After reading Ma's letter I talked with her
about its "subject matter" and expressed my de
sire to do anything possible to help Ralph's feel
ings, when she added the following.
"My Dear Child. I see that you can do noth
ing at present. You will have to wait patiently
until a way suggests itself to you or me. George
did right to send the letter but Ralph feels hurt.
Your Ma."
(189- Vol. IlI) "My Friend Sarah. Excuse me
for styling you Sarah but it is a name endeared
to me by many recollections. I am happy to say
'Good morning' and heaven bless you. I was at
tracted by your speaking of me. I will silently
help you. Farewell.
George Fox."
March 13 9]/2 A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not keep the appointment, did not
come at all until Sunday morning and was then
in no condition for a meeting. They wrote a let
ter, manifested great pain because of her conduct
and made an appointment for the next morning
which was this. We met, Katie and I, and they
wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. How sublime the morning
and how full of forgiveness are our souls. Char
ity, forgiveness and patience are the greatest
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 203
blessings of life. We are happy to come this
morning, happy to mend the chain again. To
morrow we will have the meeting for the picture.
We will have a consultation at three to-day in
our own homes after which we will give direc
tions. About Ralph, do not at present say any
thing. He will come around himself. We love to
see peace and we hope to make it through our
influence. All will be well in time. Ralph's heart
is right but the influence others have over him
is not favorable to you. God bless you Sarah and
send you success. We have to go to our duties.
Olin."
(190- Vol. IlI) "Dear Sarah, My Friend and
Pupil. I see some new blessings approaching you.
Be of good cheer! Anticipate no evil! We are
going to meet this day for consultation and I
hope we will have happy tidings for you. I hope
you will let no shadows come between you and
us. No more now.
Prof. K."
March 14 10 A. M.— 1871.
We have looked faithfully into the future and
know it for six months ahead. We can now make
appointments without fearing these breaks for
Katie will be right and straight.
You and George will see bright changes. The
star is rising and all the dark clouds are passing
into the brightest sunbeams. Oh my sister joy
be yours, may blessings follow you, may the
trouble pass and may your soul be dressed in
every beauty that charms angels. The directions
are to meet at two this afternoon.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We have looked in the
future and we are satisfied, satisfied. Meet at two
as your brother has directed. I will talk with
George at the next meeting.
B. F."
March 14 2 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
The children are anxious that you should visit
their little gardens at Greenwood. We want Katie
to go with you as we want to let the little an
gels drop some sweet flowers down in your paths.
Flowers that you can bring (191-Vol. IlI) home,
but they may perish, we can not say. They love
the little gardens for your sakes and because you
know their forms were laid there and that there
still remains some sign of their presence. Leila's
hair has grown long and so has Frankie's. You
would be surprised to see how beautiful their hair
is in those little caskets. One thing I may be able
to engage Mr. Taylor to aid me in as he is a very
powerful earthly spirit, he may be able to pene
trate those little caskets and take some of the
beautiful hair for you. The little ribbon has faded
but is still there.
Oh how strange is the decay of life, of the
perishable part, and often so revolting, but all
that is beautiful ascends to this world which is
expressly for angels, men and women. The chil
dren we call angels.
Dr. Franklin is a fine looking man, noble, sub
lime. He is bending over the paper now. Oh
would that you could see him but that time has
not yet come.
All is well! Ma sends her love and blessing
and will speak at our next appointment. I can
say no more.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. The paper must have as
little light of day upon it as possible. Now all is
well! George, my son you are rather slow in
producing your work, but you are the best judge
of that. I know that certainty lies in slow and
sure. Meet Thursday morning (192-Vol. Il1) at
nine for directions. All is well! God bless you.
B. F."
"We have not forgotten our promises to you
my son and daughter.
Prof. Kenyon and
Isaac T. Hopper."
'March 19 11^ A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning. We are happy to come and per
form our work in this beautiful, clear atmosphere.
There is not a cloud upon the sky of our hopes,
and our eyes look lovingly down upon you with
approval. We have been preparing the paper
(1) Katie did not come on Tuesday, not till this morning.
204 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
and mending the broken links. The way is flow
ing now. This morning we have seen the flowers
blooming and heard the harps sounding.
We have dressed the children for their Sabbath
enjoyments and ourselves also. Sarah when the
sun shines forth in such beauty upon your earth,
making the very heart glad, we rejoice for it is
the holy influence of unseen spirits in the atmos
phere which impresses you and infuses peace in
your souls and tells you there is a God, a Ruler
above, One who says 'seek not to unravel these
mysteries too often, thus far shalt thou go and
no farther.' You may not ask Why? or Where
fore? too often. There are many things that can
not be explained. What we wish is that the breath
of suspicion shall not touch our souls when we
come into your presence. It withers the brightest
flowers in our gardens and keeps our white robes
from touching you with peace. Oh how beauti
ful is faith, (193-Vol. IlI) how sacred. The angels
of heaven gather around you and with one ac
cord say 'We will be your guardians.' Your
faith is perfect, nothing in your atmosphere chills
our purposes for your happiness, and we love to
come to you.
Sarah we love to bless you and make you
happy. George you must not feel worried, look
ahead, is not all bright? Times may be dull but
you are safe and we are happy to tell you so. We
have looked well and long, we know and we can
advise. We can bid you hope and point you to
a star not far off, the star of success, -f- + We are
all going immediately after leaving you to the
banquet hall and at our next meeting we will ex
plain everything to you, all that we are permitted
to. We shall pass much time there for there are
changes being made which we will explain.
Ralph would like to be here this morning. He
feels lonely. He wants a pleasant place to visit
and in his own family. I can say no more. God
bless you !
Olin."
"My Dear Child. Oh how happy 1 am to say
a few words to you. These little clouds will pass
away. I do not like to see one shadow between my
children, one little shadow of separation. It hurts
me like the morning light when it falls too sud
denly upon the eyes, and still I can not advise
what is best. Your judgment is good. My Dear
Sarah what do you think of Emeline's going to
see him with Willie? I may not be wholly right.
We will (194- Vol. IlI) commune together and
advise together on Tuesday.
Oh! My dear Sarah how I love to come to you.
Tell Emeline that I have been very near her. We
can say no more. My blessed child we must go,
call us not back.
Your Ma."
"George do not feel worried. You will have all
settled this week and everything will be well and
as you anticipate with your book. You better
drive out, the air will clear your brain. My dear
Sarah we all go now.
Prof. K."
"My dear Children. Meet Tuesday at half past
two. We will have much to do and say. All is
well! Farewell.
B. F."
March 21 iy2 P. M.— 1871.
"My dear Sarah. The atmosphere is so un
favorable that we can not work on the paper.
We will therefore talk with you. The atmos
phere is very unfavorable even for us to write
but we will put all our forces together and do
the best we can. We are so happy to talk with
you, to sit down with and feel that you know
we are near you. Oh dear Sarah it is like meeting
after a long parting. We all went to the banquet
hall and lingered till this morning. We met all
our beloved friends. We talked over everything.
We reviewed our former lives, looked over the
past and into the future. We were very happy
for we could visit without fearing or feeling that
we would be called away. Our time was our own
and we felt no shadow over our heavenly homes.
(195- Vol. IlI) We went through a process of
taking tea and breakfast which was perfectly
exquisite. A table was spread with everything
that was beautiful to look upon, flowers, pyra
mids of roses and violets, and a spiritual food
which we have to draw the curtain upon as we
can not explain it satisfactorily to your minds.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 205
But oh, Sarah our lives here are so much
brighter and happier than yours. We have every
thing that you do, spiritualized and holy. We live
pleasantly, homelike and have the things which
used to make us happy when on earth. There is
a great difference in families here as great as there
is on earth. Our family on Sunday gathered by
themselves. In the evening the lamps of heaven
shone forth and the children danced. Dr. Frank
lin remained more with us than with any of the
others. He is very partial to our Grandma. She
is really a beautiful woman.
We are about leaving our old homes, the ones
we have occupied and called our own for a great
length of time. We are not going to leave them,
they will be our homes but we are having pre
pared for us a Palace higher among the homes of
the Great Masters. We have advanced so rapidly
that we are about having this blessing bestowed
upon us. But when you come here we shall first
take you to the homes we are in now (and they
are beautiful beyond description), then we will
take (196-Vol. IlI) you to our palace Sarah where
none save our own family will be present. Are
you not happy to know this? It is a boon not
granted to all, and this is a located home. We are
preparing it. We are not yet permitted to enter
it. It will be some time before we can complete
our palace. I have not told of this before for fear
it would disturb our happiness. I have said all
I can about it to-day, but will let you know
from time to time.
Ma is here and will speak before we close the
writing. Dear Sarah do not feel anxious, George
is not alone, he is guided and cared for by those
who love him and watch over his interests.
I saw Dr. Franklin this morning and the next
appointment will be Thursday at three. I will let
Ma come now and leave my blessing with you.
Your brother with a brother's holy love.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I am here with my dear boy
Olin, my own dear Olin. Here we are and do you
realize it? Do you know that we are with you,
very near you?
I leave you my dear child to do as you think
best about Ralph. Your judgment is good. I
have been with your Pa to-day. He is not feeling
very strong and when I leave you I shall return
to him and magnetize him. I am so rejoiced that
we (197- Vol. IlI) are going to have a palace for
our own family only. Will it not be a joy very
great? I am pleased and satisfied with every
thing. I influence you oftener than you know. All
is well dear child. Give my love and blessing to
Emeline. Your Mother to all Eternity.
Your Ma."
March 23 iy2 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
Dr. Franklin at the head. We again have to con
tend with the atmosphere but we are able to do a
little. There are great changes going on in our
world as well as yours. We are very happy!
Blessings are dropping softly, gently as the lov
ing arms of a mother clasps her child do we bless
you and as you journey on through life you will
realize this more and more.
We are aiding you George, we are working for
you. Sometimes we are obliged to work with
great power in order to wave off the obstacles and
keep away the clouds but we almost always suc
ceed. We see clearly into the future and we see
great blessings weaving for you, weaving in your
lives George and Sarah, therefore do not let the
present uncertain appearance of things make you
hold your heads down nor make your hearts dark
with the shadows of disappointment. This will
last only a short time longer. Let our promises
cheer your souls and make you happy. Dear
Sarah we will renew your health and strength
and guide you into sunny paths. (198- Vol. IlI)
The children are very happy. We are preparing
our palace. Oh how happy we shall be when we
can all occupy
it,
our family. Then we shall
live
in
each other. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Child.
I
am here. George you do
not know how faithfully Mr. Hopper works for
you. Surely you have nothing to fear while we
are for you. All
is
well!
I
shall be one of your
family very often Sarah in the palace above.
Prof. K."
206 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Dear Child. 1 was with your Pa all day
yesterday. He is quite well. Oh how I love to
watch over him. Two of the buds are open, dear
Sarah, which indicate peace and prosperity. The
third will open within two weeks then I will tell
you more particularly. Tell Emeline to feel cheer
ful. 1 am watching over her. We watch our pal
ace with great joy. When it is completed you will
be invited to a festival of our own. Ask no ques
tions about it. God bless you.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. I wish the meeting at
seven o'clock on Friday morning. I am happy
that you were punctual to-day. Be careful how
you handle the paper, I have left it covered. 1
can say no more. Farewell.
B. F."
March 25 7 A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come to the appointment for Fri
day. She came for this morning and the meet
ing was pleasant, and they wrote accordingly.
(199- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We have been able to get perfect control of every
thing this morning the atmosphere is so clear and
the conditions so good. I wish you to tell Em.
that it would give Ma and me pleasure if she
would go to see Ralph.
Your brother Olin."
"George My Son you are doing right. Mr.
Hopper lingers by your side all of the time in
case of any emergency. Never weary of well
doing. You will be successful. Emeline better go
and see Ralph to-morrow. Sarah you are always
right. All is well.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My Dear Children. We have the paper under
our control. Meet at half past ten to-morrow
morning. George your book will be a great suc
cess.
Farewell. B. F."
March 31 3 P. M.— 1871.
We saw nothing of Katie until this day. Six
days had passed when she finally appeared and
we met. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing. This beautiful clear atmosphere ought to
give you new life and new hope. We gather the
spring flowers for you to-day, the last day of
March, and place them in your path there to
bloom while we work for your happiness. We
will soon be able to raise the curtain and show
you more of this world than you have yet seen.
Be patient till these things can be brought about.
I have been with you and George. 1 will tell
you only plain truths and you may rely upon all
(200-Vol. IlI) I say. There are no shadows, no
troubles over your sky. We are so happy to look
into the future and see no sorrow, no heavy
clouds to rain down sorrow upon you dear Sarah.
It is our heavenly duty to guard you from trouble.
We have spread our carpets on our palace
floors. They are spring violets and the children
will be the first to walk upon them. My dear
Sarah how can you sigh for our return in the
form? How can you wish us back? Where all is
change and darkness, sorrow and death, for death
is only on earth, everything dies to mortality and
we are born for all Eternity here in these immor
tal spheres. Here the seal of everlasting is put
upon the brow of every human child, and the gar
ments of immortality changed according to the
spirits' desires. Are you not happy dear Sarah
to know this? To have the knowledge we are
daily giving you? Time is short and all our fam
ily will be gathered here and it is well to know
something of the country to which you are travel
ing. You will be no stranger here! All will wel
come you. I know dear Sarah that you have had
obstacles and are now having them. I hope you
will not be discouraged or let your spirits droop.
Never look back and sigh, but go forth and look
forward to the blessings we are unfolding for you.
I see that Dr. Franklin is coming. He will give
directions.
The birds are singing in our gardens, the harps
are sounding, the children are dancing (201-Vol.
IlI) and all is well. God bless you dear Sarah
and George.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. It is well that you have
met to-day. There is never the least use of meet
ing when the telegraph is out of order. Now all
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 207
is well for the conditions are good. 1 wish the
next meeting at nine to-morrow night and the
second on Sunday morning when we can mend
all the broken links, besides we have much to
say. 1 have left other duties to come and give
you these directions, therefore I hope you will
respect them enough to keep them. We are with
you in every sorrow. We stand by you and do
more for you than human beings can do. My
Son you have done well to-day but do not delay
in any business. What you have to do do now.
You shall hear from me again. I must now leave
you and go to my duties. God bless you.
Farewell. B. F."
"My Dear Child. You need not feel unhappy
nor depressed. You have done nothing to cause
Ralph to feel bitter. Time will have to work all
things out right. Now my dear child be happy
and we will bless you.
I can say no more for we are spreading our
palace gardens with the first spring violets and
our circle must all be present. You shall hear
more about it to-morrow evening. God bless you
my children.
Your Ma."
(202-VoI. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
God's angels are with you, fear not. Farewell.
Prof. K."
April 3 10 P. M.— 1871.
Katie was at this time greatly annoyed by the
irregularities of her sister Maggie and we did
not see her after the last meeting until this day.
By the request of the circle we sat about the table
at this hour having first placed paper and pencil
on the bureau several feet distant from us. We
kept our seats until directed to light the gas.
We obeyed and found the following written in
the round, firm hand of Dr. Franklin and with
his own hand upon the paper which lay on the
bureau. Katie's hands had not touched or been
near this paper.
"My Dear Children. We are happy to come
again and renew our work which is of so much
importance. Now let me give in writing with
my own hands directions which if followed will
insure our perfect success. Circumstances have
been such as to prevent our meetings. I have
been with Katie and know that with the day's
worry and trial it would have been impossible for
her to have met with her mind undisturbed, there
fore our forces would have been weak. Now as
things will be settled in a day or two I appoint
Sunday morning for the picture, Sunday morn
ing at half past ten. It is of no use to meet be
fore. Katie must return early Saturday, go to
bed early and get up fresh for our meeting. My
son I see that all is going to work well with you.
(203-Vol Ill) My power is exhausted and I must
say farewell.
B. Franklin."
April 4 9 A. M.— 1871.
Katie had passed the night here and Olin re
quested us to meet at this hour for writing.
"My Dear Sarah. I am here this morning to
speak a few words. I have been very near you.
I know how you feel and how you have been wor
ried. Oh how I do wish I could make your path
way one bed of flowers and bear all your trials.
But were this possible you would only become
too much attached to earth to leave it and every
day would bring a regret that life should ever
draw to its close. The close of life must come
to all in due time and God sends trials in order
that the spirit may become more reconciled to
fly upwards. You are only being prepared for
the happy world where so many of your dear
ones have gone before to prepare the way. They
are your lamps. Do dear Sarah keep good cour
age for, as I have often told you, there is great
happiness yet for you, many blessings which have
not yet fallen upon you and all that is required is
patience. I see the clouds passing away one by
one. They will gradually all disappear, then
your spirit will be strong and take joy in the
world. We all wish you to prosper. We know
that there are few more worthy of prosperity and
happiness than you and George. We want to see
you prosperous for Willie's sake, he promises
(204- Vol. IlI) so much and we know that he will
be your staff in years to come when you and
George will find joy in living in him and leaning
upon him. Let no dread be in your hearts when
208 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
you see him ill. He will live to see many years,
many years and die in old age. There is no doubt
of it and you may always feel when he is ill that
he will get well. We are not often permitted to
give this information but there is no harm in our
foreshadowing it to you in this case but do not
repeat it nor make remarks about it outside of
the family. Dear Sarah are you not happy to
know this? We can not be mistaken for we have
just witnessed the opening of the two buds which
were emblematic of Willie's future. We may
never be able to do this again, therefore we im
plore you not to repeat it to any one.
My dear Sister 1 was with you yesterday. I
heard your conversation. In some things Ralph is
wrong and when he returns again to his home he
will see things in their true light. Soon all will
be peace in the household. Let that trouble your
mind no longer. I will help you in every effort.
We are going to make every trial easy to bear.
Now my dear Sarah keep good courage. We will
meet you again Thursday at three o'clock and
give cheering words. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. 1 am here with you. I do
not like to see you feeling weak and low-spirited.
I want you to feel well and happy. You must
(205-Vol. IlI) ride out every day, take the fresh
air all you can, the electricity in the atmosphere
will do you good and give you new life. I was
with you yesterday. You did all you could. I
was sorry to see Emeline feeling so unhappy, she
has nothing to make her feel so and we will see
that no sorrow comes to her. I hope she will see
Ralph to-day. My dear boy Olin never gives me
one moment's anxiety, how I wish I could say the
same of my other two dear boys. Well my dear
child do what you think is right yourself and you
can do no more.
Olin has just told you that the two buds are
open. We watched them with some anxiety but
the future is predicted as we hoped it would be
and we are happy to give you the meaning. I am
satisfied with all you are doing. Be as happy
as you can be and I will do all in my power for
you. God bless you. Give my love to George.
Pa is well. Your Mother to all Eternity.
Your Ma."
"Good Morning My Child, good morning to
you. I find you feeling somewhat cast down, too
much in the shade, too little in the sun. Tell my
son that I advise him to 'sell, he can make noth
ing by waiting, but get this other matter off his
hands first. I thought I would scold him this
morning for feeling discouraged, but on reflec
tion I see that it is almost impossible to feel
otherwise under existing circumstances, still I
see the future (206- Vol. IlI) and I see that all
is going to terminate successfully. Tell him that
I want him to take you out to drive every day
in the fresh air. It will do you good. I hope you
will feel quite strong when I talk with you again.
All is well.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. Remember the appoint
ment for the picture, remember all the directions
and great will be your reward. We all go now
as we can not linger longer in this atmosphere,
and our duties call us. Farewell.
B. F."
April 8 10 P. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come on Thursday but on Satur
day at this hour she came to our parlor where
the Doctor, Sister Em. and I were sitting. Soon
her hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am here to
night and oh how happy to say a few words. I
am not clouded in spirit, neither is the great direc
tor of our meeting. You shall be made happy by
us to-morrow. We are all coming to talk with
you to-morrow, our Sunday morning, so sacred
and holy. We will breathe sweet words in your
ears, we will bless you. We will weave the first
wreath of summer roses for you to-morrow dear
Sarah. Our palace is nearly completed. I have
so much to say, so much to tell you. We are
not anxious, we are happy and we want you to
get up happy so that there will be nothing to re
tard our progress for we expect to do much to
morrow. Em. I heard a conversation to the effect
(1) Building lots on Maduon Av«.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 209
that your engagement was broken off. I felt like
tripping (207- Vol. IlI) the party up. I see no
shadows about you, no unhappiness. You are
on no pedestal that will fall and let you down,
so be happy. God bless you.
Sarah all your beloved ones send their love
and blessing to you. Meet at ten in the morning.
Olin."
April 9 10 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning, not one absent. We are happy and
we wish you all to feel happy. Let nothing dis
turb your minds for there is no darkness in the
future to cast a foreshadowing of evil. Then let
your spirits rise in thankfulness to the Giver of
every good, this quiet Sabbath morning which
is made more cheering by the unseen presence of
your beloved ones. We were with you in the
early dawn of morning. We brought our wreath
of summer roses and placed it gently over your
head dear Sarah with a blessing from the whole
circle. You have passed through trials we all
know, but each one makes you dearer to us and
nearer. We sympathize with you always darling
sister. We love to meet you two in your home
and when your minds are tranquil we feel that
earth has pleasures to give though fleeting, as
well as heaven. We look into the future and
keep unhappiness from you. Some obstacles we
have already removed and you can feel sure of
our protection and power to aid you. The chil
dren are better here. They wish to choose your
rooms and make them beautiful for you long
before you come here (208- Vol. IlI) to enjoy
them. You build houses on earth to occupy only
a short space of time. We build them to last for
Eternity. You work and weep and struggle. We
work in the sunshine of eternal life, and what we
build up never bears marks of decay. Our palace
is nearly completed, then we shall be by our
selves, then we shall be private, none except those
for whom we have real heart affection can enter.
You dear Sarah can imagine what a joy this will
be to us. I think you often feel so yourself.
To-day when we leave you we shall take the
children to learn the way to the most beautiful
parts, and also select the music room. This is
very important, more so than we can convey to
your understanding for they are children still
in knowledge and our duty is to teach them.
Grandma looks lovely to-day. She is a beautiful,
fresh young woman. She says she wishes Sarah
and George were here for a short time to see how
beautiful everything is about us. We do not
want to take you away yet to remain as your work
on earth is not finished.
Dear Sarah, Ralph's wife feels a little vexed
with us all in this house for when she feels un
pleasantly towards you she does towards me, do
you understand? Dr. Franklin and Prof. Kenyon
are at work on the paper. It has to pass through
a process before we can use it answering to that
of photographers before they can make pictures.
Pa is well and happy to-day. We have all seen
him. I can not help feeling that Ralph (209-Vol.
IlI) has been unwise, first in thinking you could
aid him and then in being angry when refused
from necessity and not from the want of a wish
on your part to do all in your power for him. I
can say no more as others want to speak. God
bless you!
Olin."
"My Dear Child. We are ail here this morning.
Your Grandma has on her beautiful garments
and Leila in her arms. She loves your children
Sarah as well as you do yourself. The children
cling to her also.
If I could paint our palace to you my soul
would rejoice, but language fails and I could not
do justice to the subject. If we could give you
a painting on canvas, but no we can not paint
the beautiful day or light that surrounds it. When
it is completed I may be able to give you a faint
idea of its beauty. It is what I have prayed for
all my life and then to know that I shall have
only those I love there! Oh what joy!
My dear child be happy for daily I glide in
your presence, I touch your brow with my lips, I
leave you always with a blessing. I am with you.
Tell Emeline not to feel depressed but feel happy.
I always grieve when I see her atmosphere of sad
ness about her. My dear Sarah I want to meet
210 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
you to-morrow at ten and if George can be pres
ent before we leave we shall be glad. All is
well now. Go on rejoicing! God bless you my
children. Your Mother to all Eternity.
Your Ma."
(210-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child, My Friend
and Pupil. I have never been absent from your
meetings. If 1 seem quiet I am never idle. I
am always working for some good purpose. I am
rejoiced to see everything progressing so finely.
You are on the sure road to success. Never fear,
I am not going to leave you until I see you out
of all difficulties. God bless you.
Prof. Kenyon."
"I endorse all the Professor has said in the
above and I say the same.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"To fail in keeping appointments at the hours
we name is one of the most lamentable things
you can do when it is in your power to be punc
tual. To be twenty minutes after the time is as
unfortunate as not to meet at all. We have
duties and we set these hours apart for your
work. If you fail, we fail. We can not wait and
linger in your atmosphere for hours after the ap
pointed time. Often we can only remain a few
minutes. Can we impress upon your minds the
importance of being punctual to the minute? We
are not our own masters at all times and a higher
power than directs you, directs us. Remember
this. I am pleased with the progress this morning.
Meet at ten to-morrow. My dear son you are
doing right and will be successful. My children
farewell. Call us not back. We go to our separate
duties. Farewell.
B. F."
C2 1 1-Vol. Ill) Just as they were about leav
ing and before we had read a word of these letters
the little echoes came and said.
"Dear Mamma and Papa we are here dressed
so pretty. We are going to walk in our palace
to-day. Uncle Olin will tell you about it but we
have done it first."
April 10 10 A. M.— 1871.
"Dr. Franklin will be here in less than an hour.
We will talk first. My dear Sarah we are all here,
your own ties of blood and love. The morning is
favorable, we are happy and satisfied. -|
—|
—|- +
I never saw the children as happy as they were
yesterday. No clouds darkened their vision and
every beautiful place they selected for their Papa
and Mamma. They chose a whole floor for you
and a whole floor for themselves the doors opening
into yours. We are all in our palace, but so that
we can be secluded. We shall never forget our
homes we are now in. We shall never part with
them. There we will first receive those dear to us
until they become familiar with our avenues and
understand their new duties. You will be so re
joiced Sarah when you come here, so familiar
with everything, familiar with every path that
we have marked out for you. Nothing but the
spiritual beauty will astonish you. Our palace, oh
how transcendentally beautiful it is. There it
stands, trees and flowers surround it. We have
what you would call the blue room, the crimson
room, the violet room, (2 12-Vol. IlI) the rose
colored room, the buff room, the green room and
another made wholly of flowers. We have riches
here if we could not have them on earth and they
are gained by our acts. We have worked faith
fully for our palace of jewels but it will be some
time before it is finished. We have to work still
more. The children want to be there every day
but we leave them not where our presence can not
always be. Often they quietly sink back into a
repose resembling sleep, then they are guarded
by some loving angel. Often they become ex
hausted by over playing and repose upon the
flowers, so real is our existence.
My dear Sarah we are always so much happier
when we see the flowers blooming in your soul,
when we see you happy. I have an eye on every
thing. All is well! God bless you. Ma, Grandma
and all send their love and blessing to you.
Olin."
Mr. James B. Taylor now followed with a letter
upon business matters, after which came the fol
lowing.
"My Dear Children. We have succeeded well
and are happy. Our work will now go on. I have
been at work while you have been engaged with
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 211
Mr. Taylor. Our hearts are full of hope and
happiness. All is well! Be faithful and patient.
We will ask no more, and now my children we
will go to our other duties. Meet Thursday morn
ing, have room darkened at nine and enter at
half past. God bless you all! Farewell.
B. F."
(213-Vol. IlI) April 16 9l/2 A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come on Thursday, not until Sun
day when we met at this hour. By their request
I placed paper and pencil upon the bureau be
fore taking our seats. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this bright morning. If you are not happy it is
not that we have neglected you in our prayers.
We have prayed for your happiness and success
and we feel that our endeavors to place flowers
in your paths have not been in vain. We have
been with you noting every act of your lives. The
room is full of saints who were once like you,
human and finite, weak and sensitive. Dr. Frank
lin is writing. He too is in form.
There are no shadows on the sky of your his
tory. No sorrowful hands are uplifted, no flowers
are closed in grief for you my dear Sarah. The
sun shines upon you, the birds sing for you and
hope cheers your heart as the star cheers the lone
watcher. You hear not the soft strains of music
as they float through the air. A requiem soft and
low, solemn and sweet is now being sung for a
soul just born into Paradise. Would that your
ears were permitted to hear, your eyes permitted
to see. Death would be life and earth would have
few charms. How wonderful are the ways of Prov
idence, how wise and yet few are the persons
who see as they should. They send (2 14-Vol. ll!)
up mournings for those who have gone before
and bow not with resignation to the will of
God. Oh learn to say Thy will be done Father
not mine,' then will the heart become spiritual,
the eyes see with an inner vision and nothing
seem strange under the sun.
Ma is here with the children. She says 'Olin
say a great deal for me.' So I will tell you that
she smiles upon you with holy affection and kisses
the children many times during the day for you.
She watches the tide of your life. She sends you
peace in dark hours and leaves your heart happy.
Our Ma is a treasure. I will have to close as
Dr. Franklin wants our presence in his thoughts.
God bless you and guide you!
Olin."
"Good morning Sarah and George. I am happy
to meet you, happy to say that all is well. I re
joice to see no heavy clouds over you. We are
happy souls. Our first visit we have paid to you,
our first congratulations we have given to you
this morning. We shall go by ourselves to the
palace after leaving you. I would like one if
not half as large for myself. I shall have to wait
my time and work for
it,
so
I
will be patient.
George you are doing well, do not worry. God
bless you and Sarah.
Prof. K."
"My Son
I
have not forgotten you.
I
have
been with you. My hands and heart have been
busy.
I
have worked,
I
am working for you. The
time
is
approaching when
I
will present you with
a
token of my affection. God bless you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
(215-Vol. IlI) While the above letters were
being written at the table through Katie's left
hand Dr. Franklin wrote upon the paper on the
bureau with his own hand,
in
the round, full
characters peculiar to himself the following letter.
"My Dear Children. We meet this Sunday
morning to show you that we forgive and still
trust. In one thing Katy
is
improved beyond our
expectation, while
in
breaking her engagements
she
is
remiss. We hope however for an improve
ment
in
this soon. Commence now and great will
be your reward, Katy.
The air
is
full of blessings breathed upon you
my children, by the beloved of your souls,
Mother, Children, Brother, Grandparents, all
kindred are here. The flowers are blooming in
the gardens of rest. No weary feet tread upon
their green carpets. Do you realize what
a
holy
privilege
it
is
to be able to sit and hold commun
ion with those who have gone to the world of
eternal happiness? When the eve of life comes
and the new morn dawns upon you, then will the
212 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
pure and undefiled stand by you to draw aside
the veil that your eyes may behold the beautiful
truths we are teaching you. My children weary
not; our meetings for the picture will commence
next Wednesday at seven A. M. Let there be no
failure. Come to us fresh from an early rest.
Come to us in faith. Come not weary and we will
reward you. Meet next Wednesday at seven in
the morning for the picture. No other communi
cations will be made while (2 16- Vol. IlI) the
picture is going on. George and Sarah all is well.
Be happy. We all leave you now and can say no
more. Farewell.
B. Franklin."
April 19 7 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here, have good
conditions but a poor atmosphere. Dr. Franklin
and Professor are working on the paper.
My dear Sarah we have been with you and all
is well. Beyond the present, a little beyond Sarah,
the flower of peace and happiness has opened for
you, and you shall feel it soon rest upon your
bosom. I wish I could raise the veil and show
you what we are doing but that can not be.
Ma will speak with you at half past nine when
1 shall be engaged with other duties. Sarah and
George I can see nothing that you are leaving
undone. You have been assured that you have
our aid. When danger and sorrow threaten I will
be with you to give you timely warning. God
bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. 1 am extremely happy
to have had this meeting. The next will be Fri
day at seven A. M. 1 choose the early hour
hoping the atmosphere may be clear. My dear
children all is well. God bless you. Be punctual
and we will succeed. Farewell.
B. Franklin."
April 19 9y3 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. I am here. The morning
lends no cheering rays to gladden our footsteps
through the damp fogs. The only light we bring
is from our own spheres. If I could leave with
you the (2 17-Vol. IlI) peace and resignation I
have within my soul I would be happy and bear
away your sighs to die into darkness. My dear
child I am happy to see you well, happy to see
no clouds upon your sky that will shadow the
brightness of the future. I rejoice when all is
well. I feel all the anxiety for you my child that
you do for Willie therefore I am always on the
watch. There are changes coming, they are trans
piring now slowly but surely; changes which will
place you beyond all difficulties. We are working
upon our palace daily and one of our greatest
pleasures is to visit it and make improvements.
We shall have a great meeting with you when we
take possession of it. The children are well and
happy. They send you kisses of love. They are
playing among the flowers and in the sunshine
of heaven. I do not like to bring them in this
dark atmosphere. I am here Sarah, dear child,
talking with you. Do you know it? Can you
realize it? The pleasure is so great that I myself
pause in wonderment and joy. Pa is well, I have
been with him this morning. Tell Emeline that
Olin did not forget her but he could say nothing
as he saw no change in her plans. I have been
with Frank. He is well and quite cheerful. Eme
line has no reason to feel depressed. Sarah, Eme
line, George, all my children God bless you.
Your Ma."
Mrs. Lucy Wells wanted to write and tried
but said she could not remain in the atmosphere.
(218-Vol. IlI) April 21 7 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing and happy for we have good conditions and a
better atmosphere. We have been with you. Now
do not gratify 'Sarah's curiosity and let her see
Katie or know that she is in the house. I have
read her mind and it is a sea of doubts and sus
picions. We are here in form but the atmosphere
has dampness in it still and we were not able to
dress in our beautiful robes. We have all ex
changed greetings with each other.
Now my dear sister keep your heart happy and
I will make the flowers bloom. Every day we
watch to see what we can do to add to your peace
of mind. We will all meet here Sunday morning
at half past ten. Let the others go to church
(1) Cousin Sarah A. Langrworthy. daughter of Uncle Nathan.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 213
while we gather from our beautiful world. God
bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Child, you did not feel the flowers
drop upon your head this morning but 1 was
with you and brought you the first offering of
spring violets. The children are here. They are
happy. They see you just as distinctly as you
see each other. God bless you my dear child. I
will not say much this morning but we will re
serve our pencils for Sunday morning. Tell Eme-
line all is well. Pa is well. We are all going to
our duties now while you go to yours.
Your Ma."
"My Son. We are helping you.
Isaac T. Hopper.
Prof. Kenyon."
(219-VoI. IlI) "My Dear Children. Let your
hearts rejoice in the blessings you are receiving.
We go to our duties now and shall not cease to
think of you in our devotions. God bless you my
dear children. Farewell.
B. F."
April 23 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this bright, beautiful morning so pure, so clear.
We love to float through this atmosphere. Our
white robes shine in purity equal to the rays of
the sun. Oh how happy we are to come this morn
ing. We have been with you. We see that you
are doing right. Have faith, have hope and no
blessing shall die while you live. We have no
anxieties, no shadows on our hearts. Ma, Grand
ma and the children stand very near you. Oh
how beautiful they are. They touch you with
their lips and leave their blessings upon you. The
children love to be with you and love to visit
the palace as well as the banquet hall. We go
with them there to-day and we shall hold a con
sultation. Dr. Franklin and Prof. Kenyon are
great friends. They aid you in your business
more than human friends or beings, they remove
many obstacles, they linger about you with loving
interest.
On our way here we saw George Fox, George
Washington and many whose names are only
familiar in History. I have seen *Mrs. Middle-
ton. The artists engaged in her work are great
masters and we will hold a consultation with the
hope of getting their aid. This is the wish of the
whole circle. The golden clouds are gliding in
their beauty, following the sun through (220-Vol.
IlI) paths of duty into the land of the blest.
When through the sunset gates the west rays fall
we shall be near to grasp you to our hearts. Then
dear Sarah and George a golden glory will await
the other side. We will be near you to-night, we
will bless you, have no misgiving.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I think of you, I pray for
you, I watch over you and guard you from sick
ness and pain. Tell Emeline that she will be
happy in her new life and vocation. I can say
no more. We are going with the children to the
banquet hall. They are happy and you have not
lost them. Death! Sarah there is no death but
Eternal life. God bless you my children. Pa is
well.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. Meet at seven Tuesday
morning. We have had a glorious morning for
us. We go to our duties now. God bless you.
Farewell.
B. F."
"Sarah I will sometime give you my expe
rience when awakening in the new life. We can
do no more now.
Prof. K."
May Irf 7 P. M.— 1871.
We saw no more of Katie until this morning
when she came worn and tired out. Olin asked
to have her get some sleep so that we could meet
in the evening. At seven we met and they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. Again we are with you,
again we come to bless you. The day is gone, a
day never to return; so much nearer are you to
(221 -Vol. IlI) us, so much nearer to the world
of peaceful rest where toil and pain are over,
where sorrow never comes save from seeing the
suffering of those we love. We are happy, very
(1) Mrs. M. had been a resident of 5th Ave., but now resided
in the "world beyond." Katie had often spoken of a portrait
that was being made at her old residence by spirit hands.
214 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
happy to have this opportunity to see you. Meet
at seven in the morning.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I am again with you. The
hour for gathering in our spheres of joy draws
near and I only wish to tell you to sleep peace
fully, to feel that I am watching over you. God
bless you my dear children.
Your Ma."
May 2 7 A. M.— 1871.
We met as desired and the time was mostly
taken up by the writing of a long, very long letter
by Dr. Franklin about Katie and her affairs. He
appointed another meeting at three in the after
noon.
May 2 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We feel quiet,
we feel happy now for we see a bright opening in
the roses of the future. We will say no more
about unpleasant things but hope for joy and
sunlight hereafter. We have slipped out of our
palace gardens to come to you this afternoon.
It is a joy for us to come when we see you feeling
that there is happiness ahead. All the blessings
there are in the future for you should buoy you
up and make you feel that life has charms and
although trials will come in the midst of happi
ness and peace the spirit should not droop. Dear
Sarah there is no falling off in appreciation of
George's practice. In distant cities about, and all
over the world (222-Vol. IlI) it is taking root.
We know this and soon you will have a greater
knowledge of it.
I have a great thing to tell you. The first day
of June we take possession of our palace. Re
member this day, to keep it sacred for us, the
whole day and night commencing at six in the
morning. We will do something on that day to
celebrate it. We will commemorate it with an
event that will last through all the years of your
lives. Will you realize this? Will you keep it
fresh in your minds?
Dr. Franklin wants my aid but I must tell you
that we are all here and our dear Ma is throwing
in her sentiments with me. God bless you.
Olin."
"Meet at seven in the morning. All is well.
B. F.
May 3 7 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning. The atmosphere is not clear but
we are in your presence and happy to add new
links to the broken chain. Sarah we are watching
your thoughts. They are many and shadows of
anxiety seem to throw a little gloom over you. Do
not my dear Sarah feel worried. I want you to
feel free and happy for you deserve to be. All sun
ny and bright are our homes above you. Cloudy
and dark is the atmosphere of your earth. Oh
blessed are we who live in the world beyond. No
desire have our hearts to return in the earthly
garb. No desire have our hearts to again (223-
Vol. IlI) dwell in mortal existence. We have
passed over the dark river and are safe from
death, from mortal change. Then my dear sister
think of the world to which you are coming as
the brightest home in all your existence, the
heaven of your rest. And as you draw nearer the
beautiful land you will look forward with im
patience to the hour when we can clasp you in
our arms.
My dear Sarah we want to look in the future
a little to-day so we shall not be in your presence
much through the day. Some of us will be here
at three to give directions for the next meeting,
the Prof. or some of us. With blessings from us
all.
Olin."
May 3 3 P. M.— 1871.
We met for directions and received besides the
two following letters, the one from Mr. Hopper
and the other from a very dear uncle who had
been in the beautiful world twenty-six years. Al
though I had often thought of him when we were
with Katie and wondered that he did not come
still I did not ask for him preferring to wait his
time. Now while our circle (Ma, Grandma, Olin,
etc.) were away he came and I was so glad to see
him, so glad to hear from him.
"George My Son. Thy labors have been quite
tiresome to-day and thee needs rest. Thy labors
will bring their reward. I have been with thee my
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 215
son. 1 think however that thy limbs need a little
repose. I do not forget thee and never shall cease
to give thee my aid. (224- Vol. IlI) God bless
thee.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"Sarah I think of you. Do you think of me?
Yes I know you do. Often your childish tricks
come visibly before my eyes and I see you as you
were in those childish days. God bless you my
child. I am happy.
Uncle Albert."
As soon as the last letter was signed it was
handed me to read. We knew by the motion of the
hand that the writer was not accustomed to the
manifestation and could write only by making
great effort and when I saw the signature I un
derstood the reason, it being his first endeavor.
I expressed my gratification to Uncle Albert and
inquired if he enjoyed his life. The response came.
"Yes Sarah. I rejoice that I am here. I have
been saved years of misery. I have dear com
panions here. My children, I wish I could write
fast. Oh how much I would say. I see all your
surroundings, I love you. I will come again soon.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Child. Your family circle are off
looking into the future and I am here only to tell
you that the meeting will be at three to-morrow.
I can say no more. God bless you.
Prof. K."
May 5 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Son. Let us give thanks and gratitude
to the kind hand of Providence for aiding thee
in completing thy work. May it bring thee great
(225-VoI. IlI) success, may it spread thy path
with flowers, may it be the cause of bringing thee
all the comforts of life, surely thy labor has not
been in vain.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"George, I am glad that you have at last fin
ished your book. You will have great success.
I congratulate you with my whole heart. I know
you will realize more than you expect.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are happy to
come again, we are happy to let you know that
we are cognizant of your steps, of all you are do
ing. You have done your duty faithfully and are
still doing it. 1 am rejoiced that the book is out
at last. Golden be its success. We know it will be.
Katie is nervous and extremely weak. She is low
spirited. We hope she will look ahead and see
how bright the future is. The world has much
to thank her for from the first little echo. Through
her this great truth has been established. Oh
Katie appreciate yourself more. It grieves us
when she is sad. Dear Sarah keep happy and your
heart hopeful.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. My Son I congratulate
you on the neat manner in which you have got
your book out. I like it very much and I am sure
it will be a great success. It is well written, it is
neatly gotten up and I have no fault to find.
Now my children meet to-morrow at seven in
the morning. All will be well. (226-Vol. IlI) We
have so much happiness in the future for you all.
So much to make you happy. Lasting tributes
of our presence. Why you should be the happiest
circle on the globe. God bless you.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. I am again here. I am not
one of the circle but some day I may be. I am
often with you. On Sunday morning I will come
and say more. I never knew your husband Sarah
but I know him now. Send a book to each
'worthy' member of your family. Sarah you will
soon receive a message from me of some impor
tance. Your Willie I love and admire.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Sarah. We will aid Uncle Albert
next Sunday morning. We can say no more.
Olin."
May 6 7 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Children. The elements we can not
control, that is not in our hands. We hoped it
would have been clear to-day but it does not seem
to my eye that there will be a decided change
until after to-night. I have watched the clouds
and I see we must be patient until the change
comes. I am happy however that you met as we
can give directions for the next meeting which
216 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
will be of importance. We are all here this morn
ing, we have left our homes, our sunny land to
come to you. Perhaps we can leave some rays of
sunlight in your paths in order to help you go
through the day. All is well. My son you must
keep on persevering until (227-Vol. IlI) you get
the 'other book out which will be of far more
importance. We will all help you. We are happy
and satisfied. Let no shadows rest on your hearts.
Our next meeting may be at half past ten to
morrow, till then we can do nothing. God bless
you! All is well! Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We knew as we
came along our way that the atmosphere was
against us but we came to see you and say a few
words to show you that we love you and love to
give you comfort. The morning has not opened
brightly but we hope it will close more fair. We
are all going to gather in our home to-day, Uncle
Albert, Aunt Sarah, his children and all who will
be here to-morrow. Be dressed and ready to re
ceive us at half past ten. I can say no more. We
leave our blessings.
Olin."
We had intended to visit Greenwood on Sun
day but could not well do so if we met at the
hour they had named, so after reading their let
ters we inquired if they could as conveniently
meet before breakfast? They answered.
"My Children. Yes, I will make arrangements
to have the meeting at seven which will be just
as well.
B. F."
May 7 7 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning and all happy to meet you in a
clear atmosphere. It is a long time since we have
come in the bright morning time. I wish I could
convey to your minds our joy when you (228-
Vol. IlI) keep punctually our appointments,
otherwise our duties here are disarranged. We
have to-day made appointments with each other
here. We are all to meet in our palace at a cer
tain hour, then we will go off together to the most
(1) The Doctor's book on "Paralysis."
beautiful place we can find. So you can see that
it is important to be punctual when we name the
hour. Uncle Albert is here. He is delighted with
the circle. He and Ma are talking together near
the window. We will be near you till eleven, then
we shall be roaming in brighter lands but we will
think of you, we will send you blessings, we will
make your hearts glad and you shall know that
we love you. I will now help Uncle Albert to talk
as he is anxious that you should hear from him.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. It gives me joy to see that
I am so well remembered by you. I know that
you love me for I love you and I rejoice to see
you in another position, a happy wife and mother.
I have had Frankie and Leila in my arms this
morning. I kissed them and told Leila I would
cut her curls of? which she quite resented. Sarah
do you remember the trials I endured? Your
Mother and I have talked it over. My wife never
made a lasting impression upon my mind when
crying down Eliza. It vanished before it took
root. Let that pass. I am so happy to know that
I can be admitted in the palace to-day. I have
never been there and I rejoice that I can (229-
Vol. IlI) be admitted to-day. God bless you. I
will always have a care over you. I will come
another day.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Child. It is sweet to know that we
can comfort Uncle Albert. We all love him and
we shall be with him to-day. We can not say
more as the power is required by Dr. Franklin.
All is well ! We shall have a happy day and think
of you my children. Your Ma.
Your Mother to all Eternity."
"My Children. This has been a very successful
meeting. We have used all the power. We want
the next meeting for directions on Tuesday at
twelve. Remember the hour and day. I am re
joiced with this meeting.
You better not go to Greenwood for Mr. Tay
lor until all the dampness is out of the earth. All
is well! God bless you my children. We go to
our work now, our other duties. Farewell.
B. F."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 217
Before they left the little echoes said. "Mamma
I have not forgotten you." Frankie then handed
me my watch which 1 left on the bureau eight or
ten feet from where I was sitting.
May 8 4 P. M.— 1871.
Katie came in and Olin asked me to meet him
at this hour. The Doctor being engaged could not
be present.
"My Dear Sarah. We have come to appoint
the regular meeting now that the atmosphere is
clear. Dr. Franklin desires it at three to-morrow.
All the circle will make their arrangements and
be (230- Vol. IlI) here. We were very happy
yesterday. We were all together, the whole fam
ily circle. We went to the palace and walked
through the beautiful halls. They were festooned
with flowers and wreaths. Over each door were
the names of the different members of the family
in flowers of different colors. Everything had the
most cheering and exquisite appearance.
Oh how Uncle Albert did wish for you and talk
of you. He knows how you love him. Frankie
ran away from Uncle Albert because Uncle Albert
teased him about a picture he was forming in
flowers. Uncle Albert is still the same tease. Ma
had a long conversation with him in her room
alone. She held a book in her hand which she
was keeping to amuse the children with, a blank
book for them to draw in. It is Frankie's delight
to draw Leila's face. Uncle Albert says that this
being able to come to you and express his
thoughts is the greatest new found joy of his life.
Dear Sarah what a happy circle we are. We hope
soon to be able to take possession of our palace.
We want you not to fail to keep the day for
we wish to come to you each one of us and speak
to you as we enter the palace. It would grieve us
very much to have this fail. Tell George that we
know that all is well. God bless you.
Olin."
"Well, Sarah I am here again. I am with you
from the celestial spheres, from the scenes of en
trancing beauty. I come to you from the (231-
Vol. IlI) palace of beauty where all the blood re
lation, all who are one in faith will henceforth
dwell. I and my children are to be one with
them. Sarah when the last breath left my mortal
frame, when my spirit took another form in
every way similar to the one you looked upon, I
was led to where I could mingle with those I
knew and loved. I was happy and not sorry to
leave the earth with its cares.
Dear Child tell Emma that I am coming to her
some night and touch her face. I may pull her
out of bed. Well, my child may God bless you.
I can say no more.
Uncle Albert."
May 9 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this afternoon. We will soon take the picture
now and finish
it,
then we will present
it
to you
with
a
blessing from each one of us. You will
feel satisfied and rewarded for patiently waiting.
We cannot talk to-day as we are required to give
our time and mind to this work but to-morrow at
four we will come and talk. We long for
a
bright
sunny day and we hope soon to have it. God
bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah and George. The power will
be mostly given to the picture. We will come to
morrow.
Prof. K."
I
had just received
a
letter from the Hon. Rob
ert Dale Owen saying he should be in the city in
Sept. We talked of him while at the table.
(232-Vol. IlI) "Tell Mr. Owen that we have
a
new manifestation to give him here in this circle
and in this room. Something we wish him to
receive for the benefit of the world. We want to
finish the picture dear children as soon as possible,
therefore we are giving our time and power to it
during these meetings. Meet for directions at four
to-morrow. All
is
well. Farewell.
B. F."
May 10
3
P. M.— 1871.
As this day passed on
I
saw that my duties
would interfere with the meeting at four so asked
to have
it
at three to which they readily assented.
"My Dear Sarah. We are here now. We saw
the difficulty and we are here to fulfill our prom
ise and give directions. We are pleased with the
218 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
hour better than later as we too have our duties
to fulfill and other things which we can not ex
plain to you. My dear Sarah we have come from
our world of light, we tread noiselessly. You hear
us not yet we stand before you. Oh would that
the veil could be raised and you permitted to see
our faces. We hope that day will come soon.
We have talked over everything, we have
looked in the future and know that all is well.
There are no shadows of disappointment on our
beautiful sky, no dark spots. We know our course
and we shall follow it. My dear sister we wish
you to have the room ready to-morrow at three.
Get a bowl of water and place it on the table as
you used and we will go on with our work. It
will not take long to finish it when we commence.
The above are Dr. Franklin's directions. (233-
Vol. IlI) Oh! How beautiful is our palace. We
look upon it with admiration and joy, a tribute
of God's love, and we bow in adoration to His
will. The first day of June we still keep on our
tablets, keep it also on the tablets of your mem
ories for it will be a great day.
Uncle Albert is approaching. He will speak to
you after Ma. Tell Em. I see her heart. It is full
of little anxieties. They seem great to her but I
see they will amount to nothing. Soon her day
will come and I hope she will not look back with
a sigh for the days that are now gliding into
Eternity, still they will be pleasant leaves for
her to turn in the book of the past. Tell dear
Em. that all is well.
God bless you dear Sarah. Tell George he is
doing right and will succeed. His Father Hopper
will help him through to the end.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I am glad that Louise,
Ralph's wife, is here. I am happy to see peace.
My dear child I am here in the room with you.
We are all here. My noble boy, my Olin is here.
Uncle Albert is with you often. I only wanted
to say these few words, now your Uncle Albert
will speak. Give my love to Emeline.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Sarah. I am happy to come and tell
you how much I love you, how dearly I love to
come to you in this new found way. My soul has
found a new joy. I live again!
Soon I will write you a private letter with my
own hand. I will gain power (234- Vol. IlI)
enough to do it in a few days. God bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. Meet at three to-morrow.
Follow the directions. We are going to have a
consultation to-day and we will give you new in
formation to-morrow. All is well. Every prom
ise shall be fulfilled. Farewell.
B. F.
May 11 7 A. M.— 1871.
The morning being perfect B. F. desired us to
meet now. We, as always, obeyed.
"The morning is bright and clear for our pur
pose. We are all here. Everything is as we would
wish to have it. There is no dampness in our way
and we come to you with joyous hearts.
We will now give our time to the picture for
it is seldom we have so clear an atmosphere as
this. We do not explain to you about the picture
for the reason that we do not wish you to have
your minds on any particular thing. We are sat
isfied. Yesterday we had a consultation about
matters here in your house. The woman who has
something the matter with her neck and is about
to leave, would not do so if you would encourage
her. You can help her if she has patience and
you must give such nervous women more en
couragement, George. Now we have great faith
in your skill and you can help such diseases per
manently. We are always looking out for your
good. The Professor always feels so anxious when
he sees any of your patients discouraged. He
works more for you than he does for them.
I told Sarah yesterday I would (235-Vol. IlI)
have information for her to-day. This is it. See
that lady and all will be well. We are very happy
this morning. It gives us great joy when we are
successful.
Sarah I will be here at three to meet you and
Em.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am here as
usual. I often give my signal which is different
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 219
from any other person's. God bless you. Let this
morning inspire you with hope and good feeling.
All is well!
Prof. K."
"My Dear Children. All is glorious. Meet Sat
urday at seven in the morning. All obstacles are
overcome. The chain is perfect. God bless you.
Farewell.
B. F.
May 11 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. Close the window a little.
It is well to shut out the beautiful sun as it dis
tracts the mind.
Here we come to talk with you in the silent
room of so many scenes. Some have been sad
ones, but from each a lesson can be gained. You
have seen more joy than sorrow dear Sarah (to
you I will speak first) in this room. Here your
little ones first breathed life. Here they were born
through the pearly gates, ransomed souls into
Eternal life. Here Frankie suffered and glad
were we when his tired spirit took its flight. My
dear Sarah 1 was with you then. I tried to lull
his cries, his agonies. Oh what a relief it was to
him when we carried him and placed him in Ma's
arms. Grieve not for him! Grieve (236-Vol. IlI)
not for Leila! Our Lily of all the flowers. She
will be a beautiful maiden in health and joy when
you come here. She will know you and welcome
you for daily she visits you and you never can
grow less dear to her. The same with Frankie.
We are happy to come aside from all the others
and talk with you. I think Sarah that I under
stand you better than any one else, still Uncle
Albert understands you nearly as well. I can come
down to you, kneel by your side and sympathize
with you. I can feel your sorrows and your joys.
Is that not sweet for you to know? To have in
this world of change an unseen protection? One
who can weep with you, laugh with you and par
take of all your joys? Oh Sarah the world can
not realize what you can. So many are ignorant
of this blessing. Many will go down in darkness
there to live for a long time. Be happy with your
faith and enjoy these blessings. Here comes
Uncle Albert but he must keep silent while I
speak to Emeline. Let me tell you Sarah that all
is well, you are doing right. The summer will be
a happy one for you and I will make it so. God
bless you.
Olin."
Now he wrote a letter to Em. about her per
sonal affairs which I will not insert here, then the
following came.
"My Dear Sarah, My Niece, and are you well
to-day? I went with you this morning. M want
you to wear a different hat from the one you wore
to-day. I did not quite like
it,
(237- Vol. IlI) and
sometime my dear little niece
I
am going to
smooth your hair down just as
I
like it.
I
never saw Emeline when on earth so
if
I
tell
her that she looks melancholy she may think
I
am saying too much. Emeline
I
want to know
you better and to know you
I
must see you in
your pleasant moods.
I
will look up this young
man of yours and pull his ears
if
he don't hurry
up. Dear Sarah
I
will soon be able to write you
a
private letter. We can say no more. Good bye
girls. These are pleasant days that you are all
having. Now Emeline try to value them. God
bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Cathie. You too will look back upon
these days with pleasure. You do not appreciate
them now, but oh my child you will look back
upon them and sigh for the peace you are having
now with Mrs. Taylor, then
I
hope she will again
hold out her hand to you. Mrs. Taylor will you
accept my thanks for your gentle kindness to my
child. May blessings follow you, mine shall to
all Eternity.
Mrs. Fox."
May 13
7
A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here,
happy to come in the bright morning time. The
atmosphere
is
clear and all
is
well. We have been
with you. We want to take away every shadow
if
we can. Try to look on the bright side and be
happy. The little ones are here looking oh, so
beautifully.
I
wish you could (238-Vol. IlI) see
(1) The hat
I
wore was a very plain, drab straw. Uncle Al
bert had remarkably fine taste.
220 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
them. They have grown in beauty as well as
stature. Ma has one on each side. My dear Sarah
all your loved ones are here this morning. We
will be here to-morrow morning at half past ten,
then there will be no outside noise to disturb us.
The noise of the workmen will be put aside and
we will all talk with you. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I have the little ones by the
hands this morning. They are happy little birds.
We have left the flowers all in blossom, many in
full bloom. Some of the gardens we call yours.
My dear child do not feel discouraged, the shad
ows can not last long; the gladness of the sun will
chase them away and flowers will take root, your
heart will be glad and life will seem blessed. I
am with you. To-morrow I will come again.
Your Ma."
"Sarah My Child. I remember how depressed I
used to get when here suffering. Everything
looked so dark to me and there were times when
I really suffered from fear of death. I dreaded
the dissolution from the body and I feared the
unknown hereafter. I can not tell you how pleas
antly my breath passed from the body. 1 fell
asleep in the arms of my wife and when I awoke
I recognized the dear companions of my boyhood.
I was not much surprised, I was happy and at
last the vacancies of my heart were filled almost
at once.
My Child I see much happiness for you. Keep
good courage and I will be your friend, your
father. (239- Vol. IlI) George I am sorry to see
you disappointed in any way especially in your
business, but I know that all will work out well
and that a day of rich harvest will come for you,
certainly if it is in my power to hasten it I will
use every effort. We will all meet you to-morrow.
God bless you.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My Dear Children. Life is pleasant. Be
happy! Enjoy it. God has given you the ca
pacity of enjoying every beautiful thing. Look
not on the dark side but trust and all will be
well. Meet at half past ten to-morrow.
B. F.
May 14 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
The morning clear and bright. We entered our
room a few moments before the appointed time
and directly after we were seated, a piece of paper
from the table before us was handed to me and
the echoes said "Place this on the bureau with a
pencil." I immediately obeyed, resumed my seat
and took both of Katie's hands in mine. The
Doctor and I hold Katie's hands every moment
during our sittings except when her left hand is
required to write. During this sitting her left
hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this bright morning. How inspiring is the atmos
phere. How beautiful are the rays of the sun as
they fall upon you in gladness, warming your
bodies and dispelling the gloom.
My dear Sarah we are happy to come and
happy to talk with you. Uncle Albert is here
(240- Vol. IlI) watching Dr. Franklin write and
trying to learn the way so that he can fulfill his
promise to you at a favorable time. We can all
learn from Dr. Franklin. Can you realize what
a great thing it is for Dr. Franklin to write you
a letter with his own hand? It is a great boon
hard to realize. I myself feel blessed in having
such a friend to aid me. It is seldom the spirit
can write a letter when in the form and I must
give my aid to Dr. Franklin. Uncle Albert re
quests you to meet him at ten on Tuesday morn
ing. God bless you, Sarah, Katie is the channel
for us to come through and Dr. Franklin is now
using the materials which permit him to write
with his own hand. Let me tell you Sarah, I like
your dress, so does Ma. I can say no more.
Olin."
After reading the above we looked at the paper
on the bureau which was entirely blank when I
placed it there. No human hand had touched this
paper since and still upon it was written in a
clear, beautifully round hand the following letter.
"My Dear Children. Would that I could ex
plain to you the great difficulties we have in com
ing to you and performing the work we have
made so many efforts to do. The storm and clouds
of life will pass. Look up with serene faith to
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 221
the Great Giver and be glad. We confess our
eagerness to lift the veil and show you the vis
tas of Eternity. We watch the workings of (241-
Vol. IlI) your inner feelings where hope golden
hues the future and we long to make all clear to
your vision. Reason and faith are often antagon
istic and conflicting, the one is shrouded in dark
ness and doubt by the mysteries of Providence
while the other is serenely hopeful. Reason is
driven from her throne by the tumults which
drift across the sea of human destiny while faith
soars above all obstacles and casts her anchor
within the vale. Reason gropes and stumbles
while faith undismayed ascends her watch tower.
To the eye of reason many things are dark but
faith sees through all the dark shadows and the
flowers go on blooming. My children respect those
who visit you unseen, their eyes are upon you,
their ears hear you. We do not rebuke you, we
only advise. It is Sunday morning. The busy
hands are folded, the noise is hushed and we are
here.
How beautiful is charity. I pity the poor wretch
whose life hangs on a word, who to-day is shut
out from the light in his prison cell. He who has
no temper to overcome and is by nature good and
amiable is not entitled to high encomium as he
who battles against his evil passions. Oh I pity
the poor outcast and my prayers are offered for
his deliverance. My children, the morning is
bright and full of peace. Let your hearts be glad.
The little ones are here. (242- Vol. IlI) Their
pure robes have touched your white dress. We
love to see you in pure garments. It shows that
you know our eyes behold you. We go now to ful
fill our duties in the heavenly land. The harps are
sounding, voices are calling us. Meet Wednesday
at seven A. M. Farewell.
Benjamin Franklin."
May 15 6 P. M.— 1871.
"George I do not advise you to sell. I think
Mr. Taylor was wrong. Hold fast to your prop
erty, it will increase in value. I have looked well
into this matter. Hold fast to it!
Dear Sarah we look down upon you from the
sunset sky. We see your thoughts. Let them be
peaceful for all is well and we will guard you.
To-morrow at ten we will come to you and aid
your uncle in speaking.
My child be not cast down. We all love and
bless you.
Prof. K."
May 16 10 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. I am here this morning to
fulfill my promise. There is not a cloud upon the
horizon and my spirit is happy to speak through
the telegraph which connects the two worlds. I
have been with you and know much that you
have suffered during our long separation, our long
silence. Oh how often I have wanted to raise you
up and take you in my arms and rock you to
sleep. I did not know the way to come and soothe
you. I have found out now (243-VoI. IlI) and
when you feel tried and unhappy come to me and
I will give you rest. The world is full of changes,
and sorrows mingled with pleasures and joys,
joys which are taken from you before you are
able to grasp them.
The rose blooms and falls to the ground while
you are inhaling its perfume, but the soul of the
rose lives forever; it passes into another rose of
its kindred, another and another; nothing is lost.
My dear Sarah I have just begun to realize
what a great blessing this subject is; what an en
lightenment to the world, to all mankind. What
a key to unlock the gates of heaven!
Sarah do you remember how dearly I used to
love to tease you and caress you? I tried to
make you all as happy as it was in my power to
do. I hope my child you will never forget those
happy days. They are bright memories for me
to turn back to. I have been with 'Eliza all the
early part of the morning. She is very busy and
looks lovelier than she ever did. I told her I
was coming here and she sent her blessing to you
and wished me to say that she was going to take
the children into a beautiful park where there
are different amusements. I shall join them when
I leave you.
I am happy to see you well to do in life. I
hope to see you perfectly independent in a few
(1) My Ma.
222 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
years. Keep good courage my child and be happy.
Oh how 1 long to take the (244- Vol. IlI) pencil
in my own hand and write you a letter for your
own eyes. 1 shall be able soon. 1 am fast becom
ing an adept. All will be well with you. I will
help you every day. 1 visit them all Sarah in
the old familiar places, but I can not speak to
them. 1 am pleased with Willie. He has the same
sweet disposition that you used to have and looks
very much as you did. I often look in his face.
Now my dear Sarah we have had a nice little
visit together and I can remain no longer. God
bless you! Have I not been a good Uncle? I
have not teased you once. Good bye.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Sarah I have only come to say good
morning, be punctual to-morrow at seven and all
is well. Be happy for we are happy in our beauti
ful home above and you are not forgotten there.
Give my love to Em. Tell her that I think of her.
Olin."
May 17 7 A. M.— 1871.
Now I regularly placed paper and pencil upon
the bureau so that any unseen guest could write
if so disposed. We sat about the table and Katie's
left hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning. We are sorry the atmosphere is
not clear, however we are with you. Uncle Albert
will endeavor to try his skill at using the pencil
with his own hand and we will aid him. (245-
Vol. IlI) He is so anxious to write you a letter,
and you know Sarah, that when he makes a prom
ise he always perseveres until he accomplishes it
and although the morning is very unfavorable he
will be able to get his hand in the business as he
calls it. Now I am going to help him while he
holds the pencil in his own hand.
Olin."
Upon the blank paper which lay on the bureau
we found in a hand writing much resembling
Uncle Albert's the following letter.
"My Dear Sarah. I can not say what I wish
to but I can get my hand in so that it will be
easier next time. No one knows how much 1 en
dured with Emma, her ignorance, her uncon
genial spirit. I always loved Anna. We are to
gether. But Sarah I can not explain to you now.
I will write you the whole particulars at a future
time. Anna is not my wife but a dear friend and
loves me better than she ever did. I have a com
panion so lovely. Orville is with me. Yes, 1 re
member how you loved him. He is all my soul
desires. He will speak to you some day. Now
Sarah what do you think of me? Can't 1 write?
I will write you a private letter soon. Oh how
happy I am!
Uncle Albert."
Through Katie's hand B. F. told us to meet
at three on Friday and "if the atmosphere is
clear we will proceed with our business." (246-
Vol. IlI.)
May 19 3 P. M.— 1871.
"Again we are with you. Our spirits come with
out a shadow. The air is full of the whisperings
of angels and we know that you feel our bless
ings for we breathe them softly upon you and
leave your souls brighter. We are happy to come
in your presence. Oh how soft and genial is the
atmosphere. The birds warble sweet notes for you
on earth while ours fill the air with echoes from
distant lands. We are so happy! We would not
exchange with you and yet you have every thing
to make you happy, every thing to make life
seem pleasant. The world is beautiful in all seas
ons. Winter with her icy covering, her pure white
covering is beautiful. Autumn with her chang
ing colors is beautiful. How glorious when the
leaves fall to the ground and the winds sigh
mournfully through the trees as if sighing for
the departed beauty. God has made life a study,
nature a still greater study. Enjoy every day of
your lives and dear Sarah to-day when you go
out I will speak to you in every beautiful flower
you behold. Dear Sarah and George I have looked
in your future and there are no dark rivers be
tween you and success.
On Sunday morning we hope to accomplish
something new. Uncle Albert wished me to say
to you that he would endeavor then to write you
the promised letter. Be happy and know that all
is well. Olin."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 223
(247-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Children. Meet
Sunday at half past ten A. M. clear or cloudy.
Let me again assure you that all is well. Our pro
tection, our aid is ever with you. God bless you.
B. F."
May 21 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this beauti
ful morning; hushed is the noise outside; every
thing breathes peace and we come out of our
heavenly homes sanctified by the grace of higher
spheres, sanctified by the holy atmosphere
through which we have come, free from sin, free
from all human frailties. If we can leave you
more peaceful we shall feel repaid and know that
another gem is added to our crown of happiness.
We wish you to keep the first of June fresh in
your memories. We are now perfectly satisfied
with our palace. If your imagination can picture
us in it when we take possession we shall be re
joiced. But oh Sarah and George let your imag
ination be of the purely beautiful.
Mr. Hopper is a little disappointed to forego
the pleasure of giving George his tribute of love
and protection. We are all aiding Uncle Albert
in writing. We do not know what he is writing,
we only aid him in giving our power. No one
looks over him but Ma. She stands by his-eide.
I know that you are pressed and troubled in many
ways, but do not feel disturbed; there is a dark
time always in the most prosperous business.
(248- Vol. IlI) Every flower in your future home
is open and blooming in great beauty. The sky is
not dark with trouble and disappointment.
Tell dear Em. that I am with her. I see how
troubled she sometimes is. I don't like delays
myself, but I think all will come out right. Of
course she must expect some disappointments.
You need not repeat the last sentence. Some
minds never rationally accept anything of a sad
dening character but at once imagine evil, there
fore we often refrain from predicting the future.
Dear Ralph is well and doing well. Now Sarah
I want you to have a happy summer, free from
anxieties. All is well. I can say no more now but
on Wednesday, the day for our whole circle, we
will all greet you with blessings. Prof. Kenyon
and all who have not spoken send their love and
blessing now. We are happy. The remainder of
the day we shall roam together in the heavenly
land.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We are happy to bless
you in form. We are happy and satisfied. The
power has been greatly exhausted. Meet at seven
Wednesday morning. God bless you. We now
go to our beautiful land where happiness is per
fect and joy eternal.
B. F."
Upon the blank paper which I had placed on
the bureau, written in the clear, manly hand of
Uncle Albert was the following letter.
(249- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah. I am truly
happy to come this morning and write you a few
words.
Life's struggles have been many with me, but
they are all over now and I can sing with the
happiest here. You know how I suffered when on
earth, the trials I bore and oh, how patiently
Eliza worked through the tangled threads. I
have often felt for you children: when you with
aching heart left home to go and teach, when
Emeline suffered the loss of her mother, and most
sadly I felt when 'Olin came to his untimely and
unfortunate close of life. All these events I was
aware of, his body found a watery grave but his
soul winged its flight in his Savior's arms. Now
he dwells with those he loves.
Sarah be patient for all will be well. I have
your little favorite here. He has looked in your
face this morning. You would not know the
young man now unless he made himself known
to you, but when you meet us here I will have
both my boys, one on each side of me and Uncle
Albert you will surely recognize. I am at rest.
I see you happily situated in a pleasant way
to success with a fond husband and a devoted
son. These two things should make your life a
summer under any circumstances. I can write no
more. They have all aided me in giving this. One
(1) Olin rode an ill-tempered horse into the water. The horse
plunged into deep water, threw up lts head, struck Olin in
the forehead and stunned him. He slid from the horse's back
and was not found until hours had passed.
224 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
thing let me say. I do not think Emeline will have
much (250- Vol. IlI) happiness in the young man
she has chosen. There will be trouble and disap
pointment. Remember this. I am exhausted.
Good bye. God bless you.
Uncle Albert."
On the same paper and below the last letter
was the following note written in a fine delicate
hand, resembling precisely Uncle Albert's fine
hand with which I was very familiar. The paper
containing both letters was nicely folded and on
the upper side in Ma's hand writing was "Sarah."
"While the passing events are going on dear
Sarah we lift the veil of the future and often
throw light upon the darker side to make you
strong for the trials that are to come.
I do not see that Emeline's future is dark but
she will have to bear her cross.
This hour, how lovely and serene. Peace
shines on all. Believe my child, all is well with
you. Doubt clouds the soul with darkness and
shuts the heavenly light out. We must depart now
for we have lingered long. God bless you.
Your Ma."
May 24 7 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
and satisfied with our work. We are of one mind
and work together. -|
—|
—|- All is well ! Anticipate
no evil. There are no clouds. God bless you.
Olin."
"We have all been here.
Prof. K."
(251-Vol. IlI) "My Son I will fulfill my prom
ise to you as soon as the artists take the picture.
All is well.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. Meet at three to-morrow.
We have done all we hoped to and are satisfied.
All is well! God bless you.
B. F."
May 26 3 P. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come the day before as appoint
ed, but sent word that she had sick-headache and
Olin had postponed the meeting until the same
hour on the following day. The day came hot
and sultry. Katie came and we prepared the room
but when the hour arrived we were unavoidably
detained five minutes.
As soon as we entered the room we were con
scious of the presence of our spirit friends. They
took hold of the Doctor's beard and lovingly
touched with separate fingers my arm and before
we were in our seats they said "Sing." We com
menced the Lord's Prayer in the tune of "Home
Sweet Home" and immediately Leila on her gold
en harp accompanied us. We were greatly sur
prised. They had not mentioned the harp in many
weeks, neither had we when with Katie. The
notes rang out from the instrument clear as sil
ver and with fullness and firmness of sound. We
heard with distinctness the touch of the fingers
upon the strings and the music brought out of
that harp from heaven surpasses in sweetness any
description language (252-Vol. IlI) can give. It
accompanied us through the tune four times and
played through three times alone.
These occasions on which our angel loved ones
come to us in form and bring instruments from
their abodes in the very heavens, and make the
most soothing and inspiring music upon them,
these are occasions of great solemnity. We feel
that the veil is almost drawn aside, that we have
only to lift our eyelids and behold our lovely
children, our loving Ma and Grandma, our noble
Olin with others of our precious dead standing
in all their purity before us. But this they have
not yet permitted us to do. If they can show
themselves to us they will : they would like to do
it as well as we would like that they should, but
if they should not succeed in this one great
demonstration we are just as sure of their pres
ence and know just as assuredly that what pro
fesses to come from them does come from them.
"My Dear Sarah. We are happy to come to
you this afternoon. We are all here. We take
great pleasure in preparing for our new home,
our palace of beauty. We wish you to remember
the day we have appointed. Our only great
earthly wish is to see you happily situated with
plenty of money to spend. We feel sure you will
see that day, so be happy and let no clouds
darken the sunny side of your life. I see so much
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 225
in the future for you, so much joy, so much new
joy. There is peace in our souls undisturbed.
(253-Vol. IlI) Joyous are the little ones who play
upon the harp that your ears may hear. Ma,
Grandma, Prof. Kenyon and all are here. Uncle
Albert will now say a few words and 1 will close
with my blessing for you and yours. Dr. Frank
lin was here first and will remain until we all
depart.
Olin."
"All is well Sarah. Be happy.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sarah. Then you were pleased with
my letter? Well, 1 am glad. I wrote you some
great truths Sarah, as I ever shall. I will give
you plain facts, real facts.
1 have been with you and all is well. You are
following in a course which will be satisfactory
to yourself as well as to others. Now Sarah I
will write you another private letter soon, I have
so much to tell you that I want you alone to see.
I am keeping watch over you and everything will
be bright. On Sunday morning I will be here.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. We have accomplished
much to-day. We are satisfied and happy. No
clouds hang over you to dim your bright future.
Let your hearts be happy. No longer look on
the dark side for the world is beautiful. Enjoy it.
Meet Sunday morning at half past ten and
now we go to our duties. You are connected
with them.
We are happy to get out of this oppressive
atmosphere. God bless you.
B. F."
(254-Vol. IlI) May 28 W/2 A. M.— 1871.
The morning was clear and cool. I prepared
the room, placed the paper, which was folded
in the linen cloth, on the little table. At the
exact time we entered the room and everybody
was happy.
The Doctor and Katie were frequently sent
by the folding doors. Uncle Albert, Dr. Frank
lin and cousin Orville spoke to us. Little Orville
died thirty years ago and was but fourteen
months old. He is Uncle Albert's eldest child
and I loved him passionately. He said, "I love
to look in your face cousin Sarah. Orville." I
answered, "and is it you little Orville?" "Not little
Orville," was the reply. They wrote and then
the cloth they had kept pinned about the paper
for months was placed in my hands and they
said, "We want that no more." Now we were
directed to stand by the open window and soon
to read.
When we opened our eyes I first looked for
the paper which I had placed upon the little table
when I prepared the room, and which 1 had placed
there before nearly every meeting for months, and
this same paper had been, at the close of each
meeting, either brought and placed in my hands
for me to put in the box or they had put it in the
box themselves and then brought both to me. But
now they had not brought either paper or box,
only the cloth. I looked faithfully for the paper
but it was not in the room. We read.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
We have a clear atmosphere and good conditions.
The paper is prepared and we will take it with
(255-Vol. IlI) us and do our work as soon as
possible. It has been difficult for us to take the
paper and our crayons will be used up when this
picture is finished. We shall invent some colors
of our own. Oh how happy we are! No shadows
are on our spirits! No clouds. We are more than
happy.
Dear Sarah we can not say much as we have
this paper and must get it placed where we can
leave it for only the circle to see. We shall finish
it in our palace. To-morrow we all gather in
order to choose our separate floors. You will
therefore meet on Tuesday at ten. I am mistaken,
Dr. Franklin raises his finger to me and means
that I should stop, he will give the directions.
God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I am learning to come and
write letters as well as an expert. I can not write
with my own hand this morning for the reasons
that Olin has given you.
I am so often with you when you are trying
on a new dress, and Sarah I think you have fine
226 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
taste, but you must not let my saying so make
you proud. I like your linen dress and I like
you in white, in black silk and in blue, true blue.
Never wear green. It is beautiful to the eye but
not pretty for you. 1 am going to write you a
letter too for the first of June. I can not say more.
Oh! I must say a few words to Emeline. She
is a good girl, I like her and I will help her, she
shall have happiness. Give her my love and tell
her that I am going after that "Beau" (256-Vol.
IlI) of hers. I can say no more. God bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. Meet Tuesday morning
at seven. In the mean time do not call for us.
B. F."
May 30 7 A. M.— 1871.
The morning was clear and we were promptly
in our places. They wrote the following and
asked me to get the box from the drawer and
place it on the bed, which I did and removed the
cover as I did it. Soon the box with the cover
on was placed on the table before me.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
We are all happy to come. We all gathered in
the banquet hall yesterday and had a consulta
tion. You will meet Thursday at seven in the
morning and at eight in the evening. We will
not talk much till then. We have to follow laws
dear Sarah and George and can not step over
them.
We anticipate great joy. We anticipate great
happiness for we shall all be present, all the circle,
Grandma and all her children and those you
loved and still love. We can see you, oh would
that you could see us. Dear Sarah and George
daily you learn some new truth from us. We try
to impress your minds with much that we experi
ence here. God bless you and give you all the
enjoyments of life. We were happy to let fall
upon your listening ears music from our spheres.
I will say no more now.
Olin."
(257-Vol. IlI) "My Son. I will present you
with my gift on Thursday. You will therefore
have no interruption on Thursday night. My
son all is well. I am always mindful of you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"The drawing paper we shall place in the box
until Thursday when we shall take possession of
our palace and then we will take it to finish. We
have to make changes to-day. Do not open the
box. There will be no change in the appointments.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We do not wish you to
have your minds on any particular thing. Do not
touch the paper. We will leave it with you till
Thursday. God bless and prosper you.
B. F."
June I 7 A. M.— 1871.
The morning was clear and we were ready and
in our seats before seven. The echoes told us to
put the box containing their paper upon the table,
the little table and take off the cover. They
touched both the Doctor and myself, they wrote
and left us in a half hour. The uncovered box
we found upon the little table but the paper was
gone.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning. We come from our palace. Day
began with us some hours ago. We are in our
palace, our beautiful palace. We have our souls'
desire, no wish ungratified and we feel adoration
and love for our great Creator who so freely
bestows upon us these blessings. (258- Vol. IlI)
We will tell you more about them this evening
when we anticipate much happiness. This morn
ing we will take the paper to our home; it will
be a little difficult to do in this atmosphere but
we will succeed. All is well, be happy for we
live guiding everything. God bless you. Do not
have anticipations to-night as it interferes great
ly with our writing. We shall be busy in our
home, our palace through the day. You know
more of our real lives than many who have in
vestigated for years. I will use no more power.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet at quarter before
eight to-night. We will use no more power this
morning. We are satisfied with the conditions.
God bless you ! p c »
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 227
"Oh how beautiful our palace is. I am one
of your family now to all Eternity.
Prof. K."
"Meet me at three Sarah. Do not forget Uncle
Albert. 1 will bring the boys.
Uncle Albert."
"George my son how I do wish your Mother
was here. Oh what a glorious time I am having.
Your Father."
June 1 3 P. M.— 1871.
We went in our room at a few moments before
three when Uncle Albert through Katie's hand
wrote the following, every word of which is full
of meaning to me, but with little significance to
either the Doctor or Katie. The tears would
flow when he came so vividly before me.
(259-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah. 1 was afraid
I would not get an opportunity to speak to-night
so I appointed this hour to meet you. I have
come from my new rooms; the splendors of the
palace you can only imagine. Oh how surprised
I was to be admitted into the circle. My children,
my sisters and brother, all, all are united. We
are one family, the most sympathetic, the kindest,
the dearest in the world; in unison with all pure
and holy souls.
Sarah, my child I have sat by the fountain of
life, I have dipped my fingers into the stream of
. everlasting waters and now I come to you, not a
man advanced in years but in the prime of life
and as you remember to have seen me last, no,
not as you saw me last but as I was when in
health.
I have had your children in my arms to-day.
They played about their new home and were
overjoyed. They talked much about their Papa
and Mamma. How I love these little ones. Sarah
I teased them a little by telling them that they
must come and live with me. No! No! They
would not leave their Grandma and their own
pretty rooms one step.
I remember the house by the water, the mill,
the boys, all come freshly before my vision and
I see you a child again upon my knee, oh how I
loved you Sarah.
Now I will not use much power as some new
thing will be done to-night which will require
a great deal of power, something that (260-Vol.
IlI) Mr. Hopper is now entreating the aid of
Dr. Franklin or Mr. Taylor. He will succeed and
you will all be happy. Tell Emeline I will look
into her future and tell her something to-night.
Sarah what a beautiful thing this subject is.
I am only beginning to realize it. I love you, I
bless you and now I am warned to stop but to
night I will be with you. Your loving Uncle
Albert."
June 1 7y4 P. M.— 1871.
I prepared the room, leaving blank paper as
usual upon the bureau and at the desired time
sister Em with us entered the room. We sat about
the table and sang, the Doctor and Katie being
sent from time to time by the folding doors.
Prof. Kenyon appeared to have the directing of
their movements. Katie took a pencil in her hand
to write and immediately it was taken out of her
fingers: directly Prof. Kenyon said "Olin is writ
ing and we are all aiding him." Ma said "My
blessed children we are all paying you a visit
from our palace." Again "Open the blinds and
let Mr. Hopper in." Again after a half hour
"Let in air."
After an hour and half Katie's hand wrote a
few lines, and while she was writing, two pencils
were placed in my hand and directly after two
long strips of paper were handed me. As soon as
she dropped her pencil they told us to get a light
and sit about the table and read aloud. Upon the
papers placed in my hand we found written with
Olin's hand and in his clear, open style the fol
lowing letter which I read aloud. (Katie's hand
had not touched this)
(261 -Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah. This is the
first day of June and our family have taken pos
session of our palace in the Garden of Eden. We
occupy different apartments and can be by our
selves when we desire. There are chapels in our
palace where we can silently worship and medi
tate. To paint the beauty of our home is impos
sible; no fairy land has ever been more beauti
fully portrayed than this palace of beauty which
needs not the pen of a fabulous brain to add one
228 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
flower to its perfection. Every leaf, every bud
bows before God as the Creator of every blessing.
Flowers are the perfumes of our atmosphere,
the incense of our walks. Glow is in some, gold
shines upon others, in some we see the ruby, in
some the sapphire and sky-blue.
It is a holy thing to watch your hours
As they glide through life away.
By the opening of some favorite flowers
We can tell thy future day.
In such sweet signs our thoughts flow on in gold
en currents, there to trace a bright flower or
withered leaf. We mark these symbols and if
they are bright and fair our souls rejoice and we
go on in gladness, feeling that our beloved ones
on earth are safe. To-day is a bright and holy
day for us, we have reached the goal of our de
sires and like one family we shall live to all eter
nity. We will dear Sarah and George be per
mitted to do more for you now in our palace.
The doors were all thrown open (262- Vol. IlI)
and sacred harps sounded as we entered. Let us
thank God. We can not say now.
Where are the friends we used to love?
Where are the joys of earlier years?
All, all are here. Then for you to know that some
day you too will inhabit our dwelling. We will
not leave out one of your beloved. Uncle Albert
and his children were a little surprised to be
admitted at once into our circle. We all love him
and take pleasure in his society. Prof. Kenyon
and his wife are also our family and now dear
Sarah I will close with a few remarks from one
higher in intellect than myself.
The theories of Voltaire no longer exist and
if the world is not as good as it might be it has
become much better than it was. Evil is a delu
sion. Take pride in good and never despond.
Leave through life the gift of pardon in the path
way of every erring mortal whose earthly hopes
are crushed; but still look up to heaven. A smile
of forgiveness from you will perhaps be a star to
cheer and comfort; and for every joy you give
we will give unto you doubly. Earth has many
trials, we pity the poor outcasts. God gives them
two paths to bring them back to Him. Love and
suffering, both are hard. Those who tread them
feel their feet pierced, but through tribulation
and patience reach at last their journey's end and
find peace. It is not for us to point out two roads
(263-Vol. IlI), marked the one to good, the other
to evil, and simply say choose. We must, as
Christ did, point out the paths that lead from the
latter road to the former so that the misguided
and erring may be led back. Jesus was full of
forgiveness for all human passions and he loved
to alleviate those wounds. This he said "Much
shall be forgiven thee because thou hast loved
much," a sublime pardon. Why should we refuse
the helping hand to those whom we meet bleeding
from the evil of a long career? Why should we
refuse to dress their wounds? Mortals must not
be more strict than Christ. The child is small
but he contains the germ of a man, the brain is
small yet it is linked with the immortal mind,
the eye, a mere speck, yet it takes in leagues.
Judge not by appearances. The rough nature
contains the diviner part. Blessed are those who
help to cultivate that spark of goodness.
My dear Sarah with one voice we all pour out
our blessing, our love and while we walk the
paths of the New Jerusalem we shall not forget
you. George and Em. we speak to you also. Life
dear Em. shall be less full of trials than those
whose flowers have been withered by disappoint
ment and neglect. There is a casket which holds
a jewel. That casket is your heart; the jewel love
and constancy. Keep them pure and untarnished
is the wish of all who love you here.
(264- Vol. IlI) The golden rays of the sun
shone upon our paths to-day with new joy. From
our palace windows we will look towards you and
ever keep a vase of flowers to mark the future
of each one of you (our family).
May you ever be happy and this day with its
holy gifts remembered.
Olin— Circle."
We found upon the bureau a beautiful white
daisy with its root in soil four inches deep. It
had twelve blossoms and more buds, and weighed
with the soil exactly one pound. This was Mr.
Hopper's present and what he brought in when
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 229
the window was opened for him. It is very beau
tiful and we shall try hard to keep it in life and
health. The following is what they wrote through
Katie's hand.
"We are all here. Keep the flowers in memory
of this night. 1 hope they will live. God bless
you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Emeline I have not much power,
but in a few words let me say that your life will
be bright only be patient. I will take a charge
in your affairs and when a flower withers I will
tell you. I like your Beau as well as I can on
short acquaintance. God bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. I have been with you
every moment giving my aid. You see how we
have advanced in power. I am happy to see you
all happy. We will all walk through the palace
garden after we (265-Vol. IlI) leave you which
will be in a few moments now.
All is well! My son keep your gift carefully.
Mr. Hopper, or rather Isaac is looking upon you
with beaming face and satisfaction.
Meet Sunday morning at half past ten. No
more. Farewell.
B. F."
June 4 6yi A. M.— 1871.
We were going to Rockaway beach to spend
the day hence our meeting at this hour on Sun
day.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning, happy to come from our beautiful
palace paths. We can do much for you when we
come in your presence. We do not have to con
tend with doubts, we are not repelled and chilled.
There are some who can never learn how to accept
this great truth, to such little can be given. We
shall go with you this morning and give you a
happy day. The children are here in form and
Dr. Franklin is at his work, aiding us. You shall
have a gift from him that you will long remem
ber; it will live long after you have joined us.
Last evening he visited us and remained some
time. We had a happy visit together. Surely God
has blessed us beyond our expectations and we
will bless you beyond yours. Prof. Kenyon says
that the friendship which existed between him
self and our family when on earth was ordained
that we might be permitted to enjoy ourselves
as one family in the world of immortality. He is
very happy. Now my dear Sarah, Ma will speak.
All is well. Be happy.
Olin."
(266-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child. I feel now
that I have my family all together. I feel that
they are mine, I can entertain all my dear friends
and make many happy. Oh would that you could
realize our joy and peace and comfort! Would
that you could be with us for a few minutes!
To-day, my dear child, I will be with you. Go
down by the beach, listen to the sounds I used
to love, I will speak to you in their murmurs.
Keep Willie near you, do not let him stray from
you. I will take a seat by your side and you will
feel that I am near you. Tell Emeline I am glad
to see her feeling happy. God bless you my be
loved children. I left Uncle Albert in the palace
with his children and sisters. He sent his love
and blessing to you.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. The conditions have been
very good this morning and we are glad that you
are going to enjoy a change of air. I think you
need it my son. Meet Tuesday at three for direc
tions. God bless you my children. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Son. The flower lives and thrives em
blematical of your future. I watered it last night
myself. God bless you.
I. T. H."
June 7 7 A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come to her appointment in the
afternoon but knocked at our bedroom door at
half past ten. We had retired some time before
(267- Vol. IlI) and the house was very still. On
opening the door I heard one clear ringing note
from an instrument, but without noticing it I
spoke with Katie and while doing so heard an
other clear and strong. I said "Why Katie what
have you got?" She replied "Nothing," seemed
frightened and stepped inside.
230 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
I closed the door and immediately the little
sweet echoes said, "Dear Mamma I have been
here all the evening playing on my harp. I can
not stay longer now. Leila." Olin said "Meet at
seven."
The morning was very unpleasant, still as soon
as we commenced singing, Leila accompanied us
with her harp, her wonderfully sweet, pure sound
ing harp. She accompanied us through "Home
Sweet Home" three times and then played four
tunes alone. The instrument is the same, the
sound precisely the same each time, but oh, I can
in no way give an idea of its sweetness, nothing
besides is so clear, so clean, so penetrating and
altogether so delightful.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning. We came directly from our palace
and while we walked through our paths the sun
light of heaven shone over our heads forming
crowns of glory such as you have seen on the
heads of holy pictures. 1 wish you could have
seen us, but the vision would have made you
discontented with earth and perhaps it is better
that your eyes are not permitted to see into our
world. When our family is complete, when we
gather every one into our fold, oh then we shall
have our (268- Vol. IlI) palace dedicated, the
home of peace, of happiness, of love made per
fect. That day will come and you with your
family will know where to find the new palace.
You will be too happy to express your delight
and sit down to wonder at the magnificence before
you.
We are all happy. Uncle Albert wants you to
meet him on Friday at twelve. I left him talking
with Aunt Sarah and his boys.
This meeting has been of great importance for
we have brought into our circle a new artist. Our
work is progressing nicely.
The children speak to you in their sweet music.
They show their immortal love, their devotion.
Oh Sarah and George we could not be happy
with all our joys and blessings if we could not
bless you at the same time. We must depart.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Do you hear your chil
dren singing their love to you? Do you hear their
sweet voices singing their praises for your ears?
Blessed little ones! Meet Friday morning at
quarter before seven. All is well. God bless you.
Farewell.
B. F."
June 9 6 A. M.— 1871.
We met a little earlier on the account of the
noises of carpenters who commenced work at
seven next door to us. Our meeting was pleasant,
they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
and will use our power mostly for the picture.
We are happy to come in this cool quiet atmos
phere. There is no noise to confuse us and (269-
Vol. IlI) we shall use every moment. We have
had a glorious meeting in our own beautiful pal
ace while you were unconscious to the world. We
would like to have had you with us. Every one
of us met in the chapel. No one looked in except
our own family and you can imagine our happi
ness. All the glory of heaven is upon us. We
are happy. Uncle Albert will write his letter at
twelve to-day. I must say no more now.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am every day
happy and grateful to heaven for having known
you and finding out the way to hold communion
with you on earth. No other source would have
opened the way for me to return in this manner.
God bless you freely my child.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Children. All goes well. Meet at
quarter past twelve to-day. God bless you.
B. F."
June 9 I2J4 P. M.— 1871.
During this hour there was written upon the
paper on the bureau with Uncle Albert's own
hand the following letter from him. And through
Katie's hand, upon the paper on the table came
the other two.
^'My Dear Sarah. Again, as the school boy
says, I take my pen in hand to write you a few
words. I have been with you. Oh my dear niece
(1) Autograph letter.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 231
how fair, how delicately beautiful is everything
in our new palace.
(270- Vol. IlI) Your Ma and I have had a long
conversation this morning. There is not a cloud
that arises on our sky. She is mistress of the
mansion and makes us all happy. Too bad child
that you can not see us! but patience! you will
some day. I am happy to see you preparing
pretty things for summer. I intend to give you
a happy one. Your children are playing on the
organ in their palace. I do not know Ralph as
well as I would like to. 1 think he will get along
well and you will all again be the greatest friends.
Tell Emeline that I know her well and will see
that she gets through with all her difficulties.
Her Beau is well and will be prosperous. He only
thinks of her as every Beau should when he gives
his heart to the one he chooses for his wife, for
better or for worse.
Sarah you often feel depressed about business;
now do not for I am sure you will always have
just what you like, *Your Ma wants me to tell
you to keep the outside over the silk, you will
like it better. She saw how you were troubled.
I can say no more now. I will be with you Sun
day morning again. Nice picture is going on.
God bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Child. I have never been happier in
all my life than I am now, no, not when I stood
at the altar with your Pa. (My husband) I shall
stand at the altar of eternal life in my palace
home when we are (271 -Vol. IlI) united, so I am
waiting Sarah, waiting for you all. Oh how happy
I am. Tell Emeline that she has me with her.
Give her my love and blessing. In a window of
my room her flower basket blooms and thrives.
Tell her that all is well. I keep watch over her.
George your book will bring you great success.
I see and am happy to give you this information.
My children we will all meet you Sunday.
With a Mother's holy love.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. We have had a very suc-
(1) I was having a dress made and was slightly perplexed
with it.
cessful day. God bless you. Meet at half past
ten Sunday morning. Farewell.
B. F."
June II Wy2 A. M.— 1871.
The meeting of this day was in no way marked
except by a long letter written with Dr. Franklin's
own hand. This letter is remarkably written.
Every letter is so perfectly formed. The hand
writing is the same he always gives. While Dr.
Franklin was writing his letter on the bureau,
Katie's hand wrote the following.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
We have come from our palace; every hour in
it is precious to us. We never knew perfect hap
piness before, now all is bright and our souls
rejoice in the rising of a new sun. Tell Emeline
that we are watching over her and everything
will be brighter than she expects. I will write but
little as it takes much power when one of us
forms so perfectly and holds the pencil and writes.
(272- Vol. IlI) We shall all be here Wednesday
at twelve and Uncle Albert wishes me to tell you
that he will be here and write you. We shall not
linger longer than we are obliged to to-day.
Know that we see that the future is prosperous.
The whole circle tell me to give you their love
and blessing.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We have had a good meet
ing. We shall not talk much till after the picture
is finished. I often call on your family to see
them in their palace home and enjoy their family
gathering. It is Sunday morning, all is hushed
and our souls are not disturbed by the noise of
the hammer.
You may think sometimes that you are not
progressing in the truths we are unfolding to you.
Could I but hold up the mirror of the past to
you and the mirror of the present you would be
astonished at yourselves, so great is the change
in the world to which you are daily ascending.
Your faith has purified you and brightened the
chain of immortality which is now linked with
those who have only been known to you through
history and who are the purest among the blessed.
You will realize all when you come here and they
232 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
will welcome you as their own dear children.
Blessed to look back upon will be these hours
passed in our presence. The grave has no longer
any terrors for you; those you once thought dead
live again; (273-Vol. IlI) heaven is a home to
which you look forward as a home of happiness
where dwell your beloved treasures. What would
take from you this holy belief? You mingle with
the world and hold a jewel locked in your inner
most soul that gold can not purchase and their
eyes never behold. Go on my children seeking
these truths. Katie will, we see now although we
see obstacles, go to Europe, but that must not
close this intercourse between heaven and earth.
Not long will she linger away, then she will come
back to you. The sweet assurances we give you
will be laid aside for awhile; but we shall silently
commune with you. Seek us not elsewhere. We
will send you messages through her as we do now
and we shall bring her back a new creature, better
and purer for having suffered.
My dear children, my son above all never
despond. Your business will be prosperous. En
joy life; God has given it for you to enjoy. The
world is beautiful; enjoy it.
I have written a long letter and now I close.
Call us not back when we say farewell. Meet
Wednesday at twelve o'clock. God bless you.
Farewell.
Benjamin Franklin.
We all go now. Farewell.
B. F."
(274-Vol. IlI) June 14 12 M.— 1871.
"We are all here; the hour is still and we take
pleasure in coming to you, our work in our hands.
Oh how peacefully our dear ones looked as we
drew near earth. They sent their blessings to
you. We left them seated in the palace, Uncle
Thomas, Aunt Sarah, Uncle Albert's two boys,
Grandma and the children. Mrs. Kenyon we left
conversing with Grandma. The Professor is here.
Our palace is so beautiful that it requires nothing
added to enhance its beauty and yet by the hour
it grows more charming, more like "Home, sweet
home." Our whole family were together last
night; we visited together, we took our spiritual
food, our twilight walk and bowed at our devo
tions. Your names were often on our lips and
we did not forget our nightly duty to look in
upon you and see that all was well. Oh, how much
we enjoy and at the same time how much we can
bless you and make your days glide on peace
fully. We see no shadow on your future. Uncle
Albert will write you a letter soon as he is look
ing constantly into the future. He will come and
make his own appointment. I saw Ralph yester
day. He feels well and happier. You will all be
together pleasantly soon. All is well my dear
Sarah. All is well with your little household.
Ma has been with Pa much of the time lately.
She talks of his coming here with fond anticipa
tion and looks forward to their reunion with ten
der feeling of love. We are all very happy.
(275-Vol. IlI) Dear Sarah we looked at your
flowers this morning, they were fresh and beau
tiful, every leaf was unfolded and no signs of
decay. You have reason to be happy, reason to
anticipate happiness.
When we leave you to-day, we shall be occu
pied with the future. We have so much pleasure
in our palace that we have neglected visiting the
banquet hall. Next Sunday we are invited there
for social purposes, and we will report to you at
our next meeting.
I can say no more. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Son, I was with you in the movement
room this morning. I am happy to see an increase
of patients. The plant thrives, my gift of pure
white flowers. You cannot look upon them with
out thinking of me, and I will never cease to aid
you. Keep good courage, all is well.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. Meet Friday at twelve
precisely. Great progress is being made. God
bless you my children. Farewell.
B. F."
"Dear Sarah. I will meet you also Friday at
twelve.
Uncle Albert."
June 16 12 M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 233
The air is pure and cool, therefore we will take
as little power from our world as possible. We
have been with you and know that all is well.
The flowers are all open, the (276- Vol. IlI) sun
shines upon them, gently the air fans them and
blessings fall upon you. We have looked into
the future and on Sunday you shall know all
that we are permitted to tell you. We shall look
further in the mean time.
We have been over all our beautiful grounds
since our last meeting with you and we will have
much to tell you on Sunday. We hope the sun
will shine as softly as it does to-day. Our souls
are glad and we come to you bringing an atmos
phere of peace and the happiness of heaven. Let
us take back with us your smiles and happy
thoughts for our companions. + + -}- + +
+ + + + God bless you and be happy. We
keep constant watch over you and of this you
have proof.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I can not write my letter
to-day but I will drop in between the work on
Sunday and do it. There are good reasons why
I can not write to-day. I must collect all my
material. I will sit in my rooms in the palace
to-day and dream, I will think of you Sarah. On
Sunday morning I will meet you. The picture
and pencils are here and it requires much power
to convey them out of your atmosphere. My
child, God bless you. I will advise you in my
letter.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. Meet Sunday morning
at precisely half past six, if clear; if not, meet
at half past ten. All is well. God bless you.
B. F."
(277-Vol. IlI) June 17 9 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are having a fine time
in our palace this morning. Ma is receiving com
pany, she is dressed for the occasion. Dr. Frank
lin made the first call on her with his wife. Oh,
Sarah she is looking lovely, our Ma. Em. go to
your work happy. I never said that you would
not marry Frank. I never said I did not approve
of your marriage. I do not feel the least shadow
about it. I am happy if you are, now I speak
for Ma. God bless you both.
Olin."
June 18 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
On the paper before us, through Katie's hand
the following was written.
"My Dear Children. I will write now and in
troduce the new artist for our next meeting. We
can not work on the picture.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
and happy. Ma had a fine reception yesterday.
Every friend she ever knew was there. + + + +
+ +
Olin."
On the paper which I left upon the bureau we
found the following letters written with their
own hands in beautifully formed letters, notwith
standing the morning was dark and rainy.
"My Dear Children. It is Sunday morning and
all is calm. We are happy to see you all in good
condition. What is more sacred, what joy can
be greater than to hold communion (278-Vol.
IlI) with those whom you have loved when in
health and whose dying eyes have been closed by
your hands, whose moanings you have listened
to as you supposed for the last time, but who now
come back to you in joy and gladness? You feel
their touch, you hear their voices, you listen to
their beloved tokens and know that they still
live. I ask what joy can be greater? My chil
dren, all is well. The clouds will all pass away
and success will follow in your footsteps. I can
say no more as I have work to do, duties to per
form and now I will give way to others while I
stand by the artist who has kindly offered to
come and execute this picture. When we leave
you, call us not back. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. I am here. I have looked
in your future and see that all is well. You can
go to Boston, the change will benefit you. We
will be with you and give you a happy meeting
with those who love you. I am frank, I never
deviate from the truth. Let 1Mrs. B. go away.
(1) A member of our family.
234 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
I heard her say that she would not again return
to this house; and this is one whom you have
trusted.
Looking ahead I saw you retired from public
life. I saw you settled in a home of your own,
flowers blooming in your gardens, horses and
carriages, every comfort of life. Your son a young
man worthy the name of Langworthy. Your hus
band satisfied with (279-Vol. IlI) his efforts and
contentment breathing through every thing you
enjoyed. This I saw in the future. I am not per
mitted to tell you all to-day, or rather this morn
ing. Your Ma is also writing with me. Now,
my dear child be happy. My power fails. I can
say no more. We are all going to the banquet
hall. God bless you.
Uncle Albert.
and Eliza."
"I find that we lose power, when we attempt
to come in an atmosphere like this, and also in
jure our fine spiritual organization. We will
never make the effort again.
B. F."
Through Katie's hand was added.
"My Dear Children. Meet Tuesday morning
at seven.
B. F."
June 19 8 P. M.— 1871.
Katie came in and through her hand they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all preparing to come
to-morrow morning, and talk with you. We want
you to meet at quarter before seven. All is well
and we are happy to see the future so bright. We
all went to the banquet hall yesterday. Uncle
Albert was delighted with the sacred pleasure of
the place. We were all together in our room the
greater part of the time. We will tell you all
about it to-morrow. The sweet flowers are now
open. Ma is talking with Uncle Albert and I
must join them in the palace (280- Vol. IlI)
grounds. The air is filled with music and the
children are singing sweet hymns. We are all
talking of you too, Sarah, and thinking of you.
God bless you.
Olin."
June 20 6^ A. M.— 1871.
During this meeting we received through
Katie's hand the following letters.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We looked upon
your earth last Sunday and compared the dif
ferent appearances of the two worlds. One was
the perfection of beauty, the other full of little
vexations and clouds, weary feet stumbling at
every step, we could not refrain from wishing you
with us. It is sweet for us to be by ourselves,
even in the banquet hall, so strong are our family
ties. Yes we are happy and we want you to know
that there is not a sorrow of yours that we do
not see. Sarah you will not be separated from us
one moment after you come here. You will be
prepared to enter in our fold at once. Is it not
sweet for you to know? Is it not a joy?
Olin."
"My Dear Son. Your Mother is well. Don't
you want to see her? I don't think I like to go
to the banquet hall as well as to the palace. I
am very happy my son. I am where Charles can
not ridicule my belief. Oh, what a glorious time
I am having.
Your Father."
(281-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
I am with you as usual, working for you. George
take Sarah's advice and see to it as soon as pos
sible or you will have trouble. God bless you.
Prof. K."
Upon the bureau at the same time Katie's hand
was writing the above, they wrote with their own
hands the three succeeding letters, all beautifully
written.
"My Dear Sarah. Again we meet. I have no
particular work in the circle to do but I can write
letters which is a great thing to do, specially
when I use my own hand and hold the pen. I
know you like to hear from me. I went yester
day with the circle to the banquet hall. Too ex
quisite was all I witnessed for pen to portray, or
words express. Surely we live again; this is the
resurrection, the life eternal. I was introduced
to many who just filled the wishes of my soul.
Young and gay were there, it is no place for the
suffering. Every spirit drops all care and there
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 235
we find only happiness. We know that some day
you too will be led through the scenes that we
are now enjoying. My dear child be happy and
enjoy your present life. 1Go on Wednesday. I
will accompany you, so many will be made happy
by your visit, go with your dear son and we will
protect you. Your sweetness when a child has
left an indelible impression on my soul and that
is why I love to come to you. (282- Vol. MI)
Your life has been one of discipline and faith,
pure and sacrificing. Clouds have darkened your
life. When your little ones were taken from you,
your heart had to be disciplined to believe it was
for the best. Oh, believe me, child, your reward
comes daily. I enjoy the greatest happiness talk
ing with Eliza about you. The voice of love
never ceases to praise you. But now do not worry
about your business affairs, everything will come
out right. I have used all my power. 1 can say
no more. Meet on Wednesday at twelve. We
will be with you again. We can not always come.
While my hand is in your 2Ma wants me to tell
you to feel no anxiety about parting with the
girl who has been so long with you. Take the
big one in her place, she will be just as good.
God bless you. Good bye.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. Meet at twelve on Wed
nesday. All is well. George, my son, look not
for one moment on the dark side. All is bright
in the future. We can say no more. God bless
you, my children. One thing important let me
say, Katie must give up these late hours. We
take much strength from her and she must re
tire to her bed by ten every night or she will
feel the need of stimulants. Do attend to this
sacred duty. Farewell.
B. F."
(283-Vol. IlI) "My Child, your Uncle Albert
has said all. I go now to your Pa, my husband.
Tell Emeline that I am watching over her. God
bless you both.
Your Ma."
(1) To Boston to visit Uncle Isaac
(2) Maggie, the girl who had been
left me very unexpectedly.
family.
my maid for five years had
June 21 12 M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this bright, clear morning. Our spirits rejoice
to come and assure you of our presence. We are
happy in our palace home. The doors stand open
for all our loved ones to enter.
My dear Sarah we will go with and protect
you, feel sure of our presence. You will have a
happy time and it is well to renew these ties by
visiting one another. We are all glad that you
are going, change is good for every one, it is
necessary in order to keep the mind and body
in healthy state. There will be no meeting during
your absence for the picture. My dear Sarah for
get all care and enjoy yourself all you can. Ralph
is well. Tell Em. I am taking care of her future.
Everything shall go smoothly in your absence.
God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I will accompany you to-day.
I will guard you from all danger. Think of me
when you look out upon the water, I will be near
you and you will feel my presence. I am going
with you, we will have a nice time. Sarah I
would make it very gay for you all, if I were in
earthly form. Now they believe not that I am
near them almost as life-like as (284-Vol. IlI)
ever. Well, you know Sarah, how near I am to
you and you can take pleasure in my unseen
presence. Keep good courage dear child and let
me be one to lift the clouds from your heart. God
bless you. I am informed that 1 take the power
when I write with my own hand therefore at cer
tain times when other work is going on I will
do more and say less. I love and bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Child. You can not take my love
to the dear ones you are going to visit, but you
can kiss them for me. Oh, how glad I am that
you are going, it gives me great happiness and
I will be with you my child. God bless you.
Your Ma.
Your Mother to all Eternity."
"My Dear Children. The next meeting will
be one week from tomorrow, Thursday at seven
in the morning. All is well. You can go with
236 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
my full approval. The change will do you good.
My son I will speak with you in your wife's ab
sence. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
"You do well not to let your servants know
that you have meetings for this purpose. Use
cautious judgment and all will be well.
B. F."
June 25—1871.
While I was away the Doctor received through
Katie's hand the following.
(285-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Son. I have a beau
tiful home. Emma is with me a beautiful girl
and a comfort to me. She comes here to see you
with me. She is standing by you now. I told
her we would have a glorious time with you this
morning. I am going to take seventy-five chil
dren with me to the palace to-day, boys and girls,
then we will go out into the beautiful fields. Your
Mother is well and happy. George, think not we
lose our affections for those we loved on earth.
Oh, no, the tie grows stronger daily and dear
Emma loves you to-day as dearly as she used to
when a child in your arms. We will all clasp you
in our arms when you come here, Emma, your
Mother and I will be first to meet you, among
the first.
Your Father."
"My Dear Brother. 1 remember how you loved
me. I. will make your garden bright with flowers
and take you to beautiful places when you come
here. Oh, how happy Father and I are together
and we shall all meet here never to part. I will
come again soon.
Emma."
"Dear George, I have only come to tell you that
Sarah and Willie are well and safe, just as happy
as they can be. Sarah was a little restless last
night, but this change will do her good.
Olin."
June 28 7*4 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing, happy to meet you, happy to see you back
again. (286- Vol. IlI) You made them all happy
by your visit. We are glad you went. The last
night you passed with them we were with you and
enjoyed being among you. God bless you. We
are now going to work on the picture every mo
ment so that we may present it before ' Uncle
and Aunt come. Uncle Albert wishes me to tell
you that he will speak with you at the afternoon
meeting. All is well.
Olin."
"Have no anxiety. I will see that everything
goes right to-day and that all the appointments
are kept.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Children. Meet at three this after
noon.
B. F."
June 28 3 P. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George -\
—(
—|
—(- The
flowers are all open, our faces are bright with
peace and hope. -|
—|
—f- We are going to read
the future to-night and it will occupy much of
our time. I can say no more.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah, I have you again where I
can speak to you, I have you again where I can
give you proofs of my love. We had a nice time
in Boston with the folks, did we not? And Sarah
did you know how near I was to you ? I watched
you on the boat till you were safely landed. I
wanted to place my arms about you and squeeze
you. I am taking care of you; keep good courage
and above all do not let the servants know that
you have meetings with us. I will write you a
letter on Sunday morning with my own hand.
I will also be here to-morrow morning.
(287- Vol. IlI) All is well, be happy and to-day
I will take you out to drive, at least I will float
about you. I can say no more.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Child. Meet at half past six to
morrow morning. Now if you are careful you
will excite no suspicions. The chain will be per
fect after to-morrow. Farewell.
B. F."
June 29 6J4 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are here. Is it not a
pleasant assurance to know that we are here and
(1) Uncle Isaac and Aunt Sarah war* coming in July to pan
a month with ua.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 237
to know that all is well? We all gathered in
the palace and looked into the future. We can
not foreshadow it to you till next Sunday when
Uncle Albert will write it with his own hand.
Ma has been with Pa this morning. She felt a
little anxious about him. She is here now and
the little oppression she had has nearly disap
peared and we are all happy again. Prof. Kenyon
is very busy here this morning. He wishes you
to know that not only in the circle is he with
you, but in your business hours aiding you un
seen. The absent ones are all well.
I know dear Sarah and George that 1
Maggie
did not speak of your meetings with us. Your
mind can rest easy about that. God bless you.
Olin."
"Good Morning, My Son. I am here to tell you
that things are taking a change and you are com
ing out safe from all obstacles. All is well. There
can be nothing in heaven more beau- (288-Vol.
IlI) tiful than the palace of your beloved ones.
At early dawn, at noon, at night it is a scene of
transcendent beauty. How happy your hearts
should be to know that you have a home like
this to come to. God bless you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. Meet at half past six to
morrow. We are now going to our other duties.
Let your minds be peaceful, hopeful and trust
ful. Farewell.
B. F."
July I 6 A. M.— 1871.
Our sleeping room, the room in which we al
ways meet was being cleaned; the pictures were
down, carpet up, furniture removed and every
thing in disorder; so we received our unseen
guests in another room. They write.
"My Dear Children. We are here to give di
rections but we cannot work in this room from
the fact that we are not accustomed to the change,
but we can keep up the chain which is important.
We do not blame you for you are doing the best
you can. The morning is clear and cloudless and
we are here to speak words of peace to you my
children. Toil on! Life is a toil at the best, the
(1) She had been accused of it, but not by as.
greater part. Often the holy light of heaven comes
between you and your daily strifes. Now life
seems a joy and you long to fold your arms from
all earthly care and fly away. So my children
cheer up and look forward to the joy ahead. We
are with you and it is not (289-Vol. IlI) always
that we can come to give hope, for there are few
who receive this truth as you do. In this you are
blessed and we can lighten many of your bur
dens. We are happy to come to you this morn
ing for we know when weary nature gives way
there is need of comfort from our world. Now
let me say that all is well, hope for the best and
always look on the golden side, and above all my
children never despond. God bless you. Meet
at half past six to-morrow and we will be with
you. There will be much this morning to occu
py your hands and time, we will not detain you.
God bless you. Farewell.
B. Franklin."
"My Dear Sarah and George. This little meet
ing with us will do you good. Feel not wearied.
We all, I believe, are your truest sympathizers
in everything. What a joy it will be for you
when we come to bear you to our palace. What
a delightful change it will be when we bear you
both in our arms through the flowers, up, up to
our home where we shall all be prepared for you.
Still Sarah and George we want you to live on
many years to do good and to taste the fruits
of your labors as you advance in life. We all
want you to enjoy the sunshine of life. Rest
early to-night and we will be with you early in
the morning. We will close now with blessings
from us all.
Olin."
(290- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child. We are all
here. We see you and know that all is well. If
we do not all speak remember we love you. No
shadows are in the future. Your Pa I was a little
anxious about, but this morning I left him well.
Uncle Albert kissed you Sarah before you awoke
and he wishes me to tell you that he has not
gathered matter enough to speak this morning
but he will speak to-morrow. Uncle Albert and
his mother are together now in our palace gar
238 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
den. She is beautiful as a flower and sent her
blessing to you. Be happy! God bless you my
child.
Your Ma.
Your Mother to all Eternity."
"George 1 guess 1 will say a few words to you
this morning. Can you remember Emma's fea
tures? If so you can imagine how pretty she is
now. She is gay, never sad xbut not so fond
of going with me to visit strange abodes as I
would wish. Mother is well. Emma says tell
brother George that I am going to talk with him
soon.
Your Father.
You laugh when I say, oh what a glorious time
I am having.
Father."
July 2 6y2 A. M.—1871.
They wrote through Katie's hand the follow
ing.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing. Uncle Albert wants to write, therefore 1
will not use much power in writing myself.
We will all go with you to-day and you shall
feel our presence. Dear Sister, you need (291-
Vol. IlI) rest and you must take it. We are
happy to come in our accustomed trysting place.
1 believe we love this room as well as you do.
You have all your beloved ones here this morn
ing, Sarah. God bless you. Our palace is all that
we desire; every day it seems new to us, it is so
beautiful. Uncle and Aunt will be here this week
and we are glad they are coming. I can say no
more. I am required for aid, the atmosphere is
so bad that we must concentrate our forces. Be
happy and look on the bright side.
Olin."
"Brother George. I am here. You must think
of me now as a young lady and not as the little
child you held in your arms. I watch over you
and love you both.
Your Sister Emma."
"My Dear Children. Meet at twelve to-morrow
if clear. Now keep your hearts happy. Worry
not about the house, everything will be provided
(1) Father Taylor's curiosity was large.
and all will go well. God bless you. We are
happy to ascend to our beautiful home and leave
all well. Farewell.
B. F."
Upon the paper left on the bureau, we found
the following letter written in Uncle Albert's fine
hand and with his own hand. Katie never touches
the paper I place upon the bureau.
"Sarah, did I ever disappoint you? No. I am
here this morning. Love is strong after mortality
is dead; that is all that dies. I have looked in
the future. There is no cloud (292- Vol. IlI) of
sorrow for you, but there is for Emeline. I am
going to try to help her. George will be success
ful, so you can enjoy the summer.
I come to you now from the palace. Mother
kissed me for you; and so you love her memory;
well you may for here she talks of you as her
favorite grand-child; and you loved Uncle Albert
too, and he loves you. As I came through the
palace gardens, the flowers opened and moved in
sweet recognition of my presence. I looked upon
them and told them I would bring them a com
panion some day. I meant you, Sarah. Your love
ly children have only one hour ago been in my
arms. I kissed and kissed them. How sweet these
meetings are, how holy and how I love to come
to you.
Go to Greenwood. I will go with you. The
sky is overcast but I think it will not rain. I can
not say however. You see I have learned to
punctuate somewhat. Now my dear Sarah, God
bless you. I can say no more as I take the power
from the other purpose. God bless you again.
Uncle Albert."
July 3 12 M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here. Oh, how
happy we are when your hearts are happy. All
is bright in your future, no clouds are over you
except the clouds of the elements. All is well,
be happy and do not let one shadow dim this
week's appointments. All that now troubles you
will pass away and everything will be successful.
(293-Vol. IlI) You may take all the pleasure you
can this summer; remember it only comes once
a year. To-morrow we can do nothing on earth.
It is not possible for us to approach earth on the
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 239
fourth of July without great injury to ourselves.
We shall work some on the picture in our own
home, only a few touches. Uncle Albert wishes
me to say to you that he will talk with you on
Wednesday. George look on the bright side and
be happy. Sarah our circle are not like the spirits
who come usually. We are more advanced and
of higher order therefore our ways are different.
To-day we have a great meeting in our palace
and we shall have much to tell you. God bless
you.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet at six Wednesday
morning. Ask no questions. I will give you
written directions with my own hand then. All
is well, all will be well; never fear. God bless
you, my children. Farewell.
B. F."
Later in the day Katie was still here and we
were discussing the expediency of doing or not
doing a certain thing but could not come to a
decision. I wished in my heart that Olin could
give me his opinion if any he had. Directly
Katie took the pencil and the following appeared.
"Olin saw your wish and wants me to tell you
to have Katie here early in the morning and he
will direct. Don't you re- (294- Vol. IlI) member
the message he gave you to-day? They are all
in the palace and I do not care to be there all
day so am now going to look after my flock. I
left Emma there.
Father Taylor."
Bright and early the next morning Olin came
and gave us his opinion which was directly op
posed to our wishes and intentions. It was how
ever a matter about which we knew so little that
we concluded to take his advice and before night
came we had actually demonstrated that he was
right and we were wrong.
July 5 6 A. M.—1871
We had the usual session for them to work.
They wrote very little.
"My Dear Children. Meet for letters to-morrow
at six when we will not bring the picture. I will
then write full directions about the house and you
will see that 1 have looked into affairs. All will
be well. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
July 6 6 A. M.— 1871
We met as requested and Katie's hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here. We will all
lend our aid to Dr. Franklin and Uncle Albert as
they wish to write and can do so with great
rapidity receiving all our aid. Be happy for all
is well.
Olin."
On the paper upon the bureau we found the
following letters, each bearing the unmistakable
peculiarities of their individual hand writings.
Katie did not touch the paper on the bureau.
(295-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Children. We are
here with you this morning and all is well. About
business I will speak first. Keep this house if you
can without making sacrifices. If you are obliged
to give it up, which you will not be, you will find
a better home. Give yourselves no anxiety. The
future is bright and no obstructions in your way.
We had a happy day together. All we grieved
for was to see Katie suffering from an act that
only caused her misery; but God be thanked, she
is in the arms of her friends. Far be it from you,
my son and daughter to condemn the weak and
erring whose impulses are like the rushing waves.
There is no apology for sacrifice of principle, but
let none sit self-complacently in judgment upon a
human being when God has made each one to
widely differ.
Learn of him who was meek and lowly of
heart, by a frown of displeasure or a cruel word
never to break the bruised reed. Life is formed
of trifles and their imperishable influence will
appear in the great summing up of the final judg
ment.
Meet Saturday morning at half past six. We
can say no more and must ascend from this
atmosphere. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Niece. I am here to write you a
letter, and one that will breathe my affection in
every line. The winds are hushed, the daily (296-
Vol. IlI) toil has not yet commenced and we
240 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
your beloved ones are with you. Had I been told
some years ago that I would to-day be com
municating with you in this way I would have
laughed at the idea and called men crazy who
would advance such a theory. How blessed are
we thus to be able to come to feel the sorrows
of others and make the heart human to weep
when you weep, to joy with you in your joys.
No blessing greater than this. Christianity my
child lies in these few words, to lift up the bro
ken spirit and throw a veil over the dark past
of God's children. You know Sarah that I have
had many a dark hour. I have felt the want of
soothing hands, the want of sympathy.
Well, now let me speak of our feast on Tues
day. We all met in our palace, each one was
there. The palace gardens were filled with bloom
ing flowers. Your children were dressed for the
occasion and my Mother looked lovely in her
white dress trimmed with violets. She held Leila
in her arms; the contrast was exquisite, my
Mother with her dark hair and still darker eyes
with that fair child on her lap. Oh, it was a
sight so beautiful and we were all happy. Olin
was the pride of his Mother so manly, so pure,
so good; and we thought of you, we talked of you
and breathed your name in our songs. One day
you shall be with us, we shall meet here in our
palace. My child I love you. I know (297-Vol.
IlI) your heart, its longings, its affections. Lean
upon me and I will comfort you. I can say no
more, the power is exhausted. God bless you.
All send their love to you, and now my child
believe me, no sorrow rests near you.
Uncle Albert."
July 7 6 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing. The heat is against us but we will do all
we can on the picture. To-day we will look into
our duties and see what we can do to bestow
happiness upon you and also to see what con
ditions are best for us to work under.
Give Katie something to make her sleep that
she may be fresh for our next meeting. God bless
you.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We will have a short
meeting this morning. Meet for directions this
evening at seven. All will be well, feel no anxiety.
We can not remain long in this atmosphere. Now
we all ascend to our palace in the cool atmos
phere of heaven and return to you at seven. Fare
well. B p »
July 7 7 P. M.— 1871
"My Dear Sarah. We are here this evening.
It is the twilight hour and we are happy to come
after the heat of the day. The atmosphere has
been oppressive to us. We have come from the
palace of beauty, of holy love and now we stand
near you on earth. There are (298- Vol. IlI)
bright new flowers opening in your future, so keep
good heart and look forward to a happy future,
one of sure success. Dear Sarah I know that in
this atmosphere 1 Mr. Taylor could not accom
plish what he desires, therefore you need feel no
disappointment at not going to Greenwood; and
I also know that in making the effort to accom
plish any such thing, the picture which is going
on would be interfered with. Sarah and George
all is well. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Son. I have come to tell you to keep the
establishment you are now in. A rolling stone
gathers no moss and here you are established. I
know that all is well. I see no withered leaves
upon your pathway. My son success is with you,
it must follow you. Meet at six to-morrow morn
ing. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
After reading the above, the Doctor said "We
will let events take their course." The pencil in
Katie's hand, immediately wrote.
"You will not have to let events take their
course. I will be better able to direct you after I
see what is to become of a certain party who may
not be able to make the arrangements. Changes
will transpire for your benefit. I will direct after
a few days. Have no anxiety. Will you all re
tire early in order to get up fresh in the morn
ing. Farewell.
B. F."
(1) J. B. Taylor had promised to rive us an evidence of his
power in Greenwood.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 241
(299-Vol. IlI) July 8 6 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Niece. I am here this morning to
say a few words. I have reposed in the palace
with your blessed children. All is well. I wish
you to feel perfectly easy about your future home.
I have looked into affairs and I have a confident
and clear understanding and I advise you to have
nothing done to this house but commence at once
to build one of your own, then it will be yours
and the money you pay out will be for a purpose.
If you rent it will be with the expectation of con
tinually having such annoyances, for the man will
keep raising on his rent so I advise you to do this
at all events.
Of course it will be an inconvenience to you in
the beginning but you will never regret it. There
is one obstacle in the way. The party who wish
this house may fail but that is not certain; so I
say to you grasp the certainty and build a house
of your own. You will be surprised to see how
easy everything will come in your way.
My dear child, God bless you. I am with you
and all is well. I will be with you again to-mor
row and say more then.
Our home is growing more beautiful every day.
All send their love to you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all hap
py to be able to come to you. Let no shadows
rest on your hearts, everything speaks of hope
and success.
Olin."
(300- Vol. IlI) "My Son. I advise you to have
a house of your own built after your own fancy
and no longer pay rent, you will never regret it.
Everything will be easy for you and you will
see that it is wise.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"I too, so say, build.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Children. The circle all wish you
to build. I thought it would be better to wait
but they may be wise in hastening you to do this.
I think there will be changes that will enable you
to keep this house. At all events give yourselves
no anxiety for the way will be made clear. God
bless you. Meet at half past ten to-morrow morn
ing. Farewell.
B. F."
Whether we can retain this house, in which we
have lived since our marrige, after the spring
of 1873 has become to us a serious question. A
hotel has been opened by the side of us and the
proprietor is desirous of adding our houses to
his establishment, and he will give more for the
lease than we think it worth. Under these cir
cumstances the above letters were written. The
difference of opinion upon the subject is very
conspicuous, and Olin's silence is also noticeable.
He left this life before he became the least ab
sorbed in financial matters. When I read these
letters, Dr. Franklin's particularly pleased me for
my judgment was not to build, and I exclaimed
"Oh, Dr. Franklin I want to kiss you." The pen
cil immediately wrote, (301-Vol. IlI) "Yes, my
child, you shall kiss me in your Mother's palace
and I will return your kisses of pure affection.
B. F.
July 9 10^ A. M.— 1871.
Olin wrote a few words and this followed.
"George and Sarah, good morning my children,
I am happy to come and write you a few words
of remembrance. Now do not let your minds be
troubled about the future. Everything will be
ordered for the best and entirely satisfactory. All
is well. I am not one to say what I do not know;
so have good courage and believe what I tell you.
We can write no more. Call us not back.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Brother. I am happy to give you
a little token of my presence, for I do love you
and I know your heart is always open for me.
I guard you, my brother from evil. I water your
flowers with affection and I will never cease to
bless y°u'
Emma."
On the bureau we found the two following
letters beautifully written. The first signed by
Ma and Uncle Albert was clearly and unmistak
ably in his hand writing. Dr. Franklin's in his
own as always. Katie did not touch the paper on
which they were written or even the bureau on
which the paper lay.
242 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Dear Child. Uncle Albert and I will write
together. We are happy to talk with you in this
way. We feel so near to you when we can take
the pencil and write our own thoughts.
(302-Vol. IlI) We have come from our pal
ace home, from the garden of flowers, from the
blessed and beloved, and we are happy to be
with you. Our message must be brief as the at
mosphere is too oppressive for us to remain long.
My child, let events take their course; do not
worry about the future; we have told you that
all would be well; rely upon us. When we see
shadows we will warn you. Olin, my blessed boy,
is happy; he is a great joy to me. I say he is
happy for now he stands by me smiling sweetly
with satisfaction to see me write, and Uncle
Albert says weave my love to Sarah in every
line. I left the children in the palace as I did
not like to bring them in this atmosphere.
1Emeline will come home feeling better and
happier. I am glad your Uncle and family are
coming here. It is needless for me to tell you
to do all in your power to make them happy. All
is well. We shall now ascend to our home above,
to our palace. Call us not back. God bless you,
my children.
Your Ma.
Mother to all eternity. Eliza and Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. We have succeeded well
and our next meeting will be Tuesday at half
past six. We can say no more to-day, the atmos
phere is so oppressive and we are now going to
ascend to the pure atmosphere of heaven. Let
your minds be easy about your house. Have no
anxiety. All will be just (303-Vol. Ill) as you
would wish it. We must now go. God bless you.
Farewell.
B. F."
July 11 6yZ A. M.— 1871.
Uncle Isaac, his wife and eldest son were to
arrive during the morning. Sister Em. we ex
pected by the same boat. Our meeting was very
short. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning. The air is oppressive through which
we have had to come but all is well. We are hap-
(1) Emeline was visiting our friends in R. L
py to see the good folks on their way here. They
come with happy hearts to meet you.
Dear Sarah, you must enjoy yourself while
they are here and have a happy time. I am glad
to see your minds at rest regarding your future.
We have given you all the encouragement we can.
Now do be happy and feel no anxiety. I do not
wish you to feel indifferent, but I want you to
feel at ease. We have reposed in the palace all
night, only occasionally coming to look after our
friends on earth. We are all happy to have this
palace of our own and rest in the bosom of our
family. Uncle Albert is on his way with Aunt.
We are just as life-like as you are, and speak
of each other in that sense. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. Your Uncle and Aunt are
on the way. They will be here soon. Emeline
will soon begin to feel more contented in her mind,
but she must learn to bear trials patiently. Pro
crastination is Frank's great fault. In the end,
after waiting long and wearily, she will (304-Vol.
IlI) have her desire. My dear child, all is well.
Let your heart be happy and know that I am
always with you, to care for you. Blessings fol
low you.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. Meet quarter after six to
morrow. The meeting will be short. God bless
you, my children. Farewell.
B. F."
July 12 6H A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are here but it is not
possible for us to form this morning. We ap
proached earth with the paper and most of the
circle were compelled to return, therefore we can
not work on the picture this morning. We will
not fail you in having everything in good time.
We were all here when the folks arrived. We
are happy dear Sarah to have them here. Do not
let them feel one shadow. How little the world
knows of our joys? We come from a home where
everything is perfect in its adaptation to our
feelings, perfect in its beauty, in every thing.
Heaven is a great contrast to earth and often we
wonder how life can seem so dear to those who
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 243
inhabit earth. Few realize the great blessings
in store for them; perhaps it is as well for some
minds are so unevenly balanced, that were they
to have a glimpse into this world they would
not live their time out, and a suicide is a dread
ful calamity. These things are wisely hidden.
Tell Em. that I am glad to see her back. Uncle
Albert wants me to tell you that he will talk
with you Sunday morning. God bless you Sarah
and George.
Olin."
(305-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Children. We can
not bring the picture this morning. We are fear
ful of injuring it in bringing it and using up our
power before we touch earth. My children all is
well. We watch over you in our gardens of im
mortality, and watch that all goes well. Have no
anxiety. Meet Friday morning at quarter after
six. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
July 14 6l/4 A. M.— 1871.
"The picture is nearly finished and all is well.
We may be able to give it Sunday morning. God
bless you, Sarah and George.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. All is well. Meet Sunday
at half past ten. God bless you.
B. F."
One of the long pieces of paper we left upon
the bureau, we found carefully folded several
times over and on the upper side, beautifully
written was "S. E. L. T. from her Mother." I
unfolded the paper and found the following let
ter from Ma, but Uncle Albert's penmanship was
very conspicuous in every character from first to
last. This letter like all others written upon the
bureau was done without Katie's touching paper
or pencil.
"My Dear Child. It was a little bud in the
cold ground you placed and wondered why it
should slumber there with mists and dampness
all around; but a ray shone down on that little
plant and it bloomed in beauty in the world be
yond. She sighed at first, she missed her Mother's
(306- Vol. IlI) breast, but soon she began to love
us here and your child found mothers plenty, and
now she is happy in coming to you in my arms
and the arms of her Uncle Olin, who does more
for her happiness than he does for any one in our
palace. Your children live for you here and love
you deeply. It is therefore we feel a love for
Katie like unto our own family and we want the
tie never to be broken. Cheer poor Katie at all
times, Sarah, my child. We wish to come through
none but her. This may seem selfish to you, but
we know Katie and we know that she loves you.
Dear child, we wish to give you a private letter
on Sunday. God bless you. Oh, how happy we
are to see you all happy. Tell Emeline to keep
faith, without faith she will be most wretched.
Frank is true to her, loves no one save her and all
will be well. George, my son, God bless you.
I have talked with your sister Emma many times,
she is sweet and pure, holy in every thought.
Sarah try to imagine her as she
is,
a
devoted
sister in affection to you both. May God bless
you.
Your Ma.
Mother to all Eternity.
Eliza."
July 16 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are happy
to have such good conditions. The day
is
more
favorable for us than
it
has been for some time.
Dr. Frank- (307- Vol. IlI) Iin
is
in great power.
He
is
happy to complete this picture.
It
will
please you so much as you will,
I
feel sure, be
happy to see Leila and myself together. Now you
must be patient as we have had to erase the
first drawing. Frankie came in so many times
that we were obliged to efface the first outlines
from
a
confusion which took place while we were
at work. You must not think that in doing this
we have marred the paper in the least, we have
not and would not have told you only we have
been so much longer than we intended at first
and this
is
the cause. The next meeting will be
Wednesday morning, six o'clock by order of Dr.
Franklin. In the meantime we want to talk with
you, say Tuesday at half past twelve. We have
been with you every day. Dear Uncle Isaac, we
love to hear him talk especially when our names
244 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
are called over in conversation. We are so happy
to see him resting. He feels our influence al
though he knows not from whence it comes. Ma
is much with Pa these days. He feels the debili
tating weather. The children are busy in their
garden, twining flowers in their hair and dress
ing their Grandpa Taylor. We shall have to
bring Leila here for a few minutes in order to
get her expression. Uncle Albert is bringing her
now; she has a wreath of flowers on her head
and looks beautifully. Now be happy and know
that we love and bless you. George, success is
sure.
Olin."
(308-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child. Isaac would
learn more from me than fifty men in the pulpit.
I would give him more information. I think I
will play a little trick with him before he comes
here. Well, Sarah when you were riding with
him yesterday, I wished you could have talked
with him regarding me and my coming here.
However it must not be, better not mention the
subject to him. I will meet you Tuesday. George
better be present to hear from his sister. God
bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children. All is well. We have had
a glorious meeting. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
July 19 6 A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come to us on Tuesday at the
appointed hour although she was in the house.
When I saw her she was very irritable and said
she was ready to come at the hour etc. We met
on this morning instead and the following let
ters from Olin, Emma and B. F. were written
through Katie's hand, but Uncle Albert's was
written upon the bureau and without Katie's
hand.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are happy
to be able to come in a cool atmosphere. We see
no clouds on your future, be happy and hopeful.
We are all with you this morning. All night we
have reposed together in our palace, the perfume
of the flowers coming in our open windows made
the air we breathed sweet and pure. We wish you
could experience a little of our happiness.
Olin."
(309-VoI. IlI) "My Dear Brother. I am here
this morning to say a few words. I have been
with Mother. She is well. She often talks in
spirit with Father and myself. Dear Brother I
see your great desire to have a picture of my
self. You shall have it; get the paper on Thurs
day and I will give directions. It will be as great
a pleasure for me to give it as for you to receive
it. God bless you and Sarah. I love you as much
as when I was a little child and I will do much
for you.
Your Sister
Emma."
"My Dear Children. We have had great
power this morning, which comes from Katie's
not having many sittings lately. Meet Thursday
at six. Keep happy, all is well my dear children.
God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah. Again we meet. Life goes
on the same, almost, as when I was with you in
worldly sense, and yet it is different for you are
living in an enlightened age. I was living in an
age of bigotry and doubts. Doubts still remain
but the way is open to see beyond the veil. Oh,
if I could but talk with Isaac. If I could but
pour in his ear some truths. But alas! alas! I
can not, neither can you my dear child open the
door of his understanding so we must leave him.
You are born of different material, you are a wo
man of feeling, a woman of soul. Despise not
those who will come to learn from you the way
up the golden steps, (3 10-Vol. IlI) for there will
be many in future years, connected as you are
with the originator of the alphabet to the lan
guage of heaven.
I have been with you. I saw you were weary
last night and 1 wished I could take your head
on Uncle Albert's breast. Time enough for that
dear Sarah. Some day I will and you will call
me Uncle Albert and I will call you my child.
I love to come to you at this hour. I know your
mind is easy. Go back with me to the mill at the
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 245
old homestead. Uncle Albert falls in the water;
you laugh for you too have had a similar christ
ening.
My child I love you. Holy are such words
when they come from one who is beloved.
George Taylor prize your wife, none better.
Feel no sorrow while she is with you to cheer
you. Katie does right to keep out of the way
for I think I will play the trick on Isaac while
he is here. It grieved me to see the misunder
standing Tuesday. I saw the nervousness on one
side, the mistake on the other. Sarah be her
friend under all circumstances.
Now God bless you. Good bye my darling
child. Sarah lean on me. The circle warned me
to cease writing some time ago so now good bye.
Uncle Albert.
I will kiss the children for you, but first let
me tell you that I think Olin has a preference
for Leila. Mother for Frankie.
Uncle Albert.
Bold hand Sarah."
(311-Vol. IlI) July 21 6 A. M.— 1871.
Katie did not come on Thursday and our
meeting was this morning instead.
"My Dear Sarah. We are happy to come here
this morning; we are all here and all is well.
We have come from our palace, free from clouds,
free from shadows. The home we now occupy
grows daily more beautiful and we love to dwell
in it. Dear Sarah we are with you every day and
take pleasure in seeing Uncle Isaac enjoy peace
and freedom. Here he has no care, here his mind
can rest. We are all happy to have him here. I
am sure dear Sarah that you will remember this
visit with Uncle Albert and Uncle Isaac, many
years. It will be a bright spot in your memory.
I can not write much now. To-morrow at twelve
we want you and Katie to meet for us. God bless
you.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I have just left your Pa; he
is well. I wish he could be here with you all. I
think he would be so happy. I am with you.
Everything that can be done for the happiness
of those about you, you are doing and it gives
me pleasure to see them appreciate it. My child
you have my full approval in all your acts. Bless
you. Love to Emeline.
Your Ma."
"My Son. The circle wish me to say that they
will take the drawing paper just as soon as they
bring back the one they are completing now. You
shall have a likeness of her true to life.
(312-Vol. IlI) My son all is well. Let your
heart be happy. I am with you as usual. God
bless you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. Do not feel impatient.
We are doing all we can and as rapidly as we
can. Meet for directions to-morrow at twelve.
You are doing right my son in business, have
no misgivings. Peace be with you, let hope guide
you and we will continue to bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
July 22 2y2 P. M.— 1871.
We were detained and did not meet at the ap
pointed hour, but two and half hours after, con
sequently we received very little.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here.
We take pleasure in all your enjoyments and we
hope that you will take pleasure every day. We
see no clouds, no sorrow, nothing that will mar
your future. We want you to feel that we never
forget you. We can not talk much now, the hour
for our appointment has passed and we have
other duties which are ordained, my dear sister,
by the higher power so we can not linger with
you now. We will be with you to-night silently.
Now we go to our duties. The palace doors are
thrown open and all are assembling, we must not
be missed. God bless you. Uncle Albert will
speak to-morrow.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet at half past six
to-morrow morning. My son you have our bless
ing. Farewell.
B. F."
(313-Vol. IlI) July 23 6y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Child. I am here, but they say they
want all the power and I will give them mine. I
am with you, I love you, I watch over you. God
bless you.
Uncle Albert."
246 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Dear Children. We have come here in
great power this morning. Our bell has sounded.
Yes, sounded for our presence. Some one needs
us and we must go. Call us not back. We take
the paper to the palace. Meet Tuesday at six.
God bless you. Farewell.
g P
„
July 24 \2y2 P. M.— 1871.
Katie happened to be here, the way was clear
and they asked us to meet, but not to displace
the regular appointment.
"We come from our palace, our beautiful home
to tell you that all is well. Uncle Albert is here
waiting to say a few words. We are preparing
homes for the poor wounded soldiers who are
rapidly coming to our world. My spirit grieves
to see how ignorant some are, how unprepared.
We wish to give you a letter written with our
own hands. Dr. Franklin will give it and we
wish to meet at the most favorable time, at some
quiet hour, but the appointment we will make
at our six o'clock meeting to-morrow morning.
Dear Sarah Uncle Isaac would grasp this truth
if he could have it opened to him in a careful
way. Say nothing to him at present, you will
have the opportunity before he leaves. I will close
now with blessings for you and yours.
Olin."
(3 14-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Child. I am happy
to come and say a few words. I wish I could tap
Isaac on the head and open the door of his un
derstanding. Oh, would that I could sit down in
your midst and talk with you all together. Why
is this privilege denied me when I have the oppor
tunity? Would that I could touch him and talk
with him as I do with you. There are seventy-
five wounded men just awakening into the land
of immortality. We have soothed their pains,
now they rest.
Sarah, let your heart be happy. Let nothing
trouble you. All is well. God bless you. I can
say no more. Tell Emeline to be of good cheer;
her pathway shall be lined with flowers if I can
make them spring up, if my wishes and influence
can avail. Now my dear child, be happy, Uncle
Albert cares for you and loves you.
Uncle Albert."
July 25 6 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Children. Meet to-morrow at six
and I will give you a letter of importance. All is
well, feel no anxiety but let your minds be easy.
We are all here this morning. There are no dark
clouds crossing over your future, therefore re
joice and be glad. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. In the fall all
will be bright, you will have great success and
altogether a new class of people: be hopeful and
trust in what we tell you. We are aware of all
your difficulties and see all the obstacles. They
will pass (315-Vol. IlI) away. Keep good cheer.
Ma is very happy, she was looking in your future
early this morning and sees that there is no cause
for her feeling anxious. My dear sister let no
sadness be upon you, remember that I have charge
of you and will not let evil come to you. Be sure
that we will not fail.
Olin."
"My Dear Brother. I am with you this morn
ing. I have looked in your face; would that you
could look in mine. You shall look upon the
shadow some day not far distant. Mother is well.
Father and I are very happy together, we often
come to see you and Sarah. God bless you.
Emma."
July 26 12 M — 1871.
Later in the day the appointment was changed
to this hour. We three sat about the table and
chatted as usual. Katie did not even take a pen
cil in her hand, but when we opened our eyes
we found upon the bureau the following letter
written in the strong, bold hand of its author.
On these occasions, when they write with their
own hands, they never bring the picture.
"My Dear Children. We assemble here this
morning to give you a few important directions.
The Patriarch Jacob waited seven years and
again seven years for his betrothed and you are
not willing to wait that number of weeks. The
seven years that Jacob served for Rachel seemed
to him but a few days for the love he had to her.
Now if you loved truly the blessings of this
glorious work where (3 16-Vol. IlI) in you are
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 247
field laborers trust and confidence would be the
impelling principle that would sustain you, giv
ing wings to time, making it anything but a
wearisome task. The bitterest poverty is that
of the soul, but all are not able to satisfy or
alleviate these afflictions since all have not like
you been permitted to receive this great dispen
sation of God's power through the manifestations
of the angels. Have you not cried from your
heart of hearts that some proof might be given,
have you not longed for a sign from heaven, has
not the immortality of the spirit seemed hidden
in impenetrable mystery, has not tradition how
ever venerable failed to give you this proof? And
now when this great object is obtained, when the
honest heart has obtained this object and re
ceived the actual knowledge it should be willing
to work and toil and wait in meekness and love
and faith.
Now my children we can not name the day
when we will place the pictures in your hands,
but when we are permitted, and at a time most
fitting for their reception, they shall be given.
Meet Thursday morning at six. God bless you,
prosper you and give you happiness. Farewell.
B. F."
July 28 2y, P. M.— 1871.
All was not quite right with Katie. She could
not sit with us yesterday morning, so they desired
her to (317-Vol. IlI) do so this morning but she
was not in condition, still they succeeded in keep
ing her long enough at this hour to say the fol
lowing.
"My Dear Children. We are all here and happy
to resume our writing. Although short it will
keep the chain perfect. We will not be able to
say much owing to the weak conditions.
We desire our next meeting Sunday morning
at six. We have great hope and know that we
shall soon be able to make your hearts happy.
God bless you my children, fear no evil. Fare
well.
B. F."
"I will talk with you Sunday morning, in the
meantime be happy.
Uncle Albert."
July 30 6 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing. We are happy to come and fulfill our
promise. We are happy to have as good condi
tions as they are, the weather is against us some
but we will speak briefly as Dr. Franklin will
write at great length. My dear sister, you and
George both require rest. It is necessary for the
growth of the spirit, and we wish we could con
vince you that life is prolonged by the pleasure
you take in nature and all God's beautiful works.
Try to feel this. God bless you. I must close in
order to give an opportunity to others.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I sat down by you and Isaac
last evening. I sat down by you and looked in
your faces. I shall talk with Isaac yet. My child,
you shall go to the White Mountains (3 18- Vol.
IlI) and 1 will go with you and George shall go.
You shall stay as long as you wish and if George
gets restless he shall come home and I will remain
with you. How do you think he would like that?
My dear child Isaac is having a happy time. Oh,
how I am rejoiced, so is my Ma, and so is your
Ma. I will say more at a future time. I close
now with love and blessings. Your devoted and
faithful admirer.
Uncle Albert."
"Brother let the lamp of hope ever burn in
your soul, let the flowers bloom there and let me
help you to look on the bright side. My own
dear brother I have learned from Father how you
loved me when a child, and I too know it from
the affection you manifest in your heart for me
now. Mother is well. God bless you brother.
Emma."
Katie's hand or pencil never touched the pa
per upon the bureau, but upon it we found the
following letter, written in the clear, strong, bold
hand with which we have become perfectly
familiar.
"My Dear Children. It is Sunday morning
and one of rest, rest from toil, rest from care.
The hands rest with the body. The spirit can
not rest when oppressed with remorse. There
comes the sickening of the body, the shadows of
248 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the brain, the dark despair. The believing in
heart may lie down at night, fold the hands,
knowing that to-morrow he has not wherewithal
to get his bread, but faith will cheer his soul
and hope will be his lamp. (3 19- Vol. IlI) God
cares for the sparrow why not care for me? There
are some few who have this perfect faith. Why
not you my children who have had 'line upon
line, precept upon precept,' proof upon proof
that God's angels care for you who trust in Him?
Now my children you must learn more, learn to
trust. Say, 'I will believe' and in no one thing
shall you be disappointed.
What are their lives, is asked, these spirits who
seek communion with their friends on earth? I
will answer. Their duties are many. Their de
mands (the demands upon them) many. They
save, they heal, but most of all they show the
way to the real life, the life eternal. Your days
are few when compared to the years of immor
tality, a few short years on earth and the life
immortal commences. Then why not learn the
way up the golden steps? My children I will
write you a history soon, one that will be to you
the greatest blessing that heaven can bestow. I
love to talk with you for you understand.
Excuse me for using the time and power. Ask
no more about what you are to receive. No dis
appointment shall come to you, enjoy life, enjoy
your blessings, live well, live happy. We can say
no more for our bell has sounded as well as yours,
ours for spiritual devotions, yours for earthly
repast.
My son, your mind is one I like and appre
ciate. You shall be successful.
(320- Vol. IlI) Meet Wednesday morning at
six, before we cannot come; and now be happy,
Katie, all is well. Farewell.
B. F."
No more."
Aug. 2 6 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. Bright is the
morning and happy are the white robed beings
who come to you in the gladness of their hearts
to tell you that 'All is well.' I want you to meet
us for letters this afternoon. We can not write
this morning as we want all the power to work
on the picture. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet this afternoon at
three o'clock and I will then write you a letter
with my own hand. All is well, be happy. God
bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
Aug. 2 3 P. M.— 1871.
We met for letters and all of those under this
date came through Katie's hand excepting Dr.
Franklin's which was written at the bureau and
without Katie's hand and while her hand was
writing the other letters.
"My Dear Child. 1 1 was with you all yester
day but just before poor Emeline fell I was called
away. She must be more careful in future and
less fashionable. The high heel boots did the
work for her; she will be better soon. Dear child
I am with you often when you do not know it.
I wanted to play a trick on Isaac yesterday. I
did but he thought it was something else. I took
hold of him once. My dear Sarah you may pre
pare for bright changes in the month of (321-
Vol. IlI) October. Much will happen then to
make you very happy and I will play an impor
tant part. We see this and we are going to bring
much about ourselves. We see no shadows, no
dark clouds. Let your hearts be happy. Life is
so beautiful, so much to enjoy, so much to
gladden the heart and cheer the eye. Oh, try to
take pleasure when it is offered.
Your Ma, my Ma, and all the remaining family
wish me to tell you that they send their love and
blessing to you from their festival. We shall join
them when we leave you. We are having a happy
time. God bless you. All is well. I like your
hair, Sarah, very much. It is very tasteful, very
pretty.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Children, Sarah and George. I have
not made myself manifest to you for some time.
I am with you just as often. Now, my children
have no fears for the future, it looks just as
(1) Yesterday we all went to Rockaway Beach. On our return
as we left the steam cars for the boat sister Em. caught the
heel of her boot on the track and fell bruising her face badly.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 249
bright as I would wish to have it and you must
be satisfied. Keep a remembrance of me often in
your minds.
Prof. K."
"My Son. One hundred years ago and over
I came into this world. My Mother knew not
when she held me in her arms a crying baby that
any one at this day would speak the name of
Isaac T. Hopper. She has since felt proud to
know that she gave birth to such a son and what
is more pleasant than all the rest is that my
memory (322- Vol. IlI) lives in the hearts of
great and good men. So I hope it will be with
you, that before you come here, you will cure
so many sick and lame that your name will be
sacred to many. My son I will aid you forever
and ever.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"My Dear Children. We meet this hour to
give you a few important directions. We hope,
and your own hearts should respond to our
hopes, that you will forego all doubts in the
assurances we give you, that assurance which we
can give, knowing all the surroundings, knowing
what is to come, what joy lies hidden from your
eyes: we therefore entreat you to wait with
patience until we see fit to finish the pictures and
also to wait with patience the time. There is
one in the universe, one whom we wish to be
present at the time they are given. The name
we will not now mention for reasons of our own.
This person will be a benefit to you and we wish
to link him with you in this way. When he
comes here, Sarah and George, give him a room
and keep him near you. Tell Katie to meet him,
when in this house, only in your room, not in
the rooms of any of the boarders.
It is unwise for Katie to think of leaving this
country before he comes. Oh how little the world
know her trials; we do and deeply sympathize
with her, quietly advise her all you can, for she
loves you, and tell her not to be prejudiced
against her best friend, Mr. Livermore, who has
great control over her. Now (323- Vol. IlI) she
must not leave till October. The pictures will
be beautiful, the way in which they will be given
still more beautiful. Go each your separate ways
and return to meet at the earliest opportunity. We
will in every way aid you. My son have no mis
givings, go and enjoy life, give out your money
freely for your pleasure wherein your soul can
expand and you grow better; you will never miss
it,
never. All
is
well with you.
The palace
is
filled with your own immediate
family to-day. One or two will come and speak
with you. This
is
a
festival day with them. Your
children are very happy.
Look up, not as Abraham did, turn not your
face away when we speak, for your children live
with you. There
is
no higher sublimity than
trust. Cling to your faith though every star
drifts from its moorings. Then have faith. Meet
at six to-morrow. We can say no more. Fare
well.
B. F."
Aug.
3
6
A. M.— 187
1.
"My Dear Children. We have all been here
and are happy to say that all
is
well, and no
darkness
is
over our spirits. We had
a
happy
time yesterday at the palace where so many of
your Mother's own immediate family and friends
were present. The whole scene was entrancing
and beautiful.
It
would be useless to try to por
tray one scene of its loveliness. We have been
busy working (324- Vol. IlI) on the picture this
morning, and our next appointment will be at
six Saturday morning. We can say no more now.
All
is
well.
B. F."
Aug.
6
\0y2 A. M.— 1871.
We did not meet on Saturday but all went
again to Rockaway beach and all enjoyed the
entire day very much; we bathed, we gathered
shells, we sat upon the sand and watched the roll
ing, swelling and breaking of the surf at our
feet. No accident befell any member of our party
and we returned weary but satisfied.
It
is
to this
excursion that the following letters allude.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this morning; the air
is
fresh and clear; we have
no impediment in our way. We have been with
you and know everything that
is
connected with
250 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
you, all the surroundings, therefore we have ar
ranged accordingly. We first study the conditions,
then the effects, the interests of you all, then de
cide how to act. We often have to change our
plans as yours change and thus conform to your
needs. We are happy to be able to come in your
presence this morning, to glide invisibly about
you and drop unseen some flower of hope that
you may feel in your dark hours that there are
those who love you and care for your future
happiness. How still is the air and how full of
peace this room where we love to come. Can you
realize dear Sarah and George that we are (325-
Vol. IlI) with you? Can you realize that only
an hour ago we were singing in our palace? Can
you realize that we live and love still; that we
take pleasure in making ourselves look beautiful
in each others eyes? We look in the water where
our forms are visible and turn away happy when
we are dressed in beautiful garments. Many
spirits here, many of the first and most beautiful,
sometimes look sad and anxious owing to some
shadow over a beloved one on earth. When we see
the arms folded, the head drooping we know that
all is not well with the loved who walk the paths
of earth. So you see how human we are. Dr.
Franklin will write you fully about the future.
He seems very happy in contemplating some new
work and at the same time giving a great sur
prize to you. We looked for Uncle Albert yester
day who remained by you till you came home.
My dear sister all is well. Let your heart be
happy and we will take care of the rest.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. Your Ma and I are here
together this morning giving our united senti
ments on one paper. I remained by your side
pretty faithfully yesterday. I was not going to
let one of you come home with a black eye this
time. I am glad Isaac enjoyed himself so well.
He will never forget this visit while he lives
and it is a pleasant thing to be remembered after
the eyes are closed in the sleep of immor- (326-
Vol. IlI) tality. Love is immortal and it is a
sweet thing to be remembered beyond the shining
shore.
My child 1 see that you are going to have some
new and important ties. There are pleasant
changes taking place. You will realize many of
our predictions now soon. I want you to enjoy
yourself all you can. I shall be with you; do not
be so happy that you will not have time to think
of me. God bless you and give you happiness is
Uncle Albert's constant prayer."
"It is pleasant dear friends to come and meet
with you. I feel as much interest in you as I ever
did and it is pleasant for me to see those whose
faces used to gladden me in my youth. I have
been with you much of late. I know you have
had a pleasant time with your Uncle and Aunt
and it is well to enjoy ones self in such pleasant
associations. George the Michigan matter better
be looked in as soon as you can have it done
conveniently; there is no particular hurry. God
bless you.
Prof. K."
"Brother you knew not that I was with you
yesterday, you did not think of me. I know that
you do not like bathing over much. I want you
to feel that I am near you when there is danger
in your pathway. I love you so much that I
love to see written in your heart thoughts of me.
I will guard you, I will bless you. Do not feel
worried, you are going to succeed in your work.
Mother is well. (327-VoI. IlI) I left Father in
the garden with some children. I love you both
dear brother, you and Sarah.
Your Sister Emma."
"My Deaf Children. 1Let me say, for one who
knows, that truth will triumph over falsehood,
justice will triumph over treachery, and at last
there has been a great and just exposure of all
these men who would make beggars of one half
the world. I am rejoiced to see that the black
veil no longer hides their crimes. My children
meet at twelve to-morrow, I will write you a
private message. All is well, we are satisfied with
everything. There are bright changes coming to
you. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
We go now."
(1) This letter refers to the disclosures of the rascality of our
city officers.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 251
After reading the above letters the pencil con
tinued.
"My Dear Child. Your wish draws me back
to earth. I will speak. We listened to the music
of the waters yesterday, we were with you and
my soul was happy. Do not feel depressed, do
not let the shadows come for we all watch over
you and guard you from danger. All is well. I
see passing over the sunny side of your heart,
I see, my child, some little shadows, and I would
dispel them, I would like to see them all pass
away before I go back to the palace for I have
to meet many in my home to-day and I want to
feel happy. My child, to-morrow Dr. Franklin
will explain much in a private (328-Vol. IlI)
letter which will make you happy. The birds are
singing, the flowers are all opening, and we are
happy. We know that all is well with you. Bless
you, my child, bless you.
Your Mother.
I go now."
"I have come back to say that the meeting
better be at six in the morning, therefore send
some one for Katie at ten. I can linger no longer.
God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
Aug. 7 6 A. M.— 1871.
We were now thinking of visiting the Catskill
Mountains with Uncle and family and had al
ready engaged to visit an Uncle at Westerly with
them and it is to these anticipated excursions
that reference is made in the following letters.
The first, Olin's, was written at the table through
Katie's hand, but the second, Dr. Franklin's, was
written at the bureau, without Katie's hand.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here this morn
ing and all is well. Dr. Franklin will write what
ever is important, we can say no more. If you
are here meet at half past six to-morrow, if not,
meet at another time favorable to you: all this
is the wish of Dr. Franklin. We shall be satis
fied. Read his communication to yourself as
some part of it is private. God bless you. Go and
be happy.
Olin."
(329-Vol. Ill) "My Dear Children and so the
days go on and we meet day after day in our
trysting place, this room, that we have learned
to love. The dead come not back to you, but
the living, those who have died as it were in your
arms and you know that they live, the eye that
grew dim in pain and sickness, the eye that closed
to your gaze and seemed shut out forever from
you, now looks upon you in loving kindness.
There is no death. That which you call death
is only a transition to life immortal. Then sigh
not my children, to place beneath the sod all that
is mortal to rise again in everlasting life. My
children, I call you so for you have grown dear
to me, the pictures will be given to you in the
presence of Mr. Owen. We wish you to give us
this opportunity for it is for a great purpose. By
doing this we will benefit you in a way that you
do not expect and your hearts will be glad.
My son let me speak one word or a few words
to you alone. Too often we have noticed the
shadows on your heart, now there is no cause.
You will never be a poor man; enjoy life; let
your wife help you. You are all differently con
stituted, what you cannot enjoy in one way enjoy
with her in another and be sure all will be well.
God in His infinite (330- Vol. IlI) mercy will
bless you, has blessed you in throwing in your
pathway these great opportunities; and where are
they to end? Not here, oh, no! far greater things
than have ever been given you, you are yet to
witness, so keep good courage and have faith.
My daughter, you are right. You are doing
right and will be blessed. The longest part of a
journey is when we are hastening towards those
we love. I have spoken freely to you. I fear that
I may offend yet I hope not. Keep all appoint
ments and may God bless you.
Look not coldly upon Katie at any time. She
has much to contend with and our sympathies
go out to her. Meet Wednesday at six. We can
say no more to-day. Some of your loved ones
will be with you. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
Aug. 18 12 M.—1871.
We went to the mountains, consequently did
not keep the last appointment. We then went
to R. I.; had a very pleasant time and returned
252 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
on the morning of the 17th. This hour marked
our first interview with our unseen friends.
"My Dear Sarah and George. Welcome back
to your home. We have been with you on your
journey and we enjoyed the silent hours with you.
Do you realize that the summer is departing and
the time drawing near for us to come and place
in your hands our beautiful (331 -Vol. IlI) gift?
Do you realize dear Sarah and George that all
our predictions are coming out right? Too often
our promises, our messages pass from your mem
ories as quickly as the sunbeam from your path
way. Read over Dr. Franklin's letters and try
to believe all at the same time. We are very
happy to come and talk with you and renew the
chain. I wish you felt perfectly free Sarah. I
wish you had no weight on your mind, and that
you could enjoy the close of the summer more
than you did the beginning. Ma feels anxious
that you should visit Pa, but if you cannot go
we will not urge you. I know he would rejoice
to see your face in his home again. You must
think it over and decide. I will not urge you but
hope your own judgment will guide you. I know
Pa's feelings and his fondness for his children.
Now my dear sister do not be disturbed. Know
that there are brighter days coming, successful
and peaceful. The house will get along well and
you will have all you can do. We have occupied
the banquet hall of late quite often to watch the
progress of spirits whom we have tried to make
happy. George, I know you are glad to get back.
No place like home were your thoughts as you
entered the door, and you are home again and all
is well. You must rest before you commence
your fall (332- Vol. IlI) labors. Do not imagine
that you are not going to succeed. I know you
are. God bless you.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet for letters of impor
tance to-morrow at twelve. I am happy to see
you back. Success and happiness follow you
always is the prayer of your faithful friend.
B. F."
Aug. 19 12 M.— 1871.
These short messages from Olin, Ma and Uncle
Albert came through Katie's hand, but the long
letter from Dr. Franklin was written at the
bureau and without Katie's hand. It is in pen
manship like every letter of his, bold, firm, round
and distinct.
"We are in form to-day dear Sarah and George.
Ma is here. Grandma has the children in the pal
ace. We will talk with you. Dr. Franklin is in
form writing with his own blessed hand. Trust
him Sarah, trust him always; he knows and says
what he has perfect knowledge of. If you do not
Jgo to-day meet at half past ten to-morrow. I
hope you will go. I will not use the power.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. If you could visit your Pa
it would give me great happiness and also cheer
his heart for many months, he loves you so ten
derly. I wish you could go. I have been with
Willie to-day; he is happy and well. God bless
you, my dear children.
Your Ma."
(333-Vol. IlI) "Sarah how are you? Well, and
so you are going away this afternoon. I will go
with you.
Now I am a great listener and I do not want
you to let your husband go to see his Mother
without you. His place is by your side, your place
is by his side. Go together. All is well. My
favorite, my pet as much as ever! I will come
again in a day or two. I must not take the power.
Good bye.
Uncle Albert."
I had been persuading my husband to take
Willie and visit his Mother without me, for I
was so occupied with my household affairs that
I could not consistently leave; but to all my per
suasions he turned a deaf ear, still I think I
should at last have succeeded but for Uncle Al
bert's letter.
"My Dear Children. The time approaches
when we will place in your hands the last sacred
gift that you will receive from us for some
months. Changes have taken place. Katie will
soon be where we can not work through her as
we do now, but you must be patient until we
(1) To Elizabeth City.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 253
bring her back again a new creation. Although
we cannot but grieve that she leaves before Octo
ber, we too will be patient. We will give this last
proof in the presence of Mr. Owen whom we
love for his truth and sincerity; it will also be
a tie between you and that good man. As the
time approaches for us to cease coming and giv
ing these (334- Vol. IlI) tokens, we cannot but
feel the shadows which always accompany part
ings. Let your memories live on the past and
never let the dark wing of doubt hover over you
for one moment. We shall be with you and per
haps we may bring about an influence that will
defer this voyage till October. We shall try. Let
me once more entreat you not to let mistrust
and doubts come in to mar the beautiful truths
you have received. Everything is a mystery. Gaze
down into a deep well, you will perceive an un
certain gleam of light. You cannot tell from
what source, nor why it glistens upon the sur
face. You cannot fathom those waters with the
eye nor see what they cover. So it is with us.
If you would know what lies behind the veil that
obscures your vision, plunge deep, torch in hand.
You will never know all till you come here; and
it is well for God has made it so, hath willed
it so.
My Children all is well. The palace grows
more lovely day by day. We are a happy family
together in our mansion. We look down upon
your earth. Those with whom we come in con
tact, those who claim our sympathy, always have
our tender care. Could we only show them the
difference between happiness and misery we
would feel that we had done a great thing. The
distinction is that the life of a happy (335-Vol.
IlI) man or woman is a painting with a golden
ground filled in with stars of jet, while on the
other hand the life of an unfortunate man or
woman is a dark ground with a very few stars of
gold.
My son do not be in haste to take a hand
worker with you. Try him well first. This man
who has applied I am not in favor of as he is
not a regular physician. You will require some
help but wait, the right one will come.
Meet to-morrow at half past ten if here. Do
not be later as we have important duties to attend
to of our own. Each one of the circle will follow
me, and try not to recall one of us. God bless
you. Farewell.
B. F."
I was greatly annoyed by a little matter, but
said not a word about it to any person, not even
letting my husband know that I gave it a thought
although he knew the circumstance. I resolved,
however, to tell it to Dr. Franklin. So while we
were sitting with closed eyes at this meeting, I
tried to write a few questions. When we opened
our eyes, I had written one line into another so
that I could not read it myself and Dr. Franklin
had written on another piece of paper as follows,
(which I read to myself, wishing to keep my own
counsel).
"My Dear Child. Write these questions over
again and place the paper in some place; leave
the room for me to write the (336-Vol. Il1) an
swers. I can linger no longer now. Farewell.
B. F."
As soon as Katie left I wrote unknown to any
human being the following.
"How can we meet the name that has been
given my husband, by some bad person, of being
a 'humbug?' He is regularly educated and is
strictly scientific and does not in any sense de
serve the name. We know that his brother has
taken great pains to injure him, but wherever
this unjust name comes from makes little differ
ence in the effect or consequences. I was hurt
and greatly pained by hearing at Watch-Hill his
good name professionally slandered. Will you,
can you, my dear Dr. Franklin, tell us how to
meet these wickedly false assertions?
Sarah E. L. Taylor."
I placed this writing where I knew it could not
be disturbed without my knowledge. Katie came
back the next morning, went in the room, with
me not without me, where the paper was, but
did not see
it,
or touch
it,
or know of it. Some
time during the morning
I
looked at this paper
on which
I
had written and found just beneath
my signature the following note beautifully writ
254 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
ten, but when it was written I know not; and that
human hand never touched the paper after I
wrote my questions and laid it aside I also know.
"My Daughter. These false accusations against
your husband can not harm him: (337-Vol. IlI)
he stands too high in the eyes of the country
and in the eyes of God. So give it not another
thought: treat it with silent contempt. We will
guard your husband's reputation. The false
assertions will fall to the ground. God bless you.
Tuesday you will meet at twelve. God bless you.
B. F."
Aug. 20 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
We had intended to visit friends at Elizabeth
City, spending from Saturday afternoon until
Monday morning with them but did not hear
from them in season on Saturday, consequently
we were home and ready to meet our spirit friends
on this bright, quiet morning.
We closed the blinds and sat about the table.
Olin's, Emma's, Prof. Kenyon's and Frankie's
letters were written at the table and through
Katie's hand, but Dr. Franklin's and Ma's were
written at the bureau and without Katie's hand.
"My Dear George and Sarah, My Dear Sarah
and George. We wish you could have received
the dispatch before; but you can go just as well
another day. We want you to enjoy yourselves
when you do go. This is just the day for out
door reveries. We are all here in form. The chil
dren are looking in your faces and although they
love to look upon you they do not love the dark
ened room. They are very happy to come and
manifest their presence in some playful way. All
is well! (338-Vol. IlI) We have our duties to
fulfill this day after our visit with you. Pa is
well. God bless you.
Olin.
Ma requires my aid in writing. Olin."
"My Dear Brother. I am happy to come and
talk with you. I am so glad you and Sarah are
going to visit Mother. Father will not ask you
to go again, he says, he knows that you will do
as you please. He told me to give his love to you
and tell you he was having a glorious time. He
is with a family who came here some time before
he did. I left him there talking over old times.
You know how Father always loved to visit.
My dear brother 1 am with you when you are
not thinking of me. I love you very much. God
bless you.
Emma."
"My Dear Dr. Taylor, or rather my dear son,
I hope you will not for one moment let the re
marks on Watch-Hill cause you sorrow; they
cannot injure you; they are not worthy a
thought. A great and good man always has to
have such things. My children I have been with
you and I see a successful future before you.
Keep good courage and let not the shadows
mingle with the sunlight when all is so bright.
The flowers are all open in your spirit home.
Look up and be glad.
Prof. Kenyon.
Sarah do you love me as much as ever?
Prof. K."
(339- Vol. IlI) "Mamma. Leila and I do not
like to come in a dark room. We shall go home
with Dr. Franklin. Prof. is holding my little
hand. We are very happy.
Frankie."
"My Dear Children. We have all come to say
a few words in writing. This is our Sabbath
morning and we have brought the children to look
in your faces. We are happy to come. We can
not remain long as we have duties of our own
which require our presence. We are getting every
thing in glorious order to meet the eyes of our
friend who will be here soon.
My daughter I was pained to see you disturbed
by the false assertions made against your hus
band. They can not injure him in the least. He
is a man with a fine reputation and cannot be
injured, therefore, I say to you feel not disturbed.
We have nearly completed the picture. We all go
now to the palace, there to wait the orders of a
higher power. Meet Tuesday at twelve. Call us
not back. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Child. Go and see your Father who
looks for you with yearning eyes. Let not your
heart be sad. I have the children here with me.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 255
We shall all return to the palace and I am now
going to leave you as 1 must be the first one in
my own home to receive the circle. The day is
(340- Vol. IlI) beautiful for you on earth, enjoy
it,
also grasp the sunbeams while they last. My
dear child when shall
1
welcome you here?
If
my desire alone was the only thing
1
would have
you here now; but you have ties on earth, you
are needed and must not come yet. Meet Tues
day at twelve. We must leave you now.
I
dic
tated the first through Olin's hand,
I
now hold
the pencil myself. Tell Emeline to look on the
bright side, tell her we are with her and will make
her future bright as this day with the sunlight
playing about her pathway. God bless you my
child; feel not worried about the assertions
against George; nothing of that kind will harm
him; they will die on Watch-Hill. Call us not
back. We go now. The little white dresses of the
children have nearly disappeared in the distance.
They are going with Olin. Good bye my child.
Your Ma.
Your Mother to all Eternity."
This last letter commenced in Olin's hand writ
ing and continued in
it
until the word "circle"
at the bottom of the last page, when his hand
disappears and the next sentence commences with
Ma's hand precisely as
it
used to be in life and
health. Her hand now continues uninterruptedly
to the close of the letter.
(341-Vol. IlI) Aug. 22 12 M.— 1871.
The day was beautiful and we three sat about
the table as usual. Katie's left hand, which was
the hand towards me, was writing and
I
was
sitting
a
little from her and opposite the Doctor,
and holding three lead pencils in my hand, play
ing with them upon the table.
I
raised my right
hand about six inches from the table and hit the
hand of
a
gentleman.
I
exclaimed "Why, George,
is
your hand over here?" "No," he replied, "my
hands are here and so are Katie's."
I
knew
it
was not Katie's for
it
was much larger and the
touch was not like hers. The hand was warm and
firm and perfectly natural in its feeling.
I
had
no more than asked the Doctor
if
it
were he,
when one of the pencils was taken from my hand
and the echoes said, "I want
it
for Frankie. He
wishes to do something to make you laugh.
Prof. K." Katie kept writing during all this.
After they were gone and we opened our eyes,
we found on the table before us my hand glass,
which
I
use to read the left handed writing,
wrapped carefully in the large handkerchief
I
left spread upon the little table by the folding
doors, and upon the handkerchief was written,
"Mamma can't read now. Frankie." We did
laugh heartily over the playfulness of our little
boy, who speaks so often and naturally to us, but
upon whom we cannot look.
(342-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
We are all here this morning dressed in pure
white garments. There are no clouds upon our
pathway. We were busy on Sunday for many
hours. We visited the banquet hall and met all
our own acquaintances and talked over the dif
ferent degrees of happiness. Some told me that
this was their first visit to the banquet hall; that
they had not progressed very rapidly as their
hearts had clung to earth and
it
was almost im
possible for them to look beyond or find pleas
ure in soaring higher. After they had thrown
away the desire to breathe continually the atmos
phere of earth, they found
it
easy to advance
into the beautiful paths of heaven.
I
told many of them that
I
would take them
to our palace and show them what our advance
ment and spiritual desires had been. We are
happy to give you these little accounts for you
can learn much from them.
Ma receives all who visit the palace as she
is
sole mistress of it. We are her children and re
joice to be welcomed by her.
A
little circum
stance which occurred
in
the palace
I
will give
you, although
I
stood by and watched the same
with
a
feeling of amusement,
I
could not but note
how human we all remain. George's Father called
on Ma with
a
number of his old friends among
them
a
medium whom Mr. Taylor used to visit.
Ma did not feel drawn (343-Vol. IlI) towards
her and closed the door of her reception room,
saying when she did so that she could not visit
with them at that time.
256 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
I tried to take her place, but as we read each
other's thoughts, the company read Ma's desire
to shun them and they silently withdrew. Ma
sent for the Doctor's Father yesterday and had a
pleasant talk with him alone.
My dear sister you do not know how much
we have assigned to us, how numerous our duties.
We have to work carefully to guard our loved
ones on earth; we do not feel safe about them
till we have seen that every cloud is removed.
Ma has sent Uncle Albert to see Willie safely
home, so you need feel no anxiety about him.
My dear sister 1 hope you will follow your own
desires about going with George. We prefer you
should go for we think the change would do you
good and I want you to be happy. 1 know you
will have some disagreeable things to contend
with, but bear all patiently and do not take any
thing to heart. Remember that truth cannot be
crushed and you will be victorious. Our work
goes bravely on. Yes, Mr. Bradley is drawing
nearer to his rest every day, we hope he will not
linger long in suffering. Ma has been with Pa
this morning. She found him well. Peace be with
you, blessings follow you and we will guard you.
God bless you.
Olin."
(344-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Children. Meet at
twelve to-morrow if all are here. All is well. My
children be happy. Daughter, go and enjoy your
self and let the sunbeams gladden your soul.
God bless you, my children. You shall soon have
another letter from me. Farewell.
B. F."
Aug. 24 12 M.— 1871.
We did not meet on the next day but the sec
ond. Robert Dale Owen, to whom reference has
been frequently made, lost when a young gentle
man, a very dear friend by the name of Camilla.
They were deeply attached to each other and
affianced. Camilla died more than forty years
ago. Mrs. Owen, the lady that Mr. Owen made
his wife after Camilla's death, died within the
last week or ten days.
"My Dear Sarah and George. The whole circle
are here and the pictures nearly completed will
be ready to give the moment Mr. Owen arrives.
We will take great pleasure in presenting it in
his presence and at the same time we will give
some beautiful new proof of our presence. I have
met Camilla, who is a most beautiful spirit, and
had a long conversation with her. We knew when
we told you, some months ago, that we wished
Mr. Owen present when we presented the picture,
that he would be in grief, for at that time Camilla
saw that Mrs. Owen was coming, but we were
not permitted to tell you in so many words, but
if you will read over the communications you will
see that we gave (345-Vol. IlI) you a foreshadow
ing of it. Oh, Sarah, we will have the happiest
meetings we have ever had, we will enjoy every
hour that you and we can give. God bless you.
All goes well.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We always direct every
thing for the best and always study your interests.
We are happy to look beyond the present and see
everything looking so bright. Your hearts shall
be made glad and ours also. The pictures are
almost finished. Meet for letters at twelve to
morrow, shall not want the little table then. All
is well. God bless you my children. Farewell.
B. F."
Aug. 25 6 A. M.—1871.
Katie could not meet us at twelve, so antici
pated the meeting at this hour. She was in very
bad humor, had quarrelled with Mr. Livermore
and was out of sorts generally.
Willie had returned and we were going and
did go the next day, Saturday, to visit at Eliza
beth City.
"My Dear Sarah and George. When you go
away have no misgivings, we will see that all
goes well. The change in the hour is not favor
able for us. Tell Em. I will speak to her in three
days. God bless you. „
The following two letters were written at the
bureau and without Katie's hand. The hand writ
ing looks hurried and weaker than usual.
(346-VoI. IlI) "My Dear Children. Again we
are with you under circumstances of disturbing
elements.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 257
Why, knowing this child, should people throw
stones in her way is more than we can tell. Not
like other beings is she, if so we could work
through every one.
There are great changes coming for you or I
would not tell you so. Now what we wish to say
is this. Avoid seeing Mr. Owen in any room save
your own, avoid this. Tell Katie it is your wish.
And now let me say another great truth. Better
she should never see Mrs. Townsend who only
annoys without giving one ray of joy.
We are sorry she grieved Mr. Livermore. After
the poor girl is gone, tell him this. And now let
her go in peace. Meet Wednesday at twelve for
I have not said one half what 1 wished. Mr.
Owen better go also; he will bring back Katie.
My children all is well, all will be well. Go next
Saturday to make visits, return and meet with
Owen next week Friday or Saturday. Oh, will
they never learn the delicate channel through
which we come? God be with you is the prayer
of one who loves you. Farewell.
B. F."
"Sarah My Dear Child, I am here with you.
I would have written you a long letter but the
conditions are too unfavorable. Meet Wednes
day at twelve. (347-Vol. IlI) God bless you.
In your absence all will be well.
Uncle Albert."
Sept. 1 1 P. M.— 1871.
We did not see Katie until this day which was
Friday when she came to us by Olin's request at
this hour. We were having an elevator placed in
the house, for the taking of the invalids up and
down stairs on the stories, hence we had plenty
of noise and great confusion. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are no judges
of house work but we know enough to feel that
this house is not in order.
Now my dear sister and George, my brother in
spirit, we want the meeting to-morrow at six
A. M., when the house is quiet, we want to write
you a letter of importance, we wish you to feel
that we are with you and cognizant of all you
do which relates to your happiness. Katie must
return from iConnolly's at an early hour. We
see that JTweed and his party are going to have
hot times. It looks to us as though the prison
beds would be the resting places for some. Thank
God, George, that you are not a politician. My
soul is happy. Ma is in the palace; she has just
parted with Uncle Albert and sent a message by
him to you. Three beautiful flowers opened in
your vase this morning, emblems of peace and
happiness. All is well. God bless you and give
you every enjoyment of life.
Olin."
(348-Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah. When will
the noise cease; when the world is done? I do
not like to see you worried. Three things I love,
your own dear self, every bit of you, the way you
dress your hair when you want to have it look
very nice, and the memory which your heart
retains of Uncle Albert.
My child, your Ma wishes me to tell you that
she would like to see you in a palace equally as
beautiful as hers, but that is impossible and your
hands must labor till she receives you in her
arms. All is well. My child try to be happy.
God bless you.
Uncle Albert."
"Meet at six to-morrow by order of Dr. Frank
lin. God bless you.
Prof. K."
Sept. 2 6 A. M.— 1871.
We met for letters as directed and all except
ing Dr. Franklin's were written through Katie's
hand at the table, his was written at the bureau
and without her hand. The hand writing is dis
tinct and clear.
The troubles in the New York ring of politi
cians had already assumed a very serious aspect
and many of their number were giving evidence
of shakiness. Both Connolly the Controller and
his unscrupulous wife were sending for Katie
almost daily to consult through her their departed
friends. Sometimes they received through this
source unwelcome truths.
(349- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Sarah and George.
The morning is clear and beautiful and we are
here with you. When Mr. Owen comes we shall
(1) City officers.
258 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
have to meet several times in order to initiate
his circle and make them familiar with ours. We
will soon organize in perfection.
All is well. Be not troubled Sarah, the house
will soon be in order and you will be happy.
Many pleasant surprises will take place for you.
We shall all be with you and aid you in every
thing so keep good cheer. Sarah do not wish for
wisdom for you have it. George, about the house
you are safe and will never make a change except
for great benefit to you. Give yourself no more
uneasiness; all will be successful.
The birds sang sweetly, as we gathered to meet
you, the flowers opened and our hearts were full
of praises to the great Giver.
There is joy in heaven over the redemption of
a sinner, there will be joy over some of these men
who have robbed the city. I speak from knowl
edge, pure knowledge. I can say no more; to
morrow we will all be here.
Olin."
"Do not let the house trouble you, as Olin
said. You will be in every way satisfied with
your next change. There is but one life to live
on earth, enjoy it and be happy. Do not let it
wear away with anxiety and fretting. God bless
you, my children.
Your helper, Prof. K."
(350- Vol. IlI) "My Dear Brother. I am happy
to come this morning. Mother will be glad to
see you when you go, and I shall be happy to
meet you and Sarah, not forgetting Willie, there.
You will make her heart glad and Father's also.
My spirit hovers near you day and night. You
shall see my face.
Emma."
"My Children I am here in form. I can not
remain long, but 1 will linger long enough to give
directions. I am glad Katie went to one of the
ring party last night. The communication was
directed by me. I will get Tweed in our ring
before many days, then you will see that your
property will only be valued at what it cost you.
My children I have much to say to you on
Sunday morning, till then rest quietly. The noise
of the workmen will soon commence and, as wo
men often say, I feel nervous for it is impossible
to write while the hammer is going.
Sarah, my child, I wish you to tell Katie this
morning that she must not take Mr. Owen in
any of the boarders' rooms. She is right in not
wishing to be under the lady in whose company
she is going to travel. We have inspired her with
that feeling and she spoke our sentiments last
night. We do not wish her to go before October.
One thing you (351-Vol. IlI) must do for us.
Tell Mr. Livermore yourself that it is our request
that she goes not before October. xThe gentle
man can wait.
Changes are coming fast, you will get along
well and succeed. See what we are doing moral
izing the world; in one little week we can do much
to help mankind. She must wait! Meet at half
past ten Sunday morning. We will say much
more then. Farewell.
B. Franklin."
Sept. 3 \0y2 A. M.— 1871.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all here
this bright morning. We have been with the chil
dren to see their little gardens in Greenwood.
They were both impressed with the desire to go
before we came to meet you. They were sure they
would find you there, so I took them to gratify
their little hearts. They are now in the palace
but Ma will bring them here before we close the
circle. All is cheerful in the palace to-day. We
feel no shadows owing to the brightness we see
about you.
Dear Sarah, the children have a garden of
birds and flowers. They often catch the birds and
whisper some sweet message in their ears to take
back to you, their darling Mamma and Papa.
Oh, if you could only be with us for a short time
in our walks, if your eyes could behold the joys,
the beauties, the (352-Vol. IlI) transcendent
beauty which lies hidden beyond the veil, you
could then know why we love to live in the im
mortal land. The transient life on earth is only
preparatory for the eternal life and every void
will be filled. We have a duty before us which
is of a painful character. We are requested to
visit the unhappy spirits who have lately come
(1) The one who is to accompany her to Europe.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 259
here and aid them, take them to walk in some
beautiful garden and help them to forget their
sorrow. I willingly obey. Ma will remain in the
palace with the children. Grandma will accom
pany me. It will not be to-day. We shall know
when we leave you when we are to fulfill this
duty.
1 have seen Ralph. He feels a little put out yet.
I am sorry that he has to be separated from all
he loves, but the channels of life are many and
destiny often in a different direction from which
the heart would take were it free to act. It is
well to submit patiently. Ralph will in the end
succeed but it will be a long, tedious time before
he realizes what he hopes to. Tell Em. I am with
her and approve of what she is contemplating.
God bless you Sarah and George. I can say no
more.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. I have come to tell you that
your Pa is well. All is peace in the future. The
flowers are open in recogni- (353-Vol. IlI) tion
of joy and I am happy. I often take the children
to see their Grandpa. Your Uncle Albert sent
his love to you and says he will come at the next
meeting. God bless you. Love and blessings to
Emeline.
Your Ma."
The following letter was written on the bureau
and without Katie's hand.
"My Children. We are with you. Praise God
for the light of this beautiful morning. Thank
Him in your hearts for the health you enjoy.
Praise the Giver of all Good. The fountain of
His blessings flows freely upon you, gather the
sunshine while it lasts. We have been your con
stant companions for nearly two years, in con
stant communion, in close affection and I know
my dear children that you are grateful for the
boon. Were we of the earth, earthly, our ways
would not seem mysterious neither would you
marvel. But we are subjects of a higher power,
under the direction of the Father of the whole
universe, therefore wonder not at our ways, we
do all things well. Let your souls be glad, let
your minds be at ease. Work for humanity my
son and our hands will work with you. You will
soon see the way clear for a permanent institu
tion. Now trust and do not when you lie down
at night wonder where that place will be. Know
(354- Vol. IlI) that kind Providence will guide
you to it and you will feel satisfied. Our hours
of devotion will be after we leave you to assemble
in the palace. We shall think of you in our
prayers for blessings. Meet Tuesday at pre
cisely twelve o'clock for directions. God bless
you.
B. Franklin."
Through Katie's hand on another paper this
was added.
"Call us not back. We leave you now to per
form our other duties.
B. F."
FOX -TAYLOR RECORD
1869-1892.
Volume IV
INDEX TO VOLUME IV
Page
Cousin Frank says he is writing a book: has been painting landscape pictures 135
Cousin Frank is much pleased with the cane for Uncle Isaac 165
Cousin Frank enjoys Willie's visit at Uncle Isaac's, his father's 187
Cousin Frank says his little knowledge of spiritualism has been a great blessing 334
Cousin Frank says the charm of their life is its never ending studies 368
Charley Foster gives Olin a title 185
Commodore Vanderbilt writes his name without using the medium's hand 335
Dr. Franklin tells of his warm, fatherly interest in us 12
Dr. Franklin says he finds a peace in our presence \it rarely finds elsewhere 22
Dr. Franklin promises us his love and protection through all time 30
Dr. Franklin gives us a most cordial greeting 101
Dr. Franklin overhears conversation between Mr. and Mrs. Runcible 147
Dr. Franklin talks to me most kindly about my health 166
Dr. Franklin tells us of Frankie's and Leila's sweetness and beauty; and his love for them 186
Dr. Franklin tells us of their dress and its significance, its meaning 198
Dr. Franklin continues description of their celebration of Washington's birthday 230
Dr. Franklin advises in my business dealings with Mr. Runcible 272
Dr. Franklin assures me I shall conquer the man 273
Dr. Franklin says they see but a limited distance into the future 278
Dr. Franklin assures me my eyes will get better 291
Dr. Franklin brings physicians from their world who examine my eyes, and give opinion 294
Dr. Franklin wants Willie with me: says many are envious of Willie 305
Dr. Franklin promises to advise, help and guide Willie 372
Dr. Franklin says there are none dearer to him than our circle 373
Dr. Franklin says he has adopted Willie 374
Dr. Franklin tells us of the beauty of their world and homes 379
Dr. Franklin tells us of Uncle Issac's surprise on entering there 380
Dr. Franklin attends a reunion of my family at my mother's home 382
Dr. Franklin expresses sorrow for the bigoted and selfwilled 383
Dr. Franklin says time seems long when they cannot talk with us 385
Dr. Franklin tells why they like to come to us 385
Dr. Franklin expresses deepest interest in Willie 398
Dr. Franklin says every day he finds something new, something great 400
Dr. Franklin says the time between their visits seems longer to them than to us 402
Dr. Franklin tells of General Sherman's arrival 403
Dr. Franklin is very anxious 1 should break up housekeeping 418
Dr. Franklin expresses great sympathy and feeling 423
Emeline writes a sweet, natural letter 60
Emeline says she has just what she prefers in dress, is happy, etc 64
Emeline tells how very glad she and Olin are to speak with us again 92
Emeline says she is teaching young children how to communicate with earth 138
Emeline says Dr. Franklin has made her perfectly happy 374
Frankie sends a long and most interesting letter from Europe 42
Frankie says he will some day tell me all about his life in their world 285
Frankie's loving words from our angel children 330
Frankie again, loving words from our angel children on many pages 354
Frankie's tenderly, loving words to Flora 383
Frankie's tenderly, loving words to Flora and us all 395
Frankie wishes us "Merry Christmas" 399
First meeting with Katie after our return from Europe 351
Grandma tells me something of family life there 252
Helen Hunt Jackson refers to conversation with me twenty, and more years before 114
Helen Hunt Jackson assures me of her belief, her knowledge 257
H. W. Beecher wants George, Dr. Taylor, to "Write, write on" 360
Isaac T. Hopper advises regarding the Runcible business 275
INDEX TO VOLUME IV
Page
Isaac T. Hopper says we shall have our own circles in their world 407
I wrote a private letter and received an autograph reply 1-2-3
Katie sails for Europe 35
Katie returns from Europe 43
Katie returns from Europe the second time 87
Katie is sent to us by the "raps" in opposition to her wishes 179
Last message from our circle before Katie sails second time for Europe 83
Leila plays a joke on Mr. Vanderbilt 167
Leila hangs Flora's bracelets over the fans 212
Leila writes of the celebration of Washington's birthday at their Banquet-hall 240
Ma speaks of Em's coming marriage: and of the link between us, Ma and me 15
Ma tries to wean Em from earth 58
Ma asks me to get a blank-book for direct communications 109
Ma says Dr. Franklin's eyes are the most benevolent she has looked into 113
Ma says Olin is still with Mrs. Vanderbilt 116
Ma speaks of Frankie's and Leila's love and desire to be recognized as Flora is 124
Ma speaks of the great help this knowledge of communication is to them 134
Ma describes Leila as she then
is,
leaning over my chair 141
Ma says that Uncle Isaac will deeply regret his neglect of this subject 150
Ma tells us of Dr. Franklin's great care of and love for us 243
Ma meets George Fox 250
Ma brings me love from Helen Hunt 322
Ma says Olin, her son,
is
the happiest boy she ever saw 356
Ma says they are the same in love and interests as when living here 365
Ma speaks of their Christmas expectations
.
396
Ma says Frankie and Leila are among the happiest of heaven's children 413
Ma says some one of our loved ones there
is
always with us here 423
Mary H. Burton announces her own death 180
New proofs that they see and hear us when no medium
is
present 38
Olin tells us of their efforts to relieve sorrowing hearts
3
Olin tells us of meeting
a
young girl on his way to us
6
Olin tells us they have new joys every day in their palace home 15
Olin says they feel sadness at partings 23
Olin says pa will be wholly with ma when he gets there 31
Olin writes
a
"Good bye" letter before Katie sails 34
Olin says Frankie and Leila look alike 89
Olin meets Olive Travers of San Francisco 97
Olin speaks of standing on the brightest star
in
all the heavens 110
Olin tells of being in Mr. Vanderbilt's room when he passed away Ill
Olin describes Mr. Vanderbilt's noble character 119
Olin writes beautifully of Flora's faith 160
Olin expresses great anxiety about my health 174
Olin describes their occupations and amusements 204
Olin writes of the book they are preparing for us 213
Olin
is
happy that we are going to Europe 342
Olin says they are with us every day 361
Olin brings Ralph to speak first after our return from Europe 351
Olin says he will tell me of their travels over seas and mountains 376
Olin says "We are not long-faced here" 391
Prof. Kenyon expressed great joy
in
speaking with us again 105
Prof. Kenyon chides us for not having told him of this telegraphing 128
Prof. Kenyon commends me for my faith 130
Prof. Kenyon tells us of the actual transition from this life to that 201
Prof. Kenyon urges me to give up the care of the hotel 408
The Circle rings
in
the New Year with their own bell
1
56
INDEX TO VOLUME IV
Page
The Circle tells us of the bigoted homes in their world 163
The Circle advises about what Willie had better do 177
The Circle carries away the blank-book 247
The Circle says the book is still with them 364
Uncle Isaac says this belief is sublime 357
Uncle Isaac asks why I did not urge this truth upon him? 376
Uncle Isaac regrets not having been pushed into this 403
We first look upon the picture of Olin and Leila 20
W. H. Vanderbilt tells of meeting our friends at the Banquet-hall 161
W. H. Vanderbilt speaks of Leila's brightness and loveliness 172
W. H. Vanderbilt says he would not, if he could, return to earth to live 176
W. H. Vanderbilt tells of the beautiful celebration of Washington's birthday at the Banquet-hall. 222
W. H. Vanderbilt visits my mother and meets all the family 259
W. H. Vanderbilt advises me regarding my business with Mr. Runcible 262
W. H. Vanderbilt advises regarding this business still further 265
W. H. Vanderbilt says that Mr. Runcible has bad schemes 266
W. H. Vanderbilt tells more about Mr. R.'s schemes but that he will not succeed 269
W. H. Vanderbilt commends my course with Mr. Runcible 287
W. H. Vanderbilt entirely pleased with my course 302
W. H. Vanderbilt wants us to take a sea voyage 306
W. H. Vanderbilt tells of Aunt Sarah's attempt to communicate with Uncle Albert 316
W. H. Vanderbilt tells how doubts and queries hold back the spirits 317
W. H. Vanderbilt regrets deeply that he did not understand this truth when here! 320
W. H. Vanderbilt went with Olin to visit Homer 324
W. H. Vanderbilt says they are studying important facts about mediums 326
W. H. Vanderbilt tells us many of these facts, very interesting 327
W. H. Vanderbilt wishes us to take a journey, get rest and change 331
W. H. Vanderbilt says he is disgusted with the "Runcible Tribe" 359
W. H. Vanderbilt says they, our circle, are advancing to great events 381
W. H. Vanderbilt tells of his happiness with Olin 388
W. H. Vanderbilt says they have meetings for their own amusement 389
W. H. Vanderbilt says he is glad to be there, out of earth's troubles 405
W. H. Vanderbilt says he has advanced greatly 410
W. H. Vanderbilt says through us he has been made one of the band of the learned 411
AUTOGRAPH LETTERS
Dr. Franklin —
3 - 12 - 28 - 67 - 76 - 83
Olin—
53
J. B. Taylor—
54
Letters
Aunt Sarah —
315 - 392
Aunt Elizabeth —
392 - 394
Bradley —
151 - 249 - 416
Cousin Frank—
135 - 139 - 143 - 144 - 145 - 165 - 170 - 171 -
172 - 187 - 220 - 229 - 249 - 254 - 334 - 350 -
365 - 368 - 395
Charley Foster —
135 - 178 - 183 - 185 - 191 - 192 - 197 - 209 -
218 - 219 - 221 - 229 - 230 - 235 - 246 - 254 -
276 - 285 - 291 - 296 - 301 - 316 - 323 - 342 -
350 - 356 - 384 - 392 - 394 - 395 - 41 1 - 422 -
425
Dr. Franklin —
2 - 3 - 5 - 7 - 8 - 9 - 19 - 21 - 32 - 49 - 91 -
101 - 104 - 115 - 128 - 142 - 147 - 157 - 159 -
166 - 173 - 177 - 186 - 188 - 189 - 191 - 196 -
198 - 208 - 212 - 216 - 227 - 228 - 229 - 230 -
245 - 247 - 256 - 272 - 274 - 278 - 281 - 284 -
289 - 291 - 294 - 301 - 303 - 305 - 372 - 373 -
378 - 379 - 381 - 385 - 389 - 393 - 396 - 397 -
399 - 402 - 410 - 413 - 418 - 423 - 424 - 426
Dr. John F. Gray—
409
Daniel Fay—
164
Emeline —
60 - 80 - 82 - 92 - 96 - 100 - 122 - 138 - 197 -
356 - 357 - 365 - 366 - 374 - 406
Emma —
12 - 27
Frankie —
42 - 155 - 285 - 330 - 354 - 358 - 359 - 371 -
375 - 383 - 395 - 399 - 411
Father and Mother Taylor —
32 - 151 - 232 - 309 - 341 - 358 - 369 - 379 -
Grandpa and Grandma —
252 - 253 - 254 - 415 - 426
H. W. Beecher—
360
Helen Hunt Jackson
—
114 - 257 - 354 - 355 - 367 - 384
Isaac T. Hopper —
9- 12-27 -190- 211 - 215 -227 - 237 -238
242 - 275 - 276 - 285 - 286 - 299 - 363 - 384
396 - 401 -406 - 415
J. T. Brady—
307 - 310
J. B. Taylor—
58 - 69 - 70 - 74 - 76 - 79 - 81 - 276
Leila—
150 - 159 - 169 - 203 - 208 - 211 - 213 - 240
262 - 330 - 354 - 358 - 359 - 371 - 375 - 383
395 - 399 - 401 - 411
Ma—
15 - 27 - 55 - 56 - 58 - 60 - 62 - 65 - 71- 91
99 - 101 - 108 - 112 - 115 - 119 - 124 - 132
140 - 145 - 148 - 151 - 179 - 210 - 232 - 233
243 - 250 - 261 - 268 - 2% - 302 - 322 - 356
361 - 364 - 365 - 370 - 379 - 390 - 392 - 393
396 - 399 - 404 - 406 - 408 - 412 - 415 - 419
420 - 423
Mary H. Burton —
180 - 181 - 183
Mrs. B. Franklin—
330
Mrs. Fox —
28
"Our Circle"—
164 - 165 - 188 - 193 - 232 - 243 - 246 - 249
362 - 364 - 365 - 379 - 387 - 425
Olin—
3-4-6-6-7-8-11-14-16-18-19
22 - 25 - 31- 34 - 38 - 39 - 41 - 43 -46 - 47
51-63 - 66 - 73 - 80 - 87 - 88 - 89 - 97-106
109 - 111 - 115 - 117 - 120 - 126 - 131 - 157
158 - 160 - 161 - 171 - 174 - 179 -182- 184
185 - 187 - 190 - 192 - 197 - 204 - 213 - 218
232 - 235 - 261 - 264 - 265 - 275 - 286 - 300
314 - 342 - 351 - 354 - 357 - 361 - 363 - 370
376 - 391 - 395 - 399 - 403 - 409 - 424
LETTERS
Prof. Kenyon —
10 - 105 - 117 - 123 - 128 - 171 - 201 - 219 -
221 - 228-325 - 346-425
Ralph—
351 - 354 - 362 - 389
Uncle Albert—
11
Uncle Isaac—
357 - 358 - 369 - 372 - 375 - 376 - 403 - 404 -
420 - 422 - 425
W. H. Vanderbilt—
161 - 164 - 166 - 167 - 172 - 175 - 182 - 189 -
193 - 194 - 195 - 196 - 201 - 207 - 208 - 216
218 - 222 - 225 - 237 - 238 - 239 - 247 - 255
258 - 259 - 262 - 265 - 266 - 268 - 269 - 271
274 - 277 - 280 - 281 - 283 - 287 - 288 - 290
292 - 293 - 295 - 296 - 297 - 298 - 299 - 302
306 - 307 - 308 - 310 - 311 - 312 - 313 - 315
316 - 317 - 320 - 324 - 326 - 327 - 331 - 334
335 - 336 - 338 - 340 - 344 - 347 - 353 - 354
355 - 358 - 359 - 362 - 363 - 364 - 366 - 367
368 - 371 - 375 - 378 - 381 - 383 - 386 - 387
392 - 394 - 398 - 405 - 410 - 416 - 422 - 425
Grandma and Leila
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD
1869-1891
Volume IV
Sept. 4 11 A. M.— 1871
At this time we were greatly harassed, as we
had been from time to time for more than a
year, by some old business matters in Michigan
with which the Doctor, unfortunately, had been
concerned. The business had ceased to exist, or
passed out of the hands of the Co. some years
ago and was supposed to be settled and closed.
But a bad man, to whom the Doctor had de
clined to loan money, had instigated the raking
up and manufacturing of accounts against the
Co. and suing the Doctor as a member of the
Co. under the names of several different indi
viduals. They had already got hold of a large
and valuable tract of land belonging to the Doc
tor in that state and now threatened to make
trouble here. In my anxiety about the matter,
I wrote, unknown to any person, to my unseen
friend as follows:
"Dr. Franklin. My Dear Spirit Father. I
am distracted by this Western business and to
whom shall I go for advice, but you, who were
always wise in all matters? We have already
paid dearly for ignorance, but must we continue
to pay to those knaves as long as we live? Is
there no way of escape? My heart is sick! My
spirit drags in the dirt! More than thirty thou
sand dollars of hard earned money has gone
there, with no (2-Vol. IV) return to us but cease
less anxiety and worry. Can you see, can you
tell me when this will end? I pray thee, my
spirit father to help us to the wisdom necessary
to rid ourselves of this terrible 'nightmare' and
rid ourselves effectually. Am I asking too
much? Tell me I pray thee what to do. Many
questions have I asked but what less can I say?
I feel helpless and discouraged.
Your Suffering Child,
Sarah E. L. Taylor."
I placed my letter upon the bureau and at
this hour Katie came in and we entered the room
for a few moments and through her hand the
following was written:
"Be not 'distracted' about the Western matter.
It will cause you no immediate trouble. I will
fully advise you tomorrow to whom to go and
also what to do. I can not myself linger long
now as I am obliged to go to the circle who are
to attend upon the unhappy spirits. God bless
you and keep your mind easy.
Your faithful friend and confidant,
B. Franklin."
And upon the paper on which I wrote my let
ter, I found written in clear hand and without
the aid of human hand, for I know that human
hand had not touched
it,
the following little note.
Katie knew and knows nothing of my letter or
the contents of either of Dr. Franklin's.
(3-Vol. IV) "My Dear Child: Hope on. Oh,
hope. I know thy spirit
is
dark but never can
drag in darkness while
I
am with you. Follow
the advice
I
have given you and no longer let
this chain thy spirit down.
Thy father in spirit, in love and heart-felt
sympathy.
B. Franklin."
Sept.
5
6
A. M.— 1871
"My Dear Children.
I
am here to give you
advice. Sarah,
I
have read your letter. Were
this Western case mine,
I
would most certainly
arrange matters so that the lawyers would be
done with it.
I
would have
it
ended. As you
are situated, you will have to wait
a
short time.
Be not impatient my child.
I
can not see the
right person at this moment to send you.
I
will
require
a
little more time. So my child be patient.
I
will stand by you. Now have faith and in
your soul call on your father.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. We were all
day devoting ourselves to the unhappy, sorrowful
spirits who have lately come here.
I
made
a
circle of young women happy and now they are
in
a
fair way to progress.
I
showed them the beautiful works of God
and took them away from themselves, away
270 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
from earth, away from the scenes they had left
in sorrow and wretchedness. I am pleased with
many (4-VoI. IV) of those spirits for they have
gems hidden in their souls. My dear sister, you
see we have still to labor, and when we are
through and can, we will give you a long detail
of our progress with these poor beings. God
bless you.
Olin."
"Meet Thursday at twelve. Remember the
hour.
B. F."
Sept. 6 12 M.— 1871
Mr. Owen arrived during the morning and at
this hour the following came through Katie's
hand.
"My Dear Sarah. 1 want Mr. Owen present
to-morrow at twelve. We would prefer the
meeting at six A. M., but suppose you can not
all get ready by that hour, and if that is the
case we will say twelve, but let me know now
that I may communicate to Dr. Franklin. The
meeting will be for the purpose of harmonizing
the circles. Mr. Owen's friends will be present.
We do not wish to be called till the appointed
hour. We shall have an interesting meeting to
morrow among ourselves in this room. Tell
Mr. Owen to keep his eyes closed religiously.
Now dear Sarah be cheerful, all is well with
you. The Western matter will terminate satis
factorily. Tell Em. to feel that all is well. God
bless you.
Olin."
Sept. 7 6 A. M.— 1871
Agreeably to their wish we were ready and en
tered our room with Mr. Owen at six. The
meeting (5-Vol. IV) was pleasant but not the
same as when we three met alone. Mr. Owen ap
peared to enjoy
it,
but the rest of us, especially
Katie and
I,
were conscious of another atmos
phere about us.
I
made no mention of my feel
ings for
I
was anxious to have him meet with us
because Dr. Franklin had requested
it,
but
Katie exclaimed as soon as he left the room. "It
is
so different and not half as pleasant."
I
said
it
was because he was strange to us and
a
few
meetings would make all as enjoyable as before.
No one spoke during the meeting but Dr. Frank
lin.
"My Dear Children. We are happy to
gather here with the congenial spirits who ac
company Mr. Owen. Camilla
is
a
lovely spirit,
so beautiful that
I
would love to raise her veil
and show her lovely face. We are sure that
some blessing not yet felt will be given in this
circle before many sittings. You will not forget
that
I
wished
a
few meetings for preparation. Be
patient and all will be well. Meet Saturday at
twelve. At the third meeting we will be able to
name the day on which we will give the picture.
Have no anxiety, only follow directions.
My Children, God bless you. Mr. Owen's
wife
is
happy, satisfied with everything that he
has done. Camilla has taken her by the hand
and called her sister. She
is
satisfied with her
beautiful home and every (6-Vol. IV) flower
breathes peace for her. The meeting
is
closed.
B. F."
Sept.
8
10 A. M.— 1871
Katie came
in
all out of sorts and her hand
wrote hurriedly:
"My Dear Sarah.
I
am here, happy to meet you
for
a
few moments.
I
have met
a
sweet girl in
my pathway. She is looking at the flowers and
wishing for me.
I
want Katie to go to bed up in her room and
her mother will come and magnetize her.
I
will
send her at once. Katie
is
sick but does not know
it. Meet to-morrow at twelve. I must depart,
the young girl
is
impatient.
Olin."
Sept. 12
5
P. M.— 1871
No more meetings with poor Katie for four
days. She was still poorly when we tried once
again to obey their call. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah, George, Mr. Owen and
Katie, we want all the appointments kept this
week in order to enable us to give the pictures
Sunday morning. All will be well, all
is
well
now and we will work with power. Do not feel
disappointed, be of good cheer and have hope.
Never look back upon the black weeds but let
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 271
the sun that shines today be your hope for the
future. Meet at twelve to-morrow, we will all
be present. We can say no more (7-Vol. IV)
but we will all gather in the palace for consulta
tion and to-morrow we will inform you of our
purposes. God bless you.
Olin."
Sept. 13 12 M.— 1871
We four met as directed, sat about the table
and sang and chatted. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all
here this morning to say that we had a consul
tation yesterday and we shall not be able to
write much till after we have presented the pic
tures, which will be on Sunday morning, if clear.
The atmosphere is against us but we can accom
plish much in the way of preparation.
One important word, Sarah, beware of Miss
Kidder. I do not like her influence. I will say
more at a future time. Our desire now is to
complete this work in order to give Mr. Owen
some new facts for his book, and we will appoint
the time at our Sunday meeting. Sarah and
George, all is well; you need anticipate no evil,
no failure. We will write you a letter after Sun
day which will contain full directions regarding
your future. Keep good faith and be happy. I
must say no more.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet at half past six to
morrow morning. All is well. I will bring the
music Sunday morning if clear. Camilla will
come Sunday morning. My children, (8-Vol.
IV) the flowers bloom freshly to-day. Our hearts
are full of hope and may blessings fall upon you
all. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
Sept. 14 6y2 A. M.— 1871
We four again met. They wrote.
"I will speak first. We are all here happy, for
we see no clouds on our sky, no shadows. Dr.
Franklin has given me permission to say a few
words foreign to the subject for which we meet
this morning.
Ask Em. if she has forgotten my promises and
if her heart is so full of happiness that she no
longer feels the longing desire to hear from
Olin? Oh, tell her that even when the heart is
the happiest we are hovering near and now I
want to sit down and have a long talk with her
in your presence, say to-day at half past twelve.
I am happy to see her happy. I can say no more
at present as the meeting is for another purpose.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. We are happy to see
that all is well. We have had a successful meet
ing. The next meeting will be Saturday morn
ing at half past six. 1 We want our friend to
take the treatment to-day and to-morrow he will
feel quite strong. We do not want him to lose
any of his strength as he is writing a work which
will do more good than any that has been writ
ten on the subject of spiritualism. (9-Vol. IV)
We are all deeply interested in it and we want
to give him the crowning part, finale.
My children, God bless you. Isaac T. Hop
per will be here at half past twelve to speak with
George. We go now. Farewell.
B. F."
At the specified hour Em. and I met, with
Katie, for Olin to write. The Doctor was en
gaged and did not meet Mr. Hopper.
Sept. 16 6y2 A. M.— 1871
We met as desired. Mr. Owen had been in
vited out of the city to pass Sunday, but said he
would not go if the circle preferred he should
remain.
"No, my friend, go by all means. We are not
able to give the picture to-morrow morning. Our
promise would have been fulfilled had the at
mosphere been favorable; but we desire our
usual Sunday morning meeting, Sarah and
George, as we wish to write you letters for your
own eyes. My children, be of good cheer and
believe me, there are no clouds on your path
way. We will say but little this morning.
George, you will be successful this fall and over
come many obstacles. My children, farewell.
B. F."
"My Dear Sarah and George. You and I will
miss Em. when she is gone. We are with you
(1) Mr. Owen was not well and commenced on that day taking-
Dr. Taylor's treatment.
272 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
daily. Tomorrow I will say more to you than
I can this morning. Ma will speak also then. I
see no clouds on your pathway. You have done
well. God bless you.
Olin."
(10- Vol. IV) "George, you could not keep
your appointment with me Thursday. 1 do not
chide you but I was here. I wish you could get
free from the Western weight, drawback and
drain. Is there no way? I see a little opening
which will give you some light soon and show
you the best way. My son, do not be depressed,
but hope.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Sept. 17 \0y2 A. M.— 1871
Mr. Owen went on his visit and we met with
our own circle and all seemed as of old. We
had and have the highest possible regard for
Mr. Owen, still we could never feel the same
sweet, peaceful influence in our meetings when
he was present that we were so very conscious
of when we three met alone, or if Emeline and
Willie were with us it was all the same.
Emeline was to be married, here, on the
eleventh of October.
We had a delightful meeting. All the letters
were written through Katie's hand excepting Dr.
Franklin's, which was written at the bureau and
without her hand.
"We are all here, happy to talk with you. I
speak myself this morning. I have a growing
interest for you. My eyes guard you daily and
I wish you to know that all is well. We do not
wish Katie to sit for any one for the purpose
of seeing faces until (11-Vol. IV) after we give
the picture. We wish her to promise this as
neither under such circumstances will succeed.
My dear Sarah and George, with you I am glad
that Emeline is going to be united to the one
she loves. Her mother will say a few words to
her through her Uncle Albert. God bless you.
Sarah, my child, I love you more and more
every day.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Niece. I wish to send Emeline a
few words. Tell her she is now going to enter a
new life. She does not know the peculiarities of
her chosen one. Tell her to be careful how she
speaks to him, never let her words be harsh. Tell
her not to be the one to show the first impatience;
always have confidence and faith; look up to
him as superior to herself; respect him under all
circumstances and be careful to avoid the first
quarrel. Here lies the point. If she follows this
advice she will make almost as good a wife as
you do, my beloved child. I have been with you
and rejoice to see you looking so well and doing
so well. God bless you. Never will Uncle Al
bert forget you.
Uncle Albert."
"My Dear Sarah and George. I need not say
that we are all here, you have had the proof.
Dr. Franklin is writing and much is going on.
You will meet again without Mr. Owen; when
the picture is ready we (I2-Vol. IV) will let
him come in; we desire him present for a par
ticular purpose; leave all to us. Sarah and
George we are satisfied with everything; much
will take place for your happiness this winter.
I can say no more.
Olin."
"Dear Brother. Do not worry about mother,
she is well and you will find a way soon to visit
her. Take events as they come, do the best you
can, then you will have done your duty. Dear
brother I love to visit you.
Emma."
"My Son. It is not every one who has more
guests than are invited. We wish you to feel
how near we are to you. Journey on through
life, I will never weary journeying with you. God
bless you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
1 "My Dear Children. It is pleasant for us to
meet again without the third party; we have so
long been accustomed to greet you in this way.
Mr. Owen does not comprehend the conditions as
well as you, he is not so well schooled; although
he thinks that you are not his equal in these
matters, he is only a baby learning his alphabet
while you are beyond the age. So much have
(1) Autograph letter.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 273
you learned since our first intercourse with you
and oh, what a rest it is to be again with you and
no drawbacks. Still, dear children, it is well
to give the pictures (13-Vol. IV) in his pres
ence; since we have promised we will fulfill to
the letter. We do not say, we do not feel a warm
regard for him, but our love for you is holy, and
the feelings we have for you are seldom bestowed
upon mortals. In sorrow we grieve with you, in
joy we smile with you, in sickness we would
wrap our mantles about you. You are among
the chosen few and we say, we love you. There
is no sighing for the lost ones for there is no
vacant chair, no desolation, for we are with you.
We have taught you, my children, to look upon
heaven (once that unknown land) as a place
in which you can step your feet any day. Your
hearts have realized the perfect joy of ransomed
souls let free from the chains of earth, the
bursts of choral harps with which the gates of
heaven are thrown open to admit the loved ones
to the presence that redeemed them. These are
the proofs we have given you and we love you.
A mother's arms shall be thrown about you, a
mother's voice shall sound in your ears and our
world will be to you all that your hearts desire.
Your children shall be yours; here they will
again call you by that endearing name, Papa and
Mamma.
My children, rejoice, repine not if things go
wrong, try to bear them with christian resigna
tion. The sun shines upon us this (14-Vol. IV)
morning and we are blest. Many poor, sorrow
ful children our care and guidance have placed
in sunny paths. The wretched in spirit find
peace with us.
Our next meeting we wish alone with you
Tuesday morning at half past six.
Now the palace doors are open and the harps
are sounding for our return. Call us not back.
We have given all the time we can to earth. We
leave you with peace in your souls. There are
no clouds on your future. You will get through
well with all your earthly affairs. You must visit
the little gardens in Greenwood soon. They look
sweetly where the birds sing joyously over the
sacred relics of your darlings who are blooming
in the garden of heaven under the eye of our
Eternal Father, Who doeth all things well. God
bless you.
B. F."
Sept. 19 6y2 A. M.— 1871
Again we three met our own circle of loved
ones and they wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are all
happy to come again in your presence. All' will
be well. The shadows of disappointment often
come over your spirit, then I feel like unveiling
the future to you and showing you the brighter
side. This we have done very often but soon
as things seem to go wrong you see the dark side.
Dear Sarah and George, we shall all be (15-Vol.
IV) present when Em. is united to Frank. Ma
wants to speak a few words this morning. Last
night we were very near you. I was while you
all were sleeping. We saw that all was well and
we left you sleeping. The Professor goes round
examining the machines, he often lets his hands
slide in between George's. The Professor enjoys
going through the work with George. Our palace
home is beautiful, we enjoy it day after day.
There we meet the joys of our souls and we find
some new joy every hour. All is well. I will
now give Ma a chance.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. On the occasion which is
in anticipation I will be here. I will take my
place near my husband and mingle with you. I
hope that Emeline will find all the happiness she
believes she will and I hope it will be for the
best. I am a little fearful that Frank has not
sufficiently established himself to do by her as I
would like to see him, but she must work with
him and help him save his money.
My dear child, I silently guide you, 1 I fol
low you and the link between us is very tender,
very sacred, very dear. The dear little children
are with me and oh, how I love them, how dear
they are to me! Oh, Emeline's home here, in
future, will cross her memory as one of the
( 1) She was not a demonstrative person ; was very reserved.
274 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
blessings not (16- Vol. IV) realized until taken
away. My child, God bless you.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. Meet Thursday morning
at half past six. We are sure that all is well
with you. God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
Sept. 21 6y3 A. M.— 1871
We met again without Mr. Owen. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are pro
gressing finely. The pictures will be presented
in the evening when all is quiet, just at night
fall. Mr. Owen can be present, we wish him
present for more reasons than one. I do not
think Katie does right to avoid him. He is a
good man and one who means well. We want
you all to feel happy on the night we present
the picture. Happiness is a magnet for us. The
time draws near, Sarah, for Em. to leave us,
near the time when all our family will be pres
ent to witness the ceremony that will make her
another woman.
We want you to meet us to-morrow at half
past six for directions and letters. We have the
picture here now, but to-morrow we will not
bring it; we will then give positive directions
and name the evening for our meeting. My soul
is glad for all goes as we would wish. The
flowers are all open in our mother's home, she is
looking upon them now with benign love and
while she looks she thinks of you. My dear
Sarah and George (17-Vol. IV) we have looked
in your pathway in the future and see that all
is well; you will have a fruitful season. God
bless you. The whole circle send you their bless
ing. I can say no more.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet at half past six to
morrow morning. God bless you. All is well.
Farewell.
B. F."
(18-Vol. IV) Sept. 26 6y2 A. M.— 1871
From the morning of the last date to the pres
ent time Katie was in no condition for a meet
ing. Her irregularities and breaking of appoint
ments entirely frustrated Dr. Franklin's calcu
lations and since she was to sail for Europe on
the 7th of Oct. there was now no time for them
to make the preparations they required in order
to present the picture in form. On this morning
we met, Mr. Owen with us. Katie was still
sick and nervous. They wrote but little. The
meeting was short. Just before they left, the
crayon paper, with a fine linen handkerchief
spread over
it,
was placed
in
my hand with the
request that
I
should not raise the handkerchief.
We could distinctly see, however, through the
handkerchief two figures upon the paper. We
read their message and locked the picture in the
drawer.
"My Dear Sarah. This represents myself
holding Leila, or rather Leila leaning upon me.
I
tried to have
it
in
a
garden of flowers where
we are mostly, but the crayons did not hold out,
neither were they the right kind. The paper on
the side where there
is
no picture
is
soiled from
Frankie's attempt to draw at the same time. The
first picture we destroyed, but we used the piece
of paper containing your name. Meet at three
for the completion of the picture and do not
raise the handkerchief. God bless you.
Olin."
(19-Vol. IV) "My Dear Children. We are
called away this morning and cannot remain to
say what we wish. We are sorry to disappoint
you but you know that we are governed by
a
higher power. Meet us at three. We are called.
Call us not back.
B. F."
Sept. 26
3
P. M.— 1871
We met as they desired. Laid the crayon paper
out for them to use as they pleased. Put
it
back
again by their direction. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are most
happy to come, and present the picture.
I
hope
you will like my position. To-morrow at twelve
the picture will be finished, do not look at
it
till
then. Let your hearts be happy. We are very
happy. We can say no more, our power has
been very much exhausted to-day.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Meet at twelve to-mor
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 275
row, then 1 will appoint a time for letters to be
written with our own hands. My dear chil
dren, God bless you. Farewell.
B. F."
Sept. 27 12 M.— 1871
We met, Mr. Owen with us, agreeably to the
appointment. 1 placed the crayon paper, with
the linen handkerchief still over
it,
upon the
little table by the folding doors and we four
sat around the large table at the other end of
the room. After singing and chatting for (20-
Vol. IV)
a
half hour or so, during which time
Katie's hand wrote some, we were requested to
look upon the picture. We looked and beheld the
same crayon paper, upon which
I
had written my
initials in ink so many months before, bearing
upon its upturned side two figures. One
is
the head
and shoulders of
a
young gentleman with head
turned and leaning towards his right shoulder,
high, broad forehead, full beard, but not long,
and
a
very sweet, pure expression. The second
or other figure
is
that of
a
little blue-eyed girl
with golden curls hanging to her shoulders and
such position as to bring her eyes on
a
level
with his. His right arm seems to be behind her,
while her left arm
is
over and behind his right
shoulder. Her right hand
is
resting on the front
of his right shoulder or arm. His eyes are turned
tenderly towards her while she
is
looking towards
us. Her face
is
sweet and very childlike. Her
dress
is
lightly tinged with blue of the same
shade as her eyes. His dress appears to be
a
dark, loose garment. At the very bottom of
the picture,
in
the exact handwriting we have so
many times seen upon pictures,
is
the name of
the artist, "Elliott." These pictures are very
beautiful and bear strong resemblance to the
dear ones they are made to represent. Each
looks older and maturer (21-Vol. IV) than when
they went from us. These pictures speak to us
in strong, clear language of the future and add
another unmistakable and unquestionable proof
of the immediate and direct presence, of our de
parted loved ones with us here. We were by
this new gift awed but did not experience the
same freedom of feeling that we had enjoyed
in
the reception of their previous gifts, and we are
sure the difference was occasioned by the presence
of
a
third party. They too manifested less power
and evidently were under restraint.
"My Dear Children. The picture
is
complet
ed, you can look upon it. True, we cannot give
the fine spiritual beauty with poor crayons,
make allowances for this, we have done the best
we could. Our next effort will be in oil painting
when Katie returns. We are happy to give you
these proofs from our own hands and we do re
joice to again have good conditions. The mantle
of charity
is
a
very holy covering for God's poor
erring children. Could this blessing be bestowed
more profusely, how much suffering would be
saved. Have you thought, my dear children,
that every one human being has some protect
ing angel?
A
mother may look down from
above upon her child and although she sees this
child's faults, she
is
pained to hear harsh words
against or to her. Often, oh, very often that
mother's (22-Vol. IV) spirit enters in some
kindred here and by that means saves her child.
My dear children, we have seen
a
flower open
to-day that we have long watched to see unfold
and our souls rejoice. Of this we will speak at
a
future time. All
is
well. We are happy to
have Mr. Owen present, we see great success be
fore him. The success that always follows good
acts will follow him.
My dear children, the next meeting will be
Friday morning at half past six. Call us not
back.
I
find
a
peace here in your presence which
I
rarely find. You see, my son, that success
is
following in your pathway, may God's blessing,
you have ours, follow you to all Eternity. My
children, farewell.
B. F."
"Private"
"Dear Sarah and George. Meet to-morrow at
twelve for letters. Say nothing.
Olin."
Sept. 29 12 M.— 1871
Katie did not meet us the next day at twelve,
neither did she come at half past six as Dr.
276 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Franklin desired, but at this hour we three sat
about the table and her hand wrote.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are happy
to come again, we are happy to take the pencil
and write our thoughts, our souls' thoughts.
There are moments when (23-Vol. IV) the spirit
of disembodied mortality also feels a sadness. It
is thus with us to-day, for as the time draws
near for these interviews to close we cannot throw
off the shadow which always accompanies sepa
rations and partings. We dip our hands in the
fountain of pure water and drop blessings upon
you silently; but we love to make ourselves
heard, we love to come in close communion with
you, therefore you cannot marvel that we feel a
sadness. You know Sarah and George, that many
picture in their minds our land as one of eternal
rejoicing, and so the land is beautiful but we
grieve with those we love when they grieve, we
joy with them when they are joyous, therefore
our land is not one of eternal rejoicing. Although
the flowers are blooming to-day and no bleak
winds passing over them, no leaves falling, we
cannot help feeling that we too are deprived of
a sacred privilege, that of visiting you life-like
and almost human. But time flies rapidly and
we shall have Katie back, a new being. She
will be benefited and changed, not only in habits
but in strength and we shall look forward with
quiet peace to her return. We know, Sarah and
George, that your arms will be opened for her
and the first message through her to any one
shall be given at this table. (24-Vol. IV) We
had a consultation. We see that it will not be
possible for us to accomplish the manifestation
we wish to, there is not time, it would be labor
lost. Explain this to Mr. Owen. Dr. Franklin
will write the full explanation himself at another
time. Dr. Franklin wishes me to say that the
great final meeting will be Sunday morning at
precisely half past ten ; let nothing interfere with
this. The conditions are good, Katie is in sym
pathy with us and we can freely come. She must
get ready early in the week and go away happy.
I will visit her on Mr. Livermore's night and
send you a letter. We will joy in doing this. All
is well.
1 The great event in your little family, Sarah,
is coming soon. Well, I am glad; Ma is glad.
We shall all be present. Will you tell Em. to
give us one thought while in the midst of her
joy. I speak for all to-day as I have good con
trol of the pencil. We shall welcome Pa silently.
He will feel, sad but you must cheer him. Em.
is going to be made happy. What ever
is,
is
for
the best. Ah, what
a
true saying, 'God works
in mysterious way His wonders to perform.'
Now, let us all tell you that we have looked
in the future and see the clouds passing away.
You have had obstacles, you are having ob
stacles but they are passing away and you will
come out bright as (25-Vol. IV) diamonds. Keep
good courage and do not despond. Surely you
have done your duty and God will reward you.
Let your mind not be troubled about K. She
complains often, dear Sarah, of you but that
is
her nature. Do your duty towards her as well
as you can and let her complain.
I
am speak
ing of Miss Kidder. She can never become bet
ter; she must suffer till her body wears out. God
bless you.
I
cannot tell you the joy
I
feel in
presenting you my picture. Sarah you will
know me by the likeness.
I
had
it
matured pur
posely so
I
would not grow out of your remem
brance. How blessed we have been, and now
I
must close. Your brother with more than
a
brother's love.
Olin."
Oct.
1
\0y2 A. M.— 1871
Katie kept her appointment with us and we
three quietly sat about the table and chatted
while the following letters were written, all of
which came through her hand excepting Dr.
Franklin's which was written at the bureau and
without any human hand.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here
again. This will be the last Sunday meeting for
some time and we are glad to have good condi
tions. We feel joyous. We feel that great good
is
coming. The waters are clear, the future
is
(1) Sister Emeline's marriage.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 277
bright and all reads fair. In two weeks after
Katie arrives we will (26-Vol. IV) send you a
letter through her so the chain will not be brok
en. You see what great events can take place
in a short period.
The next change in this family, this house, will
be still brighter and you have every reason to re
joice. We will do all in our power for your wel
fare. Above all things dear Sarah, do not let
your faith become shadowed. George, we say
the same to you. Keep the channel clear that
we may be able to hold communion with you
silently. Let not the dark shadows of doubt come
in between you and the beautiful faith we have
built up in your souls. The lamp shall not flick
er, it shall not go out, we will keep it burning
and when Katie returns it will welcome her
back.
Dear Sarah, let not your mind be troubled
about your household affairs. Do, dear preci
ous sister, remember that we are with you and
will never, never let you suffer. You shall rise,
my sister, like a star and no matter what trouble
comes you shall still shine on. We are happy to
see everything so bright. We have our hearts
full of blessings and prayers for Em.'s happi
ness. It all lies in her own power and she knows
how to be happy.
Dr. Franklin will soon be here to write so I
will take no more power. God bless you. We
will only say 'Good bye' not 'Farewell' (27-
Vol. IV) for the chain will not be broken. We
say good bye for the present. We shall all meet
again some clear Sabbath morning.
Olin."
"My Dear Brother. I am here. I shall speak
with you at a future time. Mother is well and
father is happy. I was with you early this
morning, I dropped the flower of peace in your
soul and blessed you. May all your days be
well employed and your labor receive its re
ward. I love you still.
Emma."
"My Dear Child. Oh, how peaceful my palace
is,
no leaf
is
stirred, no shadow of darkness comes
across our paths and
I
have the children. They
are mine until you join us here. Your flowers
are all open, be happy. The future gives me no
anxiety.
I
am glad Emeline
is
going to be
happy, she has my full approval. Oh, my child
I
will bless you. George, my son, you are as
dear to me as my own son.
1
protect you also.
I
can write you no more but
I
shall be with you.
Bless you, my children.
Eliza."
"We all breathe our love and blessings to you.
Why, my children, these meetings will only be
suspended for
a
while. We will in the mean time
have consultations and see what we will do,
when they are again resumed, to give you joy,
happi- (28-Vol. IV) ness and an insight to the
other world. George and Sarah, you will come
out of every difficulty, be not disturbed. God
bless you.
Prof. K., Isaac T. Hopper and the whole
Circle."
"My Dear Mrs. Taylor. My love for you
is
not merely
a
friendly feeling but the love
a
mother alone feels towards another who has been
kind to her child and cared for her and helped
her. All this
I
feel and more.
I
cannot express
my feelings. When Cathy
is
with you
I
am
happy and can enjoy the sunlight of heaven.
Oh, would that she could ever be under the
mantle with which you have so often covered
her. And now my dear, kind friend, accept the
thanks of an anxious mother.
M. Fox."
1
"My Dear Children. This
is
our last Sun
day meeting and we are all gathered here to
speak
a
farewell word, not farewell either, for
we shall be with you. Sunday morning, and all
is
well. The flower we spoke of
is
still unfolded
and
is
a
sign of peace and happiness for Katie.
Oh, never again touch the wine cup to your lips.
We feel that the change has come. Go over the
big waves for the mighty change has come. Re
joice, oh, ye children of earth, rejoice. We do.
Again we meet. We have accomplished (29-
Vol. IV) much for you, my daughter and son.
We have given you tokens by which you shall
(1) Autojcraph letter.
278 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
recognize beloved faces in a multitude of angels.
You will not have to pause to ask which is my
child? where are my children? where is Olin?
No! No! You will find them all and satisfied
you will dwell with them in their palace. Our
work is not completed. We shall look forward
with pleasure to the time when we will be able
to renew it. Our hands will be ready. Our
hearts will rejoice in the renewal of these meet
ings. Will yours also? If shadows fall upon
you, my children, look not on the dark side, re
member the unseen throng about you, catch the
blessings as they fall and lay up in your hearts
the truths we have given you, let them rest in
the most sacred part of your souls so that when
you lie down at night you can close your eyes to
live upon them. Remember all, and let not your
faith become tarnished by doubts. We shall
draw near you after the toils of the day and
silently commune with you. Many a wayside
flower will fall in your footsteps and we will
guide you.
There is not time for us to commence another
manifestation of our power. We must wait till
the time comes. It will (30-Vol. IV) come and
you will all be better prepared to receive it.
Well done, good and faithful children, my
daughter and son, true in spirit, true to your
faith, true in all things, we bless you. Daily
you become nearer and dearer to me and I shall
ever keep a watch over you. When trials and
obstacles obstruct your way there will be no one
in the kingdom of heaven who will work more
lovingly for you than I. Then with this assur
ance rise up daily and with strong hearts perform
your duties. Never swerving, never drooping.
All is well. We bless you. Bless you for your
protection of this poor child who, God knows,
has been more sinned against than sinning.
There will be no more appointments, but if the
opportunity offers, we will speak, if not, we shall
feel that all that could be done has been done
and we are thankful for the blessings which we
have been able to so freely bestow. We can say
no more, our duties call and we must depart.
Joy and peace go with Katie and all good angels
guard her on her journey. My children, once
more I say God bless you. Farewell. My power
is exhausted.
B. Franklin."
(31-Vol. IV) Oct. 4 6y3 A. M.— 1871
Yesterday Pa came, with his wife, to be pres
ent at Em.'s marriage and make us a visit. Last
evening Katie came in and Olin asked us to
meet at this hour. We sat about the table feel
ing that it might be the last word for a long,
long time.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We are here
once more to talk with you. Oh, what joy to be
able to come once more in our own familiar way.
We are again with you and our robes float in
with yours. I was here when Pa came. He is
happier than you imagine when he is with you.
He knows that he has his children with him and
he feels that his wife lives in his children. He
never says this to you, but it is so. I am happy
to have him here. Do you know where Ma is
now? I will tell you. She is lingering near Pa.
She sees him now by the side of another, but
turns away satisfied for in her palace he will be
all her own. Things change in heaven.
My dear Sarah and George, all the dark
shadows will pass away; have hope. We see you
in the future coming out of clouds, all about
you is a beautiful, golden sunset. You have risen
from the obstacles and your minds are calm as
the waters in which we dip our fingers. The
children are here, they will be always near you.
We shall be with you Sunday morning, (32-Vol.
IV) silently we will come and look in upon you,
we will breathe a blessing for you and leave you
with peace. So you see that although the tele
graph doors will be closed I will still be with
you. Em. will be comparatively happy, but she
leaves a home and comforts for new trials. They
will be severe for her but she must bear them.
Often her thoughts will turn back to this home
as a garden of flowers where she has been happy.
Em. must be prepared for trials. I will help her
all in my power.
My dear Sarah, we are looking in the future
and how much we will have to tell you in a few
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 279
months from now. Let us be happy. Let us
live in anticipation of future happiness and do
not let your spirit droop. God bless you and
help you. I shall work faithfully for you. Others
wish to speak so I can say no more but close
with kisses, blessings and prayers for your hap
piness.
Olin."
"My Son, I wish your mother was here to see
the wedding come off. I don't suppose she cares
much to be here for that occasion, but I am
going to bring the children and would like to
meet her, dressed up, at the performance. My
son, I always did love you better than my other
children, 1 do still and Sarah seems very near to
me. God bless you. Mother is well. Oh, what
a (33-Vol. IV) glorious time I am having.
Your Father."
"My Dear Children. Welcome your voices.
Welcome the echo which comes from true and
faithful hearts. I am happy to be with you once
more. Katie will return, as they say, redeemed,
saved, if she follows all her good resolutions,
and she will be helped; then when she returns
we shall have prepared some new developments
and the door of our world will seem to your
vision to stand open, so plain will we make all
within. It is a place to which all are journey
ing, but while you will come to the door of im
mortality with your eyes open, the scales hav
ing fallen off, others will approach tremblingly,
the veil still before them and you will help many
who are so oppressed; therefore, my children,
learn all you can of this glorious truth. The tele
graph will bring you a message from me soon as
Katie will heed my voice. My children, I shall
be with you. Look up and rejoice. My son,
honor is a great gem, and your honor has not
been tarnished. God bless you. I will now say
farewell, my beloved children.
B. Franklin."
Oct. 6 11 P. M.— 1871
Katie had been out all the morning, was to
leave the house, for the steamer, at nine the next
morning and I felt that (34-VoI. IV) I must
have one word more if possible though I knew
she would be tired and nervous. She came in at
this hour and sat and visited a little time with
us. She said her hand felt like writing, took a
pencil and the following appeared.
"My Dear Sarah and George. A few parting
words and then 'Good night.' We shall be with
you at all times, when it rains, when the sun
shines we shall be with you. These are pleasant
hours for us. Pa here, our own Ma hovering
over him, Em. being about to be made happy
and the house filling up. All, all is well. Dear
Sarah, let your heart be happy and soon we will
have Katie back. Our palace doors will open
towards the path that leads to you and we shall
be happy. God bless you. I want you to look
on the bright side and rejoice. It is impossible
for us to say more, the power is exhausted and
we cannot speak. Frankie was here to-night
with you. He is here now with me and wishes
me to say that he will be at Aunt Em.'s wedding.
He says that he don't want Katie to stay away
long. Now he is happy since his message is
given.
Sarah, 'Good night,' but not 'Good bye.'
The flowers keep on blooming and blessings
continue to fall upon you. (35-VoI. IV) Katie,
we will all follow you with our protection and
now God bless you and return you a well and
happy girl.
Olin."
Thus closed the last message from our spirit
friends. The next morning, Oct. 7, Katie left
the house before nine, but at this hour Mr. and
Mrs. Townsend called for me to accompany
them to the steamer to see Katie off. The steam
er was beautiful, one of the finest on the waters,
Katie's accommodations not only complete, but
really spacious, her stateroom was filled with
flowers and fruits, tokens of love from the many
friends already gathered to say "Good bye."
Very few of those about her were people whom
I knew, still I fancied that each had his secret
heartache, not only at parting with Katie, but
at seeing the very means of communication be
tween them and some loved one, dearer to them
than their own lives, the readable link between
280 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the two worlds, the key that opens the gates of
heaven to mortals, borne far, far away. The
unconscious, thoughtless child little realized the
deprivations her best friends were imposing upon
themselves, voluntarily for her sake! She is
gone. The magnificent ship has left its moor
ings and Katie is riding the billows. Now the
sweet and precious intercourse which has been
kept up so constantly for (36-Vol. IV) nearly
two years must cease, for how long God only
knows, but cease it must and has. Oh, how my
soul will miss the beautiful teachings and posi
tive manifestations of the angels, how we shall
long for the fond and tender expressions of love
and sympathy, how in the dark hours which
are inevitable to us mortals, will our spirits
groan for some strong, sustaining word from our
dearly loved Dr. Franklin! But we are very,
very thankful for these wonderful truths and
unquestionable manifestations which they have
already given us, more sacred than any book or
thing besides. I will read and con them over
and over and I know they have already become
a part of myself. I feel that through them I
can get "Nearer my God to Thee." My heart
aches for poor, helpless Katie. Could I always
keep her near me I would thankfully do all that
mortal can for her, but that I can not do; she
has so many friends who are exactly unlike us
and do by her and influence her just as we do
not; the consequence is that our influence is al
most lost upon her. Many who fawn about
her, mean well towards her, but are morally and
spiritually weak, hence she is a thousand times
worse off with them than she would be left to
herself. Others care not for the little waif, only
for (37-Vol. IV) what they can get out of her.
With Dr. Franklin I say from the bottom of my
soul, "May God and all good angels go with her,
guide her and protect her.
"
March 1—1872.
Five months have passed since Katie left and
I have but now received the first letter from
my precious, unseen, though very near, loved ones.
Katie is still in London and a letter from her
written the last of Dec. said that Olin wanted
to write me. Her next letter was written on the
fourteenth of Feb. It is long, covers three sheets
and when about two-thirds through she says that
Olin has come and wants to write as soon as
she is through, but when she reaches the bottom
of next to the last page of her letter there oc
curs a "break" or interruption, and when she
again commences she says that Olin would not
wait for her to finish, so she let him write and
then returns to finish hers. Olin's letter is per
fectly intelligible, referring to matters purely
personal, and that no person in America, be
sides the parties interested, knew anything about,
much less could Katie or anybody in London
know. He could not possibly have known of
matters to which he refers if he had not been
near enough to know what we are doing and
saying and to read the letters we receive.
(38-Vol. IV) "My Dear Sarah, I am so happy
to come here in Katie's little parlor and give you
a few words. I have been with you, Sarah,
every day and given you assurance of my con
tinued presence. I have just left you now to
say these few words. Be not troubled, you will
come out fair and all your trials will pass into
blessings.' George must not look on the dark
side, he will realize blessings soon from that
source. Tell him he can do nothing at present
but wait. Yes, Sarah, do as you are contem
plating and all will be well.
The dear little flowers were with you Christ
mas morning. Frankie tried to answer when
you spoke to him. 2He saw the clock and heard
the music but did not like it as much as he does
Leila's harp. They are with you and feel im
patient, as we all do, to take up the broken
threads and make the chain whole again through
Katie. We will have this joy soon, Sarah, for
changes are taking place which tend that way.
God bless you. Let your faith be your com
fort and the flowers will never fade in our palace
of beauty. A new flower has opened for you
and new blessings will fall from it. Ma says
(1) A troublesome business matter.
(2) I received Christmas presents of a beautiful clock and a large
music box.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 281
that you must not worry about Ralph. 'Em.
will do better soon and feel satisfied. (39-Vol.
IV) I will send you another letter in a few days.
God bless you. 1 return to you now.
Olin."
Katie is still in England, is married to an
eminent lawyer and the prospect of her ever
returning to New York looks very small.
We have received letters from her often but
no word from our loved ones beyond the veil
since Feb., 1872, until the following received
sometime in
June— 1873.
"My Dear Sarah. 2ln the confusion of moving
I have been with you, so has Ma. We are so
happy to see you so nicely situated. George
need have no fears, he will meet every emergency
and make money to carry out all his plans. We
see that this change will bring him great success.
Yes, you are doing right. Tell George to wait
awhile before he makes the improvement he has
in contemplation; before you feel the need of
that Katy will be with you and we will all ad
vise.
3We all like the little lady's manner. 4It is
not strange at all that Dr. Franklin has not sent
you a message. He has been with you, aiding
you and I often speak for him. His interest in
you and George has not even flagged. (40-Vol. IV)
Sarah, do not feel depressed, your health will
soon be established and your children will bless
you. Two on earth and two in heaven. How
happy you ought to be. Never sigh for Frankie
or Leila. They often play with baby and make
her laugh in her sleep. 'Poor Em. will see more
sorrow but she must be patient. "Bradley is
often with you. He will never cease to lend his
aid to you. Oh, how we love the new house.
I will soon be talking with you through Katy.
I now go to you.
Olin."
(1) This refers to the contents of a letter received from her the
1st of February.
(2) We came here, Mad. Ave. and 58th Street last Hay.
(3) Our baby Flora, born Aug. 5th. 1872.
(4) This alludes to remarks we had made here while this message
was written in London.
(5) Sister Em had just returned to us in bad health.
(6) Bradley had died with us in Dec. 1872.
Sister Em.'s sickness proved to be consumption
and she lingered and suffered until the middle of
Nov. when she found relief by death. She never
left the house after she returned in June (ex
cepting for a drive in the park so long as she
was able) until her emaciated body was borne
to its grave. Her husband came in August and
remained with or near her. It was very hard
for her to leave her husband, her home and the
friends she loved.
Katie still in London but by mail we received
the following. (41-Vol. IV)
Dec. 30^—1873.
"Dear Sarah. Em. did not suffer in her last
moments. Ma and I took her in our arms to the
home we have described to you. She was happy
the moment she saw our faces and will soon talk
with you. She is now engaged studying the
beautiful flowers and becoming familiar with
her home. She is happy to be out of her suffer
ing and would not be back for worlds. When she
first felt that she must die (as you term it) she
thought it too dreadful to leave earth and Frank
so soon but now she is satisfied for she sees that
she can return to earth at will. I am constant
ly with Em. and doing all in my power to make
her cheerful.
Do not worry. Flora will live to bless you. We
are watching over her.
Tell George to keep good courage, he will
prosper and in another year be quite free from
anxiety. He is doing right. We are all aiding
him. Bradley has met Em. They have had a
long explanation and talk over the past. Brad
ley is inclined to joke with Em. You know he
likes a joke. Keep up your spirits dear (42-VoI.
IV) Sarah. You did all in your power for Em.
She is satisfied. Dear Em. is now with Ma and
as happy as she can be. All is well!
Frankie is delighted with Flora but thinks he
loves Leila a little the best. I will soon send
you another message.
Olin."
On the same paper came the following from
Frankie.
"Katy, you need not think you are going to
282 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
send Mamma a message without a word from me.
Katy, you need not feel jealous. Mamma likes
me the best. My dear Mamma and Papa, oh,
how happy I am to come again through Katy.
Mamma, 1 love Flora but I think I love Leila
better. Mamma, do not let Flora stand on her
feet yet. I am going to make her walk. Oh,
how happy I am to have Aunt Em. with me.
She has Leila with her most all of the time. Oh,
Mamma, how much we do love Aunt Em. Some
body by the name of Carrie is often with her.
Grandma is showing Aunt Em. something and
we are going to take her to the other (43-Vol.
IV) places Grandma told you about. You know
that palace where we go to hear the music? Uncle
Olin is helping me write. I told him that he
must and he was afraid to refuse me. I am
coming to you now Mamma.
Frankie."
Early in Nov., 1874, Katie came back to New
York for a visit. She came without her hus
band but brought a nice little son nearly a year
old. She went directly to her sister's, Mrs. Under
bill's but had expected before leaving London and
still greatly preferred to make her home with us.
She called on us the day after her arrival and
the following was written.
Nov.— 1874.
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here, one and
all. Dear Em. is with us and wants to speak
with you, and she will, but not in full to-day
as she wants to tell some little private matters.
Oh, Sarah, how happy we are to have Katy back
again, back to her old place where we have had
so many happy hours; hours of sacred thought
where soul meets soul.
Now, dear Sarah, as to Katy's coming (44-VoI.
IV) here at once! We have looked well and
long, therefore we can advise. Wait, say nothing,
all will come out as you would wish, at least for
the best, so be content knowing that all will turn
out for the best.
Em. says, 'Tell sister Sarah that I have much
to tell her but I want my own time, not this
morning, not this day, but on Friday I will speak.
I will tell her much, much she wants to hear.'
God bless you. Oh, how we all rejoice that
Katy is here. Now be happy and look on the
bright side of everything. We love this place
and will make it the brightest spot you have ever
known. Love to George and our blessings."
The above communication was in Olin's hand
writing and like him in expression, still he did
not sign his name. It was undoubtedly an omis
sion.
Katie did not come to us the next Friday. She
remained with her sister through the winter and
we rarely saw her but in March she came to us
with her two children (the younger being about
three months (45-Vol. IV) old and remained
until a few days before she sailed for England,
in July. She had but one nurse girl consequent
ly was greatly confined and had little opportuni
ty for the long, free, uninterrupted influence of
the unseen spirits. I was with her several hours
of almost each day and the different members
of our circle often spoke through the echoes, still
no such opportunity for connected and protracted
interviews, as before she went abroad, ever came
and neither could we make the opportunity.
Katie seemed as much to desire it as we, still
it was never the same; the baby would cry or
Freddie would awaken or something would surely
mar the smoothness of the chain that held us in
communication. Dr. Franklin told us, before
she went, to prize our privilege for we never
could have the same or equal again. Many, very
many times have we had occasion to recall these
words of prophecy.
Some twenty five messages came upon paper
during the four months, some through Katie's
left hand and written backwards (as all communi
cations through her are) and others without
(46-Vol. IV) the aid of mortal hand. The first
of this series is the following.
March— 1875.
"Dear George and Sarah. I know you are
worried about business but that is going to end
well and your dark uncertain clouds will all
pass away. I do not say this to encourage you
falsely, but tell it as a truth. This house will
clear its way and not long before it will pay
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 283
and overpay all debts. 'You will have unex
pected help before the time so be of good cheer,
and do not look on the dark side. Of course
you cannot help feeling worried but try to have
faith in what I tell you.
We are a happy family here. Em. is more
cheerful than she has ever been and we are happy
to have her with us. She often kisses Flora
when the child is asleep.
2Now, George and Sarah, let me say one thing,
there will have to be a change in the house be
fore it can fully succeed. Soon I will give you
more explicit advice. The good time is fast
approaching when we shall all come and give you
welcome. You must then have a room where you
will not feel afraid to hear our greetings. *Em.
wants you to wear her ring, do so for awhile.
Frankie and Leila are now playing with bright
eyed Flora. In dreams they meet face to face.
George, you will soon have a new patient of
value to you. No more to-night. God bless you.
Olin."
March 21s* — 1875.
"My Dear Sarah and George. I am happy to
come again, so happy to see that all is well. My
soul comes filled with love, filled with words of
advice, and you shall not wait long to hear what
I have longed to tell you. We are here in num
bers daily watching the progress in the house
and its success. We see that you are going to
have a successful summer. This will be the most
successful since you came here. Let this cheer
you. -|
—|- Now, George, do not feel depressed.
You have no cause. 1 do not blame you for some
times looking on the dark side for sometimes all
seems dark. Then I would come and comfort
if I could but you see I have no way to step into
your private room and say to you (48-Vol. IV)
'Cheer up' for you do not trust your impres
sions sufficiently for me to enter into your
thoughts and give you response for response.
George, work with your heart full of faith
and you will succeed. We directed you to this
house, we saw that it would succeed or we would
( 1) It came unexpectedly and unasked.
(2) This was as foretold but at this time we could not see it.
It was July before we saw clearly.
(8) A ring she eraveme when dying.
not have directed you here. Yes, we saw all clear
ly and you will rest in mind and body before
you are many years older. Make no changes
at present yourselves.
Em. and Bradley will come and speak when
the conditions are good. Be of good cheer, be
happy and know that we are all waiting to give
you a greeting.
When Katy is rested we will make your hearts
glad and our own souls for we long to come as
of old. The children are every night watching
over Flora. They love her and guard her from
evil.
God bless you forever, bless you both.
Olin."
The loved ones never had the opportunity to
give the glad family greeting they so much wished
to give and (49-Vol. IV) we so longed to re
ceive. Nearly three more weeks passed before
another written message. It was as follows.
April 8th— \875.
"I am now waiting for Dr. Franklin, he is on
his way.
Olin."
After a few moments' delay the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. 1 rejoice to come and
speak with you, rejoice to let you hear my echoes
and see my written words of love and advice. I
rejoice to give you my welcome, my heart felt
welcome. My soul responds to every word of
love from you, my children. Yes, my dearly be
loved children, do you know how happy I am
to come once more through Katy? Well, do
you know that old times come again? Have
we been separated? Have we been parted? Has
the chain been broken? I will answer, no! Not
in the sense that would mean separation in spirit;
in soul, in heart we have been with you, Olin
and I. I bless you more than earth can bless.
I bless you daily even when I am far beyond
your (50- Vol. IV) sphere.
And so we have Katy back again, not Katy,
alone but Katy with two beautiful children, two
blessings that she can see and feel and touch and
feel the little hand touch her back. She sees her
284 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
blessings grow and should be as happy as a bird
in the blue sky.
Now let me advise you about remaining here.
1 have considered it well and I would not advise
you against your interest. I would not advise
you without looking well into the future. Let
me say sell, but sell to advantage. You can sell
this place for twice the money you gave for it.
So I say sell, do not delay, do not delay. Com
mence at once, make arrangements quietly. Say
as little as you can outside. Then you can pur
chase a house of your own, a private house and
enjoy your children, and feel that life is as full
of sunlight as it is now of clouds. My dear
children, do this; but I wish you, my son, to con
tinue your cure. It will lead to posterity, and
(51-Vol. IV) you will do good to mankind. Fear
not, you will have plenty of patients, you will
have more than you can manage. Do not be
downcast. Do not worry, all will be well. I
will come again soon and advise you further, my
dear children. God bless you. I will come again
soon. Yours in faith, yours to call upon in the
hour of need.
B. Franklin."
Business in this city was stagnant. Every
body was suffering more or less from the finan
cial crash of 1873. We had incurred heavy ob
ligations during 1872 and were now struggling
under their weight. The outlook was most un
favorable and to my husband entirely hopeless.
While I staggered and reeled under the burthen
my faith in God through the ministering power
of "our circle" kept me from yielding. The
following has reference to the situation.
April 26tb— 1875.
"Sarah, my dear sister, I am here with you,
now do not be worried. Why the sun is shining
over the bright future of your life and all is
gladness. The birds are singing gaily and they
are glad. There are (52-Vol. IV) some dark
clouds but they too are spreading over with sil
very rays. All is bright and you need not feel
depressed. Life is short on earth and if you
worry and fret and work yourself to death you
will do that which will grieve me and pain me
more than you can conceive. Enjoy your life,
feel sure that there is a bright future, feel sure
that there is no need of your working and fret
ting your life away. The roses are in full bloom
in your home where those you love are walking
in robes of immortality, in garments of celestial
beauty, and often they drop a bright bud in your
path, and it blooms filled with their blessings.
Cheer up, my sister, and no longer look on the
dark side.
Em., dear Em., sends her love, but oh, how
hard it is for her to be perfectly reconciled to
her new life, therefore she is not perfectly happy.
God bless you.
Olin."
Now follow two autograph letters, letters writ
ten without the aid of human hand. I furnished
the paper and pencil and held both of Katie's
hands while the letters were written many feet
from where she and I were (53-Vol. IV) sitting.
The first is from Olin and in his hand writing.
The second is from James B. Taylor, whose hand
writing I never saw, consequently do not know if
it be characteristic. We had no acquain
tance with Mr. Taylor here but our financial
anxiety drew him to us. Both letters were writ
ten at the same sitting.
April 27*A — 1875.
Autograph Letter.
"My Dear Sarah. I will speak first. Let
your heart be glad; do not look on the shadowy
part of life. This world, the world you live in,
is a beautiful painting with many shadows. I
say this world is like a painting of the finest
kind, but also unlike, and well it is. Be happy
and be thankful that it is not in reality a paint
ing; for the shadows would remain. You would
not look beyond them. You would always see
them. Now, you go forth to-day weary and worn,
depressed and loaded with so many cares that
you feel there will be no end to the toil and strife.
To-morrow you arise, and there is within your
soul something that gives you hope, something
that tells you that all will yet be well, and the
clouds disappear, giving place to sun- (54-Vol.
IV) light, joy and peace. The ever guiding
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 285
spirit is near you and you feel that all will be
well. Be not depressed. I know that this sum
mer you will clear all your expenses and much
will transpire to make your life more as it should
be, less care and responsibility. I had to say
this to you. Bless you.
Olin."
Autograph Letter.
"You see I am a good natured man. M gave
way. I see clearly into your affairs and the per
son who has promised to aid you. I mean fork
over, will be firm and do so. Just jog on in this
way for awhile, say two months, and then you
will get over the worst. Jog on this summer
and make all you can. You will have the op
portunity if you follow my advice to clear all,
and then put out flashing colors: For Sale,
and get double the price. Regret exceedingly
that you have to part with a place where you
could excel everything else in the way of Hotel
business. Your profession calls you to Europe
and although you regret leaving, your interests
call you (55-Vol. IV) there. Now, you will suc
ceed well this summer, be very successful in
making money. I want to look further and
Sunday or Saturday night I will come, come and
give you some very important advice. I won't
name the time until I see a particular spirit here
who will aid me in giving you the very best ad
vice. I can say no more now. With many
blessings, I now say 'Good night.'
J. B. T.
April 29th— 1875.
A few moments with Katie and the following
was written.
"My Dear Sarah, my dear child, so full of
anxiety and so troubled, how I would like to
take you in my arms and rest your tired body.
My little Frankie and Leila are happy. They
send their kisses by me to you. I have left them
in their palace playing with the birds and among
the flowers. My dear child, we shall have happy
times together before Katy leaves and I will tell
you much. God bless you.
(1) For Olin to write.
M wish I could clasp your hands, dear Albert
and Amelia. 21 am so happy to see your dear
Sarah talking with you. She is radiant with
delight. I love you all.
(56-Vol. IV) Dear Sarah, try to be less anx
ious. Dear Em. is with me and I have had a
trial with her, a trial, for it has been hard for
me to reconcile her with this land, and it has
grieved me at the same time to see her so dis
contented. This has occupied much of my time.
Your mother, your own
Ma."
May 3rd— 1875.
Again Katie and I were together and the follow
ing was written.
"My Dear Child, I am happy to come to you
and say a few words. 3Oh, my dear child, how
happy I am to tell you something about our Eme-
line. What a trial I have had with her poor child.
She has day after day, night after night watched
her husband's movements. Some things have
pained her, and it is these things which have
made her want to linger near earth. She wanted
to be pained, I told her, and so at last I have,
by devoting myself to her, been able to keep her
near me, away from things that would give her
pain. Sometimes when I have succeeded in mak
ing her happy, suddenly I would miss her from
my side, then I would hasten (57-Vol. IV) to
bring her back and interest her in the beauties of
this world. Now to-night I have again missed
her and when I leave you I shall seek her by her
husband's side. He does not feel to-day as he
did some months ago. Poor child, sometime she
will feel as I do, and only seek those who can
make her happy, those who believe that she is
near, and then she will rejoice, or in making
homes for those who will join her here. She
speaks of you very often and will come and
talk with you direct in a day or two. My child,
do not feel anxious. I know you have much to
try you, but a bright change is near and you
will realize peaceful happiness. I would feel
anxious if I saw that these clouds would last,
(1) Uncle A. G. Palmer and wife present.
(2) His first wife. Pa's sister.
(8) It was her custom in this life to tell me her trials as though
I had been her sister. Hence the pleasure expressed here.
286 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
but I see that they will pass away and that all
will be well. God bless you. Leila and Fran-
kie will come next time and 1 will talk for them.
All is well.
Your Ma to all Eternity."
The following was written upon the same
paper with the above and without the stopping
of the pencil, but in a hand writing as widely
different as the style and the expression. I in
sert it to illustrate the marked individuality al
ways manifest in (58- Vol. IV) these messages.
"My Dear Friend. Tell George, old boy, that
he need not feel so glum. Why, his face is as
long as my arm and I do not see for what rea
son. His troubles will pass away and the sun
will shine on his head with warm love, and he
will look above with a heart full of gratitude for
the blessings he enjoys. I would say more but
Katy must rest. Tell George, old boy, that I
would like to give him an electric shock and take
away all his depression. His book will bring
him the chink. God bless you.
J. B. T.
May 6*6—1875.
Katie and I alone and the following came.
"My dear child, I have waited long to speak to
you. I wanted to come to you with my soul
full of happiness, when I could say that 'Emeline
is with me and happy to talk with you.' To
night I come with my heart light, full of love and
tenderness, full of unexpected peace for Emeline
is with the children taking the deepest pleasure
in (59-Vol. IV) their playful chats, playing with
them as one of them and they will not let her
out of their little hands; and she is happier out
of the presence of her husband than in watching
his movements. I fear he will marry again. I
do not fear but think so and I want to wean her
from him. She seems so happy to-day that all
my anxiety is gone. Poor child, she has not
even felt at home till now. She read my mind
and said 'It is well.' She told me to tell you
this and sent her love and kisses. A white rose
and a wreath of flowers she sent by me which I
hope she will be able to present herself when the
opportunity offers. To-morrow night she says
she will be here.
Try to feel as little anxiety as possible dear
child; know that all is well, that all will be well,
and that these are the darkest days. The bright
ones are drawing near. You came here by our
advice and you will see that we have not pre
dicted success and a bright future without a
certain knowledge of the fact. God bless you.
Your Ma, Eliza."
(60-Vol. IV) My sister Lucretia had been
with us the most of the time since Em.'s death but
for some reasons it seemed doubtful about the
propriety of her remaining much longer. I did
not know what I ought to do so I said to Ma,
"What shall I do about Lucretia?"
She wrote in reply.
"My Dear Child, as to dear Lucretia, let things
take their course. It will come out right in time
and before long. If she could feel as Emeline
did, if she had any sympathy in common with
you, I would say do not part with her. Now
let things take their course and you will be guided
right. All will be well. I watch over her and
guide you. Do not feel anxious. God bless you.
Your Ma."
May Itb— 1875.
The babies were finally quiet and Katie and
I were alone when sister Em. agreeably to her
promise came with Ma. They wrote.
"My Dear Child, I am here with Emeline. She
will speak to you."
^'Sister, I am here. How strange it seems to
be writing to you through Katy, too. It seems
(61-Vol. IV) strange because I find it hard to
realize that I am not really on earth. I have
been so near Frank since I came here that I have
seen little of my friends in this world. Carrie
walked with Ma and myself last evening and
we had quite a pleasant talk, for you know that
I had great sympathy for her always.
I am so happy to talk with you. I have often
thought over my sick time with you. Oh, that
sick time. Do you remember the mornings I
awoke so early and meditated over all that might
( 1) She always called me simply, "sister."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 287
come ? How hard it was for me to give up ! How
1 cried in my soul out of great anguish and wished
it might be otherwise. But God knows best and
now 1 am happy, happier than I have been for
years. A peace has come in my soul and a
knowledge of what the future will be and some
day not far distant Frank and I will be united
never to part. This life is never ending so I can
wait, and let come what may, it will only be of
short duration.
I thank you, sister, for your tender care. I
realize all now, all your anxiety and hard labor
and I am very grateful. Leila and (62-Vol. IV)
Frankie are two sweet little children and I have
now a care over them. We will all meet you here
some day. I found things here very lovely, just
as Ma had described. But my strong tie was on
earth and I could not be reconciled for a long
time. I feel so happy now, all is so peaceful. I look
not so often on earth and my flowers are blooming
so brightly, so beautifully. I feel like taking
you in my arms and carrying you where you
could see how we live. God bless you. I will
come and talk with you soon and tell you much
that will be new to you. Now rest sister, feel
fresh for to-morrow.
Em."
May 24«* — 1875.
Doctor, Katie and I had a few moments by
ourselves and the unseen loved ones wrote.
"My Dear Child, I have flown from my home,
my palace. I have left all to come and to see you,
my child, for over me came a shadow and 1
felt that it was from you. 1 have come to tell
you that all will be well. God will send (63-
Vol. IV) his angels to help you out of all difficul
ties, and you will see your way clear. I was
sorry you had that disappointment regarding
money, but it is for the best. You will see that
it is for the best and these clouds will pass away
and 'money will be offered to you. Be not cast
down. All will be well. I will now join my
circle and talk with you to-morrow. God bless
you.
Your Mother, Your Ma."
(1) It was.
"My Dear Sarah. George, we include you in
all our terms of endearment. We are all here and
would like to say much and use the pencil with
our own hand, but as the power is weakened we
must shorten our words and give the meaning
only.
We long to see you in a situation less drain
ing upon the system, less strain upon your system.
We repeat this, Sarah, for you do need rest. That
day, that opportunity, I mean, will be offered
to you soon and you must grasp it. Will you not
for the sake of those who love you and whom
you love? Now, do not feel anxious, bear with
those people and the good time will come soon.
God bless you. Do not say (64- Vol. IV) there
is no end to all this, for there
is,
and while you
live on earth. We are working for you and we
will bring all out right. Em. feels so sorry to
see you labor so hard. She wants to help you,
and she will join with us
in
leading you up the
high hill. She
is
here and wants me to tell you
that she has every wish gratified. She wears her
favorite dresses, and she only has to wish for
them when the form
is
clothed
in
all the beauty
the heart desires. She says, 'Tell sister
I
would
not be back again if
I
could,
I
am so happy
here.' She
is
sorry that Lu. cannot help you
more but will not say much about her at present.
Ma
is
very happy to have us with her.
I
must
give place to Mr. Taylor, he
is
a
noble spirit.
God bless you.
Olin."
Mr. Taylor's was purely business and I will
not insert it.
Early
in
June they asked me through the
echoes to mark
a
piece of paper and leave
it
and
a
pencil upon the bureau.
I
put my initials (65-
Vol. IV) upon
a
strip of blank paper about eight
inches wide and eighteen inches long and placed
it
with
a
sharpened pencil upon the bureau. We
sat ten or more feet from
it
but soon we looked
where
I
had left both paper and pencil and nei
ther was there. No person was in the room but
Katie and me. Katie had not left her chair or
changed her position.
288 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
June 5*—1875.
Katie and I were alone a few moments and Ma
wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. We have been with you.
Do not feel anxious. All will be well. I will
say all I wish upon our paper which we will use
to-night, so meet at half past eight. We will
not keep you long. I wish you had more con
genial people to help you in the house. This
constant striving with servants is unpleasant
and gives you uneasiness. We went with you
yesterday. All is well. Now be happy as you
can and meet to-night.
Your Ma."
On that evening at the appointed hour the fol
lowing came from the circle.
(66-Vol. IV) "My Dear Friend. We could
give you the paper to-night and we would too
only we have a desire to place it in your hands
to-morrow, once our beloved day to come and
talk with you. It is still and we wish to give the
first written letter to-morrow, our June Sunday.
Meet at precisely half past one, we will not keep
you long. + + + If tne waY is clear, you had
better meet at half past twelve in the morning.
We will now say 'Good night.' Angels guard
and comfort you; blessings rest upon your Wil
lie. All is well.
Olin and Circle."
June 6*6—1875.
Sunday morning, their day and ours for
sweet communion, came and we met them as ap
pointed and the paper was returned covered on
each side with pencil writing and signed by all
the circle. This, you will observe, is the first
autograph letter from the circle since Katie's re
turn. The two autograph letters of April 27tb
were individual, one was from Olin and the other
J. B. Taylor.
In this letter of June 6th, the hand (67-Vol.
IV) writing changes several times. Dr. Frank
lin's, Ma's and Olin's are marked and then
there seems to be an indescribable mixing of the
hands with places where it is like Em.'s and like
Uncle Albert's and like Isaac T. Hopper. The
following is the letter.
Autograph Letter.
"My Dear Friends. Again we combine our
forces to write with our own hands. We, your
circle, write and it is a great joy for us to be
able to do this. Three years and more have
passed since we talked with you in this way and
you see that the chain is still perfect or we would
not be able to accomplish this so well under the
circumstances.
Our circle is the same only one more added
and that one is Emeline. We let her come and
go as she wills. We love her and do all we can
to make her happy, for it is no easy thing to
come here when the soul is tied to earth; it is a
trial and we are always occupied in smoothing
the way to the paths of eternal life. What good
do we do is a question often asked. We leave
your own hearts to respond.
Oh, my children, what a joy it is (68- Vol. IV)
for us to come to you. Frankie and Leila are
daily with you, watching over their little sister,
guarding her, taking care of her and impressing
you what to do for her when she is sick. 1 Day
and night we stood by you when her life seemed
to hang on a slender thread, we breathed life
into her soul, but for all this there is but one to
feel grateful to! God, the giver of life. God
who knows all things, Who does all things for
the best.
My dear Sarah, your trials are many and
hard to bear. This life you are striving with, its
daily cares are vexatious and often wound the
spirit, but keep good faith, courage and we will
throw as much solace about you as it is in our
power to do. It cannot last long, there will soon
come a change for the better. One year more and
you will have the power to choose your own
course. These days look dark because you have
so many disappointments, but there is an outlet
and it will lead you to prosperous paths. You
alone can understand how joyous we feel to be
able to write again through Katy.
(69-Vol. IV) Bear with all, bear with the
household annoyances, let them go their way,
they will but regret and it will turn out for
(1) Flora was very dangerously ill of dysentery in the summer
of 1878.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 289
your good in the end. 1 cannot, we cannot say
to you, 'be just' for you are just, and your re
ward comes daily. Now this we predict. A
change brought about by mere chance, aided by
unseen guardian spirits, will take place which
will be for your life-long benefit; and that change
will come within three years. So be of good
faith, know that while you are striving and work
ing, this is in store for you. Let it cheer you.
We are with you and will not leave you. You
have said all you can to that person, let him
now take his own course, act as you feel prompt
ed and all will be well.
B. Franklin, Olin, Ma, Isaac T. Hopper,
James B. Taylor and the whole Circle."
June l\tb— 1875.
Again I was in Katie's room and the following
was written, which surprised and startled us.
"My Dear Friend. Before the close of next
week you will have (70-Vol. IV) a very dark
hour, but we will tell you in time so that you may
smile through your tears. All will be well and
all will come out well. The clouds will pass away,
and all will be bright. It is well to have this
warning or you might sink in spirit.
All will be happy and do not feel depressed.
When all is favorable we will make an appoint
ment to write with our own hands. God bless
you.
J. B. T."
After reading the above we asked for explana
tion but they could give none save the assur
ance that no harm was coming to either of our
families.
June 13*A— 1875.
The following two messages were given but
no intimation of what the occasion or circum
stance would be that would make a 'dark hour'
within the fixed time.
"My Dear Friends, Mrs. Taylor and Katy. I
have never deceived you, never said falsely 'All
is well.'
Mrs. Taylor, my dear friend, I see that you
will have some unusual anxieties this week, but
be of good (7I-Vol. IV) cheer, all the clouds
will pass away, and you will be happy in seeing
our predictions one by one, pass away, bringing
the realities one by one and you will think of
us. You will say how true those friends of ours
in the other world have told us, every word has
come true, and you will be glad, so cheer up, do
not give way when shadows come. Think of us
and our faithful care when the predictions one
by one unfold; you will perhaps have more faith
and trust more. When the conditions are favor
able we will come and write you a long letter
with our own hand. Tell George, your husband,
this, and now 'good bye' for awhile.
J. B. T."
"Sarah, my dear child, when you require me
I am always with you so you need not feel that
you are alone. I am with you and will make
every care and cross as light as it is possible to
be. I will stand by you with flowers and strew
them in your pathway and you will feel their
influence.
I see Flora, dear little child. She will soon
feel as well as ever. To-night we will come and
magnetize her, and to-morrow morning she will
be quite well.
(72-Vol. IV) Dear Child, fear not; bear your
crosses. I would they were less. They would
not number one were I to have my own way.
We are very happy here, our family, our celes
tial family. We have a gathering to-day, we
shall all meet. Oh ! what a home of perfect beau
ty we have. When you come here you will ex
claim with wonder at the beauty which surrounds
us. God bless you. All is well.
Your Ma— .
Your protector to all Eternity—Your Mother."
June 18^—1875.
The warning (of some unpleasant event) had
been given us on June 1 1th and predicted to oc
cur before the end of the following week. June
11th was on Saturday and we watched each suc
ceeding day knowing in our hearts that the warn
ing had a meaning. Saturday the 18th came, a
disagreeable, stormy morning, noon came and
still all was well; in a few hours the last day of
the 'next week' would expire, the time for the
'unusual anxiety' would have passed. While I
290 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
was hoping they had made a mistake some one
rushed in and (73-Vol. IV) said that one em
ployee of ours (an intelligent, capable man but
addicted to strong drink) had stumbled in an un
finished building at the other end of our block,
and fallen two stories among iron beams, and
been taken up and was then being carried away
by the police in a dying state.
Instantly I recognized the warning. That
evening as early as practicable George and I
went up to Katie's room and the subjoined was
written.
"My Dear Sarah and George. We were with
you to-day when the announcement was made
and we were sure that you would think of our
predictions. Well, Sarah it has come, that
which would annoy and disturb you but be for
the best. Now, my dear Sarah, look for the
sure completion of these predictions and it will
come and you will be happy. All is well. It
was for the best, it will be for the best in the
future we see clearly. We will not say much to
night. It is our request for you all to go to rest.
We want Katy fresh to-morrow and the meeting
will be at two, not at two, but precisely at one
o'clock.
Mr. Taylor says 'Go to bed now and (74-Vol.
IV) to-morrow you will be rewarded.' Let us
entreat you to be as little fatigued as possible
for we will write with our own hands. We have
not the power to do so to-night. Do rest at once,
Katy, and we will come and quiet the babies.
Dear Sarah and George, be happy and all will
be well. Do not look on the dark side.
Olin."
June 23rd— 1875.
We had not yet received the promised letter
written by their own hands. They had taken
blank paper and pencil away as before. On this
day they wrote through Katie's hand.
"My Dear Mrs. Taylor. I am happy to come
and tell you what is now passing here in our
land. We find that it is important for us to sift
the future, to look into the future as far as pos
sible. I am teaching the circle. I stand first in
reporting, and looking further than any one else
here, therefore I will explain.
This is a year of events, of wonderful develop
ments, a year of misfortunes and distress, a dark
year (75-Vol. IV) it will be to the most of the
world. And now that we have Katy here we
want to look just as far as we can into your fu
ture and advise you as far as it is possible. We
look as often as possible and I am studying how
to advise, how to direct you to save you from
the blight which so many will feel. Conse
quently, I will say little, and it is best for you
to ask for our circle as little as possible until
we return the paper to you. We have the paper
and will return it when we have filled it to our
satisfaction.
This explanation we wished to give you; bear
in mind that when Katy leaves there is no one
through whom I can come and give you these
proofs, therefore^ I take time to look and to write.
These are things which we wish you to fully
understand so that you can refer to them when
she is far away. To-morrow we will use most of
the day in probing the future. It is slow work
but sure. God bless you. Be grateful, be thank
ful that we have this power given to us. There
are few who will have this blessing besides your
self. You will always thank us for the interest
we have taken in you and yours. This has (76-
Vol. IV) been and is a boon granted to us
through our love for you and desire to reward
you for your superior faith.
J. B. T."
June 29**— 1875.
The promised autograph letter not yet re
ceived. I sat a few moments with Katie and the
pencil wrote.
"See where I left the pencil. I could not bring
it.
J. B. T."
After reading the above we found the promised
letter. The blank strip of paper (eight inches
by three feet) which they had taken days be
fore, lay near us entirely covered with writing.
The pencil we found outside the open window on
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 291
the sill. We were in a room on the sixth story.
The autograph letter follows.
"Dear Children. This is a year of change, a
year of events, of mysteries, a year of great de
velopments, to most of the world a year of mis
fortunes. Many will weep over their calamities.
You, my children, we can only impress your
minds with (77-Vol. IV) the importance of
trusting in us. Trust in the unseen power for
there is always a protecting hand stretched forth
to protect you when others fall. It is your faith
which saves you from much that is painful,
much that would otherwise crush you. Oh! my
children, rejoice that it is so. We are with you,
we have looked well into the future and now our
advice to you is this, get everything in as com
plete order as possible, then give out to a few
sincere friends your intention to sell. Make as
much out of the hotel as you can. We are quite
sure that it will bring you sufficient to pay all
expenses. This will not be such a very unsuc
cessful summer, do not feel depressed. There
will come a change which will let you out of all
your present entanglements. We are sorry to see
you so perplexed, but bear with all for awhile.
The dull time is now, beware of doing too much
without seeing your way perfectly clear; be care
ful whom you take into your house, boarders
and help. Let us also prepare you for trials in
your own family. They seem to be near and you,
dear Sarah, (78-Vol. IV) will require all your
strength. Guard your health that you may be
permitted to soothe and watch over those dear
to you who may require your care. A loving,
tender hand to smooth the pillow on which the
sick head rests is a choice blessing and goes far
towards restoration, goes far towards giving
health and happiness. Remember this. These
are your mother's words of advice. And remem
ber that we are with you although you hear not
the familiar echoes of your unseen loved ones
who watch faithfully over you.
Do not have a man in the house who says to
your boarders that he dislikes you. We shall be
happy to see him go, not to return.
This is private. Keep William under your eye
this summer. Do not let him go away unless he
is accompanied with some one who will watch
him as carefully as yourself. We speak to you,
Sarah, in this sentence exclusively. When dark
hours come, and there will be some very dark,
bear in mind that we have looked well into the
future and see that you (79-Vol. IV) will come
out bright as the brightest diamond.
George, carry out your plans and you will be
rewarded by seeing fruits of labor. The fruit
of your labor and you will feel satisfied. We
will not say farewell now. We have more to
say before Katy leaves and we will seek the op
portunity. God bless you. All is well. We are
all together, the whole circle. God bless you.
B. Franklin.
Isaac T. Hopper. Olin. Ma. Emeline and the
whole Circle."
Willie was just leaving for or had already
gone, alone, to Harvard College for preliminary
examination. Naturally when I read the pre
ceding letter I took alarm at once. The pencil
in Katie's hand wrote immediately as follows.
"Do not feel worried about your son William.
He is safe and well and we will have a care over
him but just give him this warning. He must
not go bathing; he must not ride wild horses;
he must not go for long walks alone. Be so kind
as to (80-Vol. IV) send him this message, it
will save you much sorrow and him much suf
fering. Do this and all will be well, -f -|
—h
J. B. T."
Brother Olin and sister Emeline announced
their presence and I inquired how Willie would
get along with his examination, and they wrote.
"Dear Sarah, he will get along splendidly. Olin
and I will stand by him, yes, and give him con
fidence. We will put words in his mouth and do
more for him than his memory can.
Olin is too wise, I think, sister, he can do
everything that any one else can."
"Em. does me injustice, Sarah, I am conscious
of my great powers but not at all conceited."
"Olin now wrongs me for I love him too much
to think him in the least conceited."
"Well, Sarah, you see how very near we are
292 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
to each other. Em. and I are standing by your
side hand in hand."
"Be not disturbed, sister, for all is well. We
will all take care of Willie.
Emeline. Olin."
(81-Vol. IV) In a few moments the pencil
continued.
"We have taken something from you to-night
which we will return before Katy leaves. You
shall hear from us again. You will be happy
and see another proof of our great care and love.
Rest now for you have blessings, our choicest
blessings for your mantle to-night.
J. B. T. and Circle.
Put pencil out on window sill.
J. B. T."
Another strip of blank paper like those taken
before had disappeared from the room but the
pencil still remained where I had left it. I now
placed it outside the window on the sill and
soon it too was gone.
June 30th— \875.
Katie was to sail for Europe on July 5th and
now she was going to her sister's, Mrs. Under
bill's, to visit during the interim and I feared
we should receive no further advice, no more
words of sympathy and encouragement, but be
fore she left the house the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah, Willie is well and safe and
happy too, so (82- Vol. IV) do not feel worried.
We have something which we will return to you
and it will be before Katy goes to Europe. All
will be bright as the brightest sky, so do not feel
disturbed. To-morrow will be Thursday, so
either to-morrow or Friday we will see that Katy
comes here and you shall have our last parting
letter. We have in reserve something for you
which will make you happy. The future to-day
looks unusually cloudless. This we will explain
in our letter.
Be of good cheer, look forward to what is to
come. Trust in us and you will not be deceived.
No more now as we are busy with your affairs,
also keeping a strict watch over Willie. We
promise you that no harm shall come to him
while we are near him and he will return to your
arms as he left you. God bless you.
Olin."
"Do you not know, dear sister, that I am now
looking how to advise, you? You shall hear
from us all before Katy goes. We wanted to
morrow to talk with you a long, (83-Vol. IV)
long time, but we cannot as we are working in
another way for you. Be not discouraged, we
are not and you must not be.
Em."
July 3rd— 1875.
Katy called. The weather was very warm and
one of her children was quite ill, still she left
him with her sister while she came to do the
bidding of our dearly loved circle.
Their last words to us for years, and perhaps
until we should meet them in their beautiful
home, would come to us now.
We went to the room Katie had vacated a few
days before. We chatted with each other and
had some conversation through the echoes. Di
rectly, 1 1 A. M., the paper marked "S. E. L. T."
by me, and taken without our knowledge on
June 29th was returned and upon it was written
in pencil as follows.
"Dear Sarah and George. This paper we have
taken unknown to you to write our last farewell
words. Katy is going, but you will meet again.
Yes, we feel sure that God who is above us all
will bear her (84-Vol. IV) safely to her husband
and all will be bright. They will both visit here
with their little ones and before long, so be of
good cheer.
Now Sarah and George, let not your souls be
troubled dark as it seems now, at this present
time. The clouds will all pass away, your anxi
ety will pass away, success will come when you
need it most. Do not feel that there is no outlet.
Be brave and the buds will open and the flowers
will bloom and your paths will be golden hued
with the blessings which will daily unfold for
you. Tender hands will drop them from above.
Loving hearts will plead for you at the sunset
hour. We will come to you when you fold your
hands from toil and leave with you an influence
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 293
of peace. You will feel that we are near for you
will realize that which the world cannot give nor
take away. Your little ones here will nestle by
you, climb on the back of your chairs and look
you in the face while you are thinking of what
they are doing in the land of the blessed.
Katy, we know, must hasten back, we see that
her child is sick, but (85-Vol. IV) with the tender
care he is now receiving he will recover and his
father will bless both mother and child when he
clasps him in his arms. So also with bright
eyed baby; he will call forth all the love of his
father and they will be a happy family.
This circle is linked for a time and eternity
and Katy we count in your family.
God bless you. We will send you messages
from over the sea and the chain will not be
broken. You will be directed. Follow the dic
tates of your hearts, Sarah and George. God
bless you.
B. Franklin, Olin, Isaac T. Hopper
Eliza— Ma and the whole Circle
Emeline.
B. Franklin
Olin
Isaac T. Hopper
These three will take especial care of you.
You see I am modest.
J. B. Taylor."
(86-VoI. IV) These were the farewell words of
our kindred and friends whose companionship
we had long ago learned to prize and whose ad
vice and moral support we knew not how to do
without.
Katie went back to her sister's and a day or
two after we bade her "good bye" on the ship
which took her back to her English home and
closed to us all the ways for free and direct com
munication from those who have gone before to
the eternal home. We mourn our loss daily and
hourly and must continue to do so for how long,
oh, how long!
(87-Vol. IV) July \st— 1885.
Ten years had passed since we last saw Katie
borne away from our sight and our land. For
two or three years we received occasionally let
ters from her, but none from our unseen circle.
Finally her family cares and duties occupied her
so much that she ceased writing at all.
Years passed on, her husband died and I no
longer knew her address. Last spring I called
on her sister, Mrs. Underhill, to learn something
of poor, dear Katie but she knew very little and I
concluded in my own mind that we should never
see Katie again.
In the afternoon of July \st, I saw a lady with
a boy pass the hotel and look earnestly towards
it. I noticed her face and thought how strongly
she resembled Katie, only more fleshy and older.
Directly Mrs. Underbill's card was handed me
and I went at once to the drawing room and
found with her a nice looking boy. I asked if he
were her grandchild? She replied, "No," and
still I did not once connect the lady and boy I
had seen on the side-walk with the two before
me. This was one of Katie's boys (88- Vol. IV)
and immediately Katie and her other son entered
the room.
My joy can better be imagined than described.
Here was Katie looking well and happy, though
ten years older, with two nice healthy looking
English boys.
I took them all to my own private parlor and
after chatting a little while Katie asked for paper
and pencil and the following came.
"My Dear Darling Sister. I am so happy, so
happy! We shall have such sweet meetings
again, as of old. We shall talk of the past, pres
ent and future. We shall advise. We will bring
all the loved ones back to whisper their loving
greetings in your ear. My dearest sister, my be
loved; all is well! All will be well.
Give George this message; I will talk with him
about his trouble when we meet.
God bless you. 1 Our dear Ma is with Willie.
Meet me soon.
Olin."
George could not understand Olin's message for
he had no trouble.
After reading the communication (89-Vol. IV)
Katie agreed to dine with us on the 3rd and give
(1) Willie was then crossing the ocean.
294 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the meeting they so much desired. She was de
tained, however, and did not reach here until nine
in the evening. We had a pleasant visit. She
told us of the death of her husband and his com
ing back to her many weeks after; of her stay in
St. Petersberg, her interviews with the Czar, etc.
Before she left the pencil wrote.
July 3rd— 1885.
"My Dear Sarah and George. Here we are
again, happy to have our old times over again.
We will take up the thread to-night; we will link
the chains and continue our work where we left
off some years ago. You, dear Sarah and George,
have not gone back, you have advanced, and
that helps us to take up the thread and tell you
all about our home and the friends we have met
in the paths of Eternity.
Sarah, my darling, I have much to tell you.
The first is that I am going to show you Leila
as she is now, and you will perceive that she is
like Flora. I will give you a picture of them
both; first of Leila. I will (90-Vol. IV) direct
about the paper and crayons.
Dearest Sarah, I have always told you that
great changes were coming, and now let me beg
you to keep good courage, for there has shone
upon your pathway a bright star by which I
have read in the future. But I will not enter
in that to-night, for when I do I shall require
the paper marked and the room dark.
1 I am very anxious, George, for you to have
your whole business under your own control. I
want you to know that success and honor is be
fore you, greater than you have yet experienced.
Take good care of your health. Everything is
coming out bright and just as we predicted years
ago. Do not worry. George, do not, above all
things, do not get low spirited. Never imagine
that you are going to be overwhelmed with
trouble.
This message 1 give with such a happy heart,
that I want you to feel happy when you read it
over, especially when work is slack and the
business dull.
(1) He had allowed hia business to be managed by an assistant
Kreatly to hia injury.
Ma wishes me to tell you that Willie is well
and happy. She (91 -Vol. IV) wants to know
when you will let her come and manifest to you
and talk with you. She has had a long meeting
with our dear sister Emeline.
Now, dear Sarah, I have taken the lead to
night, but each one and all have echoed a word.
You know what kind of drawing paper to get
and the meeting soon as we can have it.
What makes my heart so glad? Why is there
music in my soul? Why is it sweeter? I will
tell you. I am talking with you and look once
more into your inner thoughts. All send love.
Bless you my darling.
Yours forever and ever.
Olin."
"My Dear Son. I will speak next time, and
now bear in mind that I shall stand at the head
of the telegraph. Bless you both.
B. Franklin."
"My Child. Your father is coming soon.
Ma.
I will tell you often of Willie. How happy I
shall be when dear husband comes.
Your Mother."
(92-Vol. IV) A few days after the above date
the Doctor became greatly annoyed and a good
deal perplexed about the probability of having
to change the location of his office. There were
matters connected therewith particularly disagree
able.
Now we understood what Olin alluded to on
the \st, a week or more before we had a mistrust
of the coming trouble, he saw it and wanted to
help George over it.
July 27th— 1885.
Katie called at about noon. I was expecting
her and she came directly to my parlor. Very
soon the echoes came and it was Em. I signified
my joy and gladness at her presence and made
some inquiry. She replied by saying "Ask me
about Frank." (Frank was her husband she had
left here nearly twelve years ago when they had
been two years married. He was married again
some four years ago.) She then wrote.
"You know how I feel, how 1 wish that he could
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 295
have been a believer in this truth. He would
have been a happy man now.
(93-Vol. IV) Well, dear Sarah, I shall not
grieve. I will tell you how happy I am here with
Olin, Ma and all the rest. They are going to
speak to you soon. Ma has Frankie and Leila.
They have grown and are very beautiful. You
will recognize them when you see them at the
open door in the daylight of heaven with the
light of purity on their brows.
Oh, Sarah dear, how I long to see you resting
with less anxiety. Flora gathering daisies for
you; and Willie translating some Latin poem;
that is what I see in your future. George reclin
ing by your side under a large tree, and we, your
beloved ones, smiling down upon you. (To be
continued after lunch.)"
At this moment a tray with lunch for us was
brought in. We spent a half hour or more over
our meal and then returned to our former seats
at the table by the window and immediately Em.
continued.
"While you were taking lunch I went to find
Dr. Kenyon and Dr. Franklin. They will speak
in a few minutes.
(94-Vol. IV) In my walk here, I one day met
Mr. and Mrs. Smith. They were walking arm
in arm. Mrs. Smith paused to speak to me and
told me to give her love to you when Katie
called. She is happy with her ,good husband,
but a shadow will hang over their souls while
their son is so reckless. I saw the shadow and
passed on.
I do not think that Frank is worthy of my de
votion. I see clearly now, and although some
things pain me, I am happier for having things
made clear to my vision.
Ma says that you are on the very step of the
happiest days of your life. You and George are
on the threshold of prosperity. Dr. Franklin
will tell you more than I can. I have so much
to tell you, so much to say, and I rejoice that I
have the opportunity. Oh, how I rejoice that
Katie is here. I am like a child who goes to its
first party, like a young girl who goes to her first
ball, I am wild with delight to talk with you. I
am sitting by your side, going from room to room
and Olin is (95-Vol. IV) as happy as I am. He
has, laid out much of his time for you, and he will
be the happiest of all men when he takes up the
thread. His lovely companion is with him.
When I look back and see how mistaken I was
in Frank's affection and everlasting love for me I
feel thankful that I have come home, to live
where love increases every hour, where beauty is
etherealized, and life is eternal. Oh, Sarah, how
blest we are to know this truth. Think how
many follow their beloved ones to the grave and
say farewell with no hope of ever meeting them
again. Sister we are indeed blest and doubly so.
In half an hour we wish to meet for Dr. B. F.
Em."
At this point the paper was handed me to read.
I noticed her writing "Dr." Kenyon instead of
Prof. and when I read about the Smiths I could
not recall a person in the other world by that
name. Both Katie and I tried to think. We
knew of plenty Smiths here but none in heaven.
I asked also who she meant by "Olin's lovely
companion." She wrote.
(96-Vol. IV) "Why, sister, don't you remem
ber 1Mrs. Gerret Smith? I will not tell her
that you have forgotten her. Give me a message
to take to her and Prof. Kenyon. Did I say
'Dr.' I mean Prof. Kenyon.
Katie is right, dear sister, the love you and
George bear for each other, not only makes your
hearts young, but likewise your faces, for the
face borrows its beauty from within.
Sister, my memory is better than yours. Mrs.
Smith and a young man had rooms over yours in
38th Street and I used often to call in to see her.
My heart goes back to those days when I used to
watch for Frank's letters. Those days were hap
py, sister.
2 She is a young girl we both met here over
two years ago. She introduced herself to us both,
and Olin holds sweet converse with her often,
and calls her his companion. Her name is Olive.
(1) Mrs. Gerret Smith had been a patient of my husband's and
lived in our family many months and at different times. She
told me facts about these manifestations Ion? before I had any
real knowledge upon the subject. She died in the winter of
1878-1874. Her husband had gone before.
(2) "Olin's companion."
296 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Olin will tell you how happy he is to see you so
well and everything about you so cheerful. He
will speak next. 1 am going to talk all I can
after the others have finished.
Em."
(97-Vol. IV) "My Dear Sister Sarah. 1 will
fill up this paper and more. You will forgive me
if I come first.
Although Emeline has said all the sweet
things I have much more to say. Olive Travers
I have many happy walks with in these endless
gardens. She never knew much about spiritual
ism until 1 explained to her. She left a sorrow
ing mother two years and six months ago, and
tried in every way to comfort her; and when she
told me so much of her life, and how her moth
er's grief retarded her happiness in the spheres
above, I explained spiritualism to her, and went
with her to comfort her mamma. We left peace
in her soul. We could not audibly manifest to
her, but we left.her peaceful. There are no medi
ums in San Francisco to whom we could send
her, for we knew of none. Now, Olive has be
come very happy and visits, different people and
places with me. 1 loved her very much the first
time I saw her for her innocent devotion to little
children here, and I have helped her in her work.
She looks like Leila, and they are companions as
well.
You see, dearest Sarah, we are (98-VoI. IV)
happy here for we have everything to make us
happy. I hope, you will talk about this world
to little May-flower and say that Uncle Olin
loves her and will take care of her all her life.
Let her become familiar, with us, and we will take
all fear from her. She has a bright life before
her, full of roses, only a few crosses. Dear child,
I have always had a care over her. Let her have
as much fresh air and change as possible.
The Professor is standing with his hand on
your shoulder. He is so happy to.be here to-day.
He says that he does not care to talk in any
other way than this. I will let him talk for him
self.
1 Do you remember Bradley's old cap? He had
a laugh over that some days ago. He is very
happy and often tells me that he is going to look
in upon Sarah. He never forgets old friends.
Frequently he says, "how happy I am to be free
from pain."
In a few short years you and George will settle
down quietly with your little family about you,
and give most of your time to us. (99-Vol. IV)
Fortune will smile upon you. Earth's wants will
be filled and happiness will be yours in the first
degree, lives well earned, and plenty well earned
by honest labor.
1 will call Flora my flower, my rosebud, my
little June flower. Sweet is the dream of future
joys for her.
2 Dear George, you shall hear from us all. In
the month of Oct. you will have many patients
from abroad. Be of good cheer! Read this to
George, by that time Dr. Franklin will talk, but
wait, our dear mother comes.
Yours forever
Olin."
"My Dearest Sarah. It is July and we are
to-day not dreaming but really and truly talking
with each other. What a joy! My children, so
dear to me, those in heaven and those on earth
under my protection; and I am so happy with
this boon. When the summer departs it will
bring another dear one into our fold. No one
here, dear Sarah, so do not worry. I am with him
much of the time. His weary foot-steps will soon
have new life. Do, dear child, try to smooth the
(100-Vol. IV) way. Oh, sigh not when one is
wafted up to our celestial spheres. Sigh not when
the soul leaves the worn out form to find eternal
life in a new existence. My soul rejoices; every
day one step nearer comes my beloved. Frankie
and Leila are very sweet messengers. They go
to see how those I love on earth are when I can
not, and they bring me messages and take mes
sages for me. They are very far advanced, this
boy and girl.
(1) Bradley left * note addressed to me to be opened after his
death and in it he asked to have his "old cap" put upon his
head in his coffin. I did as he wished. He died in 187S. Katie
was in Europe and the incident had never been alluded to or
thought of in her presence.
(2) At this point George came in from his office.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 297
Dear child, this home for your children will
reap a rich reward, or rather you will reap a
rich reward from
it,
and in
a
few years great
changes will come. All things will rejoice in your
happiness and thrive under your care. All
is
well. You have arranged everything well and
for the best.
Olin.
I
had to help our dear mother at the
close."
"Dear Sister. Emma Wells
is
just the same
as ever, very fretful and full of trouble. She
sends her love to you and George.
Em."
(101-Vol. IV) "Pa draws mother from you to
day, his mind
is
wandering. Closely linked as
they are his thoughts and mind are with our
mother. He will be
a
very bright spirit though
when he comes here."
At this point the papers were handed me to
read, for several pieces were covered now. When
I
had finished
I
remarked that
I
had done all
I
knew how for Pa. Directly Ma continued.
"My Dear Loving Child. You have done all
you could for your father. Let your heart be
glad, for
I
am happy and do not wish to leave
gloom on this bright day.
I
will waft your father
blessings, and when he
is
restless quiet him and
show him
a
vision of the future. Gradually the
veil will drop from his eyes, and he will behold
us in the beautiful abode of the blest.
Your Mother E."
"My Dear Son and Daughter.
It
is
but
a
step from the golden stairs to the threshold of
human existence. Not long at
a
time have your
unseen guests been separated (102- Vol. IV) from
you. Mark well these words. We will never
leave you
in
sorrow, nor perplexed, nor troubled,
nor comfortless. My children, there will come
a
day when we shall sit down together and talk
almost face to face. Advances are being made
daily. Your faith
is
so supremely beautiful
that
it
rests my spirit to look into yours.
My children, these are golden moments and we
will do much for you.
I
am not egotistical
when
I
say that
I
have stood very often between
you and trouble and turned away the threatening
clouds.
I
ever shall.
x
Talk not of condescen
sion;
it
is
a
very great pleasure for me to com
municate with you, and
I
will take that liberty
often
if
you will allow.
Let me make
a
prediction. The day of great
triumph
is
near for you; the day of gladness
is
near; the clouds will pass away and all will be
well.
2
Ah, yes, my children, even then
I
impressed
you to go to that medium.
I
did talk with you
through that medium and impressed you how to
act.
(103- Vol. IV)
I
will once more assure you, my
dear children, that
a
few years more and you will
realize all your hearts' desire, and
I
will guide
you to bright shores and advise you, and direct
your course.
My son, keep independent of everybody
in
your healing. Let your faith make glad your
heart. I wish to impress upon your mind, George,
to have faith
in
yourself, and in our help. You
have
a
long life before you yet to do great good.
Try not to fall in low spirits, be not oppressed.
There
is
not
a
man who can do more good
in
his
profession than you, then work with
a
cheerful
spirit.
I
have
a
work for you to do and the next
time we meet,
I
will touch upon my plan. My
time will be freely yours to command. Let not
anxiety cloud your thoughts, not while so much
brightness gilds your sky.
Wait awhile and
I
will come again.
B. F.
(To be continued after dinner)"
Six o'clock had come and
a
waiter entered
with our dinners. The power (104-Vol. IV) left
Katie's hand and the pencil dropped. After sun
down we sat again by the open window and the
pencil resumed as follows.
"My Dear Children. Again
I
am with you.
The sun has gone down and shines now on the
dark side of earth. How soft the air comes in
wafting to you gratefully the balm of peace.
(1)
I
had just said that
I
thought
it
great condescension for Dr.
Franklin to come to us. and ao think
I
atill.
(2) Whil* the pencil was writing
I
told Katie of our having
visited a medium in her absence and that Dr. Franklin seemed
to meet us.
I
wanted to know if
I
was mistaken in thinking
he talked with me through that medium.
298 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
1 My children, 1 hear your voices more dis
tinctly when talking with you in this way. 1
can go more minutely into your lives.
I have often taken the little ones in my arms,
and they know how happy 1 am to-day. While
talking as I passed them now they said, 'Are you
going to see dear Mamma and Papa?' 1 told
yes! with a kiss and then they went to hear the
music of the angels. They speak often of their
little sister on earth, and will be happy to make
her acquaintance.
On Thursday 1 will meet you again; perhaps
before. I will see that Katy comes often and
gives me frequent opportunities of talking. God
bless you both, my children.
(105-VoI. IV) Yours always,
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dear Sarah and George. Long, long has
been the time since I last wrote you and happy
am I to take up the connecting link and breathe
to you my heart felt love and joy and gratitude
to the Great Giver of all Good, Who has once
more opened the way to our reunion. Dr.
Franklin and I have often talked over the past
and knew that the time was not far distant when
we would talk together as in former years. I
can never become indifferent to you and George,
or leave an opportunity like this without ex
pressing my unbounded esteem.
I have watched the progress of your son and
have helped him in his studies.
Many have come here since we have talked
with you. Changes in my own family. I have
become advanced in spiritual knowledge, and I
have you to thank for all I know. You were the
first to teach me my alphabet in spiritualism,
and open the beautiful study.
1 congratulate you on the (106-Vol. IV) con
struction of your house, and also the new im
provements. Success attend you! I bless you
both, but will say no more at present as the
power is exhausted. God bless you. The dear
absent ones are well and happy.
Your friend
Prof. Kenyon."
"We will all meet again very soon.
B. F."
Dec. 4tb—lS85.
Katie did not call again before going with her
children to Western New York, where she re
mained until late in the autumn and not till this
date did we again see her. The pencil wrote im
mediately.
"My Dear Sarah. True is the old proverb
'There is a destiny that shapes our ends rough
hew them as we may.' xNow we have Katy to
ourselves and we will be able to manifest to you
in the old way, the dear old times. We will sit
down with you as of old, talk with you as we
used to. So many are now waiting to speak, so
anxious to begin where they left off. (107- Vol.
IV) You remember my promise to come to you
and write you a long letter, a private letter? I
wish I could just take hold of you and kiss you.
I would like you to feel my kiss of love.
Sarah, life is full of happiness in a way which
is concealed at present. You shall know soon.
Now while I write I see a great change coming.
Let not your heart be troubled for the bright
sky predicts more than you better know at this
meeting. I will write you all about it in my
private letter. There are bright changes coming
for our little family. We are all together.
There will be a great gathering here at Christ
mas time. We all want to give you a Christmas
greeting and drop some pearls into your earthly
flowers. 2 I want to present you with a gift more
valuable than any you will receive except from
the hands of your own beloved; the beloved of
your life, true, faithful and good. God bless
you George.
Dear Sarah, you remember Prof. K. He is here
and wants me to tell you that he is looking into
your affairs and will talk with you about pri
vate matters, when next we meet. Dear Em.
is happy. She comes to you often and so do we
all. (108- Vol. IV) I am happy, very happy to
see dear Willie. Loving him as I do I follow his
course and I am happy to say that he will have
a very successful future. In business he is aided
(1) While he was writing I asked if he could see us better, etc,
when Katie was here.
( 1) Katie had left her sister Leah and come to us to find a home.
(2) The Doctor entered the room about this time.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 299
by us and he will realize this every month more
and more. He will have an offer soon that will
give him great happiness. Now, my dear, I will
come again to-morrow and say more. God bless
you.
Olin."
Dec. 8ri>— 1885.
Katie gave them no opportunity for speaking
on the next day nor until this date.
"My Dear Child. I am here. On such a day
as this I once came to you with the two darlings
whose pictures you were anxiously looking for.
Such a bright morning as this when the sun
shone in the window, and darling Em. kept out
intruders. Those meetings were years ago, but
seem as yesterday to us, only that some of those
who played in important scenes are here now to
bear messages from one sphere to another. Brad
ley and Emeline have many walks together into
different countries and when you have time to
listen they will tell you (109-Vol. IV) what they
have seen and how happy they are to under
stand the different channels and different spheres.
We have something to learn every day, every
moment there is something new to learn. Herein
is the great charm of the spiritual life.
I will tell you, dear Sarah, what is best for
you to do. I want you to get me a blank book
and let it be for direct writing and private mes
sages. When Katy comes again have this book.
Don't get it too large; one that we can handle.
I see that a very great change is coming here,
in this place, not bad. In a day or two I shall be
able to see more distinctly, a change will come
and for the better; at first things will look dark.
Be happy Sarah, my beloved child. All will be
radiantly bright. Be of good cheer. There is
much going on now for your good. I will say
no more at present but will go and watch at the
great temple and read the future. God bless
you.
Your Mother
Ma."
Dec. 8th 10 P. M.— 1885.
"My Dear Sister. Again we have the oppor
tunity to make our presence (110-Vol. IV)
known. Silently we glide in; silently we glide
out only to return again. There is a great
change near when you will rejoice for Willie will
be the principal actor. I like to foreshadow these
things as a proof to you.
I have been with Ma and Em. to-day. We
have looked into the future and see that all looks
bright so far as we are permitted to look into the
depths. Be not fearful of unhappiness for as I
looked to-day down the stream, I saw no bubbles,
all was smooth; when I looked up to the sky I
saw no clouds, and when I looked into my
mother's face I saw a heavenly smile of peace.
That was enough for my spirit to soar away with
my dear companion to the distant planets, where
we love to visit. With free spirit I paused and
stood where your eyes have looked on the bright
est star in all the heavens, where Frankie and his
sister loved to follow when I told them where
we walked. They love to go with me, those
buds.
There are great events about to happen. This
winter will be one of the happiest you have ever
had. God bless you.
(Ill-VoI. IV) That book must be written in by
yourself first, Sarah, simply say, 'For our be
loved in the beautiful Summer Land.'
Olin."
Dec. Mtb— 1885.
"We often look into the house of mourning and
if there is a chord that we can touch to vibrate in
unison with our feelings we can comfort the sor
rowing spirit. So when Mr. Vanderbilt was ly
ing unconscious on the floor we found our way
by the side of his wife to see where we could be
of aid. However, she was so bewildered that no
touch of ours could be felt. We hovered over
the unconscious form, as they supposed, and
remained until his spirit awoke. Late at night
after his body was placed in his own room I went
in and read the minds of those who mourned
over him. His wife and youngest son were alone,
and then I thought, could I comfort her? I
sought out the way. I heard her say in gentle
tones 'Oh, if he could only speak, if he could
only say one word.' I left a soothing influence
300 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
with her and now I will work a plan by which she
will hold (112- Vol. IV) intercourse with her
husband. 1 am going to have her see Katy here,
in this very room. She has a very good heart
and I feel sure, after the funeral is over she will
need this balm to heal her wounded spirit. I
want help from you, my darling, to do this, all
the directions in due time.
Now, dear sister, what would some people on
earth not give to be permitted to look into that
family home and hearts. I thought it would be
interesting for you to hear and will dwell upon
it if you will give me the opportunity to-morrow.
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah. I was looking into affairs
here last night. There is some dissatisfaction you
will learn of soon, but be not disturbed,
Olin."
"My Dear Sarah, When the waves rise I am
always on hand to give you my aid; and when
you have too much anxiety I will bear the heavi
est part, so be not cast down. I have been with
Olin this morning, talking over this matter and
there will be a way opened for intercourse with
Mrs. Vanderbilt.
(113-Vol. IV) I want a short meeting just at
dark soon, between daylight and dark, say twi
light. We will name the time to-morrow. I will
require the blank-book with pencil placed under
neath the table. Do not ask for what reason but
leave all with us. 1 The writing is just as we
wished it. The request was made first by Dr.
Franklin. He proposed the blank-book and he
will make one of our circle. He is divine to look
upon. His eyes are the most benevolent and
sympathizing I have ever looked into. I often
go and consult with him on private affairs re
garding you here.
My dear child, I have been looking for dear
Emeline. She will follow Frank and often re
turns to me with a shadow on her spirit. We
talk together little of Frank's affairs. I cannot
sympathize with Emeline in her great love for
Frank. I want you to talk with her freely some
(1) The dedication of their blank-book.
day and tell her what you know and all you
feel.
Tell dear George that he will shine forth like
a bright star and be appreciated in his profession
when he least expects it; and tell him never to be
come irritable and nervous. His spirit must
never have a shadow (1 14-Vol. IV) when he looks
in upon his darling household.
God bless you, my dear child.
Your Mother."
Dec. \4th— 1885.
Katie did not call on the following day nor
until this date and upon her taking the pencil
we were surprised by the difficulty with which
the pencil wrote and the strangeness of the hand.
Katie remarked "Some one is writing that has
never been back before." It was as follows.
"Do you remember that I once said that I had
lost husband and children and I was glad for I
felt happy to know where they were, and I knew
that they would make my way easy for me? I
am happy to come, and hope I do not intrude.
Helen."
1 at once recognized Helen Hunt Jackson,
"H. H." Many years ago, directly after the
death of her last child, we had often and long
conversations upon this subject. I never saw
her after her marriage to Mr. Jackson. She
passed away in Aug. of this year.
The pencil continued.
(115-Vol. IV) "My Son. You will never be
very successful while you have Dr. H. for a
worker in the same house. There will be a change.
You will not have to make
it,
as something un
foreseen will transpire, which will take him away.
Now ask no more to-night about it.
I
am going to give full directions. Meet to
morrow night for book. God bless you! George,
you will feel great confidence in my advice as
time goes on.
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dearest Sarah. To-night
I
cannot say
much, but to-morrow
I
shall be here with Ma
and others of the circle, when you meet for the
book.
I
shall now keep watch over your future
and the dear ones about you.
I
see much
is
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 301
about to unfold soon which will surprise you
and cause great sorrow to some. The nation will
have a great loss. We can say no more to-night.
Olin."
The pencil continued.
"My Dear Child. 1 am happy to have the
book where we directed. Our influence will be
left, and to-morrow (116- Vol. IV) we shall be
able to do what we desire with it: we shall re
quire the room darkened.
Dr. Franklin wishes George to keep his mind
on being sole manager and dictator, head of all.
Dr. Franklin will advise in good time. The in
fluence is not wholly in accordance with our
views of success over 1 there. We do not feel
in perfect unison with them, and you will have
to make a change next summer; but do not wor
ry, advice will be given; then you can act for
yourself.
2 Willie, 1 will answer your question. I never
like the word 'loaf.' You do right to rest now
until a change comes. We see that a bright
opening will soon be offered to you, very satis
factory. Be satisfied!
And now, dear Sarah, let me tell you how love
ly your Leila is. She and Frankie are now
standing by your side, the fair girl and the dark
eyed boy.
Olin is still looking into the house so deserted
with all its magnificence and beauty; the veiled
pictures and the vacant chair are the monuments
of grief for the poor disconsolate widow. She
mourns without knowing that (117-Vol. IV) her
husband sits in his own chair and longs to see all
the pictures uncovered. Well, all I can do, I
will. Olin will not cease till he has given her
comfort. God bless you.
Your Ma."
In conversation after reading the above I
queried of cousin Frank (who died more than a
year ago and of whom we were all fond) who
never came here with our circle. The pencil
wrote.
"He is more often with his parents, and you
(1) At the Doctor's office which is a few doors off on another
street.
(2) In the course of the hour Willie had asked Ma what she
thought of his loafing.
know there would be no use of sending messages
to your uncle. Sometime the 1 boys will talk.
I will bring them with me.
Your old friend
Prof. K."
Dec. 15*A — 1885. Evening.
Katie came as desired and after placing their
blank-book under the table in compliance with
their request, we seated ourselves about the
table and the pencil wrote.
"There will be great joy over this book soon;
only be patient and let us have our own way.
Mr. Vanderbilt will soon have power to talk
with you. We will write soon, and what he will
say will be very important. (118- Vol. IV) My
dear sister, I will bring him for he is pleased
with the privilege of coming, and has the desire
that I shall help him to form a letter to his wife.
He is not unhappy, only distressed to see Ms
family, more especially his wife, so hopeless and
helpless in their grief. I am going to stand by
him and aid him all I possibly can. First, he will
come and talk with you, then he will give direct
writing and so exact that his wife will at once
recognize it as her husband's. I think that you
had better give your thoughts to him a little,
dear Sarah, in order to draw him nearer to you.
No one knows what a good man Mr. Vander
bilt was. People may say what they please, but
he was full of charity. He did not give where
the world would praise, but in secret, to the
widow and orphan, to those who really needed
help. He did not go forth and say, 'I have
given to this one and to that one,' but went
himself and sought out those who would have
died of starvation and cold, had it not been for
his helping hand, and he would only say to his
wife, 'I have helped a poor woman and her
family and taken misery from their door.' He
never put it on the pages (119- Vol. IV) of the
'Herald' or other papers: and that is what I call
a good man.
Why do I dwell on this subject? Because I
like Mr. Vanderbilt, I admire his spirit, and so
will you.
(1) Frank's brother Henry died in 1878.
302 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
Now, my beloved sister, I will say no more
on this subject to-night. We have plenty of
time before us and I feel at ease. Let the
shadows go. All will be well! The greatest
pleasure 1 have had was taking Mr. Vanderbilt
to our bower of roses. He was so pleased with
the artistic work of heavenly hands. He will
help you all. I tell you a great and glorious day
is dawning for this little circle here in this room.
God bless you, my dear sister, bless you and
yours.
Olin.
Ma is coming."
After a moment's delay the pencil continued.
"My Dear Child. 1 am so happy to see my
family in the immortal world able to help you
on earth. Olin is the same dear boy he was
when in mortal form and takes deepest interest
in all your affairs. He is a dear, brave boy. He
is all over, keeps his eyes on the little maiden
and youth, Leila and Frankie. (120- Vol. IV)
We shall have much to tell you and much to
write. Do not look inside the book; place it
carefully away and when we meet place it under
the table without looking in it.
Emeline is here. She is very happy and wants
to talk with you. She is going to look for Frank
and see if he still thinks of her. She leaves her
love for you and George and Willie and Flora.
Now, my dear child, I can say no more to-night
for I have an appointment with Dr. Franklin and
we are going to look into very important affairs,
and you shall know all.
We have seen the sun go down to-night, to
shine on a bright future for our beloved. How
happy we are! how happy you should be! You
shall feel our blessings and know that they come
from God. Good night. We can say no more.
Meet just as soon as you can.
Your Ma."
Dec. 18** — 1885 11 A. M.
Katie came to our parlor and the pencil di
rectly wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. When we told you to place
the book under the table, we had our reasons;
now we want the book to have a shade over it.
Do not open it."
(121-Vol. IV) 1 placed the book under the
table and covered it with one thickness of paper
and then sat down by Katie, we two only, and
the pencil soon wrote.
"My Dearest Sarah. All will be well! The
voices in the spheres above sing out in sweet
strains that, all will be well, for there is a great
work for you to do yet in this world. You have
been promised much. You shall receive much.
You shall have all our aid, and oh how we shall
rejoice when we see you less anxious, when we
see your heart full of peace and happiness. When
you can throw aside the crosses and feel at lib
erty to do so, and in their stead, take up the full
blown roses while we breathe upon the buds, and
the leaves open with untold blessings for you
and yours.
My dearest Sarah, I will be here to-morrow
night and we will have a happy meeting. I see
now a cloud moving quietly, slowly away, sure
ly away. My dearest sister, great changes are
coming. They are taking place now. I have
been trying to look into the future, but it is too
soon. I must wait a day or two.
I would like to tell you more about (122-Vol.
IV) Mr. Vanderbilt. He will be here to-morrow
night and talk with you. His words will be to
great effect. What he says means much.
Tell George I want him to take great care and
attend to his own patients, wholly. I will say no
more as no harm can come now.
1 shall require a meeting, at all events, to-mor
row night, and 1 Willie, my boy, we shall be
happy to have you here. God bless you, my son.
To-day I shall seek out Dr. Franklin. He will
speak in good time and will tell you the results
of his present investigations. Be as happy as you
can.
Olin."
2 "Sister, I will go with you to-day and see
what I can do. Now, sister, this life is very
charming, very, very lovely; but there are
(1) Willie came in about this time.
(2) I was tellinsc Willie I had not succeeded in finding what I
wished for Christmas gifts to Flora, and must try again to-day.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 303
times when 1 feel a little as a lily looks when the
stem has been broken and it drops on one side.
1 feel so when 1 have seen Frank. To-day 1 shall
be with you. Ma is making some preparations
for the next week, and I am sure you will have
a happy meeting to-morrow night.
Tell Flora that 1 kissed her this morning the
first one. And now my dear (123- Vol. IV)
Katy, I know that you will get on well and have
great and unexpected happiness. Be of good
cheer. We can say no more now.
Emeline."
1 "My Dear Child. You must keep up your
own identity. Pay no bills unless for work or
dered by yourself. I am troubled for you, but if
you keep your identity you will succeed. Trust
none of them, not one.
Prof. K."
Dec. 19*fo — 1885.
Katie came at about seven P. M. and brought
with her a stranger who desired to meet with us.
We obliged him but were discomfited ourselves.
There was no satisfaction in the meeting to us
or to our circle on the other side. After he left
the pencil wrote.
"There were many dear friends present to
night who were anxious to speak but they reserve
much for another time. + + +
There will be a death in this house that will
surprise you."
Dec. 24th 9 P. M.— 1885.
Katie had not been in since the \9th. I had
been very ill on the 22nd and 23rd and was still
in bed when at this hour (124-Vol. IV) she came
to my bed room, and the pencil wrote.
"My Own Dear Child. How glad I am that
you are recovering. You will soon be well now
and enjoy the New Year. It will be a bright
Christmas, for you will have passed over the
sickness which might have been of long duration
but for the Doctor's prompt action. You will be
sufficiently well for us to open the New Year
for you. We have all been with you watching
over you constantly, one or the other of us. How
happy we are now to see you out of the fever
heat of long suffering.
My child, my beloved child, you have every
reason to be happy with your children. Frankie
and Leila are just as real and life-like as dear
1 Flora is now with her arms about your neck.
They only wish that you could see them and feel
them as you do Flora. A shadow crosses over
their sunny faces when they think that you can
not feel them. They want to be as real to you as
dear Flora is. That is the only shadow they
have. My soul goes out to these dear children.
I have to explain much to them and they are al
ways happy (125-Vol. IV) after my explanations.
My child, there will be music in all our gar
dens to-morrow. We have made many requests,
to the Great Giver of all blessings, for our
loved on earth, and if your New Year opens
brightly for you, and cares seem less and life
more full of joys, think of us and know that you
were in our prayers for the glad New Year, for
cloudless skies and flowery paths.
Listen, Sarah, do you not hear the holy music
from our home? Oh, that you could hear!
I do not wish to tell you what we intend to give
you in the little book, but you will have a
memento that will cause you joy whenever you
open it; a remembrance for your children as
well.
Now, my darling, I have a request to make
for many dear ones here. Meet for a short time
in the dark, dark as you can ; at nine o'clock or
a little after, to-morrow evening, something very
particular we wish to do, and we would like a
subdued light. You have given happiness to
many hearts and we will give to you. The
babies will be here. I still call them babies. They
like me to call them pet names.
(126-Vol. IV) Olin wants to say a word, his
heart is full.
Now, my child, do not let the house affairs
trouble you. They will go on well. I do not
altogether favor the proprietor and proprietress,
but all will go well. They know that you see
(1) This alludes directly to a business call which had interrupted
their writing.
(1) Flora was leaning upon the bed with both arms twined about
my neck.
304 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
clearly through all they do. They feel this, so
do not worry. 1 have consulted with Olin about
your house affairs.
You are going to sleep well to-night, Sarah,
for we will watch very near you.
Emeline is very happy to-night. She has been
with you much of the time and is trying to fol
low Olin in his investigations, which he has de
sired in order to lead her mind off from her hus
band; and as he has another companion it must
be and is painful for the dear child to follow
him. My child, God bless you. Now Olin may
speak. He needs no help from me.
Your Ma, my child,
Your Mother."
"My Sister. It is a name grand to me. Sister,
we shall meet to-morrow night. The directions
have been given. (127-Vol. IV) M was with Wil
lie last night; between the hours of two and
three I gently touched him in order to induce him
to turn over. He was cared for by me and I hope
to-night he will sleep well while we magnetize
him. If he goes to sleep we will not disturb
him.
My friend, Mr. Vanderbilt, will be one to give
you a token in the book. He is a very bright
spirit.
Meet at quarter past nine to-morrow night. I
have desired to tell you more about the book
but I better not.
Now, dear Sarah, God bless you while we
watch over you.
I want George to feel happy. He has friends
here and on earth; those who would carry him
in their arms; those who would strew his path
with roses, thornless roses. George, let no
shadows cause gloom on your spirit. "Give us
peace, give us rest," are words poured forth from
the bed of sickness and from the heart of sor
row, and angels catch the words and bear them
in their souls and answer from the immortal
world the prayer for peace and rest. Few know
as you do, sister, that spirits of their beloved
are listening and watching and answering their
complainings. Not a (128- Vol. IV) wish is un
heeded by us.
Prof. K. sends much love and reserves his
greetings till to-morrow night. Merry Christ
mas to you all.
Olin."
1 "My Son, you did well. I was very satisfied
with you. Always bear in mind that a bright
career is yours and every year takes you nearer
the goal.
Benj. Franklin."
Dec. 25 9 P. M.— 1885.
Katie came promptly and sat with the Doctor
and Willie by the side of my bed while the fol
lowing was written.
"My Dear Doctor. I was here last night but
thought I would like to speak to-night, it being
Christmas and a day of expectations. You did
not sit alone to-day in your office. I was with
you. I am greatly pleased with your book. It
will do great good and yield you success in dif
ferent ways. You will be greatly benefited by
the views you have put forth and now have con
fidence in yourself. I feel deeply interested in
your success in life. 2 I want to see you a free
man in every sense of the word.
This house will be one of the most (129-VoI.
IV) noted in New York. This house will be the
head quarters of business men; the residence for
retired families, and be most prosperous. It will
be a harvest where you and your children will
gather the gold. When it passes into other hands
it will be more successful.
You remember Dr. Taylor, how very nervous
I was and how unfit to fulfill or accomplish my
duties? I was often very worn in mind and de
pressed. Had I known of this truth when on earth,
or rather, had I understood
it,
I
would have been
a
different man
in
all things.
I
would have de
rived comfort from
it
and advice. Why did you
not teach me this great truth? Why did you not
open the book of wisdom for me? Oh, my friend,
never let the opportunity pass, never let an
honest man pass from you without showing him
(1) Willie was ereatly troubled with sleeplessness. It quite dis
qualified him for work.
(1) This is Willie and refers to his speaking in public debate
the previous evening.
(2) This alludes to an unsettled lawsuit.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 305
the key to the immortal door of heaven. Just
place the key in his hands, that is when you see
a man like myself, willing to learn, feel your way,
and if you find a man or woman, of intellect, half
worn out take him or her into your sanctum. I
give you this advice, Doctor, so that you may
benefit others. Dear friend, all will be well.
I am sorry to see, dear Mrs. Taylor, (130- Vol.
IV) that there will be some trouble here with a
man whose name I do not know. Now let me
warn you; keep all your valuables in a safe and
see that others do, at least for a time. There are
several suspicious persons in this house who will
suddenly leave. I will keep watch, give aid, do
all I can to arrest evil doers.
Mrs. Taylor, your brother Olin is most deep
ly interested in Mr. Vanderbilt and so am I ; but
Mr. Vanderbilt is not one to feel an interest in
everybody; he has taken to Olin, and Olin is
with him much of the time. They travel to
gether. I am very happy in this new world. It
interests me much to tell you that Olin is with
me in studies of heavenly spheres and planets.
He comes to learn of me and I go to learn of
him.
I have watched over all your interests, and it
is but just that I tell you, Sarah, that your faith
is like a bright star, no one can dim it. It has
lighted you on the way for many years, and is
divinely beautiful. I admire you for your stead
fast faith.
My dear friends, we are all here and we all
wish you a happy New Year. Tenderly we will
help you over the hills; (131-Vol. IV) gently we
will bear with all your doubts; our eyes shall
follow you lovingly at all times; and when you
are weary we will fold you in our arms. Dr.
Franklin will bless you with his presence often.
Now rest my dear friends, rest and meet be
fore dark, or rather, just as night's shadows
come to-morrow. The dear children are with
you. George needs rest and we must close but
shall linger near.
Prof. K."
"My Dear Sister. We are succeeding with
the book. Be happy, all is well. Let no shadows
rest on you to-night. To-morrow my dear I
will talk with you uninterruptedly. Katy, come
surely !
We will now say, rest, dearest Sarah, for we
want to see the roses on your cheeks to-morrow.
Olin."
Now came a new, strange and hurried hand
dashing over the paper with wild speed until
fifteen or twenty pages were covered. When the
pencil stopped and we held the paper before the
mirror for reading we found it signed, "Charles
Foster, Medium." We had noticed his death in
the daily papers but a day or two before. (132-
Vol. IV) I did not preserve the message or letter
as he called it because it was a troubled, ram
bling, unhappy communication. He had known
Katie in life and looked for her now, hence came
here.
Dec. 26**— 1885.
Katie came as requested and the following was
written.
"My Child. We are all here. There is great
joy here in our cheerful home for we have seen
far beyond the present into the future of our loved
on earth, and all looks bright. There will be
greater joy when I tell you how joyful your two
children here are over Flora, for they have
walked with her to-day and taken hold of her
arm. That pleased them so much that they have
been in the greatest hurry to tell her this; and
now they feel satisfied; but I will repeat their
words to you just as they are saying them now.
'Tell our beloved Mamma to tell dear Flora that
we have been with her and have taken hold of
her arm and laughed when she laughed.' Now
they are waiting to hear you tell Flora so that
they can participate in her joy. (133-Vol. IV)
They are happy now and I will go on with my
work.
You will be up in another day; but you must
be careful. Be very careful, dear, for we want to
have a happy New Year and a sitting on the last
of the old year. Do not forget the request as we
shall all be here to keep the appointment. You
can meet at half past nine and we hope to ring
the joy bells so that you can hear them, all in
306 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the room, which will consist of this circle only.
These meetings are preparatory and give us in
finite pleasure.
There will be great changes soon here, and
you will be happy. You can rely on my words.
We have looked carefully and see that these
changes are coming, and you will be happier
than you have been for many years. You will
be very happy and many will take part in your
happiness. We hope to see this proprietor and
his family out of your life, wholly, before long.
You know that we bear all your trials, or we
feel your troubles and try to bear them for you.
But, dear child, as you are on the earth where
every day brings a trial and a cross, while we
are in such close contact with you, we cannot
look (134- Vol. IV) about our beautiful, sinless
world without wishing we could give you some
of our blessings. We would gladly take some
shadows off your sky and live in less sunlight
ourselves if we could; but this you know. You
have hosts to come to for sympathy and love and
advice; always ready to help you, always ready
to warn you. All have not this, dear Sarah, all
have not this. Some will never have it. Some,
yes. Many will pass out of this life without
knowing that guardian angels ever saved them
when stricken down by some sudden calamity.
Much of the world is in darkness, worse, in a
wilderness, and you can imagine how they must
feel when they awaken to the reality. Imagine,
dear Sarah, how disappointed and exhausted a
person must feel when he or she comes here and
for the first time learns that they can hold com
munication with friends on earth. Disappointed
and dissatisfied, restless and unhappy. Oh, it is
a sad thing, for such spirits we could weep. It is
a great drawback to happiness in the spheres
above. I will sometime tell you of an experience
I had with a spirit here whose wife was on earth.
She drew him so near her grief, so within (135-
Vol. IV) all her unhappiness that he could not
rise until we helped him up and explained how
easily he could touch her with a soothing influ
ence. I will tell you sometime all about him.
God bless you. We must all give our attention
to the book now. Charles Foster is coming, he
has a few words to say.
Your Ma.
The Circle."
"My Boy, you may rest easy. We shall get
hold of you soon. My boy, in two months from
to-day 1 expect to see you hard at work. Your
great business lies in Europe. William Taylor,
laugh at this as you please, your career, as Ben.
Franklin says, lies in Europe. I will give you
advice. Don't despise Charlie Foster -|
—|
—|
—|-
so good night.
Charles Foster
N. B. my mark."
Dec. lltb 9 P. M.— 1885.
The Doctor and I sat with Katie about the
table. Willie was out. The pencil wrote.
"Cousin Willie. You have asked for me sev
eral times and now I can respond. I am not at
all dissatisfied with my (136-Vol. IV) new home
or with the surroundings. I have attended the
1 spiritual meetings and I am happy to know
that I can communicate as the others do, only I
do not take the same pleasure that some spirits
do in visiting earth to leave messages of remem
brance as none would listen. If they knew that
I could really talk with them they might receive
it and then I would be made happy. But Willie,
why do you take interest in this world? You
have dear friends here, of course, but the dearest
are with you on earth. I often think of you and
of those days when my heart was full of pleasure,
of hope. You will not forget me. Sometimes
think of me. Perhaps you would like to know
what I am doing here all day long! I am just
at present writing a book; I have been painting
landscapes, and I thoroughly enjoy this life. You
have been in Europe, so have I. So you see I,
although in the spiritual eternal, can come down
and be quite earthly.
I was amused last night with a man called
Charles Foster. He pushed by those who stood
near your door in order to be first. I heard him
say 'Let me pass. I am Charles Foster.'
(137- Vol. IV) I hope you will now answer my
(1) He explained through the echoes that these were "meetings'*
in their world, not thia.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 307
letter for William H. Taylor from his cousin.
When Willie returns I will say more, first I will
see how he takes this."
We read the above and noticed the mistake of
H. for G. The pencil at once corrected it. Now
Willie returned and read the letter and we ex
plained the correction, after which the pencil
added.
"P. S. Remember, Cousin Willie, that this is
my first attempt, mistakes are pardonable. My
dear parents, how dear they are! I wish I could
send them a word that would touch their hearts
as coming from me, but it is at present doubtful.
Frank."
We now held conversation with Frank through
the echoes. I told him of having heard years
ago that they had received a message through
the "Banner of Light" signed by Henry and asked
him if Henry really sent that message? Frank
replied, "Yes." 1 said, "And neither you or
your father or mother accepted it?" He answer
ed, "No." I asked why he had not been to see
us before; told him how near he was to us, etc.
The pencil then wrote. (138-Vol. IV) "I have
felt a little reticent about coming, but now the
way is opened I am happy to join the circle. I
will say 'Good bye' now and let others come.
Frank."
"My Dear Sister Sarah. I come to you to
day a happier girl than I have been in many
years. I have interested myself in a school for
teaching very young children how to communi
cate with their friends on earth. So many come
here weeping for their mothers and feeling that
they are separated from their toys and playthings.
It is important to teach them and to love them.
I am happy to have the care of the dear little
ones. It occupies my time and makes me very
happy. This is the third time that I was offered
this school of infants. First, I thought it might
interfere with my looking after Frank; but Ma
and Olin advised me to take it; so I did and I
am glad. I feel very happy indeed with a child,
too, of my own.
Now, sister, I have a secret to tell you. 1
would never have told you had not this change
taken place; 1 have never (139-Vol. IV) been
truly happy till now. I never felt satisfied with
my life till now. I was quite depressed at times;
now I am happy and you can understand how
free I feel and how much pleasure it gives me to
talk with you. I am sure you will understand
exactly how I feel. Ma and I sat down together
in our bower of roses and talked a long time
about the meeting for next Friday eve, New
Year's eve. I shall be here, of course, and I hope
to do my share. I see that all will be well. Cheer
up sister, all looks bright. God bless you. Love
to Willie.
Em."
After reading our letters and conversing some
what, we asked Frank with whom he now had
his home. The pencil replied.
"I am happy to respond to your call. I am
with Grandma L. and Grandpa. We are with my
mother's family and we are preparing our parents'
home to have it look bright and cheerful. They
will see only familiar faces when they come here.
Home for them will be with their children and
parents. In fact, it will be very charming.
You will be pleased to know that (140- Vol.
IV) I have met Phoebe. Do you remember her
at all?"
The paper was here handed me to read and
I exclaimed over "Phoebe" asking if it was Phoebe
Hayden whom I had known in Chelsea nearly
forty years ago, a member of Uncle Isaac's church,
a gabby, disagreeable girl of small sense and
large conceit. The pencil continued.
"Yes, she is the Phoebe. How my father
would enjoy Phoebe's name if he were to under
stand spiritualism. I will be one of the circle
New Year's eve.
Frank."
"My Dear Children. I am here and very
pleased to see that all looks calm and cheerful
about your own home. I am pleased to see that
dear Emeline is happy and satisfied. I rejoice
in the change I see coming; bright changes for
you. My dear children, be happy and rejoice.
In the future much will take place for your good
and interest. You will have all that is dis
308 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
agreeable and uncertain soon settled. Then, you
rest (141-Vol. IV) and enjoy the fruits of your
labor. You will feel entitled to enjoy and rest.
I shall not be the only one to rejoice in your
happy rest. There are many spirits here not
related to you, who will rejoice to see you less
anxious and enjoying the fruits of your labor.
Dear child, xLeila is here with Frankie. They
are always together. Leila is dressed in white,
blue prevailing. Around her little ankles she has
ribbon tied, and the whole of her waist is for
get-me-nots. She looks perfectly beautiful. She
is leaning over your chair. The dearest, sweetest,
purest angel is our Leila.
Oh, my dear Sarah, how well I remember the
morning that baby, darling, while nursing your
breast, my arms were ready to take her home.
The summons came to me early that morning
and I watched by your side till the darling slept
in my loving embrace. How I pitied you then
God alone knows. But she is here now and
Flora is here. Flora will live to take care of
you, and smooth your way. She will be a great
comfort to you and so will Willie. They will
live. Give yourself no uneasiness.
(142-Vol. IV) I am going to tell you about
our banquet hall. It is filled with visitors and
looks very brilliant. You will rejoice when you
go within its portals. You meet every friend
you ever had. Then, dear child, oh, how happy
we shall be. You will be at home at once. Not
one strange feeling will you have. You have
looked on the painting of heaven ; we have painted
it vividly for you and we hope to give you
clearer insight.
Others want to talk with you so I will give
way.
I do not think you will need feel worried more
about theft.
God bless you and George and all that are
dear to you.
Your Ma.
Your Mother."
"My Son, when men come to this world so
unprepared as poor Charles Foster, they feel rest
less, sick and longing for something they can
not grasp. 1 cannot do all I want to for him at
present. He wants to have his own way first.
George, you better keep on with your work
just as you are till spring; then a change will
come which will show you which path to take.
You will (143- Vol. IV) always have us with
you to help you and to give you strength. My
son, you have gone through your work very nobly
and you will always have my aid. I advise you
to place the book under the table and darken
the room.
Benj. Franklin."
We turned down the gas, placed the book under
the table and seated ourselves, Doctor, Willie,
Katie and myself, as before, around the table. We
chatted with each other and with our unseen loved
ones, and the pencil wrote.
"Cousin Willie, how would you like to paint
a landscape of hills and trees and horses with
golden chariots flying over the pavements of
summer land? Oh, I have seen such beauty here!
My pen is weak. My heart silent. My book
shall be handed down to earth before long.
Frank."
We now read the above and Willie made some
expression of surprise, to which the pencil im
mediately replied.
"My book shall be given to you, Cousin
Sarah. You will appreciate it more than anyone.
Frank."
(144-Vol. IV) "Some weeks ago I began a
book. 'Some day I will pick up a book in your
room, and when I have written it full of what I
have seen and what I see, I will place it in Cous
in Sarah's hand.
Frank."
I asked Frank if our children (who died as
babies and are now, one twenty four, and the
other twenty) were as large as they would have
been had they lived to their present age here?
He replied, "Yes," then added through the pencil.
"Only they retain the baby look all through.
You would know them under every circumstance.
God has so ordained it. I was only ten minutes
(1) Leila was born Dec 27th, 1865, twenty years aero today 1 (1) Willie has several blank books in his room.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 309
ago speaking to Dr. Franklin on that subject,
and he answered me much to my satisfaction.
Frank."
I asked how Olin looked. The pencil wrote.
"Olin is a handsome man, pure as an angel.
Do you remember Caroline? She is very often
with Em. and is to-night. They go off together
very often.
Frank."
(145-Vol. IV) I then remarked, "You did not
know Prof. Kenyon here; do you like him?"
The pencil quickly replied.
"Like him dear cousin! Who does not like
him? Where he
is,
is
renown. Yes, and he likes
all your family.
I
have talked with Margaret Fuller since
1
announced myself here.
Frank."
Dec. 29th
9
P. M.— 1885.
At this hour Katie came to my bed room and
with the Doctor present the following was written.
"My Dear Child. We are happy to see you
better. Now you will continue to improve and
soon be quite well and enjoy the New Year. We
are having great pleasure and hope to give you
pleasure. We want the meetings at an hour when
you will not feel disturbed.
Joyful gladness rings forth in all the spheres!
How grand are all God's works! How sublime!
Even in the silence of His works there
is
grandeur.
Infinitely blest are you, my child, to have all
this knowledge. You see us in our home and
in our banquet hall;
in
(146-Vol. IV) our bowers
and among the sweet flowers. You can see your
sweet blue-eyed daughter and your handsome
dark-eyed boy. You know how they look. You
cannot imagine them more beautiful than they
are. You cannot paint the home of the blessed
more beautiful than
it
is. You know that
it
is
too beautiful for description. Who can con
vey
a
strain of music by Mozart or Beethoven
after
it
has ceased? No one, and yet we can
give you
a
very correct idea of our immediate
home.
Dear child, Olin
is
helping me. He
is
very
happy these days. He likes his new companion,
Mr. Vanderbilt, and he has helped him. Olin
knows that he has been
a
lamp to him. Of course
he feels happy over all his new converts.
We shall tell you all about our home soon. What
progress we have made and how far we are ad
vanced up in the starry spheres.
All goes well. The annoyances are becoming
less; but Dr. Franklin will give you
a
word
soon; then you will know where you are and be
prepared. My dear children, you are doing your
(147- Vol. IV) duty and no evil will come to you.
Those who plan traps for others will fall in
themselves. That
is
a
consolation and
it
is
but
just.
Tell Willie to nurse his eyes for
a
day or two.
Tell him we are taking especial care of him. Tell
dear Flora that we will kiss her to-night while
she sleeps. God bless you all.
Meet at five to-morrow for the book; we want
the room dark, and we see no obstacles in the
way.
Your Ma.
Your Mother."
"My Dear Children.
I
have overheard
a
con
versation to-day between the proprietor and pro
prietress to this effect.
'I
shall, just as soon as
I
can, better myself.' Now, my children, you
know how things stand and when that time
comes know that
it
is
for the best.
I
was near
and heard this said.
'I
want to better myself
and shall soon as
I
have an opportunity.'
George, now
is
the time to sell your book.
I
will blow you success before the winter
is
over.
All
is
well.
Benj. Franklin."
(148-Vol. IV) Dec. 30th
5
P. M.— 1885.
Katie came at the appointed hour.
I
placed
the book under the table, then we sat down and
the writing commenced
in
the usual manner. The
Doctor, Willie and Flora came
in
before they
were through.
"My Dear Child.
I
am here and very happy.
This
is
our hour, between daylight and dark,
twilight, the hour for angels, the hour for you
and your beloved.
As
I
was coming along the flowery paths
I
310 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
gathered a few of our sweetest flowers and let
them fall from my hands upon Frankie's head.
He looked up and saw me and said, 'You are
off to Mamma.' I waved my hand yes, in re
sponse. Then take my garland of sweet roses
to her and tell her they came from my bower,
my summer home.' He was singing as I came
along and 1 thought I never saw a more beauti
ful picture. We are so happy! Frankie and
Leila have their regular hours for drawing and
copying the scenery about them. Some days
they go far away to other worlds and everything
appears so beautiful that they love (149- Vol.
IV) to sketch what they look upon in worlds be
yond their own. There is real enjoyment here,
real happiness. No one ever wishes to return
to live on earth. Every advantage we have here.
We can take a seat by your side when you are
alone and remain with you for a long time. How
little you realize that to-day we were here and
walked round the room with you. Some one of
us visits you daily: so you are never alone.
We send telegrams one to another. When one
of our circle is occupied very closely to earth,
perhaps watching by the sick or dying, we send
a telegram to ask where they are and when they
will join us, that
is,
when we miss them from
our own immediate home. All this we tell you
that you may know each day something new.
I
think we have never told you this before. We
have intended to tell you much about this and
we will
in
time, dear child.
Frank, your cousin, has been with me to see
you to-day. He talked with me about his great
wish to convince Uncle Isaac, but that will be
when he comes here;
I
fear not before; but the
great change must come when facts will be made
known, when this (150-Vol. IV) truth will shine
forth and be one of his greatest comforts. Oh,
my child, when he comes here how he will write
his regrets to you that he did not find out this
consolation, which has been the means of lifting
many
a
veil of sorrow. Oh, how he will regret
it,
and he will blame himself.
My dear children all
is
well! Be not troubled!
Look for happiness and not for clouds! The
sunshine will come and the clouds will pass away!
Never anticipate sorrow; when
it
comes
it
will
be time to meet it.
We will all be here to-morrow. Now
I
will
give way for others.
Your Ma.
Your Mother."
Flora had company,
a
little friend,
in
the par
lor while the above was being written, but about
this time her friend left and she came in and
whispered to me an incident which she should
have told me sooner.
I
reproved her for the
omission and she at once set about writing
a
note of apology. While she and
I
were talking
this little matter over to ourselves, the pencil
wrote as follows. (151-Vol. IV) "My Dear Sis
ter Flora. Let this be
a
lesson for life. Always
tell Mamma.
I
will help you write the note.
Sister Leila.
Written with Aunt Emeline's help."
The pencil wrote again.
"My Dear Son. You must rest for
I
see that
you feel
a
little under
a
cloud; rest.
I
am with
all the folks and very happy.
Your 'Father."
"Well, well,
I
have not been asked for,
I
can't help it.
I
wish you
a
happy New Year,
Willie! Bradley.
2I
have the old cap yet; the dear old cap."
Dec. 3\st
11
P. M.— 1885.
We met at this hour for our invisible circle to
open the New Year for us. Because of the late
ness of the hour Flora was not with us. Doctor,
Willie, Katie and
I
sat with lowered light and
the following was written.
"We are all here to keep our appointment,
one and all. We gathered at the banquet hall.
My child, (152-Vol. IV) the organ was playing
before we were there. The sweet, holy strains
reached us long before we stepped within the door.
Many had gathered to go their separate ways
and many had gone there to meet dear friends.
Some had gone there to see our circle and in
that gathering
I
noticed for the first time Olin
(1) Father Taylor.
(2) We burled the "cap" with him thirteen years ago in com
pliance with a request he left in writing.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 311
with Mr. Vanderbilt and the father of Mr. Van-
derbilt. Many of his relatives were there. He
looked happy and contented. Olin talked with
him and I heard him say that he would soon talk
with his wife. He will bring it about soon. Mr.
Longfellow was at the banquet hall and his wife.
He was in company also of many poets like him
self. Mr. Bryant was there with his two com
panions. They are both lovely spirits inwardly.
The old year is departing, silently it is going.
Every five minutes brings the New Year nearer
and us all near the banquet hall. Many hearts
to-night are sick with sorrow; many hearts weep
bitterly to-night, many eyes are dim to-night
(153-Vol. IV) over memories of their lost. Mrs.
Vanderbilt is one among a million who sit alone
tonight bowed down with grief. She sees no
beauty in her home to-night; only the vacant
chair and lonely bed; voiceless, desolate the
room he so lately occupied. Such desolation must
come, to those without this faith, sooner or later.
What a world will be opened to that poor woman
when she leaves this earth! What a world of
joy! Her grief will turn to happiness.
The old year will go, the New Year will come,
and each person can make his record bright or
dark; each one can from this night bury all that
is dark in this old year and open the New Year
with spotless record; turn the first page to-night
at twelve.
How much you have to be grateful for! How
much you can thank God and yourself for! The
old year bears no new grave on its earth for your
tears to water and I am grateful, we are all grate
ful. We could have told you this long ago but
the time had not come, so, to-night we rejoice
(154- Vol. IV) with you. Your little ones are
all here, on earth and in heaven. It is a sweet
name, 'heaven.' That word expresses so much;
it is heaven for the way worn child to rest; it
is heaven for the weary, care worn mother to
place her head on her pillow after long watching
by the sufferer. Oh, 'heaven' is a grand word.
It is heaven for us to be here with you to-night.
My children, we have a great thing to do with
that book, our book. We have a great work to
do with it and we feel impatient. Be not im
patient, let us take our time. Many have a
hand in the book and it is particular and re
quires time. You will fully understand when
you see the book.
We are all gathering now to give you our
token of the New Year. We are gathering
power.
I hesitate for some of the circle are calling to
me from the spheres above and sending you mes
sages of love. One is Rose, she sends you her
loving (155-VoI. IV) wishes for a Happy New
Year. Prof. K. is here in your midst. Aunt
Sarah sends her love. Bradley is here. Frank
is very happy to be present. Frankie and Leila
are both here. Mr. and Mrs. Smith send loving
greetings. I will not pause to give the names,
you know them all. We are all very near you.
Be happy, George, the New Year will bring
you great success and close with perfect satisfac
tion for you. All will be well. Your sunbeam
is with you, she does not despond; let her cheer
ing words rest you for she speaks prophetically.
We shall want less light when we all gather.
God bless you my dear children. We all wish
you happiness on this New Year morn.
Your Ma.
All the circle present."
"My precious, darling Mamma and Papa,
Happy New Year."
"Dear Frankie is here with me. I was with
my husband, Frank, when he came for me to
write you a message for him. This is it, 'Tell
my dear brother Willie that his thoughts must
be happy (156- Vol. IV) or
I
cannot go and
frolic with the flowers.
I
will kiss him next time
on his dear, dear face. Oh, brother Willie, love
me.
Frankie.'
Written by Aunt Emeline, dictated by Frankie."
While the above was being written, we extin
guished all light and soon thereafter the mid
night bells of the city struck and at the same
time
a
sweet, clear bell began to ring
in
our midst
and close to us.
It
rang with the greatest regu
larity and sounded more like the silver bells
in
312 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
a music box than any other sound I know. It
had rung several minutes, I should think five,
when Frankie said through the echoes, "Brother
Willie, look at my bell." Then it rang clear and
strong in front of and close by Willie, but he
could not see it. Neither of us could see any
thing but the blackness of darkness. Finally
the bell began to move away, apparently, the
sound lessened gradually until we could hear but
the faintest ring and as though it was far away,
then ceased entirely.
The manifestation was beautiful but no sur
prise to us because of our previous experiences as
before recorded.
(157- Vol. IV) I know absolutely that neither
Katie nor we have a bell or any other thing that
could be made to give forth what we heard. The
pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. We wish we could con
vey to you heaven's strains. We have to partake
of earth to make these sounds. Be satisfied.
You shall have sweet music of our own this New
Year.
My dear children, God bless you all. Happy
New Year, my son, be hopeful. We would not
say, be happy, if we saw clouds. Success is be
fore you and a bright, happy year.
Benj. Franklin."
Jan. 3rd 9 P. M.— 1886.
Katie with us in my bed room. We did not
know Mr. Vanderbilt and had said little in re
sponse to their messages about him, and I now
feared we had seemed indifferent and said as
much to Olin, to which he replied, while we sat
by the table with the book beneath, as follows.
"My Dearest Sister. You do not have to ex
press yourself in words to us; we read your heart
and see how welcome friends of mine are, and
Mr. Vanderbilt is one I think highly of and es
teem and (158- Vol. IV) love. His sudden de
parture from all his earthly ties, without one
moment's warning, was sufficient to draw me at
once to him, knowing his noble nature. He will
soon give you great pleasure; and bear in mind
that he has been here with me and not idle.
Mr. Vanderbilt's sudden departure was painful
in more ways than one. We have talked to
gether and there is truth in much that has been
murmured in the winds. My soul was heavy
for a while, for I am one who sympathizes with
a kindred spirit; but now he is happier and I
have joy in giving him my aid.
I am here to-night to meet all the circle. Two
are on their way here. Dr. Franklin and our
mother. They will all be here soon.
Olin."
Jan. 7th 3 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Sarah. It is a sad fact that some
souls on earth are so closed to the influences of
this world, that no gentle, loving whisper can
echo within. So it is with our father's wife. How
ever, dear sister, we must have charity and let
the rain drops fall (159- Vol. IV) outside while
we send back the sunshine and warm rays of our
better feelings. Write to our father's wife just
as you have decided and all will be well.
We have been with you for the past few days
very closely. We want to see you gain strength,
dear Sarah. We want to see you well, and we
must see what we can do for you. Now, dear
Sarah, my advice to you
is,
not to be at all
anxious. Let things go on; let others take the
care, or greater part of the heavy care. Rest as
much as you can. + + + + + + We cannot
talk more as we are all together for
a
particular
purpose. God bless you. All
is
well.
Olin."
"Meet purposely for our circle to-morrow at
nine.
Benj. Franklin."
"Let the meeting be at nine as
I
have
a
particu
lar dislike to interruptions.
Written for Mr. Vanderbilt. We can say no
more now.
Benj. Franklin."
Jan. 8th
9
P.
M.— 1886.
At this hour we were
in
our places as requested
and the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Little Sister Flora. How happy
you are with dear Mamma! You shall (160-Vol.
IV) have me with you to-night, little one, and
when you are asleep
I
will kiss you and bless
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 313
you, and go with you to-morrow and take care
of you while you dance; then I will come home
with you. God bless you. Great happiness is
before you. I waft you kisses from our beautiful
world. Brother Frankie sends you his love and
kisses.
Your sister Leila,
Emeline.
Written by me, dictated by Leila."
We read Leila's letter to Flora, which she
greatly enjoyed and directly went to her room.
The pencil added before she started.
"Now mind our dear Mamma and go to bed."
Flora left the room and the pencil continued.
"How sublime is faith! You see it in that dear
child, how grand! Well did our Saviour say,
'Learn of little children.' How holy is her
faith. What a bright lamp in years to come.
How it will guide her footsteps, and save her
from much that otherwise would have darkened
her sky. We all saw her when she read her sis
ter's letter, and we could have taken her (161-
Vol. IV) in our arms and held her there where
angels could drop upon her pure brow the
wreaths of immortal jewels and kiss away the
first cloud that comes.
Mr. Vanderbilt wanted to take her in his
arms, he was so struck with her faith. She
seemed another being when her sister's words
vibrated on her ear. Oh, my beloved sister, well
did you decide when you let Flora hear the voice
of her sister. You did well!
We shall now take ten minutes to gather.
Olin."
Ten minutes passed, then the pencil ruled the
paper and the following was written on the lines.
"Dear Friends. I am happy to come with this
circle. I shall do my work in the book. I
would like ruled paper hereafter.
You are on the road to great events; my rail
roads will be in the shade when I have finished
with you. I have much to thank your friends
for. Your brother and other members of your
own immediate circle have opened a new life
for me and I can only show my gratitude by be
ing grateful to you and doing all in my power
to help you in the many (162- Vol. IV) vicissi
tudes of life. Trials on earth are many. When
once involved in the snares of others to whom
you look for gratitude, and first let me tell you
that my sudden departure was by the shaft of a
man's tongue. He little knew that he would be
the cause of my departure. 1 think my wife
knows all.
Well, I will not dwell on this painful subject,
painful in the extreme.
What I worked for, will not pass away, never,
and I can look down upon my work.
When I first met your friends in the banquet
hall, I was bewildered with all the reality and
beauty. I did not like my home after visiting
the homes of your circle, and it was Olin Lang-
worthy who first took me to a home of surpassing
loveliness, which he said should be mine, and
together we will prepare that home for other
members of my family and add new beauty
daily. My family who have been here a long
time were very happy, are very happy in their
way but not in mine. They are differently con
stituted from me. My tastes are more in keep
ing with your brother and his circle. I have
found great (163-Vol. IV) comfort in their so
ciety; in fact I am a thorough spiritualist. One
thing I desire above all others, that is to send
a message to my wife and George, my favorite
son. That day will soon come.
How little my earthly treasures seem! What
are they compared to this world of so many
treasures? You know they are as nothing, for
you have a knowledge far, far above all earthly
knowledge. I hope to give you a remembrance,
in your book, of me which will show my deep and
profound gratitude to Olin's sister.
This is an easy way of telegraphing, and one I
have to thank you for. I will now give way for
other things trusting you will often think of me
when you look in the book your circle holds so
dear.
Truly Yours,
W. H. Vanderbilt."
We read Mr. Vanderbilt's letter and speculat
ed over the different phases of life there, and
314 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
wondered, among other things, if the bigoted and
conceited remained so there? The pencil wrote.
"Have you ever visited friends in the country,
church people, who could not see beyond the
church windows, and whose views were so narrow
that if you smiled, (164- Vol. IV) you sinned?
Such homes are here.
The Circle."
"Dear George. I come now to keep my promise.
I am a happy man, no strife, no unpleasant work.
1 feel happy that you remember me. 1 mean
that it gives me pleasure to come to you when
you call. 1 like to stand by you when you work
the 'movements.' You are the king among
them. Well, you are doing a good work and will
be prospered. Your mother is happy here. She
visits you and so do we all. Good night.
Daniel."
Jan. l\tb 8 P. M.— 1886.
We provided ruled paper for Mr. Vanderbilt
and immediately on sitting by the table the
pencil wrote upon the ruled paper.
"How pleased I am to come here to-night. I
am going to aid the circle.
I am pleased to come with your beloved circle.
They are so far advanced that I esteem it a
pleasure to make one of the number. I think I
will be able to give you great happiness before
you come here. I will say more before the close.
W. H. V."
(165-Vol. IV) Uncle Isaac, Frank's father, was
to celebrate his eightieth birthday on the 19th,
and we had got a beautiful gold-headed cane to
send him and it was now in my room. I men
tioned it to Frank. The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Cousin Sarah. It will be a happy
surprise and a loving remembrance. He will
write you all about it and by his letter you will
see that father has a great pride for handsome
things. You have chosen the most suitable
present for this birthday. He will be very happy
when it arrives. I am sure you could not have
chosen a better and you will be convinced of my
knowledge when you hear from him.
He may some day not far off speak of spiritu
alism to you; then you can tell him how often
you have heard from me.
Your Cousin Frank.
Father will hear from me soon. I will not tell
you how, but he will, and very soon."
"My Dear Friends. To-night we have accom
plished much and all feel satisfied. To-morrow
will be a (166-Vol. IV) happier day for you, dear
child. You will be better; and now do be care
ful. Meet early Wednesday evening here. Great
and happy changes are near. Be glad. We are
all working for you. God bless you. We have
a powerful aid in Mr. Vanderbilt. Good news
is near.
The Circle."
"My Dear Child. We have your health at
heart.
1"Strange as it may seem these interruptions
greatly affect us. We want you to know that
your nerves are weakened, quivering to the very
surface and to destroy that sensitiveness you
must rest and take strengthening medicines, such
as George is now giving you. This sensitiveness
will pass away and you will feel well ; but guard
your health; rest your body, the mind will rest
itself with the body. All will be well! Now
let me go to the circle and do my part.
Benj. Franklin."
Again the pencil turned to the ruled paper and
wrote.
"A fair maiden twined her arms around my
neck as (167- Vol. IV) I took the arm of Olin,
and gave me a rose garland with a kiss for her
dear Mamma. She never saw any one half so
lovely as her dear Mamma; so said the fair
maiden with the sweet blue eyes. The garland
of roses I cannot give to-night. How she will
laugh to see the joke she played upon me, this
little maiden.
My dear friends, do not feel troubled about the
hotel. All will work in your favor, and you will
live to enjoy your home on earth free from
anxiety.
W. H. V."
( 1) Someone entered the room with a message for me.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 315
Jan. \4tb 9 P. M.— 1886.
We placed the "book," as always, under the
table and as soon as we were seated the pencil
began to rule the blank paper which lay upon
the table. I immediately opened the large
"Tablet" of ruled paper and said, "Mr. Vander-
bilt, this is for you, and you only."
The pencil then wrote in it.
"And 1 am to fill this book! Well, be it so.
I see that there is confusion in the house but
never heed it. All will turn out to your advan
tage. It takes a combination of little things to
bring about great events. I know this to (168-
Vol. IV) be a fact, my friends.
We were speaking of friends in this world of
ours; how different every thing appears to a
new born spirit, than to those who have lived
here a few years. Some advance very rapidly;
others are slow. When one is so blessed as to
have advanced spirits to help open the doors and
show the beautiful and advanced spirits of this
world, every regret leaves and heaven looks a
paradise indeed. I was among the most fortunate
taken up by your brother, Mr. Langworthy, to
the higher spheres and celestial homes of those
who have passed from earth, as you or I would
count, many, many years ago. Now, had I
been left to walk alone through the paths of the
heavenly world, I would have felt strange, be
wildered and oppressed; a little sad; yes, very
homesick, for I left too suddenly to be recon
ciled by beauty, ethereal and grand as it might
appear, but for Olin I would have been desolate.
He knows how I feel gratitude, love and interest
for those whom he loves. How few can compre
hend this; do you, dear friends, take the point?"
(169- Vol. IV) We read the letter, made some
remarks and among them I asked Mr. Vanderbilt
if Olin had told him how instantaneously he
was taken from this life? The pencil added.
"Olin explained all this to me and our friend
ship opened in that way. I wish I had known
you when on earth; but so it is. Fate, destiny,
circumstances, all come too often between hap
piness. However, we know each other now. I
shall feel happy, say happier, or the happiest
when I can do you some good, earthly good.
Excuse me, I was obliged to greet my friends.
I make you this promise. Before very long I
will send you an earthly blessing.
I will now join the circle and their work.
W. H. V."
The pencil now returned to the unruled paper.
Flora was going to her room.
"Good night my darling sister; happy dreams.
I love to watch over you.
Sister Leila."
"My Dearest Sister. We are all here, happy
to fulfill our pleasant duty and work. We will
give you a grand surprise, some (170- Vol. IV)
day not far distant.
Give yourself no uneasiness about anything in
this house; let things take their own course; be
silent and all will be well. All send love. God
bless you. I must join the circle now.
Olin.
I was called while writing."
"We have used all our power but will say
more to-morrow. Meet then. God bless you all.
Benj. Franklin."
Jan. \7th 9 P. M.— 1886.
Katie did not come until Sunday evening.
Willie was to leave the next morning for Uncle
Isaac's, Frank's home. He was to make a little
address at the celebration which was to be held
in the vestry of the church. We seated ourselves
and directly the pencil commenced.
"Dear Willie. I am going home with you.
Take my love and blessing to my father and
mother. Tell them I am happy here as a bird;
and that I am preparing their home in a beauti
ful grove of different poplar trees. Tell them
that I love (171-Vol. IV) to look in their pure
home. Their lives are bright records in this, our
heaven. I no longer suffer, I no longer have the
least shadow of a wish to live again on earth. I
am happy with my brothers and all the dear
ones. Tell father that he is walking in the path
that will lead him to happiness. God bless you
all.
Frank."
"You will be helped my dear boy; have confi
316 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
dence in yourself. Take your paper and occasion
ally refer to it. You will be aided and very
successful.
Olin."
"I always had my speech prepared and placed
it on the table immediately before me, now and
then looking at it. I will lend you my aid.
Prof. K."
Willie joked Frank about his book; also asked
if they have horses in that world. The pencil
wrote.
"I know you will often take my book for your
guide and dictionary.
Would heaven be perfect without horses?
Frank."
We had just read a biographical sketch of
"H. H." in which it is stated that (172-Vol. IV)
she did not believe in spirit communication be
cause her son never came to her. It grated on
me for I knew she had too much evidence to
make such a denial. The pencil wrote.
"My mind in regard to that is this. Helen
Hunt Jackson may have said that she did not
believe in spiritualism owing to her not having
heard from her son, a passing remark without
thought, but that was all. She always believed.
Frank."
"God in His manifold kindness has allowed
us to gather once more around the family board
to give you welcome.
Daily I see new beauty in this world that
chains my spirit and makes me wonder how
people on earth can wish to remain long when
this home awaits them, a perfect heaven of rest.
I speak of those who know that 'ere long they
will be called, and if they only knew what a beau
tiful world they are journeying to, they would
long to come; but it was so with me. I must not
forget.
To-day we all gathered in the bower of your
mother; your sister met me, leading your lovely
(173-Vol. IV) children. The sweet little maiden
threw her garland of roses over me, and I caught
her in my arms and told her to take a kiss from
me to her brother; when she playfully said,
'Here he
is,
kiss him yourself.' Dear, sweet child;
I
love her playful moods. She plays many little
tricks with her friends here. She and her brother
are inseparable.
I
wish to tell you that all
is
now well, and
I
see
a
happy change near.
I
will have much to
say in
a
day or two. Good tidings are near,
Olin says.
I
must now do my work.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Children.
I
am here and have been
here since early in the evening. All
is
going on
well. We want
a
meeting at eleven on Tuesday
morning. We now feel sure of success and are
very happy. Go to rest my children, and know
that we are with you.
Benj. Franklin.
The Circle."
Jan. \9tb
1
1
A. M.— 1886.
We seated ourselves at the appointed hour for
conversation with our invisible loved ones.
(174-Vol. IV) "My Dear Sarah. We are all
coming soon. We have some of us been with you
all night. Our mother lingered
in
your presence
for many hours; then Emeline took her place,
for we knew that you suffered, not so much
bodily pain, but that which tries the nerves and
makes the heart sick, and the spirit sorrowful
as well as languid. We want to see you happy,
and health
is
the lamp to happiness. We must
do something to get you well. We must get you
well.
I
think Dr. George must look thoroughly
into your case with me and other members of
our circle. To get you well now
is
the one
great aim.
All
is
well. We will work in our way to-night
when you rest in your bed. We will help you,
dear Sarah; so cheer up, let your spirit go forth
out of the clouds and be glad. This
is
no deep
seated disease, nor of long standing. We look
ahead and in
a
short distance ahead,
now rely upon what we tell you.
I
never feel
troubled when
1
glance (with the aid of Dr.
Franklin) into the future.
I
can quickly tell
if
there (175-Vol. IV) are to be unhappy changes.
Be happy!
I
have reason to tell you this.
The children are with quite
a
gathering of
people
in
the grove of ferns. Mr. Vanderbilt was
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 317
with them when I left. I have been on a voyage
and glanced at them as I came by.
Well, you see that we have our happy enjoy
ments. Love is a wonderful chain. It links heav
en and earth; by it the souls of all nations are
united and beat in unison. Love is God's altar
for angels and all earth's children to kneel upon.
My soul is glad; let yours be likewise.
We will all be here in twenty minutes.
Olin."
The pencil now went to the "Tablet" and wrote.
"May I ask who the dark old nurse is who
holds your little girl? A nurse of uncommon
talent I perceive. She was holding her over a
brook so that she might see herself mirrored in
the calm smooth waters.
W. H. V."
On reading Mr. Vanderbilt's note I recognized
the "dark nurse" as Rose.
We now chatted for some minutes and I said
that Mr. Vanderbilt had every thing in this life
to hold him here, health, (176- Vol. IV) domestic
relations, money, power and all. No other person
so much to enjoy and leave. The pencil wrote.
"My Esteemed Friend. I look upon my great
wealth on earth, the exquisite home; but with
no desire to be back again clothed in mortal
garb. I am happy to say my work on earth can
still go on. Some heavy regrets I have as you
can well understand. I would like to have
passed away in a different way, sudden death is
not always pleasant.
I might have done more good; but what I
failed in when on earth, I may be able to accom
plish here; at least I shall endeavor to and I sel
dom fail. I am thankful to be here. It is for the
best. However, you understand that for some
days I was a wretched man. I suffered more in
that short time than I ever suffered in all my
life. I never knew it was possible to recover so
soon, and neither would I have recovered had it
not been for your brother and others of your
family circle. Olin has told me since, that he
suffered for me, and even felt my pangs. (177-
Vol. IV) I feel grateful to him and to you.
W. H. V."
We read his letter, expressed our interest and
sympathy but could not tell the day of his death
so we asked him. The answer came.
"Take me not back there now, to that date.
You shall know soon.
W. H. V."
I asked for Dr. Franklin. After a moment's
delay the pencil wrote.
"My child, I am here. Speak.
B. F."
I then told him that a gentleman from the
West had been here, the previous evening, with
a proposition for Willie to go in business there.
I wanted their advice. The pencil wrote.
"I saw him last night. I must consider. To
me, this looks like weaving my predictions into
reality without delay.
B. F."
"My Esteemed Friend. This needs careful
thought which I will give. Let me look into this
matter.
W. H. V."
"Yes, it needs very great and careful investi
gation. We will all look into Willie's future. He
has (178- Vol. IV) been my charge for years, and
he shall continue to be. Feel no anxiety and
whatever we advise will be for his good.
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dear Friends. My advice may not be
worth much, but I say, give up all idea of your
son going off so far. I advise you not to think
of it one moment, not one moment. He must
not go so far off at present.
Charlie."
Again he snatched the pencil and wrote,
"I see no use of beating around the bush and
'considering' and giving 'careful thought.' I say,
no; now that is sufficient.
Charlie."
Now the pencil was moved with the greatest
difficulty and in a most cramped hand. Katie
said, "This person has never written before."
It was:
"I will be able to come sometime. I have just
come. Do not ask me any questions."
I asked Olin who the stranger was. He said.
318 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
(179- Vol. IV) "Dear Sister, he came through
a friend of his. He will come again. He is not
in my home but I think you will hear in a day or
two and like him. I have not made his ac
quaintance, which 1 shall hope to do before long.
He came, perhaps, to-day. I shall see him
when he comes again. I have only just seen that
he came through a friend of his.
Olin."
"My Darling Child. How often we have longed
for this day, when we could have Katie near, so
that we could talk often. The atmosphere is
against us to-day and we are all going off togeth
er. My beloved child, 1 think Willie must re
main here near you. God bless you.
Your Ma.
Your Mother."
Jan. 21s* 10 A. M.— 1886.
Katie came to my room at this hour saying the
raps had told her early in the morning to come
here and had given her no peace since, until she
started. She was busy and did not want to come.
The Doctor and Willie were present.
She wanted pencil and paper at once and in
that same cramped hand came this:
(180-Vol. IV) "Note the time that I came yes
terday." (At this point the pencil went to the
"Tablet" and wrote in the now familiar hand:
1"Please read our poor, dear friend's letter of
Tuesday, for reasons I will explain after. W. H.
V." We read the message of Tuesday. Then the
pencil returned to the sheet of paper and contin
ued:
"It was Tuesday, now I remember. ! was
still in the body to all appearances; but I
thought of spiritualism and the time I thought,
my soul left the body and so I am here; but oh,
friend, dear friend, tell Olin to help me."
The paper was handed me and after reading I
asked for Olin. Mr. Vanderbilt said he was not
here. I then asked, "Is this some one he would
like to assist?" The answer, "Yes." "Then," I
continued, "do call him."
In two or three minutes the pencil resumed in
a free and easy manner as follows:
(1) It is at the bottom of the 178th page.
"My family, my husband, how he feels. Write
at once to my family, 1 am living.
Mary."
I said, "What Mary?" The pencil wrote. "M.
Hooker Burton."
(181-Vol. IV) We read the name in utter
amazement. We had known Mary Hooker some
eighteen years ago and knew that she was mar
ried to Mr. Burton some fifteen years since and
lived in Hartford, her native city, and knew no
more.
What could this mean? Was it true that she
had just died? Through the echoes they said
that when she came to us on Tuesday, the 19th,
she was not here with sufficient distinctness, for
them to know her sex, simply enough to know
that some one was changing worlds. The pencil
still wrote:
"I am not very happy. They think I died
suddenly but I did not. How I want to return!
How much I have to say that I meant to have
said that day when I was musing, half on earth,
my thoughts in heaven! My spirit left. I
thought, what if I should die, who could I come
through; how let them know that I was about
them? I was troubled very much. I thought,
I will see if I can impress any one in New York.
I thought of Katie Fox and other mediums, of
Miss Edmonds, etc.
Dictated by M. H. B.
Written by Olin."
(182-Vol. IV) "Well, they are in grief now. 1
think, Sarah, you better write a letter of sym
pathy and weave in the one great point that
Mary lives. It will open the way for you.
Olin."
"My Esteemed Friend. I thought the reading
of the message over to her would recall her
thoughts, and it did. We can say no more now.
We must close.
W. H. V."
After a few moments the pencil added.
"I have just left the family. Mrs. Burton de
parted 1
yesterday to all appearances. I am not
quite sure. They are overwhelmed and utterly
(D* "Yesterday" was Wednesday and she had manifested here
on Tuesday.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 319
powerless. I think they will seek this intercourse
at once, as the death on earth was sad and un
pleasant.
Olin."
We were more and more amazed. We searched
the daily papers and as soon as the Doctor could
leave his office he went to the Windsor to ex
amine the Hartford papers, that being her home,
but no notice of Mary Hooker Burton's death;
and without other evidence I could not (183-
Vol. IV) write Mrs. Hooker. On the evening of
the 22nd the Doctor went again to the Windsor
and found in the Hartford paper, published the
evening before and received there that morning,
the notice of her death and that it transpired on
the 20tb, the day that Olin said and the day
after she first manifested.
BURTON— Entered into rest, Wednesday,
January 20th, in this city, Mary Hooker Burton,
aged 40 years.
Funeral services at 1 1 o'clock, Saturday morn
ing at residence of Dr. Hooker, 70 Farmington
avenue. Burial private.
Jan. 23rd 3 P. M.— 1886.
On the morning of this date I wrote Mrs.
Hooker and at this hour Katie came in and the
pencil wrote.
"How can I thank you for your kindness?
What can I say? Mother will come soon. I
must go and rest. I am so weary, so tired. I long
for rest from anxiety.
My family draws me so near them, that I feel
most grateful to you for writing that comforting
letter. It will enable me to go higher.
M. H. B.
I will come when I can.
M. H. B."
The pencil was here taken by "Charles Foster"
and wrote:
"I am happy these days to see spiritualism
spreading. (184- Vol. IV) It is now the fashion
of the day, and the world will soon believe.
I never was insane in my life. People may say
what pleases them best. I was never insane. It
is a lie. I do want to trip people up when I
hear them say, 'Charles Foster died insane.'
Charlie."
We made some kindly reply to his message. He
then added:
"Well, now, I feel that I will do much for you
and yours for those kind words. 'Good bye.' I
will write small to please you, if I can, and what
any one else can do Charles Foster can.
Charlie."
"My Dear Sarah. We are all here, and now
that the day is clear we would like the book.
Can you place it where we can work in it?
I feel that a great flood of sunshine has fallen
across your pathway since you wrote that letter
to Mary's mother. You will bathe in it on earth
at some future time. Her husband is a nice man
I think, and some great good will come out of
all this. It is another great proof of this power,
to place on record; another (185-Vol. IV) great
study for scientific men.
Olin."
(On telling them it was inconvenient to meet
now, the pencil continued)
"Give us an hour or so to-night, at nine, say.
My dear sister we shall all gather to talk with
you to-night. Our dear mother will be busy with
the book. Dr. Franklin will also be here. Some
of us will talk with you while the others of the
circle will be working in the book. I think now
we will go, and greet you to-night.
Your brother Olin."
The pencil now changed to the rapid, dashing
hand and said:
"Mr. Vanderbilt is king of the railroads. Olin
is king of heaven's telegraph. Far as I can see,
he helps everybody.
Charlie."
We said to Olin, "Where is Frank? We have
not heard from him since Willie got back. Wonder
if he enjoyed the celebration!" The pencil re
plied.
"I will tell him that you would like him to
come with us to-night. Yes, he enjoyed every
thing but he is reserving his letters for another
320 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
time. He is happy as happy can be. We shall
all say much to you in the book.
Olin."
(186-Vol. IV) Jan. 23rd 9 P. M.— 1886.
We were in our places at the appointed hour
with the book under the table. While we sat for
them to work in their own way, the pencil wrote.
"We are all here, my dear children. The
dearest of all are here, your two precious gems.
They will be here to see their Grandma work in
the book. They love so to roam over the universe,
and recline on the velvet ground covered with
flowers. Their pillows are softer than any down
on earth; and then, their amusements are so
varied. They give you their loving kisses. Oh,
my dear children, how beautiful these children
are to-night. Will you know them ? Yes, you can
not fail. Leila, with her lovely eyes and hair,
her light form so perfect; and Frankie, so
handsome, his dark eyes and hair, his heavenly
smile. They are angels, and none are purer. They
love me as I love them. The brook is Leila's
favorite place; there she goes to look at herself.
Only an hour ago she threw away a wreath of
flowers she had on her beautiful head, to replace
it by one rose, a white rose, and blue forget-me-
nots on her bodice. (187- Vol. IV) She looked
in the brook and thought how sweet, how beauti
ful, and she asked Uncle Olin if her Mamma and
Papa could see her? 'Yes, my child,' he said,
'In imagination and in reality for we paint you
to them almost daily.' So she glided off in her
happy rambles. I love to watch these children.
Now, can you see them? Can you realize how
they appear?
Benj. Franklin."
"There was only one disappointment, Cousin
Willie; one disappointment for me; you ought
to have presented the cane. I wanted you to do
this for my sake and for your uncle's.
I was delighted with everything. It was a
happy success and will be remembered always.
You, too, will be recorded in the memory of all
who were present. Dear Willie, you did well and
nobly. We all watched you with love as well as
pride. I was there in your very midst. Can you
wonder that I was happy?
Frank."
"There has been great good done by your let
ter to Mary's family. I cannot foreshadow the
results, but they will be unusual and of the
greatest (188- Vol. IV) interest. I think you will
have an eventful week, my sister. Sleep with the
blessings of all upon you.
Olin."
"You will be more than happy when the book
is finished. Be patient, and you will be reward
ed. God bless you. We say, good night.
The Circle."
Jan. 25tb 11 P. M.— 1886.
Early on this evening Mrs. Hooker came to see
Katie and learn more. She said that on Tuesday
at the time Mary wrote the few sentences here,
she lay apparently dozing for more than an hour.
She corroborated all Olin had said about the sad
ness connected with her death, etc. At this hour
she went to her room and left Katie with us and
the pencil wrote:
"My Dear Son. There is a great opening for
you here and also elsewhere. You must have
the door opened for you and then walk in. De
pend upon your own exertions for success, and
you will not fail. There will be an opening for
you in a short time; about three weeks. Talk
with me, my son; I will reply.
Benj. Franklin."
(189- Vol. IV) In reply to the above, Willie
made some allusion to his not being in good
physical condition for business now. The pencil
added :
"I mean that within three weeks you will
see an opening to much. My son, take my ad
vice; get perfectly strong and well before you
go out in the world. You have a sensitive refined
nature; too sensitive. Your health is not suffi
ciently strong to work hard. Rest and be at ease
for the present.
Benj. Franklin."
(Willie had been greatly annoyed by the con
duct of an impertinent "scoggin" in the hotel.)
The pencil wrote:
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 321
"Do not mind
it,
my son! Do not let
it
take
one moment of your thoughts. You who will
outshine all those who now surround you. Bear
these words in mind.
Benj. Franklin."
"My friend, much
is
said from pure jealousy,
jealousy prompted all! Let your soul be glad!
1
would not see you distressed, neither would tell
you an untruth. You will be
a
shining star when
others are striving to lift their feet above the
mire.
W. H. V."
(190-Vol. IV) "That party feels more unhappy
than you do. Do not give
it
a
thought. To
morrow you will feel much better and see as
I
do. We can say no more to-night, but when
we meet again
I
will advise you. Good night.
Olin.
and the whole Circle."
Jan. 26th 10 P. M.— 1886.
Mrs. Hooker still here, with Katie in my bed
room. She received many messages but to us
came the following:
"Some years ago
I
advised you and took the
deepest interest
in
your daily affairs, George.
Somehow, of late,
I
have not been called upon
to give you the assurances you so much needed
then. Still
I
have been with you, and acted when
it
was necessary.
I
have come here to-night to
tell you not to feel down, or anxious, for surely
your business, which
is
so worthy, will be pros
perous this season, and soon you will have
a
great run of patients from different countries.
It
is
not well to feel despondent when all
is
well.
Isaac T. Hopper."
In reply to Mrs. Hooker's query about Charles
Foster's coming here, he wrote.
(191-Vol. IV) "I came for help, and was un
happy because they all looked dismal, and
I
missed my cigar and many other things.
/."
It
was now near midnight. Mrs. Hooker still
remained, so greedy was she to get all and every
thing. We could not get her to her room. Her
invisible friends bade her "Good night" and
begged her to go to rest; still she remained; final
ly
the following was written and handed me.
"Private.
I
don't see as you can get anything
till this stick tight
is
off.
//."
At last she went and the pencil wrote:
"My Dear Children. You must rest now.
I
do not like to see my son look so weary; much
depends upon early rest. George requires sleep.
Meet after this lady leaves. The power now
is
exhausted. God bless you. All
is
well.
Benj. Franklin."
(192-VoI. IV) Jan. 28th
9
P. M.— 1886.
We were greatly annoyed by learning that Mrs.
Hooker had talked in the hotel about her errand
here and interviews with Katie; had done this in
spite of my injunction and her pledge to secrecy.
We met at this hour. The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. Be not troubled; there will
be no mischief done, no trouble in the house.
We are about and watching over your affairs.
We will keep all unhappiness from the door.
You are now feeling very unnecessarily dis
turbed; wasted feelings over that which will nev
er happen. There has been no mischief done, no
mischief will be done. The only one you need feel
shy of
is
Miss Stanton. She
is
the only speaking
organ you need feel annoyed with. Mrs. Hooker
will not do more mischief here. She has blown
her trumpet here, now she will have
a
rest.
I
hope you notice that
I
am somewhat annoyed my
self.
Olin."
"We want the book to-morrow night. Meet
early as half past eight; and others will talk as
well. God bless you.
Benj. Franklin and
Circle.
Isaac T. Hopper."
We noticed that the hand writing was peculiar
and mentioned it. Mr. Vanderbilt explains:
"My influence came in with Dr. Franklin's.
Now, my esteemed friend,
I
want to give you
a
few pure words of cheer.
I
never flatter,
I
never
say words to please. There will be no mischief
done, no trouble in the house. All has been done
322 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
that will be; that will soon be forgotten and there
will be no more. A few hours' wonder, then all is
silent. Be not troubled. There is no cause for
one moment's shadow now. All is well ! I shall
talk with you to-morrow night. Great happiness
is near for you, great changes are near. God
bless you.
W. H. V."
(194- Vol. IV) Feb. \st 11 A. M.— 1886.
Katie called. I was anxious about an unset
tled lawyer's bill against the Doctor. I want it
settled but was unwilling to pay the full amount
12,220.12.
I talked freely with Mr. Vanderbilt about it
and proposed to offer $1,500.00 for receipt in full.
He wrote as follows:
"My Esteemed Friend. I have heard your
words but read your heart and mind before you
spoke. I am now fully cognizant of your affairs;
especially this particular thing. It is well to
speak out your wishes.
I think in this case you better offer twelve hun
dred with their receipt in full. It is sufficient and
they ought to take it. You need not feel anxious,
it will all come out right, and in your favor. You
are in the right and I will help you. I advise
you to settle up with these people, get them off
your hands, and have as little to do with the
kind as possible. It is better not to employ such
men, unless you know them thoroughly to be
good men. Alas, it is very hard to find lawyers
true to any one excepting their own pockets.
However, do not let this worry you. You will
not have (195-Vol. IV) much more trouble in the
matter.
I am so happy that my wife's nephew saw
Katie. He is a good fellow and I can bring about
events. All things are working together for good.
I shall be here this evening. Come without
feeling troubled, and let us have a fine oppor
tunity. God bless you.
W. H. V."
After deciding what to do with the lawyers I
spoke to Mr. Vanderbilt about my own business
affairs, the disagreeableness of my tenant and
partner and the unbearableness of his ignorant,
conceited, ill-mannered family. They make our
home very uncomfortable, especially for my son,
still we can bear it if it be the wisest course.
The tenant is not willing to sell out, has posi
tively refused, so I can see no way out until the
lease expires in 1894. He wrote.
"Now, my dear friend, take my word. He
will give up his interest; he will have to sell out
of his own free will. Say nothing yourself at
present. You are mistress here in full, you and
your family. Simply go on, ignore the family,
treat them as though they were shadows to be
avoided; do not notice their presence, and soon
your son will be the one for them to dread. They
will avoid him rather than annoy. Now I give
this advice as I would to my own youngest son.
W. H. V."
(196-Vol. IV) I now told Mr. Vanderbilt that
it had been suggested that I should "sell out."
Also, spoke to him of some "Electric Light
Stock" I wished to turn into money, to both of
which he replied.
"Your place is here, not out of the house. I
will look into that matter before I advise.
W. H. V."
Presently he added:
"If Mrs. Hooker sends for any letter of mine
to be copied for her, please decline.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Child. I have been here some time,
but our friend, Mr. Vanderbilt, has given you
the advice which is echoed in all our souls. He
has advised you for the best and we all approve
of his good judgment. I do not like the proprie
tor nor the proprietress, and if you had advised
with me before you entered in partnership with
him, you never would have signed the contract
with my approval. Still all will be well, and we
will all bring about a removal.
Happy changes will come soon. Keep good
courage. Let me say, rest on our strength; pil
low your (197- Vol. IV) head on our promises
and let peace be with you. I do not like the
party. They are jealous of you and your family;
so jealous that they hate you. Children, I simp
ly give you the real thing and words; for they
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 323
do not hesitate to say so. You are right in being
annoyed. You cannot help it. You have much
to contend with in these people; but follow the
advice of our friend.
To-night we will all be here. God bless you.
Benj. Franklin."
Now came the rollicking hand of Foster.
"Why did you not ask me? Oh, never mind.
They will have to go away. I will put him up to
go, for unlike many spirits here, I can enter in
every condition.
/."
"I wish to say for your son Frankie, that
'Papa's eyes are just like mine.'
/."
In a different hand was added.
"Or in other words, dear Frankie has eyes
just like Papa's. He is here and always looks
into your faces.
Written by dictation for Frankie. Em."
"My Dear Sarah. We shall all be here to-night,
and will talk with you; so if you think of any
thing particularly, note (198- Vol. IV) it down.
We would like the book and paper; for we shall
have a very pleasant evening. Now my be
loved sister, be not distressed. The changes we
speak of will come sooner than you expect. They
can be brought about, and will, with our aid. The
Runcibles are very envious. Pay no attention to
them. They will tire of having no one to notice
them. God bless you. It will be better to close
now.
Olin."
Feb. \st 9 P. M.— 1886.
At this hour we were in our places with the
book under the table and paper upon it. The
pencil wrote while we sat with light almost ex
tinguished.
"My Dear Children. We have come through
summer paths to-night. The flowers are all in
bloom, and no cold winds cause the leaves to fall
upon the ground. No cold makes us seek the
warmth of the sun. We see you, here, gather
near the fire, and see you shiver when the winds
blow too fiercely for your comfort. Then we
think, "How joyful they will be when they
come here to our genial home, so faultless in its
glorious beauty." Here you will be clothed in
garments to suit every temperature. You will
feel great (199-Vol. IV) pride, here, in your ap
pearance. You will see different robes of be
ings here; friends, relatives and acquaintances,
and such as myself; very, very dear friends;
all in their different robes, dresses, such as they
feel that they like best and think most pleasing to
those who daily come this way. Much, too, de
pends on the happiness of the spirit. If like
your little maiden who roams all day long free
from care, happy as a bird, dressed in robes to
suit her feelings, if there be many here, the whole
appearance becomes radiantly beautiful. But
there are many here troubled in spirit who wear
simply white, no flowers, no color at all. And here
I must say, your Leila, your sweet child, always
shuns those people. She goes among the gaily
dressed, where flowers of different shades predom
inate; although those dressed in sombre robes are
very pure and good. Such is life here. Sadness
does not long linger, but sympathy for the be
reaved on earth of a loved one will shadow for
a while the beautiful sky above. It is all reality
here. It is all that our souls hold dear. At the
banquet hall is a grand place to visit others. You
see all that a painter could desire; (200-Vol. IV)
beauty varied; the happy beauty; the sad beauty;
the anxious mother for the child left; the hus
band waiting for the wife; the wife longing to
greet her husband on the golden shore. All these
ent;er in the banquet hall. Some spirits become
so anxious to tell their dear ones on earth how
beautiful this world
is,
that they almost believe
the wind will bear their message to the loved
ones' ears, while they whisper
it
in the breeze.
I
have to-night heard the music as
I
passed by and
glanced in to see
a
sight more beautiful than
words can convey to your ears, and my soul was
glad; and
I
thought of you, my children; could
I
but paint this scene for the dear ones on earth.
All
is
well.
I
have paused to ask Isaac T. Hopper
if
he had
a
message for our friends; and this
is
the mes
sage.
324 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
'I have been in their garden, looked at each
flower; no blight was there. I turned the leaves
over of the large tree and one turned brighter
than all the rest, which told me, happy changes
were near.'
God bless you. The book now, for it is of
great importance.
Your father, Benj. Franklin."
(201-Vol. IV) "My Esteemed Friend. I have
been here. I am here. All is progressing well.
We shall meet you soon again. God bless you.
Our power is gone.
W. H. V."
Feb. 8tb 10 P. M.— 1886.
A whole week passed before Katie called again,
but at this late hour we gladly seated ourselves
by the table and the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. How happy we are to
meet again. It seems long since we have sat here
together. We have missed the intercourse, the
happy voices, our work in the book; all these
we have missed. Still, we have been near you,
mingling with you, taking note of all your daily
needs and watching over your future. Our paths
lie together; our union here is certain. Sometime
we shall all be united here. There are no sepa
rations here for loving souls, if they be true.
Whenever you feel troubled think of your home
here. We know your love for a sanctum of your
own where you can have those you love, only, and
here you shall have it.
The transition from the earthly form to the
spiritual is beautiful, and to you incomprehensi
ble. When the body (202-Vol. IV) is being pre
pared for burial and clothed for the grave, the
spirit is being clothed in immortal garments and
resting on a bed of roses, unconscious of grief on
earth for some hours. When the spirit becomes per
fectly awake, it seems like awakening from a
dream, but there are those who stand by to make
all things clear. They linger around the new born
spirit, and show so many beautiful things that
the grief of those on earth does not reach here till
they are able to understand that there is a way to
return to the mourner and a way to comfort.
The birth of spirits here has to be studied care
fully. Every birth is different, according to
the life on earth. An infant's birth is very beau
tiful, though most painful to witness the grief of
a parent at parting with the child; that is for
us, who are in affinity with the parent and child.
To-night I cannot go on with the theme. I must
give you a full description of this heavenly birth.
I will give you a slight simile. When your Leila
was being dressed for the grave, her Grandma
had her on her breast. Leila was sleeping sweet
ly, and when she awoke she was happy with the
birds and flowers. The body you had charge
(203-VoI. IV) of was the shell. The spirit was
free and happy and could not witness the sad
preparations below. She was at once given every
thing that could make a child supremely happy;
and now you know what she is doing and how
she is beloved. To-night she is almost wild to
tell you about some new discoveries she has made,
all her own. I will let her speak.
We can say no more to-night. All is well.
There are no clouds over your future, no troubled
waters, no closing leaves. God bless you.
Prof. K., Olin and the Circle."
"My Dear Mamma. Three days ago I found
a large bird with many different colors, and it
talks everything. It is such a lovely bird. It
flew on my shoulder and came home with me and
now it is with me. Oh, I am so happy, so very
happy. Tell sister Flora that I am coming to
see her soon. Good night.
Written by Aunt Em. Dictated by Leila.
I send Flora kisses."
(204-Vol. IV) Feb. 9th 11 A. M.— 1886.
Katie called and the pencil soon wrote:
"My Dear Sarah. We are here. The morning
looks bright to your eyes and to ours. When we
approach earth we like to see the bright rays of
the sun on earth's paths.
We had a meeting in the Hall. We were all
together, and we looked long into your affairs to
see how things were going. We see a cloud ap
proaching for the proprietor. You will be r
"
tie disturbed but it will end well and for
good. Changes are coming very soon. )
good courage, and do not let his wife mar y ir
Olin and Leila
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 325
sunny sky. We hope the day will come when you
will be free from all these annoyances, and have
your home wholly under your own control. Only
be patient a little longer. Mr. Vanderbilt was
with us this morning. He has something of im
portance to say in a day or two, something he
has studied out and does not care to talk over
with anyone at present. I saw that his face was
bright and that made me happy, for I knew noth
ing was going wrong while he was able to give us
so much sunshine and joy from his happy eyes.
(205-Vol. IV) Mr. Vanderbilt wishes me to tell
you, that he is trying to bring about a change for
you all, in this house; a change for your immedi
ate good. He is always thinking of doing good,
and will always feel grateful for having been in
troduced to Dr. Benj. Franklin and others of
our circle.
We often see Mrs. Hunt but do not care to
take her in our circle. She passed us by with
her husband and sons this morning while you
were sleeping. She looked quite pretty with
flowers in her hair and white lace over her
shoulders. But she simply smiled and passed
on, even when I tried to detain her. She was
hastening to see the children play on the moun
tain top and run down. Leila was there with
Prof. Kenyon and dear Emeline. She was dressed
very prettily, but peculiarly, in white and deep
red, and a great many green leaves, with deep
red down her dress and in her hair. She had
her dress almost covered with the green leaves.
I threw a blue sash to her, which she threw back,
laughing so loudly that all turned to join in her
merry sport. And now my beloved Sarah, you
see how happy we are in this world. How unfike
it is to the picture clergymen draw of it in their
(206-Vol. IV) pulpits. Here, there is no sameness,
no singing praises all day long. We have our
hours for singing praises, and happy hours they
are. Every breath of ours is a thanksgiving to
God. We have our amusements, our theaters,
and we are the actors, and we have our favor
ites. Oh, our ties are strong. We cannot com
pare our happiness to anything on earth; it is so
great and unlike anything I ever knew. I sup
posed heaven to be a far off land where all the
saints gathered, to judge the sinner. Sarah, we
shall be so happy. Em., dear Em., will not join
us as often as we would like to have her, but
she is happy with Leila and we are often togeth
er. Some one is coming to join us soon, not in
this family or Katy's, but some one you all
know. God bless you.
How silent the banquet hall was when I passed
it coming to look in upon you early this morn
ing. The stars were shining in the horizon and
the air was soft and balmy. Birds were on the
green trees, singing gaily, and the dew was on the
blossoms. I saw a pretty picture in the hall, a
young man and a young woman. They were
lovers, parted by death, (207- Vol. IV) but soon
joined each other here. They were talking over
their lives on earth, and the painful parting. All
the while the young girl was leaning on the youth
just as loving as when in the form, and they
said as I took the picture in my eye, 'He knows
how we love each other.'
I tell you of these scenes here that you may
know what heaven
is,
and have
a
good idea of
the home we are in.
No more now. We want to do much toward
finishing the book. Meet for
it
alone next time
at an hour when there
is
little daylight.
Olin and the Circle."
I
now asked Mr. Vanderbilt how
I
could avoid
financial trouble
if,
as he said, "Mr. Runcible
will have to sell out of his own free will," we be
ing partners and heavily in debt. He wrote:
"I conveyed
a
wrong meaning.
I
ought to have
said that Mr. Runcible would propose to you to
dissolve. He has very delicate health and will
not be able to continue at the wheel. This hotel
will be very prosperous and pay off all debts, so
you need have no anxiety.
I
think
a
man like
Runcible can never be very successful for he
is
too selfish and inconsiderate. However, let this
matter rest for
a
day or so.
I
will say more to
(208-Vol. IV) the point. All looks fair and will
be prosperous
I
am sure. Give yourself no anxi
ety.
W. H. V."
326 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"You will have signs of me to-day when Katy
is not here. Oh, how you would laugh if you
could see me. I feel full of fun, dearest, precious,
darling Mamma.
Written by Aunt Em. Dictated by Leila."
"My Dear Children. Meet for the book Thurs
day evening, and as often before as possible.
Benj. Franklin."
Feb. lit* 10 P. M.— 1886.
Katie kept the appointment and soon after we
were seated with book under the table I asked
for Mr. Vanderbilt and proceeded to tell him
further of my perplexities when he at once wrote.
"Pour out your wishes to my listening ear. I
have been here. I know and I think your son's
health is of more value than Mr. Runcible's sit
uation. I do not approve of his being subjected
to this man's temper, still I advise you to wait
till the close of this month. It is better to be very
firm with him, and hold fast to your own point.
You have (209-Vol. IV) a bad woman to deal
with. I advise you to wait till the close of this
month and then let him go. He may make pro
posals. He would if his wife would let him, but
her idea is to remain as long as she can; and in
fact he does her dirty work for her and himself
too. You will be far more prosperous when he is
gone. I want to see him out of the house. We
must think what it is best to do. Wait till the
close of this month then we can decide.
There are great changes coming. I see them.
This man is not honest with you. No great suc
cess can come while he remains. Rely upon
it,
a
change will come and in your favor. Let the
tide go on for this month. We will see how
it
will turn. Have faith that
it
will be in your
favor.
It
is
a
trial and
I
sympathize with you.
I
am happy to say that he will leave and with
out much mutiny.
I
shall work for you most
faithfully,
I
can assure you my esteemed friend.
Right
is
might, and right will conquer, and
it
is
right for this man to leave without battle.
W. H. V."
"See here, Will,
I
want you to wait.
I
hope
to make that man stumble (210-Vol. IV) soon
when he
is
impolite and unjust. Laugh in his
face. He
is
0.
/."
"I take long views of the short man with
gloves and
I
think he
is
going
it
steep to buy so
many new clothes, steep for him."
On reading the above we queried about the
"man with gloves" and the pencil continued.
"I mean the man in
1
41.
I
know all their talk.
They want to do
a
great business, but oh, George,
she cannot work the machine. They want to get
a
large sum of money.
A"
"My Dear Child. How sorry
I
am to see you
troubled about this man. But let us have chari
ty and hope that he will think
it
best to leave
this business without any disturbance.
My dear child, all looks so lovely here. Leila
is
happy and has come to say
a
few words. She
wants Flora to know that she took the bracelets
and wrote on the picture.
Leila has done something to-night
in
Flora's
room.
Cheer up! Be of good cheer!
I
know that
happy days are coming very soon. Willie must
be (211-Vol. IV) patient, and soon he will be
placed in contact with agreeable people. God
bless you.
Your Mother.
Your Ma."
After reading the letter I went into Flora's
room, which opened from ours, where we were
sitting, and in which she lay fast asleep and
alone, the door having been closed before she re
tired. Upon the bureau
I
found the bracelets
Leila had mentioned and on the back of
a
picture
which leaned against the mirror was written, "I
love you. Leila."
I
knew the writing was not
on the picture before, but
I
did not know where
Flora had left her bracelets. The pencil wrote.
"I placed them on the fan, Mamma.
Dictated by Leila.
Ask sister about bracelets, Mamma.
Leila."
"It
is
hard to daily come in contact with antag-
(1) 41
is
the number of the Doctor's office.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 327
onistic spirits; but it is well to ward off blows
by dodging.
There are happy changes near for you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"Meet the next clear night. We can say no
more.
B. F.
The Circle."
(212-Vol. IV) Feb. \6th 8 P. M.— 1886.
Katie's younger child was ill and had been for
several days. The Doctor had feared, at first,
some contagious disease, but the disturbance was
now mostly righted and at this hour Katie called
in a great state of excitement over some remarks
Mrs. H. had made to her. She did not stop
to even be seated and wished to go immediately
back but her left hand wanted the pencil, and
before I could bring one from an adjacent room
she was already trying to write with the Doctor's
pocket pen.
"My Dear Children. Meet all these things
with silent contempt. She is not worth mind
ing and she is now under a cloud because she has
not been confided in. But now the dear little boy
is getting well and with care he will be able to
leave in another day or two; say meet Thurs
day night for us and all will be well. We long
for a meeting. Let us tell you that all is well.
We see much happiness on the wing for you all.
God bless you. Be of hopeful spirit, my chil
dren, and remember our predictions.
Benj. Franklin."
Feb. \9tb 9 P. M.— 1886.
Katie called at this hour (her little boy being
well again) and we were talking about the brace
lets Leila had mentioned on the \lth and won
dered what she meant (21 3- Vol. IV) by saying "I
placed them on the fan." Flora then told us
that one day previous to this note from Leila
she found these bracelets hung, one on each side
of her mirror and over fancy fans that are there
for ornaments. Flora had not mentioned
it,
knowing Katie had not been here that day and
not recalling Leila's promise of the 9th, "You
will have signs of me when Katy
is
not here."
As soon as Flora commenced the above the raps
came quick and joyous and continued to respond
until she was through, then the pencil wrote:
"My Dear Flora.
I
hung them on the fan.
1
My little sister,
I
will magnetize your eyes.
I
shall do many little things for you.
Dictated by Leila."
We sat about the table with "their book" un
der
it
and the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. There are great things going
on in the book, and some day you will be very
happy, and this book will be
a
great prize.
It
will be
a
valuable book and you will love to
open
it
when you are sad and when you are
happy; when you are alone and when you are in
your own family circle
it
will be
a
joy.
My spirit
is
with you in your trials here. They
are enough to vex you.
I
am glad to see changes
taking place.
(2
14-Vol. IV)
I
wait to see you
free from envious people. An envious spirit
is
a
demon to battle with, but you have gone near
ly
over the bridge of sorrow and vexation. Be
patient
a
little longer, then look for the crown of
roses and quiet and peace and success and happi
ness, mistress of your own affairs, honesty and
honor. We all take the deepest interest in your
affairs of life. Every important step you take
is
guided by us,
a
shadow falls upon your path
way,
it
is
one of your beloved in this world;
a
hand
is
put forth to protect you from injury and
wounds,
it
is
ours; hope
is
breathed in your
heart when you are hopeless, comfort when you
are wounded, hands spread forth with healing in
fluence when you suffer from disease and when
all looks dark
a
lamp
is
lighted especially for
you. Oh, my dear Sarah, be comforted. George,
to you we say the same. And now let me tell
you of another great change that
is
near, one
of the happiest. You will all rejoice and wonder
at this happy change. Ask not what
it
is! Do
not ask.
it
will come,
a
very brilliant change. We
have only just seen
it,
only just seen the opening
of
it
and we are (215-VoI. IV) not permitted to
tell you what
it
is.
Such things are not often shown, these glad
events, and we are permitted to foreshadow them
(1) Flora had a hard cold in her head and eyes.
328 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869- 1892
but no more. We are happy. Do you not catch
the joyous songs of your two darlings in their
musical bower? Would that you could! I feel
a longing to open the curtain for your loving
eyes, but not yet. We can give you a perfect idea
of the whole as your comprehension is very
clear. The horizon is dark to-night to your
vision, but to ours, so bright. The earth comes
between your eyes and heaven.
Tell Willie he is doing splendidly! And that
we all bless him. Tell him we will watch over
his future.
Olin.
The Circle."
"My Son. Let me say a word to you. Some
times you look about your rooms and see few
patients; then you despond; you battle with
yourself and wonder when business will in
crease. Perhaps the next day you will have your
rooms full of patients; then you feel encouraged.
So it always is in life. There is an uncertainty.
But we, who look through the dimly lighted fu
ture, see how (2 16-Vol. IV) things will end, and
when it looks bright and successful we feel that we
have a right to give you words of encouragement.
We never give you false hope. I was with you yes
terday when you were busy at your work. I can
safely say, go on. Your rich harvest will come
for you to enjoy before you come here. Bless
you, my son.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"It may seem long, my dear children, long to
encounter a man so obnoxious as Mr. Runcible
is; but be sure there will soon come a favorable
change.
I am working in the book, therefore I cannot
say much to-night. Meet to-morrow night. We
will now close.
B. F.
God bless you my dear children.
Benj. Franklin."
Feb. 22nd 12 M.— 1886.
Katie called for an hour and directly the pen
cil wrote.
"My Esteemed Friend. I have been near you
looking into affairs and watching that no evil
comes. You can rest assured there are changes
coming very soon now. (2 17-Vol. IV) My spirit
has been very much tried by events at home, in
my family. I am looking for a disturbance but
trust it may be warded off.
To-day I have great pleasure in telling you
that I join your family at the hour of five to
go to the banquet hall. We are going to witness
a great decoration there and honor to General
Washington, the greatest man and general on
earth. We honor him and I rejoice that the day
of glorious work is celebrated here, in the ban
quet hall. It will be a great day here and you
shall have a full description of it. My friends,
be happy to-day for our sakes as I used to say to
my wife and children on these days, 'Be happy
to-day, smile and be gay; to-morrow you may
weep without a cause, while I shall sleep. We
wish no sorrow to-day, no tears, no sighs.'
Little conception did I ever have of all the
beauties of this world, or death could have no
terrors. But better for you on earth that you do
not know. Earth would lose its charms, and
heaven too far off to reach, so it is well. Every
one of your family will be at the banquet hall,
and many that we do not know. God bless you!
Now speak; I will listen.
W. H. V."
(218-Vol. IV) We read the letter and expressed
wonder. He added:
"We have been preparing all the morning,
and Gen. Geo. Washington is with his father,
wife and children (adopted of course you under
stand) and they are looking forward to this great
meeting. We will tell you all about our day, all
in good time. Gen. Washington's band will be
here. I shall send my thoughts to my family in
the midst of all my joy.
W. H. V."
"Friends, hurrah! I am going there to-day
with a party.
A"
"My Dear Sarah. I am very happy to know
that you are going to meet to-night and to-mor
row night. We shall have very happy anticipa
tions in view here, up in our happy bowers.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 329
Dear Sarah, we shall be together here at this
table to-night. We would like you to hear the
music that is going on in the hall and in the
gardens. Gen. Geo. Washington's own musical
bands are playing the glorious marches, the wel
come call; and the long tried servants of Gen.
Washington will stand by his side. God bless
this day.
Olin."
(2 19-Vol. IV) We read again and wondered
and said, "Lincoln and Garfield will be there
but Gen. Hancock will not, having died so re
cently, not two weeks since." The pencil dashed:
"You bet he will be there. Gen. Hancock is
not one to stay behind at a feast.
//."
I now reminded Charley of his promise made
on the \st (recorded on page 197). He replied:
"Well, after to-day I will get at him in good
earnest. I will see if I can't move him to go.
A"
"1 would like to change things for you and
will do all in my power for you. There are
happy changes coming very soon for you. It is
most trying, I know.
Now, I advise you to ask no more till we meet
to-night.
Prof. K."
Feb. 22nd 10 P. M.— 1886.
Katie and we three were here at this hour.
After their book was placed under the table the
pencil commenced.
"I told you it would be better to ask no more
questions, then, for the reason that we were gath
ering, and forming our companies. I promised
Olin to come in advance and speak first. We
have had a (220-Vol. IV) grand time. My wife
was much gratified. Olin asked me to say all I
could; but I told him I would not give a descrip
tion as Mr. Vanderbilt was anxious to have that
pleasure, and he, being new here, I rather aid
him, and let him speak first. We have been
joyous. 1 My son, excuse me for advising you;
(1) While the pencil was writing, Willie told us how Mr. Run-
cible's youngest son had been stalking through the hall and
throwing things against his door for the last hour. Willie was
much vexed and said he must whip the boy. This sort of thing
has been going on for the past month.
never put your hands on him, never strike him
except with your tongue. Let your words strike
him but not your hands. Treat them as you
would a barking dog. Push them gently out of
your way but use no violence. It will all end
soon. This annoyance will not last much longer.
Let not your heart be troubled, my dear son. We
will give you strength. God bless you.
Prof. K."
"Willie, I know how very annoying all this is
and I know that it must not last. It is not right
to take insults from one so young and ignorant.
I deeply sympathize with you, and I advise you
not to bear his insults. Be firm without using
your hands and you will win the victory. Things
will change and all will be well. I will help you
in this matter.
Frank."
1 "I want him to say, 'Willie, just open (221-
Vol. IV) your door, look out and show him your
foot.' I wish you would not let that silly fellow
annoy you. He tries hard to keep up an excite
ment. Give him a good horse whip once or twice.
I know you will have to give that boy a kick. I
know he will have to get it.
A"
"Take my advice, Willie.
Prof. K.
Charles Foster, if he was on earth, would give
him a thorough whipping; but you and I would
not notice him.
Prof. K."
We now wished to drop this petty annoyance
and asked our friends to go on in their own way.
2 "Sit to the table, boy. I was much pleased
to-day. I went there with Miss Wilson (Ade
laide). She is a lovely spirit and beautiful; but
I came away before any one else.
We read Charlie's word, then I asked the
Professor if Aunty Ward was there. He said she
was. Katie wanted to know whom I referred to?
I told her she was Mrs. Kenyon's mother and that
she gave me, when 1 was a school girl, the garnet
ring I had worn since until I lost the stone a few
(1) Charley interrupted Frank's writing with this.
(2) Willie was a few feet back from the table.
330 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
weeks ago. 1 added, 'I shall replace the stone.'
Pencil wrote:
"Wait, I will get you a gem for
it,
one you will
not be ashamed to wear.
Prof. K."
(222-Vol. IV) "We are all here dear children.
1
will now let our friend speak.
B. F."
"My Dear Friends. What can
I
say? How
picture to you all that we have this day wit
nessed here in the banquet hall? First, the
paths were strewn with flowers, and the golden
rays of the sun fell on each flower. The beautiful
edifice was decorated inside with flowers of every
description. In the center stood
a
large fountain
with pure water rising and falling; flowers also
falling over the fountain. The choir were all
young girls, dressed exactly alike, and so charm
ingly that you could look and never want to
take your eyes off their lovely faces. Your Leila
was one of the choir. Your son was with his
uncle much of the time. The great organ pealed
forth such heavenly strains at the opening, and
while the music was going on, and the choir of
young girls was singing, General Washington
marched in with all the company and stood in
the center of the hall. Then the young girls all
rose and took his hand and kissed
it
and present
ed him with
a
pretty wreath, some gave (223-
Vol. IV) him an anchor, some gave him
a
sketch or drawing of himself, some gave him
a
crown of flowers, all these gifts he took to his
home. Your Leila wished me to tell you that she
gave him two hearts and hands, meaning him
self and wife, these were made of violets and
white rose buds, tied with white ribbon.
I
saw them all march in. Your own circle
were all there, led by Dr. Benj. Franklin. Olin
took charge of me. The generals were all on
one side, the right side of Gen. Washington.
'Hail glorious man' was played and the General's
great marches which you all know. Walking up
and down the corridors and halls were many
I
never knew. Foster spoke truthfully.
I
saw
him with
a
beautiful young lady walking up and
down. She seemed full of joy and admired the
young children, and
I
heard Foster say, 'That
lovely girl
is
my friend's daughter.' 'Who?' she
inquired, and he told her your name and how he
had often stood in your room and manifested.
She seemed amused and took him away with her;
but she returned to look again
in
Leila's face and
so they know each (224-Vol. IV) other now.
Some stood outside and feared to venture
in
as
they did not have friends in the hall.
I
felt
very happy.
I
feel that
I
am blessed indeed, for
it
is
not all spirits who can enter there. There
are millions who know nothing of this hall. Some
of my own family know nothing of this wonder
ful temple of beauty, that temple where
the great poets love to enter and read the future
and muse on the happy past; where lovers meet,
and where the broken hearted kneel and ask
blessings for their loved on earth.
Can you see Gen. Washington in the center of
a
large group, they passing around him, keeping
time with the music? But, oh, the most grand of
all was the scene where Gen. Washington steps on
a
platform of roses and all the choir of young
girls chant
a
hymn in honor of him and he rises
to place his hand on the head of each one. Olin
was so happy to see this. (To be continued.
Power gone.)
W. H. V."
Feb. 23rd 9 P. M.— 1886.
We met for our "circle" at this hour and very
soon Mr. Vanderbilt continued his description
of their holiday as follows.
(225-Vol. IV) "When the hour of five was sig
naled by the sunbeams
I
went for Olin and we
all gathered at the door of the banquet hall.
First came Dr. Franklin, then Isaac T. Hopper,
Prof. Kenyon, your mother and aunts, every one
of your family went with Dr. Benj. Franklin, and
I
went with your family. The choir of children
went together, sixteen
in
a
row. Your sister
Emeline walked just ahead of the first sixteen;
your little girl next to her. The other sixteen
was led by another lady whose name
I
do not
know. Then came the wives of the generals.
Gen. Washington's wife stood side by side with
Mrs. Franklin and your mother. Mrs. Longfel
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 331
low was by the side of her husband. Mrs. Gen.
Scott and all those who passed away so long
ago were there. A Mrs. Hunt had charge of six
teen girls. Our circle kept with Dr. Franklin, we
never once separated. I had to ask Olin many
times who several parties were. I troubled him
often for names, but I found him at a loss to tell
himself sometimes. There was one noble look
ing spirit that our party took great interest in.
His name I must learn. I must meet him again.
(226-Vol. IV) I find that Olin did not know him.
He was young and handsome and restless, but
noble. Dr. Franklin did not know his name. He
came suddenly in the assembly. Some one must
find him for me. I did not speak of him last
night for 1 did not know his name and hoped
to have known it before this. That young man
has made me very curious.
When the sunlight of heaven spread over the
beautiful gardens of Eden, we, Dr. Franklin and
his circle, left the hall and walked in the grounds
and looked through the large crowd for familiar
faces. We studied each one as they came and
went.
On earth there was no celebration, we can say
none, and we were a little surprised that the
flags were not flying in honor of the greatest
General and man America has ever known. Here
he is appreciated. We honor him and his noble
deeds. I always did love his memory, from a
mere boy.
We each felt a joy unlike every day, a new joy
on this occasion. All carried banners and wore
the colors. You can perhaps understand (227-
Vol. IV) how I felt when I saw every one of our
circle carrying flags and Olin by my side and I
without a color or banner. He saw my wonder
and told me that I had not been in the circle
long, but the noble fellow gave me his colors
and he kept his flag.
We will now have to give power to the treasure
under the table. This will be continued by Dr.
Benj. Franklin.
W. H. V.
I must not omit to tell you that your son
Frankie was with his Uncle Olin and Grandma-
ma.
W. H. V."
While I was reading aloud the above letter,
the pencil wrote the following in response to the
Doctor's thought. No word had been spoken.
"My Dear Son. Your father and mother were
there, a happy couple, and they enjoyed every
moment.
I. T. Hopper."
"Tell Willie that a bright star is over him and
he will soon realize the truth of our predictions.
When Katy comes in to-morrow we will appoint
another meeting. God bless you all! All is well.
B. F.
Circle."
As we were reading Dr. Franklin's note, Willie
came in from the meeting of a Literary (228-
Vol. IV) Society. He soon asked a question of
Cousin Frank. The pencil replied:
"Do not ask to-night, my son, he will tell you
at another time. The power is gone.
Prof. K."
Before Katie left Willie said, "I would like to
know what they think of my essay." The pen
cil wrote in reply.
"You shall have our opinion, my son. Re
member the bright star.
K."
Feb. 24tb 1 P. M.— 1886.
Katie called but was tired, having been en
gaged with company all the morning. The fol
lowing was written :
"My Dear Children. I will continue when I
can have the first power, say to-morrow at ten
or eleven o'clock; then I will be here to continue
where Mr. Vanderbilt left off.
I have been with you this morning. I see that
things are taking a very unpleasant turn. Keep
your patience, knowing that bright changes are
near.
I feel more for your son (our son). He is sen
sitive in the keenest sense; but if he will follow
my advice, he will be firm, and not let anything,
from this source, disturb him, and weaken his
system. My children, (229-Vol. IV) we fully un
332 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
derstand and sympathize with you in this vexa
tion, but as it cannot last, bear it with dignity.
We are a strong band, and we are working for
you alone. We hope you will meet as appointed.
God bless you.
Benj. Franklin."
"Father is very proud of his cane. He prizes
it beyond everything; and it is happiness for him.
He is well, and daily talks of you all here. God
bless you.
Frank."
Feb. 26th 9 P. M.— 1886.
Katie being variously detained did not keep
Dr. Franklin's appointment. She came at this
hour and we sat about the table with "their
book" beneath, while a furious storm of wind
howled outside. The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. I rejoice to have the first
power. I am engaged for a short time, but
will be able to write very shortly.
B. F."
We read and queried with each other, if his
engagement was at some other place? The
pencil dashed:
"Why, his engagement is with the rest of the
circle, that book. Don't be impatient. You can
talk with your humble servant.
/."
Then I reminded Charley of his promise.
"Yes, I am attending to it now. A warning.
Don't excite that man! I see that he may
(230-Vol. IV) vamose any moment. The very
first time that Mr. Runcible is excited seriously,
pop he goes. 1 have made a discovery about his
left side.
/"
We replied. "He gets in a rage daily." Charley
added.
"That will be once too often. Each mad fit
brings him nearer, nearer to the gate that stands
ajar for him even now.
/."
We assured Charley that Mr. R. is in much
better health than when he came here two years
ago, etc. Pencil wrote:
"He has night attacks, but he does not want
you to know. He would not for worlds have
you know; not for worlds. He has severe times.
/."
"My Dear Children. I am now ready to talk
with you. I was invited to give a description of
our meeting in the banquet hall on Gen. Wash
ington's birthday. It was a grand celebration in
honor of a great man. Mr. Vanderbilt was like
a child, so pleased, so overjoyed.
At five o'clock we all gathered at the banquet
hall. Many were there that were strange to me;
and many paused to ask what was going on, so
bright and gay everything appeared. Olin was
anxious to have Mr. Vanderbilt understand every
thing, and succeeded in answering (231-Vol. IV)
nearly all his inquiries. When we left the ban
quet hall every flower opened and the perfume
filled the air. I must tell you that Katy's hus
band was there with his mother and father. They
walked over the grounds and into the banquet
hall and we were all pleased to meet him.
I talked with your dear mother, and she told
me how happy she was to see her Leila one of the
sixteen in the choir. She walked very near her
children and carried a harp which she often plays.
The banquet hall is the sacred hall of joy and
gladness; also a resort for restless spirits. As the
time glided by and the shadows came to tell us
that another day was gone, we saw a little bower
made of choice flowers of many colors, and we
walked in. It was meant for Gen. Washington,
to appropriate it as he thinks best. It is a lovely
place; a bijou where a few can enter. This was
given in memory of Gen. Washington for his own
use.
You hear the wind howl! It is not so "with us.
Gentle zephyrs blow over many harps and echo
the sweetest music. Sleep with our blessings upon
you. (To be continued by Emeline, your sister.)
Benj. Franklin."
(232-Vol. IV) "My Dearest Child. How much
you please me by your calm spirit when shafts
are hurled at you, and vexation meets you at
every turn. The triumph is in your calmness.
Oh, my child, happy are the days that will
dawn upon you, and great blessings will follow
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 333
you through life. Be of good cheer. God bless
you.
Your Mother.
Your Ma."
"My Son. We are happy now we have seen
all the mediums here and on earth. Be happy
yourself for all looks bright.
Your Father
and Mother."
"Meet Monday night.
The Circle."
I asked 01 in if they had learned the name of
the young gentleman in whom they became so in
terested at the celebration? He answered.
"My Dear Sister. I have asked the spirit of
Isaac T. Hopper to find him for me.
What is this I see? A bright star rising? Good
night.
Olin."
"My Dear Children. Better meet early in the
day, Monday.
The Circle."
(233-Vol. IV) 1886 March \st 11 o'clock
Monday morning.
"My Dear Child. Emeline has requested me
to take her place this morning as she wants to
go with Frankie and Leila to see some little
infants received into their new home. It will be
a most beautiful sight and the dear children
anticipate great pleasure. The little ones have
grown to like pretty things; some have been here
some time, nursed like babies by their grand-
mamas, and aunts and sisters. When they get
advanced they are taken to a most beautiful
home all prepared for them with everything that
can delight a child; and it is there that Leila and
Frankie have gone this morning with Emeline.
It is a beautiful mansion placed in a large park,
with gardens of endless flowers and fruits, where
children can go and pluck whatever they fancy
or desire. Heaven would be very dreary to chil
dren were it not for these places especially for
children. They have a large tree to play under,
and bells are attached so they can ring for their
playmates and attendants. A home of perfect
happiness have these children and could the Rev.
Mr. Collyer have realized this great truth he
would to-day know that his daughter is learning
(234-Vol. IV) the different spheres and planets
and most deeply interested in the advancement
of little children. She was near her father yes
terday, she told me, and she says she longs to
touch his soul with this truth. His sermon was
prompted by her yesterday and the Sunday be
fore; and he would be such an ardent believer
and so comforted, if some one would open this
book of truths for him. He knew she was near
him. Death paves the way to sympathy, to kind
ness and the great hereafter. Death paves the
way to heaven; opens the doors to the golden
paths, and summer land, and the long parted
treasures. Oh, it is beautiful, the spirit leaving
the body; unfolding like a flower; leaving the
shell and taking a new form. Oh, it is so beau
tiful. I have witnessed it many times. I will tell
you why I speak to you thus this morning. Yes
terday we followed Mr. Collyer through the morn
ing service and in the evening we followed the
new spirit who came suddenly in this world. He
was wending his way to the churches with Miss
Collyer; then he impressed her father with his
own sentiments, John Gough. He is going to be
a great spirit to bring about great (235-Vol. IV)
revolutions, great changes. He had to come here
to fulfill the most important of his works. He
can do more good now than when on earth. He
was needed here. I have met him only this once,
and I think soon we shall take him in our circle,
if he desires. Ellen, his first wife, was not con
genial to him and she is only occasionally with
him.
My dear child, I am at a loss to know why I
should speak as I have at this meeting.
Olin has found a new spot, which he will tell
you about soon.
I am with you very closely. God bless you.
Your Mother.
Your Ma."
While reading Ma's letter aloud, the pencil
wrote.
334 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"Why Jhe was once the greatest rogue out of
prison." , „
I exclaimed, "Oh, Charley!" He added.
"I only tell you what he was once; now he is
one of the very brightest stars here."
/."
We asked Olin to tell us about his "new spot."
He wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. The spot that our Ma speaks
of is a new bower, by itself, quite removed from
everything, surrounded by lilies and ivy, red
roses and light corn colored flowers. This place
I found. (236-Vol. IV) It has been prepared
by loving hands for some one about to come
here. I love to study all these things too. Earth
is large; think how much larger is heaven and
how much we have to learn every day.
My dear sister, I want to blow away the clouds
from your sky, and make all bright. I want to
see you free from anxiety, and I trust I shall
soon; for, only an hour or less ago, I was think
ing how you would or could get rid of those who
cause all this break in happiness. Mr. Vander-
bilt and I were together at an early hour, before
the day appeared on earth, and we are to meet
again in a few hours, perhaps before you sleep,
and we will tell you the result to-morrow morn
ing, for it is your future we are going to look
into. Mr. Vanderbilt is always thinking what
he can do for you. He is near now and will
speak soon. Never fear that we are far away,
or will cease to send you letters.
Emeline wished me to tell you that she will
be here to-morrow morning with Frankie and
Leila to fulfill this morning's appointment. She
says that Leila and Frankie love to have her ac
company them and she loves to go with them.
Do not feel worried. There will (237-Vol. IV)
soon come a change; and you will be relieved of
the principal annoyances and crosses. Great
changes are near.
Your brother.
Your guardian and
Your lover.
Olin."
(1) John Cough.
The Doctor asked advice of the circle, a physi
cian being very anxious to join him in business.
The pencil wrote.
"I will look, and tell you after your lunch, my
son.
Isaac."
The Doctor went to his lunch and the pencil
continued.
"My Esteemed Friend. Please give me the
heading of your bonds; write the name, please,
on a piece of paper with your wishes. I am doing
all I can for you.
The young man I spoke to you of, I have found.
He was killed in the Zulu war, and sacrificed, I
always thought, by his mother's pride. I noticed
him and liked him. He has talked with his
mother (the Ex Empress Eugenie of France) he
tells me. I knew Olin would find him for me
and he likes him as much as I do. The restless
longing in his eyes, to be at work, to achieve
something great, attracted my attention, and his
noble face.
I will be with you and have another talk with
you to-morrow at an (238- Vol. IV) early hour;
in the meantime keep happy, and trust in our
doing all in our power for you.
W. H. V."
The Doctor returned from lunch and the pen
cil said.
"My Dear Son. Take him by all means. He
will bring good success to you. My son, all will
be well.
Isaac T. Hopper."
He directly added.
"It is the wisest thing you can do. You will
be greatly benefited by him.
Isaac T. Hopper."
While Mr. Hopper was writing, I wrote the
heading of my bonds and my wishes on a sheet
of paper in another room and brought it in; im
mediately the pencil wrote.
"Place your written notes on the table, and
place it to-morrow morning again on this table
when we are all present.
Isaac T. Hopper."
The Doctor knew nothing of Mr. Vanderbilt's
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 335
letter and request, so he naturally thought Mr.
Hopper still speaking to him. Mr. Vanderbilt
then took the sheet of paper upon which I had
written and on the blank side wrote the following.
"My Esteemed Friend. Place this again on
this table to-morrow morning as I. T. H. has
directed. Till then keep in good spirits.
W. H. V."
(239- Vol. IV) March 3rd 1 1 A. M.— 1886.
Katie did not come on the 2nd but at this hour.
We were seated and I asked if I should read aloud
the notes I had made regarding my "shares."
Pencil wrote.
"Dear Esteemed Friend. Once, twice, thrice I
have read your notes. Upon my heart the wish
was long, long ago; but you can, and better per
haps, read them for the others who are present.
W. H. V."
"Read for my benefit, please."
/."
I read aloud my wish to dispose of the shares
at less than half their nominal value. The pencil
continued.
"It's no use waiting. So many things come be
tween that I advise you to get rid of them for
a good price. I will look further and see where
you would be most likely to get in a measure
their value. I have a firm in view which 1 will
investigate. My friend it takes time to see what
is exactly right. I see that all will be for the
best. If you can get a good price for your shares
I should advise you to sell at once. I want to see
you differently placed. I want to see you at peace,
and that cannot be until you are rid of the party
who holds the sway here. I cannot see bright
prospects while he remains. I see a change and
a bright one, but Mr. R. (240-Vol. IV) will have
to go before there can be peace, without that
there can be no success; for where there is peace
there is good feeling; contention is detrimental;
distraction to success. But fear not. We are all
working for you. Trust, and I will do all that I
can for you. I would advise you to wait about
ten days for the bonds; leave that business in
my hands.
I have been with my family who are all in con
fusion and unhappiness, which of course disturbs
my spirit, even here in this beautiful world.
1 will advise constantly and just as soon as I
find the right place and time I will tell you. There
are changes taking place now. Be not anxious.
I hope you will advise your son not to marry
till his future is made. I have his interest at
heart. Give this advice as coming from yourself.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Mamma. I have so much to tell
you, and long to give my description among the
others.
I was standing in the midst of roses and bushes
and long flowing grass when Uncle Olin called
Aunt Em. to tell her to prepare to celebrate Gen.
Washington's birthday, that (241-VoI. IV) I was
to be one of the choir of young girls, all nearly
the same age, and we must all be prepared with
some token of honor to present to the father of
our country. At first Aunt Em. drew back a
little, until I drew out her mirth by tossing roses
to her, and made her catch one in her mouth;
then she became cheerful. Arm in arm we walked
to our own home where your Ma lives, and pre
pared to join the others at the banquet hall.
We marched in with music and it was so lovely.
When I saw the grand heads and lovely ladies
so gay and happy, I was too happy to look for
Mr. Vanderbilt who was all the time throwing
flowers to attract my attention. He loves me,
Mamma. When I gave my token of respect to
the father of our country, he kissed
it,
or touched
it
with his lips; and then
I
felt
a
touch on my
arm.
It
was Mr. Vanderbilt, his face all beam
ing. Ida Greely was
in
our number of sixteen;
and only imagine, dear Mamma, every sixteen
was led by
a
lady. Mrs. Hunt led one sixteen.
Margaret Fuller led another. Mrs. Browning
led another. Amelia Welby led another sixteen,
and
I
led the first sixteen with Aunt Em. No,
I
did not lead
it,
Aunt Em. led
it,
for her knowl
edge of (242-Vol. IV) Dr. Franklin and her
knowledge of spiritualism made her one of the
very first
in
the flowers of heaven.
Dearest Mamma,
I
love to look down upon
you, and think how
I
shall dress you when you
336 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
come here. What beautiful wreaths I shall make
you. I shall love to trim your white dresses with
such bright, sweet flowers, for you love white;
and then sometimes we will dress alike. But it
will be a long time before that day, and I am
glad, for Flora needs you more than I do, and
Papa needs you most of all.
Now, my dear Mamma, 'Good bye,' I am going.
Your Child
Leila.
Written by Emeline."
"Yes, the ladies were very beautiful. I was
there."
/."
"My son, I have been with you this morning,
I see the depression on your mind. There are
many causes for these clouds, transitory. First,
the weather is full of moaning, and your few
patients all cause you to look on the unfavor
able side. Now, my son, the time draws near for
rejoicing. Work cheerfully and with a happy
heart. Let your wife help you in all things. Her
advice is valuable. (243-Vol. IV) She is often
guided in her judgment by us. Be sure that we
tell you nothing to raise your hopes temporarily.
No, therefore believe what has hitherto been said.
Your Father,
Isaac T. Hopper."
"We can say no more now. Meet sometime to
morrow for an appointment. We are all going
together, Mr. Vanderbilt and all. No more now.
The Circle."
March 6th 11 P. M.— 1886.
Katie had not kept her appointment but twenty
minutes or so before this hour she knocked at
our parlor door. We were surprised and delighted,
as always, to see her. She had been to keep an
engagement some streets below and as she was
passing the hotel on her way to her own rooms,
something said to her "Stop" and in she came.
Directly we arranged our bed room with "book"
under the table. Doctor, Willie, Katie and I
seated ourselves and soon the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. We are happy to come here
at this hour; happy to see the dear book under
the table. Yes, we did influence Katy to come in
to-night. We have all been together to-day and
we want a meeting Monday night. Mr. Vander
bilt has been looking into your affairs, and he
desired me to make the engagement for Monday
night in this room as usual. (244-Vol. IV) Great
things will be done on that day, for night is day
and day is the opening for the night.
Oh, my dear child, how happy we are here in
our gatherings. Every day we meet some new
spirit. Every day we welcome some one in our
circle. To-day the spirit of W. L. Garrison asked
to be permitted to join our circle; but as he can
not always be with us, at our hours, we can only
admit him once. Mr. Owen wanted to join, but
we do not wish his wife and family, and he is
not very congenial to Mr. Vanderbilt, so we have
concluded to keep to our own circle. My dear
children, at the next meeting have a little water
under the table. We do not work well with be
ginners, as so much has to be explained.
There are new flowers opening in your path
way, which means bright changes. Willie, you
need feel no anxiety. You will be a happy man
and a useful man.
If you could see Dr. Franklin at work on the
book, you would love him even more than you
do now. He is faithful, and he takes such care
of you all; more than your own dear parents
could, for he has the power and the will, and the
experience. God bless him. He knows all that I
am saying. My children, all is well.
Your Ma—Your Mother."
(245-Vol. IV) "Dear Children. Rest with the
sweet influence of your dear ones about you.
Sleep and be happy. All is well. God bless you
all. There are no sorrows to envelope you. We
are with you.
We want the book carefully put away now.
Good night.
B. Franklin.
The Circle."
March 8th 10 P. M.— 1886.
At nine o'clock Katie was here and in our bed
room with Doctor and children, but I was de
tained in the parlor, by company, until ten. In
the meantime the Doctor had fixed the table, as
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 337
always, by putting heavy shawls and afghans
around it, allowing them to reach to the carpet,
thus excluding the light from beneath it. He had
placed
a
cup of water and their book, (the blank
book which measures six and five eighths inches
by eight and one fourth inches; has
a
blue paper
cover and contains sixteen blank leaves, known
at Harvard as
a
"blue book.") under the table
and took the handkerchief from around
it
with
out looking upon either, and left both under the
table just as he or
I
have done at each of our
evening meetings since early
in
Dec. When
I
came
in
the Doctor and Katie were sitting by the
table and said nothing had been done, not
a
sound or
a
word had been given.
I
expressed
surprise and the pencil immediately wrote.
(246-Vol. IV) "We are all here waiting and
are anxious to accomplish our work. In this circle
we meet all together.
The Circle."
The Doctor in getting the table ready had
stirred the furniture up and placing
a
rocking
chair on the bed to get
it
out of the way. As soon
as
I
read the above message
I
went to the bed
and took down the chair and put the furniture
in place, and while doing
it
the pencil wrote.
"That
is
just what
I
was going to say, 'Put
down that chair.' Mercy! We can see."
Now they said, "Lower the gas." Flora went
to her room, the gas was lowered and Katie with
Doctor, Willie and
I
sat around the table. We
chatted about personal affairs, usually Katie's,
the echoes responding frequently; the pencil
wrote from time to time, one spirit after another,
but they wished us not to raise the gas suffi
ciently to read. The light was enough all of the
time for us to see the writing, but not to read.
Two hours passed quickly and pleasantly.
A
sweet influence lies about us at these meetings
and no matter how late the hour or how weary
the flesh, we are always sorry when they signal
their departure.
They now said through the echoes, (247-VoI.
IV) "Open the window, all join hands, close your
eyes and raise the shawl." We raised the win
dow, seated ourselves as before, closed our eyes
and all joined hands forming
a
circle, then
I
lifted
the shawl at the corner of the table between Katie
and me, without once letting go of Katie's hand.
In less than
a
minute the raps began to make the
peculiar or particular sound they give when de
lighted. Directly after they said, "Close win
dow, raise light, look under the table." We
obeyed and under the table we found the large
handkerchief and the cup of water and nothing
else. The book, their blank book, was not there
and we are satisfied
is
not in the room nor
in
the house. They had written as follows:
"We are now accomplishing
a
great work and
one Mr. Vanderbilt
is
most deeply interested in.
We hope to see you all happy, and we promise
you great happiness ere long. There are clouds
slowly moving away, and when the change comes,
of which we have so often spoken, you will read
with delight all that we have predicted.
I
know
that all will be well and bright.
Benj. Franklin."
"My Esteemed Friend.
I
am here with you and
I
can assure you that this (248-VoI. IV)
is
to
me the most marvelous of all meetings.
I
am
indeed happy to be permitted to help
in
this won
derful work.
I
am thinking that
I
would like you to wait,
for advice on the business matter, till
I
see
a
change.
I
will advise you when I see the proper
time.
God bless you, my dear friend, and prosper you
and yours.
I
see that you will soon have
a
very
great surprise, and
a
happy one.
A
great change
is
coming, new flowers are opening, some almost
touch the paths of earth.
To-day
I
was looking around the city, viewing
my own work, my own temples of art, my man
sions. How vain are all things, and yet they live
long and our names live in our works. My struc
tures, my fine arts are my tombs.
Do not worry; know that all will be well. God
will bless you. Meet Wednesday at an early hour
in
the morning, about eleven.
To your son Willie,
I
say, be wise, use judg
ment
in
all things; do what he thinks
is
right and
338 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
let the future take care of itself. We will drop
many blessings then, for him to put aside. And
now God bless you.
W. H. V."
(249-Vol. IV) "Dear Willie. You have done
a wise thing and you will receive a great reward
in your efforts. You will see what we have called
'your bright star,' rise over you, and we see that
you have a bright future before you. All your
troubles will look like little specks, when you
look back. Dear Willie, I will write you a long
chapter for yourself alone. I am happy. I want
to see you happy. Do not give way to gloom.
Cast it off, and let our words cheer you.
Cousin Frank."
"My Dear George and Sarah. Your dear ones
here are so happy to-night. I must not tell you
what is being done. I was just on the point of
telling but was warned in time. Emeline and 1
are often together. She loves to call me because
my name is
Frank."
"There is an undercurrent at work in your
business affairs, George, over the way.
Bradley."
"Ask no questions. Good night.
The Circle."
March lOtb 11 A. M.— 1886.
Katie came. She and I sat by the table. Willie
was in and out during her call. Soon the pencil
began as follows.
(250-Vol. IV) "My Dear Child. Long have
I wanted to tell you something about my meet
ing with an old friend I used to read of and ad
mire. Perhaps you have heard me speak of him.
I was standing on the steps (of red roses) when
he came up to me and asked me why I never
came to see his home, George Fox. He said,
''Your daughter has talked with me, and you
have held conversations with me but not to the
extent that would cause you to feel interested in
visiting me.' His spirit had read the wish in my
heart to see and know Isaac Newton. I did not
know that they were friends; so we are now to
gether. Wait, I am called."
(1) On March 5th and 7th, 1871.
(The pencil stopped. We wondered. The pencil
then wrote on another paper, "Read while she is
away./" We read the above message and said
to each other (Willie was in now), we know of
but one Isaac Newton. The pencil immediately
wrote, "Sir Isaac Newton, your Ma means /."
After a little more waiting the pencil resumed) :
"Again I am here my child. I was called by
George Fox to say that he would meet me to
night at an early hour with his friend, Sir Isaac
Newton, and that he would open a book for me
to take notes from. I shall transmit (25 1-Vol.
IV) them to you.
I visited George Fox in his home and found it
a palace of beauty, artistic beauty. His whole
family are with him, and a beautiful household
they are; very useful and kind to those who are
in less happy homes. They try to infuse light in
the minds of the most ignorant here; and it is
a task to take these poor ignorant beings out of
their spheres of darkness. I am glad that is not
my vocation, dear Sarah. I would not like it.
That was George Fox's pleasure when on earth;
and it is pleasant for him to take them step by
step into the flower gardens.
JMy dear child, never doubt that these spirits
can come; never let that doubt rest one moment
with you. The very fact that they have been
here so many years is sufficient to enable them
to approach earth very easily. And why should
they not come? This is the great opening in
the world above, as well as your world. This
communion between the two worlds; and they
with Dr. Franklin are going to invent a speak
ing tube between the two worlds that will give
great satisfaction and joy. We shall begin this
with our own circle and perfect it through this
medium. It will require time as we shall all
have to assemble (252-Vol. IV) and make trials.
We may have failures but that we expect be
fore we arrive at perfection. Now, I will add,
dear child, these words. All will be well. God
bless you.
Your Ma."
( 1) Willie had remarked, on hearing the first part of this letter,
it wa» strange that those who had been so long in that world
should come back to earth.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 339
(I asked Ma if she saw Aunt Lib. often? If
her bitterness against these manifestations con
tinues? With whom she makes her home?)
"I only see her when I am where she
is,
and
we never talk on the subject of spiritualism. She
is
with her own friends and relatives.
Ma."
(Was she in the banquet hall at the celebration
of Washington's birthday?)
"No, but she was on the grounds and saw in the
windows.
Ma."
"Dear Sarah.
I
wonder why you never speak
of me!
I
am with all the dear ones here and
very happy.
I
hope to come again soon.
Grandpa L."
"Which Grandpa?"
I
asked, for both were
Grandpas L., one being Langworthy and the
other Lewis. The pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. We all love you, and all
love to visit you, and talk with (253-Vol. IV)
you, and we will all come together soon, and each
one give you
a
message. We are your own loving
family, and we have, each one of us, the deepest
interest
in
all you do, and say, and propose, in
all, we feel the greatest interest. Now,
I
have
not written you in
a
long time, but nevertheless
I
am with you, and follow the circle when they
come.
I
have had the book to-day, and you will see
that
I
remember you.
Sarah."
I
read and exclaimed "This
is
from Grandma,
but each of my Grandmas was 'Sarah,' still
this
is
from Grandma Langworthy." The pen
cil added.
"Dear,
I
wanted to see
if
your heart could tell
you which Grandma was writing. That was why
I
did not sign my name.
Grandma
Sarah Langworthy."
I
remarked that the grandpa was Grandpa
Langworthy. The pencil wrote most charac
teristically
:
"I would not be here without her." And he
might have added, "When she
is
here you know
that
I
am", so inseparable were they during
their long lives on earth.
My Grandpa Lewis had two wives. The first,
my Ma's mother, died about sixty-five years
ago, and he forty years after and the last wife
fourteen years after him. They were both su
perior women but very unlike. (254-Vol. IV)
His attachment to the first wife seemed to be
with him and
a
part of his life to the end.
I
asked Grandma Langworthy about that family
relation now. She wrote.
"I am going to give you
a
reality.
I
want you
to know exactly how these things are. Grandpa's
wife prepared his home for him and received
him, although she had her own companion sep
arate from Grandpa. On this subject
I
will speak
at another time. We will close this till we can
give
it
in perfection.
Grandma Sarah."
I
inquired what Bradley saw occasioning his
remarks about the Doctor's affairs on the 8th.
The pencil replied:
"Nothing that will do harm. Bradley means
that those people are working for themselves,
utterly selfish. Now, do you believe?
/."
"My Dear Willie. When you are called upon
to act be ready for we see that you will soon have
work to do.
I
am here looking into your future.
I
see you
a
happy man with all the comforts of
life,
a
happy family about you, and this the
fruits of your own work. Go forth, Willie, make
yourself known, (255-Vol. IV) and become a use
ful life.
I
will stand by your side and help you.
Great joy
is
near for you, great, and happiness.
Dear Willie, be happy.
I
will hold
a
long con
versation with you some day.
Frank."
I
now said, "Mr. Vanderbilt made this ap
pointment and has not said
a
word." The pen
cil went immediately to the ruled book and wrote:
"My Esteemed Friend.
I
have been here all
the time and deeply interested in your whole
family. The book has passed into the hands of
many spirits here, and you will have
a
remem
brance from them all.
I
want you to feel that
340 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
we are all with you, and will advise you when
you require advice, and warn you when we see
danger. Now you feel doubtful about the change
we spoke of, the change in this house. I feel
sure that it will come soon and you will be re
lieved of much anxiety.
Be of good heart. Many bright flowers are
opening. I am very near you, and watching an
opportunity to find out about the bonds. I will
tell you in good time, just as soon as I can be sure
of that. I can say no more to-day.
I am now going to see what troubles (256-Vol.
IV) my wife. All is well, far as I can see now.
I will meet you soon.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Children. I keep the book, but
lend it. Now, when the time comes we will in
a large party, of our own, present it to you.
All is well; no shadows are near that can harm
you. If to-night you feel like going over to the
'other house, go, by all means; but if you do
not feel inclined to go, remain away. Follow
your impressions.
Now we will close. The power is going and
we can say no more. We will appoint a meeting
when we all meet together to-morrow; till then
God bless you. Farewell.
Benj. Franklin."
March \0th 8y2 P. M.— 1886.
Katie had often asked us to come to her room
on her "Public evening", and seemed to feel our
not going, so at this hour we went over and
sat around the table with four besides Katie and
ourselves; two of the gentlemen strangers to all.
The manifestations were strong physically. The
only communication of any account was the
following which was handed to me as soon as
written. No one present knew H. H. but hus
band and self.
(257-Vol. IV) "My Dear Friend. I am here.
I am happy to come. My treasures are with me.
The meeting at the banquet hall was beyond
description! So beautiful!
My heart is just becoming happy. No one
knows how sad my life was on earth. I have one
(1) Katie's room in the house over the Doctor's office.
word for you. I believe! I believe! I know
now.
What a privilege you are enjoying now and
you are worthy.
Helen Hunt."
We now sat around the table with hands all
joined. The manifestation of physical power
was conspicuous. There was a good deal said
through the echoes; names and sentences spelled
out, Katie usually calling the alphabet. Things
were moved about the room, the table lifted and
each of the strangers was pressed several times
by invisible hands; their coat collars and the
skirt of my dress were vigorously pulled at dif
ferent times; finally I felt a strong, firm pres
sure on the back of my upper left arm. It was re
peated. I said nothing but at the same time the
echoes said, "My esteemed friend, my first touch."
I replied, "I recognize you." No one but me, not
even Katie herself had noticed the sentence
formed by the words she had spelled out. I knew
it was (258-VoI. IV) Mr. Vanderbilt and his name
is too well known, and to us now too dear for us to
run the risk of giving the occasion for its being
flippantly tossed about. Katie said, "Who is it?"
All were curious. I replied, "I know," and all
excepting husband are in ignorance still.
March \3th 4 P. M.— 1886.
Katie's eldest boy was ill and I went to see
him; while there the pencil wrote:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I touched you
the last time we met and it gave me great pleas
ure. I was interested in the meeting. I will
come at the next meeting and bring my cousin,
a young lady I used to think a great deal of, and
although she was my first love on earth, my
present wife who survives me now will be my
wife in heaven. She is the mother of my children,
and has, like you, been a faithful wife and cheer
ful companion. My cousin has her companion
here, notwithstanding, she is rejoiced to meet me,
always, and says her home is brighter since I
came here.
I have been looking into your affairs. Just
as soon as I see the right opening I will advise
you. Rest assured I have your interest at heart
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 341
and never forget (259-Vol. IV) my promise. I
am sure you would all be happy if you could
see the sunny sky of a few weeks to come. If
you could see the joy that is waiting for you,
you would bear these trials without a sigh. God
has indeed blessed you.
We will attend the dear little boy, and trust
that he will soon be better. We sympathize with
him. Now take good care of him. We long to
see him well.
My friends here all wish to be remembered to
you, and say, that a good time is coming.
Ever your interested and watchful friend.
W. H. V."
March \4th 4 P. M.— 1886.
Katie's child still sick. I called at this hour
to see them and the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I have been
with my sons much of the time since I saw you
last, and if I can only influence Cornelius to come
here, I shall be happy indeed. I think I can,
but it will be after the publication of an article
which he will see in the papers, which will lead
him here; and then my way to my dear wife
will be sure.
I have visited a palace belonging to your rela
tives alone. 1 was pleased to be admitted by
your dear mother and (260-VoI. IV) two grand-
mamas, and grandfathers, aunts, uncles, cousins,
children and a few friends. But this palace be
longs to your family exclusively. It is a lovely
place and to-day they have their table piled with
bright flowers in expectation of visitors, Mrs.
Hunt and myself. We were very happy to meet.
Your friends, or rather relatives are very fond
and proud of their home. We are fast friends
now; and sometime when all goes smoothly we
will all meet you in your little room. My dear
friend, all looks brightly.
'Now, as to this little boy. You must not
expose him to the cold; then he will recover
rapidly. We want to see him well, for we want
to have a great meeting next Thursday night.
( 1) He had inflammatory rheumatism, was very irritable and as
soon as warm in his bed would scream until his mother would
comply with his demand to take all the covering from him.
I said, "This must not be." He was quite offended at my
interference.
You will know me by my signal, ("Esteemed
friend"). In the meantime know that all is well.
God bless you. Bright changes are near.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V.
March 17**— 1886.
I called to see Katie (her child still sick) and
while 1 waited upon him the pencil wrote the
following. The hand writing changed from
Ma's to Olin's and, vice versa, without making
more than ordinary pauses until the end of the
letter.
(261-VoI. IV) "My Dear Sarah. It is well,
and 'Willie will find all well and return home
much happier. There are great changes coming.
All will be well. 2I will be here to advise you
about going away soon. I have great pleasure in
telling you, my dear child, also, that you will be
happy when the changes take place in the hotel.
Ma."
Dear Sarah, ma would come and say these few
words. Be patient, all will be well. I shall be
happy to see this boy well. He is so sensitive
that he will take every influence surrounding
him. He better be left very quiet, and then Katy
will, we hope, be able to meet Thursday night,
as we intend to have a great meeting. Mr. Van-
derbilt will have much to say on business mat
ters."
"My dear child, do not worry. You must have
what we long to see you possess, and we are work
ing for you, and we shall see you surrounded
with exactly what we are working for." "My
dear Sarah, we will see you a happy woman, with
no evil in your pathway. God bless you. We
can say no more.
Ma. Olin."
March ]8th 8 P. M.— 1886.
On the afternoon of this day I visited, with a
friend from Boston, a cyclorama, "Battle of (262-
Vol. IV) Merrimac and Monitor." The picture
is very impressive. In the evening Doctor and I
met fifteen or more at Katie's rooms. We could
not all be seated around the table, so Doctor
and I sat back. Our circle gave no evidence of
(1) Willie had started for Boston a few hours previous.
(2) This alludes to a contemplated trip for pleasure.
342 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
their presence excepting the following note writ
ten at the table and handed to me:
"My Dearest Mamma. I went with you to-day,
and saw through your eyes the painting. My
curtain is far more lovely.
Leila.
Written by Emeline."
March \9tb 10 A. M.— 1886.
On the \8th I received a letter from Mr. Run-
cible saying I must reduce the rent from $2500
per month to $2,000. I refused. I called on Katie
at this hour and the pencil said.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I see that you
are on the right track, and I advise you to go to
work at once. You cannot live as you do now.
It will not do. I have been influencing you and
directing your course, but you do not want to
spend all your days, the best part of them, in
this way. Take the first step, and that will open
the way to the bright future we have so often
(263-Vol. IV) spoken of. Now do as I advise
you, make your life easier. Do not be annoyed
by these people. The whole circle send their love
to you and say that something is unfolding that
will make the paths of life brighter, the flowers
fragrant and your heart sunny. 'Be patient' I
cannot say, for you are patient. I can only say
now, that I am looking about you and I will see
that you are advised, and that you do not make
mistakes. The time draws near; the promises
we have made must be fulfilled. You are very
impressionable and that helps us.
We were here last night. We were not dis
appointed. We saw that it would be best to
withhold our presence as we would only call forth
exclamations from the crowd when we announced
ourselves. It would have been told all over New
York, 'Mr. Vanderbilt was present.' Every one
here, last evening, will have an angel at the
'Golden gate,' to receive them into the world
they are seeking to know something of. You will
yet have that meeting we promised you.
'To-day you will have company, for Olin says
that he is going with you.
(1) I WM on my way to iee a lawyer.
Another loss to the nation soon, so I am told by
Dr. Franklin. All will be well.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
(264-Vol. IV) March \9th 3 P. M.— 1886.
I called again and directly the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. I was busy this morning or
I would have congratulated you on the first step
taken toward the great change we have predicted.
Rejoice with us ! We are so happy to see that you
will soon be free and prosperous. We are so glad
the first step is taken. Why, you ought to be
very happy. He will be at nearly all the expense
and discharge himself. I cannot say more now,
but believe me, we all rejoice in this.
Olin."
Directly after I read the above the pencil added.
"When you were here this morning, I was ex
amining the condition and intentions of Mr. Run-
cible, therefore I did not speak. I knew that Mr.
Vanderbilt was coming, and he knew my feelings
and knowledge of the matter. But I must also
tell you that Ma and Uncle Albert, and Grand
ma and Grandpa, all rejoice to see that he is
going to leave. We know that it is for the best,
and we long to see him out of the house. The first
step is taken.
Olin."
(265-Vol. IV) I said, "How can I bear what I
shall have to meet from Mr. Runcible?" The
pencil answered:
"Each one, one and all will help you to bear
'it,' your trouble. What can you ask more? I
think with such strength, you could bear all that
Runcible could put upon you. Even Uncle Al
bert feels happy in this change, and he does not
worry much about earthly affairs.
Olin."
March 20tb 3 P. M.— 1886.
While I waited upon Katie's son, the pencil
wrote.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. All is working
together for good, all for the best. There was no
other way to get rid of him, and you would not
live in this way much longer. Whatever he does
will be a trap for himself. You will come out
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 343
victorious. And now let me assure you the future
is full of bright and glorious changes. Be of good
cheer. He is fearfully cut up and vexed, but
you are acting right. Be prepared for abuse, and
take it patiently, knowing as you do, that all is
working just as we wish. We are all helping
you. God bless you. We are with you, and you
must feel strong.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
(266-Vol. IV) March 22nd 9 P. M.— 1886.
Doctor went to see the sick boy and 1 accom
panied him. Katie's sister Maggie, Mrs. Kane,
was there. Just before we left, Maggie's hand
wanted the pencil and it wrote:
"My Good Friend. I want to say that you will
come out all right with the hotel affairs. I wish
that Katie could meet you both at the other house.
W. H. V."
Then Katie's hand took the pencil and added,
"That Runcible is going soon to burst forth; but
we are with you.
W. H. V."
March 23rd 10 A. M.— 1886.
I called on Katie at this hour and the follow
ing was written.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. We are all with
you in every change and we look ahead of us.
Step by step is taken by that man. Now, in a few
days the storm will burst forth, and you will soon
be out of all doubt about his plans. He is a very
deep man, and has no interest at heart towards
you or your family. There will be great rejoic
ing with us when he leaves; for there will never
be prosperity while he remains. In the (267- Vol.
IV) first place it hurts him to see you prosper,
or cheerful, or in any way happy. He will be
removed from your pathway soon, believe me;
and I long to see him out of your house, and the
doors closed upon him forever. He has a scheme
of his own, which is to lower the rent so that
he will make double and have everything under
his control. But I see only sorrow for you and
your family while he remains. It will not
be long now before the storm bursts. It is
going on under cover. His lawyer wants an inter
view with him to-day, after which I shall know
more. But the lawyer cannot harm your future,
try as he may. He is tricky and without prin
ciple; so you must expect no mercy from him.
My dear friend, there are, I repeat, bright changes
near. They will come and you will think of our
words. My dear friend, I was here last night,
and used Mrs. Kane's hand, thinking she was the
stronger of the two, but I am more familiar with
this medium.
Be not depressed or cast down. The day will
show you some light into affairs. God bless you.
W. H. V."
(268-Vol. IV) After reading the letter I sat
wondering what the scheme could be to compel
me to lower the rent. The pencil added.
"My Dear Friend. To us it looks as though
you would know something to-day, but it may
not be till night. It seems very near. He feels
sure he can make you lower the rent, and that
is his scheme which you will see.
W. H. V."
March 2Mb 11 A. M.— 1886.
Again at Katie's room the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. We are with you and wish
you to be perfectly at ease, as the interview and
advice to Mr. Runcible was not encouraging to
him. However, to-day will tell another story.
He is waiting for further advice from his law
yer. He has been advised to keep cool. Now,
this scheme of lowering the rent he has had in
view and in contemplation for a long, long time;
but he did not see his way clear to put it in
action. He saw his lawyer about it weeks ago,
when I told you that he was making a trap which
he would fall in and so it will prove. The trap
will catch him, sharply, this time. Be not
troubled! You are prepared and armed (269-
Vol. IV) when he attacks you. Every day he says
to his wife, "Well, I shall have my own terms
or war." And she tells him to leave it all to his
lawyer. Now, the point will be, that the rent of
the rooms must be lowered, but wait, time enough
when he begins his abuse. We are all very happy
for we know that all will turn out right and you
will be very prosperous when this change takes
344 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
place. A very happy home you will have yet on
earth, with every blessing. I do not like to see
you always anxious. I want to see you enjoy
life. You must, dear child, you must go away
sometimes from care, with all the family. When
going on pleasure trips happiness consists in be
ing with those dear to you. Let your mind be
easy till the attack is made; then everything will
be made clear for you and you will not be at a
loss to know how to act. Mr. Vanderbilt is near
and will say a few words soon. God bless you.
my dear child.
Your Mother.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. There is nothing
very new to tell, but you can expect him (Run-
cible) to begin his attack any moment. He has
to have further advice to-day, and he may re
ceive it (270- Vol. IV) in a letter. His scheme
is smart, but will not be long in falling to bits.
I hope you have never placed confidence in
him. All you have to do is to hear his story and
let him discharge himself, or wait till you can
discharge him. Now trust and all we can do for
you we will. We will not let him remain in that
hotel business longer than we can possibly help.
The first step is taken. I think he will discharge
himself. We see that he is greatly vexed, so vexed
that he was quite ill last night, quite a sick man.
I am looking about, looking in the business
line about the bonds, and I hope to find some
thing favorable soon. We are all very watchful
over you and the future. I go to-day to see the
trouble in my own family. There will soon be a
death in the family. We can say no more now.
God bless you.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
I read and replied that I could not recall a
word ever spoken to Runcible in confidence. The
pencil added:
"It is a blessing indeed, for he would use every
trivial thing, every trifling word. You have had
a better opinion of him (271-VoI. IV) than we
have, or than you ought to have had.
W. H. V."
Then I asked Mr. Vanderbilt if he could see
anything in the future that indicated advantage
obtained over me in consequence of my belief
in Runcible's integrity?
"Now, let me give you this explanation. His
lawyer has asked him the very question that I
put to you, and his answer was, we think, that
he would see. I feel sure that you have not. I
only asked the question to put you on guard. I
want you to know that you will come out trium
phant, victorious.
W. H. V."
March 24^ 9 P. M.— 1886.
Husband and I sat with a few others around a
table at Katie's and the following was written
and handed me but was not read until we got to
our rooms:
"Fear not that man; fear nothing that he can
do. I am glad that Willie has returned home. We
see great joy shining through the clouds. You
see, I have come to tell you what I know to be
true; you will see the predictions fulfilled. Be
strong my esteemed friend. Lean on me.
W. H. V."
March 25th II A. M.— 1886.
Again at Katie's, the pencil wrote.
(272-VoI. IV) "My Dear Child. Our friend
who has become dear to us as well as you is not
with me this morning. He is in his own house
hold, and he would give much if he could speak
to them as he does to you and others. I have
been with you and know all. Do not let that
matter trouble you. It is nothing detrimental to
your interest. I approve of what you are about
to do; and to be 'wide awake' as Charles Fos
ter says, is the great thing, for he (Runcible)
would take you in the dark and when you least
expect it. I see that he is at work but you have
every reason to be encouraged. What the event
will be, that will lift you out of all this we can
not tell, but certainly there will be something that
will close the affair and you will again be on a
prosperous path. We see the future, and it is
very free from clouds; from that we judge. Bear
vexation; it will not be for long. When once you
close the doors on that man, you must be very
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 345
careful whom you choose, and look well and study
the man before you accept him, let his record be
ever so bright. Trust him not till you have tried
him. I would (273-Vol. IV) have told you that
this man Runcible was selfish to the greatest
extent. Now he is extremely selfish because he
cannot have his way. To-day he will see his law
yer again. Every day he wants to make the
attack.
God bless you. I long to see you out of these
storms and anxieties.
Your faithful adviser,
Benj. Franklin."
1 asked if Runcible would pay the full rent
on April 1st? He replied:
"I will see that you have the answer to that
question to-morrow morning. We have been con
sidering that matter. You had better do what
you are thinking of this afternoon all the same.
B. F."
I remarked that I wished to ask Mr. Vander-
bilt if he liked the lawyer I had engaged, and if
I ought to see him myself? He added.
"That is what we wish you to do. Go, by all
means, and see him yourself. Willie did a wise
thing. We are glad that he came home.
B. F."
Can Runcible want a legal fight?
"The fact of his writing to you means law. He
knew that asking you would only bring a verbal
reply, when as he hoped you would write in haste
and (274-Vol. IV) commit yourself in some way.
Remember the man is mean.
B. F."
I asked, "Will that man be able to tread us
under his feet and crush us?" The reply:
"I want you to go in your own house, the queen
of all; use authority. Your son the same. That
is the only way to put that man down and let me
say you will shine like a star; 'crushed!' No.
not even daunted. You will not be under this
cloud long.
Now my dear child, to-night Olin will be near
you and we will some of us accompany you to
day.
Benj. Franklin."
March 26tb 11 A. M.— 1886.
Again I was at Katie's room. The pencil com
menced.
"Esteemed Friend. I am here. Speak, I will
listen."
w H y „
1 replied that my lawyer seemed anxious for
me to discharge Runcible. He wrote:
"I will give you my advice, then you can do
what your judgment dictates. Let him make the
first attack. He made the first demand and I
advise you to let him open the way for you. You
are showing judgment now and fearlessness. It
can do you no harm nor put you back in the
(275-Vol. IV) least to let him make the first
attack. He will do so soon. Wait a few days.
Time enough if he fails to pay the rent which is
nearly due.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Sarah. I see that he feels certain
in his own mind that you will do what he has
demanded. He is simply waiting for you to at
tack him. He knows that you have been advised
and he is very anxious to know what that advice
is. That is what he is waiting for. Now, when he
sees that you do not notice him further, he will
come out with all his deep underhanded work.
Olin."
"My Child. Cheer up! You are looking too
much on the dark side. Why not trust an old
friend? I am sure you are unnecessarily worried.
I see that you are coming out right and all the
happier for this attack. Why look on the dark
side? Is not the sun shining through it all? Be
hopeful! Be trustful! Fear not, for there is noth
ing to fear. You stand on safe ground. Be not
depressed.
Isaac T. Hopper."
(276-Vol. IV) I replied that although I stood
upon the truth, still it could not always prevail.
Quickly he wrote:
"Do you think that we, your friends (with
God's help) will let you remain one day in his
power or allow him to get the best of you? No!
We will all stand by you.
The Whole Circle.
I. T. Hopper."
346 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
In reply to a question from Katie I said that
Runcible wanted to get us out of the hotel. The
pencil said:
"You must not leave there. I speak for one
who knows the heart of this man.
J. B. Taylor."
"Charles Foster has been asking my advice.
J. B. T."
I said, "Is Charles Foster my friend?" The
pencil dashed this:
"Why did you ask Taylor that question? I
knew Taylor. He went with me to see Runcible
on your account."
A"
March 27th 1 1 A. M.— 1886.
I called on Katie and while relating to her
some incident connected with Mr. Runcible, I
remarked that I could not realize that anyone
whom I knew and with whom I came in personal
contact, could be so designing as I had learned,
through our circle, him to be. Katie likes his
looks and said now, "He has a good face." While
we were talking the pencil wrote as follows.
(277-Vol. IV) "From his cool, quiet manner
trust him not. He is troubled, and uncertain, but
notwithstanding, in a few days, about five or six,
he will begin his attack. Then you will know ex
actly how to act. My esteemed friend, although
things look dark, there is no great cause for you
to feel troubled. After you have settled with this
man and come to decided arrangements, and he
leaves the way clear, and the door is closed upon
him, (by his own act) then you may look for
brighter days and prosperous; till then, not till
then will the future we have painted to you be
enjoyed. I wish your son Willie had the health to
take the place of Runcible, but should he do so his
profession would be lost, so we will not think of
that; but when his mind is busy and he has
plenty to do, he will be stronger, less nervous
and sleep well nights. He must soon start out
for himself. I have his interest at heart and you
must excuse me if I speak plainly.
My friend, I will tell you soon, if my family
will ever again be happy. They are unsettled in
mind, and mixed up unpleasantly with others in
business, and I feel troubled.
(278-Vol. IV) In a short time all will be a
summer garden on earth and we see that you,
(our circle) will pluck the brightest of them with
happy hearts. Be not unhappy now, all will be
well.
W. H. V."
After reading the letter we had quite a lengthy
conversation through the echoes, in which we
agreed that Willie must take Mr. Runcible's place
for a time; and Mr. Vanderbilt also assured me
that we shall not have to wait the "three months"
allowed in the contract for Mr. Runcible to get
away; that he will go, after he makes his attack
on me, so soon as settled with. I said, "When
will he begin? I want it over." The pencil wrote.
"And then, after all this is settled, our book
shall be presented, and we will have a great re
joicing over your freedom. Yes, we will celebrate
the day and give thanks. We are all with you.
God bless you. The exact day, dear child, none
of us can tell. It will be soon, however. Trust
in your own strength and our protection.
Benj. Frankln."
March 29th 11 A. M.— 1886.
1 called at Katie's and the pencil wrote:
"My Dear Child. The days roll on, one after
the other. The night comes; and you waken to
see what the day brings (279-VoI. IV) forth.
Wise indeed, is it decreed that no man on earth
shall read to-morrow's page. Wise is the great
Master. And now when we come to you, and say
that the future is bright, remember that we see
the future for a limited space. We can tell for we
receive the knowledge from careful watching, and
it is well that we can. What would the world
be without our warning hand, without our pro
tection? God sends His ministering angels, to
minister to their beloved below, to minister to
the children of earth. But there are alas! too
many who will not heed the whispering of spirits.
My dear child, be of good cheer. There is com
ing a change in a few days, and then do not hesi
tate to act at once. We see a cloud over that man
and a little darkness for you, shadows that will
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 347
cause anxiety and trouble, but they will pass
away. Bear in mind, when all seems dark, that
we are with you; and do not give way to unhappy
forebodings. All will be well. Let Mr. Runcible
make his attack. Let him do so soon as possible;
the sooner the better. This is the advice of all
who love you here.
Benj. Franklin."
(280-Vol. IV) After reading the letter I mused,
"Mr. Runcible will do all he can to injure the
house and take the guests away and well do I
know how little it takes to start hotel boarders."
The echoes responded vigorously. I said, "It
would be dreadful to have the house emptied at
this season." The pencil wrote:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. In that you will
have no trouble. Have no dread of financial mat
ters. You will never be in want for money to
meet your interest. I see that all is well. Be not
troubled. You will simply be rejoiced when he
leaves your house and God will bless you and
yours.
I want to see 'this dear boy well. We shall all
feel relieved to see him out of this suffering. He
is in good hands on earth as well as heaven.
W. H. V."
Afterwards I asked Mr. Vanderbilt if Mr. Run
cible would pay the rent on the \st?
"It is so doubtful that we cannot yet tell. It
looks extremely doubtful. No matter how it turns
so long as he leaves. We will say more to the
point to-morrow morning.
W. H. V."
(281-VoI. IV) March 30th I P. M.— 1886.
Atropine had been put in my eyes by the ocu
list that morning and I was suffering from the
effects and could not use them at all. I was with
Katie at this hour and the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. We have been with you and
want you to feel no anxiety about your eyes. All
will be well. Attend to them faithfully and you
will have no trouble. All is going to end in your
favor with Runcible. We are standing between
you and harm. We are all pleased to see the dear
(1) Katie's sick child, Ferdle.
boy better. God bless you. Glorious changes are
coming.
The Circle.
Benj. Franklin."
March 3\st 11 A. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. You feel de
pressed now, but you must remember that you
are in good hands, and that sometime when your
health is good, we will make you a presentation,
in which you will take great pleasure as the years
roll on. After you have finished with the Doctor
your eyes will be greatly relieved, almost as good
as new before long, so do not let your heart be
overshadowed. There will be no very tedious
waiting, and we will keep you informed of affairs
at home. The coming week will be (282-Vol. IV)
irksome, but will bring about great events. You
will be surprised to see how very easy everything
will be made for you. If my sympathy can com
fort you, remember that you have
it,
from every
outlet of my heart.
I
will do everything to hasten
your recovery, for
I
want to see you happy and
also to hear your voice.
I
like you to read my
letters yourself.
You will have us very near you to-morrow to
ward off all blows. Now think of us all through
the coming week as standing by your side, Olin
and myself, we shall stand between you and Mr.
Runcible, and Charles Foster will also be there.
You must not feel
in
the least anxious; just be
quiet and let things take their own course. Do
not try to read.
Your little Leila was with you yesterday morn
ing. Olin assured the dear anxious child that no
harm would come to you and that your eyes
were not being hurt. The love of
a
child
is
great
here and so
is
the love of every dear friend and
relative.
It
is
the great link between heaven and
earth.
A
child's love remains always childlike.
You see
it
in
Leila's fear that you were going to
be hurt yesterday.
What
it
is
we cannot tell, but over the pro
prietor
a
heavy sorrow hangs very black. He will
feel that he has (283-Vol. IV) brought on his own
trouble. God bless you dear friend. We are glad
that you are entering
a
brighter month and that
348 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the worst is over. We shall be more pleased about
the \5th of April when you will be out of the fog.
We want your son, Willie, to be ready in case of
emergency, to see to things in the hotel. All will
then be well. God bless you.
Your watchful friend, W. H. V."
April \st 11 A. M.— 1886.
Mr. Runcible refused to pay the rent and said
that he had taken legal counsel and should not
pay until new terms were made. This occurred
about two hours before the following was written
in Katie's room:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. You see we knew
the man. Now you know how things will end.
You must wait a day or two before you can act,
as you will then have greater power to act.
You are in the right and there can be no failure
on your part. But do not under any circum
stance trust him again. You will not have much
more trouble than you have already endured.
We were both with you this morning, Olin and
I, and gave you strength and quieted him. He
knows that there is right on your side and also
honor, but he makes (284-Vol. IV) use of the
pecuniary difficulties to frighten you; therefore,
I beg you to hold yourself, queen of your own
house, and do not let him daunt you. Your affairs
are going to close with Mr. Runcible.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"Dr. Franklin is coming.
W. H. V."
1 remarked, how short sighted for him to re
fuse to pay the rent for March as he had not
asked for the reduction to begin until April. The
pencil wrote.
"My Dear Friend. It was a foolish thing for
him but a good thing for you. Now do not let
him have the opportunity to make offers and
again hold power in your house. He will see his
lawyer to-day again and in the meantime you will
have advice from yours; so rest easy for all will
close gloriously in your favor.
W. H. V."
I was anxious about funds to buy Mr. Run
cible out.
"My, Dear Child. I see what troubles your
mind, but 1 do not think it will come to that.
From what I see now I judge there will be no
difficulty of that kind in the way. I am quite
sure you may rest satisfied of that. We are all
deeply interested in your speedy relief from that
man and (285-Vol. IV) the anxieties he has
caused you.
Your father in spirit.
Benj. Franklin."
1,1
What can we do for this poor child?
The Circle."
"Dear Mamma. Do you remember how 1 suf
fered with my little head? 1 am happy to see that
this dear boy is easy now.
Frankie."
"My Dear Mamma. I am so happy now that
you must not wish me back. But 1 remember my
baby life. I am going some day to tell you all
about my life here, quite a little history, dear
Mamma. Leila is well.
Frankie."
"My Children. I am with you in your troubles
and I am happy to remind you that the sun smiles
on you to-day notwithstanding the clouds this
man leaves on the present surface. I see that all
is well. He is troubled.
Isaac T. Hopper."
2"My Son. Your work is a grand one and must
yield a harvest. Keep up your spirits. All looks
bright and progressive.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"It looks to me like this, my boy. You can
diminish your expenses. George, do take (286-
Vol. IV) my advice. You know you could have
patients here in the rooms that would pay enough
to pay all your rent and pay your help. Take
my advice. Put the rest in your pocket. Why
labor for nothing?"
/."
"My Son. Charles speaks well. He is right.
No more worthy work was ever done, and it
should also give you a separate income, that you
could know how well you are appreciated.
Isaac T. Hopper."
(1) Katie's child still ill and suffering spasmodically in his head.
(2) Doctor Taylor.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 349
April \st 5 P. M.— 1886.
My eyes were now so very bad that 1 could
not go to Katie and she could not leave her child
to come to me, so Willie called to get what our
dear ones had to say to us.
"My Dear Sarah. My opinion is that you had
better serve this writ. You know he will not pay
his rent. Mr. Vanderbilt has just left me with
these words, 'Tell your sister that she had better
serve the writ. She will have to do it and that is
all she can do with him. It will not matter if
she waits till to-morrow.' Mr. Vanderbilt is not
here. He is with his family. 'Mr. Vanderbilt and
I have been with her and know all. 2Send the
letter. All will be well. Tell dear (287-Vol. IV)
Sarah that we want her to sleep knowing that
all will be for her good.
Olin."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I have come here
for a moment. Serve the papers to-morrow at
noon, before twelve o'clock. All is working well
for you. The money will be on hand. God bless
you.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V.
April 2nd 6 P. M.— 1886.
At about ten o'clock of this morning I had
"served the writ" or given Mr. Runcible notice
that our partnership would cease and the lease
terminate at the end of ninety days, under a
clause in our contract. Willie called on Katie and
the following was sent to me:
"My Esteemed Friend. All that you have done
has been for the best. It has been wisely done.
The lawyer that you have is very sure of his
success, in cases of great moment, where every
thing hangs on his word and judgment. There
fore, you are in very safe hands and blessed. His
lawyer has already told him that his case is
bad. You must not feel anxious nor look on the
dark side. His threats will not harm you. Pay
no attention to his threats. He is more crestfal
len than you can imagine. Now (288-Vol. IV)
let things take their course. We shall watch him
(1) Here he speaks or writes to Willie.
(2) This, and the letter mentioned on the last line of the previous
padre both allade to the raising of funds to buy Mr. R. out.
and advise either your son or husband to-morrow.
The man is completely overpowered and very
vindictive. God bless you, and relieve you, and
place you beyond the influence of irresponsible
men. Your judgment is good and you will be
guided. We will bear your trials with you. We
shall not leave you. ... ,_. . , „
W. H. V.
"My son, come in to-morrow.
B. Franklin."
April 3rd 8 P. M.— 1886.
Mr. Runcible was entirely conquered by the
course I pursued. He sent the rent to me on the
evening of the 2nd with great apologies through
Mr. Habrich, a guest of the hotel, but he got
little satisfaction from me. I was not in the mood
to be conciliated. They wrote me by Willie:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I have been with
you and I wish you to have no misgivings re
garding that matter. Your lawyer wants to put
you on your guard, but I feel sure that your
great aim is accomplished and you now stand in
your proper light. You never were placed as you
are now. You have the respect of the man who
thought he could do as he pleased with you, and
he will be a different man in every respect. Just
leave him alone now. I see that he (289-Vol. IV)
is crushed. Let him feel so for a while. It will do
him good. You will find him very submissive.
All has been done square on your part. You bet
ter let events take their course and in due time
we will advise you. Your lawyer is just the man
to deal with this man. I can advise no further
to-night, but we will watch and see that he does
not get any advance of you. God bless you. Keep
good cheer. We see much for you to rejoice over.
The future looks clear and the clouds are passing
away.
W. H. V."
I told Willie to ask Mr. Vanderbilt about the
feasibility of my making terms or conditions upon
which Mr. Runcible might remain.
"In a day or two I shall know better how to
advise. I cannot endure the idea of Mr. Run-
cible's continuing with you. I want to close the
door upon him. He will have to leave.
W. H. V."
350 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Child. Your judgment is good. You must
let it guide you with our advice to help you.
Benj. Franklin."
With such excellent advice and much of it hav
ing proved absolutely prophetic we naturally
looked anxiously for every word from this never
failing source of strength and comfort. From
(290-Vol. IV) the first they strongly advised
getting rid of Mr. Runcible at all events, but at
no time did I feel sure that such a course was
best under existing circumstances, still I was and
am most desirous to get their fullest and frankest
thoughts, and we shall come to see alike before
the business is settled.
April 5th 3 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. You see that all
is coming out well. You have won the battle,
and you can now hoist the flag of victory. Not
only in that, but in many other things which
have crossed the sunlight of your pathway. God
bless you. Soon as you are able, I want you to
take a pleasant little trip and rest and enjoy your
self. I will say more at another time, but go by
all means.
Now, my son, let me say a word to you. A
bright career is before you; and I want you to
work and earn the laurels that hang within your
reach. We will all help you. Begin at once. Look
into affairs now. Take note of how things go
until you enter in your regular business. Great
joy is near for you and yours. The whole circle
send their love to you.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
(291-Vol. IV) "I tell you that man uttered
oaths to that lawyer of his when he got the paper.
Willie, look into your father's affairs.
/."
April 7th 2 P. M.— 1886.
My eyes still very bad. Husband as well as
myself quite concerned about them. He called
upon Katie and the following was sent me :
"My Dear Child. I have with grief seen your
depression which results from your inability to
see. Now let me assure you that your sight will
be fully restored. I have consulted some of the
greatest physicians here. I have taken Dr. Hahne-
man to look into your eyes. They will be all
right before long. I want you to go to-morrow
and see your eye Doctor without fail; then wait
patiently. I know that your eyesight will return
better than ever. Dr. Hahneman has assured me
of this. Now keep good courage for a bright
future is before you. Happy changes are near.
God bless you. Think how smooth the waters
are, and let your heart be glad.
Your father in spirit,
Benj. Franklin."
April 8th 5 P. M.— 1886.
Willie called at Katie's and the following was
sent me:
(292-Vol. IV) "My Dear Esteemed Friend. I
have been with you to-day. The affairs of the
hotel are progressing in your favor; have no mis
givings; have no anxieties. All will turn out for
your good, and there will be success and happi
ness. It is you I am now anxious about. I want
you to nurse yourself. You must go away for
rest and pleasure. Think of nothing here. Let
others take care of everything in your absence.
Runcible will never, never win the day. It is
yours. The victory is won by you. The under
current can do no harm. We are watching affairs
very closely. To-morrow I will advise more fully
at ten. My son, be here for your mother.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
April 9th 10 A. M.— 1886.
Willie kept the appointment.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I rejoice to see
you improving in your eyesight. A great deal of
patience and some little time will fully restore
your eyes, and you will see better than ever. I
have been looking at your private business affairs,
the hotel I speak of. Now as Runcible has some
what humbled himself, let him (293-Vol. IV)
humble a little more, then if you think best to
keep him on let it be with the distinct under
standing that you have the right to discharge
him at any time that you feel that you know
that you can do better, but on no account keep
him unless you make these arrangements. I have
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 351
looked into affairs very closely; this is the only
way to do. Mr. Howe is his firm friend, also
friendly to you; but do not place too much con
fidence in him. He works sometimes with motives
of his own. You see I am always looking for you,
and your interest, and the interest of those near
and dear to you. You know exactly what to do
now. God bless you. I see no dark shadows in
your pathway; nothing to warn you of further at
present. The man, Runcible, feels very much
crushed, and beaten. He feels sick of working
an undercurrent. He is justly punished. 1 will
keep you advised.
Ever your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
1 still anxious about funds in case of buying
R. out.
"It will be all made easy. You will be sur
prised to see how smoothly things will work in
your favor.
VV. H. V."
(294-Vol. IV) April 12*6 5 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear, Dear Child. That loss of sight
comes from weakness, great weakness. And now
I want to tell you that you will have your sight
just as well as ever and better. Only have faith
and you will not be disappointed. I do so much
sympathize with you, and every one here feels
the same interest, even the doctors whom I have
consulted about you; and they gave me their
word, that you would soon recover the sight you
crave. Dear child, be of good cheer. You have
not lived so long to suffer the permanent loss of
your eyesight. God is so good and His angels so
watchful. My child you have everything to cheer
you. I want you to take nourishment and a pleas
ant little trip. The fresh air will do you so much
good. I have had the most prominent physicians
to look in your eyes and they all assure me that
you will entirely recover your sight. I think you
better ride out in the park and sleep all you can.
Some morning soon you will awaken to see as
well as ever; then think of me.
Your devoted loving father in spirit.
Benj. Franklin."
(295-Vol. IV) "My Dear Esteemed Friend.
1 have been here daily with you. When a dark
shadow comes between day light and all, all that
is beautiful to behold, the spirit will droop and
the heart feel sick and mourn over that precious
gift, sight. I know how you feel. I sympathize
with you, and although I know that Dr. Franklin
has spoken truthfully and with great knowledge,
I cannot but feel sorry that you should suffer
from this cause. I shall rejoice when you are
yourself in every respect, in health, in sight, in
happy surroundings. I want to see you well and
cheerful. We all gather round you; we all love
to watch over you; and we will never leave you,
never. Now let me tell you that I feel (with the
others) perfectly satisfied with all you are doing.
You have won the victory, and other things will
work together for your good, and just as you
would wish it. When the little boy is well I will
be here with the circle. Then your eyes will be
well and all will be happy. God bless you.
Ever your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"I wish you had never gone to that eye doctor.
Why did you not ask me? (296-Vol. IV) I would
have said, 'Don't go!' But Charlie Foster's word
is of little account when others are about. They
told me to-day that they wanted all the power.
Well, all will come out right.
/."
"My Dear Sarah. I want you to believe every
word that Dr. Franklin has written this day. He
does not speak from what he knows alone, but
he speaks for others. Great eye physicians have
talked with him and examined your sight thor
oughly. Dear, darling child, we all sanction what
Dr. Franklin has this day told you. 'Every word
will come true. I have talked with him, and
know, and would not deceive you.
Now, my darling child, God bless you. There
will be joy here yet, and before many days. We
can say no more now.
Your Mother.
Your Ma.
The Whole Circle.
Benj. Franklin."
(1) 1898, every word they promised about my eyes came true,
was true and is true.
352 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
April \4th 11 A. M.— 1886.
Willie called on Katie and the following was
sent me:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I was going to
send you a message this morning and I am glad
your son called. I know that (297-Vol. IV) Run-
cible is trying to play a double part. He will
make you a proposition which will appear all
right, but do not fall in with anything he pro
poses. He must come to your decision in all
things. If you suffer him to remain, he must come
to your plans. You have nothing to fear, nothing
in his case. He cannot harm you. He would have
done so long ago, for he has aimed to pierce. I
hope you will get free from him soon. I want to
see a better man in his place. A great change is
on the way. Let things take their course. He will
not be here long.
My son, all is well. You are now doing your
dear mother a great service and kindness by look
ing after her affairs. A surprising change is near.
Wait.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
April \5th 11:30 A. M.— 1886.
Willie called on Katie and returned with this:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I have been look
ing into all the affairs and see that you need feel
no anxiety, for there is no net that you can fall in.
The net has already caught the one who laid it
and carefully spread it out for you. Fear not.
One or two things will occur to annoy and dis
turb you but these will be no real cause to feel
apprehension.
(298-VoI. IV) My dear friend, let me assure
you that you are getting better every day and
will soon see as well as ever. M feel very happy
and Dr. Franklin has sent his blessing through
me, and wishes me to tell you that he knew early
this morning that you would have that blessed
gift in a measure when you opened your eyes on
this morning's light. All will be well, so do not
feel in any way distressed. God bless you.
My dear son, go with your dear mother to-day
and feel that God and His angels have blessed
(1) On this morning when I awakened I found my sight much
better.
you all, and remember that Dr. Franklin rejoices
in your joy.
We can say no more.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
April YJtb 5 P. M.— 1886.
Willie called on Katie.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Now is your time
to be on the watch for Runcible. Keep your eyes
open. Do just as your own good judgment tells
you, and you will be the winner of the underhand
ed plan laid by himself. Do not worry, all will be
well. We are paying our attention to your re
covery. About the end of next week we shall all
be sure of his plans and know more of his end.
God bless you.
W. H. V."
(299-VoI. IV) "My Dear Friend. My beloved
child, you will never be able to live in the same
house with Runcible. It will be misery untold
and I do not care for his remaining when you are
not there. The sum of money that he will offer
cannot be less than enough to support your whole
family handsomely. I advise you to let him go.
Wait! See how he sails!
Isaac T. Hopper."
"He must pay twenty thousand more down;
not one penny less.
W. H. V."
April 19** I P. M.— 1886.
Katie finally called here, the following was
given :
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I am happy to
have this opportunity to give you a few com
forting words and advice as well. You are just
stepping out of all the mud and anxieties. You
are clearing your feet from the deep nets which
were laid for you in an underhand way, secretly.
This, I know to be true. I have seen the plans
studied. You were to leave and Runcible was to
have a smooth sail all his own way. He would
have made his fortune in a few months and made
you believe that he only cleared expenses. How
ever, if he makes you a very tempting offer you
might think it over and use your own judgment
about accepting it. You have every reason now to
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 353
rejoice. (300-Vol. IV) You have overcome all
the difficulties, and best of all, achieved a great
triumph.
But I must now tell you how happy we all are,
to see that you will recover your eye sight, the
delicate part of the sight, much sooner than you
understand, dear friend. The delicate eye must
be nursed and to do this you must take outdoor
exercise; not exercise exactly, but breathe the pure
air, and take continual nourishment. Think as
little of trouble as possible and shortly, very
unexpectedly your eye sight will return much as
it was in youthful years. I have heard the phy
sicians here talk with Dr. Franklin only this
morning, and I have given you the substance of
the conversation. My spirit is with you every
day. Now I will linger to reply to any queries.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"My Dear Sarah. All the beloved are speaking
and I am not silent. I am so happy to see that
you will have recovered sight to behold the love
ly flowers open. You will see and know how
very accurate Dr. Franklin has been in all he has
told you regarding your recovery. And now re
joice with me and with all the world of spirits
here who love you. I was pained when I saw
how you (301-Vol. IV) felt. I wanted to give
you cheerful words, but I never cheer the heart
unless I know positively that there is no doubt.
A great change is near, a great joy, veiled awhile
from our eyes, but soon you shall know. A joy
you have looked for. The bright sunlight on
the present will soon reach over the future.
My dear Sarah, I love you and that is why
I rejoice when I see or have this knowledge of
happiness in the future for you. I want you to
travel some. I want to be with you and enjoy
the world with you, you, the beautiful nature of
earth, I, the everlasting fields of heaven. All is
well. God bless you my dear sister. Emeline
sends much love and many kisses, which I would
like to imprint upon your dear mouth so that
you would know that I, your brother Olin, kissed
you. All is well.
Olin."
"I see that I was mistaken.
/."
When I asked Charley to what he alluded, he
wrote, "I was sorry that you went to the eye
doctor.
/"
"My Dear Child. You have nothing to fear
in regard to Mr. Habrich. He is the best one to
manage Runcible and 1 think you are (302-Vol.
IV) perfectly right in trusting him. I know that
you could not have a better person to help you.
All is looking bright. 1 feel perfectly satisfied
with the course things are taking. You are gain
ing in health daily and things are working to
gether for your good and that of your family.
We have watched you carefully, and now we feel
sure that you are progressing rapidly and surely
towards all that makes life sweet.
Your father in spirit.
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dear Child. It seems such a cloud has
been lifted from my soul, to see you again look
ing upon the beautiful world with renewed sight.
I rejoice, my dear child. Have a little patience.
Soon, in a short time, you will see better than
you ever did. I feel happy, and you know I
could not be if I saw crosses for you to bear. God
bless you. All is well. We can say no more
now.
Your loving Ma.
Your Mother."
April 20th 3 P. M.— 1886.
Katie and Ferdie, her sick child, passed the
afternoon and evening here. The pencil wrote:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I am happy to
tell you that the steps towards a final answer
(303-Vol. IV) from you is near and when you
will decide everything, and you will be, just
where we predicted some days ago, in a garden
of flowers. All looks very bright so far and you
need feel no anxiety. Great changes are coming.
I see that you will soon feel the importance of
bringing Runcible to honest work. All is well.
I will have more to tell you in a few days. Be
not trembling, nor wavering. Let the storms
rage ever so fiercely. Nothing can pull up the
354 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
flowers or cloud the sunlight in your pathway.
We say all is well.
W. H. V."
I mentioned the conditions I was preparing to
submit to Mr. Runcible and asked advice. This
came:
"You are doing everything just as I would do
myself, and you will be perfectly satisfied. We
can say no more now.
W. H. V."
After dinner, at about eight o'clock Katie
again asked for the pencil and the following
came:
"My Dear Child. We are happy to see that
all is well. Runcible is now in an ocean, tossing
here and there, sadly beaten by the waves; so
very boisterous he does not know where his boat
will anchor; but we do, and soon he will step on
the other side of the water. You have done right,
dear child. Be firm and you will not have to
battle (304-Vol. IV) long with adverse winds.
Your day of triumph is near. We are sure that
great joy is coming to you and yours. The stars
say it; we read it in the unfolding flowers, so be
happy till we all come to congratulate you on
your new found joys.
We have all been with the dear little boy. He
has been worse than you can realize and Mr.
Jencken wishes me to tell the Doctor that he has
his soul's everlasting gratitude with blessings.
His boy, he says, has been on his mind, for he
wants him to live and take his place on earth,
and he has felt more than anxious. He is here
and his heart is full of love for his dear little
family. My dear child, you shall soon have sit
tings for the book, when the little boy is well, and
when the clouds have all cleared.
1 My son, your life is one of great use and
help to the world. Your name will live long and
be honored. God bless you.
Now we will close and with our blessing. Sleep
well. We will attend you to-morrow, dear daugh
ter. The dear boy must not stay long. All
(1) Dr. Taylor.
that we have predicted will be realized and
sooner than you expect. Good night.
Benj. Franklin and Circle."
(305-Vol. IV) April 2\st 2 P. M.— 1886.
Willie called on Katie and received the follow
ing letters:
"My Dear Son. A great many times I have
wanted to speak with you and now I will say a
few words. The summer is near and I want you
to enjoy yourself with your dear mother. I want
you to stand by her and take her burdens upon
yourself. Take the lead in your own house.
Look after everything faithfully. You will thus
prepare to work for yourself and practice your
profession. You have every ability and will be
aided, and the first great case you get will make
your career. Let your mind study over what I
have this day told you. Your light must not be
closed from the world by your retiring into the
dark. My son, fear no defeat. There are some
who are very envious of you in your home, that
you meet daily. Heed them not. Pass them by
as people too ignorant to be rebuked. God bless
you. All is working well.
Tell your dear mother that we all watch over
her interests, and what we have predicted will be
realized. God bless you all.
Benj. Franklin."
(306-VoI. IV) "My Son. I advise you all to
take a long sea voyage. Enjoy the beautiful
earth and lay in a store of health for the future.
You must tell your mother, my dear esteemed
friend, to think this over. Health is more than
wealth, and if you follow my advice you will
have both. All looks bright and all will be well.
With love and interest I watch you all. I can
say no more now but will say more as things
progress.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
April 24th 1 1 A. M.— 1886.
My lawyer suggested my offering to sell to
Mr. Runcible in order to draw him out. I was
afraid to do it and could not make up my mind
to send the letter prepared by my lawyer for that
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 355
purpose. I asked advice of my unseen friends
and received this.
"I am reading the letter and both men.
My Dear Esteemed Friend. Every client in a
great business matter is informed of everything
just as you are, and the adverse party know this;
therefore, in my opinion it would be best for you
to send the letter as advised by your lawyer.
That is understood by the other party, Runcible.
Your judgment is extremely good and reliable.
I hope soon (307-Vol. IV) to see this matter
closed, for I want to see your mind easy and so
happy that you can go away for a little enjoy
ment. Great changes are very near, much near
er than you expect. I will wait to answer.
W. H. V."
"You must not sell out on any account. Not
now. Runcible is a big .
J. T. Brady."
We read and expressed our surprise at the ad
vice from an entire stranger. The pencil con
tinued:
"I am pleased to be called by my friend, Mr.
Vanderbilt, to correct his mistakes. Do not sell
out.
James T. Brady."
"The best way is to take a large compensation,
remain where you are for the present, and let
Runcible work out his way as best he can, you
receiving the rent as usual and a large compen
sation.
Advised by Brady. W. H. V."
"Mr. Brady thinks that more profit would be
yours by half shares, and at the same time put
Runcible under restrictions.
W. H. V."
I now read conditions I had already prepared
upon which I proposed to offer to allow Runci
ble to remain. The pencil wrote:
"All most important. Now remain firm to this
without further parley from lawyers. This
whole business will come out just as you (308-
Vol. IV) would have
it,
even better, and now let
it
not trouble your mind. He
is
all the time
working and planning for some treachery, but
he will only be caught
in
his own net. He
is
planning something now which will not be de
veloped till sometime next week.
1
advise you
to make this plan clear to him before he makes
more proposals. Put
it
at work soon as possible.
We can say no more now. God bless you.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
April 24tb
9
P. M.—1886.
In the evening Katie called and the dear ones
came.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend.
I
have looked
further in this matter.
I
think you better hold
your place here. Runcible will not be here long,
on earth. He
is
passing away rather rapidly.
You are safe in any arrangement you make with
him. Daily our homes are being filled with new
born spirits. They come very quickly over the
troubled waters and take their places in the
brighter world. Soon ex-president Arthur will be
here, and so they bid farewell to their earthly
trials and come here, little thinking that
it
is
only
a
continuation of earthly life.
I
know how
I
felt myself, when
I
was first conscious of this
progressive life.
It
was
a
great joy (309-VoI.
IV) to me; but sudden deaths are dreadful. Even
now when
I
look back upon
it,
the suddenness of
my departure was, well, terrible.
Great events will take place next week or the
week after. You will be surprised and pleased.
I
will be near to congratulate you.
I
am pleased
to see that you are gaining your sight. Be
patient.
It
will all come soon. Dr. Taylor ought
to have an eye to business over there and look
out for his own interests more.
I
am your watchful friend.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Son and Daughter. You think per
haps that
I
forget you because
I
don't speak
oftener. Now
I
visit you just as much and as
often as the others do.
I
look in with mother
and see that all
is
well.
I
don't talk much but
that was my way, and
1
Daniel you know comes
after me to take me to see Amelia and others;
so
I
am between them all pretty well occupied.
Mrs. Sweet
is
my best medium here.
I
don't see
(1) A brother-in-law of my husband*s, who died in 1884.
356 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the affairs of earth much. I don't want to trouble
my mind. God bless you.
Father Taylor."
"I shall not write again for some time. Mother
wrote with me. I am now going to say good
night.
Father."
(310-Vol. IV) "I want to warn you against
Mr. Runcible's promises, and notes. Look well.
J. T. Brady."
"Notes to others in future. Look well. Who
is that, my young friend?
J. T. Brady."
Willie was greatly annoyed because he had
been made a "go between" by Mr. Runcible. 1
did not fear either Mr. Runcible or Mr. Habrich.
1 was willing to, and did see the latter and be
lieved I could use him to advantage. Willie
made some sharp remarks about him. The pen
cil then wrote.
"Put him out of the question altogether, ut
terly out of the question, that fellow.
J. T. Brady."
"My Son. Never cause a shadow to cross the
sunlight of your mother's heart by making
thoughtless remarks. She has good judgment
and knows how far to trust. I simply say these
words that you may be guarded in future, not
to scold.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I will be near you.
Good night.
W. H. V."
April 26*A — 1886.
I was thinking of visiting my father, and Wil
lie called on Katie to learn if they could see any
(311-Vol. IV) reason why I should not. He
returned with the following.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I am here and
let me cheer you by telling you that you are
drawing nearer every day to your reward. A
few days' rest will do you good. I advise you to
go for a few days. It will do you good in heart;
for it will be the last time you will probably see
your father in this world; and although there are
disagreeable links, be not cast down in spirit.
Why, no one understands better than 1 do the
human heart and all its depressions. I sym
pathize with you, but I look ahead and see that
all is well; and that all will be well. God bless
yOU-
W. H. V."
Willie asked if the cash consideration I had
decided to require of Runcible in case we went
to Europe was right? He answered.
"It is less than I would like her to take, but
she can only do what her own judgment says and
what she can negotiate for. There will be great
changes very soon.
W. H. V."
On the evening of the 27th Flora and I started
for my father's in the western part of the state.
We remained one week and among the letters
we received from home was the following. It was
given to Willie, but he did not provide ruled paper
which Mr. V. B. so much preferred.
(312-Vol. IV) April 30tb 10 A. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. You see I have
not the attention and thought in your absence
that is ever shown when you are near. But you
will excuse my writing on unruled paper. I will
do as well as I can. You must now improve all
you can. Take the out door exercise which is
so nourishing to the body and mind. Let your
heart be free and divested of anxiety. I am
watching affairs. So far, all is well. You will
have no trouble in winding up every obstacle
with Runcible. We are arranging that.
Your beloved one is well and doing his work
faithfully. Willie is going on the same. He is
well and the flowers are opening, so be of good
cheer.
Your dear mother saw me a few minutes this
morning and wished me to tell you that she is
always gliding between you and her dear hus
band. You are the medium for him to come
more closely in contact with his beloved. Soon
he will join her and then he will think as she
does and throw off the present influences, for
she is his true bride. They will be reunited and
Olin will give his mother in the arms of his
father. God bless you. Your watchful friend.
W. H. V."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 357
(313-Vol. IV) May 6th 2 P. M.— 1886.
We, Flora and I, returned on the 4th. Katie
called at this hour and immediately the pencil
wrote :
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I rejoice to meet
you again where I can speak to you face to face.
Of course I see you when I cannot speak, but
this brings us nearer. I am watching things here
very closely. I see that some sudden change is
taking place, whether of a favorable order we
cannot tell, but that it is taking place is certain.
I will know better in a few days. Only you keep
your eyes open and be prepared for whatever
comes. I can assure you that the soil will not
fall on you or any of your family. 1 hope now
that your anxieties will end, and that things will
go on smoothly. You have the great satisfaction
of knowing that you are free to act as you please.
I will help you in every little and great matter.
Surely that Runcible is plotting some new
scheme. He is troubled, up early, cannot rest
and 1 can see that he is deliberately scheming
some new way of his and his lawyers, to get a
certain hold on this hotel. I will watch. A
heavy cloud hangs over him and in the midst of
all, he falls a victim in his own nets. God bless
you. All will be well. You are daily improving
and we shall have the way clear to great develop
ments.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
(314-Vol. IV) "My Dear Sarah. How pleased
I am to see that my friend Mr. Vanderbilt likes
to visit you and look after your affairs. He takes
great pleasure in advising and comforting you. I
introduced you to him, dear Sarah. I hope you
will never forget that I brought Mr. Vanderbilt
to you first.
We often talk over matters here. We speak of
the first interviews, and he is so grateful to me
for helping him. He says, that I have made his
life a perpetual summer, a garden of roses.
My dear sister, I have been with you at home.
Father is as well as you or I can expect, in
mind and body.
I want to see you enjoy this summer. I want
to be with you, and in a week's time you shall
have some glimpse of our intentions. Our dear
Ma is very happy. She is enjoying her new
friends here. Their society is pleasant to her.
I see that you will have a varied season, so
much greater will be your joys than you antici
pate or imagine. You have much brightness in
the future for you and many changes are taking
place.
Ma, Emeline and all send love to you.
Your loving brother,
Olin."
(315-Vol. IV) May 6th 7 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. There is not a
cloud on our beautiful home to-day. I have
been to see my family and found them all well.
Grief is there, but subdued. Peace seems to have
entered my wife's heart. I have lingered near
her and influenced her. Believe me, she will
some day talk with me through this medium.
Your dear children went with me, through my
dwelling three days ago. They were delighted.
I showed them my musical bird, and they saw it
work. I kissed their innocent mouths and took
them back to their dear Grandmama. It was not
long after my visit with these dear little ones
(in my earthly house) before I had all these
things to show them in my abode here; but far
more beautiful, far more interesting. Now they
take pleasure in visiting me.
I shall be present to-morrow. I have seen your
Aunt Sarah. She is a bright spirit.
Do not feel anxious but be happy, for happy,
very happy changes are coming. God bless you
and yours.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"My Dear Sarah. I want you present to-mor
row morning. Go with Uncle Albert dear Sarah,
my child. I am your loving
Aunt Sarah."
(316-Vol. IV) Uncle Albert, Rev. A. G.
Palmer, had made an appointment with Katie
for the following morning. "Aunt Sarah" was
his first wife and died forty and more years ago.
358 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
I promised to go with him to Katie's. The pen
cil added.
"I think Sarah better be shy to-morrow and
say little while the other wife is there.
/."
"There are some minds so narrow that they
cannot entertain the idea of more than one jewel.
His Sarah was his jewel, his wife is his helpmate.
But the jewel is waiting on the golden step of
immortality. There is a great difference, be it
first or second. The first in this case was the
real wife. Sarah told me that she longed to have
her husband with her. 1 She is more like a young
girl waiting for her lover. Think of it all!
Here she is to-night telling Olin how happy she
will be to-morrow when she talks with Albert and
and hears his voice. She is drawing him nearer
to her. He is nearing the home she has prepared
for him. I am now going to join the circle and
will speak to-morrow.
W. H. V."
May 7*6 11 A. M.— 1886.
Uncle Albert has lost a brother, whose son
came with Uncle Albert and wife. The sitting
was most unsatisfactory to me and must have
been fearfully so to the unseen visitors. Beauti
fully touching (317-Vol. IV) and tender letters
were written to each but were received, not with
scorn, but with "poor grace" to say the least. On
the wife's face was a pious look of "I am holier
than thou." They asked senseless and most ir
ritating questions, etc. The following was writ
ten and handed me and I read it aloud excepting
the signature:
"Do let me say a word to you, my dear es
teemed friend. All this is very trying to spirits
who have recently come here. They have not
got over the wonder and pleasure of their new
lives. Your friend's father is weak yet. He
finds everything so very different from that
which he believed when in the earth form. Have
patience with new born spirits. The doubts, the
anxieties, all prevent them from giving the
proofs so much desired. I had Olin to help me.
I tried to talk but felt afraid until he took me
by the hand.
I see that all is well with you. God bless you.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
May \2th 2 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. 1 am happy to
have this interview. It seems long since I have
been able to come to you and talk; still I have
been with you and carefully watching your af
fairs, and I am happy to (3 18-Vol. IV) say that
all is well and there are no obstacles that you
cannot overcome. I am sorry to see that you do
not feel well and joyous. I want to see you feel
ing interested in everything; interested in life,
in flowers, and all that is beautiful. I want to
see you step, as your spirit longs to, free from
anxiety and not held back by heaviness of heart.
All this I want to see soon.
When I look on earth, upon all (that I was the
means of making) so beautiful, so inviting; and
then go back to my home in the Garden of Eden,
everything on earth looks little and of no ac
count. It seems so little when I view our mag
nificent structures; and then time cannot efface
their beauty. I can say in my heart that I am
satisfied. God satisfied; earth weary. And so it
will be with all who have experienced what I
have, and what you are daily experiencing.
1 I could not remain in the circle a few morn
ings ago. I was obliged to withdraw. Those
doubts, after they have received such wonderful
light; that wavering and doubting will all be a
veil between their souls and the touch of an
angel's hand. It seems strange for me to write
as I do, but I have lived a life time in a few
weeks. I have had such kindly aid. The way
was opened for me by (319-Vol. IV) those who
knew that I would grasp their hands.
My dear esteemed friend, you can easily un
derstand how nervous I felt when the dear com
panion of his early years, standing near him,
anxious to pour out her soul to him, and he fear
ful of his surroundings —I had to withdraw. Oh,
if they only knew how their beloved ones wait
(1) She was only 28 when she died. (1) The sitting with Uncle Albert and his present wife.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 359
and anticipate so much pleasure in meeting them,
they would throw aside all doubts and say, wel
come dear ones from the brighter land. But
patience; time alone must correct these errors.
A phenomenon so great as this can only reach
great minds.
I see that the change we spoke of is approach
ing, and you will all be happy. Now a few more
words. Enjoy life this summer. It is a short
time and full of joy. Take out of it all you can.
Leave care behind, knowing that all will be well.
I will stand between you and all will be well.
God bless you. 1 We have talked under diffi
culties to-day. The book is in safe keeping and
all will be well. I now close, but will soon come
to you again.
Ever your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
May \7th I P. M.— 1886.
Katie's child being now quite well the letters
were all given in our own room as formerly.
Katie called at this hour and we received as fol
lows:
(320-Vol. IV) "My Dear Esteemed Friend.
One thing in my life I deeply regret, and it is
this, that I did not when in the earthly form,
know the value of this great truth. I regret it
when I view the structures my money built. I
regret it when I walk through my grounds. And
when 1 visit you, I regret that I did not know
and appreciate this greatest of all truths, and
make this medium independent for life, in this
way; that
it,
this power, should only be used for
those who could take
it
to their hearts; and grow
purified; and learn of the other unseen world;
and do good; and comfort the bereaved; and to
advise people like yourself. Oh, how
I
regret
that
I
did not know you and this medium. To
day you would have been talking with me, tak
ing comfort on having advised with me. This
medium would have been free from the annoy
ances of curious seekers for only the wonderful.
I
must not dwell on that which failed
in
my life.
I
was too worldly, perhaps.
Ft
is
now when
I
wish
I
had the power to help, where
it
would
(1) We had been interrupted three times, once Katie went home
and was pone an hour, having been sent for.
have been
a
blessing to the receiver and the giver.
This
is
a
glorious truth.
1
wish
I
could talk with
my family. Daily
I
try to impress them with my
presence, and now
1
am trying to send them to
this medium.
I
am (321-Vol. IV) doing my best
to accomplish this.
I
feel sure
I
shall be able
to soon. Now that the summer
is
coming
I
will
hope to impress them with my wishes perhaps
by something spiritual.
I
may have the power
to impress the minds of some of them.
I
feel
sure this blessing will be given to me, to con
vince my family before they come here.
I
will see what
I
can do to make life
a
pleas
ure for you and your family including this medi
um. Now dear friend, great changes are coming
before long. You will smile at my saying this
so often, but
it
is
near, or rather they are near,
and very important ones.
I
have seen
a
cloud
settle near here which will affect Mr. Runcible
and annoy you; but all will be well. You need
have no confidence in him
;
for he cannot remain
true to any promise unless
it
is
under oath.
The dear children are happy here and visit me
very often.
I
will now wait to respond to your
questions.
W. H. V."
I
then asked his opinion upon an open point
in
my still unsettled business. He replied:
"You cannot do better or more wisely.
I
hope
you will then take
a
pleasant journey to some
pleasant place and get
a
store of health for your
self; then you will be able to battle with life.
(322-Vol. IV)
A
strange phenomenon occurred
last evening.
I
was visiting Olin in his home,
where he was resting on
a
bed of roses, by the
side of his dear mother and others, when
a
large
tree of white roses opened. Olin informed me
that he, with his friends, were asking how the
future looked for Sarah. The flowers opened and
said, 'beautiful and bright.'
I
am daily learning, learning. God
is
good to
send His angels to help those we love.
I
shall talk with you soon again.
I
am happy
to have had this opportunity, and so opportune
for
I
have promised to take
a
circle now, at this
360 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
hour, from here to a favorite place of mine, near
the banquet hall.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
After lunch I said, "Perhaps some other of the
dear ones can come;" soon Katie took up the
pencil and the following was written:
"My Dear Sarah. You called. So Mr. Van-
derbilt says, or at least, he told me, that you
were waiting to hear from some of us.
We are all visiting a beautiful place near the
banquet hall where the poets make it their home.
I have been looking, dear child, in the path
(323-Vol. IV) that leads from your earth here.
How near we are! We come from the beautiful
fields through flowery paths, down, until we reach
the first sphere; then we stand in your presence
direct. We come quickly and float sometime in
the air. Many can tell where we have been
simply by looking in our faces. We are so hap
py to have seen that all is well.
We visited Charlie Foster. He has a nice
abode of his own, but clings to his old associa
tions so closely, and is so restless that he will
not improve his spiritual existence for some
time. I saw Helen Hunt an hour ago. She sent
her love to you.
I shall now join Mr. Vanderbilt and sometime
tell you all about this trip. My dear child, good
news is near. All is well. God bless you.
Your Mother.
Your Ma."
"Well, William, I must say a few words. I
have been reclining all the morning on a bed of
leaves by the sea, listening to the sighing of the
waters. When the Vanderbilt party called on
me, I was too wrapt in my own self, and the
sighing of the waters to notice them. So, I have
come to tell you that you may look for a bright
future after you have passed through next month.
What do you say to going to San Frisco for a
trip? I will go with you and you will return a
well, strong man.
(324-Vol. IV) My dear boy, I am now going
to hunt up that party and make myself more
gracious. I have been with no one this morning.
Well, I will now say good bye.
A"
May 22nd 2 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I told you the
last time we met, that we were going to visit the
poets' grounds, their paths and bowers. Their
wishes have taken form here. Their dreams of
beauty are realized. They have their palaces,
their lovely women they have so often painted in
verse and song. Oh, the great spirit of God is
most kind, most generous. Be grateful and fear
not death. There is no death. It is life, life
eternal. I was much pleased to accompany Olin,
for he joined Dr. Franklin who introduced us to
the poets. This life has its charms. Here we
meet those whose names are great in history;
here we meet those high spirits, by this I mean
elevated.
Now I must tell you of a little break we had.
As we were listening to the great Homer explain
the different spheres, we heard the voices of
Frankie and Leila calling their Grandmama. Olin
at once went for them, they were alone, and took
them to their Grandmama who sat beside Hom
er. (325-Vol. IV) She clasped them in her arms
and each one smiled. The dear children, how I
love them.
I want to give you an idea of the spheres.
Homer has given me a great insight and compre
hension of them, which, to me, was veiled in
mystery until now. Your appreciative mind
will take it quickly and you will feel a new
pleasure in coming here. Olin is most deeply in
terested. He is anxious to have stated interviews
with these poets and authors. What a genial
fellow he is, and interesting as well as agreeable.
I want to begin our meetings for the book
soon. I want to show you what has been done,
but Dr. Franklin is Master of the book. We
shall probably require another.
My dear esteemed friend, there is much trans
piring for your benefit. There seems to be no
undercurrent at work now to do you injury. That
man Runcible is subdued and meek. You have
won the victory. God bless you. I am going to
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 361
remain near now and take care of you. I want
to see you happy and well, joyous in spirit and
well in body. All will be well.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"My son, take the advice of your old friend,
one who loves you and looks forward to seeing
you stand first in your profession (326-Vol. IV)
some day. xTake my advice; never put off an
important matter; attend to the first symptom
you have of weakness ; listen to the first warning.
My son, God bless you.
Prof. Kenyon."
"Another thing, my son, never trouble your
mother. Help her; think for her; be her escort
to pleasant places; save her steps, for such a
mother as you have now, you will never have
again.
W. H. V."
After the above was read the pencil continued.
"My son, I do not mean to leave one shadow
on your heart. I have sons; some might have
been more thoughtful. You do not think I mean
to say that you are not all that I have told you
to be? Years will go on, and others will step
in, but let your mother ever be first.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I will listen to
your wants and thoughts. I will listen to your
sighs. I answer with a blessing. How much I
would like to say.
Dr. Franklin and I shall meet to-day, and Olin,
of course, to learn important facts concerning
mediums. Why we cannot always communicate?
Why the power goes, etc., etc.? Then when we
meet again we will have (327-VoI. IV) some new
information, very important to know. All will
be well. We can say no more now. May you
all be happy and remember we wait anxiously to
speak. Tell Dr. Taylor that all will be well. We
now close.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
May 26th 5 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I am very happy
(1) Willie wu speaking to me of his eyes.
to come and resume my last conversation, or re
mind you of my last message in which I told
you that I with others was going to investigate
the mediumistic power. What the reason of the
power failing, and why the atmosphere has so
much to do with it. I have been deeply inter
ested in Dr. Franklin's explanation of every
thing. He says that he always likes to get hold
of a medium when the power is fresh, that
is,
when he has something very important to say, or
an important manifestation to give, then he
wants fresh power, of the first power. When the
atmosphere
is
clear all spirits can advance more
easily to earth, for they can come in more per
fection by the aid of the elements when electri
cal. They control their conditions better. We
love to come as perfect as we can, and the clear
atmosphere
is
here
a
great aid. When there
is
a heavy fog and the rain falls there
is
great diffi
culty in coming. When the medium
is
worn
quite out by long sittings, (328-Vol. IV) and
those with people who wear out the nerves of the
medium by their doubts and testings, as well as
our own spirits which become oppressed with
heaviness and
a
longing to get back, away out of
their influence. We love to come when the
medium
is
cheerful and happy. We love to draw
near and see sunshine and happiness
in
the heart.
For instance, my friend, we have come to earth
to those dearest to us, and the conditions have
been such as to cause us to withdraw. The dark
shadow would touch our souls before we came
in
contact with the medium. Dr. Franklin says,
'A medium should be surrounded with pleasant
faces, kind hearts, and free from anxiety or hard
work of any kind pertaining to earth.'
A
medi
um, for instance like this, should have nothing to
disturb or annoy her before
a
sitting. The power
or strength of mediums
is
greatly used; that
is
why Dr. Franklin says he likes to have the first.
When mediums are tired, over-worked, ill, wor
ried or anxious we cannot come so purely.
A
medium
is
fine clock work, very fine, and that
is
why
I
now wish
I
had lived to know this truth,
or know
it
as
I
do now, when
I
had the power to
place
a
medium where she would have every
362 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
condition Dr. Franklin has named, to make this
truth perfection, to a few like yourselves, my
dear esteemed friends. I must and will accom-
(329- Vol. IV) plish this with our medium; and
some day I shall be able to sit down with you
and Kathie and have my own way in everything.
1 shall have no interruptions, nothing to detract
from the power or mar the conditions of the
medium. I have tried to come through this
medium when her nervous condition has been
painful in the extreme, and I have withdrawn
sorrowfully enough. I have seen a circle of
spirits come from far off spheres, and stop on
the threshold of spiritual intercourse with earth,
when Dr. Franklin has waved back a message to
seek no further, the power being too weak. It
has been so with me at times. Now, I shall try
to arrange things so that this medium will only
sit with a few families, and then look out for
great events. I have been learning much and
shall go on learning. Your family here are
happy to have me communicate to you. They
seem to rejoice in my happiness. I have a great
deal to tell you about this power. Dr. Franklin
will write you next and perhaps more clearly than
I can, but I shall say much upon the subject.
Never urge spirits to come; you know how many
do, it is wrong. When the circle closes, never
regret, but be content, as it is best to follow di
rections carefully. By following directions great
is the reward. Now this medium ought not to
meet a circle until she has had rest and recovers
nerve power. You (330-Vol. IV) will understand
what we mean and soon I will be able to make
these vague explanations perfectly plain.
My dear esteemed friend, your dear children
are very full of pleasure. They have been to me
twice to tell me to give you and their dear papa
love and kisses; and to Willie and Flora.
Better close now. The power is weak. All is
well. I see no clouds.
Your faithful friend,
W. H. V."
(When the above letter was about half
finished, the pencil left the "tablet" and went to a
piece of paper and wrote the following note. Then
the pencil dropped, the power was gone. We read
the note as follows:
"Mr. Vanderbilt says that he wants you to
wait awhile for his letter; he will finish it soon.
1 Deborah."
We ate our dinners and at about seven o'clock
the power came again to Katie's hand and Mr.
Vanderbilt finished his letter. The pencil added:)
"Papa dear, I have eyes like yours. I love you.
Frankie."
"Mamma darling, I have eyes like yours; soft
blue eyes.
Leila."
"Dear Papa and Mamma, we love you both so
dearly. We have been looking up Grandma. She
is very fond of society and so are we. God bless
you. We see no shadows, no clouds.
Leila and Frankie."
(331-VoI. IV) May 29tb 1 P. M.— 1886.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I have come now
to decide for you, if you find that your own judg
ment coincides with mine. There never can be
a better time for you to settle matters with Mr.
Runcible than now; and then go and take your
pleasure in the flowers and scenery of earth. En
joy heaven's pure air, and I will go with you over
the boundless deep, where my spirit loves to
wander. I know you will enjoy nature's beau
tiful gifts to earth's children, and the blessings of
our Father, Master. You deserve all this my dear
esteemed friend. You deserve to enjoy life,
especially the season of beauty. Why should you
toil? Why be anxious? Why stay to hear the
troubles of others always? Why not go and enjoy
the world with your own dear family? Summer
does not always last! Flowers bloom but once
in this season! The grass is green for only a
certain time! Grasp the blessings, when they are
placed for you to take, with thankful heart. Say
good bye to care, and glide over the blue waters.
My dear esteemed friend, great will be the joy
that will follow in your pathway; great will be
your thankfulness to God. My spirit is happy
this morning to see your way clear. My
spirit rejoices in the clear atmosphere and I come
(1) Mm. B. Franklin
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 363
to you so full of (332-Vol. IV) gratitude to your
dear brother Olin for teaching me the way. He
led the way and I followed. My heart was heavy
and he gave me comfort. My home was without
the bright laughing faces that I now see about
me. My home was sombre till he came. Now all
my windows are open and gay flowers curtain
them. This is a holy truth. Faith guides the
honest heart in all things, and is one of the
strongest magnets between earth and heaven.
Imagine a doubting spirit coming here. Where
does he light? Who can help him up? Who can
place his treasures within his reach? The doubt
intimidates those who would wish to draw near,
and keeps them from preparing a home of cheer
fulness with all they once loved on earth; and
these ministering spirits must wait till that rest
less doubting soul becomes purified from these
doubts and believes in progression. How can I
explain it to you? I never was a man of grand
language, but you can understand me. I write
for you. The fact and truth
is,
I
would write
for no one (out of my own family) but you.
There
is
a
strong link of sympathy between us,
my dear.
Speaking of spiritualism and publicity. There
is
a
sacredness about
it
that should never be
made public. Take me for instance. Had
I
known this truth as
I
do now, (333-Vol. IV)
my home on earth would have been
a
sacred
temple, for people like yourself. No doubter
should have entered when my hours for commun
ing with my unseen visitors were on. My visi
tors from the eternal world should have had due
honor paid them. No curious eye should have
read my sacred missives. They would have been
sacred to me alone, and to those who believed as
I
did.
I
would have done all this, dear friend,
and so
it
is
in your case.
I
see that all
is
well. There are great changes
near for your happiness.
I
have watched Runci-
ble.
I
do not like him.
A
more selfish man
I
never met. Beware of him in all things. Your
dear family here are all happy. They knew that
I
was coming and sent their love to you. They
knew what
1
would say in
a
great measure. God
bless you.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"P.
S.
My dear esteemed friend. We, the
circle, meet to-day about the book.
W. H. V."
I
read the above letter and Katie was much
excited over it; asked
if
we thought of going to
Europe?
If
we would go? Declared she would
not stay in this country without us! The truth
is
we have been planning to go in July but have
carefully avoided mentioning
it
before Katie
knowing the idea would disturb her. While
Katie and
I
were (334-Vol. IV) talking of this
the pencil
in
her hand wrote the following from
Cousin Frank and then returned to Mr. Vander-
bilt's book, "tablet," and wrote the message which
closed the visit.
"My Dear Willie. You will be successful, and
I
shall be happy to see you at work. But as you
say, you need rest and
a
healthful rest.
I
am
having great pleasure here
in
this world of so
many planets. You will be helped
in
your writ
ing,
in
everything. Willie,
I
had many desires,
as you know, on earth that were never gratified.
You will be pleased to know that
I
have every
thing now, and the little knowledge
I
had of
spiritualism was
a
great blessing. Olin helps me
a
great deal. Sometime
I
will visit you
in
your
own house and communicate with you and others
of your family. You will some day make your
mark in the world. That
I
know.
I
watch over
your future. We are going to bring that book
soon.
I
will come soon again.
Dear Sarah,
I
approve of your making
a
de
cided move, and
I
hope to be one of your escorts
over the blue waters. Good bye.
Frank."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend.
I
feel sure that
Kathy will go with you. She better write at once
to her friend and have all prepared. (335-VoI.
IV)
I
will now join the others and soon you shall
have good tidings.
I
will make the appointment
and
I
know this medium will heed it.
I
have
much to do in this matter, and will constantly
364 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
advise you. Your husband needs a change and
all will work that way. We can say no more now.
Do not call our circle.
Ever your friend and guardian,
W. H. V."
When we turned over the "tablet" on which
Mr. Vanderbilt was writing we found upon its
under, and a few minutes before, absolutely blank
side the following:
Cornelius Vanderbilt
I read it and exclaimed, "It is the Commo
dore!" The pencil wrote in reply :
"It is indeed, aided as I was by Dr. Franklin,
to gratify my father.
W. H. V."
June 8th 1 P. M.— 1886.
Katie with her two boys went directly from us
on May 29tb to visit some English friends in
New Jersey. They returned on the following
Monday but 1 did not meet her until Tuesday
when I noticed she was unhappy and wished to
avoid me. I noticed this still did not give her
manner the second thought. On Wednesday,
June 2, the Doctor came over to tell me that
Katie was (336-VoI. IV) in a miserable saloon,
drunk. He had heard that something was wrong
and had searched her out. She was taken to her
rooms and all the miseries of her old life of ten
and fifteen years ago were repeated. It appears
that these "English" friends induced her to take
wine at dinner and when she once got the taste
all the rest followed. She has been in this city
one year this month and not until now has a drop
touched her lips. We are heart sick, for we know
so well her old ways. After keeping her locked
in, she escaping several times, she finally came to
be herself only excessively nervous. She called
at this time and the following was written:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Again I take up
the communicative link. I am happy to say a
few important things. I could have wept when I
looked in upon this medium and her dear boys.
I tried to fan her fever from her sick body. I
did help her. Now knowing as I do all the con
ditions in this case, I feel and know that the only
way is to be patient and hopeful, knowing that
all will be well and God with his angels will help
her and us likewise. I thank God the fever is
over and the sun shines not only on earth, but
in our hearts.
The dark cloud is past and now let me (337-
Vol. IV) say a very bright change is coming for
this little family. I see it and have done much to
bring it about. 1 know you will all rejoice in it.
Great will be your astonishment when you hear
and see it. It will be well. We hope to be able
to place this medium on her feet in a few weeks,
to make all happy. Let me say to her, brood not
over this failure. Let it be the last. Brood not!
Wise men say it. Cherish these words; never
look back upon buried griefs such as this. Never
turn the page backward, look ahead. We have
said enough but not the most important. Think
how much worse everything might have been,
how much better everything is, how the spirits
predicted every case; think with grateful hearts.
My dear esteemed friend, I have been with you
through all your arrangements, and of course, take
part in all that is associated with you. I see no
reason for you to feel anxious about anything in
the hotel, or even to anticipate evil. You have
done all for the best, all your arrangements have
been well made and I hope to be on the voyage
with you and guide you safely through all your
journey. The future looks bright and all looks
prosperous.
I hope all will be well over the way. I speak
now of the Holt family.
My dear esteemed friend, just at this moment
Dr. Franklin calls me to appoint (338-Vol. IV)
an interview with you at an early hour in the
evening to-morrow, for important directions and
advice. God bless you. All is well. Our power
is not sufficient to say more. I have no more
fear for this medium. It is over; let your minds
be easy. Could I but pour a flood of joy in all
your hearts, I would do so.
Ever your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
Junell*6 11 A. M.— 1886.
Katie did not call again until this morning, for
an hour, on her way to visit a friend.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 365
1 "My Dear Esteemed Friend. The hour for
meeting is late when appointed by business peo
ple; however the delay was not through careless
ness and we pardon the failure in promptness.
My dear esteemed friend, I want the next week
clear, free, and our meetings frequent as they
can be. I shall first see this medium free from all
nervousness and in good condition so that our
messages can be pure and 1 think I cannot re
frain much longer from telling you what Dr.
Franklin called me to hear and read in the stars.
Shall 1 tell? 'Yes,' answered from above. You
will sail, as you have decided, to Europe, and
there we shall all meet. This medium will be
with you. We have read it in the stars, we know
it. There we will give you great (339-Vol. IV)
things. There we will meet and talk over all the
past, all the present, and the future. We will take
these pages and compare them to the pages of
the future, and all will be a paradise. My dear
esteemed friend, we shall meet in the month of
October. I see that Kathie will be sent for by
friends. Dear, all will be well. We would like
this day to be remembered.
Now let me say you are doing right in business
matters and all will be successful. You will have
no trouble. You will find all easy.
I will give the opinion of the circle. 'Let the
house over the way be without your care. Do
not take too much responsibility upon yourself.'
It is the time now to arrange matters satisfac
torily over there. I tell you to be sure that I
know best. Go not, Dr. Taylor, with a heavy
heart. Go happy! Your health requires a change.
You were and are under a cloud over there.
Through those people you do not get the crown
or laurel as you should. When you come back
you will find this true to the letter. The circle
appoint to-night from half past nine to ten for
another meeting. Do not fail. We shall be here
and then I will finish my letter. The party in the
house is dying with envy from your arrange
ments. We close with blessings, till to-night.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
(1) He had ient Katie but I was unavoidably detained for a
half hour.
(340-Vol. IV) June 1 \tb 10 P. M.— 1886.
At this hour the Doctor called for her by her
request. We had a pleasant visit, she full of
beautiful resolves and sweetness of spirit. After
the following was written he took her back to her
rooms and left her happy and content.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. We are here and
happy to take up the thread where we left off.
We want to see you on the ground of perfect
peace. You have trodden down the weeds and
now the bright flowers bloom. Olin and the
circle wish me to tell you that they are going to
see this night what kind of voyage you will have.
Olin says, that what he will miss most, is not
having the power to console and comfort you in
some hours of sickness and depression. He wishes
me to tell you that he desires above all things
that Katy will remain in the place she now occu
pies. We all desire it. We have our reasons. We
can come and commune with you, and bring
about events dear to us, events dear to our antici
pations.
My dear esteemed friend, on our canoe we will
lightly guide and bear you messages of love and
hope. We will follow by your side unseen but
felt, and there will be others to wonder where
your courage comes from. You will have what
the world cannot give nor take away. You will
have us; our spirits.
(341-VoI. IV) Dr. George, why feel depressed?
Why feel that you are going to lose one good, one
scientific book by crossing the blue waters? You
will gain health and strength and be able to do
your work with great power when you return,
and you will have less care, less on your mind,
and more time for work. Cheer up! I was like
you in many respects; like you when called to
leave my pleasant, comfortable home. You see I
have learned to place everything in its true light.
I was amused to hear H. and the H.'s speak
of your departure. They are almost sorry that
you are going; and I say, hold him fast. Smooth
ly the future looks for you.
I wish all directions could be followed. I want
Katy to leave for Europe from the home she is
now in. See to this.
366 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
My dear esteemed friend, I want to meet you
Monday and Tuesday. Sunday you cannot. If
our circle can accomplish what we desire to-mor
row we shall indeed be happy. We shall take
the time to see. We shall see Dr. George to-mor
row and give a few more directions for the meet
ings. May sweet dreams pillow your heads, so
clear on all points. God bless you all.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"George, I am going to Europe with you. I
am going to take Lizzie Sweet with me. Well, if
I see you sick and heaving up, (342-Vol. IV) I
will say, 'Good for digestion.' My dear son.
Your Father.
I include Sarah."
"This city, this particular city is going to be
over loaded with every kind of pestilence; every
horrible animal; every horror; everything that
will cause horror; rats, rats in walls, in beds, in
food, in Croton water. The world is going to
be dark, dark.
C./."
After reading the above we said, "Why predict
such evil, Charley?" He answered.
"Now you will rejoice to go to Europe, George.
/."
June 26th 9 P. M.— 1886.
Katie returned to her "cups" and I did not see
her again until this evening when she called in
good condition. She chatted a little while and
then asked to go in the bed room, that being
where our unseen friends are most accustomed to
talk with us. They wrote.
"My Dear Sarah. Here we are again, here to
gether. Oh, how happy I am, how happy we all
are to come. We are glad you are so nicely pre
pared to take your long journey, and a happy
journey we trust it will be. Of one thing let us
assure you: We shall be with you. We will pro
tect you from all danger. Go off happy. Go with
your heart full of happiness, knowing that (343-
Vol. IV) we shall watch over your affairs, know
ing that we have encouraged your going; and turn
not back to anxiety. Let us bear all your troubles.
This will be a new life. This will be the means
for us to use to fulfill every prediction. Sigh not
over leaving here. It is for the best. It will bring
about great events. We have done this, dear Sarah.
We have been the cause of your leaving for the
other side of the world. Business will be prosper
ous, you will all thrive, and in less than six
months, you will see one of our great predictions
fully verified; one that will make you very hap
py; one that will make you all happy. Oh,
smile, sceptic; truth is greater than fiction; reali
ty in this world of spirits is greater than in your
world. We wish we could tell you all we see
and know, but it is not best just now. We shall
tell you in a day or two something most impor
tant. We shall tell you in a day or two what we
are glad to unfold to you, but we cannot to
night; in fact there is one waiting most anxious
to speak. He has been depressed in spirit be
cause of his inability to speak to you. It is one
of his chief pleasures. He has been to me so of
ten to say that he wanted me to try and influence
Katie to come over that he might talk with you.
He has been to us all to ask how he could (344-
Vol. IV) influence Katie to give him an
opportunity of communicating with his beloved
friend, and now he waits by your side and will
have his prayer answered.
You will glide over the waters in safety, and
no accidents. All that you have done has been
for the best, and we approve of all, everything.
Ma, our dear mother, is so happy that you go so
free from anxiety. Frankie and Lelia are simply
delighted. They will see everything that you do.
Now we want you to feel that we have the power
to protect you under all circumstances.
We see that Runcible is well satisfied and
frightened. He needs watching which he will have
by men on earth as well as men above the moon
and stars and sun. My dearest sister, God bless
you.
Olin."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. If I could have
raised this medium by my own efforts, and guided
her over here, I would have done so the day
you felt so sick and weary. I never like to see
you sorrowful when I can help, and I think I
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 367
could have very much helped you on that day. I
have not been here long enough to understand
the condition of mediums. First when I saw all
that was going on I tried to stand between her
and evil. But let (345-Vol. IV) the past be
covered never to be opened. I know, we all know,
that it is dead in the sense of real death.
You are now going on the very steamer that I
have crossed over in, and I know you will have
every attention, if you just mention my name. I
shall go with you, but dear friend if you at times
forget how near 1 am to you I shall not blame
you. You cannot be blamed for feeling somewhat
frightened. Try at such times to believe that I
am near.
Dear esteemed friend, I have a great idea of
the future. I see so much that will now be accom
plished; so much that I have vaguely hinted to
you. The time will soon come when you will un
derstand my messages. How I have missed these
meetings. How I have longed for them. I want
you to know that all I have told you will be
fulfilled. Business, as Olin remarked, will be very
successful and thriving, so you may rest perfectly
easy. We all meet here, daily, to look into the
future and watch your career. I have something
particular to tell you, so meet to-morrow night
at an hour when you will be quite alone. I have
much to say, but one thing in particular. I shall
be with you to-night, and to-morrow I will write
you a letter my dear esteemed friend.
(346-Vol. IV) The place in 59th Street will be
a complete loss in the absence of the Doctor, un
less it is placed in such a way as to throw the
care upon the occupant. It will indeed be a loss
to yourself and husband. I like to see gratitude,
I like to see a grateful feeling in the hearts of
those who have received kindness.
Dear esteemed friend, I will say no more to
night, but do not fail to meet me to-morrow night.
We will now close with blessings, with love, and
oh may no cloud again come between this medium
and the happy future.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
Willie came in to hear the messages and com-
plained that his papa did not hold a tighter rein
over the 59th St. house. The following was re
sponded :
"My Dear Son William. I propose that you
go and arrange this matter. Take it off your
father's back. They should pay all expenses in
the Doctor's absence.
My dear friends, I rejoice that all is well. I
am glad that you persevered in going to Europe.
You will have a happy time. God bless you all.
Good night.
Prof. Kenyon."
(347-Vol. IV) June 27th 10 P. M.— 1886.
Katie called as Mr. Vanderbilt requested, and
we seated ourselves alone in our bed room. Her
hand immediately commenced writing and at the
same time she was telling me of her personal
affairs in which I felt great interest. The follow
ing was written:
"Esteemed Dear Friend. I wanted this meeting.
We are here, all our circle, all our beloved ones.
You must bear with me as I am always accus
tomed to listen to conversation, and always been
accustomed to be attentively listened to, all my
life; therefore, bear with me if I pause when you
talk."
At this point the pencil stopped and by the
raps I was asked to read. After reading we were
careful not to interrupt again the writer by our
own chatter. He then continued his letter:
"I am in the very garden that your dear family
are, and we are strongly attached to each other;
we harmonize just as the flowers harmonize. Did
you ever see a flower out of harmony with other
flowers ?
My esteemed dear friend, I can assure you that
the business here is going to be very brisk in the
fall, and you have chosen the right party to watch
its progress.
(348-Vol. IV) I will never leave my post, and
you will never have cause to blame me in one in
stance, for I have looked well and done every
thing for the best; for your good, and the good
of your family. There are great changes near
now.
I want to tell you that we have been reading
368 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
the book, and it will be given to you through
this medium before many months. When we re
turn the book, it will be at your second meeting,
the first will be such a joyous one that we shall
take up all the time in talking with you; the
second meeting that you will have after leaving
this place will be to restore to you a most sacred
book. Oh, how joyous you ought to be over this
gift. It has been in the hands of many spirits who
have given you a lasting remembrance of their
existence here."
At this point the power left her hand and we
sat in blank silence. After a few moments her
hand reached over to a piece of paper and wrote.
"He has been called.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Then the power again left. We talked through
the echoes with "our circle." Each one signified
his or her presence in this way. Presently Mr.
Vanderbilt returned and continued as follows:
"This is the message I have received:
(349-Vol. IV) The spirit of Victor Hugo will
write a verse of his own for the benefit of a very
dear friend, who lives to mourn his loss. He will
write it in French and dedicate it.
'Your duty has been well done over the way.
I want you to write one more letter to Mr.
Stetson, lawyer Stetson. That is what I wished
to impress on your mind, to write one more letter
and say that you may not be absent more than
six months, and you may be gone a year or two;
simply write this. I see that it will be better.
You know that you have no friend more deeply
interested in you than myself. I am perhaps over
careful; but it is well to be careful in this case.
Next Sunday I will join your dear family and
view the blue sky above and the waters beneath,
the heavens above and the waters beneath. You
and your dear, noble husband with your children
will have that which the world cannot give or
take away, a knowledge sublime. You will know
that we are with you. You will have no fear. You
will enjoy yourself and make many pleasant ac
quaintances, one in particular. I can see a bright
star rising in a new (350-Vol. IV) place for you,
which means that happy tidings will reach you
where ever you go.
Now, my dear friend, I will close, and may
God bless you now and forever.
W. H. V."
While we were waiting for Mr. Vanderbilt, as
noted on page 348, Charlie wrote in a much better
hand:
"My Dear Friend. I have been taking lessons
in writing. I am growing very serious, and will
never speak of rats again.
/."
"My Dear Son William. I wish to congratu
late you on your morning's success, and let me
say, I was present. It is well to speak out, which
you did, and it is well to relieve your father when
you can. God bless you and prosper you. I will
always help you.
Prof. Kenyon."
"My Dear Willie. M will go with you. Give
my love to all at home. Dear boy, so we are
going to Europe! May joy go with you. May
every happiness be yours. We can say no more.
Frank."
(351-Vol. IV) On the 2nd of July, five days
after the last communication, we four sailed for
Europe. The Doctor returned in September but
Willie, Flora and I remained. Between December
and the following June the Doctor had many
sittings with Katie and some interesting letters
all of which are recorded in a small book by him
self and can there be found. The Doctor joined
us in Germany early in August, 1887. Flora and
I came home with him in October. The first of
June, 1888, we three started again across the
Atlantic, met Willie and remained in Europe until
October, 1889 when we three returned leaving
Willie the second time on that side of the big
waters, but not until April 6th, 1890, did we
hear of Katie. On that day she most unexpectedly
called at our hotel. It had been nearly three years
since the Doctor had seen her, and four since she
and I had met. Very soon Katie wanted pencil
and paper. This followed:
(1) Willie had been over and talked with the H.'s about hU
Papa's attairs.
(1) Willie is going to-morrow night to Frank's father's, Uncle
Isaac's.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 369
"My Dear Sarah. How happy we are to talk
with you in this way. We have been with you
often, Sarah, so often, and helped you at all times.
My dear Sarah speak with 'Ralph! I cannot talk
till poor Ralph has a welcome from you. I have
so much to say.
Olin."
I spoke with Ralph, after which Olin said.
"My Dear Sarah, Ralph is here, but is not
happy in some things. 1 have tried to soothe him
and I have. It was a grand and glorious meet
ing, this side."
I remarked that Ralph had but little knowledge
or faith! The pencil immediately wrote.
"Yes, sister, I had more faith than I would
admit to you. I was a little obstinate with you,
my dear Sarah. I did not care to let you know
how much I did believe, but (352-Vol. IV) I
must say that I always believed that our dear
mother watched over us with love. I am not at
all disappointed in this new residence. Every
thing is lovely here. I only regret that my little
family is not settled. I have no little anxiety for
them. Sarah, we will not speak of my earthly
sorrow. Let that flow away forever. Talk with
me!
R."
I inquired if he could get near enough to his
family to see them and know how they were get
ting along? He wrote:
"Certainly, I am with them and think some
good luck is about to turn up for them. I shall
be anxious all this month. God knows that I
would like to have lived a little longer. Olin
is helping me now and has been helping me every
moment. The first thing I said to Olin was, 'How
do you work this thing?'
I am pretty happy; everything is for the best
which comes without our inviting it; be the ca
lamity ever so great, if we see it in its right sense
and philosophically. I have passed the river of
sorrow and now stand on the golden shore. See,
Sarah, I have grown poetical !
Dr. George, I am here. How are you? Now
(1) My brother Ralph had died suddenly in April of the previous
year.
I am going to say to you, do not worry! You
have no cause, well yes, you have cause, but I tell
you not to be troubled for all will come out
right.
That queer fellow, Foster, is helping me now.
R."
I asked if he had seen Foster before? He wrote.
"I saw him about ten days ago talking with
Olin. He is original, comprehensive and very
good company.
R."
(353-Vol. IV) "My Beloved and Esteemed
Friend. I see how much you need my advice in
present matters. I will never fail you in a time
like this. I will look a little for ten minutes and
then return. + + + + + + Dear friend, Hhis
removal from earth was expected and you are
doing right in every way. Better not have any
one belonging to him about you. He is not here
at all, in fact, he does not care what is done in
the matter. You have a good lawyer and you
will come out victorious. You have sharks to
deal with; do not be put down by them at all.
Let them work as they will, they will never suc
ceed. You will have great and glorious success.
My esteemed friend, let me advise you to close
up this business soon as possible. To drag on is
only expense; and the sooner it is closed the
better for you. I am watching your affairs care
fully, my friend, and see no reason why you
should anticipate trouble. Vexation you surely
will have, but what of that? Just take everything
coolly. Now speak and we will consult together.
W. H. V."
After a little conversation through the "raps,"
the pencil wrote.
2Tell William to come home. We want him.
He must come. It is not imperative but better
for you my dear, far better. I want William with
my dear friend and his dear mother!
W. H. V."
I said, "Won't he come without my telling him
to do so?" The pencil said.
(1) Mr. Runcible, the proprietor of the Madison Ave. Hotel, had
died about two weeks before, and his wife and son wanted
very much to take Mr. Runcible's place in the hotel.
(2) Willie was still in Europe. He came home lmmediately on
hearing of Mr. Runcible's death, and without being asked to
come.
370 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"Yes, he will come, don't write. Charley."
"He ought to come most certainly, and he
will. Now, my dear, do not feel troubled. (354-
Vol. IV) All will come out right. You will be
successful and nothing can prevent you. Believe
us, believe and feel strong. I shall be with you.
I have seen Mr. Runcible, stood by him when
he passed away from earth. I tell you not to
have any member of his family in your establish
ment. I see trouble ahead if you do, trouble for
all. Let them seek other quarters. They will make
efforts to stay but will finally leave quietly and
without a storm.
Meet us very soon again.
W. H. V."
"Sarah, I am here. Wait a minute! + -f- -f +
Dearest sister, do you think that I would leave
without giving you the sweet darlings' messages
of love? They are now standing by your side.
Kissing you and their darling sister. Bless you
all!
My dear sister, well there is a tie between us
dear, stronger and firmer. What can I say? It
is this. I love you.
Olin."
"You see Em. is standing by Olin and so am
I. Now Olin meant to say there is a tie stronger
between you and him than —well, let it be as
Olin had it.
R."
"My Dear, Olin meant that the tie between
you and him was greater than between himself
and any other member of his family.
H. H. Jackson."
''My Dear Mamma, our precious Mamma, my
dear Papa, our precious Papa, our dear Mamma,
our dear Papa we are happy, very happy. Sister
Flora, are you happy? (355-Vol. IV) I am
always loving you, sweet sister. Do not try your
eyes by reading too much. God's angels will
watch over you. Sweet dreams! Here are kisses
X X X X
for you. X X X X X
X X X X X
Leila, Frankie."
"Sweet Mamma, good night.
The Children."
"Did you get my kisses sister? Here they are.
XXX
X X X X My Dear Papa in answer to your
XXX
thought, you will have great success. Bye, bye."
I inquired after 'Uncle Isaac. The reply was:
"He will be one of us soon.
H. H. Jackson."
April 13*fr— 1890— Madison Avenue Hotel.
Katie called and the pencil wrote.
"My Beloved and Esteemed Friend. I have
been with you every day, working with you and
looking after your interests to see that no one
intruded on your rights. Now, my dearest friend,
I am happy to tell you that all is coming out
right for you, and in a short time you will have
perfect peace in your heart, and great success in
business. The troublesome people will leave, and
I shall be glad. Yes, I am glad for your sake.
You will have a happy summer and a most de
lightful change. Your Willie will soon come home
happier, for having been deprived of your pres
ence he can better appreciate your company and
will remain your staff to lean upon. Now
speak, my dear friend, talk with me. Ask me
anything and 1 will respond. + +
As to business, you are rightly impressed and
I want to put your son in his proper sphere soon
after his arrival home. I see some little disagree
able things (356-Vol. IV) about to happen. Never
mind them. They will annoy you a little at first,
but amount to nothing. Remember I am strong,
and I stand by you always.
Mrs. Runcible wants to remain. I will see that
she leaves. It is better. Now, my beloved friend,
do not worry. That woman with her family will
leave soon and want to leave. Do not think about
it."
After some talk he again said.
"My beloved friend, give not a thought to
Mrs. Runcible. She with her family will leave.
She is guided by her son and would like to stay
(1) My Uncle Isaac died in January, 1888. I had seen no medium
since. I wanted very much to hear from him for I loved him
dearly.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 371
only I am going to influence her to go. She will
leave without an invitation. I will be with you
to-morrow. I will stand by you. My advice
is,
do just what you have decided to, bearing in
mind that you will be victorious and happy.
W. H. V."
"Sister, Dear Sister.
I
seldom come to earth
now.
I
roam all over the universe. No one
grieves for me on earth. There
is
nothing to draw
me to earth and
1
am happier for it. Ma, Olin
and
I
received Ralph. He
is
too restless for me.
I
leave him wholly with Ma.
I
will come and talk
with you in
a
few days.
I
will talk more freely
then.
Emeline."
"Mrs. Runcible brings bad luck in your path.
Charley."
"My Dear Child. My very soul has been with
you, and oh, my child, you know how
I
sympath
ize with you in every sorrow, great and small.
Your darlings are with me, lovely and radiant
stars in (357-Vol. IV) the heavenly universe.
It
is
well Sarah, well that they are here with me.
They love to be near earth because they can kiss
their Mamma and Papa and sister and brother.
They can do just as they feel inclined, darlings!
Of Ralph
I
can say but little now. He
is
rest
ing and feels happier every day. Olin
is
the
happiest boy
I
ever saw, my son Olin.
I
hope
to see Ralph just as happy in time.
1
can say no
more to-night.
Your loving Ma."
Next came jokes, playful talk from the loved
ones which
I
preserve because of its naturalness.
"Now, you see, Sarah,
I
had
a
different disposi
tion from Ralph, more lively, more cheerful,
looked always on the bright side, never had
a
wife to vex and annoy me! Now Sarah,
I
am
only
in
fun about the wife!
Olin."
"Sister, he has often caused me to cry.
I
have
told him so! Poor Ralph! Can't
I
have
a
little
fun too? „ „
cm.
"Well,
I
do not believe
in
spooks!
I
will when
I
am
a
little older.
Uncle Isaac."
After
a
little conversation the pencil continued.
"A message of love to our beloved!
My Dear Niece.
I
am with you. Could
I
refuse the prayer of your heart? Your wish to
hear from me? Your wish
is
a
prayer.
I
am here
with all the dear ones.
I
see clearly now. Your
faith
is
sublime. Oh! What
a
truth you have
grasped. Stick to
it,
Sarah.
It
will bear you
safely here to us all. God bless you, my dear child.
And George,
I
am happy to greet you. (358-Vol.
IV) Your record
is
fair in my eyes and
I
bless
you all.
Dictated by Uncle Isaac.
Written by W. H. V."
"My Dear Sister Flora. We all love you. We
will send you many blessings. Dear Flora, we
all love you, Leila and Frankie.
Sweet sister Flora, be happy. We see so many
blessings coming to you. Your future will be
almost unclouded.
Angels love you.
Leila and Frankie."
"My Son, I have been with you. We are all
with you. My dear son,
I
have
a
circle here, of
my own. No one ever dashed me in spiritualism.
Well,
I
was not bashful. Good night.
Father."
"George, do not worry about the future. All
will be well. We see that you have long ago made
your mark, and you will be prospered in every
thing. With
a
true, faithful companion like
yours, smile at all annoyances and be happy.
Meet soon again. God bless you.
W. H. V."
"Meet Saturday at all events for me.
Uncle Isaac by W. H. V."
"Those who have come lately do not under
stand how to use the new mode, to them, of com
munication between the two worlds. Dear friend,
they will speak
in
time. Willie
is
well and will
soon be here. We will look after him.
I
can say
no more.
W. H. V."
April \8tb — 1890—Friday evening.
Katie kept her appointment and we were wait
372 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
ing to hear from our unseen loved ones. Our
children spoke first:
(359-Vol. IV) "Mamma, Papa, we are with
you. Cheer up, all looks bright. No clouds are
over you.
Your Children."
I remarked that 1 was glad they could not see
the clouds. The pencil continued:
"Oh ! Mamma, if there were clouds, that would
make you and Papa and Willie and Flora un
happy, we would see them.
Your Children."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I have worked
with you and for you. Do not let your spirit be
daunted by 'that party. You are in the right,
and right is might; and you will certainly come
out victorious. You will have no trouble from
the source you think. Be prepared for threats,
and go right on in your own way. I am so dis
gusted with all the tribe that I shall rejoice when
you see the last of them.
I have not finished! Read and consult.
W. H. V."
We read the above and after some conversation
the pencil continued.
"When I told you long ago that underhanded
work was going on, I saw it. Now, my esteemed
friend, get rid of them. They have no feeling for
you. 1 happen to see that you will win the
victory in every way, in all things, much to the
annoyance of the tribe. My dear, just be firm,
and we will stand by your side to help you in
strength and power. God will help those who
do right, and surely you have wronged no one,
but helped this tribe to succeed in business and
make money. (360-Vol. IV) Now, my esteemed
friend, how I want to see these people defeated.
They must fold their wings and droop their heads
before long. One more vexation and you will see
all is coming out right. I repeat what I have
said, you will have everything just as you wish it.
Believe me, a turn is in the scale and you will
see the last of your trouble with them. Talk
with me."
I spoke of the possibility of having to close the
hotel, to settle the business. He continued:
"My dear friend, rely on me. There will be
no need of closing this hotel. You will come out
of this trouble so easily, so smoothly, that you
will wonder how you could have felt as you do
to-night.
I have been looking into the minds of your
lawyers. You will see how absurd it would be to
close the hotel, in fact you will have very little
further annoyance. Cheer up! 1 feel happy for
you and your family. All will be well ! You will
have good news to-morrow or Monday. Pay no
large sums of money! The tide has changed and
the current runs in your favor entirely. Sleep,
my beloved friends, sleep to-night with the
heavenly knowledge that you will have every
thing in your own hands to control. Sleep know
ing that you have what few persons can possess,
guardians competent to ward off trouble. You
have good lawyers, but be sure and pay no large
sum of money. No matter what they tell you, on
this point be firm.
W. H. V."
"George Taylor, do not worry. You are doing
great good for mankind. Write, write on.
You have made for yourself, here, in our world,
a paradise by your kind acts and great continued
perseverance (361-Vol. IV) in your medical work.
Mrs. Taylor, I greet you.
Henry W. Beecher."
"My Dear Child. I am so pleased to tell you
that we are all together, and that I have had a
long interview with your Uncle Isaac. Our spirits
communed wholly on this subject. He is anxious
to talk with you. *He says that he regrets he
silenced you by his actions. He thinks this be
lief, and the transmitting of messages between
the two worlds, beautiful, glorious. He sends this
message to you. 'Tell my dear niece Sarah, that
she was right and I was wrong. Tell her that I
will write her a letter soon. She knows I love her.
My boy will help me to communicate!'
(1) I waa greatly annoyed by the Runcibles. They were doing
every possible thing to prevent a settlement of our business
relations.
(1) I never succeeded in drawing him into conversation upon
the subject of communications between the two worlds.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 373
Bless you, my dear Sarah, my child. Do not
worry. Be happy and all will come out right.
Your Ma."
"You will have hard work to make me say I
was wrong.
Uncle Isaac A."
"He means that you would have had hard
work to make him own that he was wrong, when
he was in the earthly form. Your Uncle Albert
is with me. He sends his love and blessing.
Sarah dear, Isaac wrote the above alone and was
going to speak of Albert. He cannot yet manage
very rapid movements. Soon we shall have a
grand renewal of family greeting. We will all
come and talk together. We shall have the happi
ness of seeing you free from this anxiety and that
day is not far off.
Your Ma."
"My Dear, Dear Sister. We only wish to see
you and all the household happy. Changes are
coming, great changes for your good and happi
ness, for the good of all. My spirit is with you
(362-VoI. IV) here, some part of the day. We
can say no more to-night. We will soon talk
with you. God bless you all! Rest you need my
dear sister, rest. We will watch near you. Not
a day passes without our being with you.
Now I am hearing the heavenly music!
Olin."
"Look above for blessings no earthly hand can
give. Meet soon.
The Circle."
April 23rd— 1890—Wednesday.
'"Lu, I must speak first. I must welcome you,
dear sister, to this country. Stay here! Go not
back! Say, Sarah, don't you think I have im
proved in writing?
Ralph."
After reading the above Lu remarked, "What
would 2Louise say if I should tell her I had heard
from Ralph?"
The pencil wrote quickly: "She would have a
fit."
"My Beloved, Esteemed Friend. This is a
(1) My stater Lu had come to spend some months with us.
(2) Louise is. or was, Ralph's wife. She has no confidence in
or sympathy with these manifestations.
world of many changes. You think that you are
going to have much trouble. Now, dear friend,
you anticipate more than will be yours to bear.
You will be surprised to see how smoothly things
will work for you, and everything will be for the
best. You will have peace and comfort when those
persons have left, and everything will be lovely.
You have seen your worst trouble, and there is
a deep regret on the mind of this antagonistic
woman, I cannot say heart for she has none. She
will, I think, retract, if not she is the most self
willed woman I have ever come in contact with.
Dear friend, be not at all disturbed. Look on
the bright side. There is a happy time coming.
You are all the time guarded by a host of us.
Cheer up and sleep. I see now a very bright (363-
Vol. IV) change coming very near you, on the
road. Now I am going to give way for others.
God bless you.
W. H. V."
"I will speak for dear Ralph. He wishes you
to know that he is some happier, and more con
tented. Soon as Louise and the children are
settled, he will feel still happier, and more satis
fied. This is a new world to him, and here he has
tender, loving ties, dear as any on earth, our
mother.
Dear Lu, we are all happy to see you here.
Bright days will come for you. Remain here.
Dear sister Sarah, how I wish that I could bear
your troubles. I do indeed, but my days of
trouble are over. I am in the eternal sunny paths,
flowers and music. Sister, are you not glad, or,
do you wish that I could step by your side and
ward off all your cares? We are happy, dear, to
say that we see a bright, flowery future before
you. Of course you will have vexations for the
present, but when things are settled here, all will
go smoothly and under your own supervision.
Olin."
"My Son William. I am very glad to see you
home by the side of your mother. You are not
going to be idle long."
(In the course of conversation which followed
the above, Willie remarked that he was the oldest
person in the room.) "Son, if you say that, I will
374 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
come and put new life in you and make you jump
high in the air.
W. H. V."
"George, let me change the current of thy
thoughts. What you have done in regard to your
business, you have done right, only, my son, do
all the good you can by writing. (364-Vol. IV)
Sell your works and make yourself happy. I am
often with thee, my son.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"Esteemed Friend, speak with me!"
"First talk with Olin."
I then asked Olin about the book they carried
away four years ago, and he wrote, or they wrote.
"It is still with us, and in time will be returned.
The Circle."
'"We do not think that the sale will cause
much trouble and it had to be done. That
woman would like to annoy you much more, and
tries to find which course to take to give you the
most anxiety. We know that she will be disap
pointed this time.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Children. It is a pity after all this
trouble, to get health and comfort, you should
come back to be tried and vexed. You have what
few will ever have, the knowledge that unseen
loving sentinels are by your side, unseen hands to
bless you, loving friends to direct you. This
knowledge you have. It is a knowledge better
than gold. My child, cheer up! My child, all is
well and all will be well. Sunny days are near.
The darlings are with me, bright and happy,
full of joy.
My dear children, be happy. I am so happy
to see you together. George, my son, you must
rest more. You require rest for you have many
years of usefulness on earth, much to do. My son,
the fears you have are groundless. God bless you
all. Meet as soon as you can.
Yours lovingly.
Ma."
(365-Vol. IV) "Strange, do you think Lu? Not
at all strange. You know I love to talk with you.
I am with you at most of the sittings. M used to
enjoy them so much. Lu, you will be happy; go
out and enjoy yourself. Ma is with you often,
dear sisters.
Emeline."
"Willie, we must have a long visit together.
Frank."
"Willie, God bless you.
The Circle."
April 30th— 1890.
"Dear Sarah. Be sure of one thing; we are all
with you to give you strength, and when the sale
is over, you will feel the sweet, heavenly rest that
peace of mind alone can give. You will feel re
lieved, feel free, sole mistress of your own affairs.
It is well, far better for you, a wise step, and
Sarah, we all approve of it. We all rejoice to see
that the end is near. Oh! Sarah, my child, keep
up your spirits. We shall stand by you firm as
rocks. There is no need of being nervous, nothing
to be nervous about. You will win the victory
in every case. We see no further trouble for
you. The things will be quickly sold. Just re
main here and take everything quietly. Cheer up
and be glad.
God bless you, my child. He has and will con
tinue to daily. Many blessings are being wafted
to you, on every breath, from our home where no
trouble ever comes. Except for our loved ones on
earth, we would never have a shadow. We are
the same as we were when in the earthly form.
Our love the same, our interests for our loved
ones the same, therefore we cannot say that we
never have a care. The darlings are with me.
God bless you all.
Your Ma."
(366-Vol. IV) "My Dear Esteemed Friend.
How rejoiced I am to see that all is about to close
in your favor. Only one thing I will whisper in
your ears. This party will be disagreeable and
try to make you feel very unhappy. She is trying
to get a party, to be present at the sale, to give
you trouble; but you have nothing to fear, noth
ing. And will you believe me when I tell you
that you have no idea of this woman's excess?
(1) We had an auction-sale of the hotel furniture in order to
close the partnership.
(1) She means when she lived here with us.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 375
1 have, so have many others here. She is in a rage
at this very moment. It will be a glorious day
when you are rid of her. I shall be glad for your
sake. Leave no loop hole for her ever to have
further intercourse with you.
My esteemed friend, you will have me near to
lean upon. I did not want a sale. I have a horror
of an auction, but as matters stood there was no
other way, no other way. I do not think much
of her lawyers. Well, let her go her way and you
go yours. Your paths will be very different. She
will cross many long lanes full of stones, while
your paths will be flowery and bright with unseen
companions to glide beside and see that all is
well. Dear friend, cheer up!
Doctor Taylor, faithful friend, cheer up, all
will be well. Always keep cheerful as you can.
W. H. V."
"Willie, we all welcome you back. You will
soon take pleasure in the future marked out for
you, and which will soon be plain to your vision.
My son, you have a great and noble work before
you. Meet me some other time when you will
not have this trouble on your mind.
W. H. V."
"Sister, when I first talked with Uncle Isaac
here, we talked of my strange sickness! -|
—|
—(-
I was not myself at all. Uncle Isaac almost chided
me. I am sure I was (367-Vol. IV) not to blame.
I had a fearful disease or sickness.
Uncle Isaac will tell you much of interest when
he talks with you. Dear sister, you know how I
love you and sister Lu. Well, I will come some
day and write Lu a long letter. Sister, there will
be nothing to make you feel unhappy to-morrow,
or any time during the sale. Glad tidings are
near. Be happy! Meet us soon.
Emeline."
"Oh! My Friend. My dear children are with
me. What a joy to have my whole family with
me! Remember I too will waft you blessings.
Helen Hunt Jackson."
"My Dear Friend. I have met your Uncle
Isaac. Sometime he will talk with you. He is
longing to have a long talk with you. Now he
wishes me to tell you that he is almost timid, I
was going to say ashamed, to talk with you in
this way, he has so often closed all conversation
on the subject between you and himself. He is
happy and he meant well. All will be well to
morrow and things will go quickly. Know that I
will stand by you.
W. H. V."
I expressed anxiety about disturbing the guests
of the hotel by the sale! He wrote:
"That is a mite! Do not give it a thought,
not for one minute. This is going to be a tremen
dously prosperous season with you. Better close
now. I will bless you with sleep to-night. Meet
us again soon. Good night.
W. H. V."
The auction sale was on May tar, was most
successful and did not disturb one guest.
(368-Vol. IV) May 3rd—Sat. evening— 1890.
"Dear Esteemed Friend. Did I not tell you
right? You see things are going in your favor
all the time. It is just what I expected; you have
every cause to be happy. Rest to-night knowing
that all will come out for good. Talk with me!"
I spoke of *her efforts to injure me and in
quired what more she could do? He continued:
"She can do you no harm, none whatsoever. Be
assured of that. You could have done nothing
short of having her pushed out, if this sale had
not taken place. You were wise; nothing else
could have been done. Now, I want to see her
leave the premises, never to return. I will be
here when you settle up with her and give you
strength; also influence you how to act. All will
be well. I see the future clearly and everything
looks bright and clear. You have every reason
to be happy. You are a free woman once more.
My esteemed friend, look up, and be glad.
You can sleep soundly to-night and think not of
one shadow. I will meet you soon again. Retire
with our blessings. When I come again to talk in
this way, tell me that you are happy.
Your watchful friend,
W. H. V."
"My Dear Cousin Willie. If I had believed all
that you do, and had had such descriptions of this
(1) Mrs. Runclble'a.
376 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
world, its beauties, its perfect bliss, I would have
given up earthly pleasures and longed to come
and explore these mysteries. I would not have
had the patience to wait. You know, Cousin Will,
how 1 loved to study the planets when on earth !
1 have still much to learn. That is the great
charm here. We always have varied studies,
varied visits to every part of the globe.
(369-Vol. IV) I was so happy to meet my
father, so happy to undeceive him in many of
his christian ideas. He is happy. He wants to
talk with you when the time comes. Willie, 1
have been with you and seen your desires half
gratified. There is a great destiny before you,
and I, with others, will help you to reach it. At
some future time I will say more.
Frank."
After conversation about Uncle Isaac's tem
perament and disposition and trials, the pencil
continued to Willie:
"Yes, my boy, you are right. I was always
cheerful under the great pressure I had. I had
great drawbacks. My dear boy, in fact 1 could
not feel free. Why, here I am a free man! This
great and glorious subject would have caused
trouble in my house if I had embraced it. Sarah,
you fully comprehend my meaning, or rather my
situation at the times when you used to visit us!
Be sure you understand my meaning! I have
much to say at a future time. I will surprise you
by my description of my entrance to this world
so near your earthly home. I will say now that
this world is a world of perfect beauty.
Now tell me, have I not done well to write so
nicely, so finely? I will say, good night.
Uncle Isaac."
"George, do you remember the black shawl?
Mother." He said, "Yes," and then explained
to us that it was a present from him.
"Yes, dear George, I did like that shawl ! Well,
you know how much I thought of you ! The shawl
is still in existence. Don't you know that I had
it over me when I was sick? George, have you
not a word to say?"
I asked her if she now used shawls? She wrote:
"No, my child, no, we use light drapery.
The dear children are here, and oh, how like
his Papa is (370- Vol. IV) Frankie. Leila is like
you, Willie."
I asked mother if she still wore caps? She
wrote:
"To be sure I do! I should not be myself if
I left off caps. The one you gave me last, the one
I liked so much, I am wearing now in appearance.
Good night.
Mother."
"My Dearest Sister. You do not think that I
would let you pass through this ordeal without
saying a few words! How well you have sustained
yourself through all. I am happy to see that we
can influence you at such times. You certainly
needed us through this trial. But, my dear sister,
you are over all the worst and the happy surprise
is still to come. God bless you my child. My
sister. Yes, and my child. Ma. Dear child, Olin
is telling me to say a word, so I have, for I wish
to give my child my blessing. Dear sister, meet
me soon again. God bless you! Bless you!
Olin."
May \3th— 1890— Evening.
"My Dear Children. Here we meet again to
converse, here I am often with you, here I sit
down with you and listen to your wishes, and try
to give you response. I try to comfort you and
make your duties lighter to bear. It is very
pleasant for me to see you at rest in mind. Dear
children how I love you, and now Sarah, do be
careful of your health and not overwork. You
will have much to do and every one of us will
help you. Things will change soon for your bene
fit in every way. There are happy days coming,
happy days for us all when we shall return the
books, and clasp each others hands. Oh, what
joy it gives us to impart joy! That is one of our
greatest (371-Vol. IV) pleasures, to give joy and
gladness. Now, my dear Sarah, if you could only
see your children here with me, so beautiful, so
surpassingly beautiful, you would never feel a
gloom at the thought of coming here, or of seeing
your loved ones pass from earth to the summer
land where there is everything to enjoy and to
love. My children. God bless you! There will be
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 377
great changes this summer for you, in my family,
I mean, great and glorious changes.
My children, talk with me!
Ma."
"Papa, Mamma, we saw you Sunday at five
oclock. Tell 'Willie that we touched him! Papa
we see what is troubling you. Do not worry!
What you imagine will never take place. Papa,
there is great success in your pathway. Papa,
speak! Leila and I want to hear you. Papa, I
am looking in a smooth brook and I am so much
like you. Willie we did see you and the beautiful
horse. Take all the rides you can; they will do
you good, great good. (Grandma writes for us
you must remember.)
Leila, Frankie, by Ma."
We remarked about not having heard from Dr.
Franklin! The pencil wrote.
"My Son William. Do you not know that you
have all been turned upside down for a long
time? We have been interested in helping your
mother out of her anxiety, and looking after her
affairs. You have all been separated for a long
time, and we are not all in power, as yet. Dr.
Franklin will soon come and talk with you. He
is here almost daily. He will speak for himself
soon.
My dear esteemed friend, I am happy to see
that all has passed off so smoothly, or, is passing
smoothly. You have acted nobly! (372- Vol. IV)
You have done well and will be satisfied. All
will work together for good, have no anxiety, no
clouds are over you. Dear friend, do not hesitate
to ask me whatever you feel inclined to.
W. H. V."
I made some remarks and inquiries about the
Runcibles! This followed:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Be not in the
least disturbed. You will have vexations but no
serious trouble. Take no heed of the Runcibles.
They would like to make you much trouble, but
they will fail. I wish, as you do, that they were
out of your way, altogether away. I wish you
to know that all will be well. God bless you.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Sarah. What a surprise to my soul
when I saw your ma, my father and mother,
Olin and my Frank by my side the moment my
spirit entered the immortal body. Body! Yes,
we have bodies. Then I was taken to my home
not made with hands. I felt exquisitely happy!
Sarah, my favorite niece, how much I lost by
not understanding this subject. I can say no
more now.
Your affectionate uncle,
Uncle Isaac."
"My Dear Children. It gives me pleasure to
see that you all think of me, and I must speak
to-night. I have volumes to say, and when the
time comes I will condense my letters, or I shall
deprive others of their pleasure. When you meet
for me I shall require great punctuality as two
hours at one time exhausts our power. All that
comes after a two hours' conversation in this way
is exhaustive for us and strained. Mark this down
in your memory. (373- Vol. IV) My beloved
children, I rejoice to be able to talk with you
once more. My love is great for you. Bless you
all.
Willie, I will advise you, I will help you, I
will guide you.
'Yes, it was a true presence knocking at the
portals of your door. My son, you attract us
very often, for instance last night the 'presence'
was on his way to you, in order to awaken you
out of a sound sleep, but I came between for I
knew you would feel startled. My boy, you have
a worthy destiny to fill. I must stand by you,
your faithful father, Benj. Franklin. You must
let me magnetize you and give you new life; feel
my hands and see my lamp. All this fear will
leave you, not fear but awe. Sometime, my son,
that 'presence' will give you a message for some
of his family.
Daughter, do not fear, all will be well. You
will have very little trouble, but vexation. Meet
soon.
Benj. Franklin."
May 2lst— 1890.
"My Dear Children. Here I am again in the
(1) He had left the room but returned in a moment. (1) WOlie sometimes, during sleepless hours, heard raps distinctly
in his room.
378 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
circle 1 have so much love for, and so great a
love. There are none dearer to me than this
circle. My dear children, this is the first meeting
1 have had for many long months, (your time,
years) and I am rejoiced to be with you again.
I am happy to be with you. 1 have much to say,
much to do. Mr. Vanderbilt has been to me often,
and is with me. He wishes meetings for himself
as well, and I shall join. It is well that you once
more settled down in your home, mistress of it.
Prosperity is sure and all will go well. You have
done right. I am glad to see that now, when you
have a little more rest, you will enjoy your life.
Surely you have got rid of a very great draw
back to happiness and success. You now stand
free! As I wended my way through the (374- Vol.
IV) heavenly homes, 1 noticed a spirit who
seemed anxious to come with me, but hesitated
until I called him. He was your Uncle Isaac who
so tenderly loves you. He will give you many
interesting chapters soon. Now he is simply learn
ing the great mystery of a new life. I will join
your mother and Olin in his messages to you.
I have felt an interest in him ever since I met
him supported by his loving son. We shall be
together to-night, and arrange for a meeting for
your uncle. Some things at home trouble him a
little. He will tell you.
I have sought out your sister here. She loves
quiet and to sit alone and wander among the
flowers, but I am going to bring her in our circle
for I believe I can make her happier. She is a
little discontented at present. There will come a
day soon when we shall return the books and some
other things. Be patient a little longer. My son
William you have a grand work to do! I have
adopted you, and when I see you win honors I
am very happy, I feel a sincere pride of joy.
Progress, my son. I am with you! Changes are
coming here, Sarah, happy changes. I cannot ex
plain what they are. You will know and think of
me. Talk with me now! I shall expect you to
come to me when you need advice and think
that I can give it. God bless you.
Benj. Franklin."
"Sister, I have been discontented and I don't
know what I would have done without Dr. Frank
lin. He has made me perfectly happy. I am so
happy to turn away from every painful scene
on earth and enjoy the beautiful; so, sister, ex
pect me often. 1 am glad to see sister Lu here.
We will all be happy together. Flora, how are
you? 1 love you dear! 1 must say a word to
Willie. Remember me, Willie, love me. Some
day some girl's heart will beat alone for you.
Now Frankie, Leila and (375-Vol. IV) I are go
ing to gather flowers from other spheres.
Emeline."
"My Beloved and Esteemed Friend. Do not
feel disturbed. You will soon see the mirror of
your future bright and cloudless, with blessings
from the many loving ones here. I shall be
pleased to see you entirely free from heavy cares.
At all events you will not have an enemy in secret
within your houshold. Be thankful for that! M
felt sorry to see the Runcibles here so long, but
I rejoice now to have seen the last of them. The
book is safe. My esteemed friend, keep up your
strength. Do not worry. I will be with you.
W. H. V."
"Sarah, child, I am here. My dear Sarah, 1
am simply bewildered, astonished beyond meas
ure at the loveliness of this place, the beautiful
palaces, the groves and parks, the places of wor
ship and the music. Who can convey the heaven
ly strains of angels to ears on earth? I never pic
tured a home of such perfection ! I never thought
that 1 would be able to visit earth and converse
with my loved ones! In fact I never believed that
heaven and earth were so near! I am happy.
Home affairs worry me some. Your aunt cannot
or will not believe this.
I want an hour with you, Sarah dear, next week,
morning, noon or night. I live in an atmosphere
of perfect bliss. God bless you all!
Uncle Isaac."
"See here, Mamma, we send you a kiss, and
oh! so much love from Grandmamma. Uncle Olin,
Uncle Ralph and your dear old nurse. We send
you many kisses. Oh! Mamma and Papa, can
you not feel our kisses? We love you all so dear-
(1) It was about three weeks after the "Auction" before Mrs.
Runcible and her two sonB took their final leave of the hotel.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 379
ly! Willie, you felt me pull your arm last night!
We were fearful you would have bad dreams.
Flora dear, we love you.
Frankie and Leila."
(376-Vol. IV) "Well, Lu, you have your wish.
1 am here. Ma is here. Lu, you will be in perfect
health sooner than you imagine. You will enjoy
life also. Dear Lu, have you ever thought of me
as being near you, not away off up in the clouds?
Ralph is not here to-night. He will be happy in
time. Let him come when he gets ready! My
beloved sister Sarah, what happy times we will
have. I will write you letters all about our travels
up the mountains and over the seas. We have
seas and fields and all that earth contains, far,
far more numberless and beautiful. We glide
in the canoes and sail in our boats. We cannot
fly, we have no wings. Uncle Isaac thought that
he would spread his wings and fly! I laugh with
him now over his errors. Well, dear ones, good
night.
Olin."
May 27th— 1890.
"Come, Sarah, and let me sit by your side; let
me talk with you; every word will come from me,
although some will aid me. I am happy, so happy
to be with you.
Sarah, forgive me for asking you why you did
not urge this truth upon me? Why did you not
pound it in me? I would have loved to have en
tered into the phenomena, and we would have
been the happiest family in the world! Still, your
aunt would have come between, so perhaps it
was and is all for the best. I have come home to
all our dear ones in good time. Albert is now
aiding me. I am happy with them all. Now I
cannot say, what many have said who have come
here, that I found everything as I expected to.
I found everything far different, so much more
beautiful, so much to draw me here. I found
nothing that conflicts with my religious views,
nothing but What I have longed for from my boy
hood. This is a most beautiful world! Friends
we have loved and thought lost are waiting on
(377-Vol. IV) the margin of the shining shore
for their loved ones and seeking to make them
happy. Dear Sarah! There is no joy in the heart
of my poor wife. She lives in an atmosphere of
darkness. What can we do for her? Oh, well, she
will call me before long. When her soul is sick
and she sees no pleasure in life she will call me
and I will hear her. No cross or shadow shall
darken her withdrawal from earth to this world.
I have not yet made the acquaintance of many
who come to visit you, for the reason that I have
been traveling with Henry and Frank over this
new world, and I have only seen little, so won-
drously beautiful are these walks and not unlike
the most lovely paths on earth.
My dear Sarah, listen; when you stood by my
bedside as I was passing away, (take note, notice
Sarah, passing away) I felt your wishes, your
prayer, I will say, your silent communion with
the dear ones here. I felt your presence which did
me good.
Your Uncle Isaac."
I asked if I could do anything for aunt? He
answered :
"Not now. She will talk with me before she
comes here."
Then I said, "Pray do not allow her personality
to shadow you!"
"No, Sarah, not in the least. It was shadowed
enough when on earth. I saw my poor wife's
faults, and knew well how much better it was for
me to keep silent. Oh, no, she cannot cloud my
path. I wanted you to have my inkstand and my
belongings! My child! Bless you!
Uncle Isaac."
I then told Katie how I had missed his letters
since his death, for he had corresponded with me
since I was ten years old!
"Oh, no! I will still write to you, my child,
weekly.
Uncle Isaac."
(378-Vol. IV) At this moment Willie came in
from a long ride and had not eaten dinner. The
pencil wrote.
"Get your dinner, Willie, a substantial dinner!
William, my son, you will feel the benefit of this
outing for a long time. I was with you once and
380 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
only once. Do not go so far another time, rather,
do not take that route.
Benj. Franklin."
In reply to question at what time he was with
Willie, he wrote.
"When I was needed. Willie knows."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. There is no oc
casion for me to say that I am happy to be in
your midst, at your very table! I rejoice to tell
you that all is well. You will have all settled up
soon, to your great contentment of mind. Say
nothing, do nothing, just keep quiet, and all will
come to you just as you would have
it,
beauti
fully arranged. My spirit has been with you,
not in silence.
I
think you have felt me near you,
in fact
I
know you have felt my presence.
I
see
a
cloud in the distance which will slightly touch
you. Now when things look
a
little dark, know
that all will be just as
I
have predicted.
I
am
with you at all times, and will always advise you.
We shall have many happy meetings this sum
mer. Go and do just what your own good judg
ment dictates and fear not.
I
have the deepest
in
terest
in
you and yours and all your affairs.
My dear friend, there are happy days near.
You will feel happy and content when autumn
comes. None of the bright flowers will wither in
your pathway, and blessings will be sent to you
from our spheres, from our land of the blessed.
You are weary, you need rest!
I
am called away
and will go now to my family.
I
shall be with
you to-morrow. God bless you.
W. H. V."
(379-Vol. IV) "My Beloved Child.
It
is
writ
ten in the greatest golden letters eyes ever have
seen, 'The link between us can never be broken.'
Katie will be our medium. My beloved child,
we will have our records exchanged; and our joy
will be great when we have our regular meetings,
and we return our books.
All will be glorious.
I
will be here every day
and particularly Tuesday night. The darlings
are here. They have kissed you! God bless you!
Your Ma."
"My Son, we have just finished our circle. We
have been talking with angels from spheres far
above us.
Lizzie was our medium.
Your Father and Mother."
"We have very important directions to give
when you meet again. We will close now. Meet
next Tuesday at eight P. M.
The Circle."
June 3rd— 1890—Tuesday evening.
"My Dear Children. From the large circle
who visit you on these occasions,
I
come first,
it
is
their wish for me to speak first.
All are anxious to speak, and you as anxious
to hear what we have to say.
I
have been looking
into your future paths, and want to tell you not
to feel worried about the final issue of matters.
All will come out well. You can do nothing more.
Just let things take their course.
I
want to tell you much about our lives here,
but can only recall to you in few words the de
scriptions given to you sometime ago of the
church or temple of worship, and the beautiful
walks through these gardens of roses. You might,
if
you had spiritual vision behold us kneeling
in
our temple of worship. You would see your chil
dren there, with the halo from God resting (380-
Vol. IV) on their sinless brows. How beautiful!
Why, my child, the most simple shrub here, far
excels the most beautiful earthly flower you have
ever looked upon, though in our own homes, our
own immediate homes, everything corresponds
with your earthly home only perfect in its beauty.
We know how you love the beautiful and oh,
how well satisfied you will be here with us. The
palaces you have seen are mere shadows when
compared to our dwellings. Your Uncle Isaac
wishes me to tell you that
it
was the magnificence
of the entrance to the immortal world that caused
him to pause and wonder where he was
!
He says,
'Oh, tell Sarah that everything was so transcen
dency lovely that
I
feared
I
would arouse from
a
dream to find myself suffering
a
disease of age
and all mortal trouble. When
I
saw Henry,
Frank, Albert, your Ma, Olin, the sweet girl and
boy, Emeline and Bradley,
I
saw that
1
was
in
heaven, or on the road to
it
anyway.'
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 381
Now, my child, your dear uncle is so happy
that he would like to have all his loved ones be
lieve in this glorious truth. He is a fine, noble
spirit. I admire him.
Sarah, the only pang we have when we first
realize our existence here is the pang of parting
from our loved ones. That is a pang. The prepa
ration of the earthly shell for being put away
from all earthly view is a pain, a shadow on the
threshold which passes off very soon. You know
how that
is,
and can fully understand our mean
ing.
My dear children, we all want to meet you
when the sun
is
sinking, just before the daylight
fades into night. We have that desire to see you,
to meet you in the sunset. We will say next
Thursday or Friday. Understand me, daytime
and eventide.
My dear children, we love to converse with you
often. There are
a
few shadows on your path,
some annoyances which will not amount to much,
only be prepared. Next time we meet to talk to
gether, let
it
be in our permanent place. (381-
Vol. IV) My beloved children, happiness
is
be
fore you this summer, bright changes, firm
friendships and unlooked for joys. We will sug
gest pleasure for you. God bless you. My dear
Sarah, your life will be spared to do much good
for those who will seek you for comfort. Long
and lasting will be your blessing.
We can say very little more to-night, my
children. Your faithful guide,
Benj. Franklin."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. You can have no
misgivings when you have me to lean upon!
1
am strong enough to hold you and chase away
all storms. You will have
a
few annoyances of
course. Anticipate no shadows.
I
can warn you
always, before trouble comes to do you harm.
We feel wonderfully happy now! We are advanc
ing to great events! Meet at half past seven next
Friday. We say, God bless you all! Good night.
W. H. V."
June 6th— 1890—Friday evening.
"My Dear Children. We are here, all of the
circle, to speak with you and listen to your
voices. How near we are to you now! How dis
tinctly we can see you! What
a
pleasure to us.
There are times when we cannot see you so clear
ly, then we wish for this connecting link. We look
into your eyes and hear your voices, and when
the light
is
dim, we can touch you.
My children, we want to get back to our old
conditions. We want to enter into your sphere
and have our room for our circle only, religious
ly
kept for us. We can do so much more for you
when we have our room, and conditions. No one
understands this better than you, Sarah.
Now, my child, let us picture to you just what
we see! You are troubled in mind, business troub
les you. The unsettled matters between you and
Mrs. Runcible are
a
source of anxiety,
a
constant
vexation. You must not worry, you must not feel
troubled. (382-Vol. IV) Everything in the fu
ture, closely connected with you,
is
bright, with
out stumbling blocks, without stones to bruise
your feet, without enemies to cloud your efforts
of success and give you pain. We see you in
a
path full of sweet flowers and you are resting
quietly and happily with your loved ones near
you. They are happy, so you will have far more
than you expect. This we see not far off, and
when we heard you sigh to-day with weariness
we felt
a
great longing to look carefully
in
your
future so that we could tell you to-night just what
we saw; and believe us when we tell you that
if
there were clouds or sorrows we would have told
you in
a
gentle way. Do not anticipate one sor
row, for we know that you will be satisfied.
My dear children, this foreshadowing of the
future
is
especially for few. To this world
a
great
calamity
is
coming. All that
I
can tell you at this
present time
is
this.
A
calamity to the world,
a
loss and great danger but not for you nor yours.
We will tell you more about
it
another time. We
make
a
request of you all, not to say anything of
this outside of this circle. You must not work to
overtire yourself. Keep your hours for rest and
everything will go on well.
Dear children, your family has grown larger
in
numbers here. They have all met to-day in
the home of your mother.
I
was with them, and
382 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
there never was a happier reunion on earth or in
heaven, than this one to-day of your family. They
kept coming in, two by two, until they made a
little heaven of their own, and all believed in
spiritual communion between heaven and earth,
all, for they had been instructed how to visit
their loved ones on earth by Isaac T. Hopper
and others with myself, what steps to take first!
Your Uncle Isaac was very happily disappointed
when he came here. The moment he came we
took pleasure in noticing his surprise at the greet
ings of old friends. He was quick to grasp this
mode of visiting earth and has now all that his
soul desires. The shadows of earth affect him
only a little, so little that his spirit is not affected
by them nor tinged by the sorrows of earth. At
first he (383-Vol. IV) grieved to see his wife so
in the dark and so misguided in her religious
views. She is in the dark! He says often to me,
'My wife is all wrong; no idea of heaven and all
the happiness it holds.' She will not know until
her husband takes her hand and helps her through
the golden gates. Oh, how sorry we feel for her!
How sorry we feel for all those who are so mis
taken, so blinded by their own stubborn wills.
Who can lift the curtain for them? Who save
us, and yet they condemn us! Oh, how frail are
mortals!
God bless you, my children! Some others will
come, and I will withdraw for a time.
Benj. Franklin."
"Flora, we smell those roses! We have kissed
them. My sweet flower, our Flora. Love us, Flora,
will you? Frankie and Leila! We are going to
make you a very happy girl! To-night we will
kiss you and place the sweetest flowers we can
find on your pillow. You will know that we are
watching over you. Good night, sweet sister."
Next came words signed by my mother but
their meaning I could not get. In a few moments
the pencil continued:
"Dear Esteemed Friend. Never shall I let the
circle close without coming to tell you what I
see in your pathway.
The idea of the above message from your
mother is this. Frankie and Flora would, if
Frankie were here, have been out practicing music
together. Leila and Willie would have been study
ing flowers, their meaning and language.
You will never know till you see her here, how
transcendently beautiful Leila is. She is a brilli
ant star!
Well, friends, I take a pleasure peculiar to my
self in coming to you and advising you in the
smallest matter. I feel that I am at home here
with you, for where I love I linger in their atmos
phere and talk with them as I would with my own
family. Here I am, as (384-Vol. IV) I would
have you know where I would ever be, in con
genial company. 1 can touch your soul, my dear
esteemed friend.
There is something I want to overcome. I want
to overcome the desire to sit down by your side
and talk audibly to you. I want you to hear my
voice and know me as I am. I have been with
your family to-day. I do not know what my life
here would have been without the society of your
family. I am happy! When I want to know how
my home on earth is progressing and to see my
family clearly, I go to Olin and he accompanies
me. Some things do not please me, but I let them
pass by.
My dear esteemed friend, I told Katie to come,
for 1 want to get back to the old, old times where
we left off, you to foreign lands, I to follow over
sands and seas! Here are the directions:
Meet next Friday at precisely half past seven
if clear. We see that all is well. No need to
worry! God bless you.
W. H. V."
"My son George, you must continue to heal
the sick through the pen and as often as you can
with the hand. I will help you. Go on dear son,
you have much to do. Work with a good will.
Your father —Isaac T. Hopper."
"Now that Ike has said the last word I must
speak to the Professor. Why do you not sit here
with your Mamma and see how we can come
through you? I tell you Professor you are a
medium, a real medium and when we develop
you, oh, how you will sleep!
// Charley."
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 383
"My Dear Friend. Did 1 ever tell you how de
lighted I was weeks before 1 came here to know
that I had a family here to meet me! 1 was so
happy to know that my children were safe. 'And
oh, my last parting with my boy, how dreadful,
how 1 suffered! My flock were all gathered here.
How great and good our Father is! Bless you all.
H. H. Jackson."
(385-Vol. IV) June 14th 1890—Saturday evening
Dr. Franklin had spoken to Katie, deferring
the Friday evening's appointment to this eve
ning, the cause for which none of us understood.
We seated ourselves. The evening not clear.
"My Dear Children. This is all right, just as
we would have it. We are all here and see that
you welcome us in your hearts as gratefully and
happily as we welcome you. First let me explain
about last night. We were all here for a short
time but the atmosphere was so much against us
that we could not remain. We saw in the early
part of the day how it would be, we therefore
deferred the meeting hoping to have a clear sun
set to-night. 2However, it is not so difficult for
us to-night. We were quite impatient to come.
The time seems long to us when a week goes by
before we can greet you in this way. We certainly
are with you, but we love to talk with you just as
much as you want to speak with us! Why not?
Do we not love to hold communion with loved
ones on earth? Yes, and so few understand us,
so few really believe in a christian way, so few
care to be elevated. They make theories of their
own and follow them. They do not care to have
their old dogmas interfered with!
Not so here! You come like children to be
taught and have your errors corrected. You leave
us to decide for you but always with your own
good judgment. You do not dictate to us to do
this thing or that, nor ask the whys or wherefores.
That is just what we most desire and all the circle
are happy to come and many others wish to come.
We look forward to a time when the atmosphere
will be clear and electrical so that we can come
and form in your presence as we used to. Be
(1) She described to me that parting, soon after it occurred and
yean before she joined them on the other Bide.
(2) The sunset was not clear.
patient till then when much that has been veiled
in mystery will be made clear.
1 will bring my father here sometime to talk
with you. My father and 1 are close companions
in our world. 1 still learn much from him. My
boyhood days were golden drops of heaven's
(386-Vol. IV) choicest blessings with my father,
and he was a spiritualist. When on earth he went
daily in a room, specially prepared, for silent
communings with his loved ones in the world be
yond, in the summer land. He believed that his
departed loved ones were with him and held com
munion with him. My father was a man who
feared no one when he was sure that he was right.
I have not spoken of him so fully before because
he could not leave his duties to join our circle
permanently, but soon he will come and talk
with you.
We hope no evil will come to this nation, but
there are heavy clouds hanging over this city,
will not affect you immediately nor financially,
but the clouds must burst. Be sure we are with
you always ready to help you. There are no
clouds of import nor crosses in your pathway.
My dear children, you are weary! Let me beg
you all to rest early every night. It is the time
for rest, God's time. Day is the time for work
and strife, but night is the time for tired eyes to
close and weary arms to be folded, when unseen
forms glide in and watch their beloved ones and
smooth their brows, when unseen hands clasp their
loved close to their souls and bless them. My
dear children, I wish you to rest early! W. H. V.
will speak soon. Read this and let me consider
and consult about a future meeting.
Your father, in a land to which you are all
marching, will make your way bright.
Benj. Franklin."
In reply to our wondering if his father be old,
he wrote:
"We are both young, happy young explorers
in the never ending city of immortality. B. F."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Did you hear the
bells ring just now? Your dear children sounded
bells of such plaintive (387-Vol. IV) airs that I
paused to ask them to sound them nearer to your
384 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
earthly ears. So sweet and plaintive to me! I
love to hear their notes of joy and their notes of
gladness, plaintive in sacredness of love, their
love for you, their dear Mamma, their beloved
Papa, their sister and brother. So I ask, did you
hear the bells, the sweet cadence of love pouring
forth for you, their beloved?
I am with you in the eveningtide, I am with you
in your tired hours, in those moments when your
soul cries out, 'I am so tired!' Then I draw near,
with your mother and Olin, to see what I can do
for you to lessen your weariness.
Dear esteemed friend, do not worry about this
unsettled business. It will come out just as we
would wish to have it. All will come out clear.
I am with you. I take to heart everything that
pains you. I feel every shadow on your heart.
My beloved friend, I wish to see you free from
that woman! You will be, and on that day I
will make you a present. God bless you! Flow
ers are blooming in your home again, the flowers
of hope and promise. My beloved friend, while
you are reading my letter we will consult about
a future meeting. To-morrow we shall be with
you, we will give you impressions.
I bless you always. Your watchful friend.
W. H. V."
"Meet next Thursday at half past ten A. M.
The Circle."
June \9th— 1890—Thursday ten o'clock A. M.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. The morning is
lovely for us. We love to come when the atmos
phere is clear and the medium fresh. Be happy!
I have gathered the most beautiful flowers I could
find and wish that 1 could place them in your
hands. I have been trying faithfully, for hours,
to see if I could scientifically materialize them
sufficiently to leave them with you. Alas! I
(388-Vol. IV) fear I cannot! However, I will
continue to try. We do not know until we have
made trials! Will you, dear friend, take the will
for the deed?
My dear friend, I rejoice to see that all is
well, and that you will finally be free from every
annoyance. You will feel weak and strained for
awhile, but when all business affairs are settled
you will feel like another person. For instance,
you are happier now than you were before you
went abroad. You are free from all annoyances
of one man and woman, woman especially. The
poor man is harmless. Why, my dear friend, I
am supremely happy in my home, but not so with
all who come here. You see I had your brother
to guide me over the boundless sea of life. Then
he took me to his family home, and there I be
came one of their circle. So much I have you to
thank for oh, my friend, and my soul is grateful.
Why, I feel that I cannot do enough for you.
How dull my life would have been without Olin!
How restless I would have been! How very often
I would have sat under my weeping willow and
sighed for my old, old life, so full of changes!
The past would have been a dream of regret, but
now I am happy here with your happy family.
Many of my dear ones are here, but the time has
not yet come for them to communicate. I am
going to tell you this morning what a request
Olin has made of me. He wishes me to invent a
large crystal palace for his family and my own,
and all who are congenial to us, those who come
to this world as I did in a mist of uncertainties,
a dream of sick anticipations, or as your brother
Ralph who came with so little warning. He, like
myself, will find this place, the crystal palace,
an answer to every wish of his heart. All that
we were disappointed in having on earth we find
here. All our heart-longings. If we wish to be
alone, here we can. Are you not happy to know
this?
(389-Vol. IV) Dear esteemed friend, we have
so much to tell you about the future. Soon we
shall have our festival. You do not forget de
scriptions your mother and Dr. Franklin gave you
of their festivities? We shall soon have a great
one.
Now, dear friend, about business. I have been
looking in your future, and see that all looks
flourishing and prosperous.
Now we have a meeting for our own advance
ment, and that gives us unbounded happiness.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 385
1 can say no more at present, but will reply to
your questions. Your friend always.
W. H. V."
We had quite a long conversation with them
upon business, and upon Willie's prospective
work; after which the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Children. Sarah, you are doing right
and we are aiding you. Willie will get stronger in
his body and then his brain will be clear, not
but what it is clear now, but he will feel that he
can endure more. My dear children, this will be
a very happy summer for you all. Many very
happy events will occur in your lives. We here,
we of your circle, anticipate much happiness with
you; and oh, for the moonlight hours when we
can come and talk with you, for we feel a holy
pleasure in approaching earth when the atmos
phere is clear. I will tell you, my children, that
my wish now is that you read over, at leisure,
some of your past letters from us. Meet next
Thursday at half past seven.
My dear children, God bless you. Your guar
dian and father.
Benj. Franklin."
"Sister, this is a jolly place, if I could content
myself! Just as soon as I see my family settled
I shall join the band.
Uncle Isaac is going to accompany me now
to a place where I have never been. He wants
me to tell you that this evening at sunset he will
join Ma and the circle. Sarah, I will say more at
another time. Willie, George, Flora and all, good
bye.
Ralph."
(390-Vol. IV) "My Dear Child. Meet at
seven Thursday at half past for our sitting. We
can remain no longer to talk now. We will lin
ger near. My beloved children, all is well. Be
happy! Bless you. We close with many blessings.
Your Ma."
November 28th— 1890—
Katie did not keep her appointment for the
next Thursday and for more than five months we
neither saw nor heard from her. On this day she
called and the pencil wrote.
"My Dear Child. I have longed to talk with
you. My soul has been sighing to speak with you,
and 1 rejoice that 1 have the opportunity. 1 will
speak just as long as 1 can. It is long, my dear
child, since we have conveyed our thoughts
through this medium. It is a long, long time,
just as long to me as it seems to you, but now
we are here to talk. Yesterday we were all with
you and took an interest in every little event.
We thanked God that you are all well, and the
chain not broken, the chain of our little family
of seven! Frankie and Leila are my jewels in
the palace of heaven; still they are your family
and daily visit you. Nightly they kiss you all
when you are sleeping. They wonder that you
do not feel them and so do I ! I suppose, dear
Sarah, our touch is light, almost imperceptible
to you, and our kisses are mistaken for something
else. The day will come when you will under
stand our touch and kisses; when you will know
our kisses which we so often leave on your dear
face."
We queried over who composed the family of
seven? She wrote.
"George, Sarah, Willie, Flora, Frankie, Leila
and myself —7."
"Now, dear Sarah, do not for the present make
any change in household matters. Remain just
where you are and all will be well and you will
be happy. Changes will come for your good,
come of their own free course just when most
needed.
(391 -Vol. IV) Worry about nothing! Look
ahead! The future is bright! All is well! Be
happy. Your trials will all pass away like clouds
on an April sky. I have Ralph and Olin with
me every day. Ralph is much happier, now that
his little family is thriving and he sees will do
well. I rejoice when I see sunshine in Louise's
soul. She has had a severe trial.
Oh, Sarah, the great supreme Being is so kind,
so merciful, that I never feel disturbed or in the
least anxious; so you must feel, for, my dear
child, you will come out victorious and have a
quiet, happy life, very happy. We shall rejoice
with you my child, my children. George, you
are my son, faithful, good and true. I have no
386 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
fault to find with you. I bless you. Heaven
joined your and Sarah's hearts together, and here
you will be the same. Here you will both be one
as you have been on earth. God bless you my
dear children! Heaven's blessings follow your
every step!
Emeline is as a bird! She wonders that she
ever felt discontented here. God bless you.
Your Ma—Your Mother."
"My Dear Sister. Ma is full of joy to-night; it
is so long since she has had the stand. I am re
joiced when Ma is happy, and she is never more
so than when she is talking with you. We are not
long-faced here, Sarah; we enjoy our lives. There
is everything here to enjoy, amusements, scien
tific studies, everything that a refined nature re
quires. Here we shall all meet; here we shall be
reunited, all our family, all who ever loved on
earth, and W. H. V. wishes me to put in here that
he is one of the family and will feel proud to be
called one of our family. He has been and is still
with Mr. Belmont trying to console him and lift
him up, guiding him to his family and seeking
in every way to establish an intercourse between
himself and family. It will take time. Ma wants
me to speak of our Pa. (392-Vol. IV) He is
happy, but like everyone who has lived on earth
so many years in a certain belief, and is deter
mined to hold fast to those crude teachings of
early life, he will be some time learning this
sacred truth. I will say more bye and bye.
On reading I said I had just heard from Pa and
he wanted me. The pencil added.
"Sarah, it is the last sickness. He is near this
world.
Olin."
"My Dear Child. Go as soon as you can and
I hope you will find your father well enough to
respond to your wishes. He is coming here sooner
than you expect. Brighten his way here.
Elizabeth —Aunt Elizabeth."
"We have talked it over. Sarah, do you not
know who I am? My dear niece, I am at a little
distance from your earth, for I am with Eliza by
the bedside of the departing.
Aunt Sarah."
"Well, I say that there is no hurry now.
Charley."
"My Dear Child. Make your visit. Tell Pa
that I am with him, if you have an opportunity,
but I doubt it. Tell Lu that I am with her and
that her bright day is to come.
My beloved Sarah, all looks bright and you
must be cheerful. Now I will let W. H. V. speak.
Good night.
Your Ma."
"My Dearly Esteemed Friend. After many
weeks we meet to speak again. There has been a
long silence between us. Still, I have paid you
many visits. I have seen that no crosses, you
were not able to overcome, were in your future
and I think I have given you that impression. All
I can say more
is,
be of good cheer.
George will, of course, accompany you to your
father's.
My friend, August Belmont
is
dreadfully be
hind the times. (393- Vol. IV) People speak of
his noble deeds, but he loved money and he loved
earth. He
is
a
fine noble soul but depressed.
All will be well with you and with yours. My
dear esteemed friend, meet me, meet us all soon
as you return from your father's.
I
shall be with
you. This
is
no parting, no severing of the chain
between us. Meet just as soon as you return.
Good night.
W. H. V."
"Willie, my son, keep on doing just what you
have been for the past few weeks, and you will
come out
a
shining light.
We will all help you.
Benj. Franklin."
Willie made allusion to an essay he was soon
to read in public.
"I knew
it,
my son, before you told me, and
that
is
what
I
referred to. You will be successful.
Benj. Franklin."
December 9*6—-1890.
George and
I
visited Pa and after our return
Katie called. The pencil wrote
:
"My Dear Child. Pa
is
happy, and feels that he
has
a
new lease on life. He
is
thriving finely. You
helped him, Sarah, very much.
I
rejoice that you
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 387
went. You gave pleasure and you feel that you
have done your duty. We were all with you and
enjoyed the visit. All will be well! God bless
you, my dear child, for your faithful love.
Olin and Ralph are much together, although
Olin is so much more advanced in happiness and
knowledge of this world here. Olin wants to teach
Ralph the way to make life happy in his new
world. He wants to teach him to trust more in
the Supreme Being to look after his little family.
My dear child, all will be well. Great will be
your reward this new year. Great will be your
peace of mind, for things will transpire which
will show you what will be best for (394-Vol. IV)
you to do in the future, and we will lead the way.
Your Ma."
After reading the above, I remarked upon the
possibilities and probabilities of letting the hotel;
and this followed:
"My friend, let me advise; when you get a
good offer, take it.
Charley."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I agree with Fos
ter. Take a good offer. You will have less care,
more rest. You can enjoy life far more, and all
you have to do is to get good securities in black
and white. You are a good, competent business
lady, added to which, we will be with you to help
you, and you will succeed. I shall be happier to
see you relieved from all this care and responsi
bility. The way has opened for you to make a
change, and take my advice, do not worry at all ;
let everything take its course and all will come
out just splendid. Give no thought as to how
things will turn out! My esteemed friend, just
come to me and have faith. I will say more at
a future time.
W. H. V."
I expressed surprise that Aunt Elizabeth spoke
at our last interview, being her first expression
after so many years! Pencil wrote.
"Sarah, you are mistaken! I have spoken be
fore! How little you have thought of me! I am
happy to see that I was mistaken in my views, in
my religious views, I mean. Why, I have taken
the hands of those I loved when 1 was a girl! I
have met Channing and Emerson! Good night.
Wait! 1 want to see Charley make sounds on
the table. Listen to mine!
Aunt Lib."
We heard faint, but distinct raps upon the
table:
"Dear Friend, the dame was very nice, I
thought, when you were at home. Oh, how nice
people can be when they expect something!
Charley."
(395-Vol. IV) I said, "who do you mean by
the dame?" The pencil wrote:
"Your step-ma! Soon after the holidays you
will go from here!
Charley."
"Dearest Sister and Brother. What we who
love you wish to see is this. We wish to see you
free from constant care and anxiety. Here you
have no heart rest, no brain rest. We wish to
see you in a pleasant, happy home, enjoying
your lives, while this place should make you
entirely independent and more. This we wish to
see and hope to, soon. I will talk to you, next
time we meet, more fully.
Sarah, I do like Charley Foster. He is good
company and instructive as well. You know, I
suppose, that one of Ralph's children is not well!
I can say no more to-night.
Olin."
"My Mamma, My Papa. We are here, your
watchful lovers on the shining shores where we
send forth loving whisperings to your souls from
Leila and Frankie, Frankie and Leila. Mamma
and Papa, you have us with you just as em
phatically as you have Flora and Willie!
Frankie and Leila."
"My Dear Flora. Well, my sister sweet, ours
is a love from a fountain of love, pure as dew
drops from the flowers in our paths.
Now, we are going to help you to take the gar
land and wear the crown of success over all the
school girls. Yes, Flora, we will- see that at the
end of the race you will be first and win the
prize.
We love you, we bless you, we kiss you.
Frankie, Flora's brother —
Leila, Flora's sister."
388 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
"My Dear Cousin Will. I am sure you long
to hear from me, away off here in the spheres
of the great philosophers of old! 1 am sure (396-
Vol. IV) you will rejoice when I tell you that
I am trying to push you on in your lectures.
Now, cousin Willie, 1 am so happy here that I
long to see you happy on earth. When with your
father and mother and sister, there is no place
like home, dear Willie! My dear cousin, there
are new changes coming for you, bright and
glorious. Your life will be a useful one.
Frank."
"My Dear Children. I am here. I lend my
aid to your loving friends. Now, my children,
I want you to meet me next Friday evening, or,
I will name it later if you wish! AH is well!
Better close now. God bless you my dear chil
dren. There is joy on the wing to you.
Benj. Franklin."
"George, you have a fine head ! You have done
much good and you shall be blessed daily. My
dear children, meet us next Saturday evening.
Dr. Franklin will be here to talk first. God bless
you, my dear children.
Isaac T. Hopper."
December 22nd 1890 Monday, eight o'clock P.M.
Katie did not keep either of the appointments
but came at this hour without appointment and
they wrote.
"It was we who sent Katie here to-night! It
was we who wished her to come, that you might
have our greetings and our loving wishes for
Christmas. We, your white robed messengers
came before; we gathered in this room and won
dered what we could do more grateful to your
hearts than speak with you from our souls.
Dear child, we are all here. It is Christmas
time with us, and we shall on that day, Thurs
day, while you are all sleeping, receive our gifts
from those you love, from Dr. Franklin, General
George Washington and others, and we shall be
surrounded by a new choir of angels who will
chant the holy words of 'Our Father which art
in heaven.' We look forward with great delight
to these times.
(397-VoI. IV) Dear children, we look forward
to coming and giving you descriptions of our
happiness here and telling you of the beloved
ones here. Mr. Vanderbilt also looks with anx
iety for these happy days. He went to Olin yes
terday and asked him not to fail to send his
messenger down to him at his home. He said,
'No matter where I am send for me. I must
be one of your circle.'
You see, Sarah, we have a great many calls
to make that day, Christmas, the day you all
look forward to with delight and joy, unless
shadows come between, a vacant chair, or a brok
en link in the circle. We bear all this and repeat
that Christmas is a joyful day; for us, one of the
brightest days in the year. We love to see the
old year go and the cares of life go with it. We
love to see the reunion of old friendships. We
love, yes more, we rejoice to see those we love
enter the new year with the bright gilded rays
of heaven's sun shining on their paths, and we,
your beloved, stand above with baskets of many
flowers to drop upon your heads. Unseen they
fall, unseen to your eyes, but visible to ours;
scentless to you, but to us the sweetest perfumes.
Oh, my dear Sarah, my children, we bless you
and love you and would caress you if the con
ditions would allow. When the night passes away,
Wednesday, we shall be weaving garlands for the
brows of our beloved. God bless you all. Pa is
well as usual. „
Your Ma.
"My Dear Children. We have messenger
doves. Every one is different. On the neck of
each one is a ring, any color we like best. For
instance, Olin might be standing by the bedside
of some departing spirit, then his dove bears
messages to summon others. My children, you
understand now, the dove!
My children, you cannot forget the old teach
ing, that heaven is far away and altogether un
like your earth? It is not so! (398-Vol. IV)
We have heavenly homes, always beautiful, but
remember we feel for the dear ones on earth,
and when their hearts are heavy, we cannot go
rejoicing over flowers and enjoy the magnifi
cence of our heaven as we would were you all
as happy as we are.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 389
My son, William, you are now on the road
to fame and good works and deeds. We are
deeply interested in your success, and we urge
you to go on just as you are at present. A new
path will open for you which will suit you better,
and myself also. I have a course for you to
follow, a path in view. 1 want to see you step in
that path and 1 will help you. When an intel
ligent young man, like yourself, gentle in manner
and heart, has faith and asks advice as you do,
we, our circle, admire and draw near him with
influence to bless him. My son, when we meet
again I will speak more to the point. 1 want to
see my predictions fulfilled. 1 have always had
you in view, always under my guidance. Rest,
my son. There is much for you to do. Sleep
with my blessing, and the blessing of all the
circle. Be happy for all is well!
My dear children, we shall all be with you
Christmas day, and after that day we will talk
with you. Dear George, go on with your work.
You will be successful in the end. You can easily
finish your work, and it is a good one. Have the
book published soon as possible, no hurry! And
now, my dear children, much is before you, much
of interest and pleasure as well. God bless you!
We are with you often. In hours of silent thought
we are with you. Good night.
Benjamin Franklin."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Do not worry
about the hotel. The right one has not yet come.
I will use my influence to send the right man
after the new year. Do not be in haste. You will
let it to good advantage and feel satisfied. So
shall I ! All I wish now is to see you happy
and less to attend to.
(399-Vol. IV) There will be bright changes in
this home and we shall be with you to enjoy
the pleasure of seeing our promises fulfilled.
My beloved friend, you are a fine business
woman, with very keen, sensitive perceptions and
a good judge of human nature.
Now we will say, meet after the holidays and
regularly, for we have much to say. The chain
will become perfect and we will accomplish much.
Go to your chambers knowing that we are watch
ing over you. May choice blessings follow you
now and evermore.
W. H. V."
"Dear Mamma and Papa and Willie and Flora.
We wish you Merry Christmas and Happy New
Year. Dear Mamma, all is well with us.
Frankie and Leila."
"My Dear Sarah. We have all spoken our
heart-felt love. We all leave our blessings with
you. Gentle hands smooth your way.
Meet soon, dear Sarah. We bless you, we love
you, we kiss you. Worry about nothing, dear
Sarah. Everything will come out right and you
will rejoice. I am sorry you ever had anything
to do with the Runcibles, especially the woman.
All will be well, however. Ever your own loving
brother.
Olin."
December 30*6 1890 Tuesday, eight o'clock P.M.
"We are all gathering now, and we are happy
to have this meeting. My dear child, all is well.
Ma."
"My Dear Children. Long have I wanted to
talk with you. Now we meet in the quiet Christ
mas tide while the chimes are singing in our ears,
and the white flowers open to greet us, and per
fume the air. We hear the far off chimes; their
echo comes (400-Vol. IV) from distant spheres,
and the wild roses drop, like the rain, upon our
road side. Pure and full of sweetness are the wild
roses for nature's child. Wild flowers are on the
hedge for those who like them. There are no
wants here; all are supplied. My soul rejoices
in all things, and every day I find something new,
something great. No one, no spirit, could be
happy here and have a monotony of every day
life. We have no days without change; so beau
tiful in everything is our world. We all gathered
at the fountain of everlasting life, the fountain
where we are mirrored, and the crystal drops
lingered in the hair of your Leila while she wend
ed her way first, to her Mamma, her Papa, her
sister and brother, to leave her kisses and a
prayer for the happiness of each one; then she
joined our circle. Frankie, the same! He is a
fine boy, a handsome boy. You will meet him,
390 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
meet us all when the proper time comes. Then
the harps will fill heaven with their joyous an
them and the great bell of our holy land will
ring in new births.
My dear children, think of me, the difficulties
I had when a mere boy, and be strong. Why,
my children, what could I have done without
the aid of unseen spirits? Great ones too! When
a lad, not seventeen, I walked from this city to
Philadelphia alone, friendless, with only a little
change, less than one dollar, in my pocket. I
arrived at my journey's end Saturday night. Sun
day I went to a Quaker meeting, and there fell
into a sweet, restful sleep. 1 was awakened from
my slumbers by one of the congregation, and then
I went forth again, a stranger in a strange land,
not seventeen years old. Who aided me? The
great, progressive spirit of ^wedenborg, and
others.
My dear father was short of means, was a
tallow chandler and I disliked the business. I
went with my older brother as printer but we
could not agree, so I went forth alone! Who
aided me? I had impressions from the beloved
ones (401-Vol. IV) here. They helped me make
my name, my fame, and gave me the courage to
go on, and on, until I accomplished a great and
lasting good for mankind. God was with me!
I married a young girl. She departed earthly
life soon after marriage. Some years later I
loved another woman. She refused me and mar
ried; but time passed on and again we met. She
was a widow and we were united on earth and
were happy. But my trials were severe! My
father had not sufficient means to educate me as
he wished, or even to apprentice me, for in those
days we had to pay for apprenticeship, but see
how I prospered! God's angels helped me; they
led me and I followed. His angels protected the
lonely boy in his solitude, without money, poor
and friendless, seeking any quiet place of safety
to rest his tired feet. And, my children, that was
Your friend and father
Benjamin Franklin."
"Flora, Sweet Sister. Smiles are sunbeams,
(1) Franklin was bom 1706; Swedenborg died. 1772.
caught from heaven's joys. Dear sister, Grand
mamma is aiding me to write.
We are so happy! We are birds in the
roses. We are aiding you in all you do. Dear
sister, joy be with you. Mamma and Papa make
happy always. Be happy always while you have
so many blessings! God bless you, my dear
sister.
Frankie echoes all I say.
Leila."
"George, my son, why are you silent? You
are never forgotten ! Never does the sun go down
without our blessing for you and Sarah. We,
your guardians, your loving, faithful friends, wish
you joy and gladness for the coming new year.
Come to us when you are weary.
Seek us in gloom! Seek us in your happiest
hours when night and morning mingle! We can
say no more now. All are here! Meet one week
from to-day.
Isaac T. Hopper."
(402-Vol. IV) February \7tb 1891
Tuesday \0y2 A. M.
We saw nothing of Katie from December 30tb
until this date. The pencil wrote:
"My Dear Children. We are more than happy
to have this interview. To you, it does not seem
as long an absence as to ourselves. We have had
so much to say, we have missed the messages
between each other, missed the voices. Do not
think that we are not with you just the same!
We need no medium to hear your voices, but we
hear and understand each other better when the
medium is present. We can better advise, and
even see you more distinctly when in the presence
of the medium. So, now, my dear children, we
are here to talk with you freely, and advise.
You may soon expect a change for your happi
ness, and that change will make it clear for you
to act and move in a certain, sure course. I have
been over the past with you, in memory. I have
heard your wishes and noted them in the tablets
of my heart. I shall never leave you in uncertain
paths. You will have no trouble in making satis
factory arrangements.
There is a certain sadness over many hearts
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 391
to-day! The world is large, of course, but there
are many hearts who mourn in this large com
munity, hearts that truly mourn for our noble
friend. We have gained a noble soul, and you,
or those who mourn him on earth, have not lost
him. His influence will always be with his com
rades. He is now fully awake, his eyes are open,
he looks on the green fields, and met his com
rades who have been here so long. He has that
joy. He was helped over every cloud by our hon
ored and beloved Abraham Lincoln. You cannot
conceive the joy it gives us to receive great men
like Abraham Lincoln and other great, pure
minds. We knew that Sherman's spirit would
soon be (403-Vol. IV) free and we made the end
almost beautiful. He was a true spiritualist, and
his family will investigate, not the Catholic side
of the family. The General has one son who is
noble in his heart and he will receive any mes
sage sent to him from his beloved father. I be
lieve that the General will give them some proof
of his presence. He will, after the excitement is
over, send a message to his son!
My dear children, you will have many happy
meetings with the General. He is a genial, loving
soul! We all come in trios!
My dear children, do keep up your meetings.
You will never regret it. You know, my dear chil
dren, life on earth never ends, but hold this in
your mind, let it ever be green. These meetings
are important to you, to us also. They make our
lives more cheerful, more blessed. My dear son,
push your writings. They will live after you
have joined us, and do much good. They are
fine! My children, we love you! We do not come
here to-day to depart without taking with us your
desires, your prayers and weaving them into our
prayers for your future happiness. I will say
more after I have spoken to the General, General
W. T. Sherman. He is approaching.
God bless you all.
Benj. Franklin."
At this moment Willie entered the room. The
pencil continued:
"My Dear Sarah. Have you noticed how much
Willie resembles me? I have noticed it of late.
My dear Willie, you do right to rest. What you
are deprived of at night try as much as possible
to regain in the day. You are doing well, Willie.
Olin."
"Sarah, what have you to say? Has the time
seemed long to you since we clasped hands on
earth? To me it seems but yesterday when I was
in my household, directing and planning for the
future. Oh! my dear child I was very (404- Vol.
IV) stupid not to have looked into this subject
thoroughly, and you were too timid to come and
say to me, 'Uncle Isaac this is a truth.'
Well, I am happy now to be of your faith, as
you see by my coming whenever I have an oppor
tunity. I have great pleasure in coming to you
in this way, and changes come rapidly. I may be
able to touch the hearts of my friends on earth
who do not believe that such things are possible.
I have greatly advanced. I know many of the
prominent spiritualists. George's father and
mother have talked with me frequently, and in
their circle I have met Mrs. Smith. She is a pure,
progressive spirit. But I will talk no longer!
Good bye, Sarah and George. Willie! Frank
is here!
Uncle Isaac."
After reading the above I expressed pleasure
at hearing from him, and he continued:
"My dear child, the tie between our hearts was
strong on earth, and in this beautiful world that
tie grows stronger. You know I loved you always,
and such love is immortal.
Poor Frank thinks that his work was not suffi
ciently accomplished to be taken off so early, but
he is all right!
Uncle Isaac."
"Sarah, your tears detain me!"
"My Dear Child. You say that I have not
spoken! My dear child it gives me infinite joy
to see Isaac come and talk with you. We always
come together. We sympathize with you in every
care, in every cross. We stand ready to help you
and make lighter your cares. Yes, my dear child,
we are together here and we are very happy. We
rejoice to tell you that Willie is going to succeed,
and to his own satisfaction! So will Flora! No
392 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
shadows hang over you, anticipate no sorrow,
rather look for bright changes.
(405-Vol. IV) Now, my dear child, be happy!
You have every reason to be and you know that
we are with you. The sun will soon shine bright
again, Willie, and fresh winds will blow from the
meadows, then you will take long rides over the
hills and through the lanes. My soul is happy,
happy for you, my dear children. God has been
kind to you all!
Now, my dear child, I can say no more at
present. God bless you all.
Your mother in the happy land. Your own
loving
Ma."
We now had a little conversation and made
some remarks upon the fickleness of mankind.
The pencil wrote:
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Friendships are
not so easily broken. I am not that kind. I came
to you when in distress and uncertainty. I re
ceived great consolation and happiness. You
helped to open the door of knowledge to me; and
through your loved ones I have been made a
happy man.
I now wish to say that you have acted just as
I would have advised regarding your business
matters, and soon a happy change will come and
you will see your way perfectly clear. Do not
worry. Let things take their course. We are guid
ing your footsteps and we will safely anchor you
in very sunny paths, where great success will
attend you. I will come at a future time and
talk with you. Make a note in your heart of
anything that you desire, and I will attend to
your desires. I am so glad that I am here, out of
all earth's trouble! All will be well, be well!
God will bless you.
Now we can say no more. Meet soon as pos
sible, next Monday or sooner! I have much to
say and the quiet of this room harmonizes with
my spirit. There will be a bright change for you
soon. Dear friends, I shall rejoice.
W. H. V."
(406-Vol. IV) I sent for luncheon to be brought
for Katie and myself; while waiting for it the
pencil wrote:
"My Dear Child. Emeline and I will lunch
with you! Sarah, you have been just and true,
and worked hard for what you have now to enjoy,
and I have great pleasure in looking in upon you.
I have been watching you step by step. How
often I have in earlier years sighed over you,
grieved to see you worried, about meeting all
demands. Thank God, dear child, you are suc
ceeding now; out of all trouble. God will bless
you.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Sister. We are here. Ma called me.
I am much happier, in fact, I go with Olin and
Frank now constantly and I love to visit the
planets. Dear sister, Ma, Olin, Ralph and I are
all happy, happy.
Emeline."
I asked Ma why we never heard from Professor
Kenyon ?
"I often see him, and many times he would
have talked, but he is modest and gives way for
others. He will hear your wish and I will bring
him at the next meeting. My child, I will be near
you to-night and every night.
Your Ma."
February 24th— 1891—Tuesday \0y2 A. M.
"My Dear Son. I rejoice to speak with you
this morning. We have many ideas in common.
I, who have studied the same works that you
have, can fully understand your ideas regarding
your own writings. I am with you mornings
when you are occupied in writing, and I know
your books will be successful and do good. You
are in your prime, for you are blessed with health
and a fine constitution.
(407-VoI. IV) We have all a deep interest in
you and yours. Some day we shall all meet here.
We will have circles of our own in the palace of
truth, in the garden of paradise, under the droop
ing willow surrounded with flowers, perfumes
from heaven's lamps. Yes, George and Sarah, we
shall have our soul's desires here. These meet
ings are so valuable to you, and to us. Why, only
pause and think, when earthly care is ended, when
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 393
you come here, we will all stand at the entrance
of this summer land and you will know us. We
will clasp hands, exchange greetings and then
commences life immortal. This is a great study,
George and Sarah, and our world is a world of
great change. We are never, never at a loss for
something to do. You will come prepared to meet
all, just as we have pictured it to you. You will
not stand and look in vain for familiar faces, for
friends to greet you, and, at the same time, you
will not realize that you have left earth. You will
for a while think that you have come to some
new city or country. You will think that you are
in the most beautiful place on earth, for a few
hours, but oh, my children, the transcendent
beauties of your home here will overpower you.
You will be exquisitely happy.
My dear children, there is no death without
a new birth. This glorious spiritualism has been
such an unlooked for blessing to many great
minds, such a surprise to many of the clergy. It
will shine forth forever like the stars in the sky.
My beloved children, God bless you! Sarah,
my dear child, be not troubled, all will be well,
you have unseen arms to hold you up and give
you strength. Bless you.
Isaac T. Hopper."
"You sent me a message, dear Sarah! Then
you thought that I had become indifferent to
you! How, for one moment, could you think
that I could ever become indifferent?
(408-Vol. IV) I have been deeply interested
in a new planet, and have given much time to
study. I have not yet penetrated this planet. I
want to very much, and shall in time.
I call you by the name your relatives like,
Sarah. You know that, with all my infirmities,
my very ill health, I always felt an interest in
you, the Doctor and your family.
I plainly foresee that if you continue to have
the care of this hotel, (a great care it is) you
will run down in health, and that will be hard
to regain. I say, dear Sarah, there is no use hav
ing all this care! Enjoy life, feel at ease, take
rest, and let others bear the heavy work. I see
that you will run down if you do not follow my
advice.
I am happy and was not a little surprised to
see Olin helping Ralph into his home. Ralph,
poor fellow, was not pleased to come at first, but
now he is entirely reconciled. Ralph's nature is
a little obstinate, but he is all right now. It
seems like coming home to be near you and com
municate in this way. I am a man in full health,
quite good looking now, but I think you will
know me when you come here.
Prof. K."
After reading the above I remarked that I
would be glad to be freed of this care when a
suitable opportunity presents.
"Well now Sarah, I will look around. I will
see what I can do at all events. I think that I
will be able to help you in this matter. I under
stand very clearly, everything.
K."
"My Beloved Child. There are joys sometimes
too great to bear, and griefs so heavy that they
crush body and spirit. My joy was so great when
I saw Ralph seeking to know all about this truth,
that I went alone in our temple to pray. (409-
Vol. IV) He was under such a heavy cloud. Now
he is surrounded with every blessing and enjoys
his life. You know, my dear child, that I never
had a sorrow that has not been made less by
dear loved ones who were here waiting for me.
I have now a fine little family group. Some I
can never take to my heart; when they come here
you will know who they are!
Well, Sarah, they are not my family. You shall
have this explained at a future time. My dear
children, changes are coming for you bright and
joyful. Your dear father, your Pa, is all right.
He will never be sick, Sarah. He will come like
a leaf from a tree without pain and perfectly
calm.
God bless you my dear Sarah and George.
Your devoted and lovingly faithful,
Ma."
"Willie, my boy, I admire you ! John F. Gray."
"I am happy to meet you, Dr. Taylor! Your
son, Willie, attracted me by his frank spirit. He
394 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
will be a bright star, and as he has a long, use
ful life before him, I shall take pleasure in ad
vising and directing his course. I was pleased to
hear your son say that he feared not to give his
belief to others.
I admire you, Willie!
Dr. John F. Gray."
"My Dear Sister. Let me say a few words.
There are bright flowers opening in your paths,
which foretell a happy, cloudless future. When
1 say cloudless I do not mean the every day cares.
I mean that the joys will be far greater than the
sorrows, and that happy changes are near. Be
not troubled.
Let everything glide on ! All will come out for
the best and in unison with your own wishes.
All will be well! ,,
Ohn.
(410-Vol. IV) "My Dear George. You better
put your writings in book form. Morning time
is more favorable for you to feel inspirations.
I can help you then. I am always happy to come
and to advise you. You have the great founda
tion laid and there is not so much hard work to
do. I advise you, my son, Willie, to be careful
in your choice of a wife. Be not in haste. These
are happy days for you never to be forgotten.
A kind father, and a loving, kind mother, yes, a
loving father, and a dear sister makes your home
indeed sweet, happy home. You will be very suc
cessful.
My dear Sarah, we shall have great meetings
in the twilight. We have some happy surprises
for you. Oh, how we rejoice to get the chain per
fect once more. These are indeed old times, as
you say. Now, my dear children, I leave you to
attend to a duty near earth. I will meet you one
week from to-day. God bless you!
M am pleased to have you read my life, for
now you see that I had my cross to bear. At
present I feel a joy in retrospect. I look back
and rejoice that young as I was, I had the cour
age to persevere onward.
If you could see me now, you would find me
surrounded with thornless roses.
Benj. Franklin."
(1) We were rereading Dr. Franklin's Autobiography.
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. I could not, I
can not let the meeting close without saying some
thing to you. I have made great advancement
in this world. I can not imagine how sensible
people can dread coming to this beautiful resort.
We have all kinds of resorts. You understand
that I was fond of traveling and driving when
on earth. Now I love to go to the palace and
watch the beautiful (411-Vol. IV) spirits come
and depart. I am often in great demand by your
brother Olin who asks me to put the finishing
touches to some beautiful structure. He often
asks my advice.
My dear esteemed friend, I see that you are
about to leave the hotel to a responsible party.
How much better this will be for you. Take rest,
and you will have a longer life. You must not
have so much care. Follow the Professor's advice.
We have to look after you, or you would soon be
down, your nature is so unselfish.
My dear friend, I have much to thank you for.
Every day I feel more and more grateful to you.
Through you, I became one of the band of the
learned and great. Through you I was made
happy, and I would do much for you, all in my
power. I will never leave you. Dear friend, I
will be with you at times when you most need me.
W. H. V."
"My dear Mamma, our dear Papa, brother
Willie and sister Flora. We have not been far
away from you. Now we come to tell you the
sweet birds are singing in every tree in our gar
den, and bearing messages from different spheres
to loved ones. Dear Mamma, Mr. Vanderbilt
took Leila in his arms and then he linked his arm
in mine and told us to visit him at twilight. We
are so happy!
Bless my Mamma, bless my Papa, my brother
and my sister.
Frankie.
Bless my Mamma, bless my Papa, my brother
and my sister.
Leila."
March 4th— 1891— Eleven o'clock A. M.
"Well, dear friends, I have said to the circle,
'Stand back till I speak!' I want to tell you not
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 395
to have the least confidence in the man who called
to take charge of this hotel. His pockets are
empty. He is as full of deception (4 12-Vol. IV)
as an egg is full of meat. Mr. Vanderbilt is a
good adviser, but I can beat him. I was a medium
and I am one still. Well, now the circle can come.
Charley."
"My Dear Children. We are pleased to have
Charles Foster come and advise you about your
earthly matters. While life lasts wants must be
supplied, and he is the spirit to approach earth
and get into pockets. He is a fine spirit to see
into the motives of people. We must respect him !
He leaves at this sentence.
Dear Sarah and George, we all speak from
points we see. We foreshadow the future from
the surroundings of your spiritual future. We
look into your paths through the souls of far ad
vanced spirits who have been here centuries. We
have many ways of foreshadowing the future.
If there are clouds on the paths of our spirit
home, which some day will be yours, we know
that sorrow is near; if we see flowers opening on
paths where no flowers bloom we know that some
of your family are coming here, a certain kind
of flower; when we see the palace open with great
splendor, and many choirs of angels entering with
music filling the air, we know that some beloved
soul is about to enter the portals of everlasting
life. Time is uncertain! We are going to sur
prise you soon. Try not to imagine what that
surprise will be, it might interfere. We rejoice
that Katy came to-day for we were waiting. Oh,
my dear Sarah, nearly all my family are within
my fold; some are not prepared to banish their
old ideas but they will in time, for instance,
Daniel and others! They will have a new church
to worship in, not ours. We are divided here.
There would be no lasting happiness if we could
not have our own loved ones to ourselves.
Now our circle is all that we desire, our circle
of (413-Vol. IV) friends, very extensive and our
joy beyond any we have ever had on earth.
Surely we are blessed and so are you, and so you
will be to all eternity. My dear children, these
are precious meetings; we feel they are when we
come here. You can understand how happy it
makes us to come in your very midst.
Now I will say something for the children.
Frankie and Leila are among the happiest chil
dren in the world of heaven. They have in prep
aration a palace or bower of their own, exclu
sively, formed by their loving friend, Mr. Van
derbilt. It is a beautiful home or bower where
they sit among the roses alone and call it their
own sweet study. They are there now taking
roses off the stems, and wafting the leaves with
messages upon them to other companions. So,
Sarah and George, you see how we are occupied
daily, and how happy our lives are.
God bless you all! Your mother in the sum
mer land.
Your Ma."
"My Dear Children. Welcome, again welcome
my dear children! I greet you with all my soul,
with the deep affection of a loving friendship! I
have been looking into the future for some days.
My son, you must read over carefully the twenty
fifth page in my life. I will be with you to im
press you. It certainly gives me pleasure to hear
you read my life.
George Washington is in our circles. We love
him. No rivals here, not in our circle. I was
once so poor that I have retired at night on straw,
hungry and disheartened. I am ready to help
wherever help is needed. My son and daughter,
you have a long, happy future before you to
enjoy. We will give your our magnetism and do
all we can for your healthful enjoyment. We
have turned the troubled waters aside and helped
you over the hills. So we will keep on doing
until you join us, then you can join me in help
ing others on earth.
(4 14-Vol. IV) I would like my son Willie to
have natural sleep; he could accomplish his ob
ject in life so much more easily and feel so much
more vigorous. Do advise him to retire at a cer
tain hour every night, that would help him. I
have seen him so restless in his sleep or half sleep
that I have been trying to see what I could do
for him. All will come in good time. When the
buds burst forth and the atmosphere is more
396 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
genial 1 advise him to walk in the park and take
long walks. 1 will see that he is accompanied,
and then he will enjoy his rest. The dew drops
are falling on our heads from our sky, and we
will impart peace to you and share our blessings
with you. We are near you, we are very near
you, and you must know this for a fact. We see
you more distinctly to-day. There are no clouds
between us.
My children, never look on the cloudy side!
To-day it may rain but the sky may be filled
with stars and your vision behold them to-night,
and to-morrow the sunbeams may greet you and
light upon you. Always be as happy as possible.
We love to see you, our children happy.
There are going to be great developments now
soon in spiritualism. Great and beautiful in this
circle. Now mark this, great and charming de
velopments.
My children, we have been together much of
your lives. Do you wonder that we feel toward
you as though you were our own? I wish you
to be happy! If this hotel is to be leased, the
right man will come up and do his work rapidly.
He will not hesitate but accomplish all in a short
time. I do not like the hangers on, they are not
worth spending your time with. Let everything
glide on. The tide will bear you to calm waters,
and you will be satisfied.
Isaac will speak next. My children, bless you!
Your father,
Benj. Franklin."
(415-VoI. IV) "I will now appoint our next
meeting for one week from to-day. B. F."
"George, my son, have you ever paused to
think what this psalm means? 'Life is but an
empty dream.' Why, life is everlasting; it never
dies out on earth.
The ministers think they know all. They ex
pect you to follow them, to believe as they do.
They are not generous in their views. Many
clergymen are sincere, and few receive inspira
tion from us, from those who know more of this
life than they do. What would life on earth be
without its counterpart here? I lived long on
earth, and when I came here I found it to be a
continuation of my work and life on earth.
You will succeed, George, in your writings. I
am interested in having you put all in book form
to be published. My dear children, you see I
have a wish to advance you in the study of
science, and, George, you can advance others.
Your book will sell and do much good. You
have made your mark in the world, and you can
further shine forth by doing good and enlight
ening others. Give freely what you can from your
own brain. I will help you. It will give me joy
to help you to form ideas.
May the choicest blessings of heaven fall upon
you, my dear children, enfolding you, sheltering
you and lightening your cares of daily life.
Isaac T. Hopper."
Katy made mention of a woman as having
small regard for her mother, and I remarked that
my mother and grandmother were first in my
estimation. The pencil wrote immediately:
"My Dear Child. You spoke of me! I am here,
one of the circle.
(4 16-Vol. IV) I speak through others often to
you, Sarah, child. What happy times we used
to have! What happy times when I held you in
my arms! We shall have a glorious time here
in the meadows, you and I. You know how I
loved the fields! Tell dear Flora that her sister
Leila loves her and guards her. Flora will be
happy all her life, if Leila's prayers are answered,
and she is an angel and her prayers are an angel's
prayers around the throne of God.
Grandma and Ma."
"Now see here! Why is it that you so seldom
ask for me? I used to be one of the family. I
feel happy to come to you and talk over old
times.
I have the old cap and shawl yet. Sarah, it
was kind to remember my wish! I feel that Eme-
line thinks she has no better friend here than my
self, Emeline Wells, I mean! Dr. Taylor, how
glad I am to say a word to you. Forget not old
friends!
Charley Foster has a great opinion of himself,
and I think he is a fine fellow.
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 397
Sarah, talk with me often.
Bradley."
I inquired why he said "Emeline" Wells, her
name being "Emma." He wrote.
"I call her Emeline, and have great fun with
her."
The pencil in another hand wrote :
"Meet me week from to-day. Look in my book!
W. H. V."
I opened the ruled book, the book in which he
always wrote and only he, and laid it before
Katy. The pencil wrote. "Turn over the pages.
I forgive you, esteemed friend. W. H. V." I
lifted the (417-Vol. IV) leaves one by one until
seven were up and there in the middle of the
blank page were these letters, "T. W. S."
Again the pencil wrote, "Now over more." I
turned four leaves more and in the centre of the
blank page was written as before, "T. W. S."
We asked for whom the initials stood? "Esteemed
friend, do not ask now. He came here a few
weeks ago. Meet next week. W. H. V."
We asked if they meant General Sherman?
Answer, "Yes." We told them they had put the
T. and W. in wrong order, which they then saw.
Again they wanted us to look further in the blank
book. I turned leaf after leaf until I had lifted
twelve more and there 1 found the following ex
actly as it is here inserted.
Why did you not call for me to-day?
W. H. V.
This book had lain closed upon the table all
the time and Katie's hand had not touched it until
Mr. Vanderbilt told me to look in his book. How
the writing was done we cannot in the least un
derstand.
Columbus Avenue, February \5tb — 1892.
Katie did not come to us the following week
as requested by the circle and as we fondly hoped.
Days and weeks passed on but no Katie came.
The Doctor called at her lodgings but she had
left and he could not learn where she was. We
heard nothing from her or of her until this day,
nearly a year, I received a letter giving her ad
dress and asking me to come to her.
I went at once and received the following:
(418-Vol. IV) "My Dear Child. This is a
meeting in time. I want to advise you. I want
you to heed my words, or you will soon become
so nervous that you will be confined to your room.
'Housekeeping will never do for you. You must
give it up. You must not, my dear child, give
your energies to housekeeping. Get out of it as
soon as you can. I have never advised you for
wrong. I have never told you to do anything that
was not for your interest. Now my dear child, do
take my advice, give up housekeeping. I fear a
nervous fever for you. There are so many things
for you, high, noble things for you, so much to
call you away from the animal life. What can I
say? I mean the cares of housekeeping are not
in your line. You were never born for that work.
Dear child, it brings cares, makes disturbances
in your own little circle, in your home circle.
Now life is short on earth, and worth enjoying.
You can enjoy life, if you have no housekeeping.
Think what is before you and your beloved fam
ily. Think how you can enjoy God's blessed gifts,
close your doors and go forth and leave no cares
behind.
Sarah and George, heed my advice; then the
sun will come forth and shine with renewed
warmth, and blessings will fall thick and fast
upon your pathway. Changes will come but you
must work with us, you must help us.
God bless you! All will be well! You have
done well. You have done your duty faithfully
as a wife and mother. In all things you have done
well, and the circle here hovers closely by your
side. In your atmosphere many a time you would
have sunk had we not stood by your side. There
are bright changes coming. Let your souls be
glad. Now a bird holds in its mouth this mes
sage:
(419-Vol. IV) "Tell dear Sarah, my esteemed
friend, that I desire her to give up the cares of
housekeeping. She is too delicate of nerve, too
frail for housekeeping. W. H. V." This is the
message brought to me in the mouth of a bird
which you will bear in mind for the sake of those
who love you here.
(1) April lat, 1891 we left the hotel end went to keeping house
in an apartment, and there we were at this time.
398 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869- 1892
We all feel so deeply interested in your happi
ness. We do not like to see you droop like a
weary child, and fold your hands to rest your
tired brain and body!
George will see that I am right.
Benjamin Franklin."
"My Beloved Child. Time will bring all about
for the best. Try not to take cares upon your
self. Live just as you feel inclined. When you
get a faithful servant, housekeeper, you will feel
happier and have time to enjoy life. I often sit
down with you in your home ; I often take a view
of everything; and though I admire and esteem
Dr. Franklin I advise you to wait, make no
change yourself, for I know a change will come
which will make your life what he would like to
see it. You will have leisure and at the same
time enjoy your earthly life. You have many
bright years before you, my beloved child. All
goes well and smoothly far as I can see. Dear
child, you will receive all in good time, and those
who have caused you trouble and annoyance will
some day ask your forgiveness, not in words, but
in actions. Ralph is becoming happier every
hour. He is more satisfied and peaceful about
his family. The children are happy and send
their kisses. They often make flying visits to
Flora. She will succeed in all her desires and
become just what she aims for.
My beloved child, my arms are open for (420-
Vol. IV) you when you are weary. Commune
with me in silence. I will hear your prayer.
Your Ma. Your Mother.
in the beautiful home of the blest."
"My Dear Sarah. You are as dear to me as
life! Dear to me as when you were a little tot!
I love you.
Well, now my child, you know exactly what
to do. Do not worry about business. There is
no cause to worry. Just what your noble mind
thinks, is best.
Bless you! Now, I am not preaching to you.
Uncle Isaac."
Columbus Avenue, March 3rd— 1892.
Again I called on Katie and received the fol
lowing:
"My Dear Child. You did right to come here
to-day. We all impressed you to come. Always
heed your impressions, dear child, and you will
never have cause to regret. My dear child, many
things on earth claim my strict attention, and
some events will soon transpire which will also
absorb your time. My child, we will work to
gether. We will bear everything With patience
and fortitude, and all will be well. The cross will
be woven with roses, and you will rejoice.
My dear child, the hand that has led you on so
far safely, the hand that has guided you in all
things, is always the same. To-day that helping
hand is open for you and guides you as in child
hood days. That loving hand is ever ready to
shield you and come between you and all trouble.
Now let me say, let us all say, cheerfully wait.
Great and glorious events will take place for you
after passing (421-VoI. IV) through some, yes,
many vexations. Can we impress on your mind
to be firm and cheerful when clouds surround
you? There will be a very dark day for you, but
in the midst of all remember these words: 'Vic
tory for you, no loss of money, but gain. Remem
ber these words and be strong.'
Mr. Vanderbilt has been talking with me and
sends the above words to you and adds that few
have the noble soul to join with you that you
have, few have the noble spirit who looks upon
you as his star in all dark hours, his sunbeam at
all times.
My dear child, God bless you and him, and He
does bless you both and all. My soul is glad.
We, your loved ones, are together talking to
day; we all combine our loving and sincere ad
vice. We all speak, dear child, and you hear us,
you see us in all your daily life. Now, my dear
child, do not worry about home, your father's
family; do not worry about anything in fact;
for sure as the sun shines, you will come out free
from all annoyances, and be happy. We will
never be far from you. We like your home for
many reasons, but you must not overwork. The
children, Willie and Flora, like their home, and
FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892 399
that is a great thing, but my dear child, you must
not overwork. My dear Sarah,
Your Ma, your Mother."
"My Dear Esteemed Friend. Your faithful
friend,
W. H. V."
"My Dear Sarah, My Sister.
Olin."
"My Beloved Child.
Your father,
Benjamin Franklin
and many others."
(422- Vol. IV) "My Dear Sarah. I have waited,
because I always like to come when business is
not talked of. I like to have my dear Sarah to
myself. Yes, and now dear child, speaking of
your aunt, I am glad she is coming to stay with
you. Keep her just as long as possible. Keep
her with you. Soon you will part with her on
earth for a long time. She will come home to seek
her mate.
My dear Sarah, all will be well. Soon as
spring blossoms burst forth Willie will be in a
fine position and you will be satisfied. (Your
Ma is helping me now.)
Changes have come to us here. We will speak
of them at another time, not now. Your Ma does
not care to talk just now regarding changes here,
but, bear in mind, no unhappy change.
Uncle Isaac."
On reading the above I asked if the vexations,
crosses etc., were financial? The pencil wrote.
"Purely financial, dear esteemed friend. Well,
we all have to bear our cross. I had to bear
mine. We, seeing that you will have annoyances
feared that you would become depressed. Now,
do not for one moment feel anxious for there will
be no real foundation. All will be prosperous, and
you will find that you have acted wisely. The
Madison Avenue Hotel will never be a failure.
W. H. V."
"Can I get in a word here? I know that your
money affairs are all right.
Charley Foster."
(423-Vol. IV) Columbus Avenue, June 1st— 1892
8 o'clock P. M.
Katie, as always, promised to come to us so I
waited until this day when I went again, so much
did I want to talk with our loved ones, and re
ceived the following:
"My Dear Child. I feel drawn towards you,
perhaps more closely than I have ever been be
fore, owing to your having care and anxiety.
You have not been well, my child, and that makes
everything seem great, almost too great to bear.
New changes are coming and all will come out
right. When you are stronger you will see that
every trial will seem less to bear.
Now, do not worry, let everything take its
course, no matter what comes; pay no attention
if annoying, cast it off, and here is your knowl
edge. There are no heavy dark clouds over you
financially for there is not one cloud for you to
meet, and you know that you are doing right.
My dear child, you did right to come here. You
see we all want to talk with you. All are here
anxious to speak. My child, did you not hear a
small sweet voice urging you to come? That voice
was your mother.
Benj. Franklin."
"How can you say that you have been alone?
How can you say you are alone? Why Sarah,
we never leave you alone. Some of us are always
with you or you would not have been able to
have borne all your aches and pains together with
your cares. You do not know how much we do
for you! When we see you overworked, your
nervous system giving way, we all silently gather
around you and infuse a soothing influence with
in (424-VoI. IV) your system; in fact we leave
a healing power with you.
Why Sarah, you would to-night have been on
your bed exhausted, but for this. We are all
watching, for you will have much to bear in the
autumn. Now mark this well. Oh, how prophet
ic my words will prove!
All will end well Sarah, all will be bright, but
save your strength. Your duties are many, and
you need strength and hope, communion with
your dear ones here, this it
is,
this communion,
which gives you new life. The hope, the love we
400 FOX-TAYLOR RECORD— 1869-1892
all so freely give, and rejoice because they are
gratefully received. Do not go home and worry,
for, as I said before, all will be bright and end
lovely.
We have many coming here every day; some
who knew this way of telegraphing and many who
loved it.
Talk with me, my dear child, without hesita
tion. God bless you, my dear children.
Your Mother, Your Ma."
My husband joined me at Katie's and the circle
welcomed him, for which he thanked them, one
and all. The pencil added very soon:
"My Son. You thank me; at that time I was
a little distance off, but heard your words. You
are a thousand times welcome.
Benj. Franklin."
I mentioned that Willie was thinking of spend
ing the summer in Dakota with my brother
Daniel. This followed:
"Sister. We all wish that he would go! It
would do him so much good and then Daniel
would be made happy; and we are (425-Vol. IV)
sure that there would be no regrets on either side.
Let him, our Willie, go. W. H. V. says, 'Let our
Willie go.'
Olin."
I remarked upon our not having received any
thing from Mr. Vanderbilt and I could not see
the reason. He wrote:
"Oh, no, my dear esteemed friend! I am not
too busy! 'There is great grief in our immediate
family, but time heals the most severe wound
and all that I can say is silently.
You are, I see, very anxious about your busi
ness matters. I feel sure that all will be faith
fully kept and you will not be deceived. Do not
trust too long, and never let time run over if you
can avoid it. Speak on.
W. H. V."
"My Dear Niece. If you worry I shall have to
scold you. We want you to save your strength
(1) One of his grandchildren, aon of Cornelius Vanderbilt, had
ntly.
and be prepared for coming events. I am pre
paring a home for my better half; she will soon
join me.
Uncle Isaac."
"That man at the Madison Avenue Hotel is a
procrastinator.
Charley."
"But he will meet every due.
The Circle."
"My Dear Child. You must try not to worry.
I do not think he manages well. I feel quite sure,
notwithstanding, he will meet all his obligations.
You want someone who has your sole interest at
heart, like myself.
Prof. Kenyon."
(426-Vol. IV) "My Dear Sarah. All will be
well. You have every thing bright before you in
the future and no trouble will come without a
warning from us, so do not be troubled.
Grandma."
"George and Sarah. My children, do not worry.
All that you have to do is to keep a watchful
eye with us, and there will be no loss. Manage
ment will soon be better. I see that bright changes
are over the Madison Avenue Hotel. God bless
you, now and forever.
Benj. Franklin."
Some three weeks after the above, I received
a telegram from Katie's eldest son which read
"Mother is dead. Do come up." And so it was!
Katie had been on her last spree, had taken her
last drink and had by these excesses separated
herself from her body. The poor abused body
lay there stark and stiff but no Katie either sober
or drunk was there to claim it.
The loss of this vehicle of communication be
tween my loved, to whom I cannot speak directly,
and ourselves is very great and at present seems
irreparable.
Oh! If I could speak without a go-between,
without a third party, but alas! I don't know
how.
