{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__braid___neurypnology.pdf","mytitle":"Neurypnology","mylang":"de"}
NEURYPNOLOGY;
011, THE
RATIONALE OF NERVOUS SLEEP,
OONIID.I:UD IN BBLlTtON WITH
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ILL1JB'I'B£T&D BY
NUMEROUS CASES OF ITS SUCCESSFUL APPLICATION
IN THE RELIEF AND CURE OF DISEASE.
BY
JAMES BRAID, M.R.C.S.E., C.M.W.S. &c.
.. U:lfU.In• ICSft'ICII. ll -vcr.u.a.Y Ta• CJl1LII U JXaiiCII.n'Y d 111PUCIT ca&D1JI.ft'Y,"
-SI-.
LONDON:
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCE'S STREET, SOHO.
ADAM & CHARLES BLACK, EDINBURGH.
1843.
EDINBURGH'
PRINTED BY ANDaBW I!IH8RTHIJ.K,
OEOBGE IV. BRIDO~.
TO
CHARLES ANDERSON, M.D., F.R.C.S. En. &c.
MY DEAR SIR,
INcLINATION 88 well 88 duty induces me to
dedicate this work to you: that I may publicly
express the lively sense of gratituq~ l.!Jntertain for
the many opportunities enjoyed during·~Y.. appren-
ticeship with yourself and your late father,::Of acquir-
ing a practical 88 well as tlleor~tjc~l;knq~iedge of
my profession ; of becoming . fabiii1~· with your
comprehensive views of dis~88e, and their happy
application in practice ; for the personal kindness
shewn me during my pupilage; and for the unin-
terrupted friendship which haB ever since existed
betwixt us.
I am aware that you are not practically acquainted
with the subject of this treatise, but your intimate
knowledge of general science renders you eminently
qualified for prosecuting the subject with success;
Digit zed b,Googk.,-
j
iv DEDICATION.
and permit me to assure you, that its value as a
curative power, for an intractable class of diseases,
renders it well worthy of your best attention.
Believe me,
My dear Sir,
Most faithfully yours,
JAMES BRAID.
3, ST PETxa's SQu.t.aE,
MANCHESTER, June 2, 1843.
o;g,, zed by Google
CONTE NT S.
INTRODUCTION.
General remarlca-Wb7 B1Pnodlm baa beell eejl&rated from Allimal
Jolapeti.sm - Bow far colllidend tueful In the cure of dl.le8ee- Ita
powers on the animal functions- Certain erroneona chargee refuted-
OplnloDI and pract1oe of Bertrand and AbW Faria, Mr BrookJ, Dr
l'rlcbud-ltl moraliDllaenoe-Should be uaed b7 profelliooal mo11
01111-Deftnldoll of term~, Pace 1
PART I.
CHAPTER I.
Introclnclory remarlca- Clrewnalancea which dlreeled 10 the IDYetltigation
-A real phenomenon oboenod-Ezperlmontl lnatltutod 10 provo the
- olli-Oplnlons and oonclnllona drawn from thom-ROIIIODI for
sep8111&1Dg BJPDotilm from Hosmorilm- B1PDOtllm more genorallJ
IUCCelll'ul than Anlmalllapotflm- Mr Herbert llfayo'l testimODJ OD
this point-Proofl of thil referred 10-Dill'oren& mode~ b7 which H ean
be lndnoed -Can ODlJ be ezpeetod 10 IIICCeOd b7 oompiJIDB with the
whole eondltlona required, l'lc'e 15
o;g,, zed by Google
viii
CHAPTER II.
Mode or HypnoUaing- CircumltaDCes DeceaBI'1 to be complled with -
Pcculiar phe~~omeDa which follow ; m:citemeDl lint, aud afterwards
depreeaion of fDDCIIon - lmportauoe of a«endiDg to thla- How theoe
may be made to allemato with etich other - ExtraozdiDary iD6ueDoe or
a current ofair dlll'iDg Hypnotilln-Beuona for oertaln modlllcationa of
original modee or oporatlng- Hypnotism proceede from a 'law of the
animal economy-Arlaea from tho pb.JII(cal aud J111clllcal condition of
the patient, aud not from any emanation or priDciple proceeding from
others- Example for proof- Ezhlblts no appreciable electric or mag-
netic change. -Two patients may hypnotize each other by contact. -
PhenomeDa arlae epontaueouely In COUl'le of dllleaae.- Mr Waldey'i
admission on thla poiDt.-Mr H. Mayo'• testimony as to the effects of
Hypnotlam. - Eft'ecta of dl!ferent poeltiona of the eyee.- Remarka on
arllclet In .Medical Gazette,- Col1felllll&l adjultment of eye& - Elfecta
on llze of pupiL-Power of habit and fmasiDatlon.- Doclllty of pa-
tle~~ts, and m:alted tellllbWt.Y, and their elft!eta. - htient hypnotised
wbiltt operating on another.- .Mod<tofreeiat!Dg ln6uenee, hge 'rl
CHAPTER III.
Phenomena of natural oleep, dreaming, and aom~~&mbalism contrasted-
Causes of common Bleep- or droamlng-Eft'ecta of variety and mono-
tony compared- Changes alleged to take plaoe In the ttrncture of the
braiD by exerUon -Cauae of Hypnotism, M'Niib'a article on" Reverie"
compared with Mr Braid's theory of Hypnotlam- .Mode of arouaiDg
patients from tbe atato of Hypnotlam, hge 43
CHAPTER IV.
Phenomena of common oleep- orHypnotism-Power of locomotion and
accurate balancing of themtalves- Tendency to danoe on hesriDg
appropriate music-Gracedilplayed under lla ID6uenoe-Te~~dencyto
o;g,, zed by Google
CONTENTS• . ix
beoame catalepllformly thed In uy poaitlon If left q!Mt- ProbabiHty
of Hypootlam having been practiled amongot the anclenll, ud the eanee
of their superior excellence In acnlptare, painting, aDd dancing-Etrecta
analogoua to Nitroua Oxide In eome -in what It dilFere from tbla and
Intoxication from wine aDd oplriii-Analogous to eonium-Efl'ecll qf
monotonoua lmpreaalona on any of the senses-Opinions of Cullen,
M'Nilb, Wlllicb- (Counting and repeating generally known) - A
writer In Medical Gazette- Power of habit and expectation- AU the
phenomena conaeeutive- Note Uluatrating this- Power of Hypnotism
to cure Intractable diseaaea and disordere-Misa Collins case and
Miss E. Atklnaon's- Extent to which It may be expected to be
naeful, Page 54
I
CHAPTER V.
Reaeons for delivering Public Lectures on Hypnotism- Mode of procuring
refteabing Bleep, with low pulie and general flaecldity of muacle- Effi..
caey of tbla plan, · l'a&e 75
CHAPTER VI.
lntrodactof)' remarkl-Relation between mind ud matter Wuatrated to
dl.lprove materialism - Annatrong, Colton, Brown, Aberorombie,
Stewart, Plato-General eonclllllion, that mind or life Ia the cause of
organism - Power of eoneclence - The passions, bow excited - Dr
EIUotaon'a opinion aa to the eftlcaey or non-efficacy of volition and sym-
pathy with operator's brain- Modes of dividing the brain- Cauaes of
Phrenology being imperfect- Objections to Pbreno-Bypnotiam -Mode
of connection between the brain and body- First attempll at Pbreno-
logizing during Hypnotism were failures- Succeeded by operating dif-
ferently- Cases Uluatrative- A cbUd operates succeaafully-Details of
the case- Other wcceasful cases- Proper time for operating- Case of
an officer In 1758-Inferencea aa to Ita curative powen-Oplnions of
LA Roy Sunderland, and lllr Ball- Presumed cause of phenomena
caUed CroBB Magnetism- Return stolen property to proper ownen and
Jl!Opar place by amen and touch - Power of hearing /ailll MIMI-
o;g,, zed by Google
OONTBNTII.
AddWoDal - -Oppoeile laeuliiN ean be excited a& ame lime b7
aedngon the oppoelte hemllpheree-:Mocle of operallng-Conclwlln
nmarka on the 'f&lue of leltlmon7, Pase 79
CHAPTER VII.
General reoame-lllan7 phenomena admit of ph)'lical and chemical proof
- DUllcuiliN of comprehending mao7 phenomena-Effecta of preJudice
In prevenllng the ..-ption of truth - Critique on debale a& :Mecllco-
Cblrur!!ical Soelety on :Mr Ward's operation- Stale of the cl!eulalloo-
CooJecturea u to the cawe of the Clllalepllform eoodllloo, Pase uo
PART II.
:Moclea of operating- Objecle of operallooa- Cuea of light Improved -
Hearing- DN!and dumb-:Mr Curtla'a remarka-.Jamea Sbelmerdloe't
caae-:MrBingbam'ateatlmon1-s.TaJior-SeotaoflllleU-Toacband
l'lllltanoe-Tic, paral)'lit of eeme and mollon, cured-lllbl B. Atklo-
IOn't case, Yoioe reconred-Rheumatlam, len --Irregular mUICillar
adloo- Headache -Spinal Irrltallon - EpUePIJ-Spinal cunature-
Ncralgta, and palpilalloo of the heart- Surslcal operalloot without
palo- DIJeuea of the akin-Locked jaw- Tooln tpllllll-lllill CoUina
- Cooclwllng remarka, Pase 161
o;g,, zed by Google
PREFACE.
TB:B circumstances which led me to engage in the
investigation of hypnotism, are detailed in the intro-
duction to this little work ; in the first part of the
treatise I have endeavoured to give the results at
which I arrived, in most instances sketching the
route by which I travelled, and stating the inferences
drawn from the various incidents which occurred in
the course of my progress. Having furnished the
data from which I drew my conclusions, the reader
is thus prepared to determine, whether, on any
occasion, I have come to these conclusions without
what he would consider sufficient evidence, and in
such case can institute additional experiments to
any extent he may judge requisite. One circum-
stance, however, I may remark. From a fear of
being misled, I have requested the most sceptical
individuals I knew, both professional and merely
scientific men, to scrutinize all my experiments in
the most critical manner; and have also induced
some of my most intelligent and r~pected friends
to submit to the operations, in the hope that I
o;g,, zed by Google
-
xiv PRBPACB,
it gives an extraordinary power of concentration of
thought, or disposition to rapt contemplation, where-
as, at another stage, the discursive, or imaginative
faculties are excited into full play, and thus the
most expanded, bright, and glowing scenes and images
are presented to the fervid imagination. Such effeets
are quite analogous to those described as resulting
from the use of opium, and detailed by the late Sir
Humphrey Davy, as experienced in his own per-
son, from the inhalation of the nitrous oxide. "I
thns felt a sense of tangible extension, highly plea-
surable in every limb, my visible impressions were
dazzling and apparently magnified. I heard distinctly
every sound in the room, and was perfectly aware of
my situation. By degrees, as the pleasurable sensa-
tion increased, I lost all connection with external
things ; trains of vivid visible images rapidly passed
through my mind, I existed in a world of newly
connected and newly modified ideas." It must also
be borne in mind, that these opposite mental condi-
tions may glide into each other by the most imper-
ceptible degrees, or by the most abrupt transitions,
according to the modes of management, and thus con-
sciousness or unconsciousness, sound sleep, dreaming,
or somnambulism, will result, according as sensations
or ideas predominate, or are equally vivid. See Hib-
bert's Philoaophy of .Apparition8. At a certain stage
the same abruptness of transition may be realized in
the mental phenomena, as were referred to in the last
paragraph, in respect to the physical, and from equally
slight causes. I presume it is from this cause that the
phrenological manifestation may be so readily and
characteristically exhibited at this period. At page_l43
xiii
mena during hypnotism, os if we were operating on
inanimate matter. On the contrary, they ought to
be ready to admit that a variety might be expected
to arise, even in the same individual, according to the
physieal and mental condition of the patient at the
moment the operation is performed.
The next most important point for consideration is,
the faet of all the phenomena being consecutive. We
have thus the extremes of insensibility, and exalted
IRmsibility, of rigidity and mobility, at different
stages, and these merging into eaeh other by the moa
imperceptible gradations, or in the most abrupt
manner, aeeording to the mode of treating the
patient. It is no unusual thing for different parties
to be testing, or ealling for tests, for the opporite con-
ditiOW1, at the satM instant of time. These, of course,
are incompatible, but, at a certain stage, the transi-
tions from torpor of all the senses, and eatalep-
tiform rigidity, to the most exalted sensibility, and
ftaceidity of muscle, may be effected almost with
the celerity of thought, even by so slight a eause as a
breath of air directed against the part. If left at rest
it will speedily merge baek again, and thus those un-
acquainted with such peculiarities, will be continually
liable to think they discover discrepancies, which,
however, only originate from their imperfect know-
ledge of the subject ; just as an unskilful manipulator
will be ready to suppose, from his different results,
t.hat the observations of other chemists have been
erroneous.
The third point meriting especial attention is, the
condition of the mind at different stages. As resul1s
from opium, so also from hypnotism. At one stage
o;g,, zed by Google
xvi PREPACE,
twelve eases here referred to the parties knew nothing
of phrenology, and that not one of them could with
certainty point to two of their own organs. I may
also add, they were·all tested before competent and
observant witnesses, who can testify there was no
prompting by any one.
It appears quite evident, that whatever imagoes
or mental emotions or thoughts have been excited
in the mind during nervous sleep, are generally
liable to recur, or be renovated and manifested
when the patient is again placed under similar cir-
cumstances. Notwithstanding the apparent conelu~
siveneas of the cases recorded, that there exists a
natural connection betwixt certain localities touched
and the peculiar manifestations which follow, in
order to determine this question in the most decided
manner, it is my intention to institute a series of
experiments on fresh patients, in order to ascertain
to what extent it may be practicable, by arbitrary
association, to excite the ~ tendencies from the
same points; also, whether they can be exhibited in
the same striking and natural manner by '6oth
methods, or by which points they can be elicited with
the greatest facility and fidelity to natural expression.
There will thus be both positive and negative proof
to aid us in determining, whether there is any natu-
ral and necessary connection existing betwixt the
points manipulated, and the manifestations excited;
or whether it may depend entirely upon associations
which have originated from some partial knowledge
of phrenology, from arbitrary arrangements, or acci-
dental circumstances or causes which have been en-
tirely overlooked or forgotten ; and which afterwards
PRBJ'AC.B. xvii
produce the results from " that ultimate law of the
mind, which ordains, that the repetition of a definite
sensation shall be followed by a renovation of the past
feelings with which it was before assoeiated.'• (Hib-
ben. page:316.) I am induced to adopt this course,
from my anxiety to remove every possible source of
error as to the cause of the original manifestation, and
from the recollection of the remarkable circumstance
of the woman who, during natural somnambulism,
could repeat correctly large portions of the Hebrew
Bible, and other books, in languages she had never
studied, and was perfectly ignorant of when awake,
but which was at length discovered to have been
acquired from hearing a clergyman, with whom she
resided when a girl, reading them aloud to himself;
and also of some patients whilst labouring under dis-
ease remembering languages long forgotten. I wish
to ascertain whetherany such accidental circumstance
may have been the cause of the remarkable manifes-
tations arising in the minds of patients when first
manipulated. Whatever are the results of my farther
inquiry shall be carefully noted and published, as my
object is neither to prove nor disprove the truth of
phrenology, but to establish the value of hypnotism,
and determine how best to apply it, as a means of
meliorating the mental, and moral, and physical con-
dition of man.
That during the nervous sleep, there is the power
of exciting patients to manifest the passions and
emotions, and certain menial functions. in a more
striking manner than the same individuals are
capable of in the WGJ:ing condition, no one can
doubt who has seen much of these experiments. And
b
Digit zed b,Google
:xviii
it ean in no way alter the importance of hypnotism,
as a curative power, and extraordinary means of
controlling and directing mental functions, in a parti-
cular manner, by a simple association of impressions,
whether we thus act on the brain as a lingle organ,
or as a combination of separate organs; or whether
the primary associations have originated from a
special organic connection, or from some accidental
and unknown cause, or from preconcerted arrange-
ment and arbitrary association.
In such operations as particularly require the use
of the eyes, 1 have never seen patients in the hypno-
tic state perform what they attempted with the same
celerity and accuracy as they were capable of doing
when awake, and with the aid of sight. In short, I
have never witnessed any phenomena which were not
reeonci1eab1e with the notion that they arose from the
abnormal exaltation or depression of sensations and
ideas, or to their being thrown into unusual and varied
ratios by the processes resorted to.
Having heard it reported, that by establishing a
connection betwixt two patients by a chain or string,
that manipulating one would manifest the same
phenomena in both, I tried the experiment, but with
the precaution that the patients should be in separate
rooms, so that the one could not hear, nor feel, from
the motion of the air, what the other was doing. I
formed the connection by a cord in some eases, and
in others by a copper wire, and had parties statione1l
where they could observe the movements of both at
same time. We could discover no such sympathetic
influence as is asserted to have been realized by
others.
o;g,, zed by Google
PREPACE, xix
The experiments recorded at page 142 of my having
eaused patients to hypnotize, manipulate, aud rouse
themselves, (by simply desiring them to rub their own
eyes,) and which produced results precisely the same
as when done by any one else, seem to me the most
decisive proof possible that the whole results from
the mind and body of the patients acting and re-act-
ing on each other, and that it bas no dependenee on
any special infiuenee emanating from another. My
first experiments on this point were instituted in the
presenee of some friends on the 1st May, 1843, and
following days. I believe they were the first experi-
ments of the kind which had ever been tried, and
they have succeeded in every ease in which I have so
aperated.
With due attention to the points above referred to,
and with that praetice which is requisite to insure
adroitness in experimenting in any department ofart
or scienee, and with an honest desire to view every
fact having no bias to uphold some previous prejudice
or opinion, I have no doubt that the facts and obser-
'·ations set forth in this treatise will soon be very
generally confirmed.
A perusal of the eases recorded in the second part
will, I trust, reuder the importance of the subject
sufficiently apparent to stimulate inquiry; and I
hope it may be gratifying to others to read, as it
is to me to be able to record, that the predication I
had ventured to make at page 256, as to the pro-
bability of hypnotism proving a cure for tetanus and
hydrophobia, has already been happily realized in
respect to the former intractable and generally fatal
disease. After this treatise had been in the press
o;g,, zed by Google
XX PRBPA.CB,
the following case occurred, and its importance
must be my apology for giving a brief detail of it
here:-
Master J. B., 13 years of age, was suddenly attacked
with chilliness and pain all over his body, on the
evening of 30th of last March. I was called to attend
him the following day, when I considered he had got
a febrile attack from cold, and prescribed accordingly.
Next day, however, it had assumed a very different
aspect. I now found I had got a severe case of
opisthotonos to deal with. The head and pelvis
were rigidly drawn back, the body forming an arch,
and the greatest force could not succeed in straighten-
ing it, or bringing the head forward. Whilst the
spasm never relaxed entirely, it frequently became
much aggravated, when the head was so much drawn
back as to seriously impede respiration. The legs
were also sometimes flexed spasmodically. 'l'he effect
of the spasm in obstructing the respiration, and hurry-
ing the circulation, was very great, and seemed to
place the patient in great jeopardy. The pulse was
never less than 160, but during the paroxysm was
considerably increased. It was evident I had got a
most formidable case to contend with, and that no
time ought to be lost. I therefore determined to try
the power of hypnotism, well knowing how generally
such cases end fatally under ordinary treatment. He
was quite sensible, and the only difficulty in getting
him to comply with my instructions, arose from the
recurrence of the severe spasmodic attacks. In a very
few minutes, however, I succeeded in reducing the
spasm so that his head could be carried forward to
the perpendicular, his breathing was relieved, his pulse
PRBPACB, xxi
considerably diminished, and I left him in a state of
comparative comfort. In about two and a-half hours
after I visited him again, accompanied by my friend
Dr Cochrane. The spasms had recurred, but by
no means with the same violence. Dr Cochrane
had no difficulty in recognizing the disease, but did
not believe any means could save such a case.
He had never seen a patient hypnotized till that
afternoon, and watched my experiment with much
interest and attention. He seemed much and agree-
ably surprised by the extraordinary influence which
an agency so apparently simple exerted over such a
case. The pupil was speedily dilated, as if under the
infiuence of belladonna ; the muscular spasm relaxed,
and in a few minutes he was calmly asleep. Having
ordered three calomel powders to be given at intervals,
we left him comfortably asleep. Next day there was
still spasm of the muscles, but by no means so severe.
Whilst I determined to follow up the hypnotic treat-
ment, which had been so far successful, I considered it
would be highly imprudent to trust wlwlly to that in
the treatment of such a case. As I consider such cases
are generally attended with inflammation of the
medulla oblongata, and upper part of the spinal cord,
I bled him, and ordered the calomel to be continued.
The same plan was persevered in, hypnotizing him
occasionally for some days, administering calomel till
the gums were slightly affected, cold lotion to the
head, and the antiphlogistic regimen till I considered
all risk of inflammatory action past, when he was
treated more generously, and I am gratified to say he
is now quite well.
I feel confident that without the aid of hypnotism
o;g,, zed by Google
xxii PBEPACJ:,
this patient would have died. I sincerely wish it
may prove equally successful in other cases of the
kind, and also in that hitherto fatal disease, hydro-
phobia. My anxiety to see it fairly tried in the
latter disease induces me to offer my gratuitous services
in any case of that disease occurring within a few
hours' journey of Manchester.
I consider it necessary to explain that my reason for
having inserted some cases attested by the patients
and others is, that most unwarrantable interferences
have been resorted to by several medical men, in
order to misrepresent some of them. In one instance,
in order to obtain an attested erroneous document, the
ease was BEAD to the patient and others present, THE
VERY BEVEBSI~ 01' WHAT WAS WRITTEN. However
extraordinary such conduct may appear, the fact of
its occurrence was puhlicly pr(YDe(], and borne testimo11y
to by the patient and other parties present on the occasion
when the document UJQ8 obtained.
o;g,, zed by Google
INTRODUCTION.
General remarks-Why R.nmotllm baa been aep&ratecl from Animal
MagneUJm- Row far oolllldered weful In the cure of dl!ea8e- Itt
powen on the animal tunetiona - Cerlaln erroneona cbarsel refuteci-
Oplnlona and practice of Bertnmd and Abbe Faria, Mr Brooks, Dr
Prichard-Ill moral lnftnence- Should be need by profeaalonal men
only-Detlnlllon of term&
IT was my intention to have published my "Prac-
tical Essay on the Curative Agency of Neuro-
Hypnotism," exactlyas delivered at the Conversazione
given.to the members of the British Association in
Manchester, on the 29th June, 1842. By so doing,
and by appending foot notes, comprising the data on
which my views were grounded, it would have con-
veyed a pretty clear knowledge of the subjeet, and of
the manner in which it had been treated. It has
since been suggested, however, that it might readily
be incorporated with the short Elementary Treatise
on Neuro-Hypnology, which I originally intended to
publish, and which I am earnestly solicited to do, by
letters from professional gentlemen from all quarters.
I now, therefore, submit my views to the public in
A
o;g,, zed by Google
2 GENERAL REJlA.RJCS,
the following condensed form. I shall aim at brevity
and perspicuity; and my great object will be to teaeh
others all I know of the modes of inducing the pheno-
mena, and their application in the cure of diseases,
and to invite my professional brethren to labour in
the same field of inquiry, feeling assured, that the
cause of science and humanity must thereby be pro-
moted.
It was with this conviction I offered my 41 Practical
Essay on the Curative Agency of Neuro-Bypnotism,"
to the medical section of the British Association.
·In November, 1841, I was led to investigate the
pretensions of animal magnetism, or mesmerism, as
a complete sceptic, from an anxiety to discover the
source of fallacy in certain phenomena I had heard
were exhibited atM. Lafontaine's conversazioni. The
result was,that I made some discoverieswhich appeared
to elucidate certain of the phenomena, and rendered
them interesting, both in a speculative and practical
point of view. I considered it a most favourable
opportunity for having additional light thrown upon
this subject, to offer a paper to the medical section of
the British Association, which was about to meet in
Manchester. Gentlemen of scientific attainments
might thus have had an opportunity of investigat-
ing it, and eliciting the truth, unbiassed by local
or personal prejudice. I hoped to learn some-
thing from others, on certain points which were
extremely mysterious to me, as to the cause of some
remarkable phenomena. I accordingly intimated
my intention to the secretaries, by letter, on 18th
May, and on the morning of Wednesday, the 22d
June, 1842, sent the paper I proposed reading for
o;g,, zed by Google
GD&JU.L RBIU.RKS, 3
the considerationofthe committee, intimRting also, by
letter, my intention to produce before them as many
of the patients as possible, whose eases were referred
to in proof of the curative agency of Neuro-Hypno-
tism, so that they might have an opportunity of
BSCertaining, for ~hemselves, the real facts of the
cases, uninfluenced by any bias or partiality that I
might exhibit as the discoverer and adapter of this
new mode of treatment. The committee of the medi-
cal section, however, were pleased to decline enter-
taining the subject.
Many of the most eminent and influential members
of the Association, however, had already witnessed
and investigated my experiments in private, and ex-
pressed themselYes highly gratified and interested
with them. In compliance with the repeated desire
of these gentlemen, and many other eminent members
of the Association to whom I eould not possiblyafford
time to exhibit my experiments in private, and who
were anxious to have an opportunity afforded them
of seeing, hearing, and judging of the phenomena for
themselves, I gave a gratuitous eonversaz.ione, when
I read the " Rejected Essay," and exhibited the ex-
periments in a public room, to which all the members
of the Association had been respectfully invited. The
interest with which the subject was viewed by the
members of the Association generally, was sufficiently
testified by the number and high respectability of
tltose who attended on that occasion; in reference to
which the chairman requested the reporters to put on
.record, " that he had been in the habit for many
years of attending public meetings, and he had never
in his life seen a more unmixed, a more entirely
Digit zed b,Google
4 BYPNOTIS• SEPA.RATED PRO.
respectable assembly in Manchester." It was also
manifested by their passing a vote of thanks at the
conclusion of the conversazione, for my having afforded
an opportunity to the members of the British Associa-
tion of witnessing my experiments, to which they had
previously borne testimony as having been " highly
successful."
On that occasion I stated, there were certain pheno-
mene, which I could readily induce by :particular
manipulations, whilst I candidly confessed myself
unable to explain the modus opmandi by which
they were ind)lced; I referred particularly to the
extraordinary rapidity with w~ich dormant func-
tions, and a state of cataleptiform rigidity, may be
changed to the extreme opposite condition, by a
simple waft of wind, either from the lips, a pair of
bellows, or by any other mechanical means. I soli-
cited information on these points, both privately an<l
publicly, from all the eminently scientific gentlemen
who honoured me with their company during the
meetings of the British Association in this town ; but
no one ventured to express a decided opinion as to the
causes of these remarkable phenomena. I now beg
to assure every reader of this treatise, that I shall
esteem it a great favour to be enlightened on points
which I confess are, at present, still above my com-
prehension.
It will be observed, for reasons adduced, I have
now entirely separated Hypnotism from Animal Mag-
netism. I consider it to be merely a simple, speedy,
and certain mode of throwing the nervous system
into a new condition, which may be rendered emi-
nently available in the cure of certain disorders. I
o;g,, zed by Google
ANDU.L MA.GNETISK,
trust, therefore, it may be invei!tigated quite inde-
pendently of any bias, either- for or against the
subject, as connected with mesmerism ; and only by
the facts which can be adduced. I feel quite con-
fident we have acquired in this proces's a valuable
addition to our curative means; but I repudiate the
idea of holding it up as a universal remedy ; nor do
I even pretend to understand, as yet, the whole range
of dueasu in which it may be useful. Time and ex-
perience alone can determine this question, as is the
case with all other new remedies.
When we consider that iu this process we have
acquired the power of raising sensibility to the most
extraordinary degree, and also of depressing it far
below the torpor of natural sleep;* and that from the
latter condition, any or all of the senses may be
raised to the exalted state of sensibility referred to,
almost with the rapidity of tkoUf}kt, by so simple an
agency as a puff of air directed against the respective
parts ; and that we can also raise and dt'press the
force and frequency of the circulation, locally or
generally, in a most extraordinary degree, it must be
evident we have thus an important power to act
with. Whether these extraordinary physical effects
are produced through the imagination chiefly, or by
other means, it appears t~ me quite certain, that the
imagination has never been so much under our con-
trol, or capable of being made to act in the same
beneficial and uniform manner, byany other mode of
management hitherto known.
• Vide Experiments, pp. 61 to 67.
Digit zed b,Google
6 VA.I.UB AS A. CUB.A.TI\'B POWER,
That we really have acquired in this process a
valuable addition to our curative means, which en-
ables us speedily to put an end to many diseases
which resisted ordinary treatment, I think will be
satisfactorily manifested by the cases which I have
recorded. Many of these cases have been seen by other
medical men, and' are so remarkable, so self-evident
to every candid and ~ntelligent mind, that it is im-
possible, with any shew of propriety, to deny them,
Most unwarrantable and novel attempts have been
made, not only to extinguish the farther prosecu-
tion of Hypnotism, but also to misrepresent all I
had either said or done on the subject, and thus
damage me, as well as Hypnotism, in public estima-
tion. I am in possession of a mass of doeumen-
tary evidence in proof of this, to an extent which
could scarcely be credited. But I shall not .trollble
my readers with details of all that has been done in
order to prejudice my patients against me.
As regards general principles, it has even been
attempted, by garbled statements, to set forth such
gross misrepresentations as could only be credited
by parties totally ignorant of the subject. Thus it
was alleged, that my mode of hypnotizing was no
novelty; on the contrary, that it WRS an unac-
knowledged plagiarism, and that it was the opinion
and practice of Bertrand and the Abbe Faria. Now,
so far as I have been able to comprehend the mean-
ing of Bertrand, which Colquhoun observes, " it is
rather difficult to comprehend," he adheres " to the
theory of imagination, and imagination alone,"
(Colquhoun's Introduction, p. 94.) At p. 34, vol. iv. of
o;g,, zed by Google
BJUIONEOt18 CHARGES RBFU'lED, 7
the"EncyclopediaofPracticalMedicine,"DrPrichard
says of Bertrand, that he " comes at last. to the con-
clusion, that all the results of these operations are
brought about through the influence of the mind ;"
that is, through the influence of the imagination of
the patients actiug on themselves. Bertrand also
supports this opinion by the manner in which the
Abbe Faria performed magnetization. His plan was
this : " He placed the ·patient in an arm-chair, and
after telling him ·to shut his eye8, and collect himself,
suddenly pronounced, in a strong voice and impera-
tive tone, the word 'dormez,' which generally pro-
duced on the individual an impression sufficiently
strong to give a slight shock, and occasion warmth,
transpiration, and 1onutimu somnambulism." Had
his success by this method been as general as mine,
would he have used the word " sometimu'' on this
occasion 1• It is farther added," if the first attempt
failed, be tried the experiment a second, third, and
even a fourth time, after which be declared the indi-
vidual incapable of entering into the state of lucid
sleep." Whilst it is doubted that his success was
equal to what he represented it, still Bertrand states,
in reference to the Abbe Faria, that it was incon-
testable, "that he very often succeeded." Now, is
this not sufficient proof, that his success was by no
means so general as mine1 And who does not see,
on perusing my directions for hypnotizing, t that
our methods are very·different 1
It is farther added, "The complete identity of the
phenomena thus produced by a method which operated
• Vide p. 24. t For proof of this,- pp. 27 and 28.
o;g,, zed by Google
8 OPINIONS OJ' HR BROOK.BI,
confessedly through the imagination, with those
which display themselves under the ordinaey treat-
ment of the magnetizers, affords a strong reason for
concluding that the results in other instances depend
upon a similar principle." It is still farther added,
that M. Bertrand denies the necessity of strong intelll8 ,
volitions of the operator being necessary to produce
the result. He declared, " that in trials made by him-
self, precisely the same results followed, whether he
WILLED to produce them or not, provided that the
patient was inwardly permaded that the 11Jltole ritual
was duly obaenled." Can any farther remarks be re-
quired to prove that Bertrand referred the result en-
tirely to the effect of imagination1 And can any one
who has attended to what I have given as my opinion,
say that this either WM, or is my opinion1 Certainly
quite the contrary. The parties referred to, therefore,
have only proved their belief of how easy it is, by
garbled statements, to misrepresent the truth, when
submitting such remarks to those ignorant of the sub-
ject, or who are blinded by prejudice. •
The following remarks by Mr H. Brookes, a cele-
brated lecturer on animal·magnetism, will illustrate
this point rather better than the individuals referred
to. On hearing that I had changed my original opinion
about identity, he writes thus : "I am very glad you
have at length found reason to change your original
opinion as to the identity of your phenomena with
those of mesmerism. From the very first I freely
admitted the value and importance·of your discovery,
but I could not admit that identity, and I blamed you
for insisting upon it so hastily, and using such hard
words against the animal magnetists, because they
o;g,, zed by Google
OP B.Bl\TB.UfD, AND KAYO, 9
could not agree with you. I thought, and still think,
you did wrong in that, and that you certainly did
yourself injustice, for in fact you are the original dis-
coverer of a MrD agency, and not of a mere modifica-
tion of an old one."
But when so much. had been said of Bertrand, with
the hope of making it appear that I had either been
ignorant of, or copied his views without due acknow-
ledgment, which is evidently erroneous, why not have ·
quoted him also to prove I was wrong in attributing
curative effects as resulting from these operations t
Let us hear what M. Bertrand says on this point.
He "declares, that it is difficult to imagine with what
facility the practisers of the art succeed in relieving
the moat severe affections of the nervous system.
Attacks of epilepsy, in particular, are rendered con-
siderably less frequent and severe by their method
skilfully employed; which.eisplays in so remarkable
a manner the influence of moral impressions on the
physical state of the constitution.'' After such decla-
rations in favour of the curatiH power of mesmerism,
had M. Bertrand's method of inducing the condition
been as generally and speedily successful as mine, will
any one believe that it would not have been brought
more generally into practice ere now t Mr Mayo, one
ofour best authorities, in a letter to me on this subject,
states distinctly that the great reason for its not being
more generally introduced into practice, was the
tediousness of the processes for inducing the condition,
and the uncertainty, after all the time and trouble
devoted to the manipulation, of producing any result
whatever. He concludes his observations on this sub-
ject, by the remark, "II eool; up eoo much lim6.'' And
o;g,, zed by Google
10 DR PRICBJ.RD'S OPINION,
Dr Prieh:ml, author of the article referred to in the
Encyclopmdia of Practical Medicine, adds,· " On the
whole, when we consider the degree of sufFering occa-
sioned by disorders of the clase over which magnetism
exerts an influence, through the medium of the ima-
gination, and the little efficacy which ordinary
remedies possess, of alleviating or counteracting them,
it is much to be wished that this art, notwithstanding
the ·problematical nature of the theories connected
with it, were better known to us in actual practice."
I am &\\•are great prejudice has been raised against
mesmerism, from the idea that it might be turned to
immoral purposes. In respect to the Neuro-Hypnotic
state, induced by the method explained in this treatise,
I am quite certain that il deserves no such ceRsure.
I have proved by experiments, both in public and in
private, that during the state of excitement, the judg-
ment is sufficiently aettve to make the patients, if
possible, even more fastidious as regards propriety of
eonduct, than in the waking condition ; and from the
state of rigidity and insensibility, they can be roused
to a state of mobility, and exalted sensibility, either
by being rudely handled, or even by a breath of air.
Nor is it requisite this should be done by the person
who put them into tho Hypnotic state. It will
follow equally from the manipulations of any one
else, or a current of air impinging against the body,
from any mechanical contrivance whatever. And,
finally, the state cannot be induced, in any stage,
unless with the knowledge and consent of the party
operated on. This is more than can be said respecting
a great number of our most valuable medicines, for
there are many which we are in the daily habit of
o;g,, zed by Google
SHOULD BE USED BY '1'BB PBOFESSION ONLY. 11
using, with the best advantage in the relief and cure
of disease, which may be, and have been rendered
most potent for the furtherance of the ends of the
vicious and cruel; and which can be administered
~ tile hwwledge of tlie intend«l fJictim. It ought
never to be lost sight of, that there is the we and abu.fe
of every thing in nature. It is the we, and only the
judicious Ulltt of Hypnotism, which I advocate.
It is well known that I have never made any secret
of my modes of operating, as they have not only been
exhibited and explained publicly, but also privately,
to any professional gentleman, who wished for farther
information on the subject. Encouraged by the con-
fidence which flows from a consciousness of the
honesty and integrity of my purpose, and a thorough
conviction of the reality and value of this as a means
of cure, I have persevered, in defiance of much, and,
as I think, unwarrantable and capricious opposition.
In now unfolding to the medical profession gene-
rally-to whose notice, and kind consideration, this
'treatise is more particularly presented-my views on
what I conceive to be a very important, powerful, and
extraordinary agent in the healing art ; I beg at once
distinctly to be understood, as repudiating the idea
of its being, or ever becoming, a universal remedy.
On the contrary, I feel quite assured it will require
all the acumen and experience of medical men, to
decide in what eases it would be safe and proper to
have recourse to such a mean; and I have always
deprecated, in the strongest terms, any attempts at
its use amongst unprofessional persons, for the sake
of curiosity, or even for a nobler and more benevolent
object-the relief of the infirm; because I am satisfied
o;g,, zed by Google
12 DBPINITION 011' TEIUlS,
it ought to be left in the bauds of professional men,
and of them only. I have myself met with some
cases in which I considered it unsafe to apply it at
all ; and with other cases in which it would have
been most hazardous to have carried the operation so
far M the patients urged me to do.•
In now submitting my opinions and practice to
the profession in the following treatise, I consider
myself as having discharged an imperative duty to
them, and to the cause of humanity. In future, I
intend to go on quietly and patiently, prosecuting the
subject in the course of my practice, and shall leave
others to adopt or reject it, as they shall find con-
sistent with their own convictions.
As it is of the utmost importance, in discussing any
subject, to have a correct knowledge of the meaning
attached to peculiar terms made use of, I shall now
give a few definitions, and explain my reasons for
adopting the terms selected.
Neurypnology is derived from the Greek words
~t'iipov, nerve ; uTvo,, sleep ; :~~o,..o,, a discourse ; and
means the rational6, or doctrine of nerDOUS sleep,
which I define to be, "a peculiar condition of the
nervous system, into which it can be thrown by arti-
:ll.cial contrivance :" or thus, "a peculiar condition of
the nervous system, induced by a fixed and abstracted
attention of the mental and visual eye, on one object,
not of an exciting nature."
• The circumstances which render my operations danger-
ous, the symptoms which indicate danger, and the mode of
acting when they occur, to remove them, are pointed out, pp.
52 and 53.
DEPINITION OP TERMS. 13
By the term "Neuro-Hypnotism," then, is to be
understood " nervous sleep ;" and, for the sake of
brevity, suppressing the prefix " Neuro,"' by the
terms-
..;
HYPNOTIC, 1
HYPNOTIZE,
HYPNOTIZED, fS
HYPNOTISX, ~
DEHYPNOTIZE, J
DEHYPNOTIZED, J~
and
HYPNOTIST,
The state or condition of ,._ Bleep. ·
To induce lltMl()f(l Bleep.
One who has been put into the state of
-Bleep.
Nerrotu sleep.
To restore !rom the state or condition
of-Bleep.
Restored !rom the state or condition of
-Bleep.
One who practises Neuro-Hypnotiem.
Whenever, therefore, any of these terms are used
in the .following pages, I beg to be understood as
alluding to the discovery I have made of certain pecu-
liar phenomena derived and elicited by my mode of
operating; and of which, to prevent misconception,
and intermingling with other theories and practices
on the nervous system, I have thought it best to give
the foregoing designation,
I regret, as many of my readers may do, the incon-
venient length of the name ; but, as most of our
professional terms, and nearly all those of a doctrinal
meaning, have a Greek origin, I considered it most
in accordance with good taste, not to deviate from an
established usage. To obviate this in some degree, I
have struck out two letters from the original ortho-
graphy, which was Neuro-Hypnology.
o;g,, zed by Google
NEURYPNOLOGY.
PART I.
CHAPTER I.
Introductory remarks- CircunutanC'IO which dllected to the investlptlon
-Anal phenomenon oblerYed-Experimenta lllltltutecl to proYe the
cause of It- Opinion~ and conclnllons cbawn from them-BeMotll for
eeparatlng Hypnotllm from Mesmeriam- Bypnoti.lm more genera1J3r
succetlful than Animal Maguetilm - Mr Herbert Mayo's testimony on
this point-Proofs of this referred to-Dllferent'modea by which It can
be induced -Can only be expected to IIIICCeed h1 complying with the
whole conditions required.
HAVING, in the introduction, presented a cursory
view of certain points, and given a few explanatory
remarks, I shall now proceed to a more particular
and detailed consideration of the subject. I shall
explain the course I have pursued in prosecuting my
investigation ; the phenomena which I discovered to
result from the manipulations had recourse to ; the
inferences I was consequently led to deduce from
them ; the method I now recommend for inducing
the hypnotic condition, for applying it in the cure
o;g,, zed by Google
B1'Pli'OTI8K BOW DISCOVERED,
of various disorders, and the result of my experience,
as to the efficacy of hypnotism as a curative agent.
By the impression which hypnotism induces on
the ne"ous system, we acquire a power of rapidly
curing many functional disorders, most intractable,
or altogether incurable, by ordinary remedies, and
also many of those distressing affections which, as in
most eases they evince no pathological change of
structure, have been presumed to depend on some
peculiar condition of the nervous system, and have
therefore, by universal consent, been denominated
" nerDQII8 complaMU;" and as I felt satisfied it was
not dependent on any special agency or emanation,
pMsing from the body of the operatar to that of
the patient, as the animal magnetizers allege is the
ease by their process, I considered it desirable, for the
sake of preventing misconception, to adopt new terms,
as explained in the introduction.
I was led to discover the mode I now adopt with
so much success for inducing; this artificial condition
of the nervous 'system, by a course of experiments
instituted with the view to determine the cause of
mesmeric phenomena. From all I had read and
heard of mesmerism, (such as, the phenomena being
capable of being excited in so few, and these few
individuals in a state of disease, or naturally of a
delicate constitutiony or peculiarly susceptible tem-
perament, and from the phenomena, when induced,
being said to be so exaggerated, or of such an extra-
ordinary nature,) I was fully inclined to join with
those who considered the whole to be a system of
collusion or delusion, or of excited imagination, sym-
pathy, or imitation.
o;g,, zed by Google
16 PHENOMENON ARRESTING ATTENTION,
The first exhibition of the kind I ever had an oppor·
tunity of attending, was one of M. Lafontaine's con-
versazioni, on the 13th November, 1841. That night
I saw nothing to diminish, but rather to confirm, my
previous prej11dices. At the next conversazione, six
nights afterwards, one fact, the inability of a patient
to open hu eyelidl, arrested my attention. I con-
sidered that to be a real pkenomtnon, and was anxious
to discover the physiological cause of it. Next night,
I watched this case when again operated on, with
intense interest~ and before the termination of the
experiment, felt assured I had discovered its cause,
but considered it prudent not to announce my opinion
publicly, until I had had an opportunityof testing its
accuracy, b'y experiments and observation in private.
In two days afterwards, I developed my views to
my friend Captain Brown, as I had also previously
done to four other friends ; and in his presence, and
that of my family, and another friend, the same
evening, I instituted a series of experiments to prove
the correctness of my theory, namely, that the con-
tinued :fixed stare, by paralyzing nervous centres in
the eyes and their appendages,• and destroying the
equilibrium of the nervous system, thus produced the
phenomenon referred to. The experiments were
varied so as to convince all present, that they fully
bore out the correctness of my theoretical views.
My :first object was to prove, that the inability of
the patient to open his eyes was caused by paralyzing
• By this expression I mean the state of exhaustion which
follows too long continued, or too intense action, of an1 organ
or function.
o;g,, zed by Google
EXPERIJ(BNTS TO PROVE CAUSE OF. 17
the levator muscles of the eyelids, through their con-
tinued action during the protracted fixed stare, and
thus rendering it phylically impossible for him to open
them.* With the view of proving this, I requested Mr
Walker, a young gentleman present, to sit down, and
maintain a fixed stare at the top ofa wine bottle, placed
so much above him as to produce a considerable strain
on the eyes and eyelid!!, to enable him to maintain a
steady view ofthe object. In three minutes his eyelids
closed, a gush of tears ran down his cheeks, his head
drooped, his face was slightly convulsed, he gave a
groan, and instantly fell into profound sleep, the re-
spiration becoming slow, deep and sibilant, the right
hand and arm being agitated by slight convulsive
movements. At the end of four minutes I considered
it necessary, for his safety, to put an end to the ex-
periment.
This experiment not only proved what I expected,
but also, by calling my attention to the spasmodic
state of the muscles:of the face and arm, the peculiar
state of the respiration, and the condition of the
mind, as evinced on rousing the patient, tended to
" Attempts have been made to prove, that I got this idea
from a pel'80D who publicly maintained that the patient re-
ferred to oovld have opened his eyes if ke liked ; to this the
patient having replied, " I have tried all I eould and cannot ;"
the individual referred to, in support of his opinion, alleged,
that the inability tea. only imaginary; that he "eould easily
believe that a man may stand with his back to a wall, and
may really believe that he has no power to move from the
wall." It is therefore clear this individual attributed the
phenomena to a mental, whilst I attributed it to a pkyrical
cause.
B
o;g,, zed by Google
18 BXPBlUKBNTII J.:!ID
prove to my mind I had got the key to the solution
ofmesmerism. The agitation and alarm of thisgentle-
man, on being roused, very much astonished Mn
Braid. She expressed herself greatly l!tlrprised at his
being so mueh alarmed about nothing, as she had
watched the whole time, and never saw me near him,
or touching him in any waywhatever. I proposed that
she should be the next subject operated on, to which
she readily consented, assuring all present that she
would not be so easily. alarmed as the gentleman
referred to. I requested her to sit down, and gaze on
the ornament of a china sugar basin, placed at
the same angle to the eyes as the bottle in the for-
mer experiment. In two minutes the expression of
the face was very much changed ; at the end of two
minutes and a half the eyelids closed convulsively ;
the mouth was distorted ; she gave a deep sigh, the
bosom heaved, she fell back, and was evidently pass-
ing into an hysteric paroxysm, to prevent which I
instantly roused her. On counting the pulse I found
it had mounted up to 180 strokes a minute.
In order to prove my position still more clearly, I
called up, one of my men-servants, who knew nothing
of mesmerism, and gave him such directions as were
calculated to impress his mind with the idea, that
his fixed attention was merely for the purpose of
watclling a chemical experiment in the preparation
of some medicine, and being familiar with such he
could feel no alarm. In two minutes and a half his
eyelids closed slowly with a vibrating motion, his
chin fell on his breast, he gave a deep sigh, and in-
stantly was in a profound sleep, breathing loudly.
All the persons present burst into a fit of laughter,
o;g,, zed by Google
Iln'BBBNOBS DRAWN PROM TJIEM, 19
but still he was not interJ1!pted by us. In about one
minute after his profound sleep I roused him, and
pretended to chide him for being so carelellB, said he
ought to be ashamed of himself for not being able to
attend to my instructions for three minutes without
falling asleep, and ordered him down stairs. In a
short time I recalled this young man, and desired him
to sit down once more, but to be careful not to go to
·sleep again, as on the former occasion. He sat down
with this intention, but at the expiration of two
minutes and a half his eyelids closed, and exactly the
same phenomena as in the former experiment ensued.
I again tried the experiment by causing Mr Walker
to gaze on a different object from that used in the firlt
experiments, but still, as I anticipated, the phenomena
were the same. I also tried him dla Fontaine, with
the thumbs and eyes, and likewise by gazing on my
eyes without contact, and still the effects were the
same, as I fully ex~ted.
I now stated that I considered J;he experiments
fully proved my theory ; and expressed my entire
conviction that the phenomena of mesmerism were to
be accounted for on the principle of a derangement of
the state of the cerebro--spinal centres, and of the cir-
culatory, and respiratory, and muscular systems, in-
duced, as I have explained, by a fixed stare, absolute
repose of body, fixed attention, and suppressed respi-
ration, concomitant with that fixity ofattention. That
the whole depended on the physical and psychical
condition of the patient, arising from the causes re-
ferred to, and not at all on the volition, or passes of
the operator, throwing out a magnetic fluid, 01.: ex-
citing into activity some mystical universal fluid or
o;g,, zed by Google
20 JlE8MEil'S EXPDIJlDTII,
medium. I farther added, that having thus produced
the primMy phenomena, I bad no doubt but the
others would follow as a ·matter of course, time being
allowed for their pual and successive develop-
ment.•
• It has been asserted, for the mere purpose of proving
the contrary, that I had claimed being the first to discover
that contact was not necessary, and that a magnetic fluid was
not required to produce the phenomena of mesmerism. I
never made any such claim, but illustrated these facts by
the most simple and conclusive experiments probably which
were ever adduced for that purpoee. In one of my lectures,
I gave a history of mesmerism, including Mesmer's attempt
to mesmerize trees in Dr Franklin's garden, to prove to the
Commission of 1784, that the patients would become affected
when they went under the mesmerized trees, from the mag-
netic fluid passing from the trees to the patients. This was
proof sufficient, that even .Menner did not hold that contact
was necessary. I farther stated the fact, that the experiment
WIIB a failure, as the patient became aft'ected, not under the
mennerized, but under the vnmesmerized trees, which led
the Commission to infer, that the phenomena resulted from
imagination, and not from the influence of a magnetic fluid.
Here, then, we had two theories, neither of which considered
contact necessary. Surely no one could euppoee that J
wished to lay claim to these facts as discoveries of my own,
seeing I gan the dates when the ··occurrence took place,
which was many years before I was bom.
Moreover, I explained, at the same lecture, the different
modes of mesmerizing, by passes at a diltanu,and by pointing
the fingers at the eyes and forehead, adopted by others, long
before I made any experiments on the eubject ; and at sub-
sequent lectures, from observing the graceful attitudes some
patients &BBumed during the hypnotic state, and the ease
with which they could maintain any given position, by be-
o;g,, zed by Google
HYPNOTISM S1U'.UU.T&D J'ROK KESKBRISK, 21
For a considerable time I was of opinion that the
phenomena induced by my mode of operatine and
that of the mesmerizers, were identical ; and, so far as
I have yet personally seen, I still consider the condi-
tion of the nervous system induced by 'both modes to
be at least analogous. It appeared to me that the
fixation of the mind and eyes was attained occa--
sionally during the monotonous movements of the
mesmerizers, and thus they succeeded sometimes, and
as it were, by chance; whereas, by my insisting on the
eyes being fixed in the most favourable position, and
the mind thus rivetted to one idea, as the primary
andimp6f'Stif'6 condilionl, my success was consequently
general and the effects intense, while theirs was feeble
and uncertain. However, from what the mesmerizers
state as to effoots which they can produce in certain
cases, there seem to be differences sufficient to war-
rant the conclusiop that they ought to be considered
·as.distinct agencies ; and for the following reasons.
The mesmerizers positively assert that they can pro-
duce certain effects, which I have never been able to
produce by my mode, although I have tried t.o do so.•
coming cataleptiformly fixed io it, I hazarded the opinion,
that it may have been to hypnotism the Grecians were in-
debted for their fine statuary ; and the Fakirs for their
power of performing their remarkable feat& I also ex-
pressed my belief, that the rapt state of religious enthusiasts,
such as that of the monks of Mount Athos, arose from the
eame cause, although none of the parties might have under-
stood the true principle by which they were produced.
• The effects I allude to are 8Uch as, telling the time on a
watch held behind ·the head, or placed on the pit of the sto-
mach ; reading closed letters, or a ahut book ; perceiving
o;g,, zed by Google
22 BYPNOTISH XORB REA.DILY llfl)UCED,
Now, I do not consider it fair or proper to impugn the
statements of others in this matter, who are known to
be men of talent and observation, and of undoubted
credit in other matters, merely because I have not
perl()fl(llly witnessed the phenomena, or been able to
produce them myself, either by my own mode or
theirs. With my present means of knowledge I am
willing to admit that certain phenomena to which I
refer hafJe been induced by others, but still I think
most of them may be explained in a different and
more natural way than that ofthe mes~erizers. WhP.n
I shall have personally had evidence of the special
influence and its effects to which they Jay claim, I
shall not be backward in bearing testimony to the
fact.
However, the greatest and most important diffe-
rence is this, that they can succeed so seldom, and I
so generally, in inducing the phenomena which
we both profess thus to effect. Granting, therefore, to'
the mesmerizers the full credit of being able to pro-
duce certain wonderful phenomena which I have not
been able to produce by my plan, still it follows, that
mine is superior to theirs in as far as 9eneral appli-
cahility and practiMl utility are concerned. Mine has
also this advantage, that I am qnite certain no one
can be affected by it, in any stage of the process,
unless by the free will and consent of the patient,
which is at once sufficient to exonerate the practice
what is doing miles ofF; having the power of perceiving the
nature and cure of the diseases of others, although unedu-
cated in medical science ; mesmerising patients at miles' dis-
tance, without the knowledge or belief in the patient that any
aueh operation is intended.
o;g,, zed by Google
ll1t B , IIA.Y0°8 TESTIMONY, 23
from the imputations of being capable of being con-
verted to immoral purposes, whic}j. has been so much
insisted on to the prejudice of animal magnetism.
This bas arisen from the mesmemers asserting that
they have the power of overmastering patients irre-
sistibly, even whilst at a distance, by mere volitions
and secret passes.
I am fully borne out by the opinion of that emi-
nent physiologist, Mr Herbert Mayo, in my view of
the subject, that my plan is " the best, the shortest,
and surest for getting the sleep," and throwing the
nervous system, by artificial contrivance, into a new
condition, which may be rendered available in the
healing art. At a private conversazione, which I gave
to the profession in London on the 1st of March,
1M2, he examined and tested my patients most care-
fully, submitted himself to be operated on by me
both publicly and privately, and was so searching
and inquisitive in his investigations a8 to call forth
the animadversions of a medical gentleman present,
who thought he was not giving me fair play; but
which he has assured me proceeded from au anxious
desire to know t.he truth, not being biassed by having
any peculiar views of his own to bring forward ; and
because he considered the subject most important,
both in a speculative and practieal point of view.
Whatever I advance, therefore, in the following
remarks, I wish to be distinctly understood as strictly
in reference to my own mode of operating, and dis-
tinct from that of all others. The latter I shall
merely refer to in as far as is necessary to point out
eertain sources of fallacy by which the phenomena of
the one may be confounded with those of the other.
Digit zed b,Google
24: HYPNOTISM GENBJU.LLY INDUCED.
In proof of the general success of my mode of
operating, I need only name, that at one of my public
lectures in Manchester, fourteen male adults, in
good health; all strangers to me, stood up at once, and
ten of them became decidedly hypnotized. At Roch•
dale I conducted the experiments for a friend, and
hypnotized twenty strangers in one night. At a
private conversazione to the profession in London, on
the 1st of March, 1842, eighteen adults, most of them
entire strangers to me, sat down at once, and in ten
minutes sixteen of them were decidedly hypnotized.
Mr Herbert Mayo tested some of these patients, and
satisfied himself of the reality of the phenomena. On
another occasion I took thirty-two children into a
room, none of whom had either seen or heard of
hypnotism or mesmerism : I made them stand up at
three times, and in ten or twelve minutes had the
whole thirty-two hypnotized, maintaining their arms
extended while in the hypnotic condition, and this
at mid-day. In making this statement, I do not
mean to say they were in the ulterior stage, or state
of torpor; but that they were in the primary stage, or
that ofea:citement, from which experience has taught me
eonfidently to rely that the torpid and rigid state will
certainly follow, by merely affording time for the
phenomena to develop themselves. In the Stockport
Chronicle of 4th February, 1842, there is a report of
a lecture delivered in that town a few days before. A
dozen male patients were made to stand up at once,
and treated according to my method, six of them
became hypnotized, and two of them so deeply, as to
cause the lecturer very considerable trouble to rouse
them. With one named "Charlie," all the usual
CAUSBS OP PAILlJRJ:. 26
means, including butfetings and frictions before a fire,
did not succeed in restoring speech until he had been
made to swallow nearly half a tumbler glass of neat
gin. I consider this important 88 being the testimony
of an enetrJy. It can take place also in the dark, as well
as by dayor bygas light; when the eyes are bandaged,
as when they are uncovered, by merely keeping the
eyes fixed, the body in a state of absolute rest, and
the mind abstracted from all other considerations.
In cases of children, and those of weak intellect, or
of restless and excitable minds, whom I could not
manage so 88 to make them comply with these simple
rules, I have always been foiled, although most
anxious to succeed. This I consider a strong proof
of the correctness of my views. By arresting the
attention, and fixing the eyes, it is also successful
with brute animals.
This general success of my plan, both with man
and brute animals, I consider sufficient to prove it
proceeds from a law in the animal economy. The
exceptions to success are so few as to lead to the con-
clusion that they arise from a non-compliance with
the conditions. It is, however, unquestionable, that
there exists great difference in the ·susceptibility of
different individuals, some becoming rapidly and
intensely affected, others slowly and feebly so.
I am aware that some say they have tried my
mode, and failed to produce the phenomena. The
reason, I presume, is simply this. They will not
believe the necessity of complying with the wuoLB of
the conditions I have distinctly insisted on. But, in
all fairness, if they do not comply with the wHOLE
conditions, they have no right to expect the promised
Digit zed b,Google
26 CA.USJ!S OF F..ULURB,
results, nor to be disappointed because they fail. If
the patient and operator co~ply in all respects as I
direct, success is almost certain ; but, on the contrary,
be is almost equally certain to fail if all the conditions
are not ltrictly complied with.
When we consider the great difficulty to some per-
sons of abstracting their minds, and the greater diffi-
culty of ensuring that patients operated on in a public
room shall be able to abstract their minds entirely
from the circumstances with which they are sur-
rounded, and from other considerations concentrate
their ideas entirely on the subject in hand, and the
equallygreat difficulty ofsecuringabsolute quiet where
a large nnmber of people are assembled, and the ex-
treme quickness of hearing when patients are passing
into the hypnotic state, whieh makes them liable to
be roused by the slightest noise, it must be evident,
that a public lecture-room is by no means a favour-
able place for operating on patients for_the first time.
Prosecuting the investigation, as I have been doing,
by experiments and observations, I have, as might
be expected, had occasion to modify and alter some
of my views and manipulations ; but still the prin-
ciple remains the same.
o;g,, zed by Google
2j
CHAPTER II.
Mode or ll,ypnotl&lng- Circnlllltancea .._,.,. to be complied wldl-
Pocullar phenomena which follow; excitement flm, and afterwards
depreaalon of fucctlon- Importance of attending to thla- How these
may be made to alternate with each other- Extraordinary Influence or
a current ofair during Hypnotlim-Reasone for certain modifications of
original modee or operating- Hypnotism proceede from a law or the
animal eccmomy- Arlaee from the phyelcel and P11chlcal condition or
the patient, and not from any emanation or principle proceeding from
others- Example for proof- !ilxhlblta no appreciable electric or 111111-
netic change. -Two patients may bypnotlae each other by contact. -
Phenomena arlee 1p0ntaneouely In course of dloeaoe.- Mr Wakley's
admlalon on thl1 point.- Mr H. Mayo'e teetlmony u to the elrecta of
Hypno~- Efl'ecta or dllrerent posltlone or the eyeo.- Remarb on
artielee In Medical Guette. - coD.eiiiUal a.ijaltment or eyeo. - Elrecu
on lliae or pupU.-Power or habit and Imagination. - DociUty or pa-
tients, and exalted oenlibRity, and their efl'ecta. -Patient hypnotized
wbtilt operating on another. - Mode of reelatlng lnlluence.
I NOW proceed to detail the mode which I practise
for inducing the phenomena. 'fake any bright object
(I generally use my lancet ease) between the thumb
and fore and middle fingers of the left hand ; hold it
from about eight to fifteen inches from the eyes, at
such position above the forehead as may be necessary
to produce the greatest possible strain upon the eyes
and eyelids, and enable the patient to maintaina steady
fixed stare at the object.* The patient must be made
• At an early period ot my investigations, I caused the
patients to look at a cork bound on the forehead. This '11'1111
o;g,, zed by Google
28 DmBCTIONS FOB HYPNOTIZING,
to understand that he is to keep the eyes steadilyfixed
on the object, and the mind riveted on the idea of that
one object. It will be observed, that owing to the
consensual adjustment of the eyes, the pupils will be
at first contracted : they will shortly begin to dilate,
and after they have done so to a considerable extent,
and have assumed a wavy motion, if the fore and
middle fingers of the right hand, extended and a little
separated, are carried from the object towards the
eyes, most probably the eyelids will close involun-
tarily, with a vibratory motion. If this is not the
ease, or the patient allows the eyeballl to ~. desire
him to begin anew, giving him to understand that he
is to allow the eyelids to close when the fingers are
again carried towards the eyes, but that the eyeballl
must be kept jiud in tlu 1ame p<Jiition, and the mind
rimed to the one idea of eke object held ahotJe the eyu.
It will generally be found, that the eyelids close with
a 'Dibratory motion, or become spasmodically closed.
After ten or fifteen seconds have elapsed, by gently
elevating the arms and legs, it will be found that the
patient has a disposition to retain them in the situation
in whieh they have been placed, ifhe isint~ely affected.
a very efficient plan with thoee who had the power of con-
verging the eyes eo as to keep them both steadily directed on
the object. I very soon found, however, that there were
many who could not keep both eyes steadily fixed on 10 near
an object, and that the result was, that such patients did not
become hypnotized. To obviate this, I ~ them to look
at a more distant point, which, although IIC&l'OO!y eo rapid and
intenee in its effecta, succeeds more generally than the other,
and is therefore what I now adopl and recommend.
o;g,, zed by Google
EFFECt'S 01' HYl'NOTISX. 29
If this is not the case, in a soft tone of voice desire
him to retain the limbs in the extended position, and
thus the pulse will speedily become greatly aocele•
rated, and the limbs, in process of time, will become
quite rigid and involuntarily fixed. It will also be
found, that all the organs of special sense, excepting
sight, including heat and cold, and muscular motion,
or resistance, and certain mental faculties, are at first
prodigiously ezalted, such as happens with regard to
the primary effects of opium, wine, and spirits. Mter
a certain point, however, this exaltation of function is
followed by a state of depression, far greater than the
torpor of natural sleep.* From the state of the most
profound torpor of the organs of special sense, and
tonic rigidity of the muscles, they may, at this stage,
instal'ltls' be restored to the opJJQiite condition of ex-
treme mobility and exalted sensibility, by directing
• I wish to direct especial attention to this eireumatance,
as from overlooking the fact of the flrlt stage of this artificial
hypnotism being one of ezcitftnent, with the po118e118ion of
eonHiotuna8 and docility, many imagine they are 11ot aff'ected,
whilst the acceleration of pulse, peculiar exprelllion of coun-
tenance, and other characteristie symptoms, prove the exis-
tence of the condition beyond the poeaibility of a doubt,
to all tcAo ullderltand tM BUbjeat. I consider it very impru·
dent to carry it to the ulterior stage, or that of torpor, at a
firlt trial. Moreover, there ia great dift'erence in the sWJCep·
tibility to the neuro-hypnotic impression, some arriving at
the state of rigidity and insellllibility in a few minutes, whilst
others may readily paas into the primary stage, but can
sca.rcely be brought into the ulterior, or rigid and torpid
state. It is also most important to note, that many instancec
of remarkable and permanent cures have oecurred, where it
has never been carried beyond the state of oonsciousne&B.
o;g,, zed by Google
30 MODBS OF OPBRA.TING,
a current of air against the organ or organs we wish
to excite to action, or the muscles we wish to render
limber, and which had been in the cataleptiform state.
By mere repose the senses will speedily merge into
the original condition again. The modua operandi
of the current of air producing such extraordinary
effects, I acknowledge myself quite unable to explain,
but I have no difficulty in producing and repro-
ducing the effects by the same means, whether per-
formed by myself or others, and whether the current
of air is from the lips, from a pair of bellows, or by
the motion of the hand, or any inanimate object.
The extent and abruptness of these transitions (see
page 63) are so extraordinary, that they must be
seen before the possibility is believed.
An abrupt blow, or pressure over the rigid muscle,
will de-hypnotize a rigid part ; but, I have found
pressing the nose will not restore smell, unless very
gentle and continued, nor will pressing a handker-
chief against the ear restore bearing when the ear bas
become torpid, nor will 9mtle friction over the skin
restore sensibility to the dormant skin, or mobility to
the rigid muscles underneath, (unless so gentle as to
be titillation, properly so called,) and yet a slight puff
of wind will imtantly rouse the whole to abnormal
sensibility and mobility : a fact which has perplexed
and puzzled me exceedingly.
At first I required the patients to look at an object
until the eyelids closed of themselves, involuntarily.
I found, however, that in many cases this was fol-
lowed by pain in the globes of the eyes, and
slight inflammation of the conjunctival membrane.
In order to avoid this, I now close the eyelids,
when the impression on the pupil already referred
o;g,, zed by Google
31
to has taken place, because I find that the b6neficial
phenomena follow this method, provided the eye-
balls are kept fixed, and thus, too; the unpleasant
feelings in the globes of the eyes will be prevented.
Were the object to produce astonishment in the
person operated on, by finding himself unable to
open his eyes, the former method is the better ; as
the eyes once closed it is generally impossible for him
to open them ; whereas they may be opened for a
considerable time after being closed in the other mode
I now recommend. However, for curative purposes,
I prefer the plan which leaves no pain in the globes
of the eyes.
In fine, from a careful analysis of the whole of my
experiments, which have been very numerous, 1 have
been led to the following conclusion :-That it is a
law in the animal economy, that by a continued
fixation of the mental and visual eye, on any object
which is not of itself of an exciting nature, with abso-
lute repose of body, and general quietude, they become
wearied; and, provided the patients rather favour than
resist the feeling of stupor of which they will soon
experience the tendency to creep upon them, during
such experiments, a state of somnolency is induced,
accompanied with that condition of the brain and
,nervous system generally, which renders the patient
liable to be affected, according to the mode of mani-
pulating, 80 as to exhibit the hypnotic phenomena.
As the experiment succeeds with the blind, I con-
sider it not so much the optic, as the sentient, motor,
and sympathetic nerves, and the mind through
which the impression is made. I feel 80 thoroughly
convinced that it is a law of the animal economy
that such effects should follow such condition of
o;g,, zed by Google
32 ALLEGBD CA.USE OF PJIBNOKENA,
mind and body, that I hesitated not to give it as
my deliberate opinion, that this is a fact which can-
not be controverted. As to the modt~~ operandi we
may never be able to account for that in a manner so
as to satisfy all objections ; but neither can we tell
why the law of gravitation should act as experience
bas taught us it dou act. Still, as our ignorance of the
cause of gravitation acting as it is known to do, does
not prevent us profiting by an accumulation of the
facts known as to its results, so ought not our igno-
rance of the 'IIJM~ laws of the hypnotic state to pre-
vent our studying it practically, and applying it
beneficially, when we have the power of doing so.
I feel confident that the phenomena are induced
solely by an impression made on the nervous centres,
by the physical and psychical condition of the patient,
irrespective of any agency proceeding from, or excited
into action by another -as any one can hypnotize
himself by attending strictly to the simple rules I lay
down ; and the following is a striking example of the
fact, which was communicated to me and two other
gentlemen, by a most respectable teacher. He found
that a number of his pupils had been in the habit of
hypnotizing themselves, and he had ordered them to
discontinue the practice. However, one day he ascer-
tained a girl had hypnotized herself by looking at the
wall, and that her companions had put a pen in her
band, with which she had written the word " Man-
chester ;" and she held the pen very firmly- in fact
the fingers were cataleptiformly rigid. He spoke to
her in a gentle tone of voice, and called her. She
arose and advanced towards him, and when awoke,
was not aware he had called her, or ofwhat had passed.
I have also had the state of the patient tested
o;g,, zed by Google
NO IU.GNETIC CHANGE, 33
before, during, and after being hypnotized, to ascer-
tain if there was any alteration in the magnetic or
electric condition, but although tested by excellent
instruments, and with great care, no appreciable
difference could be detected. Patients have been
hypnotized whilst positively, and also whilst nega-
tively, electrified, without any appreciable difference
in the phenomena; so that they appear to be excited
independently of electric or magnetic change. I
have also repeatedly made two patients hypnotize
each other, at the same time, by personal contact.
How could this be reconciled with the theory of a
special influence transmitted being the cause of the
phenon1ena, plus and minus being equally efficient1
It is also well known, that oecasionally the pheno-
mena arise spontaneously in the course of disease.
It is now admitted even by the editor of the Lancet,
one of the greatest opponents of mesmerism, in the
leading article of 4th February, 1843, that the phe-
nomena "are wonderful only to those who are
unacquainted with the aspects of disease ;" and " that
we continually see patients labouring under hysteria,
and analogous forms of nervous disease, falling sud-
denly into various states of stupor, trance, and con-
vulsion, without any assignable cause." When it is
acknowledged that such effects as those named, may
spring from such slight influences as to be said to arise
"UJitlwut any MrignolJle cau~e," can it be wondered at
1hat important changes may be induced by acting on
the nervous system in the way I have adopted, of
which Mr Herbert Mayo, (whose competence to give
an opinion on any physiological subject no one will
question, and who himself publicly submitted to be
c
o;g,, zed by Google
34 HB KAYO'S OBSERVATIONS.
operated on by me,) observed, in the course of our
correspondence, that it induces "a feeling of stupor,
which any one may observe has a disposition to creep
upon him, when he tries your experiment of looking
fixedly at an object as you direct."
I thought it desirable, therefore, to adopt the name
I did, for the reasons explained in the introduction.
A patient may be hypnotized by keeping the eyes
fixed in any direction. It occurs most sb:noly and
feebly when the eyes are directed straight forward, and
most rapidly and intemely when they ean be main-
tained in the position of a double internal and
upward squint.•
* It is not a little amusing to find any one try to distort so
greatly, by garbled statements, the plain meaning of an anthor,
as to make it appear that a writer of some articles on Animal
Magnetism, in the Medical Gazette in 1833, was well ac-
quainted with my mode of operating. He observes at page
856, "On the majority of persons no influence whatever is
exhibited." How does this coincide with the general BUCCCIIB
of my mode as stated at page 24 t " On those least aft'ected
a number of anomalous slight symptoms are produced." He
then describes those "feelings of heat and cold, and those of
creeping and trembling," which, he adds," are only the usual
imaginary feelings which most persons have if their attention
be strongly directed to any particular part of the body, more
especially if (as is generally the case with magnetic patients,}
something is expected to occur." Such are the symptoms
attributed by this writer to "attention," but are these the
symptoms or phenomena induced by Hypnotism, as stated
in Chapter IV. t Or is there the slightest similarity in the
cause t In' this author's view it is the result of "attention
strongly directed to different part• of tM body," whereas mine
is by attention rivetted to something 1Citkout the body. The
o;g,, zed by Google
CONSB!I"SUAL ADJUSTMENT OF PUPILS. 35
It is now pretty generally known, that during the
effort to look at a very near object, there is produced,
according to the direction of the object, a double
internal squint, or double internal and downward or
upward squint, and the pupils are thereby powerfully
contracted. I am not aware, however, that it has
been recorded, that by directing the eyes loosely,
best mode of gathering the opinion of an author appears to
me to be that of his summing up at the conclusion of his sub-
ject. Now, at page 1037, the subject is concluded by the
following obeervations :-" This, then, is our case. Every
credible effect ofmagnetism hae occurred,and every incredible
w.aid to have occurred in cases where no magnetic influence
hae been exerted, but in all which excited imagination, irri-
tation, or some powerful mental impression, hae operated :
where the mind hae been alone acted on, magnetic effects
have been produced without magnetic manipulations : where
magnetic manipulations have been employed, unknown, and
therefore without the assistance of the mind, no reeult hae
ever been produced." Now, can any thing more be required
than this, to prove that this writer, ae well as Bertrand,
adheres to the theory of imagination t Such wae the impree-.
sion left on my mind by reading these papers when they were
published; and, together with Wakley's experiments, deter-
mined me to collllider the whole as a system of collusion or
illusion, or of excited imagination, aympathy, or imitation. I
therefore abandoned the subject ae unworthy of farther investi-
gation, until I attended the conversazioni of Lafontaine, where
I eaw one fact, the inability of a patient to open his eyelids,
which arrested my attention ; I felt convinced it was not to
be attributed to any of the causes referred to, and I therefore
instituted experiments to determine the question ; and exhi-
bited the results to the public in a few days after.
o;g,, zed by Google
36 EFFECTS OF IMAGINATION
upwards or downwards, to the right or to the left, as
if looking at a very distant object, the pupils become
very much dilated, irrespective of the quantity of
light passing to the retina ; so that in this manner we
can contract or dilate the pupil at will. To those who
consider the movement of the iris as the mere effect of
irritability, I may observe, in that view, the former
position increases, the latter diminishes, the irrita-
bility. I may farther remark, if the eyes are muck
atrained in ANY direction, I think the pupils will be
found to contract as a consequence.
It is important to remark, that the oftener patients
are hypnotized, from association of ideas and habit, the
more susceptible they become; and in this way they
are liable to be affected entirely tArYYU!Jh the ima!Jination.
Thus, if they coBsider or imagine there is something
doing, although they do not see it, from which they
are to be affected, they 'Will becOtM affected; but, on the
contrary, the most expert hypnotist in the world may
exert all his endeavours in vain, if the party does not
expect it, and mentally and bodily comply, and thus
yield to it.
,It is this very circumstance, cioupled with the
extreme docility and mobility of the patients, and
extended rauge and extreme quickness of action, at a
certain stage, of the ordinary functions of the organs
of sense, including heat and cold, and muscular
motion, the tendency of the patients in this state to
approach to, or recede from, impressions, according as
their intensity or quality is agreeable or the contrary,
which I consider has misled so many, and induced the
animal magnetizers to imagine they could produce
o;g,, zed by Google
AND HABIT.
their effects on patients a.t a. distance, through mere
volition and secret passes.•
* In the Medical Times of 26th Mareh, 1842, I published
a letter on this· subject, from which I make the following
extracts:-
" The supposed power of seeing with other parts of the body
than the eyes, I consider is a misnomer, so far as I have yet
personally witnessed. It is quite certain, however, that some
patients can tell the shape of what is held at an inch and a
half from the skin, on the back of the neck, crown of the
head, arm, or hand, or other parts of the body, but it.is from
feeling they <lo so ; the extremely exalted sensibility of the.
skin enabling them to diacem the shape of the object so
presented, from ita tendency to emit or absorb caloric. This,
however, is not •ig/l.t, butfeeli~~g.
" In like manner I have satisfied myself and others, that
patients are drawn, or induced to obey the motions of the
operator, not from any peculiar illherent magnetic power in
him, but from their exalted state of feeling enabling them ~
discern the currents of air, which they advance to, or retire
from, according to their direction. This I clearly proved to
be the case to-day, and that a patient could feel and obey the
motion of a glass funnel passed through the air at a distance
ofjiftten feet.
'fo remove all sources of fallacy as to the extent of influ-
ence exercised by the patient herself, independently of any
personal or mental influence on my part, whilst I was other·
wise engaged, my daughter requested the patient to go into a
room by herself, and, when alone, try whether she could
hypnotize herself. In a short time I was told ilia patient waa
found fast asleep in my drawiJJg-room. 1 went to her, han·
daged her eyes, and then, with the glliSII funnel, (which I
used to avoid the ehance of electric or magnetic influen~
being passed from my person to that of the patient,) elevated1
or drew up her arms, and then her whole body. I now
o;g,, zed by Google
STATE OF THE SENSEI,
It wonld be difficult to adduce a more striking
example than the following of the fact, that the phe-
nomena are produced by the fixation of the mind and
eyes, and general repose of the patient,, and not from
retired fifteen feet from her, and found every time I drew the
funnel tou:ard1 me, she approached nearer, but when it was
forced sharply from me, she invariably retired ; and if it was
moved laterally, she moved to the right or left accordingly.
I now continued drawing the funnel so as to keep up the cur-
rents towards the door, and in this way, her arms being
extended, and eyes bandaged, she followed me down stairs
and up again, a flight of twenty-two steps, with the peculiar
characteristic caution of the somnambulist. Mter arriving
at the top of the stair, I allowed her to stand a little, and
again began the drawing motion. She evidently felt the
motion, and attempted to come, but could not. I now
endeavoured to lead her by the hand, but found that the ltgr
had beeotM cataleptiform, 10 that IAe eotdd not mou. I now
carried her into the drawing·room, and, after she was seated on
a chair, awoke her. She was quite unconscions of what had
happened, and could not be made to believe she had been
down stairs- said she was quite sure she could have done no
euch thing without falling- and to thi8 moment believes we
were only hoaxing her by saying she had had such a ramble.
• I had repeatedly performed this experiment with this
patient and others before, with the same resalt in all respects
but walking up and down stairs ; and proTed their readineBB
to be drawn by others equally as myself when in that state ;
so that I consider it quite evident to any unprejudiced person,
that a patient can hypnotize himself independently of any
personal influence of another ; and that it is by extreme sen-
sibility of the skin, and docility of the patients, that they are
drawn after an operator, rather than by magnetic attraction;
and that the power of discriminating objects held near the
AND DOCILITY OP PATIENTS, 39
imagination, or the look or will of another. After
my lecture at the Hanover Square Rooms, London, on
the 1st of March, 1842, a gentleman told Mr Walker,
who was along with me, that he was most anxious to
skin in different parts of the body, is the result offeeling, and
fiOt ofright.
"The moment I witnessed the attempts of a celebrated pro-
fessor to dratD a patient, I formed my opinion of the came ; -
that it arose from currents of air produced by his hand, to-
gether with the extreme sensibility of the skin, and docility of
the patients when in that state ; and my experiments have
clearly proved this, IOfM patient. acknotDledging thefact.
"It may be interesting to remark, that whilst passing up
and down stairs the door bell rang, which produced such a
tremor through the whole frame as nearly caused the patient's
fall- a fact quite in accordance with the effect of any abrupt
noise on NAruRAL BOmnambulilta."
It is owing to this extreme sensibility o( the skin during
hypnotism, that patients may walk througha room blindfolded,
without running against the furniture- the difference of
temperature, or rather degree of oonducting power of objects,
and the resistance of the air directing them.
I have frectuently illustrated this with verr sensitive
patients in the most beautiful and satisfactory manuer, thus :
By dlrowing any fragrant and agreeable soenton a bare table
the patients will approach, anxious to smell it, but are re·
pelled before they come quite close to the cold table. Place a
handkerchief on the table, on which place the scent, and now
the patient will approaeh elose to it, and revel in itafragrance,
Remove the handkerchief, and the attractive and repulsive
moovementa will again ensue.
This was beautifully illustrated at a private conversazione
at my house lately, in the presence of several medical and
~her eminently scientific gentlemen. Two patients were
40 OPERATOR HYPNOTIZED.
see me, that I might try whether I could hypnotize
him. He said both himself and friends were anxious
.he should be affected, but that neither Lafontaine nor
.others who had tried him, could succeed. Mr Waiker
said, if that is what you want, as Mr Braid is engaged
otherwise, sit down, and I will hypnotize you myself
in a minute. When I went into the room I observed
what was going on, the gentleman sitting staring at
Mr Walker's finger, who was standing a little to the
right of the patient, with his eyes fixed steadily on
those of the latter. I passed on, and attended to some·
thing else, and when I returned a little after, found
hypnotized, when one became so enamoured of the scent of a
gentleman's snuff-box as to follow him round the room. He
then laid the box about eighteen inches from the edge of an
uncovered table, when she advanced, her arms being
extended, anxious to reach the box, but when about ten or
twelve inches from it, she started back, from perceiving the
impression of the cold table at that distance. She now made
another attempt to approach the box, being attracted by the
fragrance of its contents, but was as speedily repelled by the
cold table before she approached it, and now kept bobbing
over the box, much in the same manner as I have witnessed
in the attempts of a hungry dog to partake of very hot food.
The other patient, in passing round the table, also caught the
smell of the box, and advanced from another point, and thqs
both kept bobbing over it, much to the amnsement of all pre-
sent. I now covered the table with a handkerchief, and
placed the box on it, when they instantly approached close to
it, and seemed to feast on its fragrance; on removing the
handkerchief they withdrew, and commenced bobbing over it
as at first. The former patient had never seen l!llch experi-
ments, or been tested in this way before.
o;g,, zed by Google
MODE OP PREVENTING RYPNOTISJ(. 41
Mr Walker ~ding in the same position fan aslup,
hu arm and finger in a Btate of cataleptiform rigidity,
and the patient wide awake, and staring at the finger
all the while. After I had roused Mr Walker, the
gentleman observed, " this is really very strange, that
no one can mesmerise tM; I must have extraordinary
powers of resistance." I requested him to stay a
little, and I would try what I could do for him when
all was quiet. In tlnee minutes I had him asleep,
and in a little more quite rigid. The following rea-
sons may be assigned for my success after Mr Walker
had so signally failed. He tried it whilst there were
several people in the room, who were moving about
and talking ; I took care not to commence till all was
quiet-Mr Walker liad not taken the precaution to
make the patient direct his eyes in the best possible
manner, but I was careful that he should do so. More-
over, although Mr Walker had not succeeded in putting
him into the somnolent condition, he had, no doubt,
partially affected him, and the influence had not en-
tirely passed off when I began my operation. Two
days after, Mr Walker accompanied me when I called
on one of the most celebrated mesmerizers in Europe,
who, during onr conversation, stated, that a glance of
the eye was quite enough, in many cases, to produce
the effects. During our conversation, I presume, he
had determined to surprise both Mr Walker and my-
self, by keeping his large intellectual eyes fixed on Mr
Walker. The latter, however, suspecting what was
intended, and knowing my opinion as to the mode
of reristing the influence of IUCh fascination, kept his
eyes moving, and his mind roaming, and thus frus-
trated the volition of one of the most energetic minds,
o;g,, zed by Google
42 PATIENT BYPNOTIS'£8 BIKSELP• .
and the glances and fascination of one of the finest
pair of eyes imaginable for such a purpose. I must
remark, that Mr Walker was once magnetized by M.
Lafontaine, after having been several times operated
on by me, a circumstance which of course would ren-
der him more susceptible to the influence of the ani-
mal magnetizers' modes ofoperating, according to their
own theory. Had Mr Walker believed in the power,
I know he would have become affected, even suppos-
ing the gentleman referred to had no such inten-
tion,- and I am not prepared to say he had. Mr
Walker, however, firmly believed he was trying to
mesmerize him by the fascination referred to ; but,
relying on my opinion, and acting accordingly, he
escaped. In order to shew the efficacy of my simple
plan, in a short time after, in the presence of the
same gentleman, I requested Mr Walker to hypnotize
himself. By simply fixing his eyes and mind this
was accomplished in about a minute.
CHAPTER III.
Phenomena or natural lleep, dream!Dg, and eomoambulllm contruteci-
Cauaa or common lleep - or clnamlng- Etreeta or variety and mono·
tony compared- Changes alleged to lake plaee In the atrorture or tbe
brain by exertion -Cause or Hypnotllm, M'NIIh't article on" Reverie'
compared with Mr Braid's theory or Bypnotllm- Mode or arouliDg
patienta from the atate or Bypnotiem.
I CONSIDER it unnecessary, in this treatise, to enter
into a detailed account of the ordinary phenomena of
sleep, dreaming, and sonnambulism, ascontrasted with
the waking state. Suffice it to say, the waking con-
dition is that of mental and bodily activity, during
which we are enabled to hold communion with the
extemal world, by perceiving the ordinary impres-
sions of appropriate stimuli through the organs of
special sense, and of exercising the power of voluntary
motion, ancl the mental functions generally. The
state ofprofoond sleep is exact!y the r~s~ of this-
a state of absolute unconsciousness of all that is going
on around, and suspension of voluntary motion, and
intellectual activity. In as far as regards the organs
of special sense, and voluntary motion, and a tempo-
rary suspension of the mental energies, it is the em-
blem of death.
Between these extreme points there are gradual
o;g,, zed by Google
44 SLEEP, DBEAllliNG,
transitions, so that there are all possible 'Varieties of
eondition imaginable, from the highest state of mental
and bodily activity, to absolute torpor of both. There
are two conditions, however, to which I may briefly
advert,-that ofdreaming and ofsomnambulism. In
the former there are some of the mental and bodily
functions in a state of partial activity, but, from the
sensations arising from external stimuli being per-
ceived very imperfectly, erroneous impressions are
conveyed to the mind ; and, as happens in some cases
of insanity, the power of controlling the current of
thought being absent, one idea excites another, until
the most iDcongruous combinations are produced in
many instances. Somnambulism, properly so called,
is a state still more nearly allied to the waking con-
dition than dreaming. The mental functions are
more awake, a more just estimate of external im-
pressions can be formed, and there is the power
of voluntary motion present in a remarkable degree.
Persons in this state are thus capable of being
directed by those around, into certain trains of
thought and action. The principal difference be-
tween the natural somnambulists, and those who
become so through hypnotizing in the manner pointed
out in this treatise, is the greater tendency of the latter
to lapse into a state ofprofound sleep, unless prevented
by being roused and directed by those present. Natu-
. raJ somnambulists seem to be impelled to certain trains
of action by internal impulses ; but, so far as I have
seen, the artificial somnambulists have an inclination
to remain at absolute rest, unless excited to action by
some impression from without. In compliance with
:;;uch excitement, however, they evince great acuteness
o;g,, zed by Google
AND SOHNAIIBULISII,
and docility. There is also another remarkable differ-
ence. It is stated, that although natural somnam•
bulists cannot remember, when awake, what they
were engaged in when asleep, they have a vivid re-
collection of it when in that state again; but I have
found no parallel to ehil in the somnambulism induced
by hypnotism.
By this I mean that they cannot explain what
happened during the former somnambulic state, but
they may approximate to the words and actions
which had formerly manifested themselves, provided
they are placed under exactly similar circumstances.
For the extent to which peculiar manifestations may
be brought out by manipulating the head and face, at
a certain stage of hypnotism, see Chapter VI. where
examples are given of memory as regarded events
which happened during the walcin!J condition, whilst
they·seemed to have no recollection of what happened
during a former state of hypnotism.
As to the causes of common sleep, I may remark,
that, by the exercise of the mental operations, and
the impressions conveyed through theorgans ofspecial
sense, muscular effort, and tho discharge of other ani-
mal functions, the brain becomes exhausted, and
ceases to be affected by ordinary stimuli, and lapses
into that. dormant state we call sleep. D11ring this
condition it becomes recruited, and fitted for again
receiving its wonted impressions through the organs
of sense, and of holding intercourse with external
nature, and exercising those powers of voluntary
motion and mental function peculiar to the waking
condition.
o;g,, zed by Google
46 CAUSES OF SLBEP,
It will be generally admitted, that the most refresh-
ing, and therefore the mOlt natural sleep, accompanies
that condition or languor which follows the ~
exercise or fatigue of all the bodily and ment.al func-
tions, rather than an undue exercise of OM or more to
the neglect of the others. It is long since it was ob-
served that inordinate attention to one subject caused
dreaming, instead of aound al.eep. It will also be found
that the absolute length of time during which any
function may be exercised, depends very much on the
continuity of its exertion, or its alternation with that
of other functions ; thus the mind may become con-
fused and bewildered by continuing one particular
study for a length of time, but may be able to return
to it with energy and advantage, and prosecute the
subject longer on the whole, by varying it with study
of a diffurent nature; moreover, bodily disease, and
even insanity, frequently arises from allowing the
mind to be occupied inordinately by one particular
object or pursuit, whether that may be religion
politics, avarice, schemes of ambition, or any other
passion, emotion, or object of unvaried contempla-
tion.
In like manner, continued and over-intense mus-
cular effort very soon exhausts the power of the
muscles so exercised or over-exerted ; and by keeping
the eyes steadily and constantly exercised by gazing
on a coloured spot, they soon cease to be able to dis-
cern the boundaries of the respective colours,* and
ultimately seem scarcely to be capable of distinguish-
• MUller.
o;g,, zed by Google
CAUSES OF SLEEP. 47
ing the spot at all. The same might be proved of the
other senses. In fine, alternate action and repo~e i8 tile
law ofanimated nature.*
* This subject is beautifully illustrated by MUller, at page
1410, Vol. II. (Daly's translation,) which I now quote. "The
excitement of the organic processes in the brain which attends
an active state of the mind, gradually renders that organ in·
capable of maintaining the mental action, and thus induces
sleep, which is to the brain what bodily fatigue is to other
parts of the nervous system. The cessation or remission of
mental activity during sleep, in its turn, however, afFords an
opportunity for the restoration of integrity to the organic
conditions of the cerebrum, by which they regain their excit-
ability. The brain, whose action is essential to the manifes-
tation of mind, obeys, in fact, the general law which prevails
over all organic phenomena,-that the phenomena of life
being particular states induced in the organic structures, are
attended with changes in the constituent matter of these
structures. Hence, the longer the action of the mind is con-
tinued, the more incapable does the brain become of support-
ing that action, and the more imperfectly are the mental
processes performed, nntil at length sensations cease to be
perceived, notwithstanding the impressions of externsl stimuli
continue. This is entirely analogous to what frequently
occurs during the waking state, in the ease of individual sen-
sations."
I must beg leave to take one exception to the correctness
of these remarks, and that is, moderate exercise, I consider,
instead of e:chat~~ting, seems rather to act a1 a 1alutary
rtilntdtt~, and thus nrengt}lem both organ and function. He
then goes en to state, most lucidly and fairly," Nor merely
the action of the mind, but the long continued exertion of
other functions of animal life, such as the senses or muscular
aetioDB, induces the same exhaustion of the organic states of
o;g,, zed by Google
48 C.lUSE OF BYPNOTIBll.
It is on this very principle, of over-exerting the
attention, by iuping it riTJeted to one subject or idea
the brain, and thereby want of sleep and sleep itself ; for
these different systeJDB of the body participate in the change
which the organic condition of any one of them may undergo.
Lastly, impairment of the normal organic state of the brain,
by the circulation through it of blood charged with imperf'ectly
118Bimilated nutriment, as after full meals in which spirituous
drinks have been taken, also induces sleep. The narcotic
medicaments act still more strongly by the change they pro-
duee in the organic composition of the sensorium. Even the
increased pres&uee of the blood upon the brain, produced by
the horizontal postuee, may become the cause of sleep."
Here then is the opinion of this author in a few words.
The exercise of function is attended with a change, deteriora-
tion, or wasting of the organic structure at a more rapid rate
than can be repaired by the slow, but regular and pel'Bistent
organic renovation continually going on in the whole sys-
tem. A ceBB&tion of sentient, and mental, and musculaP func-
tions, therefore, as happens iu sleep, becomes necessa.ry to
alford time for the renovation of the deteriorated organic
structures of the respective organs, and of the brain in par-
ticular, which, in so eminent a degree, sympathizes and par-
ticipates in the organic changes which have been induced in
other organs.
Liebig's views seem confirmatory of this, where he points
out the fact, that the chemical principles of thoee substances
which act most energetically on the brain and nerves have
a composition analagous to that of the substance of the brain
and nerves, as in the case of the vegetable alkaloids. He
believes that all the active principles which produce power-
fully poisonous or medicinal effects, in minute doses, are com-
pounds of nitrogen ; and that those compounds, being resolved
into their elements, take a share in the formation, or transfor-
mation, of brain and nervous matter.
HTPNO'NSII AND REVERIE. 49
wkich is tJot of itself of an euiting nature, and, over-
exercising one set of muscles, and the state of the
strained eyes, with the suppressed respiration, and
general repose, which attend such experiments, which
excites in the brain and whole nervous system that
pee11liar state which I call Hypnotism, or nervous
sleep. The most striking proofs that it is different
from common sleep, are the extraordinary effects
produced by it. In deep abstraction of mind, it is
well known, the individual becomes unconscious of
surrounding objects, and in some cases, even of severe
bodily inflictions. During hypnotism, or nervous
sleep, the functions in action seem to be so intensely
active, as must in a great measure rob the others
of that degree of nervous energy necessary for excit-
ing their sensibility. This alone may account for
much of the dulness of common feeling during the
abnormal quickness and extended range of action of
certain other functions.*
• It was certainly presuming very much on the ignorance
of others for sny one to attempt so to pervert the meaning
of an author, aa to twist what M'Niah baa written on the
article "Reverie," and represent it aa the haais of my theory.
How does M'Niah define it t " Reverie," he says," proceeds
from an unusual quiescence of the brain, and inability of the
mind to direet itself strongly to any one point ; it is often the
prelude of sleep. There is a thfect in the attention, which,
instead of being fixed on one subject,tDanthr• 01l61' a thou•arul,
and even on these is feebly and ineft'eetively direeted." Now
this, aa every one must own, is the very ref!tf'le of what is in-
duced by my plan, because I riut the attention to one i<ka,
and the eyes to one point, aa the primary and imperati-re con-
dition~. Then, as to another passage, " That kind of reverie
in which the_mind is nearly divested of all ideas,:and approxi-
D
60 MODE OF AROUSING PATIENTS,
The untoward result referred to in the note
below, I have no doubt, was the effect of permit·
ting the experiment to be carried too far. No such
consequence has ever followed in any of my opera.
tions, and for this reason, that I have always
watched each case with close attention, and aroused
mates nearly to the state of sleep, I have sometimes expe·
rienced while gazing long and intently upon a river. The
thoughts seem to glide away, one by one, upon the surfaee of
the stream, till the mind is emptied of them altogether. In
this state we see the glassy volume of the water moving past
us, and hear its murmur, but lose all power of fixing our
attention definitively upon any subject ; and either fall asleep,
or are arouaed by some spontaneous reaction of the mind, or
by some appeal to the senses sufficiently strong to startle us
from our reverie." Now, I should have read this passage a
thousand times without discovering any analogy between it
and my .theoretical views. They appear to me to be " wide
ns the poles asunder." Instead of ridding the mind of ideas
"one by one, till the mind is emptied of them altogether," I
endeavour to rid the mind at once of all ideas but om, and to
fix that one in the mind eun after p1Uii11f1 into the A
yp'Mtie
ltate. This is very different from what happens in the reverie
referred to, in which M'Nish confesses the difficulty "of fix·
ing our attention definitively upon any subject." Again, so
far from a reaction of the mind being sufficient w rouse
patients from the hypnotic state, as in the reverie referred to,
I can only state, that Thave never seen patients deeply aft'ec.
ted come out of it without assistance; and I heard Lafontaine
say, he had been unable to restore the Frenchman who waa
with him for twelve hours on one occasion, when a sur-
·geon operated on him ; and I have read the report of an·
other, who operated on a patient at Stockport, " Charlie,"
according to my method, and, from having allowed him to go
"too fat·, experienced no small difficulty in rousing him, nor
o;g,, zed by Google
AND PREVENTING DA..'I:GER. 61
the patient the moment I saw the slightest SYJ)lptom
of danger. I shall, therefore, now point out the
symptoms of danger, with the mode of arousing
patients, and thus preventing mischief which might
ensue from want of due caution in the operator.
could he be restored to speech after much manipulation, and
buffetting, and friction, till he had swallowed nearly Aalf a
tvmbltr glau of neat gin. To prevent misrepresentation, I
shall quote the case as reported in the Stockport Chronicle of
4th Felmlary, 1842.-" To the final instance the lecturer
now drew particular aUention. It was that of a young man,
reeognized by many in the room by the familiar name of
' Charlie.' He was just entering upon the state of somno-
lence, and the attention of the audience was directed to the
fact, that it was so indicated, by the different members be-
coming rigid. Presently his eyelids closed, and he became
as though apparently under the influence of catalepsy. It
was tried to make him sit down, but his whole frame was
perfectly rigid, and that object could not therefore be accom-
plished. He was then laid on the floor, and the usual means,
with cold water added, were employed in order to bring him
to a state of conscioosness. After a time these partially suc-
ceeded, his limbs became once more supple, and he was set
in a chair, apparently conscious, though his eyelids were not
yet open. He was several times requested to open them,
and as often made the most vigorous efforts to do so, but was
uusble ; at last they were opened, and it was discovered that
the operation had so far influenced the entire functions of his
body, that he had for a time lost the power of utterance, the
muscles of the throat -and tongue still remaining in a state of
the most perfect rigidity. In this state, and being affected by
a tremor which seized every part of his person, the patient
'1\'&8 conducted into an ante-room, and placed before a fire,
while the operator continued to rub the parts, in order to
excite them to renewed action, and to restore animatiOD. All
o;g,, zed by Google
li2 MODB OF AROUSING PA.TIBN'i's,
Whenever I observe the .breathing very much
oppressed, the face greatly flushed, the rigidity exces-
sive, or the action of the heart very quick and tumul-
tuous, I instantly arouse the patient, which I have
always readily and speedily succeeded in doing by a
clap of the hands, an abrupt shock on the arm or leg
by striking them sharply with the fiat hand, pressure
and friction over the eye-lids, and by a current of air
wafted against the face. I have never failed by these
means to restore my patients very speedily.
I feel convinced hypnotism is not only a valuable,
but also a perfectly safe remedy for many complaints,
if judiciously used ; still it ought not to be trifled
with by ignorant persons for the mere sake of grati-
fying idle curiosity. In all cases of apoplectic ten-
this, however, had not the desired effect for some time, during
which the patient evinced feelings of considerable surprise at
his condition; but nevertheless was exceedingly lively, and
made several efforts to speak, but conld not. At last half a
tumbler gl&SS of neat gin was brought, the greater portion of
which he drank off, and this partially restored the power of
utterance, for he was afterwards able to articulate a little,
and asked, though only in a whisper, for his bat; and also
requested that some wa.ter might be mixed with the remain-
ing portion of the gin. He complained also of a sense of
excessive fulness of the stomach ; and said, in answer to in-
quiries, that although not feeling cold, he was yet unable to
resist the tremor which had seized him."
Was not this a beantiful illustration of the facility with
which patients might be roused from this condition " by a re-
action of the mind?" Nor was this the only C&SS that even-
U!g, in which great difficnlty had been experienced in rousing
patients from the hypnotic state.
CA.UTION IN SOMR CASES REQUISITE. li3
dency, or where there is aneurism, or serious organ,ie
disease of the heart, it ought not to be resorted to,
excepting with the precaution, that it may be in the
mode calculated to deprea1 the force and frequency of
the heart's action.
o;g,, zed by Google
CHAPTER IV.
Phenomena or common sleep- or Bypnotl.om- Power of tocomOCion and
accurate balancing of themselns- Tendeney to dance on hearing
appropriate music- Graee displayed under Its Influence- TendenC)' to
become t'Bteleptiformly flxed in any position If left quiet- Probability
of Hypnotism having been praetiled amongst tbe ancients, and the cause
of their superior excellence in aculpture, palnllng, and dancing-Etrecla
analogous to Nitrous Oxide in some -In what It dlll'era from this and
lntoxicstion from wine and spirits- Analogous to eonlnm-Etreets of
monotonous lmpre8L!Iona on any of tbe aenaea-Opinions of Cullen,
1\I'Nish, Willieh- (Counllng and repeating generally known)- A
writer In Medieal Gaxette- Power of bablt and expectation- All the
phenomena eonaeeutive-Note Illustrating tbia-Power of Hypnotism
to cure Intractable diseaaes and diaordera- Mill Collins cue and Miss
E. Atklnson'a-Extent to wbleh It may be txpecled to be useful.
IN passing into common sleep objects are perceived
more and more .faintly, the eyelids close, and remain
quiescent, and all the other organs of special sense
become gradually blunted, and cease to convey their
usual impressions to the brain, the limbs become
flaccid from cessation of muscular tone and action,
the pulse and respiration become slower, the pupils
nre turned upwards and inwards, and are contracted.
(Miiller.)
In the hypnotic state, induced with the view of
exhibiting what I call the hypnotic phenomena,
vision becomes more and more imperfect, the eyelids
o;g,, zed by Google
BPl'~crs OF HYPNOTISM;
nre closed, but have, for a considerable time a 'Dibratory
moewn, (in some few they are forcibly closed, as by
spasm of the orbiculares;) the organs of special sense,
particularly of smell, touch, and hearing, heat and
cold, and resistance, are greatly ezalted, and afterwards
become blunted, in a degree far beyond the torpor of
natural sleep ; the pupils are turned upwards and
inwards, but, contrary to what happens in natural
sleep, they are greatly dilated, and highly insensible
to light ; after a length of time the pupils become
contracted, whilst the eyes are still insensible to light.
The pulse and respiration are, at first, slower than
is natural, but immediately on calling muscles into
action, a tendency to cataleptiform rigidity is assumed,
with rapid pulse, and oppressed and quick breathing.
The limbs are thus maintained in n state of tonic
rigidity for any length of time I have yet thought it
prudent to try, instead of that state of flaccidity in-
duced by common sleep ; and the most remarkable
circumstance is this, that there seems to be no cor-
responding state of muscular exhaustion from such
action.•
• The average of a great number of experiments gives me
the following results : The rise in the pulse from mere mus-
cular effort, to enable patients to keep their legs and arms
extended for five minutes, is about 20 per cent. When in
the state of hypnotism it is upwards of 100 per cent. By
arousing all the seDBes, and the head and neck, it will speeclily
fall to 40 per cent, (that is, twice what it was when so tested
in the natural condition,) and by rendering the whole muscles
limber, whilst tbe patient is in the etate of hypnotism the
pulse very speedily falls to, or even below, the conclition it was
before the experiment.
o;g,, zed by Google
56 EFFECTS OF HYPNOTISll,
In passing into natural sleep, any thing held in
the hand is soon allowed to drop from our grasp, but,
in the artificial sleep now referred to, it ·will be
held more firmly than before falling asleep. This is
a 'UrJI remarkable difference.
The power of balancing themselves is 110 great that
I have never seen one of these hypnotic I!Omnambu-
lists fall. The same is noted of natural somnambu-
list!\. This is a remarkable fact, and would appear to
occur in this way, that they acquire the centre of
gravity, as if by instinct, In the t1W8t natural, and
therefore, in tke melt graceful manner, and if allowed
to remain in this position, they speedily become
cataleptiformly and immoveably fixed. From ob-
serving these two facts, and the general tendency and
taste for dancing displayed by most patients on hear-
ing lively music during hypnotism, the peculiarly
graceful and appropriate movement of many when
thus exciter!, and the varied and elegant postures they
may be made to assume by slight currents of air, and
the faculty of retaining any position with so much ease,
I have hazarded the opinion, that the Greeks may
have been indebtecl to hypnotism for the perfection
of their sculpt'lre, and the Fakirs for their wonder-
ful feats of suspending their bodies by a leg or an
arm.*
* It has been suggested to me, that Wean sea.rcely be
doubted that the Bacchanalians, who had no feeling of wounds,
(" non sentit vulnera Mcenas,"- Chid,) and whose condition
was a stupor different from common sleep, (" Exsomnis stupet
<Evias,"-Horau,) were in the hypnotic condition or nervous
sleep, and thel'ein excited to dance by music ; and tha~ as
maid-servants,when under the fuU influence of$ha
o;g,, zed by Google
Dll'PII&EICT PROM NATURAL SLEEP, 67
It th1;1s clearly appears that it differs from common
sleep in many respects, that there is first a state of
excitement as with opium, and wine, and spirits, and
afterwards a state of corresponding deep depression
or torpor.
In the ca.qe of two patients,symptoms very much the
sameasthoseproducedinthembythelaughing gas,were
produced twice on each patient, and the only time I
know of their having been hypnotized. One lost the
power of speech for two hours, as happened also after
the gas. Both these patients had hypnotized them-
selves. There is a remarkable difference between the
hypnotic condition, and that induced by the nitrous
oxide. In the latter there isgreat, almost irresistible in·
clination to getJeral muscular effort, as well ns laughter..;
in the former there seems to be no inclination to any
bodily effort, unless excited by impressions from with,.
out. When the latter are used, there is a remarkable
difference again in the power of locomotion and aceu·
state of nene, move with the grace and peculiar action of
the moei accomplished dancers of pantomimic ballet, there is
reason to believe, not merely that the perfect grace exhibited
in the attitudes represented in ancient sculpture and painting,
was derived from studying the Bacehanalian and other mystic
dancers, but that the movements used by stage-dancers; tn
our days, have been transmitted to us by continued imitation,
through Italy, from the dancers in the Greek mysteries. No
person can see girls of humble education, under the influence
of music while in the nenous sleep, without perceiving, that
those individuals, if awake, could not move with the elegance
they exhibit under that inftuence. The reason of such grace
probably is, that it ariBCB from the simple and pure eft'ects of
nature to balance the body perfectly in all its complicated
movements while the power of sight is BUBpended.
o;g,, zed by Google
58 l!IIODES OF l!IIESHERIZING,
rate balancing of themselves, when contrasted with
the condition of intoxication from wine or spirits,
where the limbs become partially paralyzed, whilst
the judgment remains pretty clear and ncute. The
state of muscular quiescence, with acute hearing, and
dreamy, glowing imagination, approximates it some-
what to the condition induced by conium.
During the course of last spring some lectures were
delivered in this town to prove that the mumeric
phenomena might be induced by an " undue continu-
ance or repetition of the same sensible impl'('Ssion"
on may of the senses. Immediately after the first
lecture I instituted experiments according to this
plan, but very soon ascertained, that the sleep induced
by this mode of operating, unle.ta throogh the eye, was
nothing more than NATURAL or common sleep, u:cept-
ing in patients who hail hail the impreaaibility stamped
on them, by MIM"ff been pretJioualy mesmerized or hypno-
tized. The lecturer concluded his course by stating
his opinion, that be knew no sleep.but natural or
common sleep ; and by representing that he considered
the effects produced by the different modes to be the
same.* I believe most, if not all the patients this
* This being his belief, there could be no novelty in his
views. The following was the language of Cullen, long before
he was bom, " If the mind is attached to a single sensation, it
Is brought very nearly to the state of the total absence of
impressions; or, in other words, to the state most closely
bordering upon sleep ; remove those stimuli which keep it
employed, and sleep ensues at any time."
. M'Niah also writes, " Attention to a single senaation has
the same effect, (of inducing slumber.) This has been
exemplified in the ease of all kinds of monotony, where there
o;g,, zed by Google
AND INDUCING NATUJUJ. SI.EJi'P, 69
gentlemanexhibited Rt his lectures had been previously
mesmerized or hypnotized, which, if I am correct in
this supposition, from the circumstances already
is a wut of variety to stimulate the ideas, and keep them on
the alert."
And again M'Nish writes, " I have often coaxed myself to
sleep by internally repeating half a dozen times any well-
known rhyme. Whilst doing so the ideas must be strictly
directed to this particular theme, and prevented from \\"&n-
dering." He then adds, that the great secret is to compel the
mind to depart from ita favourite train of thought, into which
it has a tendency to run, "and address itself solely to the
'Nf'bal repetition of what is substituted in ita place ;" and
farther adds, " the more the mind is brought to turn upon a
ringle imprtuion, the more closely it is made to approach to
the state of sleep, which is the total absence of all impres·
sions." Willich also, some forty years ago, wrote thus,
"Sleep is promoted by tranquillity of mind, * * 11 by ge•tly
and uniformly affecting one of the 1tn1e1; for instance, by
music or reading; and lastly, a gentle external motion of the
whole body, as by rocking or sailing." Counting a.nd repeat-
ing a few words have been also long and generally known and
resorted to for the purpose of procuring sleep.
Let any one read attentively the following extract from the
Medical Gazette of February 24, 1838, on the power of weak
monotonous impressions on the senses having the power of
inducing sleep, and many phenomena usually attributed to
mesmerism, and say what merit could be due to a person
acquainted with the article referred to, for reeording a note to
the l(lflle effect• 107M m or eight month• thereafter, and that
without having instituted a single experiment to prove the
correctness of the hypothesis t " For the other slight symp•
toms" (others enumerated having been attributed to imagina-
tion or emotion of mind) "of vapours, drowsiness, and at last
o;g,, zed by Google
60 HODES OF INDUCING AllTIFICU.L SLEEP,
referred to, (see page 36, and note, page 61,} would
completely nullify the importance of his apparent re-
sults. However, I have never heard of his having
operated successfully, and ukibited the phenomena on
numbers ofpatients taken indiscriminatelyfrom a mked
audience, who had ne~~er been operated on before; or
produced curative results such as I have so repeatedly
done. I therefore consider it a fair inference, that
until the same phenomena are produced by his method
in cases of persons which have fi6De1' been hypnotized
or mesmerized, nothing is proved beyond the fact
tJJkick I Aatle 10 often urg«J, namely, the power of
natural sleep, no other cause need be sought than the tedious-
ness and ennui of paBBing the hands for ruore or less than au
hour over the most sensitive parts of the body. This is only
an instance of the well known effect of weak, monotonous
impressions on the senses inducing sleep ; BD&logous examples
.are found in the soothing influence of a body seen slowly
vibrating, or of a distant calm scene, or the motions of the
waves, or of quivering leaves ; or in impressions on the sense
of hearing by the sound of a waterfall, the rippling of billows,
the humming of insects, the low howling of the winds, the
voice of a dull reader ; or on the nerves of common sensation
by gentle friction of tlu tempU or eye-l>rov!, or any •e!IIUM~e
part of the body; the rocking of a cradle ; any slow and regu-
lar motion of the limbs or trunk ; all these instances shew
that the effect of monotonous impressions on the senses is to
produce, in most persons, tranquillity, or drowsiness, and
ultimately sleep."
Wllere, then, is the great merit of any one having recorded
a note six or eight months after this was published, that these
phenomens were induced by " the undue continuance and
repetition of the same sensible impression t"
o;g,, zed by Google
CAUSE OF CERTAIN MISTAKES. 61
imagination, sympathy, and habit, in producing the
expected effects ON THOSE PREVIOUSLY IMPRESSED,*
From overlooking another important fact which I
have repeatedly explained, that all the phenomena
are consecutive, that is, first increased sensibility,
mobility, and docility, and afterwards a subsidence
into insensibility and cataleptiform rigidity, this
gentleman, by mistaking and exhibiting the primary
phenomena for the secondary, seems to have managed
to deceive both himself and some others who are satis-
fied to look at such matters loosely. This, howf!Der, is
confounding things which are in themselves essentially
different. I beg especial attention to the note below.t
* A very decided proof of this was exhibited at one of my
lectures, where, as may be seen from the report of it, twenty-
two who had been operated on before, laid hold of different
parts of each other's persons or dresses, and by concentrating
their attention to that act, and anticipating the effect, they all
became hypnotized in abouta minute. After another lecture,
in the ante-room, sixteen who had been hypnotized formerly,
stood up in the same manner, and also one who had nRer been
hypnotized. In about a minute all were affected ez«pting the
latter. I then operated on him alone in my usual way, and
in two or three minutes he was very decidedly affected.
Suffice it to say, I have varied my experiments in every pos-
sible form, and clearly proved the power of imagination our
thole premou.Zy impruled, as the patients have become hyp-
notized or not by the same appliance, accordingly to the
resnlt which they previously expected. This readilyaccounts
for the reanlt of Mr Wakley's experiments with the Okeys.
t In illustration of this, I may here state the following
remarkable facts, which have been frequently repeated before
many most competent witnesses, and of which, therefore, I
consider there can be no doubt.
Digit zed b,Google
....
62 EPPECTS OP HYPNOTISM.
Of all the circumstances connected with the arti-
ficial sleep which I induce, nothing so strongly marks
The first symptoms after the induction of the hypnotic state,
and extending the limbs, are those of extreme excitement of
all the organs of sense, sight excepted. I have ascertained
by accurate measurement, that the hearing is about twelve
times more acute than in the natural condition. Thus a
patient who could not hear the tick of a watch beyond 3
feet when awake, could do so when hypnotized at the distance
of 35 feet, IUld walk to it in a direct line, without difficulty
or hesitation. Smell is in like manner wonderfully exalted ;
one patient has been able to trace a rose through the air
when held 46 feet from her. May this not account for the
fact of Dr Elliotson's patient Okey, discovering the peculiar
odour of patients in articulo mortil? when she said on passing
them, " there is Jack." The tactual sensibility is so great,
that the slightest touch is felt, and will call into action cor·
responding muscles, which will also be found to exert a most
inordinate power. The sense of heat, cold, and resistance,
are also exalted to that degree, as to enable the patient to
feel any thing tbitll.out acttull contact, in some cases at a 'con-
siderable distance, (18 or 20 inches,) if the temperature is
very different from that of the body ; and some will feel a
breath of air ftom the lips, or the blast of a pair of bellows,
at the distance of 50, or even 90 feet, and bend from it, and,
by making a back current, as by waving the hand or a fan,
will move in the opposite direction. The patient has a ten·
dency to approach to, or f'eWk from impreuiom, according a•
'hey are agreeable or dilagreeable, either in qt~ality or intemity.
Thus, they will approach to soft sounds, but they will recede
from loud sounds, however harmonious. A discord, such as
two semi-tones sounded at same time, h010t·'Der soft, will cause a
sensitive patient to shudder and recede when hypnotized, al·
though ignorant of music, and not at all disagreeably affected
by such di8cord when awake. By allowing a little time to
o;g,, zed by Google
EFFECTS OF BYPNOTlSlll. 63
the difference between it and natural sleep as the
wonderful power the former evinces in curing many
elapse, and the patient to be in a state of quietude, he will
lapse into the opposite extreme, of rigidity and torpor of all
the senses, 80 that he will not hear the loudest noise, nor
smell the most fragrant or pungent odour ; nor feel what is
either hot or cold, although not only approximated to, but
brought into actual contact with, the skin. He may now be
pricked, or pinched, or maimed, without evincing the slightest
symptom of pain or sensibility, and the limbs will remain
rigidly fixed. At this stage a puft' of wind directed against
any organ in1tantane0111ly rouse& it to inordinate sensibility,
and the rigid muscles to a state of mobility. Thus, the
patient may be unconscious of the loudest noise, but by simply
causing a current of air to come against the ear, a very mode-
rate noise will imtantly be heard 80 intemdy as to make the
patient start and shiver violently, although the whole body
had immediately before been rigidly cataleptiform. A rose,
valerian, or asafootida, or strongest liquor am1110nial, may have
been held close under the n08trils without being'perooim,
but a puft' of wind directed against the n08trils will instantly
rouse the sense 80 much, that supp08ing the rose had been
carried 46 feet distant, the patient has instantly set oft' in
pursuit of it ; and even whilst the eyes were bandaged,
l'eached it as certainly as a dog traces out gante ; but, as
respects valerian or asafootida, will rush /t'OfTI the unpleasant
smell, with the greatest haste. The same with the sense of
touch.
The remarkable fact that the whole senses may have been
in the state of profound torpor, and the body in a state of
rigidity, and yet by very gentle preesure over the eye-balls,
the patient shall be instantly roused to the waking condition,
as regards all the senses, and mobility of the head and neck,
in short to all parte supplied by nerves originating above the
origin ef the fifth pair, and those inosculating witll them, and
o;g,, zed by Google
BPFBC'IS OF BTPNOTIS:H.
diseases of long standing, and which had resisted natu-
ral sleep, and every known agency, for years,- e. g.
will not be affected by simple mechanical appliance to other
organa of sense, is a striking proof that there exists some
remarkable connection between the state of the eyes, and
condition of the brain and spinal cord during the hypnotic
state.
This is also a remarkably good illustration of the propriety
of Mr Mayo's designation of the origin of the fifth pair of
nerves, which he styles " the dynamic centre of the nervous
system."*
Another remarkable proof to the same eft'ect is this ; sup·
posing the same state of torpor of all the senses, and rigidity
of the body and limbs to exist, a puft' of air, or gentle pressure
againat ONE eye will restore sight to that eye, and sense and
mobility to one half of tAe body- the same side as the eye
operated on- but will leave the other eye insensible, and tl1e
other half of the body rigid and torpid as before. Neither
hearing nor smell, however, are restored in this case to either
side. Thus, by one mode of acting through the eye, we
reduce the patient to a state of hemiplegia, by the other to
that of paraplegia, as regards both sense and motion. In
many cases, when the patient has been hypnotized by looking
sideways, this gives a tendency to the body to turn round in
that direction when asleep.
It seemed puzzling, that by acting on one eye, both sense
and motion could be communicated to the 1ame side of the
body, seeing the motor influence is communicated fro111 the
Of1POrile hemuphere oftAe twain. It has occurred to me that
the partial decUBSation of the optic nerves may account for
.this, and that this partial decUBSation may be for the expreee
purpose of perfecting the union of seDl!&tion and motion
through the eyes, " on which we lean as on crutches ;" thus
• " The Ne"oua S;yetem, aod 111 FunelioDI," p. 'r/.
o;g,, zed by Google
PHENOHBN.l OF HYPNOTISM, 65
patients who have been born deaf and dumb, of vari-
ous ages, up to 32 years, had continued without
enabling us to balance ourselves so much more perfectly than
we could otherwise have done.
There is another most remarkable circumstance, that whilst
the patient is in the state of torpor and rigidity, we may pass
powerful shocks of the galvanic battery through the anus, so
as to cause violent contortions of them, without his evincing tiMI
slightest symptom of perceiving the shocks, either by move-
ment of the head or neck, or expression of the countenance.
On partially arousing the head and neck, 88 by gentle pres·
tAJre on the eyes, or passing a cuiTent of air against the
face, the same shocks tcill be felt, 88 evinced by the move-
ments of the head and neck, the contortions of the face, and
die whine, moan, or scream of the patient. All this may
happen, 88 I have witneesed innumerable times, and the
patient be altogether uncon!!Cious of it when roused from the
hypnotic condition.
Moreover, whilst the patient is in the condition to be un-
conscious of the shock passed through the arms whilst a rod is
placed in each hand, if one of the rods is applied to any part
of the head, or neck, or face, in short, to any part which is
set at liberty by acting on botA eyes, as fonnerly referred to,
he will instantly manifest symptoms of feeling a shock, though
it be much less powerful dian that which had failed to produce
any sensation or consciousnesswhen passed through both arma.
This might readily be accounted for on the principle of the
eironit being shortened, and also by one of the rods being
nearer the centre of the sensorium ; but that it depends on
something else is apparent from the following fact : Without
moving the rod placed on the neok, head, or face, carry the
other rod from tk hand, to any other part of the head, neck,
ar face, and all evidence of feeling will disappear, ufllleu tlu
powr of tk gaha~&ic cun-ent il incrtaud.
· Analogous to this is another most puzzling phenomenon :
E
o;g,, zed by Google
(J6 PH&NOMBlU, OP HYPNOTISM.
the power of hearing sound until the time they were
operated on by me, and yet they were enabled to do so
The brain being in a state of torpor, the limbs rigid, and
the skin insensible to pricking, pinching, heat or cold, by
gently pressing the point of one or two fingers against the
back of the hand, or any other part of the extremity, the
rigidity will very speedily give place to mobility, and quiver-
,ing of the arm, hand, and fingers, and which is greatly in-
creased by pressing another finger against the neck, head, or
face. Indeed, in the latter case, the commotion of the whole
body is as violent in some patients as from shocks of the
galvanic battery. By placing BOTH fingers on any part of the
head, face, or neck, the commotion almost, or entirely ceases.
By pinching the skin of the hand or arm with one finger and
thumb, and the skin of the neck or face with the other, no
effect is produced. Pressure, made with insulating rods, glass,
or sealing wax, is followed by the same phenomena as when
done by the points of the fingers. The fiat hand applied has
very little effect. The pressure being made against both
hands, the arms are contorted, and if the head is partially
dehypnotized tl1e patient will complain ofpins running into the
fingers, especially if one point of contact is tl1e band, and the
other the face or head. These phenomena do not occur
whilst the skiu remains sensible to pricking or pinching.
Moreover, during the state of cataleptiform rigidity, the
circulation becomes greatly accelerated, in many cases it
has more than double the natural velocity ; and may be
brought down to the natural standard, in most cases in
less than a minute, by reducing the cataleptiform condi-
tion. It is also found, that it may be kept at any inter-
mediate condition between these two extremes, according
to the manipulations used ; and that the blood is circulated
with lees force (the pulse being always contracted) in the
rigid limbl, and sent in correspondingly greater quantity and
f<1rce into tl10se parts which are not directly subjected to -
o;g,, zed by Google
ITS CURATIVE POWERS. 67
by being kept in the hypnotic state for eight, ten, or
twelve minutes, and have had their hearing still far-
ther improved by a repetition of similar operations.
Now, supposing these patients to have spent six hours
out of twenty-four in sleep, many of them had had
four, five, six, or eight years ofcontinuowsleep, but still
awoke as they lay down, incapable of hearing sound,
and yet they had some degree of it communicated
the pressure of rigid muscles. It is also important to note,
that by acting on both eyes in the manner required to induce
the state of paraplegia, as already explained, the force and
frequency of the heart's action may be as speedily and per-
ceptibly diminished, as the action of a steam engine by turning
off the steam. By again fixing the eyes, its former force and
velocity will be almost as speedily restored, as cau be satisfac-
torily proved to any one who keeps his ear applied to the
chest during these experiments. The amount of change iu,
the pulse, by acting on the two eyes, and thus liberating the
organs of special sense, and the head and neck, is about 60
per cent of the actual rise of the pulse when at the maximum
above the ordinary velocity of the circulation. We might
therefore, I think, a priori, infer, that in this new condition
of the nervous system we have acquired an important power
to act with.
N .B.- It is to be observed, that owing to the extreme
acuteness of hearing during the first stage of hypnotism, it is
extremely apt to mislead the operator, or those who do not
understand this fact, during operations on the acuteness of the
other senses, such as smell, currents of air, and heat and cold.
To avoid such mistakes, therefore, it is best to allow the hear-
ing to disappear, by which time all the other senses will have
gone to rest, with the exception of the susceptibility to be
affected by a current of air. I allow all the senses to become .
dormant, and then rouse only the one I wish to exhibit in the
state of exalted function, when operating carefully.
o;g,, zed by Google
68 CURATIVE POWERS
to them br a few minutes of H!/l)f&Otinn. Can any
stronger proof be wanted, or adduced, than this, that
it is very different from common sleep? A lady, 64
years of age, had been suffering for 16 years from
incipient amaurosis. According to the same rntio,
she must have had four years of sleep, but in·
stead of improving she was every month getting
worse, and when she called on me, could with diffi·
cnlty read two words of the largest heading of a
newspaper. After eiflht minutes hypnotic sleep, how-
ever, she could read the other words, and in three
minutes more, the whole of the smaller heading, soon
after a smaller sized type, and the same afternoon,
with the aid of her glasses, read the 118th Psalm, 29
verses, in the small diamond Polyglot Bible, which
for vears had bren a sealed book to her. There has
also.been a most remarkable improvement in this lady's
general health since she was hypnotized. Is there
any individual who can fail to see, in this case, some-
thing ditterent from common sleep 1 Another lady,
44 years of age, had required glasses 22 years, to en·
able her to see to sew, read, or write. She had thus
nve years and a-half of sleep, but the sight was still
getting worse, so that, before being hypnotized, she
could not distinguish the capitals in the advertising
columns of a newspaper. After being hypnoti1.ed,
however, she could, in a few minutes, see to read the
large and second heading of the newspaper, and next
day, to make herself a blond cap, threading her needle
WITHOUT the aid of glasses. This lady's daughter,
who had been compelled to use glasses for two years,
was enabled to dispense with them, after being once
hypnotized. It is also important to note, that all
o;g,, zed by Google
OP BYPNOTISH,
these three, as well as many others, were agreeably
surprised by improvement of memory after being hyp-
notized. The memory of one was so bad that she
was often forced to go up stairs several times before
she could remember what she went for, ami could
scarcely carry on a conversation; but all this remnant
of a slight paralytic affection is gone, by the same
operatious which roused the optic nerves, and re-
stored the sight. Now, with such cases as these,
who can doubt that there is a real difference in the
state of the brain and nervous system generally, dur-
ing the hypnotic sleep, from that which occurs in
common sleep 1 The same might be urged from vari-
ous other diseases cured or relieved by this process,
but I shall only briefly refer to a few.
In the second part of this treatise," where the casCil
are recorded, will be found many examples of the
curative power of hypnotism, equally remarkable
with those to which I have just referred: such as Tic
Doloureux; Nervous headach; Spinal irritation;
Neuralgia of the heart; Palpitation and intermittent
action of the heart ; Epilepsy ; Rheumatism ; Pard-
lysis ; Distortions and tonic spasm, &c.
I shall here give a few particulars of a case which
shews in a most remarkable degree the difference of
this and common sleep, or that induced by opium and
the whole range of medicines of that class. Miss
Collins, of Newark, Nottinghamshire, had a spasmodic
seizure during the night, by which her head was
bound firmly to her left shoulder. The most ener--
getic and well directed means, under a most talented
physician, and aided by the opinion of Sir Benjamin
Digit zed b,Google
70 CURATIVE POWERS
Brodie, had been tried, as far as known remedies
could be carried, (amongst other means, narcotics,
in as largo doses as were compatible with the safety
of the patient;) and although she was carefully
watched by night and by day, there had never
been the slightest relaxation of the spasm, which
had continued nearly six months. When I first
examined her, no force I was capable of exerting
could succeed in separating the head and shoulder in
the slightestdegree. Experience led me to hope, how-
ever, that I might be able to do so after she was hyp-
notized. Having requested all present, excepting the
patient, her father, and her physician, to retire, I
hypnotized her,and in three minutesfrom commencing
the operation, with the most perfect ease to myself, and
without the slightest pain to the patient, her head was
inclined in the opposite direction, and in two minutes
more she was roused, and was quite straight. I visited
this patient only three times, after which she returned
home. Shortly afterwards, she had a nervous twitch-
ing of the head, and on one occasion it was again
drawn down to her shoulder. Dr Chawner, however,
hypnotized her as he had seen me do, and put it
right immediately; and she is now (about twelve
mont.hs after she was hypnotized) in perfect health,
" her head quite straight, and she has perfect control
over the muscles of the neck." (See cases.)
Miss E. Atkinson had been unable to speak above
a whisper for four years and a half, notwithstanding
every known remedy had been perseveringly adopted,
under able practitioners. After the ninth hypnotic
operation she could speak aloud without effort, and
Digit zed b,Google
OF BYPNOTISK, 71
has continued quite well ever since- now about nine
months. (See ease at length, Part II.)
The extraordinary effects of a few minutes hypno-
tism, manifested in such eases (so very different from
what we realize by the application of ordinary means)
may appear startling to those unacquainted with
the remarkable powers of this process. I have been
recommended, on this account, to conceal the fact of
the rapidity and extent of the changes induced, as
many may consider the thing impouible, and thus be
led to reject the leu startling, although not more
true, reports of its beneficial action in other eases. In
recording the eases, however, I have considered it my
duty to record fact~ a. I fourul thera, and to make no
compromise for the sake of accommodating them to
the preconceived notions or prejudices of others.
It may be proper to add, however, that I have
afforded opportunities to many eminent professional
and scientific gentlemen to see the patients, and in-
vestigate for themselves the real state of these respec-
tive cases ; and to them I can confidently appeal as
to the accuracy and fidelity of the reports of most of
the eases recorded in this treatise.
After such evidence as this, no one can reasonably
doubt that there is a remarkable difference between
hypnotism and natural sleep, and that it is a valuable
addition to our therapeutic means.
How these extraordinary effects are produced, it
may be impossible absolutely to decide. One thing,
however, I am certain of, that, in this condition,
besides the peculiar impression directly made on
the nervous centres, by which the mind is for the
time " thrown out of gear," aud which enables us,
o;g,, zed by Google
PECULUB PBE!fOJlE.'U
in a remarkable manner, to localize or concentrate
the nervous energr, or sensorial power, to any par-
ticular point or function, instead of the more equal
distribution which exists in the ordinary condition,
we have also an extraordinary power of acting on the
capillaries, and of increasing nnd diminishing the
force and frequency of the circulation, locally nnd
generally.• This can be done in a most remarkable
degree, both as regards the extent and rapidity of
these changes. t And, moreover, changes from abso-
• By this I mean that any one examining the pulse by the
radial artery, whilst the patient has his arms in the catalep-
tifonn condition, and held at right angles with his body, (and
when, of course, the circulation can only be influenced by the
~tate of rigidity or flaccidity of the muscles,) it will be found
feeble or contracted, but the moment the rigidity of the
muscles is reduced, by blowing on or fanning them, the pulse
will become much more developed. This, of course, which
may be done without the patient being conscious of the ex-
J>eriment, is totally different from what may be displayed as
a trick, by a person voluntarily compressing the axillary and
brachial arteries, by drawing his ann firmly against his side.
The former is independent of volition, the latter is entirely
voluntary, and a mere trick.
t The first time I ever had an opportunity of examining a
patient minutely, or of feeling the pulse of one, under the
mesmeric influence, was on the 19th November, 1841. I was
much struck with the state of the pulse at the wrist-so
small and rapid as, combined with the state of tremor, or
slight subsultus in the arm, rendered it impossible to count
it accurately at the wrist. This circumstance induced me to
reckon the velocity of the pulse by the carotid artery, as will
be found recorded in the " Manchester Guardian" of the 24th
of that montli. I adduced this as the cause of the discrepancy
o;g,, zed by Google
DURING BYPNOTISK. 73
lute insensibility to the most exalted sensibility, may
be effected at 3 certain stage, almost with the rnpidity
of thought, as exemplified at page 63. On the whole,
I consider it is of great importance to have acquired 3
knowledge of how these effects can be produced and
generally applied, and turned to advantage in the cure
of disease, although we should never ascertain the
real proximate cause, or principle through which we
produce our effects. Who can tell how, or why, qui-
nine and arsenic cure intermittent fever? They are,
nevertheless, well known to do so, and are prescribed
accordingly.
Whilst I feel assured from personal experience, and
the testimony of professional friends, on whose judg-
ment and candour I can implicitly rely, that iu this
we have acquired an important curative agency for a
certain class of diseases, I desire it to be distinctly un-
derstood, as already stated, that I by no means wish
between the numeration of the pulse by others and myself,
that I had counted it by the carotid artery, and considered it
impoesible for any one to reckon it correctly by the radial
artery in such a case. The injected state of the conjunctival
membrane of the eye, and the whole capillary system in the
neck, bead, and face, was so apparent, as Dr Radford very
correctly stated, that no one near the patient could fail to
observe it : this, together with the cold hands and contracted
pulse at the wrist, led me to infer, that the rigid state of the
cntaleptiform muscles, opposed the free transmission of the
blood through the extremities, and would thus cause increased
action in the heart and determination to the brain and spinal
cord, as resulted from the ingenious experiments of my late
l'rlend Dr Kellie, for speedily terminating the cold stage of
ague, by putting a tourniquet round one of the extremities.
o;g,, zed by Google
74 NOT A UNIVERSAL REHEDY.
to hold it up as a universal remedy. I believe it is
capable of doing great good, if judiciously applied.
Diseases evince totally different pathological condi-
tions, and the treatment ought to be varied accor-
dingly. We have, therefore, no right to expect to
find a universal remedy either in tkia, or any other,
method or treatment.
Digit zed b,Google
75
CHAPTER V.
Reasons for delivering Public Lectures on Hypnotlml- Mode of proeuring
refresbing sleep, with low pulse and general ftaccldity of mwcle- Eft!·
eacy of this plan.
WHEN I had ascertained that Hypnotism was im-
portant as a curative power, and that the prejudices
existing against it in the public mind, as to its
having an immoral tendency, were erroneous ; and
the idea, that it was calculated to sap the foundation
of the Christian creed, by suggesting that the Gospel
miracles might have been wrought by this agency,
was quite unfounded and absurd, I felt it to be 3
duty I owed to the cause of humanity, and my pro-
fession, to use my best endeavours to remove those
fallacies, so that the profession generally might be at
liberty to prosecute the inquiry, and apply it practi-
cally, without hazarding their personal and profes-
sional interest, by prosecuting it in opposition to
popular prejudice. It appeared to me there was no
mode so likely to insure this happy consummation all
delivering lectures on the subject to mixed audiences.
The public could thus have dt~monstrative proof of its
practical utility; and, when it was proved to proceed
from a law of the animal economy, and that the
o;g,, zed by Google
76 MODE OF PRODUCING
patient could only be affected in accordance with his
own free will and consent, and not, as the animal mag-
neti:r.ers contend, through the irresistible power of
volitions and passes of the mesmerizers, which might
be done in secret and at a distance, the l!'round of
charge as to my agency having an immoral tendency,
must at once fall to the ground. I have reason to
believe my labours have not been altogether unsuccess-
ful, in removing the popular prejudices; and I hope
that the more liberal of my professional brethren,
now that they kuuw my trne motives of action, in
giving lectures to mixed audiences, instead of confin-
ing them to the profession only, aud especially as I
made no secret of my modes ofoperating. will be inclined
to approve rather than blame me, for the course I
have taken in this respect.
From some peculiar views, I was led to make ex-
periments, by whicb I hoped to obtain natural or
refreshing sleep, and the results were quite satisfac-
tory. I have thus suc.ceeded in makiug a patient,
who, when operated upon in the usual way, was highly
susceptible, and disposed to become strongly cataleptic,
with rapid pulse and oppressed breathing, remain in
a sound sleep for upwards of three hours, with all the
mulicles flaccid, and the pulse and respiration slower
than natural, when operated on in this manner. All
this difference arisPs from the simple circumstance of
the position in which the e.ves are placed during the
operatio11, namely, closing the eyelids, and bringing
the eyes loosely upwards, as if looking at an object at
a great distance, the eye-balls being turned up only
gently, so as to cause dilatation of the pupil, as already
explained; and the limbs placed so as to relax the
&LRBP AT WILL, 77
musclesas much as possible, and thus prevent accelera-
tion of the pulse.
I was led to the adoption of this method from the
following train of reasoning. If, as I inferred was
the case, the spasmodic tendency was reflected to the
muscular system generally, from the llemiparalyzed
state ofthe branches of the third pair of nerves (which
supply the levatores palpebrarum and irides,) during
• the continued fixed stare and straining of the eyes, I
thought, were I to insure all the ot"Mr concomitant
requirements for procuring hypnotism, min111 the
#ratA on tile k1Jator8 and irides, I ought to procure
refreshing sleep, without rigidity of muscle or quick-
ened circulation. By closing the eyelids, the first
could be obtained, and by turning the eyes up
loosely, which dilates the pupils, the other would
also be attained ; I therefore tried the experiment,
which, as already noted, proved most successful.
I think the plan I have just pointed out is quite as
simple, and I feel assured it will prove as efficacious
in procuring " sleep at will" as that of Gardener,
lately published by Dr Binns. I may add, that I
publicly stated my plan at my lectures in London,
on the 1st and 2d March, 1842, which was at least
five or six months prior to the publication of Dr
Binns's work. I had also done the same at my lectures
in Liverpool, about six weeks before that last period.
Mr Barrnllier, an intelligent surgeon, of Milford,
who investigated the subject of Hypnotism with much
:t.eal and success, and published some interesting ex-
periments on the subject in the Medical Times, also
referred to the case of a gentleman in that town, whom
be had heard of as having been in the habit of pro-
Digit zed b,Google
78 CAUSES OF PECULIAR PHENOMENA.
curing sleep immediately by keeping his eyes fixed'
for a few minutes in one direction. Until he adopted
this method he scarcely slept at all. For various
n1odes of procuring sleep see pages 58-60 of this
treatise.
In reference to my original theory, Dr Binns, at
page 372, calls in question the justice of my allega-
tion, that during Hypnotism, natural or artificial,
there should be any imperfect arterialization of the •
blood, notwithstanding the suppressed or modified
respiration and circulation. He has adduced no argu-
ments, however, to convince me to the contrary; and
I again repeat my conviction, that such condition of
the blood dots exist, and is a cause of ordinary sleep ;
and that the still more intense state of torpor, in a
certain state of Neuro-Hypnotism, results from a still
less perfectly purified blood ; and, on the other hand,
that the dreamy and exalted states arise from diffe-
rent degrees of stimulating properties of the blood,
from being more highly arterialized at various stages,
together with the velocity of circulation, and pressure
or tension on the brain during the cataleptiform state.
o;g,, zed by Google
79
CHAPTER VI.
Introductory remarka-Relation between mind and matter illustrated to
dl!prove materiallam- Annotrong, Colton, Brown, Abercromby,
Stewart, Plato- General conclusion, that mind or life Ia the cauoe of
organiam - Power of coneclence - The puaiono, bow escited - Dr
Elliotson'o opinion as to the efficacy or non-efficacy or volition and l)'lll-
pathy with operator's brain- Modes or dividing the brain- Causes or
Phrenology being Imperfect- Objections to Phreno-Hypnotllm- Mode
of connection between tbe brain and body- Fint attempts at Phreno-
loglzlng during llypnotilm were failures-Succeeded by operating dif-
ferently- Caoeo illustrative - A chUd operates oucceaafully- DetaUs of
the cue-Other successful cues- Proper time for operating- Caae of
an officer In 1768- Inferences as to Ita curative power•- Opinions of
Le Roy Sunderland, and Mr Hall - Preeumed cauae of phenomena
caUed Crou Magnetism- Return stolen property to proper owners and
proper place by SUlell and toueh - Power or hearing faint IOttrldl-
Additional cues- Oppuslte faculties can be escited at aame time by
acting on the opposite hemiapheres- Mode of operating-Concluding
remark• on the value or testimony.
I HAVE no doubt that some of the views already
advanced, and the facts on which they arc grounded,
have appeared startling to many of my readers, and
I feel assured the subject to be discussed in the fol-
lowing chapter must be still more so; namely, that
during hypnotism, we acquire the power, through
the nerves of common sensation, of rousing any sen-
timent, feeling, passion, or emotion, and any mental
o;g,, zed by Google
80 PHRENOLOGY DOES NOT INVOLVE
manifestation, according to our mode of manipulat-
ing the patient. This is what has been designated
phreno-magnetism by the discoverers of these curious
phenomena, but which, in accordance with my no-
menclature, I shall designate phreno-hypnotism. It
appears with this, as with many other discoveries,
that similar investigations were going forward at
the same time in England and America, while the
discoverers were without the knowledge ofeach other's
views or proceedings, and that the results of their
experiments led all parties to form analogous con·
elusions.
It must be evident to every one who reflects deeply
and dispassionately on the subject, that if we really
can thus acquire such power as to rouse into great
activity any faculty or propensity, whilst we diminish
the activity of antagonist faculties, we must thereby
acquire an important power for meliorating the moral,
intellectual, and physical condition of man. I shall
have no difficulty in adducing sufficient proof, that
the human mind can be so developed and acted on
through the bodily organs; but, before entering into
a detail of the modes of doing so, I shall endeavour
to remove a prejudice against the discussion of this
subject, which has arisen from the unhappy circum-
stance that some of those who promulgated this doe-
trine have professed a belief in materialism. Such an
avowal was indeed calculated to excite, not the pre-
judices, but the sound principles, of Christian society
in general against the reception or dispassionate eon-
aideration of the facts on which it rested. For my
own part, I can see nothing in the subject to warrant
such conclusions as the materialists have avowed ; and
o;g,, zed by Google
•
BBLIBP IN MATERIALISM, 81
truth is not to be rejected, because misguided men
attempt to build upon it a hollow and unseemly
superstructure.
The following are my views of the relation which
subsists betwixt mind and matter :-I look upon the
brain simply as the or9an of the mind, and the bodily
organs as the instruments for upholding the integrity
of the bodily frame, and for acquiring and extending
its communion with external nature in our present
state of existence. That the mind acts on matter,
and is acted on b.Y matter, according to the quality
and quantity, and relative disposition of cerebral
development. This, however, does not imply, that
mind is a mere attribute of matter.* My thinking,
• "A few sounds acting on the tympanum of the ear, or a
few black and small figures scribbled on a piece of white
paper (see Mr Rennell's pamphlet) have been known to knock
a man down as eft'ectually as a sledge hammer, and to deprive
pim not only of vision, but even of life. Here, then, we have
instances of mind acting upon matter, and I by no meana
affirm that matter does not also act upon mind ; for to
those who advocate the intimate connection between body
and mind, these reciprocities of action are easily reconcile·
able ; but this will be an insuperable difficulty to those who
affirm the identity of mind and body." Again, "This inti·
mate union between body and mind is, in fact, analogous
to all that we see, and feel, and comprehend. Thus, we ob·
serve that the material stimuli of alcohol, or of opium, act
upon the mind through the body, and that the moral stimuli
· of love, or of anger, act upon the body through the mind :
these are reciprocities of action that establish the principle of
connection between the two, but are fatal to that of au iden·
ti~y."-" Does not every passion of the mind act directly,
F
o;g,tzed by Google .r
A
82 JI.EPUTATION OP MATERIALISM.
and willing, sud acting, so as to influence the mental
and bodily condition of another, surely does not
destroy our separate individuality 1 As well might
we say, that the refined compositions of a Mozart or
Beethoven, which were conveyed to the ears of their
rlelighted auditors through different instruments,
were created by the thought and will of the instru-
ments.
It appears to me quite clear, that the musician
might conceive, and compose, and record every idea,
whilst others could hal'e no conception of their nature
or merits, unless communicated tl1rQU!}h an appr~
instrument or instnsments. The musician and instru-
ment, therefore, are distinct in tht>ir nature, as the
soul and the bodily organs are essentially distinct
from each other.
I shall endeavour to illustrate my views by the
primarily, and, as it were, peru upon the body, with greater
or with lesser influence in proportion to their force t Does
not the activity belong on this occasion to the mind, and the
mere passiveness to the body t Does not the quickened cir-
culation fvllow the anger, the start the surprise, and the swoon
the sorrow ! Do not these instances, and a thousand others,
clearly convince us that priority of action here belongs to the
lnind, and not to the body t and those who deny this, are
reduced to the ridiculous absurdity of attempting to prove
that a man is frightened because he l'uns away, not that he
l'uns away because he is frightened, and that the motion pro-
duces the terror, not the terror the motion."-Colton's Lacon.
'l'he same author also urges the argument eft'ectinly by an
:tppeal to the fact of mania being so frequently produeed by
!~oral causes, and the success which has attended the treat-
ment of the insane by strict attention to moral management.
REPUTATION OF J(A.TERIJ.LlSJ(. 83
following simile. Suppose the instrument is good,
and well fitted for expressing musical composition, it
is evident, that it will better convey the beauties of
the composition, than if represented by a bad or in-
different imtrument; and will also afford more delight,
and satisfaction, and encouragement to the farther
exertions of the composer, than if performed on a
bad instrument. Just so the mind furnished with a
well developed brain. Supposing the musical instru-
ment is very perfect in some parts, but very imperfect
in others, it is evident, that the musician can afford
more pleasure to others, as well as more satisfaction to
himself, by playing on the more perfect parts. Then,
supposing the parts played on capable of becoming
improved, by 'Mng 10 eurcised, (which is the case
with several instruments, as the violin,) it is clear,
that there will be greater and greater inducement for
the musician to confine himself to the better parts of
the instrument, and thus, by concentrating his whole
entlrgies to these points, he will more and more
enamour himself, as well as his auditors, by the per-
fection of his performances.
This is exactly what I conceive takes place in refe-
rence to the brain, supposing different parts to be
appropriated as the instruments for the manifestation
of different mental functions. Every part of the
human frame is continually undergoing the process
of waste and repair-that is to say, the molecular
particles of the various organs are continually chang-
ing, and moderate exercise tends to increa~ed de'D6lop-
-m and power, whilst iTUJCtion bus the opposit•
tendency. This no one will deny. The analogy,
therefore, is complete. The soul or mind, by beinw
o;g,, zed by Google
/
84 llEFUT.lTION OF IUTERI.u.ISK.
exercised judiciously in a particular direction, streng·
thens some peculiar organ, and acquires precision from
habit, which gives a tendency to perseverance in the
same course of action ; and, by refr-aining from certain
practices, the corresponding organs become feeble, and
thus exercise a less powerful influence on the mind.
Thus we can ace.ount for the power of habit, both
physical and mental, each tending to strengthen the
other by correct training ; and it is on this prin-
ciple that we can hope to meliorate the condition of
the vicious members of society, by separating them
from bad companions and practices, and encouraging
them in the exercise of virtuous habits.
Moreover, the mind of the musician may conceive
and excite into activity the corresponding organs of
the brain ; these may react on his corporeal organs,
and excite into activity the silent lyre; all these links
of intercommunication may be perfected, without
conveying any corresponding feeling or emotion to
the minds of others, unless they are provided with
appropriate recipient organs (musical ears) for con-
veying to their brains certain vibrations, and thus
inducing in corresponding parts of their brains such
a condition as may awaken in their minds certain
associations of ideas, and manifest the peculiar emo-
tions which arise from them. It is not enough that
we have part of this concatenation complete; the
whole must be complete, or the results cannot be
perfect.*
• Some time alter I had written the above, I had the satis-
faction to meet with a somewhat analogous iliUBtration from
the pen of the late celebrated Dr John Armstrong, which I
now quote from his work on Feur,.p. 478 :-
o,9,tzed b,Google
DR ARHSTRONG'S OPINION,
The same arguments might be enforced in respect
to the painter, and sculptor, and orator, but it appears
" It will ha.'·e been perceived, that I consider insanity as
the effect of some disorder in the circulation, wl1ethcr pro-
duced by agencies of a corporeal or mental nature. It might
be shewn by familiar facts, that the brain is the principal
organ tlll"ough which the operations of the mind are per-
formed ; and it does not, as many have supposed, necessarily
involve the doctrine of materialism to affirm, that certain
disorders of that organ are capable of disturbing those opera-
tions. If the most skilful musician in the world were placed
before an unstrung or broken instrument, he could not pro-
duce the harmony which he was accustomed to do when that
instrument was perfect, nay, on the contrary, the sounds
would be discordant ; and yet it would be manifestly most
illogical to conclude, from such an effect, that the powers of
the musician were impaired, since they merely appearea to
be so ft~nn the imperfection of the instrument. Now, what
the instrument is to the musician, the brain may be to the
mind, for ought we know to the contrary ; and to pursue the
figure, as the musician has an existence distinct from that of
the instrument, so the mind may have an existence distinct
from that of the brain ; for in truth we have no proof what-
ever of mind being a property dependent upon any arrange-
ment of matter. We perceive, indeed, the properties of
matter wonderfully modified in the various things of the
universe, which strike our senses with the force of their
sublimity or beauty ; but in all these we recognize certain
radical and common properties, that bear no c<>nceivable
relation to those mysterious capacities of thought and of
feeling, referable to that something which, to designate and
distinguish from matter, we term mind. In this way, I con-
ceive, the.,common sense of mankind has made the distinction
which every where obtains between mind and matter, for it
is natural to conclude, that the essence of mind may be dis-
o;g,, zed by Google
86 MR B. MAYO's OPINION.
to my mind so evident by what bas already been
advanced, tbat I forbear extending my illustrations,
tinct from the essence of matter, as the operations of the one
are so distinct from the properties of the other. But when
we say that mind is immaterial, we only mean, that it bas
not the properties of matter ; for the consciousness which
informs us of the operations, does not reveal the abstract
nature of mind, neither do the properties reveal the essence
of matter. When any one, therefore, asserts the materiality
of ·mind, he presupposes, that the phenomena of matter
elearly shew tl1e real cause of mind, which, as they do not,
he unphilosophieally places his argument on an assumption.
And his ground of reasoning is equally gratuitous, when he
contends that mind is an attribute of matter, because it is
never known to operate but in conjunction with matter, for
tho\lgh this· connection is continually displayed, yet we have
no direct proof of its being necessary."
In lilte manner, Mr Herbert Mayo, in the introduction to
his late work on the Nervous System and its Functions, writes
thus:-" Life is a force so contrived and used, as to qualify
the materials of the inert world for a temporary union with
consciousnes.~,- a means how mind may enter into such
relations with matter, that it may have its being and part in
physical nature, 11nd its faculties developed, and its capabili-
ties and tendencies drawn out and proved (for whatever ulte-
rior purpose) in subjection to, and in hannony with, her
laws.
" As we imagine the Supreme Mind to be ubiquitous,
infinite, controlling, but uncontrolled by matter, so in con-
trast with these attributes we conceive the finite mind to be
hound down to place, and to be dependent on a certain
arrangement of matter for its manifestation, each power dis-
played as the property of a tissue, each agency as tile function
of an organ.
" These views do not lead to materialism. For one cannot
o;g,, zed by Google
ARGUilBNT DRAWN FROM XEHORY, 87
conceiving them to be unnecessary. I therefore con-
clude that the soul and the brain are essentially quite
distinct, and stand much in the same relation to each
other as the musician and musical instrument.
Another powerful argument of the mind being an
independent essence, is the fact, that amidst the con-
tinued changes which we know are going on in the
physical frame, we still recognize pel'80nal identity ;
and the remembrance of occurrences, even of early
life, after every particle of the body has been changed
several tirues, is reconcileable with the idea of the
original mind merely having exchanged and reno-
vated the substance of its dwelling-place; but how
can we suppose that each particle had, in retiring,
transferred its quantum of knowledge to the particle
of matter which was to supply its place 1
Colton's remark seems very just when he says,-
"Many causes are now conspiring to increase the
trunk of infidelity, but materialism is the main root
of them all." I have therefore endeavoured, and I
hope, by what bas already been said, with some suc-
cess, to prove, that the belief in the brain being the
organ of the mind, leads only to the admission of the
disjoin the physiology of the nervous system from mental
philosophy, nor investigate the play of its organs without
attending to the mind itself. And if equal consideration is
given to the two classes of phenomena, it is impossible (so at
least it appears to myself) to avoid the conviction, that they
are essentially independent the one of the other, and belong
to distinct essences ; and that ipseity, the eonsciousness of
personal being, is not a mode of material existence, nor
physical impenetrability an attribute of that which feels and
thinks."
o;g,, zed by Google
88 PHRENOLOGY CONl'Il!HS
necessity of certain conditions of matter, in order to
make the varied conditions of mind manifest to
ourselves and other beings with which we are sur-
rounded during the present state of our existence.
The charge against tl•e doctrine of phrenology, there-
fore, as leading to a belief in materialism, is altogether
unfounded; for phrenology merely profesSils to appro-
priate to separate portiom of the brain the ezecution
of special functiom or manifestatiom, which are gene-
rally admitted, without hesitation, to result from its
functions as a single organ. I might therefore at
once dismiss the subject, leaving ihe doctrines of the
existence of a God, and the immortality of the soul,
to the defence of many able writers on that depart-
ment of mental philosophy. However, as it appears
to me that an argument of considerable strength, in
support of both these doctrines, may be drawn from
the doctrines of phrenology, or the allocation of special
functions to particular portions of the brain, I think
it may not be out of place for me very briefly to
advert to these topics.
The concurrent notions and practices of all nations,
savage as well as civilized, clearly indicate their in-
ward belief in a superintendent power who rules the
destinies of man and of nations, as verified by their
varied forms of worship. Phrenology, as illustrated
by Hypnotism, does more- it proves that there is a
particular portion of the brain which the mind may
use as an organ destined for the especial purpose of
adoration ; and, as nothing has been made in vain,
or without a final cause, we may safely infer that such
an organ would never have been made had it not been
iutended to be exercised ; and how could it have beeu
THE CHRISTIAN CREED, 89
-exercised worthily had there been no suitable object of
adoration 1 The very fact, therefore, of the existence of
such a special organ having been ascertained, stamps
the folly of the Atheist ; and, as we have proved that
mind is not necessarily a mere attribute of organized
matter, but a distinct essence, we cannot suppose it
to be more perishable than matter ; and as it is an
acknowledged fact, that matter, so far as we can
apprehend, is essentially indestructible, analogy would
!tJad us to infer, that the mind, the more important
part of man, will not be less imperishable ; and, con-
sequently, the most rational conclusion to which we
can anive is, that the soul is immortal.
"There is mind, then, as well as matter, or rather,
if there be a difference of the degrees of evidence,
there is mind, more surely than there is matter; and
if at death not a single atom of the body perishes, but
that which we term dissolution, decay, putrefaction,
is only a change of the relative positions of those
atoms, which in themselves continue to exist with all
the qualities which they before possessed, there is
surely no reason, from this mere change of place of
tho atoms that formed the body, to infer, with respect
to the independent mind, any other change than that
of its mere relation to those separate atoms. The
continued subsistence of every thing corporeal cannot,
at least, be regarded as indicative of the annihilation
of the other substance, but must, on the contrary, as
far as the mere analogy of the body is of any weight,
be regarded as a presumption in favour of the con-
tinued subsistence of the mind, when there is nothing
around it which has perished, and nothing even
which has perished, in the whole material universe.
90 OPINIONS OF VARIOUS AUTHORS.
since the universe itself was called into being." Dr
Thomas Brown.
"The mind remembers, conceives, combines, and
reasons; it loves, it fears, and hopes in the total
absence of any impression from without, that can
influence, in the smallest degree, these emotions; and
we have the fullest conviction that it would continue
to exercise the same functions in undiminished
activity, though all material things were at once
annihilated."-Abercrombie.
Mr Stewart also says, "Of all the truths we know,
the existence of mind is the most certain. Even the
system of Berkeley concerning the non-existence of
matter, is far more conceivable, than that nothing but
matter exists in the universe."
Plato also wrote thus:-" The body being com-
pounded, is dissolved by death ; the soul, being simple,
passeth into another life, incapable of corruption."
That accomplished physician and metaphysician,
Dr Abercrombie, after relating the effects on memory
of diseases and disorders of the brain, with, in many
instances, ~erious organic lesion, concludes thus: "One
thing, however, is certain, that they give no counte-
nance to the doctrine of materialism, which some
have presumptuouslydeduced from a very partial view
of the influence of cerebral disease upon the manifes-
tations of mind. They shew us, indeed, in a very
striking manner, the mind holding intercourse with
the external world through the medium of the brain
and nervous system ; and, by certain diseases of these
organs, they shew this intercourse impaired or sus-
pended; but they shew nothing' more. In particular,
they warrant nothingin any degree analogous to those
oigit"edb,Google
11L'ID THE C&USE Oi' ORGAIUS11, ~~
partial deductions which form the basis ofmaterialism.
On the contrary, they shew us the brain injured and
diseased to an extraordinary extent, without the men-
tal functions being affected in any sensible degree."
(This power no doubt arises from each hemisphere
having corresponding organs, and consequently when
only one is diseased, the other may be adequate to the
manifestntion of the mental phenomena.) "They
shew us farther, the manifestations of mind obscured
for a time, and yet reviving in all their original vigour
almost in the very moment of dissolution. Finally,
they exhibit to us the mind, cut off from all inter-
course with the external world, recalling its old im-
pressions, even of things long forgotten, and exercis-
ing its powers on those which had long ceased to
exist, in a manner totally irreconcilable with any
idea we can fonn of a material function." On the
Intellectual Powers, pp. lli4, 155.
In addition to what I have already advanced in re-
futation of the doctrine of materialism, I beg to sub-
mit what appears to me much more probable than
that mental manifestations are the result of mere
organism,- namely, that organism is the result of
mind, or the principle of life influencing or directing
organism in accordance with what may be its especial
wants and desires. We know that every seed of a
plant has a principle of life imparted to it by the great
first cause of all, by which, when sown ' in congenial
soil, it will exert its powers, aud appropriate to itself
materials from the soil, to form au organism in accor-
dance with its peculiar wants and nature; and that,
having passed through certain conditions, and fonned
other kindred seed or genus to propagate its kind
92 'HIND AND LIFE
under a return of favouring circumstances, the plant
dies, and is resolved into its original elements. Man
and animals also possess similar faculties for pro.pa-
gating and multiplying their species; and to me it
appears far more probable, that the peculiar orjl&nism
of each variety results from the vivifying or intelligent
principle we call life or mind (and no one denies the
existence of the former, although we know nothing
of its essence or mode of operation,) directing and de-
termining appropriate formation, than that the mere
accidental union of particles of matter, in definite
quantity and form, should be the cawe of mental phe-
nomena.* Itis truewecan here only speak ofanalogies,
but the analogy in favour of this proposition seems far
more natural and probable than the other. Is it not,
for example, apriori, as probable, on viewing a well
planned factory, fitted up with what iscalled self-acting
machinery, for us to suppose that the whole should
have been planned, and the machinery constntcted,
in accordance with the intelligent designs of a skilful
artist, as that the brute matter, of which the whole is
constructed, came into its particular forms and arrange-
ments of its own accord, or by accident, and thus pro-
duced the intelligence of the superintending possessor1
The higher and more perfect the original force, or life,
• The original identity of structure of the germ of the most
various organic beings, constituted, as it always is, of a cell,
with a nucleus, seems to prove, that the cause of the variety
of classes, families, genera, and species of animals and plants
developed from the germ, resides not in the structure or
chemical property of the germ, but in the idea or spirit
implanted in it at ita creation.'' (MUlkr, p. 1339.)
o;g,, zed by Google
TBB CAUSE OF ORGA.NISH, 93
or spirit, originally imparted into each species, the
more complex and extensive should we expect to find
the corresponding organism, to adapt it for the suitable
performance ofits more varied functions ; and it there-
fore was necessary for man to have that superiority,
even in the form and functions of his hands, in which
he so much surpasses that of all other animals, to fit
him for the execution of the more extended range of
operations, which his superior endowments and cere-
bral organism fitted him to devise.
In this view of the subject, (and it appears to me,
after consulting the various opinions of our ablest
authorities on life and organization, to be the most
satisfactory conclusion I could arrive at,) every plant
or animal, however minute, may have a particular
vital or directing principle originally imparted to it,
and still sustained in its power by the great Creator,
without the necessity of according to each an immor-
tal existence and responsibility. Nor is there any
thing irreconcilable in the supposition that man, with
higher original powers, and more perfect organism,
fitting him to use these appropriately, and who is the
highest link in the chain, in this world, between
inorganic matter and the Supreme Being, should be
constituted a responsible agent, and exist hereafter,
whilst those creatures with less expansive faculties,
both of life and organization, may be exempted from
such ultimate responsibility, and may not be immortlll.
This is only analogous to what we see in respect to
a commanding officer and his men, the jONMr on(V
being responsible for imprudent enterprises, the
latter being con!lidered merely as instruments in his
.hands.
o;g,, zed by Google
· POWER OF CONSCIENCE.
I shall close these remarks on the immol'tality of
the soul by a quotation from that excellent work,
"Abercrombie on thu Intellectual Powers." "This
momentous truth rests on a species of evidence alto-
gether different, which addresses itself to the moral
constitution of man. It is found in those principl~
of his nature by which be feels upon !tis spirit the
awe of a God, and looks forward to the future with
anxiety or with hope,- by which he knows to dis-
tinguish truth from falsehood, and evil from good, and
bas forced upon him the conviction that he is a moral
and responsible being. This is the power of con"
science, that monitor within, which raises its voice in
the breast of every man, a witness for his Creator.
He who resigns himself to its guidance, and he who
repels its warnings, are both compelled to acknow-
ledge its power; and whether the good man rejoices
in the prospect of immortality, or the victim of re-
morse withers beneath an influence unseen by human
eye, and shrinks from the anticipation of a reckoning
to come, each has forced upon him a conviction, such
as argument never gave, that the being which is
essentially himself is distinct from any function of the
body, and will survive in undiminished vigour when
the body shall have fallen into decay.
" There is thus, in the consciousness of every man,
a deep impression of continued existence. The casuist
may reason against it till be bewilder himself in his
own sophistries; but a voice within gives the lie to
his vain speculations, and pleads with authority for a
life which is to come. The sincere and humble
inquirer cherishes the impression, while he seeks for
farther light on a subject so momentous, and ~
o;g,, zed by Google
PASSIONS EXCITED BY JIUBIC, 95
thus receives, with absolute conviction, the truth
which beams upon him from the revelation ofGod,that
the mysterious part of his being, which thinks, and
wills, and reasons, shall indeed survive the wreck of
its mortal tenement, and is destined for immor-
tality."•
It must be obvious to all, that every variety of
passion and emotion can be excited in the mind by
music ; but how does this arise 1 Simply by the
different effects produced by the varied degrees of
velocity, force, quality, and combinations of the
oscillations of the air acting on the auditory nerves,
these again communicated to the brain, and this acting
on the mind and body, creating corresponding mental
And bodily manifestations. Every one must have
observed the remarkable effects evinced by these
means on the physiognomy, and the more critically
observant must have noticed, that in susceptible
individuals there is also a very marked change in the
state of the respiration and general posture of the
body. They must also have experienced, in them-
selves and others, how prone we are to assume a
* To those who wil;h to pursue the subject farther, I beg
to refer to Dr Samuel Clarke on the BeiDg and Attributes of
God, pp. 70-75 ; Jackson on Matter and Mind, pp. 41-47,
51 ; Warburton's Divine Legation, vol. 1. book 3d; Drew'a
Essay on the Immortality of the Soul ; and Ramsay's Prin·
ciples, pp. 233-5 ; also Brougham and Bakewell, where
they will find it ably argued as fAr as Natural Theology can
avail ; but the sacred volume contains a lucidity and sanc-
tion beyond all we ean adduce from mere human inge11uity,
and I therefore conclude by referring to it, as " life and im-
mortality are clearl1 brought to light through the Gospel."
o;g,, zed by Google
9G CA.USBS OF TRB PIIEMOKUA..
sympathetic condition, both of mind and body, from
those with whom we associate, or during a temporary
interview. These physical changes seem to result
from a mental influence imparted through the eyes
and ears, and then reflected from within, through the
respiratory, facial, and spinal ne"es, on the external
form and features. Now, such being the case, is there
any great improbability, that by calling the m118Cles
of expression into action during the hypnotic state,
by titillating certain ne"es, that the impression of
the feeling with which such external manifestation is
generally associated should be reflected on the brain,
and excite in the mind the particular passion or
emotion 1 I think it is highly probable this is the
true cause of the phrenological manifestations during
the hypnotic condition ; and as it is the peculiar
feature of this condition, that the whole energies of
the soul should be concentrated on the emotion
excited, the manifestation, of course, becomes very
decided. I presume the different points pressed on,
through the stimulus given to various fasciculi of
nerves, call into action certain combinations of
mnscles of exprE>ssion in the face and general frame,
and also influence the organs of respiration, and thus
the mind is influenced, indirectly, through the organs
of common sensation and the sympathetic, as sneezing
is excited in some by too strong a light irritating the
optic nerves. Two patients who are highly intelli-
gent, and remain partially conscious, and who
acknowledge they did all in their power to resist the
influence excited by manipulating the head, state, that
the first feeling was a drawing of the muscles of the
face, and affection of the breathing, which was fol-
o;g,, zed by Google
SITUATION OF SYMPATHETIC POINTS. 97
lowed by an irresistible impulse to a.ct as they did,
but why they could not tell.
In this view of the subject it would resolve itself
into the laws of sympathy, and the question then is,
where are the external or superficial points of the
sympathies located1 Experience must decide this,
and in the peculiar condition induced by hypnotism,
a.ccording to my own experience, this can be more
readily and certainly determined than in the normal
state. These points having been ascertsinetl, we can
then determine how and where to a.ct a.ccording to
our particular object ; and it can be of no real impor-
tance where the cerebral points or special organs may
be posited.
As to the· reallocations of the sympathetic points,
by stimulating which we produce peculiar manifesta-
tions, they appear to me not to be quite accurately
the same in all heads, but, on the whole, pretty near
the centres of the organs as mapped out on heads
generally approved by phrenologists, and I have had
decided proof that there is some relation subsists
betwixt the size and function, as in general there is
more energy displayed when there is large develop-
ment, and the negative when it is defective. Thus,
a patient with large combativeness or destructiveness,
when excited during hypnotism, will display great
violence and disposition to attack others, whereas,
where theyare defective, they will shrink and express
a fear that some one is quarrelling, or angry with
them.
If the solution of the cause of these remarkable
phenomena now given should not be deemed correet,
the only other which occurs to my mind as at all
G
Digit zed b,Google
98 DR ELLIOTSON'S OPINIONS
satisfactory, is this, that thE~ different fasciculi of sen~
tient nerves excite direct!§ the c01·ruponding pointa
of the brain, and these again the physical manifesta-
tions. We know by what musical combinations and
movements we can excite the different passions ; we
know also that this arises from some peculiar im·
pression communicated to the brain through the
portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves ; and
whether this is conveyed to it as a single organ only,
or as a combination of organs, it is clear that, as the
origin of the al!'Denth is more remote from the brain
than the origin of the fifth, there must, consequently,
be at least as great difficulty in accounting for such
results being excited through the different branches
of the ae-oenth as through those of the fifth pair.
The animal magnetizers do not now contend
for their oolitiona being necessary. Dr Elliotson
distinctly states, in a published letter, elated 11th
Septeml•er, 1842, that he had "never produced any
effect by mere willing ;" and adds, " I have never seen
reason to believe, (and I have made innumerable
comparative experiments upon the point,) that I have
heightened the effect of my processes by exerting the
strongest will, or lessened them by thinking inten-
tionally of other things, and endeavouring to bestow
no more attention upon what I was about than was
just necess:~ry to carry on the process. So far from
willing, I have at first had no idea of what would be
the effect of my processes ; in exciting the cerebral
organs, the effect ensues as well in my female patient
though the manipulator be a sceptic, and may there-
fore be presumed not to wish the proper result to
ensue, atJd though I stand aside, and do not know
o;g,, zed by Google
AS TO VOLITION AND SYMPATHY. 99
what organ he has in view. I have never excit.ed
them by the mere will ; I have excited them with my
fingers just as well when thinking of other matters
with my friends, and momentarily forgetting what I
was about," &c. The Doctor also denies his belief in
the phrenological results arising from sympathy with~
the state ofthe operator'g brain. I feel convinced that
he is right in these sentiments, and believe that the
same degree of mechanical pressure or stimulus to the
integuments of the cranium, from an inanimate sub-
stance, when the patient is in the proper stage of the
mesmeric condition, will produce the same manifesta-
tion as tbe personal touch of either sceptic or believer
in animal magnetism. Thus, touching them witll a
knobbed glass rod, three feet long, bas produced the
phenomena with my patients as certainly as personal
contact, so that if there isany thing of'Dital magnetism
in it, it is subject to different laws from that of ordi-
nary magnetism or electricity.
Mere pointing I have myself found sufficient to
excite the manifestations in several patients, after
previous excitement of the organs, but this arises
from feeling, as I know the sensibility of the skin
in those cases enables them to feel toitlwut actual
contact.
The following experiment seems to me to prove
clearly that the manifestations were entirely attri-
butable to the mechanical pressure operating on an
excited state of the nervous system. I placed a cork
endways over the organ of veneration, and bound it
in that position by a bandage passing under the chin.
I now hypnotized the patient, and observed the
effect, which was precisely the same, for some time,
o;g,, zed by Google
100 EFFECTS OP l!lJO'LB PRESSURE,
as when no such appliance was used ; after a minute
and a half had elapsed, an altered expression of
countenance took place, and a movement of the arms
and hands, which latter became clasped as in adora-
tion, and the patient now arose from the seat and
knelt down as if engaged in prayer. On moving the
cork forwards, active benevolence was manifested,
and on being pushed back, veneration again mani-
fested itself. I have repeatedly tried similar experi-
ments with this, and other patients, with the like
results, including other organs. It is clear there was
no mechanical pressure to direct the movement doum-
UJarda, because there was pressure upuxwdl al8o; and
had there been any preconceived notion in the patient's
mind, to excite to such action, it ought to have been
manifested immediately on palling into tAe skql. None
of the patients had the slightest notion of what was
my object in making such experiments, and none of
them saw the others operated on. At page 141, it
will be obsen·ed, pressure by their own fingers pro-
duced similar manifestations, even whilst their minds
were expecting some other results.
Whilst it is generally agreed that the brain
admits of being divided into regions for the animal
propensities, moral sentiments, and intellectual facul-
ties, it has not been at all possible to prove satisfac-
torily the t~xact position and size of each organ, as
noted by the phrenologists. Granting that there is a
distinct organ or point in the brain for each faculty,
which I think is highly probable, still there must
ever be insuperable difficulty in thus accurately deter-
mining character, eyen supposing we knew the exact
position and size of each organ, because much must
o;g,, zed by Google
PHRENOLOGY WHY IMPERFECT. 101
depend upon the state of perfection of structure, and
activity of the point or organ, as well as its absolute
size. Thus, a person with a large eye may have defec-
tive sight, whilst a person with a small eye may see
clearly and distinctly, the greater perfection of struc-
ture, and activity of the optic nerves, more than
compensating for mere· deficiency of size. So it is
with the brain, a part may be abnormally Jarge, and
the faculty dull, from want of power or activity, or
perfection of organic structure ; and the reverse may
obtain, a small development, with high activity, may
render its function predominant. It is from a want
of such knowledge as this that phrenology must ever
prove imperfect, even granting the localities to be
correctly ascertained and established. However,
when we have ascertained the points where, by acting
in any peculiar manner, we can excite into activity
particularsympatheticphylicalandmentalassociations,
whilst the other faculties are put into a state of
quiescence, it appears to me to be a matter of far
greater importance, and a subject still more curious,
than any thing ever brought forward by phrenolo-
gists. Itis far moreavailable for practical purposes too.
Phrenologists could at best only pretend to tell the
natural tendencies of an individual, and direct that he
should be educated in accordance with a specific plan,
as has hitherto been done independently ofphrenology,
from watching the natural dispositions and habits of
different individuals, by encouraging and directing
their studies in such and such a direction ; but here,
in addition to this, we have the power of giving a
decided impulse in any particular direction. It ought
not to be overlooked, that this does not deprive us of
o;g,, zed by Google
102 IMPORTANCE OF INQUIRY,
any of our former available modes of instruction in
science and morality, but it promises to prove a
powerful auxiliary for expediting and ensuring the
success of those means. It therefore follows, that it
becomes the duty of every well-wisher to his species
to investigate this matter, and determine bow far it is
!Jenerally applicable. It is still more the duty of the
medical faculty to do so, because, should farther
experience determine this question in the affirmative,
it is reasonable to expect it may be turned to the best
account in the cure of disease, by applying our
remedies locally, to the cutaneous points which have
been ascertained to be the centres of the morbid eon-
catenation. Thus, leeching and sedatives, &c. might
be applied to such points when there was excitement ·
of the corresponding functions, and mce '1Jer11a, with
the reasonable hope of success ; and if this method
cannot be effective, we can be pretty certain of success
through hypnotism, by exciting the morbidly low
faculty where there is depression, and the antagonist
organ where there has been excitement. In this
manner I have no doubt but hypnotism may Jlrove of
incalculable advantage in the treatment of many cases
of insanity, and nervous affections tending to induce
that disease.
I am quite aware some will be reR<Iy to start an
objection to my views, by stating that the scalp,
where many or most of these demonstrations have
been manifested, is not highly sensitive, that it is not
extensively supplied with sensient nerves, and that
they all arise from the fifth pair, and do not pass
directly through the skull to the subjacent points of
the brain. This, however, does not prove that the
o;g,, zed by Google
HOW DIFFERENT PARTS ARE CONNECTED, 103
terminal branches may not ultimately have a special
influence on such points, notwithstanding their cir-
cuitous course to arrive there. I beg to remind
such individuals that "'e are by no means sufficiently
acquainted with the laws and distribution of the
nervous system, to be able to prescribe rules as to
Aoto it OU!Jht and muzt act. Who does not know, that
until the discoveries of our illustrious countryman,
Sir Charles Bell, the same nerve was considered to
~ve both sense and motion? And when he pro-
p~unded that the true cause of its double functions
was because of its having drmhle roots, was not this
announcement scouted for some time, and then, when
proved to be true, were not attempts made to rob Sir
Charles Bell of the honour of the discovery 1
There seems to be great reason to conclude that the
distribution of the nerves of the scalp will ultimately
be found far more intricate and beautifully arranged
than at present we have any conception of.
I shall now proceed to state my views as to the
mode in which different parts of the brain are asso-
ciated with different parts of the body. I have long
quite agreed with those physiologists who consider
that the f7ia nertl08a is something circulated in tubes,
that the primitive nerve-tubes do not anastomose,
but only run parallel with others, remaining dis-
tinct and isolated throughout their course, and that
consequently the " cerebral extremity of each fibre is
connected with the peripheral extremity of a single
nervous fibre only, and that this peripheral extremity
is in relation with only one point of the brain or
spinal cord: so that, corresponding to the many
millions of primitive fibres which are given off to
104 HOW P.lSSIONS ARB EXCITED.
peripheral parts of the body, there are the same num-
ber of peripheral points of the body represented in the
brain. The sensation of a single point evidently
depends on the impression being conveyed by means
of a single fibre to a single point of the sensorium."
(MUller.) It is from the same cause that we can
regulate simple or associated movements of distinct
members.
From all these considerations it appears quite rea-
sonable to suppose, and analogy, as respects distinct
organs being appropriated for other special functions,
warrants the inference, that different parts of the
brain may have special functions to perfonn, both as
regards mind and matter ; and that, when such
points are excited into inordinate activity, the mani-
festations will become correspondently more con-
spicuous, and 'llice verRa,
We know from experience that the various passions
and emotions can be excited through the organ of
hearing either by music or oratory, through the eyes
by painting and sculpture, and likewise, though less
extensively and efficiently, through common sensa-
tion, and there seems to me to be nothing, apriori, to
militate against the probability, that this may be
effected to a much greater extent than has yet been
done, provided we can only discover the peculiar
mode of exciting certain portions of the brain. If
the views already advanced, that every point of the
body supplied by primitive nervous fibres has a distinct
corresponding point in the brain, it is clear, that by
titillating each peripheral point, we shall excite its
corresponding central point ; and from what $hall be
found detailed in the experiments recorded, it appears
o;g,, zed by Google
SKEI.LIE'S PREDICATION, 106
highly probable that the respective parts of the brain
corresponding to ~ part of the body, may be
excited into activity through certain sympathetic
points in the integuments of the head and neck, and
if so, we may also excite into activity the whole of
those actions, mental and muscular, which are asso-
ciated with each portion of the cerebrum. In this
ease Smellie'ssupposition would be completely realized
in man. He expresses himself thus :-" I can con-
ceive a superior being so thoroughly acquainted with
the human frame, so perfectly skilled in the connec-
tion and mutual dependence which subsist between
our intellect and our sensitive organs, as to be able,
bytitillating in various modes anddirections,particular
combinations of nerves, or particular branches of any
single nerve, to excite in the mind what ideas he may
think proper. I can likewise conceive the possibility
of suggesting any particular idea, or species of ideas,
by affecting the nerves in the same manner as these
ideas affect them when excited by any other cause."
This confident aspiration seems to be now in a great
measure realized, by certain mocles of manipulating
patients during the hypnotic condition, of which I
shall now adduce a few illustrations.
My first attempt to excite the phreno-hypnotic
phenomena was in the month of April, 1842, in the
lecture-room at Liverpool, but it did not succeed. I
then tried the experiment rt'peatedly in private,
putting the patients to sleep by contact as well as in
my usual way, but still could not succeed. I was
anxious to try it fairly, and therefore applied to Mr
Brookes, through the kindness of Dr Birt Davies of
Birmingham, for information as to the mode Mr
r-,
o;g,, zed by Google
lOG PHRENG-HYPNOTIC EXPERIMENTS
Brookes bad practisecl so successfully, and which was
most politely communicated to me by both these
gentlemen. I tried this mode with several patients,
both in my usual plan and that of the animal
magnetisers, but was still unsuccessful. I now
abandoned it as a hopeless task, presuming the
ca..qes which had proved successful with others must
have been luaua naturm, or that the operators had
deceived themselves, the patients having been led to
answer, and give the manifestations they did, from
the nature of the leading questions proposed, and
might afterwards remember what passed at previous
operations, and answer accordingly ; whilst, like
natural somnambulists, they might not remember,
when awake, what had passed during their sleep.
Last December I was induced to make another
attempt, from reading a report of Mr Spencer T. Hall's
two first lectures on the subject, at Sheffield : and it
was remarkable, that the very first patient I tried in
that way exhibited several of the manifestations.
However, I was led to refer the result to a totally
different cause from what he and the other animal
magnetisers did. I concluded it arose from the
different degrees of sensibility of different parts of the
integuments, conveying correspondingly varied im-
pressions when similarly impressed, and exciting diffe-
rent ideas in the mind, and thus calling up old associ-
ations ; and that when similarly impressed the same
ideas might again present themselves to the mind. I
considered this far more probable than that the brain
was affected by any transmission from the operator to
the brain directly through the skull ; and to prove this,
tried the effect of pressure over parts which had no
o;g,, zed by Google
HOW EXCITED. 107
cerebral suhstance directly suhjacent, and the results
confirmed myexpectations. Thus,pressure on the apex
of the mastoidprocess, and the ossa nasi, and the chin,
were as certainly followed by particularmanifestations,
as pressure on different parts of the cranium were
followed by others. I also very soon ascertained that
the same points of the cranium, when thus excited,
did not excite the same ideas or emotions to the minds
of different patients, which I considered ought to have
been the case, according to the views of the stanch
· phrenologists. I have since discovered the cause of
this, namely, not ha'Ding operated at the proper stage
of the hypnotic condition.
I shall now adduce a few examples. On one sub-
jAct, after being in the hypnotic condition for a few
minutes, by applying gentle pressure over the ossa
nasi. immoderate laughter was immediately excited,
and ceased as abruptly on removing the contact. The
abruptness of these transitions, especially from immo-
derate laughter to the extreme gravity and vacancy of
expression peculiar to the hypnotic state, was quite
ludicrous, and almost beyond belief. Supposing she
were singing the most grave tune and solemn words, the
moment the nose was touched in this manner, by any
one, she was irresistibly thrown into this merry mood,
but would join in the tune again with the utmost
gravity the moment the contact ceased. Rubbing the
same part, or pinching up the skin over it, seemed to
produce no effect whatever. On applying pressur~
to this patient's chin there was an immediate catch in
the breathing, with sighing and sobbing, which would
subside on removing the point of contact. By touch-
ing both nose and chin at same time there was the
o;g,, zed by Google
108 PHRENQ-BYPNOTIC EXPERIIIBNTS,
most ludicrous combination of Janghing and crying,
each struggling for the mastery, as we sometimes see
in hysteric attacks. Both would cease immediately
on removing the contact. Friction or pinching the
skin on the chin had no effect of producing such
phenomena. In short, no part of this patient which
I tested seemed capable of being excited by friction
or pinching the integuments, excepting around the
orbits, which produced spectra, although Jess perfectly
so than by simple pressure against the bone. This
patient, being pressed over the phrenologists' organ. of
time, always expressed a desire "to write"- a letter
-to her mother or her brother ; over their organ of
tune, "to sing ;" between this and wit, "to be judici-
ous ;" the boundary between wit and causality, "to
be clever ;" causality, "to have knowledge;" in the
centre of the forehead, to have "a certain perception
of learning;" below this the phrenologists' eventu-
ality, "to be skilful ;" the points of the bead occupied
by veneration and benevolence were sometimes in-
dicated by the desire " to be virtuous," or "to be
honourable;" most frequently, when the point touched
was over benevolence, the answer was, " to be honour-
able," and when over the other point, " to be virtu-
ous," when both points were touched at same time, it
was, " to be honourable and virtuous," and the same
answer was always given when these points were
touched combined toith No. 1, or amatitJenes8. When
the latter was touched alone, the answer always was
"to be commended;" when approximating the
mastoid process, or over that process, a remarkable
placidity, or expression of delight, came over the
countenance, and the desire was for " complacency,"
o;g,, zed by Google
PHRBNG-BYPNOTIC EXPBBillBJITB. 109
which, when hypnotized, she defined, "to be civil,"
but when awake she seemed at a loss to know what
the word meant. On touching "combativeness" the
placidity of countenance was speedily exchanged for
the opposite expression ; but on pressure being made
immediately above the ears, the most ferocious aspect
of countenance was assumed, the breath being sup-
pressed almost to suffocation,the face becoming flushed,
with grinding of the teeth ; and when the arms
were not rigid, the most vigorous efforts at inflicting
violence on all who were within her reach, as.several
gentlemen can attest to their personal knowledge and
sorrow. On pressure being applied to the root of the
nose, the idea of seeing different forms, and figures,
and colours, seemed to be excited in the mind, more
vividly when certain points were thus excited, but it
could be excited by pressing the integuments against
the under, as well as upper edge of the orbit, with
this difference, that the objects seen, or rather spectra
excited, were then generally of a painful and dis-
tressing chaJ'I!.cter, whereas they were generally of
a bright, and glowing, or cheerful description when
excited by acting on the upper margin of the orbit.
I should observe, that care was taken, in all these
experiments, not to press againtt tke globe of tke eye.
'rhus far the phenomena were pretty uniform in this
patient, the answers having been generally very
much the same when impressed ezactly in tke satMJ
11Jay, on tke samepoints, and under similar circumttancu
in all otker rupectB. Thus, the last day I bad an
opportunity of testing this patient, I went over the
different points four times with scarcely the slightest
variation in the answers, as can be testified by several
o;g,, zed by Google
110 l'HRENo-HYPNOTIC .EXPERIMENTS.
gentlemen who were present ; anti they were again
repeated two or three times the same evening with
like results. This patient was operated on the previous
day in presence of several professional and scientific
gentlemen, when several answers were given diffe-
rent. More than one being operating on that occasion,
and the manner and degree of touching the parts
being different, might be the cause of the varied
results. I am satisfied this patient knew nothing of
phrenology; and that she remembered nothing of
what she said, or was done to her during these
operations.
Case II. In this patient friction would ezcite, whilst
pre~sure had no effect in calling forth manifestations.
In this case, friction over the osaa naai excited the
desire for " something to smell," generally aromatic
vinegar or Eau de Cologne ; over the chin, for some-
thing to eat ; over the tendon of the orbicularis, a
alight tendency to laugh ; close upon the root of tho
nose, friction excited spectra, and round the orbit, in
like manner, the same or similar spectra, differing in
form, and hue, and combination, according to the
degree ofpressure and friction applied ; over the organ
of tune, " to sing ;" over the back part of the base of
the head, expressed herself " very happy and com-
fortable;" over combativeness and destructiveness, a
quarrelsome disposition, as manifested in word, look,
an«l action. 'fhe other parts tried were less certain or
decided in this patient.
Case III. In this patient, friction excited the desire
" to waltz," when applied over the organ of tune,
and the desire "to walk," when applied to the organ
of wit, as mapped by the phrenologists, and in liko
SUPPOSED CAUSE 01' PBUO.MENA. 111
manner, " to sing," when veneration was the point
affected. Speetra, also, when the integuments were
rubbed against the margin of the orbits. Although
not corresponding with the phrenological charts, nor
with what occurred in the others, similar answers
wE>re given when the same points were similarly
excited.
Case IV. When asked what she would like, when
manipulated as the others referred to, always an-
swered, " nothing at all," excepting over the most
sensitive parts of the cranium, when her answer was,
" leeches to my head."
Case V. Very much the same as the last.
I think the cases referred to support my position,
that the different results arise from the circumstance
of different parts of the integuments having different
degrees of sensibility, and thus exciting different
ideas in the mind when the same quality and inten-
sity of stimulus is applied to each part in succession.
There can be no doubt but the point under which
the phrenologists have posited "combativeness and
destructiveness," is the most highly sensitive of any
part of the cranium, and is always accompanied with
symptoms of the patients feeling pain, and, as a
matter of course, they will offer resistance, and at-
tempt to free themselves from the offending cause ;
and so of the rest, according to their respective im-
pressibilities.
After the above remarks bad been written, and my
work sent to press, I met with the following most
interesting case :-I was informed that a child, five
years and a half old, who had been present when I
exhibited the experiments on No. I. the same even-
o;g,, zed by Google
112 CHILD HYPNOTIZES HER NURSE.
ing had proposed to operate on her nurse. The nurse
bad no objection to indulge the girl, never supposing
any eft'eet could take place. However, it appeared
she speedily closed her eyes, when the child, imitat-
ing what she saw me do, placed a finger on her fore-
head, and asked what she would like, when the
patient answered, " to dance ;" on trying another
point, the answer was, " to sing," and the two then
bad a song together, after which the juvenile experi-
menter roused the patient in the same manner she
had seen me do.
The above circumstance being related to me the
following day, I felt curious to ascertain whether
there might not be some mistake, as there had been
no third party present, and it depended entirely on
the statement of the child, which induced me, when
visiting the family the day after, to request permis-
sion to test the patient. This was readily granted ;
and, to my astonishment, she manifested the pheno-
mena in a degree far beyond any case I had tried ;
indeed, she did so, with a degree of perfection which
baftles description.
However frequently she was tried, the same ex-
pression of countenance, the same condition of the
respiration, and similar postures of the body have
been evinced, when the same points were pressed.
Indeed, so highly susceptible was she, that, after a few
trials, when I pointed a finger or glass rod over the
part, without contact, similar manifestations resulted,
only in a less rapid and more modified degree. I
also found by trying No. II. at an earlw ~toge, that
her susceptibility was almost equal to the present
case. The following are a few of the more striking
o;g,, zed by Google
RBJURJU.BLE BXPBRiliiENTS. 113
manifestations : pressure on·the chin wss followed
by movement of the jaws, lips, and tongue, with the
desire to cat ; on the lower part of the nose, " to
smell;" insertion of tendon ofthe orbicularis, immode-
rate laughter, which, on being asked why she laughed,
the answer indicated, it was from a sense of the ludi-
crous being excited ; over time, " to dance ;" tune,
" to sing," with pressure on the eye at same time,
she did sing part of a song ; over the back of the
head, No. I. she shuddered and retreated, under the
impression that some one was about to take liberties
with her, the same feeling of delicacy was also mani-
fested when any otker part of tha body UJa8 touclted
ezcepting tM haad and face; over apex of mastoid
process, the desire to shake hands and be friendly; the
former, with No.4, or adhesiveness, she would lean to,
orclssp anyone near her; combativeness, the reverse;
destructiveness, (it is very small,) she was distressed
from the notion that some one wa& quaN"elling witlt
Iter; philoprogenitiveness, she always said, "hark, the
poor child is crying!" secretiveness and caution, she
would tell nothing ; benevolence, " to tra'Del;" vene-
ration, she knelt down in the most solemn manner
and prayed; combined with hope an expression of
ecstasy united with devotion ; over .the eyebrows,
spectra of all forms and colours, gay and glowing,
and when below the eye, the notion of the sea, a
ship, and people about to be drowned; at a farther
trial, other manifestations came out equally, or even
more strikingly, according to the accuracy with which
the corresponding points were touched. In parti-
cular, I must note what happened the first time I
touched imitation, which was entirely accidental,
B
Digit zed b,Google
lJ.! EXPERillENTS,
and whilst, besides a relation of my own, there
was present a gentleman whose literary and scien-
tific attainments, and philosophic turn of mind,
ns well as high stnnding in society, render him an
ornament to our country. Besides imitating every
thing done or said in English, she imitated correctly
French, Italian, Spanish, German, Latin, and Greek;
every word was spoken with the utmost precision,
and has been done several times since before many
professional and scientific gentlemen, and ladies, who
can bear testimony to the extraordinary fidelity of
pronunciation and emphasis. I need scarcelyadd, she
could not do so when tested after being awakened.
Many other patients I have since made do the same,
one a girl of only twelve years of age.
On Mr Hall's arrival in Manchester, previous to
his first lecture, I had the pleasure of seeing him at
my house, when I exhibited my experiments on this
and another patient, with which he seemed much
gratified. I also afforded him an opportunity of
seeing them again next day. After I had them in
the hypnotic condition, I requested him to mani-
pulate their heads, which be did more minutely than
I had done, and consequently brought out additional
manifestations. I was on the alert to all he did and
said, for I was determined he should not have an
opportunity of prompting in any way, and most
assuredly, by exciting acquisitiveness, he very soon
led the patient to steal a silver snuff-box from a gen-
tleman present, and it was most striking the anxiety
with which she returned it, on Mr Hall removing the
point of contact to conscientiousnese,-the movement
of the arm was changed instantly, as if automatically.
o;g,, zed by Google
OBSERVATIONS OF TWO PATIENTS. 115
I had never tried to excite either of these two points.
The other manifestations, which I had previously
seen developed, were precisely the same under his
manipulations ns my own. I made several attempts
to excite the organ of benevolence, but without effect,
until one day I accidentally placed my finger so low
as I should have considered to be the middle of com-
parison, as marked on the busts, when she instantly
evinced the emotion in the most active manner,
saying, " poor creature, poor creature," and not eon-
tent, as many are, with mere words of compassion,
she anxiously presented us with all the money in
her pocket. I should not omit to add, that this
patient is quite unconscious of all she or others do
or say whilst in this state, and did not know the
location Gf a single organ.
It would <1nly be an unnecessary waste of time to
det:lil at length all the cases I have had since of
similar manifestations, varying in degree according
to the original constitution and habit of mind of
each patient. This variety is the most striking proof
of the reality of the phenomena. There are some
patients who have a sort of indistinct recollection of
what had passed, as if it bad been a dream; two in
particular, who observed they had an indistinct notion
of what they were doing, but felt irresistibly im-
pelled, as it were, to do certain things, even whilst
they thought complying with the predominant in-
clination would make them very ridiculous. This, I
presume, referred to imitation and comicality, and
s11ch like humorous faculties, which they displayed in
a very remarkable degree. These patients are highly
l'espectable and intelligent, and manifested the plw-
o;g,, zed by Google
116 EXPERIHENTS.
nomena quite as prominently as the patient last
named, that of veneration and hope, also filial affec-
tion, in a manner baffiing description. Each knew
only one phrenological organ.
That I might be the better certified that all was
reality, I also got a relation of my own to submit to
the operation, and it was quite conclusive. She has
a slight recollection of aome things which were said
and done, but of others seems quite oblivious.
I bad also the opportunity of verifying the truth-
fulness of these various and interesting phenomena
through the kindness of Mrs Col. - - , who sub-
mitted to be operated on by me in presence of her
husband, as also the Major ; the Captain and Surgeon
of the regiment ; a high dignitary of the church, and
who is also an eminently scientific gentleman; Mr
Gardom, surgeon, and other profeilSional gentlemen ;
Mr Aspina.l Turner, and a number of others, both
ladies and gentlemen. In about three minutes after
she was asleep, I plaeed two fingers over the point
named veneration, iusta.ntly the aspect of her coun-
tenance changed ; in a little she slowly, and solemnly,
and majestically a.rose from her cha.ir, adva.nced to-
wRrds the table in the middle of the room, and softly
sank ou her knees, and exhibited such a picture of
devout adoration as cau never be forgotten by any
who had the gratification to witness it. She was
tested with a number of other fa.culties, when the
corresponding manifesta.tions were equa.lly striking
and characteristic. When awakened, this lady was
quite unconscious of all which had happened.
Here, then, we have the testimony of a lady of the
highest respectability and intelligence, and energy of
Digit zed b,Google
EXPERIHBN'l'S. 117
mind, corroborating, both in word and action, and
look, the reality of the phenomena as exhibited by
others, and that in the presence of most respectable
and intelligent witnesses, who can bear testimony
that there was nothing said or done to direct her in
the important manifestations. This lady had been
hypnotized by me once before, for a few minutes, at
a private conversazione the week before, when she
sat down fully convineed she could NOT be affected,
but was soon made to acknowledge the power of
hypnotism, and now she was a valuable evidence to
the more novel investigation as to how far phreno-
logical manifestations could be developed during hyp-
notism.* I have now realized these phenomena very
prominently in forty-five patients, most of whom,
I am quite certain, knew nothing of phrenology,
some of them not even what the word n1eant; and
the smallness of the points to which the contact
must be made to elicit the manifestations correctly,
especially the subdivisions by Mr Hall, is such as to
* A report having been circulated, no doubt with the view
of neutralizing the intereet attaching to the case, that this
lady was a phrenologist, I called to inquire whether there
was any ground for such a report. Mrs S. herself assured
me it was quite erroneous, for it was a subject she had never
paid any attention to, and one she was quite ignorant of.
Wishing to be very circumstantially correct iu the statement,
she added, " I have understood the organ of music is some-
where about the forehead ;" when requested to place her
finger on the organ, she was quite wrong, so that she did not
knot~~ a ringk organ. I mentioned this circumstance, in her
presence, at another conversazione, when she most distinctly
declared the facts here recorded, to be strictly correct.
o;g,, zed by Google
118 MR DALL'S LECTURES.
render collusion most improbable. I was also care-
ful to avoid prompting, by putting leading questions.
I have also succeeded partially with others; and
several of my friends have also been successful with
a few other eases.
I attended Mr Hall's public lectures, and the
very first experiment he tried, February 24, 1843,
convinced me, that the reason why I bad not
sooner obtained the manifestations more generally
was, because I had allowed my patients to pass into
the supersentient state before testing them. I was
aware of the difference in the state of the circulation
through the brain in the state in which my patients
were, and what it must be in the state in which his
were during his operations, and conjectured, that by
trying my patients in that condition, I might get mani-
festations which I had failed to do at former trials ;
and the very first eases I tried proved this conjecture
to be correct. For example, No. II. already referred
to, exhibited a number of additional phenomena
beautifully; and Cases IV. and V. in like manner,
came out beautifully. From this single ob~rervation
on Mr Hall's mode, or rather time, of operating, I
have been enabled to arrive at a mode of operating
which, I believe, by putting patients into the hypno-
tic condition my own wny, there will be no great
difficulty in manifesting some of the phenomena in
most cases. There are some patients, however, who
will evince them much more prominently than
others, and the · power of habit seems evident in
most, being more readily operatetl on after a few
trials. Some, however, seem as perfect as possible at
the first trial.
o;g,, zed by Google
ILLUSTR.LTIV.E CASB PROM ABERCROXBIE. 11!)
I have tried several private friends, on whose in-
telligence, honour, and integrity, I could rely, and
also children, and have found the evidence so satis-
factory, that I am quite certain as to the reality of
the phenomena ; but as to my theoretical views, I
wish them to be considered as mere conjectures,
thrown out for the purpose of exciting others to
think, and investigate this curious and most inte-
resting and important subject.
I shall conclude this article by calling the attention
of my readers to the coincidence which appears to
subsist betwixt the phenomena now referred to, and
the mode of exciting dreaming, in some patients, by
whispering in their ears. I shall illustrate that by
reference to a case recorded in one of Dr Aber-
crombie's valuable works, on the authority of the
late Dr Gregory. It is that of the case of an
officer in the expedition to Louisburgh in 1758. His
brother officers were in the habit of amusing them-
selves at his expense. They could produce any kind
of dream they chose, especially if done by one with
whose voice be was familiar. Thus, at one time,
they conducted him through the whole process of a
quarrel, ending in a duel; and when it was supposed
the parties met, a pistol was put in his hand, which
he fired, and was awakened by its report. On another
occasion, being asleep on the locker of the cabin, he
was made to believe that he had fallen overboard,
and was told to save himself by swimming. He
imitated the art of swimming, when they told him
to dive for his life, as a shark was pursuing him,
which he attempted so energetically, that be threw
himself from the locker, by which he bruised himself
o;g,, zed by Google
120 BENEFIT OF LOCAL TRKATHENT
severely. Again, after the landing of the army, he
was found one day asleep in his tent, and apparently
much annoyed with the noise of the cannonading
then going on briskly. He was made to believe he
was engaged with the enemy, when he expressed
much fear, and betrayed a wish to run away. They
remonstrated against this act of cowardice, whilst
they increased his alarm by imitating the groans of
the wounded; and when he inquired who was killed,
which he often did, they named his particular friends.
At last he was told that the man next him in the
line bad fallen, when he instantly sprang from his
bed, rushl.'d out of the tent, and was aroused from his
sleep, and relieved from his fears, by falling over the
tent ropes. It is added, that after these experiments,
he bad no distinct recollection of his dreams, but
only a confused feeling of oppression or fatigue ; and
used to say to his friends, that he was sure they had
been playing him some tricks.
I shall add one illustration as to the probability of
benefit accruing to society from this subject being
prosecuted with zeal and due consideration. A highly
scientific friend, who had honoured me with his pre-
sence at a private conversazione, called two days
thereafter, and stated, that from reflecting on what I
had said and exhibited the day before as to the mode
of exciting certain points or functions of the brain
through acting on certain points of the scalp and
facl.', it appeared to him most reasonable to expect,
that by applying treatment to IUCh points, we might
most readily afford relief to disorderof the correspond.
ing internal organs. I told him I was so thoroughly
convinced of that, as to have been induced to act
o;g,, zed by Google
IN A CA.SE OF INSANITY, 121
accordingly; and that the daybefore I had been visiting
an insane patient, who entertained the horrible idea,
that she must murder every body she knew, and then
murder herself also ; that on placing my hand upon
the organs of combativeness and destructiveness, in a
few seconds, she gave a violent shudder, and seemed
greatly excited, and becoming perfectly furious. On
examining these parts, I found the integuments quite
red. I ordered leeches, and cold lotion afterwards,
but next day she remained equally violent, and the
pulse between 140 and 160, which it had been for
some time, notwithstanding medicines had been
given to depress it. I now made an incision an inch
and a half long through the integuments, and down
to the bone, and in twelve hours after found her
much calmer, and the pulse down to 100, and it
remained there for several days. There was no such
loss of blood as could have acted constitutionally on
the heart directly by the quantity effused. On again
rising, Belladonna plasters were applied- these not
having the desired effect, recourse was again had to
scarification .behind both ears, and with great success,
as in a few days she was so calm as not to require the
strait jacket, and for two months has been sullen but
harmless.
At another conversazione, the same gentleman
requested me to excite philoprogenitiveness, which
I did, and he then asked me to combine destruc-
tiveness along with it. I told him the faculty
would not be developed, because the organ was
so small in this patient as to make her always
imagine some one was quarrelling with her. Still he
wished me to try, which I did, and the result was
o;g,, zed by Google
122 OPINIONS OF SUNDERLAND AND llJ.LL.
that she immediately seemed distressed about some
one being angry with the children. Two days after I
was informed that the object of the request was to
prove that such would be the case, as he had whispered
to a professional gentleman present, before the answer
was elicited, and no one else in the room knew this
remark. Two days after, on a slip of paper handed
to me by the same gentleman, he had noted, that if
I would excite the same organs in another patient,
whose destructiveness was more prominent, I would
find she would be angry with the children, and wish
to punish or send them away, and assuredly it proved
so. He also added, that this is the combination of
morbid excitement which he conjectured, and I think
with great justice, is the cause of parents murdering
their own children dnring a fit of insanity. An
example of more acute, beautiful, and successful
induction than this could scarcely be conceived pos-
sible; and it is highly. gratifying to know that the
opinions of a gentleman of such talents and attain-
ments coincides so much with my general views on
this subject.
The doctrine propounded by the Rev. La Roy Sun-
derland, and Mr Spencer T. Hall, and others, seems
to be this, that there is a separate organ in the brain
for every mental faculty, emotion, propensity, desire,
and action, mental or corporeal ; that every positive
organ has also its negative organ proximate; and that
by certain manipulations during the mesmeric state,
these organs may be stimulated into activity singly or
combined, and thus caused to manifest the correspon-
ding faculty by thought, word, and action. They do not
deny the correctness of theoutlinesasgiven by former
o;g,, zed by Google
DIFFERENT ARRANGElllEN:J' ADVOCATED. 123
phrenologists; on the contrary, they bear positive tes~
timony to their general correctness. However, they
subdivide each of the former faculties, which we may
designate the pure faculties, into groups of distinct
organs,for the specific manifestation ofspecial faculties,
the tendencies to which were naturally included in
the simple or primitive general organ; and they
allege they can thus give such a special or character-
istic direction to the feeling as to entitle it to be con-
sidered as the manifestation of a distinct organ or
faculty.
It occurs to me, that this might be much simplified,
by considering, that on the central point of the general
organ, we stimulate fasciculi of nerves connected with
a general manifestation, for example, benevolence ;
but that, as we approach the surrounding organs, we
partially excite proximate facnlties, from some of their
corresponding peripheral sentient nerves co-mingling
with those of the otker faculty, and thus engender
a mixed manifestation; just as we find the intercourse
between neighbouring countries modifies the national
character which peculiarly belongs to each nation.
Thus, in one direction, benevolence (by which I illus-
trate my position) will be blended with comparison,
or excited through the influence ofassociation respect-
ing some one we have known, or from supposing
what might be our feelings were we placed in such
and such circumstances; in another direction, it will
be influenced more or less by the tendency to imitate
the benevolent acts of others, and, as we approach
veneration, it will partake more of a religious and
moral obligation iu.reference to the Deity. If I am
right in this conjecture, of course there will be every
o;g,, zed by Google
124 SUPPOSED CAUSE OF "CROSS-liUGNETIZING,"
possible shade of manifestation as we approach nearer
to the adjoining organ. I am not acquainted with
the mapping of the head either by La Roy Sunderland
or Mr Hall ; but, if the original compartments are to
be so divided and subdivided, according to the mere
varieties of manifestation during the hypnotic state,
I feel assured, that each of their 8'Uhdi'l!i8iona may
be again dif>ided, as a shade of difference will be
manifested by every possible change in the point of
contact.
I had much pleasure in witnessing Mr Hall's ex-
periments, and bore public testimony to the reality of
the general phenomena. This I could have done
from the mere circumstance of carefully watching the
peculiar expression of countenance, and state of the
respiration, induced by every move of the point of
contact. The shades of difference were so minute that
collusion was all but impossible. Moreover, I had per-
sonal experience of the reality of the leading pheno-
mena in a number of my own paiients, with parties
who knew nothing of phrenology, and whose respec-
tability and known character placed them above the
possibility of being suspected as acting a part, either
for the purpose of gratifying or deceiving othen:c.
Whilst I readily bear testimony to the reality of the
phenomena, and that I saw nothing in Mr Hall to
lead me to suppose he wished to deceive any one, it is
due to the cause of truth for me to state, that the
varieties which I observed in his phenomena and
those occurring in my own patients, I consider were
the mere results of the different manipulations used,
and not of any such special influence as be and other
animal magnetizers allege.
o;g,, zed by Google
PATIENTS RESTORED BY SHELL AND TOUCH, 126
In reference to the phenomena which were desig-
nated" cross-magnetizing," and which appeared most
distressing to the patients, as well as to the operator,
(fortunately no such effects have ever occurred in my
patients,) I think they may be explained thus: it
seems probable, part may be the result of imagina-
tion, or an accidental circumstance exciting the
opposing classes of muscles into action at the same
time. This may also be caused by exciting two
antagonist emotions, such as one requiring the ener-
getic action of the muscles of inspiration, and the
other the mJISCles of expiration, tho consequence of
which is, very speedily to throw the patient into a
state of partial asphyxia ; and the result must be, a
great difficulty in restoring the patient from the
deleterious influence of insufficiently decarbonised
blood circulating through the brain. Such I consider
was the case with the patient I saw create ~o much
trouble to l\Ir Hall on the evening of the 24th
February, 1843, in the lecture-room ofthe Athenreum,
Manchester.
Having heard Mr Hall state, that patients who had
stolen any thing would always seek out the persons
from whom it had been taken, and restore it to them
after conscientiousness was excited, and that they
would find out the rightful owner whatever part of
the room he bad removed to, I was curious to prove
this. My first object was to ascertain whether it
was a fact, which I very soon did with my own
patients, and my next object was to ~certain b!l what
meam they accompliilwl thu, and I readily determined
it was by amell and touch. The first thing they did, on
rousing conscientiousness, was to look thoughtful,
o;g,, zed by Google
126 POWEll OF BEA.RING FAINT SOUNDS.
then they began sniffing, and traced out the parties
robbed, and restored it to them. When asked, what
are you doing? the answer was, "I am giving back
something which I had stolen." On being asked, how
do you know the person 1 (having gone to the opposite
side of the room,) the answer was, " I smell them,
or him." Every time the experiment was tried, the
result was the same, and the answer the same, as
was obvious to every one in the room. Another
patient did the same uihen the seMe of nnell was acuu,
but when I tried the experiment with the senae of
81/~ll dulkd, the stolen article was merely laid down,
without giving it to the .proper person. There was
thus both positive and negative proof of exalted
smell being the cause of them restoring to the proper
party; and feeling directs as to place. I have found
this done with the same promptitude and certainty
when six, eight, or twelve faculties had been roused
and manifested before conscientiousness was excited.
I have found this the same in all I have tried, only
some will throw the articles down us if horror-
struck.
The movement of the jaws also, and various other
movements in imitation of the operator, I have
ascertained arise from their remarkable power of
hearing eztretMly faint sounds, and the most curious
point is this, that they seem to have the power of
discerning such faint sounds, when they seem not to
be affected by 'Dery loud sounds. It is also the same
with feeling. They will in some states be insensible
to pricking, pinching, or maiming, but so highly
sensible to a breath of air, or the tickling of a feather,
that they may be instantly roused by the latter
o;g,, zed by Google
PnECAUTIOKS ADOPTED, 127
means, when the former would have no such influ-
ence. Probably this is the cause of the remarkable
effects of a current of air, its rousing cutaneous sensi-
bility, directing the nervous influence to the skin,
and withdrawing it from rigid muscles, thus reducing
the cataleptiform state, and permitting the blood
and ms neroosa to flow in their usual manner. The
latter change being induced gradually, may probably
be the cause of the feeling which is described as that
of needles and pins running into the extremities, and
producing twitching, when gently pressing on the
extremity with the finger, &c. as already noticed.
In concluding this ehapter, I am well aware the
statements it contains must appear startling, and
almost beyond belief, to many of my readers. Some
may be disposed to think I have been deceived ; and
because many of the manifestations might be simu-
lated, I know it has been alleged, that the patients of
those who have been exhibited publicly, were either
deceiving the operator, or that both patients and
operators were engaged in a shameful system of
collusion. In respect to my own patients, I have
endeavoured to take every possible precaution that
they ~hould not deceive me, and with this view have
invited the most sceptical persons I know, both in
the profession and out of it, to have it rigorQU8l,y
tested, and the result l1as been my entire conviction
ns to the reality of the phenomena in my own
patients, and I am ready to believe others to be as
candid as myself. Because much might be simulated,
and parties have been avowedly trained and exhibited
to prove the dexterity of teachers and pupils in a
system of avowed collusion, that it might thereby be
o;g,, zed by Google
128 LEGITIMATE INFERENCES Aim INQUIRY.
inferred the patients exhibited by other lecturers
were impostors, is a most illogical mode of deciding
such a question. There ought to be positive proof of
the justice of such imputation, before so assailing
any one, when there is so much proof to the con-
trary, as has been furnished by the concurrent
testimony of so many experimenters who have met
with such susceptible subjects. Surely it would not
be fair to infer, that because some are trained as
dexterous thieves, there can, therefore, be no such
thing as an honest man in the world 1
The question to be decided here is not what
patients can be trained to do in violation to nature's
laws ; that is, by giving them some stronger motive
of action, by artificial means, than the impulse arising
from natural feeling. What might be achieved in this
way I know not, as I have not tried such experiments
connected with this branch of the subject. It is well
known, however, that so long ago as December, 1841,
I particularly pointed out the remarkable docility of
patients during Hypnotism, which made them most
anxious to comply with every proper request or sup-
posed wish of others. I have, therefore, no more
doubt that they might be trained to manifest, during
Hypnotism, opposite tendencies, in accordance with
conventional arrangements, than that during their
waking moments they could be taught to do so, and
thus call black white and white black, night day and
day night, and such like, in respect to every c11stom,
word, or action. The proper question to be deter-
mined seems to me to be this, - Can the passions,
and emotions, and intellectual faculties, be excited
during Hypnotism simply by contact or friction over
o;g,, zed by Google
129
certain sympathetic points of the bead and face, with-
out previous knowledge of phrenology, training, or
whispering, or such leading questions as must. natu-
rally excite in the mind such passions, emotions, or
mental and bodily manifestations1 My own expe-
rience warrants me to answer in the affirmative, and
I shall give a few additional cases in illustration of
the data from which I have come to this conclusion.
Two patients, healthy, strong servant girls, en-
tirely ignorant of phrenology, neither of whom had
ever seen an experiment, and one was so sceptical,
as to wish to try and convince me site could not be
ll;ypnotized at all, were operated on separately. At
first trial, I succeeded in hypnotizing both, and in de-
veloping a great number of the leading organs, such
as the desire to eat, benevolence, friendship, pity, at-
tachment, self-esteem, love of approbation, imitation,
(when they readily spoke five languages correctly,)
stealing under acquisitiveness, and under conscien-
tiousness restored to the proper person and place what
was stolen ; eventuality most remarkable ; this was
tried twice or thrice in each, when they could tell
correctly the events of the previous day while the
organ was excited, whereas they could not tell a single
circumstance before it was stimulated; and a number
of others, such as forms, figures, and colours, by excit-
ing the corresponding points. These experiments
were tried before several friends, who were astonished
with the result, several of the most remarkable mani-
festations being evinced without a single word being
spoken by any one. They were not tried at the same
time, and neither saw nor knew of the other.
I
o;g,, zed by Google
130 BXPERIKBNTS.
Mr T., a gentleman of 46 years of age, who was
ignorant of phrenology, and had never seen a phreno-
hypnotic experiment, was hypnotized without expec-
ting any experiment of the kind to be tried. On
touching " benevolence" the manifestation was so
powerful as to compel me quickly to desist ; " self-
esteem," very decided;" ideality," very d~ided, com-
bined with " tune and language," he sang when the
latter were pressed on, but instantly stopped when
the pressure was removed, and resumed as readily on
renewing the contact, exactly at the same note and
word where he left off. Also the usual spectra when
the region of the orbitWIUl pressed on. When aroused,
he was quite unconscious of all which had happened.
He has been tried three times, with the same results,
only that additional manifestations came out. His
friends, who were present, can testify he had no signal
given to lead him to do so. His wife, also, who had
never seen any thing of the kind before, was operated
on, when a great many manifestations came out most
decidedly. Their daughter, who had seen nothing of
this, was now called into the room, and operated on,
and exhibited a great many manifestations, and all
this by the mere effect of pressure and gentle friction
on the integuments. None of the three remembered
any thing of what had happened.
W. T. a boy, had been magnetized, and exhibited a
few manifestations. He was again tried in public
but without suceess. I was requested to try him:
when a number of manifestations came out at once
beautifully- under benevolence, he took off his coat
to give to some distressed person, and after a number
of other manifestations had been educed, on being
oigit"edb,Google
EXPERIMENTS. 131
awakened he seemed very much surprised to find his
coat off.
John W., 22 years of age, had ·been magnetized
publicly, with the hope of eliciting the phreno-
logical manifestations, but he became so stolid that
it was quite a failure. I was afterwards requested
to try him, in my way, in the presence of a number
of gentlemen, when I at once succeeded in exciting
several ; pity was so characteristic, that there could
be no difficulty or doubt on the subject, as it was not
only exhibited by his features and sobbing, but by
the tears which ran over his face in torrents. On
trying to excite imitation, on the right side, no effect
was produced, which I suspected to be the result of
an injury he had sustained, which had destroyed the
integuments, and also caused exfoliation of the outer
tahle of the skull. I therefore tried in the opposite
aide of the cranium, when the faculty was manifested
beautifully. This seems a good corroboration of my
theory, that it arises from the peculiar condition of
the nerves of the scalp. On farther trials many more
came out without any cause beyond the simple
excitation of the integuments by pressure and friction.
Not only may such general manifestations be thus
excited, but, what is far more curious, by exciting
antagooist points iu the opposite kemisplleres of the
brain, the patients may be made to exhibit corres-
pondingly opposite feelings in the different sides of
the body. If the antagonist faculties are excited on
the same side, there will be exhibited only the stronger
of the two. These "opposite influences on the two
sides," as Dr Elliotson has well remarked, " are the
most astonishing and beautiful experiments that aU
132 EXPBRIKBNTS.
physiology affords ;" and are also the most bealltiful
examples of the correctness of Mr Mayo's fifteenth
aphorism, at page 28 of his Nervous System and its
Functions, where he says, " Each lateral half of a
vertebral animal is separately vitalized. Or the pre-
servation of consciousness in one half is independent
of its preservation in the other." It is true that
vivisections have proved this, but neither so beauti-
fully nor humanely as in the experiments I now
refer to, and those already recorded at page 63 of this
treatise. Miss S., a lady who had never seen a
phreno-hypnotic experiment, and knew nothing of
phrenology, exhibited at first trial a great number of
the leading manifestations, and at a secondand third,
these opposite ones in a remarkable manner. Under
friendship and adhesiveness, she embraced a female
friend in the most affectionate manner, and on
destructiveness being excited on the opporite side ofthe
head, she rushed forward with great impetuosity to
repel some imaginary adversary, whilst, with her
other arm and hand, she contrived to shield her
friend. Had I not laid hold of her, she would most
certainly have rushed through the window. On
being roused she was quite oblivious of all she had
done. Mrs C. another equally ignorant of the sub-
ject, displayed the same phenomena. The effect of
music in exciting to ecstasy, elegance of movement,
and graceful dancing, was most remarkable. Remem-
bered nothing. Miss --, entirely ignorant of the
subject, and had never seen an experiment of the
kind, and expected only to be attempted to be hypno-
tized, but whilst she wished to be tried, she had
expre~sed to the friend who introduced her, that she
o;g,, zed by Google
BXPBRDIENTS, 133
could not be made to sleep. She exhibited veneration
solemnly, with hope, glowing devotion, and with
ideality and language, overwhelming ecstasy, expres-
sing her happiness and prospect of entering into
heaven ; " self-esteem," the most conceited prude ;
"firmness" most decided; "adhesiveness and friend-
ship," and this in one side, and " combativeness and
destructiveness" on the other at pleasure; "imitation"
in perfection, speaking correctly every language tried,
" benevolence" extremely marked, to the effusion of
tears; "acquisitiveness, conscientiousness, eventuality,
the desire to eat, to smell, spectra," &c. &c. She was
quite unconscious of all that had happened, and the
friend who brought her to me knows she had no
prompting. She has been tried once since with the
same results.
Some parties, who were excellent critics, after
seeing the latter and two others operated on, and
expressing their utter astonishment with the accurate
and natural manner in which every passion and
emotion was manifested, expressed a strong desire to
see some one operated on for the first time. I offered
to operate on any of three young ladies whom they
bad introduced to me that afternoon, and whom I had
not known previously ; indeed, one was a stranger in
town, from the south of England, who knew nothing
of hypnotism or phrenology, and had no faith in
either, notwithstanding what she had just seen. She,
Miss S., sat down an entire sceptic, but in a few
minutes she was not only most decidedly hypnotized,
but also one of the most beautiful and decided
examples which could possibly have been met with of
the phrenological sway during hypnotism, simply by
134 BXPBRlllBNTS,
stimulating the nerves of the scalp anrl face. The
moment " venemtion" was touched, her features
assumed the peculiar expression of that feeling, the
hands were clasped, she sank on her knE>es in the
attitude of the most devout aclomtion; combined with
"hope," the features were illuminated, and beamed
with a feeling of ecstasy, the hands being unclasped
and moved about in the utmost delight ; and when
" ideality" was added, the ecstal!y was so extreme as
scarcely to be supportable. On changing the point of
contact to " firmness," she instantly arose, and stood
with an attitude of defiance ; "self-esteem," flounced
about with the utmost self-importance ; the " love of
approbation" was painted to the greatest perfection ;
"imitation" imitated accumtely every thing done or
spoken in any language; "friendship and adhesive-
ness," clasped hold of me ; and by stimulating "com-
bativeness" on the opposite side of the head, along
with the other, she struck out with the arm of the
side on which combativeness had been touched, but
held me fast, as if to protect me, with the other.
Under "benevolence," she seemed much affected, and
distributed her property to the imaginary distressed
objects her fancy had painted ; under "acquisitive-
ness" she stole, and under "conscientiousness" she
restored ; " tune," the desire for musie, and sang
beautifully, a waltz being played, she danced with a
gmce and elegance surpassing all which any of us ever
witnessed. Eventuality was also most remarkable ;
the desire to eat, to smell, was also excited ; also
form, figures, colours, &c.; philoprogenitiveness admi-
rable. All this was done at first trial, with an entire
11tranger, and the lady's immediate friends, as well as
o;g,, zed by Google
135
others present, can bear testimony that there was not
the slightest prompting either by one or other, and
when awakened she was quite unconscious of all
which had happened. This lady has been twice
operated on since, when all these,manifestations, and
many others, were exhibited in the most perfect
manner, as can be certified by Sir Thomas Arbuthnot,
Major Wilbraham, Colonel Wemyss, the Rev. Mr
P., and another higll dignitary of the church, and
the patient's family and friends; and that when
under " number" she wrote down a sum, and under
" constructiveness and ideality," she drew a very
good sketch of a cottage, putting in doors and win-
oows correctly. The uncle of the latter subject
was so much astonished and gratified with what he
had seen, that he begged I would try one of his
daughters. I hypnotized the eldest, and all the
manifestations came out quite as decidedly as in her
cousin. Under "adhesiveness and friendship," sh(l
clasped me, and on stimulating the organ of " com-
bativeness" on the opposite side of the head, with the
arm of that side she struck'two gentlemen (whom she
imagined were about to attaek me,) in such a manner
as nearly laid one on the floor, whiltst with the other
arm she held me in the most friendly manner.
Under " benevolence," she seemed quite overwhelmed
with compassion ; "acquisitiveness," stole greedily all
she could lay her hands on, which was retained whilst
I excited many other manifestations, but the moment
my fingers touched " conscientiousness," she threw all
she had stolen on the floor, as if horror-stricken, and
burst into a flood of tears ; on being asked, Why do
you cry, she said, with the utmost agony, "I have
o;g,, zed by Google
136 EXPBlllKBNTS.
done what was wrong, I have done what was wrong."
I now excited " imitation and ideality," and had her
laughing and dancing in an instant. On exciting
form and ideality, she seemed alarmed, and when
asked what she saw, she answered, "The D-1."
What colour is he 1 "Black." On pressing the eye-
brow, and repeating the question, the answer was,
"red," and the whole body instantly became rigid,
and the face the most complete picture of horror
which could be imagined. "Destructiveness," which
is largely developed, being touched, she struck her
father such a blow on the chest as nearly laid him on
the floor. Had I not endeavoured to restrain her, he
must have sustained serious injury. Having now
excited veneration, hope, ideality, and language, we
had the most striking example imaginable of extreme
ecstasy, and on being aroused, she was quite uncon-
scious of all that had happened, excepting that she
had heard music, and had been dancing. Her philo-
progenitiveness was admirable.*
" There were a. dozen present on this occasion, of whom
Mr Vandenboft' was one. Being well known as an accom-
plished artist, I requested him to watch all he saw with the
most critical attention, and to tell me whether the passions
were painted natnrally or the contrary. After witnessing the
first case with evident delight and surprise, he made the fol-
lowing observation,-" If this is acting, it is the molt perfect
acting I hau eur uen. In acting, we aim at being natural,
but there is generally some point in which we fail ; but here I
see nature's language in eury point." Similar expressions
followed, in what was seen in the next two cases, and when
he witnessed the eft'ects on the two ladies, whose cases have
just been recorded, he confessed himself so overpowered, as to
o;g,, zed by Google
BXPUIJaNTS, 137
At a eonversazione a few days after, in the pre-
sence of Lady S., Sir Thomas Arbuthnot, Colonel
Arbuthnot, Major Wilbraham, John Frederick Foster,
Esq. Chairman of the Quarter Sessions, D. Maude,
Esq. stipendiary magistrate, and many others, both
gentlemen and ladies, after exhibiting the phenomena
on those who had been previously tested, there was a
wish expressed to see some one operated on for the
first time. I offered to try any one present, and a lady
at length consented, whom I never saw before that
day, nor since. She exhibited all the usual pheno-
mena very decidedly. Under "acquisitiveness," she
stole two handkerchiefs from ladies, and a ring from
Mr Foster's finger. After several manifestations had
be scarcely capable of expresaing his feelings of delight and
astonishment, but said be should write me on the subject.
The following is part of a letter I received from him two days
after,-" I thank you for your kind invitation to witness a
repetition of those experiments which eo much delighted me
on Saturday last, and with the result of which I wae no Ieee
gratified than astonished. Never have I seen nature mani-
festing herself more distinctly- never 10 beautifully, ae in
the course of the exhibition on that evening. I believe you
know I wae a decided sceptic in the mesmeric influence-and
I wae something more in relation to ite phrenological sway-
of which the manifestations while under ite mysterious influ-
ence, by the two young ladies of my own immediate acquain-
tance, who had not, who could not have had, any knowledge of
the subject prior to their experience on that evening, have
perfectly convinced me by their trutbfulneee. I may take a
farther opportunity to dilate more fully upon this interesting
and wonderful discovery, the beneficial results of which can-
not yet be appreciated, because we know not to what extent
they may be carried ou~."
o;g,, zed by Google
138
been exhibited, the moment I touched " conscien-
tiousness," she seemed distressed, and set off and
searched out the proper parties to whom to restore the
respective articles. They had changed places, but she
found them out, and gave back the handkerchiefs to
their owners, and also put the ring on the very finger
of :Mr Foster from which she had taken it. She was
a strict methodist, who had never daneed in her life,
and who, if awake, would have considered it a sin to
dance. However, under the excitement of suitable
music, she cut a very good figure at waltzing. When
awakened, she remembered nothing of all which had
happened.
Miss L., a lady of twenty-one years of age, very ac-
complished, and with great energy of mind, braved me
to try to hypnotize her. She felt assured I could not
do so. However, she was very soon under the influ-
ence, and gave twenty manifestations in the most
decided manner. Under friendship and adhesiveness,
and destructiveness on the opposite side, she protected
me, and struck her own mother. She knew only one
organ, and was inclined to scoff at Hypnotism, and
still more so at phreuo-hypnotism. Under form and
ideality she wrote very nicely, without the use of
her eyes, but by no means equal to what she does
when awake. When awakened she seemed surprised
when told what had happened. She remembered me
touching her head, wondered what I was doing it
for, said she felt different impulses arise when I was
manipulating different parts, but did not know why,
nor could she remember what she had done. -
A married lady, Mrs E., and the mother of a
family, would not believe any one could be so af-
o;g,, zed by Google
EXPERIMENTS, 139
fected. After seeing one patient done, she still felt
assured ske, at Jenst, could not be so operated on. I
desired her to try, and she at once exhibited upwards
of twenty manifestations in the most distinct manner,
some of them very strikingly. Under benevolence
she shed tears, drew out her purse, and gave half-a-
crown " to the poor creatures." She also exhibited
the opposite tendencies at the same time, as already
described.
Miss R., a young lady of 22 years of age, very
well educated, and intelligent, wished to be tried,
because she was decidedly sceptical. It so happened
that every manifestation tried came out beautifully and
prominently, although,when aroused, she admitted she
remembered every thing she had done, and added, that
she had resisted to the utmost of her power doing any
thing, but felt irresistible impulses come over her to act
in the way she did, as I touched certain points, but
fJJky it was she could not tell. Declared it was not
from any association with what ought to be the case,
as she was ignorant of the organs, but added, that
she first felt a drawing in the muscles of the face, and
then the breathing became affected, and with this the
peculiar impulse followed. On another occasion, with
the eyes bandaged, she had a pencil put in her right
hand, when a number of organs were excited, but she
showed no evidence of any desire to use the pencil
till "constructiveness and ideality" were excited.
The moment this wl\8 done, however, she scrambled
till she got some paper, and began drawing, and made
a very tolerable profile. When "acquisitiveness" was
excited, she stole a ring off Mr Foster's finger, who,
while I was exciting various manifestations, left the
o;g,, zed by Google
140 EXPBRiliENTS.
room. The moment I touched " conscientiousness,"
she set off in search of Mr Foster, walked round the
room the very way he went, then left that room,
crossed the lobby into the front parlour, and hav-
ing made a gyration in this room, she came out
and went into a back parlour, where she found Mr
Foster, and put the ring on the very finger from
whence she took it. She evidently traced him through
the air by smell, as she followed the exact track he
had taken, for he had first gone into the front parlour.
Had it been by clairvoyance, she of course ought to
have gone to him direct, and by the shortest way.
Such facts are almost past belief, but here they are as
they happened, and there could not have been more
competent individuals, than those present, to detect
any mistake or deception, namely, Mr Foster, Mr
Brandt, and Mr Lloyd, barristers ; Mr Langton, Mr
Bagshaw, Mr Schwabe, and many others, both gen-
tlemen and ladies.
Miss W., a very intelligent lady, who knew nothing
of phrenology, and had never seen a phreno-hypuotic
experiment, was operated on. On "benevolence" being
excited, she seemed very distressed, and when asked
what she was thinking of, said it was of a poor man
who had lost his saw and hammer, that he had no
money to purchase others with, and his children were
starving. Under "veneration and ideality," wished
to die, to go to heaven; under combativeness, first
looked very angry, then jumped up and gave a blow,
which up8et the candlestick. On ''destructiveness"
being excited, (after she had exhibited several other
organs,) she shook her fist, then started on her feet,
looked furious, and sprang across the room, her arm
o;g,, zed by Google
HOST DITBlUISTING EXP.EJW[El\"T. 141
at full length, similar to a person fencing, and seized
hold of a young lady's hand, and nearly transfixed it
with her nails.
Mr Walker, twenty-two years of age, after passing
intothe hypnotic state,shewed no symptoms ofsuscep-
tibility for some time, but at length he did so in the
most perfect manner ; namely, benevolence, venera-
tion, firmness, self-esteem, combativeness, destruc-
tiveness, acquisitiveness, caution, conscientiousness,
imitation in perfection, pity, benevolence with the
one side, and destructiveness on the other, eventuality,
smell, form, colours, number, ideality, &c. This
gentleman has seen busts and phreno-hypnotic
experiments also, but, excepting two or three, would
be puzzled to point out any of the organs correctly
when awake. He remembered nothing of what had
passed.
Being desirous of ascertaining whether he might
not, during hypnotism, remember the organs better
than whilst awake, and thus be led to give the mani-
festations in the ·manner he did, I tried the follow-
ing experiment. I explained my intentions to the
friends who were to be present, but he was entirely
ignorant of them. He had never seen or heard of
such experiment having been tried. When I con-
sidered him in the proper condition, I requested him
to place the point of a finger on different organs, but
it was remarkable that he was wrong in etJe1Y instance,
even with respect to the few he knew when awake.
Another most interesting fact was discovered, that
whilst his mind was directed to the organ I had
named, the true manifestation of the point touched
came out in etJery iMtance. Thus, when requested
o;g,, zed by Google
142 INTERESTING EXPIUUJ(ENTS,
to point out ideality, he placed the finger over
" veneration," and immediately indicated that feel-
ing. When asked what he was thinking about?
"I did not go to church yesterday." What of
that 1 "It was wrong." When he accidentally
pressed on benevolence, the feeling was manifested ;
firmness in like manner ; self-esteem in a powerful
degree. On evincing symptoms of uneasiness, I
asked what he was thinking of? he replied, " some-
thing hurts my head." The fact was, his arm had
become cataleptiform, and the points of the fingers
were pressed so strongly against the scalp as to be the
cause of complaint, but he had no idea of that.
His hand having rested on philoprogenitiven('SS, he
began to hush and rock on his chair as if nursing
a baby, his motion became more and more violent
till I judged it necessary to put a stop to it, by
removing his hand. However, I found his arm and
neck had both become so rigid, that they were too
firmly fixed to permit of being separated by mechani-
cal force, but so soon as this was reduced, by blowing
on them, the peculiar manifestation ceased. Every
point pressed on by him shewed the same tendency
to excite its peculiar manifestation. I am quite cer-
tain this gentleman acted a candid part, and conld
not be induced to do otherwise by any one.
Another most interesting fact connected with the
latter case, was the circumstance of his having hyp-
notized himself, excited the different manifestations
as stated ; and on being requested to rub his eyes, he
did so, and thus roused himself from the hypnotic
condition. I have tried similar experiments with
many other patients, and, with the exception of
o;9,tzed by Google ·
INTERESTING EXPERIME!I"TS, 143
two, each of whom hit upon one organ, have found
none of them could point accurately to the organ
named, but in every instance the usual indication of
the peculiar organ touched came out. None of these
subjects rememberedany thing of what had happened.
Here, then, we have decided proof, that all the phe-
nomena of hypnotizing, exciting the phrenological
manifestations, and rousing to the waking condition,
may be accomplished by the personal acts of the
patient on himself, as the only influence required to
excite him to the necessary movement might be con-
veyed by an automat.on.
A few days ago, one of these patients, who knows
no foreign language, when imitation and tune were
excited, followed correctly both the music and words
of Italian, French, and German songs, which she
never beard till they were played and sung by the
wife of a learned barrister, who was also present
himself, and who, with the Rev. Mr F. and his lady,
can bear testimony to the great accuracy of her per-
formance. Such is the power of Hypnotism.
Besides the twenty-five cases here briefly recorded,
I have had many more exhibiting the phenomena
in the same decided manner, simply by exciting the
sympathetic points by contact. If I am to believe the
evidence of my senses, therefore, in any thing, I cannot
see how I can doubt the relation which subsists be-
tween certain points of the cranium, and the mental
manifestations, which are excited by acting on them
during Hypnotism. I believe there are very few
physiological phenomena which can be more clearly
demonstrated, especially at such an early stage of
their investigation. Were it not that I consider it
o;g,, zed by Google
144 KR EBBA.GB'S SUOCBSS.
would only be an unnecessary waste of time to pro-
secute the investigation farther, after the number of
most unequivocal cases which have been met with by
myself, as well as by other experimentalists here and
elsewhere, I feel convinced I might soon increase the
number of my own cases to any extent I chose.
With all intelligent and honest experimentalists I
anticipate similar results to what happened with Mr
Ebbage, an intelligent surgeon at Leamington. He
had been a determined sceptic, and had much annoyed
several of our mutual friends by his strong expres-
sions to that effect. However, whilst on a visit at
Manchester lately, at our first interview, I made a
convert of him by offering to exhibit the phenomena
in his own wife, who had never been so operated on,
or even tried the experiment. She soon became
decidedly hypnotized, and also exhibited several phre-
nological manifestations most distinctly. A servant
of the family was now called into the room, who had
seen no operation of the kind, and did not know what
was to be done. She also became decidedly hypno-
tized, and exhibited several phrenological manifesta-
tions most distinctly. Mr E. now admitted that
rational scepticism could not resist such conclusive
evidence ; and having seen another case or two at my
house, of remarkably susceptible subjects, with in-
structions from me how to operate, he promised to
prosecute the inquiry on his return home.
In a letter to me, dated 1st May, 1843, he writes
that he had tried the experiments with several ; that
in some he was unsuccessful, while " in others a per-
fect state of sleep and unconsciousness was prod11ced
at different periods, varying from two to ten minutes.
o;g,, zed by Google
MODE OF OPBJUTING, 146
In the case of one lady, who had never seen any thing
of the kind before, and, I may add, had not even
heard it spoken of as connected with any phrenolo-
gical developments, the most marked effects were soon
produced, resembling very strongly the case you
shewed me when I was at your house." He farther
adds the following judicious remarks:-" I must
say the peculiar development shewn by the influence
of this sleep, if closely and scrutinizingly watched,
must open to the mincf of any thinking man a wide
expanse for speculation as to the truly mysterious
means by which the effects of sensation and emotion
ean be produced."
The above is a good illustration of what may be
done, even by a determined but honest sceptic. Mr
E. had only two interviews with me; and if any one
should be less successful in his attempts, it behoves
him to inquire whether his failures are not to be
attributed to his unskilful or uneandid performance
of the experiments, rather than to inefficiency of the
method recommended.
Aa to those who will not believe the testimony of
others without seeing the experiments tried before
themselves, on fresh patients, I beg to remark, that
the best plan is for them to try patients fairly them-
selves, and they must soon be convinced ; only they
must be careful to take them at theproper time, other-
wise they may fail as I did myself at first.
The following is the mode of operating: -Put the
patient into the hypnotic condition in the usual way,
extend his arms for a minute or two, then replace
them gently on his lap, and allow him to remain per-
fectly quiet for a few minutes. Let tho points of one
K
Digit zed b,Google
146 lllODE OP OPE.RATING,
or two fingers be now placed on the central point of
any of his best developed organs, and press it very
gently ; if no change of countenance or bodily move-
ment is evinced, use gentle friction, and then in a soft
voice ask what he is thinking of, what he would like,
or wish to do, or what he sees, as the function of the·
organ may indicate ; and repeat the questions and the
pressure, or contact, or friction, over the organ till an
answer is elicited. If very stolid, gentle pressure on
the eyeballs may be necessary to induce him to speak.
If the skin is too sensitive, he may awake, in which
case try again, waiting a little kmger; if too stolid, try
again, beginning the manipulations sooner.
The operations should be tried again and again
with the same patient, varying the time of beginning
the manipulations, as it is impossible to tell, apriori,
the exact moment they should be commenced ; and
many of the best cases have only succeeded partially,
or not at all, at a first or second trial. When this
point has been hit upon, however, there will be little
difficulty in getting out additional manifestations,
and this will be still more evident at each succeed-
ing trial.
Whispering or talking should be carefully avoided
by all present, so as to leave nature to manifest her-
self in her own way, influenced only by the stimulus
conveyed through the nerves of touch exciting to
automatic muscular action. We all know that during
common sleep a person unconsciously changes from
.an uncomfortable position to one which is agreeable.
This is a sort of instinctive action, and, as already
explained, I think it highly probable, that by thus
calling into action muscles which are naturally so
PRESUMED CAUSE OF PHENOMENA. 147
exerted in manifesting any given emotion or propen-
sity, they may, by reflection, thereby rouse that
portion of the brain, the activity of which usually
excites the motion. In this case there would be a
sort of inversion of the ordinary sequence, what ill
naturally the consequence becoming the cause of
oerebra.l and mental excitation. 'fhe following hypo-
thesis will illustrate my meaning. It is easy to ima-
gine, that putting a pen or pencil into the hand might
excite in the mind the idea of writing or drawing ;
or that stimulating the gastrochnemius, which raises
us on our toes, might naturally enough suggest to the
mind the idea of dancing, without any other sug-
gestion to that effect than what arises from the
attitude and activity of the muscles naturally and
necessarily brought into play whilst exercising such
functions. However, I would very much doubt the
probability of stimuh1ting the muscles of the leg
exciting the idea of writing, or that placing a pen or
pencil in the hand would excite the idea of dancing,
without previous concert and arrangement to that
effect. It is upon the same principle, as I imagine,
that, during the dreamy state of hypnotism, by sti-
mulating tho sterno-mastoid muscle, which causes
an inclination of the head, the idea of friendship
and shaking of hands is excited in the mind, and
when the trapizus is excited at same time, the
greater lateral iiJClination of the head manifests still
greater attachment, or" adhesiveness." Philoproge-
nitiveness, by calling into action the recti and occipito
frontalis muscles, gives the rocking motion, and hence
the idea of nursing, &c. ; pressure on the vertex, by
calling into action all the muscles requisite to sustain
oigit"edb,Google
/
148 WEBER'S BXPElUJfENT8.
the body in the erect position, excites the idea of
unyielding firmness ; veneration and benevolence,
from giving the tendency to stoop and suppress the
breathing, thus create the corresponding feelings. By
exciting the muscles of mastication into action, the
idea of eating and drinking is roused, and the same
may arise from pressing between the chin and under
lip, which first excites a flow of saliva, and this again
the motion of the tongue and jaws, with an inclina-
tion to swallow. In like manner, gently pressing the
tip of the nose, by exciting inspiration, creates the
desire for something to smell at ; if the point of con-
tact is the cheek, under the orbits, over the exit of
the infra-orbital branch of the fifth pair, the breathing
becomes suppressed, and depressing emotions are
excited; whereas, a1mJe the orbit, so as to stimulate
the supra-orbital branch of the fifth pair, generally
the reverse manifestations are evinced.
Those familiar with Professor Weber's experiments,
know that each of those points differs from the other
in its degree of sensibility. It is remarkable that
the point marked "eventuality," (and which I have
strong grounds for believing is the chief seat of
memory,) is in the centre of the forehead, which is
one of the most sensitive parts of the scalp, and where
pressure applied necessarily excites the corresponding
points in both hemispheres of the brain at same time,
There ~eems, in fact, to be less matter of wonder in
this discovery than some lately brought forward in
other departments of physical science; for example.
who would have believed, till it was proved, that by
looking into a camera-obscura for a few minutes, or
even seconds, he migh~ h~ve his likeness accurately
o;g,, zed by Google
VALUE OP TESTIMONY. 149
and indelibly transferred to a plate of meta11 or the
still more recent discovery of Professor Moser, that
such impressions as he referred to could be effected in
the dark 1
I shall conclude this article by a quotation, from
Dr Abercrombie, on the value of testimony. He
observes,-" A very small portion of our knowledge
ofexternal things is obtained through ourown senses ;
by far the greater part is procured through other
men, and this is received by us on the evidence of
testimony. While an unbounded credulity is the
part of a weak mind, which never thinks nor reasons
at all, an unlimited scepticism is the part of a con-
tracted mind, which reasons upon imperfect data, or
makes its own knowledge and extent of observation
the standard and test of probability." On the Intel-
lectual Powers, pp. 71, 72.
oigit"edb,Google
160
CHAPTER VII.
General re~~~me- Many phenomena admit or phylieal and chemloal proof
- Dlftlcultleo or oomprehendlng many phenomena-Eft"ecta or p~udlce
In preventing the reception or truth -Critique on debate at Medloo-
Chirurgical Society on Mr Ward's operation -State or the circulation-
Conjectures as to the cause or the cataleptlrorm condition.
BEFORE concluding the first part of this treatise, I
shall make a short resume of what I consider the points
made out by what has been advanced. 1st, That the
effect of a continued fixation of the mental and visual
eye in the manner, and with the concomitant circum-
stances pointed out, is to throw the uervous system
into a new condition, accompanied with a state of
somnolence, and a tendency, according to the mode of
management, of exciting a variety of phenomena,
very different from those we obtain either in ordinary
sleep, or during the waking condition. 2d, That there
is at first a state of high excitement of all the organs
of special sense, sight excepted, and a great increase of
muscular power ; and that the senses afterwards be-
come torpid in a much greater degree than what
occurs in natural sleep. 3d, That in this condition
we have the power of directing or concentrating
o;g,, zed by Google
GENEIU.L RESUME, 151
nervous energy, raising or depressing it in a remark-
able degree, at will, locally or generally. 4th, That
in this state, we have the power of exciting or depress-
ing the force and frequency of the heart's action, and
the state of the circulation, locally or generally, in a
surprising degree. 5th, That whilst in this peculiar
condition, we have the power of regulating and con-
trolling muscular tone and energy in a remarkable
manner and degree. 6th, That we also thus acquire
a power of producing rapid and important changes in
the state of the capillary circulation, and of the whole
of the secretions and excretions of the body, as proved
by the application of chemical tests. 7th, That this
power can be beneficially directed to the cure of a
variety of diseases which were most intractable, or
altogetherincurable, by ordinary treatment. ·8th, That
this agency may be rendered available in moderating
or entirely preventing, the pain incident to patients
whilst undergoing surgical operations. 9th, That
during hypnotism, by manipulating the cranium and
face, we can excite certain mental and bodily mani-
festations, according to the parts touched.
I have obtained analogous results with so many
patients, as to make me quite certain of the reality of
tM plenomena referred to, and to warrant me, as I
think, to draw these inferences. Many of the pheno-
mena are ofsuch a nature as to admit of physical and
chemical proof, in respect to which, the patients can-
not possibly deceive us ; and as regards those pheno-
mena where they mi9ht do so, I have had theassurance
ofsomany patients, on whose veracity I can implicitly
rely, proving the same facts, that there remains not
o;g,, zed by Google
152 DIFliiCULTIES ATTENDING
the slightest room for me to doubt the correctness of
these statements. I have been equally anxious to
svoid being myself misled, as I should be not to mis-
lead others; and I would recommend those who have
not had an opportunity ofwatching such phenomena,
in tlie tM8t critical manner, or who have not entered on
the investigation with candid minds, to suspend their
opinions until they have bad such opportunity. I
have no hesitation in saying it is most improbable
that any man should form a just estimate in this mat-
ter from mere reading or l!earsay erndence, and equally
so if he does not approoch it with a mind open to
honest and fair investigation. The subject itself is so
very subtle in its manifestations, so very different
from all we are accustomed to meet with in the Of"di-
nary condition, that, with the utmost candour and
openness for receiving the truth, and the whole tntth,
it will be found extremely perplexing to follow it out
in many of its bearings. How then can it be expected
any one should prosecute the inquiry successfully who
enters on it with his mind blinded by indomitable
prejudice 1*
* It would perhaps be difficult to adduce a stronger proof
of the extent to which prejudice may overcloud the brightest
intellects, and render them incompetent to do justice to the
subject they would investigate, than that which was presented
at a late meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London,
when a debate took place after the reading of Mr Ward's
case ofamputation of the leg during mesmeric sleep. As I
am not an animal magnetieer, nor personally acquainted with
any of the parties referred to, any remarks I am about to
make are of COUl'86 unillfluenced either by pique or prejudice.
o;g,, zed by Google
THE IJIQUIBY. 163
As to the proximate cause of the phenomena, I
believe the best plan in the present stateofour know-
ledge, is to ~n accumulating facts, and their appli-
The operation referred to was said to have taken place in a
public hospital ; in the presence of medical, and also non-
medical witnel!llell. The patient is alleged to have exhibited
no manifestation of feeling pain, as far as hie eountenanee
eould be taken as a eorrect index, and there was no move-
ment ofthe limbe or body ; andafter the operation he is said to
have declared that he did notfeel any pai111but had heard "a
grunching," which it has been inferred was the noise of the
sawing of the bone ; and it W8ll also admitted he had groaned
during the time he wae under the operation.
How was this announcement met I First,it was questioned
whether the man was not a person of littk or 110 feelillfJ at a11y
time, becau.ee other patients had been known, whilst wide
awake, who were very insensible to pain. But had not the
patient, in this case, been declared to have been suffering 80
much pain from hie knee, that he had been unable to sleep,
and that his health was 80 much impaired by his suffering as
to render amputation of the leg indispensable I Nay, had
it not been set forth, that the pain of hie leg had been greatly
diminished, and hie Bleep restored, and his health greatly
improved, after he was mesmerized, preparatory to t1ae opM"a-
tioll, which he had eoneented to undergo whilst in that state ;
and yet, that after he had been asleep, and considered in a fit
state for being operated on, the mere movement of the joint,
whilst drawing him to the edge of the bed, was followed by 10
mucl& pai11 a1 to a!MU him. Was this any proof of hie being
a person devoid of feeling I
Then it is held, that as he luwrd, as it is presumed he did,
the 1alllillfl of tlu botu, he mtllt have ftlt tl1e cutti11g oftlae 1ki11
and 10ftpam. It is thus &881lllled that it is impouiblt for a
person to lear, and be in the state 110t tofeel illflictiom 011 tAc
Digit zed b,Google
164 CBITIQUB ON
cation in the cure of disease, and to theorize at some
future period, when we have more ample stores offaets
to draw inferences from. From the first I was of
limb6 ca mrM time. · It is well known, however, that m-&e
of the trunks of the sentient nerves, or of the spinal cord, may
induce such a state, independently of any lesion of the braiD.
But then, say others, bad be fiOt felt when the principal ,._
-.. irritated, the otMr leg "'" have been convulsed. This
is 888Uming, that the speakem fully lmew _,law which hal
been lmown, or tM" MalJ, be known of the nervous system, in
_, pomble condition, which is rather a bold position to
aasume, and what few who have studied the subject will be
disposed to accord even to the gifted individuals referred to.
Othem IIIIStlme the non~xpreeaion of feeling was a mere
matter of stoicism, and the general inference to be dedneed
from the whole harangues of these parties is, that the whole
was a piece of collusion and deception. Had the parties
intended collusion and deception, would they have admitted
that the patient heard the sawing of the bone, or groaned or
moaned during the operation 1 One gentleman, the learned
editor of a medical journal, I think, admitted be was bound
to believe the testimony of those who bad brought the ease
forward, but frankly avowed, that for his own part, " Ae
tt!01Ild twt ~ belitwll it, although Ae Aaa um it AiJMelf.''
When a man bas attained to this state of prejudice and incre-
dulity, of course it would be idle to adduce to him either
experiment or argument.
I would beg respectfully to ask, Had the mind of any
of these gentlemen never entertained the poaaibility of a
patient, long accustomed to severe pain, moaning from
habit, whilst free from pain at the moment ; or even
feeling pain, and manifesting the same by sensible aigue
during llup, and yet being quite unconscious of it when
he awoke 1 Do we never meet with llimilar results in conse-
o;g,, zed by Google
A DEBATE, 165
opinion, that much of the excitement and many of the
phenomena developed, were attributable to the altered
state of the circulation in the brain and spinal cord,
quence of accidents, in the course of disease, or as the effects
of over doses of narcotics t That such is the case during the
artificiAl sleep induced by the methods I have pointsd on~ in
this treatise, I am quite certain. I am equally certain that
the sensibility to pricking, and pinching, and maiming the
rigid limbs, is gone, some time beftYn hearing disappears•
Even a piece of paper ruay be inserted, and retained under
the eyelids, without the slightes~ inconvenience, not even
inducing nictitation. In short, I am quite certain that a
patient may be sufficiently sensible to hearing to enable him
to answer questions, whilst unconscious of pricking, pinching,
or strong shocks of galvanism passed through the arms, and
that even when roused sufficiently to give expression to
feeling such inflictions, if allowed to remain quiet a little
afterwards, so as to fall into the profound state again, that he
may ha.ve lost all recollection of such inflictions when roused
and fully awake.
From the circumstance of the patient having beard, as it
is alleged he did, the sawing of the bone, I am of opinion the
operation was commenced sooner than it llwuld have been ;
and I think it very probable that the moaning referred to
might have arisen from a slight feeling of pain, but not suffi-
cient to arouse the patient, or to impress him sufficiently to
enable him to remember it when awake.
In conclusion, from the numerous opportunities I have
enjoyed of witneesing analogous results, in the course of my
operations in Neuro-hypnotism, if I may venture to give an
opinion in this matter, I have no hesitation in expressing my
thorough conviction that Mr Topham, Mr Ward, and the
patient, have all spoken and representsd the ease with the
utmost good faith and eandour.
o;g,, zed by Google
156 CONJECTUJU!S AS TO TRB CA.USB
and especially to the greater determination of blood
to them, and all other parts not compressed by rigid
muscles,arising from the difficulty, during the catalep-
tiform state, of the blood being propelled in due pro-
To those who wish to stifle investigation,and hold we ougM
to rest satisfied with the decision of the French CommiBBion,
I beg to remark, that a commiBBion of the same learned body
was appointed to investigate and to report on Harvey's dis·
covery of the circulation of the blood, and that this most
important discovery was rejected by them as a fallacy. Did
their decision alter the laws of nature, or pre\'ent the ultimate
triumph of our immortel countryman 1 And when so much
in error while investigating the more apparent and demon-
strable one of the circulation of the blood, is it not quite as
likely that they may have been mistaken in their decision on
the still more abstruse and subtle subject of the laws and
distribution of the nervous influence 1
It is matter of history, in respect to the profeBBion in our
own country, that there was not a medical man in England,
who bad attained forty years of age, who would believe in the
truth of Harvey's discovery. Is it to be wondered at, then,
that Hypnotism should meet with opposition at the present
timet
To conclude these remarks in respect to this operation:
the fact that patients have been known, in some few in-
stances, from natural causes which were not understood, to
have undergone severe surgical operations without any sense
of pain, instead of militating against the truth of the insen-
sibility of the patient whose limb was amputated during the
nervons sleep, tends directly to confirm it ; for if such a
remarkable state can exist from some aecidental circum-
stances not understood, there is no reason why a similar con-
dition may not be induced by artificial means.
o;g,, zed by Google
OF CBB.TAIN PDBNOKBNA. 167
portion through the rigid extremities. 1 have not yet
seen occasion to alter this opinion ; but rather to eon-
elude, that the ganglionic, or organic system of nerves,
is also inordinately stimulated from the same cause,
and thus having acquired an undue preponderance
induces many of the remarkable phenomena which
have been referred to. Whoever examines carefully
the injected state of the conjunctival membrane, and
of the capillary circulation in the head, face, and
neck, the distended state of the jugular veins, the
hard bounding throb of the carotid arteries, and the
greatly increased frequency of the pulse, during the
rigid condition of the limbs, cannot fail to perceive
that there is great determination to the head. Again,
when all these symptoms are so speedily changed on
reducing the eataleptiform condition of the limbs,
how can it be doubted that the rigidity of the limbs,
and consequent obstruction to free circulation through
them, is the chief cause of the determination to the
head and other parts not directly pressed on by rigid
muscles1•
• In reference to the cataleptiform condition, I beg leave
to offer the following remarks merely by tcay ofcor.j«Jtvr~, and
with the hope that they may excite others to direct their
attention to the investigation.
Muscular contraction or motion is voluntary orinvoluntary.
The voluntary arises f'rom a mandate of' the mind, proceeding
f'rom the brain, and effecting contraction or shortening of' the
mU8CUlar fibres ; the involuntary, or reflex, from irritation
eonveyed to the spinal cord, producing a like result, and may
be excited by tickling, pricking, or pinching the skin of' the
extremities of' a decapitated or pithed animal. It appears to
o;g,, zed by Google
158 GENERAL RBJIABXS.
In conclusion, I beg leave to remark, that the
varieties which are met with as regards suscepti-
bility to the hypnotic impression, and the mode and
degrees of its action, are only analogous to what we
experience in respect to the effects of wine, spirits,
opium, the nitrous oxide, and many other agents.
me, however, that much of the efficiency and tendency to
muscular contraction is dependent on another cause, namely,
the state of fQflfl or unrioft of the muscles when considered to
be in a state of quiescence ; and this state of tone I consider
depends on the ganglionic or organic system of nerves. Sup·
posing, from deficiency of this, the muscular system is relaxed,
a morbid tendency to reftex action will be induced, as a musi-
cal string will be more easily excited to vibrate if moderatdy
tight, than if drawn ury teme. It will also render muscular
effort less efficient and certain, because part of the muscular
contraction, which would have been efficient as available force
or motion, will be expended in bringing up the muscular
structure to that state which ought to have been its nonnal
condition of tension or tone.
On the other hand, supposing the organic system has been
extremely active, and rendered the muscular tone abnonnally
great, it will produce the very reverse effect of that just
referred to. It will not onlyoffer resistance to reftex motion,
but also to roluntary motion ; and, if carried to a certain ex·
tent, may render the parts fixed and rigid, from the ganglionic
system overpowering the cerebro-spinal system.
That this is not mere hypothesis see1D8 to me to be in some
degree proved, by the result of operations referred to in my
paper in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for
October, 1841, where muscles which had been rigidly eon·
traeted, and had lost all power of motion, had motion reetore<l
o;g,, zed by Google
GBNBRAL RBJU.RKS, 169
They are all well known to act differently on diffe-
rent individuals, and even on the same individuals at
different times, according to the condition of the
by dividing the tendons, and allowing a new portion to grow
between the divided ends, thus elongaUIIg the muscles ; and,
in other cases, where there was paralysis from retazatio,.,
power.was regained by cutting ovt a portion of telldon, bringing
the divided ends together, and ensuring their adhesion, and
thereby shortening the muscles, and giving them arti.ficiaUy
that tone or tension, the want of which I considered was the
great cause of the continuance of the paralysis. It therefore
appears to me, that during the hypnotic state there is a com-
plete inversion of the ordinary condition, and that the force
of the ganglionic system becomes predominant, instead of
being, as in the ordinary condition, only subordinate.
Another argument in favour of this view is the well known
fact, that all voluntary motion, or reflex muscular action,
speedily exhausts the powers, and renders the subject unable
to continue such efForts, and fatigued in consequence of them.
Voluntary efFort also is .trongeat at fir•t, and gradually be-
comes weaker. The functions of the organic system of
nerves, on the contrary, are more equable and persistent in
their nature ; and, although they may be influenced in some
degree as to the activity of their functions, by directing atten-
tion in a particular manner,-as the secretion of saliva by
thinking of food, the secretion of milk by the nurse thinking
of her child, &c. &c., still they cannot be said to be under
voluntary control in the same direct manner and degree as
muscular motion. The cataleptiform state induced ·by Hyp-
notism comes on gradually. For some time voluntary power
predominates ; but at length the involuntary rigidity, or
organic tonicity gains the ascendency ; and, although per-
sisted in for a great length of time, is followed by no exhaus-
160 GENERAL BEJU.RXS.
aystem ; but who calls in question the reality of their
effects merely because of that want of uniformity of
action 1
tion or fatigue. On the contrary, so far as I have carried
the experiments, the whole funetiona aeem to be invigorated
by the continuauoe of this condition.
o;g,, zed by Google
161
PART II.
CHAPTER I.
Modes of operating- Objecte of operationa- Cues of l!lghtlmp!O\'ed-
Hearing- Deafand dumb-Mr Clll'lll'a nomarki-JameeSbelmerd!ne'a
caae-MrBIDgham'llellimony-S.Taylor-Senaeofsmell-Toochand
NO!slanee-T!c, paralyda of aenae and motion, cured- Mba E. At.kln-
110n'acaae, voice recovenod-Rbenmatllm, &en eueo-Irregularmwcular
action- Headache -Spinal Irritation - Ep!lep111-Spinal curvature -
Neuralg!a, and palpitation of tbe heart- l!urglc&l operationa without
pain- rn-a of tbe aldn- Lockedjaw- Toole IJl&IID - Mba ColliDa
- Concluding remark&
HAVING in the former part so far explained the
mode of inducing the phenomena, I now proceed
to detail the cases in which I have successfully
applied this process in the cure of disease. I shall
endeavour to explain my modes of operating in
different affections, so as to epable others to apply
with advantage in their practice, what I have found
so eminently useful in my own.
L
162 HODES OF OPERATING,
When the artificial state of somnolence has been
induced in the manner already pointed out, pp. 27-
29, the manipulations must be varied according to the
peculiar object we have in view. If the force of the
circulation in a limb is wished to be diminished, and
the 1enaihility also to be redUMJ, call the muscles of
that member into activity, leaving the other extre-
mities limber. On the other hand, if the force of the
circulation and sensibility are wished to be increased
in a limb, keep it limber, and call the others into
activity, by elevating and extending them, and the
desired result will follow. If geMral depreuion is
wanted,after one or two limbs have been extended for a
short time,cautiously reduce them, and leave the whole
body limber and quiet. If geMral ezcitement of the
system is wanted, extend the whok limbs, causing the
patient to call the muscles into strong action, and very
speedily they will become rigidly fixed, and the force
and frequency of the heart's action, and determination
to the brain, as evinced by the action of the carotids,
distended jugulars, flushed face, and injected eyes,
will speedily become apparent. By applying the ear
over the region of the heart, it will be apparent that
the force and frequency of the heart's action becomes
prodigiously increased in a very short time after ex-
tending the limbs. It will also be found, they may be
very speedily altered and brought down by reducing
the rigidity of the limbs. The difference of rise in the
pulse when extending the limbsduring h.ti]Wiotism, from
what happens in the natural state, is one of the
strongest proofs of the patient being in the hypnotic
condition.
It has appeared to me, that we have thus the power
o;g,, zed by Google
WITH OBJECTS· OF OPERATIONS, 163
of subjecting the brain and spinal cord, and whole
ganglionic system, to a high state of excitement, as
the pulse may speedily be raised to double its natural
velocity, in most cases, and still more speedily reduced
to the natural standard again. Its volume and ten-
sion may also be equally rapidly increased or
diminished. It is therefore naturally to be expected,
that the functions must be greatly influenced by such
transitions. Every medical man knows that chronic
nervous disorders of the most painful nature may
have resisted every known remedy for weeks, or
months, or years, but have speedily vanished on the
accession of some acute attack. Now, my views were,
in such cases, to iuduce an intenae state of excitement
for a alwrt time, to be terminated abruptly, with the
hope of changing the former action, and thus termi-
nating the disorder; and assuredly, in many instances
the most obstinate chronic functional disorder is gone,
or greatly meliorated, by a few such operations.
Then, again, by keeping any particular organ
awake or active, whilst the others ~ere asleep, I con-
sidered there would be a great increase of activity
induced, by the whole nervous energy, or sensorial
power, being directed to that point ; or by keeping all
the other organs active, whilst one which had been
too active was allowed to remain in the torpid state,
that inordinate activity would be reduced in intensity,
and that probably permanently,-that the inordinate
stimulus, in one case, would remove the susceptibility
to lower impressions, which were frequently exciting,
or habitually keeping up morbid feeling or action ;
and in the other cases, that by suspending the morbid
sensibility of a part for a time, and rousing antagonist
164 SUOCESS OF OPERATIONS,
functions, such condition might be permanently
improved.
Whether I have been right or wrong in my
theoretical views, there can be no doubt of the fact
that in many instances I have been successful in the
application of Hypnotism as a curative agent ; and
the beneficial results of the operations have been so
immediate and decided, as to leave no doubt that
they stand in the relation of · cause and effect.
However, that much of the success depends on the
impression arising from the altered condition of
circulation, seems to me to be proved by the fact,
that in cases where the sleep was induced without the
rise in the fl»'Ce and frequency in the heart'a action,
by insuring this condition, the beneficial result has
instantly followed, where there has been no previous
improvement with the low pulse. The following is
a remarkable instance of this:- Nodau, deaf mute,
twenty-four years of age, was considered never to
have heard sound excepting the report of a gun or
thunder, when there was succussion of the air suffi-
cient to induce feeling rather than hearing, properly
so called. The mother told me Mr Vaughan, head
master of the Deafand Dumb Institution when Nodan
was at school, considered any indication of hearing
referred to was feeling, and not hearing, properly so
.called. At the first operation there was very little rise
of pulse, and afterwards I could not discern he had any
sense of hearing whatever. At next trial the pulse
was excited, and so remarkable was the effect, that in
going home be was so much annoyed with the noise
of the carts and carriages, that he would not allow
.himself to be operated on again for some time. He
o;g,, zed by Google
CASES OF SIGHT, l6li
has only been operated on a few times, and the result
is, that although he lives in a back street, he can now
hear a band of music coming along the front street,
and will run out to meet it.
I shall first illustrate the efficacy of hypnotiSID on
the various senses, and also on the mental condition.
And first, of sight. The mode of operating in chronic
eases, is first to induce the sleep, then extend the
extremities,'and keep the eyes from getting into the
torpid state, by fanning them, or passing a current of
air over them occasionally. The length of time
required to keep such patient in this condition may
vary from six to twelve minutes, according to the
state of the circulation. The following eases will
illustrate the affections of the eyes in which I have
applied this mode of treatment with advantage.
Case I. Mrs Roiley applied to me on the 6th April,
1842. She stated she was 64 years of age ; that
for the last sixteen years she had been a great suf-
ferer from an affection of the head, attended with
pain in the eyes and weakness of sight ; that it was
now become so bad, that she could not continue to
read for more than a few minutes at a time, even
with the aid of glasses. She had unclergone the most
active treatment under first rate medical men, includ-
ing bleeding general and local, blistering-on one
occasion, she was twice bled with leeches, and had
five blisters to her head in one month- and almost
every variety of internal medicine which could be
suggested for such a ease; but t>till without improving
her sight. For years she bad required ~o have her head
shaved every few weeks, and cold affusions and
spirituous lotions frequently applied to it, to reduce
o;g,, zed by Google
166 CASES OF SIGHT.
the excessive heat and other uncomfortable feelings.
The skin of the palms of the hands was so hard, dry,
and irritable, as to render it liable to chap whenever
l'he attempted to open the hands fully. The pain
during the day, and general irritability, had rendered
it necessary for her to take a composing pill three
times in twenty-four hours, for some time ; still her
rest was so bad as to force her to rise and walk about
the room several times during the night ; and her
memory had become so much impaired, that she often
required to go up stairs and then down again several
times before she could remember what she went up
for. About three years before consulting me, she had
a para!ytic attack, which deprived her of power of the
muscles of the right side of the face for a few days.
Such bad been the general state of her health before
consulting me, and the state of her sight, and the
result of my operation will be understood by the fol-
lowing document, which is attested by herself and
others, who were present when I first operated on
her:-
" Mrs Roiley, (aged 64,) Chapel Street, Salford,
formerly of South Windsor Street, Toxteth Park,
Liverpool, as Miss Robinson, (four years ago,) has
been gradually losing sight since thirty-eight years
of age. Called on me for the first time, 6th April,
1842. Could not read the heading of the newspaper,
excepting the words, ' Macclesfield Courier;' after
being hypnotized for eight minutes, she could dis-
tinctly read 'and Herald,' and in a few minutes
more the whole of the smaller line, ' Congleton
Gazette, Stockport Express, and Cheshire Advertiser,'
also the day, month, and date of the paper. That the
o;g,, zed by Google
lllRS ROlLEY. 167
above is a correct report, is attested by the patient
herself and other three patients, who were present the
whole time. {Signed} ALICE RolLEY.
M. A. STOWIE.
ANN STOWIE.
HENRY GAGGS."
When Mrs Roiley called on me two days after, she
gave me the following report. After leaving my
house on the 6th, she was much gratified to find her
sight so much improved, which induced her to go and
test it by looking at articles displayed in shop win-
dows, and in particular remarked that she had walked
up to Mr Agnew's shop window, and was able to see
distinctly the features of a portrait of Sir Robert
Peel, and to read under,it, "Sir Robert Peel, Bart.,"
VJithout her glasses, neither of which she could have
done for long before. She also stated, that after
being at home, she took up the small diamond Poly-
glot Bible, and with the aid of her glasses, was
agreeably surprised to find she was enabled to read
the I 18th Psalm, (29verses,)although this had been, as
she expressed it, a sealed book to her for years. The
following is the report whieh was recorded and attested
by her on the 12th April, 1842 :-" Mrs Roiley was
able to read a Psalm with the aid of her glasse! in the
smallest sized Polyglot Bible same afternoon she was
first hypnotized. 'fwo days after, {8th April,) was
hypnotized a second time. Next day, made a net hand-
kerchief with the aid of her glasses. April 12, has
gone on improving, and in my own presence and
several others, with the aid of her glasses, read the
Polyglot Bible with ease and correctness, which she
o;g,, zed by Google
168 CASES OP SIGHT IHPROVED,
said, had been a sealed book to her for years before I
operated on her.
(Signed) ALicE RolLEY.
M. A. SrowiE.
Wx. HALLID.a.Y.''
It is gratifying to be able to add, that the improve-
ment of the sight has been permanent ; and not only
so, but that the whole painful catalogue of complaints
with which she had been affiicted speedily disap-
peared, namely, pain of the chest, head, and eyes, loss
ofmemory,disturbed sleep, irregularity ofthe secreting
and digestive functions, and instead of the arid skin,
regular action of it, so that the palms of the hands,
which were so harsh and arid that she could not extend
them without lacerating the skin, causing great pain
and annoyance, were very soon as soft as a piece of
chamois leather.* The whole of this improvement
was accomplished entirely by this agency, as she had
no medicine whatever during her attendance on me;
nor has she required any up to this date, 2oth Feb-
ruary, 1843, when I read this report to her, and when
she remarked it was much under drawn ; that with
great truth I might have represented her as having
been a greater sufferer.
Mrs Roiley is a very intelligent person, and one
whose Christian profession and principles place her
* Very lately, a lady about 25 years of age was hypno-
tized by me. On being roused, she expressed her surprise
to find her hands bathed in perspiration, as she observed BM
:uw MUr kn01D11 to hau the llightert moilture on her handl till
!Aat moment.
o;g,, zed by Google
KBB STOWE. 169
statements above all suspicion. She bas been seen by
many eminent professional and scientific gentlemen,
who can bear testimony that they have had from her
own lips the same statements as I have recorded
above.
It appears to me that it would be impossible to
adduce a more striking proof than this ease affords, of
the groat and undoubted benefit resulting from the
application of any remedial measure. The improve-
ment was so remarkable, as to admit of no doubt as
to its reality, and so immediate after the hypnotizing,
as to prove they stood in the relation of cause and
effect, no other remedy being in operation ; and what-
ever may be supposed capable of being achieved
through the mere power of imagination, as regards
certain function~, the sense of sight could scarcely be
supposed capable of being so much meliorated directly
through that influence.
Case II. is that of Mrs M. A. Stowe. This lady was
present when I first operated on Mrs Roiley, and was
so much gratified by the effects she witnessed in that
ease, as to induce her to consult me as to the state
of her own eyes, and the probability of benefiting
them by a similar operation. Mrs Stowe was 44
·years of age, ancl had experienced such weakness of
sight as to require the aid of glasses for the last
twenty-two years, to enable her to sew, read, or write,
and, for some years past, she required them to enable
her to transact her most ordinary household duties.
The following is the statement of her eondition, which
I noted at the time, and is attested by her own signa-
ture, and that of others then present :-
Mrs Stowe, aged 44, 1, Bank Place, Red Bank,
o;g,, zed by Google
...
170 CASES OP SIGHT IHPROVED.
Manchester, has been troubled with weakness of sight
for twenty-two years, so as to require glasses to enable
her to read or sew. When tested to-day, 8th April,
1842, without her glasses, could not distinguish the
large (capital) letters of advertisements in a news-
paper, nor large heading of the paper. After being
hypnotized for eight minutes, she could distinctly read
both the large and small heading, and day, month, and
date of the paper.
(Signerl) M.A. SroWE.
She has also been able to sign her name to attest
the accuracy of the above statement, before her
daughter, and another patient.
(Signed) ANK STOWE.
lOth, Called on me, and informed me she had
been able to make herself a blonde cap, and to thread
her needle witlwut spectacles,* which she could not do
before for twenty-two years. 12th, Continued im-
proving ; told me she had been able to write up her
accounts wit/una glasses.
(Signed) . STOWE.
Wx. H.a.LLIDA.Y.
ALICE RolLEY.
ANN Srow~
This patient has retainerl the improvement of her
sight. She bas also informed me, that she was
agreeably surprised, after she left my house, the firs
• I have myself seen her thread a No. 8 needle on several
occasions.
o;g,, zed by Google
HISS STOWE, &c. 171
day ihe tDa8 operaeed on, to find, as she went along the
streets, that she could read the sign-hoards, which she
could not do for years before. She has also named to
many others, as well as myself, a Yery convincing
proof of her great improvement in this respect. Be-
fore being operated on by me, on the 8th April, 1842,
if she went a-shopping, witkout her !Jlauu, she was
sure to make some mistake as to the quality of goods
purchased, and have the trouble of going back to have
them exchanged, but now she never requires to take
her glasses with her, as can be testified by the shop-
men where she makes her purchases. Her memory
and general health have also been greatly imprond by
the same operations.
Case III. Miss Stowe, daughter of the former
patient, 22 years of age, " was under the necessity
of reading, and doing any particular work, with the
aid of glasses, for the last two years, but has never
required them since she was first hypnotized, and
can now read the small Polyglot Bible." This ia
attested by her mother, herself, and Mr William
Halliday, and Mrs Roiley.
The improvement has been permanent, and she has
threaded a No. 12 needle in my presence, eight months
after I first operated on her.
Case IV. Mr J. A. Walker, 22 years of age, had
always had very weak sight, but since being hypno-
tized has been greatly improved in his sight, as well
as in his memory and general health.
Case V. Mrs C., aged 83, had, from her age, required
the use of glasses for many years, to enable her to
sew or read. Last August 1 hypnotized her for deaf-
o;g,, zed by Google
172 DlPROVEHBNT OP SIGHT,
ness, with very decided advantage, and I told her I
also expected to improve her sight at the same time.
She was very incredulous, but was agreeably sur-
prised to fi.nd, that after a treeond operation she was
not only able to hear much better, but also to sew some
flannel, threading her needle witlwut her glasses. She
had been thus occupied for several hours, when I
called to see her, after the second operation.
There have been cases in which I have tried this
method without success, but this proves only that
we must never expect to obtain possession of a
universal remedy. Cases of confirmed amaurosis,
which had resisted every other known remedy, and
which were only undertaken by me at the desire of
the patients, and sometimes of medical men also, as
a forlorn hope, have, as in most cases was suspected
might be the result, proved unsuccessful, and, through
these, attempts have been most ungenerously and
unwarrantably made to throw discredit on the power
of hypnotism altogether. It has proved successful
in too many instances, however, to be borne down by
such paltry and pitiful misrepresentation. I could
easily adduce many more successful cases, did I deem
it necessary, but shall only give t'VO more.
Case V. Mr J-- has always had imperfect
vision, is near-sighted, has strabismus of right eye,
and the sight so dull, that it was with great difficulty
he could, without glasses, see the large letters (on
white paper) in the title page of the " Medical
Gazette." After the first operation he could see
better, and! after it had been repeated a few times
he could, without glasses, read a few words of the
o;g,, zed by Google
JIBS s.'8 CASB. 173
leading article of that work, and after a few more
operations, could read the type in which the lectures,
at the beginning of the work, are printed.
Case VI. Mrs S., one of my own near relatives, had
a severe rheumatic fever in January, 1839. During
the course of this disease the left eye became impli-
cated, involving both the internal and external struc-
tures of the organ. She had the benefit of the advice
of one of the first-rate oculists in Edinburgh. She
was under his care till the August following, when
he considered farther attendance unnecessary, but
gave such instructions as he deemed expedient for her
future management of it, and which bad been duly
attended to till the period when I first saw her, in
June, 1842. At that time she came on a visit to my
house. The eye was free from pain, but was of no
service as an organ of vision. There was an opacity
over more than one half of the cornea, sufficient to
prevent distinct perception of any object placed oppo-
site the temporal halfofthe eye, all being seen through
a dense haze ; and objects placed towards the opposite
side were seen very imperfectly, owing to the injury
the choroid and retina had sustained in the points on
which the images of such objects were reflected. The
opacity of the cornea was not only an obstacle to
distinct vision, but was also a source of annoyance,
from its disfigurement, being obvious even to those at
a considerable dist.ance.
Notwithstanding the great advantage I had seen
other patients, afflicted with affection of the eyes,
derive from hypnotism, it never occurred to me that
such a case as that of Mrs S. was likely to be benefited
by such an operation. I had, however, recommended
o;g,, zed by Google
174 DIPROVEMENT OP SIGHT.
it to her for a severe rheumatic affection of the right
shoulder and .arm. She had been in my house about
three months before she could make up her mind to un-
dergo the operation, but at length, the -
violence of the
pain impelled her to try it, or any thing else I should
recommend. I of course hypnotized her, which
immediately relieved her pain so much, that after
the first operation, 11he could move the arm freely.
The operation was repeated the following day, with
complete relief as regarded the arm ; and to the sur-
prise and delight of the patient, myself, and others
present, she found her sight so much improved as
to be able to see every thing in the room, and to
name different flowers, and distinguish their colours,
whilst the right eye was shut, which she had not been
able to do for more than three years and a half pre-
viously. I consequently now repeated the operation
daily, and, in a very short time, had the satisfaction
of seeing the cornea so transparent, that it requires
close inspection to observe where any opacity remains.
Neither external nor internal means were used during
this improvement, nothing but the hypnotizing was
had recourse to ; and during the three months I hnd
an opportunity of watching it prior to these opera-
tions, there was no visible change in the condition of
the organ. I should observe, that after the first ope-
ration, there was considerable smarting in the eye,
which continued all night, and, in a less degree, after
future operations, which, no doubt, roused the absor-
bents, and effected the removal of the opacity of the
cornea. Stimulating the optic nerve to greater acti-
vity, however, must have been the chief cause of the
very rapid improvement, which enabled her to see
MR HOLDITCB. 176
objects after second operation. I should remark, that
the sight, with regard to objects seen from the tem-
poral side of the eye, is much more distinct than
from the nasal side, owing to the retina and choroid
having sustained irreparable damage during the in-
flammatory stage at the commencement of the attack
in 1839.
Case VII. Mr Holditch, 39 years of age, had been
partially paralytic for ten years, which came on some
time after a fall. Shortly after the fall, he expe-
rienced an attack of double vision, which went off
after bleeding, blistering, and the usual treatment, but
was followed by paralysis of the lower limbs, which
induced him to consult me on the 18th of February,
1843. See Case XXVII. p. 217. He was very much
surprised, when I told him he had defective vision of
the right eye, said he was not aware of it, and fJ)()UlrJ
not bel~ that I was not mistake~,, tilt I tested him,
when he found he could barely see the capitals of
the words, " Medical Gazette," as heading of the
leading article of that work, whilst he could read the
ordinary size print of the page with the other eye.
After being hypnotized, I tested him in the same
position, and with the same degree of light, and he
could then read the small aizerJ print with it, and
it bas continued so ever since. He could also walk
across the room without crutch or stick, which he
could not do before, at which he was very much sur-
prised, as he was quite conscious the whole time, and
therefore could not believe any good could have re-
sulted to him from what was done, till he had the
positive evidence of it in being able to see and walk.
Here, then, we have seen three cases of improve«l
o;g,, zed by Google
176 DBA.PNES8 CURED.
vision consequent on hypnotizing for other affections,
and where, consequently, the improvement could not
at all be attributable to imagination, but to the
altered condition in the capillary circulation and dis-
tribution of the 1M nmx>aa.
In cases of active inflammation of the eyes, either
external or internal, I have never tried hypnotism.
By the mode calculated to excite the circulatiou, of
course it would be quite inadmissible ; and it could
only be speculation for me to hazard an opinion as to
its probable result by the other mode.
The extraordinary excitement of the auditory
organ, which I had observed in the course of my early
experiments, and the fact that hearing was the last
sense to dLooappear during this artificial sleep, (unless
we except that of the sensibility to a current of air,)
led me to anticipate most satisfactory results from
this process in the treatment of deafness, arising from
torpor of the auditory nerves. I consequently tried
itJn such cases, and where there has not been destruc-
tion, or irreparable organic injury to the auditory
apparatus, I can confidently say, I know of no
means equal to hypnotism, for benefiting such cases.
Of course, it cannot suit all cases, but I am satisfied it
will succeed in a numerous class of cases, and in some
which bid defiance to all other known modes of treat-
ment.
I am enabled to state this confidently, not only
from my own personal success, but also from that of
others who have fairly tried it. One professional
friend, Mr Gardom, introduced to me two patients
whom he had improved so much by hypnotism only,
that they were enabled to bear the sermons of their
o;g,, zed by Google
DEAF AND DUllB, 177
respective pastors, which they couldjnot do before,
in consequence of which one of them had to leave her
favourite minister, and go to another church; but,
after being hypnotized, has been able to hear so
much better, that she has been thus induced to re-
turn to her former pastor.
The great success which I bad .experienced from
hypnotism, in improving those who were deaf through
disease, led me to hope it might be of service to some
of those who were ~m deaf and dumb, and I there-
fore tried it in such cases with a considerable degree
of success, ultimately with a success beyond my
most sanguine expectations. In consequence of what
had been done and exhibited at my lectures, the
medical profession of Liverpool, to their credit be it
recorded, recommendedtothe governorsof the Deafand
Dumb Institution there, to permit an experimental
trial to be made at their Institution. The governors
refused their assent to this UJithin tke walU of the
Inatitution, but agreed to permit a trial to be made
with such out-door pupils as could be induced to sub-
mit to it elsewhere, the consent of the parents having
been obtained. In consequence of this, a committee of
the governors and the medical faculty was appointed to
superintend the said investigation, and I was invited
to gooverandconducttheexperimentsintheirpresence,
and it was proposed a report of the results should be
published in the Medical Journals, at the termination
of our labours. The difficulty of getting the pupils
and their parents to attend, induced us to abandon the
proceedings after two trials had been made, so that it
would be quite inconsistent with the conditions stipu-
lated, at the commencement of said investigation, to
J(
o;g,, zed by Google
178 EXPBCT.A.TIOJIS JUIG.A.li.DIJIG
publish any report of the result of this pM'tial inves-
tigation. However, I think I cannot better illustrate
the extent of my expectations, in reference to such
cases, than by transcribing an extract from my ad-
dress to the said committee, prior to commencing our
experimental trial.
"Hitherto, these patients have been considered be-
yond the pale of human aid, so decidedly have they
resisted all means tried for their relief ; and the mor-
bid condition of the organs, as ascertained by dissec-
tion, was sufficient to warrant the inference that it
was improbahle any remedy could ever be discovered
for such cases. Fully aware of this pathological diffi-
culty, I was nevertheless inclined to try the effect of
neuro-hypnotism with congenital deaf mutes, know-
ing it could be done with perfect safety, and without
pain or inconvenience to the patients. Moreover,
from having witnessed its extraordinary power of
rousing the excitability of the auditory nerves, I
entertained the hope that it might thus be capable of
exciting some degree of hearing, from the increased
sensibility of the nerves compen!l8ting for the imper-
fection of the organ. I was not, and am not even
now, so visionary, as to expect perfection of frmctUm,
when there is great imperfection of. the organ. Per-
fection of organization and function must be co-exis-
tent ; at least the function cannot be perfectly per-
formed when the organization is muck impaired. The
result of my first trial was beyond my most sanguine
expectations, which induced me to persevere, and the
result has been, that I have scarcely met with a case
of congenital deaf mute, where I have not suceeded in
making the patient hear in some degree. Many may
DEAF AND DUMB. 179
never hear so well as to make it available to holding.
conversation by its aid ; but still it is most interest-
ing in a physiological point of view, to know the
fact, that by this means the imperfect organ can be
roused to a~ degree of sensibility to sound, as even
this must tend to the improvement of the general
functions of the brain, rather than being entirely de-
prived of one source of its appropriate stimuli. I
have no doubt, moreover, that many cases will, by
this means, be restored to such degree of hearing a.'!
will be available for colloquial intercourse in society,
which never could have been accomplished by any
other means hitherto tried. If my success with the
cases assembled here is at all equal to what it has
been with others elsewhere, I think it cannot be
otherwise than gratifyit;~g to you to find that our art
bas acquired a new and important power in this
agency. I must not, however, omit to add, that
mauy cases may shew no improvement at a first or
aecond trial, and yet be very satisfactory after a few
trials. According to my experience, there is much
greater chance of benefiting congenital deaf mutes,
than those who have become so from disease or acci-
dent, to the eztent of total loss ofhearing.
"In testing patients as to their power of hearing, I
consider it quite necessary to adopt a different plan
for those who are congenital deaf mutes, from what we
do with those who have known what perfect hearing
was at some former period of their Jives. It is quite
true that the latter class may be unable to hear a
musical box, or the tick of a watch, wheu held at a
little distance from the cars, but can bear it when
pressed againat the car, or the mastoid process, or
o;g,, zed by Google
180 JIO])ES OF TESTING
against the teeth, owing to the greater conducting
power of the bony structure. There are patients of
this class, however, who declare they have no sense of
sound when so tested, becau11e their previous know-
ledge of the sense enables them to distinguish betwixt
heari"'!J, properly so called, aud common feeling. In
testing congenital deaf mutes, from their want of this
previous knowledge, they will all signify they hear,
if any sonorous or vibrating body is pressed against
the ear. This, however, I do not consider we have
any proof of being heari"'!J, but feeling; because they
had no previous knowledge to direct them as to the
peculiar sensation of correct keari"'!l; and they will
give the same indication if the sonorous body is
placed on any other solid part of the body, according
to its respective degree of sensibility. In applying
tests to congenital deaf mutes, therefore, I consider
they have no sense of hearing, if they cannot hear the
sound of a musical box held close to, but not tO'UChing
the ears, or any other sonorous body whose vibra-
tions do not excite such oscillation in the air as is
sufficient to be recognized by common feeli"'!J. It
ought also to be borne in mind that the common feeling
of the deaf and blind is generally much more acute
than in those who have not been deprived of those
senses. At all events we cannot err in taking this as
our standard, because, if those who did not hear on
the application of such a test before the operation, do
not hear it also after the operation, we shall consider
there is no improvement; and if those who hear it at a
certain distance before the operation, cannot after the
operation hear it at a greater distance, it must also be
considered no improvement has been made, But if
o;g,, zed by Google
DEAF AND DUMB PATIENTS, 181
the former can, after the operation, hear witlwut the
bozwuching the ear, and the latter can hear at a greater
distance, then of course we are entitled to say an im-
provement has resulted from the operation."
These extracts should be sufficient to explain what
the extent of my expectations were as to meliorating
the condition of congenital deaf and dumb patients,
the principles upon which these expectations were
based, and my mode of testing the original and sub-
sequent condition of such patients. The following
cases will prove that my anticipations have been so
far realized-in one case to au extent I never calcu-
lated on. The mode of operating is, hypnotize the
patient, extend the limbs, and gently fan the ears.
Case VIII. The case of Nodan has already been
referred to at page 164, and I shall therefore merely
add here, that be was 24 years old, was never
considered to have had the power of hearing, pro-
perly so called, according to the opinion of the head
master of the Deaf and Dumb Institution, where he
was a pupil ; that after the ftr8t operation I satisfied
myself he had no sense ofhearing, but after the second,
which I carried still farther, he could hear, and was
so annoyed by the noise of the carts and carriages
when going home, after that operation, that he could
not be induced to call on me again for some time.
He has been operated on only a few times, and has
been so much improved, that although he lives in a
back street, he can now hear a band of music coming
along the front street, and will go out to meet it. I
lately tested him, and found he could hear in his
room on the second floor a gentle knock on the
bottom stair. His improvement, therefore, has been
both decided and permanent, and is entirely attri-
Digit zed b,Google
182 IMPBOVEJI:ENT OF
butable to hypnotism, as no other means were adopted
in his ease.
Case IX. "Mr John Wright, Pendleton, 19
years of age. Congenital deaf mute. WM four years
at the asylum under Mr Vaughan. Never heard
sound. On testing, could not discern the tick of a
watch pressed against the ears, nor a musical box,
unless when pressed against the ears, which was
evidently feeling, and not hearing, as he evinced the
same expressions when it was applied to the shoulder.
chest, or back of the hand. After being hypnotized
for eight minutes, he could hear the musical box held
more than an inchfrom the left ear, but not at all with
the right, if not pressed against it, which was of
course only feeling. Certified as correct by the father
of the patient. (Signed) JoHN WRIGHT."
" MANCHESTER, 8th .April, 1842."
" After writing the above statement, he was again
tested, and could hear the box halfan inch from the
right ear. (Signed) JoHN WRIGHT."
The latter fact, of hearing better after being roused
than at the very moment they are roused, occurs iu
casesgenerally. This patient attended daily for a short
time, and made considerable progress in the power of
hearing, but like too many others he had not patience
to persevere, which his father, who is a very respectable
and intelligent man, wished him to do. Unfortnnately
the deaf and dumb are not aware of the eztem of their
prirotion, or of the real advantage they would obtain
by persevering, and their expectation. and that of their
friends, in most cases st>ems to be, that the moment
they have the power of hearing restored in some
o;g,, zed by Google
DEAF AND DUMB PATIENTS, 183
degree, they should, as by a miracle, also be imme-
diately inspired with the gift of tongues, and be able
to speak and understand language without study,
toil, or trouble. This has been so well expressed by
John Harrison Curtis, Esq. that I shall quote a para-
graph from his pen on the subject.
" Kramer condemns the cases recorded as cures by
ltard, Deleau, and others, because, when published,
the patients had not acquired a facility of speech
equal to that evinced by other people of the same age ;
forgetting, that when the deafness has been cured, the
individual is placed precisely in the position of a child
that has to acquire the faculty of speech, and not
unfrequently the power of thought; while, at the
same time, if he have approached the age of puberty,
he has to contend with false impressions created by
the erroneous perceptions which affected him while
unable, from his infirmity, to impart his feelings and
ideas to his fellow-creatures ; in fact, he is placed iu
the same position in regard to hearing as Cheselden's
patient was with respect to vision. The organ, when
the cophosis is removed, requires to be carefully
educated to perceive, understand, and distinguish the
variety of sounds which will impinge upon the
auditory nerve, a task requiring much time for its
accomplishment. The cure of congenital deafness,
consequently, may be t~ffected, and yet rendered eff~te,
for want of this necessary subsequent education."
After remarking that many cases of deaf dumbness
arise from disease, and are only partially deaf, he
added, " Many of these cases admit of amelioration,
some of cure ; and I hold, that wherever there is a
·chance only of doing good, it ought not to be
o;g,, zed by Google
184 :KR CURTIS'S RRXARKS,
neglected ; it may certainly raise hopes which may
be nullified hereafter, but not in the patient, who
cannot comprehend the motives of the proceeding;
nor would the friends be much annoyed thereat, if
the surgeon has performed his duty properly, by
shewing, that although there is a chance of success, it
is after all only a chance."-" It does not occasion a
loss of valuable time, worthy to be put in competition
with the prospect of restoring even one individual to
the enjoyment of the society and converse of his fel-
lows."-" Many would be rendered {by proper treat-
ment) useful members of society, who, under the
present system, remain hopeless objects of commisera-
tion as long as they Jive." Mr Curtis farther adds,
" I perfectly agree with Dr Williams, who says, a
cure ought always to be attempted, and that at the
earliest moment at which deafness is detected ; and
children so affected should mix with others not deaf,
and no symbolical education should take place until
all chances of cure are gone." Medical Gazette, 23d
September, 1842.
These remarks are so judicious and important as to
require no comment by way of enforcing them on any
intelligent and candid reader.
The following case having been the cause of much
controversy, I shall give it in detail. Before operating
on the boy, in the presence of the gentleman who
brought him to me, I asked the lad, in writing, if he
ever heard, to which he returned answer, {also in
writing,) "No." I then proceeded to operate on him,
and the following isa report of his case from my note-
book.
Case X. "James Shelmerdine, Mr Barker's, 83 Higa
o;g,, zed by Google
.J.lHBS SHEL11ERDINB, 186
Street, Manchester, aged fourteen years and a half, was
bom deaf and dumb, and educated at the Manchester
Draf and Dumb Asylum, and came out last June,
in consequence of his age. 4th January, 1842, I
subjected him to the mesmeric influence, by causing
him look at my glass rod, and in thirteen minutes
aroused him by a clap of the hands, when he
could hear the tick of my watch applied to the right
ear, but only very slightly so when applied to the
left. Could hear me speak loudly, but could not tell
what I ~~aid to him. This took place in presence of
his master, who brought him to me, and now attests
the correctness of the above. The boy has other two
brothers deaf and dumb.
(Signed) MA.TrHBW BARKER."*
6th January. Again subjected him to the operation.
In twelve minutes he could hear my watch at nine
inches from right ear, and at six from left.
7th January. Called upon me, and could hear with
the right ear at four and a half inches, and one inch
from left ear. After being hypnotized for ten minutes,
he could hear the watch at seven inches from right,
and at four inches from left ear.
17th January. After operation could hear six and
a half inches with left, and seven and a half with
rigl,t. 20th. Could, after being roused, hear my
watch at seven and a half inches from left ear, and at
nine inches from right."
The boy was now tested by competent judges, aud
" Mr Barker was not the boy'• master, but employed some
or his mends, as was afterwards explailled to me.
186 J.UUS SBBLKBRDI1fB'S C.lSB,
pronounced capable of imitating articulate sound
without seeing tlie motion of tlie lips. To render this
the more certain, he was tried with a word requiring
no motion of the lips and spoken near his ear, which
he distinctly imitated.
I now commenced to teach him to speak a few
simple words, and he got on very well ; and that he
could do so very satisfactorily, I considered there was
ample proof by what he accomplished at my lectures.
There were some who could not believe he could have
been born entirely deaf and dumb, when they heard
how well he imitated articulate sounds when the
motions of the lips were concealed. This was par-
ticularly and warmly disputed at a lecture I gave at
Liverpool, on the 1st of April, 1842. The boy was
asked, without my knowledge, by Mr Rhind, head
master of the Deaf and Dumb Institution of Liver-
pool, if he ever heard before being operated on by me,
to which he answered, "No." Next day, in. the
presence of several friends, I again questioned him iu
writing as to his original condition, when he gave the
following answers, which he certified by his signature
as being correct. Fortunately, this document, by the
merest accident, (having been written on the back of
a Jetter belonging to another gentleman,) has been
preserved, and I shall here transcribe it verbatim.
" 'Could you ever hear before I operated on you'l'-
'No.' 'How did the master of the school teach you
to say, papa, mamma 1'-' Few days.' 'How did he
do it1'-' Ba, be, bi, bo, bu.' ' Did the master ask
you to watch the motions of his lips1'-' Yes.' 'Did
he try to teach you to speak by applying his mouth
to your ear 1'-'No.' 'Did you ever say what you
o;g,, zed by Google
IKPllOVEMBNT. 187
did to me before1'-' No.' 'Did you ever read it, so
far as you remembed'-' No.'
(Signed) JAMM SHBLMBRDINE.''
Hitherto the boy had only been taught single
words. The last two quO!Itions refer to part of the
"Lord's Prayer," in English, which I had been teach-
ing him to speak by meam ofhearing; and although
he speedily made a good attempt at repeating part of
it, the effect was so different from that of the mode
adopted at school, or that conveyed to his mind
through the organ of sight, when reading it, as he
must have been accustomed to do, that he did not know
what it was I had been teaching him to ~peak. Could a
stronger proof than this be adduced that the boy did
not learn to speak by hearing before he was under
my treatment 1
I also, on the same day, taught this boy to repeat
part of the Lord's Prayer in L"ltin, to do away with
all ground of cavil as to what he might have learned
at the Institution ; and at my next lecture at Liver-
pool, the week after, he was heard to be able to
repeat it when spoken to him in a moderate tone of
voice, whilst the motions of the lips were concealed,
and that taking the words in any order, so that there
could be no ground of mistake as to his hearing what
he repeated.
Various surmises having now got out, that this boy,
James Shelmerdine, might have had, or must have
had, the sense of hearing originally, and that his
present condition could not possibly be the result of
hypnotism, I addressed a letter to Mr Bingham,
who was head master of the Asylum during the five
o;g,, zed by Google
188 MR BlNGILUl'S TESTIMONY.
years this boy was at school, requesting him to favour
me with information as to James Shelmerdine's real
condition up to the time when he left school. The
following is his reply, and I may add, I am not per-
sonally acquainted with Mr Bingham. After describ-
ing the partial hearing of this boy, which varied
greatly, Mr Bingham adds,- " I never considered his
hearing sufficient to distinguish one sound from
another in conversation, and consequently, never
attempted to teach him to speak in any other way
than that which I use with all children born deaf.
If hypnotism, or mesmerism, has enabled him to
imitate the sounds you wished to communicate to
him, without his observing the lips, I do not hesitate
to say that you have achieved that which I never
could have expected ; and, under such circumstances,
I think every encouragement ought to be given to
your plan. You would greatly oblige me by saying
if this has been accomplished, as the boy waa quite in-
capahle ofdiBtinguisking one wordfrom another when he
left me, if spoken behind his back."
Fortunately I had no difficulty in satisfactorily
substantiating this, for, besides having been so re-
peatedly proved in the public lecture-room, here and
elsewhere, he had also been tested before a number
of the most distinguished members of the British
Association, last June, and, more recently, before a
dozen witnesses, including the present head master of
the Deaf and Dumb Institution of this town. I
instituted this investigation in consequence of some
gross attempts which had been made to misrepresent
my conduct in reference to this case. The following
is an extract from the report of his condition on the
MR BINGHAli'S TESTIMONY, 189
25th July last, {1842,) and is attested by Mr A.
Patterson, head master of our Deaf and Dumb School,
and twelve more witnesses:-" James Shelmerdine
was examined at Mr Braid's before the undersigned,
in reference to his hearing, and he readily repeated
part of the Lord's Prayer, both in English and Latin,
both backwards and forward!!, after Mr Braid repeat-
ing the words in a moderate tone of voice, without
being able to see the movement of the lips."
I had not seen the boy for about a month before
this investigation, and I would ask, did he not here
manife~t a decided improvement from the state he
was in when he left school, when, as borne testimony
to by Mr Bingham, "he was quite incapable of dis-
tinguishing one word from another," if spoken so
that he could not see the motion of the lips? and I
am quite certain this was his condition immediately
after my first operation. As has been already stated,
he could not then distinguish one word from another,
however loudly spoken close to his ear.
After communicating these statements of what the
boy could do, as recorded at the investigation on the
25th July, Mr Bingham favoured me with a seeond
letter, from which I make the following extract :-
"James Shelmerdine's performance in repeating the
Lord's Prayer, in Latin and English, when the mo-
tions of the lips were concealed from him, is a con-
vincing proof that he must have benefited greatly by
it (hypnotism,) as he could not distinguish one
sound from another by oral communication."
The following fact also proves the great improv,_
ment in the boy's hearing. One afternoon he wasin
my hall, when a lady was playing the piano, and
190 INPBRENCBS PROM WHOLE.
singing, in a room up stairs. He seemed so much
pleased with the music that I gave him permission to
go and hear it. He instantly went up stairs, and into
the drawing-room, by himself, and seemed quite
delighted with the sound of the music, as several who
saw him can testify. This, I am quite certain, he
could not have done for some time after he came
under my eare.
In fine, I feel confident, that had this boy persevered
with the operation, and been taken pains with by his
parents, to teach him to speak, and understand the
meaning of what he spoke, he would, long ere now,
have been able to hold oral communication with
others with less trouble, and in a more moderate tone
of voice than we must resort to with many whom we
meet with, who have become hard of hearing from
age or disease. It is, however, so much more trouble,
at first, for the friends to teach them language, than
to hold intercourse with them by signs, that they will
not bestow it, and the patients, from not knowing the
extent of their privation, can be less expected to exert
themselves for acquiring the good they know not ;
and therefore, I feel assured there will never be much
achieved for the poor in this way, unless within the
walls of some public institution ; but, that there are
many who might be permanently benefited in such
situations I have no doubt. In the paper by Mr
Curtis, to which I have already referred, he writes
thus in reference to the pathological condition of the
organ in those born deaf and dumb :-"I am of the
~me opinion as ltard in this respect, that structural
disease does not occasion more than one case in five,
leaving, consequently, many cases in which medical
o;g,, zed by Google
-
8AlU.B TAYLOR. 191
assistance may prove of service; and I do not acknow-
ledge that the ' weakness of the nerve, approaching to
paralysis, or an actual paralysis of the nerve,' which
Dr Kramer assumes to exist in those cases where con-
genital eophosis is present, and no structural derange-
ment, must necessarily be as incurable as structural
deficiency. We are not apt to abandon incipient
palsy of a nerve of sense or motion, in other parts of
the system, without an attempt at relief; and I see
no reason why the unfortunate being affiicted with
deaf dumbness, should be surrendered to his fate,
without a well directed attempt being previously
made to redeem him therefrom."
This, together with the statement of his experience,
ought to encourage farther trials, and especially now
that we have got a new and more powerful agent to
operate with than any hitherto brought into opera-
tion in such cases. The results of the following case
have far more than realized my most sanguine expec-
tations. It clearly proves, that persons with perfect
organization may have been deaf and dumb from
birth, and continue so merely for want of a sufficient
stimuluA to set the machinery in motion.
In consequence of the remarkable improvement of
hearing, through hypnotism, evinced in the case of
Mrs C., (Case IV. already recorded,) I was ask~ to
give my opinion as to the probability of a similar
operation benefiting a girl who had been deaf and
dumb from birth, and who was sister to a servant iu
the family I was then visiting. I told them what
my experience had been in respect to such cases, and
it was accordingly arranged that I should see the
o;g,, zed by Google
192 SAlU.H TAYLOR.
patient, and try what could be done for her, the fol-
lowing day.
Case X. 9th August, 1843. The girl, Sarah Taylor,
was nine and a-half years of age, very small for her
age, and very stupid looking. The following is the
history of the case, as stated by father, mother, and
elder sister. She was.a seven months' child, remark-
ably small, the head large for the size of the body, and
soft, ("like a bladder full of water,") and it was long
before they expected t.o be able to rear the child. As
she grew up they were much annoyed with' her not
speaking, and by her paying no attention to what
was said to her. At last they found that .this w• not;
obstinacy, to which it had been at first attributed.
They now came to the painful convietion that she was
deaf and dumb. The father has assured myself, and
many others, that in his anxiety to obtain proof of her
having any degree of hearing, he has "often stood
behind her, and shouted (as he expressed himself) till
he was hoarse again," without her evincing any sign of
hearing; and t~~~tt when she was out of sight they were
in continual .~41: she would be run over by carts or
carriages, as s~)s\'4ld not hear their approach. The
testimony of the:
lu'othQr and sister was to the same
effect, that they net.er. could m!'ke her hear, or pay
any attention by calling her, when lier back was to-
wards them. In such ·\!osition they could only make
her observe them by to~~hing her. They all agree,
also, in stating, that slia,.r could speak so as to be
, understood, till after being operated on by me, ex-
·~pting two or three words,"'&father, mother, sister,
k .\'fb~eh she had learned from -btching the motions of
PROFESSOR TAYLOR'S TEST. 193
their lips. I regret not having had her tested by a
musical box before I operated on her; but I am quite
certain, that after the first operation she could not
distinguish one word from another; and I afterwards
bad the best possible proof of her never having heard
for any useful purpose, as she was quite ignorant of
the name of any part ofker own lxxly, or ofany person,
place, or thing, as is well known to many who saw
her after I had operated on her. After the third and
fourth operation I could manage to make her speak
a few simple words, and also to make a tolerable
attempt at following me when singing the musical
scale.
Ten days after the fourth trial, she was tested and
proved able to do this before fifty or sixty highly
respectable witnesses, including many professional
gentlemen. Formonths past she has been attending
the Scotch Sessional School, and is making very good
progress in learning, and I have no doubt, will prove
to be a clever girl ; she hears so correctly now, as not
only to be able to imitate speaking, but also singing.
Mr E.Taylor, Gresham Professor of Music, latelyaffor-
ded a number of my professional and scientific friends
a good proof of this, as he composed an extemporary
tune which she and other two patients sang correctly,
whilst in the state of neuro-hypnotic sleep. She
could have done the same whilst awake, and hundreds
have witnessed her speak and sing, both when asleep
and when awake.
It is curious, that in some who have a very incor-
rect musical ear, so that they couM not be taught to
sing the most simple air correctly when awake, can
N
o;g,, zed by Google
194 RYPNOTISH INCREASES
nevertheless be made to do so, when in this peculiar
sleep. This was remarkably exemplified in a young
lady, whom I wished to be taught a simple air which
she might sing by way of exemplification, at some
lectures I was to give at a distance, but it could not be
accomplished ; she could not follow in tune more
than a note or two together ; but when asleep, she
can sing any air correctly which I have tried her
with. Still, when awake, she cannot do so. For an
example of the same sort during natural somnambu-
lism, see pages 296-298, and 309, of Dr fAber-
crombie's work on the Intellectual Powers. Of one
it is noted, "She often sung, both sacred and common
pieces, incomparably better, Dr Dyce affirms, than
she collld do in the wakingstate." Of the other, " she
was, when awake, a dull awkward girl, very dull in
receiving any kind of instruction, though much care
was bestowed upon her, and, in point of intellect, she
was much inferior to the other servants of the famiJy.
In particular, she shewed no kind of turn for music,
and she did not appear to have any recollection of
what passed during her sleep." During somnambu-
lism, she sang beautifully, and exhibited great intel-
lectual powers.
I shall conclude this department by recording
the following case from my note book. The in-
ability of this patient to sing in tune may have been
partly owing to a defect in the organ of hearing, and
partly to a state of nervousness affecting the vocal
organs. The experiment was undertaken merely to
gratify the particular desire of the patient, as at that
time I had had no similar case, and was not prepared
o;g,, zed by Google
T.A.STE II'OR KUSIC, 195
to say, whether it was likely or not to be successful.
However, I Mt assured it would do him no harm, and
made the trial accordingly, and assuredly nothing
could have proved more successful or more gratifying
than the resul't.
Case XI. 7th July, 1842, I was consulted by Alex-
ander M'Roberts, 29 years of age, residing with
Mr Hannay, of 42, Thomas Street, Manchester.
He said, he had never been able to join in tune, al-
though he had frequently attempted to do so. After
being hypnotized for sometime, (about ten minutes,)
I roused him,and desired him to walk into the dining-
room, and after hypnotizing him once more, a friend
played the organ, and I directed (or led) him to sing
the scale, beginning with D, as he could not sing C,
owing to the natural pitch of his voice. He very soon
managed to sing the scale quite correctly, upwards
and then downwards. I now roused him, and made
him sing it when awake, which he did remarkably
well. I now tried him with the first part of " Robin
Adair," which he followed in correct tune several
times. This took place in presence of Mr James
Reynolds, Mr Daniels, Mr James Braid, my nephew,
and myself. In the evening of that day, aft{lr being
again hypnotized, he sung the first part of " Robin
Adair'' very correctly several times, and also Pleyel's
German Hymn, and the Old Hundred Psalm, quite
correctly. Pleyel's German Hymn he never heard
before. This took place in presence of four gentle-
men.
His inability to sing prior to these operations was
bome testimony to by several of his friends, one of
o;g,, zed by Google
196 K'ROBEllT'S CASE.
whom had a good knowledge of music, hut despaired
of ever seeing M'Roberts able to sing, and he wu
exceedingly surprised at the result. This patient was
operated on several times afterwards, and when I
last saw him, could sing a considerable number of
tunes, and follow any simple air with ease and cor-
rectness.
The next sense I shall refer to is that of smell.
Having put the patient into the hypnotic state, he
ought to be kept in it a longer or shorter time, accor-
ding to the object had in view. If to excite or
quicken the sense, the limbs should be extended and
a gentle current ofair should be passed against the nos-
trils occasionally ; but if to diminish the sense, this
ought not to be done.
Case XII. is an interesting example of restoration
of the sense of smell by hypnotizing. A young lady
was subjected to this operation for a different com-
plaint. On being aroused, and after I left the room,
she made inquiries as to the cause of the great noise
she heard in the house, and expressed her surpri5e at
the noisy manner in which the various duties of the
apartment where she was were performed. They
assured her there was nothing going on in the room
where she was, different from what was usually the
case, nor was there any thing to account for the noise
she complained of, and they therefore held her com-
plaints to be only imaginary. She persisted they
were real. The fact was, she had been for a length
of time dull of hearing, and the improvement of
this sense consequent on the hypnotizi~g, had so
quickened the faculty as to aeeount for the difference
o;g,, zed by Google
SENSE OF SMELL. 197
she experienced. Moreover, she had for a consider-
able time previously lost the sense of smell, and it
was now ascertained that thi8 Sen86 had also been
restored, through tM same operation. Another patient
who had lost the sense of smell for nine years, had
it restored after being twice hypnotized. For a beau-
tiful illustration of the extent to which this sense is
roused during the hypnotic sleep, see foot note,'* ex-
• " A beautifully contrived experiment was here put in
practice by Mr Clarke, and Mr Townend, to test the truth of
the phenomena. Mr Braid had'fuawn their attention to the
wonderful exaltation of the sense of smell. A rose had been
held before the patient, the scent of which she had followed
about the platform in every direction with the most excessive
eagerness-now standing on tiptoe to reach it when held
aloft, anon bending herself forward with the most graceful
ease, till her face came almost in contact with the floor- now
darting after it across the platform (notwithstanding that her
eyes were bandaged) with unerring aim as to the direction in
which it was moved-or throwing herself into the most
fantastic attitudes, but always with surprising ease, to catch
its fragrance when moved merely round her person in tanta-
lizing play. At length she no longer followed it, and Mr
Braid now explained that the sense of smell had entirely
gone, and could only be renewed by a current of air across
the nostrils. Mr Clarke here motioned Mr Townend to go
across the platform, which he did very softly, and Mr Clarke
then threw the rose to him, a distance probably of from four
to five yards. Mr Clarke having thus taken the precaution
to guard against the suspicion of collusion or trick, himself
passed a current of air across the nostrils of the patient, so as
to again exalt the sensibility of the organ. She now moved
forward as though in search of some object that had escaped
her, and was advancing in front of the stage, which was not
o;g,, zed by Google
198 TOUCH AND RESISTANCE,
tracted from a report of my conversazione to the mem-
bers of the British Association, as recorded by the
" Manchester Times."
The next senses I shall refer to, are touch and
resistance ; under which I shall adduce examples of
the beneficial results of this agency, in the cure of
abnormal exaltation or depression of these functions.
There are few diseases more striking in their mani-
festations, or more important in their character and
tendency, than those included in this class, namely,
paralysis of sense or motion, or both ; or the reverse,
exalted feeling, and tonic or clonic spasm.
Tic doloureux is well known to be one of the most
agonizing affections to which the human frame is
liable. Itmayarise from a functional disorder of the
exactly in the direction the rose was thrown, when suddenly
her limbs and entire body shook with a tremulous motion, and
she stooped slightly, and evinced the utmost terror. Mr
Braid explained that this was oceasioned by the rattling of a
carriage over the pavement under the window partly, and
partly by a feeling of insecurity, arising from the boards on
which she stood being limber, and yielding considerably to
the foot. When the noise of the carriage had ceased, she
turned her face about till it pointed in the direction
where Mr Townend stood, when, though he held the rose at
a distance of three yards from her, she evidently caught the
scent, and darted towards it with unerring precision, and
appeared almost tO revel with delight in its fragrance. A
sudden burst or applause from the audience, quick as thought,
dissipated the charm, and she stood aghast, apparently in an
agony of terror. Mr -- laughed, and attempted to con-
vey to a small circle around him the impression that all this
was feigned, but the attempt was disregarded. In the very
front of the company, and amongst those most narrowly
Digit zed b,Google
'l'IC DOLOUJlEUX, 199
nervous system, ofa local or more general character,
or from an organic cause. The symptoms are much
the same in both varieties, but the chances of effecting
a cure are very different. In the former variety, a
cure may be effected, and by no means I know, so
speedily and certainly as by hypnotism ; but in the
latter, the chances of success are very different, either
from this or any other known remedy. I have
repeatedly applied it in the one case, without any
apparent effect, either good or bad, but, in the other,
with the most immediate and striking advantage. I
give a few cases in illustration of this success in func-
tional disorder.
Case XIII. W. M'Leod had been suffering for two
months from a violent attack of tic of the head and
watching the experiments, were the Dean of Manchester, the
Rev. C. D. Wray, the Rev. N. W. Gibson, the Rev. H.
Ethelston, Colonel Wemyes, and a number of others whom
we might mention, including several surgeons, who were
eapable of forming an opinion of their own, and we heard
from several of them expressions at once of surprise at the
phenomena, and of conviction that they were real. In fact,
it was the conviction of common sense, since it would have
been far more wonderful as a piece of trickery than as Mr
Braid aceounts for it. Every one must have felt that it was
impossible for any person in a natural state to follow a flower
about the stage blindfolded, (supposing the patient was
awake,) passed about as it was from hand to hand backwards
and forwards, with such ease, certainty, and rapidity; but
taking Mr Braid's solution of the difficulty, that the senses
are unnaturally exalted, the mystery is at an end. The only
thing extraordinary that then remains is, that such an agency
should not before have been discovered."
o;g,, zed by Google
200 CASES OF TIC.
face, which had resisted the treatment prescribed by
his surgeon. He had been taking carbonate of iron
in ample quantity. After eleven minutes' hypnotism,
he was aroused quite free from pain, and it never
retumetl in the same degree of violence, and by a few
repetitions of the same process, he was completely
cured, and has remained well for about a year. The
general state of his health required the aid of other
means, but the violence of the tic was overcome
before he took a single dose of medicine from me.
Case XIV. A young lady was suffering from a most
violent attack of tic doloureux, so much so, that I
heard her screams before entering the house. The
paroxysms came on so frequently that she was roused
before I could succeed in hypnotizing her at first trial.
I now administered thirty drops of laudanum, in a
little water, sprinkled some over the poultice on her
face, and instantly commenced hypnotizing her
again. In five minutes she seemed to be in a com-
fortable sleep, the features perfectly placid, the respira-
tion calm, not a muscle seemed to move during the
time I remained in the room, (which was a quarter
of an hour,) whereas she had a violent paroxysm
every three minutes previously, contorting her whole
body, and when I examined her, after having been
down stairs a considerable time, she was lying in
exactly the same posture as when I left her, with
the same appearance of placid sleep. When I called
next morning I was told she had slept for five hours
and a half, and had had no return of tic after awaking.
As she was in the somnolent state, and the paroxysms
of pain suspended within firJe minutes, it is quite clear
this could not be due to the few drops of laudanum,.
o;g,, zed by Google
CASES OF TIC. 201
as they could not have been adequate to arrest such a
violent complaint, at all events, not in the course offlu
minutes.*
Case XV. Miss -- bad been suffering severely
from tic for several weeks, and bad several teeth ex-
* The following is the statement of the above case, attested
by Mr Mullard, druggist, who had been called to visit this
patient before my arrival, which I give because of some very
unwarrantable interference by other medical men,-" I was
present with Miss G. when Mr Braid visited her, in conse-
quence of a violent pain in the face, coming on in severe
paroxysms,as occur in tic doloureux. J had applied poultices,
and had other means in readiness, but owing to the violence
of the pain, Mr Braid, the usual medical attendant of the
family, was sent for. Her screams were heard in my house,
during the paroxysms, and they recurred about evel'y minute,
and lasted nearly a minute and a half, as nearly as I can re-
collect. Mr B. had an opportunity of hearing her on coming
into the house ; and shortly after being in her bedroom she
had a second attaCk. Mr B. now tried to hypnotize her in
his usual way, but she was roused by the violence of the
pain. He now gave her a few drops in water, and sprinkled
a few over the poultice, and applied it to the cheek again,
and immediately repeated his operation, after which she
seemed to be in a sound sleep, and gave no farther indication
of pain in less than five minutes. Mr Braid, as well as my-
self, remained a considerable time, at least three quarters of
an hour, and both left convinced she was comfortably asleep,
and next morning I heard she had passed a good night, having
slept about five and a half hours, and that the tic had not
returned since we left. Every word of this has been care-
fully read and considered before being signed.
(Signed) A. 1\ MuLLUtn.'•
21ft June, 1842.
o;q,tzed l coogle
202 PARALYSIS OF SENSE
traeted without relief. During a violent paroxysm, I
succeeded in hypnotizing her, and when aroused, it
was quite gone, and has never returned.
In the affection to which these eases belong, there
is frequently such irritability of the skin, thata slight
touch over the affected nerve is quite sufficient to ex-
cite a paroxysm of pain. I shall now adduce some
cases illustrative of the oppolite condition, wh('n there
was deficiency or entire loss of feeling ; and which
have n('vertheless been greatly benefited, or entirely
cured by hypnotism. The following ease is illustra-
tive of its successful application where there was
paralysis both of sense and motion.
Case XVI. Mrs Slater, 33 years of age, in the
autumn of 1841, had suffered a good deal during
her pregnancy, and in December of that year was
delivered of a seven months' child. From this period,
her legs, which had been very weak for some time
previously, became very much worse, 'and in a short
time she lost all voluntary power over them, together
with loss of natural feeling. She had been under the
care of three professional gentlemen, but as she be-
came worse instead of better, notwithstanding the
means used, the ease had been considered hopeless,
and left to itself, for some time previous to my being
consulted, which was on the 22d April, 1842. I found
she had not only lost feeling and voluntary motion of
her legs and feet, but that the knees were rigidly
flexed, the heels drawn up, the toes flexed, and the
feet incurvated, and fixed in the position of slight
club foot (varus.) She had not menstruated since
her confinement, but there was no other function as
regarded the secretions or excretions, which appeared
o;g,, zed by Google
AND MOTION CURED. 203
to be at fault. Her speech was imperfect and her
memory impaired. I hypnotized her, and endeavour-
ed, whilst in that condition, to regulate the morbid
action of the muscles, and malposition of the feet and
legs. In five minutes I roused her, when she thanked
God she now felt she hadfeet, couldfeel thejloor with
them, and could move her toes. I now raised her on
her feet, and with the assistance of her husband sup-
porting her by the one arm, and myself by the other,
she went across the room and back again to the sofa,
moving her legs and supporting half the weight of
her body on them. I operated on her again the same
evening, after which she was able to support herself
standing with the soles of her feet on the floor.
She required merely to be steadied by placing the
points of the fingers of one of my hands against her
back. Before being operated on, the heels were drawn
up, and the feet twisted so that she could only have
touched the floor with a small portion ofthe outer edge
of the feet, near the root of the little toes. I hyp-
notized her in the same manner daily for some time
with increasing improvement, so that in a week she
was able to walk into her shop alone, merely requiring
to steady herself by the wall, and in two weeks more
she could walk into it without any assistance whatever.
Two months from my first seeing her, she went to
Liverpool, and was able to walk several miles in a
day. She could walk from the middle of the town
where she lodged, to the pier head and back, and
from her lodgings to Everton and back, all in the
same day, which was several miles partly on very
steep acclivities. She had no relapse, and has con-
tinued well ever since.
204 SAMUEL EVANS'S
In a very few days after I first operated on this
patient, the catamenial discharge appeared for the
first time since her confinement. She had no internal
medicine, nor external application whatever to her
legs for several days after I first saw her. Her extra-
ordinary improvement, therefore, resulted entirely
from the effects of the operations. After I had
attended her some days, she required some simple
aperient medicine, and I afterwards prescribed a diu-
retic, which I hoped might expedite the cure. The
feeling and power of her legs and feet were greatly
restored, her speech perfect, and her memory much
improved, before she had a single dose of medicine
from me. Her improvement therefore was strictly
the result of hypnotism only.
The extraordinary effects manifested in this case,
as well as in many others, after a few minutes' opera-
tion- so different from what is realized in the appli-
cation of ordinary means-may appear startling to
those unacquainted with the powers of hypnotism.
On this account, I have been advised to conceal the
facts, as many may consider it impossible, and reject
the leas startling, although not more true reports of its
beneficial action in other eases. In recording eases,
however,, I consider it my duty to report facts as I
havefound thtm, and to make no compromise for the
sake of accommodating them to the preconceived
notions or prejudices of any one.
Case! XVII. Samuel Evans, 45 years of age, had
suffered much from pain in the spine, and also been
affiicted with impaired feeling as well as power of the
superior extremities for four years. He suffered also
occasionally in the head, for which he had undergone
GRE.A.T DIPROVEHENT, 206
every variety of treatment usual in such cases, under
many medical men, myself included, but with so
little success that he had not been able to dress him-
self for five years : he could not lift the left arm, and
natural feeling was almost entirely gone from it. The
right arm was also affeeted, but in a less degree, when
he applied to me on the 25th April, 1842. I hypno-
tized him, and he was so fully satisfied with the im-
provement he experienced, as to induce him to come
to Manchester to be operated on daily. In a very
short time his improvement, both as regarded strength
and feeling, was most decided, as he could lift a heavy
chair with the worst arm, and could feel a small
object such as a pin, which could not have been dis-
tinguished by him with that hand when I first saw
him. The pain in his back was also speedily much
relieved. He was exhibited at my conversazione to
the British Association, 29th June, 1842, in this im-
proved state, and has made still farther progress sinr.e,
nlthough not yet able to follow his usual avocation.
I should not omit to add, that this patient was under
my own care for some time in 1841, when, although
he derived benefit from the means used, he was not
nearly so much or so rapidly relieved, as by my pre-
sent mode of treatment by hypnotism.
Case XVIII. Mr -- 58 years of age, consulted
me in consequence of a paralytic affection of two
and a-half years' standing. Stated by his friends
that he had had'an apoplectic seizure two years and
a-half before, which was at first accompanied with
total loss of consciousness, and of sense and mo-
tion of the right side for six weeks. He then gradually
Digit zed b,Google
206
recovered, so as to be able to walk a little in the
course of four or five months. When he called on me
3d June, 1842, his gait was very feeble and inBeCUJ'e,
always advancing the right side foremost, his arm
had always been supported in a sling, he could raise it
with an effort as high as the breast, had not the power
of opening the hand, the thumb was much and rigidly
ftexed. Had little or no feeling in that hand. .After
being hypnotized for five minutes, feeling was restored,
he could open the hand and grasp much firmer, and
raise it to hisforehead. His speech, which had been
very imperfect, was also much improved. This patient
was operated on for some time with partial improve-
ment, so that he could manage his arm without a
sling, and the feeling continued improved, and there
was also slight improvement in his gait, but I was of
opinion, that there was organic mischief in the brain
which would prevent a perfect restoration, and there-
fore discontinued farther trials.
Case XIX. Miss Sarah Mellor had been under my
care for nine months, for an affection of the lower
part of the spine, accompanied with pain and weak-
ness of the lower limbs, and with contraction of
the knees, so that she had been unable to stand or
walk without crutches during that period. I had used
every means usually adopted in such cases, but instead
of improving, sbe was getting worse in every respect,
till I tried hypnotism, the satisfactory results of
which were too immediate and apparent to admit of
the slightest doubt of its great value on this occasion.
The following isa statement attested by the patient :-
" Had suffered severe pain in my ankles, with eon-
o;g,, zed by Google
REMARIL\BLE IKPROVEMENT, 207
traction of the knees, and pain at the bottom of my
back, so that I had been unable to walk without a
pair of crutches for nine months. During this period,
I had taken medicines internally, used liniments to
the legs and spine, been leeched and blistered over
the lower part of the spine, but still, instead of im-
proving, I was getting worse, both as regarded the
pain and contraction, so that I was becoming quite
deformed, from the legs being bent on the thighs,and
they on the body. I ~as thus about nine or ten
inches less in statnre than formerly, and than I am
now. About the beginning of last March {1842) I
came to Mr Braid, who had prescribed the other
means to me without benefit, when he said he would
try his new method with me. After being hypnotized
tnree times, I was able to walk from my lodgings 1o
the house of a friend who lived a few houses distant
in the same street WITHOUT MY CRUTCHES, and in two
.days after, from that house to Mr Braid's WITHOUT
CRUTCJIBS. I was operated on almost daily for three
weeks, when I returned home, and at that time I was
able to walk halfa mile without crutches. After being
at home five weeks, I returned to Manchester, and
have been attended by Mr Braid for two months, and
always found myself better after the operations. I
took no medicine dnring my first stay in Manchester;
and on this occasion having only done so when re-
quired for a violent cold on two occasions, from im-
prudent exposure. Since I came to Manchester last,
one day I walked to Grosvenor Street, Piccadilly; and
back again to my lodgings in Lower Mosley Street,
fully a mile and a half, without inconvenience; on
another occasion to H.ulme and back again, fully two
Digit zed b,Google
208 XRS J.'S CASE.
miles. I was quite sensible, and couldhear all that was
said or done during all the operations.
(Signed) S..uuH ANN MELLOR.
J.&.YE LIVESEY, Witness.
C. Wn:.soN, Witness.''
M...RCHEiTER, 12th July, 1842.
This patient was exhibited at my conversazione
29th June, 11U2. After returning home, she had the
misfortune to get entangled by one of the feet in a
cart rut, in a lane, which threw her back, but having
returned and been hypnotized, I was e:1a.bled to send
her home much improved, and when she called on
me lately, she continued so.
Case XX. Mrs J., 29 years of age, requested
my attendance, 17th February, 1842. Had been
attacked in the autumn of 1840, with slight degree
of weakness of left side, and difficulty ·of speech,
neither of which bad ever been entirely removed.
Three months after she was delivered of a still-hom
child, and had been affected with convulsions ten days
prior to delivery, for which she seemed to have been
treated in the usual manner. In about a month after
delivery, 31st January, 1841, she had.an apoplectic
attack, attended with total loss of consciousness, and
paralysis of the left side, for which her medical atten-
dant had prescribed the usual treatment. I was called
to attend her on the 17th February, and continued
to do so for five weeks, when, as as there was no
particular improvement manifested, she passed into
other hands, and after being under treatment with
them for ten weeks, without improving, she was sent
into the country, where she remained for about
o;g,, zed by Google
REIIA.JIJU.BLE IKPB.OVEMENT. 209
thirteen months, when she was brought back to town
to be placed under my care, 16th June, 1842. The
following was her condition at this period. Her
mouth very much drawn to the right side ; her speech
Yery imperfect ; and her mind confused. The left
hand and arm were quite powerless, and rigidly fixed
to the side, the hand clenched, the fingers and thumb
being rigidly and permanently flexed. The left leg
very rigid, the heel drawn up, and the foot twisted so
that it could only approach the ground by resting on
the outer edge near the root of the little toe ; she
could move this leg a little, but bad never been able
to stand, or walk a step, or support any weight on it.
I hypnotb:ed her, though owing to her mind being
so confused, I experienced considerable difficulty in
getting her to attend to the necessary instructions
for producing the condition. However, I at length
succeeded, and after the first operation- I kept her
in the hypnotic state for ten minutes- she could
hold her mouth much straighter, could move the
fingers a little, and lift the hand and arm a few
inches, and, with the assistance of her mother-in-
law and myself supporting her by the arms, she
was able to support half the weight of her body in
walking across the room and back again. Her
speech was also improved, and she evinced less
confusion of mind. Next day I found the improve-
ment was permanent, and hypnotized her again with
advantage. 17th, Found her improved, and still
more so after being again operated on. She could
now, on merely steadying herself by laying hold of
her mother-in-Jaw's shoulder, stand supporting her-
self on the left leg, when the right foot was lifted
0
210 TERJliNATES IN APOPLEXY,
clear from the floor. Her speech was still more im-
proved, and mind more collected, so that I had very
little difficulty in hypnotizing her now.
She was operated on daily, with advantage, till the
end of that month, and the results shewn to some of
the most eminent profe.ssional and scientific gentle-
men in this town. During the next two months she
was operated on at times only, being so much better.
In a few weeks she could walk to the door, steadying
herself against the wall, and in a few weeks was able
to walk into the street with the aid of a crutch. She
had no medicine during this attendance. I only saw
her occasionally now, and on the17th September,when
I had not seen her for nine days before, whilst taking
her usual airing in the strt:et, she was seized with
apoplexy, from which she died within sixteen hours.
On inspection, the whole of the superior aud anterior
lobes of the right side of the brain were found to be
in a state of atrophy, only a thin layer, and that in a
state of ramoliseement, covering the ventricle, which
was filled with serum, as was also the space between
the pia mater and arachnoid, to make up the space
vacated by the wasting of the cerebral substance.
There was noeffusion of blood. It is not at all surpris-
ing that such a case should have resisted former treat-
ment, or proved fatal at last ; but it seems surprising
that, with such a state of brain, hypnotism should
have had the power of producing so much improve-
ment as it did.
Case XXI. 14th June, 1842, Mr Thomas Morris,
42 years of age, consulted me. He had had a pa-
ralytic stroke fifteen years previously, which de-
prived him entirely of the use of the right leg, an4
o;g,, zed by Google
MR MORRIS'S CASE. 211
rendered the left weak and numb. In six weeks was
able to walk a little, but never recovered entirely,
being always weak and lame. Fifteen months ago
had a second attack, with total loss of consciousness
for a week, and also complete loss of voluntary power
of the whole bodg. For several weeks required the
urine to be drawn off by catheter. He has 'lately
had the urine passing involuntarily sometimes, at
other times voided with great difficulty. He has
never regained the power of his legs so as to enable
him to stand or walk wiihout assistance; and has
been, for the last six months, growing worse. The
arms very weak, being unable to raise the right
higher than the head, and even that accomplished
with great clifficulty. Speech also very imperfect, and
his icleas so confused that he could make himself
understood with great difficulty. Hypnotized him
for five minutes, when he could speak much better ;
could raise his arm and hold an umbrella perpendicu-
larly, or horizontally, with his body, with perfect
ease, and could walk across the room, and back
again, WITHOUT ASSISTANCE, for the first time since fast
8eizure.
(Signed) THos. MoRRis.
Witnessed by JoHN SHIPLEY.
Duncan Street, Strangeways.
c. c. MORRIS.
JoHN W. PAcEY.
JAJIES BRAID, Junior.
loth, Had the pleasure of finding the improve-
ment noted above was permanent, and also, that he
Aad been able to retain his urine and roid it at plea8Ure,
Digit zed b,Google
212 HR MORRIS'S PROGRESS.
whereas it had been passing inf'Oluntarily, both by
night and day, imm«liately before being hypnotized.
He was again hypnotized to-day with additional
advantage. 17th, Found him still better, having
been able to walk in the street with one atici for the
first time for last fi176 year1. Repeated the operation.
18th, Still better, so that, with the aid of his two
sticks, he had walked into Ducie Street by himself.
Operation repeated.
This patient went on improving, and on the 29th
June was exhibited at my conversazione. His speech
was greatly better immediately after first operation,
and his ideas seemed more vivid and clear. He was
also able to sign his name, and which he did very
well, for the first time since his last seizure. Nor
should I omit to add, that he had regained power over
the rectum, which he had not previously ; and in
about ten days he had got sufficient power of his
bands to enable him to work. After he was con-
siderably recovered he had the misfortune to fall, and
injured the lower part of the back very much, which
impaired the recently acquired power of the legs.
They are somewhat better, but not nearly so well as
they were a few weeks after he had been under my
care. His arms, however, still retain their increased
power, as I saw him lately lift a bed-room chair with
the right arm, and hold it up nearly at full arm's
length ; and the mind keeps pretty clear, much more
so than before being hypnotized, notwithstanding he
bas bad a severe attack of bowel complaint, from
which he has been liable to suffer occasionally.
It would be difficult to adduce a more striking
proof than the above, of the extraordinary power of
o;g,, zed by Google
S, EDWAJIJ)'S CASE, 213
hypnotism, there having been so many points at
fault, all of which were immediately meliorated, and
some of them permanently so.
Case XXI. Mr John W., 21 years of age, called
to consult me, 18th April, 1842, for a paralytic state
of the left side of the face, of thirteen days' standing.
He had no power of the muscles of the left side of
the face, consequently the mouth was drawn to the
right, and he had no power of closing the left eyelid.
In ten minutes after being hypnotized, and fric-
tion used, he could open and close the eyelid with
facility, and had the power of retracting his mouth to
the left of the mesial plane. ·
Case XXIII. 11th July, was consulted by Samuel
Edwards, who had been unable to work for six weeks,
in consequence of a paralytic state of the extensor
muscles of the wrist, and a semi-paralytic state of the
flexor and extensor muscles of the fingers. He had
injured the arm by a heavy lift, and by a blow
about two years before. The paralytic state came on
suddenly about six weeks previously to my seeing
him, accompanied by a tingling or prickling feeling
in the fingers. I hypnotized him, calling into action
the weak and entirely paralytic muscles in the best
way I could. In consequence of this, he acquired the
power of :flexing and extending the wrist, when the
arm was held horizontally with the ulna downwards,
and of grasping pretty firmly with the fingers, imme-
diately after the first operation, which he could not
do before, as witnessed by several highly respectable
individuals who were present the whole time. On
the evening of the following day, he was able to milk
a cow with this hand, and when he called on me two
o;g,, zed by Google
214 S. EDWARD'S CASE.
days after, I found him greatly improved. I operated
on him again with additional advantage, and found
him able to grasp so firmly that he could hold a single
finger fast enough to enable him to be thus pulled
from his seat without losing his hold.
He had undergone various treatment, including
blistering, under two surgeons before I saw him.
17th July, 1842, he called on me, and had still
greater powerof the hand. After being again hypno-
tized, he could readily lift the one side of a heavy
Jibrary table with the hand, which was quite power-
less when I :first saw him six days before. He stated,
he bad been able to work with it constantly from the
time I saw him, on the 14th.
31st, He called on me, stated he had been improv-
ing. Was hypnotized once more.
August 7th, he called on me, and thefirst thing he
did was to hold out his arm at full length, and shew
me he could bend and extend the wrist, whilst the
arm was in the state of pronation. He bad been able
to do so for some days. Had been able to milk fiN
cows the day previous. Hypnotized him again, after
which he had still more power. He has not required
to call on me since, being nine months ago. This
patient must have continued well, as I have heard
nothing more of him, which I was to do if be had any
relapse.
I could easily multiply cases of successful practice
in the treatment of paralysis by hypnotism, were it
not for occupying too much space. I shall, therefore,
condense a few.
XXIV. A gentleman sixty years of age had a par-
alytic stroke two years and a half before consulting
o;g,, zed by Google
A.DDmONAL CASES. 216
me, wbich deprived him entirely of the use of the
right arm, and enfeebled the right side and leg. When
he called on me, he walked very feebly, could scarcely
close the fingers and thumb, and could not extend
them fully. He could with great difficulty raise the
hand as high as the pit of the stomach, the pupil of
the right eye was considerably larger than the left,
and not quite circular ; speech very imperfect. After
being hypnotized for five minutes, he was able to open
and close the hand freely, and to raise the band above
the head, and pass it to the back of the head, and he
could also walk and speak much better. Pulse regular,
-before operation, his pulse was very irregular. When
he called on me next morning, I found the improve-
ment had been permanent. I hypnotized him once
more with advantage, and again on the two following
days; seven weeks afterwards he called on me, when
I found the improvement was permanent. He could
speak and walk much better, could raise the arm, and
move the fingers and hand freely, could pass the
hand above and over the head, and take off his hat
with it. The right pupil also was quite circular now,
and nearly the same size as the other.
Case XXV. 4th June, 1842, Mr J. H., 67 years of
age, had a paralytic stroke, 19 months previously,
which deprived him entirely of speech, and of motion
of right leg and arm. When he called on me, his
speech was very imperfect, his hearing dull, and he
had very little power in closing the hand, could raise
the band to the mouth, said he could sometimes raise
it a little higher, but never so high as his head. After
being hypnotized for five minutes, he could speak and
hear much better, could grasp much stronger, and
216 THOIIU.S .JOBliSTONE'S CASE,
would raise the hand a foot abot16 tke ke4d, and put his
coat on without assistance, passing it over his head.
His walking wasalso much firmer. He seemed greatly
pleased with being able to put his coat on, as it was
the first time since his seizure. He was also able to
sign his name for the first time, to attest the accuracy
of my report of his case, which he did before two wit-
nesses who had been present during the operation.
He called on me twice after this, the last time two
weeks from his first visit, when I found the improve-
ment was permanent.
Case XXVI. Thomas Johnstone, 36 years of age,
bad a paralytic seizure, 13th February, 1842, which
deprived him of feeling and motion of left arm and
hand. Had partially recovered motion' so as to be
able occasionally to move the fingers a little, and to
raise the arm nearly to the horizontal position, but
frequently was suddenly struck with pain and total
loss of power of the arm, and hand, and fingers, for
four or five hours after. Had been struck in this way
just before I saw him, and he was quite powerless, as
above described, or rather the arm was spasmodically
fixed to the side ; had been under medical treatment
ever since his first seizure. 4th May, 1842, hypno-
tized him for four minutes, after which he could move
the fingers, hand, and arm freely, elevating it above
his head, across his body in either direction, and
could retain it in any situation he was asked. The
feeling, however, was still very imperfect. 6th May,
called on me to go to my lecture, when he had the
completecontrol of the hand, arm, andfingers. Hewas
hypnotized in the lecture-room the same night, and
in four days after the feeling, as well as power, was
o;g,, zed by Google
IIR HOLDITCu'S CASE. 217
restored to it. 26th, called on me again, and bas per-
fect voluntary power of the arm, as well as natural
feeling and heat of the member. Attested as correct
by the patient.
(Signed by proxy to which the patient affixed
his mark) Tuous JoHNSTONB.
Witnessed by JoHN HARDING.
I have also a copy of a certificate of his condition
from the physician who attended him immediately
before he consulted me. On the 20th January, 1843,
his father informed me that his son had requested him
to call on me, and say he was in America, and had
remained well ever since I saw him, and, that he
wished his father to express how grateful he felt for
the benefit he had derived from my operations.
I shall only give one more case illustrative of this
class.
Case XXVII. Mr H., 39 years of age, had been
partially paralytic of the inferior extremities for ten
years, which came on some time after a fall, accom-
panied with double vision. The latter disappeared
under treatment, but the former increased. When he
called on me, 18th February, 1843, he was walki.ng
with a crutch and stick, and with the assistance of
both and a servant, it was with great difficulty he
could ascend the few steps at my door. After the first
operation, he could walk across the room and back
again, without either crutch or stick, and after being
operated on next day, he was able to mount twenty-
eight steps to his bed-room without his crutch, and
has done so ever since. In ten days, I was agreeably
surprised to see him on the fourth bench of the lec-
ture-room of the Manchester Athenmum, to which
o;g,, zed by Google
~18 GENERAL SUCCESS.
he had ascended eighty-one steps, with the aid of a
stick in one hand.
This patient had not been aware, until I called his
attention to the fact, that he had very defective vision
of the right eye, and was surprised to find on testing
this, that when the left eye was closed, he could with
difficulty see the large heading of the leader of the
Medical Gazette, whereas he could read the ordinary
sized print of that article with the left. After being
operated on, he could read the small print of the leader
with the right eye also, at which he felt greatly sur-
prised, as well as at the increased power of his legs,
because, as he had been conscious all the time of the
operation, he could not believe I had done any thin~t
to him, till he found on trial he had been so much
benefited in both functions.
Here, then, we have the beneficial results most une-
quivocally ensuing even when the patient imagined
no effect could have been induced. The improvement
in the sight has remained permanent, and he also
improved in tho power of his limbs, till he had the
misfortune to fall, whilst carelessly looking at some-
thing when walking on the street one day.
·In confirmation of the efficacy of a few minutes of
hypnotism, in curing many cases of paralysis, I
may refer to the reports of the Liverpool papers,
as to what took place at my lectures in that town in
April, 1842. There were hundreds who witnessed
the effects when I publicly operated on such patients,
who were entire strangers to me. Cases where the
patients had been for years powerless of limbs, so
that they could not unlock the clenched hands, nor
raise the arm to the chin, even with the aid of the
o;g,, zed by Google
KBS E.'S CASE, 219
other arm, have been enabled in eight or ten minutes,
to open the hand, and lift the arm above the head.
My intelligent friend, Mr Gardom, lately informed
me, he had treated a paralytic case most successfully
by hypnotism.
Case XXVII. Mrs E., thirty-seven years of age,
had a paralytic affection when thirteen months
old, which deprived her entirely of the use of the
right leg, which has never been recovered. At seven
years of age, she had a second attack, which deprived
her also of the use of the right arm, which was
recovered after nine months' professional attention to
it. At fifteen years of age she had a third attack,
which drew her face, and deprived her of speech for
some time, but was recovered from; and she had no
farther attack of the sort till 8th January,1842, (being
twenty-two years from former attack.) 'l'he latter
attack enfeebled the right arm, and completely para-
lyzed the whole of the left side.
Being of full habit, she was bled from the arm, had
active cathartics, leeches, and blisters. In six days
there was improvement to this extent, that the right
hand could be raised as high as the shoulder, the left
arm could be moved feebly, and the hand closed
feebly and slowly. When sitting on a chair, the left
leg could be moved with great difficulty, so as to
raise the heel from the ground. I hypnotized her,
and in five or six minutes she could raise her right
hand and arm above her ltead, could move the left arm
freely, and grasp firmly, and could raise the left legso
as to place the heel eighteen inches from the ground.
Next day she was able to walk across the floor with
her one crutch. A pain in the knee induced her to
o;g,, zed by Google
220 MISS E. ATKINSON'S CASE
avoid walking afterwards, but in three weeks shecould
walk quite cleverly as before last attack.
The other cases were all in the chronic state, of
long standing, and htd resisted all ordinary means,
and the restorative powers of nature and time, and
yet we have seen what extraordinary powers can be
exerted, and effects produced, in such cases by hypno-
tism. The latter proves its superior efficacy, to other
means, in more recent cases.
Case XXVIII. I shall conclude the subject of
paralysis with the following most interesting case.
The subject of it was Miss Atkinson, a middle-aged
and very intelligent lady, and I shall give the case 88
recorded by herself in a letter she was so obliging 88
to furnish me with, for the purpose of publication in
this work.
LETl'ER PROM MISS E. ATKINSON,
(oftlle Priory, Lincoln.)
"MosLEY ARxs, M.u~cnBSTER.
Monday, 4th July, 1842.
"Dear Sir,-I havevery great pleasure in furnishing
you with a statement of my case. I beg yoli will
make whatever use of it you think proper, and most
sincerely do I wish that it may lead others suffering
from disorders on the nerves, to seek relief from the
same source, and with the same success.
"In January, 1838, I was attacked with cold and
influenza, accompanied by a violent cough, on the
29th of this month. Ten or twelve days after the
first attack, without any previous warning, my voice
o;g,, zed by Google
011 RESTORATION OF VOICE. 221
left me instantaneously, and I could not utter a sound
louder than the faintest whisper. For three weeks I
had no medical advice, hoping daily, from my igno-
rance of the natttre of the complaint, that my voice
would return ; but being disappointed, and feeling my
health and strength declining, I consulted Mr Howitt,
an experienced and eminent surgeon in Lincoln, who
immediately requested I would confine myself to my
own lodging-room, which was to be kept at a regular
temperature. He prescribed such medicines as my
ease required, and ordered blisters to my throat and
chest, which were kept open, until I became so com-
pletely debilitated that it was considered necessary to
discontinue them. Towards the latter end of April
my health was considerably improved, and I was
allowed to leave my room, though my voice was still
merely a feeble whisper. Shortly afterwards, I paid
a visit to a sister in York, whose family surgeon, Mr
Caleb Williams, a man in extensive practice, pre-
scribed for me, and took great interest in my ease.
Soon after my return to Lincoln, I consulted Mr
Joseph Swan, 6, Tavistoek Square, London, who
entirely approved of the treatment I had undergone,
and prescribed such additional remedies and medicines
as he thought would be beneficial. Since then he has
continued to visit me whenever he has been in the
country. Galvanism has been tried without pro-
ducing any effect ; electro-magnetism also, by a scien-
tific friend (not a medical man.) I have frequently
conversed with several other professional gentlemen,
who have also taken a great interest in my ease.
They all agree in opinion that the attack was para-
lysis of the organs of voice, without disease; and that
o;g,, zed by Google
222 .MISS E. ATKINSON'S CllE
the treatment I have undergone has been most judi-
cious ; in fact, that every thing has been done for me
the medical profession could suggest. Every one (?f
them has told me, that when my health and strength
returned, there was every reason to believe I should
recover my voice. I remained in a very weak and
delicate state for some time, but have now been in
perfect health for more than twelve months, yet
without having the power of speaking· above a
whisper.
" I considered the recovery of my voice hopeless,
until hearing of the many cures you ba& performed
by hypnotism, I wa.s induced to state my case to
you, and request your opinion a.s to the probability
of this system benefiting me. Your reply was, •If,
a.s seems to be the opinion of most of the profes-
sional gentlemen consulted, your loss of voice is
owing to exhaustion of the neriiOUS ener!l!J of the vocal
nerDeS, and not to positive destruction of any portion
ofthem, I considermy mode ofoperating is likely to be
very speedily successful. On the other hand, if there
is positive destruction of the nervous substance, with
loss ofcontinuity ofthe principal trunks ofthe nercu, it
will alter the chances very materially. However, as
this cannot be positively known without trial, and as
the extraordinary power we possess of rousing nervous
energy may be sufficient to enable the function to be
restored with a state of nerve which could not be of
service under any other agency, I should decidedly
give it as my opinion that it ought to be tried, as no
risk can attach to the trial, and a week or two at moat,
will be all the time required for giving it a fair trial:
This raised my hopes ; I came to Manchester on
o;g,, zed by Google
OF RESTORATION OF VOICE. 223
Tuesday the 28th ofJune. You operated on me twice
that evening, and twice each succeeding day, but
without producing any change on my voice until
Sat11rday, July 2d, when, on rousing me from the
hypnotic state, I spoke aloud without the slightest
effort. My voice was then weak; you have continued
to operate on me until now, Monday morning, (4th
July,) and my voice is fully restored to its original
strength, with the power to vary its tone at will.
Thus has hypnotism given me back the power to
make myself understood by those to whom I address
myself, of which I had been deprived for the last four
and a half years. I have not suffered the slightest
pain or inconvenience while submitting to the.opera-
tions, nor any unpleasant effects afterwards; neither
did I ever once lose consciousness of all that was
passing around me.
"With heartfelt humble thanks to our heavenly
Father for this and every blessing, particularly for the
hitherto unknown power bestowed on man; and with
deep gratitude to you for your kind attentive care
while so skilfully and successfully using this power
for the restoration of my voice, I beg you to believe
me, dear sir, yours very respectfully, and greatly
obliged,
" ELizABETH ATKINsoN.
It is but justice to the professional gentlemen who
had been consulted in this case prior to application
being made to me, to say, that I consider they had
treated the case most judiciously, according to our
previous experience in such cases; and it must be
interesting to them to find that in this agency our
Digit zed b,Google
/
224 KISS E. ATKINSON'S CASE
art has acquired a new and efficient resource for such
eases.
This case is interesting in many points of view.
The circumstance of the patient having been operated
on twice each day successively, that is, eight times,
without any visible improvement- for I had her
tested before and after each operation -and being
able to speak aloud, without effort, on being roused
from the hypnotic condition on the fifth day, is suffi-
cient proof that the improvement was not the effect of
imagination, but of t.he physical condition induced by
carrying the operation farther. Any effect to have
been anticipated from mere mental emotion, we should
have expected to have been greatest at first, and to
have become less and less as the party became
familiar with such operations. Here, however, it was
quite the reverse. I found, on testing the patient on
the 2d of July, immediately before being operated on,
that no improvement had been effected from the for-
mer operations, (she had been operated on eight
times,) and therefore resolved to carry it farther that
time ; and the result was, as noted above, that on
being aroused she spoke aloud without effort. It is
also important, as corroborating the statement of
many others who have been cured of various obstinate
complaints by hypnotism, that they could hear quite
dutinctly, and retained consciousness the whole time, of
all that was going on around them. In some eases,
however, it is necessary to carry it to the ulterior
stage, or that of instm$ibility.
On the 19th October, 1842, I had the pleasure of
receiving a letter from Miss E. Atkinson, from which
I make the following extract, in proof of the perma-
o;g,, zed by Google
POWEll 01' IJIU.GINATION. 226
nency of the cure. " You will be glad to hear that I
have retained my voice without any intermission,
since I left you. The only difference is, that it has
become stronger; and my health is in every respect
perfectly good.'• J had also the pleasure of hearing
from a friend, a few days ago, that she still continues
well, and it is now nine months and a half since her
voice was restored.
I doubt not there may be some who, on reading the
eases I have recorded in tbis treatise, will be disposed
to appeal to the well-known fact, that various com-
plaints have been suddenly cured by mere mental
emotion, hoping thus to throw discredit on the cura-
tive powers of hypnotism. Whilst I grant the
premises, I deny the justness of the inference. .That
I .may meet the subject fairly, I shall now quote some
of the most remarkable cases of the sort which have
been recorded. " Dr Gregory was accustomed to
relate the ease of a naval officer, who had been for
some time laid up in his cabin, and entirely unable to
move, from a violent attack of gout, when notice was
brought to him that the vessel was on fire ; in a few
minutes he was on deck, and the most setive man in
the ship. Cases of a still more astonishing kind are
on record. A woman, mentioned by Diemerbroeck,
who bad been many years paralytic, recovered the
use of her limbs when she was very much terrified
during a thunder-storm, and was making violent
efforts to escape from a chamber in which she had
been left alone. A man, affected in the same manner,
recovered as suddenly when his house was on fire ;
and another, who had been ill for six years, recovered
the use ofhisparalytic limbs duringa violent paroxysm
p
226
of anger." Abercrombie on the IntellutU4l Power1,
pp. 398-9.
To these might have been added the influence of
the sight of a tooth key or forceps, or even the
,approach to the house of a dentist, in curing tooth-
ache.
Now, what are the legitimate conclusions to be
drawn from the history of such cases 1 Is it not
simply this, that such results are possible, and that
they can be effected by different means f Now, as it
is apparent that analogous results can be induced by
hypnotism, I would ask is hypnotism not quite M
convenient and desirable a remedy as setting a 8hip on
fire, raising a thunder-storm, converting the patient's
house into a bonfire, or exciting him into "a violent
paroxysm of anger 1"
Again, of those who talk so much about the power
of imagination, I would ask, what is it 1 How does
imagination act to produce such extraordinary and
contradictory results 1 For example, the mental emo-
tions of joy and sorrow, love and hatred, fear and
co,uage, benevolence and anger, may all arise either
from real, or from ima9inary causes only, and may
seriously affect the physical frame. In many in-
stances these different and opposite emotions have
proved almost instantly fatal ; in other instances
equally sanative. How is this achieved 1 Are not
the whole of the emotions accompanied by remark-
able physical changes, in respect to the respiration
and circulation as well as sensation 1 Are they not
ltighly excited in one class, and depressed in the
other 1 And may not this act as the proximate cause
iu effecting the permanently beneficial results !.luring
o;g,, zed by Google
llHEUllATISlf. 227
bypnotism 1 As already explained, analogous physi-
cal results can be produced by hypnotism ; and it
is no valid reason why we should not profit by it in
the treatment of disease, that we cannot positively
decide as to its modUli operandi. It seems quite evi-
dent that we have acquired, in hypnotism, a more
ready and certain control over the physical manifes-
tations referred to, and which can be turned to useful
purposes, than by any mode of acting on the imagi-
nation only, which has hitherto been devised.
Rheumatism is another affection, for the relief of
which I have found hypnotism a most valuable
remedy. I have met with some cases of rheumatism,
however, which have resisted this, as they had evt-ry
c;>ther method tried; and others, where it afforded only
temporary relief; but I am warranted in saying, that
I have, on the whole, seen far more success, more
rapid and decided relief, follow this mode of treatment,
than any other. It has been chiefly in chronic cases
in which I have tried it. In its application, I first
induce the somnolent state, and then call into action
the different muscles which I consider directly affected,
or which, by being so called into action, are calculated
to change the capillary circulation and nervous sensi-
bility of the part implicated. The patient must be
retained in such position a longer or shorter timt-, ac-
cording to circumstances. The following cases will
illustrate the effects of this mode of treatment:
Case XXIX. Joseph Barnet, near Hope Inn, Heaton
Norris, Stockport, 62 years of age, called to consult me
on the lOth December, 1841, for a severe rheumatic
affection of the back, hip, and leg, of thirteen years'
o;g,, zed by Google
228
standing, which had been so severe, that he had not
been able to earn a day's wages during that period.
He had been equally a !tranger to comfort by day, as
to refreshing sleep by night. He came to me leaning
feebly over his stick, suffering anguish at every step, or
movement of his body. He was treated at the com-
mencement of his complaint by a surgeon ; but feeling
no relief, like many others similarly afflicted, he had
recourse to all sort of nostrums. and also to hot salt
water baths. I hypnotized him, placing him in such
attitudes as his particular ease required, and in fifteen
minutes aroused him, when be was able to bend his
body freely, and not only to walk, but even to run.
He called on me in a few days after, when he stated
he had slept comfortably, and been perfectly easy
from the time he left me till the night before. I
hypnotized himagain with advantage, and a few more
times sufficed to restore him entirely. This patient
was seen, and bore testimony to these facts, at two of
my lectures. After one of them, from being too late
for the coach, he walked home, a distance of six miles.
This was by no means judicious, but proves incontes-
tably his great improvement.
I was not at that time so well aware, as I have been
since,of thegreat powerof hypnotismin sucheases,and
therefore ordered himsome medicine after thefirst ope-
rations; but from observingthat the reliefimmediately
followed the operation bejl>re tali"ff medicine, and that
the pain returned in some degree the night beforenat
'llisit, and when, had there been benefit resulting/rom
the medicine, it ought to ha1Je been diminuhed after M"ff
it, and that relief was again afforded during the hyp-
o;g,, zed by Google
RBRU1U.TJSM, 229
notism, I felt convinced the flledicine had no share in
the im~, and therefore discontinued it, and
trusted entirely to hypnotism. In the beginning of
January, 1842, when this patient called on me, he
. was so well, that I told him farther operations would
be unnecessary for the present, but added, that should
he have any relapse, if he called on me again, I would
hypnotize him, without charge, of which offer he
promised to avail himself.
At my lecture on the 27th December, 1841, several
questions were put which elicited the following an-
swers :-" Do you mean to say you were nE>ver so
well as you are now 1" "Yes ; I never earned two shil-
lings during all that time. This last winter I was
worse than ever." "Did you walk, sir, before ever you
left my surgery, without taking any medicine?"-" I
did, and ran too." See Manchester Guardian, 1st
January, 1842.
I heard nothing farther of this patient for about
seven months, and therefore, after the offer I had
made him at last visit, had every reason to conclude
he had remained well. However, it appears he had
a relapse shortly after he left me, and his family,
upon whose exertions he depended, being out of work,
he could not afford to pay the railway charge for
coming to see me again. His relapse having been
laid hold of, and construed into a charge against rue
as having falsely represented his case, I was induced
to call on the patient, accompanied by two friends,
when he furnished us with the following docu-
ment,-
" Joseph Barnet, Providence Street, Heaton Norris,
230 RHEUMATISM,
had suffered from a severe rheumatic affection, prior
to last December, when he applied to Mr Braid. He
was first under the care of Mr --- Higher Hillgate,
who bled, blistered, and p•·escribed medicines for him ;
but the complaint remained unabated. From this
period, took various medicines, and other means re-
commended to him by those who had been similarly
afflicted, and who considered he would be benefited by
such means as had relieved them, but received no
relief. After that applied to Mr - of Manches-
ter, from whom he considered he derived benefit for
a fortnight; but the pain returning, he went to
Liverpool to the warm baths, where he remained as
long as money lasted, but without being relieved.
''From this time tried various means as recommended
by different parties. During the whole of this period,
he had never been able to earn a day's wages. When
he applied to Mr Braid in December last, {1841,) had
been suffering extreme pain in every movement of
the body; in short, he had walked nearly double, sup-
ported on a stick. He was operated on by Mr Braid,
and in a quarter of an hour he was roused, and found
himself able to walk and run. At first, Mr Braid
walked him about by the hand, and afterwards made
him run without any assistance whatever, as his wife
and others present can testify. The case as stated by
Mr Braid in his lectures in my (his) presence was per-
fectly correct, as I (he) bore testimony to at the time.
Owing to being unable t.o pay the expenses of the
railway, he did not return to Mr Braid, when he had
a recurrence of the pain. He had never informed Mr
Braid, that he had had a recurrence of the pain, and
o;g,, zed by Google
RHEUJIATISK, 231
never saw him afterwards until the evening of the
26th July, 1842. his
(Signed) JosEPH + BARNET,
mark
J. A. WALKER.
THOlllAS BROWN.
HJ.RAIT BROOKS."
(Daughter of J . BARNET.)
Case XXX. 11th January, 1840. Mrs B. 48 years of
age. Catamenia ceased last spring. Hassuffered from
a severe rheumatic affection for the last three months,
and been confined for the last two mouths to her bed-
room. The legs, arms, neck, and head, were exces-
~ively painful, so that the slightest movement was
attended with great agony. She was quite alarmed at
my taking hold of her arm to feel the pulse. When
in bed could not tum over, nor bear the slightest touch.
11th January, 1842, hypnotized her, and roused her in
ten minutes, when she was quite free from pain, being
able to walk, stoop, and move the arms, wrists, and
fingers, with perfect freedom. 12th, had slept com-
fortably all night ; had been able to lie on her side,
which she could not do before for three months ;
could rise from the chair, and move legs and arms
without pain. There was, however, a soreness or un-
easy feeling, although not amounting to pain, in some
parts of the limbs. Hypnotized her for eight minutes,
when she felt less of the numbness, and followed me
down stairs, and ascended them again, without taking
hold of the banister, and taking the steps regularly
and cleverly with both feet alternate!}'. 14th. Fo1111d
her down stairs enjoying herself with her father, hus-
o;g,, zed by Google
/
232
band, and friends, almost quite well. Hypnotized her
again, and also in a day or two after, and she had no
recurrence of the rheumatism, although a degree of
stiffness of the limbs remained. She bad no medicine
from me till the rheumatism was gone, when she had
some for a different complaint. This patient was seen
at my house seven months after by about sixty
friends, including several professional gentlemen,
when the above statement was read in her presence,
and confirmed by her as correct to that time ; and as
I have heard no intimation, I feel assured she has not
bad a relapse.
Case XXXI. Mrs S. bas been already referred to,
ease VI. She had suffered much from rheumatism for
many years, and had never been entirely free of it,
notwithstanding she had undergone much treatment.
After fi1·st operation she was much relieved, and after
a few more was entirely free from pain. It has
recurred occasionally since, but has always been
removed by one or two more operations of the same
sort, and which are neither painful, nor in any way
unpleasant.
Case XXXII. Another rheumatic case of a patient
53 years old, of seven years' standing, where sleep ba1l
uot only been courted by exhausted nature, but also
by the most powerful doses of narcotic drugs; on one
occasion 400 drops of laudanum had been taken in tuJQ
lwura ; still the pains continued, and yet, by fifteen
minutes of hypnotic sleep, procured by the simple
agency I recommend, this patient was relieved of his
agonizing pains. In this case, from my knowledge of
the eminence of the professional gentleman who had
prescribed for him, I feel assured every known
o;g,, zed by Google
238
remedy had been resorted to, but without effect, and
yet this agency succeeded in a few minutes. This
patient had suffered severely for seven years ; was
first hypnotized lOth February, 1842, and again on
the 17th and 19th. He seemed as nearly as possible
entirely free from pain, and had suffered very little
after the first operation, less than at any previous
period during the seven years he had been a rheumatic
subject. I have lately heard he had a relapse some
time after I last saw him ; but no reasonable person
could expect three operations should have sufficed to
eradicate such an obstinate complaint permanently ;
most probably a repetition of the process would.
Case XXXIII. Mr John Thomas, 155, Deansgate,
consulted me at the end of April, 1842, for a severe
rheumatic affection of the loins, anu right hip and
leg, which had continued for two week!!. Had a
rheumatic fever two years before, which confined him
to bed for sixteen days, and to his room for a week
longer ; and he did not get rid of the pains for three
months after he was able to go out, although he tried
Buxton and Matlock baths, and also the medicated
an~ sulphur baths in Manchester. When he called on
me, (April, 1842,) I hypnotized him, and when roused
he was almost entirely free from pain, and never
required a repetition of the operation. He had no
medicine. On the 28th July, he called on me to say
he had continued quite well in every respect from the
time he was hypnotized, and attested the same, and
the correctness of the above statement, by appending
his name to it in my case-book, and he has also been
seen by many professional and other friends who can
o;g,, zed by Google
RHEUJUTISK.
bear testimony to the same effect. He continued well
when I saw him lately.
Case XXXIV. Master J. Lancashire, 12 years of
age, was brought to me in September, 1842. He was
suffering from a violent rheumatic affection of the
legs, back, and chest, so that be required to be carried
into my house. After being hypnotized, he was so
much relieved as to be able to walk about the room
freely, and to walk to his cab without assistance.
Next day he called, and was hypnotized again, and
left my bouse quite free from pain, nnd has kept so
well as never to require another operation. He bad
no medicine, either externally or internally. His
mother and he called some time after to inform me he
had remained quite well, when they both attested the
correctness of tho above statement of his case.
Case XXXV. Mrs P., a lady upwards of 50 years of
age, had suffered so severely from rheumatism that she
had not enjoyed a sound night's sleep for seven
months. External and internal means, which had
been beneficial in a former similar attack, had been
tried without effect, before I was sent for to visit her.
She was suffering excruciating pain in one leg, par~i­
cularly about the knee joint. When I proposed to
relieve her by hypnotism, she repudiated the idea,
told me she had no faith in it, and felt assured in her
own mind such an operation could be of no use to
her. I told her I cared little for her want of faith in
the remedy, provided she would submit to be operated
on as I should direct. She at last consented, and in
the presence of her three daughters was hypnotized.
In eight minutes she was aroused, and was quite free
RHEUMATISM. 230
from pain; wished to know what I had done to her;
said she felt assured hypnotizing her could not have
relieved her. To this I replied by asking where her
pain was felt now. She auswererl she felt uo pain,
but persisted she was sure I had done nothing to take
it away. The manner in which she could walk and
move her limbs was sufficient proof the pain was
gone, notwithstanding her scepticism about the agency.
When I called next day, I was informed by her
family she had slept comfortab~v all night, and had gone
out, being quite well. Two days after I called again,
and was informed by her that she had been overtaken
in a shower, and had over-exerted herself on that occa-
sion, and had had a ret.urn of the pain, although not
so bad as at first. I hypnotized her again with com-
plete relief, and she has never required a repetition of
the operation since, so that she hns now enjoyed a
releast~ from her old enemy for eleven months, in
defiance of her scepticism. Here, then, we have a
very decided proof that it was not imagination ; in
short, that it was a physical and not a mental change
which effected the cure.
Case XXXVI. Mr Hampson,another rheumaticcase,
I was called to 16th May, 1842. The patient was a
powerful young man, 23 years of age ; had suffered
severely for three weeks, the la5t two been entirely
confined to bed, unable to move his legs, or to feed
himself; for two weeks had not known what it was
to have ten minutes continuous sleep, from the violence
of the pain, aud spasmodic twitching of the limbs rous-
ing him. His left band, fingers, and wrist were so
swollen and painful, that he was quite alarmed at my
attempting to feel his pulse. .After ~ing hypnotized
236 ACUTB BJOUJUTIIJ(,
for five minutes whilst in the recumbent posture, I
had his arms extended, and he was now roused and
able to move the wrist and fingers with comparative
ease. I now hypnotized bim once more, and operated
on his legs. In liz minutes he was able to get on his
feet, walk round the bed and back again, and get
into bed and lie down Ulitlwut umtance. Next
morning I found him up and dressed, and able to
walk very comfortably. He had slept well through
the night. I hypnotized him again. Next night he
slept uninterruptedly, and in the morniug felt
nothing of his pains excepting in the left shoulder ;
but this was quite well by the next day. He had no
medicine except a mild aperient.
The cases adduced I consider sufficient to prove this
to be a valuable agency in the treatment of chrQfltc
rheumatism. I shall now adduce the results of its
application in two cases of acute rheumatism.
Case XXXVII. Mr G., a literary gentleman, con-
sulted me last winter. I found him complaining
of severe pain in the right arm and hand ; one
point, the size of a crown piece, on the outer edge
of the arm, a little below the elbow joint, was
exquisitely painful. He was enveloped in double
clothing, but, notwithstanding, was quite starved and
chilly with cutis anserina, pulse 120 strokes a minute.
I told him I considered it was the commencement of
an attack of rheumatic fever, and I should wish to try
whether it could be cut short by hypnotizing him.
He had never been operated on in this way before,
but readily assented. In six minutes I had him
bathed in perspiration, and his pain greatly relieved.
He was now ordered to bed, to take a mixture with
o;g,, zed by Google
ACUTB RHB17JUTI81l.
vinum colchici. Next morning I found him much
freer from pain, it had never been severe since the
operation the day before, the skin comfortable, and
his pulse only 80. To remain in bed and continue
his medicine. Next day the pulse was 70, and no
complaint of pain, and the following day be was able
to go out and attend to his business. No relapse.
Case XXXVIII. Mrs B., the mother of a numerous
family, had a severe attack of rheumatic fever, affect-
ing different joints in succession, and also violent pain
in her head. I proposed she should be brought out
of bed and hypnotized. The pain of her knees, feet,
and ankles, was so severe that she could not stretch
her legs, nor attempt to support herself, in the least
degree, upon them. She had therefore to be ~rried
from the bed to the chair where she was to be hypno-
tized. In five minutes she was roused, the headache
gone, and the pain in her legs and feet so much re-
lieved that she was able to walk to bed, requiring
only to be slightly supported by the arm. The pains
never returned with the same degree of severity. She
was hypnotized a few times more, and always with
benefit. Of course I prescribed such medicines as I
considered necessary to improve the state of the
secretions, so as to put as speedy a termination to the
attaek as possible, but there could be no doubt that
hypnotism contributed very much to meliorate her
suffering, and also in bringing the attack to a more
speedy termination, than would have been the case
bad I trusted to the effects of medicine only.
The following cases can perhaps scarcely be intro-
duced in any other place with more propriety than
the present. They are cases of painful affection of
Digit zed b,Google
233 IRREGULAR CO!I'TllAcriON
the members, arising from irregular action of the
muscles, consequent on mechanical injury.
Case XXXIX. Mr J. J. consulted me on the 6th
November, 1842. He stated he had a fall from a
horse five months previously, when he sustained
severe injury of the left hip and thigh. He was con-
fined to bed for two weeks, under medical treatment,
supposing the parts to be only bruised and sprained.
He then began to move about with crutches, but with
great pain ; and a consultation being held, it was con-
sidered there was dislocation of the hip joint, but the
attempts made to reduce it failed. At the end of nine
weeks from the accident, another surgeon, 40 miles
off, was sent for, who confirmed the opinion that
there was dislocation of the hip joint, and he succeeded
in reducing it. The patient was now confined to bed
for two weeks, and, on rising, was able to move about
with the aid of a stick, but without crutches. How-
ever, he was still very larue, and in much pain. When
he called on me, which was ou the 6th November,
1842, he was not suffering much pain, but was ex-
tremely lame. The knee was a little advanced for-
wards, aud the toes considerably everted. In attempt-
ing to walk without the aid and support of his stick,
the body was thrown so much to the left at every
step, as if the leg were considerably shorter, that with
other circumstances coupled with this, led me to sus-
pect fracture of the neck of the femur within the
capsular ligament. A minute examination satisfied
me this was not the case ; and I now considered the
affection was one of irregular action of the whole
muscles of the hip and thigh, some being atrophied
and semi-paralyzed, and others inordinately tense.
o;g,, zed by Google
OJ!' IIUIICLES. 239
With this view I believed I should be able to rectify
the irregular distribution of nervous and muscular
energy by hypnotism, an opinion the correctness of
which was quickly verified. Having hypnotized the
patient, and placed the leg in that position calculated
to restore the functions according to the view I harl
taken, in about six minutes he was roused, and was
agreeably surprised with such a remarkable improve-
ment. Next morning he was again operated on, and
was then almost entirely free from lameness, and
entirely free from pain, so that he asked my opinion
whether I considered it at all necessary for him to
take his stick in going through the town on some
business. He called on me the three following day8,
after which he went home, equally gratified as my··
self with the result of our operations. He had no
internal medicine, nor external application, whilst
under my care. He attested the accuracy of the above
report before leaving; and, as I have not heard from
him since, have reason to believe he continues well.
This patient was seen by several gentlemen, some
of them members of the profession, who can bear
testimony to the correctness of these statements, as
they had an opportunity of hearing the whole from
the patient himself.
Case XL. Mr J. H., 68 years of age, called to'con-
sult me on the 8th November, 1842, relative to a pain-
ful state of his left shoulder, the consequence of a
blow he had sustained two months previously. He
had been under the care of two eminent professional
gentlemen from the time he received the iujury till
within a few days before I saw him. There was a
wasting of the muscles about the shoulder, great pain·
Digit zed b,Google
KJI:CJUlUCJ.L INJURY.
in moving the arm, and it was so weak that he had
not been able even to button his coat with it. After
being hypnotized the first time he could use it, raising
it above his head, and moving it in any direetion with
ease and freedom. After being operated on next day
he had still more power. The following day he felt
a little pain behind the shoulder, under the scapula,
which was entirely removed by being ot1ce more
hypnotized, and calling the affected muscles into
action. On Saturday, the 12th November, 1842, he
left me, quite well, to return home to attend to his
business. Both this patient and his son attested the
correctness of the above report in my ease book.
Case XLI. J. W., 26 years of age, had a severe
injury of the hip, which was followed by suppuration
between the trochanter and ischium, where there
was a fistulous opening ; the leg was flexed and per-
fectly useless, being supported by a sling passed over
his shoulders, whilst be supported himself very feebly
on two crutches, his health having suffered greatly
during his affliction. He stated that he had just left
a public institution, where he was given to under-
stand no hopes were entertained of his recovery. I
hypnotized him, and during that condition regulated
the malposition of the limb, stretching the contracted
muscles, and strengthening others, by exciting into
action those which had been weakened by being
overstretched and enfeebled by inaction. The result
was, that on being aroused he could straighten his
leg, and walked (using his crutches of course) with
the sole of his foot resting on the floor. He was
operated on daily with the most marked improvement
both as regarded his leg and his general health. In
o;g,, zed by Google
HIU.DA.CHE, 241
three weeks he could walk with one crutch, in two
weeks more threw that aside, and walked with a
stick, and 11hortly after could walk without that aid,
and is now well, excepting n little weakness of the
ankle joint. He had no internal medicine from me,
and no external application, excepting one box of
ointment, the discharge having entirely ceased within
a week of his being under my care.
I shall now advert to the remarkable power of this
agency iu speedily overcoming nervous headache. I
have so many t>xamples of this, sometimes two or
three fresh cases in a-day, that it is almost useless to
instance individual cases. However, I shall give a
few.
Case XLII. Mrs B., the mother ofa family, has ueen
constantly annoyed with headache and maziness, for
the last two or three years, varying in intensity at
different times, but never entirely free from it. Con-
sulted me, 22d January, 1842, for the above com-
plaints, and also stated that s~ was subject to attacks
of epilepsy. I hypnotized her, and in five w six
minutes aroused her, when she was quite free from
headache. She was hypnotized almost daily for some
time, and remained quite free from headache, five
weeks after she was first operated on, and had much
leu of the mazy feeling, and no fit for two months.
She appoored so much better as to be taken notice of
by all her friends.
Case XLIII. Miss B., daughter of the above, was
brought to me on the 23d January, 1843, in con-
sequence of the improvement her mother had expe-
rienced from the operation. She had suffered severely
from headache for six months, so much so, as fre-
Q
BBA.IIACJIB,
quently to cause her cry and shed tears, and was never
entirely free from it for that period. I hypnotized
her, and in five or six minutes roused her quite free
from headache or any other ache. She was operated
on almost daily for some time, and has had no return
of the headache to this time,- four month~;,- and
bas had her appetite much improved, and looks very
much better. She had no medicine.
Case XLIV. Miss S., on the 25th .January, 1843,
was suffering from a most violent headache, and had
been so all day. She could scarcely open her eyes or
see when they were open, and seemed quite prostrated.
I hypnotized her, and in five minutes she was aroused
quite well, and has had no return of it at the end of
ten days.
Case XLV. Miss N., 20 years of age, had suf-
fered severely from headache from childhood, and
never knew what it was to be entirely free from that
complaint, but frequently had it so severely as to
incapacitate her for any exertion, and almost to deprive
her of sight. She also had constant uneasiness at
stomach, sometpues amounting to severe pain, and
when the attacks of headache were at the worst, the
pain at stomach wasalso much aggravated, and a severe
attack of vomiting generally terminated the violence
of these paroxysms. In April, 1842, I hypnotized
ber, and from that period she has been almost
entirely free from both headache and stomach com-
plaint. At the end of fifty-four weeks, I had the
pleasure of hearing from herself, as I had previously
from her mother, that she scarcely had suffered from
headache at all since the operation, and never severely,
or even jn the slightest degree for one hour at a time.
SPiNAL AIIF.ECTION, 243
Case XLVI. Mrs T. had been suffering from
severe pain of the head for more than two weeks,
without intermission either by night or day when
awake. She haci also had severe pain of the left side
of the chest for three weeks, which was aggravated
by a cough. For the last two days, the pain of the
side had been most distressing. The pulse was rapid,
the cough frequent and severe, and the pain in the
side so acute as to prevent free expansion of the chest
as in ordinary respiration. I found there was con-
siderable spinal tenderness ou pressing betwixt the
shoulder blades. I hypnotized her, and in five minutes,
when aroused, she was quite free from headache, the
pain in the side so much relieved, that she could
move her body freely, and take a moderate breath
with very little inconvenience. Next day I found she
had no return of the headache, and very little of the
pain in the side. She was again hypnotized with
advantage, which I repeated daily, and in six days the
pain of the side was quite gone, the pain of the heacl
had never returned, the ~ough was gone, the spinal
tenderness which disappeared at first operation had
never returned after the first operation, and the patient
was now quite convalescent. She had no medicine
but some pectoral mixture to moderate the cough.
I shall now refer to spina.! irritation, which is well
known to he the source of much suffering, not merely
in the course of the spinal column, but also, from its
influence on the origins of ~entient nerve~, on distant
parts of the body. I ha~e already referred to this in
the cases 16 and 19, where there was loss of feeling
and motion in one case, and pain of t.he legs with
eontl'llction in the other. Where the afft>ction does
o;g,, zed by Google
244 SPINAL IRRITATION,
not depend on active inflammation, I hesitate not to
say, that the pain of the spine, and other painful
affections dependant on the state of the spinal nerves
which arise therefrom, may be relieved more speedily,
and certainly, and effectively, by hypnotism, than by
any means I have either tried, read, or heard of. I
shall give an example.or two.
Case XLVII. Miss C. had suffered for years from
spinal irritation and headache, the pain extending
round the chest, so that deep breathing or free motion
of the chest could not be tolerated. I tried every
variety of treatment, but in vain, and at last despaired
of benefiting her, and, from the extreme difficulty of
breathing, suspected it must end in pulmonary con-
sumption. I now tried hypnotism, which imme-
diately succeeded in relieving tho whole catalogue of
painful symptoms, and she was ~peedily restored to
perfect health, aud has continued so ever since.
Case XLVIII. Miss -- bud suffered much from
spinal irritation for years, and bad undergone much
severe treatment. Had been restored to health and
strength under my treatment, but was again threat-
ened with ·a relapse. I hypnotized her, and when
roused, the spinal tenderness was gone. A few more
operations made a most marked improvement, and
she continued well for some months. She had a
recurrence of the complaint, when hypnotism was
again had recourse to, with immediate and decided
advantage.
I could easily multiply eases of this sort, were it
not for swelling the volume unnecessarily. I shall
therefore pass on to cases of irregular or spasmodic
action of the muscles. I have found it decidedly use-
o;g,, zed by Google
EPILEPSY. 245
ful in several cases of chorea ; and also in eases of
nervous stammer. In epilepsy it also frequently
proves highly useful, but there are some varieties of
this complaint over which it has no control. These
I presume are such cases as depend on organic causes,
and which are found to resist every known remedy.
It -is however well known that many cases which
were supposed to have been of this class have worn
themselves out, or time and the efforts of nature have
effected some organic change. Whether hypnotism,
if persevered in, might have a tendency to expedite
the favourable result in such cases, I am not prepared
to say, but think it highly probable it might do so.
I feel quite confident, however, that in cases which
are amenable to treatment, this will be found one of
the most. speedy and certain remedies. Of all the
complaints for which mesmerism has been lauded as
beneficial, there are none so conspicuous as epilepsy,
as has already been referred to in the introduction.
As the effects of hypnotism are so nearly allied to
mesmerism, it would be superfluous for me to detail a
number of cases, I shall therefore give only a few.
Case XLIX. A girl who had been liable to six or
eight fits in 24 hours, bad only one the day after she
was first hypnotized, none for next five days, and was
shortly quite well.
Case L. John Barker, aged 19 years, applied to
me in August, 1842, for epileptic fits. He had first
been seized with them when four or five years of
age, at first every week or fortnight, hut as he got
o!Uer, became more frequent, so that, for some months
previous to applying to me, he had had M many as
three fits a-week- had been under treatment at a
o;g,, zed by Google
246 EPILEPSY.
public institution for two months before calling on
me, anc! hac! a great variety of treatment, but derived
no benefit, and was then told by the attendant, that
he must never expect to get riel of them. He was
subjected to my usual hypnotic operation for such
cases, was operated on ten times altogether, and has
had but one fit since he was operated on ; and that
was the day after first operation. He had no medi-
cine from me excepting three aperient powders. He
has now been free of the fits for upwards of nine
months.
Case LI. Mrs B., the mother ofa family, had been
subject to epilepsy for seven years, and notwith-
stanc!ing every variety of treatment, allopathetic and
homcepathetic, she had an attack at least once a
month. From the time she was hypnotizec! she had
no fit for four months, and has had none since.
Case LII. Miss B. had been subject to fits for nearly
two years, latterly had as many as five and six a-day;
consulted me the end of December, 1842; was hyp-
notized seven times, and had no return of the fits for
four months, when she had one, and in two weeks
after a seconc!.
Hypnotism may be applied with great success in
the treatment of various distortions, arising from
weakness of certain muscles, or inordinate power or
contraction of their antagonists ; and I feel convinced,
that by this means, we may rectify many of those
cases whicl1 have hitherto been treated by section of
the tendons or muscles. The success which I have
already had, by this means, of treating lat~al CUn7a-
ture of the spine, warrants me to speak very con-
fidently on the subject, in most cases. 1feel convinced;
o;g,, zed by Google
SPINAL CURTA.TUJI.B. 247
~ are fJe1Y feuJ recent C4le8 which may not be
apudily cured by ~. tDitAoue either pain or
inconfJenience to tlupatient. Patience and perseverance
will of course be necessary where the disease has been
of long standing, and though in such cases the cure
may not be perfect, the patient may be greatly
improved by hypnotism.
The method of treating such eases is, first to induce
the sleep, and then to call such muscles into action as
are calculated to bring the body into the most natural
position. By bringing these muscles into play during
this condition, they acquire increased power, and
ultimately are permanently strengthened. As one
side of the chest is enlarged, and the other collapsed,
I endeavour to restrain the enlarged side, by applying
compression to it during the sleep, ~·hilst the patient
is directed to take deep inspirations, so as to expand
the opposite side. I also endeavour to make the patient
stand in a position tlu fJe1Y rner1e of that whick I con-
rider to hrne been t~ ckief cauae of tM curt~ature. As
already remarked, I feel convinced this method will
prove very speedily successful, more decidedly so than
~ny other mode of treatment I know of, ani:l upecially
in suck casu a1 are GCC()mpataied with Bpinal irritation.
Case LIII. The following is a ease of its remarkable
success with a young lady, 14 years of age, who bad
had the advice of some of the most eminent members
of the profession in the provinces, and also in Dublin
and London. She was first observed to become mal-
formed when four years old. When brought to me
C$ the 12th September, 1842, her chin rested on her
breast, and there was uo power of raising it, from
the weakness of the recti muscles of the back, and
248 SPINAL CURVATURE.
contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles.
The rlorsal part of the spine and shoulders were
thrown backwards, the lumber vertebrm and pelvis
were thrown forwards, so that the deformity ~-a~
very great, nnd the vigour of the mind, sa well as of
the body, was greatly impaired. She had no medicine
nor exterual application, but was hypnotized night
and morning, and treated in the manner referred to,
and the result was, that in six weeks she could hold
herself so much better, that when the outline was
taken, it was found that her spine was three inches
nearer the perpendicular than when I first S.'\W her.
During this period, no mechanical means bad been
used, nor throughout any part of the time she was
under my care were any resorted to, with the excep-
tion of a support for the chin, by way of remem-
brancer, till the habit of attention was acquired of
supporting the head by mere muscular effort, which
she now had the full power of doing. Nor should I
omit to add, there was also a great improvement in
the mental faculties;
Neuralgic pain in the heart and palpitation, I bav&
also found to be relieved, or entirely cured, by neuro-
hypnotism, more certainly and speedily, than by
any other means. The following are examples:-
Case LIV. Miss Tomlinson, 16 years of age, I have
already referred to. She had suffered severely from
painful affection of the heart, with palpitation, wllich
had resisted all treatment, and she had been pre-
scribed for by eminent professional men, both physi-
cians and surgeons. After being twice hypnotized,
the affection of the heart disappeared, and has
never returned but once, when it was immediately
Digit zed b,Google
AFFECTIONS OP TBB HEART, 2!9
removed by hypnotism. It is now seventeen months
since she was first operated on, and she is in perfect
health.
Case LV. Miss Stowe, 22 years of age. I have
already referred to her as one of the eases in which
sight was remarkably improved by hypnotism. She
had also suffered most severely from palpitation of
the, heart, accompanied with difficulty of breathing
and dropsy, and various other symptoms which led
the medical attendants, one of them an eminent phy-
sician, to pronounce the ease hopeless, considering
there was serious organic disease of the heart. After
being twice hypnotized, all symptoms of affection of
the heart disappeared, (sufficient proof it had been
only functional derangement,) and she was speedily
in the enjoyment of perfect health, awl has been so
now for the last twelve months, and that from hyp-
notism only. This patient had leucorrhreal discharge,
which had resisted every remedy for years, and was
so offensive as to cause suspicion she had malignant
uterine disease. It was completely gone in a week,
after being first hypnotized. She had no medicine
excepting a simple aperient pill occasionally. I should
add, her hearing, as well as sight, was very much
improved by it.
Case LVI. Mr -- had suffered severely from
pain in the heart and palpitation. He was hypno-
tizod with decided relief, and a second operation com-
pletely restored him, and he has kept well for the last
eight monthR.
Case LVII. Miss -- had suffered much from
palpitation of the heart, so that Rhe could not ascend
an easy stair without bringing on the most violent
o;g,, zed by Google
210
palpitation. I tested this before opera~ing on her.
After being operated on, caused her ~nd the same
flight of steps, which produced no palpitation, and she
has never required the operation to be repeated.
Case LVIII. A young man had suffered much from
valvular disease of the heart and palpitation and diffi-
culty of breathing for four years, the consequence of
a rheumatic fever. He could not walk more than
twenty or thirty paces without being forced to stand
or sit down. After being hypnotized for a short time
he could manage to walk upwards of a mile at a
stretch. In this case there was so much organic dis-
ease as precluded the hope of a perfect cure, but no
means could have achieved for him what hypnotism
did, and in such a short time too.
When considering the powerofhypnotism in blunt-
ing morbid feeling, I may advert to its power of
relieving, or entirely preventing, the pain incident to
patients undergoing surgical operations. I am quite
satisfied that hypnotism is capable of throwing a
patient into that state in which he shall be entirely
uncomcious of the pain of a surgical operation, or of
greatly moderating it, according to the time allowed
and mode of management resorted to. ThJis, I have
myself extracted teeth from six patients under this
influence without pain, and to some others with so
little pain, that they did not know a tooth had been
extracted ; atid a professional friend, Mr Gardom, has
operated in my way lately, and extracted a very firm
tooth without the patient evincing any symptom of
feeling pain during the operation ; and when roused,
was quite unconsciousofsuch an operation having been
performed. He has extracted a seeond for this patient,
o;g,, zed by Google
KODIPI.ED ott PJlBVBNT.ED. 261
and one for another, without their being conscious of
the operation. To insure this, however, I consider
that, in the majority of instances, it is quite nece~ary
the patient should not, when he sits down, know or
imagine the operation is to be performed at that time,
otherwise the distraction of the mind, from this cause,
may render it impossible for him to become hypno-
tized deeply enough to render him altogether imen-
aihle to pain. The following ease will illustrate this
view.
Case LIX. Mr Walker called on me, stating he bad
been suffering from a violent toothache; said he w&!l
anxious to have the tooth extracted, but that he suf-
fered so much pain from the operation, on former
occasions, that he could not make up his mind to sub-
mit to it, unless when hypnotized. He had been
frequently hypnotized, and was highly susceptible of
the influence. I told him I should be most happy to
try, but that unless be could restrain his mind from
dwelling on the operation, I might not be able to suc-
ceed in extracting the tooth, entirely witlwut pasn. He
sat down, and speedily became hypnotized, but I could
not produce rigidity of the extremities, nor ifllen8i-
bility to pinching, which in general were so readily in-
duced in him. I therefore rou~ him, and told him
the fact. He stated he went on as usual to a certain
point, but then began to think, " now he will be
putting the instrument in my mouth," after which
the hypnotic effects went no farther. The pain
was gone, and he left. In the evening he again
called on me, when I tried him once more with the
same results. I now aroused him, told him it could not
be done with him redueed to a state of total ,,.;.
o;g,, zed by Google
2li2 PUNS OF OPBJUTION XODIFIED,
bility, and that I should therefore extract it now that
he was awake. · I now extracted the tooth. He was
conscious of my laying hold of it, but had felt so
little pain that he could not believe the tooth had
been extracted. Nor would he believe it till he had
the tooth put into his hand. I now requested him to
be hypnotized once more, when he became hi9hl§
ri!Jid and imenBibl.e, in a shorter time than I had
_,. 1een in him before. From this, and other C&l!eS.
I infer, that if it is intended to perform a surgical
operation entire!§ without pain, whilst in the hypnotic
condition, the patient's consent should be obtained
for it to be done sometime, but he ought on no account
to know when it is to be done, otherwise, in most
cases, it would foil the attempt.
However, that patients may be operated on with
greatly les11 pain even when in the first degree of
hypnotism, and whilst expecting au operation, is
quite certain, from the result of the case of Mrs --,
related below, which I now refer to as Case LX.
I have also performed other operations under similar
circumstances, and with similar results, nllmely, with
9reatl§ diminuhed pain, although not entire!§ witlwut
pain.
Case LX. A lady had absct'SS connected with
disease of the orbitar process of the frontal bone, had
the matter discharged by small puncture, the wound
closed by first intention and again opened, as required,
by the lancet. She experienced so much pain on
.each occasion as to induce me to hypnotize her, after
which she made no complaint, although I durst not
carry it far owing to ihe state of the brain. On one
occasion I was anxious to ascertain how she would
o;g,, zed by Google
CUTANEOUS DISEASES CURED, 253
feel by operating witlwut hypMtiziflfJ, when the
result was so distressing, as to induce me always in
future to hypnotize her, before such opemtions, and
then all went on well.
Case LXI. An adult with worst variety of Talipes
varus, of both feet, had the first operated on in the
usual way, and the other whilst in the primary state
of hypnotism. The present ease and future advantage,
in respect to the latter operation, was most remarkable.
I have operated on upwards of .three hundred club
feet now, and I am warranted in saying I never had
so satisfactory a result as in the one now referred to.
In cases of dyspepsia it is of the greatest service.
Most patients feel the appetite greatly increased by
being hypnotized, and that the digestion is more
vigorous than before being operated on. All com-
plaints, therefore, immediately connected with, or
dependent on, indigestion, may be expected to be
benefited by hypnotism. It is well known, many
cutaneous diseases are of this class ; and the following
will illustrate the remarkable power exercised by
hypnotism on this symptom, as well as several others
associated with it:-
Case LXI. Mrs 0., 33 years of age, the mother of
a family, had been very .nervous for fifteen years,
with tremor of the arms, was easily alarmed, much
disturbed by distressing dreams, and required being
aroused several times every night from severe attacks
of nightmare. She had also suffered severely from ~u
inveterate eezen1a of the chest and mamma, and in-
teguments ofthe abdomen, which, for five months, bad
resisted every remedy, both external and internal, un-
der highly respectable medical men. The fingers of
o;g,, zed by Google
2M C'DTJJIEOUI DIOUBS CUBED,
one hancl were also aft"eeted with impetigo. She eon-
suited me 31st August, 1842, when she was hypno-
tized, and was aroused great.ly relieved from the
distressing feelings of the head, and general nervous-
ness. Her husband assured me, that on walking out
with her same evening, had he not seen her, he could
not have believed it was his wife who had hold of
his arm, so much was the tremor of her arm im-
proved, and she slept soundly all night without being
troubled either by dreams or nightmare. She was
hypnotized daily, and in a few days she was quite
well, both as regarded her general health, and the
obstinate skin disease;. and as she had no medicine
nor external application, there could be no disputing
that it resulted entirely from the influence of hypno-
tism. She has been well nearly ten months.
Case LXII. J. C., aged 40, had been severely
afflicted for eighteen months with impetigo sparsa,
extending from a little below the knee to near the
toes. He had also severe pain in the ankle joint, so
that he had been disabled for work for eighteen
months. I hypnotized him, when he could walk
better, after first operation, without his stick, than he
could do immediately before with it. In a few day11
the improvement was very remarkable, and within a
week the disease of the skin was nearly well, and very
little pain in the joint, He was hypnotized almost
daily till the end of the month, had no medicine, and
no dressing but a little spermaceti ointment to pre-
vent the cloth surrounding his leg from adhering to
the sore; and the skin disease being now quite well,
and very little pain in the ankle joint, in a few days
after he was enabled to resume hi& work. He had
o;g,, zed by Google
undergone mueh treatment, under both public and
private practitioners, but was becoming worse instead
of better. The immediate improvement in the ap-
pearance of the cutaneous disease, as well as feelings
of the patients in the two last cases, were too obvious
to admit of a doubt as to the remarkable powers of
hypnotism.
'l'he next cases I shall refer to, are those of perma-
nent contraction or tonic spasm. Tho following are
interesting examples of this form of disorder, and the
success of hypnotism in the treatment of them.
Case LXIV. Mr J. 0. 21 years of age, called on me
1st October, 1842, complaining of a pain in the left
temple, a continual noise in the left ear, with occa-
sional shoots of pain, and the hearing of that ear
very imperfect. He complained also of inability to
open the mouth so as to enable him to take his food
comfortably, and that mastication caused great pain,
so that he frequently felt compelled to decline taking
bis meals. Complaints had been coming on since
previous Easter, and were becoming worse, notwith-
standing he had been under the care of two medical
men up to the day before he called on me. That day,
lOth October, 1842, he could not eat breakfast but
with great difficulty, and had been compelled to take
rice and milk for dinner for two days, as he could eat
nothing solid. I found he could not permit the
mouth to be opened more than half an inch without
great pain and difficulty ; and bcsiclos the dulness of
hearing already referred to, I found he bad also very
imperfect sight of the left eye, which I tested very
accurately. He had not been aware of this until I
ealled his attention to it. I hypnotized him for about
o;g,, zed by Google
256 SP.UliiODIC AFFECTIONS
eight minutes, during which I '9.'88 enabled to open
the mouth till the front teeth were nearly two inches
asunder, and he experienced no inconvenience from
me doing so. On being aroused, all the pain in the
temple was gone ; he could himself separate the teeth
one inch and three quarters, as accurately measured,
in presence of four very intelligent gentlemen who
had been present during the operation ; and he could
move the jaws with the most perfect freedom, and
without pain. The hearing was also much better,
and the sight of the left eye also most remarkably
improved. 2d October, called on me again, when he
stated he had been enabled to eat a good supper after
he left me the night before, and to take his breakfast
and dinner with perfect comfort to himself; that his
hearing was much better; and the sight of both eies
as nearly as possible equal. He had had no pain in
the temple since he was operated on, unless when the
mouth was opened to the utmost extent, and even then
it was trifling. He could now open the mouth to
nearly one inch and three quarters, before being ope-
rated on to-day, and after the operation, to the extent
of two inches, that is, the front teeth were two inches
apart.
This patient called on me a few days after to be
operated on a third time, and retained the improve-
ment noted above. He was to call again if he had
any relapse, but as he has not done so, I conclude he
continues quite well, and it is now nearly seven
months since I last saw him.
I shall now refer to other cases ofspasmodic affection,
which are most interesting, as they afford us strong
grounds to hope that Tetanus, Hydrophobia, and other
o;g,, zed by Google
CUBED BY IIYPNOTISK. 257
analogous affections, may be arrested and cured by
this agency.
Case LXV. A girl was seized with violent tonic spasm
of the right hand and arm, and side of the face. Are-
spectable surgeon was consulted, who ordered a blister
to the nape of the neck, medicine, fomentation, and
liniments to the parts affected. The symptoms be-
came more urgent, and they sent for the surgeon
again, but as he was out, and as they were much
alarmed, I was consulted. The blister had been
applied, but the medicines had not been used as
directed. I found the hand so firmly clenched that
it was impossible to open it, the arm so rigid it could
not be moved ; but, knowing the efficacy of my new
remedy, I hypnotized her, and in two minutes, with
the most perfect ease, I unlocked the hand, and re·
moved the other spasmodic contractions, and she was
instantly quite well, and has.continued so ever since,
now more than a year.
I shall only record one additional ease, and a more
remarkable or satisfactory one I think could scarcely
be adduced. I give the case as correctly recorded by
the patient's father, in a letter he sent for my
approval, previous to having it sent to be recorded in
some periodical. I preferred having its publication
postponed, and now give it precisely in his own
words.
Case LXVI. Miss Collins of Newark. "My
daughter, 16 years of age, had been aftlicted for six
months with a rigid contraction of the muscles on the
left side of the neck, to so great a degree, that it
would have been impossible 1o insert an ordinary
card between the ear and shoulder, so close was their
ll
o;g,, zed by Google
TONIC SPASK
contact ; and consequently she was rapidly becoming
malformed. She had hall the best advice to be pro-
cured in the country, and I had taken her to London
with a written statement of the treatment previously
employed, and bad the opinion of Sir Benjamin
Brodie, who approved of what had been done, but
gave no hope of speedy relief.
" In consequence ofseeing a report ofa lecture given
ou the subject by Mr Braid, surgeon, St Peter's
Square, Manchester, and a letter written to that
gentleman by Mr Mayo of London, I went with her,
by the advice of Dr Chawner, who indeed accom-
panied us, and placed her under the care of Mr Braid
on Thursday evening, the 24th March last, (1842.)
In less than a minute after that gentleman began to
fix her attention, she was in a mesmeric (neuro-
hypuotic) slumber, and in another minute was par-
tially cataleptic, Mr Braid then, without awaking
her, and consequently without giving her any pain,
placed her head upright, which I firmly believe could
not, by any possibility, have been done five minutes
before, without disruption of the muscles, or the
infliction of some serious injury, and I am thankful
to say, it not only continues straight, but she has the
perfect control over the muscles of the neck. A
nervous motion of the head, to which she had been
subject after her return from Manchester, has entirely
ceased, and she is at present in excellent health. It
is necessary to remark, that at Dr Chawner's recom-
mendation she was frequently watched while asleep,
but not the slightest relaxation was observed in the
contracted muscles.
o;g,, zed by Google
CUBED BY HYPNOTISM. 259
"Many respectable persons can bear testimony to
the statements herein made.
(Signed) JAKES CoLLINS."
"N&w.uur., llt.\ Mag, 1842."
I have been informed that somevery absurd reports
have been circulated, even in the metropolis, as to
my mode of operating on this patient, namely, that I
had exhibited a vast display of gesticulations and
hocus pocus, in order to work upon her imagination.
SUCH STATEMENTS ARE UTl'BRLY UNTBUE. I simply
desired her to maintain a steady gaze at my lancet
case, held above her eyes in the manner pointed out
at page 27 of this work, and after the eyes bad been
closed, and the limbs extended for about two minutes,
I placed my left hand ou the rigbt,side of her neck,
and my right hand on the left side of her head, and,
by gentle means, gave a new direction to the sensorial
and muscular power, and was thus enabled by art,
rather than mechanical force, in less than half a
minute, to incline the head from the left to the right
of the mesial plane. The muscular contraction being
thus excited on the right side of the neck, iu muscles
which had been inactive for six months previously,
was the surest and most natural mode of withdrawing
the power from their antagonists, and reducing the
spasm of the contracted muscles on the left side. After
allowing the patient to remain two minutes supporting
her head, now inclined towards the right, by her own
muscular efforts, to give them power on the principle
already explained, I aroused her in my usual way,
by a clap of my hands. The patient's father, and Dr
Chawner of Newark, were present the whole time,
o;g,, zed by Google
260 CONCLUDING REJURKS.
and to them I appeal as to the correctness of this
statement, and in refutation of the vile, unfounded
calumny above referred to.
After the lapse of a year Mr Collins was so kind as
write, to inform me his daughter continued in perfect
health, with complete control over the muscles of the
neck.
;: I could easily adduce many more interesting eases,
but trust those already recorded may be sufficient to
prove that hypnotism is an important addition to onr
curative means, and a power well worthy the atten-
tive consideration of every enlightened and unpreju-
diced medieal man.
o;g,, zed by Google
INDEX.
Abercrombie, Dr, 90, 94, 149, 226.
Armstrong, Dr, 84.
Atkinson's, Miss E. case, 70, 220.
Barnet's, Joseph, case, 227.
Barrallier's, Mr, report of sleep from fixing eyes, 77.
Bertrand's opinions, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Bingham's, Mr, testimony, 188.
Brain, modes of dividing, 100.
---modes of communication with body, 103.
Brown, Dr Thomas, 89.
Brown, Captain Thomas, 16.
Brooke's, Mr H. 8.
Collins', Miss, remarkable cure, 69;257.
Colton, 81, 87.
Concluding remarks, 158,259.
Critique on Mr Ward's operation, 152.
Cross magnetizing, rationale of, 125.
Curtis, Mr, 183, 190.
Cutaneous diseases cured by hypnotism, 253.
Dig,t eJbyGoogle
262 INDEX.
Deafn81!111 cured by hypnotism, 176.
Deaf and Dumb, erroneous expectations of, 190.
--case cured, 192.
Distortions, 246.
Dreaming, 44.
---causes of, 46.
Elliotson, Dr, avowal regarding volition and sympathy, 98.
Epilepsy cured by hypnotism, 245.
Eyes, effects of their consensual adjustment on pupils, 35.
Erroneous expectations of Deaf and Dumb, 190.
Evan Samuel's case, 204.
Edward Samuel's case, 213.
Faria's, Abbe, mode of magnetizing, 7.
Gardom, Mr, his succe811 as a hypnotist, 176, 248.
Headache, cases of cure of, by hypnotism, 238-246.
Hypnotism separated from animal magnetism, 4, 21 ; pre-
judices against refuted, 10, 75 ; origin and definition of
terms, 13; modes of inducing, and success, 24, 27; causes
of failure in producing, 25 ; peculiar phenomena of, 29,
54-57, and 61-67; modes of dehypnotizing, 30, 52;
proceeds from a law of animal economy, 31 ; rationale of,
31-48 ; wherein differs from common sleep and reverie,
49-56 ; accompanied with no electric nor magnetic
change, 33; power of habit aud imagination, 36, 61;
remarkable effects of a current of air during, 37-39; in-
fluence of on smell, 39 ; and ordinary reverie contrasted,
49 ; probable cause of perfection of arts amongst Greeks,
56 ; phenomena. of consecutive, 61 ; its remarkable cura-
tive power, 62, 165 to end ; its effects, local or general, at
will, 64 ; its effects on mind as well as body, 71 ; so as to
produce refreshing sleep, 76 ; power of hearing faint
sounds, 126; how to apply it as a curative power, 162;
INDEX. 203
to improve sight, 165; hearing, 176; 11180eptibillty for
music, 194.
Hall, M. Spencer T.114, 118, 122-4.
Holditch, Mr, 175, 217.
Heart, alrectione cared by hypnotism, 248.
Imagination, effects of, 225.
Insane patient, treated in accordance with phrenology, 120.
Johnstone, Thomas, remarkable case, 216.
Irritation, Spinal, 243.
Kramer, his opinions criticised by Curtis, 183.
Lafontaine's conversazione, 2, 16.
Liebig's views as to the action of the alkaloids, 48.
Magnetism, animal, modce of producing phenomena of, 20.
Materialism, arguments in refutation of, 81, et uq.
Mayo's, Mr Herbert, testimony, 23, 33, 80.
M'Nish on reverie, 49.
Medical Gazette, papers in, contrasted with Mr Braid's
views, 34, 3/i ; extract from, 59.
- - Times, extract of experiments from, 37-39.
Mesmer's experiments in Dr Franklin's garden, 20.
Mellor's, Miss, case, 200.
MUller, important extract from, 47, 48, 103.
Morris's, Mr, case, 210.
M'Robert's remarkable ease, 195.
Mind and matter, how related to each other, 81.
-- the cause of organism, 91.
Music, ita remarkable effects on hypnotic patients, 56.
Nodan's case, 181.
Okeys were most probably affected through imagination
and habit, when operated on by Mr Wakley, 61.
Digit zed b,Google
INDBX.
Okeyw, rationale of the power of predicating death.
Palpitation of heart cured by hypnotism, 248.
Plato's opinion or mind and metter, 90.
Phrenology does not neeesearily lead to materialism,S, et seq.
P8118ions excited by music, 95 ; sight, 96 ; sympathy, 96 ;
touch, 96 ; mechanical pressure, only during hypnotism,
103.
Prichard, Dr, 7, 10.
Phreno-bypnotism, 80.
Rheumatism treated successfully by hypnotism, 227-235.
Rolley, Mrs, her remarkable ease, 165.
S. Mrs, opacity of cornea removed, 1i3.
Shelmerdine's, James, ease, 184.
Sight restored and improved by hypnotism, 165.
Stowe's, Mrs, ease, 169.
--,Miss, ease, 171,249.
Slater, Mrs, ease or paralysis cured, 202.
Sleep, natural phenomens of, 43, 54, 58, 59.
- - - - -call!e8 of, 45, 58-60.
Stewart, Dugald, 90.
Somnambulism, 44.
Sunderland, La Roy, his views, 122.
Smell restored by hypnotism, 196.
--interesting experiments on, 40, 197.
Smellie's predication, 105.
Spinal irritation cured by hypnotism, 243.
Spasm, tonic, cured by hypnotism, 255.
Surgical operations during hypnotism, 250.
Taylor, Sarah, deaf and dumb girl cured, 192.
Tic Doloureux cured by hypnotism, 198•.
Vaughan's, Mr, testimony, 164.
o;g,tzed by oogle
INDEX, 265
Walker, Mr, hypnotized, 17, 19.
whilst operating on another gentle-
man,40.
----,sight improved by hypnotism, 171.
Wakley's, Mr, admission regarding phenomena, 33.
----rationale of his experiments with the Okeys, 6I.
FINIS,
JI:DiliiBUBGH
PRINTBD BY ANDREW SHORTRBD&,
G~ORO& JV. lS.RJDO~.
I
ERRATA ET ADDENDA.
Page 14, line 2,for Areal, read A real.
17, bottom line,for phenomena, read phenomenon.
34, line 17,for 33, read 38.
57, line 32,for effects, read efforts.
78, line 16,for state, read stage.
24, line 26, after the fDOf"d themselves, add, as farllur
proof of the 81UJCeu of hyp11otilm, At the con-.ersazione given
on the 29th June, 1842, to the Members of the British Aeso-
ciation, two men and two youths were brought off the street.
One man and both youths were operated on ; all the three
were hypnotized, and one of the youths reduced to the ;rigid
state.'
Page 129, line 6,for warrants, read seem to warrant.
143, line 7, for the relation which, read that some
relation.
•
o;g,, zed by Google
NOTICE'S
OP
MR BRAID'S WORK ON HYPNOTISM.
"We hail with pleasure the publication of this volume."-
Glalg01.11 Arg~U.
" This is a very able and interesting treatise. Whatever novelty
may attach to the writer's views, they deserve careful investiga-
tion and study, alike from the ability with which they are sup.
ported, and the praiseworthy object they aim at eft'ecting."-
RejormMB' Gaueu.
The author has conferred an incalculable benefit on the
public by explaining so clearly the " Rationale of Nervous
Sleep."-Edinburgh Bcening POBt.
" Here is a splendid benefit opened up to the view of mankind.
We recommend Mr Braid's book to the public.''-Scotm•an.
" This is a curious book, full of details not le88 striking and
original, than valuable. « « Exhibiting extensive research,
and broad and liberal views. * • We feel that an important
service has been rendered to the cause or science, both general
and medical, by the labours of Mr Braid.''-Glasg01.11 Citizen.
" Mr Braid's views are broad and liberal. In the present state
of Mesmerism, his work is an important contribution to those who
are looking amid its wild mazes for the troth. We, therefore,
recommend his labours to the merely curious, to the sceptical,
and to him who is led away by the superhuman pretensions of
the Animal M.a.gnetists.''-KilmarnocJ; Journal.
· "The work is lucidly written, the author having been evidently
influenced solely by a desire to convey as much information as
po88ible.''-Liurpool Albion.
" We can venture to state that in its perusal the reader will find
very much to interest and instroct.''-Mandiuter Timu.
" With regard to the curative efficacy of the system, we are
able to bring our personal testimony to the fact, and can fully
corroborate many of the cases quoted by Mr Braid.''-MancAulw
·eourier.
"We cannot but recommend his work to every one interested
in the important phenomena of which it treats. Its details of
eases, some of the most thrilling or which we have witnessed,
would alone repay an attentive perosal.''-Phreno·Magnet.
o;g,, zed by Google
WORKS
at
OA.PTAIN THOMAS BROWN, M.P.S.
M&MB&RorTBI: W.RNEillAN' 80CI&TY j HONORARY MIUIBBR Of' THE G&OLOGICAL
IOClETY OF MANCH&dTER; FORil&RLY PRBS!D&NT 01' TRB RO\'A&.
PHYSICAL SOCIETY; AND CURATOR 011' TH& MANC8&8T&R
li.&TV&AL llll'l'OAY .asrr'a lltlsavM.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE CONCHOLOGY OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
&ootld Edition, 1Dith oomiderable A.dditiom.
To be completed ill Sixteen Numbers, royal ,to, containing-
Four coloured Pla.tes, price 3a. each- in all Sixty-two P"-wa,
with complete deecriptious, localities, &c. of all the species dis-
covered up to the present time, including marine, land, and fresh
water, together with a representation of the animals of nearly the
whole genera. The Engravings of this Work are nearly all
executed by M:a W. H. LIZA.BS of Edinburgh. ·
Fourteen Numbers have already appeared, and the work
will be speedily completed.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE FOSSIL CONCHOLOGY OF
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
To be completed in Twenty-live Numbers, royal 4to. eontaini.Jis
Four coloured Plates, price three shillings, or two shillings, pl&i.n •
-in all 100 Pla.tes, with complete descriptions, localities, ud
geological poaitions of all the species.
The Engravings of this Work are principally executed, ill the
first style of art, by LIZA.BS, AIKIIA.N1 and other celebrated
Engravera of Edinburgh.
Twent1-t1ro Numbers have appeared, and the work will be
epeedil1 completed.
N.B. 071 eompletWII, tlu Wort WJ'ill be t.Wtlan«d in price.
THE ELEMENTS OF FOSSIL CONCHOLOGY.
I~!tntr~Lted by ·t. well marked species of eaeh Genus, Engraved
Oil Steel, by AtitllA.N ed MIL!lE. In one vol. royall8mo, with
Twelve EnpYinge, priee Fift Sbillings, boards•
•
