{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__brown___views_and_experiences_in_relation_to_the_second_advent.pdf","mytitle":"Views And Experiences In Relation To The Second Advent","mylang":"de"}
&
O
VIEWS AND EXPERIENCE
ll RELATION 'IO
ENTIRE CONSECRATION
ARD THB
SECOND ADVENT:
ADDRESSED T0 THE MINISTERS OF THE PORTS-
»
MOUTH, N. H., BAPTIST ASSOCIATION.
HYF.G.BROWN,
LAT! PAITOB Ol* THE IIDDLI STBIIT IAPTIST CHURCH,
POBTBIOUTH, N. H. '
-lil
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA T HIMES,
_ 14 Davonlhln Streat.
1843.
_. .
AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED
'ro Tlll
MINISTERS OF THE PORTSMOUTH, N. H
BAPTIST ASSOCIATION.
11
I. VIEWS AND EXPERIENCE IN RELATION T0
ENTIRE CONSECBATION.
Dlnmr Bsnovsn Bnsrnnnuz '
Ir is not in
mty power to visit you person#
ally, as it woul give me great
(pleasure
to
do : nor am I able to write you in ividually;
you will therefore accept of this narrative, as
especially prepared for yourselves.
'
I feel a great satisfaction in making this
narration to you, brethren, because I have so
long enjoyed your confidence and your love.
You know me; and I believe still, as ever,
ou will candidly consider what I will now
lgy before you.-At our Quarterly Ministe-
rial Conferences, it has been one of our usual
exercises to communicate to each other God's
dealings with us since we
parted: and ~now,
brethren, as I do not expect to be present at
our next session, let this speak in my be-
half I make this narration from no other
motive, than that the grace of God may be
magnified, and the power of his Spirit be
demonstrated. Let me premise that you
are yourselves, brethren, enjoying much of
God's presence, that prayer is your delight,
4
and communion with God more to you than
your daily food; that you know of the
truths of our holy religion which ou preach,
by a powerful experience. Ami' again, let
me believe that you will not hastily reject
what I declare that God has done for my
soul, merely because you may never have
seen and felt the same, I only ask that you
will impartially and prayerfully. ponder upon
these things, and endeavor to ascertain
whether the hand of the Lord be in them.
Let me not believe that you will limit the
Almighty, or that you will set up yourselvel
as judges of what it might be wisdom in him
to perform. On the assumption that we are all
living in the very last days, that which I. have
of late experienced is very easily accounted
fer. I shall lay my whole heart open to you,
brethren, feeling contident, that, however un-
intelligible, and even silly, the exposure might
be to some, you will commend me, at least,
for my honesty, and he disposed to put the
inost favorable construction upon whatl may
say. ,
f
The month of August last will mark more
particularly the period in which my mind
mems to have been conscious of any' pecuf
liarity of exercises. Eversince I commenced
my pastoral labors, I have been aware that
something was wanting to stimulate Chris-
tians to a lite of constant faith and prayer,
and to give to the great machinery bywhioh
light and salvation are propelled thmughout
8
the earth an increase of power. But it was
at this time that I began to look about, and
to realize, as never before, the apathy of the
church in regard to evangelizing the world,
&c. My soul fervently responded to the call
made for a convention at Worcester, for the
puxgseof
deliberation and prayer in regard
to e negkcted cause of missions; but cir-
cumstanees prevented my attendance on that
occasion. At our Association, which occurred
shortly after, I felt called upon, with others,
to entreat the churches to pity, and to send
relief to thepoor heathen; and expressed my
heartfelt regret that I had not obeyed what
once 'appeared to be my duty, and become
niyself a' missionary. From all that I no-
tioed'}' it seemed to me as though the whole
American church were in a
profound slum-
'fhis' subject; and I naturally inferred
thitiiital piety must be at a
corresponding
eblH'~' From looking abroad, I came nearer
H6i!ié,"aud compared my own church with
'tiifaftflimderstood to be the condition of the
clhiohes of our own Association, relative to
'i§iBiohs,' and 'to the private duties of the
'and I found that my own people
iii theeltdvance of most other churches,
'
`-all that gives dignity, beauty, and life
_t!1eE7h'!istian character. But still I saw a
among many'of them. From my
id'l§"ie£(flehurch I turned to myself, and
%l"that'rny own piety would probably
JI' U :.1u»~§r:}=l=~» ; .1 »-
1 W
6
suffer in comparison with that of some of my
dock. I began to review my past life, and
especially the few years of my ministry.
This review awakened within me humility
and pain. I knew that I eould not be con-
demned for the want of severe intellectual
labor, preparatory to the weekly perform-
ances of the pulpit-for it had always been
my rule not to fail hcre, though I might as a
pastor: but I could detect some unhallowed
motives which had too long prompted my
ministerial labors ;-a. lack of confidence in
God to own and bless the word preaclied,-
of faith in prayer,-of nearness to God,-of
bold and soul-moving conceptions of God, of
Christ, and of the Holy Spirit. I had al-
ways, from the time of my conversion, which
was at the age of fourteen years, frequented
my closet daily, and had enjoyed a measure
of religion. But it was not until I entered
the ministry, that I knew what it was to
suppress youthful eifervescence of feeling,
and to govern self with the sternness of man-
hood: it was not until the holiness of my
calling began to meet me, that I really began
to walk with God. I now see by casting my
eye over the MSS. of the sermons which I
have preached since Sept. Ist, how my hun-
gerings after the living God have been stead-
ily increasing; and also the steps which I
unconsciously took to bring me out where I
found myself at the opening of this memora-
ble year. I had tried to implore God to
7
arouse the slurnberings of the churches to an
increase of zeal, of sacrifice, and of prayer in
behalf of a perishing world; that he would
in mercy revive religion in the midst of my
own dear people, where it had so long lan-
guished, but especially that my o\vn soul
might experience more of the power of reli-
We had not enjoyed a season of re-
hing- from on high for a long time, and I
had begun to feel that God had nothing more
for me to do where I was then located. After
having 'labored on until I felt that I had ex-
hausted all the means in my power towards
eikcting a
change for the better, or in bring-
ing about the conversion of souls, I began to
my to=God to send some servant of his to my
relist
'
I 'felt willing to stand aside to any
'one whom Providence should select for this
NYOrkZ=
'
'iln desiring a revival of religion, my
l0w'n'$ot1! was hoping to share in its precious
"I had been accustomed, for a few
`»yQ¥1i8Y'past, to spend a.
portion of my time
diiylkrreading memoirs of pious individu-
'other religious books, such as would
þÿ'!|i>y ¬=a
tendency to feed 'the flame of piety in
'iliyfhoult but-I never dreamed that it was in
to attain sto eminence in piety;
'
ig either that I r
had -not begun early
We
'
*in life, for that there was some moral
nal defect about me which would
iwimpossible. Often have I read. of
'v!lU4IQl5i* ee tasies, and the triumphant faith,
biifflheheafveuly devotion of Payson, and
Taylor, and Edwards, and many others, and
thought that they were religious prodigies;
and of course few could hope to be like them.
I had heard of some around me who had had
the power of God upon them to such a. de-
gree, as to lose their natural strength: but I
had always doubted and strenuously opposed
such things as realities. I ever deprecated
all excitements, and preferred a religion that
would give exercise and expansion to :the
reason and to the imagination. Ami. yet
whenever, which indeed was very &l,dem,'l
found myself in a meeting where much reli-
gious fervor was exhibited, my 0Wli soul
would awaken and kindle up with holy ire.
On the fourth of January last, a. ministqtr
ing brother having come to my aid, a aedel
of religious meetings were begun in .tim IBIP
try of our church. No extra preparationaar
parade were made on this occasion :_ ihbwl
not even been announced that a prottadid
meeting was contemplated. As the-coming
of our brother among us was remarkably
providential, I was watching for further .ig-
dications of our Father's will.. an JQJIIB
measures which should be used tqwndlp,-p
revival of his work, i
v
On the followingpg-
ing, the theme of, our brother's
disc0'm§§l
Prayer: during the sermon, -I no
'
A _
"pp
very' special interest among .the peoplgmggr
did I feel any very strong emotions of I
þÿmyse ¬,=
as a result of the discoursswéxl
felt ithaxi the subject; chosen
9,
and at its conclusion knelt, earnestly desiring
to lift unto God the effectual, fervent prayer
which availeth much. No sooner had I
bent my knee before God, than my soul
was at once drawn out in inexpressible ago-
ny for the outpourings of the Spirit, and that
God-would come down among us in great ma.-
jesty. Immediately I was conscious of feel-
ings which I cannot better describe, than by
likeningwthem to the effect of electricity, pa.ss»
ing through my whole physical system: the
veilvwhlzh had separated me from my God
wanrow auirely torn away, my heart flowed
outliis water to Him in whose immediate
grains,
asfnaver before, I now seemed to be.
ting risen from my knees, I found the au-
dience allvbathed in tears, and a most awful
adlernity pervading the house. I began to
apénk; int, inquiring who had been paying
fi!-_8i'IlBXI~, declaring, with
ggiat
em.-
yhg
`
'
tliaxnow God was going to ,ess us,
tlh&.tImy.soul was evidence to it.
dl
then
puQdnd` ftrrremark that it appeare to me
n1~llrpugh~our-
prayer;
had all been poor,
inning', <re "ning, etting prayers-that
#w'¢had~nottakI;a God at his, word, and be-
illldallintobe liberally disposed unto his
¢i&'¢»~v-we had not presumed upon his
snulitgiund
asked him to do greet things
'qw ieipressedizmy views in regard to
-qolfilimizf-That it appeared .as if I_<h8.d
~
`
'as Itought; tbatlhad bwnin
&!lQ0¢ll.lu my life; _that .Iliad
10
not had a
place where to stand large enough
for the sole of my foot; that I had just
emerged from a
dreary wilderness, into a.
vast and boundless field where all was beau-
ty, and loveliness and glory._ Such peace,
joy and confidence now took possession of
my soul as I cannot describe. Having re-
sumed my seat, and tinding myself vari-
ously affected with involuntary emotions of
joy and of grief, and being still sensible of
this holy celestial iniiuence to such an ex-
tent, that every limb and joint in 1'ny body
trembled, I became alarmed, and inquired
of my ministering brother, who was
sitting at
my side, if he could tell me what it was that
was then on me; or if he had ever seen an
individual affected -in like manner. As the
time drew near for the conclusion of the
meeting, I felt loth to leave the desk, and to
mingle with the brethren, apprehensive that
what I had been enjoying might be a delu-
sion, and even
though it were, I desired
never to lose it. But what was my surprise,
as I left my seat, to find that still my soul
was filled with inexpressible pleasure, and
for the first time in my life I cried out,-
"glory! glory !" and immediately sunk down,
unable to stand upon my feet. I was sensi-
ble that I had never prayed for such heaven-
ly manifestations as these, and on inquiry,
soon ascertained to whose prayers I was pro-
bably indebted for whatl was then enjoying.
Again I felt a reluctance to leave the pre-
`
_
11
_
cious place of our worship, and then to enter
the door of my residence, lest all these glori-
ous~ emotions, and indescribable views of
heaven, should vanish. Having arrived
home, I gave myself up for a few hours to
earnest and agonizing prayer, and to exalted
prtisenand thanksgiving to God. My soul
was vfilled with deepest agony for all who
were preaching _lies and false doctrine, and
with faith and confidence in God, that he
would hear my supplications, and now begin
amighty 'work of grace in our midst. Such
peaoentnd. glory as I now felt for eight and
forty,.hours,- human language cannot por-
tray.: heaven had come down to earth, and
Ithadftsuch bliss and transports, as I had
netrenexpected
to realize even in the world
oifglosya I wanted an angel's powers, and
an,a.ngel's trumpet, to make known all and
tmallv just what my soul felt and beheld. I
retired, to rest on that night, and awoke in
thefcnjeyment of the same celestial peace,
altdwspenft the day in weeping and rejoicing
b0f0l'B God, in view of what he had done for
samlwtezthy a. creature of the dust as my-
selifaad in exchanging sympathies and con-
QTUIIIIBQOIIS with Christian friends who called
tones mea n
e
vhnwas intimated by one dear sister, who
mldiat
#his time, that I had experienced
Healing of sanctilication: the suggestion
Stttletl me for a moment, and .made me
slldish, supposing that she meant to,1inLi-
12
mate that I was now perfect. Ireplied by
remarking that I hardly knew what name to
ive to what I had experienced; but should
Iselect terms that would seem to me to im-
ply just and only just that of which I was
then conscious, they would be these :--#the
baptism of the Holy Ghost--entire consecra-
tion-perfect love. These had always be-
fore been very odious terms. to my ear; odi-
ous, only because they were used by ~a party
or sect of Christians Whom I regarded as
exceedingly superstitious and fanatiemltr But
I now felt that it was due to my Godyami to
the sovereign power of his grace, tel minvxhat
he had baptized me with the Holy 611050, I
now felt the purest and strongestrafibction
for all who were truly Christians irrespective
of names or of denomination. fiyseetuian
feelings had all fied like dewheforefthesun,
and I wanted to mingle at oncewith God's
dear children, however poor or despisedwhey
might be, to unite my prayers audvsongs
with theirs, and to tell them what vrendekful
things God had done for my soul# I»-saw
that I had made an idolof my denomination,
and had been toodistrustful of the-pietyof
other sects, and too jealous of
thei;pmarperi»
ty. My books and authors, that h
'
me so much intellectual delight, were lot# to
me as chaff; they' appeared as i-f'sea1éd~f` ~
never again to be opened; everythingeitg
'whieh-Iihad fondly calledrmine; Hl!i|`id.
-vnayp and appeared tome, as-at diiimiu-
13
ment, of no more value than a bubble. A
desire for distinction, the love of reputation,
of honor,
pride,
were all gone, and I felt as
though
I oved God supremely, and that I
ooul now not only reckon, but
dfeel
that I
was dead indeed unto the worl ,
and alive
unto God. I preferred to be taken out of the
world, yes, to suffer ten thousand deaths,
rather than to fall back and live where I
hadbeen living for the past years of my life.
0, what a sense of condemnation and guilt!
h'ow terrible God! how hard to bear Christ's
yoke! how anxious and distressed about the
chiitdh, about poor godless men, and about
iihthberless earthly things, all of which
ihot11d"haye been left entirely with God!
Haw many times I have looked forward
¥i!'h"jbyful anticipations to death, which
foifrld end all this strife. I supposed that in
Elite things, however, was the conflict of the
and he must submit to them as a
gg!!! of'his warfare. But of no grace was I
iV!'inore"conscious, than that of humility.
I':7f§'ltfllke'a, young convert, child-like, weak,
nt, and willing to be taught by any
_who could tell me more about what I
I1liil'Q!petienced,'and who would take me by
$e"I:;;id% leag
me into all truth. I
coluld
't ha onedmeeswoner-
_ `, 'but"s'til1'I felieas thoxgli, there was
Jrore
'for me to learn--that there
_
iib _iitruth undiscovered, and intothe
geofvhich the Holy Spirit was aa
2
He _
`
signing to lead me. These convictions ex-,
pressed to a ministering brother, who called
to visit me on the day succeeding the one on,
which I had been so greatly blest; and 0,
how my soul yearned for some kind hand to
lead me! I was inclined to suppose that I
did not have a clear and full knowledge of
the doctrine of holiness, and that itwas some
unpenetrated part of this grand Scripture
truth into which I was yet to be introduced§
I now received, without a sneer, or any
feelings of contempt, the Guide to
Christian
Perfection. I devoured with avidity perha
i`
twenty numbers of this precious little work?
and was
highly gratified to find tha§t`thé.i'e.'
were so many Christians, of all
tions, who had had an
experience preciself
like my own; and, moreover, how gri
was my joy increased, to find that I v
read my experience in the book of the
-that God had given, me the experience 6
the primitive Christians, so
thatynl could 'new
know what they meant by "joy unspe able
and full of glory ! "
There was, I con
cover, however, a lack offailh ixrrnyie,
' `
°`-»
ence, of which others, who had been; _, `
like myself, seemed to be better actf,
"
,f'
than I was. l wanted that faith, sri
grasp all God's promises as
`
cry continually Abba, Father! and B8 g
make Jesus my Savior. With, irticqly
reference to this end, l earched ,th4£;il)l§,,1,g
order to ,gain still -clearer
15
views of God, of Christ, and of the Spirit.
Soon I began to behold God as a being full
of love, and who could have nothing but
love for those who walked uprightly. I bc-
held Christ as my Savior, who died for me
as though I had been the only sinner in the
universe; as
my Priest, who had passed
Within the veil to make atonement for my
sins;,as my Mediator, who stood between
me and the iiaming sword of justice, and
thus shielded me from destruction. I saw
him as
my elder brother; I looked at all the
terms which were
expressive of his endear-
ment for his disciples; I contemplated him,
on earth never turning away any su pliant
for temporal or s iritual favors, anti) even
suffering a beloved) disciple to indulge in the
familiarity of reclining on his bosom; and I
reasoned thus: he is the very same Jesus
now; he is the Savior of all, especially of
them that believe; why should he not love
me, and do for me far above all that I can
ask, or even think, if I will but yield to him,
and fully believe in him? I labored to bring
near to me, and to conceive of him just
as 'lie *was when he left earth- for heaven.
hot long ere I could feel that he
had inhdeme truly one of his; he was pres-
ent Withiine' in my
place
of meditation and
fa 'ert;"alnd_again was humbled in the
lat' his feet, and could cry out-" My
__
7, andiny God!" I could now live by
, daybylday, on the love of God, with-
15
out one care or solicitude for the morrow;
the Bible became my only book of study, the
Spirit of truth my only expositor. Indeed, I
had a new Bible, a new Savior, and a new
heart; and what was remarkable, I could
now preach, for the Iirst time in my life,
without the aid of written sermons. _
_.
My investigations went on in regard to
sanctiiication; I searched the Bible with ref-_
erence to it; and then read Fletcher, Bram-
well, Wesley, and others on the subject, until
I was well satisfied, that, speculate as we-
might, and dispute about terms as we would,
the doctrine oft
holiness was a most promi-,
nent doctrine of the Bible, and that it was
the duty and the privilege of Christians to
arrive at a state, to say the least, of conscious
purity ;_ to be where our hearts condemn us
not; that we might have confidence toward,
God. I do not use the term Perfection; not
because I have myself much difliculty with
that
expression, but because it is liable to
be misunderstood. Entire consecration is
less objectionable. My experience on this
subiect is now better to me than all my the-
orizmg ever was. Six months ago, an angel
might have reasoned with me, and I should.
have almost doubted whether Christians, at
the present day, could enjoy such influences,
experience such overwhelming emotions of_
soul, have such bright and glorious views of
truth, and be so sanctified unto God.
What
I have experienced, brethren, is only what
.17
others have, and are experiencing all over
the land. Converts, and Christians who
have long been on their way to the heavenly
Canaan, have alike been filled vith the great
power of God, as on the day of Pentecost.
After having obtained such new
light on
the Scriptures, and enjoyed such remarkable
manifestations of the Spirit of God, I felt
most deeply for you, my beloved brethren,
and for all the ministers of Christ, that all
who were called to minister at the altar
might have the same power of God resting
down upon them, so that their own souls
might be refreshed, and that they might per-
form the duties of their office with more ease
and delight. I beheld them toiling and
weeping over the souls that were committed
to their charge, and I longed to tell them
how they might cast all upon God, and get
such an
anointing from on
high as would
give efiect to all their ministrations. It ap-
peared to me, that the great majority of them
were in gross darkness. I wrestled and ago-
nized in prayer for them; and O, how distressed
was
my soul for an inactive and slumbering
church ! I can now see that my distress was
caused by something beside the discovery of
the fact, that the doctrine of holiness had not
a strong hold on the hearts of ministers and
people. So important did the doctrine of
sanctification appear to me, and I could see
so vividly, as I thought, its connection with
the conversion of the world, that I felt it
gas
19'
_might soon be my duty to go forth and
make this the great theme of my
preaching
to the churches, or to devote the remnant o
my life to the work of an evangelist, endeav-
oring to labor for Christ on a more
extensive
scale than ever. For it seemed to me that
all my sympathies, and prayers, and toils,
had been criminally restricted. As I had no
tie to earth, and love for distinction had
gone, I found' that I had no sacrifice t0
make, but that toil, privation and suferin
would be a pleasure, for Christ's sake. I
was willing to be accounted a fool for my
Master, and to bear with atience any re-
proach or persecution in delgnce of the gos-
pel. I had always before thought much of
preserving my good name, and
enfzoying the
commendations of the community or
my ur,
bauity, frankness and inoffensiveness; -a.nd_I
here confess that the greatest injury thatgan
individual could once have done me, would
have been to speak ill of me. Bttti QQW,
blessed be God, while conscious df. Serving
him who has redeemed me with his -most
pgecious blood, I care but little wbetl'|,§l'»1
ve the approbation or the
disapprobqgon
of the world. I am now
kepting r
peace,
while my whole soul is stayed
sometimes feel as though I could s
gm-
moved amidst the wreck of matter an p _°
crash of worlds: such confidence has ,mygg
in theiomnipotent arm of my Father ,
God. _
Dear brethren, hurt not theoilqi gy
wine; do not be guilty of attributing tot e m»
19
fluence of the imagination, to the excitement
of the animal passions, or to the agency of
Beelzebub, that which should be devoutly
and adoringly attributed to the power of the
Holy Ghost; bearing in mind that "the
kingdom of God is not in word, but in
power." If you reject these things, when
they are confirmed by so many witnesses,
with equal propriety might you discard the
proofs ofordinary conversion. If you smile
at such experiences, as I hope you will not,
fear list the ungodly ridicule as superstition
and enthusiasm all that the young convert
pmfesses ta experience, and thus the reality
of our religion be questioned. If you will
tum over the
pages of the New Testament,
you will find just such exhibitions of God's
power -there. And you will recollect, that
those extraordinary manifestations of the
Hqky Spirit have often been made by us sub-
ol? discourse. Let not then the natural
reverence which we all have for antiquity,
and _the charm with which we invest every'-
thingthatpwas peculiar to the first age of the
chtqohylead us to extol and admire every-
thingqbat existed in apostolic tinu=s,lwhile
wgqghg guilty of rejecting the very semapho-
nnmqpa incense we witness it with purnwl
¢r@,=.mt-mese l4S&<12fYS- r
Mm, c»».eu1»si=»
theaearpenserh s°u.aSi 1 we-e-PWWQ
i
er,gf wisdorrythan ever, Socrates-was'
Q _the eloquence of the fishermen, Qui
q|4gy,;g1L_ the;,enchamments_- of ,romance
the-¢b»»=°»in themwsert wiv, wmv
20
theless, it is to be feared, would spurn to re-
ceive instructions from any man, however he
might
be filled with the Holy Ghost, unless he
ha been initiated into all the mysteries of
science, had explored all the metaphysics of
theology; and who, so far from condescend-
ing to make a stable their place of worship,
would feel as though the Almighty was in-
sulted, or could not be devoutly worshipped,
unless in a granite or marble temple. But
I wander from my subject; brethren, say not,
"these men are filled with new wine." _
II. VIEWS AND EXPERIENCE IN RELATION T0
THE SECOND ADVENT.
Let me now, brethren, invite your atten-
tion to a continuation of my experience, on
another subject. I was always
optpbsed
to the
introduction into our
pulpits an churches,
of all the great moral topics which have
agitated the minds of the community for a
few years past. And I have thought myself
more than fortunate, as you well know, in
keeping
them all out of our midst. Our little
bar has safely outrode all the storms to
which other churches have been exposed,
and from which they have so severely sufer-
ed, as I should once have said. I believe I
have never preached on one of those topics,
and certainly I have never been the open
advocate of any of them, unless it might be
thought that I have of the cause of Temper-
ance. <
Here, I- confess, -I have erred greatly.
-_,Tr-~` __ _
21
One of my main reasons for so
doing, how-
ever, has been because I plainly sav that one
exciting theme prepared the mind for
another; and if one was introduced, a hun-
drled might be, and no one could foresee to
w at such steps might lead.
When the doctrine of Sanctification began
to be generally discussed, I thought it a
branch of that very tree from which so much
bitter fruit had of late been gathered.
And when the doctrine of the Second Advent
began tobe preached, I thought it an offshoot
of the doctrine of Sanctilication, and that the
friends of the former and of the latter would
be the same. These convictions were
strengthened on listening to several dis-
courses b Mr., Fitch, which were prol`essed~
ly Seoontiiidvent sermons, but, in fact, dis-
courses _on Sanctification. I thought him
légally dishonest; wickedly
designing,l11ndeir
e lqak of the Second Advent, to pa m o
Sangtiiication upon the churches. I publicly
rebuked him for it, and left attendance on
his lectures, Nor was I pleased with the
twcl Qt three discourses which I heard from
hini on the Advent near; I had even
invited
my own congre ation to give him a hearing,
sup
"
'ngtthat Ee was a
ripe scholar, and a
roms! theologian. But what was my
disappointment and mortiication on finding
I then thought, such an intolerable
pqiierter of
plain texts of Scripture. I
can
rigfggelthat it was myself that was
abusing
22
the lain declarations of God's most holy
word); and he was
perverting them in my
then opinion, because he did not depart from
their literal rendering, and ive them the
spiritual interpretation whici I had been
taught to do.
I can now see, and am free to admit, that
the two doctrines are closely conjoined.
Not that ever-y Christian who believes in and
embraces the -first, will also receive the
second; because facts would not bear me out
in this remark. But he who lfas been truly
sanctified is better prepared to look at the
doctrine of Christ at the door: he is qualified
by patience, by lowliness, and by the in-
dwelling influences of the Spirit to sit himself
down to the investigation of God's word on
this subject, until he arrives at thatruth: the
ties are rent that once held him to earth, and
he is not only willing, but anxious to soar
away and meet Jesus in his descent from
the skies.
I never
directly preached against the doc-
trine of Christ's Second Advent at hand;
though I have often aimed incidentally to
tear
up some of the superstructure on which
the friends of it were endeavoring to build
their theory. I had prophesied much evil
against all who connected themselves with
this cause. I received their books and news-
papers, as I could not do otherwise without
treating those indecorously who presented
them to me. Some of these I read, more per#
.-*_-._,_..
__
haps from curiosity than from anything else;
just as one might look on and witness a con-
test betweeu two pugilists, without feeling
any special interest in the success of either
party; others I carefully stowed away, inf
tending, at the expiration of 1843, to bring
them to light again, and hold them up as a.
monument of religious folly; then, I was in-
tending to correct the presumption of all the
foolish and ignorant who had dared to exalt
themselves above the wisdom and erudition
ofthe pulpit. Brethren, do not be guilty of
as
great a sin, lest you provoke the wrath of
the Almighty. Only one day previous to the
great blessing which God conferred upon me,
and. of which I have spoken, I had declared
that I, would not be seen in a Second Advent
meeting. #Those composing them, were, I saw,
as a. elass, of too low an order for me to asso-
ciate with. I had no sympathy for their
noi§e,1m.d_for their broken harangues. But
hommighty is the arm of God to abase the
proud, -and to humble the lofty ! On the
vexwylnext day after, so marvellous had been
G9d's-dsalings with me, thatyl could not keep
agayefrom, Just such a meeting as I had
hoqotdoredespised. My soul wanted to give
IIHDNDQOJQ its emotionsof love to Christ,
agd,t0,¢ll Whom he had truly purchased with
hiabloodgand now I was determined; that the
lgpgg¢tige of pride should be crucified and
Clil§>1¢lhD11t~of my heart, if, indeed, any, yet
lui -there. _
,Accordingly I ,1'¢pairQ§U9 the
24
ami-eh when those aespisea ibilwers ofthe
Lamb were holding a series of meetings; and
there, to the rejoicing of many hearts, I told
what great things God had done for my soul.
I was now favorably disposed towards the
doctrine of the Advent near, and was
willing
to read on the subject, as I did occasionally,
while I thought, weighed considerations, and
prayed more.
-
' '
'
'(<
It should have been remarked, that at this
time my mind was
perfectly free from all
care and concern. Brother Hi- conducted
the series of meetings which we had soon
determined on holding: Christians were
wonderfully quickened, and siniiers were
pricked in their hearts, and cried out,
"
Men
and' brethren, what shall we do to be saved ?"
For about four weeks I did not myself
preach a. discourse. 'Phe minister's usual
anxiety, which attends a revival, was not
felt by me. I gave the church, souls, my-
self, and all into the keeping of God's hands,
while I secluded myseif in my study, in
obedience to what seemed to be the movings
bf Gddds Spirit, searching the Scriptures, and
Weeping and praying before God that he
Weald make truth known to me: I was
aware that there was some truth left, which
ggi
mind did not apprehend; and this con-4
tion I' expressed to a brother minister who
htélled to see me on the day after I was sd
iignally blest. I sought interviews at variié
Uuirtimestwith the clergymen of thetowm
lmping that some words would be providen-
tially dropt that would give me a clue to that
Ihr which my heart was anxious. But I al-
ways left them with disappointed hopes. At
times I fancied that it might, perhaps, be my
duty to unite myself with another denomina-
tion, Where there might be more vital piety,
moretscripture truth, and a greater tield for
usefulness. But my views on the leading
doctrines of the Bible were unchanged, and I
did 510i and do not feel like sacrificing them
on any account. Indeed, these doctrines, as
held by our Church, never seemed to stand
mmsqprominently on the pages of inspiration
wat thisfmoment.; they are all harmonious,
bgautiiful, glorious. Well, I would ask my-
iilfywiih what denomination can I unite? I
conldiiixi .upon none, a connexion with which
I»ft1l£>;would satisfy the strong desires, and
calylnthe restless feelings of my heart. Now
pjijgul, was all ecstasy and devotifm, and
theqgiadeseribable darkness and wretched-
ggsxplgrould. succeed. I wondered that my
pggcqfandeujoyment were not as
deep and
ggeqntignaustas those of others who had been
zwitlathe Holy. Ghost; for I was
ggqnsciqus of striving, in =all. things, to
_
I
n;y,He,a_venly Father; wasmuch in
felt. Willing to Sttbmit myself
`
yay; the divine will, Never; did 1-so
lP3§'tYY6Bkness, my; liability £0 err,
my
'_ ,9t`f§he1prayers.of Christians.; __
, hows
i
'
~
faytgo
each member of my ehizmh,
t
at
(,.>Ui{l`
and to every one who had access to a mercy-
seat--pray for me; how my soul yearned
to make known to my dear people my pecu-
liar exercises of mind, that 1 might have
their sympathies.
Greatly was my soul refreshed and com-
forted on -one occasion, about the first of
February, during one of our vestry meet-
ings, to hear a number of praying souls
arise, and say that it had been deeply im-
pressed upon their minds that they must
pray more than ever for the pastor. One of
them stated that the burden of his own
prayers had long been for me--that the mo-
ment he had undertaken to pray for himself, he
almost unconsciously and involuntarily found
himself praying for me. Three of these in-
dividuals were neither members ofour church ,
nor believers in the doctrine of the Second
Advent near, although devoted Christians,
having come in to enjoy the season of revival.
And now
my soul iiowed out like water in
gratitude and thankfulness to God for the
intelligence that others were bearing my case
continually up to heaven. Immediately we
all bowed before God, and my soul wrestled
and agonized before the Throne, that God
would keep my feet from stumbling, take me
into his hand, and reveal to me not only all
truth, but show me what he meant by the
peculiar strivings of his Spirit. On returning
to my residence, again I knelt to pour out my
desires unto God; and no sooner was
my
F!
knee bent, than again I found myself, as on
the first of January, in the awful presence of
Jehovah; fear and trembling seized all my
reins, while glory seemed to envelope me.
At once, with as much clearness and force as
though an audible voice had thundered it in
my ear, and down into the very depths of my
soul, I was
given to understand something to
this effect :-the glorious reign ot' Christ--my
own responsible connexion with the accom-
plishment
of his triumph over the wicked-
revity-lightning. Immediately, and for
several days following, my mind dwelt with
overwhelming interest on what these things
might mean. Now, I thought I could inter-
pret them in this way ;--God is about to con-
vert the town, and perhaps-a largeportion
of the earth-the day for a temporal millen-
nium is fast dawning;--I am to be used as
an instrument in effecting these glorious
things for Zion ;--my life is just at its close;
-all is to be done with the speed of lightning.
Again, this was my interpretation :- Christ is
aboutito make his personal
appearance,
for
the destruction of the ungod y,» ands the
gathering home of the saints ;-I am to sound
the Midnight Cry ;--the day of probation has
just run out, and all are to be hurried into
eternity ;--these things are to be closed up
with the speed of lightning! Impressions of
this kind were invariably made upon my
mind, whenever I got near to God in holy,
agonizing prayer; and whenever my mind
waveredin regard tothenear appmachof
Christ to reign on earth either temporally
or spiritually, I was completely wretched ;_
though previously I might have been in
religious raptures. Frequently, when in
prayer, I would have such heavenlyhanis
festations, and such convictions wrought on
my soul, that I would rise from my knees,
with the fullest persuasion that Christ was
truly at the door. Still I had not stugdiedttho
Bible with careful reference to the
of the Advent near. I thought the task wha
a diiiicult one, and I did not feel that I had
time then to enter upon it. But Icould have
no inward rest until I made a commence-
ment.
. I now began to search the Scriptures, with-
out note or comment, for myseltl I took the
chart used to illustrate the visions of Daniel,
merely to aid in keeping everything clear
and distinct before my mind. It was hum-
bling, notwithstanding all that God had. done
for me, to study the Bible with the aid of a
chart, on which I had heretofore looked with
so much contempt. There was the figure ofa
man in a certain attitude! and then, in differ-
ent postures, the figures of various and most
hideous beasts! The repugnance with which
I regarded that chart cannot be well con-
ceived. I thought it to have been conf-
jured up by some dreamy, silly
person,
who
was
seeking to make everybody ike himseli
But; why should I haue had thi|.deep-uooteti
prejudice against those symbols? There is
man, a being proud of his capacities, allied
to God, and the destined associate of angels ;
what symbol more
appropriately chosen to
illustrate the occurrence of the greatest events
which the world has or will ever witness?
There is the lion, the lord of the forest, at
whose roar man himself trembles and turns
pale; and there are the other mighty beasts
ofthe field, next to man in the scale of being;
what symbols more appropriate than these
with which to mark the scale of time? Those
symbols, those pictures, hideous as
they ap-
gear, why, they are the language of the
ible. And supposing there should be just
such a transfer to pa r of all events recorded
in the word of Godljewhat kind of a scene
would 'be presented before the eye! But the
cha¥t=is in rfect obedience to the command
of God-" write the vision and make it plain
upon tables, that he may run that readeth it."
I was totally ignorant of just what the chart
was designed to illustrate, and knew not what
wusthe reasoning from it. r
'
'
=l cannot here relate what were my feelings
as my investigations went on. I 'was as-
tonished and humbled 'to observe the Baby-1'
Ionian kingdom represented by the head of
gold;-the Medo-Persian by the breast and
armshf Jilber; the Grecian by the belly'and,
thighs of brass; and the fourth kingdom by
the legs of iron, and its divisions by the feet
|»|ld'f06!'°0f iron and of clay; And then to
admit, that our own and other proud nations
were represented bythe feet and toes,
"
part
of, iron and par! of pott»er?s clay," I could
hardly brook; still I would-believe itif I; had
good and suflicient proof for it. Purswihglly
study, I was awaited, surprised, deligl|t$j»9|;
discovering such acomplete correspolliente
between the vision of Nebuchadnelllhaad
that of Daniel; and then iinding~»>sueht¢a,
perfect likeness between that seen by; Daniel
and by John the revelatorfeven tothe number
of days when the vision should expire. If
could but think that John must have been,
very familiar with the book of_
Daniel;
or that some of his book must have been(
penned without much inspiration. But _I;
could reconcile the matter easier than/this :-ff,
it was of God,1and he was taking these, varif
ouslnaeans ,to remind man, at different and,
remote intervals ~from» each other, that he.
was not.slaek,;conce1-ning his. promises, and,
that he, might have some gauge by which to,
ascertain, bowlfast and at what period the,
sands of time shouldall run. out. -My Poly,
glot Bible -WM' OD ¥lAY»l&b1e, and aided. me
wonderfully in making speedy references to,
other portions of G'¢od's word, Such was the,
harmony between the books of Daniel and,
of John, and other books of the Bible; sq
plainly did the book of Daniel and all the,
passages towhich I had reference fogughg,
purpose of comparing Scripture.§|ritl12
'erm te9»<\°s>mueof,menew <\°s>mue of, me new
31
o£rChrist, that I.-began to be suspicious of'
the edition of my Bible, and actually turned
to-the title-page to see by whom and when
iv was# published. I know the reference
coluumisrthe work of man; but still it ap-
rs singular, that man, years ago, and
gdbably without any intention of teaching
the
Second
Advent near, should make such
ha re erences.
glgving given the book of Daniel a-
thorough-investigation, which I had never
before done,-supposing if that or any other
book=of the Bible really taught the doctrine
oiF=Ghrist'3 speeriliydcoming, those who
werte
age ,
lea and ious than mysel ,
would be likely to ascertaih it ; and that when
lh0,'°B0llIld8d the note of alarm it would be
time enough 'for me to awake,-I was
aionishetl to rlind the mass of Scripture tes-
tlmphyin- favor of this doctrine. My mind
to sympathize with that of
Bohielfitbroughout the whole vision; and I
waited-in fearful suspense for every word of
explanation and revelation which the angel
506-'liini-;=
and-
whsn ht last
words
'were
tiered,"'last containe int e ast verseo the
liilfchapter of Daniel, my interest was over-
'
ing; andl asked, what do these things
`
'i
They cannot have but a very par-
feference to<Danie1's peopleafter the flesh.
V
»' l'e0nld'not. have understood them thus,
'
7th¥£y' been a plain, literal account of
'
"
"¢o'befaIl his ownfjaeople, hu eeuld
r
_
Kfutifqlt'
not have been so amazed and astonished; he
would have more readily comprehended the.
meaning of the angel's instructions. Besides, f
there are things in the book which cannot bo.
interpreted as having a mere reference tothe-
Jews; there is a mist, a veil, drawn over.the_
whole' book when such an applicationt il,
made of it. On the other hand, all is eleui
and harmonious, when it is
applied
to teach
mainly the captivity and the eliverance of
the
cthildren
of God, together with the setting;
u o the kin om of Christ. 7
pl accordingqg found that if I was still re-;
solved on
makinlg
the Bible my chart in these,
perilous times, must believe that the book,
of Daniel contains a full description of the
kingdoms of this world down to the present-
hour-that it introduces the kingdom of the.
Messiah, which is just ready to be set up,
the consummation of all things, the coming
of Christ in the clouds of heaven, to receive.;
his dear disciples home to everlasting habita-Q
(titans,
the
bltirning
of
ghe earth, and the
struction o the wicke .
_
,.,,
-
_,,,,_K,_,_,,
When I found it admitted, on all hands, that,
the seventy weeks were weeks of years, and
that near the expiration of 490 years Messiah,
the Prince was cut off according to the vision ~
the inference appeared both natural audi
necessary, that the days should be considered
as prophetical days or solar years; and iindf
in that events corresponding exactly to those
rained to in the vision, were engraved on-
¢
33,
the broad page of history, and harmonized
perfectly with those in the vision; and see-
ing that if the last chapter of Daniel did not
teach the final resurrection and judgment, no
chapter ofthe New Testament did; that the
days in the last
vprse
of that chapter included
the occurrence o those great events which
Daniel' /timsey was to witness; and that if it
were
allowed that this chapter does refer to
the inal
Jiglgment, (and before this contro-
ver ,
it' as always been supposed to,
ther?it seemed to me to be a very strangge
apsendage
to affix to the vision which inclu-
de events
Evhich had transpired centuries
a
'
won er ul lea in from 164 B. C.
Wien Antiochus died, og 6% A. D., when Nerd
died, to the time of the judgment, doc. :-I
accbrdinglyfelt
that I must give way to the
clearvan sober convictions not only of my
un,ders'tanding, but to the more solemn con-
viciionsof my soul, to which the truth was
n°q#ap§'l;ied unspeakable power. Still I
sqiight radditional evidence, by comparing
thecoqtents of the book of Daniel with other
pdffi2rr§offGod's Word, by the signs ofthe times
"'3:tul~al, political, the commercial, the
mhfif `
religious world; and I thought
thafif wehad not, and were not witnessing
tl1§sl:,`3ié'J¢.9'at the present day, then my im-
'
lléllbll, could not conceive of what those
s ken of b our Saviour could possibly
lt woul reheve my mind much to
'in&idualsit down, and with pencil
34
and brush delineate them any better than
the had already been exhibited.
lgumbling and mortifying as it would have
been to me six months ago to have taken my
seat at the feet of brother Miller, brother
Hersey, and brother Himes, I could do it
now without a struggle. Light began to
break in upon my mind by degrees, until the
conflict of old and long-cherished prejudices
and errors with pure truth ended forever, and
was succeeded with indescribable peace and
glory, and yet with dreadful soleinnity of
mind; and whereas for the past two months,
although I had received great light on the
doctrine of holiness, yet, as remarked, I had
felt as though some undiscovered truth was
still to be perceived, not even supposing that
it was the doctrine of -the Advent near; and
whereas I had felt as though the firruament
of my mind was yet bedotted with a few re-
maining clouds, I could now look up to the
natural heavens, which were then as clear as
crystal, and feel that my mind was just like
those heavens; all was like the blazing sun
in yon azure blue. I now found that I stood
where I could run and read; that I had ob-
tained the mystical key, by which I could
open at pleasure and lay my hand on each
and all the sparkling gems and precious
pearls of the holy treasury; that the Holy
Spirit had conferred upon me the white stone,
with the new name written thereon, which
no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.
I seemed to stand on a rock which hell could
not shake, and to be armed with ten thousand
weapons with which to meet all the hosts of
darkness. t
`
On the next Sunday I preached the blessed
doctrine of Christ at the door; and 0 the
power of God which came down upon me! I
was amated and confounded at the words
which God poured from my lips; for I can call
God to witness that it was not me that spoke,
it was the Holy Ghost that spake by me!
The awful solem nity of that day, of that place,
and of that audience, can never beforgotten.
After the close of the afternoon services, I
feared to open even the lids of the Bible, for the
truth came almost independent of the Bible,
rushing and streaming, and blazing into my
mind like waves of light; God's Holy Spirit
still continued to increase upon me, until my
body was entirely prostrated, my strength
gone, and I was compelled to cry out after the
example of my Master,-" Father, ifit be pos-
sible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless
not my will, but thine be done."
-'
»Yes, singular, and almost blasphemous as
it might appear to some, I could but pray that
light-mi ht be in a measure withdrawn from
my mimiand glory from my soul, if agreeable
to God's will. Nevertheless, without the
Divine will, I felt ready to die under it. Be-
fore retiring to rest, God heard; and my soul,
that had been like the destructive tempest of
the ocean, settled down into the calm and
quiet of the rivulet of the valley, and I gave
myself to slumber as though nothing had
happened, and slept sweetly until morning.
And now, my dear brethren, I feel so confi-
dent that the judgment is just at hand, that the
great moral drama of earth is just over, and
that in a very few more months, at. least, I
shall see
my Jesus descending from the skies,
that I feel as though I oould stand up alone
in the face of all Christendom in defence of
these things. God has wrought it into my
very soul: he has given me the evidence of it
there. Ah! that is significant language!
O that I had seen these things years ago!
How have I been in such a. dungeon all my
life! What a Babylon, what a Baibylon ,I
have been inhabiting; like the feet and the
toes of the image, which were part olficltgy
and part of iron, so the world, our country,
philosophy, religion, are a. perfect compound;
Religious truth has become curiously dom;-
plicated, and distributed and divided around
among all the different sects 'of professing
Christians, each having a portion of, tbg
truth; while Christians, in general, h&fH6`l¢h£
sacred truth of Christ as our only ,grongdpf
hope and salvation; but what deuomingtign
has most of the love of Jesusv-=lli0S$\9frN°
ji
godliness, I know not: this seems togbg
the blood which is not confinedito DBQQQI
portion, but. spreads and ,irtgnvjgs
powerithroughout the wh0l§.b9d»y1.¢ ,lgggqt
bay that the religion of _Pl0testan,tg,,aq,i§jg
'Tl
-.-l
B7
now held, is, to use the weakest lan age,
tinctured with a little atheism, and ggism,
and Unitarianism, and Universalism, and
philosophy, and mysticism. I am grieved to
say it, but it is even so.
Many of our dear
brethren almost deny the doctrine of the res-
urrection of the dead,-the body is to rise, if
at all, in some ethereal, invisible form; and
heaven, and Jesus, and all holy intelligences
are of the same subtle nature. With many,
the judgment, to a great extent, was at the
destruction of Jerusalem. And then, too,
Christ comes the second time, as he comes
to every man the second time when he dies.
Vhereas Paul says that he shall appear the
second time, when he comes, "without sin
unto salvation." 0, I am confounded at our
past ignorance ofthe Word of God, and at
our awful abuse of its doctrines. We have
spiritnalized them all away, until our
holy
religion has neither life nor,
tangibility, and
there is hardly a solitary motive left to use
in inspiring to a life of holiness, and in draw-
ing the poor soul up to heaven ! -
Where is
the Christian's God, the Christian's Savior,
the Christian's Comforter, the Christian's
Bible? 0, to weep tears of blood! The
Bible, the Bible! The Old Testament we
have all, long since, thrown over to the
carnal Jew: and as to the New Testament,
we have given him a good proportion of that
too, and the rest is distributed among Chris-
tians,
philosorfers,
and scoffers. O, what a
pity ! How it has pained my very soul for the
gag fgw
months! Where is the Christian's
1 e'
And now, where are the watchmen upon
the walls, that have dared to speak the truth
FEARLESSLY, without any regard to pop-
ular opinion, station, and at the peril of their
idol,-reputation and influence? Come down
into the streets of this blazing Babylon; enter
the houses of merchandise, and the gorgeous
pglaces
of the professed disciples of our dear
aster, who had not where to lay his head:
and then look abroad and see a heathen
world plunging down to hell! O, is this, is
this primitive Christianity! and yet we are
told that Christians are going to convert the
world! Why, the energies of the Christian
church are all paralyzed, and there are
hardly the least signs of life in the spiritual
body as a whole; and yet some tell us that
the temporal millennium is to commence this
very year, or hereabouts; and perhaps in
the next breath, that the treasury is ex-
hausted, that candidates for the field have
withdrawn their names, that the missionary
has setted down in utter despair, finding it
worse than useless to cry out, "Come over
and help us!" while it is boldly confessed
that we need a "History of Moral Stagna-
tion." And it is -verily so.
O, why do not the dear disciples see, that
Jehovah is reining in the chariot steeds of
earth, and shouting, "Thus far and no far.
.?____
'i
l
39
ther?" Where are the means, but above all,
where is the disposition to convert the world
to Christ! Where is the Christian nation
that will be the first to advance in this en-
terprise? England, according to her own
confession, is fast going- back to heathenism.
America, I fear, is in danger of a like predica-
ment; she is exporting Bibles and missiona-
ries to Germany, and importing, in exchange,
German neology, the direct tendency ,of
which is to rob the Bible of its inspiration,
miracles, and divine authority. She is quite in
the arms of the papal hierarchy ; the tramp of
the iron foot of the Pope- already breaks upon
our ear from over the hills and valleys of
the great Vi/est. I am truly confounded, as I
look and behold the death-like slumbers of
the church; and I do solemnly believe that
there is nothing that can save us but the in-
terposition of his arm who is the Almighty.
Unless the Prince, the mighty Conqueror, Je-
sus Christ, the Son of God, does speedily
appear, all is lost. But for myself, I enter-
tain no fears. Christ will come, and deliver
us according to the Word of God, ere such
a crisis shall occur. I believe it with all
my soul. I believe it with as much conti-
dence as I believe that the doctrine of regene-
ration is a doctrine ofthe Bible; with as much,
a.nd_ rhaps more assurance than I believe
that Ixilave a
personal interest in the blood
of Christ. I am willing to peril everything
on it. 'In thus proclaiming, I am well aware
40
that I incur a most tremendous responsibility;
Granted; so did Noah, and~Jonah. But hear,
beloved brethren; God has made me take
upon myself this awful responsibility; and
you must feel that I should be the last man
to bear it, had not God himself laid it upon
me. Once I should have trembled to have
stood up in the face of the world and the
church, feeble as I am, to preach this start-
ling, awful, and yet, to the Christian, glori-
ous truth. But God has ordered; God is on
my side; and God ~is witness to what I
write. 0, that I had been more diligent for
m Master; that I had labored more faith-
fuhy for souls; that I had more frequently
denied self, and made greater sacrifices for
him who died for me, and who is
ing to take me to be with him forever! At
the eleventh hour, and when the last ,
that "the Bridegroom cometh," is just lg
to be uttered, I am graciously brought in, to
blow the trumpet in Zion, and to sound the
alarm in God's holy mountain. _
;..
My soul is now content, and in astate of
greater peace and joy than ever; Jesus has
seemed to smile affectionately; and the-Spirit,
which had so long been striving with me in
relation to something, seems to have left me
to go about my Father's business.
»
~
_
Beloved brethren, do not censure me for
the confident tone in which I s k; for it is
the conhdence of my soul. Godxlihs wrought
this great truth on my soul, too, "as with as
41
`
pen of iron!" I cannot think that it is my
nature to be headstrong in my religious opin-
ions ; on the contrary, I have ever been more
disposed to yield my own to the better judg-
ment and wisdom of my superiors. There
is only one
respect in which I think that I
have the advantage of those who differ with
us on the great question of Christ's Advent;
it is that God has vouchsafed to me the aid
of the Spirit of truth to lead me into all truth,
and to show me things to come.
In the midst of such aclashing of opinions
on this subject, I want light; I want a
guide;
and -I feel that I must make the Bible that
light, and the Spirit that guide, and learn
and decide for myseltl I do not set myself
up haughtily and arroganily as a teacher of
those who are so much my seniors, and for
whom I have not as
yet lost my reverence.
Lam only reading God's word for myself,
andelhope that I shall teach it with a mod-
esty becoming my youth. If now I have
imbibed an error, then I will with all pa-
tience and humility sit at the feet of any of
Xl|M$8\8l'S holy servants who can
supply
me with the truth, promising that I will
heartily renounce my present for more scrip-
tnralhviews, when they are produced, and
willirejoice to labor on for years to come in
the cause of Christ, feeling thatl am just
qualified to be a laborer in the vineyard of
our Lord. I am wedded to no party, and to
no stereotyped theory. What I have learnt
4*
-
ta
of late, I have, I believe, been taught b the
word of God. I have not read Mr. Millefa
lectures, neither know what they are. As to
any mortification or cha rin which it might
be supposed that I shoufd feel, should time
prove my error, I have only to say, that if a
vestige of pride is yet lurking in my heart, I
desire its total destruction. Yea, moregifl
am deceived, which I do not believeylam
perfectly willing to be held upto thewerld
as a subject of religious fanaticism... In: this;
way I may subserve the cause Of reliQnn,
by being a warning to future generations, to
be careful how they handle the word o£
God. I am willing to be remembered, only:
to be despised. = ~»:~ mr
But it may be said that I am laboring une
der a delusion; that I am visionary and fa-
natical. In refutation of thh charge, I must
refer not only to the cast of my mind, which
would sooner incline me to scepticism than to,
fanaticism, and sooner subject me to-the slow.
progress of my reason, than to any sudden
impulses of feeling; but to the brief history-
of_ my liib, brethren, as you are acquainted
with it. Yom know that I have always been,
a. conservative ou all the gmat moral topics:
of the day, and exceedingly fearful of all=
"
isms." And as for being deluded, I cannot'
allow. I know that the devil is always#
busy, and for fear of attributingyeither to tha
devil or to nature what ought to be. attribur-
ted to gnace or to God's Spirit, I have all my'
B
life long been in bondage. Must I throw'
away all good impressions and iniluences for
fear the devil may have originated them?
If in the present instance I am deluded, then
I was deluded fourteen weeks since, and six-
teenyears ago, when first converted to God.
The same kind of arguments by which I
satisfy myself that I was ever converted, I
urge in order to prove the reality of what I
experienced at the opening of this year; and
in like manner I prove the genuineness of
what I have again experienced by_what I
then saw and felt; each were perfect conver-
sions, brought about by the sovereign agen-
cy of God. If it still be contended that I am
deluded, then I would humbly ask, how
may I know when my prayers are answered;
when I am under the influences of God's
Spirit, and the leadings of the spiritrof truth'!~
Indespair I must cry out-I am like a vessel
at-sea, with the storm beating, the winds
raging, thewaves dashing, the stars obscured
in limpsnetrable darkness, the helm gone, and
dsart and compass as
good as useless. Have
weforgotten some of the first principles of
our faith? Has God left us to such awful
uncertainty, and been no more mindful of
the safety; comfort and good-of his children 'l
The Spirit and the Word agree in what I
hdvedeen and felt; and I feel as though it
would be next to the commission of that sin-
which hath no forgiveness, either in this-
vorld or in the world to come, to go eontra-'
I
/
44
ry to the Bible as I nowread it, and to the
Spirit which now influences me to give the
midnight cry. It is far, far easier for me to
believe than to disbelieve that Christ stand-
eth at the door; and that I am under the in-
fluence of the good, than of the evil spirit.
Could the devil so deceive me, and till my
soul for days and weeks with such unuttera-
ble peace, joy, and glory-give me such
nearness to God in prayer--make me willing
to leave all for Christ's sake-to endure the
loss of the friendship and esteem of my dear
brethren--to be accounted as
"
stupid"--and
willingly to stand and suffer the scoffs and
sneers of both the wicked and the professedly
religious ! Will notSatan be likely to lose more
than he can
possibly gain by such a manceu-
vre '! I must hazard the issue, in connection
with many whom I am gratified and sur-
prised
to find have had an experience just
ike my own on this subject; they are good
men, whatever I may be.
In months and years gone by, the preach-
ing of "Christ at the door" has resulted in
the conversion of souls, who still adorn their
profession. If the preaching of, this doctrine
is calculated to frighten men into religion,
and to make spurious converts, then is the
preaching of future punishment, when dis-
connected with this subject, liable to like ob-
jection. 4
And if the doctrine that Christ is
about to leave the mediatorial seat, is calcu-
lawd to lead to insanity, then should the
45,
doctrine of the final judgment be a
proscribed
theme, on the same ground. And the friends
of evangelical religion ought to beware how
fast they work into the 'hands of those who
are not the friends of the religion of Christ.
Should time continue, andthe world run on
as ever, they will have to meet their enemies
under circumstances new and strange, but
which they will have the satisfaction of
knowing have been of their 'own creating.
The fortifications of sand which
they
have
hastily thrown up as a seeming efence
against one enemy, will be washed away by
the iirst storm that sets in from the opposite
quarter.
One good, at least, has already resulted
from this controversy: it has shown to some
extent what are the real, tangible doctrines
of the church-to what the heart as well as
the mind assents in the Seri tures; and it
has exhumed some of the cardlinal doctrines
of our holy religion, with the reasonable hope
that they will be preserved, in all their native
freshness and power, unto the coming of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
And now, dear brethren, I take my leave
of you; and in so doing, let me ask you, as
friends to me and to the cause of truth, will
ypu
account for what I have experienced?
disposed to reject all natural phenomena,
as indicative of Christ's coming, as Christian
philosophers will you account for the present
religious phenomena in the moral heavens!
46
How is it? I had never read the experience
of any soul on this subject, until I read my
own experience in theirs. Here are minis-
ters of the gospel, and Christians of all sects,
in all parts of our land, without any previous
knowledge of each other, exercised alike by
the Spirit and power of God, and led into
the unshaken belief that the Judge standeth
at the door. And nothing as
yet advanced
bytheirgvponents can persuadelhem to the
001ll1'a' .
Breilliren, I could write much, but time is
short and forbids it. I have not given you
the argument on this great subject, for it was
not my design so to do. I only give you my
ezyierience in connection with it. Others
have prepared works on this subject, to the
investigation
of which I now invite your
prayer ul attention. My present aim is
merely to conciliate your feelings in behalf
of this great truth. God's word is intelligi-
ble; you may understand it; search for it
with childlike simplicity; cry after it, and
you shall find it. Consider, God is the same
as ever; and hence it would not be strange,
if he should cause the midnight cry to swell
:lip
first from among the poor and illiterate.
e is a mysterious God!
And now, brethren, often have I wept and
agonized in prayer to God for you. You
have my heart; I love you; and because
I love you, I want you to see the truth.
You have labored anxiously and faithfully
`
47
for God, and now I Want you to lift up your
heads and rejoice, for your redemption draw-
eth nigh. You need not be assured that it is
not in my heart to harbor one hard feeling
against those who do not see the vision: I
can sympathize with them in their blindness
-just so Ionce was, and should be now but
for the sovereign power and unmerited grace
of God. I can truly say that I never loved
them so Well: and I feel strong convictions
that they will soon be startled from their
slumbers. If ever there was a time when
every minister of Christ should prayerfully
think, solemnly study,` and independently
act, now is that moment. They hazard soul
more than we do: for if Christ should come
suddenly, _how many poor souls will they be
the- occasion of destroying! Brethren, need
I remind you of your own individual respon-
sibility at this interesting period '! Will you
suffer one soul to perish through your indif-
ference to the cause of truth !
,Brethren, I have written hastily and fa-
miliarly. I have left much unsaid, and some
things unexplained. By a reference to page
26, you will perceive that I allude to one bro-
ther-in particular, who had for weeks and
months prayed much for me, although we
had* had -but a
partial acquaintance. He
knew not, as he has since confessed, why he
should have such feelings for me. But when
God so signally blest me at the opening of
this year, then with a' heart full of emotion
48
and tears gushing from his dyes, he said God
had heard his prayers, and made all plain to
him. I have learned, too, that many pray-
ing souls had agonized in prayer to God for
me, that my eyes might be opened to the
momentous truth of the approach of our Lord
to gather home his children; and they had
gained an evidence at a throne of grace that
their prayers were
accepted, and should be
answered. My own
people had felt, and
publicly declared their convictions, that per-
secution and suifering awaited me for the
truth's sake; and hence their prayers as-
cended to God in my behalf, little thinking,
as Well as
myself, from what quarter, and on
what ground, the trial and pain would come.
Their impressions were well founded; the
fiery trial has overtaken me; but as I then
said, so I now say, let the storm come; I
was never before worthy of persecution.
God, however, is my daily support and con-
solation; and I am thankful to be one to
surfer reproach for his sake; for I have the
promise that if I suffer with him, I shall also
reign with him. And now it is my prayer
that this brief narrative of God's gracious
dealings with me, may be blest to your ever-
lasting good.
May the grace of our Lord and Savior Je-
sus Christ be with you all forever. Aman.
Your beloved brother,
-
F. G. BROWN.
Boston, April 19, 1843.
APPENDIX.
Non. The following letters, written by Rev. J. B.
Cook, of Middletown, Ct., exhibit the progress of his mind
and the results of his investigations of the doctrine of the
Second Advent. They are appended to this narrative, in
the hope that they may be blest to the souls of some ofthe
servants of Christ.
MXDDLETOWN, April 14, 1843.
Dmr. Bnormm Bnown,-It gives me pleas-
ure to be able to add my humble testimony
to yours, relative to our Lord's glorious ap-
pearing, and the influence of this truth on
the heart and life. "ln the mouth of two or
three witnesses every word shall be estab-
lished."
It is an interestingfact, that there are several
ministers, one ofthe Episcopal church, another
of the Baptist, and another of the Congrega-
tional, whose deep and awful convictions of
these things may be expressed in your own
language. Indeed, all with whom I have
conversed, who are
waiting for the coming
of Jesus, have substantially the same experi-
ence. In most instances, it is in advance of
all ordinary Christian experience. It cuts
5
_
. 50
the soul loose from the world,'lifts it above
the earth, and fills it with glory and with
God. They feel, speak, pray, and sing with
unwonted energy. They are more like the
first Christians than any whom I have
known. On the day of Pentecost they felt
so
deeply, spoke with such power, and
were so much above the fear of man, that
unbelievers said, "These men are filled with
new wine." lt was not natural for poor men
to feel so happy and independent. It was
not common for uneducated men to utter
such strong emotions in such resistless argu-
ment, without something to excite them. It
is apparent, also, that the Second Advent
friends have something that is not natural to
them; therefore, they ascribe it to- same
cause. They know that we do notfdrink
wine, and they dare not say it is fromSatam;
hence they aver that we are crazy.-1 .Arn -
thing to set aside the agency of the Holly
Ghost. A fact may not be amiss; Onmof
my good deacons, who felt obliged to'am9ltnt
for my depth of feeling for the ,salvation of
men, and burning love to Christ and hismp
pearing, said, in a neighboring city, thalll
must be crazy. He called several. times,from
-sheer sympathy, to see
me; we did nottvdib-
pute, but sung, and then bowed in solemn
prayer till all prayed. The good 156808,
_though he felt like a great sinner undnnnw-
ful conviction, was touched, and made more
willing to look at our. Lord's =com.ing.~.,I§.|.
`
51
short tiine he became quite as crazy as his
so much pitied pastor. But now he lmmgs
"we are not mad." No upright mind can
long ascribe this spiritual phenomena to any
other agency than that of the good Spirit,
which applies the most overwhelming truths
to the soul.
Judging from facts, which have come un-
der my own observation, I should think that
thousands have had an experience, in all its
leading characteristics, like our own. Our
spirit is one-our views, our language, our
desire the same. Each pulsation of my soul
beats in unison with yours. Six ministers, as
I have learned very recently,'say their expe-
riences agree with ours. There is a flood of
light poured on our minds from the Bible.
The seals of the prophecies seem broken olf,
and the mysteries unravelled-indeed, the sa-
cred volume seems all light, the blessed Savior
its fulness, and the glory to be revealed as in
open vision. I have leamed more of the
present and prospective condition of man,
more~of Christ and his kingdom, during the
past
few weeks, than during all my former
ife. My soul reposes on God, and seems
satisfied with its having, at least, a clue to
his purposes relating to man.
The nature and reality of our
experience
may be seen by contrasting it wit those
who have opposed the speedy coming of our
Lord. Were we in a delusion, and our op-
ponents basking in the sunshine of truth, we
58`
might expect to see them just so much more
spiritual and separate from the world, and
zealous for the Lord of Hosts. But alas,
their Lord seems, as he says he will, in the
parable of the talents, to have taken away
what they had. Many of them lose their in-
terest in prayer, even for inquiring souls. I
have seen them go straightway into dark-
ness; their lamps go out, and they fed and
say that they are wretched. Now my bro-
ther, "do men gather grapes of thorns, or
jigs of tJristles?" "Make the tree good,
then the fruit will be good." The -truth is
adapted to our minds. It sits easily and
naturally on our hearts. It is attendedmy-
the good Spirit, makes us at home with God.
in prayer, at peace with ourselves, andnm
feel eompassion toward all mankind. QIQ
therefore, any feel at war with thernselmq
and in sympathy with the wicked, they
have proof positive that they are wnq--
radically wrong! This experimentalf truth
is so simple that every mind can
Every one, not a. stranger to themselwdfnllda
to truth, must see that when love to1G'||£¢
burns within, till it absorbs the whole soul,
and our eyes are opened to see that we
should warn the world, doomed wliqgm
when we are "crucified to the worldyniltd
the world to us," we must be actuated) lil
spirit that is not of this world. It is the good
Spirit, which has no sympathy with sin, in
the church, or out of it. This experience,
f
53
standing out in such striking contrast with
that above stated, is a
strong confirmation
of prophecy. Thousands who do not receive
our views, say that we are in the last days,
but the Spirit must be "
poured out" accor-
ding to prophecy. Now we may ask where
are any more remarkable proofs of this fulfil-
ment, than in cases like your own, among
those who believe the Lord's coming at the
doors?
Allow me to say some things, which I feel
compelled to, though they may seem severe.
They are severe, however, only because
they are, I solemnly believe, true. Nothing
but the tmth searches out and shows up
whatis opposed to the simplicity of Christ.
My mind seems to have been like that of the
prophet
of God, in the chambers of imagery.
he views I have had ofthe church are aw-
fully olemn. It gives me no
pleasure to al-
lude to them,-I should not, but from a pain-
fiil conviction of duty. "That which makes
manifest is truth." It is manifest to me, that
the ruling spirit of this world controls most
professors in their dress, in their sanctuaries,
in the order of their worship, in the rage for a
popular ministry, and in the means for perpet-
uating such a ministry as the worldly, rather
than the s iritually-minded, will follow and
applaud, '¥'he minister who pleases the rich,
and secures their attendance by the poetry and
eloquence of his sermons, is praised, on the
same principle that a successful lawyer or
5*
M
mercantile adventurer is. "Men will praise
thee, when thou doest well for thyselil" But
alas, this kind of doing well by a minister,
is, I solemnly fear, but a device of the devil
to destroy souls. There are
many powerful
elements in our nature which the tempter
employs to make us worldly. They are ern-
ployed with tremendous effect to make pro-
fessors dress fashionably, walk to the house
of God fashionably, sit up in church fashion-
ably, worship fashionably, preach and pray
fashionably, and, though deeply pained to
record it, truth adds-go to hell fashionably!
0 that their dreadful delusion might end be-
fore the blast of the seventh trumpet shall
end it for them. Fashionable discqrles of a
crzwyied Jesus ! The sin of the Pharisees
was unbelief. It was occasioned by their
yielding to the spirit of this world. "
How
can ye believe, who receive honor one of'an-
other, and seek not the honor that cometh
from God only 'l" e
When we with Christian faithfulness say
these things to those who most need warn-
ing,
they regard us'a little as Ahab did Eli-
jah:
"
rt thou he that troubleth Israel?"
But were we silent, these very ministers
would mark our inconsistency. Many min-
isters and people unite to hinder the break-
ing of the slumbers of the church by the re-
vealed truth that Christ is coming. Alas!
that they do not see that opposition to his
second advent is more sinful than was the
'
55
opposition of the scribes and Pharisees to
him at his first advent: then he came to
sufel' and die, now he is coming to be
glori-
jled. He is coming to reward all his injured
servants. O, it is "
far more exceeding" sin-
ful for them to oppose the Savior's coming
now, than eighteen hundred years ago. They
have more light,--they oppose the destruc-
tion of the man of sin, the consummation of
Christfs glory, and the happiness of all his
servants. They would perpetuate the reign
of sin and Satan, and see hundreds of thou-
sands going weekly to perdition.
the church is seeking to perpetuate
thefelisti state of things, is seen in all that
is l8.id;~B£ done to resist a change. It is
ann ini the advice given to ministers to
addpt their discourses to the taste of respect-
liliB"l1[lg0dll{iBSS. 'I'housands of pastors
wlouldvlose their places, did they not con-
falil, and leave sin in its more specious
farm! tmrieproved. One minister just told
me llhaf his people wanted him to cater to
thdflhzihuiau palate of his audience. Many
liiilwls-need no such advice from without
to induce them to such a course. They are
þÿl|ml'~ ¬vise"a.ndprudent" to risk much on
Gnllltfiivord; They Want a "sign,"-some-V
thing' to insure them. So did the chief
Fhts;
and S0 they were damned. Could
qneak in trumpet tones, I would say to
Gray one who is fearful to follow the word
Ind'thefSpirit of God, "O ye of Iittlg faith."
_
56
You' tell a sinner to cast himself on God,--
why don't you? Unbelief in a minister of
Christ is far more sinful than in a
sceptic,
whose mind has always been darkened.
Their excuse is, that there are difhculties
about the prophetic periods; but you are
rightin saying that if we set aside all the
evidence from that source, we 'ought still to
expect the speedy coming of our Lord.
Thousands have become assured of it, by
the current language of Scripture, sent home
to the heart by the Spirit.
It is not for me to judge or set at naught
my brother,--but it is for me to give full ut-
terance to truth, when our Lord has written
it on my heart. He has written out two
classes of ministers, as plainly as he has two
classes of ople-Matt. vii. 21--27. One
class digs dleip, and does God's will at all
hazards-does not, dares not, fiinch, though
traduced and despised: these stand. The
other class do many things-achieve won-
ders-are highly esteemed, but they build on
lthman wisdom and prudence, which is folly
-'t is sliding sand. This class "fall" for-
ever.
In Matt. xxiv. 42--51, our Lord has given
us a pair of scales in which all ministers
may be weighed. One class is free to avow
their expectation of their Lord's coming."
They do not fear a failure; therefore they
say to the household, be ye ready--trim
your lamps--have them well filled and burn-
57'
ing. Let your work be all done and well
done. Now what says the Judge? "Blessed
is that servant"-" He will make him
ruler."
The other class is not looking for the
Lord's coming. From some cause they say
that our Lord is not now to be expected.
They call their fellow-servants, who would
rouse the household, weak, or
deluded, or
insane. 0, that they would read their doom!
They say to others,
"
He that believeth and
is baptized shall be saved, but he that believ-
eth not shall be damned." My soul is ained
to see mini ters living in di regard oi]more
plain and pointed descriptions of their char-
acter and their doom, than did the scribes
and Pharisee . If courtesy or
charity de-
mands silence of me as to the doom which
Jesus has written out beforehand, for those
who say their "
Lord delayelh his coming,"
thou are
they required, on the same principle,
to hush the note of alarm, given to arouse
the unbelievers in their congregation? No;
No, it is not charity to be silent. It is treason
to Christ and cruelty to man, either to sup-
press
or misconstrue the doom of the unbe-
'ever, or the unfaithful minister.
My brother, we must renounce all our
ideas of faith and spiritual guidance, and
become infidels, in heart, before we can cher-
ish a doubt as to which of the above classes
we and all other ministers should belong.
At all events, I go for trusting all with God
58
-for following the Lamb whithersoever he
leads. When the truth is seen, it should be
received, though it subject us to a banish-
ment in our day, as
painful as was that of
Roger-Williams. Nay, it should be pro-
claimed, though it consigned us to the fiery
furnace, seven times heated. I hear the
Judge saying,
"
If any man come to me, and
hate not father and mother, wife and chil-
dren, yea, and his own life also, he cannot
be my disciple." These are fearful words,
because they cut off so large a
portionof
those for whom we would entertain a hopei'
Our Lord is coming,-no one can' dispute-
this except they be ignorant, or at heart £115-,
dels. Then let us
preach his coming, in pub-
ren shut us out, it will be one fearful token
against them; Isa. lxvi. 5. "Hear the woui
o the Lord, ye that tremble at his word.
Your brethren that hated you, that cast you
out for my name's sake, said, Let the Lord be
ma ified; but He shall appear to Y01xj0f;'
andglihey shall be ashamed." I'pityitlieig`
from my soul. Father, forgive them. Amen!
The accompanying letters show the pro-
gress of my mind in relation to the Second
Advent, and are at your service. Adieu.
Yours in the blessed hope, »-ml.
J. B. CO0K;~'»<
lic and in private. If our ministering
-
59
From the Christian Secretary.
Mmnu-:'rowN, Jan. 30, 1843.
Bao. Bunn,-I feel very solemn in making
this communication. It may surprise some,
-make others think me weak and waver-
ing,-and others still, that 1 am as Festus
thought Paul, mad; but no,-I "speak forth
the words of truth and soberness." My ob-
ject is, in part, to forestall false reports of
what is passing here. We are
having Sec-
ond Advent meetings in our church, and my
views and feelings have undergone a great
change. It began last August, by a
singu-
larly sweet and holy influence, which led me
to pray over and investigate this subject. It
was not by human agency, for I was alone
God., It was not from a
prepossession
inits, favor, because I was as much afraid
0f.i,t_as manyunconverted men are of reli-
If I were ever led by the Holy Spirit,
or
Igknow what this leading is, that bless-
Gtlguide of God's people led me
solemnly to
Gqnteqxplate this subject. Having been very
'll"'?l1 .¢_ aged through the winter, my inves-
llgationigzave proceeded slowly, till the 21st
11185, when brother Stoddard began to lec-
i%l'e`,.,,I need not describe the great change
0 I have been the subject. Sufiice it
¢Q§q.)g,,I have never, since my conversion, felt
BQ much like a
young convert as I do now.
I, M
,neither poverty, nor
reproach-indeed,
I
U nothing save the displeasure of God.
,
Lplejudioe, my pride, my desire to please
60 .
men, seems to be gone; so that I am the
Lord's freeman. Let me say, then, that I
am solemnly persuaded, that the doctrine of
our blessed Lord's speedy coming is of
God.
I have not time to furnish you with but a
brief statement of the hope that is in me. I
had read the prophecies with much interest,
and had learned something of what others
have written, but still darkness, more or less
dense, seemed to shroud them from my view.
My understanding was not convinced. Now
I am' persuaded-my mind reposes in the
persuasion that the truth is seen. To show
that the clouds of darkness have shrouded
this portion of God's word, this fact is in
point. An iniidel, having read Proi Stuart,
said, "Well, he makes the Bible mean but
very little, and that is the opinion I always
had of it." I frankly confess that many of
the prophecies have very little meaning in
my view, if they be interpreted as they have
been. Their obscurity has been increased,
-their darkness has been perpetuated, by
overlooking their simplicity.
I got some views, thirteen years since,
from Elder Frey concerning the Jews' re-
turn, which I have ever entertained, because
I was sure he was an honest and unwearied
student of the prophecies. But just come
out from the poetry and symbolic prophecy
of the Old Testament, where the distinction
between the national and the real Israel is not
`_"~*+~v-'~-.___
61
veryaccurately maintained, into the clearer
light
ofltihe NSW. Here;
the Old Covenant is
seen to ave een 'vanis ing awa more than
seventeen hundred years ago. Jflow do n't
sugaplygnother irleaid
"
That
(wivhlch decay-
e an waxet o ,
is rea y to vanish
qway," (not restored.)
"
They that are un-
dker
the law are under the curse," (not under
t e
promise. They adhered only to "the
J¢U¢I`,';)_¥1hlC?l killed,
and rejected the prom-
ise w ic a one cou give life. They in-
volreg the blood of Messiah on them, and
wrat came on them to the utterrnost--
þÿ;lwr¢{f1hb¬o
th:-iemmvwst.;
These passages
ou un rst ast ey say. As many
ofthe Jews as adhered to "the law "--"the
letter," the Old Covenant, have laerished.
This was so at the destruction of Jerusalem,
and has been so since; by consequence all
other Jews, as really as Gentiles, who are
not_bI1;o1;)§l:it
off
faorr;
the Old Covenant must
pens ,
ause t e aw cannot restore Jews
rnore than Gentiles.
lf they be ever
graffed
ln, it must be "
by fazth." If they ever be-
conée]the chgd1{en__o%Go§; they
must believe
in ns. a.n1. -
an 26-30. ~~
to'I£]here
are only two
Jerrésalems answerinfg
,
t e two covenants. e old has nothing
:rat ak iéew fragnents iloagnig downhth;
o ime. is a wrec rom w ic
none are saved, except those who are brought
off by Christ. They must let go and betake
lhemselves to the better Covenant which di-
6
52 _
rects their minds to the Jerusalem above-
"
the city which hath foundations-the hea-
venly country." Now the obscure in pro-
phecy should be interpreted by this plain,
unambiguous language. Then all is clear,
that the unbelieving Jews of our day are
lost, as really as in the first age of Christian-
ity, exeept' they repent. The inheritance
given to Abraham by promise, and which is
"sure to all the seed," is the heavenly Jeru-
salem, and this is according to God's prom-
ise, "in the new heavens and the new earth,
wherein dwelleth righteousness." I mean
to say that there is no lhird or im/mediate
Jerusalem. As to the signs, I have not room
to say but a word. It seems to me plain,
that as the Jewish Christians had signs given
them, by which they might know when to
escape, so has our Lord given us
signs of
his second coming. Nay, he has fuldlled
them in this generation literally. He says,
therefore, "Know that it is nigh, even at the
doors." 'I'his, then, is my solemn convic-
tion, that the coming of the Lord drmaelh
nigh. I lift up my head in hope, and say,
"
Even so, come Lord Jesus, come quickly."
Amen ! ,,_,,;~1
.
:I do affectionately entreat my brethren in
the ministry to give this subject a candid,
prayerful investigation. You will be greatly
blessed, if I may judge from my experience,
in opening your pulpits as well as
your
hearts. But let others do as they may, I
63
will not be amon the "foolish virgins," nor
among
"
the fear?ul and unbelieving." May
none of you be.
Yours,
'
J. B. Coox.
From the Sentinel and Witness.
~
Tm: Lord's second coming seems to have
been ever
present to the minds of the apos-
tles, when they looked forward into futurity;
"For our conversation is in heaven, whence
also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus
Christ." "To them that look for him, shall
he appear a. second time." He will give a
crown of life to all "who love his appearing."
That he will appear, be seen in person, is
taught in the most intelligible terms:
"
This
same Jesus which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so cmmz in like manner as ye
have seen him go into heaven." Jesus is the
seed of Abraham, to whom the promises were
made, Gal. iii. 16. Those who are of faith, are
Christ's, and thus they become heirs "accord-
ing to promise." They will be conformed in
their persons, as well as characters, to their
Lord; as it is written, "He will change our
vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto
His glorious body," Phil. iii. 21. "When He
shall appear, we shall be like him, for we
shall see him as he is," 1 John iii. 2. This is
not all shadowy or
ghostly; because it is the
consummation of that renewing, of which the
apostle speaks, "after the image of him that
made" us. The idea. of the Messiah's per-
M
,
sonal a pearing is not an isolated one; but
seems Enked in with other more generally
received truths, so that I discover no more
difliculty in believing it, than I have in be
lieving that Moses and Elijah were seen "in
the holy mount" by the apostles.
But why do you believe this event is at
hand Cl In reply, let me say, that I have re-
iiected on the subject a great deal, and have
come to the conclusion that it is so from
the force of evidence. This evidence cannot
be given now, except in the most brief man-
ner possible. The millennium, which Chris-
tians generally believe to be near, is subse-
quent to the second advent, because the
figurative interpretation of Rev. xx. 16, con-
ilicts with some of the plainest assertions of
inspired men. The doctrine of a temporal
millennium has this passage, interpreted_figu-
ratiuely, for its basis. But after investigation,
this seems to oppose other plain declarations
of God's word. Dan. vii. 11-22. The horn
-the Papal power-made war with the
saints, and prevailed against them. How
long? Until the Ancient of Days came.
Surely, Satan cannot be bound, so
long as
his most eflicient agent is not only making
war, but prevailing! Matt. xiii. 36, 43.
The tares grow with the wheat. How long?
"
Till the end," when the righteous shall be
made "to shine
fcgrgl
as the sun," according
to the rophecy o an. xii. 3. _
_,_., ,,s..1 ,
_ Jesuii says, Luke xxi. 28, when
66
things begin to come' to pass, then look up
and ift up your heads, for your redemption
draweth nigh.* At what period then, in the
Divine dispensation, will this redemption
take place? Let the apostle answer, Rom.
viii. 22, 23': "The whole creation groaneth-
even we ourselves groan, waiting for the
adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body."
Here there is no room for a thousand years
to intervene between the deliverance of crea-
tion and their resurrection. There is no
place'
for a thousand years between the signs
oretold by our blessed Lord, and the re-
dem tion promised his disci les. There is
nothing _in the prediction of?Daniel to au-
thorize the insertion of a thousand years, or
even days, between the breaking up of anti-
christ and our Lord's Advent; for thus it is
Written,
"
whom the Lord shall consume with
the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with
the brightness of his coming." If we allow our
minds to follow the plain, unambiguous lan-
guage of inspiration, it is all day-light. Satan
is to be bound, Rev. xx. 2; but no one can bind
the strong man armed except a stronger than
he, which is Jesus, and this binding, orconsum-
ing, is stated in plain language, 2 Thess. ii. 8.
Then Satan cannot deceive those who have
31.1./;n,i_~= 1 I »
.' »- , .
* This redemption could not have been their escape from
Jerusalem, because they were to escape for their lives, not
even turning back to take up their garments. To tiee ut-
terly destitute, was more like exile, than the redemption,
when they should stand before the Son of man, ver. 36.
6*
66
part in the "first resurrection ;" but they
shall live and reign according to promise.
Then there will be no occasion for any of
them to say to his neighbor, "know the
Lord," as in the present state, "for all shall
know Him," without instruction, "from the
least to the greatest." Then there will be
"none to hurt or destroy in all my holy
mountain." It will be a new order of things;
and this will be the millennium of the Bible,
subsequent to our Lord's "glorious appear-
ing," and the resurrection. Asto the prophetic
periods named in Daniel and John, I see and
feel that they are involved in obscurity; but
after hearing the recent lectures and discus-
sions, and reading Profs. Stuart and Chase,
Drs. Cox and Duflield, Messrs. Dowling,
Fitch and Bernard, the probability is to my
mind that the period of Dan. viii. 14, is 2300
years; the period through which the whole
scheme of his prophecy extends. Gabriel ex-
plained
"
the vision," and told him that 70
sevens, or 490 years, were determined or "cut
off" from the whole period, as I suppose,
and gave it a date from the going forth of the
commandment, Dan. ix. 22, 25. This, it
seems to me, was most probably the decree
of Artaxerxes, B. C. 457--Ezra viii. U so,
then the 490 years terminated in the 33d year
of the Christian era, and the 2300 will ter-
minate this year. As I approached this con-
clusion, I trembled-never have I been so
overwhelmed, so crushed by any admission, as
GT
by this. I could have borne but little more;
but I did not, durst not, resist the conviction
-»su$ce it tosay, that my feelings were sub-
sequently as delightfully solemn as
they were
overpowering. Never have I had a sweeter
experience, and if it be a
blessing to realize
eternal things more, while earthly things are
valued less, then I have been blessed. May
every other one be alike blessed; for then, if
they be reviled, they will not revile again,
but be at peace with God, and live in charity
with all mankind. This conclusion cannot
betmade tangible, but must be received like
other truths. "
By faith we understand that
the world was made." By faith alone shall
we know its approaching end.
The apostle Paul told believers, 2 Thess.
ii. -8, -that the day of the Lord would not
come till the lawless one should be revealed.
That onehas not only come, but, in the esti-
mation of Christians generally, has had his
day-therefore, instead of using that passage
against, it becomes an
impressive proof that
threoming of the Lord draweth nigh.
Jehovah gave warning of the flood-of the
destruction of Sodom-of the destruction of
Jerusalem-and why not of the destruction
of Antichrist 'l Had he not given us warning,
we should have been in darkness, in contra-
diciimt to I Thess. v. 4: "But ye, brethren
are not in darkness, that that day should
overtake you as athief."
_
There are, to my mind, several indications
_
68
that that day is at hand; therefore I am
bound, by every principle of reason and
religion, to say so, and pray -to be_ ready.
The doom of the unfaithful servant, who
said my Lord delayeth his coming, is enough
to appal any one; Matt. xxiv. 50, 5_1. The
company of those who inquire
"
where is the
promise of his coming," is surely undesirable;
2 Pet. iii. 3. To sum it all up, allow me to
say, "Let others do as they may, as for me
and my house, we will," by aid of Divine
grace, look for our blessed Lord, till he come.
"If the vision tarry, we will wait," assured
"it will surely come." As to the manner of
waiting, it should be in the discharge of every
duty ; as it is written,--"Occupy till I come."
"Blessed is that servant whom his Lord,
when he cometh, shall find so
doing."
Amen !
Feb. mn, 1843.
LB' C°°"-
LETTER 'ro N. HERVEY.
Dun Bnorunn Hnnvrrv :-On my retum from New
Jersey, I found s very good letter from you. My grati-
tude to God for his goodness to me, as well as
you, is
expressed by my writing ;-but O, how can I write the
feelings of my heart! The blessed SEARCHER of
hearts alone knows them. Human language is too
poor to express them, even though it were entirely at
my command. 0, it seems as it never did before, that
God has
may
whole heart. BLESSED be his holy name,
forever an ever, amen!
If my heart were magnetized iron, and the Holy One
the magnet, (excuse the
iii;re,)
it could hardly draw
more powerfully than my rd seems to draw out my
69
soul after himself. Yes, my heart, my whole heart,
is drawn away from earth-from all trust in myself or
in man.
_The Spirit leading me, I cannot, dare not, re-
sist; yet my understanding was never more clear;
never more disposed to consider well everything my
heart believes and_loves. My interest in the Second
Advent began with a very sweet and holy, yet strong
and melting influence, which inclined my mind to in-
quire into it, in August last. From that time my mind
has been inquiring, and my heart somewhat restless.
Indeed, neither has my intellect or heart been satisfied
on those portions of Scripture relating to this doctrine,
since I left Newton. Now my whole intellectual and
moral nature reposes as if the truth is indeed seen. If
this sentiment need illustration, let me say, that, on the
subject of atonement, justihcation by faith, believers'
baptism, &c., my mind is at rest. As it is written,
"
we who have believed do enter into rest," the heart
reposes in a full belief of pure truth, as does a weary
head on a
pillow of down. ERROR never
gives such
peace as this. It may lull a person to sleep in sin, and
leave him as destitute of devotion as of the Holy Ghost.
"
Hereby we know the spirit of truth, and the spirit
of error." I have seen some believe the Bible doctrine
of the second coming of Messiah at hand, and they
have been bathed with devotion-"baptized with the
Holy Ghost." But others, of whom I entertained an
equally good opinion in disbelieving, have lost all
comfort in prayer, and been constmined to admit that
they had yielded to the devil. This is a. fact., whether
my reasoning concerning it be right or not. But when
I see such facts, in apparent illustration of established
Scriptural principles, it is impossible for me to treat
them lightly. You may see what truth I suppose to
be explained by these facts, by reading l .Iohn iv. 1-5.
The principle applies to the second advent as obviously
as to the first. To believe just what God says, as little
children, is to be blest,-truly blessed with the
good
Spirit. To disbelieve, is to grieve the Spirit and
sm
against God ; nay, more, to yield to the spirit of Anti-
christ. To reject the coming One is to be antichrist.
70
I am too weary to write much, especially as it is late
on Saturday evening. It was my purpose to have
come to N., to see all I once knew, and tell them how
great things the- Lord has done for me.° My desire
is to see brothers N. and S., for whom I entertain a.
strong aB`ection-Lord Jesus, bless them, and "
open to
them the Scriptures," that their hearts may
"
bum
within" them. I shall be there, Lord willing, soon.
Your name is announced in N. Y. ; can you not come
thisdway! Do, and write me as long as possible before-
han .
How plain and pregnant with meaning is the leading
Hetition
in our
Lordgsxpmyer, "thy kingdom come."
his I never underst till now. It is the kingdom
seen by the prophet Daniel in vision, that will be the
millennium, not of the imagination, but of God, and glo-
rious beyond conception. The millennium which hu-
man imagination, aided by a
spiritual interpretation of
plain
Scnllpture,
has framed, the millennium which com-
prehende the man of sin, and the devil, and death,-
more or less of all the ills which sin has originated, this
millennium, instead of losing itself in the brightening
glories of
eternitp,
as does the millennium of the Bible,
at the 'end of a t iousand years, makes
piovision
for the
almost triumphant reign qf Satan. 0 rd, deliver us
from such a millennium ; thy will, and not mine, be done.
When I went to New Jersey, I left my big Bible open,
so that the eye ot' Mercy might see what I wished to be
prayed coitinually,¢' Come, Lord Jesus, even so, come
quickly. Amen! Grace be with thee. Amen!"
Yours, in hope of the better resurrection,
J. B. Coox.
Middletown, Merch llth, 1843.
To the Editor ol' the Middletown Sentinel.
s s s s s o s s
There are several points which I should like to touch,
had I room to write, and you to print., one of which is
71d
the oh-repeated inquiry, What will you do if the Lord
does not come at the time expected! I answer, I shall
have the satisfaction of knowing, beyond all controversy,
that I "love his appearing"-also, _that my soul is
much richer in the experience of divine grace-that my
views of Bible truth are
greatly enlarged and improved,
and that it is better "
to be ready and not go," than to
be found among the unbelieving. But I am reproved
when such language is used without explanation. I
entertain no fear that the romise shall fail-neither
will my conscience, or
my Iudge, ever cause a blush
for lwing up my head and "
looking up," as he has di-
rected, when my
"
redemption drowelh nigh." If shame
ever mantles any face at the appearing of Christ, it will
be the face of him, who, when he sees the truth, re-
fuses, from some sinister motive, to avow it. If this
subject does not ap ear to other minds as it does to
mine, it does not aigect my duty. Who would, who
could blame an
affectionate, aillicted wife for desirin
the retum of her husband, when she knew it would eng
her trials? It would be a shame to her not to expect
him as soon as his letter authorized an expectation.
Now I feel assured that our Lord has given us
ground
for expectation ; hence I long for it more than for any-
thing else. I love his coming with all my heart, and
have a. rich eamest of it, of which I am infinitely un-
worthy, and for which I would ever be devoutly thank-
ful. Amen! Come, Lord Jesus.
Yours. I_ B. Coox.
To the Editor of The Midnight Cry.
"
Allow me to say a word, through you, to those as~
sociated with you. Daniel leamed by books that God
would restore his people from captivity at the end of
sevent ears. Then he did not renounce all care, and-
say, IiyI' am ready, it will make no
differences No.
He made the promise of God the ground on which he
threw himself, soul and body, and poured out an
agony
-,~,
,.~
72
of desire that it mightbefnllillod. Noanevnhevgr
more absorbed in supplication than the belovorlpmpliez
seems to have been, in view of a plvmiao dnt wninb-
solute. '
When seventy
gm
are &¥00|l1Plllll8d,'I1`H
punish the king of Baby n,' &c. How essential the
prophet's prayer was to the accomplishmanfof the di-
vine promise, we are not told; yet we may he fnllyae-
sured that he would not have been qualified toast. the
part assigned him had he been less prayerfnl. New
God nas given us a greater promise, complehehdingnll
the called, and the chosen, and the faithful,-#la promise
which, when fulfilled, will be ~he1l'a dlB00ill§¥ll'E1llQ
heaven's jubilee. And shall we not give BB!'Bl#»`i0
prayer as did Daniel? We have 'lea.rnegl'by»bwl's'
that the days of '
the little horn "are numbered,"
last end of the indignation
'
is just arrived,
that the saints shall owess
'
the kingdom' in `a£lhi§1
andll want eodpi-:Zdallthe time, all my heuf, ind
sou , an min , siren -aw
every
'
pk
` __
I mmm pnyxhe etfeemuaitlenemprayer;
'
10886,-even so, come
q\ickl¥'.'
Amen! hii
whelming prayer I wanl he p-never dill! feel @5368
loweak-4-nevexso much in neéd ofstrengthiof "rift
m;7;oig
in believing, agonidng, unceaeing
'
`ngdomw1n¢!' .
~»
url,
V
"O Lord, when thou didst appear 'ae-cMH$o\§¢,"
titers WI§ butbone
and ane'Anna
ee! ow, lease esus,
"
th *A
' '
i-upon'
'f _
who love thine appearing. 0 gléionxrasnligiq
till than shalt come in tlry kingdom and
glory. Amen!
'
`
`~ '>
`
~
_" When we are wa.iting,.a.| Dmiel Rn' ihb Wt#
mmation of the captivit , vie shall `be'T»lesmdi-Hliiée,
and
foreyerbleseed. with joywe?}l!wel§iU'li1!
descending Deliver-er., 0 for pm er,
thstlliesanetnary-maybe QSSHBJ!
own _.Amen!'T'. -
~
'
~-rz:`~;:sf<1g~
.e
-~
pe
_
»1s_gL_»;=e
»
;
,2f=1».-;»»£'¢J¥
;»ff;;e¢s<
'
'11~ "tai
W
Mi,(§oogle`
"
Q=
i
h__;_§»,_
