{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__collyer___psychography.pdf","mytitle":"Psychography","mylang":"de"}
PSYCHOGKAPHY,
OR, THE
EMBODIMENT OF THOUGHT
WITH
AN ANALYSIS OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM, « NEUROLOGY,"
AND MENTAL HALLUCINATION,
INCLUDING
RULES TO GOVERN AND PRODUCE THE MAGNETIC STATE.
EXPERIMENT WITH THE " BOWI, OF MOLASSES."
Let them laugh at me for speaking of things which they do not understand ;
and I must
pity them while they laugh at me.
—
St. Austin.
s
BY ROBT. H. COLLYER, M.D.
MEMBER OF MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY, (LATE PUPIL OF DR. ELLIOTSON,
AT Till'. LONDON UNIVERSITY,) &c. &C.
SOLD BY ZIEBER & CO., PHILADELPHIA; SUN OFFICE, NEW YORK;
REDDING & CO., BOSTON.
1843.
—fc^ivefc
Ssfcdo
I*
Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1843, by
ROBT. H. COLLYER, M. D.
In the office of the Clerk of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Errata—In page 5, line 14th from bottom, Mr. should be Mrs. In
page 10,5th line from bottom, after the word mistake, should follow,
more particularly with regard to the " hundred new organs."
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
OR, THE
EMBODIMENT OF THOUGHT;
WITH
AN ANALYSIS OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM, "NEUROLOGY,"
AND MENTAL HALLUCINATION,
INCLUDING
RULES TO GOVERN AND PRODUCE THE MAGNETIC STATE.
EXPERIMENT WITH THE " BOWL OF MOLASSES."
Let them laugh at me for speakii.g of things which they do not understand ;
and I must
pity them while they laugh at me.
—
St. Austin.
BY ROBT. H. COLLYER, M.D.
MEMBER OF MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIF.TV, (LATE PUPIL OP DR. ELLIOTSON,
AT THE LONDON UNIVERSITY,) Ac. &c.
V*
SOLD BY ZIEBER & CO., PHILADELPHIA; SUN OFFICE, NEW YORK;
REDDING & CO?, BOSTON.
184-3.
C 7' S
P
United States Book and Job Printing Office, Ledger Building, Philad'a.
PREFATORY LETTER.
Philadelphia, May 1, 1843.
Dear Doctor :
I again publicly acknowledge my sense of gratitude for the many acts of disin-
terested kindness which you have extended toward me. You were the friend in need
;
yes, when a malicious and unprincipled herd would have crushed me, ''you came to
the rescue." You knew me to be engaged in the advocacy of a solemn truth, one
which must revolutionize the false philosophy of past ages; one which opens to man
the secret of his immortality ; tells him he has an imperishable soul, whose omnipotent
intelligence is only cramped by his debased organization ; one which, in a medical
point of view, will tend more to alleviate suffering humanity, than all the multitude
of medicaments, from the time of Galen to the present day. It is scarce three years
since I publicly espoused the cause. I was heralded with scoffs, jeers, licentious
ribaldry, ridicule, and all the artillery which puny scribblers could bring to bear. I
viewed them like children playing with a rattle; they were pleased with their own
noisy attempts at wit and arrogant censure. Their combined efforts have been
abortive. Thousands and tens of thousands of the most intelligent have been con-
verted ; and even many of the most savage in their denunciations, have made humble
recantations of their error. This lesson has been taught them—how dangerous and
ridiculous in the extreme it is to denounce a subject with which they are entirely igno-
rant. The object of this letter is to show you, that in the hands of some, who have
not been acquainted with the laws of Animal Magnetism, many errors have been
made. If I have accomplished this, I am satisfied.
Yours, very respectfully,
ROBT. H. COLLYER.
To Dr. Winslow Lewis, of Boston.
PIIRENO-MAGNETISM, &c.
Dear. Doctor:
Sir—The question now, for the first time, assumes too serious
a nature, not for me to place myself in reference to the above sub-
jects, as the truth of the case warrants.
I alone am the aggrieved party ;
neither Dr. Buchanan nor Sun-
derland are entitled to the priority of acting on the various faculties
of the mind, through the agency of the will or nervous force, which
this article will definitely prove. There has been a studied effort
to exclude my name on every occasion, where the parties were bound
to make it known, in relation with various mental phenomena con-
nected with Mesmerism. Nor would I now pen the following facts,
had not an article appeared in the May number of the Democratic
Review ;
for hitherto the medium used was too undignified to call
from me a response. I now do not refer to Dr. Buchanan.
In the autumn of the year 1839, I graduated at the Medical Col-
lege, Pittsfield, Massachusetts. The students desired me to deliver
a course of lectures on Phrenology, which I did. At the conclusion
of the course, the following resolutions were passed by the class
—
" Resolved, That we have attended Dr. Collyer's course of Phre-
nological lectures, delivered in this place, and have been much gra-
tified with his manner of treating the subject.
" Resolved, That, in our opinion, Dr. Collyer is surpassed by none
as a manipulator, or practical phrenologist.
"W. TORRY, Chairman.
" W. H. A. Crary, Sec'ry.
" Berkshire Medical College, Pittsfield, Mass., Sept. 17th, 1839."
At this time, I left for Providence, R. I., where I became acquaint-
ed with my estimable friends, Mr. S. Whitman, and Dr. T. Cleave-
land, who converted me fully to the Mesmerism truth. I returned
to Pittsfield to receive my diploma : this was November, 1839. Be-
ing an invited guest to a select party in that town, the topic of Ani-
mal Magnetism was introduced. I unhesitatingly gave it my sup-
port ;
and the natural consequence followed, viz : I was looked upon
as most visionary and credulous. At this juncture, a young lady,
Miss B 1, asked me to magnetize her. I tried, and in ten mi-
nutes she was thrown into a congestive or mesmeric condition. You
may judge of my surprise ; I stood speechless at the monument I
had made ;
there, for the first time, was inscribed in capital letters
—
" This is a mighty truth, in relation to the physiology and psycho-
logy of man." I had often asked this young lady to allow me to
examine her head phrenologically, which she always refused. Now,
2
she was cut off from the external world, and I seized this opportu-
nity and commenced the examination, when, to my astonishment,
she responded to my touch on the organs of self-esteem, combative-
ness, mirthfulness, &c. This was known to all present, as well as
to Dr. H. Childs, (now Lieut-Governor of Massachusetts,) Messrs.
Ellison, McKay, &c. The following certificate will show :
—
" Pittsfield, Feb. 3, 1842.
" We, the undersigned, residents of Pittsfield, do hereby certify,
that we are acquainted with the fact of Miss B 1, of this town,
having been magnetized by Dr. R. H. Collyer, in November, 1839.
He at that time performed many experiments with her, and excited
the organs of the brain, as self-esteem, combativeness, (fee.
" ISAAC C. CONKEY,
CHAS. T. BUCKLEY,
JOSH. GREGORY."
This circumstance did not excite much wonder with me, I was
so much more interested in the novel phenomenon of clairvoyance.
Some weeks after this, I magnetized another person in the city of
New York, at the house of Wm. Ruthbom, in Walker street, when
I repeated the experiments of Phrcno-Magnetism.
In Louisiana, in the following spring, I produced the same re-
sults, and continued my investigations without ceasing, until the
spring of 1841, when I first made my debut in public, as an advo-
cate of this most abused and worried subject. Then, my success
was small, arising from a series of circumstances, which the public
shall be put in possession of ere long.
I left for Boston in April, where my exertions were appreciated ;
thousands witnessed my experiments and were converted ; I was
treated, with few exceptions, with kindness. On one occasion, my
subject was in a dull, lethargic condition, and the experiments did
not exhibit any correspondence with what was required—the results
were failures. One of the audience desired me to excite the organ
of benevolence ;
I communicated that intention by my will. His
countenance lighted up—he was pliable, and the subsequent results
on that day were successful. This was on the 15th day of May,
1841. The following certificate from Dr. Shattuck will show:
" Boston, June 28, 1843.
« Dear /Sir,—Having observed in some of the daily papers, that
a certain Le Roy Sunderland, of New York, claims to be the dis-
coverer of mesmerizing the phrenological organs, and states that he
published the account August 5th, 1841, at the same time challenges
a prior discovery, if my evidence will be of service, you are at liberty
to make use of it publicly. I can confidently attest that, on May 1 5th,
1841, 1 attended a public lecture on Animal-Magnetism, delivered by
you in this city, which is more than two months in advance of Mr.
Sunderland. From some reason, your subject would not obey your
trill, and the experiments were all unsatisfactory. I was the person
that suggested the idea of magnetizing the organ of benevolence
mentioned in your Magazine, under the head of '
Phreno-Magnet-
ism.' To my astonishment, directly you placed your fingers upon
the organ, his countenance became pleasant, and the experiments
were afterward successful. From that time, May 15th, 1841, you
have always publicly advanced the Phreno-Mesmeric Philosophy.
As an act of common justice, the fact should be made known abroad,
which can be proved by thousands of my fellow citizens.
" I remain, dear sir,
" Yours respectfully,
"WILLIAM P. SHATTUCK.
« To Dr. R. H. Collyer."
I observe that Sunderland says, he did not publish the account
until October 23d, 1S41. Vide Democratic Review for May, 1843.
The next certificate is from the gentleman in whose establishment
the experiments were made, Mr. Jonathan Harrington.
"Boston, Aug. 20, 1842.
« To Dr. R. H. Collyer.
" Dear Sir : —It is with regret I observe that certain persons
claim priority to yourself, in the discovery of 'Phreno-Magnetism.'
I am sure if their claims do not precede May, 1841, you are the
first that performed that experiment of showing the connection be-
tween Phrenology and Animal-Magnetism.
"You were engaged by me in April, 1811, and lectured in my
establishment the May following, during which time you often ex-
cited the organs of the brain, and produced the phenomena, since
called by yourself '
Phreno-Magnetism,' which fact was witnessed
by a great number of the medical faculty of the city, and hundreds
of the public.
" Your obed't serv't,
" JONATHAN HARRINGTON."
I now give the testimony of the Rev. J. B. Dods.
" Fall River, Mass., Aug. 18, 1842.
" Dear Sir : —Your particular recmest is before me. You desire
me to state what I know of a conversation with you, on the subject
of '
Phreno-Magnetism,' or what I have heard you say on that point.
In reply, I would state, I never, to my recollection, heard you men-
tion the term <
Phreno-Magnetism ;'
but I recollect of conversing
with you on the subject of magnetizing the organs, and you stated,
thai though the brain was the seat of the mesmeric impressions, yet
expressed your conviction that any one of its organs might be mes-
merized more than the others ; and that combativeness had been so
unduly excited, as to render your mesmerized subject unmanage-
able, till his benevolence had been acted on.
" As to the date, I cannot determine, except by circumstances.
It was in Boston, at your boarding-house, and on the very day of,
and a few hours previous to, your evening lecture, when measures
were taken to choose a committee of twenty-four persons to investi-
gate the subject of Animal-Magnetism in that city. I am the person
who, on that evening of excitement, arose and addressed the audi-
ence and then proposed to you, whether you were willing that a
committee of eight doctors, eight lawyers, and eight clergymen of
Boston, should be selected to make the investigation, and to report
8
the same. On the same evening, it was proposed that a committee
of three should be immediately chosen to select those twenty-four
scientific gentlemen. Now, sir, if you can ascertain the date when
those three individuals were chosen, then you have the date when
you conversed with me on mesmerizing separate organs of the brain,
and connecting the science with that of Phrenology. I think it was
on my visit to Boston, in May, 1841.*
" You moreover showed me a written article at the same time, on
mesmerizing the organs separately, on which I made some criti-
cisms. This is all, sir, I can particularize upon the subject.
" I have just returned from a three months' tour in^the southern
States. My congregation were highly gratified with your lectures,
which you delivered in my church during my absence.
" I should be glad to hear from you, and when you write, please
inform me, Doctor, why you desire me to be so very particular in
stating the date of our conversation on Phreno-Mesmerism. Have
you any thing wonderful to communicate to the world, on this or
any other point ?
" Respectfully yours,
"J. B. DODS.
" To Robert H. Collyer, M. Z>."
The following is the letter referred to.
" For the Boston Morning Post.
" Mr. Editor : —Phrenology teaches us that the brain is a com-
pound organ, having as many distinct parts as there are distinct fa-
culties of the mind. The principal proof of this compound organ-
ization, rests on the following anatomical and physiological facts.
1st. That certain portions of the brain alone exist in the lower class
of the animal creation ; the parts of the brain always accumulating
as the mental functions of the being become more extended. 2dly.
Many persons are idiotic in some departments of mind, and highly
proficient in others. 3dly. Insanity is often confined to a limited
action of mind, and frequently only one faculty seems to be impair-
ed, for the patient will converse coherently on all topics but the one,
and when that one is referred to, insanity is at once manifest. But,
independently of these conclusive arguments of the plural nature of
the brain, I have satisfied myself, by the examination of more than
ten thousand heads, and hundreds of skulls and brains, that the
brain is a multifarious organ, and any of its parts may be in action
independent of the rest. My recent investigation of the extraordi-
nary condition of the human economy, known as Animal-Magnet-
ism, has opened to me a new philosophy concerning the brainf and
the nervous system generally. The nervous force which is evolved
from the brain of the magnetizer, may be directed to any part of the
magnetized. For instance, any set of muscles may be rendered
rigid, and the rest remain lax ;
this action must be through the in-
strumentality of the nerves supplying the particular part or parts to
be acted on ;
therefore, my recent experiments of exciting the par-
* Mr. Dods visited Boston in May and June; it was on the 22d of June that
the committee was chosen, as suggested by himself.
ticular portions of the brain, may be a real action, independent of
the directing power or influence of my will ; for it is extremely dif-
ficult to ascertain the false impressions from the real ones. The will
of the magnetizer is the law of the magnetized.
" If the experiments are real, they will without doubt be the
most positive proof in favor of phrenology ;
at present I am loath
to dwell much on this subject, not having decided whether the brain
was excited, or the particular action of mind, merely the reflection
of my own thoughts and feelings.*
"I remain, most respectfully,
"ROBT. H. COLLYER, M. D.
" Boston, June 18, 1841."
In order to convince you more fully how my- material has been
used, and no acknowledgment given to me, I will cite two instances.
The first by Sunderland, who, in copying a lecture delivered by Dr.
Elliotson, of London—which appeared in the London Sun—Dr. E.
gives me credit, together with Dr. Buchanan, and refers to the ex-
periments in Boston. Sunderland substitutes the word New York
for Boston. And again, " they found to exactly correspond with
those performed in America," should read, " they found exactly to
correspond with those of Drs. Collyer and Buchanan. Also, see
page 229 of the " Magnet"—there, as in all its pages, frequent allu-
sion is made to my friend Dr. Elliotson, and special care is there
taken to make the unwary suppose that Dr. E. has often alluded in
his public discourses to Sunderland. This is not the case. He, Dr.
E., has not in a single instance publicly mentioned that name. In
a private letter to me, he did once mention it in this connection
—
" I doubt all the phrenological discoveries of Sunderland—they are
gross absurdities." I have received all the London papers, and by
referring to them, find Dr. Buchanan and myself often mentioned,
when speaking of the science in America, but never of Sunderland.
The object of leaving out my name, and that of Dr. Buchanan, is
obvious to every one. In fact, there is hardly an article in the
Magnet, but what is garbled and changed from the original, so as to
suit the paltry egotism of its conductor. I never have placed the
least reliance in a single article which has there appeared. Self is
the all involving theme.
In the May number of the Democratic Review, reference is made
to me as having performed the experiment of exciting the organs of
the brain in May, 1841, which information I gave to Dr. Buchanan.
The editor, for some reason, omitted to mention my name, though
he says " it was done at the suggestion of Dr. Shattuck," not men-
tioning on whom, or by whom.
To end this, now and forever, let it be perfectly understood, that
I never pretended to act on the brain during the waking condition ;
therefore, Dr. Buchanan and myself are not at issue—he has not
* Which time has proved to be correct ; that is, the organs are not excited by
contact, but by the action of the will of the operator, or a consciousness on the part
of the subject of what is required of him, though, when restored to the natural
state, no remembrance is retained of what has been passing during the mesmeric
or congestive state.
10
claimed the discovery of exciting the faculties of the mind during
the mesmeric or congestive condition of the brain ; nor will he ever
do any thing which will reflect on his honesty of purpose. But
with regard to others, the tale is soon told. I know they are not
actuated by a single high-minded or honorable motive. Therefore,
I would despise myself were I to enter the arena, in reference to this
matter, with those who have no legitimate right to contend for it.
I now recapitulate. The first experiments ever performed with
relation to what I called " Phreno-Magnetism," were performed by
me in November, 1839, and repeated before public audiences in
Boston, May, 1841. Now some will quibble, and say that they
published them first in print, which I deny, (vide Boston Post, June,
1841.) But were it so—what is the inference ? Why—they heard
of my experiments, and repeated them some months after, for the
communication between Boston and New York, especially during
the spring and summer months, is not confined to a few passengers
daily, but, on the contrary, several hundreds, by three routes, every
twenty-four hours, exchange visits between those cities. Then, is
it not at least reasonable to suppose, that what was done before
audiences averaging from 500 to 1000 persons every day, would
reach New York in jive months—the time claimed when the ac-
count was first published by Sunderland, Oct. 23d, 1841 '/ (See
Democratic Review for May, 1843.) My experiments were pub-
lished to thousands by the 20th May, 1841, which is Jive days from
the time they "were suggested by Dr. Shattuck." See Democratic
Review for May, 1843.
It is an unfortunate affair for some men that "truth will out." In
the autumn of 1842, Mrs. Fergus, of Boston, a lady who has done
much toward the advancement of Mesmerism in that city, had with
her the identical (blind) Miss Mary Mattocks, on whom the 5th of
August experiments were performed. She distinctly informed me.
during her mesmeric condition, that these experiments of exciting
the faculties of the mind were first suggested in New York, by a
German doctor, some days before the 5th August, 1841, whose name
I have now forgotten, but will give shortly. So that, in any way
that the case may be viewed, Sunderland has no right to priority
—
he never did originate a new idea. I have done with this man.
Those who desire further particulars concerning him, may consult
the trial where he was arraigned before a Convention of the Metho-
dist Church, "on serious charges, preferred against him at the
instance of Bishop Solle."
I now protest against the existence of "Neurology" and Phreno-
Magnetism, as popularly understood. The foregoing may, at first
blush, appear a work of supererogation—to be so strenuous in claim-
ing priority of what I do not now hold to be real. I undertake the
task as a matter of principle to vindicate the right. I was a firm
believer in Phreno-Magnetism until October, 1842, when further
and more careful experiments convinced me of my mistake, which
I will now explain.
Nature is always consistent and simple in her operations. The
world, and all that it contains, whether animal, vegetable or mine-
ral, is governed by positive, unalterable laws, which are in perfect
11
keeping with each other; in other words, one chain of phenomena
cannot be in discordance with another. The history of the past
shows ns this as relating to all sciences.
Astronomy, chemistry, geology, physiology, &c., in their crude
conditions, when they first emerged into being, could not be made
to harmonize; not that they did not from the beginning of time,
but man's knowledge was too limited to discover the correspond-
ence. The same applies to the laws of mind.
Matter, before the immortal discovery of Dalton, was not known
to combine in certain definite proportions, which is called the Atomic
theory. Gold, tin, copper, mercury, oxygen, &c, unite with other
bodies in fixed quantities, and form compounds.
The simple elementary bodies number about fifty-seven, compos-
ing the materials of the whole universe. Chemists know them to
be simple or primitive, because all the agents fail to reduce them to
a simpler form. And by the combination of these fifty-seven bodies,
all the ten thousand conditions of matter are formed.
"Whatever is simple or primitive cannot be made by a
combination. This is my axiom. For this reason we call water
a compound, because it can be formed by a combination of oxygen
and hydrogen. The same with lime, because it is formed by uniting
oxygen with calcium, &c. But oxygen, hydrogen, or calcium
cannot be further reduced by any power known to man ; they are,
therefore, called primitive. Sir Isaac Newton supposed there were
seven primitive colors—red, orange, yellow, green, blue, violet,
indigo. And this would be received to this day as correct, had not
Sir David Brewster applied the law of testing the primitive condi-
tions of matter. He found that the orange was made by mixing the
red and yellow ; the green, by the blue and yellow ;
the violet and
indigo, by the red, blue, and yellow ; therefore it was evident to his
mind that neither orange, green, nor violet, ranked among the primi-
tive colors, which are red, yellow, and blue ; and by their various
degrees of combination, all the hues and phases of color are formed.
And so might I multiply illustrations of the same nature, to show
how euphonious and consistent all things were with regard to each
other. Are the functions of the animal frame an exception? I know
to the contrary. Each part has its destined capacity and adaptation ;
and no one part can perform the function of another, during the
normal or healthy condition of the economy.
The mind acts through the medium of its various organs. The
optic organ in the brain is the portion which receives the impres-
sions from the retina of the external eye ; the organ of hearing, in
the brain, with its appendage, the ear, receives sounds ;
the same
of smelling, tasting, &c.
Their very distinct existence proves most conclusively, that each
was requisite to the particular function or end for which it was
made. Nothing is made in vain. If seeing could be accomplished
by the compound action of smelling and hearing, depend on it we
would not have an optic organ. No simple or primitive function
can be formed by a combination. The organs of the higher mental
faculties obey the same rule, which was well understood and ad-
hered to by that great man, Dr. Gall. He defined an organ as
primitive in accordance with the following rules:
12
1st. Which exists in one class of animals, and not in another.
2d. Which varies in the sexes of the same species.
3d. Which is not proportionate to the other faculties of the indi-
vidual.
4th. Which is not manifested simultaneously with other faculties ;
that is, which appears or disappears singly, at earlier periods of life.
6th. Which may preserve of itself its proper state of health and
disease.
7th. Which cannot be formed by a combination ofother faculties.
Dr. Gall anticipated the confusion that would arise, if every con-
dition of mind were attributed to a separate organ. He found twenty-
eight distinct portions of brain corresponding with faculties of mind,
distinct in their original character, to which Dr. Spurzheim added
six : these were, Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, Inhabitiveness,*
Adhesiveness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Alimentiveness, Se-
cretiveness, Acquisitiveness, Self-esteem, Love of Approbation,
Caution, Firmness, Ideality, Wonder, Humor, or Wit, Tune, Imi-
tation, Construedveness, Conscientiousness, Hope, Veneration, Bene-
volence, Individuality, Form, Size, Weight, Color, Number, Order,
Eventuality, Locality, Time, Language, Comparison, and Causality.
If true, it is a startling and extraordinary era in mental science.
If untrue, I will show how hundreds of the most respectable, aye,
intelligent men, have been the dupes of their too ready assent to a
matter which time and opportunity has rendered them incapable to
decide on.
In whatever concerns science, much judicious and indefatigable
industry is required, in order to arrive at truth ; the most honest
men are often the dupes of their own credulity.
I believe it is in my power to convince every dispassionate mind,
that neither " Neurology" nor the kindred new organs of Phreno-
Magnetism have a real existence.
This will be shown under three heads :
—
1st. The contradiction to all rules of philosophy.
2d. The anatomy of the parts precluding the chance of arriving
at such conclusions.
3d. The experience of facts is in direct contradiction to the pre-
tended new discoveries.
1st. On reviewing the publications, I find more than two hundred
new discoveries of organs in the brain, &c. Of these, I will merely
quote a few as an example—Suaviter, Human Nature, Gambling,
Felony, Insanity, Drunkenness, Idiocy, Disease, &c, &c, &c.
The "Suaviter in modo;
'
depends on the organs of Benevolence,
Love of Approbation, Secretiveness, Imitation—in fact, no function
is more common to the action of the other organs, and what would
* George Combe found this location of the brain to perform the function of
concentrating the action of the other organs, therefore called it Concentrativeness.
It should be called Continuity ; Inhabitiveness, or the love of places, depending on
action of Locality with Continuity. The modern philosophers, who, in a lew
weeks, have accomplished more than did half a century of untiring industry by
the ablest intellects, have added to the stock of organs, not a dozen a score but
hundreds of new functions and new organs ! !
!
13
be suavity to one person, would not be so to another—the power of
rendering yourself agreeable is arbitrary.
The organ of " Human Nature" depends on the action of the per-
ceptive and reasoning faculties ;
the same capacity would apply to
the whole of the animal world, and not be confined to a mere know-
ledge of men. The author of these two organs is a very stupid per-
son, but he has obtained a notoriety with the unthinking. The idea
of finding a separate organ of " idiocy" is contrary to all experience.
Idiocy does not depend on the manifestation of any organ ; it is the
absence of one. We might, with the same propriety, find an organ
for " blindness" or " deafness"—those are conditions arising from a
defective organization. Idiocy may be connected with Music,
Pride, Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, Veneration, &c. ; that is, if
any of those organs are so small as not to allow the manifestation of
their particular faculties.
" Insanity" is the next newly discovered organ ; here again the
author could not have studied his position with much care. Insanity
of any part of the body is an absence of its healthy condition. The
stomach is insane when it is diseased, the same of every organ in
the body ; the brain, which is the organ through which the mind
operates, may be diseased in any particular part or parts, as is the
case in monomania. When a person fancies himself an extraordi-
nary personage, as an Alexander, a Washington, or a Napoleon, it is
the diseased action of the organ of self-esteem ;
the same may take
place in any one of the cerebral organs, which are as distinct as the
eye is from the ear. " Gambling" is only a state of exercise of the
organ of Acquisitiveness and Hope, &c, the education fashioning
the peculiar views in every instance as to their mode of operation.
This applies to all the faculties of the mind. " Felony," " Drunken-
ness," &c., are of the same order. It does not require much know-
ledge of the constitution of man to arrive at the positive conclusion
that such states of mind depend on no inherent original tendency
—
all vice is the abuse of the faculties. But to suppose that such organs
existed in the brain, would be to charge the Creator with injustice.
Man, himself, is the parent of all misery and vicious action. I might
occupy pages on this topic, in analyzing all the new fangled facul-
ties, whose only existence is in the minds of those who manufactured
them.
Each organ of the brain is susceptible of a great many degrees of
excitement ; the power of the faculty depending on the amount of
action in the organ. It would, at first, therefore, appear to the un-
initiated, that there are distinct and separate functions of mind, as
Benevolence, "Kindness," "Liberality," Philanthropy, "Prodigali-
ty," whereas they are only the manifestation of the same organ, un-
der different degrees of stimulus. Destructiveness, Veneration,
Self-Esteem, &c, admit of the same phases of action. The organ of
Destructiveness, when slightly excited, produces energy of action,
when more excited, severity of feeling ; more, vindictiveness, fero-
city, brutality and murder ;
not that these different degrees of mani-
festation depend on separate organs. This will explain the cause
of the complicated errors of that worthy man, Dr. Buchanan, whose
3
14
position will be more fully investigated under the third division of
this letter.
2dly. The anatomy of the parts precludes the chance of arriving
at any such conclusion.
The brain is a smooth surface in the lower class of animals ;
its
parts are there simple, being confined to a few functions ;
as we
ascend the scale of quadrupeds, we find it approaching nearly to that
of man. He possesses the most perfect cerebral mass—to establish
a more extended intercourse with the external world. Nature has
added the more complex organs according as the relations of the
species with the surrounding creation have become more numerous.
It is thus by the successive addition of new organs, and the most
perfect development of others, that the animal chain is elevated to
man himself.
The discoveries of Gall were the result of fifty years' careful ob-
servation, after he had collected many thousand facts, all which cor-
roborated the conclusion that the skull on its inner wall is an exact
counterpart of the surface of the brain. Though he never contended
that the convolutions of the brain were placed in relation to the or-
gans, he said that masses of the brain, involving more or less of nerv-
ous matter, constituted an organ. Nor would he ever have been
able to arrive at a correct conclusion, had he not been governed by
cases of marked character, where single faculties were highly de-
veloped at the expense of all others. It was by cases of marked
monomania, and of persons of extraordinary capacity in some one
quality of mind, which formed the basis of the phrenological structure.
The brain is an organ occupying a very great area of surface,
when its convolutions are unfolded, as in cases of Hydrocephalus, or
water in the head. In the healthy state, it is compacted for the sake
of economy of space.
Three-fourths of the surface of the brain is not in contact with
the inner surface of the skull. This is a startling fact for the dis-
coverers of " the hundred new organs" by external excitement.
How did they, or how could they arrive at their facts ? If the whole
brain were a smooth surface, and capable of external excitement, then
there would be some probability in arriving at the truth. But as the
brain is formed, convoluted, irregularly overlapping itself, the infrac-
tuosities often an inch or more in depth, there remains no kind of
possibility of even approaching the truth, when the organs are so
multiplied ;
for let it be remembered that it is an arbitrary assump-
tion to place the organs on the portion of brain in the immediate
vicinity of the skull, in preference to that in the lowest portion of the
convolution, or in that part an inch from the surface, and overlapped
by other portions of brain. Gall obviated this difficulty, not assum-
ing that there was any necessary connection between the foldings of
the brain and the organs. According to Dr. Buchanan, and others,
three-fourths of their new organs cannot be in connection with the
surface of the skull, and to arrive at them we have to go through
two or three strata of organs. If I have any acquaintance with
the structure of the brain, this must be the case.
How the neurologists can reconcile this fact I know not. The
brain is not fashioned to any theory. And in order to make "as-
15
surance doubly sure," I have obtained a new brain ;
and there it is,
just as it came from the skull of its possessor. If I do not convince
the multitude, I know every anatomist in the country will accord
with the truth of this position.
3dly. The experience of facts is in direct contradiction to the
pretended new discoveries.
This is the most prolific portion of my theme. I have had, pro-
bably, as much experience, within the last four years, as any other
person. I can, therefore, give much practical knowledge.
When the nervous force has been transmitted to the brain of a re-
cipient individual, and has produced the congestive or mesmeric
state, ever after the operator has always the power of producing im-
pressions, true or false, on the mind of the person so acted on.
All persons are not susceptible to the agency. Those of the
nervous and sanguine temperaments, with fine texture of skin, light
mild eye, large pupil, fine hair, and of sensitive frame of mind, are
most readily acted on. The depth or profundity of the condition
induced, depends altogether on the power and qualifications of the
operator. Some are deprived of all consciousness, and cannot com-
municate, except through the medium of the operator ; others lose
sensibility, but retain consciousness of what is passing around them,
though when restored have no memory of what has transpired dur-
ing the magnetic state ;
this latter condition is most common. The
operator is liable to be deceived, if he places too great confidence in
the patient, for though perfectly honest in his intentions, he is so
much under the control of the will of the operator, that, every thing
he requires will be attempted to be performed, and advantage taken
of his semi-condition. This dreamy state, with a glimmering of
consciousness, with loss of sensibility, is the main cause of so much
error with those who have not been aware of its existence.
Another peculiar state of the recipient is, that he will always re-
spond to his own previous knowledge of the location of the organs.
I have seen operators excite the faculties of the mind in their reci-
pients by touching portions of the head, not agreeing with the loca-
tion of the phrenological organs. In one instance, I saw the organs
of Self-Esteem excited when the part touched was the location of
Continuity, and when Benevolence, the function of Veneration was
the result ; this arising from the ignorance of the operator. In
fact, the organs may be located, as far as producing the manifesta-
tion is concerned, in any part of the body. I have produced Vene-
ration, (
'ombativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, by touching the elbow,
knee, thumb, chin, &c.
In all these instances, the organ of the brain was unquestionably
excited. I have never doubted this. But I do most positively deny
that the organs were ever excited by the transmission of any force
from the fingers. This I have proved not to be the case in about
fifty new subjects ; where no knowledge whatever was known of
phrenology by the recipient, no accurate result followed. These
experiments are so very delicate in their nature, that the whole host
of mesmerisers have been led astray; not one, but admits the truth
of Phreno-Mesmerism by the direct application of the fingers on the
skull. When a recipient has been once acted on, and the experi-
16
ments of Phreno-Mesmerism performed, the memory is so tenacious,
that ever after the exact results will follow in accordance with the
original. I have a recipient now, who never responds to Combative-
ness, except the mastoid process of the temporal bone is touched,
(the bone behind the ear ;) this location of Combativeness in his
mind has arisen from the fact that the first person who performed
those experiments, thought that to be the true location of Combative-
ness. The same with the occipital protuberance ;
whenever I hap-
pen to place my hand there, all the manifestations of Philoprogeni-
tiveness take place. Now no one will pretend to say that any brain
is excited by the mere contact of the hand with that bone.
Many will answer and say—" How is it that we have operated on
persons who could have no knowledge of phrenology, who do not
know the location of a single organ, &c. T To this I answer—the
mere circumstance of having once seen a chart, or head, or conver-
sation, would, during the nervous congestive state, bring all to the
mind's eye with the same clearness, as at the moment of the impres-
sion, even though the impression were produced without any appa-
rent effort of the attention. The case given by Abercrombie, of an
ignorant servant girl, mentioned by Coleridge, during the delirium
of a fever repeated passages from theological works in Latin, Greek,
and Rabbinical Hebrew, which, being taken down and traced to the
works from which they were derived, were found to have been re-
peated with perfect accuracy. It turned out that she had been a
servant to a clergyman, a man of much learning and peculiar habits,
who was in the habit of walking backward and forward along a
passage in his house, which led to the kitchen, and there reading
aloud his favorite authors. The person, during the nervous con-
gestive state of the brain, has the same power of reminiscence, and
can recall with perfect accuracy the most transient and fleeting oc-
currences.
I do allow that a person, while in the highest lucid condition,
has the power of recognizing the particular portions of brain in ac-
tion. This I have seen done ; and this capacity is not confined to
himself, for I have oftentimes witnessed the most perfect descrip-
tion of the diseased state of a person whom the recipient never
saw while in the waking or natural state. The diagnosis was more
precise than could have been formed by the ablest medical prac-
titioner, though I never could yield my assent to the recipient's ca-
pacity of prescribing for disease, independent of the knowledge of
medicines known to him in the natural state.
In the first instance, that of recognizing a disease, they inform me
that they experience in themselves all the peculiar feelings of the
patient. One recipient always prescribed vegetable remedies an-
other mineral, and on questioning them while awake found that
their information was confined to these.
You will, therefore, perceive that I believe in the organs of the
brain being in action during all mental phenomena ; but I deny that
it is induced by exciting directly the part or parts by contact of
the hand, &c.
The possibility of exciting the brain in the waking condition, or
17
what Dr. Buchanan has been pleased to call " Neurology," will now
claim my attention.
Persons there are, and by no means a few, who can be acted on
at any time, imaginatively, so as to produce extraordinary results.
The imaginative action is the operation of the mind from informa-
tion previously acquired. That is, if a person who has been accus-
tomed to the use of ipecachuana or tartar emetic, should he take an
inert substance, supposing it to be ipecachuana or tartar emetic, the
operation would take place as effectually as if the real article had
been administered.
When a person has been charged with the nervous force, and. is a
good recipient, he or she can be acted on when awake. Any part
can be acted on independent of the rest of the body, even before any
attempt has been made to produce the unconscious or congestive
state. This experiment was first performed by me in Boston, in the
spring of 1841, on Mr. Nichols, a dentist ; I then magnetized his arm,
and it remained rigid for several hours after ; since which time I
have fixed any part of the body, in a moment, in a perfectly immov-
able condition.
Mental hallucination can at any time be produced on persons in
the waking state, who are recipients to the agency, with much more
power and marked results than during the mesmeric state.
I have made persons, when perfectly awake, believe themselves
to be partaking of a good dinner ; they would in their own minds
be filling their plates from empty dishes. I could successively
change the nature of their food, make potatoes turn into apple-
dumplings, a turkey to a leg of mutton, water into brandy, sugar
into aloes, or a piece of wood into a stick of candy. In one instance
I took four persons and pressed their thumbs ; they all immediately
commenced reeling as if intoxicated ; I then restored them in an
instant ; would obliterate from their memory the occurrence which
had just transpired, and alternately bring them vividly to their recol-
lection, and cause them to scream with agony on placing a piece
of money in their hands, they feeling all the torture of burning
metal when placed on their skin. I made two persons at the same
time believe themselves bottles of ginger beer ;
they distinctly heard
the fermentation within, and desired me with all earnestness not to
pull out the cork, for that would kill them. I made a man fancy
himself a general officer, a locomotive, &c. In fact I know not a
single condition but what may be brought about by the action of the
mind of the operator.
The same state of mind may be made the medium of curing the
most distressing mental diseases.
Two cases will suffice to convey to you the idea.
On the 4th of July, 1842, a young lady and her aunt called on
me. The aunt stated that her niece was the victim of unrecipro-
cated affection ;
a monster of a fellow had gained her young affec-
tions, and had left her. The innocent, confiding girl, who was
before all vivacity and cheerfulness, had become low spirited and
melancholy; her existence was an incumbrance; she had never
been seen to smile since. The consequence of this may be antici-
pated ;
the mind bore on the physical frame : she was every day
18
losing her health, and would soon have been the victim of mis-
placed affection, the issue of which would have been an early aeatn.
" Broken-hearted" young ladies, if recipients, can be cured. 1 mes-
merized her, and during the condition, willed her to forget the un-
faithful one." I was successful. She is now what she was belore
her unfortunate acquaintance.
The same of a man who had twice signed the Washingtoman
temperance pledge ;
the infatuation toward the " fell monster was
too strong for his mind to resist. I reduced him in less than rive
minutes to the congestive state, when, by a powerful action of the
will, I obliterated the tendency of mind toward strong liquors
Ever since the man has remained temperate. This application of
Mesmerism will be of incalculable value.
But to return to " Neurology." With all respect to Dr. Buchanan,
he has not demonstrated any of his positions on persons who were
not recipients to the mesmeric agency. In Boston he used, with
few exceptions, old mesmeric subjects, those who had been operated
on hundreds of times, and are as well acquainted with the phrenolo-
gical location of the organs as I am. On one occasion I saw a young
woman under the manipulatory action of the Doctor ;
she appeared
comatose, or in a semi-state, retaining her consciousness, yet sus-
ceptible of being acted upon by the will of another person. The
Doctor should not prompt an answer by the form of the question
which he invariably propounds ;
as a lawyer would say, his are lead-
ing questions.
I have attempted on more than a dozen persons, within the last
month, to corroborate the neurological location of the organs, but
have not been successful. The same arguments relative to the
hundred new organs of Phreno-Magnetism apply with equal force to
" Neurology."
In the early part of this year I met the following gentlemen at
Canandaigua, New York, and I believe convinced them of the non-
reality of "Neurology." They were Messrs. Alvah Worder, Mark
H. Sibley, Alexander Howell, Judge Howell. Rev. T. Thomson,
Rev. W. Prevost, Wilson Singer, Pierson, Greig, &c. I acted on
three of the most " impressible" subjects in the waking state. The
results, as taken down by Mr. Alexander Howell, who acted as
secretary, were as follows
:
ON JOHN PARSHALL.
Touches organ of Caution.—" Feels like fighting."
Firmness.—" Firm as a rock."
"
Acquisitiveness.—" Smiles and laughs."
Benevolence. —" Like singing."
" "
Combativeness.—" Great fear."
Philoprogenitiveness.—" Like fighting."
" " Mirthfulness.—" Like singing."
" " Destructiveness. —" Feels well, is kindly disposed.
ON OSCAR MILES.
" " Caution.—" Desire to laugh."
u " Benevolence.—" Desire to fight."
19
" " Mirthful ness.—" To sing."
" Veneration.—"Desire to walk."
" " Self-esteem
—
a As big as any one."
ON MRS. C. BISHBY.
Mirthfulness.—" Feels melancholy."
Approbativeness.—" Pride, courage."
« " Caution.—"Brave."
" " Benevolence.—" 111 tempered."
" " Veneration.—" Sense of religion."
" " Acquisitiveness.—" Not avaricious."
The organs throughout corresponded in some order ; and all sub-
sequent experiments have been of the same kind. I have never
seen any one instance where there was an approach to any thing
like what is claimed by the neurologists.
The following certificate will exhibit how perfectly a person is
subjected to the action of another's mind.
Canandaigua, January ith, 1843.
I now declare that Dr. Robert H. Collyer has acted on the various
portions of my head as located by the phenologists to correspond
with certain faculties of the mind. When the part was acted on, the
function of which I was acquainted with, the result followed ;
that is,
if T knew Dr. C. was acting on the organ of Combativeness, I felt
quarrelsome ; or if the organ of Mirthfulness, I could not help laugh-
ing, &c. But when I did not know the function of the part acted on,
no result followed. This proves to my mind, that the effect pro-
duced, when I was conscious of the function of the part to be acted
upon, was produced by striking my mind so as to produce a result
independent of my will. I also declare that I was thrown into an
unconscious state in less than three minutes, on the first trial
—having always been a skeptic in Magnetism. I would, moreover,
state, that Dr. Collyer tried these experiments on my head during
my waking state. I am convinced that he acted with much more
power on those portions of brain where no result followed, than when
I was acquainted with his intention.
He (Dr. C.) can at any time fix any of my limbs in a rigid state.
He has, at a distance of ten feet, caused my hand, arm, or foot to be
rivetted to the spot. I have no power of moving the part acted on.
But he cannot do this if I have no knowledge of his intention.
Signed, CAROLINE BISHBY,
Husband, HIRAM BISHBY.
This, with the next certificate, shows how subservient the recipient
is to the will of the operator. This is much more manifest during
the waking- than in the mesmeric state.
Canandaigua, N. Y., January 5th, 1843.
I do solemnly declare, that Dr. Collyer can act on any part of my
body. Though I am aware of his intention, I cannot resist the ac-
tion of his will. He can cause me to feel hot or cold, wet or dry,
20
tall or short, stout or spare ; and, in fact, he can change my condition
at any time.
JOHN PARSHALL.
I could waste pages by enumerating similar cases, all of which
corroborate the position, that persons of a recipient constitution are
made the receptacle of false impressions, which will explain the
whole fabric of "Neurology."
I have been made to experience, on my own person, a great
variety of singular sensations, which I thought at the time to be real,
though directly the influence was taken off, the delusion was appa-
rent. The cause of my having these sensations did not arise from
an organ or organs being excited, but merely from an expectation that
a particular action was about to take place. I can at any time pro-
duce dizziness, coldness, heat, or pains in any part of my own body
by the action of my own mind. I leave " Neurology," hoping it
may be in my power to discover at some future period the error
of my present opinions. But, until other evidence presents itself,
I must be excused enrolling myself in its ranks.
Rules to be observed with regard to inducing the Congestive
state, or Mesmeric state, fyc.
You will, no doubt, often in your medical practice resort to the
magnetic treatment in those cases which almost always baffle the
skill of the physician, as St. Vitus' Dance, Tic Doloreux, Paralysis,
Epilepsy, and all neuralgic or nervous diseases.
A few rules will, therefore, be of service :
—
1st. The action of will should always be made with strict regard
to the condition of the patient. You must not use much effort on a
feeble, excitable constitution, for by so doing you would increase,
rather than soothe the patient.
2d. The hand should be used in local affections, taking care to
carry it over the surface with gentleness.
3d. The patient, if much reduced by disease, cannot support the
shock of being thrown into the congestive state. You should then
induce a semi-condition—by that means you allay nervous irrita-
bility.
4th. Strong constitutions will not often yield to the influence on
the first trial. I have often succeeded after ten or twelve efforts,
though on the first trial no apparent effect was produced.
5th. In Tic Doloreux, I always direct the hand in the course
of the nerves affected, to their fibrilous termination. In headache a
few passes of the palm of the hand, that is, bringing them off from
the centre of the forehead downwards ; be sure to turn the hands
round on every new pass, so as to form a perfect circuit.
6th. It is not well to have more than a third person in the room
and that person should be a relative or intimate acquaintance
7th. Before attempting the operation, be sure your patient's mind
is not disturbed by any thing. All influences tending in the least
degree to divert the attention should be positively avoided.
21
8th. Never allow your patient to be handled, or even touched by
a third party during the semi or congestive state; all foreign influ-
ences should be avoided.
9th. I often consult a lucid recipient with much advantage; they
have the knowledge as to the specific effects on each individual. I
do not know many persons in Boston who are capable of manifest-
ing the capacity. You know, as well as myself, that it has been the
source of much quackery ; for they never prescribe independent of
their knowledge when in the natural state. The recipient should
not examine more than one, or, at most, two patients in one day.
J
10th. The moral influence of the operator has a great power over
the mind of the recipient ; he has the capacity of producing impres-
sions which not even time can erase.
11th. If you should require the service of another person to ope-
rate on a patient, be sure and choose one of fine constitution, refined
mind and manners, for these mere physical men produce a very in-
jurious effect on very susceptible constitutions.
12th. In order to bring about the congestive condition in the most
rapid way possible, place him or her in a comfortable position
—
cause the eye to remain immovable on a fixed point, placing the
palm of your hands on the back of theirs—exert the will with an
undivided attention, and in a few minutes positive results will follow.
First, a general languor, dullness of the eye, drooping of the eyelid,
deep inspirations, coldness and numbness of the hands and arms,
which is soon followed by a loss of consciousness.
13th. Then speak to him or her in a low tone of voice, and ascer-
tain from them if they have any power of hearing. Direct the third
party in the room to make some noise ; then ask the recipient if he
hears it—if not, the condition is deep. Then ask him what part
of the head he sees from ; he generally says that a luminous
atmosphere surrounds his head, and that this is the medium of
sight. You may concentrate this nervo-electric force to any given
point, and cause that to be the seat of vision. I have made some
very curious experiments in this particular. For instance, the re-
cipient can be made to see, apparently, from the end of the nose, pit
of the stomach, &c. This depends on his particular constitution,
and inherent capacity, &c.
14th. Never allow any person to be acted on by an operator who
has any diseased condition of his economy, for, depend on it, the re-
cipient will be apt to imbibe the identical disease.
15. A lucid recipient can also describe the morbid condition of
any person ;
the exact time when a crisis in the disease will take
place, and if the operator suggests, who should be a person well
versed in medicine, he (the recipient) will, by his own inherent ca-
pacity, choose the most fitting medicine to bring about a speedy
cure ; but in no instance can he prescribe, independent of his natu-
ral knowledge, or that which the operator gives him. Though
when the magnetic or nervous agency of a healthy person is requir-
ed to effect a cure, the recipient's capacity is seldom or never at fault;
he will generally at once inform you how often and for what time
the magnetic treatment is to be continued.
16. I have in numerous instances tested the power of describing
4
22
the structural condition, by a recipient, and have been obliged in
spite of all my medical prejudices, to acknowledge the fact. I have
in my possession the most positive cases, where every feature of
the diseased condition has been explained, though neither the
operator nor the recipient were acquainted with the person so exa-
mined. There are several fine recipients in the country, among
whom I will mention Miss Gleason, of Boston, and one in the pos-
session of Mr. W. H. Rodgers, of Philadelphia.
17. Dr. Elliotson says, " Mesmerism augments the strength in
debility from almost any cause, and is of great use in indigestion,
hepatic irregularities, epilepsy, chorea, various pains, want of sleep,
sores and wounds, and an endless number of diseases." All this, I
have corroborated, not in a dozen cases, but in many hundred.
18. Deluze says, " In order that one individual may act on an-
other, there must exist between them a moral and physical sympa-
thy ; as there is between all the members of an animated body."
Physical sympathy is established by means of the exercise of the
will ; moral sympathy, by the desire of doing good to one who de-
sires to receive it ; or by ideas and wishes which, occupying them
both equally, form between them a communication of sentiment.
When this sympathy is well established between two individuals,
we say they are in communion.
Magnetism, or the action of magnetism, springs from three things;
first, the will to act ; second, a sign, the expression of the will
;
third, confidence in the means employed. If the desire of doing
good be not united to the will to act, there will be some effects, but
these effects will be irregular.
The fluid which emanates from the magnetizer, exercising &p hy-
sical influence upon the patient, it follows that the magnetizer
should be in perfect health. This influence exerting, in the course
of time, an effect upon the moral condition of the recipient, it fol-
lows that the operator ought to be worthy of esteem for the upright-
ness of his mind, the purity of his sentiments, and the honesty of
his character.
The knowledge of this principle is equally important for those
who magnetize, and for those who are the recipients.
The faculty of magnetizing exists in all persons ;
but all do not
possess the faculty in the like degree. This difference arises from
the superiority which some have over others in moral and physical
qualities. The same persons are not always alike susceptible to the
influence, this depending on the state of the constitution, mental
confidence, and the electric state of the atmosphere.
Confidence, which is an essential condition with the operator, is
not necessary in the recipient. One can act equally upon those who
believe, and upon those who do not believe in the agency. It is
only necessary that the person to be operated on, yields himself up
passively, making no resistance. Nevertheless, confidence on the
part of the patient or recipient, contributes to the efficaciousness of
magnetism, as it does in most of remedies.
19. Oftentimes no sensible effect is produced, the only indication
being a restoration of health. I repeat, it is not necessary to pro-
duce unconsciousness to effect a cure. The most remarkable and
23
beneficial applications of the agency, that I have witnessed, have
been where the recipient's brain could not be reduced to the con-
gest ive or unconscious state, and even where no different feeling
could be discovered by the patient.
20. Deluze again says, " It is to be desired that experienced phy-
sicians only should be charged with the direction of the magnetic
treatment ; but it is one thing to have the direction of a treatment,
and another to perform the manipulatory process." This is correct,
inasmuch, that in certain conditions of our economy the nervous
force from a healthy person will bring about symptoms which will
baffle a person not acquainted with the laws of pathology, and may
result in an injury to the patient, if prompt measures be not resorted
to, which indicate a knowledge of the healing art.
!^rW
PART II.—-PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Let them laugh at me for speaking of things which they do not understand ; and I must
pity them while they laugh at mo.
—
St. Austin.
The character of the true philosopher is, to hope all things not impossible, and to believe
all things not unreasonable.
—
Sir J. Herschel.
The Brain is the most delicate instrument within the whole range
of nature ; its office is one which brings man in contact with the
world ; it is the medium of his external consciousness, and is the
residence of that imperishable soul, which is as eternal as God, Him-
self. The phenomena of its operations are so eminently above all
other conditions of matter, that it paralyzes the mightiest minds in
the investigation. Incompetency, as every one must, of necessity, feel
in the inquiry, and the numberless appare?it discordances and in-
congruities which present themselves, are the cause why so many
philosophers have been baffled in their attempts, and have relin-
quished the task, oftentimes with the conviction that the analysis
was beyond the bounds of human comprehension ; thereby impress-
ing the public mind with the utter futility of all efforts to obtain a
satisfactory result.
I have, after years of untiring exertion, arrived at conclusions
which are perfectly compatible with the experience of past ages.
These facts I have arranged and classified—they explain the highest
order of mental action. I know that my age will not give me the
credit I demand, but I know that posterity will carry out what I
have begun, and when scarcely a tombstone of this generation has
been left behind, when all party strife and private animosity shall
have been buried and forgotten, then will these experiments take
their proper rank in the temple of knowledge; nor is the expecta-
tion vain, when I declare, that they will form the cupola of human
attainment. Yes, all that appertains to explain the mysterious con-
26
nection between the immortal soul and its physical dwelling place,
will be hailed as of paramount importance to man—his greatest
desideratum. .
Such feelings and views have caused me to undertake the task,
and give the issue to the world ;
caring not for smiles or frowns.
So far, with the great human family, ridicule has been my only re-
ward ; still, I heed it not—my course is onward, and I do not fear
the ultimate result, which must be success.
Very few persons care to know concerning any matter which
does not immediately affect their interests. When once this point
can be established with them, then, as if by general consent, all
ranks, ages and conditions of men rush to the investigation. What
a few years since was a criterion of madness to believe in, is now
the most positive evidence of insanity, to doubt. The mysteries of
one century form the pillars of inductive philosophy in the next.
We look with surprise, and even pity, at the ignorance and perverse-
ness of our forefathers ; the same relation will we bear to those a
hundred years hence. And this will continually go on, so long as
the Almighty allows the expanse of the human mind ; the unsatis-
fied craving after knowledge is only a glimmering of that unbound-
ed intelligence which the soul will possess, when freed from its cor-
poreal tenement.
The magnetic or congestive state of the brain is often accom-
panied by that exalted condition of mind, called clairvoyance.
Then, the faculties seem to have hardly a limit of action ;
time and
space are annihilated ; the secrets of the past, present and future
are brought within the immediate range of thought.
The power to induce this state of the nervous system is not con-
fined to the nervo-vital fluid, from a second person. The same
state of things may be brought about by mental excitement, accom-
panied with muscular action ;
the inhaling of narcotic and stimulat-
ing vapors ; the abnormal condition, as manifested in Somnambu-
lism, Trance, Catalepsy, or by the will of the individual himself,
as was the case with Apollonius of Tyana, Emanuel Sweden-
borg, Mahomet, &c.
The Assyrians, Persians, Egyptians, Arabians and Grecians
were well acquainted with this fact. And all knowledge relative to
it was confined to the brahmins and priests, who took care to use
it to no small advantage. The people were kept in slavish submis-
sion, and all scientific information was confined to the few, who re-
ceived homage in consequence ; the multitude ascribing the pheno-
mena to supernatural gifts, and actually believing these men to be
gods.
Every circumstance was taken advantage of. The oracle of
Apollo, at Delphi, is an example.
A goatherd fed his flocks on the acclivity of Mount Parnassus.
As the animals wandered here and there in pursuit of food, they
happened to approach a deep and long chasm which appeared in the
rock. From this chasm a vapor issued, and the goats had no
sooner inhaled a portion of the vapor, than they began to play and
frisk about with singular agility. The goatherd observing this, and
curious to discover "the cause, held his head over the chasm ;
when
27
in a short time, the fumes having ascended to his brain, he threw
himself into a variety of strange attitudes, and uttered words which
were supposed to have a prophetic meaning.
The phenomenon was taken advantage of by the priests, who
erected a temple on the spot, and dedicated it to Apollo.
The credulous " million" believed that here was the great focus
and centre of divine inspiration. And to make it doubly imposing,
it was given out, that here Apollo killed the serpent, Python. The
particular apartment of the oracle was immediately over the chasm
from which the vapors issued.
A priestess delivered the responses, who was called Pythia, pro-
bably in commemoration of the exploit which had been performed
by Apollo. She sat upon a tripod or three-legged stool, perforated
with holes, over the seat of the vapors. After a time, her figure en-
larged itself, her hair stood on end, her complexion and features
became altered, her heart panted, her bosom swelled, and her voice
grew more than human. In this condition, she uttered words which
were supposed to be dictated by the god.
The questions which were offered by those who came to consult
the oracle were then proposed to her, and her answers taken down
by a priest. The oracles reached to such a degree of reputation,
that, as Cicero observes, no expedition for a long time was under-
taken, no colony sent out, and often no affair of any distinguished
family or individual entered on, without having previously obtained
their judgment and sanction. Their authority, in a word, was so
high, that the first fathers of the Christian church could no other-
wise account for a reputation thus universally received, than by sup-
posing that the devils were permitted by God Almighty to inform
the oracles with a more than human prescience, that all the world
might be concluded in idolatry and unbelief, and the necessity of a
Savior be made more apparent. If the first fathers had been ac-
quainted with the fact, that no entity can be thought of, without the
image of the same being painted on the mental vision, or on the
brain, they would have seen that the priestess read the thoughts of
those who came to consult her, and accommodated her replies ac-
cordingly ;
no one will question the faith of those who sought for
information, their singleness of thought being an essential requi-
site to conceive a strong mental picture.
The condition of the priestess was identical with that of a mes-
merized person. She could read the thoughts of any person, who
was placed in correspondence, " en rapport," with her. There are
hosts of similar cases among the ancients ;
the operations were con-
fined to the " wise men," who were "few and far between."
The modern magi of Egypt resort to the same physiological law
of our economy, to impose on the credulous ; they are unacquainted
with the philosophy of the phenomenon, and mix with it numerous
"mummeries," such as incantations, strange mutterings, gestures,
attitudes, and a multitude of other appendages are conceived neces-
sary to bring about the desired results, all of which are strictly ob-
served. These also tend, in no small degree, to impress on the
spectators an overweening sense of the power and supernatural
28
character of the operator. The following account is in perfect illus-
tration of the position.
" Lord Prudhoe and Major Felix being- at Cairo last autumn, on their return from
Abyssinia, where they picked up much of that information which has been worked
up so well by Captain Bond Head in his life of Bruce, found the town in a state of
extraordinary excitement, in consequence of the recent arrival in those parts of a
celebrated magician, from the centre of Africa, somewhere in the vicinity of the
Mountains of the Moon. It was universally said, and generally believed, that
this character possessed and exercised the power of showing to any visiter who
chose to comply with his terms, any persons, dead or living, whom the same visiter
pleased to name. The English travellers, after abundant inquiries, and some
scruples, repaired to his residence, paid their fees, and were admitted to his
sanctum. They found themselves in the presence of a very handsome young
Moor, with a very long black beard, a crimson craftan, a snow-white turban,
eighteen inches high, blue trowsers and yellow slippers, sitting cross-legged on a
Turkey carpet, three feet square, with a cherry stalk in his mouth, a cup of coffee
at his left elbow, a diamond-hafted dagger in his girdle, and in his right hand a
large volume, clasped with brazen clasps. On hearing their errand, he arose and
kindled some spices on a sort of small altar in the middle of the room. He then
walked round and round the altar for half an hour or so, muttering words to them
unintelligible; and having at length drawn three lines of chalk about the altar,
and placed himself upright beside the flame, desired them to seek a seer, and he
was ready to gratify them in all their desires. There were, in the old days, whole
schools of magicians here in Europe, who could do nothing in this line without
the intervention of a pure seer, to wit, a maiden's eye. This African belongs to
the same fraternity—he made them understand that nothing could be done until
a virgin eye was placed at his disposal. He bade them go out in the streets of
Cairo, and fetch up any child they fancied, under ten years of age.
A pure seer, to wit, a maiden's eye, or a boy was required;
these are constitutionally more susceptible to the influence of the
narcotic fumes. I find that, with very little trouble, they are easily
subdued by the nervous agency ; whereas strong persons, as men
and older women, are very hard to be affected, and are never such
good recipients, or are capable of manifesting such lucid powers, as
those of younger and more susceptible frame of body.
" They did so ;
and after walking about for half an hour, selected an Arab boy,
not apparently above eight, whom they found playing at marbles. They bribed
him with a few half-pence, and took him with them to the studio of the African
Roger Bacon. The child was much frightened at the smoke and the smell, and
the chatter and the muttering—but by and by he sucked his sugar candy,' and
recovered his tranquillity, and the magician made him seat himself under a win-
dow
—
the only one that had not been darkened—
The object of placing the boy near the window was evidently for
him to inhale the fumes ; and it being the only window open the
vapors would naturally be directed to that point.
—and poured about a table-spoonful of some black liquid into the boy's risht
hand and bade him hold the hand steady, and keep his eye fixed upon the surface
of the liquid
—
Here, as with " the magic mirrors of old," is the medium used to
embody the idea, which has been conveyed by the operator to per-
sons in correspondence ;
the angle of direction from the boy's mind
must be in accordance with the angle from the person in corres-
pondence.
—and then resuming his old station by the brazier, sung out for several minutes on
end—'What do you see? Allah bismillah—what do you see? Illala Rp 1
Allah ! What do you see V All the while the smoke curled up faster and fc«ftpr
Presently the lad said, ' Bismillah /' I see a horse—a horseman—I see two
29
horsemen—I see three—I see four—five—six—I see seven horsemen, and the
seventh is a Sultan.' 'Has he a flag?' cries the magician—'He has three,'
answered the boy. '
'Tie well,' says the other, '
now halt!' and with that he laid
his stick right across the fire, and standing up addressed the travellers in these
words:—' Name your name—be it of those that are upon the earth, or of those
that are beneath it; be it Frank, Moor, Turk, or Indian, prince or beggar, living
and breathing, or resolved into the dust of Adam, 3000 years ago—speak, and this
boy shall behold and describe.'
" The first name was William Shakspeare. The magician made three reve-
rences toward the window, waved his wand nine times, sung out something beyond
their interpretation, and at length called out, 'Boy, what do you behold V—'The
Sultan alone remains,' said the child—'and beside him I see a pale-faced Frank
—but not dressed like these Franks
—
with large eyes, a pointed beard, a tall hat,
roses on his shoes, and a short mantle !' The other asked for Francis Arouet de
Voltaire, and the boy immediately described a lean, old, yellow faced Frank, with
a huge brown wig, a nutmeg grater profile, spindle shanks, buckled shoes, and a
gold snuffbox?' Lord Prudhoe now named Archdeacon Wrangham, and the
Arab boy made answer, and said, ' I perceive a tall, gray-haired Frank, with a
black silk petticoat, walking in a garden with a little book in his hand. He is
reading on the book—his eyes are bright and gleaming—his teeth are white—he
is the happiest looking Frank I ever beheld.' Major Felix now named a brother
of his, who is in the cavalry of the East India Company, in the presidency of
Madras. The Magician signed, and the boy again answered. '
I see a red-haired
Frank, with a short red jacket, and white trowsers. He is standing by the sea-
shore, and behind him there is a black man in a turban, holding a beautiful horse
richly caparisoned.' ' God in heaven !' cried Felix. '
Nay,' the boy resumed,
' this is an odd Frank—he has turned round while you are speaking, and, by
Allah, he has but one arm !'
Upon this the major swooned away. His brother
lost his left arm in the campaign of Ava !
It is here evident that he did not see any real spirit or apparition,
but merely the embodied idea of the travellers, who depicted in their
minds the image of Shakspeare, as he is generally represented ; the
conception with regard to Voltaire, Archbishop Wrangham, the
brother of Major Felix, (fee, were merely the transmission of these
personages, embodied in the nervous medium and impressed on a
recipient brain, identical with the daguerreotype process. The
swooning of Major Felix arose from the corroboration of the boy's
description with his own conviction.
The possibility of mental transfer has been established beyond
the remotest chance of a doubt. The circumstances connected with
the experiments have been as positive as human reason can desire.
Tin- credibility of the parties concerned, independent of the impos-
sibility of deception from the nature of the case ;
for instance, per-
sons who have never seen each other until the moment before the
trial, have* succeeded inb ringing to light the most astounding facts.
A few instances will suffice so show exactly what I mean.
Geneva, N. Y, January, 1843.
Judge Whiting was placed in mental correspondence with a reci-
pient, a little boy twelve years of age. The following dialogue
followed.
Judge—" Will you go with me ?"
Recipient—" Yes."
J " How are we travelling ?"
R.—" In a steamboat."
5
30
J.
—" In what direction are we going ?" R.—" South."
J._« How are we going now ?" R.—" In a stage coach ?"
J._" How now ?" R.—" On a railroad."
J.__« Where are we going ?" R.—" Down that hill."
J._« What do you see T R.—" That high round thing."
J._« What is it for ?" R.—" To pull those cars up with."
J.
—" Where are we now ?"
R.—"In this dark place; mind, you will fall."
J.
—" Do you see any body ?"
R.—" Yes, three ladies."
J.
—" How do we get out from this place ?"
R.—•" We must go round that hill ; mind, you will fall over."
This was in precise concordance with the images painted on the
judge's mind ; he had mentally taken the recipient in the manner de-
scribed to a coal mine ; the round high thing was a large wheel,
used to wind up the cars ; the dark place was the entrance to the
mine ; the ladies had accompanied him on his last visit ; and the
descent from the mine is by a dangerous, circuitous path.
New York, February, 1841.—Magnetized Miss , found
her condition one of the most exalted ;
at the request of her father,
who is one of the most eminent artists in the country, I brought
before her spiritual vision the shade of Napoleon, whom she recog-
nized at once ;
then Byron, Alexander the Great. The experiment
was performed with much care, so that she could not have previously
known our intention. I repeated the experiment on a series of per-
sons with the like success. I was obliged to embody the image of
these personages in my own mind, before they could be recognized
by the recipients ;
whose brain during the congestive state was so
sentient that the impression was conveyed to the mind similar to
the photographic process of Daguerre.
At a public lecture, May 12th, 1843, in Philadelphia, Walter R.
Johnson, Professor of Chemistry, was placed in correspondence with
the recipient.
The professor took him mentally, or, more properly speaking,
painted on his brain the navy yard at Washington, D. C. To the
query—" What do you see ?" He said, " I see workshops, black-
smiths, carpenters, &c," which was the idea in the professor's mind
;
no indication had been given of the professor's intention, it was only
known to himself.
In New York, in company with Counsellor Pugsley and Dr.
Trotter, of Albany, I called on Mrs. T., who had been frequently
thrown into the congestive state. I reduced her in about two
minutes. We had agreed to take her to the State House, Albany
;
this before we saw her. I took her on board of a steamboat, went
up the North River to the city of Albany, then brought before my
own mmd the state house, the dome, with the figure of Justice hold-
ing the scales ;
all of which she described in the same order as I
had conceived the various images of thought in my own mind.*
* Very few persons are capable of depicting the distinct outline of any ima^e,
unless the power has been acquired by much practice. Such persons as the cele-
brated Monsieur Edouart, Mr. T. Sully, or Mr. H. Inman, would produce a fine
result, from their power to depict correctly the image of any object.
31
I might adduce a hundred such instances, showing the embodi-
ment of ideas which, by a concentrated and undivided effort of the
will, may be depicted on a recipient brain. This mental photo-
graphic process depends on the resident principle of the brain, being
subject to the same laws as that of electricity, light, heat, (fee.
The brain, in all its operations, uses this' vital electricity. It is
the medium of intercourse, the link of communion between mind
and matter. The knowledge of this law prepared me for the expe-
riment of reflecting thoughts in a proper medium. When I an-
nounced, in January last, my performance with the " cup of mo-
lasses," I was not surprised at the ridicule it met with from the
editors throughout the land. It was as follows :
" I have always advocated the philosophy, that the nervous fluid
was governed by the same code of laws which governed heat, light,
<fcc, as radiation and reflection, and actually made a lady perform
the same class of phenomena, which is the wonder of travellers in
the East. She was desired to look into a cup of molasses, (any other
dark fluid will answer the same purpose,) and when the angle of
incidence from my brain was equal to the angle of reflection from
her brain, she distinctly saw the image of my thoughts at the point
of coincidence, and gave minute descriptions of many persons
whom she could have no idea of. She saw the persons and things
in the fluid, only when the angles of thought converged."
—
Albany
Argus, January 12th.
A. The operator, directing the image of his thoughts to point C. B. The
recipient receiving the reflected image on his brain, from point C. The angle
A C being equal to the angle C B.
This is perfectly in keeping with the magical experiments of the
Egyptians, and has been performed for thousands of years, and un-
doubtedly was a most fertile source of imposition and superstition.
32
The only difference between my experiment and that of the fol-
lowing from Lane's admirable work on Egypt is, in my case, the
recipient's brain was rendered sentient to the mental image by the
nervous agency from a second person ;
whereas, the boys used by
the Egyptian Magi, were caused to inhale narcotic fumes, producing
in both instances the identical state of brain. It will be observed,
that in some the lucid condition cannot be induced, the state of the
atmosphere, &c. interferes ;
the same contingencies occur with the
recipient of magnetism.
Though I had magnetized my little brother nearly every day for
more than fifteen months, and could produce the congestive condi-
tion in a second at favorable times, I cannot now affect him, though
I have tried for an hour for several days in succession. The condi-
tion of the recipient continually varies. The best and most lucid
state invariably occurs, when the atmosphere is clear and dry,
the operator's mind perfectly self-possessed, and the recipient per-
fectly willing to be operated on. The details of the faculty of clair-
voyance I must not now attempt to explain. The limits of this work
preclude the chance of my doing the subject justice. I have a large
book in progress, which will treat particularly on this department.
There are three kinds of clairvoyance. 1st. A mixed, confused
condition of the recipient's faculties ;
he will confound much error
with truth ;
will seem to guess rather than actually see. 2d. Where
the thoughts of the operator or correspondent are painted on the
brain of the recipient, this is mental transfer or phrenography. 3d.
Where the recipient recognizes independent of the knowledge of
the operator or correspondent. This is the only true clairvoyance.
The three kinds are too often mixed by most operators, which ac-
counts for the numberless discordant results. The highest or lucid
condition is of short duration, is soon fatigued by exercise, and
emerges into the second stage, then into the third, or confused. The
greatest care should always be observed not to confound these. And
again, a recipient may be in the most exalted condition, and the
mere approach of a person of skeptical mind or bad feelings toward
Mesmerism, will cause him to lose his faculties in an instant; all
then that follows will be vague and incongruous. The ancients
were aware of this—whence the inscription on their temples, " Un-
believers, keep at a distance."
The Rev. Mr. Townsend in his admirable work, which I repub-
lished in Boston, says
:
" I have also remarked that sleepwalkers, (recipients,) when once
disturbed by the presence of objects that influence them disagree-
ably, become indisposed to a further exertion of their faculties.
&
Any
thing like a doubt of their sincerity will also distress them exceed-
ingly, and obstruct the exercise of their powers. Moreover they
display extraordinary penetration in discovering which of the per-
sons around them entertain feelings of incredulity or suspicion and
should they have to encounter a large amount of unbelief and' hos-
tility to mesmerism, they will become reserved and irritable and fail
in every thing they undertake. The variations of the atmosphere
seem also to affect them. In dry, clear weather their mesmeric
faculties were best developed ;
on damp, misty days they were less
33
alert ; and when thunder-storms were passing, they were singularly-
disordered."
My audiences in Boston and Philadelphia will corroborate this
fact. Oftentimes during a thunder-storm my recipients have be-
come convulsed, and all the experiments have failed.
There is little doubt, in my mind, that electricity is the main
instrument which brings about all these extraordinary phenomena.
The nervous agency is electricity, assimilated to the animal economy
to subserve the purposes of life. This is proved by numerous phy-
siological facts. I have often taken the person out of the deepest
state by the contact of steel points, and have often passed through
the recipient about two thousand square inches of electricity with-
out any inconvenience to him ;
the effect produced, would have been
exhibited on a corpse many hours dead.
The following, from Lane's work, shows the conformity with
what I have stated :
" A few weeks after my second arrival in Egypt, my neighbor
'Osman, interpreter of the British consulate, brought him to me
;
and I fixed a day for his visiting me, to give me a proof of the skill
for which he is so much famed. He came at the time appointed,
about two hours before noon ;
but seemed uneasy ; frequently look-
ed up at the sky, through the window ; and remarked that the wea-
ther was unpropitious : it was dull and cloudy ; and the wind was
boisterous. . The experiment was performed with three boys ; one
after another. With the first, it was partly successful ; but with the
others, it completely failed. The magician said that he could do
nothing more that day ; and that he would come in the evening of
a subsequent day. He kept his appointment ; and admitted that the
time was favorable. While waiting for my neighbor, before men-
tioned, to come and witness the performances, we took pipes and
coffee ; and the magician chatted with me on indifferent subjects. He
is a fine, tall, and stout man, of a rather fair complexion, with a
dark brown beard ; is shabbily dressed ;
and generally wears a large
green turban, being a descendant of the Prophet. In his conversa-
tion, he is affable and unaffected. He professed to me that his won-
ders were effected by the agency of good spirits ;
but to others, he
has said the reverse : that his magic is satanic.
" In preparing for the experiment of the magic mirror of ink,
which, like some other performances of a similar nature, is here
termed '
darb elmendel,' the magician first asked me for a reed-pen
and ink, a piece of paper, and a pair of scissors ; and, having cut
off a narrow strip of paper, wrote upon it certain forms of invoca-
tion, too-ether with another charm, by which he professes to accom-
plish the object of the experiment. He did not attempt to conceal
these ;
and on my asking him to give me copies of them, he readily
consented, and immediately wrote them for me ;
explaining to me,
at the same time, that the object he had in view was accomplish-
ed through the influence of the two first words, ' Tarshun' and
1
Taryooshun,' which, he said, were the names of two genii, his
' familiar spirits.'
" Having written these, the magician cut off the paper containing
34
the forms of invocation from that upon which the other charm was
written ;
and cut the former into six strips. He then explained to
me that the object of the latter charm (which contains part of the
21st verse of the Soorat Kaf, or 50th chapter of the Kur-an) was to
open the boy's eyes in a supernatural manner ; to make his sight
pierce into what is to us the invisible world.
" I had prepared, by the magician's direction, some frankincense
and coriander-seed, and a chafing-dish with some live charcoal in it.
These were now brought into the room, together with the boy who
was to be employed : he had been called in, by my desire, from
among some boys in the street, returning from a manufactory ; and
was about eight or nine years of age. In reply to my inquiry re-
specting the description of persons who could see in the magic mir-
ror of ink, the magician said that they were a boy not arrived at
puberty, a virgin, a black female slave, and a pregnant woman.
The chafing-dish was placed before him and the boy ;
and the latter
was placed on a seat. The magician now desired my servant to put
some frankincense and coriander-seed into the chafing-dish ; then
taking hold of the boy's right hand, he drew, in the palm of it, a
magic square, of which a copy is here given. The figures which
it contains are Arabic numerals.* In the centre, he poured a little
ink, and desired the boy to look into it, and tell him if he could see
his face reflected in it : the boy replied that he saw his face clearly.
* The numbers in this magic square, in our own ordinary characters, are as
follow :
—
4 9 2
3 5 7
8 1 6
It will be seen that the horizontal, vertical, and diagonal rows o-ive each the
same sum, namely, 15. ° '
'
35
The magician, holding the boy's hand all the while, told him to
continue looking intently into the ink ; and not to raise his head.
" He then took one of the little strips of paper inscribed with the
forms of invocation, and dropped it into the chafing-dish, upon the
burning coals and perfumes, which had already filled the room with
their smoke ;
and as he did this, he commenced an indistinct mut-
tering of words, which he continued during the whole process, ex-
cepting when he had to ask the boy a question, or to tell him what
he was to say. The piece of paper containing the words from the
Kur-an he placed inside the fore part of the boy's takeeyeh, or scull-
cap. He then asked him if he saw any thing in the ink ;
and was
answered, '
No ;' but about a minute after, the boy, trembling and
seeming much frightened, said, '
I see a man sweeping the ground.'
'
When he has done sweeping,' said the magician, '
tell me.' Pre-
sently, the boy said, '
He has done.' The magician then again in-
terrupted his muttering to ask the boy if he knew what a ' beyrak'
(or flag) was ;
and being answered, ' Yes,' desired him to say,
'
Bring a flag.' The boy did so ;
and soon said, '
He has brought a
flag.' ' What color is it ?''
asked the magician : the boy replied,
1
Red.' He was told to call for another flag ; which he "did ; and
soon after he said that he saw another brought ; and that it was
black. In like manner, he was told to call for a third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, and seventh ; which he described as being successively
brought before him ; specifying their colors, as white, green, black,
red, and blue. The magician then asked him (as he did, also, each
time that a new flag was described as being brought,) '
How many
flags have you now before you V '
Seven,' answered the boy.
Wnile this was going on, the magician put the second and third of
the small strips of paper upon which the forms of invocation were
written, into the chafing-dish ;
and fresh frankincense and coriander-
seed having been repeatedly added, the fumes became painful to the
eyes. When the boy had described the seven flags as appearing to
him, he was desired to say, '
Bring the Sultan's tent ; and pitch it.'
This he did ; and in about a minute after, he said, ' Some men have
brought the tent ; a large green tent : they are pitching it ;' and pre-
sently he added, <
They have set it up.' ' Now,' said the magician,
'order the soldiers to come, and to pitch their camp around the tent
of the Sultan.' The boy did as he was desired ; and immediately
said, '
I see a great many soldiers, with their tents : they have pitch-
ed their tents.' He was then told to order that the soldiers should
be drawn up in ranks ; and, having done so, he presemly said, that
he saw them thus arranged. The magician had put the fourth of
the little strips of paper into the chafing-dish ;
and soon after, he
did the same with the fifth. He now said, ' Tell some of the people
to brino- a bull.' The boy gave the order required, and said, ' I see
a bull :
&
it is red : four men are dragging it along; and three are
beating it.' He was told to desire them to kill it, and cut it up, and
to put the meat into saucepans, and cook it. He did as he was di-
rected •
and described these operations as apparently performed be-
fore his eyes 'Tell the soldiers,' said the magician, 'to eat it.'
The boy did so ;
and said. '
Thev are eating it. They have done ;
and are washing their hands.' The magician then told him to call
36
for the Sultan ; and the boy, having done this, said, ' I see the Sul-
tan riding to his tent, on a bay horse ; and he has, on his head, a
high red cap : he has alighted at his tent, and sat down within it.'
1
Desire them to bring coffee to the Sultan,' said the magician, 'and
to form the court.' These orders were given by the boy ;
and he
said that he saw them performed. The magician had put the last
of the six little strips of paper into the chafing-dish. In his mut-
terings I distinguished nothing but the words of the written invoca-
tion, frequently repeated, excepting on two or three occasions, when
I heard him say, '
If they demand information, inform them ; and
be ye veracious.' But much that he repeated was inaudible, and as
I did not ask him to teach me his art, I do not pretend to assert that
I am fully acquainted with his invocations.
" He now addressed himself to me ;
and asked me if I wished the
boy to see any person who was absent or dead. I named Lord
Nelson ; of whom the boy had evidently never heard ; for it was
with much difficulty that he pronounced the name, after several
trials. The magician desired the boy to say to the Sultan—' My
master salutes thee, and desires thee to bring Lord Nelson : bring
him before my eyes, that I may see him, speedily.' The boy then
said so ;
and almost immediately added, '
A messenger is gone, and
has returned, and brought a man, dressed in a black* suit of Euro-
pean clothes : the man has lost his left arm.' He then paused for a
moment or two ; and, looking more intently, and more closely, into
the ink, said, '
No, he has not lost his left arm ; but it is placed to
his breast.' This correction made his description more striking than
it had been without it : since Lord Nelson generally had his empty
sleeve attached to the breast of his coat : but it was the right arm
that he had lost. Without saying that I suspected the boy had made
a mistake, I asked the magician whether the objects appeared in the
ink as if actually before the eyes, or as if in a glass, which makes
the right appear left. He answered, that they appeared as in a mir-
ror. This rendered the boy's description faultless.f
" The next person I called for was a native of Egypt, who has
been for many years resident in England, where he has adopted our
dress ; and who had been long confined to his bed by illness before
I embarked for this country : I thought that his name, one not very
uncommon in Egypt, might make the boy describe him incorrectly;
though another boy, on the former visit of the magician, had describ-
ed this same person as wearing a European dress, like that in which
I last saw him. In the present case the boy said, '
Here is a man
* Dark blue is called by the modern Egyptians " eswed," which properly sig-
nifies black, and is therefore so translated here.
f Whenever I desired the boy to call for any person to appear, I paid particu-
lar attention both to the magician and to 'Osman. The latter gave no direction
either by word or sign ;
and indeed he was generally unacquainted with the per-
sonal appearance of the individual called for. I took care that he had no previ-
ous communication with the boys; and have seen the experiment fail when he
could have given directions to them, or to the magician. In short, it would be
difficult to conceive any precaution which I did not take. It is important to add
that the dialect of the magician was more intelligible to me than to the boy
When / understood him perfectly at once, he was sometimes obliged to varv his
words to make the boy comprehend what he said.
37
brought on a kind of bier, and wrapped up in a sheet.' This de-
scription would suit, supposing- the person in question to be still
confined to his bed, or if he be dead. The boy described his face
as covered; and was told to order that it should be uncovered.
This he did ;
and then said, '
His face is pale ; and he has mustaches,
but no beard :' which is correct.
" Several other persons were successively called for ; but the boy's
descriptions of them were imperfect, though not altogether incor-
rect. He represented each object as appearing less distinct than the
preceding one ; as if his sight were gradually becoming dim : he
was a minute, or more, before he could give any account of the
persons he professed to see towards the close of the performance ;
and the magician said it was useless to proceed with him. Another
boy was then brought in ;
and the magic square, &c, made in his
hand ; but he could see nothing. The magician said he was too
old.
" Though completely puzzled, I was somewhat disappointed with
his performances, for they fell short of what he had accomplished,
in many instances, in presence of certain of my friends and coun-
trymen. On one of these occasions, an Englishman present ridi-
culed the performance, and said that nothing would satisfy him but
a correct description of the appearance of his own father, of whom,
he was sure, no one of the company had any knowledge. The
boy, accordingly, having called by name for the person alluded to,
described a man in a Frank dress, with his hand placed to his head,
wearing spectacles, and with one foot on the ground, and the other
raised behind him, as if he were stepping down from a seat. The
description was exactly true in every respect : the peculiar position
of the hand was occasioned by an almost constant headach ;
and
that of the foot or leg, by a stiff knee, caused by a fall from a horse,
in hunting. I am assured that, on this occasion, the boy accurately
described each person and thing that was called for. On another
occasion, Shakspeare was described with the most minute correct-
ness, both as to person and dress ;
and I might add several other
cases in which the same magician has excited astonishment in the
sober minds of Englishmen of my acquaintance. A short time
since, after performing in the usual manner, by means of a boy, he
prepared the magic mirror in the hand of a young English lady,
who, on looking into it for a little while, said that she saw a broom
sweeping the ground without any body holding it, and was so much
frightened that she would look no longer.
" I have stated these facts partly from my own experience, and
partly as they came to my knowledge on the authority of respectable
persons. The reader may be tempted to think, that, in each in-
stance, the boy saw images produced by some reflection in the ink ;
but this was evidently not the case ;
or that he was a confederate, or
guided by leading questions. That there was no collusion, I satis-
factorily ascertained, by selecting the boy who performed the part
above described in my presence from a number of others passing by
in the street, and by his rejecting a present which I afterwards offer-
ed him with the view of inducing him to confess that he did not
really see what he had professed to have seen. I tried the veracity
6
38
of another boy on a subsequent occasion in the same manner ;
and
the result was the same. The experiment often entirely fails ;
but
when the boy employed is right in one case, he generally is so in
all : when he gives, at first, an account altogether wrong, the ma-
gician usually dismisses him at once, saying that he is too old. The
perfumes, or excited imagination, or fear, may be supposed to affect
the vision of the boy who describes objects as appearing to him in
the ink ;
but, if so, why does he see exactly what is required, and
objects of which he can have had no previous particular notion ?
Neither I nor others have been able to discover any clue by which
to penetrate the mystery i and if the reader be alike unable to give
the solution, I hope that he will not allow the above account to in-
duce in his mind any degree of skepticism with respect to other por-
tions of this work."
At a large and respectable meeting of the citizens of Boston, held
at the Masonic Temple, on the evening of the 22d of June, A. D.
1841, Drs. Abner Phelps, Winslow Lewis, Jr., and Francis Dana
were appointed a committee to select twenty-four gentlemen of the
three learned professions in that city, for the purpose of investigat-
ing the claims of Animal-Magnetism, as exhibited by Dr. Collyer.
The following gentlemen having been requested to attend to that
duty, signified their acceptance of the appointment, and subsequently-
met at the Temple : —
-
Rev. Messrs. Stowe, Gannett, Greenwood, Muzzy, Adams, Chapin,
Neale, Turnbull, and Jones ;
Messrs. James, Power, Williams, Den-
ny, Tolman, Peabody, and Plimpton, Esquires ; Doctors Storer,
Lane, Morrill, Flint, Dana, Strong, Ingalls, Lewis, and Stedman.
This committee associated with them several gentlemen, among
whom were Doctors Adams and Stone.
On July 6th, which was the fourteenth day after the appointment
of the committee, the following dispassionate result took place :
—
After considerable discussion, in which Rev. Messrs. Greenwood,
Gannett, Turnbull, Jones, Muzzy, and Chapin, Drs. Storer, Adams,
and Flint, and Messrs. Peabody, James, and others, took part, the
following resolution was adopted, unanimously, with a view to its
publication, viz :
—
" Resolved, That, while this committee refrain from expressing any decisive
opinion as to the science or principle of " Animal-Magnetism," they freely con-
fess that, in the experiments of Dr. Collyer, certain appearances have been pre-
sented, which cannot be explained on the supposition of collusion, or by a refer-
ence to any physiological principles known to them.
" After providing for the publication of this record, the meeting dissolved.
" WILLIAM INGALLS, Chairman.
" <S. F. Plympton, Secretary."
This is the only public document ever given on this continent,
with reference to Animal-Magnetism, and the only one in the world,
where the vote was unanimous.
I am always willing to meet any well-disposed and scientific men
in the investigation ; I do not fear the result. Mesmerism beino- true,
39
courts the most rigorous scrutiny, and will yield abundant extra-
ordinary physiological phenomena, if the laws of mind are onlv
obeyed. 3
I was not a little pleased on discovering that in Europe, some
months after my " bowl of molasses" experiment, the subject of
Psychographt was occupying the attention of the ablest minds.
The public will, therefore, suspend judgment ; more particularly as
I have experimentally shown the fact of the embodiment of thought,
before audiences of several hundred in the city of Philadelphia, with
entire success. Only a few nights since it was repeated. The gen-
tleman who came on the stage, depicted on his mental vision " a
horse, a man and a house"—which the recipient (Evan) gave loud and
distinctly to the audience. Another gentleman came "forward ; the
recipient declared he saw "a large white marble building." The Unit-
ed States Bank was the object thought of. On another, Mr. E
came on the stage, and directed his thought into the " bowl of mo-
lasses." The recipient declared he saw a tall, stout, elderly gentle-
man, with white head, and a gown on ; he then saw a marble
statue. The correspondent declared to the audience, that he was
thinking intently of Lawyer Chauncey, who corresponds exactly
with that description ; and in the second instance, he was think-
ing of the marble statue of one of the Lions, at the Exchange.
These results have put the matter beyond all cavil and doubt ; I
can repeat them at any time under favorable circumstances, such
as are laid down in the pages of this small work.
The following, from Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, will be
found interesting, as connected with the subject.
" In a conversation on Dr. Moser's experiments, which took place
at the meeting of the British Association at Manchester, Sir John
Herschel called particular attention to the reproducibility of the
pictures, and confirmed the fact by drawing from his pocket one of
his own pictures, Avhich he said was then invisible, but might be
made visible by being placed over the vapor of muriatic acid. After
a time, he said the image would again vanish, but a reapplication
of the gas would bring it again into sight. He explained that the
paper had been washed in a certain vegetable solution, which made
ii susceptible of such pictures. He also adverted to the remarkable
fact, that the muriatic gas is perfectly colorless. He then added,
•
Might not the retina itself be affected in a somewhat similar
manner J The impressions made "upon it were gone in a moment.
Might not those impressions on the retina be produced by a sort of
photographic apparatus ? The number of questions arising on this
topic,' he said, <
were likely to render it a most electrifying topic
among philosophers.' Sir David Brewster considered the remark of
Sir John Herschel, as '
having an important bearing on the philo-
sophy of the senses. The moment it was mentioned in the hearing
of any one acquainted with the physiological action of the retina,
he would sec a crowd of facts referable to it. He should mention
one fact which appeared to be explained by it. After being present
at a few of the meetings of the Association, where there had been
40
so many white faces, a mass of white faces had at length become
impressed on his retina. Each face had three black spots on it, two
for the eyes and one for the month. For two days, these objects
flitted before his eyes. He could not distinguish the whitest face in
the company from the darkest. Here was a picture continuing longer
than usual, in consequence of the retina being longer impressed.
In some cases, he had been enabled to tear off the mask, and fill up
these blank faces with individual likenesses.' These remarks of the
British philosophers have since been found to coincide with views
entertained by Dr. Moser, and which he has expressed in a paper
published at Berlin.
" That the impressions on the retina are photographic processes,
is, we should say, by no means unlikely. Many phenomena, long
before the world, perfectly harmonize with such an idea. The sixth
of a moment is, we believe, the space of time which these impres-
sions remain in an ordinary state of health ; hence, we may remind
unscientific readers, such phenomena as that of a lighted stick mak-
ing a fiery arc when waved quickly to and fro. The eye, then, may
be said to be, in its ordinary state, a plate or speculum prepared to
receive, and retain for that definite portion of time, any image
thrown upon it. Amongst relative phenomena, the mind very
quickly lights upon a well-known one recorded by Dr. Darwin :
'
I
covered a paper about four inches square with yellow, and with a
pen filled with a blue color, wrote upon the middle of it the word
BANKS in capitals ; and sitting with my back to the sun, fixed my
eyes for a minute exactly upon the centre of the letter N in the
word. After shutting my eyes, and shading them somewhat with
my hand, the word was distinctly seen in the spectrum in yellow
colors on a blue ground ;
and then, on opening my eyes, on a yel-
lowish wall at twenty feet distance, the magnified name of BANKS
appeared on the wall written in golden characters.' Dr. Abercrom-
by records a similar instance :
'
A friend of mine had been, one day,
looking intensely at a small print of the Virgin and Child, and had
sat bending over it for some time. On raising his head, he was
startled by perceiving at the further end of the apartment a female
figure of the size of life, with a child in her arms. The first feeling
of surprise having subsided, he instantly traced the source of the
illusion, and remarked that the figure corresponded exactly with
that which he had contemplated in the print, being what painters
call a kit-cat figure, in which the lower parts of the body are not
represented. The illusion continued distinct for about two minutes.'
In Dr. Darwin's case, there was, we believe, only the ordinary action
of the eye in exhibiting the spectrum of the accidental colors : in
such instances as that recorded by Dr. Abercromby, and described
by Sir David Brewster, there are probably some extraordinary pheno-
mena, by which the impression, a simple image, is rendered perma-
nent ;
we can easily conceive it to be some phenomena in organic
pathology analogous to the washing of a plate with a solution.*
" But is it upon the retina, or the retina alone, that the impression
lingers? 'In regard to an ocular spectra,' says Dr. Abercromby,
« another fact of a very singular nature appears to have been first
observed by Sir Isaac Newton ;
namely, that when he produced a
41
spectrum of the sun by looking- at it with the right eye, the left
being covered, upon uncovering the left, and looking upon a white
ground, a spectrum of the sun was seen with it also. He likewise
acquired the power of recalling the spectra after they had ceased,
when he went into the dark, and directed his mind intensely, '
as
when a man looks earnestly to see a thing which is difficult to be
seen? By repeating these experiments frequently, such an effect
was produced upon his eyes, '
that for some months after,' he says,
1
the spectrum of the sun began to return, as often as I began to
meditate upon the phonomena, even though I lay in bed at midnight
with my curtains drawn.' Does not this seem to imply that, if an
actual impression of any kind is made, it must be upon something
beyond the retina, something commanding both the outlets where
the retinae are placed ; upon that internal nervous substance, in
short, which forms the medium of organism of mind itself?
"There are certainly many psychological phenomena which seem
to bear a curious analogy to these image-making properties of light.
For instance, '
the distinct recollection of a fact is generally in pro-
portion to the intensity with which it has been contemplated.' Sup-
pose attention to be a greater than usual development of electric
action in the brain, how strangely akin seem the recent experiments
of Daguerre ! When attention is languid, or when one is in a state
of reverie, something is said by a neighbor : you are not conscious
of more than that some one has spoken ; but in a few seconds, or
perhaps minutes, by an effort, the words are recalled. May not this
be simply an electric evolution upon some impressible medium
within, before the photographic impression had faded, catching up
its shrinking tints? Newton could recall the spectra by intensely
looking for them, or meditating upon them ; so, by an effort of the
mind, do we recall to memory a fact which we once knew, but
which has been forgotten. To write down any thing we may wish
to remember, or to learn it from print or writing, is acknowledged
to be the most ready means of acquiring it by heart. A comedian,
accustomed to study his parts deliberately, and who remembered
them afterwards without effort, had on one occasion to study one
very hurriedly. This part immediately after disappeared from his
mind. '
When questioned respecting the mental process which he
employed the first time he performed his part, he said that he lost
sight entirely of the audience, and seemed to have nothing before
him but the pages of the book from which he had learnt it, and that
if any thing had occurred to interrupt this illusion, he should have
stopped instantly.' And Sir James Mackintosh, who could repeat
whole pages of a book on the Brownonian system which he had
read thirty years before, always acknowledged that he was guided
by a recollection of the actual appearance of the pages of the book
itself. The signs of thought, we may suppose, are more easily re-
membered than the direct thought itself, because they are objects
—
things producing a clear photographic image, so to speak, on the
brain. Men in a partially diseased or infirm condition lose the re-
collection of words, or of names, but remember things and persons.
They know the friend they meet, but they cannot pronounce his
name. Dr. Abercromby tells of a gentleman who (
could not be
42
made to understand the name of an object, if it was spoken to him,
but understood it perfectly when it was written. His mental facul-
ties were so entire, that he was engaged in extensive agricultural
concerns, and he managed them with perfect correctness by means
of a remarkable contrivance. He kept before him, in the room
where he transacted business, a list of the words which were most
apt to occur in his intercourse with his workmen. When any of
them wished to communicate with him upon any subject, he first
heard what the workman had to say, but without understanding
him further than simply to catch the words. He then turned to the
words in the written list, and whenever they met his eye, he under-
stood them perfectly.'' Here, clearly, a certain mental power was
wanting. But the power of receiving a direct impression from an
object remained sound, and was used. What was this but having
to repeat every time these messages between objects in the external
world and the inner powers of mind, which usually become unne-
cessary in a mature intellect, from so much coming to be fixed and
understood ? It was like Herschel's photographic paper, or Moser's
plates, where some common vapor was used. Old men generally
remember recent events least perfectly. This may be simply owing
to the images in early life having been impressed on what was in a
more fit state to receive them, or having been better secured after
they were impressed. A silver plate bearing a good photographic
image, of three years standing, fixed with the fumes of mercury, or
nitrate of silver, may be, in comparison with a piece of Herschel's
paper, which bore an image yesterday, and none to-day, exactly
what an old man's memory of remote events is to his recollection of
recent occurrences."
CONCLUSION.
Charity is an attribute of the possessor of a great mind ; he
knows the contingencies and entangled difficulties attendant on the
investigation of mental and psychological subjects. He is also
aware that the obstacle to improvement is not by any means con-
fined to these exalted sciences ;
in mechanical philosophy, year after
year is often spent in fruitless attempts at accomplishing a desired
end. The indefatigable experimentalist is not frustrated; he weighs
in his own mind the difficulties, the cause of their existence, and
proceeds onward. In the mean time, if the public happen to wit-
ness his exertions, he is decried as a poor visionary, or a vain en-
thusiast, and if he has the misfortune to be poor, and receives a re-
muneration from those who choose to witness his efforts, then he is
an impostor, and charlatan. The history of the past shows us how
shamefully all public benefactors have been treated by the multitude
in their day. And it has not been until they have departed from
earth, that any manifestation of gratitude has been acknowledged.
The man whose mind is cramped by illiberal thoughts, necessa-
rily looks upon all mankind through a distorted medium ; he is
continually villifying, slandering, and debasing all who interfere
with his limited notions ;
such a wretch calls for pity, rather than
censure ; he is the victim of his meagre organization. Others,
whose native powers deserve a better fate, waste their existence in
puny ridicule, sage irony, and abortive attempts at wit. But, the
most lamentable condition of mind, is, when there does not exist
sufficient moral courage to avow what it really does believe. I am
acquainted with medical men of talent, who dare not avow them-
selves converts to Animal-Magnetism; and why? Because, it might
affect their practice ;
it might be the cause of their not receiving so
many dollars by the end of the year. They are not of noble stamp ;
they possess no inherent independence, none of that master-spirit,
which caused an Elliotson to abdicate his offices of distinction and
emolument, rather than be gagged in the cause of truth.
Believe me,
Ever yours truly,
ROBT. H. COLLYER.
To Dr. W. Leivis, of Boston.
p. s.—Since the above was written, the following, which is from
(he pen of Dr. Elliotson, has been received :
—
" In Phrenological Experiments, not only should the patient know
nothing of phrenology, but the operator should know nothing ; or
if the operator does, he should not know what part he is pointing
to or touching ;
or the will may be the agent, and nothing is thus
proved as to the locality ; or, if the patient knows phrenology, there
should be pointing only, and answers by the patient. I affect some
of my patients by pointing only, when their eyes are closed or ban-
44
daged, and any stranger unacquainted with phrenology points, and
I do not, know where he is pointing, and the effect is produced.
Unless all this caution is observed the imagination of the patient, or
the will of the operator explains all. The greater part of the pub-
lished experiments are worth nothing. I could prove my finger to
be the organ of a faculty just as well."
This mode of exciting the organs by pointing, was first accom-
plished on this continent, by Captain Daniels, of the Coldstream
Guards, in Quebec, Sept. 1842, who acted on one of my recipients.
I have several times repeated it. I have attributed the result to the
captain's will.
I have just returned from New York. While there, in company
with Dr. H. H. Sherwood, I called on the lady, on whom I acted
phreno-magnetically, in Nov. 1839. She informed Dr. S. of the
circumstance. Mr. and Mrs. Rutburn, of 27 Walker street, were
present, the present Mayor of the city of Utica, and twenty others,
all of whom have a vivid remembrance of the fact.
