{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__davis___principles_of_physiognomy.pdf","mytitle":"Principles Of Physiognomy","mylang":"de"}
- --~~
· -~-~-----------'
PRINCIPLES
OF
PHYSIOGNOMY
AND
B Y SAM S 0 N DAV I S.
"Where is the Villain?-let me see his tace,-
" That when I meet another such as he
"I may avoid him."
&onb'on:
SIMPKIN AND MARSHALL,
STATIONERS COURT,
1·a 4 3.
Dig111zed by GoogIe
.
:...::.: :.
\. .........
< •
CBISWICJl!
Printed by Godfrey John Baynes,
ALllOK Paus•
rn9111zed by Google
..
TO
M R S. I~. C. D 0 D 8 W 0 R T H,
TURNHAM GREEN,
TBI8 SLIGHT ATTEMPT TO P.\MILURIZB
TBS CBU.P
PHYSIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES
Olf
PHYSIOGNOMY AND NATURAL
LA NGU AGE,
IS
BEIP5CTP11£LY UflCAIBED,
...
rn9111zed by Google
PRINCIPLES
OP
PHYSIOGNOMY,
&c.
CHAPTER I.
Introduction.-Oorporeal Pliysiognomy.
" Her pure and eloquent blood
Spoke in her cheeks, and so distinctly wrought,
That one could almost say her body thought."
WHAT numerous beauties in human na-
ture lie unregarded merely for want of
being observed, and how many more are
hidden to us for want of. an interpreter!
We instinctively gain a familiar acquaint-
ance with the superficial qualities of our
nature while we are yet too young to reason
upon them, and but.too commonly we view
them ever after in a vague manner as tnings
B
rn9111zed by Google
2 PRINCIPLES OF
'!f course. But, let us a moment reflect
that nothing in creation is " a thing of
course, " that all has been devised by the
same Omniscient Mind, and executed by
the same Omnipotent Arm, and that beauty
mvst be its model, and perfection its stamp.
Physiognomy, and the language of gesture,.
are knf>wn and felt by all; and yet how few
have taken thought of their causes,. or
stayed to consider the wisdom and goodness
displayed in their institution and ai:range-
ment. Our ideas respecting them win
surely well repay the revision of a leisure
hour, for they are subjects which must be
universally ackhowledged by competent
judges to rank · among the fairest of the
works of this all-fair creatioo. Indeed, the
scarce-unliving marble, from the creative
hands ofa Phidias or Canova; the breath-
ing canvas, instinct with the promethean
1ire of a Fuseli or Reynolds; nay even
Poesy herself, or, which are but other
word& for the same thing, a.Shakespeare or
a Byron; can but very inadequately ex-
press their . physical beauty and moral
loVeliness; and are all t.oo often obliged.,
in despair or awe, to imitate the painter of
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 3
Agamemnon's grief, and cover them with a
veil! But let us, with no unhallowed hand,
and no incurious eye, attempt to draw aside
the veil the little way we are penilitted, and
to catch a distant glimpse, though it can
be but partial, of the beautiful mechanism
beyond; that animated faery land, that
breathing incarnation of the beautiful,
which hath made such sad havoc among
human hearts from patriarch Adam down-
wards! If Perfection charm thee; if
Beauty delight thee; if to trace the wisdom
and goodness of the great Creator, can ex-
cite in thy boeom the delightful feelings of
adoration and hope, come with me, and we
will read together this exquisite page in the
book of nature, we will wander together in
a new-found garden of our own, and though
others may see in it nought but a dry and
sandy soil, the sun shall shine upon it .as
we walk along, and flowers spring up under
our feet.
We are all Physiognomists by nature;
for we are instinctkrely impressed with an
idea of the mental and moral character by
the cast of the countenance, and rarely do
these impreseions beguile us. · We cannot
B2
rn9111zed by Google
4 PRINCIPLES OF
attribute this wholly to experience, for even
"the lovely miniatures of life" ere falsified
hopes have taught them that men deceive,
or the pleasures of friendly communion have
proved to them that there are hearts which
may be fearlessly trusted,-welcome with
outstretehed arms,or avert with nestlingfear,
the stranger to whom they ar~ presented~
We will not stop to theorize up~>n this
"freemasonry of nature." Neither is it my
present purpose to unfold the science of a
pouting lip, ( I would not, ladies, for the
universe term it an art! )-<>r to translate
the language of a speaking eye-or to re-
cord the poetry of a sentimental nose,
which the great Slaukenbergius, in Sterne,
has so pathetically achieved before me. It
is not my object to afford a systematic
exposition of all the facts in physiognomy,
but simply to give a correct distribu~on of
its principles, and to trace their physical
and moral foundations in the laws of our
ellrthly fabric.
" Physiognomy " is· a eompound gr~
word signifying" thelaw of," or "an index
to, nature; " so that in its strict literal sense
it means an indication o,f nature generally.
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 5
But in its limited acceptation with us, it is
applied to the indication of human nature.
We may broadly·define it, as the science
which professes to tell the mental character
from the external appearances of the body.
It is a branch of knowledge which must
have been recogtl.ised almost as early as
human passions embellished and disfigured
this beauteous world of ours. We find some
shrewd and truthful allusions to it_ in the
earliest writings of the Hebrew, Greek, and
Roman, poets and philosophers; but it is
only within the last century or so, that it
can be said to have been so fixed on a
philosophical basis as to be entitled to ·the
rank of a science. The very celebrated
Swiss clergyman, Lavater, devoted a life-
time of no ordinary talent to its pursuit;
and he has been the chief means,of gaining
it the attention of the moderns. lie was a
good man, an ornament to humanity, pos-
sessed of subtle observing and discriminat-
ing faculties, and of a wonderful eloquence;
which bave afforded great notoriety to his
voluminous wriiings, and more authority
than they philosophically merit. For, 9eing
but slightly acquainted with the principles
rn9111zed by Google
6 PRINCIPLES OF
of physiology, he was unable, in many
instances, to impute the facts which his
acute penetration observed, to their natural
causes; he was consequently led into some
whimsical vagaries, and his unbounded
enthusiasm for the subject occasioDally be-
clouded.his reasonings. The science since
his time has been advantageously cultivated
by several eminent pel'80ns, particularly in
this country. But the grandest and most
important discovery in physiognomy that
ever can be made was that of Gall in pre-
senting us with what is now called phren-
ology,-a gift more valuable to the species
than would be the fabled •philosopher's
1tone.
Although the constituent elements of
physiognomy have been separately known
and treated of for many years, it seems to
me that they have never yet been collected
into a sufficiently comprehensive whole, or
referred to their true physiological causes ;
that much unphilosophical and rediculous
doctrine has been introduced into it; and
that the rightful province of the science
has been hitherto too circumscribed-for
it has been, and still very commonly is,
i
J
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY,, &c.
limited to the indi<:ations of the counte-
nance. And, again, by those who have con-
'&idered it more extensively, its parts have
been confusedly jumbled ; there has not
been an accurate distinction established
·and maintained between it's natural .divisi-
ons. I laave briefly endeaveuood to remedy
these, and the task is. as easy as the.division
is simple and naMiraL
I have defined Physiognomy as "the
-science which professes to tell the character
-of the mind by the appeara.oces of the
body." And I ..divide it into three classes:
.Corporeal, Emotive, and Cerebral, Physi-
<0gnomy. Corporeal Physiognomy is based
-on the .iIUluence which the bo4y has Gver
the mind., -on account of the mind acting
through a OGrporeal -ergan-the Brain-
whicb is largely ii&ueooed by the rest of
-
the body, .and subjectto the same P.hysiolo-
gicai la~ of acti.D.. Emotive Physiogno-
my, on the oontrruy, is founded <?D the influ-
.enoo whlcll the mind has iadi.Jiectly o¥er the
body, in e:s.pNMing ita feelings w emotions
by gestures &c. And Cerebral Physiogno-
my, or Phrenology, directly meaamies the
natural .extent (>f the organs of the Mind.
rn9111zed by Google
8 PRINCIPLES OF
You perceive that Phrenology, as indicating
the mental character by the configuration
of the skull, which is itself modelled by the
developement ofthe brain, must be esteemed
a part of Physiognomy, according to our
definition of it. Indeed, though ·latest dis-
covered it is obviously the mother-branch of
our science; but as, from its metaphysical
relations, it is a science to be separately
discussed, I shall pass over this division of
our subject with one important observation,
and hereafter state no more of its particulars
than are necessary for elucidation. Phren-
ology absolutely metlSUres the mental dispo-
sitions and capacities, whereas they are
merely contingently indicated by the other
two divisions. ln fact, with the exception
of the phrenological portion, physiognomy
is quite a secondary science, a series of
phenomena necessarily resulting ·from the
physiological and mental laws to which we
are subject. We will, firstly, consider the
elements of Corporeal Physiognomy; the
least attractive part of our subject,-but we
must bear with it.
Knowledge is well represented by a cir- ·
cle; for its different branches are·so inti-
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 9
mately connected and dependant on each
other, that it ·is impossible to understand
even what is known of any one, without
some knowledge of the whole. To compre-
hend aright all the principles of Physiogno-
my, we must be well acquainted with the
human mind, and with the structure· and
offices of the several members of the human
frame. But barely to state the science, with
the least likelihood of benefiting the uniniti-
ated, requires a preliminary outline of the
latter two sujects; for the very essence of
C-Orporeal Physiognomy depends upon the
relative developement of the component
parts of the body as existing in different
individuals.
The most comprehensive and lucid divi-
sion of the organs and functi~ns of the hu-
man fabric with which I am acquainted, is
into the three classes of locomotive, vital,
and mental. The first, or locomotive class,
includes the bones, which are the mechani-
cal instruments of motion; the muscles,
which are the agents of motion; and the
tendons and ligaments which unite the two.
The second class, or vital, consists of tubes
or vessels of dllferent kinds, such as the
rn911ized by Google
. 1
10 PRINCIPLES OF
absorbing, the secreting, and the circulating
blood-vessels_-in short of those organs
which immediat.ely nutrify and support the
body. The third clas8, or mental, compri-.
ses the. organs .
of the external senses, the
~luster Gf mental organs which compose the
bJ'ain,--and the nerves, which connect these,
and perfotm all the functions of sensibility.
Now, the funda~ntal principle ofCo~
real Physiognomy, founded on physiology,
is, that as one or the other of the above three
<:lasses of organs predominat.es in the sys·
tem, so will a tendency to its peculiar func-
tions be manifested. And as far as this
influences the action of the mental organs,
from these organs being part of the same
frame, so far can we judge, from this
predominance, respecting the character or
~ualit9 of the mental manifestations;-but
not as some suppose ol the qwuetie,, or the
peculiar faculties, of the mind.
The prevalence of either of th09e classes
<>f organs is :generally known by the term
temperam.eo~ which is the key to Cor-
poreal PhysiogDQlny. There are of course
various species of telllperaments, and these
were obserwed and admirably clescribed.
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOONONY, &c. 11
though erroneoualy ~plained, b.y some of
the most ancient physicians and philoso-
phers. They are now so universally under·
stood that I need but mention them; and in
doing so I shall follow my arrangement of
the organs.
A person in whom the locomotive organs
predominate, is of what is called the Mus-
cular temperament; and if this class of
organs prevails largely over the other&, the
individual will have long, powerful, and
brawny, limbs, and be correspondingly
more disposed to exerciees of the body than
of the mind. This temperament forms
what is called " a fine man " by the ladies;
and constitutes beauty of the locomotive
system. The statutes of Hercules and ofthe
gladiators, and our grenadier guards, belong
to this class.
The vital organs comprise two species of
temperament, according as the blood-vessels
or lymphatic Teuels are in e~cess, the first
constitutes the Sanguine, the other the
Phlegmatic, temperament, and in these, but
most strikingly in the latter, the limbs are
shorter, and the truak. fuller, than in the
preceding temperament, with a less or
- -i
rn9111zed by Google
12 PRINCIPLES OF
greater tendency to corpulency. The San-
guine temperament, as the conventional use
of the term implies, gives the disposition to
quickness and versatility, to passionate
but mutable vehemence of mind. While
in the Phlegmatic temperament there is
just an opposite disposition, with a sturdy
propensity to the indulgence of the " good
old," functions of eating, and drinking, and
sleeping.
In the last of the three classes the mental
organs and nerves predominate;-this is
the natural Nervous temperament, denoted
by the expanded brain, the well-developed
organs of the senses, and usually the rigid
diminutive body. This is the temperament
of genius ; in this the Soul has been finely
said
" To oer-iiiform its tenement of clay." •
All those truly great men who have moved
the world by <lint of pure intellect alone,
(for .they are commonly puny in bodily
powers) will be found to have belonged to
this species of temperament.
Tltere are acquired conditions of the body
called the Bilious, and Melancholic, which
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 13
have been improperly considered by some
as primary temperaments ; they are but
mixtures of the other temperaments. In-
deed one temperament is rarely found. so
notably predominant as to merit the epithet
" unmixed; " and when this is the case it is
obviously unnatural, and may be almost
considered in the light of a disease. And
occasionally the three classes of organs are
so equally compounded as t.o render the
temperament indeterminate ; but most com-
monly one system sufficiently predominates
to stamp it.
In strongly marked cases the tempera-
ment is no doubt an inevitable condition,
and " grows with our growth, and strength-
ens with our strength; " but, in the majori-
ty, it is in some measure acquired or
modified from external circumstances, and
the Diode oflife. Hence its general uniform-
ity in nations and those pursuing similar
avocations. Hence the nervous Italian, the
phl~atie Dutchman, the spare muscular
soldier, the lymphatic gibbosity of "mine
host," and the rubicund country squire,
" With wine and good fat capon lined."
rn9111zed by Google
14 PRINCIPLES OF
We have next to consider the mode in
which temperament influences mental ac-
tion; and here a knowledge of physiology
greatly avails us. No doubt exists as to
the brain being the organ of mind.
Whether the collection of phenomena we
call "mind" is merely the proper function
of the brain, or whether there is a spiritual
essence inhabiting our earthly structure,
which acts through the brain, are specula-
tions equally useless and impossible of de-
monstration with those concerning the na-
ture of light or the being of electricity.
But, whichever hypothesis be the correct
one, it is quite certain that the kind and
degree of mental manifestations depend on
the size and quality, and the consequent
activity of the brain.
There does not appear to be any further
connection between temperament and the
size of the brain than the general rule that
it is comparatively small in the muscular
and large in the nervous temperament.
But the quality and activity of the brain are
very much modified by the temperament.
For the brain is an organ, possessing a
similar texture, and subject to the same
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. Ja
general laws, as the rest of the body; hence,
like the muscles and other parts, its fibres
are denser and more rigid, and consequently
possess most intensity of action, in the Ner-
vous temperament ;-they are less so, and
it is supplied with more abundant and
larger blood-vessels, in the Sanguine tem-
perament; whence, as we shall presently
explain, its excitability:-while in the
Phlegmatic temperament, there is a greater
quantity of watery lymph in its interstices,
it partakes of the general flaccidity of the
sy&tem, and is thereby·rendered dull, inert~
and difficultly roused to feeble action.
Numerous phenomena prove that the
blood is the chief stimulus to the brain; and
that in proportion to the rapidity with
which it circulates through that organ, i&
mental action accelerated. Thus, when the
brain ceases to receive its due supply of
bood, fainting, with a partial or entire
abolition of mental power, supervenes; and
theOOtal ~sensibility and stnpor .ofa~lexy .
results f~m, a stagnation Qf the blood in the
brain. Whereas the intense mental action
in fever, frequently amounting to delirium,.
is chiefly due to the increased rapidity with
which the blood cireula.tes through the
rn9111zed by Google
16 PRINCIPLES OF
brain ;-and the excitement of mind pro-
duced by wine owns a similar cause:
Now, .in the Sanguine temperament, the
heart and blood-vessels are particularly
developed, .and easily excited to powerful
action, and we therein perceive the cause
of the superficial brilliancy of intellect,
and the unstable vehemence of feeling,
which characterize this temperament. In
persons of the Phlegmatic temperament, the
glanda and lymphatics, which are the chief
organs for nourishing the system, prepon-
derate; and their life is almost entirely
vegetaHve; all their feeble energie.s are
expended in increasing their bulky frame;
and the little mental action they exhibit is
feeble, meagre, and heavy. Peter Pindar
humorously .el:presses the effect of this
temperamep.t; he ·says ·
" FAT- holds ideai 1'y the legs and wings."
And Shakespeare, whom nothing pertaining
to human nature has escaped, recognises
this, and also the opposite tendency of the
·Nervous temperament, in Cresar's lines,
" Let me have men about me that are ftit,
"Sleek-headed men, and such as 1leep o'night.1;
" Yon Ca1ritU 1uu a lean and hungry look
"He thinkl too much,-snch men are dangerous.
--"Would he were fatter."
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 17
Such is a brief sketch of our Corporeal
division. We perceive that it only enables
us to judge of the general quality, as the
energy or inertness of the mind; without
acquainting us with its predominant facul-
ties, or specific character,which the Emotive
branch indicates. Those who are merely
nature-taught physiognomists, are accus-
tomed to confound Corporeal and Emotive
Physiognomy; for the face is the chief tablet
of both; and though it be sufficiently easy
to discern between temperament and emo.
tive expression in extreme examples, as in
the vacant dumpling face of "mine host,"
and the passion-worn features of a Locke or
Brougham; yet in intermediate examples
which constitute the generality, it requires
some discrimination to do so correctly.
But it is an error of no great practical
importance; for, no doubt, the natural cha-
racter of the mind, by directing the mode of
life, largely influences the acquisition of
temperament, so far as it is acquired. And
this occasions a similarity between the ·
Corporeal and Emotive indications in indi-
viduals. But however this may assimilate,
it does not identify, the two branches, and
c
rn9111zed by Google
18 PRINCIPLES OF
they mu!t be separately taken into the
account in rightly judging of the mental
character by physiognomy. We shall here-
after consider the question of the Expression
of the organs of the Senses.
rn9111zed by Google
1'1-IVSIOGNOMY, &c. l9
CHAPTER II.
OR Natw.ral Language.
" When I llit and tell
" The warlike feats I've done-he puts himself
" In poature that arts my word~."
What I have called Corporeal Physiog-
nomy we perceive is based on the influence
which the temperament of the body neces-
sarily has over the mind, on account of the
mind, in this world~ acting through the
medium of corporeal organs. Emotive
Physiognomy, on the contrary, is founded
on the influence which the mind exerts
over the body, in portraying its feelings;-
the traces of which becoming gradually
permanent, we are enabled, from them, to
judge of the characteristic feelings of the
mind which has produced them.
Gesture is the involuntary muscular
movement occasioned in the body by the
c2
\
rn9111zed by Google
PRI_NCIPLE~ OF
passions of the mind. And as this is the
foundation of our second division we will
consider the nature of this influence before
discussing Emetive Physiognomy. It is
interesting, as it explains Natural Lan-
guage. Man walks the earth-a mystery ;
and mostly so to those who study him. To
the ignorant and the superficial there is
little mysterious about him;-but to the
philosophic, the most minute circumstance
pertaining to him is an exhaustless fountain
of wonder! He beholds around him literal-
1y the dust of the earth,-the mineral
elernents,-compounded and fashioned, by
certain definite laws, into myriads of most
elaborate and wonderful machines, corpo-
really independent of each other, and call-
ing themselves men. Unlike the elements
which compose them, they possess certain
innate powers of motion and preservation;
constituting life, which they have acquired
from, or during, their composition. And
they attain what is still more wonderful,-
the faculty of sensibility and feeling,-a
capacity for receiving pleasure or pain, for
entertaining happiness or misery. ..
But these machines though corporeally
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 21
distinct and independent of each other, are
found to possess what are called mental
inclinations, passions, sentiments, and intel-
lects ;-which prompt and enable them to
associate, to feel the kindest affections for,
or the direst passions against, one another;-
to '3.Ssist each other;--and to operate to-
gether to a common end.
Thus, being corporeally distinct but men-
tally social, it was absolutely necessary to
accomplish the purposes of their existence,
that they should have the means of commu-
nicating with each other,-of expressing
to one another, by corporeal actions, their
various mental designs and affectionsl-
some medium of communication, by which
what passes ·within one might be made
known to another. And very beautifully,
and most perfectly, has nature exerted her
providence in this necessity. She has given
us, for this end,. the organs of voice and
speech, and has instinctively taught us to
frame and employ Verbal Language. But,
what more relates to us at present, she lta.1
also annexed partic1ilar gesticulations ef the
body to each particular <dfection, ef the mind.
So that whatever mental feeling we may
rn9111zed by Google
22 PRINCIPLES OF
ente.-tain, it is involuntarily written by us,
in characters intelligible to all, in the ges-
tures of the body, and more particularly, for
a beautiful design, in the features of the
face.
These two methods of corporeally indi-
cating the particular conditions of the mind
constitute language. The first is call Ver-
bal Language or Speech, the latter Natural
Language
Natural Language being, as I have before
said, the basis of Emotive Physiognomy,
we will consider it somewhat in detail. It
is a very interesting subject, and deserves
to be more studied even for its own sake.
We will first state a few general principles
which will render the subject more clear.
The soul or mind comprehends two dis-
tinct, and partially independent, classes of
faculties; possessing far different qualities.
These two classes have Qbtained a multitude
of appellations, according. to the philologi..
cal caprice of the different philosophers
who have treated of them. The one ·is
usually termed rational, or·intellectual;-
the other feeling, affective, or moral. The
first has been justly attributed to the head,
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 23
the other, certainly poetical1y, but never-
theless very erroneously, to the heart. The
former is the engine of reason, and the
tabernacle'Ofideas;-the latter is the well-
spring ~f the passions, and the .soil of the
affections. Andeach of these classes admits
of several sub-divisions, into the different
intellectual faculties, and tbe sever~l senti-
ments and propensities.
Though, in conformity to general usage,
I mention the Reason or Intellect first, it
must obviously give place in importance to
the other division ofthe mind. It isthe moral
<>r sentmental portion of our nature that is
<>ur greatest glory, and the principal souree
-0f our mental enjoyment. The fuDcti<,ms ~
reason are merely -subsipiary to it,-disco-
vering for, and directing it to, its true
sources of gratification.
The corporeal frame is the instrumept of
this gratificati<m,-..and its mc,vements the
immediate meall6. Fo? every actiol). of the
body is but the expression of some.mental
condition; · lind $eetlt6 .(!,ISIMtiallJJ to be t/u:
m.eanB, or "" au~'li«ry tfl tk "'"* ef
'1btaining tk satisfaction, or fU'l'therixg
t!e ends, of tll4t fl&efl.UU eondition.-Thus,
Digitized by Google
24 PRINCIPLES OF
speaking generally, we may say, ·that
the series of voluntary corporeal actions
constituting our conduct and pursuits, result
from, and serve to accomplish our desires
and propensities:-that the involuntary cor-
poreal actions constituting Gesture, result
from, and assist in gratifying, our moral
sentiments:-and that the corporeal motions
constituting Speech, are more peculiarly ap-
propriated to the ·grand auxiliary of both
the above,-our Intellect or Reason.
To comprehend this matter fully, it is ne-
cessary we should hear in remembrance
that all those corporeal motions we term
voluntary, are only so in one sense of the
word. They have been all pre-arranged
and pre-ordained by Nature in a certain
way, by the direction of the muscles, and of
their fibres, which perform them; and also
by twigs of the same nerve that moves them,
being distributed in a special and beautiful
method to the ·several muscles required to
perform the complex motion. Hence it
follows, that our voluntary motions though
innumerable, arelimited in extent and kind,
and are not directed by ourselves in the
manner ·our consciousness alone would at
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 26
first lead us to imagine: and that reason has
nothing more to do with ordinary motions
than occasionally, in some, to point oat their
necessity;-it cannot, through the will,move
muscles out of their normal direction, nor
effect novel 8880ciations among them. For
Nature has planned and laid the delicate
wire&and springs which perform and modify
all the motions,-and the only office of the
mind is to excite them, when required, into
action. Our kind Parent is ever watchful
of the best interests of all her wards,-and
ever ready, with perfect expedients to con-
summate them. And .for this she has also
established a gradation in our controul over
the muscles; some, as the heart, which in
kindness, she feared to trust us with, she
has taken entirely under her own guardian-
ship. The action of the majority, she has
placed at our own disposal, and some she
has divided between herselfand us; leaving
them on some occasions to ourselves, and on
others arbitrarilyc001manding them: among
this latter clus are those occasionally em-
ployed in Gesticulation, and especially the
muscles of the face.
This exposition may have appeared some-
Digitized by Google
PRINCIPLES OF
what irrelevant to our subject, but with it
we are much better able to comprehend the
Philosophy of Natural Language; which is
briefiy as follows.
All animated beings, at least all the high-
er orders, are endowed with various mental
faculties, or mental modes of action, differ-
ing in their nature, and in their relation to
external objects, tDl&ic/& req:u.ire "FusiD'A.
And each of these faculties, when active,
instinctively makes itself known, in a uni-
form manner, by bodily actions, or gestures,
pecu1iar to itself; aad tltis is iU NataraJ,
Laagwage. So that there are as many
dialects of Natural Language as there are
different faculties or affections of the mind.
And so closely related are the Passions
with their specific gestures, that, as we
cannot be under the influence ofany passion
without expressing it in the features, so we
cannot even imitate the expression of any
of them without exciting within ourselves
in a minor degree the corresponding mental
f-eeling. Put on the wrinkled bro.w of
Anger-shoot out the curling lip of Soom-
or assume the dimpled cheek of Joy,-and
you will experience, though it may be faint-
--- ~.-
rn9111zed by Google
j
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 27
ly, the appropriate feeling; and endeavour
how you may, you cannot entertain another
kind of sentiment at the same time, without
betraying it in the gestures of some other
part of the features.
As my chief object is to develope princi-
ples, I must defer attempting to enumerate
the individual gestures answering to these-
veral pathetic faculties or conditions of the
.mind. And, indeed, it requires no less acute
or graphic a genius than a Le Brun'H to
delineate, as it deserves, even an outline of
the numerous modes and degrees of Natural
Language,-ranging, as it does from the
insane and terrific distortions of the agon-
ised Sybil of an ancient omcle, "big with
the god; " to the " speaking silence, dumb-
oonfeesion," of the auepicious lover's eye;
or the slightest smiling curl on the placid
infant's cheek, who feels and knows no
higher pleasure than the warmth of its
tender nestling place!
But Nature is always admirable in the
economy of her means; they each common-
ly serve a multitude of purposes. This is
interestingly exhibited in our subject.
The corporeal gesttrres·· constituting
rn9111zed by Google
28 PRINCIPLES OF
Natural Language, are not merely the ex·
pressive vocabulary of the passions and
sentiments; they also at the same time, as
already intimated, serve to accomplish, or
to assist in the fulfilment of their aims.
Indeed it has been asserted, that this latter
purpose is their only legitimate one,-and
that their expressing to others the various
states of the mind, is merely a contingency
necessarily incidental to their ulterior use
of gratifyit&g the mental affections they
portray
They effect this purpose in a two-fold
manner, by their physical effects on the
body putting it in a suitable condition to
fulfil their object, and by their irresistible
moral influence over die minds of spec-
tators, through the amazing power of
sympathy,
"That electric chain wherewith we're darkly bound! "
Minute attention to the Natural Lan-
guage of any passion, will shew us that it
physically prepares, in a very apposite
manner, its instrum~nts, the bodily organs,
for gratifying its desires. This is signally
observable in the un-sheathed claws and
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 29
bared and separated teeth of several genera
of animals, which is part of the Naturai
Language of anger in them, and obviously
fits them for their m«>de of satisfying it.
The principle is not so remarkable in man
as in animals, because his passions are not
usually so vehement, and he has not to trust
so entirely to physical power, being fur-
nished with more influential moral agencies.
Still it decidedly exists in him, as may be
seen in the involuntary and unconscious
clenching of the fists in an angry or vehe-
ment person. And we may also broadly
exemplify it by the effect~ of any of those
passions which on this account, have been
designated the exciting and depressing
passions. Grief, fear, or sorrow, example1
of the latter class, diminish all the bodily
functions, and thereby peremptorily prevent
all corporeal exertions. They force us into
a musing meditation, which is the requisite
condition of mind for leading to the fulfil-
ment of their intention; no expenditure of
animal power being immediately demanded~
But, contrary tQ- these, the exciting pas-
sions, as anger, joy, and ambition, in just
proportion to their intensity, stimulate all
\
\
rn9111zed by Google
\
\I
i
\
'
30 PRINCIPLES OF
the animal powers, ·and fit and impel them
to that vigorous action so requisite for com-
passing the gratification of their parent
passions. This is well delineated at a
stroke by the philosophic Bulwer in des-
cribing one of the ambitious mental strug-
glings of " Ernest Maltravers.'' He says,
" He turned impatiently from the case-
" ment,-his eyes flashed,-his chest hea-
" ved,-he t:rod the chamber with a .mo-
~· narch's air."
Though we instinctively feel the moral
influence of this natural language, we
cannot, in many instances, discover its
physical cause. What words can speak
so explicitly as the tell-tale blush,-" the
livery both of guilt and innocence," as
Addison cal1s it;-or what verbal language
can express fear and fright equal to the
death-like pallor which the face assumes
under those feelings? And yet no one can
satisfactorily explain their physical causesl
We know they are immediately produced
by a greater or less quantity of blood in the
small vessels of the cheeks, but how these
delicate symbols are primarily occasioned
we do not know.
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c.
Other symptoms we can explain:-For
example,-it is from the very intimate ner-
vous connection subsisting between the
brain, (which is the seat of all the passions),
and the heart, and the influence of both
these over the lungs, and their function of
respiration, that the breathing is frequently
so extensively affected in deep feelings;-
and that peculiar sensations, either exhili-
rating or anxious, (the " swelling;. heart " of
poetry) are felt in the chest. It was these
palpable eft'ects of emotions, which led to
the belief, ORiy lately beginning to be re-
linquished, that the moral feelings in some
manner proceeded from the heart,-and
which has illegally obtained for that hard-
working muscle, so unconscious of its
honors, such an aristocratic rank in the
heraldry of poesy, and so many sacred
a.Mociations in. the thoughts of the senti-
mental.
Independently ofthe powerful sympathetic
inftuence of laughing, sighing, and other
aft'ections incident to the respiratory system,.
which we shall presently discuss; their
e&cts upon the individual are well known
tG be very beneficial. This arises princ~-
I
\
\
Digitized by Google
32 PRINCIPLES OF
pally from their promoting the circulation
of the blood through the lungs, which, in
the case of the exciting passions, has been
conveyed there in greater quantity. than
natural, from the increased action of the
heart which is over-stimulated by the brain;
and which the general torpor in the depress-
ing passions, allows to accumulate there, to
the hazard of health. The "luxury of
tears" is ijkewise physically advantageaus,
by relieving the over-burdened blood-vessels
of the brain. Even those wild and involun-
tary extravagancies, such as lacerations of
the body and the like, which persons under
the influence of deep feelings unconsciously
commit, are dictated by nature, and often of
much benefit by torpifying the mental sensi-
bility, through drawing the nervous energy
to the wounded part. It was on a similar
principle that the "transcendental" Eman-
ual Kant could remove or suspend an ex-
cruciating paroxysm of gout by diverting the
nervous energy to·the brain through intense
mental application. On this account the
celebrated criticism of Bi<»:i on an eastern
monarch tearing his hair for the loss of his
daughter " Does this man think that bald-
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 33
ness is a remedy for grief? "-though cer-
tainly epigrammatic, is not philosophical.
.And many national rites and customs, espe-
cially those of barbarous ages, have deduced
their origin from these eccentric actions,-
as the tearing of garments among the Jews
on the death of relations; f:lild others.
I will just mention here what at present
appears but a curious coincidence, though
it is doubtlessly a necessary effect, and one
which when its cause is discovered and elu-
cidated, will, I think, prove the foundation
of the Emotive portion of physiognomical
science. The phrenologists have observed
that the natural language of each mental
organ is in tke direction of that organ.
Thus, in Adoration, the head, eyes, lips,.
arms, and hands, are all elevated in the di-
rection of the crowning organ "Veneration."
From Pride, the head is thrown back in the
direction of " Self-esteem." The favourite
posture of that master of the ludicrous,
Lawrence Sterne, as his portraits testify, was
with· his forefinger placed on the organ of
" Wit." ·And you will see two affectionate
giFls when their "Adhesiveness" is in action,
D
rn9111zed by Google
34 PRINCIPLES OF
with their hea<ls together at that organ; and
so of all the other faculties.
Our next and last consideration respect-
ing the natural language of. the passions
and affections, is the moral means by which
it effects their ends. This is accomplished
by the sympathetic influence of natural lan-
guage over the passions and a.Wections of
others.
In the whole circle of knowledge there
are few subjects on every account more de-
serving our consideration,-particularly fOF
the beauty and efficacy of the adaptation,
its being the foundation and soul of all the
polite arts, and its universal and momentary
influence over us.
Its philosophical explanation is simply
this:-each of the pathetic faculties of the
mind is naturally affected and called into
activity by certain peculiar objects; and
whenever these are presented to it, it is as
necessarily awakened into action as vision
is on the ·presentation of light to the eye:
therefore whenever we witness the express-
ion of any feeling, no matter how express-
ed, we irresistably experience the corres-
ponding feeling.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 35
This is Sympathy, or fellow-feeling; and
a wise and a beautiful ordination it is!-the
source of all the finer joys and the charities
of life, and a necessary constituent in the
character of a fully-sentient being! But I
resign it to the moral philosopher to describe
it as it deserves,-! leave it to the rhetori-
cian, and the poet, and the sculptor, and the
painter, and the musician, to exemplify it,
I only bid you take a thought, or a single
glance around you, as argument sufficient
for the truth of what I state!
I cannot dismiss this beautiful subject
without a few more illustrative observations.
The fundamental sciences relating to
mental operations, as is well known, are
logic and rhetoric; logic pertaining to the
rational or intellectual, and rhetoric to the
pathetic or feeling, faculties. The former
is the offspring of nurtured experience, the
latter is the free-born child of nature, luxu-
riating in its greatest freshness wherever
nature reigns. Verbal language, with a li-
teral meaning scrupulously defined, is the
instrument of the first; the latter needs it
not, as we.see in the exclusively pantomimic
arts. It makes its way directly to .the feel-
n 2
rn9111zed by Google
...
36 PRINCIPLES OF
ings, robed in gesture and emphasis, and all
the achillean panoply of nature's language.
Or if it does enlist speech as an auxiliary,
it dresses it in its own poetic uniform,-it
dazzles in the radiant Trope,-
· it lightens in
the glancing Metaphor,-it thunder8 in the
omnipotent artillery of the Hyperbole,-in
the Apostrophe it commands the aid of all
the disembodied ghosts of Tartarus,-and
conscripts all the rerial legions of the Em-
pyreum, under their etherial misty prince-
Personiflcation!
It is perhaps worthy of observation, that
cultivation of the rational powers has a
necessary tendency to diminish, in most re-
spects, the ·intensity of natural language,
simply by moderating the violence of the
passions whence it arises. And the im-
provement of verbal language, in enlarging
and ascertaining <>Ur vooabulary, has a simi-
lar tendency; by enabling us to express our
feelings in words, and thereby obviating the
necessity for gesticulation. This is shown
by the gestures of one ignorant of a lan-
guage endeavouring to make him.selfunder-
stoOd. And both are seen in uninformed
people~ and particularly in savage nations.
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. ·37
Indeed, to man in his originally savage
state, " the same rough son of nature that
nature left him," we shall best resort to stu-
dy the nature, and to perceive the potency,
of this natural rhetoric; and it will also
open up to us the spring-head of many ex-
isting arts and customs. Among -savages,
possessing, as they commonly do, an amimal
intensity of passion, and but a scanty stock
of words to give it vent, mental communi-
cation is almost entirely gesticulative, and
this is commonly of a violent description.
The diversified natural cry, common to them
witli the lower animals,-the dif'eff3ntly-
measured daace, as the w~dance, , and that
for rejoicing, with the several modes of ges-
ticulative salutation, -chiefly constitute _
the
rud.ebut intelligible language by which.they
express themselves, and regulate their pas-
sionate but uncomplex ~airs. _
The civilized art of Rhetoric is derived
from this natural rhetoric, and is correct in
proportion to its approximation to it. In-
dependently of gesture, each feeling has
naturally a different kind of eloquence, of
mode of speech, of accent, and emphasis,
and of time and tone of utterance.
rn9111zed by Google
38 PRINCIPLES OF
This is but a refinement on the varied
natural cry, applied to speech. Poetry, and
its different kinds, also owns a similarorigin.
For impassioned feelings, beside prompting
us to the employment offigurative language,
naturally mould our sentences into a diffe-
rently-measured rhythm; and this being
artfully improved, with the addition of
rhyme, will explain the existing state of the
poetic art.
The necessity offeeling to rhetorical ex-
pressionisrendered evident by the foregoing.
And all must have remarked the vast supe-
riority in the delicacy and accuracy of
gestures, or the minutest trait of natural
language, over the most emphatic words, in
expr~ing and affecting the feelings. In-
deed these cannot, in every case, lie ex-
pressed verbally, but they may be, and are,
unmistakably so, by Nature's language.
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c.
CHAPTER IIL
On Emotive P kysiogn.ot•!!·
"There doth beauty dwell,
"There lll08t conspicuous, e'en in outward shape,
" Where dawns the high expressions of a miud."
39
Having exhibited the rougher materials
Qf the i11teresting and beautiful edifice we
are scrutinizing,-investigated its physical
foundation,-and farther observed the me-
thod of raising the superstructure,-we have
now arrived at the dome and the ornaments,
which when explained will finish our survey
of the pile; and we shall then I hope be
enabled with more pradised and inquisitive
eyes to regard the noble building as a
whole, with interest, admiration, and advan-
tage.
The remaining branch of our subject is
that I have called Emotive Physiognomy,
which is the expression of the mind's action
rn9111zed by Google
40 PRINCIPLES OF
permanentlY. depicted in the appearance.
As heretofore stated, it is based on the influ-
ence which the mind exerts over the body
in expressing its conditions; the traces of
which becoming gradually permanent from
reiteration, we are able to judge of the
leading features of the mind from the cha-
racters they have. stamped on the counten-
ance. But its indications are not limited to
the face, though from the mechanism and
situation of that part it is decidedly the
chief index. For, as we have before said,
the whole body is not unusually employed
in an existing emotion; and consequently
the whole body must be more or less influ-
enced permanently. The step alone of a
Siddons could express almost any feeling.
And the zigzag walk of Coleridge has .been
correctly adverted to as indicating his vacil-
lating mind.
But the head, and especially the face;
being the most particular criterion, we will
devote a short time to its consideration.
The few remarks I here offer on Cerebral
Physiognomy or Phrenology are needed to
enlighten our immediate subject. Mankind,
when unsophisticated with metaphysical
_J
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 41
subtleties, have, in every age, referred to the
brain as the seat of the mind. Latterly the
inductions of science have taught them the
obvious.fact that the quantity ofmental man-
ifestation isdirectlyproportionate to the mass
and quality of the brain. But this mighty
truth,-mighty as simple,-enwombed in its
own simplicity-wa~ tardy in birth; · alas,
. how much too tardy for the best interests of
the world!
Struck with the important fact ofcertain
developements of the brain, ( indicated by a
corresponding shape of its. bony case, )
bearing relation to certain characters of
mind,-several philosophers sought to trace
and . establish these relations. Camper
endeavoured to do so by his " facial angle."
Blumenbach by the. " vertical and normal
line." And Walker by a theory founded
on the length and breadth of the brain,-
dift'ering but slightly from the truth sofar as
it goes,-except in supposing the " Cerebel-
lum" to be exclusively the organ ofvolition~
All these methods are imperfect- rather than
erroneous, from being too circumscribed:-.
the former two.not including the entire brain
in the examination,-and the latter consider-
\
\
rn9111zed by Google
42 PRINCIPLES OF
ing it too much " en masse." But a Gall
and Spurzheim arose,-and all nature
rejoiced at their birth;-and Physiology,
hand in hand with Morality, joined Truth in
exulting;-and Metaphysics for very shame
threw off her misty time-worn veil and
retired to die in her own natal cloister!
These philosophershavedemonstrated that
the brain is made .up of an assemblage of
·organs, by means of which the several kinds
of thoughts, feelings, and passions, which
-constitute the mind, are manifeNed. And
~onsequently that the natural disposition of
individuals may be asc.ertained by .an ex-
.amination of the relative developement of
the different portions or organs of the brain.
-combined with a considemtion of certain
contingencies .which are detailed in all the
standard works an phrenology.
Sofar therefore asa knowledge ofthe men-
tal character may be obtained by the senses
through phl!enology,-that science is plain-
ly included in physiognomy• .And indeed it
was under the title of a "phy.aiognomical
science " that it was first promulgated,-
though .it has since acquired the more
appropriate appellation·of the ".science of
mind."
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 43
It is a fact which is the basis of the pre-
sent br~ch of our subject, that the natural
language of the habitually predominating
faculties of the mind is permanently exhibi-
ted in the features, m·ore or less strongly
marked according to tli.e energy of the
particular organs. I shall endetivour to
explain how this is etfected.
But let us previously survey the face, and
review the delicate instruments which com-
pose it, the agency of which we have t&
investigate. Were one disposed to indulge
in amplification, or to robe one's diction in
poetic graces, here is a theme after our own
hearts, which abundantly allows and would
sanctioo both; but we care not to be ele-
gantly episodical. The face comprises the
brow, the organs of the senses, the cheeks.
and the chin. We may at once dismiss the
physiognomy of the forehead, by referring
it to its proper place in phrenology. The
organs of sense are providently double for
the p)lrpose of increasing their powers; and
other reasons. Their relative situations are
admirably adapted to their relative functi-
ons. It is worth attentively considering
this, and then endeavour to improve upon
\I
I
rn9111zed by Google
.,
44 PRINCIPLES OF
them, and you will soon feel convinced you
are disputing with Omniscience.
While upon the organs of the senses, I
wish to explode what may be considered
rather an importanf error which has been
extensively mixed up with, and bears greatly
upon,. modem Physiognomy. It found. its
basis in the now exploded dictum of Aris-
t.otle, ._Locke, and others,-" that the mind
is entirely formed by, or built. out of, the
88nSations we experience." Hence, among
other things, it was argued, that proportion-
ately with the acuteness or intensity of the
sensations, and their quantity, would be tile
acuteness, intensity, and extent of the mind.
And as these qualities of sensation depend
in great measure on the conformation of the
organs of the senses, it was logically eneugh
inferred that we could predicate the charac-
ter of the mind from their shapes. · And
moreover, .as the effect produced on the
mind by the action Qf each sense was sup-
posed to be distinct in character, the chief
remaining problem to be solved was, the
relations subiisting between the 'several
~es and the different atfectiOns of the
mind. Intellectual ideas and ·the higher
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c.
sentiments were respectively assigned to the
impressions of touch, vision, and hearing;
and the animal passions and propensities,
to those of smell and taste. Therefore the
mind was supposed to correspond with the
perfectness of the organs of either of these
senses.
Now, that the organs of the senses are
physiognomical indexes·is doubtless true,
but in quite a different manner to this mode
of explanation. Indeed the preceding doc-
trine has introduced charlatanism, with con-
sequent ridicule and distrust, into the sci-
ence; and I wish·to prevent this by endea-
vouring to explain every thing on strict
physiological principles.
The doctrine stated abOTe considers the
organs of the senses not merely as organs of
impression, but also of expression. They
certainly are ·expressive of Corporeal, but
very triflingly of Emotive, Physiognomy.
I cannot see the relation of cause and effect
between thick lips or a corpulent nose and
intense animal passions,-nor between a
large flashing eye and acute sensibility of
mind.. These are but collateral effects of a
common cause. They are explained by the
\
\
~
- ,.
rn9111zed by Google
- I
46 PRINCIPLES OIZ-
fact that in proportion to the fineness of the
temperament are the organs of the senses
finely developed. · And as the general cha-
racter ofthe mind's activity accords with the
temperament, so arises the coincidence
between the -orgaDS of the senses and the
action of the organs of the mind. They
indicate temperament, like other parts ofthe
body, and thereby the character of the
mind's activity; but not, as was supposed,
its characteristic faculties. The organs of
the senses, as physiognomical guides, conse-
quently fall under our corporeal division.
It is only the moveable parts of the face,
which are subject to volition, that can be-
come expressive of mental character. And
it is only so far as these form any part of the
organs of the sense!, or by their action may
modify the configuration of them, that they
can be emotively expressive.
In truth, ' the mental character results
from the natural or acquired magnitude and
activity of the cerebral organs. These at
birth are tablets void of impression,-" like
unwritten sheets of writing paper," but
fitted to receiv.e impressiens, or to take on
modes of action, from external objects, or
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 47
from inherent causes. The organs of sense
do not produce ideas, they are merely the in-
struments which the cerebral organs employ
to convey to them impressions from external
objects.
'Therefore the quantity and nature ofideas
depends on the size and activity of the ce-
rebral organs, not on those qualities, in the
organs of sense. From all which it seems
correct to infer that the mere differences, in
the intensity or acuteness of the organs of
sense can have but a very trivial and inap-
preciable influence, as causes, ever the
character of the mind; and therefore the
immo.veable parts of their organic structure
cannot be expressive, in any notable degree~
in Emotive Physiognomy. I repeat that
they are but expressive of the temperament~
and so belong to our corporeal division.
And, there are two observatfons respecting
them, (which apply, indeed, to all the
organs of the body, ) that are in strictness
prineiples of Corporeal Physiognomy,-but
I omitted them when discussing that branch
to introduce them with more advantage
here. I believe we are indebted for them
to my friend Mr. Alexander Walker, "the
\
rn9111zed by Google
48 PRINCIPLES OF
modern Lavater." The one is, that activity
in the action of any organ is commensurate
with its height, and energy or profwul,ity,
with it& breadth. This general rule apper-
tains to the cerebral and sentient organs and
to all organic structures,-and is easily
accounted for on physical principJes. The
other, and it is a rich field for admiring
contemplation, is the law that beauty of
conformation and perfectness of function
correspond;-that is, the greater the physi-
cal beauty of any organ, the more correctly
does it fulfil its office.
We have at length, after much wandering
arrived at the ·true agents of permanent
expression in Emotive Physiognomy,-the
muscles. There are about two dozen pairs
of these in.the face and neck which serve to
express the mental affections, some of them
having scarcely any other assignable duty.
And the beauty of their arrangement espe-
cially about that chief organ of expression,
-the mouth,-
· surpasses that of any ~th.er
part of the body. It is worth noting that
the " superciliary muscle " above the
eye-brow, which expresSefl pride or super-
ciliousness, is peculiar to man.
I · -
Digitized by Google
j
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 49
It is a physiological law that parts in-
crease or diminish in size according as they
are accustomed or unaccustomed to be em-
ployed. The exercise of a part occ(lsions
an increased flow of blood and nervous
energy into it,-and a consequent deposi-
tion of nutritive particles, and augmentation
in its dimensions; and the contrary occurs
on the desuetude of a part,-it becomes in
fact partia_lly absorbed. Now this law
applied to the musc1es of the face, will ex-
plain how they come to be expressive of the
character.-The ,habitual activity of any
mental organ, and the corresponding con-
traction of the facial muscles in portraying
its natural language, occasions an increase
in tl;te size and number of the fibres of those
muscles, and in one direction; whilst the
others are left to diminish. And thus the
countenance, and especially the mouth, is
gradually modelled into a permanent ex-
pression of the natural or habitual predo-
minant faculties.
I shall now conclude with a few observa-
tions and illustrative examples.-Though
Emotive Physiognomy is an essential and
valuable branch of the sciezice,-yet at
E
I
\
rn9111zed by Google
J>O PRINCIPLES OF
present the application of physiognomy is
chiefly limited to the indications afforded
by the corporeal and cerebral branches.
For there are comparatively few persons,
out of the fancies of novel writers and
romancists, with such decided and energetic
peculiarities of character as to cause
very striking peculiarities of expression m
their features. In the majority
"No hair-brained sentimental traces
" Appear in their unlettered faces ; "
and the only criterion of mental character
their countenances afford us, is the very
imperfect one oftemperament. Nevertheleu
in all persons, and especially after a certain
age, there are traces greater or less of mental
expression; and even the entire absence of
them affords a negative indication. Thus
each trade and profession by exercising a
peculiarset offaculties,from their avocations
or circumstances, produces a peculiar east
of countenance and demeanour in its pur-
suers;-and a practised eye is enabled with
few exceptions to discriminate them. There
is the acute penetration marked in the Law-
yer;-the becoming moral gravity in the
rn9111zed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. Sl
Divine;-the physical gravity and compas-
sionate interest in the Physician ;-the
deferential complaisancy of the trader;-the
sturdy sedateness of the sedentary me-
chanic;-and the unassumed complacency
which smiles in the countenance of "the
gentleman," every muscle in whose frame
seems to assert his gentility.
The novelist who understands his avoca-
tion of copying nature, resorts to physiogno-
myas the simplestand mostemphatic method
of elucidating the characters of his person-
ages. The arch-genius Scott does so uni-
versally. And there are several talented
instances of this in the germanic Bulwer.
In "Emest Maltravers," he introduces the
ferocious "Darvil," by remarking of his
countenance,-" it was a face that spoke of
" 10t1g-continued and hardened vice-it was
" one on which the past had written indelible
" characters. The brand of the hangman
" could not have stamped it more plainly
"nor have more unequivocally wamed the
"suspicion of honest or timid men." And
again, in " Alice," he says of the indomitable
and intriguing "Lumley Ferrera"-" the
" character of his ~ind had begun to stamp
E2
rn9111zed by Google
52 PRINCIPLES OF
"itself in the physiognomy, especially on the
"mouth when in repose-it was a face strik-
" ing for acute intelligence, for concentrated
"energy;-but there was something written
"in it which said "Beware!" It would
"have inspired any one who had inixed
" m~ch among men, with a vague suspicion
" and mistrust."
But to quit fiction, though it be the fiction
of such veracious masters,-and to illustrate
our subjeet by an actual example: I shall
instance the case of the hapless Casper
Hauser, the supposed German prince; with
the history of whose confinement from
childhood in a state of mental infancy, his
subsequent liberation and improvement,
with his tragical end, most persons are fami-
liar. In reference to the influence of the
mind over the body, it is said,-" His face
"was on his first appearance at Neurem-
" berg very vulgar; when in a state of tran·
" quility, it was almost without expression;
" and its lower features being somewhat
" prominent gave him a brutish.appearance.
" But the formation of liis face altered in a
"few months almost entirel9,-his counten-
" ance gained expression and animation,-
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY, &c. 53
" the lower part of his face became gradually
" less prominent, and his earlier physiogno-
" my could scarcely be recognized."
To conclude:-The capability of beauty
of the human countenance, in common with
every thing human, has seriously suffered,
and still suffers, from the innumerable errors
and irregularities of mankind. Buffon cor-
rectly says, and demonstrates hy examples,
"that all those people who live miserably
" are ugly and ill made." And this is very
eloquently expressed and deplored by that
versatile genius Dickens, in one of those
Sterne-like passages with which his writings
abound. In his" Oliver Twist" he says,-
" Alas! how few of Nature's Faces there are
" to gladden us with their beauty.-The
" cares, a~d sorrowings, and hungerings, of
" the world, change them as they change
"hearts;-and it is only when those pas-
" sions sleep, or have lost their hold for ever,
" that the troubled clouds pass off, and leave
"heaven's surface clear!"
But "IMPROVEMENT" is the watch-word
of Nature;-and she has an invincible ten-
dency, to right herself in every thing!-And
it follows, from this tendency, and the law
F
rn9111zed by Google
L
•
54 PRINCIPLES OF, &c.
of perfectness of function coinciding with
beauty of configuration, that the Human
Face will progressively increase in beauty
of form, and charm of expression, until it
really merit, in all who bear it, the now-
flattering epithet" DIVINE!"
THE END.
Cbhwict: Printed by G. J. Baynes.
Digitized by Google
