{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__dods___six_lectures.pdf","mytitle":"Six Lectures","mylang":"de"}
-
SIX LECTURES
PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM,
DELIVERED IN THE
MARLBORO' CHAPEL,
JANUARY 23-28, 1843.
JOHN BOVEE DODS,
OF BOSTON.
REPORTED BY A HEARER,
__
BOSTON:
WILLIAM A. HALL & CO., PRINTERS,
NO. 13 WATER STREET.
1843.
Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1843, by Elijah Smith,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
B f
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
LECTURE I.
Ladies and Gentlemen : It is with much pleasure
that I present myself before you ihis evening, to
lecture upon the science of Animal Magnetism. I
do this by special invitation from several distin-
guished members of both branches of our legislature,
now in session in this city ; and this thronged con-
gregation of more than two thousand hearers speak
the interest which is awakened in the bosoms of our
citizens in relation to this subject. This dense and
anxious crowd too plainly manifest the high expect-
ations which are entertained of the feeble abilities of
the speaker to do it justice —expectations which
I am fully sensible I shall be unable to answer.
Leaning, however, upon the solitary grandeur of
truth, and believing that to be stirring eloquence and
living power, I have, therefore, even as things now
are, with all your roused expectations crowding upon
me, but little to hazard, for I am fully sensible that I
am standing before a learned and an intelligent con-
gregation. And when I inform you that J have never
written any thing upon this subject, and am, there-
fore, obliged to speak from the fortuitous suggestions
of the moment, I am conscious that you will do me
justice, by making every reasonable allowance.
LECTURES ON
It is not my profession to lecture upon this sub-
ject. I have other means for my subsistence, and
for that of those who depend upon me. Circum-
stances have called me into the field. Many, very
many ignorant individuals, who know nothing of the
human system, nor of the common principles of any
science, have gone into the field as lecturers on Ani-
mal Magnetism, and by making it a mere puppet-
show, have brought it into degradation in the public
mind. Such persons are doing the cause, which is
one of benevolence and mercy, an irreparable injury.
They had better qualify themselves for the work, or
else retire from the field. In this state of things, I
was urged, by several scientific gentlemen, to step
forward in defence of the cause of righteousness and
truth, and to lend my aid in raising it from the
dust, in wiping off the sneers of men, and in placing
it on a foundation where it should command not
only the attention, but the respect and admiration
which are justly due to it from men of science and
talents. In this city, I find but one noble spirit
laboring and toiling, who is well qualified for the
work, and who is deserving a better patronage than
he receives.* As these are the circumstances under
which I have entered the field, so, of course, I visit
those places only where I am invited to lecture upon
this science.
I have had the subject of Mesmerism under con-
sideration for about seven years, reading all that
came in my way for and against it. Five of these
vears I remained a stubborn, a most confirmed scep-
tic, and refused even to attend a lecture, or to wit-
ness an experiment, until I was persuaded by a par-
ticular friend of mine to accompany him, and see
and hear for myself. I am, therefore, prepared to
make all due allowance for honest sceptics ; and in
their opposition to me during this course of lectures,
* Dr. Gilbert.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. O
I shall maintain an entire empire over my feelings
and being fully sensible of their condition, I well
know how to sympathize with them. But there is
yet another class of sceptics, who have witnessed
experiments which they cannot resist, and still cry,
'•'•humbug- and collusion!" Of these, there are two
kinds. First, those who never investigate any thing
for themselves, and who do not know the definitions
of the words, " humbug- and collusion " but who,
nevertheless, use them very freely, because they have
heard their minister, their doctor, or, perchance, their
schoolmaster, use them. They do it by imitation,
on the same principle that the parrot imitates the
sound of the human voice, and they do it just about
as understandingly. Second, those who are talented,
and desire to keep on the wings of the popular
breeze, and catch the breath of fame. These may
be known by the ridicule, wit, and sarcasm, they
employ, through the press and otherwise. But,
"humbug; and collusion" have become stereotyped
words, and their use costs but little labor ; and they
answer most admirably to supply the place of sound
argument and common sense in the most of minds.
If my hearers will please turn their attention to all
the talented writers, who have, in various ages,
vehemently opposed those now well-established sci-
ences which in their infancy appeared incredible,
and who assailed them with the bitterest invective
and sarcasm, they will learn that they were men
who were always studying what was popular, and
who had a large share of self-esteem, and of the love
of approbation. This test will hold good from the
opposers of the earth's revolution on its axis, discov-
ered by Galileo ; from the scoffers at the science of
the circulation of the human blood, discovered by
Harvey, step by step, down to the scoffers at Fulton's
application of steam-power, —yes, even down to the
opposers of, and scoffers at, the brilliant science of
Phrenology, which is now spreading with a power
X*
LECTURES ON
that can never be successfully resisted, a zeal that
cannot be quenched, and a living energy that can
never die. True, a candid man, as well as any
other, may doubt a new science ;
yet, however strange
or incomprehensible it may appear, he will not de-
nounce till he has given the subject a candid investi-
gation. I am speaking of those only who denounce
without investigation, and who can assign no other
reason for so doing, but their own willing ignorance,
or because the popular voice is against it.
I am, however, proud in the reflection that the
science of Mesmerism is embraced by men of the
first talents and science in both continents, and
whose names will live in the republic of letters, and
shine with lustre, long after those of fawning syco-
phants shall have been lost in unremembered nothing-
ness. It is embraced here among us by a Pierpont,
a Sunderland, a Gilbert, a Neal, and a Wayland.
It is embraced by men who have forgotten more
than those who cry " humbug and collusion " ever
knew.
I have been in the field as an occasional lecturer
ever since October, 1841, and have uniformly advo-
cated the same principles which I am now about to
advance and sustain in the course of lectures I am
pledged to deliver in this city. This fact, many now
present well know, who have heard me in other sec-
tions, or who have seen the substance of what I have
now to offer on Mesmerism reported by the editor of
the Yarmouthport Register, in March, 1842. I shall
here contend for the same principles, and endeavor
to sustain them by fair experiments, in electricity,
galvanism, and common magnetism.
There is one apology, however, to be offered in
favor of honest sceptics. It is this: Those who
have lectured upon Mesmerism have not pretended
to give any cause for the wonderful phenomena pro-
duced—have held them in mystery, and perhaps
pronounced them inscrutable to the human intellect.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 7
Hence, it is not strange that thousands, under such
an impression, should refuse to investigate a subject
which its advocates held in mystery. That there are
mysteries in Mesmerism I readily admit; but that
there are more than in any other science, I deny.
We may, for instance, tell the chemical properties of
earth, water and air, and the degree of warmth neces-
sary to produce vegetation. But still no one can
solve the mystery how an acorn becomes an oak, or
a seed becomes a plant. There is no science in the
universe, but what has some incomprehensibilities
resting upon its face ; but this circumstance is con-
sidered no objection to the truth of any science.
Hence, there is no reason why Mesmerism should be
rejected on this ground. Yet thousands do reject
it, because they contend that it is incomprehensibly
strange ! They know nothing but what is strange,
and yet what is strange they cannot believe! All
the operations of nature going on around us are
strange, and the only reason we have ceased to won-
der is, because they are common. All such objec-
tions are therefore futile.
Before I proceed any further, I would remark that
I consider " Animal Magnetism " a very inappropriate
name. It should be called Spiritualism, or Mental
Electricity, because it is the direct impulse of
mind upon the minds and bodies of others. As it is
the science of mind and its powers, so it is the highest
and most sublime science in the whole realms of
nature, and as far transcends all others as godlike
mind transcends matter.
Having made these introductory remarks, I now
proceed more directly to the consideration of the
subject before me. In presenting before you " the
why and the wherefore " of these interesting phe-
nomena, and, in order to make them plain to the
humblest capacity, it will be necessary to associate
the subject with other principles in philosophy which
are well understood by all, and thus rise from the
8 LECTURES ON
consideration of the more gross and dense particles
of matter, step by step, up to those which are the
most rarified and subtil of which we can form any
conception. In doing this, I shall not take into con-
sideration every possible grade or species of matter,
but those substances only which belong to the great
classifications of nature's empire, and which are the
most obvious to every observer.
In the first place, then, I contend that there is but
one common law pervades the whole universe of
God, which is the law of equilibrium. In perfect
accordance with this law there is kept up a constant
action and reaction throughout every department of
nature. It is true there has been much written, and
still more said, about the multiplicity and variety of
the laws of nature. But this is, at least to me,
wholly unintelligible. While, however, I contend
for but one common law, it is still conceded that this
law is so varied as to be perfectly adapted to all the
variety of substances in being. On this principle
the earth is certainly not eternal, for were it so, the
hills and mountains would long ago have been
washed to a level by the storms of heaven, —yes, it
would have been done by the gentle descending
dews. Indeed, I hazard nothing in saying, that
even the mountains of solid granite would have been
crumbled into atoms, ages ago, by the very opera-
tion of the particles of air, —" the fingers of time," —
because every thing in nature is tending to an equi-
librium.
Having begun at the grossest particles of matter,
let us now rise gradually in our contemplations, step
by step, up to those that are the most rarified and
subtil of which we can form any conception.
Water is a body lighter than earth. Let a canal
be dug of one hundred feet in depth, one hundred in
width, and a thousand feet in length. Let a strong
lock be constructed across its centre, and one half
filled with water. Let the gate be hoisted, and the
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 9
water in the one division will fall, and in the other
rise, until an equilibrium of height is attained. Na-
ture having gained her end is then at rest. And the
action of this element will be great in proportion as
it was thrown out of balance. The rush will be at
first tremendous, but continue gradually to lessen
until it finds its perfect slumber in equal height.
The same is true in relation to our atmosphere, a
substance fighter than water. The air in this room
is now rarified by heat, and is thus thrown out of
balance with the circumambient air which is more
cold and dense. Hence, through every key-hole and
crevice there is a rush of this element into the room,
which will continue until the equilibrium of density
is attained. Then, and not before, nature, having
gained her end, will be at rest. The air in one sec-
tion of the globe is more rarified by heat than in
another; and hence the gentle zephyrs of heaven are
continually fanning the human brow with a touch of
delight, and carrying health to human habitations.
If this element be thrown still further out of balance,
we witness the stirring gale ; and if carried, in this
respect, to its extreme, we witness the sweeping
hurricane, or the roaring tornado which prostrates
human habitations in its mighty course, and bows
the mountain forest to the earth.
The same is true in relation to electricity, a sub-
stance more rarified and light than air. If two
clouds are equally charged with this subtil fluid, they
may pass and repass each other, or mingle into one,
yet not a flash of lightning will be seen. But if they
are unequally charged, or what is called in electrical
science, "positively and negatively charged," then
the heavens will stream with forked lightning till
both clouds are equally charged. By long drought
and heat, electricity becomes very unequally diffused
throughout the atmosphere. One portion of air con-
tains a much greater quantity than another, and
when thus thrown out of balance to a certain ex-
10 LECTURES ON
treme, nature can hold out no longer. A reaction
must take place. Convolving clouds roll the heavens
in darkness —the lightnings flash, the thunders roll,
and the war of elements continues until the electric
fluid is equally diffused throughout the atmosphere,
and also equalized with the earth. Nature, having
thus gained her end in the equilibrium produced, is
at rest —all is calm.
If we pass on from inert matter to animated nature,
we shall find that the same law there also holds its
empire. If, for instance, a healthy child, three or
four years of age, be permitted to sleep every night
for a year or two between two very old, decrepid
grandparents, it will pine away, and if not removed,
perchance it may die. There is, perhaps, not one
under the sound of my voice, but what has heard
the remark, that " it is very unhealthy for young
children to sleep with very old, infirm people." It is
even so, and parents should beware. The child is
full of animal life, and its nervous system is charged
with the vital fluid, secreted by the brain. This
gives that suppleness to the limbs, and that buoyancy
to the heart which we witness in the young. The
grandparents lack the proper quantity of this nervo-
vital fluid, which occasions that rigidity of the limbs
we witness in the aged. The same common law of
equilibrium that pervades the universe, is here also
in operation. The nervo-vital fluid passes from this
child to the two aged persons in conjunction. The
child loses, and they continue to revive, and as this
little one can never bring those infirm persons up to
an equilibrium with itself, so it must go down to
them. Nature will have her equilibrium, if she has
it in death.
Once more; there is in the nervous system no
blood. By the nervous system, I mean the brain
and all its ramifications. The blood belongs ex-
clusively to the circulating system, which embraces
the veins and arteries. I grant that the blood-ves-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 11
sels pass round among the convolutions of the brain
but in the nerve itself there is no blood, and the
whole mass of brain is but a congeries of nerves.
These are charged with a nervo-vital fluid, which is
manufactured from electricity. Hence, the circu-
lating system containing the blood, and the nervous
system containing the magnetic fluid, are not to be
blended, but distinctly considered. Now as a hu-
man being may lack the proper quantity of blood in
his circulating system, so he may lack the proper
quantum of the nervo-vital fluid in his nervous sys-
tem. This is certainly rational. And, moreover, it
may be easily known when such is the case.
When we see persons, who, on hearing suddenly
some good or bad news, are thrown into great ex-
citement, tremor, and agitation, we may be certain
that their nervous systems lack the due measure of
the nervo-vital fluid. Now let a person, whose
brain is fully charged, come in contact with one
whose brain is greatly wanting in its due measure of
this fluid, and let the person possessing the full brain
gently and unchangeably hold his mind upon the
other, and by the action of the will, the fluid will
pass from the full brain to the other, until the equi-
librium between the fluids in the two brains is at-
tained. The sudden change in the receiving brain
produces a coolness and a singular state of insensi-
bility. This is magnetism ; and it is in perfect ac-
cordance with all the principles of philosophy in the
known realms of nature. If any one denies the
operation of the law of equilibrium in this case, then
he here makes a chasm, amidst the immensity of
God's works, which he can nowhere else discover.
I have clearly shown him that, from the grossest
matter in the universe, step by step, through every
grade, up to electricity, the same law holds its em-
pire, and matter is continually equalizing itself with
matter.
On this principle, it will be readily perceived that,
12 LECTURES ON
if a person has a great deficiency of the nervo-vital
fluid, he can be mesmerised the first sitting, and
probably in an hour's time, or a much less period.
These we call easy subjects. But if the deficiency
be less, it will take a longer period in proportion,
and if the brain have nearly its proper quantity of
fluid, then the effect produced, at the first sitting,
will be small, yet still it will be visible.
From the premises now laid down, and in accord-
ance with the law of equilibrium, it will probably be
said, that only few persons can be mesmerised.
This, however, is not correct. I contend that every
person in existence can be, and indeed ought to be
thrown into the mesmeric state. This, I am well
aware, is contrary to the opinion of the advocates of
this science. The most liberal calculation, I have as
yet heard, is that about one in nine of the human
family can be mesmerised. But every one can be,
and that, too, in perfect accordance with the princi-
ples laid down. Let two persons of equal brains,
both in size and fluid, sit down. Let one of these
individuals remain perfectly passive, and let the
other exercise his mental and physical energies ac-
cording to the true principles of mesmerising, and
he will displace some of the nervo-vital fluid from
the passive brain and deposite his own in its stead.
The next day let them sit another hour, and so on
day after day, until the acting brain shall have dis-
placed the major part of the nervo-vital fluid from
the passive brain and filled up that space with his
own nervous force, and the person will yield to the
magnetic power, and sweetly slumber in its inex-
pressible quietude.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 13
LECTURE II
Ladies and Gentlemen: On the last evening I
had the pleasure to deliver before you my introduc-
tory lecture on the science of Spiritualism, and to
explain " the why and the wherefore " of the effect
produced. I clearly showed that Mesmerism was
in perfect accordance with the universal law of
nature which I call the law of equilibrium, and as I,
in concluding my lecture, contended that every per-
son in the world could be mesmerised, some, as
I suspected would be the case, have to-day argued
that, according to the principle laid down by the
speaker, two brains of equal power can no more
mesmerise each other, than one of a less power can
mesmerise a greater ; and hence, that the arguments
of the lecturer are contradictory and irreconcilable,
But this objection is by no means valid. It is read-
ily conceded that two brains equally full and healthy
cannot affect each other, admitting both persons to be
equal in muscular energy, and to make, at the same
time, the same mental and physical effort. But if
one person sit down and passively resign himself,
and another even of less power and less nervo-vital
fluid exert all his energies, then the law of equilibri-
um requires that there shall be an effect produced in
the passive object equal to all the power exerted by
the active agent. Hence, a weaker person can mes-
merise one of superior power, and the same persons
may alternately throw each other into the mesmeric
state. I have known the instance where a small
girl, and only nine years of age, mesmerised a young
man twenty years old and of uncommon strength.
2
14 LECTURES ON
Though it is a well-known law, that two bodies of
water will seek a level when a communication is
made between them, yet it is equally true that, by a
pump, water may be thrown from a lower to a
higher cistern ; and who will deny that it is in perfect
accordance with the law of equilibrium? Surely no
one. It is by physical energy that the air is removed
from the pump, and the circumambient air pressing
upon the water in the cistern, causes it to rise till an
equilibrium of height is attained — exactly equal to
all the powers employed. But so far as the mes-
meric state is concerned, it will be remembered, that
man, in acting on his fellow-man, exerts not only a
physical, but a mental, and moral power. These
must all be taken into consideration and duly weigh-
ed, in order to form a correct idea of the law of
equilibrium in the employment of the magnetic
forces. If this common law in nature extended no
further than merely to bring substances that are out
of balance down to a common level, then all action
in the various elements would soon cease.
It will be remembered that no one kindred element,
ever disturbs itself, or ever throws itself out of
balance. It requires another element to do this.
The water would always keep on a perfect level
with itself, throughout the globe, if air and heat
never disturbed it. By heat it is rarified into vapors,
carried over the globe in aerial conductors, condensed
by cold into drops, and rained upon the mountains
and more elevated portions of the globe, and then
again seeks its level with the parent ocean. So
there is a power that rarities the air, and the denser
portions rush to its aid, and the winds are in action
to keep up a perfect balance in its own empire,
while air, abstractly, could never disturb itself.
Hence it is even the law of equilibrium by which
one portion of water is thrown out of balance with
itself ; and the same is also true in relation to the
atmosphere. If heat, which is but the action of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 15
electricity, ratifies the water so as to cause it in
subtilty to approximate itself, then surely it is ac-
cording to the law of equilibrium that water is
thrown out of balance with itself by forcing it into
a partial equilibrium with some more rarified sub-
stance. Carrying out this principle, and applying it
to Mesmerism, it will be readily understood not only
how two persons of equal power may mesmerise
each other, but even how one of less physical power
may mesmerise a greater, and yet the whole be
effected in perfect accordance with the law of equi-
librium.
Having made these remarks which the occasion
seems to demand, I will now proceed to a direct
consideration of the nervo-vital fluid in the human
brain.
It is admitted, that the air we breathe is composed
of two substances, namely, oxygen and nitrogen.
Their relative quantities are about one fifth oxygen
and four fifths nitrogen. But these are not all. It
is evident, that hydrogen and electricity are also
component parts of air. Oxygen and electrici-
ty are the principles of flame and of animal life,
while nitrogen extinguishes both. There is not a
single square inch of air but what contains more or
less electricity. The air in its compound state is
drawn into the lungs. The oxygen and electricity
are communicated to the blood which is charged
with iron, while the nitrogen is disengaged and ex-
pired. This iron, which gives color to the blood, is
instantly rendered magnetic under the influence of
electricity, analogous to the needles in the galvanic
battery, which become magnets merely by induction.
The blood itself is, at the same time, oxydized by
the oxygen of the air, and instantly becomes cherry
red. This oxygen generates an acidity in the blood
in some degree answering to the solution of the
sulphate of copper in the galvanic battery. The
blood thus magnetically prepared at the lungs is
16 LECTURES ON
thrown upon the heart, and forced into the arteries.
Hence, arterial blood is red. It is propelled to the
extremities, driven into every possible ramification,
and is collected and carried back in the veins to the
lungs, for a fresh supply of the electro-magnetic
power. Hence, venous blood is dark, and is "unfit
to be thrown upon the heart a second time till it has
again come in contact with the oxygen and electrici-
ty of the air. The blood, thus charged, is propelled
through its living channels, and this friction causes
the electro-magnetic power to escape from the cir-
culating system into the nervous system for which
it has a strong affinity, and being secreted by the
brain it becomes the nervo-vital fluid, or animal
galvanism. It is important here to remark, that the
blood, in its friction through the arteries, has given
off its electro-magnetic power into the nervous sys-
tem. The blood thus freed assumes a dark appear-
ance in the veins, and becomes entirely negative.
The lungs, being charged with a fresh supply of
electricity, become positive. Hence, the blood is
drawn from the veins to the lungs, on the same prin-
ciple that the negative and the positive in electricity
rush together.
From the above observations, it will be perceived
that every muscle of the human body, every organ
and gland is polar, and by the negative and positive
principles, as above noticed, animal life is sustained
and perpetuated through the action of the lungs and
blood.
"We thus perceive that the nervo-vital fluid is man-
ufactured out of electricity, taken into the lungs at
every inspiration. It completely charges the whole
brain, when that organ is in a healthy state. The
nerves composing the brain are of three kinds,
namely : the nerves of sensation, the nerves of volun-
tary motion, and the nerves of involuntary motion.
I make these three divisions, so that I may be the
more readily understood when speaking of nervous
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 17
action. I desire you to bear in mind that these three
classes of nerves are all charged with the nervo-vital
fluid, which is exactly prepared to come in contact
with mind.
We put forth a will. That will stirs the nervo-
vital fluid in the voluntary nerves. This fluid causes
the voluntary nerves to vibrate. The galvanic vibra-
tion of these nerves contracts the muscles. The
muscles contracting, raise the arm, and that arm
raises foreign matter. So we perceive that it is
through this concatenation, or chain, that the mind
comes in contact with the grossest matter in the
universe.
It is evident that there is no direct contact between
mind and gross matter. There is no direct contact
between the length of a thought and the breadth of
that door. Nor is there any more direct contact be-
tween my mind and hand, than there is between my
mind and the stage upon which I stand. Thought
cannot touch my hand; yet it must be true that
mind can come in contact with matter, otherwise, I
could not raise my hand at all by the energies of my
will. Hence, it must be true, that the highest and
most subtil of inert matter in the universe, being the
next step to spirit, can come in contact with mind.
And electricity, changed into nervo-vital fluid, (which
is living galvanism,) is certainly the highest and
most ethereal inert substance of which we can form
any conception. Hence, as before remarked, it
must be true, that we put forth a will —by the ener-
gies of that will this galvanic substance or nervous
fluid is proudly stirred —that stirring vibrates the
nerves —this vibration contracts the muscles —the
muscles raise the arm, and that arm moves dead
matter.
Notwithstanding the plausibility of this argument,
it will yet be said that, as physiologists contend that
no one can explain through what medium the mind
comes in contact with matter, nor even how a muscle
'
2*
18 LECTURES ON
is made to contract, and raise the arm, and as the
lecturer has undertaken to explain it, we have a
right to demand positive proof. This demand being
rational, I will endeavor to meet it. I am, then, to
prove that the nervo-vital fluid (which is perfect
galvanism) is indeed the agent by which we con-
tract the muscles and raise the arm. That being
done, my point is gained, and the medium through
which mind comes in contact with matter is estab-
lished.
I would first remark, that it is common when
criminals are executed, that their bodies are delivered
over to medical men for dissection. Now take a
human body, and let it be conveyed from the gal-
lows to the charnel-house, and laid upon the dissect-
ing-table. Let a continuous shock from a strong
galvanic battery be given, and the muscles of the
dead man will contract, and exhibit many frightful
contortions. Many interesting experiments of this
character have been published. The dead man has
been known to spring upon his knees, jolt them
upon the floor, make violent gesticulations with his
hands, move his head, roll his eyes, and chatter his
teeth. The student, unused to such ghastly exhibi-
tions, has left the room, or fainted away; and even
the experienced physician has started back with
horror at the frightful contortions which he himself
had made. Now what was it that contracted the
muscles of this dead man ? There is but. one an-
swer to the question. It was galvanism. And what
is galvanism but electricity in a changed form ; so
that, instead of giving the system a sudden shock
like electricity, it merely produces a singular vibrat-
ing sensation upon the nerves, which causes the
muscles to contract ? It is nothing else. Electricity,
galvanism, magnetism, or attraction and repulsion,
are but different dispositions of the same common
fluid. Now as galvanism contracts the muscles of a
dead man, and is the only power known, that when
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 19
artificially applied can contract the muscles of the
living, so it must be the agent employed by the will
to contract the muscles, and enable us to perform
all the voluntary motions of life. Whatever may
be the opinions of others, I consider this argument
irresistible, and shall hold it as such, until it be fairly
refuted.
It must now appear plain to every candid mind,
that by the action of the will, and the exercise of all
the mental powers, the nervo-vital fluid, this living
galvanism, is continually thrown off from the volun-
tary nerves, and through the respiratory organs is
again supplied. There is still, however, a greater
waste. The involuntary nerves throw off another
large portion through the action of the heart and
lungs, and the digestive apparatus. And the nerves
of sensation, also, do their part in throwing off this
fluid. Let me here particularize. The nerves of
sensation are those by which feeling' is conveyed to
the mind. The voluntary nerves are those through
which the mind gives motion to those parts of the
body that are under the control of the will. The
involuntary nerves are those that give motion to such
parts of our system as are not under the control of
the will. None but the involuntary nerves pass to
the heart, stomach, and liver. So the heart will
throb, the stomach digest its food, and the liver se-
crete its gall, when we are awake or asleep, whether
we will it or not. But to the lungs go both the
voluntary and involuntary nerves. The involuntary
ones are, however, the most numerous, so that
though a man may hold his breath and keep the
lungs in suspension till he faints, yet the involun-
tary nerves will get the mastery, and restore him.
Through these three sets of nerves the galvanic fluid
is continually wasting and passing from the whole
system.
That I am correct, as to the nature of this nervous
fluid, is certain. Take an animal, and tie off the
20 LECTURES ON
involuntary nerves that lead to the stomach, and
digestion will instantly cease. Then pour a mode-
rate current of galvanism from the battery into the
stomach, and digestion will immediately commence.
Hence, I have clearly proved that the nervo-vital
fluid, secreted by the brain, is of a galvanic nature,
and is manufactured from electricity which we
breathe into the lungs every inspiration we take.
And I have, moreover, proved that this electro-mag-
netic power is the only matter that can come in
contact with mind, and is the only agent by which
the will contracts the muscles. Hence, the conclu-
sion is absolutely unavoidable, that, by the concen-
tration of the mind upon an individual, and by the
action of the will, this fluid can be thrown upon an-
other person till his nervous system is fully charged.
This is Mesmerism.
Having these important facts before us, we per-
ceive that the subject is one of momentous interest.
The nervous system, embracing the brain and all its
ramifications, when once diseased, seems to baffle
all medical aid and skill. Hence, those upon whom
fits of derangement are permanently settled, are
abandoned as hopeless ; and of both of these states,
we are all more or less in danger. Those persons,
particularly, who, on hearing the least good or bad
news, are thrown into tremor and agitation, are in
danger. Their brains lack the proper quantity of the
nervo-vital fluid. It will be remembered that in the
nerves of the brain there is no blood. The blood is
exclusively confined to the veins and arteries, while
the nerves are charged with this nervo-vital fluid, a
galvanic substance. Now if the veins and arteries
are filled with blood, and if the nerves are fully
charged with the galvanic fluid ; in one word, if the
circulating system and the nervous system are in
perfect balance, health and firmness are the result.
But if the circulating system lack its proper quantity
of blood, then languor and debility of body are the
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 21
result. But if, on the other hand, the nervous system
lack its proper quantity of galvanic fluid, then ner-
vous excitability is the result, and the person is in
danger of fits, derangement, and all the nervous
diseases that attend the human race. This is evident
from the following facts : Take a person who has a
sufficiency of blood in the circulating system, but
who, at the same time, has not enough of the gal-
vanic fluid in his nervous system. By some circum-
stance the blood is suddenly thrown to his head, and
the veins and arteries "which pass round among the
convolutions of the brain are swelled with this pres-
sure. The nerves composing the brain not being
sufficiently filled and braced with the galvanic fluid,
spasmodically collapse, and a fit is the result. How
often do persons, who suppose they are well, sudden-
ly drop down dead in the streets ! How often has a
father or mother retired to rest, and apparently in
health, yet in the morning the children found one or
the other a corpse ! Here, through eating too much,
or some other cause, the blood was suddenly pro-
pelled to the brain, and the nerves, not being suffi-
ciently braced with the galvanic fluid, collapsed, and
by apoplexy, instant death ensued. Even the bosom
companion, slumbering upon the same pillow, never
felt a motion.
Now if these persons had been mesmerised, no
such calamity would have ensued. Their nervous
system, by which I mean the whole brain and all its
ramifications, would have been charged from a full
and healthy brain, and having been thus charged, it
would have stood the war of internal elements and
outrode the rushing storm.
In the light our subject now stands, we perceive
how vastly important it is that every person while at
ease, or even in health, should be operated upon
until the brain is magnetically subdued. As stated
in my first lecture, one person can be mesmerised in
an hour or less, another in two hours, and so on up
22 LECTURES ON
to thirty hours. Let a healthy friend of yours sit
down, one hour each day, until he subdues your
brain. No person should mesmerise more than one
hour in twenty-four. The exertion is so great, he
will injure himself if he do. But here is the glory
of this science. Though you may labor an hour
each day for twenty or thirty days in succession, yet
what you gain, you hold, until the work is accom-
plished. And not only so, but after the brain is
once magnetically subdued, you can then throw the
person into the state in five minutes. Yes, a child
ten years old can then mesmerise a giant father.
Your brain being magnetically subdued, it is worth
hundreds of dollars to you. You are then ready
for the day of distress. Come what may —tooth-
ache, headache, tic doloreux, neuralgia, or any pain
of which you can conceive ; let some one mes-
merise you and then wake you up, and the pain is
gone. The whole process need not occupy more
than ten minutes. Should you fall and break your
arm, then let some person mesmerise the arm only,
which can be done in one minute. You are free
from pain, and though in your wakeful state, yet you
can look quietly on, and see the bones put to their
places. Your arm can then be kept in the mesmeric
state, and thoroughly and rapidly healed without
having ever experienced one single throb of pain.
Or by simply mesmerising your arm or leg, you can
sit in the wakeful state and see them amputated, and
feel no pain. But if you neglect to have your brain
magnetically subdued, then when the day of distress
comes upon you, as it might require several hours to
put you into this state, it will then be too late to
avail yourself of the blessings this science is calcu-
lated to bestow.
It is not only a preventive of fits, insanity, and of
the most frightful nervous diseases, and a safeguard
against pain, but it will cure fits, if no congestion of
the brain has taken place. It never fails to remove
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 23
the ague and fever, however long it may have been
upon the individual, and will prevent any fevers
prevalent in northern climates, if the individual be
mesmerised as soon as taken.
Here, then, are opening before us new fields of
action where those who have hearts of benevolence
may freely roam at large, and find ample scope for
the full gratification of all their sympalhetic and
Christian feelings, and those who scoff and sneer at
this science, do scoff and sneer at human wo and
human pain, and know not what they do.
24 LECTURES ON
LECTURE III.
Ladies and Gentlemen : The two lectures I
have had the pleasure to deliver, and the successful
experiments I have, during the last two evenings,
performed in your presence, have awakened opposi-
tion, and the excitement has truly become tremen-
dous. Hundreds cannot gain admittance into this
capacious chapel, and the breathless anxiety and
stillness of this crowded congregation, show the deep
and stirring interest which you feel in the science of
Mesmerism, which is the science of mind and its
godlike powers. For many ages men have turned
their attention to matter, and confined all their in-
vestigations to the realms of material philosophy. It
is true, that here and there a noble spirit has turned
his attention to scan the nature and powers of the
human mind itself. But she seemed to close her
laboratory against their entrance, and forbid them to
lay their hands upon her sacred shrine. In this con-
dition, there was no alternative but to judge of mind
itself from its vast and complicated operations, both
mental and moral. But that the mind itself could
directly produce a physical result by its own living
energies, seems never to have entered their hearts.
But new fields of thought are opened to the human
soul, and the mysterious and wonderful powers of
the living mind are now seen and felt. Circum-
stances require me to say that I regard not the
opposition nor the scepticism of men. I challenge
investigation both as to the experiments I perform,
or the arguments I offer. I stand mailed with im-
mutable truth; and hence, on this subject, am
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 25
invulnerable to every attack. Truth is immutable,
cannot bend to circumstances, and must stand inde-
pendent of the belief or unbelief of men. It must
soar on towering wing far above the reach of scorn,
and sooner or later triumph over all opposition.
I now come to speak of mind and its powers. I
have clearly shown that the will raises the arm
through the agency of electricity. Perhaps I should
not call it electricity, but nervo-vital fluid or galvanic
fluid, manufactured from electricity taken in at the
lungs. The will is not an attribute of the mind, but
the result of all the attributes brought into council
and action. It is executive of the mind. The ques-
tion now comes up in proper order before us —Is
there any power in mind to produce a result by
simply willing it ? I contend that there is, while the
opposers of Mesmerism contend that there is not.
Mesmerism, then, must stand or fall on the existence
or non-existence of such a power. And first, suffer
me to appeal to you as Christians. If you deny
that mind, or spirit, has any power to produce a
physical result, then how does the Creator govern the
universe ? How can his Spirit come in contact with
matter so as to produce any physical results ? The
creation and government of the world are represented
in scripture as the result of the divine will. " He
doeth according to his will in the army of heaven,
and among the inhabitants of earth." The creation
of the world and all its appendages is represented as
the effect of his will. " He said let there be light,
and there was light." " He spake and it was done
he commanded and it stood fast." If, then, the infi-
nite Spirit, by holding his will unchangeably upon
all the multifarious objects of creation, moves un-
numbered worlds, and governs the universe, then
there is also an energy and power in the human
spirit proportionate to its greatness. If you grant
that the infinite Spirit, by putting forth an infinite
will, can produce infinite results, then surely a feeble
3
26 LECTURES ON
finite spirit by putting forth a feeble finite will can
produce a feeble finite result. I only ask of you, as
Christian philosophers, the admission that the same
cause shall produce the same effect.
If, however, you deny the correctness of this con-
clusion, then I have only to say, that you furnish the
Atheist with a weapon by which he is sure to defeat
you. Argue as long as you please, and even drive
the honest Atheist from every other ground, he will
at last say—Well, admit there is a God, yet he can
do nothing. Your Bible, says " God is a spirit"
Hence, he has no hands, feet, nor physical body, as
we have. He may, therefore, will and will to all
eternity ;
yet he can do nothing, because spirit, by its
mere mental action, cannot come in contact with,
nor in the least affect matter. We know this, says
the Atheist, from observation and experience. " And
what can we reason but from what we know ? " A
human being for instance, may sit down and exer-
cise all his mental energies. He may will and will
to endless age, yet he can do nothing —cannot pro-
duce the least physical result, unless he uses his
hands or comes in bodily contact. I now ask
those Christians, who deny that the mind has such
power as we are contending for, how can they
answer this argument of the Atheist? I contend
that they are not able to meet it. There is no
human ingenuity beneath these heavens that the
Christian opposers of the mesmeric power can sum-
mon to their aid adequate to the task. Indeed, it
implies a contradiction in terms, and involves them
in the following compound dilemma.—If the infinite
Spirit, by the energies of his will, can produce infi-
nite results, then a finite spirit, by its will, can pro-
duce a finite result. But a finite spirit, by its will,
cannot produce any result, so an infinite spirit, by its
will, cannot produce any result ! Of this dilemma
they may take either horn. Now for the consist-
ency of these sapient opposers. They admit that
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 27
the infinite Spirit, by his will, governs the universe,
and produces infinite effects, and yet deny that a
finite spirit, by its will, can produce the least physical
effect ; which is most philosophically absurd ! But if
a finite spirit, by its living energies, can produce a
finite result, then there is a God and the heavens do
rule. I am willing to meet any intelligent clergy-
man in controversy who denies the truth of Mes-
merism ; and before this enlightened congregation,
who shall be our jurors, I will either make him
acknowledge the mesmeric power, or drive him to
Atheism. I will leave him no other alternative.
We have thus far confined our inquiries to the
fact whether there was any power at all in mind to
produce results independent of bodily contact. I
now take a still higher stand, and deny, in total, that
there is any power or motion whatever, in the whole
immeasurable universe, except in mind. There can
be no power without motion, nor can there be motion
except it originate in mind. I care not through how
many concatenations of cause and effect you may
trace motion, it is after all but secondary, and must,
be traced back to mind as its starting point. For
instance ; suppose a ball should lie at rest upon this
floor. It would never stir unless motion were com-
municated to it by some extraneous power. If an-
other ball entered that door and came in contact with
the ball at rest, it would communicate motion to it
by impulse, losing just as much as it communicated.
But here is no beginning of motion, and every one
would look around for the cause. If, while gazing,
you should see another ball enter the door, struck by
a bat, you might not yet be satisfied, whether that
bat was held in a man's hand, or whether it was
fastened in some machinery prepared, and put in
motion by human ingenuity. But you see a third
ball enter the door, and not only discover the bat
but the hand that grasps it. You are now satisfied.
You know that the hand is connected with a body,
28 LECTURES ON
and that body with a brain and mind. Now in
these three instances there is no beginning- of mo-
tion. The man's hand, the bat and first ball are but
the three instruments through which motion was
communicated to the ball at rest, and the man's
mind was the sole mover.
As the subject of Mesmerism is directly connect-
ed with the powers of mind, and as this is the pivot
on which the question between its advocates and
opposers must eventually turn, you will permit me
to take a wider range in this extensive field. There
must be some medium through which the eternal
mind comes in contact with gross matter, moves
unnumbered worlds according to nature's law, and
sustains and governs the unbounded universe.
That medium must be the finest, the most rarified,
and subtil of inert matter in being. It must be the
last link in the material chain of inert substances that
fastens on mind. This is electricity. Hence, it is
through electricity, that the Great Spirit comes in
contact with his universe. This is evident, because
it is electricity, as it exists in the human system,
through which our spirits come in contact with mat-
ter. We are but an epitome of God's universe, and
in us is contained every variety of matter and sub-
stance in being. " The proper study of mankind is
man ;
" and in this study, the most unbounded fields
are opened to the range of human thought.
It may now be asked, if electricity is that sub-
stance through which the Creator comes in contact
with matter, how then could he act when that splen-
did substance had no existence ? or, in other words,
how could he create "all things out of nothing?"
I deny the assertion, that God created all things out
of nothing, and challenge the proof. Space and
duration exist of necessity, and that space was eter-
nally filled with primal matter, which I contend is
electricity. The scriptures do not inform us that
God created all things out of nothing, and surely
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 29
philosophy cannot inform us how many nothings it
will take to make the least conceivable something!
Though it is the commonly received opinion that
all things were created out of nothing, yet in all
ages of the Christian church, there have been some
eminent men of all denominations, who have reject-
ed this idea, and contended that all things were
created out of some substance. I have not the time
to refer to those persons this evening, yet permit me
to name one. A more orthodox man than John
Milton never lived, as all know, who have ever read
that astonishing production of the human intellect, his
" Paradise Lost." He was at war with the idea that
all things were created out of nothing. I will pre-
sent you with an extract from his Treatise on Chris-
tian Doctrine, volume 1, pages 236 and 237. As I
quote from memory, I may not be correct in every
word.
He says :
" It is clear, then, that the world was
framed out of matter of some kind or other. For
since action and passion are relative terms, and
since, consequently, no agent can act externally, un-
less there be some patient such as matter, it appears
impossible that God could have created this world
out of nothing ; not from any defect of power on his
part, but because it was necessary, that something
should previously have existed capable of receiving
passively the exertion of the divine efficacy. Since,
therefore, both scripture and reason concur in pro-
nouncing that all these things were made, not out
of nothing, but out of matter, it necessarily follows
that matter must always have existed independent of
God, or have originated from God at some particu-
lar point of time."
So you perceive, Milton contends that both scrip-
ture and reason teach that all things were made out
of matter. I am under no obligations to prove that
all things were not made out of nothing, for no man
is bound by the rules of logic to prove a negative.
3*
30 LECTURES ON
But I will, for a moment, depart from this establish-
ed rule of schoolmen, and undertake to prove lb at
all things were not made out of nothing. To this
end, I will call into ray service the following argu-
ment.
We raise an axe, and, at a single blow, cut in two
a piece of wood one inch in diameter. Now it is
certain that this wood was not severed instantly in
all its parts. If it were, then the lower part would
have been cut at the same instant that the upper
part was, which is perfectly absurd, and therefore
impossible. The axe certainly passed gradually
through that wood, and progressively separated one
grain after another. This you all perceive. By in-
stantly, we are to understand, that no time shall
elapse between the accomplishment of any two ob-
jects. It may, however, be said, that there are bodies
that move with greater velocity than this axe. I
will then take another. There is nothing with
which we are acquainted, that moves with greater
velocity than light ; its motion being about twelve
million miles in a minute. Hence, the passage of a
ray of light from the sun to the earth, would be about
eight minutes. It is, therefore, absurd to say that
a ray of light could be at the sun and at the earth
the same instant, as it would allow no time for its
passage. I will now apply the above argument to
the subject before us.
If something were created out of nothing', it could
not, in the nature of things, have been done progres-
sively or gradually, because the instant it became the
least possible remove from nothing it would be some-
thing. It must, in the very nature of things, remain
nothing till it becomes something, because there is
no possible process by which it can be gradually
brought forward into something, for there is no ex-
isting medium between something and nothing.
Now if nothing were created into something, it must
have been done instantly ; and if instantly, then it
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 31
must have been nothing and something at the same
instant, which is the climax of absurdity. It is just
as absurd as to contend that the piece of wood be-
fore mentioned was severed at the bottom at the
same time that it was at the top, or that a ray of
light could be at the sun and the earth at the same
instant. I shall hold this argument sound until some
one is able to refute it.
Hence, I contend for the eternal existence of pri-
mal matter, which is electricity. But even this pri-
mal matter does not exist independent of Deity. It
is the natural atmosphere or substance emanating
from Him. It is evident that every substance in be-
ing has its atmospheric emanation, by which it may
be detected before we arrive at the body. I say at-
mospheric emanation, because I know of no other
more convenient term, by which I can express my
ideas. For instance, the rose, and every species of
the flower tribe, have their emanations, which like
an atmosphere surround them, and by which we de-
tect their existence before wc come in contact with
them. For the sake of perspicuity, suffer me to call
it atmospheric emanation, which in the above cases
is detected by smell. The same is true of every
species of trees and plants in being. The same is
true of every species of earth, and rock, and mineral,
in existence. Each substance has an atmospheric
emanation peculiar to itself, and by which it can be
discovered by man, or by some other living creature.
The camel on the desert will detect water twenty
miles distant. The same is true in relation to all the
races and tribes of animated beings. Each has its
own peculiar atmospheric emanation, by which it
may be detected by some other creature, by some
instinctive sense of which we have little or no con-
ception. As then every substance in being has its
own peculiar emanation, so the atmospheric emana-
tion of the self-existent Spirit, is electricity, which,
LECTURES ON
proceeding forth from Him, does not therefore exist
independent of him.
It will now be said that, on this principle of rea-
soning, the speaker will make it out that spirit itself
is matter. If by spirit you mean that which has
neither length, breadth, nor thickness, nor occupies
any space, then I have only to say that it is a mere
chimera of the human brain, a nonentity, a nothing!
Does Deity fill all space? Then he is of course a
substance, a real, living, acting and thinking being
otherwise, as Christians, we use words without knowl-
edge, when we say that he fills immensity with his
presence. But it may be said that mind is thought,
reason and understanding, and then be asked, wheth-
er thought, reason, understanding, &c, occupy any
space ? But I deny that these are mind. Thought,
reason and understanding are not mind, but the
effects of mind. Mind is something supremely high-
er than all these. I yet ask what is that which
thinks, reasons and understands? It is the mind.
Then mind is something distinct from those effects
by which it is made manifest. What, then, it may be
asked, is mind? I answer, it is that substance which
has innate or living motion ; and the result of that
motion is thought, reason, understanding, and, there-
fore, power. As electricity is the highest and most
subtil of inert substances, as it fastens on mind, and
is, therefore, more easily moved than any other inert
substance in being, so mind is the next step above
electricity, is the crowning perfection of all other
substances in immensity —is living motion ; and the
result of that motion is thought and power. It is
the living Spirit from whom emanates electricity, and
who, out of that electricity, has created all worlds.
Hence, the Creator is a real substance or being,
possessing personal identity, and is infinite in every
perfection of his adorable character.
Electricity, which is an atmospheric emanation
from God, and which is moved by his will, is that
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 33
substance out of which all worlds and their splendid
appendages were made. Hence, it will be perceived,
that electricity contains all the original properties of
all the various substances in being. All the varieties
of the universe around us —all the beauties and
glories of creation upon which we look with so
many thrilling emotions of delight, were produced
from electricity, which is the inexhaustible fountain
of primal matter. By the living energies of the
Divine Mind electricity was condensed into globes
not instantly, but gradually. The heaviest particles
took the lowest point, or common centre of our
globe, and so on, step by step, lighter and lighter,
till we reach the surface which is a vegetable mould.
On this we find water, a substance still lighter than
earth; next air, which is lighter than water, and so
on till we reach the sun, which is the highest point
in relation to our system, because it is the common
centre. The sun is, therefore, pure electricity.
Hence, the twenty-nine globes, belonging to our
system, are electrically, geologically and magnetical-
ly made. They are but twenty-nine magnets revolv-
ing around our sun as a common centre.
The sun, being pure electricity or primal matter,
is but an emanation from the Deity. It is, conse-
quently, in a positive state. Hence, electricity is
continually passing from the sun, as a common
centre, to the twenty-nine surrounding worlds; on the
same principle that it passes from a positive to a nega-
tive cloud. Having done its duty in giving light, heat
and vegetation, as well as magnetic power to globes,
it is returned by reaction to the sun, and these two
motions form the vortices that roll worlds around
him. It is impossible that there can be any inherent
attraction and repulsion in matter. Attraction and
repulsion are but different dispositions of electricity.
The best magnets are now made from the galvanic
battery. Hence, electricity, galvanism and magnet-
ism are but in substance one and the same fluid,
and as this is primal matter, an emanation from the
34 LECTURES ON
Eternal Mind, so all the powers of attraction and
repulsion originate in Deity. His will comes in
contact with electricity, and through that subtil agent
he moves the whole immeasurable universe in ac-
cordance with nature's law. All worlds are in
motion. They roll rapid as the lightning's blaze,
and in the most apparent confusion; yet all is calm,
regular and harmonious. God is, therefore, connect-
ed with his universe, and superintends all its multi-
farious operations. Though he is thus intimately
united to inert matter, yet he is distinct from the
whole.
" Thou apart,
Above, beyond ; O tell me, mighty Mind,
Where art thou ? Shall I dive into the deep ?
Call to the sun ? or ask the roaring winds
For their Creator ? Shall I question loud
The thunder, if in that the Almighty dwells ?
Or holds he furious storms in straitened reins,
And bids fierce whirlwinds wheel his rapid car ?
The nameless He ! whose nod is nature's birth
And nature's shield the shadow of his hand
Her dissolution his suspended smile
The great First Last ! pavilioned high he sits
In darkness, from excessive splendor borne,
By gods unseen, unless through lustre lost.
His glory, to created glory, bright,
As that to central horrors ; he looks down
On all that soars, and spans immensity."
Worlds are not only electrically, geologically and
magnetically made, but they are electrically and
magnetically suspended and moved by the imme-
diate energies of the Divine Mind. Here is an
image in paper costume. I will attach it to this
electrizing machine and charge it. See! those
papers are now all suspended, and being equally
charged, they repel each other. I will now put my
fingers near them. See! how they are attracted by
my hand. They touch me, give off their electricity,
become equalized with my fingers, and then fall.
Here, then, is suspension, attraction, and repulsion,
by electricity. It may, however, be said, that if
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 35
worlds are moved by electricity, that they must
necessarily move as quick as lightning. This does
not follow. Here is an orrery, with which the most
of you are acquainted. I attach it to the electrical
machine, and charge. You see it is moved by giv-
ing off electricity at its points. But though elec-
trically moved, yet it does not move as quick as
lightning. The magnet I hold in my hand was
charged from the galvanic battery, and by one single
stroke of the battery from the prongs of this magnet
towards the bow, I can destroy all its magnetic
powers, and by reversing the action, I can just as
suddenly restore them.
I have now clearly shown that all motion and
power originate in mind, and as the human spirit,
through an electro-magnetic medium, comes in con-
tact with matter, so the infinite Spirit does the same,
and through this medium he governs the universe.
Hence, those who deny the mesmeric power, must,
to be consistent with themselves, deny that there is
any medium through which mind can come in con-
tact with matter, or else deny that mind, abstractly
considered, has any power to produce results. But
the denial of either of these is a denial of an all-
powerful, self-existent Spirit, the Creator and Gov-
ernor of the universe. But, on the other hand, how
sublime the idea, that God is electrically and mag-
netically connected with his universe ; that, by the
energies of his own will, he has condensed and
formed worlds from electricity, which is but the
atmospheric emanation of his own spirit, and that
by electricity he sustains, rolls, and governs them
from age to age. And how sublime the idea, that
he has " poured spirit from spirit's awful fountain,
and kindled into existence a world of rationals."
He has poured himself through all his works, and
stamped upon them beauty, order, and harmony,
which are but the reflected impressions of his own
SPLENDOR.
36 LECTURES ON
LECTURE IV.
Ladies and Gentlemen : It is a source of grati-
fication to me thai public attention, in Boston and
vicinity, is completely awakened to the interests of
Spiritualism, and that they are giving this subject
that investigation which its importance demands.
We live emphatically in an age of investigation and
improvement, when light seems to be pouring in
oceans on our world ; and he who shuts his eyes,
and then scoffs and sneers because others open theirs
and see, is not only recreant to duty, but does society
an irreparable wrong. But those who remain in
scepticism much longer on the subject of Mesmer-
ism, will be suspected either of ignorance or dishon-
esty. I make this remark, because there is no possi-
ble apology that any man of common sense should
remain in scepticism another day. He can go home
and try it upon his children or friends, and test its
power, and know its truth ; and this every man is
bound to do who desires to mitigate human pain,
and assuage human woes. The subject is one of
paramount consideration, and is worthy of your best
affections, your most ardent zeal, and your warmest
hopes.
In my last lecture, I took into consideration mind
and its powers, and the medium through which it
comes in contact with matter. This medium is
electricity, and is that eternal, primal matter out of
which all other subslances were made. It fills im-
mensity of space ; and worlds are successively and
continually formed by the condensation of electricity
under the living and ever-acting energies of the
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Eternal Mind. We are floating in an immensity of
space that knows no bounds, like the mote in the
sunbeam. This is peopled with swarming worlds,
in number beyond an angel's computation ; and the
residue, which has not yet become the abodes of life,
order, and beauty, is filled up with primal matter
still in its electrical state. Hence, the work of crea-
tion has been going on from eternity, and will con-
tinue to progress so long as the throne of the self-
existent Jehovah endures, without ever arriving at an
end in the sublime career of creation. New brother
creations are, therefore, every moment rolling from
his omnific hand, and that creating fiat will never,
never cease. All this is effected by the energies of
mind.
In my last lecture, I stated, and, as I thought, con-
clusively proved, that thought, reason, understanding,
&c, were not mind, but merely the results of mind,
and gave what I considered conclusive evidence.
I, moreover, stated that mind was a substance that
occupied space, that it possessed living motion, and
that the result of that motion was thought, reason,
and power, and gave what I considered proof. But
it seems that both of these positions have been dis-
puted, and hence I will once more touch these two
points.
If thought, reason, and understanding are mind,
then our minds are annihilated every night in sleep.
Because, if all the organs of the brain are wrapped
in profound slumber, then there is not a single
thought stirring in the whole intellectual realm. It
will not answer to parry the force of this argument,
by saying that the action of blood upon the brain
produces thought, and that this action is suspended
in slumber, because the blood flows and acts upon
the brain in sleep, as well as when we are awake
and hence we should, on this principle, think and
reason when asleep, nearly as well as when awake.
This, however, is not the case. If, then, thought
4
38 LECTURES ON
and reason are mind, I must insist that, in profound
slumber, the mind is annihilated, for thought is
gone. Hence it is plain, that thought, reason, and
understanding are not mind, but the effects of mind.
I will now take a different argument from the one
offered in my last lecture, to prove that mind is a
substance that has innate motion, and that this mo-
tion produces thought. It is admitted on all hands,
that the mind resides in the brain, not in the blood-
vessels, but in the nerves themselves. Now, if the
nerves are very much expanded by heat, it is impos-
sible to sleep. By lying perfectly still upon our
beds, there is a coolness steals over the brain. The
nerves, by coolness, are made to contract. They
continue gently to shrink until they press upon the
living substance that they contain, and stop its motion.
That moment all thought ceases. Recollect, mind
is that substance whose nature is motion, and the
result of that motion is thought. By pressure, by
force, it is stopped, and thought is gone. The mo-
ment our rest is complete, a nervous warmth comes
over the brain. The nerves expand, leave the mind
disengaged, it resumes its motion, and thought is the
result. As cold shrinks, and heat expands the nerv-
ous system, so that we alternately sleep and wake
under this double action, so the mind is a living,
self-moving, and indivisible substance, which is
capable of being compressed sufficient, at least, to
prevent its motion.
Having made these remarks, which the circum-
stances of the occasion seemed to require at my
hands, I now invite your attention to what is called
by sceptics the incomprehensibility and marvellous-
ness of magnetic sleep ; and who, on this account,
openly avow the impossibility and inconsistency of
any one being thrown into such a state ; and who,
whenever they witness experiments to test it, freely
use the stereotyped words, " humbug- and collusion"
and that, too, with great emphasis, without being
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 39
able, however, to detect this great, this wonderful
imposition on public credulity
The greatest objection to the truth of the science
of Mesmerism arises from the circumstance, that the
subject can see in a manner different from the ordi-
nary mode of vision. That any person can see out
of the templar region, or out of the top, or back part
of the skull, and through solid walls, and in the
darkest night, they contend is too preposterous to be
believed. I deeply regret to say that medical men
not only give countenance to such declarations made
by the common mass, but are engaged in making
the same themselves. But I seriously appeal to
them whether they have never seen any patients in a
certain state of the nervous system, induced by dis-
ease, where they could thus see, and when sensation
was so perfectly extinct that amputation might have
taken place without pain? Have they never seen
a case of catalepsy? If not, have they never seen
in medical works well-authenticated cases of this
disease reported? Surely they will not deny these
things. I further inquire ; have they never seen a
case, nor read, nor heard one reported, where patients
in a state of catalepsy have been entirely clairvoy-
ant? where they have seen, as no person in the
ordinary way of vision can see? I am conscious
that they will not hazard their medical reputation by
giving these interrogatories an unqualified denial.
Of all persons beneath these heavens, medical gen-
tlemen should be the last to sneer at the idea of
clairvoyance, or even total insensibility of a person
in the magnetic state.
Catalepsy is a sudden suppression of motion and
sensation ; a kind of apolexy, in which the patient is
in a fixed posture. If the case be an aggravated
one, the patient is sometimes senseless and even
speechless. To bring this subject directly and plain-
ly before you, I will relate to you an incident which
was stated to me about six months ago by Dr. Pat-
40 LECTURES ON
terson, an eminent physician of Lynchburg, Virginia.
A young lady was taken sick. Her physician, who
Jived some eight or tea miles distant, was sent for.
lie found her in a state of catalepsy. Though
there was no sensation in her body, yet she had
occasional fits of talking. He prescribed, stated lhat
he should be there the next evening, and left. The
evening came, and a most tremendous storm of rain,
with high winds, set in. The darkness was pro-
found. As the family were seated in silence and
anxiety in the same room where the patient lay,
some one said, " Well, our doctor will not be here to-
night." The sick lady answered ;
" Yes he will ; he
is coming now ; he is riding on horseback, and is all
drenched with rain." The family supposing this to
be a mere reverie of the brain, a touch of delirium,
made no reply. Nearly an hour passed on ; and the
storm continuing with unabating violence, one of
the pensive group again broke the silence, and ex-
claimed with a feeling of regret, " Well, it is certain
our doctor will not be here this dark stormy night! "
The sufferer again answered, " Yes he will ; he is
most here now ; there he is hitching his horse ; he is
coming to the door." They heard the raps ; ihe
door was opened, and in came the doctor. I now
ask, how did this lady in a state of catalepsy see the
physician several miles distant, through the walls of
her house and in so dark a night ?
This report was given in a medical journal and
well authenticated. And moreover, there are many
of a similar character; and of these facts medical
men are well aware. Now I appeal to them, who
are present on this occasion, that, if it is possible to
throw the nervous system into a condition by disease,
so that the patient can see in a manner entirely dis-
tinct from the ordinary mode of vision, then, how
can they, without presumption, affirm that a person
cannot be thrown into a similar state by Mesmer-
ism? It is proved by medical works that such a
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 41
state of the brain is possible ; and who will take
upon himself to affirm, that it can be induced by no
other means than disease ? As a state ef catalepsy-
is thus frequently attended with clairvoyance, and
with total insensibility, so that amputation could be
performed without pain, then why should we marvel
when we see the same identical phenomena cluster-
ing around Mesmerism? I have only to say that,
our surprise is wholly gratuitous.
I appeal to medical gentlemen present. Have
you never seen a case of natural somnambulism ?
There are hundreds of them occur in this city ; and
in every town there are those who rise in their sleep,
perform labors, and return to their beds without
knowing it. In this state they have gone to the top of
house-frames, walked on the ridgepoles, and safely
descended. They have, in the darkest nights, walked
over dangerous and rapid streams on a mere scant-
ling in safety, where a slight loss of balance would
have been death, and where it would be impossible
for them to have crossed in their wakeful state.
Women have arisen, and in this state have done
the nicest needle-work. And how did these see?
Surely not with the natural organ of vision. A
young lady at boarding-school, learning to paint
miniatures, and on preparing one for examination-
day, found that she should be excelled by the other
pupils. It worried her much, and to her surprise
she found in the morning, that her picture had
greatly advanced under the delicate touch of some
experienced hand. She charged the deed upon her
teacher, who disclaimed all knowledge of the fact.
But on the next morning the picture was nearly
finished, but the transgressor could not be found.
The Preceptress being strongly suspected, secretly
sat up and watched. In the dead of night, when all
was still, the young lady arose, and in a dark room
arranged her work, mixed her colors, and began to
paint. Her Preceptress lit a lamp, entered the room,
4*
42 LECTURES ON
and saw that lady finish her picture. She then
awakened her. How did she see how to mix her
colors, and to give the nicest touch with her pencil
where no human eye in the wakeful slate could
discern an object? 'Such facts as these, and even
more wonderful, are well known to medical genlle-
men. Now, if persons can by some cause be
thrown into somnambulism upon their beds, then
reason teaches that they may be thrown into the
same state, and even a much deeper sleep by the
magnetic power.
We will now take into consideration the philoso-
phy of clairvoyance. It is evident that seeing, hear-
ing, feeling, tasting and smelling, belong exclusively
to the mind. And as we have clearly proved that
electricity is the only substance that can come in
contact with mind, so it is through the agency of
this fluid that sensations are transmitted to the mind.
Hence, it is through the medium of electricity that
we see, hear, feel, taste and smell.
The power of sight being in the mind, it is evident
that we never saw any thing out of our eyes. The
whole of this congregation, with all their different
costumes, their various complexions and different
appearances, and all their relative distances from
each other, are struck upon the retina of the speaker's
eye, on about the bigness of a quarter of an inch.
By the agency of electricity it is conveyed through
the optic nerve to the mind where it is seen. Hence,
we never saw a piece of matter but only its shadow,
the same as when you look into a mirror, it is not
yourself, but your image that you see. Electricity
is that substance that passes through all other sub-
stances. Air cannot pass through your cranium, nor
through these walls, nor metallic substances. But as
all these have countless millions of pores, electricity
can pass through them. Now if our nervous system
could be charged with the nervo-vital fluid, so as to
render the brain positive, and ihus bring it into an
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 43
exact equilibrium or balance with external electricity,
then we should be clairvoyant. Because the nervous
system being duly charged, and even surcharged,
the great quantity of this fluid passing in right lines
from the mind, as a common centre, and in every
direction through the pores of the skull, renders it
transparent. Uniting with external electricity which
passes through these walls and all substances, which
are also transparent, the image of the whole universe,
as it were, in this transparent form, is thrown upon
the mind, and is there seen, and seen, too, inde-
pendent of the retina. On this principle, the whole
of those objects which are opaque to natural vision,
are rendered transparent to the clairvoyant, and he
sees through walls in succession, and takes cogni-
zance of their relative distances, on the same principle
that we in a wakeful state could look through said
walls if they were thin, transparent glass. On this
principle, if the subject be charged too much or too
little, he cannot see clearly. Or if the night be
rainy, or even damp, and unfavorable to electricity,
then experiments in clairvoyance must fail, or be
very imperfect. The subject must be magnetically
charged exactly to that degree which will bring him
into magnetic equilibrium with external electricity.
Then, if the night be favorable, the experiments will
most likely prove successful.
That the above principles are correct, and that
taste, seeing, &c, are electrically conveyed to the
mind, try the following experiments. Take a half
dollar, and a piece of zinc of the same size. Touch
them separately to the tongue, and you will not per-
ceive any taste. But put the tongue between them,
and, in this position, touch the edges of the two pieces
together over the end of the tongue, and you will
taste a pungent acid. This taste is produced elec-
trically. Zinc contains a greater portion of electricity
than the silver, and when they come in contact it
gives it off to the silver, and conveys the sensation
44 LECTURES ON
of taste through the glands to the mind. In further
proof of this being electricity, put the half dollar
against the gums under the upper lip. Open the
mouth and lay the zinc upon the tongue. By
moving the tongue up and down, you will touch the
pieces together, and every time they come in contact
you will not only perceive the same taste before
described, but you will see a flash of lightning.
Now that this lightning is seen directly by the mind,
and independent of the natural organ of the eye, you
may enter a dark room, and in the darkest night;
close your eyes and even bandage them, and yet
when you touch those pieces, as described, you will
see the flash, even when one from the heavens could
not be seen. This flash is conveyed through the
nervous system directly to the mind, where alone
exists the power of vision. This is not only proof
that taste and sight are electrically conveyed to the
mind, but also that electricity is that substance which
alone comes in contact with mind.
It is the same in relation to the other senses.
Even hearing is not produced by the concussion of
the particles of our air, but by the vibration of the
particles of electricity conveyed to the mind, and in
that tremulous manner through the organ of the ear
coming in direct contact with mind. It is impossible,
in the nature of things, that so gross a substance as
air can pass the barriers of the ear and enter the
brain to produce any sound. But it may be said,
that though the particles of air do not enter the brain,
yet with a vibrating motion they strike the drum of
the ear and convey sound to the mind. This cannot
be, because there is no air in the brain itself; and
hence, there is no internal aerial medium through
which sound could be transmitted to the mind, even
if we admit that the concussion of the particles of
external air conveyed it to the drum. I yet ask,
what is the internal medium beyond, through which
that sound is convevedto the mind? There is no air
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 45
there ; and if it be a vacuum, then no sound what-
ever can be conveyed. The truth is, that the same
substance in tremulous motion, which conveys sound
to the drum of the ear, also passes through it into
the nervous system, and conveys its oracle to the
very throne of the living mind. This is electricity,
which is the only correspondent or mediator between
mind and matter, laying its brilliant hand upon both
parties, and bringing them into communication.
The sense of smell exists in the mind, and from
surrounding substances the sensation is electrically
conveyed to it. But as smell is so nearly related to
taste, the same argument may be applied to both. I
will therefore proceed to notice the sense oi feeling.
It is generally said that the sense of feeling' is in
the nerves. But I contend that it belongs exclusively
to the mind, the nerves being the mere medium
through which it is electrically conveyed to the mind.
Indeed, all our sensations, whether of seeing, hear-
ing, feeling, tasting, or smelling, are conveyed to
the mind, through the nervous system, from their
correspondent organs, which are but the mere start-
ing points, or inlets of sensation. And as the nervo-
vital fluid, which is of an electric nature, is the only
substance that acts through the nerves, so electricity
is the agent which conveys all our sensations to the
mind. Though it is said that feeling is diffused
over the whole system, yet strictly speaking, this is
not true. All feeling is in the mind. It is evident
that the mind resides in the brain. It is not diffused
over the whole nervous system, for then we might
be as sensible that thought proceeded from the hand
or foot, as from the head. In this case, the loss of a
hand or foot would be the loss of some portion of
our minds. The spinal marrow is but a continua-
tion of the brain. Branches shoot out, and from
these, other branches in infinite variety, until they
are spread out over the whole system ten thousand
times finer than the finest hair-sieve, —so fine that
46 LECTURES ON
you cannot put down the point of a cambric needle
without feeling it, and you cannot feel unless you
touch a nerve. Hence, you perceive how very fine
the nervous system must be! Of this system, the
brain is the fountain, and is the local habitation of
the mind.
Now touch the finger to any object, and that touch
produces a corresponding action upon the brain, and
through the agency of the electro-magnetic fluid,
that sensation is conveyed to the mind. It is the
mind that feels it, and by habit we associate the
feeling with the end of the finger. But amputate
the arm, and then touch the corresponding nerve at
the end of the stump, and he will yet associate the
feeling with the end of the finger. But the feeling
is not even in the end of the stump. It is in the
mind which has its residence in the brain.
I knew a blacksmith who had his leg amputated
above the knee. When healed, he put on a wooden
leg, and resumed his labors in the shop. He could
feel his leg and toes as usual, and many times in a
day, he would, without reflection, put down his
hand to scratch his wooden leg. Being unlearned
and superstitious, he supposed that his leg was
buried in an uncomfortable position, and therefore,
haunted its wooden substitute. He dug it up, placed
under it a soft cotton bed, and reburied it ; but all to
no purpose. He made the circumstance known to
his physician, who told him to find the corresponding
nerve on the stump, and he could cause the itching
sensation to cease. He did so, and the difficulties
were at once overcome.
A gentleman called upon me, in October, 1842,
at the house of the Hon. T. J. Greenwood, in
Marlboro'. He stated, that he injured his arm, the
cords contracted and drew up his fingers, so as
perfectly to clench the hand. It was in great pain,
and the arm was amputated just above the elbow.
And though three years had passed away, he said
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 47
there was yet a constant pain as though the fingers
were drawn up; and from that contraction the pain
seemed to proceed. Now the whole of this difficulty
was felt in the brain. If I may be allowed the ex-
pression, the brain has its legs and arms, and toes
and fingers. Or allow me to go entirely back. It
is the mind which has its limbs and all its lineaments
of form, and from which all form, proportion and
beauty emanate.
I observed a moment ago, that the spinal cord
was but the brain continued. Now let a knife be
inserted between the joints of the spine, and let this
cord be severed, and all the parts of the body, below
the incision, will be paralized. You may now cut
or burn the legs, but all feeling is gone ; neither can
they be moved by the will. The will cannot come
in contact with flesh and blood, only through the
electro-magnetic fluid. The mind is in the brain,
and as the spinal marrow is severed, so the lower
parts are separated from the fountain of feeling.
The communication of the electrical influence is
destroyed between the extremities and the mind, and
hence, the extremities can convey sensations to the
mind no more.
I might continue the argument to an indefinite
extent to prove that all our senses (seeing-, hearing,
feeling-, tasting- and smelling-) are in the mind, and
that these sensations, through their corresponding
organs, are electrically conveyed to the mind,
through the nervous system, but I forbear, and pro-
ceed, as usual, to the anticipated experiments of the
evening.
48 LECTURES ON
LECTURE V.
Ladies and Gentlemen : We are again assem-
bled to take into consideration the subject of Mes-
merism. Its growing interest in the public mind is
manifest, by the increasing throngs that assemble in
this chapel, to investigate its claims to truth and
science, and the multitudes that are obliged to retire,
unable to gain admittance. As several notes, since
my entrance into this house, have been handed me,
I shall be obliged to omit introductory remarks, and
attend to two or three important requests.
An inquiry is made as to the number of degrees
or states into which a subject may be thrown. In
reply to this, I would say, that there are but five
degrees which have, as yet, come under my obser-
vation. The first degree is, when the hands or
even the whole body of the subject can be attracted
by the conjoint action of the mental and physical
energies of the magnetizer. The second degree is,
when the hands, or body of the subject, can be at-
tracted by the mental energies alone, or by the phy-
sical energies independent of any mental effort.
The third degree is, when the subject can neither
hear nor answer any person but the magnetizer and
those who are in communication. The fourth de-
gree is, when the subject can taste what the mag-
netizer tastes, and smell what he smells. The fifth
degree is clairvoyance. I would not be understood
that these five degrees always occur in the order I
have now stated them; but I mean that there are
these five different degrees. Some never seem to
go further than the third degree, and no surgical
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 49
operation should be performed, unless the subject be
put completely into this third state, so that no voice
but the magnetizer's can be heard. It can then be
performed without any pain.
Another inquiry is made, whether any person can
put himself into communication with the subject
without the magnetizer's consent? I answer, yes.
Any person may put himself into communication by
ardently fixing his attention upon the subject while
another is magnetizing him, especially if he sits near
him. Or he may do it by touching, or too freely
handling him. He may do it by violently throwing
his hands towards him, and within a foot of his
body. Or, lastly, he may take two or three electric
shocks from a charged Leyden jar, within eight or ten
feet of the subject, being careful to fix his eyes firm-
ly upon him while taking the shock. The second
or third shock, the subject will start with him who
receives it —and when he starts he is in communi-
cation.
A third inquiry is made, whether any one but the
magnetizer can awaken the subject? Certainly.
Any person who is put in communication with him
can take him out of the state. Or by a firm deter-
mination, he can awaken himself. In fact, he may
be put in bed, and in a few hours, say from eight to
fourteen, he will come out of it the natural way.
A. fourth, and last inquiry is made, if magnetism
be true, why has not more of it been seen, at least
in some small degree, in different ages ? I answer,
that its history dates back to a very early age which
I cannot now pursue, but would refer you to the
" Magnet," a work published by the Rev. La Roy
Sunderland, in New York city, and which can be
had in monthly numbers, at two dollars per annum,
and may be obtained in Court street, in this city.
It is a work which is conducted with great ability,
and should be in possession of every family. But
the inquirer asks, " why has not more of it been
5
50 LECTURES ON
seen, at least in some small degree, in different
ages ? " I answer, it has been seen and felt. Have
you never read the bold, lofty, and full-gushing elo-
quence of Demosthenes, whose thunders roused
Greece into action, and moved her sons as the wind
in its rushing majesty moves the sublime magnifi-
cence of ten thousand forests? This was but the
magnetic principle, the lightning of the mind, by
which they were electrified, and made to act as one
man against the powers of Philip. The same is
true of Cicero, who shook the Roman senate with
his voice, and beneath the electric glance of whose
awful eye, even Cataline quailed. I am well aware
that you will call this sympathy. But what is sym-
pathy ? It is the nervo-vital fluid thrown from a
full, energetic brain, upon another of kindred feel-
ing. That brain being roused effects another, and
that still another, till the whole assembly are brought
into magnetic sympathy with the speaker, and by
him are moved as the soul of one man.
As a further answer to this question, I will notice
one fact more ; and in doing this, I shall remove
what has long been considered as a stigma on a
large and respectable denomination. I mean the
Methodists. Ever since that class of Christians had
a religious existence in the United States, persons
have fallen down into a species of trance. Other
denominations call this delusion, and many call it
deception, because such things never occur in their
meetings. But there is no deception in this —it is
really the magnetic state —or more properly the
spiritual state. Every preacher cannot do it, and as
it is done without contact, comparatively few are
subjects of it.
But take a preacher of strong muscular powers ;
one who has large concentrativeness, and eye of
lightning, and a warm, a sincere and ardent soul.
He enters a tent at camp-meeting, where there are
fifteen or twenty persons. He kneels down and
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 51
prays most fervently ; he rises and sings most de-
votionally. He is in close contact with his little
group. He begins to exhort most sincerely; and
soon the deep fountains of his soul are broken up.
A female, perchance, is moved to tears. His con-
centration being large, he keeps his eye steadily fix-
ed upon her, and he wills and desires, that she shall
feel as he feels, and be converted to God. At length
she falls into this singular state. She has gone there
in the preacher's feelings, and in his feelings she will
come out of it. Now, if he would follow my direc-
tions, he could restore her in two minutes. I will
pledge myself to arouse any one from this magnetic
state in five minutes. Dr. Cannon, of this city, took
a lady out of this state a few weeks ago, in Prov-
incetown, who was thrown into it in a religious
meeting, and who appeared nearly lifeless. A report
of this was published in the " Christian Freeman."
Now all these are really magnetic effects that we
have seen, and for many years in succession. So
the inquiries are all answered, and I hope, to the
satisfaction of the inquirers and the congregation.
I must now proceed to notice the dangers and
abuses of Mesmerism. It is often said by its op-
posers, that even if it be true, yet it is dangerous,
because it can be abused, and therefore ought not to
be practised. But do you know of any blessing
beneath these heavens but what has been, and still
continues to be abused ? No, you do not. Do you
know of a more common blessing than taste ? yet
to gratify their taste, millions on millions have gone
down to a drunkard's tomb! Mothers have been
more than widowed, and children more than or-
phaniscd. They have been beaten and abused, and
suffered cold,- and hunger, and nakedness. Under
it, crimes have been committed, and the state prisons
filled with wretched men. Human beings have also
by millions gone down to their graves through excess
in eating. But is taste a curse because men abuse
52 LECTURES ON
it? and must it, therefore, be struck from the cata-
logue of Heaven's mercies? All answer, no. Ac-
quisitiveness, benevolence, and combativeness can
be abused, and so can all the organs of the human
brain. But ought they not on that account to be
indulged ?
Once more ; there is not a greater blessing than
the gospel of Christ. It teaches us to love and for-
give our enemies ; to resist not evil, and to do unto
others as we would that they should do unto us. It
is calculated to moderate our feelings in prosperity
—to comfort us in the day of adversity —and to sus-
tain us under all the troubles and disappointments
incident to mortal life. When our parents, friends
and children are on their dying bed, we can
shake the farewell hand of mortal separation, with
the hope of meeting them again in future realms.
And not only so, but when we lie down upon the
bed of death, and the embers of life feebly glimmer
in the socket of existence, then the gospel of Christ
points us to brighter scenes —scenes beyond the
tomb. Yet men have abused that gospel, and one
denomination has risen up against another, and
doomed each other to the stake. Rivers of human
blood have flowed in the holy wars. But is the
gospel a curse, and should it be struck from exist-
ence merely because men abuse it? No, is the
answer of every Christian heart. Then the objec-
tion fails. One thing must settle this point. There
is nothing that God has established as a law in our
nature, but what was designed to be a blessing to
his creatures. The magnetic principle is not of
man, but one the Creator has established, and is,
therefore, a blessing. And if it could not be abused,
it would differ from all other blessings he has be-
stowed on man.
But it is said, that a man upon the high-way may
be thrown into the state and robbed. But I deny
that any person can be thrown into the state against
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 53
his will, if he will at the same time use physical
resistance. And when in the magnetic state, he has
twice the strength to resist, and defend himself, that
he has when out of it. We generally know with
whom we have to deal, and surely we would not
suffer an enemy, nor the unprincipled, to put us into
the mesmeric slumber. But if you wish to be safe,
and are really fearful of consequences, I will give
you a rule of action. It is this: never allow any
one to magnetize you unless it be in the presence of
a third person. Observe this rule, and no danger
arising from this source will ever cross your path.
Having answered these objections, I will now
show you where there are real dangers. In the first
place, though every person can be mesmerised, yet
there are but few who can be easily thrown into this
state. The greater proportion, by far, would require
several hours of hard labor. Hence, when one is
found who is easy to mesmerise, curiosity is awaken-
ed, and every one wishes to make a trial of his
power and skill. One mesmerises this individual in
the morning, another in the evening, and a new set
of operators perform the same task on the next day,
and so on. Now, in such cases, there is that mixing
and crossing of all these different fluids in the sub-
ject's brain, which, if persisted in too long, will
prove injurious, even if all these magnetizers are
healthy persons. If you mesmerise a person, and
thoroughly wake him, yet the whole of that fluid
does not completely pass from his brain short of a
week. Select one healthy magnetizer, and continue
him. If you change to another, then wait a fortnight
before you allow him to operate. Too much care in
this respect cannot be taken. But I point out to you
a still more serious danger.
There are persons who undertake to mesmerise
others, who have some local disease, or are in feeble
health. By so doing, they injure themselves, and
also the subject. Such persons have no nervo-vital
5*
54 LECTURES ON
fluid to spare, and what little they have is in a dis-
eased state, and unfit to be thrown upon the nervous
system of another. I care not what the disease may
be, by long persisting in mesmerising a person, that
disease will be, at length, communicated to ihe sub-
ject. Great caution, in this respect, should be ob-
served by both parties, if they would not impair their
health. Weakness of lungs, and even consumption,
may be, by thirty or forty magnetizings, brought
upon an individual, and send him to his grave. I
therefore seriously admonish you to beware of this
common danger. Never allow any person of a poor
constitution to put you into this state ; and I also
warn those who are diseased, or even in delicate
health, never to mesmerise others, for they will, by
so doing, inflict upon themselves a serious injury.
But, on the other hand, there is no danger in a
healthy person magnetizing those who are diseased.
As the operator imparts the nervo-vital fluid, and
does not receive any in return, he is in no danger
of taking the disease of his patient. Caution is,
however, to be observed in taking the patient out of
this state. He should not make the upward passes
in such a manner as to throw the fluid on himself.
If he do, he is in some danger of contracting the
disease. An experienced magnetizer will under-
stand how to avail himself of this caution.
Once more ; there are persons who undertake to
magnetize others who are entirely ignorant as to the
mode of operation, and frequently bring persons into
serious difficulty by getting alarmed, or otherwise
thrown out of bias in their feelings. Several cases
of this kind I have been called to attend to, in vari-
ous sections, and some of a very serious character.
No persons should undertake to mesmerise others
until they shall have learned of some experienced
magnetizer how to perform it, and made themselves
acquainted with all the difficulties that may cluster
around it.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 55
Having attended to these important points, I will
now turn your attention to local magnetism. By
local magnetism, I mean the magnetizing of some
part of the human body without charging the whole
brain. Hence, the finger, the hand, the arm, the leg,
yes, even the eyelid, the lip, or the tongue, may be
mesmerised while the person is in the wakeful state,
and so may be any of the phrenological organs. It
is true, that this cannot be so easily done on persons
who have never been mesmerised at all, as on those
who have been thrown into the state. If the brain
has been once magnetically subdued, then there is
no occasion, even if the amputation of a limb is to
be performed, to magnetize any other part than the
one to be subjected to the operation. If a person be
very hard to mesmerise, then it will be proportionally
difficult to mesmerise any limb. But it will be
borne in mind, that however long it may take in
successive sittings to magnetically subdue the brain,
yet after that is once accomplished, then the person
can, in future, be wholly mesmerised at any time in
five minutes, and locally so in a much less period.
Hence, should an arm be broken or mutilated, it
will only be necessary to put that limb into the
magnetic state, and it can be set or amputated with-
out pain ; and thus, by occasionally renewing the
mesmeric action, it can be kept in this state and
healed, without ever experiencing any suffering
whatever.
I perceive that some smile in view of these state-
ments. They are truly so wonderful, that increduli-
ty adjures us to reject them. But they are, never-
theless, Heaven's unchanging truths, which cannot
bend to circumstances, nor shape themselves to the
belief or scepticism of men. They stand out in bold
relief, and bid defiance to the sneers and scorns of
mankind. A surgical operation has just been per-
formed in Lowell on a lady while in the mesmeric
state. A tumor was extracted from the shoulder,
56 LECTURES ON
where it was necessary to cut to the depth of two
inches. Dr. Shattuck was the magnetizer; and in
the presence of several medical men of Lowell, one
of whom was the operator, this tumor was removed
without the slightest sensation of pain. This was
not done in a corner, but publicly, and in the pres-
ence of several hundred spectators. It is too late in
the day to cry " humbug and collusion" for the battle
is fought, and the victory is won, and the scale has
turned in favor of truth, and turned with most pre-
ponderating weight, and on the stereotyped argu-
ment, " humbug- and collusion" is written " tekel."
Well-authenticated facts, and medical reports of
operations in surgery and dentistry, performed under
the energies of Mesmerism, in both continents, and
without pain, are continually reaching us. And
with this flood of light pouring upon the world,
and when men of the first talents and science in the
republic of letters, and out of all the various profes-
sions and denominations, are among its advocates,
scepticism is not only waning, but justly losing its
popularity. Those men have seriously investigated
and weighed the matter, and they severally declare,
as did the Rev. Mr. Pierpont, on the last evening,
before two thousand hearers, in this house, " I have
no belief nor unbelief on this subject. I know, I
KNOW it to be so !
" And now I ask, what ought
the mere opinion, or the expressed unbelief of even
an honest sceptic, to weigh against the absolute and
certain knowledge of an equally honest, intelligent,
and scientific man, whose character is above suspi-
cion? I leave the candid to judge, and have only to
say, that in the face of modesty, they have no right
to call this science " humbug and collusion"
Others pretend that the science of Animal Mag-
netism was condemned by the French Committee in
Paris, among whom our illustrious Franklin was
numbered. And as it received its condemnation
under the scrutiny of such minds, therefore they
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 57
conclude that it has no foundation in truth. There
always have been, and still are, men who dare not
think for themselves, but wholly lean upon the
opinions of others. Their father, their doctor, their
lawyer, and their minister, thought thus and so, and
they think just so, too. Their fathers put down a
central stake, gave them their length of line, and bid
them travel round in that circle of revolving thought
till the day of their death ! All beyond that circle is
darkness! Their field of thought is as exactly
measured off to them, and just as legally bequeathed
to them, as their farms. They received them both
by inheritance. For the one they never labored,
and for the other they never thought! And they
never questioned the truth of the one, any more than
they did their title to the other
But surely the French Committee did not deny
the truth of the experiments produced, nor pro-
nounce them " humbug and collusion." They sim-
ply decided that the evidence adduced was not suf-
ficient to prove that the magnetic state was caused
by a fluid proceeding from the magnetizer. They
attributed the singular effects they witnessed to the
power of the imagination. But it will also be re-
membered, that this committee were not all agreed,
and hence appeared the remonstrance of the minori-
ty, which it would be well for modern sceptics to
read, side by side with the report.
Many sceptics have been obliged, like the French
Committee, to admit certain results as being truly
wonderful, and, like them, attribute it to the force of
the imagination. But to believe that the imagination
can bring human beings into a state where limbs
can be amputated, tumors cut out, teeth extracted,
and broken bones set, and the whole healed without
experiencing one throb of pain, —to believe, I say,
that the imagination can do all these wonders, in
giving such boundless triumph over pain, requires a
far greater stretch of credulity than to believe in the
58 LECTURES ON
magnetic power! And surely if the imagination
possesses the wonderful charm to bring the nervous
system into a condition where we can bid defiance
to pain, and gain a complete victory over ihe whole
frightful army of human woes, then surely the science
is equally important, possesses the same transcendent
claims upon our benevolence, and the man who
discovered that the imagination possessed this charm,
is worthy of the united thanks of all human-kind
and being dead, his bones are worthy to repose with
the great men of the universe. In this case, it will
only be necessary to change its name, and call it
The science of the avonderful power of the
human imagination to charm all pain.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 59
LECTURE VI
Ladies and Gentlemen : In the first four lectures
I delivered of the present course, I brought forward
the philosophy of Mesmerism, and flatter myself that
I have not only succeeded in establishing it as a
science, but have shown it to be one of transcendent
interest to the human race. Here love and benevo-
lence stretch out a healing hand over a world groan-
ing and travailing in pain. Those groans, by that
silken hand, shall be hushed, and those pains be re-
moved. There is a power basined up in the foun-
tains of the soul, that has long been dormant. But
it is rousing up and stirring itself for some mighty
action, and is already beginning to gush forth in
healing streams on the world. This science is in its
infancy, is imperfectly understood, but yet it breathes
the breath of mercy as a sovereign cure for all human
woes.
In my last lecture, I answered several notes of
inquiry, pointed out the dangers of Magnetism, re-
futed several common objections in relation to its
abuses, noticed the utility of the science in perform-
ing painful surgical operations, and took a friendly
glance at the conduct of men in justifying their
scepticism by pleading the general issue of the
Report of the French Committee, and concluded by
touching lightly upon the power of the human
imagination.
I now stand before you in the confident convic-
tion that much good will result from my labors to
the cause of benevolence and mercy. I am urged
to repeat my course of lectures next week, but it will
60 LECTURES ON
be out of my power to comply with this request at
that time, but have consented to do so, week after
next. As this will be my closing lecture for the
present, I can render you no greater service than to
show what connection this subject has with divine
revelation. I am well aware that many will call me
an enthusiast, and sneer at, and condemn me for
thinking independently. But when the path of duty
is plain, and when I am once satisfied of truth, I then
go on, and reason, fearless of all consequences.
Under such circumstances, I have nothing to do with
the inquiry, what will men think of me ? I care not
wlr.il they think, and much less do I care what ihey
say. I suffer no man to invade the sanctuary of my
civil and religious rights, and dictate to me how I
shall think, or what I shall believe, or what I shall
proclaim. I therefore hold no one responsible for
what I shall advance in this lecture, nor do I know
as there is one, with "whom I am connected, who
will endorse my ideas.
I believe the doctrine of our Saviour to be a per-
fect doctrine, and exactly adapted to the bodies as
well as to the souls of men. I believe that he is our
example to follow, and as he went about doing good,
healing sickness and relieving distress of body as
well as preaching the gospel to heal the moral mala-
dies of the soul, so it is our duty to do the same. It
is, moreover, most evident that his doctrine, to the
full extent he commanded his apostles to preach it,
was to go down to all subsequent ages, so long as
human beings should have a habitation on earth.
And our Saviour just as much commanded his
apostles to heal the sick, as he did to preach the
gospel. Now I cannot believe that one half of the
power and mercy of his doctrine should cease with
the ministry of "his apostles, and the other half con-
tinue. I cannot believe that its healing efficacy, so
far as the body is concerned, should cease, and what
was applicable to the soul should continue. If this
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 61
be so, then what a favored generation of Christians
existed in that day, so far, at least, as healing the body
was concerned. It was said, in the apostolic age,
" Is any man sick, let him send for the elders of the
church, and let them lay their hands upon him and
pray, and the sick .shall recover." I believe this now,
and so far as we have power and faith, it can be
accomplished now as well as ever.
There is a difference between a miracle and a gift
of healing. If an arm be palsied, we know that the
difficulty exists in the brain, and that nothing more
is necessary than to throw upon it a sufficient quan-
tity of the nervous fluid to bring it into healthy ac-
tion. The moment this is accomplished, the diffi-
culty existing in the arm, which is but secondary,
will be relieved. To restore this, would be a gift of
healing, but not a miracle. What, then, would be a
miracle ? Answer ; amputate an arm, and then
cause a new one to grow out. Though healing
diseases is sometimes called a miracle, yet when
speaking of them specifically, they are not so de-
nominated. Paul says, " God hath set some in the
church ; first, apostles ; secondarily, prophets ; thirdly,
teachers ; after that, miracles, then gifts of healings,
helps, governments," &c. And there is not a scrap
of evidence that these things were ever to cease while
the generations of men endured.
Now if our Saviour restored a palsied arm, then
there must something have passed from him to the
person healed in perfect accordance with the princi-
ples of animal life. It must, therefore, in this case,
have been the nervous fluid, as this was the only
substance that could have restored this arm.
It is undeniably true, that there was always some-
thing passed from our Saviour, when he exercised
the gift of healing, to the person whom he restored.
In evidence of this, you will recollect, that on one
occasion when he was called to visit a sick person, a
multitude followed after, and thronged him. As he
6
62 LECTURES ON
passed by, a woman, who had been afflicted with an
issue of blood for twelve years, touched the hem of
his garment, and was made whole. He turned him-
self around, and said, Who touched me ? His disci-
ples exclaimed, •'
Master, the multitude throng thee,
and sayest thou, Who touched me? But he per-
ceived that virtue had gone out of him." The word
virtue, in this instance, does not mean moral good-
ness. It means force, power, efficacy ; the same as
when we say a medicine has great virtue in it.
Our Saviour so lived, and breathed, and moved in
the divine Being, that he became one in communi-
cation with him ; so that when the Father willed, he
felt that will —he himself then willed, and it was
accomplished. So, if any one bowed in reconcilia-
tion to God, he became one with the Saviour, so
that the Redeemer, also, felt that one's will. Such
was the case of this woman. She willed in faith to
be healed. The Saviour felt that will — He willed
and it was done. Now every being has power in
proportion to the energy of his own will, but the
energy of the will, depends upon the intrinsic great-
ness of that being's mind. And as a miracle is a
thing performed by the energy of the will, so that
mind must be great in power and goodness, that
is capable of performing a miracle. We sit down,
and put forth the energy of a thousand wills, and at
last produce but a small result.
The apostolic power was far greater, and in the
same ratio, their results were more splendid and glo-
rious. But still they had not the power of Christ.
The leper said, " Lord, if thou will, thou canst make
me clean. Jesus stretched forth his hand, and touched
him, and said, I will, be thou clean, and his leprosy
was cleansed." By a word, he put to right disabled
limbs, and drew back life and warm gushing health
to their abode. He put forth a greater energy —and
said to the winds and waves, Peace ! be still ! His
will fastened upon electricity in the heavens, equal-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 63
ized that fluid, hushed the winds, and calmed the
waves. He opened the blind eye to the splendor of
the noon-tide blaze, and instantly penciled on its
retina, the universe. He opened the deaf ear, and
poured into its once silent, but now vocal chambers,
the harmony of rejoicing nature. He spoke, and
the dead stirred in their graves, and rose up from
their icy beds before him, and walked. That same
dread voice shall speak with a living energy, that the
very heavens shall hear, and the dead shall rise to die
no more, and turn their eyes from the dark, ruinable
tomb on the opening scenes of eternity ! Mind and
will in the Creator, still more increased, move un-
numbered worlds. That same will, now infinite and
immutable, puts forth creative energy. He spake,
and it was done ; he commanded, and it stood fast
laid the measures thereof, and stretched the line upon
it when the morning stars sang together, and all the
sons of God shouted for joy. Hence, every grade
of mind, from the humblest up to apostolic great-
ness ; up to angel and archangel, cherubim and ser-
aphim ; up to Jesus Christ, till it reach the infinite
Jehovah, has power proportionate to its greatness
and goodness. Hence, it will be readily understood,
that a miracle is nothing more than a result pro-
duced by mind itself, independent of all physical
energy, except that one substance which is put into
motion by the living mind.
It may perhaps be said, that the apostles were in-
spired to heal, and as we are not inspired, therefore,
we do not possess the gift to heal. On this principle
I might reply, that the apostles were inspired to
preach, and as we are not inspired, therefore, we
have no gift to preach! I grant that the apostles
were inspired to preach and to heal, because it was
not possible, that at the starting point, they had any
other means for preparation. But now men preach,
not by inspiration, but because they feel it to be their
duty. So men must now heal because they feel it
to be their duty.
64 LECTURES ON
Tt is by no means to be expected that we can
come up, at once, to apostolic power. No ; our
faith is too weak. But let us bring up our children
in the faith as we ought, and ihey will learn to mes-
merise as naturally as they learn 1o walk. Their
concentrativeness will become largely developed.
Their children will be born with more favorably
developed heads, and become greater in goodness,
until at length the whole apostolic power will return
to the earth in all its primitive splendor. It is Spir-
itualism, because it is the innate power of the living
mind, executed through the agency of the will. It
is that power which created worlds, for this was
done by the will of God. It is that power by which
worlds are governed, and creatures ruled, for this is
also done by the will of God. It is that power by
which we make impressions reciprocally upon each
other, for this is done by the will of man. And
lastly, it is " that power which shall awake the dead
from dreamless slumber into thoughts of heaven,"
•for this will be done by the will of God, and there is
no medium, only electricity, through which he can
«orae in contact with his creatures.
I will now bring forward a few cases from scrip-
ture, to show that the living have been thrown into
a singular slumber by the very presence of immortal
beings. Indeed, there is scarcely an instance where
angels have appeared to men, but what it has had
this effect. I will bring forward those that first
strike my mind, regardless of their arrangement.
It will be remembered, that when John the Rev-
elator was in the isle of Patmos, he had this vision
" And being turned, I saw seven golden candle-
sticks, and in the midst of the seven candlesticks,
one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a gar-
ment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with
a golden girdle. His head and his hair were white
like wool ; as white as snow, and his eyes were as a
flame of fire ; and his feet like unto fine brass as if
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 65
they had been burned in a furnace, and his voice as
the sound of many waters. And he had in his right
hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp
two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the
sun shineth in his strength. And when I saw him
I fell down at his feet as one that is dead." Here
then, is a singular slumber approximating death.
Our Saviour, when he was transfigured on Mount
Taber, took Peter, James and John with him. For
a moment he was changed into his resurrection
splendor, and met Moses and Elias in glory. The
sacred historian in describing the scene, says, " And
his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment be-
came shining, exceeding white as snow, white as
the light, so as no fuller on earth can white them,
and there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talk-
ing with him. And Peter and them that were with
him were heavy with sleep ; and Peter said, Lord,
it is good for us to be here. Let us build here three
tabernacles ; one for thee, one for Moses, and one
for Elias, not knowing what he said." That is,
when he came out of this sleep he did not recol-
lect what he had said. They were thrown into this
state by the very presence of these minds.
Do you remember that after our Lord had eaten
his valedictory supper with his disciples, he went in-
to the garden of Gethsemane, and commanded them
to watch. He went a few steps from them and
prayed in agony, and sweat as it were drops of blood
falling to the ground. The guardian angel of Jesus
Christ appeared from heaven strengthening him.
The apostles fell into a deep sleep. Though this
was a scene of great interest to them, yet it seems
that the presence of this angel thus affected them.
He was nailed to the cross between two male-
factors to darken his glory and blot his name. The
Jews were his accusers, and the Romans his execu-
tioners. Hence, the world was combined against
him while his own disciples forsook him in that
66 LECTURES ON
dark hour of peril. The universe thus combined
against him, mocking and deriding him, and cover-
ing him with disgrace, even nature herself stepped
forward^as it were, and with a mighty hand wiped
off that disgrace, and sustained him in his majesty.
The sun withdrew his light, rolled back his chariot,
midnight darkness spread her robe of sackcloth upon
his brilliant disc, and hung the world in the dark
shroud of mourning. Earthquakes awoke from
their tartarean dens and thundered. The earth
shook, the rocks rent, the graves opened, all nature
roused up and there brought to a centre all that is
grand, awful and sublime in her realms, as the mag-
nanimous sufferer expired! He was conveyed to
his tomb, and Roman soldiers were there stationed
to guard it. Soldiers whose business it was to die,
—who had been brought up in tented fields of war,
and who had from childhood encountered hardships
and toils, fatigues and dangers. They were men,
who had often bared their bosoms to the shafts of
battle,
p
and undismayed listened to its stormy voice,
and who knew not what it was to quail beneath the
glance of a mortal eye. Such men as these, were
stationed to guard that tomb, and hold the Prince of
Life in death. But,
" An angel's arm can't snatch him from the grave ;
Legions of angels can't confine him there."
On the morning of the third day, the last grand
scene in this interesting drama was opened. The
guardian angel of Jesus Christ was once more dis-
patched from the eternal throne. He descended
from heaven, and an earthquake shook creation.
He approached the tomb of the Holy Sleeper, and
stood before it. " He rolled back the stone from
the door of the sepulchre and sat upon it. His
countenance was like the lightning, and his raiment
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 67
white as snow ; and for fear of him, the keepers did
shake, and become as dead men!
"What, I ask, was it that threw them into this
slumber, with feelings of a cold shuddering fear,
so nigh approaching the dead ? I answer, it was the
will of this angel, whose countenance was like the
lightning, that sunk them into a motionless sleep. It
was his will which struck the vibrations of terror
through the dark chambers of their souls, and with-
ered them to the earth.
I should like to notice the circumstance of Paul
being caught up into the third heavens —whether out
of the body or in the body, he could not tell —of
Peter falling into a trance when he went upon the
house-top to pray, and of Zacharias being struck
dumb in the temple, but time will not permit.
I close, by returning my sincere thanks to the
Moderators, for the good order they have preserved ;
to the various Committees, for their patient examina-
tions and impartial reports of the experiments per-
formed ; and to the ladies and gentlemen, for their
faithful attendance and respectful attention, and also
for the good feelings they have uniformly manifested
towards the lecturer during the entire course, which
is now brought to a termination.
NOTE.
"We are created with a susceptibility of pain, and severe
pain. This is a part of our nature, as truly as our susceptibility
of enjoyment. God has implanted it, and has thus opened in
the very centre of our being a fountain of suffering. We carry
it within us, and can no more escape it than we can our power
of thought.
'
We are apt to throw our pains on outward things
as their causes. It is the fire, the sea, the sword, or human en-
mity which gives us pain. But there is no pain in the fire or
the sword, which passes thence into our souls. The pain be-
68 LECTURES, ETC.
gins and ends in the soul itself. Outward things are only the
occasions. Even the body has no pain in it, which it infuses into
the mind. Of itself, it is incapable of suffering. This hand may
be cracked, crushed in the rack of the inquisitor, and that burnt
in a slow fire ; but in these cases it is not the fibres, the blood-
vessels, the bones of the hand which endure pain. These arc
merely connected, by the will of the Creator, with the springs of
pain in the soul. Here, here is the only origin and seat of suf-
fering. If God so willed, the gashing of the flesh with a knife,
the piercing of the heart with a dagger, might be the occasion
of exquisite delight. We know that, in the heat of battle, -a
wound is not felt, and that men, dying for their faith by instru-
ments of torture, have expired with triumph on their lips. In
these cases, the spring of suffering in the mind is not touched
by the lacerations of the body, in consequence of the absorbing
action of other principles of the soul. All suffering is to be
traced to the susceptibility, the capacity of pain, which belongs
to our nature, and which the Creator has implanted ineradicably
within us."
Dr. Channing.
,^¥¥>-- >fe)^££:
x> LECTURES
PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM.
DELIVERED IN TB E
MARLBORO' CHAPEL,
JANUARY 23-28,1843.
BY JOHN BOVEE DODS,
OF BOSTON.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY REDDING & CO.
NO. 8 STATE STREET.
1843.
