{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__elliotson___numerous_cases_of_surgical_operations.pdf","mytitle":"Numerous Cases Of Surgical Operations","mylang":"de"}
r. NUMEROUS CASES
OF
SURGICAL OPERATIONS
WITHOUT PAIN
IN
THE MESMERIC STATE;
WITH
REMARKS
UPON THE OPPOSITION OF MANY MEMBERS OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL
AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY AND OTHERS
TO THE RECEPTION OF
THE INESTIMABLE BLESSINGS OF MESMERISM.
" IN the whole domain of human arguments, no art or science rests upon
experiments more numerous, more positive, or more easily ascertained."
"To me (and before many years the opinion must be universal) the most
extraordinary event in the whole history of human science is, thst MESMERISM
ever could be doubted."
Chenet!i.r.
BY
JOHN ELLIOTSON, M.D. CANTAB. F.R.S.
LONDON :
I
H. BAILLIERE, 219, REGENT STREET.
MDCCCXLIII
...... ~·-·
1 ) ~ . . ,'·
Digitized by Google
1UELIOTHECA
:REGIA
M~GlNSIS.
\. ...1,
WALTON AND MITCHfLL, I'RTNTERS, WARDOVR STREET,
OXFORD STREET,
Digitized by GoogIe
TO
THOSE,
HOWEVER HUMBLE THEIR RANK,
WHO PRIZE TRUTH ABOVE THE FAVOUR OF
THE IGNORANT OR INTERESTED,
AND
FEEL MORE SATISFACTION IN PROMOTING THE COMFORT,
THE KNOWLEDGE, THE VIRTUE, AND THEREFORE THE
HAPPINESS, OF THEIR FELLOW MEN, THAN IN PROMOTING
WHAT IS COMMONLY CALLED THEIR OWN INTEREST,
THESE PAGES
ARE AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
CHAPTER I.
CASE OF AMPUTATION OF A LEG ABOVE THE KNEE, WITHOUT
PAIN, IN THE MESMERIC STATE.
SECTION I.
DESCRIPTION OF THE, CASE.
" I aever aaid It wu poaaible.. I oaly aaid it wu trne."-.111. G. uwU.
"Le vral a'eat pu tonjonn vralaemblable."-Fontmel/e.
ON the 22nd of November last, the !Wyal Medical and Chirurgical
Society of London assembled to hear read an " Account of a case of
successful amputation of the thigh, during the mesmeric state,
without the knowledge of the patient," in the District Hospital of
Wellow, Nottinghamshire: and voted thanks for it witluJUt a di4-
8entient voice.
The mesmeriser was W. Topham, Esq., Barrister, of the Middle
Temple: the operator, W. Squire Ward, Esq., Surgeon, of Wellow
Hall. The patient was a labourer, six feet high and forty-two years
of age, named James Wombell. He had suffered for nearly :five
years from neglected disease of the left knee, the interior of the
joint of which was found after the amputation deeply and exten-
sively ulcerated. "The SLIGHTEST motion of thejoint wu attended
by the MOST EXCRUCIATING agony; his nights were almost wholly
sleepless, in consequence of the painful 8tarting8 of the limb; his
pulse weak and rapid; his face constantly marked with a hectic
fiush; his tongue foul; appetite gone;" in truth, when Mr. Topham
:first saw him, on the 9th of September, "he was sitting upright
upon a bed in the hospital; the only po8ition which he could bear:
he complained of great pain from his knee and of much e:zcitability
and loss of strength, from his constant restlessness and deprivation
of sleep, for lee had not, during the TB REE previoU8 weelu, 8lept
more than TWO hour8 in SEVENTY."
On this day he was :first mesmerised by Mr. Topham, and for
:five and thirty minutes. " The only effect produced was a closing
of the eyelids, with that quivering appearance which so commonly
••
Digitized by Google
6
results from the process; and, though awake and speaking, he could
not raise them until after a lapse of a minute and a half."
On the 1Oth he was sent to sleep in twenty minutes. On the
11th "he wllll suffering great agony, and dutre1sed er~en to tears."
Mr. Topham "commenced by making passes longitudinally, over
the diseased knee: in jive minutea he was cmnparatively ea~t~; and,
on proceeding further to mesmerise him, at the expiration of ten
tninutu more he was aleeping like an infant. Not only his arms
were then tJiolently pinched, but also the dueaaed leg itself, without
his exhibiting any 1en1ation: yet his limb was so sensitive to pain,
in his natural state, he could not bear er~en the LIGHTEST covering
to rest upon it. Tha! 71iflht he 1lept SEVEN kour1 WITHOUT
INTERRUPTION."
"After constantly mesmerising him for ten or twelve ·days, a
great change was observed in his appearance. The hue of health
returned; he became cheerful; felt much stronger; Wal eaaier, both
in mind and body; 1lept well, and recovered hu appetite." So
great was the change, that Mr. Ward, after having been absent
from indisposition, " was as much aatfmi8lt.ed, on his return on the
27th of September, about three weeks after the commencement of
the mesmerism," as he "was delighted to observe the improved
condition of the man;" and, had he "not known the previous
history of the case, much duubt mUit have amen in hill mind, a1 to
the propriety of immediately amputating the limb."
"On the 22nd of September the patient was first apprised of
the necessity of an early amputation. The communication seemed
almost unexpected, and affected him considerably, and destroyed hill
natural 1leep that night." The next day he was still "fretting,
restless, and in consequent pain." Yet he was put to sleep mesme-
rically in four minutes and a half.
Like many other susceptible patients, he could now be affected
locally when in his natural state,-without coma. For example,
passes without contact along his extended extremities would render
them so rigid as not to be bent by mechanical force short of danger,
though breathing upon them constantly caused them to relax and
drop to his sides.
Although in this mesmeric coma the sensibility to mechanical
causes of pain was so far lessened that violent pinching, and sudden
pricking, and of even the diseased limb, produced no evidence of
sensation, and he lost all pain in his knee while this was in perfect
rest, the exquisitely sensitive interior of the diseased joint was not
Digitized by Goog[e
7
proof against the torture of motion, which, however slight, agonized
and awoke him. In many cases I have seen excruciating internal
pain of nerves, inflamed or otherwise under disease, give evidence of
its fierce shootings by the sudden agitation of the frame, expression
of the countenance, and catching of the breath, when there was not
sensibility enough for sensation from pinching, pricking, cutting,
tearing, or even burning; the excruciating internal pain not awaking
them unless when at the very highest intensity, or when the coma
was not at the greatest depth. When there is exquisite tenderness
of a part, as in the knee-joint of this poor man, the coma must
indeed be profound,-more profound than it seems ever to have been
in this case, except perhaps when the precaution was taken of keep-
ing the fingers on the eyes after the operation was begun,-for
motion of the part not to cause anguish. At the time of the opera-
tion, thl4'Ist of October, it was found impoatJihle, witlwut mck tor-
ture aa ai'QfUed kim from ki8 mumeric coma, to retiWfJe !tim from lti8
bed to tke table. Indeed, his coma was not so deep but that it waa
di88ipated by attempti"'!l to confJerle witk kim; and in general it
ceased spontaneously in half an hour, his waking being " slow and
gradual and without the least start." Instead of being placed upon
a table, he was therefore lifted with his low bed upon a temporary
platform, and " he was soon put into the mesmeric sleep, altltougk
u waa contJiderably ezcited by hearing the cries of another patient
upon whom Mr. Ward had been performing a tedious and painful
operation." He was then " drawn by means of the bed clothes
beneath him towards the end of the bed." Even this movement
excited the pain and awoke him. But the pain soon ceased, and,
his limb being " raised about two inches from the mattress" by a
surgeon present (Mr. Wood), who "rested the heel upon his shoulder
and supported the joint with his hand," he was mesmerised into
coma again in four minutes.
Mr. Topham continued to mesmerise him for fifteen minutes, and
then informed Mr. Ward that the operation might be begun, and
" brought two jinger1 of eack !tand gently in contact witlt' tlte pa-
tient'1 cl01ed eyelidl ; and there kept them, 1tillfurther to deepen
tlte 1leep." This is a circumstance of no little importance to re-
member. Of all parts of the body, the eyes are the most ready
receivers and transmitters of mesmerism. I noticed this first in
the cases of the Okeys; and I may remark that all the exquisitely
interesting phenomena which occurred in the perfectly genuine and
wonderful caau of those two sisters,-! repeat it as emphatically as
Digitized by Googl~
8
I can, and hope my words will be read by the uninformed, and pre-
sumptuous, and cruel writer of an article in the present number
(CXLI.) of the Quarterly Review, who exclaims, "how many grave
persons were deceived by the impostures of the Miss Okeys of St.
Pancras,"-the perfectly genuine and wonderful pkenomena of those
two sisters, I have verified again and again in numerous other cases,
some in one, some in another. The moist mucous membranes are
more susceptible than the skin; and of membranes, the surface of
the eye and inner surface of the eyelid, to say nothing of the ner-
vous interior of the eye to which there is admission through the
pupil to projected mesmeric influence, are the most susceptible.
Intervening bodies impede mesmerism, and, C(l!teria paribus, in pro-
portion to their substance; the eyelids therefore prevent so strong an
effect as would result if the mesmerising body were applied to the
eye itself. Still the points of the fingers placed upon the eyelids
would have a great effect. The pointed parts of the body, as the
ends of the fingers and the point of the nose, I, in the same Okeys
and subsequently in others, ascertained to be more powerful in mes-
merising as well as in being mesmerised, C(l!teria paribus, than other
parts. If the fingers had been kept on the eyelids before the pa-
tient was moved at all, he probably would have suffered no more
while he was moved than during the operation.
The operation was now commenced. "Mr. Ward, after one
earnest look at the man," in the words of Mr. Topham, "slowly
plunged his knife into the centre of the outside of the thigh, directly
to the bone, and then made a clear incision round the bone, to the
opposite point on the inside of the thigh. The stillness at this
moment was something awful; the calm respiration of the sleeping
man alone was heard, for all other seemed suspended. In making
the second incision, the position of the leg was found more inconve-
nient than it appeared to be;" and Mr. Ward, to use his own words,
"having made the anterior flap," "was under the necessity of com-
pleting the posterior one in tkree stages. First, by dividing a por-
tion of tke.flap on tke inside; then a similar portion on tke outside.
This proceeding, which was of course far more tedious and painful
than the ordinary one, was necessary to enable me to pas1 tlte knife
tkrOUflk under tlte bone and titus complete tlte whole, as I could not
sufficiently depress the handle to do so, without the two lateral cuts."
Yet, notwithstanding all this, the patient's " sleep continued as
profound as ever. Tlte PLACID look of /tis countenance never
cliangedfor AN INSTANT; his whole frame rested, uncontrolled, in
Digitized by Coogle
9
perfect 1tillne81 and repose; Mt a mu1cle wa1 1een to twitch. To
the end of the operation, including the sawing of the bone, securing
the arteries, and applying the bandages, occupying a period of up-
wards of twenty minutes, he lay like a llatue."
Soon after the aecond incision, " a low moaning'' was heard at
intervals until the conclusion of the operation, that is, after the leg
was off and while the arteries were tying and the bandages putting
on, giving "to all present the impression of a disturbed dream."
That it arose from troubled dreaming I have no doubt; for in the
mesmeric coma it is common for patients, after the lapBe ofa certain
time, to dream and talk, and especially of any thing which has just
before strongly impressed them; and this patient was very likely,
and from my experience I should say, was almost certain, to dream
of his having soon to undergo the operation, the thoughts of which
had so acutely distressed him and must'have occupied his mind to
the last moment of his waking state. I have at this moment three
patients who in the coma always dream and talk of something which
has very recently, generally the same day, interested them, or of
something they expect on the same day. Had it arisen from the
operation, it would have occurred during the most painful periods;
would have occurred, as it did not, exactly and only at moments of
the proceeding most likely to be painful, whereas it occurred as much
at moments when nothing was doing to give pain. The man could
not have moaned from pain in spite ofhimselfat moments when there
was nothing to make him moan in spite of himself. It would have
been increased, and indeed changed to a sudden and louder noise,
whenever the end of the sciatic nerve was roughly treated. For,
still farther to test his insensibility, Mr. Ward "twice touched''
and, as he informs me, pretty roughly and with the pointa of the
forcepa, so that he in fact pricked, "the divided end of the sciatic
nerve, without any increase of the low moaning." The pain which
such an experiment would occasion to a person in his ordinary state
must be equal to a strong dart of tic douloureux; and I defy any
human being, in his ordinary condition, to be subjected to such an
experiment without, not to say an increase of low moaning if he was
already moaning, but without suddenly giving some other more decided
sign of anguish,-without some interruption to the "perfect stillness
and repose ofa statue." Mr.Ward further informs me that he "once
put his thumb roughly upon the nerve in taking the posterior ft.ap in
his hand to sponge, and also used the sponge very roughly." If the
man had not been able to bear the pain of the operation without
Digitized by Google
10
moaning, he would not have been able to retain the perfect placidity
of his countenance, the relazed and motionleaa state of his lipa and
handa, and the undisturbed regularity of his breathing.
The "closed eyelids" quivered to the last, as they so frequently
do in the mesmeric coma.
The quivering of the exposed muscular fibres, and the retraction
of the divided muscles, were less than usual, probably from the di-
minution of their irritability by mesmesrism.
The mesmeric state of the patient usually lasted half an hour;
and, after this lapse of time, the operation having been commenced
in rather more than a quarter of an hour subsequently to its pro-
duction, and having occupied, inclusively of applying the bandages,
above twenty minutes, he "gradually and calmly," as usual, awoke.
Some sal volatile and water had just been given to him, and might
have contributed to his waking, because his coma, according to its
usual course, was probably near its end, and at this period stimuli
which proved inert previously might take more or less effect. This,
however, is exceedingly doubtful, as the usual duration of his coma
was completed, and as he was not suddenly aroused by the sal volatile,
and gave no sigu of irritation from it, but, on the contrary, awoke
" gradually and calmly." In fact Mr. Wood, who mixed the ·sal
volatile and water, assures me that it was very weak, and is persuaded
equally with myself that the man awoke independently of it.
" At first, he uttered no exclamation; and for some moments
seemed lost and bewildered,"-a characteristic and striking phenome-
non so familiar to mesmerists when any visible change in external
circumstances has occurred while the patient was asleep. But, after
looking around, he exclaimed " I bless the Lord to find it's all over."
" He was then removed to another room; and, following imme-
diately," Mr. Topham "asked him in the presence of all assembled
to describe all he felt or knew after he was mesmerised. His reply
was ' I ne~~er knew anything more; and ner~er felt any pain at all :
I, once, felt aa if I heard a kind of crunching.'" Mr. Topham
" asked if that were painful 1 He replied, ' No pain at all; I ne~~er
kad any; and knew nothing till I waa awakened hy that atrong atuff'
(the sal volatile)." Ofcourse the moment he became sensible he must
have tasted the sal volatile, and would fancy that it awoke him, and
he must have continued to taste it for some time after he was awake.
When mesmeric patients awake spontaneously, they continually
ascribe their waking to their first sensation, or even to something
imagined.
Digitized by Google
11
"The crunching no doubt was the sawing his own thigh bone."
It is uot uncommon for patients in the mesmeric coma. although
insensible to mechllllical causes of irritation, yet to hear more or
less. As there are in mesmerism ftrious degrees of inaeosibiJity to
mechanical causes of irritation, from perfect to but slightly impaired
sensibility, in different cases; sometimes in the same ease at different
mesmerisations; and sometimes at dift'erent periods of the same
mesmerisation; and sometimes one part is insensible and another
sensible: so there are various degrees of aft'ection of hearing. In
some cases patients hear not the loudest sounds; in others. they hear
and answer questions; and it is very common for them to hear well
at one moment and appear perfectly deaf at another, as the mesmeric
conditions fluctuate in intensity: and the state of sen:sibility to me-
chanical causes of irritation and of hearing may bear no relation to
each other. It would be wonderful were all this not to happen,
since the very same observatious hold in similar affections of a func-
tio.W character independent of mesmerism. I have no doubt that
the man did confusedly hear the sawing of the bone in his coma.
"He was left easy and comfortable; and still found so at nine
o'clock that night: about which time,. Mr. Topham •• again mesme-
rised him (in a minute and three quarters) and he slept an hour and
a half.''
Two days afterwards, when he was put into the mesmeric coma,
Mr. Topham proposed to Mr. Ward, who intended to dress the
wonnd that day for the first time, to take this opportunity; and tile
tDOMtUl ll7tU ~"ffly dreaed tllitluntt tlu! a~~~~'• launDkdge, mul
tlterefore tllitluntt tlu! lean pail&.
The man has done perfectly well. Within twenty-four boors
after the operation he was singing. In three weeks he sat up to
dinner, "and had not a single bad symptom: JWM ~ of tile ~~er­
IJOU tltftteJIIellt, 110 freqtlnetly ~ ill patUJcU .,Ao lunJe tuukr-
UOM paiajid operatiou, mul10Ao lunJe Njfered tmreA pref!iou fllfZidy
ia ..JMg up tlleir FJtiluU.''
Such was the artless tale; beautifully true to nature in every inci-
dent, and at once recognised as pure truth by all who are not ignorant
of mesmeric phenomena, or who do not unphilosophically allow un-
worthy feelings to supplant their judgment.
Digitized by Google
,..-
12
SECTION II.
DETERMINATION OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHJRURGJCAL
SOCIETY OF LONDON, THAT THIS FACT WAS NOT A FACT.
" WhU.t the unlearned were aU busied in gettine down to the bottom of the well, where
TRUTH keepa her little conrt, were the learned In their way aa busy In pumping her op
throoch the condolll of dialectlo Induction ;-tllq ~ tMm«lveo not tDith FACT&,-
TH.ar RBASONBD."
11 'Tis above rca.on, cried the doctora on one aide ;
'Tis below reuon, cried the others.
'Tis faith, cried one ;
'Tis a fiddleatlck, 88id the others.
'Tis possible, cried one ;
'Tis lmponible said the otben."
Sterfll!.
No sooner was this most interesting and important paper read,-
the most interesting in a physiological point of view, and the most
important as to the alleviation of suffering, that was ever brought
before the society, than uprose Mr. CouLSON, a. surgeon practising
in the city, anxious to distinguish himself as the leader of the oppo-
sition to mesmerism, and asserted that the paper ought never to have
been read, for tke only point of intere1t was the non-expression of
pain, and that was a common thing, and he had no doubt the man
had been trained to itI While the paper was reading, he had turned
round to one of the authors, as to a perfect stranger, without know-
ing him, as he has confessed to me, and said, "What d--d stuff
this is:" so that his feelings were strong whatever was his judgment.
Mr. Coulson has also confessed to me since the discussion, that he
hM never Been a me8meric fact and i8 quite ignorant of me8meri8m.
What right therefore has he not to believe that insensibility of touch
can be induced by it, as those assert who have seen and practised it
for years? Insensibility of all the five senses, or of one or more of
them, is a common occurrence of disease. I will adduce, further on,
some striking cases, from the Transactions of this very society, of
want of the sense of touch only, so that injuries were unfelt. What
right then has he, totally ignorant llS he is of mesmerism, to assert
that the same conditions cannot be induced by the artificial processes
of mesmerism 1
The only point of interest was the non-expression of pain! It
was not worthy of Mr. Coulson's attention, that the poor man htifore
being mesmerised had not during three week8 slept more than two
hours in 8enenty, but that after having been mesmerised three times,
" he slept seven hours without interruption;" that after having been
Digitized by Google
13
mesmerised about a dozen times a great change was remarkable in
his appearance, " the hue of health returned, he became cMerful,
felt much 8tronger, was ea8ier both in mind and body, 8lept well,
and recovered hi4 appetite,"-that he looked "healthy and cheerful,
his natural sleep was sound and regular, and his pain soothed and
diminished;" that the surgeon, Mr. Ward, after having been absent
while Mr. Topham thus mesmerised him, declared "I was as much
astonished as I was delighted, to obsene the improved condition of
the man; he had now much more the hue of health, his nights were
more tranquil, his appetite had returned, and in fact such was his
state that had I not known the previous history of the case, much
doubt must have arisen in my mind as to the propriety of imme-
diately amputating the limb." All this was beneath Mr. Coulson's
consideration. The only point of interest was the non-expression
of pain! A friend, formerly pupil of my own, Mr. Case of Fareham
in Hampshire, thinking more rationally than Mr. Coulson of the
facts of this case, determined to endeavour to render a woman, two
and thirty years of age, insensible to pain previously to the ampu-
tation of a thumb, that had for some time been greatly diseased
after an accident, resisting all treatment and severely injuring the
constitution, which had long previously been in a. state of debility
and thus occasioned the bad condition of the thumb, that in its
tum reflected injury on the constitution. But, after M had me8-
meri~td her daily for ten day8, the improvement Wa8 80 great that
amputation appeared unnece88ary, and in a short time the thumb
Wa8 ab8olutely well, and her health improved so much that she
declared she had never been so well and strong. The improvement
of the general health,-the strength, the digestion, and the female
functions, &c. from mesmerism is generally great, to say nothing of
its power over various diseases, medical and surgical. A surgeon
in Warwickshire, who was about to amputate a leg severely dis-
eased, as in Mr. Ward's case, and, wishing to prevent pain, had
been mesmerising the patient with the effect of such coma and in-
sensibility in three minutes, that the man shewed no pain and made
no movement when goaded with a pin, when burnt with a hot
iron, or when blazing sealing wax was dropped and allowed to
burn upon his limb, wrote, in a letter to Mr. Ward,-" as in your
case, the man'8 health u wonderfully improved Iince me~meri8ing
kim."
Then Mr. Coulson believed that the man had disciplined himself
to bear pain without expressing his feelings. And what reason had
Digitized by Google
14
he for this credulity 1 The poor man complained of great pain and
could never bear any other than the sitting position for pain; had
slept but for two hours in seventy during three weeks for pain; was
invariably awakened from his mesmeric sleep by violent pain; could
not bear the "lightest covering" on his leg, when not in mesmeric
coma, for pain; even shed tears from his intense agony; was greatly
affected when the necessity of the operation was announced to him,
and, in consequence, could not sleep that night, and the next day
was fretting and restless; suffered, tAe "e171 mtmt.i11f1 of tu operation,
such anguish from the slightest movement that it was found impos-
sible, without needless torture, to place him upon a table; and, on
being drawn towards the foot of the bed with the bed-clothes under
him for the convenience of the operator, such pain was produced
that he awoke,-" There was something quite excruciating in the
suffering which the state of the knee produced at tAu moment ;"
and immediately before the operation he was considerably excited at
hearing the cries of another patient who had just been operated upon
in the next room. Truly he was well disciplined to bear pain! On
waking from his mesmeric coma after the operation, he was filled with
joy to find his anticipated sufferings were not to come, and exclaimed,
not like a man who despised pain and was trained, " I bless the
Lord to find it's all over!" Not bearing pain at all better on the day
of the operation than when admitted into the hospital; being, on
the contrary, very sensitive of pain, and irritable, be is unhesitatingly
pronounced by Mr. Coulson, without a shadow of ground, from mere
prejudice, ignorance, and want of penetration, to have been disci-
plined to bear pain,-to be an impostor, and the barrister and sur-
geon to have been his dupes or accomplices. Such folly is monstrous.
Da. MooRE, a physician-accoucheur, living in Saville Row,
immediately followed, and made no objections, but protested, in a
loud voice and rapid manner, that really such a statement ought to
have been accompanied by affidavits, and asked if affidavits before
the Lord Mayor or some other magistrate had been made. Dr.
Moore has the distinction of being the first person who, in a scien-
tific society of gentlemen, required that the detail of philosophical
experiments should be supported by affidavit. He had, however,
equally forgotten himself last summer at the Phrenological Associa-
tion, having been for some time in an incessant state of distressing
morbid anti-mesmeric irritation, without knowing more of the subject
than its unpopular name, and conducting himself precisely in the
way in which he complains, as a phrenologist, that the medical
Digitized by Google
15
profession conduct themselves towards phrenology. When several
gentlemen had related most curious experiments in which, during
the mesmeric state, individual cerebral organs were at pleasure
excited or stupified mesmerically, he exclaimed that it was a very
pretty thing indeed for gentlemen to come down and tell us that
they had seen this and that. I replied that no experimentors
could do more at a public discussion, or in writing, than detail their
facts faithfully, and put others in the way of repeating their expe-
riments: and he was at once put to silence for the night.
Thus Dr. Moore made no objections, but called loudly for affi-
davits and then sat down again. No other notice was taken of this
speech than to laugh at it.
The next in eagerness to speak was MR. BLAKE, a young
surgeon. He urged that this man shammed, because persons often
bear operations without expressing pain: and mentioned that he had
seen a tooth extracted from a girl who was not, but pretended to
be, in the mesmeric state, in University College Hospital, without
ANY sign of pain, although she was strictly observed and eDen her
pul&e felt. · Now he knew well formerly, for he was present as well
as myself, that a friend of his, who counted her pulse during the
extraction, declared to us all, truly or not I cannot of course say,
that the pulse rose eight beats during the extraction.
• Another young surgeon, named ALcocK, followed in the same
line of argument; not thinking that the absence of pain ever ad-
mitted of evidence, and discrediting the reality of the case because
he had often seen persons in an ordinary state bear severe operations
without manifesting the slightest pain. Now I do not believe it.
No doubt Mr. Alcock thinks he witnessed such self-command; but
I do not believe he observed with sufficient minuteness. I, during
a period equal to three years, while a student at the two hospitals
of St. Thomas and Guy, saw a very large number of operations, as
these were both great establishments and close to the river and in a
very crowded district, as operations were then far more frequently
resorted to than at present, and as Sir Astley Cooper was surgeon
to one of them and his glory was to operate, and I do not know
that I was absent from a single operation. Yet I never witnessed
such a prodigy as apparent total indifference to pain. I recollect a
sailor astonishing Sir Astley Cooper by not uttering the faintest
sound while his leg was taken off: but the man folded his arms
firmly together and his lipa were firmly compreued. No one will
doubt the high courage of the Marquess of Anglesey. While his
Digitized by Google
16
leg was amputated he uttered not a sound. A bystander might
have supposed that he felt no pain. ·But the brother officer, whose
hand he held all the time, told a clergyman, a friend of mine, that
he never had such a squeeze in his life. Some who have uttered no
sound have held their own thigh during an amputation of the leg:
but then they could give silent vent to their sufferings by squeezing
the limb. Some, when under the surgeon's hand, keep their jaws
or lips firmly closed, some sing, whistle, chatter, laugh, or smoke,
all the time, and thus find relief. I knew an old clergyman who
had senile gangrene of a toe, to which Sir Astley Cooper frequently
applied nitric acid, and he told me that, not liking to cry out and not
being able to swear, he always relieved himself in his agony by spout-
ing a sentence of the Philippics,-c.! aY~fE~ 'A91!vaiol, &c. Savages,
criminals, and martyrs in different causes, have in all ages borne
torture bravely, defying pain. But then they have laughed, prayed,
sung, talked, or performed some other muscular motion: or, although
silent and still, would, I have no doubt, have betrayed to a good
observer some sign of suffering or determination in their breathing,
lips, closed jaws, or fixed look,-in acting strongly with some part
of their body. If a man has held his hand in the fire, he bas held
it firmly. Dr. Barnes, of Tavistock Place, who was acting sur-
geon at Macquarie Harbour during 1826 and 1827, for nineteen
months, informs me that he saw in all 17,000 lashes given in that
penal settlement. The whip had a wooden handle a foot in length,
and nine lashes, each composed of two layers of whip-cord about a
yard and a quarter long, with nine post-boy's knots towards the
end, and about two inches apart; the extreme point of each lash was
made firm with waxed thread. The culprit was bound arms and
legs to a post, and the number of each stroke called out by the
chief constable before the lash fell, and about three per minute were
given, so that a hundred lashes occupied a considerable time. Dr.
Barnes assures me of what every rational man would anticipate,-
that no good ever resulted from these disgusting, disgraceful barba-
rities. The spirit of the tortured person was broken, and he was
rendered reckless for ever. As it i3 a point of reputation with
the convicts to appear to despise the torture, and numbers of them
are the most daring, determined, and courageous of men, he con-
tinually witnessed the absence of all exclamation : but in every
instance something was noticeable which disclosed suffering or deter-
mination,-the shoulders were generally kept raised, shewing the
strong action of the surrounding muscles,-or perhaps a bullet in the
Digitized by Google
17
mouth was found afterwards flattened out to the thinness of a
wafer by the action of the jaw.
In an account which Dr. Barnes has kindly written for me of some
of these cases, he remarks: " Although those men, by a species of
false pride, would endeavour to shew what they termed a manly
spirit, and bear unflinchingly that most dreadful torture, without
calling out or making any demonstration of bodily suffering by the
writhing of the trunk, limbs, or muscles of the countenance,-
yet in every instance when punishment was inflicted, the culprit
evidently prepared himself to bear up against it, by placing himself
in a particular position; for instance, the handa graaped firmly the
halberts, the back 'Wa8 curved and the alwuldera were raiaed, the
ckeat wu emptied and the abdomert Wa8 drawn inwarda, the breathing
'Wa8 alwrt and the pulae quickexed.
"Thomas Hampden was flogged in June, 1827; he received
one hundred lashes, but did not evince any symptoms of pain; yet
the punishment was twice suspended during its infliction by my
directions, i!l consequence of the appearance of his countenance and
the state of his pulse. Water was applied to his lips, and, although
he told the constable he did not require any, yet he drank greedily.
When the punishment was complete and the prisoner was released,
he threw his shirt carelessly over his shoulders and went to his
barracks, and in a boasting manner said his back would not require
the doctor; and in order to carry out his principles he went to his
labour daily, without availing himself of the privilege which the
sick-list afforded of giving rest till his back was healed.
"This man, when in the hospital subsequently with fever, told
me the torture produced by the lash was like boiling water poured
constantly on the back; and that nothing but the fear of being de-
rided by his fellow-convicts could prevent a man from shewing his
feelings." His sufferings were, however, shewn by the signs of the
determination necessary in all the inatancea to bear up under them.
I do not believe that any person in an ordinary state could bear
so severe an operation as amputation of the thigh without making
some muscular effort visible to a good observer, or evidencing pain
by a look, the condition of his lips or breathing, or by something
else inconsistent with the perfect motionlessness and universal relax-
ation, the perfect placidity of countenance, the perfect regularity of
breathing, in short, the perfect absence of all expression, not to
say of suffering, but of determination,-of jirmneu, that was so
remarkable in Wombell. His aspect, during the whole time, was
B
Digitized by Google
JS
that of a person in a sound and beautifully placid sleep, with the
lips, I understand, slightly open: "the placid look of his counte-
nance never changed for an instant; his whole frame rested uncon-
trolled in perfect stillness and repose; not a muscle or nerve was
seen to twitch." The low moaning was, as I have already stated,
not correspondent with the course of the operation,-did not occur
with any relation to moments when this gave the greatest cause for
pain, but seemed totally uninfluenced by the proceedings of the
operator; and was not induced or increased even by the severe treat-
ment of the end of the sciatic J}erve. It gave all present the idea
that the man was dreaming unpleasantly. He made no boa8t
afterwards that the pain had been nothing,-a very trifle to bear:
but declared he had felt no pain at all, for he had not known that
the operation was performing. His first exclamation, not made the
moment he awoke, as if he had meant to say something striking,
but after he had looked about in surprise,-a circumstance so in
accordance with what mesmerists always observe when any change
in external circumstances has occurred during the state of the
patient,-was, "I bless the Lord to find it's all over,"-an exclama-
tion shewing no disposition to make the bystanders believe he was a
brave hand at bearing pain. Every thing, in short, proves the
reality of the case to those who are not the prey of that cruel
disease-prejudice.
Suppose, however, that Mr. Alcock, or any of the opponents of
the evening, had observed patients during operations with sufficient
minuteness to know that they made no muscular effort whatever
and shewed no expression of pain or determination, but remained
all the time in silence, as calmly breathing, as motionless and uni-
versally relaxed, with as equally unchanged a placidity of counte-
nance, as this man, all that would amount to nothing, unless, in
addition to the operation, a pointed ·instrument had been roughly
poked against the divided end of some large nerve and the same
undisturbed state of the whole person had continued as in this man.
The divided end of his sciatic nerve was not merely brushed roughly
with a sponge, and pinched, but poked with the points of a forceps,
and he gave no sign of suffering ! Not one opponent on the score
of firmness all the evening alluded to this, any more than to the
astonishing improvement in the man's sleep, and looks, and health,
after being mesmerised!
Dr. JAMES JoHNSON, the reviewer, and another doctor whose
name I hear was TRUMAN, followed in the same strain with the
Digitized by Google
19
preceding speakers. Dr. Johnson added that he would not have
believed the facts mentioned in the paper had he witnessed them
himself. When a man has reached this point of intellect, the
sooner he shuts his eyes and retires from this wondrous scene into
utter darkness the better. Dr. Truman talked rapidly and con-
fusedly against mesmerism without any argument and with a total
ignorance of the subject, that led him into ridiculous statements,
which Mr. Symes corrected: he attempted to speak a second time in
the course of the evening, and politely believed that the man was
prepared for the occasion and designed as a great card by the
mesmerists; but the meeting loudly refused to hear him.
Dr. MARSHALL HALL, some years ago, when my Demonstrations
went on at University College Hospital, called mesmerism "trum-
pery" that "polluted the temple of science;"* and now, being, like
all tlte other opponent speakers, totally ignorant of the subject, and
glorying in his igMrance, very consistently considered the present
case to be one of imposition, because the poor man's sound leg did
not start or contract while the diseased leg was amputated! The
case, he said, "proved too muck, or ratker flatly contradicted itself,"
because the sound leg did not contract when the diseased one was
cut. He asserted that, "in cases of insensibility in brutes, from
intercourse of any portion with the brain being stopped by division
ofthe spinal chord, or from absolute decapitation, or from stunning by
a blow upon the head, such an injury of an insensible leg as pricking
it with any thing, lacerating, or cutting,-such an injury for instance
as plunging a sharp instrument into the muscles," (I sat next to
Dr. M. Hall and those were his very words), "invariably causes
both legs to contract; and, unless man differs from all other animals,
the same must take place in the human being; and, as this man
did not move his other leg,-did not enact the rejle:c motions, he was
no physiologist." Had he been such a physiologist as Dr. Marshall
Hall and read about the reflex motions, " he would have known
better, and would have moved the other leg,-and enacted the reflex
motions." The ignorant man! Dr. Marshall Hall's right leg would
have moved most physiologically, if a surgeon bad plunged a knife
into his left! It was very silly of the man not to allow his sound
leg to start, nor his diseased leg, nor any part of his frame. But
a horse bas been just as siUy, just "as bad a physiologist," and
has just as "flatly contradicted itself," by not '1 enacting the reflex
• Lectures in Webb-street, Borough-Lt11cet Oct. 28, 1837. p. 42.
D 2
Digitized by Google
20
motions." "A horse was struck with the pole-axe over the anterior
lobes of the brain. It fell instantly, as if struck with a thunder-
bolt; it was convulsed, and then remained motionless. It shortly
began to breathe, and continued to breathe freely by the diaphragm.
When lacerated or pricked with a sharp pointed instrument, as a
pin or nail, on any part of the face or surface of the body, it was
totally motionless, manifesting no evidence of sensation or volition."
In another account it is said, " deep lacerations" of these parts
produced no movement of any kind, nor any infliction on the skin
by "a pin or other pointed instrument." Now this I quote against
Dr. Marshall Hall on authority considered by Dr. Marshall Hall
at least equal to any in the world,-equal to his own. But whose
can this be ? Can there be an authority equal to Dr. Marshall
Hall's? It is Dr. Marshall Hall himself!* Dr. Marshall Hall in
,print, ~"''linst Dr. Marshall Hall in debate! Dr. Marshall Hall in
print proving too much, or rather flatly contradicting Dr. Marshall
Hall in debate! But Dr. Marshall Hall in print is quite right.
The other extremity may move, but it may not. I cut off
the heads of some frogs, and, in the presence of Professor Wheat-
stone of King's College, Mr. Atkinson, Mr. Symes, and Mr.
Wood, pinched the toes of one leg with the forceps ; the leg
contracted, but the other leg was still. I repeated the experi-
ment twenty times, and, in almost every instance, the same leg
only contracted; once or twice the other leg contracted, but it
was when general contractions of the whole mass of the frog took
place. I repeatedly pinched the muscles of the thigh, and they
alone contracted, the other extremity being invariably unaffected:
Provoking frogs I Why did you not contract your other leg ?
Impostors! You little thought you "proved too much"-for Dr.
Marshall Hall; and yet you were but like some other unphysiological
frogs. For Dr. Marshall Hall says that, if, when he divides the
spinal chord in frogs just below the occiput, so that the creatures
remain motionless, be then pricks or pinches the toes, " there is
no movement at first, but soon distinct movements take place, and
generally retractions of the limb!!" not limba.t Mr. Ward states,
in the Nottingham Journal for December 30th of last year, in an-
swer to a very silly letter by a young surgeon at Nottingham, that
• On the Diseases and Derangement• qf the Net"f:ous System, by Marshall
Hall, M.D. F.R.S., p. 8. 1841. Lectures on the Nel'.:ous System. By the
same. P• 21.
t On the Diseases, 4'c. p. 6.
oi9,tized by Coogle
21
be has made the same experiment with the same result upon a-
rabbit. "Having knocked one rabbit down, it at first lay motionless,
as if dead from the shock; it then shewed all signs of life by
breathing tolerably freely. With a pin I deeply pricked first one
limb and then the other,-and invariably the one I pricked was
retracted, the other lying motionless. Such results have followed
other experiments." If, as many have asserted respecting the
rogue whose leg was amputated by Mr. Ward, an enquiry were to
be cautiously made, there can be no question that we should learn
the rabbit's motives for not contracting its other leg. It no doubt
had its reasons. It no doubt hoped for future favours from the
surrounding nobility and gentry. It was no doubt well "trained,"
and its case "designed as a great card by the mesmerists." It no
doubt bad been bribed. You little rogue, you little knew you were
"proving too much"-for Dr. Marshall Hall. You were ignorantly
quiet; but were also spitefully quiet. Why did you not, like the
wise young surgeon of Nottingham, stir for Dr. Marshall Hall?
Malicious animal! was it not enough that the man'a case proved too
much-for Dr. Marshall Hall ?* And yet you were not so bad as
• To expose the miserable shifts to which Dr. Hall condescends to
have recourse rather than own himself wrong, I must state that Mr.
Ward in his quotation from Dr. Hall's hook, made by myself in the last
page, omitted the words, "a1 a pin or a NAIL," after the words, "when
lacerated iy a 1laarp o1· pointed INSTRUMENT." The question was not with
what sharp or pointed instrument the laceration was made, but whether
the part was pricked or lacerated with a sharp or pointed INSTRgMENT. Of
so little importance did Dr. Hall consider it that, in relating his experiments
on the frogs, he employed neither a nail nor pin, hut "pricked and pinched
the toes with the probe or forceps." In the society he considered the expe-
riment fairly made, when an amputating knife was plunged into the thigh of
the man operated upon." In another relation of the experiment upon the
horse in another book, Dr. Hall, we have seen, is not particular about the
instrument, but says" pin or other pointed instrument." Yet Dr. Hall pub-
lished a letter in the Nottingham Journal for February 3, asserting that the
apparent discrepancy between his written and oral statements of experi-
ments arose entirely from Mr. Ward's omission of two words in quoting
him. He most wilily does not say what the words are, so that one would
suppose they were of great importance; whereas they are not of the slight-
est, and in the society he spoke of any 1ort of wound of the insensible leg.
In the next newspaper (February 10), Mr. Ward requests him to point out
what words of importance were omitted. But Dr. Hall was again wily,
and in a short letter to the editor did not point out the words, but merely
repeated that there was the omission,-a proceeding calculated to make an
impresaion and screen himself. He knows well that, if a laceration of the
surface by a nail would not cause reftex motions, his assertion in the society
Digitized by Google
22
one of Dr. Hall's patients. You did moTe your pricked leg, though
that only; but a comatose patient into whose cheek, hand, and
tkigk Dr. Hall ran a pin very deeply, he says, made not a single
muscle move on either side.*
must fall to the ground; and he does say, in both the Works already
quoted, that deep lacerations, and therefore superficial ones also, for these
cannot be avoided, with a nail in the struck horse, had no effect of any
sort. He knew well that, in his printed accounts, his purpose was to shew
that a laceration, a wound, a pinch, to produce the re11ex motions, must be
made on certain parts, for instance the toes, eyelids, and.that a straw might
suffice ; and that the other parts, for instance the body and portions of the
extremities nearer the body, possessed no such impressibility. Again; in
no part of his printed accounts does he recite any experiments with knives;
all his experiments were made with pins, nails, probes, a forceps, or straws;
and thus, when it is pretended that, in saying the man's leg should have
moved if man is not unlike every other animal, he meant because other ani-
mals moved when a palsied leg was cut with a knife, and that therefore
Mr. Ward should have cut the rabbit's leg with a knife, I maintain that
this is unfair,-that Dr. Hall, referring to his own experiments, and never
having used a knife, made the assertion in regard to simple wounding,
-no matter with what sharp " instrument."
Equally miserable is the attempt of the young Nottingham surgeon, in a
second letter, equally silly, heartless, and discreditable with the first. He
declares that Mr. Ward's experiment does not bear upon the question, be-
cause this gentleman " DEEPLY pricked" the muscles of a rabbit'sleg, instead
of making the experiment "upon the foot or upon some incident nerve ex-
panded on the foot," "muscular fibres having no incident nerves, and not
reftex or excito-motor, at all." Why, Dr. Marshall Hall considered in the
society that, when Mr. Ward plunged the knife into the mtuclt8 of the man's
thigh, just as Mr. Ward plunged the pin into the rabbit's thigh, the experi-
ment was fairly made; for be said that the man's other leg ought then to
have moved. Besides, though the pin went deeply into the muscles, it
pierced the •urface first ; and not only was the skin, but th,e proper nerves
of the reftex function, wounded by Mr. Ward, since reflex motion8 actually
re8Ulted from his pricking, though, unfortunately for Dr. Hall, in only the leg
pricked;-the "pin" used by Dr. Hall to lacerate the horse, without causing
movements, and on which Dr. Hall and his young disciples would Jay so
much stress to explain the absence of movements, was used by Mr. Ward to
prick the rabbit, and did cause motJement•, but unluckily in only the pricked
leg. The experiment was therefore perfect; no matter whatwas the instru-
ment, or what the part,-reftex movements were produced, but only in one
leg. I have however not only run a needle and a knife into the thighs
and legs of headless frogs, and amputated them, without any effect, but
pinched the toes with a forceps, and yet the other leg was almost always
motionless.
Poor Mr. Wakley, not contented with the displays of medical science
• Lancet, Feb. 10, 1833, p. 685.
Digitized by Goog[e
23
I should have thought it more likely for the mali's cut leg to
have moved than the other. If Dr. Marshall Hall, after meditating
upon his "reflex" glories till be lost himself, and lay iu his arm-
chair in ecstacy, were to have his knuckles rapped, I engage to say
that the hand rapped would be the one to move and be shaken in
the air, and "enact the reflex motions," so that all the bystanders
would see on which hand he was rapped. The pc>Or man at Wellow
made not the slightest movement of eitAer leg! The operation was
like an amputation on a powerless dead body.
For the general reader, I will give a short account of the sub-
ject of movements produced by irritating animals whose heads have
been cut off, or deprived of nervous communication with the portions
irritated.
In 1663, Boyle stated that the bodies of vipers, deprived of
their head, would move on being irritated.* Redi, an Italian phy-
sician, found, in 1684, that, after cutting off the head of a tortoise,
the legs moved whenever they were prickl)fl.t Dr. Whytt, thejWJtly
celebrated physiologist and physician of Edinburgh, discovered, in
1745, that, if the toes of the hind feet of a decapitated frog are
irritated, after ten or fifteen minutes have elapsed subsequently to
the decapitation, the feet are drawn up to the body; if one of the
legs is pulled down from the body and kept extended, no sooner are
the toes of this foot wounded, than the leg is drawn up to the body
as before: t "be also noticed that, though the muscles of the thigh
were contracted when pricked or cut, neither they nor the neigh-
bouring muscles were nearly so strongly convulsed as when the toes
were wounded;" and that, if the spinal chord of the decapitated
frog is first destroyed with a red-hot wire, none of these effects
result.§ He illustrates the subject by very numerl)us instances of
movements so excited apparently without our will or consciousness,
which he makes at inquests and which are the richest of my newspaper
treats, goes about telling persons not medical, with the most scientific air,
that the case at Wellow was proved to be an imposition by a scientific point:
and yet, in the Lancet, for August 18, 1830, he published an interesting case
as genuine, on the authority of Dr. Imray, of fits of catalepsy and insen-
sibility, in one of which, during cupping, the spirits of wine ran about the
young lady's neck and caught fire, without any movement occurring to in-
dicate there was sensation or reftexfurwtion!
• Ul(}'vi'MII of Natvral Plaiwsophy. Part ii. Essay i. 1663.
t ObltnlaziOfti intonto agli a11imali tntJenti. p. 210. 1684.
t Ob•ercatiotll 011 Irritability. Sect. iv. Part 4.
§ Same book, sec. ii.
Digitized by Google
24
and he generalised the facts of the subject beautifully. Sir Gil-
bert Blane, in 1788, cut oft' the heads or divided the spinal chords
of kittens, and found their hind legs shrink from the touch of
a hot wire applied to the hind paws; and the tail to move when
irritated, even if the chord was divided below the last lumbar
vertebra.* In 1812, a French vivisector, Dr. Le Gallois, divided
the trunk of a frog into transverse pieces, and found that each, as it
possessed its portion of spinal chord, moved when irritated.t Nay,
Dr. Macartney found that if the eye is taken out of an animal and
light suddenly admitted upon its nerve of sensation,-the retina, the
iris contracts.t But, many years after Whytt, a German physician,
named Prochaska, entered, in 1784, largely into the subject, and
urged that there were nerves to receive and convey the impression,
and nerves to excite the consequent motion, and he termed this their
operation "the REFLEXION of sensory impressions into motor."ll
Dr. Marshall Hall has taken up the subject with such eagerness,
and written upon it so repeatedly after his first publication in 1833,§
that, in his ludicrously uncontrollable and never flagging appetite for
notoriety, he would have the world believe him to be a discoverer
in the subject, has passed over (as in the case of Prochaska, till he
was exposed) or been most unjust to his predecessors, has made
incorrect statements, and, though he has the merit of forcing atten-
tion to the subject, he has succeeded in forcing far more to himself,
comparing himself at last to Harvey, who, in his disgust with the
world, would not have given his manuscript on Generation to it, but
for being entreated by Ent to forgive it and not to deprive it of
what would be useful,-when he benevolently relented.~ The follow-
• Select DUsertationw, p. 262. 1822.
t Sur le Principe de la Vie.
f Report (lj the third meeling qf the British Alloeit~lun•, 1834. p. 53.
II Commt~ttutio de Functionibua Sy•temati• Nerooli, cap. iv. printed 1784.
Opera minora, para. ii. Vienna 1800. He even points out the portion of the
nervous system which be conceives to receive and then rellect the impression
to the muscles; viz., the oblong and aU the IIJliRal marrow, and the crura
and thalami of the brain. p. 153.
§ Philosophical Transactions, 1833.
'If Those who are desirous will see a full exposure of Dr. Marshall Hall's
false claims and injustice to other authors, in the London Medical Ga:ette for
April 7, 14, 21, 28, & May 5, and La11cet for April28, 1838. Mr. Mayo, who
bas devoted great attention to the ner"e•, thus expresses his opinion of Dr.
Marshall Hall's claims on the subject: "Dr.Marshall Hall bas given the good
name of rellex function to this circle of impression and action, and bl\8 added
one or two additional facts in illustration of the principle." The Nertlous
Digitized by Goog[e
25
ing passage from Sir Gilbert Blane's Select Diuertationa, p. 262,
printed in 1822, should be seen by those unread persons who vaunt
System alld its Function•, p. 50. 1842. As to the good name, we see that
Prochaska had called the operation "the re.ftexion of sensory impression into
motor." p. 154-5-6-7. All these statements gratify me as confirming the
opinion to which I painfully and dispassid_nately came when studying the
subject for the part of my Human Physiology which I published in 1837,
p. 495 and following, " Now really the whole truth appe1us to be what is
well known, that an impression made upon any nerve of sensation, or, what
is the same thing, upon any part endowed with sensibility, may induce
action of any voluntary muscles calculated to remove it if disagreeable, or
to be useful in some way to the individual, even though the brain be pre-
vented from perceiving the impression,-from having a sensation from the
impression. The impression need not be upon nerves running to the part of
the encephalo-spinal organs, where the roots lie, of the motor nerves excited,
for a sharp pinch of the toe will not merely make a man draw away his foot,
but raise his arms, make a face and halloo into the bargain, whether he is
asleep or awake. Tickling the sentient twigs of the fifth pair, the eyelid,
and cornea, is not requisite to cause winking; if by the optic nerve, one
not included in Dr. M. Hall's excito-motory class, we see a finger suddenly
approach the eye, instinctive, involuntary winking will as certainly occur.
Winking will occur if a strong light is suddenly admitted through the lids to
the reti11a of a person asleep. The sun's glare upon the retina will excite sneez-
ing. Not only are sneezing, Tomiting, sobbing, mentioned as acts of this sys-
tem, but even deglutition, which is declared alway• to be of this nature, and
alway• to require the presence of some stimulus to the sensible nerves of the
pharynx, it being "impossible to perform the act of swallowing three or four
times in rapid succession, without taking something into the mouth." Now if
deglutition is always an excited act,-to use this gentleman's peculiar lan-
guage,-is always produced involuntarily by an impreBSion on the pharynx,
it must be as impossible once or twice, without taking something into the
mouth, as three or four times, and slowly as rapidly. I however can
swallow with nothing in my mouth in rapid succession, as readily as with
something, and above fifty times: that is to say, till the muscles are fatigued.
If swallowing is instinctive when anything reaches the pharynx, so is the
act of opening the mouth when a sugar-plum is offered to the eyes of a
baby : and indeed the various movements of the extremities, bead, and
trunk, which naturally are performed on various circumstances presenting
themselves, are just as instinctive; and we have only to observe the move- '
ments of other animals, especially of those most like ourselves, and abo\'e
all of monkeys, to see bow instinctive our voluntary actions are when we
are most apt to regard them as determined by our reflection. We contract
all voluntary muscles either simply because we think proper, as when we
cough at the request of another, or because a strong motive is given, as
when we withdraw the band from anything bot; and the latter is only such
an instance as swallowing, coughing, winking, &c., when food is in the
pharynx, phlegm in the larynx, or strong light in the eyes. Certain ~ensa-
oi9,tized by Coogle
•
26
his pretensions. " There are facts which shew that instinctive
actions, even in animals endowed with brain and nerves, do
not depend on &emation: I took a live kitten, a few days old, and
divided the spinal marrow, by cutting it across the neck. The hind
paws being then irritated by pricking them, and by touching them
with a hot wire, the muscles belonging to the posterior extremities
were thrown into irritation, so as to produce a shrinking from the
injury; the same effects were observed in another kitten, after the
head was entirely separated from the body. In repeating this expe-
riment, I found that when the spinal marrow was cut through
between the lumbar vertebrre, and os sacrum, the posterior extre-
mities lost their irritability, but the part below it-the tail, retained
it." "In an acephalous monster, the like phenomena were observ-
tions excite a certain desire, and this may be too strong for us to overcome.
But according to the strength of mind will be the resistance t~ the strength
of the desire induced by the sensation. Some actions result from certain
sensations only, and we can neither perform some without these sensations,
nor when these sensations exist find it possible not to yield to the desire.
With some deglutition is not an act of this kind. But sneezing is with all.
I never knew a person able to sneeze at pleasure. To be induced to will
sneezing we must have a certain sensation. If our attention is drawn to
something else, though the irritating cause act, we do not feel the sensation
and do not sneeze. If the sensation is felt forcibly, the impulse may be too
strong for us to resist, and sneezing will be involuntary: and we can bring
ourselves to sneeze by attending closely to the sensation, and by increasing
it. I have often amused myself by looking more or less at the sun, or think-
ing more or less of tickling felt at the moment in the nostrils, and so in-
creasing and lessening the inclination to sneeze. Without the un~atio"
and a certain amount of it, the sneezing, no more than venereal convulsion
of the ejaculatores, takes place. At the same time the facts discovered by
Whytt and others show a connection between motion and impression inde-
pendent of the brain. But this is probably intended to assist the will in
exciting motions on the occurrence of impressions on individual parts; and
the impression may be so strong that the will may be compelled to determine
the motion, and this compulsion will be according to the strength of the
impreBBion and the weakness of opposing motives and of the resolution to
resist the inclination. Nay, these facts shew that motion will occur when
the brain is removed and there can be no sensation. Yet when the brain
exists and in healthy force, that the will does co-operate with this local
excitement of nerves of voluntary motion by those of sensation, when we
might not be disposed to believe it, appears from the curious facts men-
tioned at pages 486-491, shewing that sensations may occur, and the will
may be exercised, almost unconsciously. While the brain exists and the
system is in health, these motions do not occur without will, or without
sensation should the will be overpowered."
oi9,tized by Coogle
27
able. It moved up its knees when the toes of its feet were tickled;
it performed the act of suction; passed urine and freces and swal-
lowed food." Let any one read Dr. Hall's paper in the Philosophical
· Transactions, above ten years afterwards, when all this is printed as
original, without a single allusion to the names of Prochaska or
Blane, and consider which was the greater, Dr. Hall's boldness in
sending the paper, or the council's in printing it.
But, after all, Dr. Marshall Hall entirely mistakes the nature of
the man's case. The man's head had not been struck nor his spinal
chord divided. The stunned horse, the divided frogs, were para-
lysed solely because the former's brain was overpowered, and the
latter's wounded and pinched extremity had lost its communication
with the brain. But paralysis, insensibility, and loss of voluntary
motion may arise not only from inability in the brain to receive im-
pressions brought to it or to will movement, or from the communi-
cation between it and parts impressed or parts to be moved being
interrupted, but may arise also from the part8 tketn8elve8 being in-
t>.apacitated, however capable and entire the brain and its lines of
communication may remain. If the part itBelf is incapacitated, not
only cannot the brain obtain a sensation from it or excite a movement
in it, but impressions cannot be made upon it by pricking or lace-
rating or cutting, so that Dr. Marshall Hall would in vain prick, lace-
rate, cut, or stab it,-it would not "enact the reflex motions." This
is the case when the nerves in a part are palsied by cold, or opium,
or disease. The brain and spinal chord may be affected Rt the same
time; but that is not necessary, for the incapacity of the part itself
prevents both sensation and voluntary motion, and likewise impression
and reflex motion. Now this was the man's state: but Dr. Marshall
Hall, glorying to remain ignorant of mesmerism, did not know it.
Even the exposed muscular fibres of the patient quivered "less than
usual;" nor was there the ordinary amount of retraction of the
muscles when divided: and, as the man had no power to impose in
these two points, Dr. Hall and the rest who speak of imposition
must with reference to them charge Mr. Ward the narrator with fabri-
cation. The stupefaction of mesmerism may be not in the brain or
chord only, but in the individual parts; just like the stupefaction
from exposure to cold which may stupify the brain, but, besides
this, stupefies each part. The mesmeriser may suspend or restore
not only one or more of the individual five senses, but also the sense
of touch in individual parls,-in an arm, a leg, or a finger. More
than this; he removes or restores not only feeling, but the simple
Digitized by Google
28
senseless impressibility by which, if even the head is cut off, an
irritation of an extremity causes it to move,--causes the reflex func-
tion, or " reflex:ion of seusory impressions into motor," to use
Prochaska's two words, to be performed. He can locally, suspend
them all, as cold, or poison, or disease can locally suspend them all.
This was the state of the man. He was in a sleep more or less sound,
and more or less extensive through his brain; but his nerves of
feeling and will, and his nerves also of common impression and
automatic motion, or, in other words, his common reflex or excito-
motory nerves and their expansions were also asleep or stupified:
and therefore there could be no such movements as Dr. Marshall
Hall expected, any more than if the chord or nerves had been dis-
organised. But because there were none, because things did not
happen according to Dr. Hall's notions, nature was wrong, not Dr.
Hall; the man was an impostor, not Dr. Hall's fancies unfounded.
When the Strasburg doctors disputed on the stranger's nose,-
" ' Nature accommodates herself to emergencies,' cried the oppo-
nents, •else what do you say to the case of but half a man, when
both his legs have been unfortunately shot off?'
'He dies of a plethora,' said they, 'or must spit blood; and
in a fortnight or three weeks goes off iu a consumption.'
•It happens otherwise,' replied the opponents.
'It ougkt not,' said they."*
Dr. Marshall Hall's error,-the error of ignorance, but of
wilful ignorance,-was in supposing that the alleged insensibility
and motionlessness of the mesmeric state resulted from merely the
coma. Nay, these may take place without any coma whatever,
the person remaining wide awake. In many patients who have
been fully mesmerised on former occasions, you may affect an arm
only or a leg, causing it to become insensible, motionless, perhaps
rigid, unimpressionable to pinching, pricking, and cutting; and
without mesmerising the brain. Dr. Marshall Hall, while the
paper was read, had just heard that local effects without mesme-
risiug the brain could be produced in this man. " I then shewed
them," says Mr. Topham, "my power of affecting any one of his
limbs, even wken ke WtU quite awake. At my request, he extended
his arms alternately. By making two or three passes over each,
without any contact, they became as rigid and unyielding as bars of
iron, not to be unbent except by mechanical force powerful enough
• Sterne.
Digitized by Google
29
to injure the limbs; and yet, instantly relaxing throughout, and
dropping to his side, from the effect of my breath alone. His right
leg was affected in the same degree; and immediate relief from
pain was frequently afforded, by making similar passes over the
diseased one."
I suppose that, had not the blind foes of mesmerism learnt this
refle-x operation from Whytt, and second-hand from others, they
would have accused every poor decapitated frog of some kind of im-
position upon its moving when pinched. THEIR ignorance would
ka!Je been ITS crime.
Mr. Travers, who was prt>sent but said nothing, could haYe re-
lated an instance in which he made Dr. Marshall Hall's experiment
of pricking with a sharp instrument upon a man whose hands had
lost their feeling. At the request of Dr. Yelloly he pricked the
sensible skin of the ball of the thumb with a lancet-shaped couching
needle, down to the bone, with no result whatever: no feeling, no
starting of the otker hand, or of the same hand, took place.
But I will give the particulars of the case published by this very
Medical and Chirurgical Society, in 1812,* when SirAstleyCooper,
Sir Walter Farquhar, Sir Henry Halford, Sir Evered Home, Drs.
Baillie, Bateman, Birkbeck, Marcet, Pemberton, Roget, Saunders,
and Yelloly, and Messrs. Ab~methy and Cline, selected papers for
publication. It is detailed by Dr. Yelloly, and occurred
"In a Jamaica planter, 58 years old, whose mind and muBcular
frame were unimpaired, but whose hands up to the wrists, and the
feet, half way up the leg, were perfectly imenBible to any 8Jlecie8 of
injury, or cutting, pinching, 8cratcking, or burning. He accidentally
put one of his feet into boiling water, but was no otherwise aware
of the high temperature than by finding the whole surface a complete
blister on removing it. No species of injury to a vesicated part, of
either hands or feet, was felt by him. The extremities were insensible
to electric sparks taken in every variety of mode. The cubital nerve,
where it passes the elbow, communicated the sensation produced by
pressure or a blow only half way down the fore-arm." " On putting
his hand, at the desire of a friend, into a pail of hot grains, which
his friend assnred him were not too hot, and, to convince him of
this, previously thrust his hand and arm into it, there was a very
extensive vesication produced. His hands were never free from blis-
ters, which he got by inadvertently putting them too near the fire;
and he had met with several severe bums without being aware of it.
No degree of pressure was felt by him.", To ascertain whether the
flesh as well as the surface was insensible, Mr. Travers passed a
• Vol. iii. page 90, and following.
Digitized by Goog[e
30
lancet-shaped couching needle into the ball of the thumb, down to
the bone. "Not the least degree of pain, or even of sensation was
produced." (Neither did the other thumb start and contract, as Dr.
Marshall Hall should think it ought, since he thinks Wombell's other
leg ought to have moved.)
A case follows of a lady, about 40 years old, who had "been
deprived for more than two years of the power of sensation in her
hands and feet. She was insensible to the effects of cutting instru-
ments or of burning coals applied to them. In one instance, when
she was employed in shaping a piece of wood with a knife, she
incautiously turned her eyes on some other object, and cut off the
end of the thumb of her left hand without perceiving the smallest
sense of pain." (Nor did the other thumb start and contract any
more than the poor man's sound leg when Mr. Ward cut off the
diseased. This gentleman and lady were as bad as, or worse, than
Mr. Topham's poor man, because from their superior station they
should have known better than to sham antiphysiological facts.)
" Although electricity produced very considerable contractions in
the muscles of her arms down to her wrists, the effects of it in her
hands were scarcely perceptible. After two or three days, however,
she imagined that she was sensible of MJme kind of sensation from
BtrQ11.g shocks."
One of the Okeys, during her mesmeric state of ecstatic delirium,
though possessing full power in all her muscles, was insensible to
mechanical injury, burning, and electricity. The cylinders of the
electro-magnetic machine were held in her hand any length of time,
while the wheel was turned as rapidly as possible, without any
evidence of the slightest sensation, though no one else could hold
them for more than some seconds. She received the charge of a
large Leyden vial, and no effect was noticed. When asked what
she felt, she answered, in the former instance, "I beard it go giggle,
giggle, giggle;" and in the latter, "I saw the light." At the
Adelaide Gallery I put the hands of a female in a state of sleep-
waking, who bad not been there before, upon the electrical eel near
the head and tail, and she took no notice, though I felt a -very
slight movement of her arms, which nobody else could remark.
Now the shock of the eel made very many jump. When I was not
present, I know for certain that she received at once the charge of
six Leyden jars, each sixteen inches high and eight wide, without
evidencing sensation. But, because the condition of Elizabeth Okey,
and of this young woman, was induced by mesmerism, it was feigned;
as though there was more evidence of reality, or could be more evi-
dence of reality, in the other cases than in these.
Digitized by Google
31
A third case is annexed, taken from the Phik»opltie Zoowgique
of Lamark.
"A man of 50 years of age, had for 14 years the right arm
completely insensible. The limb, nevertheless, preserved its activity,
size, and power. On the accident occurring, of a boil upon it, there
were heat, swelling, and redness produced in the parts, but no pain,
even when it was pressed. During his work, he happened to break
the bones of his fore-arm, at about a third of their length from the
wrist. As he only felt a crash (craquement)," (crunching of the
impostor!) "he thought he had only broken the shovel he had in
his hand; but it was sound, and he could only discover his accident
by being unable to continue his work. The following day, the arm,
at the fractured part, was puffed up; the temperature of the fore-
arm and hand was increased, but the patient experienced no degree
of pain, even during the extension necessary to reduce the fracture."
Now in these cases published by this very Medical and Chirur-
gical Society, when things calculated to make a strong impression
were applied to one extremity, not a word is said about the other
starting; and of course neither the one nor the other started, or it
would have struck the patients and the bystanders, and have been
mentioned and regarded as a proof that the patients felt. No "rejie:r:
movementa" were "enacted."
The society believes these cases; but refuses belief when the
loss of impressibility occurs in the mesmeric state! insensibility and
unimpressibility are then impossible, and proofa of imposture! proofs
that mesmerism is untrue: and Sir Benjamin Brodie, as I shall
presently tell, comes down to the society, sneers at the poor man
and the gentlemen who witnessed the facts, and then walks out of
the room in perfect satisfaction with his own sagacity and authority.
Mr. Woon, who had assisted at Mr. Ward's amputation, vouched
for the accuracy of the whole account of it, and urged that all the
proof possible in such a case was afforded,-the absence of all sign
of pain nud resistance to the expression of pain, and the patient's
declaration that he had felt no pain. What more proof was there
in the casesjust extracted from the Transactions of the Society? None.
And the society admitted the reality of those cases without hesitation.
Mr. Liston, also, who, with the whole set to which be belongs,
has hitherto scoffed at mesmerism as humbug and mesmerists as
tom-fools, could, according to Mr. Wakley, have related an ex-
periment which be made, like Mr. Travers, to test a case of
similar insensibility,-and a case still more similar to mesmeric
oi9,tized by Coogle
32
cases, in as far as the· insensibility was not permanent but occa-
sional, and united with catalepsy. The Lancet for May 22, 1830,
gives a report of a clinical lecture, delivered in the University of
Edinburgh, by Dr. Duncan, upon the case of a young woman who
had for a short time been subject to seizures of perfect insensibility
and catalepsy; "her limbs, on the application of force, yielded" no
more readily, however, than lead would, "in whatever direction they
were bent; and, when the force was withdrawn, remaining motion-
less and without tremor, like bars of lead, in whatever position they
were placed, no matter how painful under ordinary circumstances, or
how contrary to the ordinary laws of gravitation." The poor crea-
ture's case was perfectly real; but, because some were so ignorant
of medical science as to be unacquainted with the features of such
an affection, she was suspected of imposition.
The following is Mr. Wakley's report of Dr. Duncan's account
of the experiment: "We cannot avoid noticing, and we do so with
feelings of the most unmixed disgust, an unmanly, wanton, and
barbarous experiment, practised on this unfortunate patient by an
individual, unconnected, we are happy to add, with the department
of clinical medicine'' (as distinguished from clinical 8Urgery). "It
will scarcely be credited, but nevertheless it is strictly true, that
during a paroxysm of insensibility, the person to whom we allude,
tore with hi& nailll two aeparate piece& of akin.from tlte hand of the
patient. She was not aware of the cruel and unwarrantable experi-
ment at the time, but she felt the effects in the intervals very
acutely. It is satisfactory, however, to know that but one feeling
of the most unequivocal reprobation pervaded teachers and pupils at
this inhuman and unprofessional act." Dr. Duncan hints only that
it was a surgeon. Mr. Wakley declares the surgeon was Mr. Liston;
for, in the index is this reference to the two pages in which the
experiment is related:-
" LISTON, Mr., inhuman experiment by, pp. 278. 281."
Yet it is impossible not to think the statement erroneous, be-
cause Mr. Wakley and Mr. Liston are now inseparable friends, and
Mr. Wakley has placed his son under Mr. Liston. There, how-
ever, stands the accusation in the index to Lancet, May 22, 1830,
p. 278, vol. 18.
In this variation of Mr. Travers's experiment, the injury being
committed by laceration with the nail, instead of pricking to the
bone with a strong needle, there was no starting of the other hand,
nor of the same hand; had such a thing happened, it would have
Digitized by Goog[e
33
been gladly proclaimed by the tender experimenter, if Mr. Liston was
the perpetrator, (and for that we have only Mr Wakley's assertion,) for
I read the case, with Dr. Duncan's remarks, aloud, from my Human
Phy.Wlogy, p. 47, and he was sitting on an adjoining bench, but opened
not his mouth. Nay, Mr. Liston himself describes a case in the Edin-
burgh Medical and Surgical Journal for Aprill829, of a gentleman, a '
patient of his own, who lost his sense of touch over nearly the whole
surface of the body, so that he could feel with nothing but his
mouth, though he walked and talked, and heard, and saw, and en-
joyed life; and also through the deep-seated muscles, tendons, and
ligaments, so that, when Mr. Liston cut away one of the bones of his
foot, he "felt no pain whatever," and he added, "nor would I now,
I am convinced, were you to diuect the whole foot." Not only did
the limb operated upon not move, but the other evidently was un-
moved likewise. Mr. Liston ought to have mentioned this fact in
the society, and now ought to tell it to Mr. Wakley. If such
things take place without mesmerism, experience only can settle
whether they may take place through mesmerism. They may.
But in the insensibility of a perfect fit of epilepsy, when at its
highest intensity, we have the same insusceptibility of pain,-the
patient may be scratched, pricked, pinched, cut, even in his hands.
something sharp be thrust under his nail, and yet no sign of feeling
will appear,-the limb will not move; nor will the opposite limb,
even to please Dr. Marshall Hall: and yet in perhaps five minutes,
the state shall have passed,-the patient be susceptible of all impres-
sions and perfectly himself again.
Dr. Marshall Hall continued to display his want of information.
"What," he argued, "said the patient? Why that he heard the
sawing of the thigh bone which is unendowed with sensibility; but
he was insensible to the contusion of the sciatic nerve whose sen-
sibility is extreme. What physiologist could believe such an
absurdity?" Now I should think that an impostor would have said
nothing about having heard any souud,-would have said nothing
about having "once felt as if he heard a kind of crunching," which
words were what he really did say, for he uttered nothing about
either bone or sawing. He would have declared he had positively
heard,-known, nothing. Neither w.ould an impostor have shewn
he had any hearing by always waking on any attempt to converse
with him; but would have always pretended to be as deaf as a post.
Yet he always aw9ke by attempts to converse with him, whereas he
did not awake when pricked or violently pinched, even in his dis-
c
Digitized by Google
34
eased leg, which in his waking state "could not bear the lightest
covering to rest upon it." An impostor would not have always
shammed so very stupidly. Yet these points struck none of the
objectors: or at least were not alluded to. The objectors were too
dull, or too wily, or too much hurried by their passions, to re-
ftect soberly. As a lecturing physician, Dr. Marshall Hall should
have known that, in those extraordinary cases of somnambulism
which nobody disputes, and which have been seen in all ages and
countries, and are not very uncommon, and are independent of mes-
merism, though the person be asleep, his eyes perhaps shut, his
breathing heavy, and his head occasionally nodding, he will go
about and do many things and do them well,-work, write, compose,
may feel, may be awakened by cold air or water, and yet hear
nothing, not even the firing of a pistol; and that, on the other
hand, he may bear pinching and pricking without sensation, and yet
hear and converse with you, perhaps hear far more acutely than
when awake: in short, that, the sleep being partial,-affecting some
nenes and some cerebral organ or organs, and not others, and affect-
ing in various degrees those it does affect, there is an endless variety
of phenomena.
In common coma, of the deeper kind and fatal, the patient may
feel acutely, though otherwise completely insensible. I was sent for
a short time ago to a patient who was a medical man and in this
very condition. Unfortunately it was the afternoon and I was out, so
that I did not see him; but Dr. Barnes, who kindly supplied me
with the facts of the convicts, has furnished roe with the particulars.
The patient was thirty-two years of age, was accidentally knocked
down on the head with a bar of iron in Regent Street while return- .
ing from a surgeon who had passed an instrument up the urethra,
which operation was followed as he went home by a ftow of blood.
Ischuria ensued, and coma, which after twenty-four hours terminated
his existence. " The pulse ceased to be felt at the wrist twenty hours
before death ; at that time and continuously till he died, a very
copious perspiration bedewed the whole body-the hands and feet
were icy cold. About two hours before dissolution the temperature
of these parts rose considerably; the pupil was now slightly dilated
and the tunica conjunctiva became infiltrated with a dark ftuid,
giving a peculiar carbonaceous appearance to the white part of the
eyes: there was no urine in the bladder. The most remarkable
feature in this case was the extraordinary sensibility of the entire
surface of the body to very slight external impressions; the parts
Digitized by Google
35
most so were the lower extremities. Now, altlwugk tAe patient
tea& perfectly unconaciou1 of pa8Bing et1enta, Ae could not be rottaed
in the aligAte1t degree by apeaking loud or by bawling in the eara,
he tea& umzble to awallow the 8111alleat particle of food, ke had ater-
tor0tt8 hreatking ; yet, if the hand was placed over his thigh, (even
on the outside the bed-clothes,) and the part gently· squeezed, the
muaclea of the countenance would immediately contract and betray
inten~e agony, and a moat piteoua fi"'an would eaeape kia lipB at the
aame time. This condition continued to increase uiltil he died. The
sensibility was seemingly as great a few minutes before he died as it
was some hours before: so extraordinary was this morbid sensi-
bility, that to attempt to tum the individual in bed,-to elevate his
head on the pillow, or to touch the surface of the body on any part,
appeared to excite the greatest possible torture. I remained with
this individual twelve hours before his demise, and continued to
witness this phenomenon at least fifty times."
Mr. Carstairs of Sheffield informs me that, in several instances
of deep mesmeric coma induced by him, the person has heard the
slightest whisper, inaudible to the byatandera, and some of the
other senses, particularly that of smell, have also been rendered
more acute than in the natural state.
Dr. Hall should have known that mmneri8m ptv>ducea no pheno-
menon that doea Mt occur in neMmla qffection8 'Witlwut me8111eriam,
as I often stated in the theatre of University College Hospital, but
that it does produce all the most wonderful phenomena of all affec-
tions of every portion of the nervous system; and that the torpor
or somnambulism or sleep-waking, \tbich it produces, is that which
occurs in trances, as the deepest form of singular sleep, with very
moderate cerebral activity, at one extreme, and that of persons in
extatic delirium at the other, in which most of the faculties are
llery active, many perhaps far more active than when in the natural
state, and only some faculties torpid, and these perhaps but par-
tially torpid, so that, while the patient may he very talkative, clever,
lind facetious, he may be divested of his usual proper reserve and
even of all sense of propriety and really be in a new waking state.
I shall .in the next chapter detail cases of surgical operations in
which the patienta, i11. thia peculiar sleep felt notlaing, and cooiJeraerl
all the time 'With the operator. I purpose to enter more fully upon
the curious subject of sleep-waking when controverting Sir Benjamin
Brodie.
DR. GEORGE BuRRows _expressed his doubts of the reality of
c2
Digitized by Google
36
the case because of the man saying he fancied he heard something
in his sleep. He would not have found any difficulty had he made
himself acquainted with the subject of sleep-waking, whether spon-
taneous or mesmeric, as he and every other teacher should have
done long ago.
Another surgeon now rose,-SIR BENJAMIN BRODIE,-whom
I never saw in the society before except during his period of presi-
dency, and who, soon after he had spoken what he came to say,
seemed to consider that be had settled the matter, and left before
the close of the meeting and before I could reply to him. Like all
the opponents of the evening he entirely paued ooer the comfortable
nights, the return of the appetite, and the improved appearance of
the poor man by mesmerism. He used the argument of the other
surgeons, Messrs. Coulson, Blake, and Alcock. My answer to it I
need not repeat. But he did more: he supplied a defect of which I
have complained,-the want of reference to a case in which, as in
this, a nerve was probed; for he described a case brought up in that
respect to an equality with the present, and he at the same time
most singularly supplied a strong argument against himself and his
coadjutors. He related an instance of operation for hernia,-an
operation not to be compared for pain to the amputation of a thigh,
-in which his patient evinced no sign of feeling, though I have no
doubt a minute observer, not engaged in operating, would have
discovered some;* .the surgeon was therefore tempted to test him,
and touched the divided end of a small nerve which happened to be
exposed,-a nerve probably at the most but one-eighth of the size
of the great sciatic nerve touched so freely in the man whose leg
was amputated. Of course I expected to hear that, like the man
at Wellow, this patient still gave no signs of feeling. But he dj.d,-
he instantly gave signs of acute pain! This was not the hit'of a
sagacious opponent. Sir Benjamin Brodie deserves and has my
best thanks for making this case known, and uguing so well for the.
insensibility of the·poor man at Wellow.
His next argument was, that some people really do not seem
susceptible of pain;-cannot in fact be made, or scarcely be made,
to understand what pain is. Sir Thomas Hardy, he added, was
one of these. I hear it doubted whether Sir B. Brodie has sufficient
ground for this assertion. But t1iis is altogether unimportant, for
" It is said on very good anthority that this patient was Dr. Holland,
and that he declares he did feel pretty acntely, but concealed it as much as
possible by not crying out. Whether or not this is true is unimportant.
Dig•tized by Google
37
the poor man at Wellow WM susceptible of pain. He could bear
his pain in no other than a sitting posture; had slept before he was
mesmerised but two hours in seventy from his pain; would shed
tears from his pain; could not bear except in the mesmeric state the
lightest covering on his knee for his pain; and was awakened, even
from mesmeric coma when this was not deepened by the fingers
held on the eyes, by the slightest movement of the extremity. This
argument was therefore good for nothing. But it told, as well as the
preceding, for the insensibility of the man in his mesmeric state.
He further urged that patients worn down with suffering (so that
he now remembered that the poor man knew what pain was) some-
times became hysterical and more or less insensible. But this
patient was not hysterical; and suffered acutely to the last, even
while being moved for the operation. This argument therefore falls
with the rest.
He allowed after all that the man was in a peculiar state. Of
what he meant I have no idea, except that the man was in an hyste-
rical insensible state, which was not the fact. That he was in a
peculiar and insensible state when under the agency of mesmerism
is very true and for what we contend.
When he had seen Mr. Chenevix, fourteen years ago, mesmerise
a little girl into coma, and was asked by that gentleman, " Do you
think this girl really and truly slept?" he replied, "I do, and very
soundly too:" and when asked, "Do you think she went to sleep of
herself out of pleasure or desire, or by means of what yon saw me
do?" he replied, "Certainly by means of what you did." These
means he compared to rocking.* Now, if he allowed this, he might,
though stationary in his knowledge for fourteen years, allow that
the poor man at Wellow was asleep by Mr. Topham's means. His
explanation of the mesmeric sleep reminds me of the explanation
given by some people of the shocks of the electrical fish, the torpedo.
The facts were at first denied, and, when they could be denied no
longer, some would not allow there was any electricity in the matter.
but explained them by the animal giving a sudden blow with its
broad back, first drawn ftat and then s1,1ddenly restored to its usual
convexity. This explanation was so clear-" kine clarum eat," that
Marrher saystthat Reaumur, the.explainer, "arcanum depreAendit.''
And now we obtain electric sparks from electric fish, and the sceptics
exist no longer.
• Londo11 Medical a11d Phyaical Jollrnal. Sept. 1829. p. 214.
t Prcdecliorce1 in HermtJrtni Bf)tr'haallii InlliCllliorte•, tom. iii. P· 76.
Digitized by Google
38
He said that the case before the society was the companion of
one, equally an imposture, which occurred 149 years ago, and was
published by the Royal Society in the 24th vol. of their Philosophical
Transactions, in 1706. He informed the meeting that a man at
Tinsbury, near Bath, pretended to sleep for weeks and even months;
and once on waking could not be persuaded he had slept so long,
" till going into the Fields he found every body busy in getting in
their Harvest, and he remembered very well when he went to sleep
they were sowing of Barley and Oats, which he then saw ripe and
fit to be cut down." This, told with a smirk, as an impudent
trick, raised a roar of laughter in the room, and was without hesi-
tation received by the meeting on Sir Benjamin's authority as a case
of imposture; tlie members not appearing sufficiently learned in the
PliiloMYphical Tramaction8 to know the case which, however, I
related in my PhyBiology, and not as an imposture, many years
ago. He proceeded to state that in this pretended sleep the man
was bled, blistered, cupped and scarified, but all in vain: - the
impostor still slept, bore it all unmoved, and gave no sign of pain.
Nay, the man was so barefaced that, though bread and cheese and
beer placed by his bedside regularly disappeared, and evacuations
regularly appeared in the utensil, nobody ever saw him eat or
evacuate. He was therefore decidedly an impostor; and, as he was
an impostor, the patient at Wellow was an impostor, and all mes-
merism is false. A rogue shams an epileptic fit in the streets,
therefore all epileptic people are impostors, and there is no such
disease as epilepsy. Soldiers and sailors sham rheumatic pains and
palsied limbs, therefore there are no such diseases as palsy or rheu-
matism.
But Sir Benjamin Brodie gave an entirely false colouring to the
case. The man was indeed, for periods, not seen eating, probably
because he ate all his food at once, possibly when he employed the
utensil, and because he might, being no doubt aware'of the presence
of others, like most sleep-wakers, though ignorant on awaking of
every thing that had passed, have an antipathy to eat as well as to
evacuate when others were present or stirring about the house; just
as often occurs in insanity, for in the sleep-waking state the activity
of brain that does occur is generally attended with some peculiarity
of the feelings: and, indeed, if the acts of eating and employing the
utensil were continuous with him, there would be a sufficient reason
for his selecting periods for eating when he was undisturbed. But,
nevertheless, he wa& &ometime& found taking lti& victuau and relieving
oi9,tized by Coogle
39
ltimHlf in !til sleep. The narration runs thus:-" Sometimes they
have found him fast asleep with the Pot in his Hand in Bed,
and aometimes with his Mouth full of Meat." Again,-" In this
manner he lay till the 19th of Nov., when his Mother hearing him
make a noise ran immediately up to him, and found him Eating."
Again, he did not always eat and evacuate with regularity, as Sir
Benjamin Brodie represented:-" In this manner he lay for about
ten weeks, and then could eat nothing at all, for his Jaws seemed to
be set, and his teeth clenched 80 close, that with all the Art they
had with their Instruments they could not open his Mouth, to put
anything into it to support him. At last, observing a hele made in
his Teeth, by holding his Pipe in his Mouth, as most great Smokers
usually have, they, through a Quill, poured some Tent into his Throat
now and then, attd tAil waa all Ae took for rife weeks and four days,
and of tAat not afJ~e three pinta or two quarts, aome of whick waa
spilt too ; he made water 6vt once and net1er Aad a stool all tAat
time."
The narrator, Dr. Oliver, F.R.S., a physician of high standing,
an F.R.S. in days when the fellowship was not so common as at
present, did not pronounce the man an impostor as Sir Benjamin
Brodie so fearlessly does. "I have no room," he says, "to suspect
this to be any Cheat, because I never heard of any gain to the family
by it, thongh 80 near the BatA, and 80 many People went thither
out of Curiosity to see the Sleeper, who, when awake, was a support
to his old Mother by his Labour, but now a certain charge.to her.
Besides, tAere waa seldom any body in tAe Aouae to attend any profit
that might be made by it, he being left alone in the house and every
body at liberty to go up to his Bedside." Indeed, the old Mother
was so far from deserving the charge of collu80n with her son that,
being as ignorant of his disease as Sir B. Brodie, she at first believed
his sleep was only sulkiness or " sullen humour," and placed food
at' his bed-side lest he should be_
starved. How, indeed, could Dr.
Oliver for a moment have thought the man an impostor I For to
pass over the scarifyings and various external irritations, hollowing
his name in his ears repeatedly and as loudly as possible; pulling
him by his shoulders; pinching his nose; and stopping his nose and
mouth till Dr. Oliver feared he might choke the man; running "a
large Pin into his Arm to the very Bone," but all to no purpose, for
in all this time he gave (me) n&t the least signal of his being sen-
sible," Dr. Oliver held a pkial of aolution of ammonia under one of
Digitized by Google
40
the tnU.11'8 noatri/.a A CONSIDERABLE TIMS, 80 8IT01tfl that he himulf
"could not bear it under hia own noae A MOMENT witlout making hu
Eyea water; lmt he felt it not at all. Then," continues Dr. Oliver,
"I threw it, at 8t!f1eral timea, up that 1ame N01tril, it made his nose
run and gleet, and his Eyelids shiver and tremble a very little, and
tkia waa all the effect I found, though I poured up into <me Nostril
about kalf an ovnce Bottle of this fiery Spirit, which was as strong
almost as Fire itself. Finding no success with this neither, I cra•need
tkat Noatril with powder of White Helkbore," "but he 11e11er gm1e
any token that he felt what I had done, nor discovered any mamaer
of uneaaineu by moving or stirring any one part of his Body."
"Yet, the next day his Nose was inflamed and swelled very much,
and his Lips and the inside of his Right Nostril bliatered and acabby
with my spirit and hellebore." Nay, wishing to remove him to
another bouse, they carried him "down stairs, which were somewhat
narrow, and struck his Head against a Stone, and gave him a Bt!f1t!re
knock, which broke hia head, but he nt!f1er mooed any more at it than
a dead man would." This accident was an equally strong test with
the applications of ammonia and hellebore, for it was violent and
unexpected ; and they, altogether, were tests which Sir B. Brodie
never saw an impostor bear, and which he paued OfJer in ailence.
Educated as he was for surgery, and occupied as he all his life has
been with the mechanical matters of the profession, Sir Benj~in
Brodie must be pardoned for not appreciating and understanding
this case ; but, I do not pardon him for omitting some of its most
dicisive proofs of insensibility, nor for declaring that the man was
nt!f1er seen to eat and was therefore a cheat, nor for presuming
to understand a form of disease of which he knows nothing.
What deception did the man attempt when his food "very regularly"
disappeared, once daily or every two days, and evacuation~ appeared
" very regularly" in the utenlil ? Did the man intend his mother to
believe that the latter were supplied by any one but himself ? If he
had meditated something wonderful in this way, he would have
prevented all signs of such matters ; and that he could easily have
done, as he was generally left alone in the house, while his mother
worked out of doors. But, as these circumstances were not calcu-
lated to impose, so imposture was not suspected from them. The food
at his bed-side, in his first paroxysm of sleep, " was spent every
day, and, BUppoaed, by him ;" in~he second paroxysm, victuals
stood by him as before, which he ate of now and then, "but no-
Digitized by Google
41
body ever saw him eat or evacuate, though lte did hot!& very regularly
as he had occasion." In fact, all suspicion of imposition is pre-
posterous. We have a simple, artless, natural narration of a case of
sleep-waking, bearing upon itself the very stainp of truth to the
eyes of every 'UH!ll informed physician.
The changes which occurred at different times were highly char-
acteristic of these more rare affections. After his first paroxysm of
sleep he was dumb for a whole month. During the first fortnight of
his second paroxysm of sleep he would open his eyes, but afterwards
he did not ;-a likely thing that a man feigning sleep would ever lie
with his eyes open, or open them from time to time I At one period
·• he ceased to eat and evacuate: his jaws closed, and neither food put
at his bed-side disappeared, nor did an alvine evacuation appear in his
utensil for six weeks and four days, though once he made water. At
another period, when he was called on by his name «·he seemed to
hear them and be somewhat sensible, though he could not make them
any answer;"-was this likely in a man feigning absolute sleep? His
eyes were not now shut so close, and he had frequent great tremblings
of his eyelids:-a probable thing this, that he would have kept his eyes
constantly in this irksome state of movement when sleep would have
been better shammed by keeping them closed! The countryman
could never have devised all these little circumstances which pra.cti-
titioners, who have seen as many cases of this description as I now
have, recognise at once as striking peculiarities of such affections. It
is worthy of notice that the man was so inveterate a smoker as to have
"a hole made in his Teeth, by holding his Pipe in his Mouth," yet,
by sleeping thus, tint in 1694 for a month, then in 1696 for seventeen
weeks, and then in 1697 for six months with the exception of a few
minutes once, he deprived himself of what must have been an indis-
pensable pleasure.
On waking from his sleep of seventeen weeks, so far from wishing
it to be believed, he could not easily be brought to believe it himself
till he saw the oats and barley ripe which were sowing when he saw
t~e fields last.
I should say that a more beautifully genuine case of sleep-
waking in which coma predominated never occurred. When Sir
Benjamin Brodie sat down, Mr. Symes pointed out to him and the
meeting the true nature of the case,-that it was an instance of sleep-
waking, with double conaciousness, the man being in a sleep, generally
profound, but sometimes with sufficient activity of the sleeping brain
to enable him to do certain things-eat, drink, and evacuate, in all
Digitized by Google
,
42
these actions voluntarily administering to himself, but not remem-
bering one of them on awaking. In some instan~ of this peculiar
sleep, there is from time to time more activity than he shewed, so
that persons walk, talk, write and work, nay, they may do some
things better than when awake, though the sleep continue and they
be insensible to mechanical injury, and snore; and in moat instances,
as in the present case, nothing is afterwards remembered, and the
period passed in this sleep-waking state is as a separate existence.
Sometimes the coma is profound and little or no activity of brain is
discernible; sometimes there is no coma but great activity ofthe mind,
as a separate period of existence, the character or ways of the person
being more or less different from those habitual, and entirely forgotten
when the brain passes again into its natural state: and between these
two extremes are endless gradations of activity in the various cerebral
faculties. Sleep-waking is the most appropriate title, as it compre-
hends all actions that may be performed; though the word somnam-
bulism is often loosely employed, which strictly applies to those cases
in which the patient walks. When the coma is profound the second
term waiting is hardly appropriate ; and when there is no coma the
first term 1leep is hardly appropriate, and extatic delirium should
rather be the designation. But, as a generic denomination, the
expression sleep-waking isvery convenient and characteristic. Extatic
delirium was the wild, and, to a philosophic observer, deeply inter-
esting, state in which the Okeys were usually seen when not in a
profound coma or in their natural condition.
This class of affections is most wonderful and absolutely rivet the
attention of a thoughtful man; and their varieties are great and
beautiful, though beautifully similar to each other. But too often
medical men are lamentably ignorant of them, and, when they have
an interesting case of this kind, regard it only as a s~range piece
of business, and are at a loss what to do, and so torment and
physic the patient without mercy, and think no more about it;
or perhaps, to save meditation, declare it was all imposition.
The records of medicine supply a sufficient number: and, now
that by mesmerism we know how to produce them artificially, no
medical man is pardonable who does not make himself well ac-
quainted with them. Ignorance of these wonderful spontaneous
cases has caused much false and cruel accusation. I have known
young children treated as liars, as naughty, as odd children, and
youth and grown up persons vilified as impostors, by their families
and instructors, and chiefly by medical attendants, because they fell
Digitized by Google
43
occasionally into a state of sleep-waking, of the modification termed
extatic delirium, during which, though not strong enough to strike
every one as delirium, their conduct differed from what was habitual
and proper; or because, after an unsuspected paroxysm, one in which
no extravagance had been committed, they denied all knowledge of
what they were told they had said or done. An instance occurred
of a gentleman so seized while in a box at the Theatre, and losing all
knowledge of his situation and preparing to perform a private act,
nothing of which be remembered when taken before a magistrate. A
striking case of this kind bas lately been seen by me in the Middlesex
Hospital. Dr. Wilson, under whose care the patient was and who
to his honour knows and boldly declares the truth of mesmerism,
was from this knowledge able to recognise the case : but some unin-
formed and spiteful person about the Hospital wrote to the lady who
kindly interests herself in the poor boy that his only complaint was
temper, anQ. a medical whisper has reached me that the case is an
imposition. The boy, who, in his natural state, is very respectful
and particular in his behaviour, is very regardless of both persons
and places in his delirium, sings with great feeling, and recites with
capital power of imitation, and eats most voraciously, and his writing
is a great curiosity,-quite different from his habitual writing, and
blotted all over. I unhesitatingly declare the case to be as real as
the boy's existence, and should never have been tired of studying it.
The case was drawn up and sent to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical
Society by Dr. Wilson, in November, under the title of a case of
double conaciousness, and a notice affixed in the library that it would
be read. But, when the members, having declared that the history
of the amputation, being mesmeric, had disgraced them, learned that
this case was analogous to mesmeric cases, they actually took down
the notice, gave half a hint to Dr. Wilson that he might withdraw .
the paper, a report went about that the boy shammed, and the paper
was not read till March. I am told thatMr. Bransby Cooper would not
believe the occurrence of such cases, and therefore said that the boy
should have bad a good thrashing, which would soon have cured him.
Such a state of things is really lamentable. Let Mr. Bransby Cooper
study the diseases ofthe nervous system before he condemns his fellow
creatures thus. Let him read a similar case of a girl sixteen years
old, in the Edinburg/, PkiW&opkical TranaactitmB for 1822, and
detailed in my Pkyaiology, p. 365, who, beeause she recollected in
her natural state nothing that occurred in the diseased, was treated
in the most depraved manner; and one still more remarkable that
Digitized by Google
44
occurred in a little girl in America, and is printed by Dr. Bel-
den, under the title of An account of Jane Rider tAe Springfield
SomnamlJ'Uliat, a copy of which I deposited in the Library of the
Society. His ilogging of the poor afflicted boy would be the coun-
terpart of the tearing the hand of the poor girl in the Edinburgh
Infirmary with the other surgeon's nails. Thrash the poor boy! The
conduct and manners of the two Okeys in their preternatural state
were perfectly different from all that was observed in them when not
in this state. They were totally ignorant of all persons, things,
names, and circumstances, with which they had become acquainted
previously: they knew neither their father nor mother, nor the
meaning of the words father and mother: forgetting the meaning of
almost every term, they learnt all the improper language so constantly
used in the wards of hospitals, and irreverently swore and called bad
names, and misapplied words, and were readily taught to misapply
them, without being aware of impropriety,-and the ignorant portion
ofthe medical periodical press cruelly made fun of this : they had to
learn every thing afresh: they would have enormous muscular power:
they mimicked exquisitely, and had a strong propensity to mimickry
and humour, so·that they were absurdly thought by those ignorant
of particular cerebral faculties being often highly augmented in such
cases, whether spontaneously or mesmerically induced, by Mr. Wak-
leyfor example, to have been trained and practised imposters, whereas
not a single mesmeric phenomenon ever witnesssed by any person in
them was unreal. The cases of both sisters were genuine throughout,
similar but very differently modified, and it was ignorance only which
led any one to doubt them, and it was heartless cruelty .to slander
two perfectly virtuous and afflicted female children, who had been
carefully brought up and ·had lived only with their parents and
afterwards in a respectable family till they were seized with Epi-
lepsy. Not merely the Editor of the Lancet knew no better, but
the Editors of other Medical Journals; and the display of disreputa-
ble unacquaintance with this kind of case, and the composition of
vulgar tirades by so many professional men pretending to medical
knowledge, was precisely the conduct which we witness in the streets
when a deranged or imbecile person is pursued and hooted by boys
and rabble, as though he were master of his own condition and
conduct, and not the subject of an affliction profoundly interesting
to the philosopher and to the man who can feel for others. Every
thing stated or ever printed to their disadvantage was an abaolute
falsehood; I repeat these words emphatically, an ab8olute fahe-
Digitized byGoogle
45
lwod. They are both cured of the violent fits for which they had
been long in the hospital, and the reality of which no one had
doubted, and for which I at length mesmerised them. One is already
respectably married to a young man in her own station of life, and a
mother; the other lives with her parents and supports herself by
doing needlework for a neighbouring establishment.
Like the boy in the Middlesex Hospital, the sleepo-waker at
Tinsbury, from whose case I have digressed, was at first supposed,
and that by his mother, to be only in " a snllen humonr:" though
at last she saw the truth and for some time would sufi'er no one to
come near him for fear of more experiments upon her son,-a likely
thing if the case had been shammed for profit! But the sagacious
physician saw it was no imposture. The Royal Society were equally
rational, and the president, Sir Isaac Newton, October 27, 1721,
put his imprimatur to the volume of the Abridgement of tile PAilo-
IIO[JTtical TrtrMactimu, containing the narrative at full kngtk, by Sir
Hans Sloane, ·which would not have been the case had there been
any suspicion of imposition. Indeed, I never heard before of the
case being suspected by any one. I have given a pretty full account
of the wonders of sleep-waking in my Human Play.wlogy. Begin-
Ding with natural sleep, I pass to dreams, and then to that higher
activity of the sleeping brain, termed Somnambulism or Sleep-
walking, or more correctly Sleep-waking, from p. 598 to 660 inclu-
sively; and I likewise devote 66 pages to Mesmerism, and print the
leading features of the cases of the Okeys.
I will now extract the whole narrative of the case near Bath:-
"A Relation of an eztraordinary Sleepy Peraon, at Tinsbury
1U!ar Bath. By Dr. William Oliver, F.R.S., May the 13th, anno ·
1694.
One Samuel Ckilton, of Timbury near Batk, a Labourer, about
25 years of age, of a robust habit of body, not fat, but fleshy,
and a dark brown hair, happened, without any visible cause or
evident sign, to fall into a very profound Sleep, out of which no
art used by those that were near him could rouse him, till after a
month's time; then rose of himself, put on his clothes, and went
about his business of Husbandry as usual; slept, could eat and drink
as before, but spake not one word till about a month after. All the
time he slept Victuals stood by him; his Mother fearing he would
be starved in that sullen humour, as she thought it, put bread and
cheese and small beer before him, which was spent everr day, and
supposed by him, though no one ever saw him eat or drink all that
time. ·
Digitized by Google
46
From this time he remained free of any drowaine1111 or sleepiness
till about the 9th of April, 1696, and then fell into his Sleeping Fit
again just as be did before. After some days, they were prevailed
with to try what effect medicines might have on him, and accord-
ingly one Mr. Gibs, a very able Apothecary of Bath went to him,
bled, blistered, cupped, and scarified him, and used all the external
irritating medicines he could think on, but all to no purpose,-no-
thing of all these making any manner of impression on him; and
after the first fortnight be was never observed to open his eyes. Vic-
tuals stood by him as beforeJ which he eat of now and then, but
nobody ever saw him eat or evacuate, though he did both very regu-
larly as he had occasion; and sometimes they have found him fast
asleep with the pot in his band in bed, and sometimes with his
mouth full of meat. In this manner he lay for about ten weeks,
and then could eat nothing at all, for his jaws seemed to be set, and
his teeth clenched so close, that with all the art they bad with their
instruments they could not open his mouth to put any thing in to it
to support him. At last, observing a hole made in his teeth, by
holding his pipe in his Mouth, as most great Smoakers usually have,
they through a quill poured some Tent into his Throat now and then.
And this was all he took for six weeks and four days, and of that
not above three pints or two quarts, some of which was spilt too;
he had made water but once, and never had a .stool all that time.
Auf!!Ut the 7th, which is seventeen weeks from the 9th of April
(when he began to sleep), he awaked, put on his Clothes, and
walked about the Room, not knowing he had slept above a night;
nor could he be persuaded he had lain so long, till going out into
the fields he found everybody busy in getting in their Harvest, and
he remembered very well when he fell asleep they were sowing of Bar-
ley and Oats, which be then saw ripe and fit to be eut down. ·
There was one thing observable, that though his Flesh was some-
what wasted with so Iong lying in Bed, and fasting for above six
weeks, yet a worthy Gentleman his Neighbour assured me, when he
saw him, which was the first day of his coming abroad, he looked
• brisker than ever he saw him in his life before; and asking him whe-
ther the Bed had not made him sore, he assured him and every
body, that he neither found that, nor· any other inconveniency at
all; and that he bad not the least remembrance of any thing that
passed or was done to him all that while. So he fell again to his
husbandry as he used to do, and remained well from that time till
AUflUIIt the 17th, .Anno 1697, when in the morning he complained
of a shivering and coldness in his Back, vomited once or twice, and
that same day fell into his Sleeping fit again.
Being then at Bath, and hearing of it, I took Horse on the
23rd, to inform myself of a matter-of-fact I thought so strange.
When I came to the House, I was by the Neighbours (for there was
nobody at home at that time besides the sick man) brought to his
Bed-side, when I found him asleep, as I bad been told before, with
a Cup of Beer and a piece of Bread and Cheese upon a Stool by his
oi9,tized by Coogle
47
Bed within his reach. I took him by the Hand, felt his Pulse,
which was at that time very rt>gular; I put my Hand on his Breast,
and found his Heart beat very regular too, and his breathing was
easie and free; and all the fault I found was, that I thought his
Pulse beat a little too strong. He was in a breathing Sweat, and
had an agreeable warmth all over his Body. I then put my Mouth
to his Ear, and as loud as I could called him by his name several
times, pulled him by the Shoulders, pinched his Nose, stopped his
Mouth and Nose together, as long as I durst for fear of Choaking
him, but all to no purpose, for in all this time he gave me not the
least signal of being sensible. I lifted up his Eye-lids, and found
his Eye-balls drawn up under his Eye-brows, and fixt without any
motion at all. Being baftled with all these tryals, I was resolved to see
what effects Spirit of Sal A.N1101&iac would have, which I had
brought with me, to discover the Cheat, if it had been one; so I
held my Viol under one Nostril a considerable time, which being
drawn from Quick-lime, was a very piercing Spirit, and so strong,
I could not bear it under my own Nose a moment without making
my Eyes water; but he felt it not at all. Then, I threw it at several
times up that same Nostril, it made his Nose run and gleet, and his
Eye-lids shiver and tremble a very little, and this was all the effect
I found, though I poured up into one Nostril about a half-ounce
Bottle of this fiery Spirit, which was as strong almost as Fire itself.
Finding no success with this neither, I crammed that Nostril with
Powder of WAite Hellebore, which I bad by me, in order to make
my farther tryals; and I can hardly think any Impostor could ever
be insensible of what I did. I tarried some time afterwards in the
Room to see what effects all together might have upon him; but he
never gave any token that he felt what I had done, nor discovered
any manner of uneasiness, by moving or etirring any one part of
his Body that I could observe. Having made these my Experiments
I left him, being pretty well satisfied he was really asleep, and no
sullen counterfeit. as some people tho~ht him.
Upon my return to Batk, and relating what I had observed, and
what proofs this Fellow had given me of his Sleeping, a great man.Y
Gentlemen went out to see him, as I had done, to satisfy thetr
Curiosity, in a Raritv of that Nature, who found him in the same
condition I had left him in the day before, only his Nose was in-
flamed and swelled very much, and his Lips and the inside of his
Right Nostril blistered and scabby with my Spirit and Hellebore,
which I had plentifully dosed him with the day before. His Mother
upon this for some time after would suffer nobody to come near him,
for fear of more Experiments upon her Son. About ten days after I
had been with him, Mr. Woolmer, an experienced Apothecary at
Batk, called at the House, being near Tint~lrury, went up into the
Room, finding his Pulse pretty high, as I had done, takes out his
Launcet, lets him Blood about fourteen ounces in the Arm, tyes his
Arm up again, nobody being in the House, and leaves him as he
found him; and he assured me he never made the least motion in
Digitized by Google
48
the world when he prickt him, nor all the while his Arm was
bleeding.
Several other Experiments were made by those that went to see
him every.day from the Bath, but all to no purpose, as they told
me on their return; I saw him myself again the latter end of Sep-
tember, alld found him just in the same posture, lying in his Bed,
but removed from the House where he was before about a furlong or
more; and they told me, when they removed him, by accident,
carrying him down Stairs which were somewhat narrow they struck
his Head against a Stooe, and gave him a severe Knock, which
broke his Head, but he never moved any more at it than a dead
man would. I found now his Pulse was not quite so strong, nor
had he any Sweats as when I saw him before. I trved him again
the second time, by stopping his Nose and Mouth, but to no pur-
pose; and a Gentleman then with me ran a large Pin into his Arm to
the very.Bone, but he gave us no manner of tokens of his being
sensible of any thing we did to him. In all this time they assured
me nobody had seen him either eat or drink, though they endea-
voured it all they could, but it always stood by him; and they
observed sometimes once a day, sometimes once in two days, all was
gone. 'Tis farther observable, he never fouled his Bed, but did his
necessary occasions always in the Pot.
In this manner he lay till the 19th of NotJemher, when IUs Mo-
ther hearing him make a noise, ran immediately up to him, and found
him Eating; she ask'd him how he did? He said, Very well,
thank God. She ask'd him again,· Which he liked best, Bread and
Butter, or Bread and Cheese ? He answered, Bread and Cheese.
Upon this the poor Woman overjoyed left him to acquaint his Bro-
ther with it, and they came strait up into the Chamber to discourse
him, but found him as fast asleep again as ever, and all the Art they
had could not wake him. From this time to the end of January or
the beginning of February (for I could not learn from any body the
very day) he slept not so 'profoundly as before, for when they call~d
him by his name, he seemed to hear them and be somewhat sensible,
though he could not make them any answer. His Eyes were not
now shut so close, and he' had frequently great tremblings of his
Eye-lids, upon which they expected every day when he would wake,
which happened not till about the time just now mention'd, and
then he wak'd perfectly well, not remembering anything that hap-
pened all this while. 'Twas observed he was very little altered in
his Flesh; only complained the Cold pincht him more than usually,
and so presently fell to Husbandry as at other times.
I have no reason to suspect this to be any Cheat, because I never
heard of any gain to the Family by it, though so near the Bath,
and so many People went thither out of Curiosity to see the Sleeper,
who when awake was a support to his old Mother by his Labour, but
now a certain charge to her. Besides, there was seldom any body
in the House to attend any profit might be made by it; he being
left alone in the House, and every body at liberty to go up to his
Bed-side."
o;9,tized by Google
49
The case at Wellow was, I allow with Sir Benjamin Brodie, a
companion to this case; not however a companion in imposture, but
in the condition of the nervous system. I will now present an-
other companion, seen by myself: since the occurrence of any similar
morbid phenomena,-just as of the phe~omena of mesmerism,-at
different periods, in different places, in persons of different ranks,
and in persons who could never have heard of each other, is alone
a very strong confirmation of the reality of those morbid phenomena.
-a reality, however, which ordinary sagacity, unclouded by prejudice
and temper, cannot fail of discovering.
On the 9th of August, 1840, ,I was requested by Dr. Amott,
who, unlike men of far inferior intellect and attainment, has wit-
nessed my mesmeric phenomena fifty times and is as' satisfied as
myself of the truth of mesmerism, to visit, with him, a Spanish lady
of consideration, about 40, years of age, who had married at 14,
miscarried every three months for two years, and then had a child,
and afterwards a second. Soon after the birth of the second and up
to the time I saw her,-a period of above twenty years, she was
subject to fits of sleep, which often lasted three weeks, during the
whole of which she would swallow nothing but a little water. The
fits of sleep would come on suddenly, and she was once seized at the
opera. They would cease as suddenly, so that she often on waking
went to the opera. In them she was insensible to light and all noi.<Je
hut tke voice ofIter infant. Dr. Gregory the second, of Edinburgh,
habitually mentioned in his lectures, when I was his pupil, the
case of a cataleptic lady whom he attended, and whose disease had
been induced by misfortunes very similar to the history of Isabella
in the Fatal Marriage; and in her paroxysms of insensibility she ap-
peared perfectly blind, except when her baby was brought near her,
and then sl1e gave slight signs of recognising it. Had the peculiar
conditions of these ladies been induced artificially by mesmerism,
the doctors would have pronounced them at once most shameless
impostors, feigning insensibility, but not able to carry it on where
maternal feelings were too strong for them. The same phenomenon
is often witnessed in mesmerism. I have had several cases, in
persons of both sexes, and of high and humble rank, of perfect deaf-
ness in the mesmeric state, except to the voice of the mesmeriser or
a noise made by him.
Like the boy stigmatised by Sir Benjamin Brodie as an impostor,
the Spanish lady, in her fits of sleep, would relieve her bowels, and
she rose out of bed for this purpose, and even performed the usual
subsequent act: though in one paroxysm the call of nature was
unheeded by her, and an immense collection of hardened matters
took place.
She was insensible to mechanical injury,-pinching, pricking, &c.,
hut not to cold; and this again is a common fact in mesmerism. I
D
Digitized by Google
50
have ~ients at this moment who give no sign of feeling, howe;er
you ptnch them, but withdraw the hand instantly that a cold body
touches or even is brought near to it. The lady was, on the other
hand, fond of cold, for, if ice were given her, she would sit up in
bed, smell at it, and appear to like it.
When I visited her, she was in an attack. I found her eyes
firmly closed and her upper extremities rigid, not yielding to an
attempt to move them, and her hands placed up against her face.
I blew in her face, and her eyelids corrugated the first time, but did
not upon repetition. I understand that at II p. m. the rigidity
regularly ceased and she sunk completely relaxed into a deep sleep.
How analogous, how identical, will not every one, familiar with
the state artificially induced by mesmerism, recognise these pheno-
mena to be with those of mesmeric patientsI
The attacks had become less frequent of late and shorter, con-
tinuing a week only; but the present had lasted ten days, and Dr.
Arnott informed me that when he called the next day she was still
asleep. Headache preceded the first attack, and often continued
and tormented her. The present attack was ascribed to improper
food. The affiicted lady was tired of her disease, and wished for
death. I recommended mesmerism as an almost -certain cure, if
properly and perseveringly employed; but did not visit her again
as she was about to leave England immediately. It was lucky for
her character that she was not a patient in the University College,
or, as it was formerly called, North London, Hospital; that neither
Mr. Wakley, nor the Edinburgh surgical experimenter of whom
he writes, was allowed to see her; and that her case was not described
to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London.
Sir Benjamin Brodie, after agreeing with Dr. Marshall Hall that
according to the laws of physiology the man's sound leg ought to
have moved during the operation on the other, concluded by declaring
himself perfectly satisfied with the old report of the French Royal
Commission in 1784, and the more recent determination ofthe French
Academy against the truth of mesmerism. The selfish, insincere,
and ambitious Bishop Watson,-the writer of The .Apology for the
Bible, used to profess himself, in his days of wealth and importance,
perfectly satisfied with Chemistry as it was when he was nobody
and published his Chemical Essays:-" for his part he never
troubled himself with the new fangled discoveries and doctrines of
Sir Humphrey Davy."* I was once summoned to an old man
near his death with the influenza, who had been forty years
check -taker at Covent Garden or Drury Lane Theatre, and,
though at his post every night, had been so occupied in the money
• Tail's /llaga:ine,
Digitized by Google
51
department ·that he ac~ually had never once in his life seen a play,
but had been for forty years contented with sitting at the receipt of
custom and never felt any desire to step three yards farther into the
house and learn what a play was like. .I have heard that Sir Ben-
jamin Brodie, when I demonstrated mesmerism at University College
Hospital, used to say that he disliked turning his horses heads
towards Russell Square to see a patient lest people should think he
was going to that scene of humbug, University College Hospital.
From his total want of curiosity while I have demonstrated mesmer-
ism at my own house for the last four years to any respectable person
who requested me, and from this declaration at the Society, I can
believe the anecdote. Sir Benjamin Brodie is to be pitied: but he is
also to .be condemned. He ought to know that the French investi-
gation was most superficial and incomplete, conducted in the most
random way; that the Commission allowed that the effects were not
imposture, and only ascribed them to imagination, imitation, and
touch; that the results were varied, and the report says~" No-
thing can be more astonishing than the convulsions;" "he who
has not beheld them can hav~ no idea of them; and even, in be-
holding them, one is equally surprised at the profound repoae in
which some of the patients are placed, and at the agitation which
animates others. It is impossible not to recognise in these effec~
whick are corutant, a great power which agitates the patients,
which ever masters them, and .of which the person wko magne-
tiaes them seetM to he the dep08itory ;''~that one of the French
Commissioners, truly virtuous, highly distinguished in Science, and
well accustomed to investigate nature,-the celebrated Jussieu,
who had pursued the investigation with the greatest attention,
firmly refused to sign the report of the rest, though threatened
by the minister, Baron Breteuil, and made one separately, favour-
able to mesmerism, and setting forth the solid reasons of his con-
victions, after having made separate experiments; that, in 1825, on
a suggestion that the Royal French Academy of ).fedicine should
investigate the subject anew, a powerful report in favour of the inves-
tigation was made by the Commissioners, Drs. Adelon, Pariset, Marc,
Burdin, senior, and Husson; that nearly one-half ofits members con-
fessed that they had seen, and that they believed, mesmeric pheno-
mena most marvellous and important: that, after the investigation,
a powerful, and in every respect admirable, report in favour of the
truth of Mesmerism was made in 1831, by the Commissioners, Drs.
Bourdois De La Motte, Fouquier, Gueneau de Mussy, Guersent,
D2
.r
Digitized by Google
52
ltard, J. J. Le Raux, Marc, Thillaye, and Husson, and received by
the Academy with the liveliest interest; that some of the adversaries
of mesmerism in vain attempted to disturb the religious silence of the
assembly by murmurs of disapprobation, but that the immense major-
ity instantly repressed their attempt, and testified by loud applause to
the honourable reporter, M. Husson, how highly they appreciated
his zeal, talents, and courage;* that great discoveries, great pro-
gress, have been made in the subject since the old report,-that the
Science has been enriched since that time as much as Chemistry
since the days of the Alchymists; that many men, his equals in
education, information, ability, strength of mind, disinterestedness,
and industry, have not contented themselves with an antiquated re-
port, and a modem superficial and unfair report of careless and pre-
judiced men, but boldly a8ked nature to report whether mesmerism
is true, and have received from her one plain, uniform and often re-
peated answer,-Yes.
Sir Astley Cooper, who, though really distinguished in mechanical
surgery, was Qtherwise but scantily informed, and was endowed with a
moderate degree of the higher intellectual faculties, always refused
to witness mesmerism, "because he had a character to lose." A
low estimate must he have formed of his own character if it could
have been lost thus! How sad an absence of moral courage and
dignity! And so poor Sir Astley died as Sir Benjamin Brodie at
present intends to die, without a sight of the mesmeric phenomena!
-just as many astronomers in Newton's time died in perfect igno-
rance of Newton's discoveries, and at his death, forty years after the
publication of his Principia, he had not, as Voltaire remarks, twenty
followers out of England: and just as the Professor of Philosophy at
Padua refused to walk into Galileo's house and look through his
telescope to see whether the satellites of Jupiter really existed, , and
the Professor at Pisa made speeches to shew that the facts could not
be facts. In Kepler's correspondence (Kepleri Epistolre) is a letter from
Galileo, in which he writes:-"Oh my dear Kepler, how I wish that
we could have one hearty laugh together. Here, nt Padua, is the prin-
cipal professor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly and urgently
requested to look at the moon and planets through my glass, which
he pertinaciously refuses to do,-why are you not here? What ttltouta
• Rapports el Discusrions de l'Acudemie Royale de Medecine, sur le lllag-
tuiti&me Animal. Par M. P. Foissac, M.D. Paris, 1833, p. ~08-an historical
work which all interested in the subject should possess.
oi9,tized by Google
63
of·laughter we 11undd lw.t7e at thu glorimu foUy ! and to hear the
philo8opher of Pisa labouring before the Grand Duke with logical
ar!J'Ilmenu, as if with magical incantations to draw the new planets
out of the sky."
When the assertion that the blood circulated first attracted public
attention, not only were those who believed the fact vilified as vis-n-
ary, credulous, and ignorant, by the medical profession, and therefore
by the mass of the public who thought the doctors most be proper
judges of the matter, giving them credit for more knowledge, sense,
and honesty than they possessed; and lampooned both here and on
the Continent, and nicknamed circulator•; Harvey himself losing his
practice, while his loquacious and shallow opponents, now forgot-
ten, flourished; no doctor beyond the age of forty, at the time, ever
believing the circulation to the day of his death: but books were
writt~n to prove by reasoning that the facts of the circulation could
not be facts. Among the rest was one entitled:-Eaao mohu8an-
flllinu NON CJRCULARIS. Candidate, Simon Boullot:-a thesis read
in the University of Paris before the President, Hugo Chasles,
1482. Another, ERGO sanguinis motus circularis IMPOSSIBJLJS,
1472. Candidate, Francis Bazin; President, Philip Hardouin de
St. Jaques.* But if Galileo and Harvey, the philosophers of facts~
were pronounced visionary and credulous, so was Bacon, who urged
men to avoid fancying and to busy themselves with observation,
experiment, and induction. When Elizabeth thought of making him
her attorney-general, Cecil represented him to her "as a man of
mere 'Peculation, as one wholly given up to philosophical enquiries,
new indeed and amuring, but fanciful and alnurd, and therefore ,
more likely to distract her affairs than to serve her with proper
judgement," in short, as an inferior prac~tioner, though at length
Lord Chancellor.t
Sir Benjamin Brodie need not fear his company if he cease to
scorn mesmerism, for he will find himself with Cuvier and La Place.
Covier thus writes:t-"The efi'ects produced uponpersous who,
before the operation (of mesmerising) was begun, were in a state of
• In 1723, a thesis was printed against inoculation :-EaGo variolas
inoculare IIBFAS; and in 1691, a thesis declaring the enormous wigs of that
day to be heaJthier than our own .hair: EaGo coma adscititia nativ!
SALOBRioa. 1691, Candidate, H. Petr. Mattot; President, Pet. Paul Guyard.
Authors, and presidents, and doctrines, have all vanished into thin air.
t See the Life, prefixed to his works.
t A11atomie Comporle. Tom. ii. p. 117.
Digitized by Google
in1e111ibility ; those which have taken place upoo other persons, after
the operation itself had reduced them to that state; and, also, the
effects produced upon brutes; no lmtgl!1' pt!1'mit it to he doubted that
the proximity of two animated bodies, in a certain position, and with
the help of certain motions, do produce a real effect, wholly inde-
pmdtxt of tAe imaginatio11 of either. It is also evident that these
effects are owing to a communication which takes place between the
nervous systems of the two parties."
La Place thus writes:*-"The extraordinary phenomena which
result from the extreme sensibility of the nervous system in some
persons have given birth to a variety of opinions, on the existence of
a new agent, denominated animal magnetism. It is natural to /SUppose
that the intluence of those causes is very weak, and that it can easily
be disturbed by accidental circumstances, but it would be unfair to'
conclude that it never exists, merely because, in many cases, it does
not manifest itself. We are so far from being acquainted with all the
agencies of nature, and with their different modes of action, that it
would be unphilosopbical to deny their existence, because in the
present state of our knowledge they are unexplainable to us."
M. Chenevix states that he bad more than one conversation with
La Place upon the subject, about 1816 and 1817, and that the
expression of that great philosopher constantly was: " tha.t the
testimony in favour of the truth of mesmerism, coming with such
uniformity from enlightened men of many nations, who had no in-
terest to deceive and possessed no possible means of collusion, was
such that, applying to it his own principles and formulas respect-
ing human evidence, he could not wit/Jwld Ai& £U~ent to w4at was
BO drongly aupported."t
Sir Benjamin Brodie_ joins the ranks of Mr. Wllkley, and id
genua omne of intellect, and information, and character, rather than
of La Place!
Although it would disgrace Sir Benjamin Brodie to listen to mes-
merists for a moment or to withhold his sneers, "it would not," I
quote :M. Chenevix, "disgrace the greatest man whom England
ever has produced to attempt an experiment or two upon a doctrine
which Hufeland, Jussieu, Cuvier, Ampere, and La Place believed.
Nay, would it not disgrace Aim more to condemn, witlwut knowing
any !king about it, what tkey knew and credited ? la aup1!1'cilioua
• Traiti Analalique du Calcul des Pt·o1Hibil4lies. p. 158.
t London Jlledical and Physical Jo11rnal. June 1829, p. 500.
Digitized by Google
55
i!Jnoraace tltt1 weapon toitla tuAicA Bacon would il:atJe npeU6d a new
brand ef latowkrlge, katoetJer utraordinary it 111ight iat1e appeared
to kim." "Surely what !JN&t men believe, ordifcary men may try."
Mr. BRANSBT CooPBa now began, by asking the advocates of
mesmerism to give him "the rationale of the facts." The point first
to be ascertained was:evidently whether the statements of mesmerism
were facts: and the author had bpened his paper with these words.
" I shall abstain entirely from any preliminary remarks upon the sup-
posed Clluse of the effects I have produced; I shall still call the state
'mesmerism/ because the name involves no principle; it regards
the phenomena only; and not the specific cause of them." "The
generality of men. when they bear of some novel phenomenon, in-
stead of testing the truth by experiment alone, endeavour to ascer-
tain tne cmue by their own powers of reasoning; and belief or dis-
belief is made to follow the result. The startling phenomena of
mesmerism have but too frequently illustrated this remark. To facu
I shall therefore confine myself; and to such only as I can personally
TOUch for!"
He then found a difficulty in admitting the facts, because the
man seemed to bear 'the •wing of the bone; and contended that if
the man could not feel be could not hear,-that "hearing and feel-
ing were the same." Therefore no deaf man can feel a pinch; nor
men with palsied legs hearI
I presume be meant that in ooma all the senses must be equally
doll. Ria companion Mr. LiSton, who saw the case of coma with
exquisite sensibility of the surfuce which I have described, could en-
lighten him on this point, were it not too philosophical a point for
Mr. Liston's notice. If Mr. Cooper were not a surgeon only, but
well acquainted with the more remarkable nen-ous diseases and with
the phenomena of mesmerism, be would know that a person may be
asleep and snore, and yet hear and talk; and that touch, taste, smell,
sight, hearing, may each be suspended or active, while the others
are, one, or more, or all, active or suspended. However, this igno-
rance was very excusable in him, after the speeches which others
had made.
He sat down calling upon the gentlemen present acquainted with
mesmerism not to let their opponents have it all their own way, and
to come forward with their facti in a manly manner. Now nothing
could be a greater treat than to see their opponents baTe their way,
and rush headlong l'iolently down the steep, like another set of
ollatioate beings in olden time who had more legs to stand upon. As
/
Digitized by Google
to coming forward with facts, there were· strong facts, and faet;
only, given; and given in as manly a manner as any thing could be
given to the Society; and more facts than the Society knew •hat
to do with: and yet he asked the supporters of mesmerism to come
forward with more facts than were related in the paper; and he had
hegun by asking for the rationale of the facts, as if he admitted the
facts and there were not facts enough.
This gentlemen is a teacher at Guy's Hospital.
Mr. LISTON now rose, and, leaning forward, wished to "know if
the interesting patient had sufficiently advanced in his education
since the operation to be able to read with the back of his neck or
with his belly." He said no more, and, if he had a friend in the
room, that friend must have wished he had not said so much. His
little speech fell flat and did not excite even a smile, except one of
-pity from myself.
However, Mr. SYMES assured him, as I could have done on my
own part, that he had witnessed vision when the eyes were indi.llputa-
bly bandaged, so that the patients in their ordinary state could not
have discerned the faintest glimmer of light.
Mr. Liston made no allusion to the case of the poor cataleptic
girl in the Edinburgh Infirmary, from whose hand, according to Mr.
Wakley, he tore a piece with his nails; nor of the gentleman from
whose insensible foot he cut away a bone, and whose whole foot he
might have dissected without causing the least sensation.
Mr. ARNOT!' found some difficulties in the case; but observed
that the statement was highly interesting, and the subject deserving
of attention, for he had seen operations perform~ without the know-
ledge of the patient when insensible through opium or great loss of
blood. There is therefore some reason to hope that Mr. Amott will
feel it his duty to ascertain by experience whether patients can be
rendered comatose through mesmerism and unconscious of surgical
operations.
DR. MAYO considered that the subject was of great importance,
aud should not be treated with ridicule, or at once rejected because
it was startling. He declared Sir Benjamin Brodie's suggestion that
the man was hysterical to be totally unsupported; and stated that
he suddenly ran a pin deeply into the elder Okey when her back was
turned, and that she manifested not the slightest sensibility.
Many who had witnessed the wonderful phenomena in the Okeys,
aud not ventured to believe there was not some undiscoverable collu-
sion, became firm converts to the truth by making a pass behind the
Digitized by Google
57
back of one of the sisters after the demonstration was over, on
meeting with her accidentally in the passages or on the stairs when
her back was tumed and it was absolutely impossible for her to see
or suspect auy thing.
Dr. Mayo pointed out the difficulty of supposing that all the
persons of different countries and ages who exhibited mesmeric
phenomena were impostors.
Capt. VALIANT related the case of his own nurse who had a very
severe operation successfully performed upon her in the mesmeric
state without any sensation. Dr. James Johnson sneered at the poor
woman's truth, and wished to know if she did not beg her mistress
to be present at the time. To this Captain Valiant immediately re-
plied in the affirmative. Dr. Johnson then sneeringly wished to know
what that was for. To which the Captain replied that it was surely
natural for her to desire a female to be present, aud that no one could
be more proper than her own mistress under whose protection she
was living. Dr. Johnson, as a father, should have been contented
with viewing the poor mau whose leg was amputated as au impostor,
without attempting to insinuate that this poor female also had acted
disreputably.
The authors of the paper, Mr. Topham and Mr. Ward, heard all
the speeches without a single observation; and it was my intention,
before I left home, to follow the same course of absolute silence, and
amuse myself by seeing to what length · the meeting would go.
Indeed I should not have attended the meeting at all, but that several
friends wished to be admitted as visitors. However,·I did rise, after
being repeatedly called for, and pointed out the stri.kiQg facts of the
narration which had been entirely unnoticed by any of the speakers:
I read from the Lancet the case of the Edinburgh surgeon, tearing
the hand of the poor girl in the infirmary with his nails, Mr. LUton
8itting on the bench ne:rt to me and laying nothing: and I advised
them not to reason or rely upon others, but to act as I had done,-
to go to nature and ascertain for themselves from her whether mes-
merism was true.
·As soon as I sat down thanks were voted, without a dissentient
voice, for the paper, and the society adjourned, disbelieving and
ignorant of one of the most common and elementary effects.of mes-
merism, and having afforded a fine illustration of the remark of
Mr. Chenevix, made fourteen years ago,-"The ignorance of the
medical world in this country is as great as the·precipitancy with
which the case is prejudged."
oi9,tized by Coogle
58
As 900ft &s the soeiety had adjouraed, Mr. Topham went up to
the president, and in my bearing formally withdrew the paper from
the society, aaying that he wisbed to withdraw it on the spat; and
he took his leave with the words,-" it must accordingly be consi-
det'ed as withdrawn!'
The authors ftdvertited it as a pa111phlet on the followiag day,
and published it on the next.
SECTION III.
RESOLUTION OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CRIRURGICAL SO-
CIETY NOT TO LEAVE A TRACE IN THEIR RECORDS THAT
THIS FACT BAD BEEN PRESENTED TO THEM.
"Qallleo, Newtoa. Sal9maa de Ca.., Volta. Fill.... Wlaoer, .Arkwript. Gall, aacl all
who have presented themselves with a troth in their band at the deor of tbil great bedlam,
called the world, have been received with •tones or bilsei."-Jobard. ·
ON the evening ol the aext meeting of the Society, December 13th,
before the chair was taken, Dr. Copland, the eminent compiler,
goodnaturedly told me that be was going to oppose the confirmation
of the minutes of the proceedings of the last meeting. I as good-
naturedly replied that I was Tery glad of it; and hoped he would not
stop there, but propose a strong vote of censure upon the authors,
the COUDcil, and all concerned in its presentation to the last meeting.
He immediately looked grave and astonished. But I laughed on,
and assured him I was in eamest,-and desired nothing more for
the sake of mesmerism than that the soeiety would distinguish itself
to the very utmost in its dire hostility. He evidently considered the
society an important body. But I hold no society or college higher
&han a common club, except so far as it acts rationally and with the
simple love of truth &nd of the happiness of man and other animals.
An M.D. standing by, named Evans, living at the weetem ex-
tremity of Hill Street, on the left, with two very large brass
plates, immediately that Dr. Copland had announced his intention
to me, volunteered to second the motion: but Dr. Copland looked
as if he was not ambitious of such distinguished support, and sea:rcely
aoticed him. He now said that he believed the patient an impostor.
for that he bad taken or seen taken off a leg from a man who gave
no sign ol pain; and be. had published the case. I asked, "and was
a nerve handled roughly with an instrument as in, the case of the
Digitized by Google
59
1ll$ll at WeUow." He turned perfectly white, and said "Yes, it was."
"Of oourse," I remarked, "you published this striking faot in your
~ratiQo of the ca.se ?" H No, I did not," ·he replied.
When the chair was taken, a seeretary read as minutes of the
preceding meeting merely that such a paper had been read; no
abstract being given according to the established custom of the
soo.iety. The authorities thus disdained to poasess the particulars
on their books. The president then put the usual motion for the
confirmation of the minutes, when Dr. Gnsao:a.Y, known in con-
nection with small pox and cow pox, rose to express his disapproba-
tion of the authors having published the paper immediately that it
was read.
Dr. CoPLAND rose to oppose the motion on two ~ounds,-the
oharacter of the paper, and the publication of it by the authors
without the permiasion of the society. He would allow no trace to
remain that such a paper had been read. The president stopped his
arguments on the first point, as the paper had been discMsed at a
previous meeting and thanks been voted for it. The deadly hos-
tility of Dr. Copland to mesmerism is well known. But to-night
he wa!,\ particularly unwise. He protested that the paper ought not
to have been read, because the autlwr '1Da8 'IWt 11 ~Mcneal man!-As
though knowledge was ever to be despiad from any souroe. Why
one of the authors was a surgeon, though neither was a fellow of
the society. I have heard papers read at the meetings of tbe Col-
lege of Physicians (Qr which he rejoices to~ a fellow) by persons not
medical, once by the very reverend Dean of Westminster; and the
society has of course no law as to who may be authors of papers: and
several mer;Dbers of the society are not medical men. On this point
he was set right by more than one member. He then contended that,
if the account of the man experiencing no agony during the opera-
tion were true, the fact wtU unwortiy of their conaiderati01t, becmue
pain i8 a wile~ of Rlllwe, and patintta ()Uf}M to I!Ujfer pain
wkile tltri1' 1/Urgeon i8 operatinu; ti'!l 11re aU tlu betterfor it, and re-
eot~er better! Will the world believe that such folly was gravely
uttered 1 This will be remembered as a doctor's speech in 1842,
when the doctor himtelf shall be forgotten. In due consistency,
Dr. Copland, when he ·is about to have a tooth extracted, of course
goes to a. clumsy dentiat &lld begs the man to give him all the pain
he can. In d-ue consistency, he. of cour$6 gives his patients that
physic which he thinks most likely to pinch them wen, becaUse they
must be all jhe better for being twisted with sharp pain while it is
Digitized by Google
60
operating; the agony must do them good, and make them anxious··
to take Au physic again. He then confined his motion to the era-
sure of the minutes, on the ground of the publication of the paper
by the authors when they had no right.
Dr. EvANS fulfilled his promise of seconding Dr. Copland, but
made no speech.
There was now a mighty, virtuous indignation expressed by several
at the publication of the paper by the authors.
Dr. JAMES JoHNSON said it had been printed before it was read
in the society.
Dr. MERRUUN, known as an accoucheur and examiner at Apo-
thecaries' Hall, said it had been published before it was read in the
society; which statement was incorrect, unless Dr. Merriman con-
founded printing with publishing. " Common sense should have
told the authors not to publish it,-the publication was a gross in-·
suit to the society."
Dr. GREGORY was so shocked that he proposed the affair should
be promulgated by advertisement in three newspapers.
Dr. CoPLAND declared the authors had broken faith with the
society in publishing it, and had made a semblance of its being pub-
lished under the society's sanction.
Dr. MooRE protested that the authors had violated the laws of
the society; and, at the same time that he was so indignant at its
publication having been taken out of the hands of the society, de-
clared, most consistently, that it was unworthy of a place in their
minutes. "How would the character," he exclaimed; "of that
medical society be affected, on whose records it should appear that
it had received and discussed a subject like mesmerism, when no
proof existed as to its truth 1".
Dr. CoPLAND rose again, and asked if the society would pocket
such an affront as the publication 1
Mr. Snt:ES begged the president to infonn the meeting, whether
the authors had not formally withdrawn the paper as soon as it was
read. The president made no reply: and at this I must express my
regret. His conduct had in the whole affair been most sensible and
i~partial. He is in truth ·in all respects a gentleman; but he
seemed distressed and confused at the hubbub of the meeting, and
did not reply, though he evidently ought, and in the affirmative.
Mr. WooD, who was present as a visitor, hearing such remarks
made upon Mr. Topham behind his back, rose and was requesting
permission, as the friend of the absent gentleman so &ccllsed, to say
Digitized by Google
61
that Mr. Topham was not aware that he had been violating any rules
of the society in publishing the paper after he had withdrawn it,
when he was suddenly interrupted by one of a number who humbly
live, and move, and have their being in Sir Benjamin Brodie,-
Mr. C&SAR HAWKINS, who objected to his speaking, because
he was not a member of the society: and Mr. Wood was not allowed
to say another word. Here was a body of men censuring an absent
gentleman in strong language, and, when his friend rose craving
permission to explain for him, that friend was instantly compelled to
hold his peace. This was conduct unworthy of a society of men of
the very humblest class. No law of the society forbad Mr. Wood
to speak; and, had there been such a law, the laws of justice,
and of that charity without which Mr. Hawkins is as "sounding
brass," would have been superior to it under these circumstances.
Ungenerous man! I envy you not your heart. You little thought
what you caused to pass in Mr. Wood's recollection when you
acted thus. You caused him to remember that but five days
before (December 8th) he saw you standing near a table, while
the leg of a poor young woman was cut off in the midst of
agonizing shrieks, she being evidently in the last stage of con-
sumption, and with which, as well as her scrofnlous knee, she
had been under the same surgical care for four months. On
this very day she had died (December the 13th); and, on being
opened, it was seen that at the time of the operation ·she had been
very far advanced in consumption. Not only was the upper part of
the right lung extensively disorganised, but the whole left lung was
studded with tubercles, which in the upper part had suppurated and
formed several large abscesses; one abscess was very large, and had
burst into the cavity of the chest. It is a surgical rule not to ope-
rate for even a fistnla, unless the lungs are examined and found
healthy. Here the operation could only agonise the poor creature
and shorten the wretched remnant ofher days; and the reflection that
she might probably have been spared the useless agony of the opera-
tion by mesmerism,-a blessing in the eyes of every one but Dr.
Copland, drew a sigh from Mr. Wood as Mr. Hawkins vented forth
his hostility. Had indeed the stethoscope been employed the state of
things would have been known, and she spared the operation altoge-
ther,-the stethoscope, without being conversant with which no man
can treat diseases of the chest without daily blunders, but which
has been despised in the building where the unfortunate woman
- died, is spoken of now by one there as a folly reminding him of
Digitized by Google
.r
.·
62
a fishing line with a fool at one end and a fish at the other, and was
spoken of formerly with equal contempt by one who now uses it
hourly, but who, when I first defended its importance years ago;
persecuted me with his tongue, and said it was just the thing for
Elliotson to rave about and he had never met with a single sensible
man who advocated it.-So Mr. Wood sat·down, amidst loud cries of
" Ckair !" " Chair !" even from an old practitioner, not a member
of the society, who lil'es near University College, and is as violently,
as he is ignorantly, antimesmeric: and, though I have been above
thirty years a member of the society,-had been its president when
it obtained its charter, which has no other living name in it than
my own,-had procured for it myself the epithet Royal, and for its
members the title of Fellow8,-had allowed the society to hold its
general evening meetings and the afternoon meetings of the council
at my house when it had no house of its own, and given the mem-
bers numerous conversazioni during the two years of my presidency,
and afforded not merely my house but the proper trifl.ing hospi-
tality on all these three kinds of occasioos,-and had furnished
many papers to the Society's Tran!\&Ctions;-I thought that I could
not consent to continue a member of it. The substitution of per-
verse prejudice for scientific and candid spirit was discreditable
enough, but the want of common justice and ·feeling was too dis-
gusting: and, after much calm refiection upon my opinion, I sent
my resignation.
Mr. PERRY, a secretary; condemned the publication of the
paper, and so did-
Dr. MAvo, and Dr. WEBSTER of Brook Street; and I think
Dr. ADDISON of Spring Gardens, and Mr. DA'VlES 6f Highgate.
This virtuous indignation at its publication was truly laughable.
The speakers all knew that the society would not have published
this paper, and they would have risen in arms at the bare suspicion
that the council oontemplated su~h a thing; and yet as much clamour
was made as if the society had been deprived of a treasure. I re-
solved to take no share in the discussion, as I knew that neither the
authors nor the public would care whether the minutes were con-
firmed or not. I never enjoyed a farce of Foote's more than the
acting of this evening; for, by a little effort, as I sat silently ob-
serving the speakers, I represented to myself that they were enact-
ing all their parts for my amusement.
I am clearly of opinion that the society had no right to complain.
The society by its laws (ch. xii. 5), cannot publish a paper without
Digitized by Google
63
the consent of the author. Had the paper not been formally with-
drawn, the publication would have been unjustifiable.
As to the printing of the paper in readiness for the withdrawal,
surely if the authors had a right and intended to withdraw it and
publish it immediately, they had a right to be ready with the
printing.
Indeed had they not done all this, they would have shewn no
spirit. For theyhad learnt, on the best authority, from various quar-
ters, that a fierce attack would be made upon them in the society;
that this member by name would demolish them and mesmerism and
all concerned in mesmerism, and that member by name would teach
people to send papers on mesmerism to the society; that" a rod was
in pickle for them, and for the impostor ofa patient," &c..&c. Their
resolution therefore was wise to hold their peace at the meeting, and
to withdraw the paper and publish it themselves, instead of allowing
it to be locked up for ever in a dark closet with the other valuables
of the society.
A little debate arose about the effect of confirmation of mi-
nutes. Dr. RooTs, of Russell Square, thought that, if they were
not confirmed, the vote of thanks passed at the last meeting would
drop; as though the business of a meeting was not valid till minutes
of it were confirmed at another.
Mr. QuAIN, of University College, and Mr. DREW, jun., of
Gower Street, urged that the non-confirmation of the minutes could
not affect the proceedings of the previous meeting; that they were
merely records, and their confirmation a mere assertion that they
were correct.
This I apprehend is perfectly tme; and the society had a full
right, as the president said, to preserve no record of the previous
meeting. What is done at one meeting, if it is not a prospective
resolution, is complete. When a person is elected a member or
officer of a body, he is fully elected; the minutes record merely the
fact. But minutes may affect a prospective measure. If a meeting
resolves that a certain thing shall be done at another meeting or any
time subsequent to it, and the second meeting does not confirm the
minutes, they are erased; and, as then no such resolution can be
shewn, the measure previously resolved upon cannot be taken, un-
less by another resolution. For want of noticing this distinction
of the two cases, the confusion about the confirmation of minutes
affecting or not affecting measures, I presume, arises. The idea of
the non-confirmation of the minutes affecting the vote of thanks,
Digitized by GoogIe
64
when the persons thanked had received the thanks, and gratefully
gone off with them, never probably to come near the society again,
was very amusing.
So the virtuous indignation of a large majority condemned
the minutes to non-confirmation,-a most ridiculous proceeding,
since, from reporters being admitted, the whole proceedings of the
previous meeting were already published in the various journals,
and recorded more publicly than they would have been in the
minute-book of the society, which nobody sees but the secretary
when he writes in it and the president when he signs his name.
I forgot to mention that Mr. BRANSBY CooPER joined with the
rest, and was not. contented with virtuously disapproving of the
publication, but informed us that the society ought to be grateful
to us for coming forward to be so defeated, and that no men had
ever had a more complete beating than had been given us. It
was hardly noble in a victor not to be satisfied with seeing his foes
at his feet, but thus to jeer and tell them, as they lay prostrate,
they were beaten. And yet again it was very good of him, because
we should otherwise not have known that we were beaten.
oi9,tized by Coogle
CHAPTER II.
NUMEROUS OTHER CASES.
"Mllatuata• ia too groa a~ to admit of ny farther Hriouo ootke. We rtC!'nt
it. abetltn'l u quaclu aJOd impootDI'I. They ought to be 1woted out of prqfeaionaliOCitti/.-
Any practitioner who sends a patient afflicted with an11 dioease to consult a mesmeric quack,
oept to be wlth011t patleotl for the rest or hla days"
Mr. T1aomao U"aAlq, Lancet, Oct. 29, 1841.
I. IT is a great happiness to me that, before Mr. Ward undertook to
operate as he did in the case which has been described, I was origi-
nally consulted upon the po!'sibility and safety of operating in the
mesmeric state without pain and gave a decided opinion that to induce
such a state and perform the most painful operation in it, both
without pain and with a successful result, was very practicable. I
had myself witnessed five years previously the introduction of a
seton into the back of the neck of Elizabeth Okey without sensation
in the mesmeric state. " For a length of time she had perfect loss
of the sense of touch,-anresthesia, in her ecstatic delirium. She
could hold nothing unless she saw it; nor, till she acquired the habit,
could she walk without looking at her feet. She used to take red-
hot coals out of the fire and wonder, as she held them, why other
people cried out and desired her to put them down; and why her
hands became blistered." As she suffered excruciating neuralgic
pain in her head, I prescribed a seton. She was not apprised at all
ofit; and was standing before me and several others chattering wittily
and deliriously, when Mr. Wood, who was behind her, suddenly
took up the flesh of the back of her neck, run a large seton needle
with a skein of silk into it, and put on the plaster, without a mo-
ment'• check to her chattering and fon, or any lign of her noticing
it, though I watched her most minutely. On dissipating the state,
and bringing her to her natural condition, she soon found there was
something wrong at the part, and put her hand to it, saying some
one must have pinched the back of her neck. In her deep coma,
and in that of her sister, there was always insensibility of touch, and
cupping and the severest blistering were perfectly unnoticed.
E
Digitized by Google
66
2. Soon afterwards I met with a beautiful case of mesmeric sus-
ceptibility and the permanent cure of severe and obstinate epilepsy
by mesmerism, in a little boy, Master Salmon, of Red Lion Street,
Holbom, whose CASe I shall send to the ZoVt. I threw him into
sleep-waking daily for the cure of his fits. In this state, though
he saw, and heard, and whispered, he had no feeling. He had an
eruption in the head, which was dressed every day, but with great
pain. His mother dreaded this daily business; and I advised her
to mesmerise him always before she began. She did; and the
removal of the old dressings, the washing, and the fresh dressing,
were regularly from that time done by her in his mesmeric state,
and he never n.ffered in the letut, and she then always awoke him
by a few transverse passes. His head got well.
3. I have at this moment a beautiful case of mesmeric suscepti-
bility and the cure of severe hereditary and long-standing epilepsy
by mesmerism, in the person of a young female whose phrenological
phenomena are mentioned in my letter to Dr. Engledue appended
to his celebrated address. In her sleep she converses, after having
been in a profound coma, with her jaws locked, for more or less time:
but has iueMibility of touch ucept in the 1kin of tke face, tlwugk
uquilitely 1eMi6le, tkrouglwut ker frame, to temperature, wketker
kot or cold,-a fact I have noticed in several other instances of sleep-
waking. She had suffered severely from a decayed great molar tooth.
I took her to Mr. Nicholles in Bruton Street, and threw her in a few
minutes into the mesmeric state. I then relaxed her firmly locked
jaw by laying my fingers upon it, and the tooth was extracted with-
owt her kftOtDledge, though it had three fangs and was firmly fixed.
Yet, what is as remarkable as the exquisite sensibility to heat or
cold in parts that are not sensible to ·any mechanical injury, although
the extraction of the tooth gave no sensation, tke pre1ence of the
blood in Aer tiiQUtA tJJtll felt unplea~antly. She continued for some
time longer in the deep and silent stage of her coma, in which she
has no muscular power to raise her hand, or her head, or to spit.
She soon began working her lips uneasily; and her jaw had, as
usual, soon closed again. I relaxed it again, and she worked both it
and her lips with increasing uneasiness. She at length awoke, im-
mediately spit out a dessert-spoonful of blood which had lain in the
front of her mouth and annoyed her; and was delighted to find her
trooblesome tooth had been extracted without her knowledge. She
is one of a large family at Islington, admirably brought up and with
oi9,tized by Coogle
67
a most beautiful cerebnl conformation, of the finest moral feelings and
strength of mind, and as incapable of deception or affectation as
those, who, in their unfeeling ignorance, accuse the most innocent
mesmeric patients of deception, are destitute of common sense and
common charity. I shall send her case to the Zoirt next year.
4. "March 10, 1841, at the house of M. Talbot-Descourty, in
presence of M.M. Raisin, M.D., Dean ofthe Faculty,-Perrin, M.D.
- Feuguerolles, Advocate, -Bertrand, member ofthe Academy, -
Courty, Journalist, - Augot, sen. and Augot jun., merchants, M.
LaFontaine threw G. Louis Eugene Chanal into mesmeric coma with
complete insensibility. Dr. Perrin, after having satisfied himself of
this by pricking him repeatedly, stated that the pulse was I00. M.
Talbot, surgeon-dentist, then proceeded to extract the last lower
left molar tooth. As it was broken, M. Talbot was obliged to cut
away the gum from it, and the patient gave JW •ig•of 1eaaation.
M. 'l'albot then introduced the insti,'Ument into the mouth-t.4e in-
etrummt with which he hadjir1t attempted to e:etract tAe tootA ;
pushed back the head of the young man, who made a sort of grunt
which was uaual with him in the mesmeric sleep, fixed the instru-
ment, extracted th~ tooth, which was barred, and therefore more
calculated to give pain. Dr. Perrin found the pv.Ue at thu time 76.
M. Talbot diacemed no trembling of the hands, such as is common
during an etfort to disguise the signs of sensibility. The patient
rinsed his mouth and was awakened. The moment be awoke, he
entreated M. La Fontaine not to allow his tooth to be taken out,
beeause he had no longer any pain; but, finding blood in his mouth,
he applied hia hand to it, and discovered that the tooth had been
extracted. Dr. Perrin found the pulse now to be 88.
~very one present testified that he had not shewn any sign of
sensibility.
This report being a faithful detail of the facts which p~sed
before our eyes, we have signed it. March 10, 1841.
LA FoNTAINE,
TALJIOT-D.ESCOURTY, Chir. Dentirte."
The pa&lse Wal M&ly 76 while THE TOOTH WAS EXTRACTING IN
BI8 PLACID SLEEP, AND 88 AT THE MOMENT WHEN BE LEARNT
THE CIRCUMSTANCE.
Digitized by Goog[e
68
5. In the summer of 1841, I exhibited such mesmeric facts to
Dr. Engledue, Mr. Gardiner, and Mr. Prideaux, of Hampshire, as
to convince them of the reality of mesmerism. They have all be-
come powerful and practical supporters of the truth. Mr. Gardiner
by its means soon afterwards cured a young lady in the Isle of
Wight of the most distressing nervous symptoms, which had long
incapacitated her from either occupation or amusement and resisted
all medical treatment. Besides being cured, she exhibited many of
the most wonderful mesmeric phenomena, which I went over to the
Island to witness. In her state of sleep-waking she felt no me-
chanical injury, and therefore suffered nothing when a tooth was
extracted. I will give the particulars of the extraction in the words
of Mr. Gardiner:-
"To the Editor of the HampBitire Telegraph.
"Sir,-Some erroneous reports having been recently circulated on
the subject of au important and interesting experiment, in which
Mr. Martin the dentist, ofPortsmouth, removed two teeth during the
mesmeric trance, without the knowledge or suffering on the part of
the patient, I beg you will favour me by inserting the following
simple statement of the case. Having been interrupted in the course
of certain mesmeric experiments by a violent tooth-ache in one of
my patients (whom I had exhibited to Drs. Elliotson and Engledue),
it occurred to me that the iMenaibility, which is an invariable con-
comitant of the true sleep-waking state, would afford me an admi-
rable opporttmity of benefitting the sufferer, and of extending the
application of mesmerism. My friend, Dr. Engledue, obtained the
assistance of Mr. Martin, a gentleman who knew little, and believed
less, about mesmerism, and wlw decidedly questioned the practica-
bility of the proposed operation. He came. In two minutes the
patient (a young lady) :was in the perfect mesmeric trance, -and
therefore insensible. Mr. Martin seized the tooth (a molar or jaw
tooth) with the forceps-purposely prolonged the wrenclt (as agreed
upon by Dr. Engledue prior to his visit, in order to test tlwroughly
the insensibility of the patient), and drew forth the tooth. Not a
pang or symptom of suffering! In a short time I restored the pa-
tient to her natural state in the usual manner. Upon being told that
the tooth had been extracted, she exclaimed, 'Did I feel it ?'-a
singular greeting to a dentilfs ears! Mr. Martin then proceeded
to examine her mouth, and suggested the removal of anotlter tooth.
The patient laughingly consented, and sat again. In one minute
Digitized by Google
69
and a half I again entranced her, and she became of course insen-
sible as before. The tooth being in an advanced stage of decay,
was crushed under the instrument, and the remnants were with
much trouble extracted.
" During the whol~ of this trying operation not a groan or com-
plaint escaped the patient. Shortly afterwards I again restored her,
upon which she turned to the glass to a&certain whether or not she
had really lost the second tooth! It would be difficult to determine
which party evinced the greater degree of delight and astonishment,
-the one having witnessed a no~el and most astounding phenome-
non,-the other having been uncon~~cioU&ly, almost magically, freed
from her tormentors.
" I have confined myself to a simple narration of facts, and shall
not trespass on your columns by detailing the general phenomena
of mesmerism, which are nevertheless of the highest importance
and interest. Whenever a new truth is advanced, short-sighted in-
dividuals immediately ask 'Cui bono ?'-There is an answer.
· "I remain, Sir,
•• Port&moutk, Dec: 9th, 1841."
"Your obedient Servant,
"JoaN B. W. S. GARDJNER."
6. Mr. Prideaux:, who practises at Southampton, has had ex-
traordinary experience in this way, and obliged me with the fol-
lowing letter:-
" My dear Sir,
"In compliance with your wishes I have great pleasure in fur-
nishingyou with a few brief particulars of the cases in which I have
operated on the teeth of patients when in a state of magnetic sleep.
My first information of the operation of tooth extraction. having
been performed during this state, and without pain to the patient,
was derived from Teste's "Manuel pratique du Magnetume Animal,"
published in Paris in 1840; a work not known in this country so
much as it deserves to be. Upon becoming myself a magnetiser, I
naturally became desirous of trying an experiment so applicable in
my own profession, and an opportunity soon presented itself. A
patient I was then in the habit of frequently entrancing, and who
when in this state had always shown insensibility to the ordinary
tests of feeling, such as pricking, pinching, &c., had a great number
of decayed teeth and stumps, from which she sufftred so much,
Digitized by Goog[e
70
without being able to summon resolution to undergo theil' extraction,
as gladly to embrace my proposal of being operated upon ia the
mesmeric state. During the next magnetic sitting, I took .the
opportunity of removing two of the most troublesome teeth, and
with the most perfect success. Tl&e patielet IGt with the kanth
pietlyfolded in the 14p,-the countenance toa1 placid ancltereae,-
tmd tke .,/aole attitude tllat of reptne ; in short, not the slightest
trace of mental emotion was perceptible, and upon being awakened,
it was not till she had examined her mouth that she could credit the
reality of her painless release from her tormentors.
" I should have proceeded in the task of extraction on this occa-
sion, but it appeared to me a pity that a phenomenon so interesting
in its results to every friend of humanity, from the new era it pro-
mised .to introduce in operative surgery, and withal so calculated to
carry conviction to the minds of sceptics, should be shrouded in
comparative privacy, (only one friend was present,) and I accord-
ingly resolved to defer the extraction of the remainder, and invite a
party of medical men to be eye-witnesses of the operation. I took
an early opportunity of doing so, and on this occasion extracted two
teeth and three stumps from the patient, who, to their great amaze-
ment, manifested the same insensibility and indift'et'ence to the ope-
ration as before.
" I have since extracted from the same patient seven teeth and
eight stumps, at three different sittings, (making in the whole,
eleven teeth and eleven stumps,) with equally satisfactory results,
and I may remark that the patient being comparatively a young per-
son, no absorption of the alveolar process and gum had taken place,
but all the teeth were firmly rooted.
" On the last occasion, five teeth and two stumps were extracted
preparatory to her being supplied with a set of artificial teeth.
Several.were from the front of the mouth, and as tooth after tooth
was extracted, the patient was excessively diverted at the alteration
in her appearance; in fact .she could with difficulty controul her
laughter; and as soon as the operation was over she called for a
looking glass, and holding it up before her clmed eyes examined her
mouth attentively, drawing back the lips on either side with her
fingers to get a better view, and finishing by a hearty fit of laughter
at the droll figure she presented with her mouth almost toothless.
This sitting was witnessed by a friend of mine, Mr. Henry Goode,
B.A. of Pembroke College, Cambridge, who chanced to be spending
a few days with me at the time, and who will be happy on all occa-
Digitized by Google
71
si'ons to corroborate the account I have just given, as well as to
produce the teeth extracted if required.
" I have extracted single teeth from three other patients during
mesmeric sleep, with equally satisfactory results, the imenlibility
being evidently perfect. In fact in two of these cases, the patients
.were utterly uaemucioul during their mesmeric state that any opera-
tion had been performed on them, being engaged in a conversation
on another subject at the time, which suffered no interruption,
beyond a slight indistinctness in articulation during the few seconds
the instrument was in the mouth.
" A fifth patient on whom I have operated during the mesmeric
state, is a young lady who required to have several of her molares
separated with a file on account of the commencement of decay,
and one stopped. I found her a most troublesome and restless
patient, in her natural state, shrinking when the cavity in her tooth
was touched, and complaining greatly of the unpleasantness of the
sensation of filing. I succeeded in entrancing her at the.first trial
in about five minutes, and in this state she allowed me to operate
for two hour• with the fiiOit pauive ittdijfermce, assuring me she
felt nothing, except a slight sensation of heat, when the file was
used rapidly and continuously for some time together.
•i This case is I think interesting and valuable, and aft'ords some
evidence in favour of an opinion I brought forward on analogical
grounds, in my pamphlet on the Mental Functions, viz.: that there
are distinct seta of nerves for feeling and temperature, an idea which
you have since informed me suggested itself to Darwin, from seeing
a case of paralysis, in which the sense of temperature remained
after feeling was lost.
"The subject is certainly one of importance, and I have made
several attempts since to ilolate these two senses, and in one patient
with perfect success. The means I employ are, the application to
the skin of a glass stopper heated to a temperature just below what
would suffice to raise a blister, to test the sensibility to temperature,
and pricking with a common needle, to test that of ordinary sen-
sation, and I possess the power of rendering the patient sensible to
the heated stopper and insensible to the needle, or insensible to the
heated stopper and sensible to the pricking, or insensible, or sensible
to both, at pleasure.
" Believe me, my dear Sir,
"Yours, very sincerely,
"J. s. PRIDEAUX."
" Southampton, NoPJ. 20th, 1842."
Digitized by Goog[e
72
I fear that those members of the Medical Society, who were
puzzled by the man's low moaning, will be more puzzled by the lady
who was fast asleep and felt not the severest mechanical violence,
and yet walked, and talked, and saw. And puzzled they will be.till
they have studied, as they ought long &ocro, the history of somnam-
bulism, catalepsy, and the whole of that family of nervous affection.
When the ignorance of medical men ceases, the character of innocent
patients will no longer be 'traduced.
7. The following is from the Jamaica Morning Journal, Octo-
ber, 1842:-
"Sir,
"To the Editor of the Murning Journal.
" I have deemed fit to forward for your consideration, the follow-
ing unvarnished fact. If after perusal you are disposed to publish
it, my consent is freely given. First, however, I must apprise you,
that the science of mesmerilm ha• ever been viewed by me with
much prfjudice, and I do not think I should have troubled myself
to see the effect of its operation, had it not been for the occunence
which called my profession into action. As a person perfectly dis-
interested-who had never seen mesmerism practised, I was asked
to remove a tooth for a lady while 'under its influence. I readily ac-
ceded, not only from the novelty of the situation, but to enable me
to form my own opinion on this (latterly) all-engrossing subject.
Previously to the arrival of Mr. Garrison of mesmeric celebrity, I
examined the tooth on which I was to operate, and found it to be
the dem sapientia! on the right upper jaw. The tooth was carious;
and although the patient had suffered much pain, yet at this mo-
ment, from my appearance, she stated herself perfectly free from
tooth-ache. Satisfied in what manner, and what instrument I should
use for the operation, I prepared myself accordingly. Mr. Garrison
shortly after arrived, and I think I may say, without fear of contra-
diction, that this singular operation was performed before 1izty ur
•eventy gentlemen, most of whom are known to possess high intel·
lectual powers, and the respectability of whom cannot be questioned.
During the few moments which Mr. Garrison occupied in placing the
lady under mesmeric influence, I kept myself aloof from the patient,
and not until I was informed all was ready, would I approach her.
In doing so, such part of the room was selecte<J to enable all the
bystanders to witness this very singular exhibition. Mt'. Garrison
then manipulated, to produce a relaxation of those muscles which
Digitized by Google
kept the mouth shut, and gradually effected extension-the bead
was somewhat elevated-the eyes perfectly closed. I immediately
applied the scarificator, and not the slightest wince-not a mooe-
ment of the most minute descriptio·~& could I detect! In the act of
iptroducing theJorcep•, the mouth partly closed, and (forgetting
the situation of the patient) I requested her to eztend the mouth,
with which she immediately complied. The tooth was instantane-
ously removed-the mouth remained extended- the eyes were
closed, not a shrink did I obteTVe-not a mwcle did I 1ee mooe, arid
myself and all present were left to form our own opinion. . The tooth
bas three fangs connected together, forming one large root in a some-
what conical form-the length a little better than three quarters of
an inch. As regards my opinion, when asked, at the conclusion of
this singular operation, I expressed myself by no means satisfied,
because at my bidding the mouth, the second time, eztended, but I
was immediately informed that on my desiring the extension, Mr.
Garrison (who was at the back of the lady) had again acted on the
muscles, and thereby b,ad caused compliance.
"What appeared to me, however, the most inexplicable, was the
circumstance of the mouth retaining it• original position, still ez-
tended after the removal of the tooth, which is perfectly unnatural,
and which bas never been witnessed by me during a practice of
twenty-one years, and not until the mesmeric operator manipulated
the jaws, ·to cause contraction, did the patient attempt to eject the
blood from her mouth. One of two points-the patient must have
been totally iMensible to pain, or she exhibited an extreme firmness
of purpose, and determination unparalleled.
"Mesmerism is a subject I do not comprehend, and consequently
offer no opinion. Did I understand its art, I might perhaps be fore-
most in the field to uphold its doctrines. As it is, I can only reveal
that to which I am a witness, regretting that I do not possess mes-
meric influence for the benefit of those who consult me profes-
sionally.
"I am, your obedient Servant,
" 92:· Orange Street."
" J. THOMAS Dus, Surgeon Dentist.
~· P.S. I forgot to add, that on the patient being restored to a
state of sensibility, she allUred those present that, she was totally
unconscious of the operation, and felt no pain.
"J. T. D."
Digitized by Coogle
74
8. I received the following letter from Mr. Carstairs, of
Sheffield:-
"Sir,
" Detmultire Street, Slte.ffieltl,
"NOfJ. 17tlt, 1842.
" I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your favour
of the 16th, and proceed at once to comply with your request.
Although my experiments have not been so numerous nor so im-
portant, PI!! &e, they are drops in the bucket of truth, which, united
with others, tend to prove that operations may be performed without
pain through mesmerism.
"In two cases I have extracted teeth; one iu one case and two
in the other. The patients were females, and neitlter of them tve11
aware on being roused from tlu Btate of meBmeric coma, tltat tke
teeth had been eztractetl. In another case of a lad about twelve
years of age, I opened a large abscess behind the ear and discharged
about a table-spoonful of pus, inserted a do~sil of lint, and dressed
the wound, witlwxt tlu patient beUag Bemihle of pai11. He had not
been previously mesmerised, and was not aware of my intention,
when I began to make the passes, which were effectual in producing
sleep in about five minutes. In another case I cut a large wart from
the back of a female's hand, who had been mesmerised by me
several times before. I had aroused her, and then produced cata-
lepsy in the arm and hand, so that she saw what I was doing, but
tJUjfered no pain nor inconvenieace fro111 tlu opero.tior&, although an
extremely nervous, irritable person. The only other case I have
had was inserting a seton, which was accomplished without tlu
•lightest pain.
"I remain,
"Yours faithfully,
"THOMAS CAR8TAIR8."
9. The following is from Dr. Engledue :-
"My dear Doctor,
"Soutluea, December bt, 1842.
" I forward you the result of an operation performed during the
mesmeric trance.
"Miss K. ret. 17, had suffered for two years from a variety of
11ymptoms, the result of spinal irritation. The right knee was
slightly contracted from the commencement of her illness, but for
Digitized by Goog[e
75
twel•e months preceding the operation, the contraction was so com-
plete that it was quite impossible to separate the heel from the back ·
part of the thigh.
" For nearly three months she was regularly mesmerised by Mr.
Gardiner; all the symptoms were very much relieved, and some
altogether removed by this treatment. The knee-j?int, however,
continued firmly contracted. I shall not now enter into a description
of the reasons which prompted me to perform the operation of
division of the tendons at the back of the knee-joint, my only object
is to report that the operation was performed during the mesmeric
trance and withotd any fllllnijutmion offteling. Some hours after
the operation, the patient was de-mesmerised; there was no expres-
sion of astonishment and no remark made, till some spots of blood
· on the sheet of the bed attracted her attention. The proceedings
were then explained to her, and the effect can be more easily imagined
than deacribed.
"I remain,
" My dear Doctor,
" Sincerely yours,
"W. c. ENGLEDUE...
10. I will now furnish an acconnt, from the Jamaict~ INpatch,
of August 20th, 1842.
" A mesmeric experiment was made at the private residence
of a gtmtleman of this city on Thursday last, at which several phy-
sicians and gentlemen of high respectability were present, and
which, we are informed by a gentle\)Wl who witnessed it, was in
every respect successfal. The patient, a lady, was put into the mag-
netic sleep by Professor Garrison; and, while in this state, the
painful surgical operation of removing a large excrescence from
the upper eye-lid, or brow, was performed by Dr. Amold, assisted
by two other physicians, witAoat the movemmt of a t~~ucle 011 the
part of the patierat, or the letut aign of paift. The patient had
long desired the operation to be performed. but had not possessed
the fortitude to submit to it, and she was ia utter ignorance of the
design of the physicians to remove the excresence on this occasion,
and kReto notl&ing of it until the whole luJd beer& done a11d tile
wottnd dreued, and she had been awakened from her sleep; indeed
we are told, that while the wound was being dressed, Professor
Garrison wilkl her to sing a favourite air, which she immediately
did."
Digitized by Google
76
10. The following case I have in the hand-writing of the surgeon
and Captain Valiant. I have seen the woman and mesmerised her
frequently; and have the honour of knowing General Sir Thomas
Willshire and Captain Valiant.
" Mrs. Gregory, nursery-woman to Mrs. Valiant, the lady of
Captain Valiant, 40th Regiment, for a long time suffering from de-
cayed teeth, which caused much constitutional irritation, applied to
me early in May, complaining of headache and pain in the upper
jaw, of the most excruciating kind. On examination, the gums
were found ulcerated, the alveolar processes carious on the right
side, and presenting numerous spicula of bone projecting through the
gums, which were exquisitely painful on the slightest pressure with
the finger. Filing off the spicula of bone was advised and consented
to. The performance of the operation, having been proposed while
she was under the influence of mesmeric sleep, was undertaken on
the 25th of May, in the presence of Sir Thomas Willshire and
Captain Valiant of this garrison. Sleep was speedily induced by
Sir Thomas, and she was pronounced in a fit state to bear the opera-
tion in half an hour.
"An incision was made on either side of the alveolar processes
extending from the incisor to the molar teeth, dividing the gums,
which were turned back so as to expose the diseased bone. The
spicula being considered the principal source of annoyance were filed
off smooth with the jaw, the gums approximated, and creosote ap-
plied to the carious points. The filing occupied fully five minutes.
The patient, lwwe-cer, to my great utonilkment, e-cinced not tM
aligktut feeling from the operation, and continued undisturbed in
the enjoyment of profound sleep for one hour, at the expiration of
which time she was awaked by Sir Thomas, appearing as if aroused
from a dream. Some minutes elapsed before perfect consciousness
became restored, when she expressed herself increduloua that any ope-
ration had been performed on her jaw, being quite free from all pain.
"The phenomena evinced could only be elicited by Sir Thomas
Willshire, who so kindly afforded his services to the poor woman:
they appeared to be completely under his control. By his request
her mouth opened tO admit my instruments, which she djd not feel.
His taking wine and cake produced in her corresponding actions and
sensations of mastication and deglutition. The pulse rose to 120,
and some excitement and spasmodicaction supervened on Sir Thomas
withdrawing himself for a little. But his approach and contact
Digitized by Google
77
quieted, and eventually restored, the patient to perfect composure
during her slumber.
" I kad Aitherlo been in the kabit of ridiculing, and, indeed,
dubelimng, tfJt17/ &tatement connected witA memerilm ; but ji7UI
it impo~lible to reject tAe fact& of thu cue, brought home by the
mdmcu of 80 many ltnltl.
"JoHN CHARLTON, M.D.
".J.uiltant-Surgeon, Royal Marine&."
" Melmlle Ho&pital, CAatham,
"June 9th 1842."
The following statement was dra!"l up and given to me by
Captain Valiant:-
" Elizabeth Gregory, nursery-maid to Mrs.' Valiant, usually
called Anne, mesmerised by Sir Thomas Willshire, May 25th, 1842,
Brompton, Kent.-Sir Thomas commenced at six minutes past one
o'clock to mesmerise the patient for a painful operation, to be per-
formed by Dr. Charlton on her jaw and gum, during her sleep.
Anne had previously suffered very much .from the fracture of the
jaw, in consequence of having had five teeth taken out, perhaps
unskilfully, at one time. Matter and proud desh had formed, and
caustic had beeu employed in reducing them. She had also been
mesmerised before, for experiment, three times, by Sir Thomas,
and the same number of times by Captain Valiant.
" In six minutes Anne was asleep. Soon afterwards Captain
Valiant called loudly, without her hearing him; but when Sir
Thomas took her hand, and spoke in a low tone, she heard, and
answered that she was asleep and comfortable.
"At half-past one o'clock Dr. Charlton lanced Anne'• gum dowa
to thejaw from mee eftd to the other, and made it bleed considerably,
which the patient did not appear to feel at all. Dr. C. then filed
her jaw-bone for the space of jifJe mi1tutu and a kalf till what be
desired was accomplished, which also she did not feel in the letUt-
not a muscle nor nerve either twitched or moved. She opened her
mouth for the operation to be performed at the command of her
mesmeriser, who held her hand, and she constantly opened it wider
at his direction. Dr. Charlton mentioned that a few day• ago, when
he merely touched the patient'•jaw witA a probe, 11&. felt tke paia
10 1et1erelg u very nearly tofaint. While waiting for some creosote,
Sir Thomas took some wine, when Anne went through the form of
Digitized by Google
78
taatiog and drinking, and on being questioned Mid, abe tasted wine.
The same experiment was tried with a piece of biscuit, and sh~
said she tasted biscuit. Sir Thomas held a watch over her bead,
and asked her what it was. She replied-• I don't see it, but I
huM what it ia.' It was then held to her waistband; and she said
it was a watch. Captain Valiant pinched Sir Thomas's hand, which
she immediately felt too, and said somebody was pinching her hand,
and she did not like it. Dr. Charlton applied some creosote to the
patient's jaw.
"At twenty minutes to three o'clock Sir Thomas awoke her,
When W 1CQI aot cotuciou of /w.viwg /w.d any t/&iag done to /&er,
and was very thankfal to find the operation was over, and wished
-.ery much that what bad been done to her during her mesmeric
sleep might be published, for the good of the world in general.''
11. I shall now detail a case which occurred many years ago in
Paris;-the mesmeric operator in which-Dr. Chapelain, and the
surgical operator-M. Jales Cloquet, are now both alive in that city.
"Madame Plantin, aged 64, living at No. 151, Rue Saint Denis,
consulted M. Cloquet, April 8th, 1829, respecting an open cancer
which had existed for several years in her breast, and which was
complicated with a considerable enlargement of the right axillary
ganglions. M. Chapelain, her physician, who had mesmerised her
for some months, with the view of diaaipating the disease, could effect
only a profound sleep, in which sensation appeared suspended, but
intellect remained perfect. He suggested to M. Cloquet to operate
upon her in the mesmeric sleep-waking. M. Cloquet, having judged
the operation indispensable, coosented, and it was fixed for the
following Sunday, April 1st. The previous two days, she was mea.
merised several times by Dr. Chapelain, who preTailed upon her
when in the state of sleep.waking to bear the operation without fear,
and brought her even to converse about it calmly; although, when
she was awake, she could not listen to the proposal for horror.
" On the day fixed, M. Cloquet arrived at half-past ten in the
morning, and found the lady dressed in an arm-chair, in the attitude
of a person calmly asleep. She had returned about an hour from
mass, which she habitually attended at that time of the day. Dr.
Cbapelain had thrown her into the mesmeric sleep on her return.
She spoke with perfect calmness of the operation which she was
about to undergo. All being ready .she undressed herself, and sat
upon a common chair.
Digitized by Google
79
"Dr. Chapelain supported her right arm. The left was allowed
to hang at her side. M. Paillou:t, internal student of the Hospital
Saint Louis, had the charge of presenting the instruments and
applying the ligatures. The first incision was begun at the arm-pit,
and carried above the breast as far as the inner side of the nipple.
The second was begun at the same point, and carried under the
breast till it met the first. M. Cloquet dissected out the enlarged
ganglions with care, on account of their proximity to the axillary
arteries,,and removed the breast. The operation lasted ten or twelve
minutes.
"During all tkil time, tM patient contJer8ed calmly tl!itk the upe-
rator, and gatJe tt.Ot tM lea.t 8ign of •enzibility ;* tto motJeneent
occured in the limh8 or FEATURES, no clu.znge.in tM RESPIRATION
or VOICE, 1t.O emotiof& EVEN IN THE PULSE, was discernible;t this
patient remained uninterruptedly in the same state of automatic in-
difference and passiveness, (etat d'abarukm et d'impaMibilite auto-
mique., or, as Mr. Topham says of his patient, 'uncontrolled, in
perfect stillness and repose,' 'like a statue!') in which she was
some minutes before the operation. There "'"' no ruceuity to
rutrain her, we had only to wpport her. A ligature was applied to
the lateral thoracic artery, which was opened in removing the gan·
glions. The wound was closed with sticking plaster and dressed,
and the patient was put to bed, still in the same state of sleep-
waking; and was left in this state for eight and forty hours. An
hour after the operation a slight hemorrhage oocurred. which proved
of no importance.
The first dressing was removed on Tuesday the 14th; the wODDd
was washed and dressed afresh; the patient shewed no sign of pain;
the pulse was undisturbed. After this dressing, Dr. Chapelain awoke
the patient whose sleep-waking had lasted from one hour before the
operation, i. e. two days. The lady seemed to have no idea, no
cmaceptifm, ofwlu.zt lu.zd pcued; but, on learning that she had been
operated upon, and seeing her children around her, she experienced
• She was" not a physiologist," or she would have" cuacted the rcll.ex
motious." .
t This ought to cou\·iuce Dr. Marshall Hall, who is represeuted by the
La11cd to have said iu the society, aud I hear he did, though I do uot re-
member it,-" C0111d the ma11 keep hil heart quid as he did the muscles of his
fact a11d ltg 1 Why was uot the actiou of the heart, the number of the pulse,
carefully noted ? We should thea have had positi11e proof of the supposed
loss ofconsciousness iu the actual ab~t~~ct qfall emutioll." He may be referred
also to the case of the boy meutioued Rt p. 67.
Digitized tiy Google
80
a•very strong emotion, to which the mesmeriser put an end by im-
mediately sending her to sleep again."
Some of the surgeons of Paris scouted this case just as the Lon-
don Medical Society, in imitation, scouted that of the amputation.
Lisfranc explained it somehow or other, and Baron Larrey accused
the poor lady of being an "accomplice of the mesmerisers." The
latter should have remembered that there was once a soldier named
Blanchard, who refused all- his advice to part with his right leg
on account of fistulous ulcers of the foot, tumefaction of the cellular
membrane, a white swelling of the inner ankle, disease of the li-
gaments, and caries of the tarsal bones, and who was pronounced
incurable by the certificates of six physicians and surgeons; that,
when the Marquis de Puysegnr mentioned to him that by means of
mesmerism the poor man was greatly relieved, he burst into a laugh,
said the patient would never be cured because the bones were diseased
and the periosteum gone, and that amputation would be indis-
pensable. By menneri&m the poor MJldier Wa8 completely cured.*
I have extracted the case of the lady from the highly-favourable
report, in 1831, of the Committee appointed by the French Aca-
demy of Medicine to report upon mesmerism, and to be found in
Dr. Foissac's excellent work.t The committee continues thus:-
" The committee sees in this case the moat evident proof of the
suspension of sensibility during sleep-waking, and declares that,
though it did not witness the case, they find it so ltamped with the
character of truth, it has been attested and reported to them by
so good an observer who had communicated it to the surgical sec-
tion, that they do not fear to present it to you as a moat unquea-
tionable proof of the state of torpor and stupefaction produced by
mesmerism."
I may mention that the case is related as perfectly genuine in
the Penny Oyclopadia, published by our Society for the Diffusion
of Useful Knowledge, article Somnambuliam, in which the truth of
mesmerism is admitted to the extent even of clair-TJoyance; Lord
Brougham being president of the society, and the Bishop of Dur-
ham, several peers, several Fellows of the Royal Sbciety, men of the
first distinction in science and literature, and several professors of
• Rapport• et DUcuuion& de l'Academie Royale de Medicine n~r le llfagnl-
tume .Animal. 1833. p. 156.
t Same book, p. 400.
oi9,tized by Coogle
81
University College, where a general stand was made agaunst mesme-
rism, being my colleagues on this committee.
In the Herm~8* it is stated like~ise, that M. Cloquet attests
not only that there was complete absence of pain, but that, while
he was washing the surface around the wound with a sponge, the
patient felt tickled, and several times said merrily, "Come, leave off,
-don't tickle me." Her laughter, thus occasioned, was heard by
M. Plantin-the patient's son, and by Madame Granier, who were
qutride tke door.
This remarkable circumstance must be viewed side by aide with
the uneasiness felt from the blood in the mouth of my patient who
had no sensation from the extraction of her tooth, and whose case I
have related at p. 66; and with the exquisite sensation she always had
both of heat and cold in parts perfectly insensible to pinching, &c.-a
fact noticed by me in several other cases, and by Mr. Prideaux in
regard to heat in one of his patients, spoken of at p. 71 ; and in
regard to cold in the Spauish Lady mentioned at p. 49, who was
comatose without mesmerism.
No man who has a heart can read the narration without being
affected and earnestly hoping it is true. But, though its truth is
equally certain lis that there is such a surgeon as M. Cloquet, it has
lately been denied in England and the parties have been vilely tra-
duced.
In the London Medical Gazette for the 2nd of last December,
immediately after an imperfect and incorrect account of the discussion
in the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society on the paper which
detailed the case of amputation in the mesmeric state, is an anony-
moUB letter of three paragraphs,-signed "a member of the Medical
and Chirurgical Society," who is ashamed to give his name, and there-
fore does the deed in darkness,-the first styling the account "very
silly'' and unfit for the society, the second heartlessly accusing the
poor patient of deception, and the third as follows:
'· It is rather remarkable that it should have occurred•to no one
present to mention the case of a woman whose breast was ampu-
tated, some years ago in Paris, by M. Cloquet, while she was (as
it is supposed) in a state of mesmeric stupor. This woman was
believed to have been insensible to pain during the operation; and
was a better actor than the man mesmerised by Mr. Topham, as she
did not even moan. Some cort8iderable time afterwards, however,
• L ' Herme1, JBurnal du Magnetisme Animal. Paris, 1829. tom. iv.
,, F
Digitized by Google
0,)
C'-
while dying of an internal complaint in anotAer lto8pital, she eon-
feued to the nurse that the wAole kad been a eAeat ; that she had
experienced pain like other persons, but had sufficient command over
herself not to shew it!'
The Nottingham surgeon, to whose letters I have already twice
referred, writes,-" some years ago in France .the breast of a female
was removed while she was professedly in the mesmeric sleep. She
died a few day• afterwarth; an operation which in other cases rarely
indeed proves fatal. Is it not too probable that the attempt to bury
the anguish in her own bosom proved too much for nature to sustain?
Another mesmeric operation case succeeded better, but the patient
subsequently confessed that her insensibility was all feigned."
" Many similar cases have occurred, &c."
Now the statements of both writers are altogetAtr untnte.
Madame Plantin was never in an hospital, but the wife of a wealthy
merchant of Paris; resided in a country house which she could
hardly be prevailed upon to leave in the fine season of spring to
take up her abode in Paris for the purpose of being mesmerised,
for she disliked mesmerism because it had been tried upon her at
different times unsuccessfully, and she was unwilling to submit to
the restraint of mesmeric treatment; and she was terrified at the
thought of a surgical operation under any circumstances, and de-
clared she would l'll;ther die, and had indeed suffered severely from
refusing even to be bled in one of her pregnancies.
M. Cloquet testified to the Academy that she was pious, modest,
and incapable of any collusion; and Dr. Caldwell of America, hearing
a rumour in London that this :slirgeon confessed he had operated
upon other patients in an ordinary state who bore the pain as un-
moved, called upon M. Cloquet, in Paris, to ask the question, and
told me that he received for answer, "JamauI jamai4 I jamau !"
However, Dr. Davison, a friend of mine, called upon M. Cloquet at
my request in January, to make enquiries respecting the case; and
the follo·wtng is an extract from his reply,-
" The letter to which you allude in the Medical Gazette is falle
in every particular, save the death of the patient. The lady was
ne~~er tAe inmate of an lwlpital. She was the wife of a rich nego-
ciant, an excellent person, respected by all who knew her. She
die.d abOrJe a fortnigkt after the operation, of a pleurily;* the wound
• The appearance of the inflamed pleura and lung after death are fully
detailed in the ·Hermll,
Digitized by Google
83
having done well, and she having taken a drive some days previ-
ously. Cloquet saw her and is qJtite BUre that she never made the
confeuion alluded to."
As to the other case, spoken of by the Nottingham surgeon,
Dr. Davison has made every enquiry in Paris, and cannot learn
that it ever occurred. "Many similar cases have occurred!" I call
upon him to make good all his assertions. He knows that Mr. Wood
flatly contradicted him in T1e Notti7lflkam Jqurnal in regard to the
one, and pointed out that he gave no authority whatever for the
others: yet, though two months have elapsed, this candid person
has never replied or ventured to recur to the subject.
It was most improper in the Medical Gazette to insert a serious
anon?JfMUB charge against a person now no more,-and that person
a female, a foreigner, and whose family are now all resident in Paris
and of great respectability; and shameful in the Nottingham surgeon·
to make these wholesale accusations, not one of which he has been
able to prove.
The unscrupulousness of so many medical men to blacken the
characters of their fellow-creatures, already one would think suf-
ficiently atHicted, by accusing them, without any other reason than
their own ignorance, of imposture, is a foul spot upon the profes-
sion. Wherever a person displays mesmeric phenomena, or is cured
or even relieved by mesmerism, he is at once impudently called an
impostor, and any sort of thing fabricated to support the cruel
charge.
" L' homme eet de glace aux Y~rit~s;
II eet de feu pour le meneonge."
La FOIItailte.
The Okeys not only were impostors, but confessed the impo-
sition!
In a letter, paid for u an adfJerNfJ#&tmt, in the Nevwy Tele-
graph for last February 9, signed-
J. MoatsoN, M.D.
J. Woons, Surgeon,
'W. STARKEY, M.D.
G. H. KIDDS, L.R.C.S.
are these words,-" If we except Dr. Elliotson,-whose mind always
exhibited a tendency to wild and extravagant theories, and who in
oonsequence of his attachment to the marvellous lost his chair in
F2
Digitized by Google
84
the London University, as also his standing as a practitloner,-all
the others, as Mesmer, Dupotet, La Fontaine, preached the ·mes-
meric doctrines to some advantage, if not to the public, at least to
themselves." I never knew even the names of these four gentlemen
before, but they ought to be aware that the character of my mind is
the opposite of what they aver. I have neVer speculated, but have
always devoted myself to the observation of facts; so that, whatever
I have advanced, I have seen ultimately established. I appeal to my
writings on Quinine, Hydrocyanic Acid, Iron, Creosote, Glanders,
the Use of the Ear in ascertaining the state of the Heart, my Hu-
man Phyliology, and my Lecture8 on the Practice of Medicine, and
my Clinical Lecture1. I came into practice solely from the devotion to
facts evinced in my Clinical Lectures. Phrenology I have lived to
see established, though it had not twenty advocates in this country
when I first wrote in its favor; and in it I have adhered so closely
to facts that I have not yet admitted an amount of statement which
is current among eminent phrenologists. However, let this pass.
"The Okeys," these gentlemen further say, "were proved to be
impostors,* and afterward~ acknowledged the trick1 whick they kad
• I make the following extract from the letter which I addressed to my
pupils on resigning my chair in University College, and which is to be bad
atM. Bailliere's :-
•
"In an evil hour, I consented to shew some experiments to the Editor
of the Lancet, after repeated entreaties conveyed by his assistant, Mr. Mills,
who had witnessed the phenomena at the hospital, reported many in the
Lancet, been enraptured with them, and declared them over and over again
to be so satisfactory that to doubt or to suspect the two Okeys of imposition
would be the height of absurdity. I exhibited to the Editor the production
of the singular delirium, and a variety of the most beautiful and satisfactory
experiments which he has entirely auppressed. But I presently feared
what would be the result. He said he was pestered with letters upon the
subject; but that nineteen out of twenty were unfavourable. Nineteen
persons, of course, purchase more Lancet• than one ; and I fancied I
already saw his rejection of the evidence. The mental phenomena were
such as no person capable of sound and refined observation, and fitted for
pbilosophiclll investigation, could for an instant have imagined to be feigned.
The physical phenomena with the band, the eye, metals, and water, were
as striking and conclusive, with the exception of some with lead and
nickel; and those I have since proved to large numbers of able judges to
be equally conclusive. Mesmerised nickel produces upon the elder sister
the most violent effects, which none but a very ignorant person could con-
sider pretended. Now, when this, or gold or silver, has been robbed upon
a part, and the friction bas been desisted from before the effects come, or the
effects have come and have ceased, they may be at once excited in the
Digitized by Google
85
practi8ed on the credulity of Elliotson." The only reply to be
made is, that tki8 i8 totally untrue. One of them was said by Mr.
former case, or re-excited in the latter, by friction of the part with any
thing-a piece of wood or a piece of lead; and this excitement may be pro-
duced again and again. Friction was performed with lead upon parts to
which nickel had been applied either with or without effect as it might be,
and the effects took place violently. This explanation I gave to the Editor,
but he was either too dull to understand, or bad his reasons for not under-
standing. In another set of experiments lead produced effects, though
nickel had not been applied to the parts; and yet I never had been able to
mesmerise lead by holding it in my hand apd to produce effects by then
applying it. Those effects I candidly said I could not explain, since I bad
not commenced experiments with lead or nickel for more than two or three
days; but, as there was no more deception in the cases, nor less certainty
of the various facts which I had observed, than in chemistry or any other
natural science, I added that these results shewed only that they required
farther investigation, and that I had no doubt I should, by perseverance,
discover their cause. The Editor knew that I was about to leave London
that same dRy for an absence of six weeks on the continent, and yet he
could not wait for my' return and give me an opportunity of farther research,
but, with that gentlemanly delicacy for which he and his friends are so
rem11rkable, published, almost immediately, what professed to be an
account of what be bad seen,-a most imperfect and worthless account,
however; in his plenitude of scientific importance, he declared that not
one more experiment on magnetism would ever be required ; and answera
which were sent be never published. He omitted to state a circumstance in
his experiments with lead, which bad never been allowed to happen in
mine, but which, when rellecting upon them on my tour, I thought might
have inlluenced the results. In employing the lead, I had noticed that he
applied it against a piece of nickel held in his other hand, before he
applied it to 'the patient. On my return, I applied lead to her as before,
and, indeed, copper also; yet never obtained an effect. I then applied the
lead or the copper, as it might be, against a piece of mesmerised nickel or.
gold, before applying it to her; and its application to her was then always
productive of effects. I discovered that the surface of the lead or copper
had become nickelized or aurified by the contact; and thus the difficulty
was solved. These experiments I have repeated again and again before
numbers of gentlemen, taking the greatest care that the patient should not
know when I applied lead or copper wbicb had not been in contact with
nickel or gold, and when I applied lead or copper which had been in con-
tact with either of them; and the results have been uniform. I was obliged
to leave the poor little girl in an intensl' coma, with occasional violent
tetanic spasms, at the Editor's house, little imagining that any farther ex-
periments would be attempted, especially in my absence, by a person igno-
rant of the subject and altogether incapable of making experiments. I had
seen sufficient of the extreme carelessness, and want of information and
1•hilosophic power, of the Editor, during the eXJlCriments conducted by
Digitized by Google
86
Wakley to have been reported to have figured at I"ing's chapel.
The report was not only totally tmtrue, but I cannot find that it
existed before it appeared in the Lancet. Mr. Wakley, like Dr.
Johnson, is a father, and he should have some feeling for innocent
young females, who, though in the humbler walks of life, are not
his inferiors in respectability. He even advertised in the morning
papers " An editorial article on the tricks and deceptions practised
by performers and patients under the stale name of animal mag-
netism, shewing the total failure of the patients to fulfil the promises
of the magnetisers, when the signals which pass between them are
efFectually disallowed."
However, his day of triumph has passed, and his chief business
now must be to consider how he can best extricate himself from the
sad position into which he has fallen from having so overcunningly,
hastily, and violently committed himself. Some say he is ready to
hang himself. But I implore him for the sake of science and hu-
manity not to think of such a folly, nor to imitate the dignified exit
of the Tartar General, who, according to the dispatch of Sir H. Pot-
tinger, " retired to his house when he saw that all was lost, made his
se"ants set it on fire, and sat in his chair till he was burnt to death."
· Not only the occurrence of mesmeric phenomena, but even im-
provement from mesmerism is sufficient to subject an innocent per-
son to the charge of imposition.
Above a year ago I was first requested to visit a patient whom
I found labouring under a very severe form of St. Vitus's dance
of NINE years duration. The disease is very common; but I have
seen only a few instances of eo long a duration of it, and never
one of such violence as it generally exerted on the organs of respir-
ation at night. We meet daily with persons who have constant
twitchings of the features and workings of the head, arms, or trunk ;
but this was general, as well as con~tant, and often mo~t frightful. To
myself, and which be frequently altogether deranged, not to be convinced
that in my absence no experiment could be made in a manner to justify con-
clusions. In his ignorance, be acted as though mesm~ric susceptibility is
always present and always the same: whereas the reverse is the fact; and
experiments with water and metals frequently repeated so derange the sus-
ceptibility that we are often obliged to desist.
" During the Jive months which have elapsed since my return, I have
repeated all my experiments and continued my observations, not only on
,the two Okeys, liut on other patients; and all the results of my former
enquiries have been confirmed and all difficulties solved."
Digitized by Google
87
suppose the case one of imposition would have been as ridiculous
as to suppose a case of confluent small pox to be an imposition.
Such movements night and day for nine years,-nay, such movements
for a day, I defy any human being to make voluntarily. The pa-
tient, though shut out from society, except that of intimate friends,
and from all public amusement, bore this sad affliction so patiently
as to increase one's pity. Dr. Mar.shall Hall had attended, and
given the following opinion of the case:-" Chronic inflammation
of the membranea in which the apinal marrow i8 inclosed, with
the effusion of lymph or aerum, attd conaequent irritation of the
apinal marrow itaeif, with tlte apaamodic actiona which auch irrita-
tion i8 calculated to induce. The e88ential character ia ita chronic
form." So real and severe did he consider the case, that he pre-
scribed muatard cataplaatn8 to the apine, cupping on the back of the
neck EVERY FIFTH DAY, and mercury to auch an extent that not
one BOUnd tooth ia lift in the patient'a head: and declared he would
have treated his own child in the same xnanner. He treated the case
for three months, and wished to continue his plan for a twelvemonth.
But, though the poor patient submitted patiently to be thu.s disfigur-
ed, the family medical attendant and friends could not allow it, and
Sir Benjamin Brodie was consulted, who condemned the treatment
in the moat unqualified manner, declined to prescribe medicines or
to see the patient again, and stated that nothing more could be
done than to endeavoUl' by every means to strengthen the debilitated
frame. Dr. Hall, however, wrote a letter, still in possession of the
family, maintaining his opinion, and treating Sir Benjamin Brodie's
opinion most contemptuously. Some months since, when asked my
opinion of mesmerism in the case, I replied that, though I had
never failed in curing the disease with oxyd of' iron in childrea
and youth, when it had not lasted more than some months, I had
never succeeded with iron or any other medicine when it had
lasted some years and in adults: that I had never known mesme-
rism to fail any more than iron in the former cases: but that. as
iron failed in the latter, I could not ventUl'C to hope that mesme-
rism would succeed. I advised that, as mesmerism had been begun,
it should be continued rather than the case be abandoned; though
I entreated them not to be disappointed if no good resulted. For
the last four months mesmerism has been daily persevered with;
and the gradual but steady improvement in the strength, the sleep,
nnd looks of the patient, and the decline of the disease, astonishes
<''.l'I'Y one. Now that Dr. Hall has learnt the improvement by
Digitized by Google
88
mesmerism, he says that he all along (while cupping every five
days, and giving mercury freely, and proposing to do all this for
twelve months!) suspected, and is notD (mesmerism having done
great good,) perfectly certain, that the case was feigned!! I should
like to observe his countenance when he says so.
Of all persons Dr. Hall should be careful. Because, in his in-
troductory lecture,* he is at great pains to impress upon his pupils
the duty of being careful in investigating cases so as not to accuse a
sick person of imposition. He quotes the following passage from a
physician of a Parisian hospital, as" candid and touching."-" How
frequently does it happen that individuals labouring under inflamma-
tion of the cerebral membranes, have been treated as malingerers,
or as being of lazy disposition. A young girl is brought to the
hospital without any apparent functional disease: she is morose and
stupid, and answers only by monosyllables after having been fre-
quently and earnestly interrogated. The physician mi8taketJ thi8 for
caprice or di8tJimulation, but she diea." "I shall never forgive
myself for having committed a similar error with regard to a school-
boy." "The expression of this boy's countenance was perfectly
natural; the pulse not accelerated; he lay in bed, with the knees
drawn up to the chin, making no complaint of suffering, and merely
anxious to be amused by entertaining stories. I made the child
get up: he did so, but remained moping about the chimney corner.
I compelled kim to walk up and down the room; his steps were uncer-
tain, like those of a drunken man. This poor child was forcibly
dreued, and even beaten by his parents" (the treatment prescribed
with a promise of certain success for Dr. Wilson's poor boy by Mr.
Bransby Cooper),t "who thought he affected to be ill. I was soon,
however, painfully convinced of the error into which we had fallen;
the poor boy died of hydrocephalus."
It was but in the same way that those naval men acted who were
tried in December last for killing a poor man ofcolor, whom they chose
to fancy an impostor. He was cook, and had been unwell for some
days. Being in his berth, he was ordered to prepare breakfast, but
said he was very ill. "You skulking--, there i8 nothing the mat-
ter with you," was the chief mate's reply. To that the sick creature
answers, "Really, sir, you do not know my feelings:" and the
reply was, "You lazy fellow, if you don't attend to my orders I
• Lancet, Oct. 7th, 1837, p. 40.
t Ltncet, March lith, 1843, p. 876.
Digitized by Google
89
will send down some tackle and heave you up." As he lay in his
bed in the forecastle he was heard to groan, and that caused another
to say, "If you don't hold your noise, I'll put a rope's end round
your neck." The threat was executed; the rope was drawn tipAtly
round kill neck, and he was pulled forcibly from ·kill bertk. As he
seemed strangling, the rope was shifted to his chest, and he was
hauled upon deck, and his head as he went up struck against the
scuttle. Skortly afttm1Jard8 ke wufound dead."-The impostor!
To accuse patients of imposition is very easy. But it is a very
vulgar, as well·as cruel, habit, founded on ignorance, presumption,
and heartlessness. We should never prefer such an accusation on light
grounds: and, to be ~sured of the grounds, we should be well ac-
quainted with the subject. He who is ignorant of a subject is surely
not justified in giving an opinion: and yet, medical men and others,
because they are ignorant of the phenomena of the more wonderful
and uncommon diseases of the nervous system, and of mesmerism,
preposterously pronounce the subjects of them impostors, and those,
who know the truth, to be fools, or rogues, or in league with the
devil. It was the same cause which made the people pronounce
Democritus mad, when he looked for the source of insanity in the
brain; to pronounce Roger Bacon a sorcerer, who knew physical
facts of which they were ignorant; to ascribe epilepsy, St. Vitus's
dance, and numerous other diseases, to demoniacal possession;*
to ascribe the phenomena of electrical and galvanic apparatus to the
agency of spirits, as the savage supposed there must be a spirit in-
side the watch. Of peasants better things could not be expected:
but the whole of education is so unsound that gross ignorance and
superstition exist among those who presume to teach, and have been
judged fit for instructing others, and believe they have received the
Creator of the Universe, or the Holy Spirit, into their persons at
the ceremony of episcopal ordination, but should be compelled
"To cast their orders at their bishop's feet,
Take their dishonored gown to Monmouth-street."
Cowper.
The Abbe Wurtz of Lyons, in a work on the SuperatitioM of
Pkiloaopkera, wrote, at the beginning of this century, that, although
all belief in the devil was apparently given up, he was really the
chief personage, though disguised, in the lodges of freemasons,
• See the Re,·. Hugh Farmer's E.tsay on the Dcmoniac1.
Digitized by Google
90
mansions, and palaces, and acted sometimes under the form of a
wonderful man, a physical philosopher, a ~. &c.
Another catholic author, in a book published not many years
ago in France, wrote thus:-" The eft'ecis of mesmerism are not
explicable by any natural canses. No natural means are em-
ployed to produce them. Mesmerism is a stratagem invented by
the devil to seduce souls, to increase the number of his adherents,
and oppose the works of Jesus Christ and his ministers. No
Christian can employ mesmerism for himself or others without
mortal sin. Mesmerism undermines faith and morals. Government
ought to proscribe it. In order to be initiated into its mysteries,
Jesus Christ must be denied, and the cross trampled upon. All mes-
merisers are disciples of Lucifer."*
How slavishly does the alleged protestant writer of a disgraceful
English sermon, of which not a copy would have sold but for the
wretched state of our education, adopt the thoughts and words of
the Roman Catholics, against whom he is so fierce. Thus vaccina-
tion was discovered to be Antichrist, and sermons were furiously
preached against it when I was a boy, as they had been previously
against the inoculation of small pox. Thus we read that the mira-
culous cures of Christ, when he was thought " beside himselr' by
"his friends," were attributed to the devil,t as though this were so
benevolent an individual.
Ignorance, mistaken for knowledge, is a frightful perpetrator of
injustice and cruelty. W~re I a preacher, there is one sin-a daily,
hourly sin-one productive, unheeded, ofimmense mischief,-against
which I would lift my voice in season and out of season, but which
I never once in my whole life heard preached against;, though I
find it treated of in one of the late Dr. Arnold's sermons. It is the
sin of presuming to hold opinions on matters upon which we have
not qualified ourselves to have any opinion at all. Men and women,
young and old, educated and uneducated, rich and poor, equally
commit this from morning to night, committing it not only in word
but in action: and yet they, in superficial routin~, pray to God to
keep them from presumptuous sins,-" Keep thy servant also from
presumptuous sins."t
Of all classes, the medical profession should conduct themselves
the most rationally. They profess to be very acientijic, liberal, and
llumane.'
• l<'oiasac, fiP• 251, 394. t 3lark iii. 21, 22. ! Psalm xix.
Digitized by Google
91
It is the character of a &cientific man to acknowledge that be is
only an observer of the universe, and of a minute fraction of it; that
he comes into existence with his peculiar nature and is placed here,
without his own interference, and has had no share in constructing the
universe; that he must admit all that be finds, and could never have
imagined what he does find; that be can explain nothing, and what
he calls explanation is merely the placing of various facts under the
same head. Medical men constantly refuse to admit facts, because
they presumptuously suppose berorehand that such fact's are not;
thus creating the world according to their poor narrow conceptions,
and forgetting that it is their duty is to be " humble, teachable and
mild."
Those who declare they would not believe the facts of mesmerism
if they saw them, could not haTe believed the miracles bad they li'fed
in the days of Christ, and cannot in reason now, because they
must believe on the reported evidence of other men's senses instead
of their own. An exemplary clergyman once said to me, " How can
I refuse to believe the facts of mesmerism and say that I believe the
miracles !" A friend of mine on coming up to town this spring,
enquired earnestly if the case of amputation had occurred at all,
since the existence of Wombell, Mr. Ward, and Mr. Topham, was
altogether denied in his part of the country.
It is the character of a liberal man to give others credit for sin-
cerity, a love of truth, industry, and sense equal with his own; yet
they are puft'ed up, thanking God that they are not such fools as
some other men are,--e'fen as this mesmeriser.
" Plagiarist! liar! impostor! heretic! were among the expressions
of malignant hatred lavished upon Galileo," in 1609.*
Deleuze proYed in 1819 that our "adYersaries do not know
mesmerism, gi'fe its partizans credit for absurd opinions, pass over
in silence the most convincing proofs, while they refute facts which
no body maintains, and, when forced to confess incontestible phe-
nomena, ascribe them to something inadequate to produce them."t
Foissac, in 1833, complained that " able men write daily against
mesmerism without knowing any thing about it, or having studied
it, and do not hesitate to insult and defame those who feel it a duty
to do homage to truth, in recei'fing the testimony of their senses
and obeying their conscience."t
• Life nf Galileo, pllltlislted I•!J tlu Societg for the Diffunoft nf U:w)id
linou·le•lge. p. 20. .
t Foissac. p. 241.
~ - - p. 551.
Digitized by Google
92
The conduct of many up to 1843 shows that they have not ad-
vanced in wisdom.
A friend told me he had sent a copy of Mr. Topham's pamphlet
to a Fellow of the College of Physicians, who returned it unopened.
It is the character of a humane man to be anxious that all pro-
mises of benefit to his fellow-creatures may be fulfilled; that every
alleged means of curing disease may tum out, uot a fallacy, but a
reality,-to "hope all things." Medical men should be the hum-
blest of all practitioners of art. Highly as I estimate the powers
of my art, when carefully and earnestly employed, and invaluable as
is a skilful, laborious, and conscientious medical man, we know
in our hearts that we have yet but an insufficient insight into
disease; that the investigation of cases is too difficult and too labori-
ous to be carried on efficieutly, in the greater number of them, by
persons who see many in the day, whether in charities or in a profit-
able round; that well established measures require more paius for their
perfect administration than are generally given; that for a very large
number of cases our means are very inadequate, for many all but
useless; and that medical men are receiving money every day for
doing little or no good. Were not their art so imperfect, they
would not have to complain, as they do everlastingly, of the pros-
perity of quacks and persons altogether, and not, like themselves,
in part, pretenders. They should each feel it a duty strenuously
to be looking out for improvements of their art; and, satisfied that
it may be as greatly improved as any other art, they, instead of hug-
ging themselves on their receipts and sneering lazily at the disinterest-
edly industrious, when a new fact or remedy is mentioned, should
hopefully listen, and determine to ascertain what amount of good it
contaius, ashamed of the errors and vices of their predecessors, who
violently opposed the truths ofthe circulation,-the lacteals, and then
of the lymphatics,-the physiology of the braio,-inoculation, and
then of vaccination,-bark,-antimony, &c.;-remembering that our
College of Physicians imprisoned one physician for employing can-
tharides, and another for differing from Galen; that Ambrose Pare
was "hooted" for tying wounded arteries instead of applying boiling
pitch, the pain of which they thought nothing of, and which Dr.
Copland would have admired; that, just as the course of the earth
taught by Pythagoras had to be taught afresh by Copernicus, at the
end of two thousand years, after being reviled, and then again re-
ftuired all the powers of Newton for its demonstration, so the truth
of nerves of sense and motion being distinct fell into contempt in the
Digitized by Google
93
last century, ami no preparation of that ancient ami powerful re-
medy, colchicum, was in the London Pharmacopreia when I was
student at St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals, in 1808.
The happiness of a scientific, liberal, and humane course they
would find great beyond all expectation. They would feel raised as
men, and be enabled not to view their poor coterie, or college, or
profession, as their world, fashioning their opinions, and habits,
and whole nature by its cramping influence; but, regarding them-
selves as a part of universal nature, would find themselves always
moving freely in it, would keep their regards constantly upon its
truths only, and, walking happily onwards, bestow no more atten-
tion upon the sayings and doings of the coteries and prosperous
men of the moment, than upon the noisy· sparrows which flutter
and chirp outside their window to-day and will not be heard of
to-morrow.
If I have expressed myself strongly in this pamphlet, it is what
I intended. The adversaries of mesmerism and of mesmerists have
had their full sway hitherto, and they must be thankful for a change.
Our tum is now come. Their conduct has shown that patience,
sincerity, disinterestedness, and mild persuasion are lost upon them.
Our objects are of incalculable importance,-the establishment of
means to cure diseases at present 1_11ore or less troublesome, diffi-
cult, or impossible to cure,-the prevention of pain in surgical ope-
rations,-and possibly other advances on which I will not venture at
present to say anything. This must require a great effort, for it
will form an era in the history of man; and those who are willing to
assist must be in earnest. I feel no hostility to our opponents.
They merely act the part of puppets;-not knowing why they so act,
and blindly obeying the general laws by which a supply of oppo-
nents to every truth and improvement is always provided. The
statistics of opposition to good things would shew that their course
obeys fixed laws; and they are to be pitied for being destined to the
parts which they so eagerly perform.
l' IN IS.
WALTON AND MITCHELL, PRINTERS, WARDOUR STREET, SOHO.
Digitized by Google
ERRATA.
Poge 40, Une 26, fur" diclalve," read thciliw.
42,- 26,- "it," --are.
43, - 32, - " Morcb," -- thrte "-• bifure ~(arch.
54, - 20 and 34, for " ).{.'' read Mr.
Digitized by Google
HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Fifth Edition. pp. 1194.
ON THE RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN THE ART OF
DISTINGUISHING THE VARIOUS DISEASES OF THE HEART.
With Copper-plates.
NUMEROUS CASES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE EFFICACY
OF THE HYDROCYANIC OR PRUSSIC ACID IN AFFECTIONS
OF THE STOMACH, &c. &c. &c.
THE INTRODUCTORY LECTURE TO A COURSE UPON
STATE-MEDICINE.
AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE OPENING OF THE
MEDICAL SESSION OF UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, Oct. I, 18;J2.
FAREWELL ADDRESS TO THE STUDENTS OF UNI-
VERSITY COLLEGE, io 1839.
Digitized by Google
