{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3269 7695 6725 5335","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_october_1890_supplement.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 Supplement October 1890","mylang":"de"}
Supplement.) Second Ad Interi'm, Report. 661
SUPPLEMENT.
I.
SECOND AD INTERIM REPORT ON THE CENSUS OF
HALLUCINATIONS,
Up to July 11th, 1890.
In England the total number of al18wers received up to this date is :
UNo." tty.." T0ta\8.
From men ............ 2646 218 2864
From women ......... 3108 509 3617
5754 7<J1l 6481
Percentage of affirmative answers, 11'1.
Of the persons answering "Yes" 121 have as yet sent no particulars.
The number of persons who have had more than one experience, either
the same repeated more than once or different experiences, is 217. Of these,
90 have had only auditory or tactile experiences, genemlly of a trivial kind.
When a percipient bas had more than one experience, but has not described
them singly, his experiences are counted together as one case in the follow-
ing tables.
The experiences recorded have been claBBmed as follo1\'8 :
A.-ExPERIENCES AFFECTING MORE THAN ONE SENSE.
I.-COINCIDENTAL.
Representing
A Living A Dea.d I An
Totals.
Penon. Penon. IDaDimate
Object.
Visual and Auditory ......... 8 1 2 11
Visual and Tactile ............ 2 2
Auditory and Tactile...•..... 1 1
Visual,Auditory,and Tactile 2 2
13 1 2 I 16
Digitized by Google
662 S('('O'IHl Ad Interim Rep(Yt·t Oil fltp (Supplemeut.
II. - NON·COIlH'IllENTAL.
Representing
JI ~ II ~!i I b..:I 1
8
- ~ ~e ~-c! I 1 ~~
~ II ] I ~i I~~~i ~ I!s
-< < i = I:l. ! l.:i
IVi!lual and Auditory ......... -~~1~!-2-·-1--3--;-
iVisual and Tactile .... ........ 3 4 2, 1 1 1 12
Auditory and Tactile ......... 3 1 2 I 1 7
Visual, Auditory, and Tactilel _-=-- ___1
___,______
3_
20 I 14 I 3 I 2 I 5
I 14 58
-------
It is by no means certain that the affection of both senses was in all cases
hallucinatory-rUl~tling, foot!!tcps, &c., may sometimes have been real
HOunds. and touches real mUBCulsr sensations.
Of the coincidental ,·isual and auditory cases, 2, viz., thOHe representing
an inanimate ohject, are Mid to have been collective. Of the non-
coincidental visual and auditory cases, 5, viz., 1 of an unrecognised person,
1 of an animal, 2 of 1m i1mnhnate object, and 1 of a recognised living
person, are alH<1 lII~id to have been collective. In the last ca.'iC the experience
of two out of the three percipient!! was visual only.
B.-EXPERIEN{'E.'1 AFFECTING ONE SENSE O!'lL¥.
1. Coincidental-
a. Human apparitionll :
a. Of living people
/3. rnrecognised
b. Non·human apparitionll:
I.-VIKl·AL.
a. Of animalll (Hymbolic) ...
/3. Of inanimate objects
2. Non-coincident!!l-
a. HUlIlan apparitions:
a. Of living people
/3. Of dead people ...
'Y' rllrecognised
a. Any part of figure other than head
b. Non-human apparitions:
a. Of aninmlll
/3. Of i1uminmtc ohjects
Total
87} 1
1~! 317~...
ll} 48'
37 J
408
Of these. 52 (6 coincidentnl and 46 non-coincidental cases) are said to II1\\"e
been collecti\'o experiences. The coincidental collective CAses consist of
Snpplement.) C(!II!1/l1'1 of HaUlwillation'l. 663
3 apparitions of a living person, 1 unrecognised, and 2 of inanimate objectli ;
a.mI the non-coincidentsl collecth'o cases col18ilit of 6 apparitions of a lil'ing
llerson, 2 of a dead person, alld 2U unrecogniHed, 1 of an animal, and 8 of
inanimate objects. . . . . . . .
II.-Al'nITORY (HUlIAN VOleM).
1. Coincidentsl-
a. Recognised living :
Name' called...
ll} 1
Words othol' than percipient's name 12 25
Crying or sobbing •.• 2.
b. Unrecognised : (33
Name called... ..... .... ...
:} 8
J
Words other than percipient's name
2. Non-coincidentsl-
a. Recognised. Of living persoll8 :
Name called on one IIccasion..• 26 ')
Words other than percipient's name 6
~
Voiceli heard (once or more) 5 3<~
Song '1
Screamli 1 )
b. Recognised. Of dead persons :
NI~me called on one occasion 10-
}
Words other than percipient's name 6 20
Voices heard (once or more) 4
c. Name called on more tlum one occasion, \'oice either recog-
ltise<l or not' 63
d. Fnrecognised:
Name called on one occasion 20 1
Words other than percipient's name 21
f
Voices heard (once or more) 14
US
"Crooning " a tune 1
Music and faint \'oicOf'l 1 I
Shriek 1 )
Totsl 213
Of these, 19 (4 coincidentsl and 15 non-coincidental) are Mid to have
ooen collective experiences. The 4 coincidentsl collective cases consist of 2
cases of calls, 1 of words in a recognised \'oice, and 1 of a call in an unrecog-
nised voice. The non-coincidentsl collective CMes are 4 cases of calls, 2 of
words, I\lld 1 of a song in the voice of a living person, 1 of words in the \'oice
of a dead person, 1 of the voice of a. dead person, 1 of calls occurring 011
three occasioll8 to the Mme two percipients, and 5 unrecognised cases (3 of
words, 1 of voices, IUld 1 of "crooning" a tune).
IIT.-TACTILE.
1. Coincidentsl-
a. Recognised touch of a living persoll
b. Unrecognised
Digitized by Google
&cona Ad Interim Report. (Sapp!emeat..
~. Non-coincidental-
a. Recognised touch of a living person :
a. Single touch
fl. Recurring touches
b. Recognised touch of a dead person :
a. Single touch
fl. Recurring touches
c. Unrecognised: .
a. Single touch, &C.
fl. Frequent touches
Total
:l..
4J)
One case of a single unrecognised touch is said to have been collective,
one percipient seeing a form when the other felt a touch.
I must make the same reserves &8 to possibilities of error, and, in a few
cases, morbid conditions in the percipients, &8 in my last report.
The inquiry is also proceeding in America, France, Germany, and Italy,
but we have not received any detailed reports from these countries.
I may again remind my readers that a report on the Census is to be made
to the International Congress of Experimental Psychology in 1892, and that
we should like by that time to have 50,000 answers. Further assistance in
collecting is urgently needed, and I shall be glad to correspond with anyone
willing to help in the work. Letters should be addressed, Professor Sidg-
wick, Cambridge.
HB!<'1lY SIDGWICK.
P.S.-In America the collection is being carried on by Professor William
Jall1es, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., who may be applied to for
.the necessary forms, and in France by Mons. Leon Marillier, 7, Rue
Michelet, Paris.
Digitized by Google
Bopplement.] Ak.<jakofs Animismus an(l Spi'1'iti>m~us.
II.
REVIEW OF A. AKSAKOF'S ANIMISMUS AND
SPIRITISMUS.
By F. W. H. :MYERS•
665
.Animism and Sz)iritiJlm; an Attempt at a Critical IlH'uti{Jatwn of Mediumistic:
Phenomena, with special refel'elIu to the Hypothe&u of HaUlIciliatum allCl
of the UnccmscwlIs; an Allswer to Dr. E. 'Von Ha<rtmanll's 1ool"k, "Del'
SpiritiJlmlls." By Alexander N. Aksskof. PI>. xli., 768, in two
volumes octavo. Oswald Mut7.e, Leipsic, 1890.
This work calls for serious notice, alike on account of the position and
character of its author, and of the original thought and independent research
to which the book itself bears witness. There are few men living who have
pursued these inquiries with such persistent energy as M. Aksakof. His
l)ersonal investigations must have involved journeys of several thousands of
miles; and he has for many years published at Leipsic the monthly journal,
PsycAische Stlldien, which is honourably distinguished by absence of fanati-
cism or jlctrU pris; its sub-editor, Herr Wittig, being no Spiritualist, but
explaining all supernormal phenomena by the action of telepathy and of
the unconscious Self.
Through the medium of his journal, or by direct communication, M.
Aksakof has supplied our own Society with some very important pieces of
evidence; and in the verification and corroboration of· these cases he has
spared no pains.
The primary ohject of his present work is of Acontroversial nAture. III
1888 Dr. von HArtmann, the distinguished author of Phenmnelwloyy amI
The P"ilo'~"Jlhy 'of the UnconscioHs, Imblished a short work on Spiritualism,
which was trnnslated by Mr. C. C. Masscy for English readers in 1885, in
LiJht, from the office of which paper it can be obtained in pamphlet form.
In this work Dr. von Hartmann provisionally accepted the bulk of
Spiritualistic phenomena as reported, but endeavoured to explllin them
without admitting the agency of any minds except those of the medium and
sitters. His principal assumptions, as 8ummatised by M. Aksakof (Y01. I.,
p. xxiv.), are as follows:-
1. A nervous forcc, which can produce mcchanical and pllll!tic effccts
outsidc the human body.
2. Hallucinations [often collectivc]; supported by this snllle nervous
force. and sometimes producing physical and plastic cffects.
3. A hidden, unrealised, sonlllalllbulic consciousncss (lIltbelW&<tcs BCWIIS1Jt-
sei/!) existing throughout the 8uhject's normal life, which perceives the
whole present and pa~t life of another man, through telepathic illHight into
his intellectual content.
4. Finally, Dr. von Hartmanll assumes that thil! samc cOl1sciommess
80metimcs becomes possessed of a clairvoyant power; brings the 8uhject
ti66 R('I'ieH' of A, A~'Ilo~'oj'14 [Supplemeat..
into relation with the absolute, and cOUfo;equently bestow8 upon him a k.now-
ledge of e"erythiug which is or which has hooll.
To thi8 M. AkKakof replie8 by accepting the facts as l\SIlullllltl by Dr.
"on Hartmann, and by urging that t11/\t philOK0l'her'8 theories (with
which, so far I\K they go, M. AkMkof in the main concurs) do not explain
or cover the whole of the aIIIIumed facts; some of which facts net,"(} the
hypotheHis of an intervening intelligence outside the intelligence>.! of the
living persons concerned. I may My at once that "" tltt! data as a&l""U"( I
think that M. AkKakof hM the better uf hill opponent, But the "alue of
this victory is diminished by the loosene8s of the premises un "'hich the
Arguments on each side are founded. Dr. "Oil Hartmann WAS by no means
bound, I think, to admit so much all he hl\ll admitted. Many of the incidents
to which both he and M. Aksakof appeal seem to me to relit 011 "cry
iusufticient proof. And M. AkKakof's hook would couKequently have been
to UK of more value hall its aim been of a more evidential and a leKS contro-
versial character.
But while thus premising that thel'e lUust be much Illore evidential work
clone before any contro\'ersy of this kind CI\Il be ctlnsi,iered as finally set.tIl.>d,
we lllay gh\dly allow that in the lU\Ilds of these two very capable logicum.l\
the cllntro\'erKy has been lllade the occasion of presenting 1I1any psychological
problem!! under a far more reasonahle, " fur more KilTIIbT.., aspect thau they
lll\\'e been wont to wear in Spiritualistic manualli. ?or. AkKakof hlL'! written
with ,"lelluato knowledge of what experimentull'sychology has (lone within
the last few years in Fnmce alld England to throw light Oil human automa-
tislll, ami the workings of the suhconscioull Self; and his own temper of
mind ill free frolll haste or fallaticillm. One or two passages from hill preface
will best indicate hi!\attitude :-
" Since I first interested myself, in the year 1H55, in the 8pir}tualistic
movement, I have never ceased to study it in all its details,-in all parts of
the world, and ill all litoratureH. At first I leanlt the facts frolll the testi-
Illony of others: it wall not until the year 1870 that I attended my first
>leance in an intimate circle of friends selected by mYKelf. I WM not sur-
prised to find that the phonomena were Kuch ns others had asserted them to
he; allll I formed the deep convict.ion thllt these fllCts, "oritably existing ill
Nature, mURt form a firm basiK for tho gradual uphuilding of a new Kcience,
which might hold the promille, pel'hapK, of soh'iug in the remote future the
main riddle of humall life. I did whllt I could to make these facts known,
~md to draw UpOll them the attention of open.milldedmen.
"Meanwhile, however, a change was taking place in Illy own inward
attitude. I suppose that e"ery intelligent observer, on his fil'St aC'luaintancc
with these phenomena, is struck with two indubituble fllcts: firstly, the
..hviously (wtQmatic character of so·called Spiritualistic manifeKtatiollS, and,
Recondly, the frequent fal"UY-8h8lnelellll amI conllpicuous-of their in-
tellectual content. The ilIustriouli names with which these communications
are usunlly lIigned are the be!lt proof that the me!llll\ges are at any rate IIC.t
flInt which they pretend to he. AmI similarly with the simpler physical
phenomena it is evident, on the one haud, that they occur without the
slighte!!t cOllscioUII co-operation on the medium'!! part,-while yet. (Ill the
..ther hllnd, there is at first sight nl)thing tn justify their MCription to the
Digitized by Google
SUPlllement.) 667
agency of 'spirits~' It is only gradually-when certnill phenomena of an
intellectual type Imve compelled us to recognise an intelligent power outsido
the medium-that one forget.'! one's first impression nud leams to look with
more respect on the Spirituali~tic hypothesis. And thu~, while the materials
which I had collected by reading and experience seemed abundant" their
cxp!.mation was hard to find. And on the other hand, as years went on, the
weak tlide of SpiritualislIl became incrensingly conRpicuouti. The vulgarity of
the meSRageR, the oorrennetls of thoir intellectual content, the mystifications
and falsehoods involved in the majority of the manifostationfl, the ull8uit-
ahility of the physical phenomena for systematic experiment, the credulity,
infatuation, fanaticifllll of SpiritiRts and Spiritualist,s, and, finally, the fraud
which made its entranco into the inquiry along with dark HeanceR and
materialisations, a fmud whoRe prevalence was brought home to llIe, not only
by the writings of others, but hy my own personl11 experiences in the course
of investigation with the mORt renowned professionalmediullIs;-in a word, /I.
whole mass of new doubt.'!, ohjections, and perplexities intensified the original
difficulty of the problem before me. l'nder the influence of such
impressions, I often bethought myself of the great illul!ionH through which
Illankind have passed in the course of their intellectual de"elojllllent, and IIfIkcd
myself whether of thetlo illusions Spiritualism might not be the last.
"I first saw light breaking in upon me, when a critical study of the facts
hllel forced lIle to the concIu>lion that c\'ery type of meeliumiKtic phenomenon
is capable of being produced hy the unconscious action of living lUen ; that
contlequently the uncollllcious psychical activity of our heing is neither
pltl''''!! psychical in character, nor is confined within the periphery of our
hodily frames; hut that it call m'erstep the hounds of the lIody, and call
exert, either within or without the body, activities of a physical, nay even
of a plastic kind. It iK to thili wide field of phenomelll\.-wider perhaps
than the field of Spiritualism proper, -that I lll\ve given the name of
Animism.
" It iii highly iJ1lport~mt to recognise and stufly the working of the Ullcon-
RcioUB element in our nature-most of all in those itK mOllt complex and
extreme manifestations which Animism reveals to us. From thill Htalldpoint
alone can we judge aright of SpiritlU,lism itself. For if aught within us
8m'vives the body, that mUHt be this unconscious element, or sny this illJlcr
consciousne!ls, which, although at present hidden from us, yet constitutes
the original principle of each individuality.
,. And thus for the due comprehenKion of mediumistic phenomena wc have
not one hypothesis only. hut three hypotheses: each of them possessing full
right to be invoked for the explanation of a certain series of facts; the facts
t.helllJielvcs being thus reducible under three main categories, which we may
.lcsignate by the following llames:-
"I. PersvllislnlfS (or change of personality) may HtallCl for those uncon-
HCiOllti psychical phenomClm which are produc(.d within the limits of the
medium's own body; those illtl'fl-metiillmistic phenomena. whosc distinguish-
ing characteristic is the assumption of a pel'sOIlI\lity l<tmnge to that of the
medium. Of this clllflfl are the elementary phenomelUl of mcdiull1ship,-the
conversations through table-tilting, writing 1lIe<liUIIl6hip, and unconscious
.uttemnce. We have here the first and simplellt IlIRnifeHu,tioll of the duplicll-
668 Review of A. Aksakofs [Sapp1emenL
tion of consciousness, -that fundamental phenomenon of mediumshlp. The
facta under this heading reveal to us the duality of our psychical being,-
the non-identity of the individual, inner, unconscious Self with the personal,
outer, conscious Self. They 8how us that the centre of gravity of the
psychical being does not lie in the personal Ego; that this last is but the
phenomenal manifestation of the noumenal individuality; and that conse-
quently the (neC888&rily personal) elementa of this phenomenal self may
l\88ume a manifold chamcter,-normal, abnormal, or fictive,-according to
the condition of the organism, in 81eep, .omnambulism, or mediumistic
I\Ctivity.
.. II. P nder the name of Animism, we include unconscious psychical
phenomena, which show themselve.outaide the limit. of the medium'. body.
-e.dm-medillmistic operations, 81 thought-tranaference, telepathy, telekinesis
(Ft'rll1ri-rkllll!/), or movement. of object. without contact, and finally materiali-
Mtion. We have here the highest manifestation of the psychical duplication;
the element. of the personality overstep the limita of this body, and numi-
fest themseh"es at a distance not only in psychical, but also in physical, and
even plaatic operation, up to the point of complete externalisation or
objectification. Thus it is proved thata psychical element may be not merely
1\ .imple phenomenon of consciousness, but an actual centre of force, which
thinka and organises ;-which can sometimes organise a visible or invisible
duplicate of a given organ of the body, and which thus acta upon the physical
world.
.. III. ruder the name of Spil'itism we include phenomena, resembling
both Personali88tion and Animism, but which we must I\lICribe to some extI'3-
mediumistic and extra·terrene cause. 'Ve have here the earthly manifestation
of the individuality through the help of those element. of personality which
have been able to cling round the centre of individuality after it. severance
from the body, and which can manifest themselves through mediumship,-
that is to ssy, through as,'!ocilltion with the corporate psychical elements of
ROme living being. The phenomena of Spiritism must therefore resemble in
their general form those of Personali88tion and of Animism, and differ only
in their intellectual content, which affords evidence of an independent
personality. " (Vol. I., pp. xxv.-xxxii.)
From the point of view of a believer in all these phenomen.'\, this classi-
fication hll.'! great merit. It forllls a marked advance on the merely empirical
arrangements, with all phenomena alike referred to the action of .. spirit.s. ,.
wit,h which the propounder,oj of these tenets have too often rested content.
A few remarks on the terms which M. Aksakof employs may be useful here.
In the first place it h; important to keep the term Spiritism (or
Spiritualism) for phenomena where the intervention of spirits il:! meant to be
aKKerted.
At present much confusion exists, owing partly to the fact that variouR
movements of hUlllall limbs, not due to the conscious agency of the ollner of
the limb, and therefore called automatic, were first observed or described by
men who attributed them to the agency of the departed. Thus automatic
wl'iting,-which happells to he now mainly discussed by French doctors iu
anything but 1\ mystical Kpirit,,-is still iudiscriminately called in f!(lme quarters
n .. Spiritualistic phenomenon." although it ought not to be 80 designatod
Digitized by Google
Supplemeut.] .AnimUnnus Ctnd SpiriU4i1lws. 669
unle.'JII the speaker means distinctly to assert that a spirit is prompting the
message.
Moreover, the wOl'd "Spiritualism" is itself ambiguous. It had already
been appropriated ill France to the school of philosophy opposed to
materialism, befol'6 it was used for the belief in manifestations of the
departed.
It seems, therefore, better to give the term "Spiritism" to this special
balief. At present "Spiritism and Spiritualism" are sometimllS opposed to
each other with a kind of sectarian connotation,-Spiritism inyolving a belief
in re-incamation on this planet, which Spiritualism denies. But this difference
of speculative view can easily be expressed in a more direct way. And if these
phenomena are to be dispassionately studied, it is most desirable that they
should bear 110 question-begging or sectarian titles.
For the alleged movements without contact, which fOI'lU an important
branch of "so-called Spiritualistic phenomena," M. Aksakof's new word
" telekinetic" seems to me the best attainable. It need not, of course,
imply an actual actio in dilltans, without any intervening medium, but rather
an action exercised upon a body so situated with regard to the assumed
agent that no exercise of any known force would have originated the body's
movemcnt. Again, M. Aksakof uses the term " telesomatic" for the
phenomena of so-called "nmterialisation,"-the formation of "spirit-hands"
and the like. Elsewhere he calls these phenomena "plastic." Inasmuch &8
other nmterial objects are asserted to be thus supernormally formed, besides
quasi-human bodies, it would be better, I think, to give the name teleplcllItic
to all this class of alleged phenomena.
To many of my readers this may seem to be an elaborate bestowal of
specific names upon some fine specimens of the genus ('7~imreTCI. But if these
alleged phenomena are to be discussed at all, we must have names to call
them by ; and M. Aksakof's effort to avoid the confused and misleading
terminology at present in vogue should, I think, be warmly encouraged by
disputants on either side.
M. Aksakof still, however, retains one word which seems to me the most
barbarous and the most question-begging of all, viz., the word medium,
with its intolerable derivatives meliillmism and medi1lmistic i-as though one
were to say magn11mism for magnitude, or partmmistic for small.
But the nmin objection is to the implied assumption that the "medium"
is acting as all intermediary between the spirit-world and our own. This is
just the question in dispute; and it is surely better to keep to the word
" automatist," understanding this to mean that the person who is producing
the phenomena is not producing them by any conscious means.
But apart from these details, it is plain that from the standpoint at
which mllny of our own readers have arrived M. Aksakof's heading of
Animismlls will be seen to illclude phenomena which to UII are situated on
the two sides of a formidable gulf. To telepathy we are in these P"oceediugs
fully accustomed; but the movement of objects, the interIerence with the
ponderable world,-which M. Aksakof sets down as merely one among the
effects of telergic activity,-this alleged physical action has hitherto seemed
to most of us tn be far less conclusively demonstrated. If it is to be in-
cluded among the supernormal powers of the human organism, we should
2 Z
Digitized by Google
670 Review of A. Aksakofll
assuredly desire to see more C8IleI where it hal! been exercised under definite
conditions, and with no p08llibility of fraud. M. Aksakof touches, I think,
the centre of the problem when he suggests that AyplWtic "'9guti<m ought,--
if this power truly exist-to enable us to evoke its action experimentally
in a suitable subject. Thus, where we already have (as in Mr. Cleave's
often quoted case) an appeara,~e of the hypnotised subject to the diatant
l)erson on whom his thoughts are fixed, we should have lOme physical effect
also, coincident with that appearance, Bnd indicating that the entranced
person was modifying the material world in what M. Aksakof terms a
telekinetic manner.
"Just AS hypnotism hal in our day" become an instrument through which
certain phenomena of psychical automatism, or disintegration of conscious-
ness, can be summoned at will and subjected to experiment, even so we
allow ourselves to hope that through the instrumentality of hypnotism
nearly all the phenomena of Animism may before long be subjected to the
control of definite experiment. We hupe that hypnotic 81&gguiiot& will
succeed in carrying this psychical disintegration beyond the limits of the
body, in producing at will an action upon the physical world. That will be
the first step towards a similarly voluntary originstion of plMtic action
M well, so that the phenomenon known as •materialisation ' may receive
scientific acceptance.
"And when Personality is thus analysed, psychological experiment will
"trike down to human individuality; that transcendental core of indissoluble
forces, round which the complex and separable elements of Personality are
grouped and cling. " (Vol. I., p. xxxvi.)
M. AklllLkof, however, while fully recognising the desirability of experi-
ment of the above kind, is nevertheless cunvinced that ample proof already
exists of m'\ny classes of physical phenomena; and, moreover, that some of
the!le classes (as "spirit-photography") demonstrate the influence of an
intelligent agency outside the mind of any person present. Into his review
of physical phenomena I must not here follow him in detail. A committee
of the Society for Psychical Research (as my readers may perhaps remember)
is engl\ged on this IIILUle inquiry, and what has to be lIILid on the matter will
he better said elsewhere. Yet I may just suggest that in the event of the
translation uf M. Aksakof's buok into French or English the list of cases
which he quotes might well undergo revision. I ob!lerve the names of Cl"rtaill
mediums whose marvels would need a great deal of tel'ltimony to establish
them, and of certain witnesses whose testimony would go but small way
towards establishing any marvels whatever. And some other CASeS are at that
perplexing point where the evidence for them is just too strong to ignore, but
just too weak to rely on. There are, huwever, certain other cases which-
however isolated and startling-are yet so well evidenced that attention
should certainly he drawn to them as often as possible, in the hope that
other observers may attempt to obtain similar results. Such are the
transcendental photographs taken by Mr. Beattie and (especially) by Prof.
Wagner; hard to explain either by fraud or by accident, yet not hitherto
sufficiently supported by careful experiments of like kind to compel
~onviction.
But I paas on to the second volume, which consists mainly of an analysis
Digitized by Google
Supplement.J .Anirn'is1nWf wnd Spirit'i81nWf. 671
C)f the contents of communicatioll8 Bupemormally received, with a view to
c:l'3ciding whether anything in those communicatioll8 compels us to look
beyond the medium's mind for its source and derivation.
And here the greater number of the points which our author suggests are
c:l.pable of being directly tested by experiments which have nothing mystical
or ull8cientific about them. For they are, as I have said, mainly questioll8
~\'1 to the content of automatic f1leSIIa9u.
Now we may fairly claim that automatic writing and cognate fomts
of "message" are now accepted as genuine and important phenomena,
throwing light upon the workings of Bubconscious strata of the mind. What
the psychology of ten years ago ignored as mere fraud or fancy, the experi-
mental psychologist of to-day recognises as " necessary aid to diagnosis.
And on the other hand, any Spiritualist who, like M. Aksakof, writtls
with knowledge and moderation, admits that the mere fact ofautomatic writing
does not necessarily prove the intervention of an intelligence other than that
of the automatist him'lelf, or of some other living person, whose knowledge
may be transmitted to the automatist by a telepathic undercurrent front
mind to mind.
With these admissiQl1s on both Bides the points to observe in experiments
in automatism are sufficiently clear, however much opinioll8 may differ as to
the reliance to be placed on the accuracy of any given observer.
I regard some of the cases which M. Aksakot cites as being too remote
and too loosely described to carry much weight. But the headings or rubncs
under which they are grouped seem soundly chosen, and there is no reason
why further experiments should not be made in almost evtlry class, if pains
are taken to select suitable automatists.
1. As a first step among the proofs of an external agency in the messages,
M. Aksakof takes those cases where the me88&ge is given against the
automatist's desire, or contains advice, injunctions, &c., contrary to his
conscious will.
Cases of this sort are not uncommon; and it is interesting to trace the
differences of character, &c., between the two personalities. But we iufer
from the classical case of L~ouie I., II., III., and from other cases, that the
~ubconscious self may set itself in opposition to the conscious self; nor CIlll
we limit the extent to which this war of wills may be carried.
2. Somewhat similar are the cases where the substance of the meBBage
contravenes the automatist's speculative or religious ideas. The case of
"M.A. (Oxon.}," given in his work, Spirit Teachings, is a striking ill8tance
of this kind. In that case the automatist was converted from ordinary
Anglican orthodoxy to a much broader view of spiritual evolution. In
another case, privately printed under the title of Strcmge Tmch, a few
years ago, the automatist was a Unitarian, and was converted by his own
automatic writings to Trinitarian views. I have known other instances of
this kind. But, of course, we can have no rigorous proof that these effective
~'rgl1ments did not proceed from the writer's own brain.
3 and 4. Similar remarks apply to the cases where the communications
appear to be either belolo or above the writer's level of cbaracter and in-
telligence. Stsrtling although they often are, these manifestatiOll8 of some-
thing within us either more debased or more exalted than we had supposed
2 z 2
Digitized by Google
672 Ret'U!w of A. Aksakofll (SupplemeDt.
can hanlly be presaed a,. rigorous proofs of an external influence. In some
of the cases cited (in the Ed,!";,. Dmod C88C, for instance) our aut.hor, I
think, much overrates the intrinsic yalue of the mellll8gell given.
5. It hM occasionally been stated that infants or l"ery young children
have written, &c., autolllatically. Could this he proved (and I do not think
M. Aksakof's cues adequate to prove it), we should still ha,·e an alternatiyi)
view. Such a manifestation might possibly show an inward development of
the unconscious self in advance of that of the conscious self, rather than
any influence from extem"l intelligences.
6. Ths next heading is a yery important one. It is MSerted that;
11l!lssagJ3 have frequently been given by automatic speech or writing in '"
tongue unknown to the automatist. rp to this date this thesis has mainly
rested on some strong testimony gh·en by Judge Edmonds, an upright and
Rl\gRcious man,-but one who unhappily WBII content to set down his
experiences without the clt,tails and corroborations whicb would now add s~
much value to the record. In every case where this utterance in an unknown
tongue is a.'1ser~ed the I\Ctual words Il.'led should be given, ill ordor to MSure
the reader that thoy are more than such trivial phrases as the unconscious
Relf may easily ha"e noted and retained, M in the case given ProaediIlJ~.
Vol. II., p. 26.
This subject has been repeateclly alluded to in our P"OC.tI!.tiiIlYII, and fresh
observations are much to be desired.
7. Of a somewhat similar type are the anomalous cases under M.
Aksakof's next heading. One of thello is ospecially noteworthy, but cannot
be reproduced without the use of the RUfsian alphabet. In a mesMg6
written by the late Maclame AkH",kof (apparently in a state of trance) Russian
lottera were used to represent English lettera, which they resembled in form.
while totally different in phonetic value. The cuse is a complex one, and
(excluding the supposition of external agency) would imply an elaborate
mystific.'\tion, conducted by Madame Aksakof's unconscious self, by the aid of
knowledge telepathically drawn from her husband's mind. Absurd as such
a hypothesis may sound, we ha"e only to refer to our often-cited case of l\'Ir.
and 1\1I'8. Newnham (where the messages thcmselves expressly claimed t~
originate in Mra. Newnlllull's mincl), to show that it must be taken int~
account as a quite p088ible explauation.
8. The next heading is the important one of "Communications of fact.OJ
unknown to the medium and sittera."
In some of these cases the medium or automatist appears to have indicated
the po~ition of objects in darkness, or to have read concealed words, &c.
For this there is much old, and some recent evidence j but "Clairvoyance ,.
of this kind resembles rather an extenHion of the automatist's own per-
ceptivity than the effect of all external influence.
In other cases ("'" the Cardoso ca!le, given in the Bocwty lor P6ycliicII
&1ef.1I'rh Journal, January, 1887, and June, 1889), and some of .. M.A.
(Oxon.)'8" experiences, the fsets giveu consist in the reproduction of words
from a book j and even admitting that those words have never fallen within
the Automatist's visual field, we may still think it more probable that his
unconscious self has obtained clairvoyant access (so to say) to the words in
Digitized by Google
Snpplement.] 673
.luestion, rather than that an external intelligence has commWlicated 80
Wlnleaning a mellllllge.
Perhaps the strongest case under this heading is the Du~anel case, already
llUblished by us, in fuller detail, through M. Aksakof's kind permission, in
Proceed'ings XVI.
9. The previouslY-Wlknown fact is of course of special interest when it
-concerns a deceased person never before heard of by any of those present.
The few well-attested cases of this kind,-one of which, the Ptlr.Higuine
-case, was contributed by M. Aksakof to our ProceedinYII XVI.,-are of the
greatest pos'iible interest, and need further discussion than can here bo
given.
But I must protest, in passing, against M. Aksakofs citation of messages
from the" Message Department" of the Banller of Liyht. I have analyse(l
m~!ly of those messages, and have usually found them to consist of a mero
roproduction of announcements of deaths which have already appeared ill
newspapers, or to present other suspicious circumstances.
10. The next heading is one which, even if better attested, could hardly
exclude 1\ telepathic explanation. "The carrying of messages for great
distances,"-trl\nsfereuce from one group of observers to another of some
definite communication not previously agreed upon,-has been very rarely
'rocorded. Professor Bare,-the American chemist well known in the early
days of Spiritualism,-records a case of this kind in his own experie.nce, but
he seem'! never to have been able to repeat the experiment. It must be
added that few serious endeavours would seem to have been made by anyone
to procure this phenomenon.
And, indeed, with regard to this whole series of possible experiments tho
Ramo criticism holds good. M. Aksakof's painstaki,ug collection of evidence
incidentally brings out 8 fact whic~l he has by no means aimed at proving,-
a fact which some le8.'1 judicious partisans of his ideas might even refusc to
~\tlmit,-but which fonns in reality the strongest argument lor careful and pel'-
'8istent investigation into the whole range of these phenomena. That fact
i~ the scantineS3, the desultorines3, the superficiality, of such investigation
::n they have yet received. If a series of incitlents so profoundly interesting
-1\'1 some of those which M. Aksakof quotes have already rewarded such
-e~lual, alnateurish illlluiries as most (I do not say all) of those which he
,d:l:icribes,-then what may we not expect when careful and persevering
:attcntion shall be given to these long-tabooed topics by the scientific world!
For myself p:lrsonally I may say that, although I lJl.'\ke large deductions
from M. AkHltkof's mass of evidence, yet it Reems to me that his review of
the history of the subject has plainly shown that in no other direction what-
-ever have results so striking already rewarded so small an expenditure of
,'Scrious or systematic toil.
The inquiry, so to say, has been passing through the nomadic stage,
hut hl\.'1 not yet reached the clgricnltnral. The scattered observers havo
wandered among spontaneous phenomen.'\, and have cropped enough for
their own Rpiritual food. They bye not yet settled down to Rteady labour,
1101' worked the ground with the plough of experiment, nor built the barns
<of Rystematic record to which posterity lllay cOlllmit an ever amplor store.
And I am not speaking only of the obvious deficiency in specially trained
Digitized by Google
observers of the calibre of Mr. Crooke). I rather wish to point out how
fow men there have been like the author of these volumes hilll8elf ;-men
who, without pretending to exceptionallCientific attainments, have expended
on these problems the persevering sagacity, the lifelong devotion, by which
iu common life, as in exact inquiries, all great results must needs be won.
More such men there well might be; and in M. Aksakof they have aasuredly
an example to follow. I will conclude this review with a few words in which
our author resumes the labour of his life.
"One lMt word! In the decline of life I ask myself sometimes, 'Hal"e
I in truth done well, to have devoted 80 much time and toil and money ~
the study and the publication of facta in this domain 1 Have I not struck
into a blind road 1followed an illusive hope1 Have I not wasted my existence,
with no result to justify all my pains l' Yet always I Reem to hear the same
reply: 'A life on earth can have no higher aspiration than to demonstrate
the transcendental nature of man's being,-to prove him called to a destiny
loftier than the phenomenal existence which alone he knows.' I cannot, then~
regret that I have devoted my whole life to the pursuance of this aim;
nlthough it be by methods which Science shuns or spurns,-methods which I
hold far trustier than any other which Science has to show. And if it be in
the cud my lot to have laid one stone of that temple of the Spirit, upbuilt
from century to century by men true of heart,-this will be the highest and
the only recompense which ever I strOl"e to gain." (Vol. I., pp. xl., xli.)
F. W. H. M.
Digitized by Google
