{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__gregory___mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
MESMERISM, i((
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
AND ITS USES;
WITH
PARTICULAR DIRECTIONS /
FOR E5IPLOYING IT IN REMOVING PAINS AND CURING DISEASES, lj\\
IN PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN IN SURGICAL
AND DENTAL OPERATIONS ; AND IN THE
f3^
EXAMINATION OF INTERNAL DISEASES;
WITH CASES OF
OPERATIONS, EXAMINATIONS,
AND CURES.
¥/
BY S. GREGORY, A. B.
BOSTON:
REDDING & CO., 8 STATE STREET.
PRINTED BX DAVID H. ELA,
JVo. 37 Corn hill.
1843. ,
m^''^^
c(\p
m
i
^^t^<^mg.
WBC
MESMERISM AND ITS USES.
There resides in the human system a fluid of a magnetic or electric
nature, modifiHil by the chemistry of the vital organs lo adapt it to the
pill poses of lile. This elherial essence constitutes the vital |trin?i|)lft,
the nervous influence; it is under the contrnl of the will, and may he
comuiunicated from one person to anollier, as magnetism from the load-
stone to a piece of steel, or froin one |)iece of mft.d to another. This
principle, from its connection wiih animated heings and its resem-
blance to the magiietic properties of minerals, was called Animal Mag-
netisu); l)ut it is now more conveniently termed Mtsmtrism from Meg-
nier, a German physician, who maile important discoveries in this
science, in the latter part of the last century.
Mesmerism is a natnril remedy in a huge class of diseases, particnlar-
ly in all nervous affections. Unlike articles of medicine which produce
a determinate effect, this acts fis the circumstances of the patient may
require. On well persons it usually i)as no (fft;ct at all ; the hodies of
such, being filled with vital elecirieity, absorb no more. In the sick, if
there is loo great activity of the vital forces, causing inflammation and fe-
ver, it calms the excitement ; if there is a cold and torpid state of the
system, it acts as a stimulant, eausmg warmth, nervous action and a
quifker circulation. Other meflicine reaches the seat of the disease
through the stomach, injuring that organ, perhaps, as much as it bene-
fits those diseased. This on the contrary naturally flows to (he parts
that are diseased and deficient in vitality, thus restoring the equilibrium
that has been destroyed, and aiding nature to expel the |)rinciples of the
disease and establish a cure.
According to Delenze, a French author of thirty-five years' experi-
ence in the subject, mepuierism may be euccesslidly employed in the
following diseases: fleadaehe, toothache, rhemnatism, tic (hdoroux,
colds, sore throat, colic, pleurisy, dyspepsia, swelling of the glands, id-
cers, scrofulous complaints, [lulmonary corisumpiion in its early stages,
torpor, prostration of the nervous system, fever, vertijjo, hysterics, hy-
pochondria, fever andague, king's* evil, convulsions, epdejisy and other
fits, insanity, palsy, spitial disease, St. Vitus' dance, fcfnale complaints,
weakness and diseases of the eye, buzzing in the head, deafness when
no destruction of the organs, cutaneous <liseasps, &c.
Of comse it is not |)retended that mesmerism is an infallihln remedy
for these diseases in all, or even in a majf)rity of cases; but in numer-
ous instances it may be successfully employed, and ftcts affiirdsuflicient
grounds of encouragement of a trial of it in the complaints enumer-
ated.
All fiersons possess the mesmeric power, to a greater or less pxtent,
according to their physical strength and mental energy. The strougedt
anil most efficieiil niesnierisers are those wlio Ciin enilure the greatest
aiiioiiiit ot l>oililv ami tiie-iiial lal)or, vvliu |.<.s>t>s the iii-st \ iiahi>, ner-
vous Corce, and ih.^ ino.si discipline and cuneentinlinn ot iinnd. 'riiis
powt^r may l»e Increased liy Jii'iicions fxeriisc, and skill and etiiciency
are acqinied by |»raciice. ''I'lie nie-«nieriser should l>e in good liealih, (»r
he may injure; liiirHeIC and coininunieale disf-ase lo his pulient ;
he
should lie a |»ersun of good moral cliiraeter, as he will rxtrt a moral
hifliienee ; h« inii^C have tirinness and presence oCmind, to qualify hnii
for any emeigency ihal may arise; a deiermmed will, lo eiialile him to
direct his power and ttM-alm any agitation thai may occur m the mes-
inensee. Another reqiisite lo enable one to act wiili perseverance and
siea(hne»<S of^miiose, is a benevolent d. sue lo benefit liie patient.
As lo ihose wlio are tlie mosi siiscepiible of the mesmeric mfluence,
it is impnssilile lo decide without a trial, although it may safely lie said
that the belter ihe heahh liie less the snscepiibiliiy. Ii is designed for
the sick, and its proper office is the relief of human suffering. Deleuze
says that "at least three fomtlis of palieiils feel the effects of it." I
think my observations go to confirm ihis staiement. Something rie-
pends upon the leHipemments, and the ajiieement of the mesnienser's
nervous influenc'e wiih his subjeci. A patient who cannot be mesmer-
ised by one person, may be by another, and a much weaker operator.
One who cannot be affe(!ted to-da\, may be in a coinlilion lo be to-mor-
row. The iiiesnieriv«er may be in a much lietter condition at one litiie
thill another to exert fiis power siiccessfnily. The weather has an in-
flinnce ; a clear, dry atmosphere is belter than the opposite; the room
in which the sitting takes place shouhl be well warmed. A weaker
person may niesmerise a sironger, the foruier being active, the latter
passive. The most rngfied anrl healthy person might perhaps be mes-
Uieiised in time ; his neivons fluid being displaced, little Ity little, by
thai of the mesmeriser, till his brain and nervous system vvc/"e complete-
ly siituhied. A well person who has iiecome much fatigued and ex-
hiinsted might be affected, at least so far as to be refreshed and strength-
ed, iiy .tiiother's mesmeric influence.
This fluid, like others, is governed by the law ofequilihrium. Water
rises;ti» the same height in two vessels that are connected. If a heated
body be jilaced in contact witfi a cold one, they lend to the saine
temperature. Electricity is diffused equally iliroufjh the nimoB-
phere, and if by disturbing causes, it aciuimulates in one part of ihe
heavens at the exjiense of another, a violent commotion ensues till the
eqniiiliriuin is restored. So with the vital influence; the young and
vigorous suffer by sleeping witfi tlie aged and infiirn, whilp the latter
ate lieiietiited in proportion. In the sick there i.s a deficiency of the
Tital fluid, and disturbing causes have destrf>yed its equilibrium ; hence
the olijecl of the mesmeriser is to supply this deficiency, overcome the
obstacles and aid nature lo restore the proper action of the vital forces.
PROCESS OF MESMERISING.
The usual method is as follows: Let the j)atient he comfortably
seated, and -having seated yom>elf in front of him, take his hands in
such a manner thai the balls of your thumbs shall be in contact witli the
balls of his, and the ends of your fingers in the palms of his lian.ls.—
Thus |)laced, look your subject directly in the eye, concentrate your
mtrid, and exert your will to overpower him and cause hitn to fall
as'eeji. if he prefers not to return your gaze, he can drop his eyes a
litlle, Ptill keeping them opiM) ; tlnni<i;ti it is !)eiter if possible to hold hiici
as it° ta.-^('iiiii(H<l, spcll-l'oiiiiil. Rt'iiiiiiii in tins posiiion ttii or tilltrti iiiin-
utt^s, or till there are some si<;iis iliat \oiir pooer lakes eft! <M, inid then
plaee the hamls on the shoulders, and hold ihem (here a shtirt lime ;
then make passes, hy hnn;;in;^ V"*"' hands down helnre ihe fate and
alonj; the arms, I wo or three iiM;hes distant, taking care to wave tlieni
outward on hrin^intr them up.
If sleep is indueed, it is well to make lonar passes from the hend to
the teet, at a greater (listaiiee, ill order to sjiread the fluid evenly over
the hody. The passes nuiy he employed oi dispens<-d with and ihe fiiBt
position, that of holding; iln^ hands, mainiained throu<:hi>nl. Home sup
pose it meessary to exert all theirsiienfitli and make jrieai musi ular < fliirl,
but it is a severe and deiernuned fiieiila^ tft'ortlliai is rtquired to prodiiee
the effect. Violent exertions of the mnsries miiiht indeed assist llw action
of the mind, if a sudden and puwerful effect were necessary in aysK of
an emei'iency. xMter a peison has become quite susitpiilih- by having
been, frequently mesmerised, you can meMiierise him without coii-
laci or any manipulations whatever, simply by directing the influence
hy the will.
Ill difficult cases the effect may be gieaily increased by having two
or three persons lay their hands on tht^ mesmeriser's slioulihrs, and ex-
ert iheir will to increase his pnwrr, thus torming a mesmeric battery.
A liflief in the science is nor essental on the jiart of the patient, liiit he
should have a desire to be affected and benefitted, and eiuft-avor to co-
operate with the mesmeriser, and by his own will to direct tlie influence
to the |)arts that need it.
The first time of mesmerising a person ttiay require from fifteen min-
utes to an hour or riiore ; it may rrquire one silting or an indefiniie
numl)er. In a case of importance let a thorough trial be made. If one
mesmeriser cannot effect it, let aiioilier and another try, before deciding
that it cannot be done.
If the influence takes effect, it will lie indicated in various ways. The
eyelids iieconiH heavy and j/radiially close, in spite of the efforts to keep
lliem open. Tlie siiliject feels a warmth escaping from your fingers, and
sometimes cold currents follow the hand as it jtasses liefore tfie fiice and
along the body: he experiences a prickling sensation and numbness,
comiiiencinir in his limbs and gradually creeping ovir the whole system,
till he finally becomes insensible, and loses himself in the mesmeric
shimbei-. Tfie sensations are descrilied as \^^'u)f: very ajireeable while
passing into tfiis state, and when in it, so much so that those who have
been once mesmerised desire to be a<rain. The person can tell you when
he has passed into shepwnhine;, (so called because the hody is asleep
and the mind awak** and active.) or by closely ohservinjr you may detect
it by some sijrn. One of my subjects always drew a long lireaih wfieti
perfectly mesmerised.
To wake the mesrnerisee, reverse the passes, moving the handsquirk-
ly upward and off as if aciually brushing away a vapor or som*thing
from about the person, always exerting the will to awake him. If \ou
request him to wake in a given number of minutes, or at a stated time
the next morning, at the same time willing to have liim do it, lie usual-
ly wakes accordingly, but it is belter to tfirow off the influence as di-
rect<;d.
IJr careful to throw the influence entirely «iff, nw\ thoroughly wake
the subject, or he will ex|terience a dull, heavy, disagreeable sensali(»n
after waking. W .ke the mesrnerisee in the same room, and as nearly
6
as possible under the same cirr.iimstjuices in wiiioh he went to pleep. If
he fall.-* ;islee|) in one room, in the (ireseiice ol two or ilufe {>erson^•,antl
wakes in another or in the midst of a crowd, he is shocked and ahirmed,
ofteiilnnes seriously. Il liy di.ince you should he unable to wake your
sultJHCi, the influence will gradually pass away and he will wake of
himseir. Tliis unglit require from six to furiy-eijiht hours. 1 have
seen the persiui wake himself hy takmg the iiiesmcrizt^r's hands and
passing the mfluence ha<k to him. Pt^riiaps hy a deierminaied effort of
llie will he could wake himst^lf in the alisence of the mesmeri/er, or
throw off the influence as fast as the mesmenzer could impart if, and
thus prevent any effect. A writer states that he found it impossihie to
affect a very susceptihie person, while he held a chain, one end of which
was liuried in the earth, the fliijil (leing thus conduct! d off. Hence it
is natural to infer that a |)alieni may he tnore easily mesmerized l»y l)e-
jng insidated upon a stool with glass legs, or hy having tfie legs of \m
chair placed in tumhiers.
While heing mesmerized, the patient sometimes experiences a sense
of suffocation, and is troubled with «lif}icult l)reatliing, owing to the in-
fluence hemg concentraied too much u|i(»n the lungs and che.-t. In such
a case, place your hands totrether hefure the chest and make passes out-
ward and down, to draw away the fluid and relieve the part that is over-
charged. Soinetimes nervous agiuuion and convulsions occur; he not
al.irmed, consider yoursi If omnipoient to calm them, and exert your will
accordingly. If a person has not i.rcsence ol mind and steadiness of
nerve suflicient for such an emergency he liad better not undertake to
mesmerize; for by losing self possession and becoming frightened, he
will communicate the alarm by sympathy to the subject; the difficulty
will ho increased, and serious accidents may arise. But to be aware of
these things is to avoid fliem, and proyjfr n[/br//m<ion respecting the prac-
tice, will enahle one to prevent or ren.ove ail difficulties. The long passes
are useful in calming any excitement, but if all means fail to remove it,
the influence must be thrown off and the patient awaked. The patient
may experience pains in the diseased parts; this is a good symptom ; it
shows that the influence takes eff.ct. It is sometimes nec^ssaVy to aid
the mesmerizee, by the will, to exercise his voluntary muscles, in order
to relieve the breathing, or to clear the throat and check a fit of cough-
ing, &c. " You must cough too," said a subject to her mesmeriser in
circumstances of this kind.
'
What has been said relates principally in cases to which siee|)wakinc
occurs, but It IS hy no tneans m all .-ases necessary to pro.lnce this state
will and the pain passes off.,. M. the cun;;;; fiV n i
!
d r ,::^;;;:,;
"^
f^eted, therehy directing to it'thr^itlir^ie^tl^r "i;;:;;;^:j;r t
Jiseased parts', the fluid can be thrown oft' or permitted to remain; tho
latter course is often beneficial. If the disease of the patient is general,
mesmerise generally. It sleepwaking occurs, it is a favorable circum-
stance ; it is restorative in its effects ; an hour of mesmeric 8lee[> may
'.ie more reCresliing than a whole night of natural sleep. Those too,
whom disease and pain have for weeks prevented from enjoying quiet
repose, will find the mesmeric slumber a sweet oblivion if not a cure of
dieir troubles. When the patient is permitted to remain in this state
over night, the mesmeriser should be near, as his presence might bo
necessary. If he is to be absent, he can put another person in coinmu-
nicalion with the patient, by placing iheir hands together and willuig that
'.here should be a inesmeric correspondence between them, or by the
will alone without contact. A mesmerisee and a third person may put
;hemselves in communication by placing the hands together and making
passes buck and forth over llie arms. After this conmumication has
been established, tbe third person can control the subject to some extent,
und sometimes awake bim.
Mesmerism it quite as beneficial in chronic or long standing diseases,
as in the acute or those that rapidly approach their crises. This is fa-
vorable, as chronic diseases present the greatest difficulties to the |)hy-
^ician, and the constitution is often totally destroyed by " dosing and
drugging," with the faint hope of relief Acute diseases also may be
immediately broken up if the patient can be mesmerised. In fact, a
person wlio has once been brought under the influence of mesmerism
IS almost insured against pain and disease of every kind.
Aches and pains and common complaints may often be removed at
»ne .'•ittiiig. They are permanently relieved only by curing the disease
which caused them, ami this may require the mesmerising to be re-
peated for a time. When the treatment of a confirmed disease has
iieen commenced it should be contimied, if possible by the same mes-
meriser, till a cure is effected or a fair trial has been made. In this as
in everything else, regularity is beneficial. The siltnig can be from
half an hour to an hour, at a stated time every day, every other day, or
iwice a week, and this arrangement be varied according to to circutn-
staiices. It is often well to let the patient remain in the mesmeric state
i»iie, two, or three hours. Do not fatigue the patient with experiments,
ijor have imnecessary company present.
Water charged with the magnetic fluid from the ends of the fingers,
is good medicine for the patient, A handkerchief magnetised and sent
to him will afford him strength. If he is quite susceptible it will put
him to sleep. While in contact with the patient, coiuiime active, and
not let the influence flow back to you. When you wake him, make
the passes so as not to throw the fluid upoti yourself, and flirt your fin-
gers. Yoti will thus avoid taking the disease.
It would be well if the mesmeriser were a physician, or that the treat-
ment be under the direction of a physician, but as this is not always
possible, friendsand neighbors who have acquired the necessary informa-
tion can successfully employ the mesmeric medicine. Though very
jiowerful, it is very sitnple, and in a measure self-regnlatitig. To follovr
mesmerising as a professioti, a person would need to use his j)0wer with
judgment and prudence. An hour's practice a day is quite enough for
a strong mesmeriser. The best way to recruit after the fatigue of mes-
merising is to lake active exercisff in the open air; the body ind)il>P9
electricity from the attnosphere. You can also receive strength from
another mesmeriser.
Mesmerism cannot of course be e-xjiected to supercede the use of the
onlmaiy ttiiiedies, l.ut it should he i.ihjpled h) ihe iiit^dical pio(e.-8i(.ri
as a valuahle auxiliary in ilie healiui; art. If it is not employed hy those
who are qualified f.-r it, it will he by those who are not. Jt has lieeti
loo much degratled hy the igiioranr and unprincipled. It is llie duty of
the intelligent and hmevoleiU to inform thcm.selves n|»on it, and endea-
vor to place it upon its true elevation. As a means of relieving human
suffering, it is one of the greatest blessings ever confi^rred upon man.
The light it tiirows njion the |)hiloso|ihy of the mind and man's spirit-
ual nature, the development and extension of the powers of tlie soul,
witnessed in the rni smeric state, make it a sul'ject of intense interest to
the jdiilosopher and the Christian.
Like all other blessings this may l>e aluised, and its abuses should be
made known and gnardetl against. No one should he mesmerised ex-
cept for the benefit of the health or other good reason ; and when llie
oi)ject is accomplished the practice should he discontinued. VV hen a
person is known to be "a good gulject," it often happens that tnany dif-
ferent persons wisft to try tfieir skill in mesmerising him and perlorm-
ing experiments, merely to gratify the curiosity. This is wrong and in-
jurious. By thus tampering with an agent of such power, the nervous
system may become <leranged, and tlie remedy itself hecome a disease.
Experiments made by those who are unacquainted wiili mesmerism and
its effects, may be injurious, IJy exciting the phrenological organs a
corresponding effecrt is prochiced, extending to a lemporory insanity or
monomania. If tliis excitement he too frequent, too powerful, or too
long continued, it may do pertnauent injury to the brain. 1 once saw a
rash operator so arouse combativeness in his sulject that he drove the
whole party from the room. Experiments and exhibitions merely to
amuse and astonish people, are altogether in. proper ; they riegrade mes-
merism and disgust the public witfi the wholi; biisiiitss. Scientific in-
vestigations by those competent to make them should he encouraged ;
an<l suitable illustrations of the mesmeric phenomena, accompanied with
scientific and practical instruction, are proper and useful.
While speaking of the dangers and abuses of mesmerism, it is proper
to slate that there are some groundless fears. Some suppose the mes-
meriser lias a [lerfect control over the subject's will. Notliing is fiirtiier
from tfie truth, and those who know nn\ thing about it, know that it is
often impossili'e to get the sleepwaker to acquiesce in the most reasonafde
demands. But says one, " by exciting acquisitiveness you make a iliief
of an honest person, and so of the other organs." Now it is impossi-
ble to excite the phrenological organs if the subject opposes it. If the
attempt were jiermitted, a determined eff.irt of the will coiihi coimte-
ract the influence, or govern the actions after the organ was excited.
The will, when exerted, is not controlled by the size, nor iiy the excite-
ment of the phrenological organs. Then we are to remember that the
subject's vision is a thousand fold more pervading and searching than
usual ; that he can even read the mesmeriser's thoughts, and that he
has double of liis nsiiid jiower of resistance. But to avoid all danger,
choose a mesmeriser in whom you have perfect confidence, and always
take the precaution to have a third person present at the sitting. In
case of accident it is a matter of necessity, and in all cases a matter of
prudence, as well to the mesmeriser as to the patient.
9
SLEEPVVAKING AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
There are difft^reiit flegrets of ilie tTusinei ic sleep as of the natural.
A person ihoroti^ihly iiiesinerised has no coiniimnKralion with external
o!'jecis l)y the onliiinry niodts of sensation. Tlioiijih the action of the
senses is entirely suspended, yet tiie vital orfjans are active, and there is
developed nil iniein.d stiisiUdiiy as reninrkalile for its activity as ihe ex-
ternal for its fleadiiess, as if sensation had receded from the surface to
the lirain only to increase the intensity of its action. 'I'he sidiject's nerv-
ous Huid heinj? dis|ilaced by that of the niesineriser, liis own person ie
totally iusensilile to pain, alihough he is alive to the slightest injmios
inflicted on the niesineriser.
The eyes are closed, or ij op^n, " their sense is shut," hut the sjiirit is
so far detached from the body that it perceives oljccts directly, without
looking throii<;h the e\ e, and having iis vision limited hy ihat organ. It
can |»enctraie opacpie liodies, see in total darkness, and to great distances.
The spirit is partially unfi'ttered and acts wiih a little of the freedom
and sciipe that it will after deatli. So that this is no miracle, hut only a
development of powers that we already possess. This power is called
Clairvoyance, or clear-sightedness, meaning the mental, or mesmeric
vision.
Tlie suliject may he al)le to see and converse tlie first time he is mes-
merised, or he may not till he hecomes more accustomed to his new
state of existence. The jaws may he set and the organs of speech
rigid, and need to have the infliience hnished away hefiire he ran use
tiiem. He can at any rate answer many questions hy a nod or shake of
the head, as, whetfier he is perf'-cily asleep or needs to he mesmerised
more, whether he feels comfoitahle, wishes to wake, &c. The mes-
merisee can inform you respecting the hesr process for putting asleep
and waking, for relieving pain and curing disease, and the hest means
for developing his clairvoyance, and fur obviating tlie difficulties inci-
<Jeni to the practice of mesmerism.
So long as the sleepwaker is under your direction he should be mes-
merised liy no other person. If he is partially under tlie influence of
several, his fa<-uliies become confused, and lie often loses his clairvoy-
ance. While he is in any manner employed during sleepwaking, he
calm and collected, and sustain his power hy your attention. As he
is more observing tlian usual, you will need to tie circmnP|tect in order
to retain his confidence and re;?ard. Keep an even handed course with
him ; maintain your digi.iiy and your aiitluuity over him. Do not re-
count to him when awake the exploits of his sleepwakint;, nor excite his
vanity, by making him think he is a pro<ligy. The subject remembers
at one mesmerisation all that occurred at jirevionH ones, but does not
nsuallv carry the reccdlection of these thinjis into his waking slate, un-
less they are strongly impressed U])0U his mind by himself or his ines-
meriser.
HISTORICAL SKETCH
OF MESMERISM AS A MEDICAL AGENT.
This power his occasionally been employed in the cure of diseases,
from the earliest limes and in almost every naiion. But it was not
known, or at least, not promiilgaied as a jiower common to mankind,
till fiie fifteenth, sixteenth anri sevenleenih centuries; nor was it exten-
sively employed till revived by Mesmer, about 1775. He introduced it
10
into France, where it was successfully applied, and adopted into some
of the liospiiais. In 182G, two larj^e volumes were pnltlished at Pnris
—
" Rcpons of cures perloiined Uy Atiiiiial Magnerisni in F' ranee, atiesled
by more llian two hundred physiciaiis." Jn these are tliont-ands of ca-
ses, of almost every description of disease; more than sixly cases of
paralysis. Ahout the same lime the Royal Academy ot Medicnie ap-
pointed a conitnittee, wiio piirstied their investigations (our or five
years, atid Wrought in a lengthy re|iort, in which they recommend rnes-
niensm as "an iinportJint medical agent and a very curious Itrancli of
natural history and psychology, upon which the Academy shouM en-
courage and fivor further researches." The iMagnetic Society of Paris
alone, has puhlir^hed tnore than twenty voliimejs upon ihe sidiject, and
1 understand that it is prosecuted with unabated zeal at the present
time.
In Germany, tnestnerism has been extensively used,atid it is said that
they have Professors in their medical colleges, to teach it as a necessary
branch of triedical knowledge. In 1815, the Emperor of Russia a|)-
pointed a committee lo examine the hiibject. They reported favorably,
and regulations were pa^t^ed. The physicians who practiced it v\eie re-
quired to give an account of iheir observations every three nionihs, and
the committee to report as often to the Emperor. By royal aiiihoiity a
similar course was pursued in Prussia; and also by the' Medical Col-
lege of Denmark.
In England, mesmerism is getting to be used by the medical profes-
sion. Dr. John Ellioison, formerly professor in the London Universi-
ty, and principal physician to the University Hospital, has written upon
it in his valuable work on Physiology. He says, " it adds greatly to our
remedial means," and that he has cured manyby its use where all othei
remeilies filled. Among other cases, he says .h ymmg man, subject to
periodical fits of insanity, was entirely cured; his fits becoming t-borler
and shorter, and milder and milder, till they entirely disapjieared In
the winter of 1841, Dr. E. remarked in a lecture, that the Society for
ihe Difiu.sion of Useful Knowledge, with Lonl Bi(Mitrharn at its head,
and several of his colleagues in the University Hospital, had recently'
borne i-ublic testimony to the reality and nsefiilness of mesmeri-*m —
Rev. C. H. Townshend, an Englisirdergyman, has written an admira-
ble i.bilosophical work, "Facts in Mesmerism," re-published in liiis
country. '
Since the introduction of mesmerism into our country in J836 it has
been apphed to some extent in the cure of diseases, and its value "is
daily becommg more appreciated. Drs. Caldwell and Buchannan of
Lomsvil P Kentncky ;
Professor Mitchel o( Phila.Ielphia, ami Dr. Sher-
woo.l o( P^ew Y.uk, have published work, on the subject. Amonc
other mesmensers and advocates of mesmerism, are Drs. Capron,
Brownell^Utley,&c of Providence ; Drs. Lewis, Flint, D.na InUlls
Gilbert G.e,erson, Ball, Stedman, Stone, &.., &.., of Boston.
'
..leed
hundreds of physicians in all parts of the countrv are zealously engacre i
,nmveshgat.n.Mtsclamisa,,d proving its utility-in practice. ^ ^ "
The Rev. D,. Packanl of Shelbnrne, having warmly en.rn..ed in
mesmerism and 1.8 eonnection with mental philo.opbv, and its'am.li,
4
uoi. to tin. examination and cure of diseases, some ig.mran nd' Z^:
silt o.isskept.csaccused hnn of acting inconsistently with his , i is^e
rial character, at.d even by Satanic agencv. Dr. P. invite a •.. I
'
.f
cleriryrnen, (amoi.i: whom was Rev. |»r.dVssor Ilitcbeoek «f A -
.0 exannne the evidence and report. They Jy:^^;^:^ tun^^
11
the " iiiipiitatioiis and suspicions," and "ihe evil and lidicnlons siiitni-
ses wliifh a ltu^y tew hiiil cnculaltMl lo liis injur}."
In I lie ivpon, alter speak mg of" exi)eriineiiis made in the most rant ions
and Siiiistaciory manner," iliey say, '• iliese tacis aiipear to have iin im-
poriani he;. ring np<Mi mental phdosuphy, the tloririne of materiallMn,
and the cure of diseases. Soimd philosophy, then, diriates that lliey
should he examined and re-examined with a carelnlntss and accuracy
propurlioiied to their marvellous and important character.
'•
Instead of deciding heforehand, as some do, that they cannot be
irne ()ecanse they are so marvellous ; or hecaiise vye tear ihey are coniia-
ry to esiahlished principles of rehguni ; or instead of impniint; tin in, as
others do, lo !i saianic agency, let them he put lo ihe test of the sexeiest
invesiigalion. For we never need tear that Uie developmenl of any
trnili, which Providence may place within onr reach, will when (nily
undei>lood l)e otherwise ttian lieneficial. Ttie earlier discoveries in al-
most every physical science have created alarm in timid minds, lest
they should Uecome an engine with which to assail religion and moral-
ity. Hill iheir full development lias shown them to l)e only allies and
fri.nds.
''Jf these views are correct, [ihey continiip,] Mesmerism ileserves ex-
aminaiii)n ; since it seems, so tar as we understand ii, to hold a close
relaiixn to theology and human comfort; and it is surely an appropiiate
study "f the minister of ihe gospel, so far as lie can make ils pursuit
cunsisient vviih Ins more important duties."
INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN,
IX SURGICAL OPERATIONS AND EXTRACTING TEETH.
The ntiliiy of mesmerism in this respect is very manifest. Trnr its
advaiitages vvonlil l)e greater if it could l)e more extensively applied.
But siill ii is a hoon not to he despised, especially as ii is often acces-
sible to those who need it most — the weakly, the nervous and the del-
icate. And as the condititms necessary for its snccessfiil application
become ttetter understood, the greater will be the number who can be
brtniglit under its influence.
(yASEs.— The committee of the French Academy of Medicine, in
18:JI, reported the case of a la<ly who had a cancer cut out while under
the iiitliience of mesnierism, without experiencing the least pain. The
Loudon papers of last winter gave an account of a man who had bis
leg amputated while mesmerised, without any p.'iin whatever.
In the fourth mimlit-r of the " Magnet," L. N. Fowler details the case
of .Mrs. Mann, of Milford, whom be mesmerised, and who, while in
that .-tate, had a large tumor cut out of the arm. In a certificate pub-
iisln-d with the report, Mrs. M. remarks, " In regard to the operation
which has been performed, all I can say concerning it is, that I had a
minor in my arm, and I have none now; hut how it disappeared I can-
not s:iv, as i have not the slightest recollection of its removal ; and as
to aiiv trouble from my arm since, I think the fact of my wri'ing this
certificate the third day after the operation, vviihr)ut any difliculty, is
suffi. -lent proof that it is doing well, and ihns far I have not had the
slightest pain, anil if necessary would lie perfectly willing to go throngb
the operation again."
A similar operation was performed in Lowell last winter, with simi-
lar siiccwss. A lady in Boston had her arm broken, iuid it was set with-
out pain while she was in the mesmeric state.
««
12
Extraotinj,' teeili without pjiin ft)r iifrsons while rnpsinerisefl, is jreiting
to he f» matte-r o('i|nire cotn turn occiirreiK^e. In severjil insiiiiices it has
henii (lone hefore piililic iiiidieiices in this city. Dr. Daii!i,Treiii<>iil slrt^et,
iiiti»rinf"(l inn that he h;iil exiriK'ted teeth lor a nnniher of persons in the
nii'sinf-rio state. He took out (onr Cor a lady at one sittinij. Dr. Bali
h is a(»|)he(l inesnieiisni in luany instances to prevent the pain of luotli
drawing. So have nnrneious other dentists in all parts of the coniitry.
MESMERIC EXAMINATION OF DISEASES.
Clairvoyance may l>e tnriK'd to a useful account in the examination of
the inieriial diseases of the sii'iject himself an<l ol others. Ph\siciaiis
find it of essential service in this respect. It is often more fliffi' ult to
ascertain the nature of the disease than to cure it; and adminisierini,'
medicine at random is attended with danger. A physician, or a coiincii
of piiysicians can only judge of internal diseases liy the symptoms ; and
such disea.ses are som^iimes advanced to an incnrahle extent hefure they
are matiifested hy the symptoms, whereas, had they heen known and
attended to in se.-ison, ihey might have heen readily cured. It was
thought to be a very valuai)le discovery when it was ascertained that
something could he told uhout the state of the lungs hy what is called
soimding. If hy any means a particular physician iiad the aliility to
examine and describe internal diseases as aciMirately as external, before
death as well as after, patients would flock to him from ail parts of the
World, and fees would be equal to his utmost desire.
Now, there is proof abnndant, jiositive, iuid satisfactory, that a good
clairvoyant mesmerisee can sit down by a patient and accurately and
minutely point out the seat, the nature, and the extent of any interna}
disea.se, and tlie [irecise state of the internal organs'. By sympathy he
usually feels ihe pains ex|)erienced by the patient at the tiitje. The
rnesmerisee can be put in conummicaiion with the patient or not as
thought best; for he can examine at a distance even of miles.
Sleepwakers posse.ss a remarkable kimwledge of appropriate reme-
dies, and will pivscrihe accordingly. The examination should be
thorough, that the prescriptions may be modified in view of any cotn-
plicaled circuiiistauces in theciise. Tiie medicine should be snluniited
to a physician for his opinion, unless it is of a harmless nature, and its
efF'ct olivioiis. The time usually required is about an hour. The
effort is very fafiijiimg. and the person should not examine more than
one case at a time, except in slight complaints and local diseases, nor
tnore than one case a day and follow it.
B^-fore waking the rnesmerisee, take care to throw off tlie pains and
all the noxious influence that he may have taken from the sick person,
or he may contract the disease; then soothe him by a few long passes
and let him rest a few minutes, and he will feel well on awaking,
CASES OF EXAMINATIONS.
PROOFS OP THEIR ACCURACY AND UTILITY.
While engaged in Boston last year, in giving Lectures on the history^
philo.sophy and practice of Mesmerism, with il'ustrations of its phe-
nomena, in connection with mv brother, G. Gregory, we had two
excellent mesinerisees, who examined miinerous cases with entire suc-
cess atid satisfaction.
13
Aintiiijr olliPi-s w.is a itliysiciaii, one of the inost exjierieiicful and
skiiliil III ilie ciiy. He liail ju.st liad a slight t^iiii^iK al opeiaiion ptrloiin-
efK This tact, known U» m<i ode present htit liiinselt', was siaird hy tlio
suhj^•l•l, and all his c<iiii(»laints vvt-re nminiely <lesenhfd. Tlie docior
reiiiarkeil ni refereiiee m ilie exaiiiinailtiti, ihai "it was acciiiHie. w?;y
ac«MiiMte," and said we niij;hi refer any one tn him who wislied to intpiue
abiMil itie nnilter. Siid he enuUl nienlion a linndred instain-es ol ditli^r-
eiii knids, ni which ihe aid of a uoud inesnit-nsee wonid he of ilie ntinosl
imiiorifoee to the paiieni iind the pli\sifian.
IJein^ anxious to tesi the matter, vv«' have caused llie same palient to
be t'XiMiiocd hy dirteretit mesmerisees in the alisence of each other, and
ihey exactly agreeil in every impnriant particular. One gentleman waa
examined liy tour, and they all spoke of a small himrh on one of his
Iuiij;s. Aiioltier hy six. and he said they all agreed respecting u disease
of the liver which had caused him some alarm.
Mf. B. F. Furgiison, a gentleman from Maine, was examined I'y one
of oiir stilijerid. He had no particnlar complaini except a lame knee ;
ihe joint was affecteil, the cartilage injured. WithtiMt any po.ssible
means of tinding it oiit, hut hy iiis mesmi ric vision and sympathy of
sens.itinii, tlie snhjeci di.scovered the lameness, placd Ins linger precise-
^ly on the teiiderest spot, and described the diseased joint as Or. Warren
descrihed It a day or two previous.
Dr. Swan, of Medtord, informed me tiiat an elderlv person in that
vill;tg^' iii^-t willi a fall whi«'h caused pain and laojeness in the hip. It
Uein^ ditfiiMilt to decide wliether the thigh iione was fractured, a sleep-
waker was consulted, and ilechired that there was a sliiiht fracinre mar
the hip jeiiii. Dr. Warren afterwards examined the case, anil iiis skill
confirmed liie sleepwiker's statement.
The testimony of mesmeri.sees lias heen proved correct by post inor-
tem examinations. Dr. Browiieli, of Providence, liad a sleepwaker
examine one of his f)a?ients. at a distance, who, as he siipjmsed, liad a
disease of the liver and stornacfi. The subject .said that nothing ailed
those organs, but the spleen (or milt) was swelled, was enlarged. A
few days after the patient die<l. Dv. Brovvnell invited in sixteen physi-
cians, none of whom could discover any signs of the enlarged spleen
by external examination. He then opened the bo<ly, and the spleen was
fomiil so enlarged as to w*i\ghjijiy-3eveii ounces, instead oi four or siXy
as usual.
We see by this instance that the subject does not get the infornnatlon
from the rnind of the cnestneriser, for Dr. B. did not sii-spect such a dis-
eas*'.
iMiss (/vnthia A Gleason is nn excellent mesmerisee. She has exam-
ined, within a few years, mme than a thousand cases of disease, in
Na-<liiia, Lowell, Boston and other places.
Professor Hitchcock aiul the other members of tin; council of clergy-
men who .sat upon Dr. Packard's case, before alluded to, use the follow-
ing laniruage :
" Bnt they have evidence also of a decirled character set before them,
TO sliow.tliat a still more powerful motive by which he has been actuat-
ed in hi>^ attention to this subject, is a benevolent desire to relieve the
sick and suffering. This has led him to examine more than two hun-
dred cases of disease by means of mesmeric duirvoynnce ! and of the
nature of the diseases, the remedies piescribed, and the ascertained
results, a careful record has been ke|)t. This was presente.d to the
council, and certainly forms a most curious and retnarktdjle collection
14
of evidence upon tlie suliject, which they cannot bnt hope will some
day Ite tn.iile piililic.
Mr. G. Gregory lias at the [)resent time one of the l»est mepirieri^ees
in ilio country. She is reniarkitltly cliiuvoyaiit, and mukes it lier prin-
cijial Ixisiiiess to examine the sick. Sht>l)us this year made numerous
exaiiMiiiitions in various towns in the state, some in tlie |)iesence ot the
paiieni, some many miles disiaiii: inusdy in private, hut some before
parlies and public autlienc«s, in connection with onr lectures.
Ill tin se cases every precaution lias been taken to prevent the mee-
meriser and ibe subject irom olitaining any previous knowledge of t[)e
disease, but not in a single instance has the examiifer failed iicciirately
to point out the symptoms and describe the disease ilseiti so far as it
could be known whether the description was correct or not. 1 will
give a few instances.
At Grafton, (N. E. Village,) in Afiril last, C. B. Jencks, Esq., wns pni
in communication with the subject, wliile mesmerised at a public lec-
ture, and conducted her liientally to a sick person in the nei^bborhood.
Directly she said that the patient was a lady — that her lungs weie die-
eased, she had recently had a turn of *aisiiig blood, &c. ; all o( uiiicii
was true, as the gentleman stated to the audience. On another evuiing,
in the same village, a person was exairiinetl before the audience, with .
equal success.
While at Lancaster, South Village, in the middle of May, Dr. Sim-
mons being present, W!is pur in communication with the clair\<'\anf,
and directed her to a p;iiieiit at a distance, without giving any lniit in
what direction, or whether it was a man or woman. The mesmcrisee
immediately pointed in the direciion of the ptilient, and said it was an
old lady. The doctor replied tb;it there was an old lady sick in the
house, but that was not 'be person be bad in mind. There is also a
young woman there who is out of health, she continued. She has
some trouble in the lungs, a violent pain in the left side, something
presses there. The doctor then requested lier to look fiiithcr ; and she
said, there is a tumor on the right side — a large one — it presses on the
iiir(^riial organs and ctaiises the pain in the left side. She then descrilied
the tumor more particularly, said there was no matter in it. and men-
tioned some precauiions in <'ase of a surgical operation. Dr. S then
remarked to the audience, " The patient is Miss M. F., of VV. B'<\ 'ston
— she has a bad tumor, as mentioned, and we exj)ect some trouble with
it, but hope to remove it without an o|)eration. I could not liave
described the case better myself than the n)esnierisee has done it.''
At West lioylslon, soon after, there were three examinations in pub-
lic. One case, a disease of the liver and stomach, with pain in the
head, and other di.><agreeable symptoms. The gentleman stated that the
de.-^criptioii was accurate. Another, a disease of the lungs, part of one
of them gone. Examination correct, as the genlleniiin stated. Th.e
other, a lady, a mile distant, in an advanced stage of consum|>tion. De-
scri|)tion accordingly.
Those who have lieen thoroughly examined in order to obtain addi-
tional information respecting their diseases, have expressed their satis-
faction in the strongest terms. Among many similar tesiimoniuls, there
is room for only the following.
15
CERTIFICATE.
Grafton, (N. E. Village,) May 20, 1843.
Having this day been examined by a clairvoyant, under the direction of her mes-
tnenser, Mr. G. Gregory, 1 checrt'ully testify that the examination has been in
the liighest degree successlul and satisfactory. I am troubled with a stricture in Ihc
chest, pirlicul.irly in the upper part of the left lung, and through to the shoulder
blade and spine, sometimes causing intense buffering in that part —a pain in the
head, the top of it being occasionally so tender and sore that 1 cannot endure the
weight of a comb or cap —am somctii.ies taken with a buziiiig in the right side of
the head, instantly followed by dizziness, depriving nie of the pow«>r to stand with-
out support. These and other sensations the mesmerisee described with perfect
accuracy, placing her finger on the very places where the pains are located. I
could not have given a more definite description of my pains and the symptoms of
my disease. Hannah F. Batcheldi!,r.
I unite in the above statement respecting the examination of my wife, and will
add, that the description of the disease and of the diseased organs seemed strictly
correct, and such as naturally to account for the symptoms mentioned. The reme-
dies prescribed and means indicated for restoring the health appear remarkably
appropriate and judicious. Joseph Batchelder.
NATicft, Mass., July 12, 1843.
I hereby certify that my mother, now in the town of Alexandria, N. H., one hun-
dred and twenty-five miles distant, \\as this day examined by Miss S. W. H., mes-
merised by Mr. G. Gregory in this village, and thai the examination was perfectly
correct and salisflictory. The first thing said of the patient was, that she had a tu-
moron the right side of the abdomen ; and among other particulars, that she had cramp
pains in the stomich, and the right foot was red and swollen —all of which is strictly
correct. Tlie patient has a tumor as stated —is sometimes taken with violent and
distressing turns of cramp in the stomach, and the right foot, alter fatigue and walk-
ing, is sometimes swollen and purple. J was perfectly astonished to hear the mes-
merisee minutely describe things known to no one in town, and probibly to no one
m this State, except myself. I am satisfied also that she did not get the information
from my mind, as facts were stated which I was not aware of, but which, from the
symptoms, I have no doubt are as stated to be. I consider the examination a deci-
sive test of clairvoyance and its utility in examinations of the sick.
H. A. Davis.
As Mr. G. Gregory designs to continue his attention to tlie examina-
tion of llie sick, persons in the towns that he visits will have an opiior-
tuniiy to be examined hy the mesmerisee spoken of above.
PHRENO-MESMERIC EXAMINATIONS.
This mesmerisee employs clairvoyance not only in ))atlioiopy but also
in phrenolojry. VViihoiil lonching, without any aid from the eye, but
sitjiply by the spiritual vision, she can examine the head externally and
internally ; can tell not only the size but the activity of the organs; and
thus tell the disposition and talents, and how to improve and direct
them, and describe character with astonishing accuracy, altogether
beyond vviiat is possible l»y external manipidaiions of the head. This
.she hos proved repeatedly in private and in public. Persons who desire
phrenological examinations can be attended to.
CASE.S OF CURES.
More than a hundred volumes have been published upon Mesmerism in France,
Germany and other countries of Europe. In these works cases of cures almost
innumerable are reported, some of the most astonishin- character. TjJuinerous cases
have occurred in this country. Some are given in the Notes to Mr Hartshorn b
Translation of Delenze, published in Providence, an excellent practica work to
vhich the writer of these pages is much indebted. Cases are also reported in tlm
'
Magnet," a valuable monthly Journal of Mesmerism, edited by Rev. La Roy Sun-
'^White atrndm'X mesmerism in Boston, we employed a strong mesroeriser who
devoted ht whole attention to curing the sick, and was remarkably successful .n
16
many iastances. I have occasionally applied it myself. I will relate a single
instance.
Case of Temporary Insanity.—A young lady, residing in the family of Dr. Wm.
Clarkg had t.ikeii a viole(it cold and had a brain fever, so severe that she was frantic
witb a'^ony, and totally iusane, even accusing her friends with coming into the room
to kill her. As she had been mesmerised before, 1 attempted it then In ten min-
utes she became calm, and pissed into the mesmeric sleep, ijhe was permitted to
sleep a few hours, and on awaking her, she was perlecily rational ; no signs of her
fever teiiiaiued, and she was well as usual.
Case of Spinal Disease.—Miss S. W. H. of Milford, Mass., naturally of
strong constitution and good health began to be unwell some time in 1835. Her
trouble proved to be a liver complaint and disorder of the stomach. Jn March, 1837,
•he was taken with spinal disease ; at first a few joints back of the liver and stomach
^ye^e affected, and soon the whole spine became so tender that she could not endure
the pressure of the finger upon it. From this time for five years and eight months
she was confined to the bed, but could generally be taken up to have tlie bed made
—had several fevers of various kinds, also convulsion fits and distressing spasms
—
was hardly ever free from pain —strength so prostrated that she could not stand, nor
even raise herself in bed except in a few instances, for the whole time, and for several
months could not feed herself, or raise her hand to the head. JNumerous physicians
were consulted, and every means resorted to, without any permarent relief. In the
spring and summer of IGIS, she was worse —spasms more distressing — ciuld not
sit up while the bed was made, and at one time was not removed from it tor five
days. Her physician and herself gave up all ex|iect:iti(>n of her recovery, and
she thought that death alone could terminate her sutierings. But fortunately mes-
merism was tried. This was in November, 1842. Other remedies were di^contin-
ued. In course of a week she was freed from pain, and perceived a marked im-
provement in strength — was put into the mesmeric sieep, became cl.iirvoyant,
f.tamined her own disease, and said, if she continued to be mesmerised, " .fhe ahovld
be able to walk in six weeks." Her friends laughed at a prediction so Incredible, in
reference to one who had not stood alone for about six years. But inji(.''t nix weeks
fromtfiat day she walked across the room. In eight weeks she was out of the house ;
m February she rode five miles to L'pton, and in the worst travelling in the spring,
occasionally rode greater distances. In May she could fake a walk of two, three,
and four miles, and considered herself cured ; and that, too, with the blessing of
Providence, wholly by the power of mesmerism.
Cures of paUy, epileptic fits, scrofula, dyspepsia, St. Vitus' dance, ulcers, inflam-
mation, &c., are reported in the Magnet and the JNotcs to Ueleuze.
A very good way to acquire the art, is for persons to meet together
a few evenings — those wlio wish to fiiesitierise nnd those who wisii to
be mesmerised — and practise, nmler the direction of a mesirjeri.»er.
My brother and myself have instructed classes in this way.
CERTIFICATE.
(iRAFTON, (N. E. Village,) June 1-2, 1843.
We, the subscribers, Isave attended a number of meetings held in this village by
Mr. S. (Jregory, for the purpose of instruction and practise in Mesmerism, and have
been much interested by his instructions, and highly gratified with our success in
apjilying them in practise. During the six evenings on which we met. more than
twenty persons were mesmerised, some partially and some thoroughly. Several
have already received important benefit to the health, and we doubt not that mes-
merism may be made extensively useful in the relief of the sick and suffering.
We recommend Mr. G. as a gentleman of exemplary ch.ancter, and well qualified
to give instruction upon this interesting and important subject. ,
"
Charles B. .'encks. Rhoov A. Albee,
Joseph Batchelder, Sarah W. McNamara,
Dkxteu B. Wikgate, Nancy H. Sauth,
David Chase, Mary E. TTastings,
Lucius M. Pinkham, Mary A. Steele,
Joseph C. Bakkus, Mary P. Smith,
Nath'l V. Skinnei:, JVancy Elizabeth Gary,
Ov/KN M. Smith, Clarissa J. Pinkham,
Frahklin Baldwin, Sarah VVincate,
Hannah P. Batcheldeu. Juuith H. Harrington,
Sarah S. Lelano,
