{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__humphrey___the_new_christian_world.pdf","mytitle":"The New Christian World","mylang":"de"}
\-/\ /‘ ,7 1’2;
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD:
IN ORIGINAL All! IMPURTMIT WORK Ill PRUI'IIEBY;
SHEWING THAT THE
2,300 DAYS, DANIEL viii. 14; AND THE 1,335 DAYS,
DANIEL xii. 12;
WILL TERMINATE IN THE YEAR
1843;
DATING THAT YEAR TO BEGIN WITH THE MONTH NISAN.
WHEN
The Seventh Trumpet will be sounded.—-REv. xi. 15.
The Seventh Vial poured into the Air.-—REv. xvi. 17.
UNDER. WHICH
The Second Advent of Christ will take place;
Every Anti-Christian System be overthrown;
TO BE SUCCEEDED BY
The Prevalence ofPrimitive Christianity over the whole Earth.
Al'r(.-'-~ ~ '11? I
THE I . k
SIGNS OF THE TIMES
WILL BE DULY CONSIDERED, AND THE PREDICTIONS CONCERNING THEM
PROVED TO BE FULFILLING EVERY DAY.
“ He that hath an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the Churches.”
-—REV. ii. 7.
“ But the wise shall understand.”-—DAN. xii. 10.
BRADFORD Z
PRINTED BY WILLIAM BYLES, CHAPEL COURT.
1843.
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
ON presenting this work for public patronage, nothing more shall
be said to recommend it, than what is deemed indis ensable to prevent
misconceptions concerning it, before its readers are p aced under circum
stances which render deception impossible, by having the whole before
them to speak for itself.
The leading object of this undertaking is, to direct public attention
to those prophetic portions of the Old and New Testaments, which
speak a language of tremendous import, concerning the inhabitants of
all the world in the age in which we live: the voice of which is, not
withstanding, too little heard and too much unheeded.
The second advent of our L0rd Jesus Christ, as “nigh at hand,"
will be the great subject of this work. Let there be no misunder
standing about this.
This subject will be taken up on positive, and solely on Scriptural
grounds. It will be treated in the plainest possible manner, that all
who read may understand it.
On this subject there are three important questions, which now strongly
agitate the minds of thousands, viz.: When will our Lord come?—
In what manner will He come P—And what will be the object and end
of His coming? Many also, eagerly inquire, what will he the signs
of His coming? Into all these, we shall enter fully in this work;
and all who are willing to adopt the Scripture as a rule of itself, and
cordially receive its decisions, may be fully satisﬁed on all thesepoints.
When will our Lord come? ()n this the following distinct prin
ciples will be maintained in this work. Some ask, has not “ the man of
sin” to be revealed ﬁrst, and dreadfully aﬁlict the people of God. This
work will-give the answer positive, N0. That man of Sin has lived
his time; or rather, was revealed centuries ago; and must be now
consumed.
\Vill Popery again obtain the ascendant, and persecute the true
Church as formerly P No, impossible.
iv
But have not the witnesses to be slain, and their dead bodies to lie
in the street of the great city, three days and a half(l{ev. xi. 8—] l ) be
fore the Lord comes P No.-This has all been accomplished long ago.
But is it possible to know when this event is nigh at hand ? In this
work, on this point, the following principles will be maintained :-lst,
That to God all things are known, and determined from the beginning;
and that for this all-absorbing event, He has ﬁxed a time. 2ndly,
That He has also revealed that time to his servants, the prophets, and
the same has been recorded for our instruction. 3dly, From various
texts of Scripture it will also be proved. that some may, and will
understand, what is thus revealed, before the events take place; not
understanding the exact day or hour, but that it is “nigh at hand."
And lastly, positive grounds will be taken in this work; there will be
no throwing loose the reins to conjecturing, and supposing this, that,
or the other; its and buts are no rules at all, on which to decide such
important matters. The time is fixed, and cannot be altered; that
time is revealed and will never be made more plain in the word of God.
This work will he conducted upon the plain principles, that we either
understand what is revealed respecting it, or we do not ; if we do under
stand we must Speak positive, according to our knowledge, or we
dissemble; if we do not understand, our province is to keep silence;
in either case, suppositions and conjectures ought not to be in
dulged in.
But many great and good men have IiXed a time, and the events have
not come. True. But such have not taken the Scripture as the
only perfect rule of itself, and allowed it to be its own expositorz—
instead of which they have taken a solitary text, commented upon it,
and proceeded to ﬁx a time upon an “@f'we date," or a “suppose
that the time ;” and here originated all their errors. In this work we
shall endeavour to realise caution and instruction from the mistakes of
others, and by sacredly holding the Scripture as a rule of itself, and
availing ourselves of the aid of one part in the interpretation of another,
we shall proceed with conﬁdence to show the time which God has
ﬁxed and revealed for these events to transpire. Disclaiming, without
reserve, all interference with “jib/ring a time " we shall hold forth the
period of April, 1843, to April, 1844, as the only time revealed for
our Lord’s second coming.
But in what manner will he come? On this subject much of error
prevails. Tens of thousands in America, many in England and
Scotland, entertain the belief that our Lord will come in person; will
appear to an astonished world, on some ﬁxed day known to no man; that
he will be attended with a countless company of angels, and the spirits of
the just from Heaven: that the glories of the eternal world will attend
V
Him, and the Majesty of Heaven will suddenly burst upon the view
of mortals. In this work, such opinions as these will be clearly proved
to be at variance with Scripture; we shall, in fact, show such events
to be impossible; that the second advent of Christ will be in altogether
a dili'erent manner. He will not come in person :—-He will not come
suddenly, that is in a single day :——No angelic hosts will appear :—
There will be no literal displays of the glories and Majesty of Heaven
in the air. No two things can appear more unlike, than is such a
theory, when contrasted with what will literally take place when our
Lord comes. None seem to have yet paid due attention to the rule of
Scripture respecting this. And yet there is a rule by which to deter
mine this, and that rule is as plain and as positive as any rule of
prophecy applicable to any other prophetic event.
The last of “the seven last plagues," Rev. xv. 1 :—“The sounding
of the seventh trumpet," Rev. xi. 15:-—“ The pouring out of the
seventh vial,” Rev. xvi. 17 to 21 :——will be clearly demonstrated in this
work, to embrace all which the Scripture intends by the second coming
of Christ. In these portions of prophecy, we have the most compre
hensive and particular description of the manner of our Lord's coming,
to he found in the whole Scriptures. Under the seventh vial will be
voices, thunders, lightnings, great earthquakes, and hail; the great
city will be divided; the cities of the nations fall; the islands flee away,
and the mountains be not found; in these voices, and thunders, and
lightnings, and earthquake and hail, our Lord will come, and this
establishes the manner of his coming. Read the texts last referred to.
All here said will be fully explained and proved in' this work.
What will be the object or end ofhis coming? Not tohurn up our world
with ﬁre; notto translate the living, and raise the righteous dead; not
to begin the general judgment, or to end the probationary condition of
man. But it will be to make an end of sin; it will he to effect an utter
and rapid, though not instantaneous, overthrow of every anti-chris
tian system in the world, both civil and ecclesiastical. It will be to take
to himself universal dominion by his grace, and reign without a rival
over the whole family of man; to cause all unrighteousncss to cease
over the face of the whole earth, and the pure principles of Christianity
as taught in the New Testament, to be practically and fully carried out
by all mankind.
In the completely new state of things to arise out of the commotion
occasioned by the seventh vial, all men will love God perfectly, and
their neighbours as themselves. All, yes all the world will be what the
ﬁrst Christian church is said to have been ; “and the whole multitude
of them that believed, were of one heart and qfone soul," Acts iv. 32.
Just such will all the world soon be. No other standard but this,
vi
drawn from the example of any Christian church, will be received in
this work as authority; and than the universal prevalence of this
Christianity, it will be proved that no other millennium reign of Christ
is inculcated in the Scripture.
Some ask, how soon after the seventh vial is poured out, will all this
be accomplished? This is not revealed. It is revealed, as we shall
prove, that in 1843, commencing the year with the Jewish month Nisan,
the seventh vial will be poured out. Beyond this we have no authority
from Scripture to decide.
The disciples asked our Lori “ what shall be the sign of thy coming P"
Matt. xxiv. 3. A ud he told them. Many now enquire, from various mo
tives,——“ What shall be the sign of His coming P" Thousands believe,
there must be something coming on the earth of no ordinary character;
but they know not what. The prophecies tell them, if they could but
understand. It is confessed on all hands, that society is grievously
disordered. Civil and religious strife abounds, and it will increase.
Unavoidable absorption of property, declining trade, expiring proﬁts,
falling incomes, and bankruptcies, overwhelm thousands with amaze
ment; the end,-the unknown, dreaded end, they cannot see! The
well-nigh total wreck of the established Church in Scotland; the
far more menacing repeal agitation in Ireland, which threatens the
dismemberment of our empire, and may prove a distant means of shat
tering the stability of civil governments over a great part of Christendom;
and the sudden burst of indignant feeling against the Education Bill.
These things astonish millions, and seem of themselves prophetic of
some fearful and wide-spreading convulsion at hand. Running parallel
with these we ﬁnd pauperism fearfully extending, wretchedness and desti
tution increasing, remunerative employment diminishing, crime and im
morality augmenting, and tyranny gaining vigour, until from the millions
hope is ﬂed, and the heart sick. These with their thousand concomitant
ills, are sowing broadcast seed the most potent and pernicious to the
concord of society; are creating the worst feelings, and fostering the
most repulsive passions in the human breast; the vaunted inﬂuencies
of the authorities and efﬁciency of human agency to stop the onward
current of crime, wretchedness and discord, seem rapidly declining; the
multitudinous projects to resuscitate national prosperity, fall without
effect; and in spite of all our plans and efforts, our course is downward.
Of these alarming and heart-rending realities, few can remain igno
rant. All, to a greater or less extent, know that such is the present
condition of society; but they know not why, nor can they apply
an antidote. Such ills exist, the millions feel them; and from
nature or from nature's God, they can see no cause. And many stand
amazed.
vii
This anomalous condition of a society professedly Christian, supplies
us with all thoseparticular signs of ourLord's second coming, after which
so many inquire. Such signs, we shall show were clearly predicted,
which now abound in the world; signs gathering round us with fearful
rapidity, flowing in from every nation, and from every locality; from the
populous towns and the rural districts, from the cellar, the cottage, and
the garret; from our workshops, our factories, and farms; from out has
tiles, our prisons, our courts of justice, and our senate-house; from the
pulpit and the press; from the heavens above, as well as from every cor
ner of the earth beneath; we shall prove that the signs of the kingdom
of God at hand are thronging in upon us, and the prophecies of Scripture
concerning them, are beingmoststrikingly accomplished everyday. When
will men open their eyes to see? It is indeed high time that all parties who
regard themselves, their families, their comforts or their lives, should rend
the awful veils which cover them; should open their eyes to the brilliant
blaze of the signs of the times, and the numbered prophecies; and un
derstand the irrevocably destined end of the present current of affairs.
“"hatever men may think, or however they may act, the life and
death affairs of millions are now suspended entirely upon the policy
they pursue in reference to the great subjects of those prophecies,
to which their special attention will be called in this work. And,
FOR ALL, BUT ONE REDEEMING LINE OF CON
DUCT EXISTS; BUT our: CITY or REFUGE WILL BE LEFT
OPEN—OUT OF WHICH HUMAN LIFE WILL BE UTTERLY DE
FENCELESS. And anything meriting the name of national comfort, is
now ﬂed for ever from our earth ; until under the seventh vial, sin ceasa,
and the new and better state of things becomes established.
It is proper to notice, that this is no sectarian work. The momentous
predictions on which all its exertions will be expended, and which must
receive their accomplishment in the present age, are ofno sectarian char
acter; they emphatically are, like the God who gave them, no respecters
of persons. All sects and parties, all names and ranks, and this in all
nations, are all, as in death, equally concerned here. Catholics, Protes
tants, Methodists of whatever name, Calvinists of whatever party,
hiahomedans, Heathens, Jews and Christians, will all alike be drawn
within the tremendous vortex of the seventh vial. The bold sons of inﬁ
delity will ﬁnd themselves involved in a war from which they can purchase
no discharge; skilled as they are in sophistry and foolish evasion, they
cannot evade this. And the thoughtless multitudes who have hitherto
waved all serious considerations of solemn matters like these, will become
alarmed with views quite foreign to their former selves, and every man
will ﬁnd a part allotted for him to act in this strange dramatic perfor
mance, which he can by no means accomplish by proxy. “AND THE
viii
vsasnrn ANGEL POUHED our ms VIAL INTO THE am.” All,
therefore, who breathe the air must inevitablyenhale of its deadly, or puri
fyingingredients- Ungovernably excited by which they will either madly
rush into the wide-expanded jaws of destruction ; or, as the envenomed
Israelites in the wilderness, strugglingly cast a ﬂickering glance at the
uplifted serpent, they will look to the Son of God highly exalted, and he
cleansed entirely from all destructive influences of the seventh vial ; and,
also, of that more stubborn and deadly cause of its coming—SIN.
The end of all systems amongst us as they are, except the gospel, is at
hand. A new age is opening, new manners will soon reign. In a strong
sense, the Apostle’s words apply :-—“ Old things are passing away,
and behold all things are becoming new.” Let all read and think,
believe and bow with reverence to the pre-determined councils of
Jehovah. The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth. And the arm ofman
is far too feeble to stay his purposes in their onward course.
The sentiments asserted in these introductory remarks are exactly
what will be fully defended and established through this work; by
these, every reader may know to what his attention will be directed.
Let no man be loud and premature in his decisions against them». Our
law condemneth no man until it hear him. Let him ﬁrst listen to
evidencet Ponderous facts will soon roll upon him. The labour of
years~and closest possible attention to the subject, will be presented to
the reader. Put all into the unerring balances of Scripture, let reason
speak and we have no fear for the issue.
Discussion is invited.—Questions will be answered if to the point.
As provision for this, thework will appear in cheap numbers, 1%(1. each,
16 pages the size of these. Every number ﬁnished with notes, headed
"‘ Signs of the Times," in which correspondence may appear.
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
ON reading the prophetic parts of Scripture, we frequently meet
with clear and positive declarations, that Christ shall reign without a
rival, over the whole earth. Of this import, I believe, are the following
texts; with many other that might be given :—“ Thou sawest till that
a stone was cut out without hands, which smote the image upon his
feet that were of iron and clay, and brake them to pieces. Then was
the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver and the gold, broken to pieces
together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing ﬂoors;
and the wind carried them away, that no place was found for them : and
the stone that smote the image became a great mountain, and ﬁlled the
whole earth,” Dan. ii. 34, 35. That this is emblematical of the univer
sal reign of Christ, is certain from the 44th verse of the same chap
ter.-_“And in the days of these kings shall the God of Heaven set up
a kingdom which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not
be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these
kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever." Of the same import is the fol
lowing :—-“ Then I would know the truth of the fourth Beast, which
was diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful, whose teeth were
of iron, and his nails of brass ; which devoured, broke in pieces, and
stamped the residue with his feet; and of the ten horns that were in
his head, and of the other which came up, and before whom three fell;
eVen of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake very great
things, whose look was more stout than his fellows. Ibeheld, and the
same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them: until
the Ancient of Days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the
Most High ; and the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom.
And the kingdom, and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom
under the whole heaVen, shall be given to the people of the saints of
the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all
dominions shall serve and obey him,” Daniel vii. 19 to 22, and 27.
And “It shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of
the Lord’s bonse shall be established in the top of the mountains, and
shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall ﬂow unto it.
2 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
And many people shall go and say, come ye, let us go u to the moun
tain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, an he will teach
us His ways, and we will walk in His paths, for out of Zion shall go
forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, and he shall
judge among the nations, and rebuke many people: and they shall beat
their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks ;
nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn
war any more,” Isaiah ii. 2—4. Of the same import is the following
highly figurative, but most expressive passage :——“ And there shall
come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow
out of his roots. Righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of his reins." In this peaceful kingdom “ the
wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the
kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and a
little child shall load them. And the cow and the bear shall feed: their
young ones shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like
the ox. And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and
the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice den. They shall
not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full
of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea," Isaiah xi,
1, 5--9. “And” through the world “they shall" then, “teach no more
every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying know ye
the Lord; for they shall all know me from the least of them unto the
greatest of them, saith the Lord,"Jer. xxxi. 34. “ And in this moun
tain shall the Lord of Hosts make unto all people afeast offat things,
a feast of wines on the lees well refined. And he will destroy in this
mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the veil that
is spread over all nations,” Isaiah xxv. 6, 7. “ Every valley shall be
exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked
shall be made straight, and the rough places plain; and the glory of
the Lord shall be revealed, and all ﬂesh shall see it together, for the
mouth of the Lord hath spoken it," Isaiah x1. 5, 6. “Arise, shine, for
thy light is come and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For,
behold darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people :
but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and His glory shall be seen upon
thee. The abundance of the sea shall be converted unto thee, the
forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee. For the nation and king
dom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations shall be
utterly wasted." And to show the peace, purity, perpetuity, and preva
lence of the church, it is added, “ Violence shall no more be heard in
thy land, wasting nor destruction within thy borders; but thou shalt
call thy walls salvation, and thy gates praise. Thy sun shall no more go
down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself: for the Lord shall be thy
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 3
.. ... -_w-_
everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning. shall be ended. Thy
people also shall be all righteous; they shall inherit the land for ever,
the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glori
ﬁed. A little one shall become a thousand, anda small one a strong
nation. I the Lord will hasten it in his time,” Isaiah lx. “At that time
they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the LORD, and all the nations
shall be gathered unto it; neither shall they walk any more after the
imagination of their evil heart,” .Ierh. iii. ll. “ Therefore wait ye
upon me saith the Lord, until the day that I rise up to the prey, for
my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the
kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my ﬁerce
anger: for all the earth shall be devoured with the ﬁre of my jealousy.
For then will I turn to the people a pure language, that they may all
call upon the name of the Lord, to serve Him with one consent,"
Zeph. iii. 8, 9. “And the seventh angel sounded, and there were great
voices in heaven, saying, the kingdoms of this world are become the
kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ; and He shall reign for ever
and ever,” Rev. xi. 15. “And I saw an angel come down from heaven,
having the key of the bottomless pit, and having a great chain in his
hand. And he laid hold on the dragon that old serpent, which is the
devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, and cast him into
the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he
should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be
fulﬁlled. BleSSed and holy is he that hath part in the ﬁrst resurrec
tion, on such the second death has no power, but they shall be priests
of God, and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years,"
Rev. xx. 1—6. .
It is impossible for these predictions to be believingly read, without
a conviction, that our world will sooner or later experience an universal
change in its entire moral and religious character. Now, through all
the ramiﬁcations of all sections of society, and this through the world,
wrong principles and practices abound. And for thousands of years
this has been the case. Wrong of every variety is also elevated high
in the ascendant, whilst the truth is cast down to the ground. and its
adversaries practice and prosper. The world seems taken a willing cap
tive by the devil at his pleasure. Darkness covers the earth and gross
darkness the people. Crooked and perverse measures triumph ; violence
and oppression prevail in all nations.
“ Man is to man the sorest, surest ill.”
Wars, famines, and pestilential diseases immolate their millions; slavery,
wretchedness, and starvation mercilessly destroy the comforts and lives
“millions more, and drown their souls in perdition; whilst millions or
4 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
the maddened votarics of power, wealth and pleasure, are braving the
tremendous curses of Omnipotence, apparently without a dread. And
not in heathen countries alone, are such things experimentally and
practically known. But in nations professing that system ushered into
our world by the enrapturing melody of angels singing, “On earth
peace, and good will towards men ;" even there the crimson current
has been made to ﬂow; the iron grasp of tyranny has been felt, and
the grim remorseless demon, “YANT,.h88 long maintained extensive
empire. In Christian nations, where civilization combined with moral
and religious profession, makes loud claims on our notice, every variety of
vice abounds; the truly spiritual ﬂock of Christ is yet “a little_ﬂoclr,"
and that ﬂock mourneth. The lowly loving spirit of the Redeemer, is
found in believers lamentany deﬁcient, too much “like angel visits, few
and far between.” By a vast majority of nominal Christians, the expe
rience and example of the ﬁrst Christian Church, as recorded in the Acts
of the Apostles, are doomed to drink of the cup of which our Lord so
largely partook, they are despised and rejected of men. The ene
mies of the cross take advantage of this,_and between the two thieves
the truth and its advocates for thousands of years have, and yet continue
to suffer.
But from the above leading texts, we may rest assured that this will not
always be the case. Deplorable as the condition of our world is, and
long has been, a radical change is predicted, and it will come. We
may rely on Him who said, “ Heaven and earth shall pass away; but
my words shall not pass away," Luke xxi. 33. The days of unrigh—
teousness are numbered, and its doom is sealed, and irresistible judgment
will speedily be executed, for the Lord hath spoken; let the wicked
tremble. Violence shall cease in the land, and truth and righteousness
shall have unlimited dominion ; all opposition to the gospel stone's
universal empire, shall become as the chaff of the summer’s threshing
ﬂoor; the wind shall carry all away, and no place be found on earth
for it. “ For this purpose was the Son of God manifested; that he
might destroy the works of the devil,” and he will do it. “ He shall
see of the travail of his soul, and be satisﬁed ;" but with nothing short
- vA-qfw'iiversal empire. Our Lord will come a second time, without
sin unto salvation, and all mankind shall shortly own his universal
sway.
Were we to determine entirely from the striking contrast between
the present degraded, unholy, and wretched state of our world, and that
holy, happy, blessed state set forth in our leading scriptural texts, we
should without the least hesitation, conclude that the fervent, sincere.
constant and most important prayer of every Christian in the world
would be, “Amen, even so, come Lord Jesus," Rev. xxii. 20. That
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 5
like weary way-worn, travellers, they would hail with transport every
true sign of his near approach. We should conclude, that from the
echoes of the faintest rumblings of the chariot wheels, they would ﬂy
with eagerness to the great prophetic chart provided them, would search
the Scriptures daily to know if these things be so: and then run to
and-fro, with eyes uplifted, and hearts bounding with joyful hope;
proclaiming to all their brethren, “the Lord is at hand.” That all
little obstacles would be bounded over, as the forest deer skims the
molehill; that all petty differences should be thrown to the winds, and
every vestige of sectarian prejudice be consumed in one vast ﬂame of
love to Him, just about to ma e us “ all one as He and the Father are
one; and priests of God and of Christ, and we shall reign with Him
a thousand years," in his happy millenium kingdom. For ages has
the church been daily praying for this; all our commentators agree
that it shall come; all denominations of christians profess to receive
the doctrine in one form or other; millions sterling have been expended
in Bible Society and Missionary efforts, to prepare the world for this
grand event: our leading texts leave no room to doubt but the thing
is certain; and under such circumstances shall we not conclude, that
every christian will most joyfully hail all additional information, shewing
the blissful reign at hand. Will not his heart leap for joy when in
formed that it is nigh, “even at the door ?" If he be, as many who
are rich in faith are, poor in this world, he has great cause to rejoice;
for then, and not till then, shall his sun of earthly comforts “go no
more down, and his days of mourning be ended." In like manner
should every man of peace triumph to know, that the celebrated day is
at hand vuhcn men “shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and
their spears into pruning hooks; when nation shall not lift up sword
against nation ; neither shall they learn war any more.” It is a fact,
but involved in mystery, that “ as the hart panteth after the water
brooks" in the burning deserts, so panteth the souls of thousands for
the pleasures of that peaceful kingdom set forth in our leading texts.
Strange as it may seem, all christians are exhibited in unaccountable
opposition to themselves, by the supposition that they will not gladly
hail the joyful sound of this kingdom near. It supposes their prayols, '
and their hearts for ever at variance, their open professions and secret
inclinations to be antagonistic; suppositions which shall not be admit
ted here, unless forced upon us by future facts.
That we may not, however, be over sanguine, it may be well to
glance at the strange anomalies which mankind have exhibited in former
ages. The whole Jewish nation desired, prayed for, and was ﬂushed
with expectation of the promised Messiah when our Lord appeared.
Notwitlntanding, we read, “ He came to his own, but his own received
6 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
him not, he was despised and rejected of men.” This is ominous.
Charity hopeth all things. Yet, should his second coming at hand,
prove a doctrine not so eagerly embraced as is desired, by all who have
for ages been praying for it and proclaiming it the supreme desire of
all christian nations, we must not suffer disappointment to produce
relaxation of effort, to sound the midnight cry, of “Behold the bride
groom cometh."
This doctrine will, however, be variously received. Thousands upon
thousands would now rejoice to receive it with all their hearts, could
they be presented with a. ﬁrm scriptural foundation on which to build
their faith. They believe their Lord will come; their wretchedness
with reference to this world’s comforts, every hour reminds them of the
desirableness of a change; they believe when he does come, things will
be amazingly different; and they would gladly believe even more than
this. Yea,—that now is the accepted time,--this the age destined to
witness the mighty change; and even this the year, in which the deed
of deeds shall be done. But such harassed, weary, panting souls, want
scriptural foundation for their further stretch of faith. To supply this
is the sole object of this undertaking. There are others, fervent, steady
advocates of our Lord's second coming some time ,- but, for reasons of
Various kinds, strongly oppose the sentiment that we know this coming
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
“ And there shall be signs in the sun and in the moon, and in the stars : and upon
the earth distress of nations with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring: men‘s
hearts failing them for fear: and for looking after those things which are cominz
on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. And then they shall see
the LSon of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. And when these
things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads, for your redemp
tion draweth nigh," Luke xxi. 25—28.
THIS prediction shall be the great leading motto of l‘The Signs ofthe Times."
The words stand in connection with the following question, but they must not
be understood as a direct answer thereto :——“And as some spake of the temple
how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said, as for these things
which we behold, the days will come, in which there shall not be left one stone
upon another, that shall not be thrown down. And they asked him, saying.
Master, but when shall all these things be and what signs will there be, when these
things shall come to pass ?" Luke xxi. 5—7. To this question a plain, compre~
hensive, and direct answer was given to the disciples, and is recorded in the 14
following verses. Those signs were to be false Christs in abundance, wars.
commotions, nation rising against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; great
earthquakes, famine, pestilence, and fearful sights and great signs from hearen;
persecution; betrayal of the disciples, some of them to be put to death. And the
last great sign is this given, “ And when ye shall see Jerusalem compasserl with
armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh." Within about forty years
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 7
is now at hand. This is the conduct pursued by many, who may,
notwithstanding, be sincere; and be inﬂuenced by various texts in
from the time these predictions were delivered, every word thereof received a
minute accomplishment; and within six months of the time of the last sign ap
pearing, Jerusalem was overthrown, and the splendid temple thereof, according
to this prophecy, was razed to its foundations, and not one stone left upon another
which had not been thrown down.
But the signs in our leading texts, are not found amongst these signs of Jeru
salem's ﬁnal desolation. Our Lord did not always answer the questions proposed
to him by his disciples direct; nor did he always limit his answers to those ques
tions, within the boundary of their inquiries. Various examples of this kind are
recorded in the gospels, but which need not be given here. In the chapter from
which we have quoted, after most pathetically warning his disciples, that when
the last of the above signs should appear, that then would “ be the days of ven
geance, and wrath upon that people." He then directed their attention, more
for our instruction than their’s, to what should follow for many ages upon'Jerw
salern and the whole nation of the Jews. Hence the awful but true prediction,
“And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into
all nations; and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the time
of the Gentiles be fulﬁlled.” This cannot be drawn within the limits of the origi
nal question, as it stands here; it can have no application to the destruction of
Jerusalem, as a seperate event. The dispersion of the Jews and perpetual treading
down of that city, are the great subjects clearly expressed. This is also rendered
deﬁnite, as to time; it plainly says, “until the times of the Gentiles be ﬁtlﬁlled.”
But these times are not fulﬁlled yet; the Jews remain a dispersed people, and
J erusalcm is yet trodden down of the Gentiles as much as ever, This text, can
not, therefore, have receivedits accomplishment; and, of course, cannot be limited
to Jerusalem’s overthrow.
The plain and only correct view of it is, that in this verse, the prophecy leaves
the destruction of Jerusalem, with which it very properly commenced, in direct
answer to the question proposed, and passes on through a succession of ages, dark
and calamitous indeed to that nation, but which should remain so until the times
of the Gentiles be fulﬁlled. '
The times of the Gentiles here intended, can be no other than the numbered
prophecies, or periods fixed, and revealed in the prophecies of the book of Daniel,
when it is determined that the Sanctuary shall be cleansed, and the stone cut out
without hands becomes a great mountain and ﬁlls the whole earth. That ﬁxed
times are intended is rendered certain, by the term ‘ffufﬁlled” being here em
ployed. Times being fulﬁlled, necessarily supposes, the same times to be ﬁrst
appointed ; as without a proper appointment there could be no fuﬁlment for the
best of all reasons there would be nothing to fulﬁl.
The fulﬁlment of these times of the Gentiles, when our Lord will come, the
Sanctuary be cleansed, and all mankind brought under the complete inﬂuence of
gospel pn'nciples, will be in this work, proved to be no other than the age in
which we live; and the tremendous events of this age to take their rise in the
year 1843. Upon the authority of the evidences to be adduced, in conﬁrmation
of this, we will commence our investigations of the various signs now appearing
in the world, with the intent of identifying those signs amongst them which our
Lord predicted should immediately precede his second coming.
If the predictions be true, which Christ himself delivered, and if the times of
the Gentiles be now near run out, we must assuredly expect those signs with whic
8 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
Scripture, which to them seem clearly to indicate an impossibility of
the time being known, until the events take place. Such must not
we commenced to be now strikingly abroad in the earth. And if they be there it
is of the utmost importance that they be seen and applied, and considered, and
improved. Christ assuredly had wise and gracious designs in view in giving them.
and they cannot be rejected with impunity. No part of inspiration must be
lightly esteemed; and for this to be so treated, at this time,would be tantamount
to its total rejection; for to no other age or race of men does it apply but the
present, in the form of public warning: and if disregarded by them, the gracious
design must be sacriﬁced.
That these signs were to preiede some far distant and very different event to
the destruction of Jerusalem, is certain from the 27th verse; “And then,” that
is, at the very time when the signs recorded in the 25th and 26th verses are
abroad in the world, “ then shall they see [he Son of Man coming m a cloud with
power and great y/ary.” Respecting what we must understand by this “coming
of the Son of Man," we are not left in the barren desert of wild speculation am:
random conjectures; for in the 31st verse we read, “So likewise ye, when ye see
these things come to pass, “know ye that the kingdom of God is at hand."
But all history and all the facts of the case combine to prove, that neither im
mediately before, nor at the time, nor for hundreds of years after the destruction
of Jerusalem, was anything corresponding with this seen or set up in the world.
The religion of Christ, it is true, went on spreading rapidly through the Roman
empire, after Jerusalcm’s ﬁnal ruin; but it had prt greased as rapidly before, and
been in a much better condition. If anything extraordinary took place, then it
was "the love of many waxing cold" from the causes assigned, Matt. inu'v.
9—12. This lamentable decline of many was experienced. But this is opposite
as the poles, to “ the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory;"
and equally distant from “the kingdom of God nigh at hand;" of which the
condition of mankind under notice, was predicted as the certain sign. These
signs have then, no connexion whatever with the destruction of Jerusalem, but
will precede a far distant and far more happy event.
Yes, others say, the end of the world and complete dissolution of nature, will
immediately follow these signs. This is nearly as far beyond as the former senti
ment was before, the true period and events connected therewith.
These signs were predicted to appear, when the “times of the Gentiles were
fulﬁlled ;” and when they are seen to prevail in the world, then we know that
the kingdom of God is at hand. Here we must a little anticipate what will he
established in the sequel of this work, and proceed on the foundation that it will
be proved, that these times of the Gentiles will receive their accomplishment in
the present age; and also, that the true kingdom of God here intended is now
" nigh at hand." It will also be proved that the real end of the world literally,
is yet distant more than a thousand years ; and that therefore, these signs cannot
be the signs of the end of the world; because they are to come when the times
of the Gentiles are fulﬁlled, which cannot be less than a thousand years prior to
the other closing event.
Therefore, not to the literal end of the world; neither to the destruction of
Jerusalem, do the signs we are considering apply. With the above, this part of
our subject might be passed over, as sufficiently established; yet on account
of the unsettled state of opinion upon it, and its being of importance that
it be established firmly, a few additional remarks may be both acceptable and
useful.
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 9
be unceremoniously denounced, but instructed. Light is the only
effective rem0ver of darkness. This, as a rule, shall be here carried
out. But Solomon spoke of one man “wiser in his own conceit than
seven men that can render a reason." Christ found a party who
“loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil."
Unmeasured wrath is reserved in the hands of Omnipotence for such,
and undisguised censure is the portion they ought to receive, from
every true follower of our Lord here. And while we would present to
the timid the ﬁrmest grounds on which to build their faith, and en—
deavour to displace mistaken sentiments by implanting correct views
in the minds of the sincere inquirer after truth, we would meet the fac
tions, self-conceited caviller, who loves darkness rather than light, with
ﬁrm deﬁance to prove our principles unfounded; in default of which,
to believe, or prepare at once for those calamities which are coming on
the earth ; under which, if he repent not, sudden, irresistible, and
everlasting destruction will be sure to overwhelm him.
It will be seen, from our brief introduction, that the year 1843 is
taken up, to be defended in this work as the time appointed for the
vastly important events to take their rise, concerning which this work
treats. To establish our position to the satisfaction of some, it will
be necessary to remove a variety of incorrect impressions under which
they labour.
hIany speak of this as ﬁxing a time. _ This is altogether a mistake.
It will appear in the sequel of this Work, that we utterly disclaim any
and every attempt to ﬁx a time, or to change times and laws, or to de
range any one plain prophetic period which the Bible contains. In
addition to this, we utterly reject the times ﬁxed by other men ; unless
the same be clearly proved to be, in fact, not times of man's appoint
ment, but ﬁxed by God himself. We prophecy nothing; we ﬁx no
time, we determine the limits of no event; we only endeavour to ex
plain the prophecies which God has delivered by the mouth of his holy
prophets, ages before we were born; to direct believing attention to
those times which Jehovah has ﬁxed for the true church to mourn,
and to point out those events and that time, beyond which God has
sworn by his mighty angel, “ that there should be time no longer" for
stubborn sinners to pollute the sanctuary, or for sin to corrupt the
earth. But in all this there is no more of prophecying, or ﬁxing a
time, than there is in explaining the texts, “he that believeth not
shall be damned ;" or “it is appointed unto man once to die, and after
death the judgment." As it will appear, that we have just the
same authority for the one as the other, and are under the same obliga—
tions to read and understand the one as the other. Who ever yet
charged the minister who delivered a faithful discourse from the words,
B
w- --- -_-_-. _
[0 THE new CHRISTIAN wonu).
“Except ye repent ye shall all likewise perish,” with presumptuously
assuming the prerogatives of heaven, and arrogantly undertaking to
determine the eternal destiny of all impenitent sinners i’ And where is
the diﬁ'erence between this and a strictly scriptural interpretation! ofthe
text, “ unto two thousand and three hundred days then shall the sanc
tuary he cleansed?" A correct candid consideration of these things,
will surely be sufficient to banish from the imagination of the sin~
cere, but timid, the appalling bugbear of “prophecying and ﬁxing a
time." And we owe it as a duty to the most vital interests of the igno
rant, captions, wilfully unbclieving calnmniators, not to pass on without
apprising them, that the time is at hand, when “all liars shall have
their part in the lake which burneth with ﬁre and brimstone," Rev
xi. 8; that for all such characters, very soon, no place will be found
on earth.
Still the sincere may look upon our position, concerning the vast
events of 1843, as bold and dangerous. Many have done this, upon
what they conceived to be truly scriptural grounds. Their concep
tions being founded on a miseonstruction of certain texts, and of the
whole process by which all mankind will be brought under subjection
to gospel principles. -
The whole case evidently demands investigation. Amongst all who
differ from our views of the second advent, and of what we expect in
1843, nothing whatever of system, rule, or data, derived from either
Scripture or the facts of past ages, is to be found. They admit that
Christ will reign over the whole earth some time. When this will be
they have no conception; how it will be accomplished they cannot tell:
their ideas are confused, they have no rule of judgment: they think
this or that, but they know little more why they think so, than why
they should not think otherwise; their thoughts are frequently mon
of the negative character, than the positive. They think and speak
much more freely respecting what will not take place, than of what
will; and yet they are as destitute of rule and system respecting
what will not, as what will occur. The opinions of the millions, are
almost as various, as they are numerous. Almost a Second Babel
confusion reigns amongst us, on this important subject.
Some think the millennium reign of Christ will gradually and sweetly
open upon us, descending from heaven like the dew of the morning : that
through the exertions of Missionary Societies, Bible Societies, 810., the
Heathen to the uttermost parts of the earth, will be won over to the
principles of the gospel; and nothing of sudden, violent, extraordinau
concussions be employed by Omnipotence to effect the subjugation of
the world. With such views of such a gradual, mild, and peaceful
triumph of grace, it is at once impossible for these to behold our posi
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 11
tion, concerning the events of 1843, as anything but hold and dangerous,
and even absurd in the extreme.
But will such of our opponents, accommodate us with their most
serious and deliberative thought on the following subjects. Our leading
numbered prediction is, “ unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed." Does not this necessarily imply that “then,” when this time
comes, that “than” some different plan shall be adopted in the world;
that “then” some different agencies shall be employed, or the same agen
cies in some different manner; that “then,” even at that time, some
‘strange work shall be begun and carried out amongst mankind; that
“then” a new era shall commence; and that “then” the former modes
of operation for the abolition of evil, shall be superseded by others
altogether of a new character, as regards their application and efﬁciency ;
that “then” the regular course of means and effects, prevailing through
the whole 2,300 years, as we shall prove these days to imply, shall be
stapped, and some new scheme adopted, in order that “then the sanc
tuary may be cleansed.” The words are plain and positive, “ then shalt"
the work be done This either signiﬁes some new work in the world,
or it does not. And it either signiﬁes a speciﬁc time for that work to
begin or it does not. It is unwise to close our eyes to positive plain
facts. If some new work be intended, and this at some appointed time,
both of which we shall shortly establish; then how utterly devoid of
foundation, rule, or system, the opinions of those individuals are, who
expect the evangelization of the world, by the ordinary means of
operation which are now, and have been for long, exerted on mankind.
Exactly similar queries might be proposed on various other texts,
which plainly speak of some set time for the sanctuary to he cleansed.
But as these will be afterwards quoted, we will pass them here.
But we have often inquired without effect, of those who hold our views
and the events of 1843 to be incorrect, and who expect the entire subjuga
tion of all mankind to the gospel, by the ordinary means now in operation.
Tell us, we say, when will the third woe come ?--When will the seventh
trumpet be sounded F—When will the last plague be experienced ?—
\\7 hen will the seventh vial be poured into the air ?—What will be the
effect of these P—Will they or will they not, eﬁ‘ect as it were, anew era
in the world F—Will they or will they not disturb the peaceful mode of
operations, which our friends anticipate will ﬂow on uninterrupted for
ever P—VVill there, or will there not, be a supersedure of all ordinary
means and effects under them, by an amazingly more eﬁ'ective plan of
operation ?
It is in vain to attempt to set these questions aside, by replying that
we do not expect anything of the kind, as any different plans of operation.
This amounts to nothing. The seventh vial has to come; the seventh
14)
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
-|
trumpet will sound; the time will arrive, of which it is said, “ TH EN shall
the sanctuary be cleansed ,-" and our demand is, will nothing extraor
dinary “their” take place to hasten the utter extermination of sin ?
It is most ardcntly and devoutly to be prayed for, that there should.
For if there be not, woe be to the millions yet unborn !-—Woe be to the
rising generation l—Woe be to the millions of starving operatives l—\\'oe
be to thousands who are now elevated a little above the degradation and
wretchedness, so awfully prevailing in our land! The doom of all these
is deplorable indeed, if some agencies, far more ellicient than anything
in operation for the last 2,300 years, he not speedily called forth by
Omniputence, to turn the present course of society and completely
renovate our world.
It will be confessed, that never have the ordinary means for the con
version of the world, on which our friends rely, a wider range or more
strenuous support, than they have had within the last half century.
--And with what effect? This inquiry is by no means instigated
with any motive whatever to depreciate the good which has been ac
complished by the strenuous exertions made. N0.-—In every shade
and degree of religious, moral, and mental improvement which man—
kind has experienced, we most heartily rejoice. But we would not be
blinded thereby, to a sense of the indispensable necessity of something.
quite superior to anything in operation through the time given, in order
to secure the evangelization of the world. That good has been effected.
we joyfully grant. iut, at the same time, we must not close our eye=
to the facts, that if the conversion of the world must be aCcomplished
after the rate of the last half century, not less than 365,000 years will
be necessary, and then the work will be incomplete. And if we take
the rule of the 1,800 years as our guide, since Christianity was estab
lished in the world, and exclude from our calculation all who are not
truly Christians in heart and life; and if we inquire how long, accor
ding to this rule, it would require before the earth would be ﬁlled witha
knowledge of the Lord, under the agencies in operation for that time, ——
we must answer positively,-—never while eternity itself endures. The
population has increased upon the earth, at a ratio exceeding that of true
Christians. And before all the Apostles left the churches they estab
lished on earth, there were a far greater proportion of true Christian»
to the their population of the world, than there is now. At this rate,
the thorough evangelizaticn of the world at any time, under present
inﬂuences, is utterly hopeless.
If we return to our own enlightened, laborious, strenuous, and active
age, we ﬁnd many most alarming proofs, of the utter incapability ofsin
being abolished from the earth under the ordinary agencies of our own
times" Although some varieties of the grosser crimes, have greatly
THE NEW CHRISTIAN woman. 13
decreased in our land; yet it is a lamentable fact, that many others
have greatly increased. To instance but a few, for conﬁrmation of
this, turning to the authorized ofﬁcial returns of our expences in the
prosecution of crime, we ﬁnd that the expense of prosecuting convicts
in the year 1800, amounted to only £36,557; whilst in the year
1841, with our land literally ﬁlled with churches, chapels, and meeting
houses; with a rapidly increasing phalanx of ministers, of all creeds;
religious book, issuing from the press by millions; and all the cumbrous
machinery of numerous associations, and the expenditure of millions
sterling in the good work; notwithstanding all this, our convicts for
the year last given, amounted to the enormous sum of £381,470;
being an increase of cost upon this one class of oii'enders to the lamen
table amount of £344,913, upon a cost at a former period of only
£36,557. This is advancing fearfully the wrong' way for the speedy
extermination of all crime from the earth!
Taking another class, we are conducted to equally distressing con
clusions. The prosecution of felons in the year 1600, cost only£2,329;
but after forty years of laborious exertions, with our best constructed
machinery for the demolition of sin, with those agencies and means,
to which some direct the most sanguine expectations oFa universal con
quest, not in our land only, but over the whole earth; thus circum
stanced, our expences for the above purposes, amounted to the enormous
sum in 184], of £358,701. Shewingr an increase of £355,70l upon
only £2,329. A rate of increase of felons amongst us, of about 152
to 1, in the short space of 41 years. This is most assuredly the way
to ﬁll the world with robbers, sooner than Christians.
But this lamentable increase of crime in the above cases, fully estab
lishes a proportionate increase of crime in various other respects.—
\-Vithout an awful accumulation of pride and oppression, of tyranny and
the sinful love of wealth, the above increase of the crimes noticed,
would have been unknown in our land. Boast as we will, our convicts
and our felons constitute a true index to the heart and soul of our so
ciety ; and as the number of the one increases, this marks the spreading
ravages of some deadly malady within.
But all this is the reverse of the world’s conversion. If we progress
in the same direction under the same agencies, for another half century,
and at the same speed, notwithstanding all our established means for
the diﬁ'usion of knowledge, and the moral and religious improvement
of character, where shall we be P—In what condition shall we ﬁnd our
selves? May we not well say, woe be to the millions born and unborn,
if God vouchsafe us not some extraordinary agencies, in some form
or other, not only to check, but to exterminate sin from the earth?
Certain it is, that for us to progress in the direction above proved,
14 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
and for that time ever to arrive when it will be said, “then shall
the sanctuary be cleansed," is impossible. Something must then
reverse the great current of human actions. And as our last forty
years' experience establishes the fact, that our present ordinary agen
cies will not do this, because they have not done it, we are driven
to conclude, that when the period arrives of which it is said, “then
shall the sanctuary be cleansed," then some powerful, extraordinary
agencies, will be called forth by Ornnipoteuce; means infinitely more
efﬁcient thamthose now in operation will be employed; and alto
gether a different course of action will be adopted. And then, no
more accumulation of felons, after the rate of ﬁfty to one in the SPH-‘B
of forty years—Then, no more corresponding increase of the mar;
-refined abominations; pride, tyranny, oppression, and idolatrous late
of wealth. No more pernicious causes of the grosser crimes of this
description. But “then,” when these more eﬁicient means are put in
operation, “then shall the sanctuary be cleansed."
From the whole it then appears, that from the nature of the great
work to be accomplished in the world when our Lord comes; and from
the operation of the ordinary means for man’s conversion, as new car—
ried out, it is certain that some extraordinary agencies must be called
forth, before the millenium reign of Christ can come. This comprises
all that we anticipate, and which we contend will come in 1843.
Our friends who have hitherto entertained opposite opinions in toto.
may now be willing to accede to us, that some extraordinary agencies
may, at some future period be called forth; but to say this will in
accomplished in 1843, appears to them a dangerous position. In this
sentiment they believe themselves supported by the following texts:
—“ But of that day and hour knoweth no man; no, not the angels n"
heaven, but my Father only,” Matt. xxiv. 36. The corresponding
text is given by Mark, xiii. 32, with the additional words of “neithe
the Son.” In Luke it is given in somewhat different language
“For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the
whole earth," xxi. 35.
Many who are sincere, think these texts decisive evidences against
the sentiments defended in this work. Many others disposed only to ridi
cule it, eagerly seize them as “bones of contention, not knowing whereof
they speak." A careful examination of them in connection with ther:
context, will, however, enable all to perceive that it has only been in
attention to their true import, has caused their application to the case
in hand.
One all-powerful barrier exists between these texts, and the senti
ments defended in this work, which utterly precludes their connection.
A brief statement of the whole case will clear up this sufficiently.
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 15
This work will maintain, that in the year 1843, commencing with the
month Nisan, the seventh vial will be poured out. We give no other
period but this, because we ﬁnd no other revealed. In some of the
prophecies, the prophetic day, which is embelmatical of a year, is di
vided into hours; but in the prediction setting forth this event, there
is no division of the prophetic day; consequently, we are not warranted
to derive the year. This being the case, of the year only are we per
mitted to speak. And when enquired of to know the part, or time of
the year when these things may be expected, we invariably answer, of
that we know nothing—Nothing but the year is revealed; nothing
can we, or any others know, of the whole year.
There is a singular coincidence in the whole case before us. The
predictions directing our attention to the time of the event, limit us t0.
the year only. The texts which are the subjects of these remarks,
limit us strictly to the day and hour. But independent of these texts
from the prophecies alone,we should maintain, that of the day or hour,
or month or week, knoweth no man, because only the year is revealed;
and in conﬁrmation thereof, more appropriate words could not have
been written than the text before us.
From this it cannot but be perceived, that the texts brought against
us, are strongly conﬁrmatory of our views. We maintain the same
doctrine, strenuously inculcate the same views. A correct interpre
tation of the leading predictions, on which our views are founded,
respecting the important events of 1843, lead us to just the same con
clusions. As no man can from those predictions know, or conclude
on anything as to the day or hour, or month or week, but only to
the year.
This interpretation is not given for the purpose of accommodation.
We seek nothing but truth. We allow no accommodatory explana
tions of Scripture; this can do no good. In this case we shall soon
prove the sense we have given,—the only interpretation of the texts
which can at all harmonize with the context, and prevent plain
contradictions.
But some, to evade the force or the above, have said,—“ that they
understand the day and hour here, to signify an indeﬁnite period;
which may embrace months, and even years." But we must de
mand, on what authority do they so understand these texts. We must
have clear proof from the texts or the contexts, that this is the correct
view, before we receive it. Their so understanding this; or their
thinking or conjecturing such a meaning correct, amounts to just
nothing.
Christ’s words are definite, and in all the gospels where they are
found, they are given in exactly one deﬁnite form. But our objecting
16 run: new CHRISTIAN wonu).
interpreters throw over them the loose reins of indeﬁnitiveuess. Thus
violating the sacred rule of the texts. The texts, all of them, expressly
say the day and lzour. Our opposing friends convert these into months
or years; and their rule admits of hundreds or thousands of years. VVe -
contend for the plain reading of the texts, against their violent subver
sion thereof. And yet, they seem overwhelmed with godly sorrow and
holy dread, at our having taken up so bold and dangerous it p0sition.
This seems rather paradoxical.
Reverse the cases, and our objecting friends may, by that, more
strikingly perceive their true position. Suppose Christ had said, of
that month or year knowet/z no man.--\Vould our friends have tole
rated us in completely altering this reading, and for month and year
to have put “day and hour ,-" and this evidently, for the purpose of
bringing in a favourite theory. Would not their godly sorrow have
risen to vehemence, on account of our bold and dangerous position, to
be expressed only in terms of the strongest denunciation, of such un
warrantahle perversions of the plain texts of Scripture? Let this
instruct them on the nature of the ground on which they stand, and
let them not forget the golden rule, “ Do unto others as ye would that
others should do unto you."
But when plain scriptural language failed our objecting friends, ex
pediency has been unwisely urged, to supply the deﬁciency of admis
sible proof. Hence they would persuade us, that to induce mankind
to perpetual watchfulness, God has wisely withheld a knowledge of the
time when great events would take place in the world. Vain theory,
indeed l—in direct opposition to the whole spirit and design of the
whole prophetic writings.
If secrecy to induce watchfulness he held of such importance, as re
gards Christ’s second coming,-how is it that the same rule respecting his
ﬁrst coming, was completely disregarded? The celebrated seventy
weeks of Daniel told the day on which our Saviour died, hundreds of
years before he was born. It is a fact which will not be disputed, that
from that seventy weeks, numbers of the Jews knew the time for the
Messiah to come; and it was only Christ’s appearing in a manner
different to their carnal wishes, which occasioned his rejection. But
where is the authority for this day and hour before us, being an inde
ﬁnite period of perhaps years? The speculations of man can have no
weight here. “ Peter and John answered and said unto the chief
priests and captains of the temple, whether it be right in the sight of
God, to hearken unto you more than unto God: judge ye," Acts iv.
19. Just the same questions we must propose, to all our chief priests
and rev. D. D's.; give us your scriptura authority, or we must hearken
only to the words of the texts, and retain our former conclusionsra
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. l7
that the day and hour has no connection with or allusion to, the prin
ciples contended for in this work.
As regards the passages referred to, being intended to prove that no
- man can know that the kingdom of God is at hand, for which we here
contend; with equal propriety and succes might the inﬁdel put in the
Bible, as evidence that there is no God. For the Psalmist said, “The
fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." Cut off the former part
of the sentence, and the other asserts the fundamental principle of inﬁ
delity, and no mistake. In most singular coincidences, the contexts
to all the three passages quoted, were evidently given to establish and
most plainly inculcate the very doctrine, which the texts taken single
handed, are produced to destroy. That we can know nothing of the
kingdom nigh at hand, is the general principle which our opponents
seek to establish from the texts, “Of that day and hour knoweth no
man ;” whereas in Matthew the next verses read thus,—-“ But as the
days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.
For as in the days that were before the ﬂood, they were eating and
drinking; marrying and giving in marriage, till the day that Noah en'
tered into the ark; and knew not until the ﬂood came, and took them
all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be," Matt. xxiv.
37—39. This teaches in the plainest language, that men in general
did not know, until the ﬂood came and took them all away. Yet this
is not to be interpreted in the absolute sense, that no man knew that
the ﬂood was coming, and when it would come. Noah knew this, and
had long known it and had prepared for it ; his sons and their wives
knew it, and had undoubtedly aided in building that ark. which proved
the means of their salvation; and from the Apostle’s improvement of
the vastly important facts of that case, it is certain that many more
might have known it if they would have believed. The improvement
reads thus, “ By faith, Noah, being warned of God of things not seen
as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house;
by the which be condemned the world, and became heir of the righte—
ousness which is by faith,” Heb. xi. 7. From this we cannot but see,
that timely warning was given ; that those who properly received it, knew
what was coming and also when; that they prepared an ark, which
was not done in a moment; many saw the preparations in operation.
This thing was not done in a corner, nor in the bowels of the earth;
by this others were warned; they might have taken warning, and be
lieved, but they refused—And this, according to the Apostle’s im
provement, led not only to the world’s condemnation and destruction,
but to Noah’s salvation, and him being made “the heir of the righte
ousness which is by faith.”
From the whole it follows, that if it be in the days of the coming of
18 THE new cnarsrum WORLD.
the Son of Man, “as it was in the days of Noah,” then some will be
duly warned of God before the Son of Man cometh, because Noah was
so. Some will believe, because Noah did; some will know both what
is coming and when it is at hand, because Noah and his house knew this.
But all this is the opposite of the theory, attempted to be set up from
the favourite text of the objectors. Upon the ground of this plain
scriptural authority, we therefore conclude that their interpretation of
that text is altogether wrong—That some may know, and some will
know—not the (lay or hour when the Lord will come—but when his
coming is nigh at hand, even at the door.
The inattention of men to the whole portion ofthat part of Scripture
now under notice, is certainly marvellous and to be lamented—Were
it not for this, no believer in the New Testament could infer from the
the text, “ Ofthat day and hour knoweth no man ;" that, therefore, we
can know nothing whatever of when that day is at hand, seeing that in
immediate connection with that text, in all the gospels in which it is
found, is inserted a most appropriate parable, the only spirit and design
of which are evidently to inculcate the opposite doctrine to that which
our opponents teach. Alluding to certain very striking signs, which
Christ said should immediately precede his second coming, he said,
“ And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up
your heads : for your redemption (lraweth nigh. And he spake to them
a parable; behold the ﬁg tree, and all the trees ; when they now shoot
forth, ye see and know of your ownselves, that summer is now nigh at
hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye
that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand,” Luke xxi. 28—31. Now if
there be any truth or application in Scripture parable; if there be any
deﬁnite meaning in plain Scripture language, these texts unmistakably
teach, that we may know, and ought to know; and that this portion of
Scripture was given for the exPress purpose of making us know, when
the vast events before us are nigh at hand. Any explanation of the
texts to make them more plain, is impossible; we have no words in our
language more expressive than those employed, nor can a more appro
priate parable be used for illustration. The same parable is given in
nearly the same words, by Luke in xxiv. 32, 33; and in Mark xiii. 28,
29 ; in both these cases the additional words are added, “at the doors ;"
proving by double force of expression, the event nigh and certain. In
Matthew and Mark the words are used, “now learn a parable.” This
plainly teaches the desire of Christ, that we should receive full instruc
tion and proper understanding of the matter; and this is followed by
“know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand." This then, we
may know; this, all believers ought to know; and certain it' is, from the
above plain expressions, that Jesus Christ intended that some should
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
know. The above text, that “ of that day and hour knoweth no man,”
must not, therefore, be interpreted to mean, that we cannot know when
the “kingdom is nigh at hand, even at the doors ;" which is all that
is professed and defended in this work.
It will not destroy any of the conclusive power of these remarks, to
say, that this parable alludes to the events of the destruction of Jeru
salem. If the parable had reference only to that, then the words “ of
that day and hour knoweth no man," can be applied only to the same.
But it is proved in our Signs of the Times, that neither those signs nor
these words refer to the destruction of Jerusalem, but to the far more
important events now at hand.
One distinct principle, clearly established by the parable and ad
joining texts under notice, deserves a separate remark—namely, that
the above knowledge of this great prophetic event being near, may be
obtained bq/bre the event itself takes place. A very accommodating
doctrine rather extensively prevails, to the effect, that the prophecies of
the Scripture were never designed by their great Author, to make all
men prophets, by qualifying them to foresee and foretell future events;
but were rather intended for the confirmation of the faith of believers,
who, after witnessing their exact accomplishment, should be led to re
newed and stronger conﬁdence in God, and in the inspiration of the
Holy Scriptures. As regards the advantages to be derived from
the exact fulﬁlment of many important .Scripturc prophecies, we
would not, on any account, utter a single sentiment at all calculated to
lessen those advantages, or place the slightest obstruction in the way
of their most consummate enjoyment. But, at the same time, we are
in duty bound to guard all men against the equally incorrect and dan
gerous error, of supposing this the only object for which prophecy was
ever delivered. We have already a host of prophecies fulﬁlled, in the
in the most remarkable manner; and to them we do well to take heed
for the constant renewal of our faith, and revival of our ardent eXpecta
tions ofthe speedy accomplishment of those which remain to be fulﬁlled.
But where, in the whole book of God. are we told to disregard the lat
ter, in the heat of our devotion to the former F—And where, in the
whole Scripture, is the doctrine to he found, that no man should know
anything of the unfulﬁlled events of prophecy, until they have taken
place? If men will set themselves thoroughly to establish this senti
ment on scriptural grounds, their efforts will soon convince them, that
it is but an accommodating doctrine of man, from which all sanction
from heaven has been rigidly withheld. We must, however, admit of
no such authority here; the Word of God is the only rule we take.
in the present case we ﬁnd it positive, in opposition to the doctrines
of men.
20 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
According to the before given words of Christ, we are to know “that
the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.” A thing “ nigh at band" is
not a thing past and gone; here is a marked distinction exactly to the
purpose. Men say, we must know when the events have had their
accomplishment ;-—Christ says, when they are “ nigh at hand." The
amount of diﬁ‘erence is no more or less than a plain contradiction.—
The one says before, the other after; the opp0siti0n is unmistakable,
and the doctrine to be rejected allows of no hesitation.
Again, referring to the important signs hereafter to be considered,
Christ said, “And when these things begin to come to pass. then look
up," &c. Now these signs of His coming, must precede the coming
itself—It is to the beginning, not the end of these, to which we are di
rected; and when we see this beginning, we are then to know that the
grand event is near. But, inasmuch as the beginning of the signs of
an event are not effects which follow such evcnt,—as no two things
can be more opposite and distinct,--it therefore follows, that the whole
import, design, and plain meaning of this portion of Scripture is, tha
we may know before, and not after, the grand event before us has re
ccived its accomplishment.
This required elucidation, inasmuch as that could it have been estab
lished from the texts considered, that of the kingdom of God nigh at
[2.1111], of which this work professedly treats, nothing could ever be
known by man; then it would have been presumption to have pro
ceeded with the work,—-to treat the subject according to the plan
marked out. It would, also, have been a gross imposition on the pub
lic to have oﬁ'ered such a work. We see, however, that the only texts
from which anything like scriptural doubt could spring, when properly
explained along with their context, confirm in place of opposing, the
position we have taken.
It is true, what is generally deemed high authority in the churches,
has arrayed itself against it. This authority has operated powerfully
on the minds of the less informed; and we have not been without indi
viduals, wiser in their own conceit than seven men that can render a
reason. To clothe this opposition with seeming plausibility, to render
it more inﬂuential in drowning the sober senses of the unsuspecting;
-—all the wild reveries, the delusivc schemes, the bold adventurous
speculations, and vile craft of interested impostors; the visionary extra
vagancies of fanatics, the errors of all past ages, and the miscalculations
of sincere prophetic students of modern times ;—have all been accu
mulated with amazing alacrity; and constructed into one great and
frightful bugbear, sufﬁciently repulsive to drive back every glance of
the masses from prophetic times and seasons. Should a few however,
have courage to look and be favoured with a glimpse of the truth, and
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
begin to spread it ; in the true spirit of scepticism the above materials
are instantly intrenched, as an effectual barricade around every effort to
diffuse the sacred light. To strengthen this barricade every advantage
has been taken by some, of the natural antipathies of the human heart
to the doctrine of the kingdom of God nigh at hand. The unprepared,
hope that the doctrine is false ;—-those at ease in Zion, feel satisﬁed as
they are, and require no change ;-some listen to the doctrine, as they
would to the sentence of death on themselves. These propositions
impel the heart to embrace with eagerness, and hold with firmest grasp
the theory,—that of the day, or hour, or year, or age when our Lord
will come, “ knoweth no man; no, nor the angels of heaven.”
Our only business here is, to arraign this frightful phalanx of oppo
sition, in front of its legitimate antagonist. It is not against man this
desperate conﬂict is raised, but against God; it is the Gospel of Jesus
Christ—the book of the New Testament—which inculcates the doc
trine and illustrates it by the parable above considered, to shew that we
may know when the kingdom of God is nigh at hand, even at the doors.
—To this we refer our opponents as the real object of their attack,
declining any further part or lot in the conﬂict; from the certain con
viction, that God both can and will defend effectually His own W'ord.
Thus far we have considered our subject, chieﬂy on the negative
side of the question; and it is presumed have said sufﬁcient to nullify
all bad effects on the sincere of that much abused text, “Of that day
and hour knoweth no man.”—To do full justice to the subject, We
- must now glance at the positive side, that a firm foundation may be
established for the pretensions of this work.
That no man in the present age, can know that the kingdom of God is
nigh at hand—even at the doors—is a doctrine which ought to be instant
ly banished from the judgment of every Christian; which never ought
to be in the least sanctioned by any minister of Christ ; and which every
instructor of the public in scriptural knowledge, ought to feel himself
disgraced in inculcating. That the last and former ages remained in
ignorance of this, is easily accounted for upon scriptural grounds——
but those are inﬂuenced by widely mistaken views, who suppose the
present age should remain in equal uncertainty. Not more clear and
positive are the proofs in the prophetic parts of Scripture, that Christ
ever will come; than are those that His coming will be known, when
nigh at hand. '
Clearly to establish this sentiment, the three following propositions
must be traced to a clear Scriptural foundation.
Firstly :—The time for our Lord's second coming, is ﬁxed in the‘
prophetic writings positively, and will never be altered. ’
Secondly—The time thus ﬁxed is clearly revealed.
22 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
Thirdly :-—And it is a plain doctrine of Scripture, that what is thus
revealed, may and will be understood before our Lord comes; which
will be in the present age.
Firstly :—That there is a time determined upon by Jehovah, when
the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of our Lord, is
certain from the following texts :———“And judgment was given to the
saints of the Most High, and the time came that the saints possessed the
kingdom," Dan. vii. 22.—And “he said unto me, understand, 0 son of
man, for at the time qfthe end, shall be the vision,” Dan. viii. l7.—And
“ some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, and to purge
and to make them white, even to the time oft/1c end; because it is yet
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
BUT many have been induced not to devote that serious attention to these
signs, which their importance as a gracious warning from God demands, from the
mistaken opinion, that they were originally limited to the destruction of Jeru
salem—Whilst others plunging into the opposite extreme, contend for their
application only to the end of the world and ﬁnal and complete dissolution of
nature. Neither to the one nor to the other, have they any application whatever.
Wide as these two events are in point of tirne,—they are one just as far as the
other,—from the true period when these signs will appear.
The text, from an incorrect interpretation of which the former sentiment derives
its principal support, is this,—This generation shall not pass away till all be ful
ﬁlled, v. 32. Let this text be read thus,-—Till all “predicted concerning the
destruction of Jerusalem be fulﬁlled,” and all will be plain, and no violence oﬁ'ered
to any part. But some object to this plaiuest of all interpretations, and the only
correct one; and to gratify some peculiar prejudice of education, prefer a sense
which throws other texts into total confusion.
No text can mean what implies a plain contradiction ;—no interpretation can
be correct, which is plainly contradicted by others of the clearest texts and
strongest facts of Scripture. Those who insist on this—“ all be fulﬁlled”—sig
nifying literally all which our Lord had just predicted ; then all foretold in the
24th verse must be fulﬁlled. But this was impossible, inasmuch as that events
are therein predicted which are not fulﬁlled yet.
Some interpreters inform us that the custom of the prophets was, to transport
themselves in imagination, along with the visionary scenes in which their souls
were enwrapped, up to the very age, however remote, and to the country and
people concerning which they predicted important events; and then spoke in a
style, as it actually present. These tell us, that our Lord adopted this rule, in
delivering the predictions before us; and that by the words “ this generation,"
we are to understand any generation in which the predictions receive their accom
plishment. But it is inconsistent with the pre-deterrnined rules of this work, to
admit such loose and indeﬁnite interpretations here; they are unsatisfactory and
uncalled for.
Respecting the plain interpretation above given, in which the term “ALL” is
limited to the destruction of Jerusalem—In conﬁrmation of this as a rule. hurr
'rua new cums-nan WORLD. 23
for a time appointed,” Dan xi. iii—“And at that time shall Michael
stand up, the great Prince which standeth for the children of thy people;
dreds of instances are recorded in Scripture, in which the term “an.” must be
understood in a limited and notin an absolute sense. In Rev. xiii. 3, we read, “And
all the world wondered after the beast :"—and in verses 7, 8, “And power was
given him over all kindrcds, and tongues, and nations; and all that dwell upon
the earth shall worship Him, whose names are not written in the book of life."
But these things never did take place, nor will they ever be accomplished, accor
ding to anyabsolute interpretation of the word “ALL.” And if it must be under
stood in a limited sense in these texts, why not in the case of the predicted signs
before us.
vBut in Luke 1, we read that Caesar Augustus decreed, “that all the world
should be taxed." . I
That the term “ all” must not be taken in its absolute sense here, but limited to
the Roman world only is certain. By the same rule being applied, the prophecy
being examined will be plain as words can make it. Our Lord had told his dis
ciples concerning the temple,—“ The days will come in the which there shall not
be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down." They asked
“ when shall these things be, and what siguwill there be when these things shall
come to pass.” The latter part of this inquiry he answered ﬁrst, as we have seen;
and the time when is answered in the text under notice, “this generation shall
not pass away till all be fulﬁlled,” upon the temple and city to which the enquiry
of the disciples alluded. All they would understand this answer to imply, was
the destruction of Jerusalem alone; and to the question they had proposed, this
answer was perfect and satisfactory; and to nothing beyond this was it ever in
tended to be applied.
Under this limitation of the word “all” the whole is plain, consistent, and
established by all the facts of the case; as well as by as plain a rule as the Scrip
ture supplies, than which none is of more common occurrence. But if we disallow
this limitation, and insist on all, absolutely all which Christ predicted in the
whole chapter, receiving its accomplishment in that generation; we in this, run
in opposition to a most popular rule of Scripture, and throw into confusion—
which can never be corrected ~a most important part of the prediction delivered.
If all other parts could be reconciled with such unlimited sense, that part pre
dicting the treading down of Jerusalem by the Gentiles until the times of the
Gentiles be fulﬁlled, never can. For this to be accomplished in that generation,
was just as impossible under existing laws of nature, as for that generation to
continue until now, inasmuch as that Jerusalem is thus trodden down yet.—
Therefore the “al " to be accomplished in that generation, alludes only to what
actually came upon Jerusalem and the whole nation of the Jews, when the Roman
armies laid the city waste, and destroyed or made captives all its inhabitants.
Iu Matthew xxiv. the same subjects are recorded; and as they are there given
in a somewhat different form, some additional information may be gathered there
from. After the total demolition of the temple had been predicted, in the same
form as recorded by Lnke,—-“ The disciples came unto Jesus privately, saying, tell
us when shall these things be: and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of
the end of the world ?" Here the question is given more at large than by Luke.
it was evidently a question complicated, confused, and inapplicable. Christ had
been speaking of the destruction of the temple only; but this question embraces
other subjects distant from that event, even thousands of years. Correctly speak
iug, three important and far distant events are here thrown together, as though
24 ran new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
and there shall be a time of trouble such as there never was since
there was a nation, even to that same time, and at that time thy people
they were all one. lstly: The destruction of Jerusalem, expressed in “ the"
things" of which Christ had been speaking. 2ndly: Christ’s second coming to
make the kingdoms of this world his own; an event, as matter of fact establishes,
upwards of 1,800 years distant from the ﬁrst. And 3rdly: “ The end of the
world." Another important event, which cannot in a true and proper sense, he
distant from the second less than upwards of 1,000 years. And yet these distant
and transcendant occurrences were proposed, as all just at hand and all to occur
at once. Undoubtedly the disciples expected all these things immediately, in
their sense. Our Lord did not, however, either correct their errors or answer
their question according to their views; his reply was a sort of general one, in
which the real and positive end of the world is altogether left out. The overthrow
of Jerusalem and the signs preceding are largely and plainlj. given ﬁrst, in reply to
the ﬁrst part of the question; and the signs of his second coming, are then
distinctly stated, in reply to the second clause. And the universal changes and
complete destruction of sin, to take place at his second coming, is allowed by him
to be considered as the end of the world, the third subject of inquiry proposed,
for “the end of the world.” in any other sense, is left unnoticed in the reply. It
is certain, that in the question itself, “ the end of the world" must be understood
in a qualiﬁed sense. The disciples intended no more by it, than the end of the
Mosaic dispensation; the subjugation of all the world to the temporal govern
ment of Christ; and the institution of a new, universal, hut earthly kingdom.
this in their sense, was the end of the old world and the establishment ofthe new.
In our Lord’s reply, nothing beyond a corresponding change is noticed as " the
end of the world."
Although only one of these grand subjects is recorded by Luke, as included
in the question proposed by the disciples; yet both are evidently included in our
Lord's reply. From the 8th to the 24th verse, is occupied with the matters
concerning Jerusalem’s overthrow. In that verse we are presented with events
occupying along succession of ages, leading our minds from the horrors and the
age when the Jews were led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem trodden
down of the Gentiles, even until the time of the end of these things come. And
it is then—when these times allotted to the Gentiles be fulﬁlled—then in the
order of our Lord's prediction, is the second grand event introduced; and the 25t
verse begins with the signs of His second coming, which is variously set forth to
the end of the chapter.
Here we have both subjects of the disciples’ question included, equally distinct,
They asked ﬁrst, “ when shall these things be,”——viz., Jerusalem’s overthrow, of
which he had been speaking;—the answer was given, “this generation shall not
pass away until all be fulﬁlled.” They also asked, although they then would not
comprehend the answer, “ and what shall be the signs of his coming ?"-—And in
Luke xxi. 25, 26, as quoted in our leading texts, these signs of thy coming are
plainly given. The whole fully establishes the rule that it is to the second coming
of our Lord. not to the destruction of Jerusalem, nor the literal end of the world,
that those signs apply with which our “ Signs of the Times" commenced;- and
which, if our calculations on the numbered prophecies be correct, and the year
1843 he the time for the seventh vial to be poured out, these signs may be rationally
expected to be strikingly abroad in the world. Our great object in this part or'
our undertaking, shall be diligently to search out the facts of this matter and be
careful to apply the predictions to none but corresponding events.
THE NEW CHRXSTIAN WORLD,
shall be delivered," Dan. xii. l.—“ Go thy way, Daniel, for the words
are closed up and sealed till the time of the end," Dan. xii. 9. And
this time of the end, so oft repeated and so fully attested by Daniel as
a set time; when according to the pre-determined councils of Jehovah,
“the clay, the iron, the brass, the silver, and the gold—emblematical
of all earthly kingdoms—“ shall be broken to pieces together, and be
come as the chafi'of the summer threshing ﬂoors;” and when anti-chris
tian principles and practices shall be tolerated in the world no more, we
ﬁnd conﬁrmed with an oath of a mighty angel thus,—“And the angel
which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth, lifted up his hand
to heaven, and sware by Him that liveth for ever and ever, that there
should be time no longer,” Rev. X. 6. This does not refer to the ﬁnal
judgment, as many suppose; but to the second coming of our Lord,
for which it affords the most incontestinle proof, that the time is ﬁxed
and can never be altered.
As all things are known unto God, alike from the beginning to the
end, His attributes forbid it, that the times and the seasons, as well as
the bounds of their continuance, should not be ﬁxed from the beginning,
to all the revolutions and important changes which our world can ever
experience.
True, the objector will say, God has assuredly determined the time,
but never revealed it to man, when Christ shall come to banish all sin
away. But—
Secoudly :-—This objection also, We ﬁnd in direct opposition to the
plain words of prophecy: and that the truth may rise majestically
as it merits, and every cavilling objection be stripped of its ﬂimsy
and black covering ;-—this shall be proved by the plainest texts. ln
Daniel xii. 6, the following important question is asked,—“And
one said to the man clothed in linen, who was upon the waters of the
river, how long shall it be to the end of these wonders?" This is a
plain and comprehensive question, to which as plain an answer is re‘
turned. The question alludes to the end, chieﬂy, of various “wonders”
or strange events, which had been laid before the prophet. These
wonders begin at the commencement of the 11th chapter. The downfall
of the Medo- Persian empire is first predicted; afterwards various leading
particulars of the Grecians are given; which are succeeded by the setting
up of the Roman power. In this kingdom, the last of the four great
earthly kingdoms, which Daniel frequently set forth as succeeding each
other, we have the Papal kingdom placed before us. Itis described by
a “king that shall do according to his will ;" and “shall exalt himself
and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak marvellous things
against the God of Gods, and shall prosper till the indignation be ac
complished." Besides these wonders, the time of trouble preceding the
c
26 THE NEW cuarsrus WORLD.
time of the end, the restoration of the Jews, and the ﬁrst resurrection.
when Satan shall be bound for a thousand years, are also placed full
in the view of the prophet. Respecting all these the question is asked.
“ How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?" To instruct and
satisfy the mind of Daniel, three periods are given; the last of which
evidently conducts us to that time of the end, when Christ shall come
to take universal empire. The ﬁrst period is “ a time, times and a
halff’ the second is, “a thousand two hundred and ninety days ;” and
the third is thus given, “blessed is he that waiteth and cometh to the
thousand three hundred and ﬁve and thirty days," Dan. xii. 7—1],
12. This last, which includes the two former periods, properly gives
the reply to the question, and might be given thus,-——“ How long shall
it be to the end of these wonders?” It shall be 1,335 days, from the
date of the ﬁrst event falling within the periods given.
Equally plain and decisive is the same prophet, in the viiith chap.
13, l4,-“Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto
that certain saint which spake, how long shall be the vision, concerning
the daily sacriﬁce, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the
sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot? And he said unto
me, unto two thousand and three hundred days, then shall the sanc
tuary be cleansed."
Now that same time when the sanctuary is cleansed, and the wonders
above considered are ended ; at that same time, will the second advent of
our Lord take place. Therefore, it follows, that God has not only deter
mined when that time shall be, but has also revealed it to his servants
the prophets, who have left on record the positive, “then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed." This is a time'ﬁxed, and that time revs-sled:
otherwise this “then shall" can have no meaning. Here we car
meet the objector with the plain language of Scripture. He says. God
has not revealed when He will cleanse the sanctuary of the woridf—e
This we instantly overthrow with the Word “then” in our text. Are
we accused of violating the Scripture rule, “by ﬁxing a time."-—\\"e
reply, we ﬁx no time, we alter no time; it is God by his servant Daniel
that ﬁxes the time, when he says, “then shall the sanctuary be clean
sed." It is true, we had desired to know when this should he accom
plished; but so likewise had Daniel; so had the saint by whom the
question was proposed. Hence the important inquiry, “how long
shall be the vision 9" The results shew, that such desire was right.
had it been improper it would not have been gratiﬁed ; whereas a
prompt and positive reply is given; a time is instantly revealed ; and
“ then," yea, at that time, “ shall the sanctuary be cleansed," is recorded
by inspiration for our instruction on whom the ends of the world an
come.
THE new cumsrum WORLD. 27
But many objectors admit all this when compelled; they grant after
much contention, that a time must certainly be ﬁxed by the Governor
of all worlds ; and the above important “ then shall," compels them to
admit that the time fixed has also been revealed: but then they say it
is revealed in such a manner, that it is impossible for man to under
stand it.
I have often thought that such objectors, have never duly considered
the nature and bearing of the objections they bring. Are you aware,
I would say to all such. that your objections ﬁx a heavy charge upon
either God or yourselves P ltecollect it is to the manner in which the
revelation has been made, against which all such objections are leVel
led ;—a revelation to man which it is impossible for man to understand,
is no revelation at all, but a mockery ;—-it is in fact,a gross deception,
which, through its imposing pretentions of being a revelation from
God, e'mboldens the vivid inquirer and betrays him into hurtful rea
sonings at the risk of his eternal interests. Such deception and fraud,
should not be charged on the Judge of all the earth. My advice to
such objectors is, to pause in their dangerous career.
If such charges are not intended to be ﬁxed on the Almighty, they re
coil with double weight on their originators. If God has not been mock
ing us in the revelations He has given, then they may be understood
by the willing and obedient inquirer, so far as they concern himself
and the age in which he lives. And if so the above objectors show
to the wise, only their own want of information, or wilful ignorance in
every objection they make.
But some of these endeavour to justify their perverse measures, by
what they set forth as wise and. honourable policy. Strange that that
policy should be held as either wise or honourable, which induces men
to charge God foolishly of imposing gross deceptions on His creatures
However, so it is. These superlativer prudent calculators have found,
that some sanguine authors have erred in their calculations, as to when
some of the prophetic numbers would run out, and their Lord appear.
To avoid which errors, their better policy has imperceptibly plunged
them into mistakes, ten-fold more gross and dangerous; they have, it
is true, escaped the censure of their fellow-men ; for having been less
competent than they believe themselves, to comprehend the whole sub
ject into which they entered; but they have secured to themselves a far
more degrading notoriety, by concluding from the above harmless errors
of others. that neither themselves nor others can ever know from pro
phecy, when “the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.” Admitting error
on both sides, which there certainly is; in the one case, such errors
are rather beneﬁcial than injurious, as regards leading others to prepare
for such events; in the other, God is charged foolishly, and an utter
28 THE. new (tllRtS'l'lAN WORLD.
_'-_ “if _H:--—--—,—- . » __-_ U. _. V
incompetence acknowledged to comprehend that which all christian:
ought to understand.
For let Dr. Clarke and all such authorities, betray themselves to what
ever extent they please, the authority of God is plainly stamped on this
part of our subject also ; and on that authority we must believe, that
men may understand if they will, when this kingdom is nigh at hand.
God has imPOSed no gross deceptions upon us; His revelations ofthc
times and seasons are real and intended for our beneﬁt, and therefore
designed to be understood.
This is rendered certain by the following texts :-—“And He said, Go
thy way, Daniel, for the book is closed up and sealed till the time of
the end. Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the
wicked shall do wickedly, and none of the wicked shall understand.
but the wise shall understand," Dan. xii. 9, 10. But what is it, or
what are the subjectSP—What the speciﬁc truths which are here said
to be “closed and sealed" against the wicked, so that none of then.
shall understand; but which at the time of the end, “the wise .s/zm'l
understand?” Not the common truths of salvation, as some evasivcly
would have it, but those speciﬁc and most important matters, which
had just been revealed to the prophet; matters connected with Mr
time the end; and respecting which the prophet exclaimed, as in
the 8th verse, “0, my Lord, what shall be the end of these things."
These are the vast subjects which “the wise shall understand ;" and
it is these which direct us to the second coming of'our Lord ; shew us
the end of all anti-christian powers; and usher us into that blessed
state, at the end of 5,335 days. These things “the wise shall un—
derstand."
Three important truths, distinct and opposite, are fully established
in the above Scriptures. First, that prior to the time of the end
none could understand these prophecies, which relate only to the event
of the end. This is established by the words, “ Go thy way Danie.
for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end.”-
Like a letter, which when written is folded, sealed, posted, and passed
through, it may be scores of hands; yet none understand its contents.
because it is closed and sealed; but when conveyed to “ the end” of its
destination the seal is broken, the letter unfolded; then the wise, or
those skilled in the characters in which the letter has been written, can
read and understand. Just so with those prophecies: they contain
intelligences from heaven, which especially refer to and was intended
for an age of the world, at a great distance from that in which they
were written; and according to the text before us, they were then folded,
and sealed, and posted in the world, and have passed through the hands
of millions to the age in which we live. Their contents have not been
THE saw CHRISTIAN wonLo. 29
understood, because the mysterious seal of heaven was upon them; and
we are assured it will remain unbroken till the time of the end; that is,
until the age and generation to which the words apply receive them:
then the seal will be broken, the letter unfolded, and “the wise shall
understand."
From this we see the inconsistency and folly of the conclusions of
some of our Revd. D. D.’s, who say, that because talented, learned,
and good men in former ages, have exerted themselves in vain to un
derstand and explain these mysterious prophecies, that it has been their
misfortune to disgrace themselves and bring contempt on their publica
tions, through having passed into the world conjectures, which time has
proved false and ridiculous ; and that such men’s errors and utter failures
ought to be suﬁicient warning to others, in all after ages, to deter them
from exposures of the same distressing characters. The important
difference of circumstances as above explained, is sufﬁcient to set all
this right; and which, were our worthy Drs. of that class to under
stand, all their unwise objections would cease for ever. The same may
be also a guide to those sincere inquiries after prophetic truth, who often
err in the selection of the book they read for information. Some take
considerable pains to secure the oldest commentators and works on the
subject; supposing that the older the work, the more to be relied upon
for the correctness of its views. Just the reverse, according to Daniel,
must be the facts of the case. In all former ages, “the words were
closed up and sealed ;" the seal was not broken in the last generation,
nor will it be “ till the time of.the end ;" until the generation lives to
whom the prophecies apply. Let all sincere seekers after truth, therc
fore, take heed what they read and how they hear.
But, secondly, even when the time ofthe end comes, when the seal is
broken and the letter unfolded, all will not understand; there is an
awful exception made: —“ the wicked shall still do wickedly, and none
of the wicked shall understand.” This is ominous to millions of our
own time. How awful, should it soon be proved, that all our present
objectors to the speedy coming of our Lord, to the kingdom of our God
“ is nigh at at hand ;” how awful for them, should their incapability to
understand, arise from the concealed deep wickedness of their hearts.
Lett hem ponder over this —“ none of the wicked shall understand."
Notwithstanding, “the wise shall understand.” Well did Isaiah
say, “ For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways
my ways, saith the Lord." Some now think the time of the end has
come; they believe the kingdom nigh at hand; they imagine they un
derstand something of the prophecies of Daniel and John respecting
these things ; but they are not classed among the wise by their fellow
men, but denounced as fanatics, madmen, and enemies to God and
30 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
man. The counsel of Gamaliel, in a case not much at variance with
this, is strictly applicable here-2 “ Take heed to yourselves what ye in
tend to do as touching these men; lest haply, ye be found even to
ﬁght against God," Acts v. 35, 39. rI‘he prediction is positive, “the
wise shall umlerstand.” There will be such, and they will know when
the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.
One evasion more we shall endeavour to remove, and then proceed
to the direct proof that this kingdom is now nigh, even at the door
Some say these prophecies will never be understood, till after their ful
ﬁlment. We demand scriptural proof for this. None can be given.—
Then the insinuation, which is false, at once falls to the ground.
We might here let the matter rest. But we desire to lay a good
foundation, and make all plain. Scriptural authority has weight, bu:
with us, nothing else. Turning to the ‘ZISt chapter of Luke, we ﬁnd a
direct and all powerful antidote for the above attempt to evade the truth.
After describing the destruction of Jerusalem, the dispersion of the
Jews, and the treading down of their city and nation by the Gentiles.
“ until the times of the Gentiles be fulfiled,” which will not be accom
plished until Christ’s second coming; our Lord gives us the signs
which should immediately precede the Second advent—Immediately
after these signs He says “and then shall they see the Son of Man
coming in a cloud with power and great glory. And when these things
begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your
redemption draweth nigh,” Luke xxi. 27, 28. It is impossible for lan
guage to be more plain than this, in proof that the wise shall understanrl
before, not after these mighty events take place. It is here said, “look
up, lift up your heads.” On what accountP—Because your salvation
is come and fully accomplished ? No. Christ knew that all would do
that after, without any instruction. But it is because “your redemp
tion draweth nigh ,-" the end is at hand, the kingdom nigh; and all the
prophecies predicting it, just on the point of being fulﬁlled. This
shews plainly that the wise shall understand before, not after only,
their fulﬁllment. But it is also said, alluding to the signs preceding.
“ When these things begin to come to pass ,- not when they are all over.
And this beginning is afterwards illustrated, by the budding of the time
before summer; which when seen, Christ says “know ye, that the
kingdom of God is nigh at hand."
With this we conclude, as ﬁrm scriptural authority, sufﬁcient to dispel
the horrid darkness in which the masses are enveloped; and seal in
everlasting stillness the tongues of all vain cavillers against the p055:
bility of knowing the kingdom of God “nigh at land."
Having cleared away the rubbish, let us now prepare to build.—
Wnim WILL oon Loan ARRIVE? This is an important question;
rna new cumsruy WORLD. 31
not to be answered by man. The oracles of heaven must be consulted;
and the decision of God alone, must be relied upon.
In the eighth and ninth chapters of Daniel, God has told us when
our Lord will come. All who are, or ever have been in ossession
of the book of Daniel, have always possessed the positive decision of
heaven on the subject. They may not have understood it; still they
have had it; and the same in our own times. Let us now try to read
and understand: “In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar, a
vision appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after that which ap
peared unto me at the ﬁrst. And I saw in a vision, and it came to
pass, when I saw, that I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the
province of Elam, and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river of L'lai.
Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and behold, there stood before the
river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were high : but
one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last. I saw
the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; so that no
beast might stand before him, neither was there any that could deliver
out of his hand; but he did according to his will and became great.
And as I was considering. behold, an he goat came from the face of
the whole earth, and touched not the ground, and the goat had a no
table hom between his eyes. And he came to the ram that had two
horns, which I had seen standing before the river, and he ran unto him
in the fury of his power. And I saw him come close unto the ram,
and he was moved with choler against him, and smote the ram, and
brake his two horns: and there was no power in the ram to stand
before him, but he cast him down to the ground, and stamped upon
him: and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand.
Therefore the he goat waxed very great; and when he was strong, the
great horn was broken, and for it came up four notable ones toward the
four winds of heaven. And out of one of them came forth alittle horn,
which waxed exceeding great, toward the west, and toward the south,
and toward the pleasant land. And it waxed great, even to the host
of heaven, and it cast down some of the host and of the stars to the
ground, and stamped upon them. Yea, he magniﬁed himself even to
the Prince of the host, and by him the daily sacriﬁce was taken away,
and the place of his sanctuary was cast down. And an host was given
him against the daily sacriﬁce by reason of transgression, and it cast
down the truth to the ground; and it practised, and prospered. Then
I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that certain
aeint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning the daily
Sacriﬁce, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the sanctuary
and the host to be trodden under foot ? And he said unto me, Unto two
thousand three hundred days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed."
32 TH: NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
This is the plainest and most comprehensive, of all the numbered
visions in Daniel or John; and shall, therefore, be taken as the broad
and substantial basis on which we will found our ﬁrst and principal
calculations, from which to infer the time when those events shall trans
pire, under which the universal reign of Christ shall commence. Here
a positive period is given, 2,300 days; at the end of which, it is said “the
sanctuary shall be cleansed.” This is equally positive. This period is
given, as we see, in answer to the question, “how long shall be the
vision ?” Any man of unsophisticated mind and ordinary judgment,
would understand this question, as including the whole length of the
vision, or the length of time which should elapSe between the beginning
and the end of it; this we shall endeavour to prove is the true import
and application of it.
By these introductory remarks, we are led to the investigation of the
vision in its separate parts.
First subject is, “a ram with 1100 horns." Here is plainly, the
beginning 0 the vision. This is a fact which must never be overlooked.
It is one, on which a correct understanding of the period given princi
pally depends. I must also notice, that it is a. fact which neither ad
mits of, nor requires any proof; seeing that a denial of it, is a. plain
denial of the prophecy; there it is given, as the first object presented
in the vision; consequently, with this rain the vision begins. Turning
to the 16th verse we read, “And I heard a man’s voice between the
banks of Ulai, which called and said, Gabriel, make this man to
understand the vision." Attending to the instructions which Daniel
immediately received by virtue of this order, we shall have an unerring
guide as to what this ram, together with the other symbols in the vision,
were given to typify. And in the 20th verse, what we are to under
stand by this ram is thus givenz—“The ram which thou sawcst having
two horns, are the kings of Media and Persia.” This explanation
leaves no room to doubt for a moment, with what earthly power or
kingdom the vision begun ; it was with the Marlo-Persian power.
The second subject of investigation is, an he-goat with a notable
horn between his eyes. This ran to the ram, brake his two horns.
cast him to the ground, stamped upon him, and there was none that
could deliver the ram out of his hands. This sets forth with striking
precision, the manner in which the kingdom of the Medes and Persians
was suddenly and totally subverted. And if we had received no in
struction from the angel Gabriel on this part of our subject, such deﬁ
ciency would have been supplied by the full and particular historical
accounts of the invasion of the Medo-Persians, by Alexander the
Great, and his rapid conquest of the whole empire. Scriptural autho
rity shall, however, be added, which is thus given :--“ And the rough
'rn: NEW cumsrmx “ORLD. 33
goat is the king of Grecia, and the great horn that is bcthen his eye
is the ﬁrst king,” 21st verse; meaning, “ the ﬁrst king which reigned
over the Gret'ian empire, when that empire was the mistress of the
world, and entered Within the range of prophetic description."
Third—After Alexander’s conquest of the Made-Persian empire,
his death is next set forth in the vision, by “the great horn being broken."
After this we read “ and for it came up four notable ones toward the
four winds of heaven.” This is explained by the angel as follows:
—“ Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, four kingdoms
shall stand up out ofthe some nation, but not in his power." This was
fulﬁlled in Alexander’s successors, which were four,—Cassander, Lysi
machus, Ptolemy, and Seleucus; who in his conquests he had estab
lished as governors of provinces. After his death they usurped the
titles of kings, and as such reigned over the four provinces, over which
they had been placed as governors; viz., Persia in the East, Egypt in
the south, Macedon and the Grecian Isles in the west, and Syria in
the north. These stood as four independent kingdoms, till subdued by
the Romans.
Fourth—Next follows in the vision, the rising up ofa little horn
out of one of these divisions of the Grecian empire. This is emble
matical of the Roman power, which came out of the Macedonian king—
dom, one of the above four. It is explained by the angel as “a king
of ﬁerce countenancesand understanding dark sentences. And his
power shall be mighty, and he shall destroy Wonderfully, and shall
prosper and practice; and shall destroy the mighty and the holy people.
And through his policy also, he shall cause craft to prosper in his
hand; and he shall magnify himselfin his heart, and by peace shall he
destroy many: he shall also stand up against the prince of princes;
but he shall be broken without hand," v. 23—25. Here ends the ex
planation of the vision. A higher authority we cannot have; a plainer
case we do not need. From the ﬁrst to the last every separate head is
taken up, and all pursued and explained in perfect harmony with the
vision itself. We are ﬁrst told what the ram typiﬁes, then the rough
goat, afterwards the four horns, and lastly the little horn; which is not
given by name, as in the case of the Medes and the Persians, and
Grecians; but we are left to identify the power typiﬁed by this horn,
from the lengthy, particular, and varied description thereof, given by the
angel.
it must be evident to every reader that this little horn, as regards its
powers, performances, and time of continuance, constitutes the principal
character in the vision. With the ram with two horns, the vision be
gins; and with the ﬁnal overthrow of this little horn, and cleansing
the sanctuary from the accumulated abominations it had created there,
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
the vision ends. But through the whole, the little horn evidently rises
above the rest, in the boldness of its enterprises and extent of its sway.
It is entirely on this account, that the power typiﬁed, is not named.
The real power intended, is sufficiently clear, without being named;
had this not been the case, no doubt the samerule would have been fol
lowed, which was carried out respecting the Mode-Persians and the Gre
cians; and the name of this power, also, would have been given. This
leads to one important inference; namely, that no interpretation of
this can be correct, that is far-fetched, strained, dubious, and but par
tially applicable. Many such interpretations have appeared, but must
be rejected. The plain design of the angel's interpretation, proved by
the fact of no name being given, was to lead us to look directly to
some power, to which the description would apply plainly, openly, and
fully; so plainly, as not to be easily mistaken; so openly, as that the
various traits given, should ﬁnd an anti-type, not of private, but public
notoriety; and so fully, as to meet, agree, and palpably apply in every
particular.
This naturally implies another inference ofsome importance; namely.
that there never can have existed more than one power in the world,
answering, as above, to the angel’s description. If two, or more, ex
isted, confusion, doubt, and uncertainty would prevail. But God has
not so decreed respecting his prophecies. It is true, that many anti
types to this prophetic description, have been created by the fancies of
speculating men, but never more than one true one existed. Many
anti-christs have appeared in the world, and claimed to be the true an
ti-types of the prophetic descriptions of our Saviour; and not a few,
have been extensively followed as such. Notwithstanding, there was
never but one true anti-type appeared—So in the prophetic description
before us. This little horn never had an equal in the world; there
never existed two powers to which the prephetic description thereof
would apply. Every attempt to fabricate a second, only proves the
perrerseness or inattention of the foiled fabricator.
But before we enter farther into the angel’s interpretation, as recorded
in the 8th chapter, we will, to aid us in a better understanding of the
whole vision, glance over two other prophetic descriptions of the three
great powers, typiﬁed by the ram, the he'goat, and the little horn.
There is one leading principle, which cannot be too clearly per
ceived by the prophetic student, who would understand the rophecies
of Daniel; and this is, that all the important visions which e records.
are, in one important sense, all one; that is to say, they all contain
information concerning four great earthly kingdoms, and one spiritual
i.ingdom, which should prevail in the world. And the very different
emblems employed in the different visions, represent the same great
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
powers; and give enlarged and different views of the same States, just
in like manner to the two dreams of Pharoah, which Joseph interpreted
as being one ;—see Gen. xli. 26. To illustrate this take the following
Visions.
“ Thou, 0 king! sawest, and behold a great image. This great
'irnage, whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee. and the form
thereof was terrible. This image's head was of ﬁne gold, his breast
and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass, his legs of iron,
his feet part ofiron and part of clay. This is the dream, and we will tell
the interpretation thereof before the king. Thou, 0 king! art a king
of kings, for the God of Heaven hath given theea kingdom, and power,
and strength, and glory. Thou art this head of gold. And after thee,
shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and another third kingdom
of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth. And the fourth
kingdom shall be strong as iron, forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces
and subdueth all things, and as iron that breaketh all these, shall it break
in pieces and bruise. And in the days of these kings shall the God of
Heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed; and the
kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces
and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever," Dan. ii.
31—44. In this vision, we have all the four great successive earthly
kingdoms, which were ever taken up as the great subjects of Daniel's
prophecies, or ever presented to him in any of his visions. Many other
earthly kingdoms have existed within the period allotted to these, but
no others were ever made the subjects of Daniel's prophecies. And at
the ﬁnal overthrow of these, we see as the ﬁfth kingdom, that of the
stone cut out without hands ; which is here said shall ﬁll the whole earth,
and stand for ever.
We want to know what four great successive kingdoms, these dif
ferent parts of this great image typiﬁed. And this we would ascertain
from the scriptural accounts thereof, as far as possible, that our founda
tion may stand sure. On the ﬁrst we are not permitted to doubt.—
Daniel said to Nebuchadnezzar, “thou art this head Qfgold.” The
kingdom of Babylon is thus established as the ﬁrst of the four. And
by this we are conducted to an easy comprehension of the other three.
This kingdom was begun by Nimrod 2,233 B. C., and ended with the
death of Belshazzar, .538 B. C., having stood for nearly 1,700 years.
To ascertain on scriptural authority the next great empire, which
was to succeed this, and which was typiﬁed by the silver part of the
great image, we must look to Dan. v. 30, 31.-—-“ In that night was
Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain, and Darius the Median
took the kingdom." This took place as above, 538 B. C. On the
death of his father Cambyses, and his uncle Cyaxeres, B. C. 536, this
36 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
conqueror became the sole governor of the Medes and Persians. And
by the year 457 B. C., this empire, as we are informed in the book of
Esther, viii. 9, extended from India unto Ethiopia, over an hundred
and twenty seven provinces," and stood about 201) years. There can.
then, remain no doubt, that this was the second of the four great king;
doms, and that which the silver part of the great image typiﬁed.
And the third is distinctly pointed out, and named by inspiration.
Hence, in the angel’s explanation of the vision of the ram and he-goat,
we are expressly informed, that the Merle-Persian empire should be
subverted by the Greeks; the complete conquest of the former by the
latter, is typilicd by the overthrow and complete destruction of the ram
by the rough goat, which goat we are told verse 21, “is the king of
Grecia; and the great born that is between his eyes is the ﬁrst king."
This could be no other person but Alexander the Great. He it was,
who smote effectually the Medo-Persian empire, broke its power, cast
it to the ground and stamped upon it, and none could delivcr it out of
his hands. He subdued Greece, penetrated into Asia, took 'l'yre,
reduced Egypt, overthrew Darius Condomanns at Arbelo, Oct. 2, B.C.
331, and thus terminated the Persian Monarchy. He then crossed
Caucasus, subdued Hyrcania, and penetrated India as far as the
Gauges, and havingJ conquered all the countries that lay between the
Adriatic sea and the Ganges. He died B. C. 323, and his em
pire was divided among his generals. In the possession of his 5110
cessors this great kingdom was maintained about I78 years, after
which it became in its turn subverted by the fourth, according to the
prophecy. For the rapidity ofits conquests, the Grecian power stands
unrivalled in the page of history; and in the plenitude of its power,
its arms spread terror through the world. Its then unequalled skill in
the arts of war, semed to engrave immutability on all its institutions,
and to write everlasting, on all its possessions. Notwithstanding, ac
cording to Daniel’s great image, this was but the third kingdom; a
fourth had to come, and Grecian skill and power in the battle ﬁeld was
not consulted. The stem unbending part of the image was yet in re
serve, in the hands of Omnipotence. Iron, which breaketh in pieces and
subdueth all things, had its reign appointed. Accordingly, the sturdy,
dauntless sons of Home, eventually taught the skilful (ireeks a lesson,
which all the world had failed to teach them before the time decreed.
About 158 years before Christ, the once unconquerable Grecian Empire
was stripped of its laurels as the mistress of the world, and was made
to yield to the force of the predicted purposes of heaven, in witnessing
the growing greatness of a fourth great kingdom, which in spite of
every effort, brought under its iron sway, the nations over which its
vanquished predecessors had fondly dreamed of holding everlasting
run new cnnrsrrsn woman. 87
empire. And although the sturdy conquerors of the Grecian Empire,
the iron part of the great image, which supplanted the Greeks in the
government of the world, he never named in the prophetic descriptions by
Daniel, yet few who know any thing of history, are unacquainted with
the fact, that this part was emblematical of no other kingdom but the
Romans: the proofis the Romans conquered, and succeeded the Greeks,
in the supreme earthly government of the world.
It is true Dr. A Clarke says on this, “I think this," the iron part
of the image “means in the ﬁrst place, the kingdom of Lagedae, in
Egypt; and the kingdom of Seleucidae, in Syria. And, secondly, the
Roman Empire, which was properly composed of them." This divi
sion and double meaning is merely fanciful. The real kingdom intended
was the Roman, no matter out of what composed ; for it was to con
tinue until divided into ten parts, as typiﬁed by the ten toes; also to
give rise to, or to support a power of peculiar character for l,260
years; and, to be itself smote upon its feet by the stone cut out without
hands ; and by it scattered to the four winds, and utterly exterminated.
To this no kingdom but the Roman answers.
We now see the four great earthly kingdoms, represented by the
great image. The Chaldean or Babylonish Empire the ﬁrst, the
Merle-Persian the second, the Grecian kingdom the third, and the
fourth and last, the Roman Empire; than which no other shall arise
in its place, till the stone cut out without hands takes the kingdoms,
and establishes universal dominion. No other kingdoms are ever made
the subjects of prophecy in the book of Daniel. In all the varied
visions and emblems there found, these are the only powers intended.
.We will examine now, the 7th chapter, in which another important
vision is recorded. Daniel saw in the vision “and, behold, the four
winds of heaven strove upon the great sea, and four great beasts came
up from the sea, diverse one from the other. The ﬁrst was like a lion,
and had eagle's wings.” This is of the some import and application as
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
HAVING in our former pages established, and we think made plain that par
ticular event to which those signs apply, which we ﬁnd predicted in Luke
Hi. 25, and following verses. Having proved that these signs were not to
precede the desolation of Jerusalem, or the literal end of the world, but that
they stand in connection with a far distant event; and having proved that event
to be our Lord’s second coming, when the times of the Gentiles are fulﬁlled;
and it being the professed object of this work to prove that these times of the
Gentiles are just upon the eve of closing now, it becomes our duty to look around
38 Till-2 new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
the head of gold, and is beautifully harmonious. Gold is considered
the most precious metal; the Lion is the noblest of beasts. The
in the world; to observe with watchful eye and anxious heart, the state and
conduct of our fellow men, to ascertainif any of the signs are appearing of which
our Lord spake. We must also lift our eyes to the stars, and direct strict attention
to the planetary world; that we may read there also, the fulﬁlment of our Lord’s
predictions. Into these inquiries may we enter with unbiassed minds.
“And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and
upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity ; men’s hearts failing them for
fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth." Does
not this read more like the history of the times in which we live, than prophecy
delivered 1,800 years ago, describing what would now take place? The fact is
too evident to be denied, that no writer of our age can more strikingly describe
the present condition of mankind in so few words. Our sage objectors to in
spiration, could they see more clearly and reason correctly, must become over
whelmed with the ﬂood of evidence against them, which ﬂows from the facts
before us. Unfortunately for them, a boasted foundation on which their prede
cessors erected a castle of smoke, in this case eludes all their efforts to subject it
to their service; it ﬂies from them, and as a shadow disappears; and “ like the
baseless fabric of a vision, leaves not a wreck behind.” A soulless objection to
some of the Scripture predictions, in themselves as plain and as powerful as this.
has been made by that class, who in stock of reasons are unredeeinable hank
rupts, and in logical argument imbeciles of the most pitiable order; some of this
class have boldly asserted, in perfect keeping with their characters, that many of
those which in the Scriptures profess to be prophecies, were wrote long after the
events transpired which they pretend to predict. This castle of smoke will not,
however, be erected to defend that class against the heavy cannonading of the
predictions under notice; and of the heart-rending cases of starvation and ana
dulterated wretchedness, which by millions volunteer their evidences every week
in attestation of the truth thereof, to the fullest extent. We cannot believe that
this was written since the uncommon distress, and perplexity, and fear which now
affect us, first threatened to involve us in one destructive vortex. The book in
which this prediction is found, has been too long in our possession and too fami
liar to our minds. to allow us to be for a moment deluded with such an objection
as this. No, it is prophecy and not history; and its exact and palpable accordance
with the state of things under which we live, ought to instruct us in the most
momentous matters with which our minds can be engaged; namely, the time of
the end has come, the Lord is at hand.
Have we, or have we not, these signs before our eyes? Does the planetary system
hold forth in all its conﬁgurations, the doctrine loud and long of peace, concord,
prosperity, and their legitimate offspring, growing greatness to all nations? Is
there no malignant planet pointing its adverse rays at this, or any other na
tion? Are there no signs of organic changes to he read in the sun, moon, or
stars ?--No disruptions in society ?—No revolutions in states ?—No falling of
feudal systems ?—N0 shaking of the powers of the different governments 2-—
Have we no signs of such things in the stars F We ask not if all the world have
seen such signs. Our Lord did not say that all mankind should see them. The
words on record are these,—“And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the
moon, and in the stnrs;" signs of an organic change in the world; signs of
such events as are in other parts of Scripture clearly predicted to precede tbs
second advent of our Lord; signs of the disorganization and breaking up of
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
brightness of the great image is said to be excellent; and upon this.
the most noble beast of the forest, are eagle’s wings. Here we see the
anti-christian systems, which must be signs of fearful discord and havoc in va
rious parts of the world. But our only just conclusion from the above text is,
not that all mankind shall see these signs, but that they shall be there.
This suggests an idea of their character, which it may be well to notice. The
form of expression in our Lord's prediction of these signs, varies greatly from the
words employed in the same chapter, forctelling the signs which should precede
the ﬁnal destruction of Jerusalem. Speaking of the signs of that unequalled
calamity among the Jews, he enumerates amongst other signs,—“ great earth
quakes shall be in divers places, and faniines, and pestilences, and fearful sights,
and great signs shall there be from heaven," Luke xxi. 11. From this prophetic
description we cannot but suppose, that fearful signs which all men might see,
were intended, as they are expressly called “fearful Smn'rs." History supplies
us with corresponding facts.
“ For a whole year,” we are told, “a' Come! in the ﬁgure of a sword, hung over
the city, and pointed as it were down directly upon it; and there were seen in the
clouds, armies in battle array, and chariots encompassing the country, and in
vesting their cities ; that at the feast of the passover, in the middle of the night,
a great light shone upon the temple and altar, as if it had been noon-day; that at
the same feast, the great gate of the temple, made all of massy brass, and which
twenty men could hardly shut, opened of itself, though fastened with bolts and
bars; that at the feast of Pentecost soon after. when the priests went into the
temple to otﬁciate, they heard at ﬁrst a kind of confused noise, and then a voice
calling out earnestly in articulate words, ‘Lel us be gone, let us be gone.’ And that
these prodigies were really so, we have the testimony of Tacitus, a Roman histo~
rian of that age."—Stackhouse’s History, 2 vol. p. 142, 3.
But the prediction of these events expresses “fean sigh!s."—Such these liter
ally were. The signs of the second advent are quite differently set forth. In
the one case, the signs were on the earth and in the air; but in the other, they '
are described as in the sun, moon, and stars. This is a most important distinc
tion; it determines the nature of the two classes of signs to be very different
from each other. The former were as above recorded, what were seen and
heard; the latter can imply nothing but the peculiar conﬁguration of the plane
tary system; which at the time of the end would be such, as plainly to indicate
organic changes of most magniﬁcent and extensive character.
To some we can never make the existence of such signs evident. Not because
those signs have no existence, but because the objectors have determined in their
own minds to demand more and greater signs than ever will be given. Our
Lord did not refuse to the Jews, rational signs of his M essiahship; he did amongst
them works which no other man ever did; notwithstanding, many of them would
see no signs in anything he ever did, that he was the true Messiah. And this
wilful, foolish blindness of the Jews, awfully characterizes too many of the Gen
tiles; to whom nothing can be made proof sutiicient, that the kingdom of God
is nigh at hand. if God were to throw into sudden confusion the present har
monious system of nature, and cause the mighty orbs with which our earth is
surrounded, to quit their regular courses, and dart quick as lightning across each
other’s path; if order became quickly restored, with the momentary dread which
such signs might have produced, all serious impressions would vanish from the
minds of many; and even these would be set forth as insutiicient signs of our
Lord’s near approach. Appearances of mighty armies in dreadful conﬂict, seen
40 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
lring of the forest, the prince of the feathered tribe, and the most
precious metal, all brought harmoniously to represent the high, the
in the sun; innndating rivers of blood issuing from the moon; or dreadful columns
of ﬁre and smoke majestically marching through the air; or forming into an
unaccountable circle round the sun ;—these if of short duration, would be no
sufﬁcient signs to many, that our Lord was about to entirely renovate the moral
character of mankind, nor that the important predictions concerning this, were
now receiving their completion.
These are not, however, the speciﬁc signs we look for; we think there may be
others, which at once fulﬁl the predictions of our Lord, and amount in them
selves to rational signs of all which the prophets have foretold should come. We
nevcr should have named, or inquired for such signs at all, if our Lord had not
aaid,——“And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the Item."
We have no more authority to reject this, than we have to reject the whole bible;
for it is as much a matter of faith, as any prediction which that book contains.
That such signs will, therefore, precede our Lord’s coming, is certain; as a
clearly revealed matter of faith. We want to understand them ; we must form
correct conceptions of their character, before we can determine as to their exis
tence; and we must diligently inquire concerning the trueplanetaryindications of
the present time, and listen to the ominous “ voice of the stars,” if we would be
conducted to correct conclusions.
But as it was in the days of our Lord's ﬁrst coming, so it is yet with the hulk
of mankind. It is clear, that when our Lord was born in Bethlehem, there came
but a few “ wise men from the East to Jerusalem, saying, where is he that is
born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the East, and are come to
worship him,” Matthew ii. 1, 2. The star made its appearance, but only very
few saw it; or rather, if the multitude saw it, they understood not its in
dications; they could not understand the doctrine it so plainly and correctly
tau ht.
Jgust such is the condition of an overwhelming majority of mankind now.
The planetary system preaches its doctrines in a language which but few under
stand, and writes in characters which but few can read. ~
ROTIGEB '1'0 CORRESPONDENT-‘5.
“ A Lovnn or Consrs'rnwcr."—Thanks for his long communication. It wili be
acknowledged by him and his friends, too long for insertion here. The important
texts he quotes have been duly considered long ago, and will be all fully explained
in the progress of this work. His inquiries are not “ considered premature," but
a full investigation of and reply to them here would be “premature ;" inasmuch
as that it would derange the regular order of afuture part of the work, and would
come with tenfold less cﬂ'ect, and be attended with tenfold more labour and time
now, than it will be in the regular progress of the work. Our friend concludes.
“ If satisfactory answers be given to the above queries, we shall very likely trouble
you with a few more."~—Let us have them; they shall be attended to in dus
order, as the work progresses.
All communications will be preserved, which apply to a future part of the part : not
all answered when received, are destroyed.
Our other correspondents will ﬁnd all their queries answered, as the work progressﬁ
The Chronological Tables will appear, perhaps, in the 5th Number, -~but we canr'v'
tell exactly.
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 41
lofty, and powerful kingdom of Babylon; the ﬁrst of the four great
prophetic earthly empires.
“And behold another beast, a second like to a bear.” Daniel in
formed Nebuchadnezzar, that after his should arise another kingdom,
Inferior to his, which is here most ﬁtly represented by the bear ; granted
on all hands to be inferior to the lion, as the silver part of the great
image was inferior to the gold. Thus far the visions exactly harmonize,
and the bear in this, is as perfect a type of the Medo-Persian empire,
as the silver part of the great image was in the former vision.
The same rule is held sacred through the remaining part of the vi
sions. The third beast is described as being “like a leopard, which
had upon the back of it four wings of a fowl, the beast had also four
heads, and dominion was given to it." This most minutely represents
the Grecian empire. The four wings of a fowl, show the rapidity of
Alexander's conquests. In little more than three and a half years, he
accomplished with a mottled force, the astounding deed of subjugating
the world 'to Grecian sway. Well might he be represented as having
an extraordinary supply of wings, to enable him thus to carry victory
through the world in so short a time. In the explanation of the brass
part of the great image, it is distinctly noticed, that the kingdom im
plied thereby, should “bear rule over all the earth ;" and of this third
“beast it is said, “dominion was given to it." The four heads upon the
same beast, are strikingly typical of the division of Alexander’s empire
after his death, and its falling into the hands of his four successors.
Every emblem and fact of the cases, are too plain and harmonious to
allow of doubt, as to the same third kingdom before proved the true
anti-type of the brass part ofthe great image, being the only true anti
typc of this third beast; the Grecian empire alone is typiﬁed in both.
Respecting the fourth, the parallel drawn, is if possible, still more
striking. In the great image it is ﬁtly typiﬁed by iron, which break
eth in pieces and subdueth all things; and “ as iron breaketh in pieces
and subdueth all things, shall it break in pieces and bruise." In per
fect agreement with this, the fourth beast is described as “dreadful, and
terrible, and strong exceedingly; and it had great iron teeth.” This
last trait must have been given to identify, beyond mistake, this beast
with the iron part of Nebuchadnezzar’s image. The operations and
effects, are then given as the same. “ It devoured and brake in pieces,
and stamped the residue with the feet of it: and it was diverse from
all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns." And in the
angel’s explanation of this particular part of the vision, as afterwards.
given, it is said, “the fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon
earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the
whole earth, and shall tread it down; and shall break it in pieces."
I)
42 THE new CHRISTIAN wonLo.
This has been literally fulﬁlled by the Roman power; it was the only
universal empire founded on the ruins of the Grecian kingdom, which
succeeded in the government of the world. Like the leopard, its con
quests were rapid; and like the bear, its extent of dominion great; like
the lion, it was bold and intrepid; and like iron, it brake in pieces and
subdued these kingdoms, and devoured the whole earth. Of no other
kingdom that now does, or ever did exist, but the Roman, can this be
justly said. Consequently, of the iron part of the great image, and
this fourth beast, great and terrible, the Roman empire is assuredly the
true anti-type. The two visions are in this respect one, like Pharaoh's
dreams. Besides these four great earthly kingdoms, thus conﬁrmed
by one double and complete representation, no other of the many
minor kingdoms of the earth, are ever made the subjects of Daniel’s
prophecies.
This will lead us to a better understanding and to ﬁrmer opinions,
concerning the important vision of the ram and the goat; which we
have selected as affording our ﬁrst and principal data, to guide us, as
an unerring light, on the great subject of our Lord‘s second coming.
now “nigh at hand." This vision, so far as it extends, treats of the
same kingdoms as the other two had done; in this particular there is
no difference, the visions are all one; and this is not matter of conjec
ture or guess-work. \Ve were called upon the other day, by a celebrated
minister of the Church of England; whose object was, evidently, to
object to and evade everything said in favour of the doctrines here
defended, right or wrong. His attention was called to this stub
born vision of the ram and he-goat; enlarging on the ram with two
horns, and proving that there the vision begun, he demanded what we
understood that to represent; adding, at the same time, that it might
mean one power, or it might represent another; and we had no certainty
whatever to what it applied. This was denied; and it was main
tained, positively, that“ it was typical of the A‘lcdo-Pcrsian empire. and
no other power. This drew forth the following singular ohjertion :—
“Ohl that is all your own conjecture; you know nothing, of a cer
tainty, that it applies to that.” “Stop, sir," was instantly rejoined.
“we do not allow any man to say that we build anything upon our
own conjectures; nor do we allow any man so flatly to deny the word
of inspiration, as to say that this is founded on the conjectures of any
man :” in proof was read the following text :—“ The ram which thou
sawest having two horns, are the kings of Media and Persia," Dan. viii.
20. This and similarly appropriate texts, soon silenced the Renoir
jector; and drew forth the acknowledgment, that he did not understand
the subject.
In this part we have express authority of inspiration for believing.
rm: new CHRISTIAN wonu). 43
that the sole diti'erence between this vision and the two former ones, as
regards their beginning is, that the kingdom of Babylon is left out here;
that kingdom was then near its end. lt was in the third year of king
Belshazzar's reign, when this vision was seen; and in about eleven
years after, that king was slain, and his empire fell into the hands of
Darius. The Medes and Persians shortly after became united, and
the mistress of the world; and, as such. stands at the head of this
vision, typified by the ram with two horns.
After this follows, in the regular order of the former visions, the
Macedonian or Grecian kingdom; but in this, it is under the type of or
rough goat : yet it is the same kingdom as that represented by the brass
part of the great image, and the leopard with four heads and four wings
in the vision of the Your beasts.
After this rises up in our vision, the “little horn.” This has given
rise to greater variety of sentiment, than all the other emblems in the
three visions. Some have supposed that one Antiochus Epiphanes,
one of Alexander's successors and a violent persecutor of the Jews,
was the true anti'type of this little horn; great pains have been taken
by some writers of considerable note, to establish this theory; but all
have failed to establish anything, satisfactory, answerable to the pro
phetie descriptions of the little horn. Antiochus, it is true, profaned
the temple of God at Jerusalem; suspended, through his bloody per
secutions of the Jews, for a time, the daily sacriﬁce; and slaughtered
many thousands of the Jews. But all this falls inﬁnitely short of what
is said of this little born, with which Antiochus, and all his vile pro
ceedings has no agreement whatever.
This little horn stands in this vision, exactly in the place of the
fourth beast; and the iron part, in the former visions. And, having
previously established a perfect harmony among the three; that they
are in fact all one (with the exception of the Babylonish kingdom being
left out in the last). for reasons above assigned. This establishes a
rule, which cannot be abrogated without cause; and this rule is, that
the power intended by this “little horn,” standing, as it does, in the
place of the fourth beast and the iron part of the former visions; and
the visions being all one, in every other important particular:—there
fore, this “little horn” must be the same power as that typiﬁed by
those emblems, the place of which it occupies. This would seem
sufﬁcient to bias the decision of every reasonable inquirer after truth;
especially, when in addition to this, the prophetic descriptions of this
power, in all the three visions so perfectly agree. The mind unbiassed
clearly perceives from this, that no other power or kingdom but that
of Rome, can be the true anti-type. 1
Al, however, old prejudices and favourite opinions, in many cases
44 THE NEW cuarsrmu woaLn.
require to be forced from the mind; so the idea of Antiochus being
meant by the “little horn,” may call for the strict test of Scripture to
eject it; by which we shall now show, that there is no pr0per agree
ment.
1. The “little horn" was to come out of one of the four horns of the
Grecian kingdom; as we read, “ out of one of these came forth a lit
tle horn." This is true of the Roman kingdom, which sprung forth
as a separate independent kingdom, out of the Macedonian horn. Bn'
it is not true of Antiochus, for he never ceased to be a part of Syria.
which was of itself one of the four horns.
2. A horn of a beast is never applied in the prophecies, to a sin
gle person ; unless the kingdom which that horn typiﬁes, ceases in its
present form with that single person's death; as in the case of Alex
ander, the motable horn between the eyes of the goat, with whom the
Grecian empire both begun and ended, in a certain particular respect:
with him it began as the mistress of the world, and a leading subject
of prophetic description; and with him it ended, as an undivided em
pire. But Antiochus was one individual, in a long race of kings; and
cannot, therefore, according to this rule, be typiﬁed by the “ little horu.‘
3. Antiochus reigned over one of the four horns, but this little
horn was a ﬁfth; or one that came up after the four. Now Antiochus
could not-be a king reigning over one of the four, and himselfthe ﬁfth;
or one after the fourth, entirely separate and independent at the same
time: but Rome was.
4. But the “ little horn" experienced an amazing extension of do
minion, increase of power, and acquired a greatness which forms a
most striking contrast with its ﬁrst state. It is emphatically called a
“LITTLE HORN,” at ﬁrst; but it is soon said, that it “waxed ex
ceeding great toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the
pleasant land. And it waxed great, even to the Prince of the Host."
This was true of the Roman kingdom, and according to the description
of the fourth beast, and the iron part of the great image. But just
the reverse of this was the truth respecting Antiochus: his kingdom
was weak, and tributary to the Romans; and he, instead of amazingly
extending his dominions, consolidating his power, and becoming inde
pendent, lcft his kingdom worse than he found it.
5. The “little horn” was to rise and continue to stand up. in the
latter time of the kingdom of the four horns. This was true of Rome.
which continued to stand up until it swept the four horns from their
seats. But this has no application to Antiochus, for he was the eighth
of the Syrian line of kings, which numbered ‘25; he, therefore, could
not be in the latter time of that kingdom.
6. The “little horn" was also to “stand up," when “the transgres
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
sors were come to the full.” This was true of Rome, in the fullest
sense—This probably alludes to the Jews, when they had cruciﬁed the
Prince of Peace; but this did not take place, till 197 years after the
death of Antiochus.
7. The “little horn” is explained by the angel, as a “ king of ﬁerce
countenance, and understanding dark sentences." This was true of
the Romans; but the reverse of Antiochus, as all history sufﬁciently
conﬁrms.
8. It is said of this horn, “his power shall be mighty, but not by
his own power.” This is peculiarly descriptive of that unequalled po—
licy, through which the Roman court became so mighty; namely, their
systems of deriving all power from the whole people. A policy which
Antiochus never understood; and because of this, he was mighty in
nothing but iniquity and folly.
9. This “litle horn" was, also, “to destroy wonderfully ;" as the iron
was to break in pieces and bruise; and as the fourth beast, “devoured
and brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with the feet of it." It
is said, that Antiochus destroyed about 80,000 Jews; but Rome in a
single siege, destroyed 1,100,000 of that nation, and scattered the rem
nant into all countries.
10. It is said of this born, that it shoult “practise and prosper,"
so did Rome, as is predicted in the other visions. But Antiochus was
frightened out of Egypt by a mere message from the Romans; and
Was afterwards routed and baﬂled by the Jews.
11. This “lilile horn” was to destroy the mighty and holy people:
this, undoubtedly, alludes to what is emphatically called, the destruc
tion of Jerusalem and the breaking up the whole nation of the Jews.
This was done by the Romans, but not until 234 years after the death
of Antiochus.
12. This “little lzorn” “magniﬁed himself, even to the Prince of
the Host; and stood up against the Prince of princes." But Antio
chus died 164 years before the Prince of princes was born. The
Roman power both cruciﬁed the Lord of Glory, and persecuted unto
death millions of his followers.
13. This “little lzorn" was to cast down the place of his sanctuary;
this was either Jerusalem or the heathen temples, which were all de
molished when Home renounced Paganism and embraced Christianity.
In either sense, and in both, this is true to the letter of Rome; but its
application, in either sense, to Antiochus, is as ridiculous as it would
be to apply it to any one man of the present age; he polluted the sanc
tuary, and threatened to make Jerusalem, the place of the sanctuary, a
grave to all its inhabitants ; but he was, soon after this threat, made
to fall a horrid sacriﬁce to his blasphemous purposes; and the place of
46 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
God's sanctuary was left a standing monument for 234 years alter, I
that this was never said of Antioehus, as the “lillle born.”
14. But the truth was to be cast down, and the Sanctuary and the
Host trodden under foot for 2,300 days, and then the Sanctuary was to be
cleansed. This cannot apply, in any sense, to Antiochus; for the pro
proi'anation of the Temple at.lerusalem by him lasted for only 1.836 days,
leaving a deﬁciency of 464 days; and the truth is not east down yet.
15. If these days are to be understood as emblematical, each day for
a year, their application to either Antiochus or any other man, is re
moved far away from any defence whatever. Neither as days, common
time, nor prophetic, can they, therefore, apply to Antiochns.
16. But in the vision of this “ little born," there is one peculiar char
acteristic plainly given; which even, if there were no other, must proie
fatal to every theory which would make Antiochus, or any other indi
vidual, the true anti-type of the “little born.” In the 3rd verse, speaking
of Persia, which certainly extended from lndia to Ethiopia, over 127
provinces, and reigned independent, as the mistress of the world; it is
simply said, “and became URE AT." Speaking of Grecia, it is said,
chap. ii. 39, “which shall bear rule over all ﬁle earl/1;" and in chap.
viii. S, “ therefore the lie-goat waxed VERY GREAT ;”—but of the “lit
tle HORN,” which represents the succeeding power, it is said, “which
waxed EXCEEDING GREAT." The three powers then stand thus
—great, VERY GREAT, EXCEEDING GREAT. This, with special
reference to the last, breathes the whole letter, spirit, and only true im
port of the two former visions. 'l he fourth kingdom of the great image.
which occupies the place of this “little horn," is represented “strong
as iron, which breaker”: in pieces and subduellz all things ;" or, “ EX
CEEDING GREAT.” In like manner, the fourth beast of the se
cond vision, was dreadful and terrible and strong EXCEEDINGLY;'
perfectly agreeing with our “ little horn," which waxed EXCEED
IN'G GREAT." All is harmony, all is plain, all is comprehensive
great, and grand; and worthy of inspiration, if we interpret thus:
Persia, great ;--Grecia, VERY GREAT ;--Rome, EXCEEDING
GREAT.
But how contradictory, confused, paltry and ludicrous, is the whole
in the following order :—Great, Persia ;—VERY GREAT, GRsciA ;-
EXCEEDING GREAT, ANTIOCHUS.
This representation of the whole subject, founded on inspiration and
facts. will decide the judgment of every candid inquirer at once. that
not Antiochus, (who was once an hostage in Home, and paid tribute
to the Romans all his days,) but ROME, which exacted tribute of hin.‘
and which answers in every particular to the prophetic descriptions in
all the three visions; that this Home is the true and only power, lym
rue sew cnnrs'rrau WORLD. 47
bolized by the “ little horn" before us, which waxed EXCEEDING ,
GREAT.
All the prophecies of Daniel were given on a grand and imposing scale,
delineating the leading powers and proceedings of thousands of years, by
which the people of God, ﬁrst the Jews and afterwards the Christians,
would be severely harassed and persecuted ; and the ﬁnal and complete
end of all these opposing powers, closes invariably the stupendous
scenes of each fresh vision. The vision of the great image, which faith
fully represents the leading controllers of the destinies of this world, for
many thousands of years, ends with, “then was the iron, the clay, the
brass, the silverand the gold, broken topieces together, and became as the
chaff of the summer threshing ﬂoors; and the wind carried them away,
that no place was found for them: and the stone that smote the image,
became a great mountain, and ﬁlled the whole earth." On reading
this, ideas are impressed upon our minds of events, great, grand, and
comprehensive; consistent with our notions of the great God of heaven
and of earth, condescending to favour man with His inspirations con
cerning the general affairs of our world. So, likewise, with the vision
of the four great beasts; that also ends with the joyful assurance,
that “the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his (the last
beast's) dominion, to consume and destroy it unto the end. And the
kingdom, and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the
whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most
High; whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominion
shall serve and obey him.”
Passing to the next great vision, we are again directed to the same
great powers at the head of human affairs; and the important end is
again presented to us, in similar language, but with this highly conso
latory additional information, the time of the end is revealed to us.
We are not only informed, as in the other visions, that “the sanctu
ary shall be cleansed,” which is of the same import as the above texts
quoted as the conclusions of the former visions ; but we are expressly
told when, “ unto two thousand and three hundred days, THEN shall
the sanctuary be cleansed." Then shall the greatness of the kingdom
under the whole heaven be given to the saints of the Most High; then
shall the stone which smote the image become a great mountain and
ﬁll the whole earth. In splendid harmony all agree; adding additional
authority to doctrines the most soul-reviving to the true Christian, and
honourable to God.
But the opening of the doctrine: could it be proved true that this im
portant end, the cleansing of the sanctuary, had its full and ﬁnal comple
tion in the days of Antiochus, would be like the opening of a tremendous
earthquake, which would swallow up the most consolatory portion of the
48 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
three visions; and throw every part thereof into disorder, and our minds
into confusion. We, however, stand on ﬁrm ground ; the comparatively
paltry doings of that disgusting tyrant, have been swept entirely away;
and one and the same great power, proved to be the great subject of the
closing parts of all the three visions. ROME, which for hundreds ofyears
has cast down the truth to the ground, and practised and prospered,
as no other power ever did z—ROME, which commanded the greatest
host against the Prince of princes, which any power ever did; and has
trodden under foot both the Sanctuary and the Host, to an extent un
equalled by any other kingdom :-—ROME, which has shed the blood of
millions on millions of Martyrs; and “made all nations drunk with
the wine of her fornication ;” which diﬁ'used its iron sway alike over
mind, conscience, and estate; and thus held the millions in abject sub~
jection for centuries; and whoeverit could not thus break into its yolte
and devour, it stamped this residue with the feet of it.-—Than this
ROME, in its double character of PAGAN and PAPAL, no other power
ever existed dreadfully to afﬂict our world with which the prophetic
description will agree.
All the paltry heroes of little-minded or prejudice-bound objectors,
sink away as phantoms in the comparison; and it is because there is
no other which can stand the inspired test, in connection with the in
disputable fact, that this answers the description fully, that we con
clude positively, that ROME, in its double character of Pagan and
Papal, is the only true anti-type of the “little horn" before us.
These conclusions will diﬁ'use their sovereign inﬂuence, through every
remaining part of our work; but will be of especial service in demo
lishing a host of objections against the speedy destruction of all sin;
and will greatly assist us, in a rational investigation of the great ques
tion, “ How long shall be the vision .9"
That this question must be treated as concluding the whole length
of the vision, and not a part of it only, is evident from the following
facts: when Daniel had seen the vision and heard the answer to the
above question, he sought for the meaning, and the angel Gabriel re
ceived instruction to make him “ understand the vision." In the whole
interpretation afterwards given, nothing is explained which directly or
indirectly authorises us to suppose, that the 2,300 days applied only
to a part; the absence of all such information establishes a rule, that
the period ﬁxed is the whole time of the vision.
We decidedly object to the terms " concerning" and “sacriﬁce,” in
serted in the 13th verse, by our translators. The former has a ten
dency to divert the question of “ how long the vision .7" from its legiti
mate object; and to lead some to think it applicable only to the taking
away of the daily sacriﬁce of the Jews; the text had better have been left
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 49
short according to the original, than filled up with words calculated to
deceive. There is, however, sufficient in the angel's interpretation, to
prevent a misapplication of the question, by those who will examine
and are sincere; inasmuch as that interpretation would be itselfdecep
tive, if the whole term of the vision had not been included in the
answer given, and the reason left unexplained, and the 2,300 days left
unapplied to the part intended.
\Ve now take up the question as it stands before us,—“ How long
shall be the vision ?”-—“ Unto 2,300 days, then shall the Sanctuary be
cleanser ."
The question next to be decided is, are these to be considered days
common time, or days prophetic ; for which a year fora day must be
reckoned. Many who are strangers to the rules of prophecy, suppose
that to reckon on a year for a day, is sheer folly. A day is a day,
and a year is a year, say they; and calculating so many years where
only days are written, is arbitrary, dangerous, and only to serve some
visionary purpose. If such will only read and reﬂect, they will cease
their unguarded opposition. \Ve have before seen the beginning and
end of the vision; it begun with the ram with two horns, and ended
with the breaking without hands of the last of the great earthly
kingdoms, made the subjects of prophecy in the book of Daniel; it
ranges through part of the period, when the Medo-Persian kingdom
was the mistress of the world; and through the whole period that
the Grecians swayed a sceptre, which awed all nations into obe
dience;—but the same vision out-lives the once thought immortal
stability, and unconquerable power of the Grecian empire;—-it wit
neSSes the total eclipse of Grecian glory in the battle ﬁeld;—and
sees the supremacy of the world wrested from them, and deposited
in other hands;—it still lives, and marks the growing greatness
of imperial Rome ;-it scans her exaltation, till she becomes “er
ceeding great ,-”—through all her bold pretensions and professions of
invincibility, our vision accompanies her :—-it leaves her not, till after
witnessing for hundreds of years, the most diabolical deeds that ever
polluted the career of monsters in human form;--it lives to conduct
her to that tremendous gulph, into which it sees her fall, to rise and
curse our world no more! What witnessed all this, in 2,300 days
common time P—All this in six years, four months, and two days?
The assertion, that these are days; common time, involves ridiculous
contradiction; for the events of this vision, to receive their accom
plishment in 2,300 days, common time, is impossible; and this impos
sibility supplies the proof, that such a rule of interpretation is not
admissible. ’
But some who adhered to the literal interpretation of the days in
50 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
this vision, have applied them to the period of time under which the
Sanctuary at Jerusalem was deﬁled by Antiochus; but this circum
stance afl'ords them no protection. The 2,300 days have no more
reference to Antiochus, than the little horn in the same vision had;
and what is most lamentable is, that the advocates for the literal inter
pretation and application of these days to him, they know well, if they
kuow'hall' what they ought to know of history, that the days will not
apply; they know, or they ought to know, that his profanation of the
temple at Jerusalem, continued for only 1,836 days, being 464 days
short of the 2,300. But this is no fulﬁlment of prophecy; this is no
literal application of the days.
In addition to this, the question which drew forth the reply in which
these 2,300 days are recorded, applies to and embraces the whole\ision,
not a small fraction thereof; consequently we are bound to resist any
and every attempted restriction of those days, to either one part thereof
or another. “ How long shall be the vision," is the important ques
tion; and we cannot allow a plain perversion of the words effected,
in an answer only applicable to a question in a. quite diti'erent form,
and of quite different import. If the question had been proposed,
“how long shall he lhat part of the vision ?”- then our mistaken
advocates for a literal application of the days, would have been provided
with a shield to their literal interpretation. But the question meets
our eye, in a very dili‘ercnt form; and demands a solution which ex
cludes for ever their very ineﬁieient calculations of a day for a day.
We may ﬁnd in the Bible a rule bearing the sanction of heaven,
which will correct every mistaken sentiment, if properly applied. In
Gen. xxix. 27, we read “fulﬁl her week, and we will give thee this also,
for the service which thou shalt serve with me, yet other seven years ;"
here is the rule of a day for a year, a week being given as emblemati
cal of seven years. The following, also, gives strong conﬁrmation to
the same as a Scriptural rule ;-—“ But as for you, your carcasses
shall fall in this wilderness. And your children shall wander in the wil
derness forty years. After the number of the days in which ye search
ed the land, even forty days, each day for a year, shall ye hear your
iniquities, even forty years, and ye shall know my breach of proinise,'
Numbers xiv. 32—34. In this case, the Jews were made to under
stand, that the Almighty could appoint a year for a day; and that upon
the rule of the one being emhlematical of the other, as here, the rule is
fully carried out; and the number of the days determine the number
of years through which they were doomed to bear their iniquities.
And this rule is not more plainly laid before us in these passages.
than it is ﬁrmly established in Daniel’s prophecies, as the great and
only rule by which his prophetic numbers must be interpreted. Daniel
THE NBW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 51
has made his own rule plain; and God has conﬁrmed that rule to us,
by facts the most momentous, and which cannot be denied. Those pre
dictions which have received their accomplishment, and been fulﬁlled in
strict accordance with this rule, ought to be understood; as they assu
redly determine the application of the same rule to those which are
yet to be fulﬁlled.
The plainest of all the prophecies of Daniel, which have been ac
complished, and which may be employed to decide the question before
us, is that concerning the seventy weeks recorded in the ninth chapter.
It is thus given,-—“ Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and
upon thy holy city, to ﬁnish the transgression, and to make an end of
sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting
righteousness. and to seal up the vision and the prophecy, and to anoint
the most Holy," Dan. ix. 34. This seventy weeks is then divided into
three unequal parts ; the first is “seven weeks ;" the second, " threescore
and two weeks;" the third, “one week ;" all of which added together,
make the seventy weeks. Within this period the streets and the walls
of Jerusalem were to be built again in troublesome times; Messiah
was to come and to conﬁrm the covenant with many for one week; and
in the midst, or latter half of the week, he was to cause the oblation
and sacriﬁce to cease; and with this the seventy weeks Were to end.
We are also distinctly informed, with what event this seventy weeks
should commence; it is stated that this period should begin, with “the
going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem.”
This determines the beginning, as positively as the death of Christ
does the end. Neither the beginning or end, therefore, is left to the
conjectures of man to speculate upon: both stand on record, as mat
ters of fact a all left, as the duty of all is, to measure the period and
adopt the only rule which agrees with the two events, and extends
through the time given; seventy weeks is the time given; the going
forth ofthe commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem, and the
death of Christ, stand at the extreme points of this period.
To this period let us now apply the various rules of interpretation :
and ﬁrst the literal, or a day for a day. in this part of our under
taking, we most earnestly solicit the vigorous and persevering efforts of
all our Christian brethren, who appear so warmly opposed to everything
but the literal interpretation'of every prophecy concerning the coming
of our Lord. We would put them on their guard, by apprising them
that this is a matter of vast importance. Our decisions on this subject,
will dilfuse a powerful inﬂuence, through a great part of our future in
vestigations; let the rule he, therefore, preperly tested. Can our
friends take with success, the literal interpretation here? It says
seventy week|.—Doel it mean what it literally expresses? The two
52 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
cxtreme points are immutably established—Can they stretch their rule
to meet them ? If their rule be correct, it will apply and embrace both;
and if when the rule be applied, it prove itself delusive,-—let them at
once and for ever abandon it as of universal application. we will
render our friends every possible assistance, in the application of their
rule of literal interpretation; we will conduct them to both of the ex
treme points of the period; and assist them to stretch their rule along
the line, as far as it is possible to make it extend; and as they entertain
such strong jealousies of the adoption of false premises, we will com
mence our efforts, with the terminating point of the time speciﬁed ;——the
memorable event of the death of Christ.
With this the seventy weeks ended; as certain from the strong pro
phetic description of the events of that period. This occurred in the
year 33 of the vulgar Christian era. \Ve have now to trace back the
seventy weeks, at the beginning of which we must ﬁnd the memorable
commandment, to restore and to build Jerusalem. Proceeding upon
the rule of a literal interpretation for the accommodation of our friends,
if we take April of the year 33, as the point from which to measure
back, the seventy weeks will conduct us only to the year 31 of the
Christian era; but this presents a most miserable failure of all our
efforts, with this ephemeral literal rule. No commandment to restore
and build Jerusalem, went forth then; the streets and walls thereof,
had been built again in troublesome times, hundreds of years before
then. No prophecy of seventy weeks, concerning the comiiig and
death of Messiah the Prince, was requisite then; the Messiah had
come; the conﬁrmation of the covenant with many for one week, was
then going on and even near its close. This rule will not extend over
half the period of our Lord‘s public ministry; nor embrace a Fourth
part of that of our Lords and John the Baptist’s united; both of
which were assuredly combined in the last, or “one week" version of
the whole period. Here, then, is a most signal defeat of our friends,
in their visionary schemes of a literal interpretation; after all our ef'
forts, it is impossible to make this rule extend beyond a 360th part of
the whole period it ought to cover. With 360 to one against them,
surely our friends will now abandon a rule which plunges them into
such discrepancies ; and embrace a rule which can be maintained with
out a sacriﬁce of every principle of common sense. -
If we go to the commencement of the seventy weeks, and try our
.literal rule the other way, nothing can be gained; the ﬁrst division of
the period is that of seven weeks, in which are 49 days; this period
was allotted to the rebuilding of the walls, &c., in troublesome times,
and to restore the ancient worship of the Jews. But from the time
this was begun by Ezra the priest, by virtue of a commandment from
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 58
Artaxerxes Longimanus, to the time it was completed by Nehemiah,
was just 49 years instead of 49 days. The literal rule of our friends,
again failing to cover more than a 360th part of the time. Thus
might the subject be pursued, but it cannot be needful. A literal in
terpretation cannot be applied to this vision; a day for a day, was
never intended ; it was for ever impossible for the events of the
prophecy to transpire in that time.
Now let us try the rule, of a year for a day.—This we have before
proved a scriptural rule; let us now test it, by all the solemn facts and
plain statements of this already accomplished prophecy.
The point with which the period terminated, has been adopted; first
to test the literal rule we have justly rejected. At the same point we
will again commence.-~The year 33 of the Christian era, ends the im
portant 70 weeks; in this 70 weeks, according to the rule we are now
testing, will be 490 years, each day being computed as a. year. To
obtain this period, beginning with the year 33 and computing backward,
we are conducted to the year 457 B.C., as the other extreme point of
the term; 457 B. C. and 33 A.D., make 490. Pursuing our inquiries,
and investigating history and the best chronological tables, to ﬁnd out
all the facts of the case; we ﬁnd it on record, that Artaxerxes Longi
manus gave to Ezra the priest, an ample commission, providing for all
the speciﬁc purposes expressed by the prophet, as regards building Jeru
salem' and restoring all the ancient ritual of the Jews; and that this
commandment was given in the seventh year of that Monarch's reign;
which was the identical year to which our rule conducts us, from the
year 33 A. D. to 457 B. C. Here we have the most ample conﬁrma
tion of the rule we adopt; unlike the literal interpretation rule, which
cannot cover more than at 360th part of the term, our’s duly extends
from point to point; it neither falls short, nor extends over; it gives
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
11‘ is ‘clearly revealed in Scripture, that in the present age our Lord will
come “.the second time, without sin unto salvation;” when there will he heard
“ great voices in heaven, saying the kingdoms of this world are become the
kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and i
ever,” Rev. xi. 1!). And it is clearly revealed, that when he does thus come
and accomplish this, that it will be by the Lord taking to himself his great
power, in order thus to reign; that at that time, the nations will be angry,
and his wrath will come; that, notwithstanding, he will “destroy them which
destroy the earth;" and this by the agencies of “lightnings and voices, and
thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail,” Rev. xi. 17—19. But these
metaphors are emblematical of strong civil, and religious agitation in the world ;
of wars and bloodshed, of revolutions and organic changes throughout all nations.
I
54 'rnns'rm CHRISTIAN wonLn. ,
I
the whole period, but riothing more. This, therefore, is the rule ;—-the
correct rule ;-—an(l theonly rule, by which this important prophecy can
And all this may, at this nmment, he in the most perfect harmony with the true
indications of the planetary co itignrations, for anything the millions can tell; be
cause, like all but the few wise men from the east, they are incapable of reading
the characters in which this doctrine is there written. The best \iritten works on
the sciences, might be put into the hands of those who cannot read, and to them
present an unintelligible mass of black marks on paper. They might turn over
the pages and be pleased with the plates, but ﬁnd it impossible to derive any in
formation from any part thereof.
Such characters are, generally, altogether unaware of the potent inﬂuence of
the planetary system, in controlling the aﬁ’airs of men; many deny the existence
of any such inﬂuence at all. To such, it is evident, no possible conﬁguration
whatever, 'can be a sign of anything to transpire in our world, either good or bad.
It is n0t within the design of this work, to enter into elaborate proof of such in
ﬂuence. I shall leave this undertaking to the professors of the science, which
teaches the controlling power of the planetary system ; and make only a single
extract conﬁrmatory of the existence of such a power, from the writings of one
who seems well able to defend the principles he inculcates. This extract shall
also serve, to illustrate in part, and prove the present existence of those signs in
the stars, which our Lord predicted. The inﬂuence of the stars on the aifairs of
men, can only be known from observations extended through a long succession
of periodical visitations. On this principle, the natural indications of the fol
lowing planet are known :-'—“ On the inﬂuence of the planet Herschel, when he
a is traversing the ruling sign of any country."
“ Herschel entered Leo, the sign which rules France, in 1788. The parliament
of Paris passed a decree against the use of Letlres dc Ca‘c/iet, which was the
ﬁrst act of that awful revolution, which endured the seven years he remained in
the sign Leo; and just at the period he quitted it, in September, 1794. the hot
rors of the revolution ended by the death of that monster Robespierre.”
“ l'lerschell entered Virgo, in June, 1795. This sign rules Switzerland and
Turkey. The French overran the former, and committed immense slaughter :—
they also landed in the dominions of the Grand Turk, and war raged therein,
Among other losses,'the Turks had 18,000 men slain by Buonaparte, at the battle
of Aboukir. in July, 1799, at which time Herschel was stationary in Virgo.
“ Herschel entered Libra, in 1801. This sign rules Vienna and Austria. Bona
parte carried a murderous war into the heart of that country, taking 30,000
prisoners at one time, and in 15 days the Imperialists lost 50,000 prisoners. On
the 13th of November, 1805, the French entered Vienna; there being then a con
junction of Herschel and Saturn, in Libra. This sign rules Portugal also, and on
the 27th of October, 1807, a treaty was ratiﬁed between France and Spain, which
stipulated that an army of 20,000 French should co-operate in the conquest of
Portu al.
“ ngrschcl entered Scorpio in the end of 1807, and as this sign rules llolland,
Norway, Catalonia, Valentia, 810., so we ﬁnd Holland overrun by Bonaparte, Nor
way blockadcd by the English, and 5,000 persons dying of starvation, and those
ﬁve provinces the seat of a bloody war.
“ Herschel entered Sagittarius in 1814 ; this sign rules Spain, which was again
the theatre of revolution, and was conquered by France. 10,000 of the chief
families of Spain were driven out of the country; and the prisons were gorged
with the victims of Ferdinano’s cruelty.
'rrn new CHRISTIAN woaao. 65
be correctly interpreted. And this rule admits ot~ no change: a day
cannot be computed as more than a year; nor are we permitted to un
“Hersehel entered Capricorn in 1821 ; which sign rules Greece. A revolution
broke out and most fearful slaughter reigned, till he quitted the sign.
“ Herschel entered dynamics, the end of 1828; it rules Russia, which country
was then plunged into war with Turkey, and subsequently with Poland, attended
by many horrors and cruelties."
“ Herschel entered Pisces, in 1835; this sign rules Portugal and Egypt. The
revolution in the former, and protracted wars in the latter,still bespeak his power.
Nor may we doubt, that it will be displayed again when he enters Aries, the ruling
sign of England."——Zadkiel’.v Almanac, for 1843.
These effects having followed this potent planet’s visitation of different nations,
for such along succession of years; most arbitrary and indefensible must that
man’s conclusions be, who maintains that no signs or indications are to be gath
ered from its present position in the planetary world. Men may not understand
those indications; they may be totally ignorant of the existence of such signs;
and when their attention is directed thereto, they may torcibly close their Ullndl
against conviction. But this-reverses not one of the facts above given; this does
not prove, but the natural cause and effect are combined in all these calamitous
events. Men may ridicule the doctrine, but the facts attest that tens of then
sands died ; that the planet's track was marked with the blood of millions. Such
constant, invariable, and calamitou: trains, following the revolutions of any given
orb, establishes the rule that such effects ever will follow, except overruled by
some counteracting influence. That God who formed the planets, placed them
in their spheres, and appointed their courses,-—can, at any time, overrule, sus
pend, or reverse the etfects, they would otherwise naturally produce; and He ever
will do this, when any predicted purpose requires such supernatural interposition.
But He can also allow their natural indications to be fully realized; and the
calamities they portend, He can cause, by the employment of other agencies, to
be very far exceeded; and this He ever will do, where prophecy indicates that
such events may be expected.
Changes equal to those, which, according to prophecy, the present generation
must assuredly witness, never followed this or any other planet’s revolution, since
the time of Noah's ﬂood. Consequently, great as the convulsions indicated by
the present conﬁguration of the planetary system, may be, they are not greater
than those changes of which the prophets wrote. We have not, therefore, to
calculate on the interposition of Omnipotence to suspend or reverse the occurrence
of which the present conﬁguration of the planetary system speaks, with reference
to any changes now at hand; but rather, we may expect, that everything we
can perceive, as clearly indicated, will be far exceeded in those changes when
they come. .
By the predictions of our Lord, that at the time of the end “there shall be
signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars ;" we are necessitated to con
clude, that at that time, the “ voice of the stars," and the language of prophecy
will strikingly harmonize. This engages the power of Omnipotence to verify
both. Consequently, so circumstanced, the natural effects following this planet,
or any Other, we may notice for a long succession of years past, may be relied
upon, as amongst those signs, of which our Lord spake, because appearing at the
time of the predicted end. .
I laving traced the effects of the planet Herschel, upon the highest professional
authority, we will now show, that the present position thereof indicates changes
56 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
derstaud it, as emblematical of less. It is not, therefore, to be inter
terpreted by the rule of which St. Peter speaks,—a day for a thousand
and convulsions, strikingly harmonizing with the prophetic descriptions of those
events; which must, according to prophecy, take place. when the time of the
Gentiles are fulﬁlled.
In the “ Voice of the Stars, April, 1843,” Zadkiel says :—“ On the 19th day.
the dilatory Herschel creeps across the ﬁrst punctnm of Aries, and enters the
ruling sign of England. It is now 84 years since that potent planet entered
Aries; namely, May, 1759. Shortly followed the deal]: of the king, and a series
of bloody wars issued, for which England still pays the penaltyin her huge debt.
Earthquakes, plagues of insects, 810i, occurred during the seven years Hersche.
abode in the sign; nor may we doubt, that he now opens a black page in Eng
land's history. He brought woe on France, on entering Leo, in 1788; and on
Spain, in 1814, on entering Sagittarius, when countless victims were consigned
to dungeons, and upwards of 10,000 Spanish families had to seek refuge in
foreign countries.” Again he writes, “ England has her dark days to come, and
unless prudence and justice shield her from the fatal inﬂuences of Herschel in
Aries, now will ﬁrst germinate the seeds of England’s misery, and overthrow of
England’s power."
On other planetary conﬁgurations, showing their fatal inﬂuences over the n:
tions, the same writer states for this year z—“Alas, for India ! dire and dread ar'
the inﬂuences on that land, this spring. Much turmoil and political struggle is
now going on. The Aﬂ'ghan war has spread beyond the Indus, and well may
England fear disgrace. Her efforts are in vain,for the stars in their courses ﬁght
against the British power.”
Again he writes :—“The warlike tendencies of the Sagittarius men, are now
excited; and Spain, Hungary, and Arabia, are full of tumult and deeds of war.
nor is there peace in Dalmatia, Sclavonia, or Moravia."~—“ Nor will the Pacha of
Egypt escape suﬁ‘ering.——In theUnited States, broils break out—In Georgia and
Spain, violence predominates—In Diaheckir, civil slaughter reigns—Through all
Yemen, will the spirit of strife arise—Around the walls of Mokha ﬂoweth blood.
and the green standard of the prophet is trailed upon the sands of Arabia."
Whatever may be the opinions of men concerning the ‘ Signs of the Times,‘
these are the very scenes and transactions which will prevail through all nations,
when the seventh vial is poured out. If our calculations be correct, this is the
time. And whatever may prove the issue, if Zadkiel’s interpretation of the hand
writing of Omnipotence in the stars be correct, the signs which our Lord predicted
now abound.
The ruling sign of a nation so wealthy, powerful, and inﬂuential as England is.
being brought beneath the aﬂlictive rays of Herschel; a planet which, from the
ﬁrst of its being known, and its natural tendencies observed, has produced serious
apprehensions in all who understood its character; such a circumstance occuriug
when England’s atl‘airs are, both at home and abroad what we now witness them.
cannot but be justly considered as extremely ominous. England cannot be con
vulsed by this planet, as other nations have been, without producing a trcnien
dous effect in the world. Its disorganizing powers when in the ruling signs of
other countries, we have brieﬂy stated ; and the fact is not to be disputed, that .t
has now entered ours. We must now await to witness its eifects. in attestation
of the truth of the prediction of our Lord, we must record our convictions, till!
this must be classed with those signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in ttv‘
stars, when "the times of the Gentiles_are fulﬁlled."
rr-rx new CHRISTIAN wonLn. 57
years. Had the 70 weeks been governed by this rule, the death of
Christ must hav'e been distant yet nearly 68,000 years. A year for a
day, is the clearly and absolutely established rule of this prophecy;
because no other rule will apply.
This rule governs the 2300 days, the same as the 70 weeks. \Ve
shall very soon demonstrate, that the 70 weeks is a part only of the
2,300 days; that all contained in the ninth chapter concerning the
coming of our Lord, is only additional information, which Daniel received
respecting the vision recorded in the eighth. But having clearly estab—
lished our rule of counting aiyear for a day to be both clearly Scriptural.
and one adopted by the prophet Daniel in connection with the prophecy
now before us, we may conclude most positively, upon the period repre
sented by the 2,300 days, that we must understand thereby, 2,300
years; than which a shorter period, deducted from any other rule of
interpretation, would have been insuﬂ'icient for all the events of the
Vision.
Our next business must be, to ascertain when this period began.
Its commencement is given thus by Dr. A. Clarke, in his comment on
the text:—-“ we data these years from the vision of the lie-goat
(Alexander's invading Asia), this was A. M. 3,670; B. C., 334;
and 2.300 years from that time, will reach to A. D. 1,966, or 141
years from the present A. D. 1,825." In this, the Dr. has followed
in the track of preceding writers on the prophecies of high authority,
who were much more excusable for the propagation of error, than the Dr.
who copied them. It has been pointed out, that those words of the pro
phecies were from the ﬁrst, “ closed up and sealed till the time of the
end ;" but the seal was being broken in the Dr.’s days, and he ought to
have aided in unfolding the book, instead of tacitly relying on conclu
sions given, when the words could not be understood. I find this com
ment is exerting a potent inﬂuence on the minds of many yet. or I
should not have noticed it here.
It is remarkable, but much to be lamented, that men should be so
soon carried away with unproved suggestions, given in plain opposition
to facts. There is nothing whatever of reason, Scripture, or weight,
in all the Dr.‘ says upon the subject. “If'we dale,” says he;—but
what is this for, or what of Scripture or reason is there in it?
Either the vision begins there, or it did not; either the 2,300 years
is the length of the vision, or it is not. Why then any if’s or but's
about it ? And what can any man ﬁnd in it, ﬁlled with such over
whelming force of evidence, as that he is carried away therewith as
with a ﬂood; it is but an “ if-we-date" after all, on which an enligh
tened mind can place no dependence. Having shown this “i -we
date". to be without real force, we will now prove the whole case
' E
58 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
to be in opposition to everything of weight connected with the
vrsron.
The plain import of the question is, “ how long shall be the vision,"
from its begining to its end; not how long that part of it, succeeding
such or such an event. The whole term is included, as every expres-'
sion in the angels interpretation thereof, clearly substantiates; and we
cannot. allow the plain expression of the question, together with the
angel’s conﬁrmation thereof, to be utterly swept away with a paltrv
“ tf—we-date,” supported only by the chimerical opinion ofa Rev. D. D.
Besides, such a precedent admitted, would be like the letting forth of
many bitter waters. One Rev. D.D. might say, “ lfwe dafeltﬁz's” from
the time of Alexander's invasion of the Medes and Persians, it will
end so and so ; another might say, “ If we date this" from the
springing up of the four horns, Alexander's successors, it will end so
and so; another, “if we (Intel/21‘s” from the time that Ptolemy carried
100,000 Jews captive into Egypt, about 320 B. C., it will end 1,950
of our era. Another might interpose his Pontifical decision and say.
“tfwe date this" from the rising up of the little horn, its end will come
at'such a time; whilst another Rev. Dr. has the courage to maintain.
that the time of this vision has not commenced yet; that the 2,300
days have all yet to come, and the power to which they apply has never
yet risen in the world: and each of these suppositions is as Well
founded as Dr. A. Clark’s. The plain rules of Scripture, the autho
rity of God, and the angel's interpretation, are all alike abandoned and
trampled under foot by them all; like “ the little horn in the vision,
they all cast down the truth to the ground," and have hitherto “pm:
tired and prospered.” But the time of the end has come, when th.
unproved assertions of Popes and ltcv. D. D.'s dare be received uan
for their worth; and utterly discarded, when they stand in opposi
tion to the authority of God. The above “gf we date,” can only
perpetuate gross ignorance and vice, until one common ruin engulph:
all the rejectors of the truth, which will come before the l)r.'s time.—
The vision does not begin with the he-go'at at all ; the only proof rc
quisite of which is, the vision itself. The ﬁrst thing Daniel saw. wn~
the ram with two horns; not the lie-goat. This is a fact plainly stated.
reasoning upon it cannot alter it; the question includes the length of 1h
whole vision. The proof of this is,~ ﬁrst its expression ; secondly, the
angel’s interpretation, as before explained. In all this we have scrip
tural authority, God testifying for himself; which authority will dri'.e
into endless oblivion all the paltry “it"s” and “but's” of all the D.
D.’s that oppose it.
Tue ram, we have seen, was emblematical of the second ofthe fourgreat
kingdoms of the world, which are alone made the subjects of Daniel I
TUE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 59
prophecies- This second of the four, and the ﬁrst in this vision, was
the kingdom of the lVledes and Persians; which, according to Daniel,
was so far established as the mistress of the world, as to become the great
leading subject of prophetic description; in that night when Belshaz
zar the king of the Chaldeans was slain, “ and Darius the Median took
the kingdom," Dan. v. 31. This was about 526 years B. (1.; and
this kingdom remained the leading subject of prophetic description,
until the lie-goat in our vision, “smote the ram, brake his two horns,"
destroyed his power, and took away his dominion; at which time the
prophetic description passes along to the Grecian dominion; and in
320 B. C., the Persian monarchy ended, having stood the leading
subject of prophetic description 206 years. To within the limits of
this period, we are therefore bound to look for the commencement of
the 2,300 years.
But this period of 206 years, embraces the whole of the ram‘s ex
istence, as the subject of prophetic description; whereas it is quite
evident, that the vision begun when the ram existed in one peculiar
state. For want of paying due attention to this, has led to great con
fusion amongst the various writers upon it. The ram was presented
to the prophet, in almost its highest and best state ; hence the strong
prophetic description, “ and the two horns were [rig/I." This neces
sarily implies that its power was great, its riches abundant, and its do
minions extensive; no other ideas can be correctly gathered, from the
horns being high. But high and low are comparative terms; and,
therefore, to ascertain their proper import here, it is requisite that the
comparison implied should be properly pursued. This comparison
must be run, not between this and some other nation existing at the
time; but rather between the condition of the empire when the ram
was ﬁrst seen, and its former state. In comparison with the former
condition of that kingdom, it is said to be [Jig/l when ﬁrst presented to
the prophet.
By this we are debarred from fixing indiscriminately on any peroid
of the ram's empire, as the true period when the vision begun; the
time when the horns were high, is of equal importance in the question
before us, as the time when the ram existed; and we have no more
authority to reject the former, than we have to set. aside the latter.
The empire here represented, like all other earthly kingdoms, experi
enced its rise and increase, and its decline and fall ; it did not attain
the summit of its power, wealth and dominion, all in one dav. nor in
one king’s reign; nor were innnutability engraven on any one com..
tion_ in which it ever existed; it boasted of laws “which altercth not”—
notwithstanding the universal law of mutability engraven with the ﬁn
ger of God upon all earthly states, experienced no interruption in its
60 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
operations from the Medes and Persians existing in the world. But
in all its vicissitudes, there was a time when “the two horns were
high ;” when the power, wealth and dominions, were greater than they
had always been; and this is the time we would clearly ascertain, be
cause this was the time when the vision began. It is necessary for
this to be particularly noticed; all commentators seem to have over
looked it; common readers never seem to consider it at all. Some
think the vision begun from the moment it was seen; others that it
begun with the beginning of the ram’s existence. Those who oppose
.the sentiments defended in this work, dare not inquire into this: it
might be no part of the prophetic description given,-of its import
they remain wilfully ignorant. Yet upon all we must enforce it, it
being not more certain that the ram was seen at all, than it is that the
ﬁrst moment and the ﬁrst state in which this ram was presented to the
prophet, was when “the two horns were high.” Nothing but culpable in
attention or dangerous unbelief, can bring forth the ram in this vision in
any other state than this. Not as a lamb did this emblem burst upon
the view of the prophet; not with its tender hornsjust protruding. nor
with those horns rapidly growing into greatness; but in all the vigour
and plenitude of a full-grown beast; the maturity of which is attested
too strongly for the vain caviller to affect, in the words “ THE Two
Hoaus WERE HIGH.”
The above must be taken as an indispensable and most important
rule,-by which a correct interpretation of this vision must be governed.
Not that this circumstance alone is suﬁicient of itself to determine the
exact time .even to the year when the 2,300 years begun; yet itis
sutncrent to sustain this conclusion, that any supposed period, when
theth horns were not thus high, cannot be admitted as the true one:
this rule must apply and this description be identiﬁed, or the interpre
tation cannot be correct. _
“According to history, in the reign of Cyrus, by whom the kingdom
of the Medea and Persians was begun in the year .526 B. C., and
under his successful campaigns against the Babylonians, before his reign
over the united kingdoms, great acquisitions were made to the power.
wealth and dominions, represented by the ram in our vision. By
Cambyses, who succeeded to the throne in 520 B. C., nothing was
done that can be justly said to raise the horns higher than Cyrus left
them. But with Darius Hystaspes, who entered upon the government
of the empire in bl?) B.C., the case was altogether different; of him his—
torians say, “be greatly favoured the Jews, that God blessed him with a
numerous issue, a long reign, and great prosperity.” Fer, although, n. 't
so very fortunate in his wars against the Scythians and Grecians; yet in
all his other campaigns, he had full success in all his undertakings. He
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
not only restored and fully settled the empire of Cyrus, after it had
been much shaken by Cambyses and the Magian, but also added many
large and rich provinces to it; especially those of India, Thrace,
IVIacedon, and the Isles of the Ionian Sea.”—~Stackhouse's History.
In this we perceive the horns rising rapidly. His reign terminated
477 B. C., and he was then succeeded by Xerxes, who held the reins
of government 13 years, up to the year 464 B. C. His reign, his life,
his manners and disposition, were the reverse of his predecessors. The
monster army of ﬁve millions of men, which this monarch led out against
the Greeks, being routed and slain with prodigious slaughter, brands
his inauspicious reign with infamy; and so discouraged him, that he
renounced all thoughts of war and conquest, and abandoned himself
entirely to luxury, ease and pleasure ;‘ and although in him we ﬁnd
some features harmonizing with the prophetic description given of the
ram when the vision begun, yet others are so evidently wanting, that
it would be doing violence to a major part thereof, to suppose the
2,300 years, begin with him. In his reign, it is true, the horns
were high; but at the time the vision began, the ram was “pushing
westward, and northward, and southward; so that no beast might stand
before him, neither was there any that could deliver out of his hand;
but he did according to his will and became great.” To the major part
of this description, Darius Hystaspes strikingly corresponds. But
everything recorded of Xerxes, forbids us to consider him as the anti
type thereof.
Next in the line of Medo-Persian kings, follows Axtaxerxes Lon
gemanus; and the various prophetic descriptions of the ram at the
commencement of the vision, ﬁnd in him a more perfect anti-type than
in any other. The state of the empire at the time he became monarch,
-—the increasing power of the Athenians,—their signal victories gained
under their celebrated leader Cimon,-—the revolt of the Egyptiansagainst
the Persian yoke,-—and this revolt supported by so formidable a power
as that which the Athenians possessed,—all these unfavourable circum
stances at the commencement of his reign, compelled him to witness
the dismemberment of his empire to a serious extent; or to muster
all his forces, and vigorously to prosecute that “pushing' of which
the prophet speaks. In this, as stated by the prophet, he proved suc
cessful. Even the aid of the Athenian power, could not deliver the
revolting Egyptians out of his hand; “but he did according to his will
and became great.” With him every part of the prophetic description
more perfectly agrees, thah with any other of the Persian kings.
Some important particulars recorded in Daniel xi. respecting the
race of monarchs under notice, seem to determine beyond dispute the
precise time when the horns were high. In the 2nd verse it is stated,
62 THE NEW CHRISTIAN woau). ‘
“ And now will I shew thee the truth. Behold there shall stand up yet
three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer than they all."
In this fourth king’s reign, the horns would be emphatically high; just
as Daniel describes them when the vision begun. This revelation was
made to Daniel, as we are informed in chap. x. l, “in the third year of
Cyrus, king of Persia.” And there were to stand up yet three more,
between Cyrus and the fourth described as above. Cyrus was suc
ceeded by Cambyses, which must, therefore, be the ﬁrst of the above
three; Darius Hystaspes was the next, or second of the three; and
Xerxes the third; after whom reigned Artaxerxes Longemanus, the
fourth from Cyrus. In this Scripture every doubt must be removed as
to when the horns were high; and this being accomplished, one ﬁrm step
is secured towards ascertaining the true period, when the 2,300 years
begun; as it must to harmonize with all these plain rules of Scripture
begin somewhere within the reign of Artaxerxes Longemanus.
There is another important rule of Scripture, which is of universal
application to all the prophetic numbers; which, although generally
overlooked, cannot be proved in opposition to any irfterpretation, with
out clearly showing that interpretation incorrect. “God has ordained
all things by number, weight, and measure ;" and given all His impor
tant revelations to his servants the prophets, under the strictest laws of
harmony and order. Dates and facts, times and events are made to
harmonize, in order that the rules of prophecy may be plain. Pro
ceeding on this rule as a great law of order, God has ordained that all
the prophetic numbers should begin with some great and important
event, by which the church stands vitally affected. If we trace all
the numbered predictions of Daniel and John, we shall ﬁnd this rule
sacredly respected. In fact, without it there could be no data given in
facts; whereas the rule of all the great numbered prophecies, is to give
the data by notable events instead of naming the time. As examples
take the following :—
In the viith of Daniel, 24, 25, an important number is given and a
new era marked out, by the rising up of a dreadfully persecuting power
from amongst the ten horns of the fourth beast, so fully described in
that chapter. Of this persecuting power it is said, “ and he shall
speak great words against the most High, and shall wear out the saints
of the most High, and think to change times and laws: and they shall
be given into his hand, until atime and times and the dividing of time." ‘
Here the data is given by the event. This period, which we shall
hereafter prove is 1,260 years, takes its rise solely from the notable
event of this persecuting horn obtaining that ascendancy over the peo
ple of God, as to be able to carry out the diabolical measures here
charged upon him.
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 63
. .i_a.;_'_._r..iu_1s.-_i—-—<=F.
._ . 'T‘Y—b _.. r _ . *vt .
So likewise with the three prophetic periods given in Dan. xii. The
first which is given in answer to the question, How long shall it be to
the end of these wonders, is the same “ time, times and a half," which
we have just noticed. But for the beginning of this, no other data is
given, but the notable event given in the llth verse, the setting up of
“the abomination that maketh desolate." So in like manner with the
- following numbers :—the 1,290 days begin with the downfall of hea
thenism; as the established religion of the ten kingdoms of the Roman
empire expressed by Daniel thus,-—“ and from the time that the daily
abomination shall be taken away.” Here the event is expressed as the
only rule to determine the data by; and the 1,355 days begin with the
some important event: than which, no other rule is given by which a
data can be obtained.
Several of the prophetic numbers in the book of Revelations, begin
with one or the other of these two events; and in all cases the data is
left to be determined by the events, as no other rule is given. we
have nothing to do with the question here of “\Vhy is it so ?-—VVhy
has not the Almighty given us the precise date, instead ofsome memo
rable event Pi’ “'0 take the Bible as we find it, and dispute not the
inﬁnite wisdom of its Author on any grounds like these. The facts
are there; the notable events are given, but dates are not; and this
establishes the rule, that with some important and memorable occur
rence all the prophetic numbers of Daniel begin. The fact is also
incontestible, that such event 'has been intimately connected with the
church and people of God, who have been vitally affected by the event
taking place.
At the time the vision of the ram began, the Jews were the peculiar
people of God; consequently, we must inquire for some event of
memorable importance, strongly aﬁecting that people, on which to
found the data for our 2,300 years. Such event must, however, har
monize with the other established rules of interpretation; it must take
place when the ram had two horns, and when those horns were high ;
and if such can be found, the same may be taken as an unerring guide,
to determine fully when the vision begun.
We have before proved when the horns were high. This we found,
upon a clear scriptural basis, to be in the time of Artaxerxes Longe
manus; and of all the Persian kings, his reign was the most eventful in
favour of the Jews ; reverses involving the prosperity, peace, yea the
very existence of that people, were experienced by them under this
reign. Some of our readers may not be aware, that this Artaxerxes
Longemanus, was the same king, who in the book of Esther is called
Ahasuems. As the book of Esther supplies additional evidence of
the rain's horns being higher in that reign, than in former ones; and
64 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
records some important reverses in the fate of the Jews ;—-we will give
a brief extract from history here, to identify the person who is called in
the book of Ezra, Artaxerxes; and in the book of Esther, Ahasuerus.
“ Our learned Usher is of opinion, that Darius Hystaspes was the
king Ahasuerus who married Esther; namely, that Artosa was the
Vasbii and Artystona, the Esther of the Holy Scriptures; but Hero
dotus positively tells us, that Artystona was the daughter of Cyrus,
and therefore could not be Esther; and that Artosa had four sons by
Darius, besides daughters, all born to him after he was king; and
therefore she could not be that queen Vashti who was divorced from
the king her husband, in the third year of his reign, Esther i. 3 ; nor
he that Ahasuerus that divorced her. Joseph Scaliger is likewise of
opinion, that Xerxes was the Ahasuerus, and Hamstris his queen, the
Esther of the Holy Scriptures. But whatever seeming similitude there
may be in the name (and this is the whole foundation of his conjec
ture), it is plain from Herodotus that Xerxes had a son by Hamstris,
who was marriageable in the seventh year of his reign; and therefore,
it is impossible that he should be Esther’s, because Esther was not
married to Ahasuerus until the seventh year of his reign, Esther ii. 16 ;
and considering that the choice of virgins was made for him in the
fourth year of his reign, and a whole year employed in their puriﬁcation,
the soonest that she could have a son by him, must be in the sixth.
We may therefore conclude, with Josephus and the Septuagint, that
Ahasuerus in Scripture was Artaxerxes Longemanus; and Esther, an
Hebrew viigin, as she is all along represented.--Prideaua:'s Connection,
A. D. 465.”—Stackhouse’s History of the Bible, p. 1,025, v. 2.—
This is sufﬁcient authority to identify the one reigning monarch, as
being by different writers distinguished by a different name. The case
may appear singular to some now, but it was far from being uncommon
in Eastern countries, at the time of which we are now treating.
The Jews received many signal favours from this monarch. Through
the proud and intolerant Haman’s intrigues with him, a decree for the
utter extinction of them was proclaimed through the whole empire.
But it was reversed, and Haman fell a just sacriﬁce to his infernal
lust for homage, and Mordecai, a Jew, was elevated in proportion to
his fall. Esther, a Hebrew, was Queen of those extensive dominions,
and the Jews had rest through the whole empire. But there is one
transaction stands upon the records of this king’s acts, which above
all the rest demands the precedency, in determining the true period of
the vision under notice. And this is the important edict which he
passed for the restoration of the Jewish temple, city, and worship;
and in which such ample provisions were made for securing the full
accomplishment thereof. This edict the reader may ﬁnd in full in
run saw cnnrsrrAN WORLD. 65
Ezra vii. It is too long for insertion here, but the passage should be
sought and read before the reader proceeds with this.
This decree, with all other connected circumstances, was of sufﬁcient
importance to form a data, and to be held as a rule for the adjustment
of the beginning of a numbered prophecy. Such a rule we have seen,
governs the data of all other similar prophecies; and for this to harmo
nize such a rule was indispensable to this; and this rule corresponds
with the other plainly expressed rules of the vision. It was passed
when the ram had two horns, and when the two horns were high; and
was itself the most important event to the people of God which trans
pired at or near the time when the two horns were high. By this last
circumstance we are bound to this event; because we have no other
occurring at the time to which we can look, which can give us the
true data.
That God has made the rule absolute through the prophecies of
Daniel, that important events alone give the true data to the diti'crent
periods therein predicted, we have placed beyond doubt with all who
believe the Bible; and that the edict before us, is of sufﬁcient impor
tance to ﬁx the true data of a prophetic period, is also placed beyond
all doubt, by the fact that in chap. ix. 25, the same decree is adopted
and given by the angel Gabriel, as ﬁxing the true data at the head of
the important “seventy weeks." Here we have an authority abso
lutely overwhelming to every objection that can be raised against
making this event the true data for the beginning of a prophetic period.
Is it asked,-~“\Nhy do we make that event the beginning of a pro
phetic period?" We answer, because God has made it so. _Do any
object to itP—They object against God, not against man; seeing it is
God not man who established the rule, and made it absolute, and has
placed it on record to confonnd all objectors—“Know, therefore, and
understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore
and to build Jerusalem, unto Messiah the Prince." Here is the de
cree adopted; it was then suﬂicient to constitute a data, or it would
not have been here; every prophetic number given by Daniel has a
true data, and that is precisely of the same character as this. This
was also given when the ram existed in anti-type; also when the ram
had two horns, and when these two horns were high; and no other
event but this occurred within the time of the horns being thus high,
which has like this, the sanction of heaven, as a suitable event to con
stitute a data for a prophetic number; from all of which we conclude,
that the passing of the important edict before us, constitutes the only
data for the beginning of the 2,300 years.
It is proper to remind the reader, that there is something more than an
if we date,” or a “suppose that the time" presented to his mind here,
66 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
as a basis for his conclusions; facts, stubborn unbending facts; and
the express declarations of Heaven, constitute our sole but solid foun
dation. We want no if's and but’s in the matter. It is no supposed
case, but it is fact that events, not datesﬁx the true data of all Daniel’s
prophetic periods; the professing Christian who denies this, denies the
faith, and rejects the clearest facts of Scripture. It is fact that the
event before us, is constituted a data for the beginning ofthe 70 weeks;
it is fact, that this commandment went forth when the ram's horns
were high; and it is fact, that no other event transpired at the time,
that is selected in Scripture to form a data for any prophetic period
whateyer: and it is also fact, that these present all the indispensable
evidences which the prophecies of Daniel admit of. We cannot, in
opposition to these facts, receive the if’s and but’s and suppositions of
men, utterly destitute of a single fact to sustain them. Our scripture
facts, are absolute proofs; but the opinions of men are no proofs what
ever. And as all our Scriptural facts concentrate in, apply to, and all
support one conclusion; and they being all which the nature of the
case admits of, we therefore hold our proofs of the beginning of the
2,300 years, to be thus far complete.
It is true more edicts than one were given, for the restoration of
Jerusalem, after the Babylonish captivity; and it may be said, that we
have not yet proved with which of the commandments the 2,300 years
begun. lnto this we will fully enter, and leave it on the same abso
lute grounds, as those on which we have left our former propositions;
but before we do this, we will take up an entirely different line of ar
gument, to the one on which we have just concinoen; by which, 8180,
we will prove met our conclusions as above, on the beginning of the
2,300 years, are founded on the broad basis of eternal truth.
“'ith this distinct chain of evidence, which conducts to just the
some conclusions, we are supplied in that important portion of prophecy
recorded in Daniel ix., concerning the seventy weeks. These seventy
weeks‘ we shall prove, are included in the 2,300 years; that the two
periods commenced at one time, and with one event; that that event
is clearly and expressly named, and is the passing of the same edict
before noticed. ln substance we shall prbve, that all the fresh revela
tions made to Daniel, as recorded in chap. ix., constituted no new
vision, and were given without any vision being seen then at all: and
was only a further interpretation of the visions of the ram and he-goat,
as given in chapter viii.
Sufﬁcient reasons had transpired, why additional information should
be imparted to Daniel, on the important subjects of that vision; at
ﬁrst it produced powerful impressions on his mind, through which he
“ fainted and was sick certain days ; he was astonished at the vision, but
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD- 67
vtone understood it.” That which at the time the additional interpre
tation was given, would most painfully aﬁiict the mind of the prophet,
was that portion of the prophecy which predicted the treading down of
the sanctuary and the host for 2,300 days. Daniel “'ﬂllld understand
these as emblems of so many years; and conﬂicting thoughts might as
tonish him between this period and the seventy years' captivity which
was then nearly expired. This, Daniel “ understood from books," was
nearly ended, as he informs us chap. ix. 2 ; yet of the 2,300 days or
years, no portion was gone. Under these circumstances, Daniel ap
plied unto his God in fervent supplication, as recorded in the former
part of chapter ix. In his prayer reference is made to his desolate
city, his captive people, and polluted sanctuary, saying,—“ I beseech
thee, let thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jeru
salem, thy holy mountain, and cause thy face to shine upon thy Sanc
tuary that is desolate. O Lord, hear; 0 Lord hearken; forgive, do,
and defer not." Whilst thus engaged in fervent supplication with his
God, evidently under strong emotions concerning the cleansing of the
Sanctuary, seemingly placed at a great distance by the 2,300 days,
Gabriel received an especial commission to give further instruction on
the important vision to which this prayer evidently alluded. And
Daniel says, “ Whilst I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel,
whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to ﬂy
swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation. And he
informed me, and talked with me, and said, 0 Daniel, I am now come
forth to give thee skill and understanding, and I am come to shew thee,
therefore understand the matter and consider the vision,” Dan. ix.,
21—23.
New here we are provided with abundant information, to enable us
to make the Scripture its own interpreter on the most important ques—
tions now before us, of,--I-I0w long shall be the vision ?-_\Vhen did
it begin ?—-\Vhen will it end? This is the unerring rule we would
always follow,—under the authority of inspiration we are always se
cure. “ Therefore understand the mutter, and consider the vision.”
But what matter is it, which Daniel was to understand, and what vision
was he to consider? To elucidate this properly, will establish a data
for the beginning of the 2,300 days, which cannot be moved; a data
determined by God himself, and as plainly revealed as words can
express it.
“ Understand the matter,” can apply to nothing but the matter con
cerning which Daniel was praying; the turning away of God's wrath
from his holy city Jerusalem; the cleansing of his Sanctuary, which he
said was desolate. This Daniel prayed to be speedily accomplished, that
God would “do, and defer not ;" to this and to the instructions about
68 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
to be given to him, which extended far beyond the limits of Daniel's
prayer. The whole matter Daniel was to “understand ,-” he was
to understand, also, that the cleansing of the Sanctuary at the end of
the 2,300 days, of which he had been previously informed, would not
put 0H, prevent, or defer, the restoration of his people at that time;—
nor yet prevent the building 0F the temple, the restoration of the
Jewish worship, or the coming of Messiah the Prince at the time ap
pointed. These matters had astonished Daniel since the vision oi
the 2,300 years was shown to him, and these together with a second
and endless destruction of the city and Sanctuary, “ by the prince that
should come ;" and of another desolation, that should continue “till
the consummation and that determined ;” respecting all these matters
Daniel was to understand.
He was also to “ consider the vision." This is the stubborn, puz
zling phrase to all the objectors against the time being ﬁxed, and that
time being revealed when sin shall cease. This is the golden link
which tells deﬁance to all those objectors, to sever the angel’s explana
tion in this chapter, from the vision in the former chapter. This, as
we shall soon see, stamps the broad seal of inspiration on the begin—
ning of the 2,300 years, and tells when that was: and tells us in a
language so plain, as to make the very souls of many quake within them,
on ﬁnding from this that the end has come.
“And consider the vision." What vision was Daniel to consider ?
“ The vision, the vision." Some of our rev. divines say, in evident
confusion,—“ \Vhat vision P“——Why the vision concerning the subjects
of Daniel's prayer, to be sure; what other vision is there." But this
is by no means sufﬁcient; this only removes, and by removing in
creases the embarrassment. “ The vision l”——-This is the subject.—
What vision is intended ?—-This question must have a rational solution.
-—-“The vision” must be identiﬁed. We know our rev. divines, who
profess to have the keys of knowledge, are very reluctant to try any of
their old rusty keys to unlock this mystery for us. Some paid delu
ders of the people, blind leaders of the blind, will neither open this
mystery thernselves,—and those who will, they would hinder if they
could. Daniel was, howeVer, to consider the vision, and so must we;
and in order to consider it properly, we must know what vision it is;
and we must know this upon Scriptural principles; the will of heaven
must be known so far as is revealed, and a plain prophetic rule must be
brought to bear upon the subject.
Such rule must be sought out, and applied to the two following
questionsz—lst, Are we to look upon the revelations made to Daniel
by Gabriel, as recorded in the latter part of this chapter, as properly “ the
vision" intended? Or, 2ndly, Are we to understand those revelations
THE NEW cnars'run WORLD. 69
as being truly an additional interpretation of some former vision, which
former one was “ the vision” which Daniel was to understand?
These questions being answered according to a clear rule established
by other prophecies, and the internal evidences in this chapter, will set
the whole at rest; but before the rule of Scripture is produced, those
readers not extensively conversant with the different views of writers on
the subject must be informed, that the opinions of many who are held
as high authorities, are, that the ﬁrst of the above questions, give the
only correct view of what we are to understand as “ the vision" before
us :--and with this statement, we will now proceed thoroughly to
examine the question.
The rule established in the prophecies of Daniel, and which is the
only proper one by which to try this question, is plainly and decidedly
against the ﬁrst; and fully conﬁrmatory of the second of the above
questions. We have ﬁve important and unmistakable visions, recorded
by this prophet. The two ﬁrst are those seen by Nebuchadnezzar,‘
king of Babylon, and both interpreted by Daniel. The ﬁrst of these
was that of the great image, “ whose brightness was excellent, and its
form terrible,” being composed ofgold, silver, brass, iron and clay. This
was seen by Nebuchednezzar in a dream, and “revealed unto Daniel
in a night vision." When Daniel was brought in before the king,
be related to him the ﬁrst particulars of his dream, described the great
image, and the stone which smote this image on its feet, and then said,
—“ This is the dream, and we will tell the interpretation thereof be
fore the kiiig," Dan. ii. 36. Here we have a clear line of distinction
run between the dream and the interpretation. The dream was one
thing, the interpretation thereof another; the dream was properly the
vision, and theinterpretation thereof, quite distinct. Then “ the 'vision‘I
or dream, which is in this case to the same signiﬁcation, was the great
image and stone which the king saw; this exclusively, was the vision.
The interpretation, therefore, was not the vision; and as full proof or
this, this vision would have been as perfect and as really a vision seen,
if no interpretation could ever have been obtained, as it was with that
interpretation ; only the king would never have understood its import.
This shows us what really and properly is to be considered as “Mansion.”
Superﬁcial readers, writers and thinkers, take a random glance over the
whole; and unceremoniously jumble all up together as the vision, re
gardless of the clearest distinctions and the plainest rules. This, in
all cases is wrong; but in the expounders of important prophecies, it
is highly censurable. Here a clear distinction is made, a clear rule es
tablished; and we are not authorized to violate it.
Proceeding to the second vision, we shall ﬁnd the same rule held
sacred. This is recorded in chap. iv.:-—“ Thus were all the visions
70 run new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
of mine head upon my bed; I saw, and behold a tree in the midst of
of the earth, and the height thereof was great." This tree is particu
larly described ; after which it was seen, cut down by the decree of the
watchers, who pronounced a sentence upon it which greatly troubled
the proud eastern monarch. Introducing the interpretation, Daniel said,
-—-“My Lord, be the dream to them that hate thee, and the interpre
tation thereof to thine enemies," iv. 19. Here we have again the same
distinction established as in the former vision ; the dream is ﬁrst re
corded as the true vision seen, and afterwards the interpretation as a
distinct thing.
The third vision recorded is equally (plain upon this point; this is
the vision of the four beasts as recorde in chap. vii. After stating
all the particulars of the vision, we read thus:—-“ I Daniel was grieved
in my spirit in the midst of my body, and the visions of my head
troubled me. I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked
him the truth of all this. So he told me, and made me know the in
terpretation of the things," vii. l5, [6. Here the vision is expressly
limited to the things seen, and not the least intimation is given that
can at all be construed to sanction the sentiment, that the interpreta
tion, or any part of it, formed any part of what is evidently set forth
as the vision; this interpretation stands as altogether a different thing;
it is thus spoken of in the last verse, “Hitherto is the end of the
matter." Here we have the interpretation, distinguished as the
‘matter, and very properly so. The things seen in the vision were
only images, a certain description of phantoms created by the power of
God, and presented to the prophetic mind as proper representatives of
real matters of fact, which should at the time appointed exist; but the
interpretation was different; this embodied the real living facts of the
case; “THE MATTER" of fact. Hence the one is called correctly,
“the matter ;" and the other “the vision ;" and these are just as dis
tinct and opposite in their natures as substance and shadow, and are as
distinctly set forth in the important prophecies before us; where the
vision and the interpretation thereof, are always marked out as perfectly
different things.
Our next is the vision of the ram and he-goat, than which none can
afford plainer evidence of the rule we are now endeavouring to make plain.
With especial reference to the rule it is said :-—“And it came to pass,
when I, even I Daniel had seen the vision, and sought for the meaning."
Here “the vision” is given as complete, as over, as having been seen ;
at the same time that the whole meaning is sought for. This fact de
termines positively, what Daniel intended to be understood as “Ute
vision ;" and it proves also that the interpretation he afterwards re
ceived from the angel Gabriel, in the appearance of a man, consti
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 7]
tuted no part of “the vision ;” he says expressly that when he had seen
“the Vision," he sought the meaning, which leaves no room to object
against the vision being over before the meaningr was given. This
admits of no proof, nor does it require any, seeing we have no words
in our language which can convey the ideas with greater force or more
clearness. The vision consists exclusively of the images seen ; and the
verbal representation of the facts they typiﬁed, afterwards given, forms
no part of the vision at all.
We will only just glance at our ﬁfth vision, from a conviction that
our rule is already sufficiently established. It is thus set forth:
“ Then I lifted up mine eyes and looked, and behold, a certain man
clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with ﬁne gold of Uphaz; his
‘body also was like beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning :
and his eyes as lamps of ﬁre, and his arms and feet like in colour to
polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multltude.
And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men that were with me
saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them so that they
ﬂed to hide themselves. Therefore I was left alone and saw this great
vision."--Chap. x. 6, 7, 8.
From this to the end of the hook, long and important revelations
are recorded, all in connection with this vision; notwithstanding “the
vision " itself is too plainly pointed out to be well mistaken, or to be
easily confounded with what follows it. Three times, in the three
Verses quoted, is the vision named in connection with the word “sAw.n
Base sophistry itself must call in to its aid some more debasing prin
ciple, before “the vision" here can be construed into something which
Daniel heard, and not what he “SAW.” Verbal representations are
not visions in Daniel’s sense.
The rule established in all Daniel's prophecies is now made sufﬁ
ciently plain; no sincere enquirer after truth can fail to perceive it:
nor will it be rejected by any but such as “are wiser in their own
conceit than seven men that render a reason,” and sufficiently hold to
set at deﬁance the plain word of God. All such we leave for God to
deal with as He best sees ﬁt, when he comes in the seventh and last
plague, and proceed upon the ﬁrm foundation laid, to a rational
conclusion on the questions before us.
The rule established is, that “the vision ” applies to the images or
representatives of real facts seen, and “the matter," or relation of those
facts, is always given as the interpretation: that these are distinct,and
no more identically the same, than the substance and the shadow
that “ the vision ” was ﬁrst seen, and afterwards the matter or meaning
thereof sought.
Testing the 9th chapter of Daniel by this, the only scriptural rule,
72 THE new cumsrrm woau).
we ﬁnd no vision in it, not a single image is presented, not one repre
sentation is given, nor one single word from Daniel of seeing a vision.
That so many have imagined that they saw a vision in it, can only be
accounted for on the ground of sheer inattention to the plain rules of
these prophecies, or some far more debasing principle. Daniel saw
none, nor is there in any part thereof the slightest intimation that he
did. There is a vision mentioned, it is true, but so likewise is there
in the page now before us. But we do not say that we have seen that
vision: neither does Daniel say in the 9th chapter, that he at that
time saw the vision therein mentioned; whereas the above absolute
rule of his book says and proves that he did not.
Our leading questions are in this answered. To the inquiry, if the
revelations in the 9th chapter be “ the vision " therein mentioned, upon
the invincible authority of the above rule, we answer, no; that reve
lation or verbal representation is no vision at all. From this the
second question receives its reply. it must therefore be additional
information concerning some other vision: it is “ the matter" of a
former vision which Daniel was called to understand; and every other
construction is false, proved so by every vision which that book
contains.
By the same rule, together with internal evidence, it is also clear
that the simple fact of Gabriel’s appearance and talking with Daniel,
is not “the vision ” intended. In three of the visions by which our
rule, as above, is established, a supernatural agent was employed
. to interpret to Daniel the meaning of what had been presented to him.
But this is invariably given as no part of “the vision,” the vision
being over and complete before the interpretation was given.
In addition to this, as a scriptural rule which cannot be violated,
the internal evidences are sufﬁcient to determine the case now before
us. Daniel was called to understand the matter, and “consider the
vision.” And this is given as an important conclusion, from the
information, “ 0 Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and
understanding, therefore consider the vision." What! and is all this
parade of importance; is an angel commissionedto visit Daniel;
“being caused to ﬂy swiftly,” to give skill and understandin of sufﬁ
cient importance to enlist all the mental powers of the proph t, and to
which his most serious consideration is demanded, and then, after all,
there is nothing to consider in “the vision,” but the abstract appearance
of the angel Gabriel in the form of a man! We may conceive the
possibility of even such an appearance leading to very serious con
siderations amongst a cabal of female diviners, in the days of the
rampant reign of ignorance and superstition. But Daniel's habit of
life, education, ofﬁce, and character, both as a statesman and a divine,
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 73
and especially his unparalleled experience with visions and supernatural
agencies, all combine to make him not exactly the man to find subject
of such intense consideration, in the simple fact of Gabriel's appear
ance, as here recorded. The supposition of such a thing is indeed
a broken staff, on which our reverend objectors lean. Daniel had
nothing to receive skill and understanding about in the simple fact of
Gabriel’s appearance; he had seen him before; he knew him on his
ﬁrst approach. He informs its that it was “even the man Gabriel
whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning;" and the utmost
familiarity is expressed in the plain terms “ And he informed me, and
tulkrd with me," like a man with his friend. That man must be driven
to the outside bounds of even sophistry itself, who will still hazard the
unfounded theory, that by “the vision ” under notice, the appearance
of Gabriel is intended. The angel denounces such a construction in
the very words, “ consider the vision." This means, according to the
construction now opposed, “consider me," a blasphemous signiﬁcation,
condemned alike by the words employed, by the import of the vision,
and by every description given in the whole book of Revelation, ofthe
scrupulous policy of the supernatural messengers of God to his servants
the prophets, whose constant care has invariably been to direct attention
off from themselves to the higher objects of their commission from God.
Our proof is complete, that Gabriel was not “the vision" which
Daniel'was enjoined to “ consider ,-” also, that the revelations recorded
in the 9th chapter did not constitute “the vision,- " and that, therefore,
the real vision to be considered is not recorded in that chapter at all.
0, but says our learned objector, “I do not see it in this light."
Very likely. But what is that to us? The most illiterate and
debased members in society might say the same. Respecting all the
truths of Christianity they might say the same ; respecting all the best
elucidated facts of science they may say the same. But what does
this attest? Nothing but one of three things, bigotry, slavery, or
ignorance. The following maxims of Dr. Black have weight:—“ If
we do not reason, we are bigots : if we cannot, we are fools: if We dare
not, we are slaves." Our worthy objectors will not contend that
reasoning abounds in replying to the foregoing proofs of our position,
“ O, I do not see it so.” To all such we would recommend to cease
their objections and be silent, if only in self-respect, that they betray
not to others what ought to be kept a secret to themselves.
Having proved “the vision” to be considered not in the 9th
chapter, and also that what has been supposed in that chapter to be
“the vision,” is no vision at all, nor was ever intended to be considered
as such, it has become our duty to shew what and where that vision is
which Daniel was enjoined to consider. We have abundant evidence
I .
74 rnr. naw CHRISTIAN WORLD.
for this at hand; let the scripture be allowed to interpret itself, and
there need he no apprehension of mistake.
If Daniel had never seen more than one vision prior to receiving
this interpretation, not a moment’s hesitation could have been indulged
as to the ﬁrst application of the term “the vision,” for to that, and to
that only, could it have been applied. Or had the 9th chapter
never have been separated from the 8th, then the probability is that
fewer would ever have been led astray with the impression that the two
chapters contain two independent visions; and, yet, all the obstacles in
the way of correct conclusions are merely imaginary. As to the
division of the two chapters, Daniel had nothing to do with that : this
division was not made till long after his death; and, although he had
seen two great visions before the interpretation in the 9th chapter was
given, notwithstanding all that is required is due attention to the
peculiar characteristics of each, contrasted with what is said on
Gabriel's second visit, to lead to positive conclusions as to which of
the two “the vision ” before us was intended to apply.
In the ﬁrst place, in the absence of all other evidence, it would have
been the only rational plan to have applied this to the last of the two,
whatever its nature had been. This, as a rule, is founded on the form
of expression used, “ consider the vision." In case of more than one
existing, the indeﬁnite form of this phrase necessarily connects it with
the last seen. Had there been ten visions in all, this indeﬁnite mode
of expression would have applied only to the last; and without some
sign of distinction being given (which there is none), neither Daniel
nor any other man could have correctly applied it to any other. This
fact was the vision of the ram and lie-goat recorded in the 'Bth
chapter: therefore, according to the rule in hand, to no other vision
can this be correctly applied.
Secondly; This conclusion receives considerable force from the
fact, that between this vision and Daniel’s intervening prayer, and
Gabriel’s additional information, there is an evident harmony of ex
pression, which is altogether destroyed, if the ﬁrst of these visions be
supposed the one intended. In the second vision much is said ofa
power that should magnify himself against the Prince of the Host,
take away the daily sacriﬁce and the place of his sanctuary, and tread
under foot the sanctuary and the host, and all this “ by reason of
transgression.” ln harmony with this, Daniel prayed and confessed
the iniquity of his people, saying, “ All Israel have transgressed thy
law, therefore the curse is poured upon us: hear the prayer of thy
servant, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is
desolate; ” and to make Daniel understand all the purposes of
heaven respecting these important things, embraces the whole of the
-- it.“ WW<Hﬁ
Tlll saw CHRISTIAN woman. 75
information he received on Gabriel's second visit. But the burden of
the interpretation given with the former vision is of altogether a diﬂ‘erent
character, and relates events belonging to a quite different age of the
world, with which Gabriel’s last instruction has no afﬁnity whatever,
neither as to nature, time, nor place.
Thirdly: In each of the two visions a period is given for the
accomplishment of the events particularly allotted to the periods ﬁxed;
and in the 9th chapter there is also a period of 70 weeks given. And
these 70 weeks are said to be determined for the accomplishment of
speciﬁed events. But this 70 weeks could not fall within, or be cut
oﬁlfrom (which is the true import of “ determined") the period of
the ﬁrst vision, that recorded in the 7th chapter, for that period did
not begin, as will be hereafter proved, till 505 years after the end of
the 70 weeks. At the same time with the period given in the second
vision, these 70 weeks runs parallel from beginning to end. In this is
additional proof as to which of the two visions Daniel was enjoined to
consider, which proof is unequivocally in favour of the last.
Various other proofs of this might be given, but one more shall
sufﬁce here. “The vision " which Daniel was to consider, was the
vision in which Gabriel had been seen in the appearance of aman.
This is the most important of all other tests, because the fact is
plainly asserted. Hence we read, “Even the man Gabriel whom I
had seen in the vision at the beginning." In which vision then had
the man Gabriel been seen? The plain words of inspiration alone
shall answer this. Turning to the ﬁrst we read that after the vision
had been seen, sorrow and amazement ﬁlled the soul of the prophet,
which was thus expressed, “ I, Daniel, was grieved in my spirit in the
midst of my body, and the visions of my head troubled me: I came
near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the truth of
this; so he told me, and made me to know the interpretation of the
things." This is all the information given by Daniel as to who his
instructor was. But no intimation is given to justify the conclusion
that it was Gabriel. Turning to the other we ﬁnd the true inspired
answer we want, and in this, as in all other cases, we ﬁnd the
scripture a perfect rule of itself, and the only certain guide to a true
interpretation—“ And it came to pass when I, even I, Daniel had
seen the vision, and sought for the meaning, then behold, there
stood before me as the appearance of a man. And I heard a man's
voice between the banks of Ulai, which called and said, GABRIEL,
make this man to understand the vision." Language cannot make
this more plain: reasoning upon it cannot make it more forcible ; facts
cannot be more completely the same. Here is the same angel Gabriel,
in both having the appearance of a man, said in both cases to have
76 THE NEW CHRISTIAN wonLD.
been seen in “the vision.” This seals our evidence on the identity of
the vision Daniel was enjoined to consider; and proves it to be the
one in which the angel Gabriel was seen as a man ; and this we are
told expressly was the vision of the ram and he-goat. This leaves no
room for an “ if we date " or an “if we suppose," to ﬁnd admission,
neither is there any necessity for such vague proceedings to beresorted
to; all is plain scriptural authority, connected, minute, and positive.
No room for doubts can remain with the sincere.
From the whole, this is the conclusion, that “the vision,” which
Daniel is enjoined to consider is the vision of the ram and lie-goat, as
recorded from the 1st to the 12th verses of the 8th chapter, and that
all additional information given in the latter part of the 9th chapter,
applies as perfectly to that vision as if given by Gabriel in his ﬁrst
commission to make Daniel understand it.
This, then, supplies us with additional evidence concerning the
exact time when the particular event with which that vision begun.
Our proofs were complete before, in addition to which we have now
the direct testimony of Gabriel, when executing an especial commission
from God, that the vision begun with “the going forth of the (30m
mandment to restore and to build Jerusalem.”--ix. 25.
Then again some of our learned and reverend objectors say, “ O, we
cannot see it so; it was the 70 weeks that commenced then, and we
do not see that the 2300 days begun then also." Their not perceiving
this makes no difference to the facts, and then telling us this, is only
informing us of their defects or negligence, of which we want no
information. We must not dishelieve the plain facts of the bible
because these lights of the world do not understand them. Daniel
says “ none of the wicked shall understand.” We cannot prove him
false in this: nor do we feel inclined to be ranked with those be
here so strongly characterises. _
The plain facts are these: the 70 weeks and 2300 days are not the
subjects of two visions, but ‘of one, as clearly proved. That vision
cannot have two beginnings, but one. The whole length of it is ﬁxed
at 2300 days emblematical, years common time. In the vison itself,
we ﬁnd rules as plain and full as any vision can contain as to when it
begun. The ram with two horns was ﬁrst seen; here the vision begun.
Those horns were high, and the ram could do according to his will.
To exclude all conjecture as to what kingdom this ram thus dis
tinguished typiﬁed, whether Babylon, or Persia, or Greece, or Rome,
we are expressly informed that the Medea and Persians alone were
intended. \Ve have given scriptural authority, shewing when this
kingdom was prophetically high. At the very time when all these
facts meet and harmonize, we see another important rule of prophecy
r'I
THE NEW CHRTSTIAN WORLD.
accomplished, an event noted in various scriptures, which vitally
affected the people of God, took place, which is no other than the very
commandment which the angel Gabriel places at the head of the same
vision, and adopts as the beginning of the 70 weeks also. Agreeably
to all the rules and facts of the case, Gabriel's additional instruction
under this second commission may be paraphrased as follows :—
“ Thou, Daniel, art already informed that a period of 2300 days
must pass over before the sanctuary shall be cleansed; but ‘ consider
the vision’ in which this period is given, and consider to what that
cleansing, and the whole vision applies; and ‘undersland the matter '
--understand that this period shall not all elapse before the events
take place concerning which thou hast ‘ set thy face unto the Lord
God, to seek by prayer and supplication, with fasting, and sackcloth,
and ashes,’ v. 3; the cleansing at the end of ‘the vision’ alludes to a
quite diﬁ'erent and far remote event. Thou knowest by the vision, that
the 2300 days will begin when the kingdom of the Medes and Per
sians is about its highest state, and now know and understand, that at
that same time shall go forth a commandment to restore and to build
Jerusalem, and under it thy city and sanctuary shall be restored, and
in 70 weeks Messiah the Prince shall come and seal up the vision and
prophecy, and anoint the most Holy. But then the vision will not be
terminated: the 2300 days will not then be accomplished ; a Prince
shall come which shall again destroy the city and sanctuary, and after
this, even to the time of the end of the 2300 days, ‘ wars and desola
lations are determined.’ ”
This gives the true import of the whole case, and is substan
tiated by all the facts and rules applicable, and clearly decides the
beginning of the 2300 days and the 70 weeks to be the same, and
with the same edict.
Now we must take up the question concerning more edicts than one
being given, and decide the matter as to which is here intended. In
all, four commandments went forth for the restoration of Jerusalem
after the Babylonish Captivity. Some have supposed it impossible to
tell with which of the four the vision begun; on this there exists no
difficulty whatever. The 70 weeks supply us with incontestible facts,
and prove irresistible on this subject.
These seventy weeks were to witness the accomplishment of the
following events :--“ Seventy weeks are determined upon thy peo
ple; and upon thy holy city, to ﬁnish the transgression and to make
an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring
in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy,
and to anoint the most holy," chap. ix. 24. That this conducts to the
death of Christ, there _can be no doubt; and that the period begun
78 THE NEW GHRISTIAN WORLD
with the going forth of the commandment, we are not permitted to
disbelieve. We have, then, the extreme points of the period determined.
That a year for a day must be computed here, we have before proved;
from which we derive a period of 490 years. To determine, there~
fore, upon sure grounds, which of the several edicts given stands at the
head of this important vision, we have only to compute from the year
33 A. 1)., the year in which our Saviour was cruciﬁed; and count 400
years backwards, which will conduct to the certain year in which the
70 weeks begun; and, according to the prophecy, in that year we shall
ﬁnd the one and only true commandment, which the angel intended to
stand at the head of the vision. '
The commandments were four in number; the ﬁrst was given by
Cyrus in the ﬁrst year of his reign, as recorded in Ezra, chap. i.; this
was in the year 526 B. C. This decree was reversed in the year 479
B. C., by an usurper called in history, Smerdis the Magian ,- but
called in Scripture, Artaxerxes; for the whole account see Ezra, chap.
4; from this the work ceased for the space of two years. \Vhen the
second decree went forth in the year 477 B. C., given by Darius, as
recorded Ezra chap. vi.; after this, the enemies of the Jews continued
to employ numerous and various means to interrupt, and entirely pre
vent, if possible, the restoration of Jerusalem. These means, how
ever, led to the going forth of the third commandment, which was the
most full and formal of all the rest; and this was given by Artaxerxes
Longemanus, in the year 457 B. C.—-Ezra, vii. Through the com
bination of various causes similar to those which led to the passing of
thelast edict, another was given by the same monarch to Nehemiah, in
the year 445 B. C.—Neh. ii. Those are all the edicts given for this
important purpose. Our business now is, to apply the rule of 490
years, from the year 33 A. D., to prove which of these four stands at
the head of the vision.
First given.. . . . . 526 13.0. Second given. . . . 47713.0. Last given,445 B C.
Add 33 AD. Add .. ..-.. .. .. 33A.D. Add...... . 33A.D.
559 510 478
For proof take otf 490
Years too many. . 69
This is not the decree
intended.
For proof take off 490
Years too many. . 20
This is not the decree
intended.
Prove this by the . . .490
Take off the above... 478
Years too little. . . . . . 12
This is not the command
ment intended.
By the foregoing proofs we shew, that it is impossible to ﬁx on any
of the three tests. as the one intended by the angel to stand at the
head of the vision; because not one of them agrees with the period
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
x_-._...-=-.t. .... ._.. __. ._ _- .._._.I
which is determined upon. But now let us prove the remaining one,
by the rule of the 490 years :—
Edict to Ezra. . .. 457 8.0.
Life of Christ... . 33
490
This decides at once the commandment intended, which stands at
the head of the vision, and with which the 2,300 years begun.
It will be necessary here to offer a few remarks on chronology; as
also, to present the reader with the table on which the above dates are
given. We shall not, however, cumber the reader with any variety of
the vast and complicated chronological tables given by the learned; the
principal portion of which can only bewilder the mind, and lead to er
roneous conclusions. Perhaps for the whole period from Adam to
Christ, there is not an absolutely correct table in existence; and per
haps such a one can never be obtained. Many cumbrous tables we
have taken the trouble to examine, with all the diﬁ'erent eras they con
tain, which it was found impossible to reconcile with Scripture, or to
rely upon some of them, even to within 100 years; and this is the fact
of the case with most of those popularly held to be the best in exis
tence. Taking the Scripture as the best guide in the world, we give.
the following table to speak for itself :—
SCRIPTURAL CHRONOLOGY FROM ADAM TO CHRIST.
Book. c. 0. Age. 4.14:. no.
Gen. v. 3, — And Adam lived 130 years, and began; a son,
and called his name Seth.. .. ... . .. .. .. ISO 130 4027
,, ,, . 6, —- And Seth lived 105 years, and begat Enos. 105 235 3922
,, ,, 9, —— And Enos lived 90 years, and begat Canaan 90 325 3832
,, ,, 12, ——- And Canaan lived 70 years, and begat Maha
laleel .. .. .. _. .. 70 395 3762
,, ,, 15, —And Mahalaleel lived 65 years, and hegat
Jared . 65 460 3697
,, ,, 18, - And Jared lived 162~years, at begs I‘lnohli 162 622 3535
,, ,, 21, ~ And Enoch lived 65 years, and begat Methu
selah .. .. . . . . . . 65 687 3470
,, ,, 25, — And Methusaleh lived 187 years, and begat
Lamech . 187 874 3283
,, ,, 28, -And Lamechlived isé years-and begamoih 182 1056 3101
,, VII. 6, — And Noah was 600 years old, when the ﬂood
of waters was upon the earth . . . . . . . . . .. 600 1656 2501
,, I3, 14, In the 6015t year of Noah's life, the earth
was dry 1 1657 2500
,, xi. 10, -- Shem begat Arphaxad, 2 years after the ﬂood 2 1659 2500
,, ,, l2, —- AndAr-phaxad lived35 years, and begat Salah 35 1694 2463
,, ,, 14, - And Salah lived 30 years, and beget Eher. . 30 1724 2433
,, ,, 16, —- And Eber lived 34 years, and begat Peleg.. 34 1758 2399
,, ,, 18, —‘ And Pele; lived 30 years, and begat Reu. . 30 1788 2369
80 run new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
1 a . -.n.._ a "a J‘Bi
Gen. xi. 20, -- And Reu lived 32 years, and begat Serug.. 32 1820 2337
,, ,, 22, — And Serug lived 30 years, and begat Nahor. . 30 1850 2307
,, ,, 22, — And Nahor lived 29 years, and begat
Terah .. .. .. .. .. 29 1879 2278
,, ,, 32, —- And the days of Terah were 205 years, and Te
rah diedin Haran.——Here the Exocle begun:
See Acts vii., 4. . . . . .. . . 205 2084 2073
Exod. 40, 41, Now the sojourning of the Children of Israel,
who dwelt in Egypt, was 430 years . . 430 2514 1643
Josh. v. 6, —- The Children of Israel walked 40 years in the
wilderness .. 40 2554 1603
Ex. 11, — With Joshua the Scriptural Chronology is in
terrupted; the best from history gives 45
years old, when he came out of Egypt; 85
when he entered Canaan ; 110 when he died.
This leaves 25 yearsLeader of the Children
of Israel, after Moses . . . . . 25 2579 1578
Elders and Anarchy, 18 years.—Jcsephus.. 18 2597 1560
Judgs. 8, -—- The Children of Israel served Chushan-risha
thaim, 8 years .. . . . . . .
,, ,, 11, —- The land had rest 40 years; and Othniel,the
son of Kenaz, died. . . . . . . .
,, ,, 14, -- So the Children of Israel served Eglon, the
King of Moab,18 years . . .. . . 18 2663 1494
,, ,, 30, —— And the land had rest fourscore year . . 80 2743 1414
,, iv. 3, — Jabin; and 20 years he mightily oppressed
the Children of Israel .. .. .. 20 2763 1394
,, v. 31, -- Under Barak the land had rest 40 years .. 40 2803 1354
,, vi. 1, — The Lord delivered Israel into the hands of
8 2605 1552
40 2645 1512
the Midians, seven years . . . . . . 7 2810 1347
,, 28, — And the country was in quietness 40 yeus,in
the days of Gideon .. . . . . 40 2850 1307
,, ix. 22, —- Abimelech reigned three years over Israel . . 3 2853 1304
,, x. 2, — And Tola judged Israel 23 years . . . . 23 2876 1281
,, ,, 3, -- And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite, an
judged Israel 22 years . . . . . .
,, x. 8, -— The Philistines and the Children of Ammon,
vexed Israel 18 years .. .. .. 18 2916 1241
,, xii. 7, -— And Jepbthah judged Israel s‘ut years .. 6 2922 1235
,, 8, 9, And after him Ibzan, of Bethlehem, judged
Israel seven years . . . . . . . .
,, ,, 11, —And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged
Israel 10 years . . . . . . . .
,, ,, l3, 14, And after him Abdon, the son of Ilillel, a
22 2898 1259
7 2929 1228
10 2939 1218
Pirathonite, judged Israel eight years . . 8 2947 1210
,, xiii. 14, -— Then the Lord delivered them into the ban
of the Philistines, 40 years . . . . 40 2987 1170
Saml. iv. 18, — Then Eli judged Israel 40 years . .
With Samuel the Chronology of Scripture is
again hroken.. . He judged Israe1* . . 20 3047 1110
Acts 21, — God then gave them Saul by the space of 40
years .. .. .. .. .. 40 3087 1070
ll. Sm]. v. 4, -- And after Saul David reigned 40 years . . 40 3127 1030
40 3027 1130
THE new cunrsrras WORLD. 81
l Kingsxi.42, — And the time that Solomon reigned in Jeru
salem, was 40 years . . . . . . 40 3167 990
II.Chn.xii.13, — After him Rehoboain reigned 17 years inJeru
salem .. .. .. .. 17 2184 973
I Kings xv. 2, -- Abijam reigned three years in Jerusalem . . 3 3187 970
,, ,, 10, — And after him reigned Asa, 41 years in Jeru
salem . . . . . . . . . .. 41 3228 929
,, ,, 22, 42, Jehosophat reigned 25 years in Jerusalem . . 25 3253 904
II Kgs.viii.17, — Jehoram reigned eight years in Jerusalem . . 8 3261 896
,, ,, 26, — After him reigned Ahaziah, one year in
Jerusalem . . i . . . . . . . 1 3262 895
,, xi. 3, 4, And Athaliah did reign over the land six years 6 3268 889
,, xii. 1, -— Jehoash reigned 40 years in Jerusalem . . 40 3308 849
,, xiv. 2, —- Amaziah reigned 29 years in Jerusalem . . 29 3337 820
The throne vacant from Amaziah to Azariah 12 3349 808
II Kgs. xv. 2, — Azariah reigned 52 years in Jerusalem . . 52 3401 756
,, ,, 33, — Jothamreigned 16 years in Jerusalem . . 16 3417 740
,, xvi. 2, -— Ahaz reigned 16 years in Jerusalem. . . . 16 3433 724
,, xviii. 2, -— Hezekiah next reigned 29 years in Jerusalem 29 3462 695
,, xxi. 1, — Mannasseh reigned 55 years in Jerusalem . . 55 3517 640
,, ,, 19, —- Ammon reigned two years in Jerusalem . . 2 3519 638
,, xxii. 1, —- Josiah reigned 31 years in Jerusalem . . 31 3550 607
,, xxiii. 31, —- Jehahaz reigned three months . . . . 0 0 0
,, ,. 36, — After him reigned Jehoiakim 11 years in Jeru
salem . . . . .. . . . . 11 3561 596
,, xxiv. 2to 16, Here the 70 years captivity begun, and ended
one year 0nyrus.-—I. Chron. xxxvi. 5, 6, 7 ;
Ezra i. 1—4. .. . . .. .. 70 3631 526
Rollin's, page 198,After the captivity Cyrus reigned over the
Medes and Persians . . . . . . 6 3637 520
,, ,, 211, Cambyses rlitto, ditto, ditto, 7 3644 513
,, ,, 290, Darius Hystaspes ditto, ditto, 36 3680 477
,, ,, 320, Xerxes ditto, ditto, ditto, 13 3693 464
Ezra vii. 10, -— Axtaxerxes Longemanus, ditto. Decree to
Ezra .. .. .. .. .. 7 3700 457
,, ,, To the birth of Christ . . . . . . 457 4157 0
,. ,, Add the year 1843 . . . . . 1843 6000 0
For the true period of the birth and death of Christ, see extracts from Fergu
son's Astronomy.
In this table the literal texts of Scripture, all the way through, are
quoted where deﬁnite periods are given. In the cases of Samuel and
Joshua, where the exact periods of their rule are not given, and in
whom the direct chronology of Scripture is broken, we have been
governed by other parts of Scripture which supply us with a rule that
is absolute.
By the express words of Scripture, as above quoted, and by the
undeniable facts of history, as given by Rollin, respecting the period
of the reigns of the different Medo-Persian kings; by these we estab
lish a. period, from Adam to the going forth of the commandment to
restore and build Jerusalem, of 3655 years, without allowing anything
82 Tm: NEW cnnlsTiAN worn!)
for the time that Joshua and Samuel judged Israel. This command
ment having been previously proved, by clear scriptural rules, to have
gone forth 457 years before Christ, and also in the 7th year of Atta
xerxes Longemanus, Ezra, vi., it follows that this date we cannot alter,
nor can we alter any of the other terms which are ﬁxed by the texts
quoted, or the historical facts given. As to the historical facts, we
have, for Xerxes, 13 years; Darius Hystaspes, 36 years; Cambyses,
7 years; and Cyrus 6 years; which, with the 7 years of Artaxerxes,
make 69 years. We have then, the 70 years captivity, and all the
other periods plainly expressed in Scripture, not one of which can we
prudently alter. All these periods, as before seen, added together.
give 3655 years from Adam to the going forth of the commandment,
without the period allowed for Joshua and Samuel, which are not
precisely expressed in Scripture. WVe have allowed for them, in the
above table, 45 years, which, when added to the above 3655, will make
3700; which, according to the texts quoted, and historical facts given,
was the 7th year of Artaxerxes Longimanus, when the above ample
commission was given to Ezra, and also the year 457 BC.
Here we have a conﬁrmation given to our table, amounting to some
thing like absolute proof. In some few periods, we have found ourselves
compelled to differ from the best tables we ever saw. We have so
differed with the most extreme caution, and after the best efforts to dis
cover the truth, and having given the texts of Scripture all through,
we leave them to speak for themselves.
we have before observed that an absolutely correct chronological
table does not. perhaps, exist, nor ever will. Our mode, as above
given, has been objected to on the ground that it leaves a possibility of
many years being lost in days, and weeks, and months, which in the
different ages computed, might be sunk on account of only the year
being given. Thus the objectors say Adam might have been 130
years, ll months, 3 weeks, and 5 days old, when he begat Seth, and in
like manner with all the rest, and if so, upwards of 50 years may be
lost by this mode of computation. But this being only a supposition
from ﬁrst to last, it follows that it can have no weight here. “"e
might adduce counter suppositions to nullify the force of this, but to
do so would be to enter into the boundless ﬁeld of speculation, a thing
which we have most sacredly bound ourselves to avoid. No conjec
tures in the world can tolerate the reading of 130 years and 1 month,
where only 130 years are given in Scripture.
But let it he distinctly understood that our conclusions respecting the
beginning or end of the 2300 years are not entirely suspended on this
chronological table, although we believe it the best in the world. The
sure foundation stone on which all our calculations are founded is the
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
death of Christ. This we make the grand central point from which
we start ; from this our separate lines are drawn, and from this we never
can be moved. From this indivisible point we throw one line back
wards over a period of 490 years; this uninterrupted period, marked
out by unerring prophecy, and conﬁrmed by unalterable facts, leads us
to the year 457 B.C., the only true origin of our 2300 years. Placing
ourselves again upon our grand central point, the death of Christ, we
cast another line over a period of 1810 years forward. The extreme
points of our two lines then extend from 490 years before the death of
Christ, to 1810 since, and exactly meet on the point of his death.
These two periods added together, stand thus :—
Before the death of Christ 490 years in the 70 weeks.
Since ditto.. .. .. .. .. .. 1810
Total.................. 2300
Here we have the whole period of the vision uninterrupted by either
births or deaths. Our objecting friends, as above, will ﬁnd no space
here for their barren speculations, their its and their buts respecting
their days, or weeks, or months, mm and above what the Scripture
lays down as a basis for the best chronological table in the world.
hey must stand amazed here, on ﬁnding their visionary ﬁelds of
speculation all sliding from beneath their feet, and “like the baseless
fabric of a vision, leaving not a wreck behind,"-—uot even a broken
plank to sustain one of the sinking crew. In the 70 weeks they
cannot ﬁnd a vacancy for a single day, and the whole undivided period
since that 70 weeks terminated, has been so completely occupied with
one day after another, and night after night, not a single summer or win
ter wanting, thatthe poor deluded objectors with 50 years surplus in vision
ary days, and weeks, and months, on hand, can ﬁnd no place to deposit
them. Their bubble will, however, soon burst, and they will be relieved.
Conscious of the death blow which the event of the death of Christ
gives to all wild speculations on chronological data, a mighty eﬂ'ort
has been made to disturb this foundation, but in vain.
There is, however, one rather singular objection made to all our
calculations founded on the supposed year of the death of Christ. It
has been urged that the true period of this event is disputed amongst
the learned. Very well, and what of that? Every part of the word
of God has been disputed among those who have passed as learned
men. There is no weight in this. It is granted that a dispute of
about 4 years as to the time of the birth of Christ has taken place,
and what is called the vulgar era of Christianity, which is generally
supposed to begin from the birth of Christ, has been ﬁxed at the end
of the 47l3th year of the Julian period: whereas, it is evident that
84 run new cums-run WORLD.
our Saviour was born 4 years earlier. But this makes no diEerence
to the beginning or end of the 2300 years, for we can neither count
these four years twice over, nor banish them from forming a part of
the whole term. Our calculations are founded on the Christian era as
it stands and not on a quite different position in which it might have
been handed down to us. If the beginning had been dated 4 years
earlier than it is, that is, in the 4709th year of the Julian period
instead of the 47l3th, then we should have dated the edict of Arts
xerxes at 453 before the beginning of that era, instead of 457, and
not one hour of difference would have been effected in the real time.
The same alteration of the beginning of the Christian era would, upon
the same principle, have altered our present and all our past dates.
Thus the year 1843 would have been 1847, leaving exactly the same
time between the going forth of the commandment given to Ezra, as is
proved to have existed under all our calculations founded on the date
of the Christian era as it stands, so that not a moment can be gained
or lost under the dispute upon the 4 years, be it ended as it might.
But all who object thus seem to be totally ignorant of the fact, that
the true period of the birth and death of Christ can be positivly deter
mined by astronomical calculations, which can leave no doubt on the
minds of the sincere.
“The vulgar era of Christ’s birth” (this means the time or year
which all our chronological tables give as the time when Christ was
born) was\never settled till the year A.D. 527 when Dionysius Exigus,
a Roman abbot, _, ﬁxed it at the end of the 4713th year of the Julian
period, which was four years too late. As proof,—-Our Saviour was
born before the death of Herod, who sought to kill him as soon as he
heard of his birth (Matt. ii. 16), and to secure his object he diligently
enquired of the wise men as to the time of the birth, and then ‘slew
all the children that were in Bethlehem from two years old and under.’
This establishes the fact that Christ was born sometime within two
years of this massacre which was before Herod's death. And according
to the testimony of Josephus (book xvii, c. 8.), there was an eclipse of
the moon in the time of Herod’s last illness; which eclipse appears, by
our astronomical tables, to have been in the year of the Julian period
4710, March 13th, at 3 hours past midnight, at Jerusalem. Now as
our Saviour must have been born some months before Herod's death,
since in the interval he was carried into Egypt, the latest time in which
we can ﬁx the true era of his birth, is about the end of the 4709th
year of the Julian period."-—Ferguson’s Astronomy.
But it has been supposed that our proof, as above, that our Saviour
was born 4 years earlier than the vulgar era of Christianity gives, will
prove fatal to our calculations on 1843, that it must prove that cruci
rns usw CHRISTIAN WORLD. 85
ﬁxion took place A.D. 29; the common era having commenced in the
fourth year after the birth of Christ, and he being 83 years of age at
the time of his death." Usher, Bagster, Clark, and many other emi
nent writers, in some parts of their writings sanction this error; and
the minds of many are unsettled on the subject. The great object of
this work is to make all plain, and remove every real obstacle out of
the way of the sincere.
It will be perceived at once that this objection is founded solely
upon the supposition that our Saviour died at the age of 33, but this
our objecting friends have left unproved. It is something extraordi
nary that any professing to understand the bible should be carried
away with wild chronological calculations into such an error as this.
Before our Lord entered upon his temptations in the wilderness, which
preceded his public ministry, even at the time of his baptism, it is said
“And Jesus began to be about thirty years of age," Luke iii. 23. In
the important prophecy of the 70 weeks, it was predicted that he
should “ coriﬁrm the covenant with manyfor one wee/c." This allows
seven years for his public ministry. But this would make him 37 at
his death; and it is certainly far more reasonable to conclude from the
following words, “then said the Jews unto him, thou art not yet ﬁfty
years old ; " this is far more likely to have been said to a man 37 than 29.
But, inde endently of all this, we have positive astronomical proofs,
that establish most clearly that our Saviour was cruciﬁed in the year
33 A.D., and not in the year 29.
Our Saturday is the Jewish Sabbath; and it is plain, from Mark
xv. 42, and Luke xxiii. 54, that Christ was cruciﬁed on a Frida ,
seeing the cruciﬁxion was on the day next before the Jewish Sabbath;
and, according to John xviii. 28, on the day that the passover was to
be eaten, at least by many of the Jews.
The Jews reckoned their months by the moon, and their years by
the apparent revolution of the sun; and they ate the passover on the
14th day of the month Nisan, which was the ﬁrst month of the year,
reckoning from the ﬁrst appearance of the new moon, which at that
llme of the year might be on the evening of the day next after the
change, if the sky was clear, so that their 14th day of the month
answers to our 15th day of the moon, on which she is full; conse
quently the passover was always kept on the day of full moon. And
the full moon at which it was kept, was that one which happened next
after the vernal equinox; for Josephus expressly says (Ant. b. iii. 10)
the passover was kept on the 14th day of the month Nisan, according
to the moon, when the sun was in Aries, and the sun always enters
Aries at the instant of the vernal equinox, which in our Saviour’s time
fell on the 22nd day of March.
86 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
The dispute among the chronologists about the year of Christ’s
death, is limited to four or ﬁve years at most: but as we have shewn
that he was cruciﬁed on the day of a pascal full moon and on a Friday,
all that we have to do in order to ascertain the year of his death, is
only to compute in which of those years there was a passover full
moon on a Friday; for the full moons anticipate eleven days every
year (twelve lunar months being so much short of a solar year), and,
therefore, once in every three years at least, the Jews were obliged to
set their passover a month farther forward, than it fell by the course of
the moon on the year next before, in order to keep it at the full moon
next after the equinox; therefore, there could not be two passovers on
the same day of the week, within the compass of a few neighbouring
years; and I ﬁnd by calculation, the only passover full moon that fell
on a Friday, for several years before or after the disputed year of the
cruciﬁxion, was on the third day of April in the 4,746th year of the
Julian period; which was the 490th year after Ezra received the above
mentioned commission from Artaxerxes Longemanus, according to
Ptolemy’s cancer; and the year in which the Messiah was to be cut
off, according to the prophecy, reckoning from the going forth of that
commission or commandment ; and this 490th year was the 33rd year
of our Saviour's age, reckoning from the vulgar era of his birth; but
the 37th reckoning from the true era thereof.
“The 4746th year of the Julian period, which we have astronomically
proved to be the year of the cruciﬁxion, was the fourth of the 202
Olympiad; in which year I’hlegon, a heathen writer, tells us there was
the most extraordinary eclipse of the sun that ever was seen ; but I ﬁnd
by calculation that there could be no total eclipse of the sun at Jeru
salem, in the natural way, that year; so that what Phlean calls an
eclipse of the sun seems to have been the great darkness for three
hours, at the time of our Saviour’s crucifixion, as mentioned by the
evangelists—a darkness altogether supernatural, as the moon was then
in the heavens opposite to the sun, and therefore could not possibly
darken the sun to any part of the earth.”—-Ferguson’s Astronomy.
These astronomical calculations add their full force to our former
conclusions; viz. Ist., that the year A.D. 33 is the true era of the
cruciﬁxion; End, this being the end of the 70 weeks, or 490 years, the
beginning thereof is incontestibly pinned down to the year 457 B.C.;
3rd, by this we know which of the commandments for the restoration
of Jerusalem stands at the head of our great vision.
From these astronomical tables, we also receive considerable conﬁr
mation to the leading data of our chronoligocal table. \Ve donut
present that table as free from difﬁculties; but we do present it as per
fect in all those data by which our present calculations are affected.
TH: an CHRISTIAN won». 87
This is proved so by the astronomical tables and facts 'ust given, which
place the true period of the death of Christ, on a fimndation which
can never be shaken; from this we compute backwards 490 years, for
the immutable 70 weeks; this term conducts us to the year 457 B. C.,
as the certain year when that commandment went forth, intended by the
angel in Daniel ix. Every chronological table which gives any other
year for that edict being passed, is incorrect; absolutely proved so by
the above astronomical facts, which determine on certain undeniable
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
Bur an important conjunction between Saturn and Jupiter, which occurred
January 26th, 1842, may be properly classiﬁed with these predicted signs of
organic changes in the world. A few extracts on this conjunction shall close
our evidences on this part of our subject.
" The world enters upon a new age. Mighty are the events ready to burst
forth from the womb of fate. For 200 years will men feel the eﬂects of this
great conjunction. Let us explain our text gradually, and as the twilight of
morning grows into broad brilliant day, so will the people, little by little, attain
to power, till at last the lordship of the land is vested in them. Might will go
hand in hand with right. God has ordained all things by number. weight, and
measure. Old things are passing away, and behold all things are becoming new.
" We must recollect that the effects of this great conjunction are liable to last
for the space of 200 years; therefore the various events foretold will be with
aslow and gradual progress. Struggles of a desperate and no ordinary character
will take place betwixt the people and their rulers, and, in the end, it appears
that the former shall gain power; and the latter, who have been in the habit of
hitherto controlling them, shall be reduced to their level. For royalty, feudal
rights, and kingly dominion, this ﬁgure is most ominous. And as we mcditate
onward on the ﬁgure, what else do we see but trouble and misfortune F We are
fearful to state our thoughts.
“ Pursuing our investigations we cannot help remarking the strange change
that will take place in those countries ruled by the sign in which the great
conjunction occurs, viz., Capricorn. We may say that this bears rule over the
whole of Greece; great part of Germany ; India entire; and even our own city of
Oxford will be amongst the ﬁrst to feel the eﬂ'ccts of this remarkable pheno
menon. It is not improbable that India will be separated from English sway,
and become a colony with its own government and laws.
“ We cannot help noticing nhilst studying this ﬁgure, that Taurus, the
ascendant of Russia and Ireland; also that Virgo, the ascendant of Jerusalem,
are in trine aspects to the great conjunction ; consequently, we infer, that Russia
shall become high and powerful amongst the countries of the earth; also,
that the long wandering Israelites will, under a modiﬁed religion, again inherit
the city of their forefathers. The tribes will re-esist and assemble themselves
under their respective rulers.
“In conclusion, we are glad to remark, that as good comes out of evil, so
from this conjunction shall be produced a lasting beneﬁt to mankind. Hitherto
society has been torn and divided by the factions of religious strife; but we
88 TH: new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
principles, the years of both the birth and death of our Lord. With
these our table corresponds; and therefore must so far be perfect.
discern written in the future, that after many wars, civil bloodshed, and
heart-rending cruelties, reason shall reassert her dominion, AND MEN WILL
WORSHIP GOD WITH ONE HEART, ONE MOUTH, AND ONE RELIGION.
AND DIFFERENCES OF FAITH SHALL NO LONGER BE KNOWN."—
Raphael’s Almanac, 1842.
The re-assembling of the Jews under their respective rulers in the city of
their forefathers, with other details in the above quotation, are at variance with
scriptural prediction, and must therefore be rejected. A correct interpretation
of “the voice of the stars,” carried out into detail, is utterly impossible, without
the aid of an extensive knowledge of the prophecies of scripture; and these
must constitute the basis of all our comments on the planetary system. For
want of this knowledge, the grossest errors are perpetually being committed
by all our expounders of planetary indications.
But this affects not the general principle now before us. This general prin
ciple is,—signs of organic changes in the world; signs of fearful disorganizations
in society; signs of the decline and fall of corrupt institutions, to be succeeded
by a new and better state of things; all of which can never be accomplished
without “ many wars, civil bloodshed, and heart-tending cruelties," in all
nations. Have we signs of these things? The above fully establishes the
afﬁrmative. “ The great conjunction " supersedes all doubt ;—the truth of the
Messiah’s prediction is conﬁrmed by facts, which man can no more control than
he can arrest the mighty orbs in their courses. Undeniable conﬁgurations, not
secreted for the inspection of a few, but open to the gaze of all mankind, proclaim
a hold, a loud, and long deﬁance to all the deluded sons of scepticism to deny
the existence of the signs predicted.
But some may say that similar conﬁgurations have existed before, and yet,
changes equal to those contended for in this work did not follow. True; neither
would they come now, if they had not been pre-determined hy Omnipotence and
predicted in the inspired volume. The peculiar conﬁguration of the planetary
system now, is not the great ﬁrst cause of the mighty changes soon to be eﬁ'ected
in the world. It is mercifully pointed out by our Lord, as a sign thereof, that
mankind might be warned and prepare for his coming. But had the revealed
will of lleaven been opposite to what it is, with a planetary conﬁguration such
as now exists, God could and would have completely overruled the whole system
to have ensured the accomplishment of all His designs.
But had this been the case, our Lord would not have directed our believing
attention to the signs which now exist. It is the conﬁrmation given to those
signs, by their adoption of such, in the inspired volume, which arms them with
all their potent inﬂuence, and seals them as certain indications of what may be
expected to take place. The omnipotent inspirer of the sacred volume, having
adopted the signs before us, as such, he can and will duly see to their accom
plishment.
Many additional quotations and authorities might have been given, attesting
the existence of signs of the above character “in the sun, and in the moon, and
in the stars." The above, however, shall sufﬁce. They may not be of the
character which some may require, but they are such as man cannot obliterate,
nor can their existence be denied. The miracles of Christ were not altogether
such signs as many of the Jews required. They were, notwithstanding, all with
which they were favoured.
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 89
Our way is now prepared for the ﬁrmest conclusions on the period of
2,300 years, in the important vision of the ram and he-goat. Every
datum and every proper rule of interpretation applicable to that vision,
we have properly explained, and we think ﬁrmly established. That
years for the days written must be understood, we have proved by the
facts of the vision allowing of no other interpretation; and also by the
important 70 weeks. The beginning of these 2300 years we have
proved by various rules, was in the year 457 BC. And now but lit—
tle remains to shew that the end must be in AD. 1843; these periods
added together, cannot be made into more or less than 2300 years. 1843,
beyond all doubt, will then terminate that period, at the end of which
God said, by the mouth of his prophet Daniel, “then shall the Sanc
tuary be cleansed." This decree having gone forth, this time having
been fixed, and this stupendous work having been determined upon by
Omnipotence, all the united poWers of earth and hell combined in oppo
sition, shall not prevent its full accomplishment. Thus is the sentence
of death passed upon all anti-christian systems and practices ; and it
will prove, in reality, what the Modes and Persians vainly boasted
their laws were,-this decree will prove itself unalterablc.
Having fully established every fact and datum, on which we build,
conﬁrming our conclusion on the termination of the 2300 years to be
in 1843, we are justiﬁed, yea, most forcibly urged thereby, in making
the strongest appeals to our Christian brethren in general, but to all
otlicial characters in articular.
To the latter, in all denominations, we address ourselves most faith
fully ;--you profess to be the guides of the people, the messengers of
God, and the expounders of His word ;--you are the watchmen of Zion,
and should be the lights of the world ;-~you knowthat the Lordwill come;
-—and you know that then sin must cease. But you read, also, that
“As the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man
be. For as in the days that were before the ﬂood they were eating and
drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah en
tered the ark, and knew not until the ﬂood came, and took them all
away; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be," Matt. xxiv.
37—39. In the corresponding texts in Mark xiii. 86, 37, all are em
phatically warned to watch, “lest coming suddenly he ﬁnd you sleep
ing;"-and in Luke, xxi. 35, you are assured respecting this, our Lord’s
coming, “That as a snare it shall come on all them that dwell on the
face of the whole' earth ;"—and with especial reference to the seventh
vial in which our Lord will come, He says, “ BeholdI come asa thief,"
Rev. xvi. 15.
s‘ ll these, and many more were written, with an exclusive bearing
upon the great subject concerning which this work treats; but all these
G
90 , THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
concentrate their full force to show, that when our Lord does come,
that mankind will be surprised, confounded, astonished, and stand
aghast, just like the man emerging from sound repose; and discovering,
almost before he is thoroughly awake, that the thief has invaded his
dwelling, has stripped his house, and not left him even wherewith to
cover his nakedness. That as the unconscious bird is covered in the
night by the net of the fowler, or as the hare becomes strangled through
unconsciously protruding its head through the snare, ingeniously con
cealed in its well known path,—~so will it be with mankind in general,
when the calamities of the seventh vial come ;—“For as a snare shall
it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth." They
will be buried in complete unconsciousness concerning it. And although
signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars, might strike their
attention ; distress of nations, with perplexity, might awakem them out
of their deadly repose, and shew them that some formidable calamity
was nigh; and their own hearts failing them for fear, might occasion
thousands to watch, lest being caught as in a snare the results prove
most fatal. But, nol None of these things move them; they per
ceive nothing absolutely new in the world, in all this. Consequently,
like the Antediluvians, they will be eating and drinking, marrying and
giving in marriage ; extending or trying to extend their commerce,
their ossessions, their powers, their dignity and pleasure, their hearts
burie in anxious cares, but not about the Lord’s near approach ;—
watching continually with breathless attention for thousands of events,
but never at all for what is really coming ;--strenuously labouring to
be prepared for peaceful moments according to their mistaken views,
but never entering into the glorious struggle, to welcome the Lord on
his second coming to make the kingdoms of this world his own. In
this condition, the above texts assure us the world will be, when the
second advent takes place.
That such is the condition of mankind now, is too palpable to be
denied: the doctrine that our Lord is at hand, that in 1843, the 2,300
years of the vision of the ram and lie-goat will terminate; and that
“ then shall the Sanctuary be cleansed” and all sinful systems and prac
tices perish, is denounced as visionary and dangerous,—“a trick (If/lie
devil and a bag of moonshine!" On this important subject “dark
ness covers the earth. and gross darkness the people." The numerous
sectarian parties which so much abound, are well nigh as uncon
cerned as the worldly on this subject. Truly, “ as a snare" does this
event seem coming on all them that dwell on the whole earth, To
the vast majority of the Christian part of our community may our Lord
say justly, “behold I come as a thief.” As it was in the days of Noah.
so it is feared it will be with them ; they know not now, nor do we see
'rmr. nzw cnnis'rrss WORLD. 91
the probability of more than a few who will know, until the tremendous
ﬂoods of the seventh vial come and sweep them all away.
Now you ministers of the Gospel,——ye leaders of the people,—ye
cxpounders of the word of God to the ignorant,-—how can you but
stand condemned, for our Lord to come and ﬁnd the Churches under
your care in such a condition as this?
Perhaps, in many instances, inattention through various pressing
engagements, has prevented you hitherto from entering into these mys
terious subjects; it is not your intention to throw obstacles in the way
of the general spread of the truth. Thus far you are right ;-—-at the
ewe time, your attention being constantly turned to other subjects,
and your Christian brethren being left without instruction on this,
and all other ministers, from various causes, pursuing the same course,
establishes the very state of things set forth in the above texts
That all the above texts represent such a state of things as acurse,
an evil, a calamity of the worst kind, cannot be denied. It is con
trasted with the state of the antediluvians at the time of the ﬂood,
which came and took them all away. Now however speciou in
theory the arguments might be, by which the leaders of the people then
justiﬁed the course they themselves pursued, and in which they led the
people, “the ﬂood tool: them all away.” This was a most tremendous
argument, unmixed with vain sophistry, that both leaders and people
had been wrong, however plausible their theories of self-defence had
previously been. This was a most awful proof that the ignorance of
the people respecting what was coming, established a state of things
the most calamitous, and led to the world’s destruction. This our Lord
gives as an awful representation of the state mankind will be in, at his
second coming. But this cannot be beheld, but as a. most shocking
state of things. Apply our Lord's comparison as we will, there is assu
redly something startling in it. If it be correct, mankind will be taken
in a fatal snare; something of which they will know nothing, and which
will ﬁnd them unprepared, will sweep them away as the ﬂood took awe.
the inhabitants of the old world, and the one same as the other, w'
ﬁnd themselves alike incapable of resistance.
But the best system practicable in all the world,--to perpetuate such
ignorance,—-to establish such a state of things,-to fulﬁl to the letter our
Lord’s prediction,—and to secure a repetition in some other form of the
wide-spreading calamities whichdeluged the old world,-—is to hold most
sacred and inviolate the soul and body destroying rule, by which the
ministry of many of our present leaders of the people is constantly
governed. The tremendously important mandate of Heaven has gone
forth; the eternal councils of Jehovah have been revealed, concerning
the fate of an unprepared world; and it has been said,-—“T/len"—
92 THE new cnnrs'rrm: woatn.
at the end of a ﬁxed period—“then shall the Sanctuary be cleansed.”
This “then” we have fully proved has become NOW. And yet our
pulpits are silent on the subject; our religious press interferes not with
such mysteries, except to denounce the feeble efforts ofa few to sound
the midnight cry. The above important “THEN,” is unimproved.
It may be now; it may be 100 years hence, or a thousand years to
come, for anything the masses of even Christians can tell. When that
“ THEN” comes, a vast majority of our fellow men may perish from
causes to be employed to effect the purposes predicted; and all this
may come upon this or the next generation, upon our children, or even
upon our own heads may all these calamities fall, for anything the
masses in the Church know. And the best plan in all the world to
keep them as they are, is for the pulpit and the press to keep silence
as they have ;—for our social meetings to exclude all such subjects;-
and for our thousands of leaders of the people to continue to expatiate
upon, to interpret, to illustrate, and to urge anything or every thing,
but these mysterious prophecies. Silent,-—silent,—silent as the grave
on these subjects, all our leaders of the peo le must remain. And then,’
“as it was in the days of Noah," so shall it be when the 2,300 years are
ended—“they knew not until the ﬂoad came, and took them all away.”
Tremble ye watchmen, at the idea of your Lord coming and ﬁnding
the world and the Church in such a condition as this, through your
ignorance, or indolence, or neglect. The world and many professing
Christians, might be in total unfitness for approaching events, what
ever was done to prevent it; but the watchman’s responsibility rests
with himself, and all his peace depends on the faithful discharge of
his own duties. This, as an important rule, is plainly laid down in
Ezekiel xxxiii. 2, 6:_-“ Son of Man, speak to the children of thy
people, and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if
the people of the land take a man of their coasts, and set him for their
watchman: if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the
trumpet, and the people be not warned; if the sword come, and take
any erson from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his
bloo will I require at the watchman’s hand.” How awful then, must
be the responsibility of the watchmen of those times to which our
Lord refers, when it will be even as in the days of Noah, when asword
will come upon the land and go through the world, carrying hundreds
and thousands. yea millions away in their iniquity, and all unwarned
that the sword is coming. When instead of the cry having gone forth,
“ Behold the bridegroom cometh ;" the generality of watchmen, are, as
described by another prophet,—“ His watchmen are blind: they are
all ignorant, they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark, sleeping, lying
down, loving to slumber: yea, greedy dogs which can never have
rue new CHRISTKAN WORLD. 98
en ough ; and they are shepherds that cannot understand, they all look
to their own way, every one for his gain, from his quarter. Come ye, say
they, I will fetch wine, and we will ﬁll ourselves with strong drink, and
to-morrow shall be as this day, and much more abundant," Isaiah lvi.
10—42.
These are the sort of watchmen to establish a similar state of things
by the end of the 2,300 years, that prevailed in the days of Noah;
but such a condition of society will be found most awful. It
will be found pregnant with every formidable ill, and the explosions
of rapidly accumulating evils will shatter all such corrupt societies to
atoms.
Let every leader of the people behold in this, as in a glass, the true
character and tendencies ofhis own exertions, if he has, like too many,
never yet begun to sound the midnight cry. The above state of
society is wrong, is bad, is dangerous, and will lead to wide-spread
destruction; but, if so the means by which it is perpetuated must be
bad also. A bad tree bringeth not forth good fruit, nor a corrupt
fountain send forth pure streams; as is the state of society, such must
be the cause or causes thereof; and, as we have above seen, that even
silence on the subject is amongst the most influential causes of such a
state of things, it follows that all such silence is wrong, is pernicious,
and will he succeeded by most fatal results. Look-a-head ye leaders of
the people, ye Protestants, Methodists, Baptists, Quakers, and leaders
of another parties, see ye not the sand just running out its last grains;
we have now arrived at the sixth month of the last prophetic year in
the 2,300, and you have never yet sounded the alarm; the storm is
gathering thick around you, and neither you nor your hearers are aware
of itsvcharacter. You are most vitally concerned in coming events, and
yet alike ignorant and careless as to their near approach.
Ah, but there is a cause for this. You, many of you, believe
nothing whatever respecting the doctrine here defended. \Vith you,
as with the like characters of old, it is “ To-morrow shall be as this
day, and much more abundant ;” and we know that the leaders of the
people in the days of Noah knew not, until the flood came and took
them all away.
However, we must follow a high precedent, and say, “ Come ye and
let us reason together.” Surely you cannot refuse this; surely you are
not so far elevated above the common level of society, and so absorbed
in superior contemplation, but you can reason on the subject for the
information of the less informed than yourselves. In this little work
we have brought in our conclusion concerning 1843, supported by
certain evidences applicable to the one prophetic period made the
subject of investigation. According to those evidences, the 2,300
94 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
days examined, are emblematical of years: that this period begun in
the year 457 B.C.: that it must therefore terminate in 1843, and
that “then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.”
You have the evidences now before you by which these principles
are established. Other prophecies establish the same conclusion, into
which we shall soon enter; but unless you can show that thus far our
attempt has proVed a total failure, your case cannot be improVed by
what will follow. Come forward then, at once, and show by substan
tial evidence that our conclusion is wrong. Tell us not that you do
not believe in anything of the kind; this we know; and we must add,
that your believing or not believing it amounts to just nothing with us.
Your opinions are not matters of faith to us: you must bring substan
tial proof—nothing but this will stand the tremendous shock which all
systems and theories must soon be subjected to; consequently, on
nothing but this dare we rely; nor are we willing that you should.
Deceive not your own souls ye preachers of the Gospel. Either the
above doctrine concerning 1843 is true or it is not ; if it be true, many
of you will soon be weighed in the balance and found wanting, for not
having sounded the midnight cry; and if you know that it is not true,
you will be the men we have been long in search of to instruct us; if
you will only now come boldly forward and favour us with your clear
proofs that we are wrong. If you know that our conclusions are not
well sustained, you see and know why, and in what part our error lies.
We solemnly call upon you to come forward with your proof.
We want neither to print nor preach anything but the pure truths
of the word of God; and to this intent we call upon the leaders of the
people, of all denominations of Christians, to correct us in respect to
our important conclusions, if they know we are wrong; only they
must not think to inﬂuence our judgment by their unsupported, un
charitable assertions that we are only under Satanic inﬂuence, carried
away with wild delusions ; that all our exertions to establish our
doctrines “ is all a trio]: of the devil, and a bag ofmoons/iine." 0
no, ye strange ministers of the truth of God (by profession), you cannot
convince us that our conclusions are wrong by such means as these,
and we challenge you, who have been guilty of such inconsistencies,
to come before the public and prove our conclusions wrong if you can.
And if you do not, we shall infer that this is solely from a convic
tion of your own utter incompetence to the task ; that you charge us
without knowledge, and believe yourselves without proper grounds ;
that your minds are clouded with errors which you have never taken
due pains to eradicate; and that because you are ignorant of the true
nature and irresistible force of those evidences, are the grounds on which
we judge that you unwarrantably conclude that we are also.
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 95
We know that many would gladly overthrow all our propositions if
they could. The spirit they manifest, and the misrepresentation they
industriously circulate, fully convince us of this fact. It may be
proper here to apprise such that all their efforts have hitherto greatly
strengthened our cause, and increased that conﬁdence which they hoped
to destroy. They have proved a disposition to refute and overturn,
but they have never ventured to meet us fairly on scriptural grounds.
Why is this: had they never inquired into the matter at all, and had
they never manifested any disposition and desire to shake our argu
ments, we could only have beheld them as unconcerned observers of
passing events. But this is not their case, and our inference therefore
is, that we still stand forward because they ﬁnd themselves unable to
set us aside, and this affords us additional proof that our arguments
are irrefutable, and our conclusions ﬁrm.
Some of our Millenarian brethren carry out the principle of a literal
interpretation of the prophetic part of Scripture, far beyond all bounds.
To them we must appeal respecting our conclusions concerning the
events of 1843 ; they absolutely must set those conclusions aside, and
prove them without scriptural foundation, or a whole host of their
literal interpretation of various parts of prophecy, must irrevocably
fall before them. If the 2,300 days mean years,—-if those years end
with 1843, our friends will be convinced, that many events which they
have been led to exPect before our Lerd comes, are as impossible as
for them to take place in Heaven itself. That this view might be
ﬁrst taken, and our conclusion be ﬁrst well established, is the rea
son why we have not enlarged more than we have in our notices to
correspondents.
ON OUR SECOND PROPHETIC PERIOD,
ENDING WITH THE YEAR, 1843,
DATING THAT YEAR TO BEGIN WITH THE- MONTH NISAN.
BY the foregoing evidences we have established, according to our
sincere convictions, our conclusions concerning the beginning and the
end of the 2300 years examined; and we think, have made the case
quite evident, that beyond the year A. D. 1843, that period canth by
possibility extend; and that prophecy alone, had we no other, ought to
be held of sufﬁcient authority to establish the time when the Sanctuary
shall be cleansed, and every Anti-christian system be overthrown, and
our Lord come a Second time without sin unto salvation. Notwith
standing, seeing that God has favoured us with a revelation of other
periods, conﬁrmatory of the former, and calculated, as they were assu
redly intended, to throw more light on to this important subject, it is
proper that we should examine them, and highly important that they
should be well understood.
The times and periods which shall form the principal subjects of our
inquiries here, are found in Dan. xii., and are thus givenz—“And one
said to the man clothed in linen, how long shall it be to the end of
these wonders? And I heard the man clothed in linen, which was
non the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and
his left hand unto heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever, that
it shall be for a time, times and a half; and when he shall have ac
complished to scatter the power of the holy people, and all these
things shall be ﬁnished. And I heard, but I understood not: then
said I, O my Lord, what shall be the end of these things? And he
said, Go thy way Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed till
the time of the end. And from the time that the daily sacriﬁce
shall be taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set
up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days. Blessed
is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and
ﬁve. and thirty days." Here we have three periods given, to mark
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
out three notable events:
days; 3rd, 1335 days.
The first must be understood, as follows :—Time, one year; times,
two years; halfa time, half a year. All added together give three and
a half years; these years must then be divided into days, 360 days in
a year, which was the established mode of computation amongst the
Jews ; these days will amount to 1260, in the three and a half years.
But some will require scriptural authority for such an exposition; to
them it may appear as perfectly arbitrary to say that a “time” is the
true emblem of a year, as to suppoae it emblematical of seven years, or
any intermediate number of years, even up to a thousand; and without
some scriptural warrant, that one supposition ought to be rejected, just
the same as another. True: would to God that men in general would car
ry out the principle of this objection fully; if they would we should have
less unfounded theories in the world than we have. Let us, however,
endeavour to obtain substantial ground to build upon as we proceed.
There are certain rules to be observed by all propounders of prophecy;
which, if violated, all said in defence of a theory ought to be rejected.
One of ﬁrst rate importance applies especially to the case in hand;
that is, that wherever one train of events be made subject of more than
one prophetic description, which is a very common case, all the de
scriptions must be interpreted so as not to place one in opposition to
another, thus making the spirit of prophecy contradict itself. The
decisive importance of this rule, will be seen and acknowledged by
by every candid reader at once. It will by and by appear, that the
great subject of the time, times and a half before us, was the subject
of several prophecies both in the (lld and New Testaments, from some
of which a selection may be made of periods given, fully decisive in jus
ﬁcation of the mode of interpretation here given of time, times and a half.
it will very soon be proved that this period alludes to the reign of
Antichrist, which reign is the subject of a somewhat varied represen
tation, in the following texts :—“ But the court which is without the
temple leave out, and measure it not, for it is given unto the Gentiles,
and the Holy City shall they tread under foot forty and two months.
And I will give power unto my two witnesses and they shall prophecy
a. thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth,"
Rev. xi. 2, 3. Both these terms of prophecy mean the same as the
time, times and a half. In 42 months are 1260 days, taking 30 days
for each month, which is the established rule of interpretation of these
prophecies; and in all three cases, the reign of Antichrist is the only
subject intended. Therefore, by these the correct interpretation of
the time, times and a half, is determined by inspiration, and proved to
be that above given.
lst, Time, times and a half; 2nd, l290
98 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
—'<_J=_-__4_-_____H
The next point to be established is that these days are emblematical,
each day representing a year of common time. Having fully esta
blished this as a rule, in the evidence adduced on the 2,300 days,
nothing need be added here beyond areference to all the historical facts,
by and by to be produced, from which it will appear that all these
prophetic periods which have run out. received their accomplishment
upon the rule of a year for a day, and not upon the principle of a
literal interpretation of a day for a day common time. Upon the
combined authority then, of scripture, and all the historical facts of
the case, we give the three prophetic periods above, thus—l,260,
1,290, and 1,335 years.
This must be kept in view, that they must not be taken as consti—
tuting one straightforward successive line, extending through the entire
length of the three periods. An interpretation of this nature is not
only unsupported by the plain reading of the texts, but, Contradicted
by all the facts of the case, and in opposition to all other prephecies,
where the same train of events is predicted. Substantial reasons for
the variations of the three periods will hereafter be given, but it will
be shewn that all three are, so far as each extends, going on together,
and in this respect but one.
With these introductory remarks let us now endeavour to identify
the three notable events to which the three periods belong, and to each
event give its legitimate period, that all may harmonize together. The
one is taking away what is called “ the daily sacriﬁce,- " another the
setting up “the abomination that maltet/t desolate,- " and the last is
the beginning of a new era in our world, emphatically set forth by
pronouncing that man “ blessed" who waitcth for it and cometh to it.
“ The abomination that maketh desolate I " What is this? Clearly
to identify this, in the ﬁrst place, will greatly assist us in coming to
correct conclusions on all the other parts of the prophecy.
This abomination is the subject of so many prophetic descriptions.
that if they be only candidly investigated, little doubt can remain with
the sincere as to the real identical antitype of all the descriptions
given. The ﬁrst we will notice is as follows: “ And the king shall do
according to his will, and he shall exalt himself, and magnify himself
above every God ; and shall speak marvellous things against the God
of gods, and shall prosper till the indignation be accomplished, for
that that is determined shall be done. Neither shall he regard the
God of his fathers, nor the desire of women, not regard any god, for
he shall magnify himself above all,” Dan. xi. 36, 37. Let this bt
carefully contrasted with St. Paul’s description of his “ man of sin,“_~
by this means to make one part of scripture explanatory of another,
and more distinctly impress upon the mind the perfect image of the
Tﬂl new enarsrrnn WORLD. 99
real object of search. St. Paul says, “Let no man deceive you by
any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling
away ﬁrst, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition, who
opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is
worshipped, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing
himself that he is God." Thes. ii. 3, 4. This language is too plain
to leave much doubt as to its being one and the same power in the
two descriptions, and similar impressions must follow the reading of
the next: “Thus, he said, the fourth beast shall be the fourth king
dom upon earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall
devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in
pieces." This is typical of the Roman empire, before its division
into ten kingdoms, and prior to the rising up of that power which will
soon appear as the true abomination that maketh desolate, as set forth
in the remaining part of the pr0phetic description, thus: “ And the
ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall arise; and
another shall arise after them, and he shall be diverse from the first,
and he shall subdue three kings. And he shall speak great words
against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most
High, and think to change times and laws, and they shall be given
into his hand until a time, times, and the dividing of time," Dan. vii.
23—25. Turn we now to the Book of Revelations, and additional
evidence will be obtained to aid us in identifying that power emphati
cally called the abomination that maketh desolate: “ And I stood upon
the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having
seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon
his heads the name of blasphemy. And there was given unto him a
mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given
unto him to continue forty and two months. And he opened his
mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme His name and His
tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. And it was given him to
make war with the saints, and power was given him over all kindred
and tongues and nations. And I beheld another beast coming up out
of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a
dragon. And he exerciseth all the powers of the ﬁrst beast before
him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship
the ﬁrst beast, whose deadly wound was healed. And he caused all,
both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark
in their right hand, or in their foreheads: and that no man might buy
or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the
number of his name,” Rev. xiii. For further illustration of this beast
read the following: “ So he carried me away in the spirit into the
wilderness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full
100 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. And the
woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold
and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full
of abominations and ﬁlthiness of her fornication; and upon her fore
head was a name written MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT,
THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF
THE EARTH," Rev. xvii. 3—5. Here God himself identiﬁes
the true abomination that mulceth desolate, Here he points out the
great abomination, and the “ MOTHER OF ABOMINATIONS,”
and a mother ofabomz'nations “having a golden cup in her hand full
of abominations,” and a mother of abominations which also made
desolate, for she is described by the angel as in the worst sense pol
luting the public mind, thus “ \Vith whom the kings of the earth have
committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made
drunk with the wine of her fornication ;" and that this “abomination
maketh desolate ” cannot be more strongly expressed than in the
following text, “ And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of
saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus, and when Isaw
her I wondered with great amazement," Rev. xvii. 2, 7. Here we
behold her making all nations drunk, spiritually and mentally intoxi
cated with the wine of her fornication, and herself wallowing in her
drunkenness, with the blood of the saints she caused to be martyred.
And so horrifying was the nature and accumulated mass of her
abominations, that St. John wondered, he rnarvelled, and was greatly
astonished. Many abominations have existed in the world, but this is
emphatically called “ THE GREAT." Many abominations seek
obscurity, but this woman had her's written “ upon her ﬁrehead"-—she
gloried in her shame.
N0 man can read all the above descriptions without being convinced
that all refer to, concentrate in, and are descriptive of, one great extra
ordinary power that should arise in the world. The different traits
given are so strong, so peculiar, and yet so similar in each, that but
one character can be identiﬁed. In all alike we see—First, a display
of unbounded pride and presumption ; it magniﬁed itself, exalted itself
even above all gods, changing times and laws, alike of both God and
men, at its pleasure; and, secondly, this “in the temple of God,” the
nominal Christian church in which its will is absolute, its mandates
respected, its power dreaded, and itself venerated before all and above
all that is called God, or that is worshipped; thus it is said it should
govern the Church, dispose at its pleasure of the bodies and estates of
Christians, and make the world believe it also held at its control the
future and eternal destinies of souls; for it is represented in the third
place as becoming so great as to exercise this power “over all kindred
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. l‘ll
'w__-x12~ a,“ r...>=..‘_-rx..i_. . ._'4_>‘i;n .
and tongues and nations.” And fonrthly, its continuance, considering
its character, is as wonderful as any of its other distinguishing peculi
liarities; for its usurpations, it is predicted, should continue 1260 years;
this being the true period intended in the time, times, and the dividing
of time; and the forty and two months, both of which we ﬁnd in the de
scriptions quoted. But, lastly, that which above all overwhelmed the
pious mind of the Apostle with sorrow and amazement, was, when he
saw this power, presented under the emblem of a woman “drunken
with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the Martyrs of
Jesus."
Now that power, the subject of all these prophetic descriptions,-—in
which all these distinguishing traits of character concentrate,—is the true
abomination that maketh desolate, of which Daniel speaks as being “set
up:” and there is certainly, a great deal less of difﬁculty in ascertaining
clearly in our day, to what power all these descriptions apply, than
most people seem to apprehend. The descriptions are not of so very
ordinary, common place character, as to be easily mistaken, especially
after any one power has ﬁgured in the world; to which all, without vio
lence, may be applied.‘ We have the history of all nations and ages
before us, in which we can read of what has been, as well as of what now
is. There never has existed any vast numbers of powers, like the one
described; and particularly, within the period to which we are limited in,
our search for this.
Thus far our path s'eems prepared, for an easy and speedy conclu
sion, on what we are to understand by that great abomination we have
undertaken [to indentify. And such a conclusion might have been
thus obtained, had no formidable barriers been thrown in our way, by
those who have before undertaken to make these important subjects
plain to the comprehensions of all; but who, instead of which, have
encumbered the question with a thousand difﬁculties, and rendered the
whole almost unintelligible to themselves, and all others conversant
with their views. \Ve shall enter into their speculations as little as
possible ;-yet to leave them unnoticed, would be a defect in our work;
—would leave our conclusions liable to what many might consider,
plausible objections, through which our inﬂuence on the minds of many
might be reduced.
Amongst these, the prophetic description of the “little horn,” shall
be the ﬁrst considered.
ON THE LITTLE HORN,
DANIEL vii. B, 20, 25.
THIS, like all the great subjects of prophecy, has given rise to a
great variety of opinions, and much has been written in defence of the
favourite theories of the differing parties. That this work may give a
satisfactory view of the whole subjects on which it treats, it will be
necessary to take a brief consideration of the leading theories, which
seem to carry with them the most plausible shew of argument in their
support. The most modern theory, is that which supposes that this
part of prophecy is yet unfulﬁlled; that the “little born" has never
yet come into existence. That by this “little horn" we are to under
stand the same great persecuting power, distinguished by St. Paul by
“the man of sin, the son of perdition ;"-by Ezekiel “the great Gog,
or wilful king ;"—and by St. John, “ as the great beast which should
arise, and dreadfully aﬁlict the Church for three and a half years, or
1260 days."
The principal arguments by which this theory is supported, are the
plain literal reading of the prophetic description; according to which,
it is maintained that no such power can be proved from history ever to
have existed : but that according to prophecy, it is impossible but that
it must come: and also, that it must immediately precede our Lord’s
second advent. All this, the advocates of this theory tell us, is quite
plain from the prophetic description, which states that as soon as this
“little horn has done speaking his great words against the Most High,
and wearing out the saints of the Most High, for the time, times, and
the dividing of time, that then shall the judgment sit" (as described in
the 9th to the 14th ver. of chap. vii.), “and they shall take away his do
minion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end: and that then the
kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the
whole heaven, shall he given to the people of the saints of the Most
High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions
shall serve and obey Him,” Dan. vii. 25—27. From this it is inferred
_that the events are immediately successive, and are to be understood ac
cording to the literal meaning of the texts.
This theory has no other support but that of a literal interpretation
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
of the texts—If the passages should prove to be ﬁgurative, this whole
system fails to the ground at once.
From the general scale and scheme of Daniel’s visions, and this in
particular, we perceive nothing peculiarly striking in support of this
literal intepretation; but rather against it- The great design of this vi—
sion seems to be, to set forth the great power which should under God,
in a great measure form the manners and control the destinies of the
leading greatest states or empires, which should rise up in the world
prior to the universal reign of the Messiah: occupying a period from
the time the prophecy was given, of upwards of 2300 years. Amongst
others of these great powers, the “little horn" stands as a principal
hero ;—he occupies a greater proportion of the prophetic description,
than any other of the earthly powers introduced ;—he rises up amongst
ten other povversttypiﬁed by the same emblem, namely, that of a horn.
But of the other ten, comparatively, extremely little notice is taken in
the prophetic description ;——tliey are evidently set forth as subjects of
minor importance ;—this “little horn“ is the all-absorbing sub'ect; it
far outshines the other in the greatness and daring of its dee 8. To
make way for this, “three of the ﬁrst horns were plucked up by the
roots." As an extraordinary qualiﬁcation for acting a far superior part
to the other horns, this is endowed with attributes of the ﬁrst order in
man, which have no place in the prophetic description of the other
horns ;—this is said to have “eyes the the eyes ofa man ;"—and this
stands as an important distinction, between this and the other horns.
In the prophetic description the others were blind, this could see ;—the
others are not said to have eyes at all—the eyes of this are twice named,
and named with the mark of admiration and astonishment attached.
Hence in the 8th verse it is said,—-“And behold in this horn were eyes
like the eyes of a man." This “behold,” when thus employed, is to
call especial attention to something extraordinarily great or grand on the
subject. The same eyes are again noticed as a distinguishing qualiﬁ
cation of this horn, verse 20th. Upon the amazing superiority of a
prophetic horn with eyes, over others which are without, we need not
enlarge here. '
But this horn has, also,—“A mouth spec/ring great things.” No
attribute of this nature is included in the prophetic description of the
other horns ; and if this horn could both see and speak, whilst the others
were blind and dumb, its vast superiority cannot fail to strike with irre
sistible force the mind of every candid prophetic student.
Another important distinction of this horn is, that his “look was
more stout than his fellows," v. 20. Here the description is given in
terms, which give the strongest conﬁrmation to our former remarks.
Respecting the former attributes, all the ten horns were left destitute ;—
104 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
neither eyes nor mouth, nor of course seeing or speaking, is ever attri
buted to them. Respecting their structure and their power, it is not
said the little horn alone was stout, but more stout than the rest: in
this we perceive the beauty and ﬁtness of the whole description. Ina
proper and qualiﬁed sense, the other horns might exist without eyes or
month, which attributes the “little horn” possessed; but they could
not exist as horns at all, without some stoutness or strength, or power,
as possessed in common with the “little horn." Under the strictest
government of this rule, they are all presented to us on one common
ground in this respect, with this marked distinction as to superiority,
that the “little horn's” look was “more stout than his_ﬁllows.”—A
distinction which at one seals the correctness of all our former remarks.
The most important distinction between these horns, is thus given :—
“I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed
against them," v. 21. Ofall the eleven horns upon the head of the great
fourth beast, this “little horn” is the only one said to make war with
the saints. Every part of the prophetic description, is of equal impor
tance as being a part of Divine Revelation, and every part must apply
to whatever may be adopted as the true prototypes of the prophecy.
Yet this, we think, may prove of greater importance than some of the
others, as a means of instruction to the true import of the prophecy. on
account of its setting forth and applying to a subject with which our
readers may be more familiar.
This war is particularly distinguished from those sanguinary con
ﬂicts by which empires are overthrown, and kingdoms change their
rulers; it is a war “with the saints”—-with those whose kingdom is
not of this world ——who are ﬁghting the battles of the Lord with other
weapons than those by which nations are torn from their former pos
Sessors; and it is distinctly noted that the “little Izorn,n and not the
saints, made or originated this war. The saints are not said to make
war with the horn, but that the horn made war with the saints. By
all this we can understand nothing but a violent and destructive perse
cution carried out, by some strong and diabolical power against the
people of God, in that age to which this prophecy applies.
It is also clearly pointed out, which of the eleven horns it was that
made this war upon the saints. Not any of the ten ﬁrst horns, can be
charged with this unprovoked war. Three of them were plucked up
by the roots, apparently in the early part of their existence, to make
way for the “little horn ;" consequently, they had no part in the war
here set forth : and although the other seven remained for a time
to exist, yet they are exempted by the plain wording ofthe description,
from the charge of being, either collectively or individually, the base
originators of this war. No.—-lt was not the ten horns, nor any one of
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 105
them, which carried out the bloody persecution before us ; for it is ex
pressly said, “I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints
and prevailed against them. The “same horn ,-"—this same horn as
will be perceived, too clearly to admit of mistake, by reading the 20th
and 21st verses, was “that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that
spake very great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows.”
It was this, “the same horn,” and not any of the other tcn horns,
which Daniel beheld, made war with the saints. Now whatever we
may hereafter perceive to be the true anti-types of the ten homs in this
vision, or whatever may be truly repreSented by the “little lzorn," this
is quite unmistakeable,-that it was not the ten horns, either collec
tively or individually, that made war upon the saints as set forth in this
vision, but the “little horn," and no other, emphatically declared to
be so, by the plain distinctive word “ THE SAME HORN.” For any
king or kingdom, or power, to be more plainly separated and set apart
for a speciﬁc purpose, from others with which it might have been in
other respects associated, is impossible in any prophetic description.
But this same horn was “to wear out the saints oft/Le [West High,"
v. 25. This gives additional conﬁrmation to what has preceded, that
the true followers of God are to be understood as the saints against
whom the war was made; they are here called the saints of the Most
High, and this same horn was to wear them out. This gives theidea of
long continued persecution: “and he shall think to change times and
laws, and they shall be given into his hands for a time, and times, and
the dividing of time." Upon this we shall enlarge hereafter.
Only two other distinguishing marks of this “little horn,” shall now
be noticed, by way of his introduction. From the 8th verse, it is evi
dent that this “little horn" originated among the ten horns upon the
head of the fourth great beast. This fourth beast, as proved at length
in a former part of this work (see page 34 to 42), is emblematical of
the Roman Empire, in both its Pagan and Papal state. With respect
to these ten horns, the angel informed Daniel expressly, that they were
emblematical of ten kings or kingdoms which should arise in this
Roman kingdom; and it was amongst theSe that the “little horn” be
fore us should have its origin, its rise, and its increase. Therefore there
can exist no true prototype of this “little horn," which did not thus
come up amongst the ten horns, as above explained. Many persecu‘
ting powers have existed in the world, of different degrees of wickedness,
ferocity, and power. None of them, however, can be admitted as the true
antitype of this “ little horn,” which did not originate amongst the
ten kingdoms of the Roman empire, typiﬁed by the above ten horns.
This horn, originating among the ten, as a matter of course, came
up after them. Thus is the whole case stated, in the interpretation
1!
106 rue new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
which Daniel received, thus :—“And the ten horns out of this kingdom
are ten kings that shall arise, and another shall rise ajler them ,- and
he shall be diverse from the ﬁrst, and he shall subdue three kings," v.
24. By this we perceive the exact position of atl'airs, when this “lit
tle from” comes forth amongst the ten kings, after they have become
established; and to make way for this to increase, three of the ﬁrst are
to be plucked n by the roots.
Every one o the foregoing marks of the “little 710m," are in the
strictest accordance with the prophetic description. We now call upon
our friends, who say that this power has yet to come into existence, to
show the possibility of all these marks being found upon him when he
comes. We contend, with regard to some of them, that the present
condition of that part of the world, where the grand signs of the vision
are laid, render such an event impossible. That the Roman Empire
was the true prototype of the fourth beast, upon Whose head the ten
'horns and the “little horn” were seen, we will take as an already de
cided case ; and that those ten horns were emblematical of ten indepen
dent kingdoms, composed out of that empire is certain, from the angel's
interpretation of them as before given. Now this “little horn" was to
come up amongst them. But where are they now, for this horn to
originate in? In addition to this, before this “little horn," three of
the ﬁrst were to be plucked up by the roots. It does not say three of
the last, but three of theﬁrsf. Even if we. allow to this the most ex
tensive latitude of meaning, it cannot be extended beyond the ﬁrst trn.
These ﬁrst ten Independent States in the Roman Empire, arose in the
following order :—
lst, the Iluns in Hungary, established .. .. .. A. D. 358
2nd, the Ostrogoths, in Mysia . . . . . . . . — 377
3rd, the Visgoths, in Pannonia . . . . . . . . 378
4th, the Franks, in France . . . . . . . . . . —
5th, the Vandals, in Africa . . . . . . . . . . -
6th, the Suevcs and Alans, in Gascoigne and Spain . . —- 407
7th, the Burgundians, in Burgundy. . . . . . —
8th, the lleruli and Rngii, or Thuringi, in Italy —
9th, the Saxons and Angles, in Britain . . . . -—
10th, the Lomhai'ds, in Germany . . . . . . . . —- 483
These were the ﬁrst ten; but for any three of these to be plucked
up now,'by any power rising out of them answering to the “liltle horn,"
is impossible. The same ten ﬁrst horns, through the ﬂuctuations of
kingdoms in the ravages of war, have long since ceased in their original
condition, name and combination.
This “little horn" was to be the only one of the eleven that should
make war with the saints and wear them out for the time appointed.
With regard to this distinguishing mark of the “liftle born,” we pre
THE NEW cams'rmu woaan. 10”
some our friends, who through their literal interpretations are carried far
beyond all justifiable bounds, maintain that the power here intended
has yet to come, will find themselves ushered into a wide waste-howling
wilderness, where nothingr but dilliculties, inconsistencies, contradic
tions, and impossibilities surround them.
In all, in this important vision, we have eleven horns placed before
us, cmblematical of eleven leading prominent powers,—race of kings,
or kingdoms, in the Roman Empire. Of these most prominent powers,
One, and one only, should make war with the saints. If this one has
yet to come, then of course it has never yet come. But how does such
a theory correspond with the facts of the case? \Ve have often re
gretted to find that our brethren, so enamoured with a literal interpreta
tion of the prophecies, will interpret nothing mysterious by palpable
facts, except those facts precisely meet their view of the literal reading
of the text. However, they must enter into this, and show that this
one power has never yet come up in the Roman Empire, or their sys
tem sinks without redemption to rise no more for ever.
We write under no impulse to raise difﬁculties against the truth; we
wish for no triumph, but that of truth; we gladly hail every impulse
which the truth receives; and we would willingly embrace the new
theory of the literal interpretation of all the prophecies, could we by
any means perceive it according to the truth. But we dare not close
our eyes to all the most momentous facts of ages; nor must we reject
the application of prophecies to those facts, when no plain possibility
can be discovered of any others being the true prototypes.
In the case in hand, it is palpany in opposition to the literal inter
pretation of parts of the vision, to suppose the existence of two great
persecuting powers amongst these eleven horns, inasmuch as that
Daniel absolutely binds us to one. Whenever this one appears, we
have no right to look for another. To do so, is to imitate the fatal
crimes and errors of the Jews; who, when one Messiah had appeared,
because, in some respects, he did not exactly harmonize with their pre
conceived opinions of what the Messiah should be, for 1800 years they
have been looking for another. We dare not copy so pernicious an
example; but by comparing what has been, with the prophetic de
scription given to guide us in what was to come, we would draw a
conclusion to harmonize with both.
Unless we wilfully close our eyes to the well-authenticated facts
of modern history, we cannot fail to perceive that in the early ages of
Christianity, a most pernicious power sprang up in the Christian
Church then established in that same empire, typiﬁed by the beast on
which the eleven horns were seen. That this power, by degrees, intro
duced and established an idolatrous and Anti-christian system of wor
‘T‘W'feffg’fﬁ‘l if' f T." —'i i" "'_—~—: *1;
108 THE NEW CHRISTIAN wouno.
ship, to which no true saint of the Most High could conscientiously
submit; a system of idolatrous image worship, of the worship of
saints, the dedication of temples to their use, prayers to the dead
and for the dead, inculcated the doctrines of supremacy, of purgatory,
of transubstantiation, the doing of penance, of works of supereroga
tion, of absolutions of sins, of granting indulgences, of infallibility,
and of the cardinal virtue in torturing and killing heretics, with a
thousand foolish rites and ceremonies, as repugnant to reason as to
the sacred institutions of the Gospel. That to enforce these anti
Christian views, the whole authority of God was claimed by the head
of this power, who presumed to be the only true vicegerent of heaven,
-—the holy vicar of God,-—especially commissioned to superintend and
controul all the affairs of the Christian Church in this world,—
and to compel all to come in and submit to his authority. That
this power, by a bold and prompt denunciation of all interference,
and a most intrepid envelopement of his whole office in the almighty
power of the God of heaven, united with angelic professions of being
actuated solely by heavenly impulses for the good of mankind :—
with such imposing pretensions, carried out with all possible cunning
and artful impostures, he carried away the hopes, the fears and the pre
judices of the millions, as by an overwhelming deluge. To extend, to
establish, and perpetuate the system so artfully and imposingly set up,
the august head thereof sent out his emissaries, Jesuits, Monks and
Friars, to all parts of the Roman world, trained in all the arts, inspi
red with all the conﬁdence, and invested with all the awful powers
delegated to them by their august head, the sole vicar of God on earth;
these went forth solemnly proclaiming to all mankind, rich and poor,
that the tremendous vengeance of God, and all the horrors of eternal
damnation, must inevitably transfix in endless, hopeless misery, every
soul of man not subject to the Pope of Rome, and who. were not initi
ated within the hallowed pale of the Catholic Church. Such startling
announcements, so solemnly put forth, enlisted the inviolable reverence
of the millions, to whatever rites or ceremonies this tremendous power
might impose: but whenever and wherever these means were not suc
cessful in subjecting kings and nations, and all the opinions to the
supreme will of this great power, force became associated with every prac
ticable fraud. Excommunications were ﬁrst issued; the disobedient
were cast out of all protection in their ejection from the church, and
became the lawful prey of the most diabolical passions of the faithful
adherents to the orthodox faith. Curses charged to the brim with the
horridest sufferings of which man is capable in body and soul, in time
and eternity, were ofﬁcially poured out upon them; and where these
failed to produce genuine repentance, and a humble, lowly and peni
run new CHRISTIAN woaLn. 109
tent return to the bosom of Mother Church, they were followed as the
natural emanations from this covert and professedly holy power, by a
train of dark deeds which for number and enormity stand unrivalled
on the pages of history, as having ever branded the name of any one
power professedly Christian, with everlasting infamy since Christianity
existed. Insurrections and rebellions were fomented against disobedient
princes; crusades carried universal slaughter through nations, which
refused implicit obedience to the mandates of the Pope; public execu
tions of the most painful and ignominious character; with all the secret
horrors of the inquisitions, in which death became playful, in appearing
in all its varied forms, accompanied with its most select train of horrors.
Burning, roasting before slow ﬁres, dislocating the joints, breaking by
the slowest process the tortured limbs, plucking out the nails and teeth,
forcing out the eyes, tearing off the ﬂesh with pincers, and stripping
off the skin; the rack, the saw, the dry pan, the reptile pit, the weighted
breast, the torturing, the horrid dungeon, and the boiling caldrons,
with a thousand other instruments of torture and death, were em
ployed by this power to no less than 50,000,000 of unoffending saints
of the Most High; who refused to worship, according to the idolatrous
superstitions of this murderous monster of iniquity. Besides thousands
upon thousands slain in battles, instigated by the same power; and
thousands more who perished of hunger by banishment, being proscri
bed and forced from their homes, finding no place of shelter or means
of support. By such a power have the saints of the Most High been
worn out for l200 years, as all well authenticated history attests; and
the extent of its dominions has been no less remarkable than the duration
of its sway, as it has, according to some, held in abject submission the
mighty nations of Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Holland, Ger
many, Switzerland, Prussia, Sardinia, and Naples. Dr. A. Clark gives
the domination of this great power, to be over France, Spain, England,
Scotland, the Empire, Sweden, Denmark, Poland, Hungary, and
Portugal.
That such a power as this existed is certain and undeniable; this is
a fact, which all the sophistry of the world can never obliterate. We
may commit mistakes as to the true import of many ﬁgurative texts of
of Scripture, but respecting the existence of this power we can commit
none; and that this power came up upon the fourth great beast, or the
Roman Empire, is also a fact which can never be altered or success
fully disputed. There can be no danger of mistake here; that it came
up after the division of the Roman Empire into ten kingdoms, is also
a fact made plain by the same irresistible evidence which establish the
former facts. On this, also, there can be no dispute; and that three of
those ﬁrst ten kingdoms were overthrown, or plucked up by the roots, to
110 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
prepare the way for this, is also a fact which we shall by and by show
more fully. That this power acquired a greatness, and was invested
with powers and attributes which none of the other ten ever possessed,
are also facts equally ﬁrm and incontestible with the former, all history
proves. That this power were out the saints of the Most High, as
before pointed out, is a lamentable fact, over which millions have had
cause to mourn. It has worn out the saints by excommunications from
church fellowship, by proscriptions from offices, from trades ; from
friendly intercourse with friends and relatives, from citizenship; and by
transportation and martyrdom by millions; and this for hundreds of years.
Now we demand of our friends, who profess to he guided by the
literal meaning of the prophecies, by what authority they expect that
persecuting power typiﬁed by the “little horn," has yet to come? The
vision of the four great beasts affords not the least countenance to the
theory, that two powers/should ever exist of that description amongst the
eleven horns. On the contrary, the whole description concentrates the
whole wearing out of the saints to one. But the whole theory that the
“little horn” has yet to come, is founded solely upon the principle, that
there must exist two; which is in as palpable opposition to the whole
vision, as that two is one, or that one is two. We have proved the
existence of one; and they expect another, which must make two when
he comes. Whereas the pmphecy limits us to one; and one having
already dreadfully worn out the saints of the Most High, the prophecy
proclaims aloud that there shall be no more.
But our friends may have been betrayed by the various representa
tions not answering so fully as they anticipated to the “little born," as
typical of that power we haVe been examining. In many particulars
they must grant, all agree exactly. But; they ﬁnd other particulars, in
which there is not a perfect agreement in their sense. The “little
born” they tell us, was to “speak great words against the Most High,"
verse 25. This they maintain popery never did literally; it wore out
the saints in every possible form by word and deed, but it praised and
extolled the God of Heaven, and professed to be actuated by the purest
zeal for His glory, even in its wholesale extermination of His saints.
Upon this we observe, that independent of all interpretation of this
mark of the “little born," there is a rule which must be held as abso
lute in deciding the main question before us. It is possible, that
this mark may require an explanation, by which this speaking against
God will appear Scriptural, but indirect; but not less real in a scrip
tural sense on this account. we give the following as an example
from our Lord’s representation of the solemn scenes of the judgment
day :--“ Then shall he say unto them on his left hand, depart from me,
ye cursed, into everlasting ﬁre prepared for the Devil and his angels:
4». ; .7
'rrra NEW enarsrran wonu). ill
for I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty and ye
gave me no drink; I was a stranger and ye took me not in: naked,
and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. Then
shall they answer him, saying, Lord, when saw We thee an hungered, or
athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not min
ister unto thee: Then shall he answer them saying, verily I say unto
you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these my little ones,
ye did it not unto me," Matt. xxv. 41—45. Again we read, “ Saul,
Saul, why persecutcst thou me. And he said, who art thou Lord ?
And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom l/rou pcrscculest," Acts xi. 4, 5.
The same principle is abundantly established in various parts of both
the New and Old Testament. It is not more plainly said that the
“little horn” should speak great words against the Most High, than it
is here said, “I am Jesus whom thou persecutcst,” and “I was an lum
gered and ye gave me no meat.” One rule of interpretation undoubt
edly applies alike to the three texts; and according to that rule the
power we have been examining fulﬁls the description to the fullest ex
tent, in his treatrrient of the saints of the Most High. A surer rule
we cannot have, than the one by which all the solemn transactions of
the general judgment will be governed. Then all the dark deeds of
infamy will be brought to open day ; the secret horrors of the inqui
sitions will be proclaimed to assembled worlds; the most private plots
and deceptive schemes of the Privy Councils in the Roman states will
be unfolded ; to the utter confusion of all the secret conspirators against
the saints of the Most High. The Judge of all will personify in him
self, every excommunicated, proscribed, imprisoned, transported, starved,
tortured, and martyred Christian, and tell the hyprocritical tyrants, in
words that will hurl them to the nethermost hell, “ YE mo 11‘ UNTO
ME." They may not have understood this indirect mode of interpre
ting Scripture; and, then, it will overwhelm them with amazement and
confusion. Nevertheless, the indescribable horrors of everlasting de
struction from the presence of the Lord, will give them an endless
lesson on its reality—“YE DID r'r UNTO ME." And inasmuch as
this will be the immutable rule by which the general judgment will be
governed, no man can exclude it as a rule by which prophecy may, and
in some cases must be interpreted; especially where all other possible
evidences combine to justify this rule being adopted.
But we are not confined to the strong presumption created by the
the above texts, for the decision of the question before us. We now
see that the great words spoken against the Most High, by the “lillle
horn," were so spoken through the medium of his saints. This
horn denounced the saints, excommunicated them, pronounced them
worthy of death, and through this they were destroyed. And in pro~
112 Tm: NEW cams'rras wonLn.
phecy and in judgment also, the great rule of our Lord is, “ YE mu
r'r UNTO ME.
But suppose it only possible that this is the true import, even then
our friends must utterly fail, who, from this expect the “little born” has
yet to come. It is possible that the above interpretation may be cor
rect ,- but it is impossible that there should be two little horns, perse
cuting powers amongst the eleven horns in, this vision. This decides
the case absolutely, and at once. There cannot be two,--it is impos
sible,-—and the vision true. Now there has been one; and for the
vision to be true, it is impossible that there should ever be another.
It is possible for our friends to be mistaken in their views of certain
marks of the “little harm" but it is impossible that there can be two
“little horns," according to this vision. It is farther possible, that our
friends may be in error respecting a little horn having yet to come
up amongst the ten horns of the Roman beast, to wear out the saints of
the Most High ; but it is impossible for us to be mistaken that such a
power has already existed there. And with these impossibilities against
our friends, they must allow us to draw the only legitimate conclusion,
which to us seems possible, that it is impossible for their new theory on
the “little horn” being yet to come, to be correct; and moreover, that
it is impossible for them to adduce any plausible scriptural evidence to
show that it can be.
But there is another impossibility, which our friends have never ap
peared to be aware of; fatal, if alone, to the theory they embrace. All
the advocates of the “little horn” yet to come, have adopted the most
cautious policy concerning the time when their “little horn" might be
expected. Upon many mysterious texts of Scripture prophecy, they
have expatiated freely, and demonstrated with astonishing success to all
appearance, the wonderful exploits of this “little horn," who shall, in
3}; years common time, well nigh rid the world of the saints of the
Most High; and succeed in the accomplishment of such stupendous
conquests, as leave all other conquerors far in the shade. That he shall
gather all nations in arms at last, to exterminate the Jews, then restored
to Palestine; that he shall succeed in killing Enoch and Elijah, who
shall have come down from heaven to witness against him, and shall
expose their dead bodies in the streets of some great city 3% days,
where all nations shall be gathered to triumph over them; and many
other unparalleled wonders, they see clearly this “little horn” will ef
fect. But they cannot discover, or understand, or interpret any one
single prophecy in either the Old or the New Testament, which affords
the slightest information, when this very brief age of wonders will dawn
upon us. Good policy in them; for whatever period they ﬁxed upon
within the period of the world's existence, it would be too soon. They
_ _:JJI~.~‘4-‘ 4
'rnz new chairman WORLD. 113
are most strikingly imitating the Jews, who have been for upwards of
1800 years looking for another Messiah; and who, if they look for
18,000 years to come, are doomed to disappointment, on the ground
that Messiah has already appeared. So in like manner, our friends
are looking for a power which has long since come, not to be repeated;
consequently, the latest period they might ﬁx for his arrival, must be
too soon. It is nevertheless singular, that they should perfectly un
derstand all the prophetic descriptions on the nature of this “little
horn,” the mode of its operations, and all the concurrent events in the
world, at the time of his appearing; but yet understand nothing what
ever, as to when we may expect him. This seeming anomaly we must
leave for themsulves to treat upon.
They cannot be ignorant or silent upon prophetic periods, on the
ground that heaven has left us entirely without vision on these subjects.
\Ve have at all events, the 2300 days in the 8th chapter of Daniel, at
the end of which it is positively said, “then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed.” ‘Vhy have our friends never directed their energies to a full
elucidation of this important prophecy; inasmuch as that at the termi
nation thereof, a new age of the world must dawn upon us.
\Ve have, however, in this little work, endeavoured to throw some
light upon this subject; and we have come to certain conclusions upon
it, which strongly urge themselves upon the deepest thoughts of our
friends. Their theory cannot be'tr'ue, if our conclusions be correct.
\Ve submit them to the world as irrefutable; we pronounce upon them
with the ﬁrmest conﬁdence; hesitations, or doubtful sensations, have
no place in our breasts; consequently, its and buts have no province
in our inferences. But every assertion of the inviolability of our con
clusions, involves the assertion that our friends are wrong. Whatever
conﬁdence may have been exhibited in our work that our principles are
just, to the exact extent do we express the same conﬁdence, that the new
theory of our friends is false: because they cannot both be true.
We maintain that the 2300 days, are emblematical of so many years;
that this period begun in the year 457 B.C.; that it must therefore end
with 1843, and “then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.” But this is
the reverse of the “little horn” coming and polluting the sanctuary,
inﬁnitely beyond all that has ever yet been done. Here we perceive
the two systems at issue; that if the sanctuary has to be now polluted
by the “little horn,” it is not now about to be cleansed. But inas
much as that Daniel says, “ then shall the sanctuary be cleansed ;" and
inasmuch as we believe our deductions clear, and our evidences incon
testible, that this “then” is even now at hand, we conclude, that for
this reason, also, it is literally impossible for the theory of our friends
respecting the “little ham" to be correct.
114 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
Various additional reasons in support of this conclusion, might be
produced, but these shall remain unnoticed for the present ; from the
conviction that we are not leaving the subject in a doubtful position ;
not upon the shifting sands of conjecture, or even probability; for
plain, clear, and broad lmpossibili/ies have been rolled upon the theory
we oppose, burying the same without hope of resurrection; and upon
the grave thereof we crect that system of truth which must remain un
shaken. Our unhesitating conclusion is, that every theory which sup
poses the true prototype of the “little lmrn” has yet to come, is devoid
of foundation in Scri ture and facts: and ought, therefore, to be uni
versally rejected as fa se. '
When contrasted with these stern impossibilities, how utterly impo
tent must the wild conjectures of our friends appear—appear so, even
to themselves, if they would fairly attempt to grapple with them. But,
apparently, bent on self deception, spell bound to a theory, which,
reptile like, shuns the light, and yet enamourcd with its charms, they
would cast its poisonous coils around all their Christian brethren; at
the same time they refuse all direct investigation, of the only legitimate
evidences by which the case can be scripturally decided. Through
some unaccountable infatuation, they are deaf to all clear, proper, and
direct scriptural evidence, and can listen to none but such as is far
fetched, tortured, misapplied, indirect—and in fact, no proper evidence
at all in the case. On confusion of texts, on the rejection of all legi
timate evidences, on the misconstructiou of texts misapplied, and on
a multiplication of these errors, their entire new theory depends.
The plain, unalterable, direct, and legitimate marks of the “little
lzorn” as contrasted with facts, stand thus :—
Direct scriptural marks of the Corresponding facts, from general
“ little born,” from Dan. vii. and well authenticated history.
1. This horn was to wear out 1. This has been done to the
the saints of the Most High, 2] Christians, by Heathens, Mahom
and 25 ver. medans, Roman Catholics, and
partially by the Jews.
2. But this “little lmrn" was
to be upon the head of the fourth
great beast, which represents the
Roman Empire, 7, >4.
3. But this “little horn” was to
come up amongst the ten horns or
kingdoms, into which the Roman
Empire should be divided, 7 and
24.
2. This was the case with two
of the above great persecuting
powers, viz., Rome in its heathen
and Papal state.
3. The Roman Empire was di
vided into ten kingdoms, from the
year A. D. 356 to 483. But hea
then Rome, asa persecuting powu.
did not come up amongst these.
but before them. Therefore Pagan
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 115
4. A nd it is expressly said “ (1f
ter," as well as amongst them,
8 and 24.
.5. Three of the ﬁrst were to be
plucked up before the “liltlehorn,”
8 and 24.
6. It is called “a little horn,"
Verse 8, but yet with a look more
stout than his fellows, and in
his deeds manifesting tremendous
power against the people of God,
21 and '25.
7. The “little lzorn" was to be
diverse from all the other ten.
8. It had eyes like the eyes of
a man, verse 8.
9. The “little horn" had amouth
speaking great things, 8, 20, and
20.
Rome could not be the “little
lzurn ;" but Papal Rome, as a
persecuting power, did come up
among these ten.
4. Papal Rome was established
as a persecuting poww, in the year
538 A. D. This was (r/h‘r the
ten arose.
5. The kingdoms of the Heruli,
the Vandals, and the Otrogoths,
were thus plucked up before Papal
Rome became established.
6. The Papal power of Home
was little, as regards temporal and
political inﬂuence, but tremendous
in his ecclesiastical domination.
7. Papal Rome was an awful,
mighty, persecuting, ecclesiastical
power; the other tcn never as
pired to, or were anything but civil
powers. In this it was strikingly
diverse from the ﬁrst.
8. Papal Rome exceeded all the
others in its emissaries, its spies,
its Jesuits, its sworn defenders,
llooking out continually in every
part of the Roman Empire, and
through the world, reporting to the
reverend Father in God, every
whisper, and every act, inimicable
to its sway, interests, or honour.
9. The Papal power spake with
a mouth that thundered through
all Christendom, and made all the
thrones thereof tremble; it de
nounced alike the best and great
est of men; excommunicated kings,
princes, and all ranks of heretics;
sentenced at its pleasure; and
claimed all the prerogatives of
God, connected with the world
and the Church.
116 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
10. And shall wear out the
saints of the Most High, 25.
11. Change times and laws,
25.
10. Papal Rome has worn out
the saints for 1200 years, and
martyred 50,000,000 of them.
11. Papal llome reversed all
the laws of Christianity, and es
tablished its idolatrous system of
worship for 1260 years.
12. Of all the ten kingdoms
into which the Roman Empire
was divided, one only persecuted
the saints. All at ﬁrst submitted
to the Christian priesthood; re
nounced Paganism and supported
Christianity; and through all their
dominious the Christians had rest,
until, the Papal power rose up
amongst them, and wore out the
saints of the Most High.
Here we have the most perfect harmony pervading the whole; and
the marks considered, are the direct characters which the vision of the
“little horn” gives. We have not traversed the whole Scripture, in
search of evidences to support a favourite theory; we have taken the
vision as it is given by inspiration: we have neither added nor altered
a single mark; and by this we are conducted, to the impossibility of
there ever existing any other. One has come, and there cannot be two;
if another were to come, either all history on the subject, or the prophe
cy which limits us to one, must be false.
But now look at the contrast, in the nature of evidences. Into an
unconnected maze of what they call Synchronisms, our friends have
plunged; and the wild glare of these biynchronisms, have so dazzled
them, that the above direct evidences they cannot see.
Through a vast variety of texts, they gather the principle, that be
fore the “little horn” can come, the Jews must be restored to their own
land. In defence of this disputed sentiment, they trace and collect all
the ancient promises made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and repeated
by all the prophets. They contend that these promises have never yet
been literally fulﬁlled to the Jews ; that they must be, to support the
character of Jehovah and attest the truth of Scri ture. That, there
fore, the following words of Isaiah must be literal y fulﬁlled :—-“Andl
will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, and
take away all thy tin. And will restore thy judges as at the ﬁrst. and
thy councillors as at the beginning; afterwards thou shalt be called the
city of righteousness, the faithful city. Zion shall be redeemed with
12. The last scriptural mark we
shall here notice is, that this is the
only, one, single individual power,
to which all this is attributed.
No other horn had the same attri
butes, the same objects, the same
means, or performed the same
exploits; no other horn made war
with the saints, 21 and 25.
In: New cums'rrau WORLD. 117
judgment, and her converts with righteousness," Isaiah i. 25—27.
Again says the same prophet:—“And they shall bring all your bre
thren for an offering unto the Lord, out of all the nations, upon
horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon swift
beasts, to my holy mountain, Jerusalem, saith the Lord," Isaiah
lxvi. 20. That after “the children of Israel shall abide many (lays
without a king (as they now for long have been), and without a
prince, and without a sacriﬁce, and without an image, and without
an ephod, and without a teraphim. Afterwards shall the children
of Israel return, and seek the Lord their God, and David their king,
and shall fear the Lord and his goodness in the latter days,” Hosea
iii. 4, 5.
That after their return, and the restoration of their city, their ritual
and their Judges as at ﬁrst, then the “little horn," will make his ap
pearance, according to the prophet Joel :-“ For behold in those days
and in that time, when I shall bring again the captivity of .ludea and
Jerusalem, I will also gather all nations, and will bring them down into
the valley of Jehosaphat, and will plead with them here for my peo
ple, and for my heritage Israel, whom they have scatteerd among the
nations, and parted my land," Joel iii. 12. This pleading is more largely
set forth in the following :-—“ Therefore, thou Son of Man, prophecy
against Gog and say, behold I am against thee, O Gog! And I will
turn thee back and leave but a sixth part of thee, and will cause thee
to come up from the north parts, and will bring thee upon the moun
tains of Israel: and I will smite thy bow out of thy left hand, and
cause thine arrows to fall out of thy right hand. Thou shalt fall upon
the mountains of Israel, thou and all thy bands, and the people that is
with thee; I will give thee to the ravenous birds of every sort, and to
the beasts of the ﬁeld to be devoured,” Ezek. xxxix. 1—4.
These, with numbers of similar texts, supposed to support the re
turn of the Jews and the final conquest in the valley of decision, are
accumulated with astonishing innocence, to prove that the “little
horn" has yet to come. But those who thus employ them, have failed
in every effort to show the connecting link between them and the “lit
tle horn.” They have, also, never ventured to grapple with all the im
possibilities in the way of their theory.
No power answering to the description of the “little horn,” can
come up amongst the ﬁrst ten horns of the Roman beast; for the best
of all reasons, because it has long ago lost that equal number.
Only three of the ﬁrst ten were to be plucked up before the “little
horn,” and seven of them left. This, also, is impossible now, for the
reasons above.
There could not he more than one pcrsecuting power, among the
118 THE new cunrs'rrAN WORLD.
eleven horns intended in this prophecy. One there has been, and
therefore there cannot be another.
This horn could not rise from any other nation than the Roman.
The four beasts represented four successive kingdoms, that should hear
rule over all the earth, between which there could be no chasm of time.
This is rendered indisputable by the great image of iron. brass, silver
and gold; by which was typiﬁed the four great earthly dorninions of
Babylon, Medo-Persian, Grecian, and llornan. That these were tobe
immediately successive, is proved by the fact of all being represented
by one connected, compact, perfect image, in which no separation of
one part from the other appeared. The silver part touched that of the
gold; the brass, and the silver, were in perfect contact; the iron and
the brass united to each other; no separation or division at all, between
the different component parts. From which undeniable facts of the
vision, we are compelled to infer, that the four great kingdoms typiﬁed,
would follow each other in an unbroken line of succession; no lapse
of years can be admitted between any one and its successor; the image
presents them all in ﬁrmest compact, and excludes the possibility of
the interference of a lapse of years.
Searching the records of history for an exact prototype, we ﬁnd it in
the above four great kingdoms, and in no other ever existing in the world.
The head of gold is expressly said to be the king, or kingdom of Baby
lon, Dan. ii. 38. In chapter v. 30, 3l, we are told how this kingdom
was subverted; and also, by which it was immediately succeeded. In
the vision of the rain and he-goat, the immediate successor of the
Mode-Persian empire is given too plainly to be mistaken. Dan. viii. 7,
20, 21. There we see that the Grecian kingdom was undoubtedly the
third; and all history decides the case that the only kingdom following
this, corresponding to the prophetic description of the fourth, was the
Roman empire. In these four we have the perfect succession and con
nection presented in the great image. The Persian Empire came in
exactly the same contact with the Babylonish, as the silver did with the
gold part of the image; the Grecian kingdom did the same, with re
spect to the Medo-Persians ; and in the image, as perfect a connection
existed between the iron and brass part thereof, as existed between any
of the other tWo parts. Consequently, no interpretation can be ad
mitted, which does not maintain the same connection between the third
and fourth kingrlOms; and this binds us to the only admissible proto
type of the fourth part of the image, inasmuch, as it would be running
in opposition to all history, to suppose that any other kingdom on earth, '
except the Roman, can he admitted. Out of this kingdom, and this
alone, the “little horn" was to arise. If 10,000 powers or persons
appeared in the world, equally vile, blasphemous, cruel, powerful, and
__ . _. --._-._._.._~.—__-_,. r..- _~.
Tnl new cnarsrrau wonto. 119
in every sense oppressive to this; yet, if such arose out of any other
kingdom, not one ofthem could ever be identiﬁed with this “little from."
But this fourth beast was also to be strong exceedingly, great and
terrible, when the “little horn" formed one of its component parts;
for, although, it was to be divided into ten parts, as typified by the ten
horns, and the ten toes, yet its strength was after this undiminishcd,
its power in reality unbroken; a change of amazing magnitude should
take place in it, yet its dominion under this change would not be taken
away: all of which is most explicitly set forth, in Daniel’s interpreta
tion of the great imagez—“And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as
iron; forasmnch as iron breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things;
and as iron that breaketh all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise.
And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potter’s clay and
part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided, but there shall be in it of the
strength of the iron,” Dan. ii. 40, 4-1. \Vords cannot be more expres
sive, in proof that the strength of the iron remained, after the division
of the kingdom; and of course, after the coming of the “Ii/Ila horn."
This is conﬁrmed by the prophetic description of the “liltle lmrn” it
self, which is represented as hearing down all opposition, and changing
times and laws at its pleasure.
But “ the decline and fall ofthe Roman empire,” renders the coming
up of a “lit/[e 1mm" now, or at any future period, impossible, to an
swer to the prophetic description of this, and of the state of the Roman
empire at the time it was to come. The strong iron of that kingdom
has been long rapidly rusting away ; the corroding inﬂuence of Mahorn
medan ambition, the prostrating ell'ects of the Reformation, together
with the consuming rage of revolutionary France, and the march ofin
tellect since, has left nothing but dross, incapable of sustaining itself,
of that strong iron kingdom which formerly broke in pieces and stamped
the residue of it with the feet of it, of all the preceding kingdoms.
This shows, that whatever he the true import of those texts quoted,
by the advocates of the theory of the “little lzorn" as yet to come,
concerning the restoration of the Jews to Palestine, and the great bat
tle of Gog in the valley of decision, which they suppose must occur at
the same time, that it is impossible for the “ll/ll: born" to be the chief
hero at that time, seeing that from the whole description thereof, and
0f the kingdom out of which it was to rise, it cannot but have been
upon the great stage of action hundreds of years.
All these impossibilities, the mistaken advocates of the “little horn" /
yet to come, have never dared to grapple with. As though conscious
of the weakness of their cause, they wilfully ﬂy from the face of direct
and legitimate proof, and bewilder themselves and all their followers,
with indirect, unconnected, inapplicable and opposing evidences, prov
120 I run new cunrsruru WORLD.
ing in all their efforts, that their theory is founded upon, and exclu
sively supported by delusion and error, having no support from truth.
There is another theory of this “little horn,” which from the very im
posing manuer in which it is set forth, demands a passing notice here.
This theory is most valorously maintained by Joseph Galloway, Esq,
author of a large volume of“Commentaries upon such parts of the Reve
lations and other Prophecies, as immediately refer to the present times,”
published in London, 1802. In this the author deliberately leaves the
track marked out by preceding writers, almost in toto. He expresses
his dissent from the opinions of others, with regard to the ﬁrst mark of
the “little horn” in the following words :-—“ In applying the ten horns
to the kingdoms and states above mentioned, I am well aware that I dif
fer from men, the most pious and most learned of all, that have ever com
mented upon this prophecy. I have done it with regret, and not without
fear of mistake. But the great disagreement in their opinions, with the
unstable arguments upon which they are founded, have encouraged me
to examine their different theories, and thus to offer to the candid consi
deration of the reader a new one."—I’age 391. All this is laudable,
and calls for no apology. But it would lead us to the anticipation of
discoveries of a highly beneficial character, as regards ﬁxing the true im
port of these predictions.
Respecting these ten horns, he supposes that all commentators bava
bewildered themselves and others in searching for their true prototypes.
where they could not be found, and that they have been equally bewil
dered with regard to this “little horn." They have, he supposes, taken
it for granted ﬁrst, that no wicked power was ever to rise up in the
world except the Pope; they have, therefore, constituted him the pro
totype of the “little born." Such constructions Mr. Galloway holds as
extremely erroneous; and he informs us, page 339, that he “ could
dwell upon many instances in which Bishop Newton and many other
learned Commentators have tortured the types of the little horn into
meanings they will not bear, for the sake of depressing the Papal idolo~
try, and promoting the reformation." A purpose which he considers
highly reprehensible and uncalled for, when done in opposition to truth.
He then introduces his new theory thus :-—“ The errors of former
Commentators thus removed out of my path, I will proceed to the task
I have undertaken, which is to find out the power foretold under the
type of the little horn; a task in the performance of which, I shall
endeavour to adhere constantly to the following truths, that ‘ prophecy
came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake
as they were moved by the Holy Ghost;' and consequently, that its
descriptive references to future events are essentially true, accurately
perfect; and whether figurative or literal, are, when rightly understwd,
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
unequivocal and perspicuous; and if any one of its descriptive marks
or signs does not tend to describe an event, or if any two of them are
inconsistent with each other; or if all of them do not accord in perfect
unison, in pointing out the principal character of the object we may have
in view as the particular object foretold, any application in such a case
must be erroneous. Pursuing this track then, both in the interpreta
tion and application:of the signs to their proper events, let _us hear
the prophet,” page 400.
These rules, although not bad in themselves, are studiously framed to
meet the theory which Mr. Galloway intended to establish; and from '
their being situated after the strictures offered on the bewilderment of
other Commentators, and the very erroneous schemes they have invented
concerning the horns before us, we might be led to anticipate greatcare
in comparing marks with events, and extraordinary caution in applica
tion, and the greatest moral certainty that all the signs coincide to
make the real prototype “perspicuous ,-" and that the universal harmony
of the whole prophetic description under this theory, will seal the proofs
of the true character intended as “ unequivocal."
We have before our eyes, every day, a host of examples proclaiming
the fact, that it requires immensely less of labour, of study, and rapidly
wasting research, to qualify men to talk fluently of the bewilderment of
others on mysterious subjects like this,lthan to remove difﬁculties or to
make darkness light ; to turn aside the veil of ignorance and to make the
truth plain. Mr. Galloway adds to the list, one of not the least assuming
examples of the same~ f'act. After setting aside all other theories of this
“little born,” and advancing what he calls emphatically “a new one,” and
professing to follow a rule which requires that the prophetic marks must
apply accurately and plainly; that they must thus apply, not partially
but fully, and this as regards them all. Yet, in singular contradiction
to every rule and profession, he has singled out a character as the true
prototype of this “little born," to which scarcely one mark in the
whole description will apply Fully; against which some of the marks
stand in perfect opposition, and according to one of them, for his theory
to be correct and the whole prophecy true, is literally im ossible.
This we prove in the following manner :—The power se ected by Mr.
Galloway, as the true prototype of the “little horn," is “ the revolu
lirmary power qurance.” One thing is remarkable through the whole
imposing pretensions to identify this power with the “little horn,"
which is, a loosenessIand vagueness of deﬁnition, which involves the
whole in mystery, as to what this “revolutionary power" really is, and
when it came up. This is ominous against all the conclusions of Mr.
Galloway. He contends that this “little born" as the revolutionary
power of France, came up among the ten horns of the Roman beast.
1
[22 run new cnnrs'nau wontn.
On page 390, he gives these z—lst Britain, 2nd France, 3rd Spain,
4th Portugal, 5th Holland, 6th Germany, 7th Switzerland, 8th
Prussia, 9th Sardinia, 10th Naples. Amongst these, he contends, the
revolutionary power of France came up, according to the true import
of the prophecy. If so, all these must have been horns of the beast at
the time. He supposes them horns of the Papal beast, and explodes
the interpretations of others, for bewildering themselves and others, by
connecting in their lists of the ten horns, some that did not rise out of
the great beast's “ religious head in its Papal state,” see page 390;
-and the superiority of his list over all others, is founded entirely upon
this distinguishing principle. From this it follows, that he must make
it clear and unequivocal, that Papal Rome had these ten kingdoms
under its complete controul, when the revolutionary power of France
came up. Now as regards the ﬁrst in his list, namely Britain, the
Papal power was abolished in England, in the year 1533. Had the
revolutionary power of France then come up ? If it had, what is its
character ?-how did it show itself?—or in what did it consist? All
writers, whose minds are unshackled from the fetters of prejudice, agree,
that the revolution began in 1789 ; but this was 256 years after Papal
authority was ollicially abolished in England. Mr. Galloway some
times employs “ republican France," for revolutionary France ; but
France was never declared a Republic until l79l, Sept. 2lst. If this
were the horrid and destructive “little born," how, or in what sense
had it come up amongst the ten prior to 1533? Surely he ought to
have brought forth the secret transactions of the republican party,
through ages in which they were unknown to the public, to have esta
blished the principles on which he suspends his new theory. Well
might he court obscurity, and attempt to divert attention from facts to
pompous declarations, in his vague indeﬁnable reveries about revolu
tionary France.
Upon his own principles of the ten horns, the revolutionary pOWer
of France, did not come up amongst his ten kingdoms of Papal Home,
of which the above facts and dates are positive proofs; and this is
proof that his theory is false.
The “little born" after its rise, remained and continued upon the
same head and among seven of the other horns, amongst which it rose
Now if this head were Papal Rome, and all the other horns Papal horns,
as Mr. Galloway distinctly contends; and if this be given up, his
whole theory falls to the ground at once; then the “little 110m” re~
mained, after it became such, upon the same Papal head, and amongst
seven of the same Papal horns, amongst whom it rose.
How palpably ridiculous must every attempt appear, to apply this
essential characteristic to revolutionary France. This revolutionary
'rnz saw cnnrs'rms WORLD. l23
power, in all its purposes, edicts and deeds, were ﬁrst to snap the galling
fetters which for centuries had chained it to this Papal head, and it
achieved its stupendous purpose. It then stretched forth its potent
arm, and spread wide its vast designs and stem resolves to annihilate
the magic chains, which for ages had ke tin bondage to the same
Papal head; the other horns with which it ad long associated; and its
eﬁ'ects here also were electrical, and struck an astonished world with
terror and surprise. Even its unconquerable daring was not arrested
here, until it had aimed a deadly blow at the same head itself; it paid
an unwelcome visit to the very seat of the beast; it paralysed that power
which had for centuries aWed the world to silence, and laid that head
low as a captive, to which the abject obedience of all the horns had for
centuries been tremblingly paid.
Had Mr. Galloway taken up his pen to write a splendid volume, in
advocacy of a new theory that midnight darkness and mid-day sun,—
that the frozen regions and the torrid zone were the same,~—he would not
have been more unhappy in the selection of his theme. The Repub
lican revolutionary power of France, was no horn of the beast at all;
and to suppose it one, in Mr. Galloway's sense, is the Very climax of
absurdity.
But this “little horn" was to become preeminently conspicuous,
through makin war upon the saints of the Most High, and wearing
them out. Evrdently lost, confounded and ahashed, in an impenetrable
labyrinth of wonders, with vision dazzled and optics turned, Mr. Gal
loway sees every object inverted or transformed. Hence upon this he
has the following singular remark, “ofthis mark Commentators have been
rather shy.” Then, surely, upon this mark Mr. Galloway will so far
triumph as to reconcile all foregoing contradictions, to remove all other
impossibilities, and ﬁx upon re ublican, revolutionary France, the one
and true prototype of this “ liti horn," still firmly seated upon the head
of Papal Rome and obedient to his will. If Commentators have been
so “sky” with this mark, it must have been because revolutionary
France, far eclipsed all other powers in diffusing torture and death
through the true Christian churches, or held destructive dominion over
them, for a greater length of time. Papal Rome martyred in cool
blood its 50,000,000 unoil'ending Christians, but from the “shy/ness"
of Commentators revolutionary France must have martyred its 50 times
that amount; or have exercised its destructive inﬂuence over the
Churches for 1260 years ot't repeated. How stand the facts?
We should have been pleased to have seen a scriptural delineation of
that power, against which revolutionary France made war, attached to
Mr. Galloway’s favourite mark, thereby rendering his triumph complete.
From the distinctive manner in which this war is stated by Daniel, it
124 'rna new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
clearly implies a purely religious persecution. This war was not made by
the “ little horn” against men or empires, in the ordinary manner of in
ternational wars. It widely differs from an Alexander, a Caesar, or a
Napoleon, whose insatiable ambition was to electrify mankind by the
rapidity and extent of their conquests. This war was made upon the
saints of the Most High only; and to escape its horror, required only
to forfeit the character speciﬁed. Did revolutionary France ever pro
claim such a war as this? It is true, this power suppressed the titles
of nobility in France, it abolished the Monastic Orders, it conﬁscated
the property of the Church of Rome, it massacred many of the priest
hood, it abolished the inquisitorial ecclesiastical courts, it established
liberty of conscience on religious matters, which was a deadly blow at
Catholic supremacy, and to fill up the measure of its iniquities as re
gards this war upon the saints of the Most High, penetrated into Italy,
opened the prison doors to the victims of Catholic persecution, and took
Pope Pius himself prisoner and set the people free from his tyrannic
sway. These are the leading features of this revolutionary war upon
the saints.
But it is quite evident from this, that so far as class or sectarian dis
tinctions extend, this was a war against the Catholics; and this not as
men of this or that opinion, but rather a war against their usurpations.
The Catholic defending republican opinions, was as much respected as
any other man as regards his person or his life. Vl'hat an awful war
against “the saints of the lllost High.” Mr. Galloway supplies us
at once with a new theory on the “little horn,” and on “the saints of
the lllost High” also. If religious persons are meant, the Catholics
alone are the men; they also are the only saints of the blost High,
which the prophet Daniel could notice in this conﬂict. Blessed saints!
\Vell might they proclaim themselves the only true Church! Blessed
Saint and Father in God, the Pope! Daniel in this great vision, is
made by Mr. Galloway, to set the great seal of Heaven’s approbation
on him alone and his party, as none others are by him recognized as
“the saintshf the Most High.” How inconsistent and wicked must
Mr. Galloway be, to calumniate these only “ saints qftlle D’Iost High,”
in other parts of his work, where he charges upon them the grossest of
crimes.
To such conclusions Mr. Galloway's theory inevitably conducts us.
It is undeniable that the war of the revolutionary power in France was
made against the Catholic factions, and occasioned by ages of the
grossest tyranny, presumption, and oppressions, which had accumulated
until desperation in all its fury hurled them to the ground. If, there
fore, this power were the only true prototype of the “little horn," it
unavoidably follows that the Catholics against whom it made war, were
run new cnarsrus wonrn. 125
the only true “saints oft/re blast High ,-” a conclusion as monstrous
as any of the former to which Mr. Galloway's theory leads us. We
trust his admirers will hereafter be “ rather s/1y" with this mark of the
“little horn," should they ﬁnd occasion to notice it; that they draw
not on themselves the consequences arising from the only correct con
clusions which can be drawn. ~
We shall only notice one mark more connected with Mr. Galloway's
theory, to seal its fate with every unprejudiced reader; he acknowledges
through his whole book, that the Papal power was one of the horns
which Daniel saw upon the great beast, which he contends was the em
blem of the Roman Power; he also sets forth this Papal power as cor
rupt, tyrannical, and a dreadfully persecuting horn. Of this power he
writes thus :—-“ The Pope having by ﬂattery and corruption, obtained
a commission of universal Bishop, went to the temple of the heathen
gods, set up image worship, and dedicated the temples to the Virgin
Mary and other saints which should be canonized. He, himself, as
sumed the character of God’s vicar, and pretended that his power was
derived from God to convert mankind to his idolatry and blasphemy.
In pursuance of this policy, the Church of Rome has sent Monks,
Jesuits and Friars, to all parts of the world; using all manner of craft,
and blasphemous frauds, and holding out to mankind her idolatry as
the only means of salvation, and even bribing the nations to her super
stition. She has also often had recourse to force in converting and
subjugating kings and nations to her will. She has ﬁrstexcommuni
cated, cursed, and denounced vengeance against them as heretics wor
thy of death; and made it lawful for any person or power to destroy
them. She has then incited the nations under her inﬂuence, to make
war upon them, and by her emissaries the Jesuits, and secret spies, has
stirred up their people into insurrections, seditious, and rebellions; and
by this twofold policy, she has seldom failed in extending her inﬂuence
over the refractory princes and nations. While the Church of Rome
was thus extending her inﬂuence over the minds and consciences of
men abroad, she was not negligent of its preservation at home. All
persons who would not embrace it, who would not fall down and wor
ship the Host, were put to death. For this purpose, secret and terriﬁc
tribunals were established, before which an incalculable number of inno
cent and pious Christians were condemned as heretics, and ordered to
be executed; and that the terror of their punishment might operate as
an example towards the conversion of others, the means of the most
lingering and agonizing death were ﬁxed on.”-—-Pages 176 to 180.
Thus Mr. Galloway brieﬂy sketches out the Papal power. That
this was making war with the true saints of the Most High, in exact
accordance with the prophecy, cannot be doubted; and that this was
126 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
one of the eleven horns is also admitted. Daniel does not set forth two
out of those that should make war upon the saints, but only one ; even
that same horn, denominated the “little horn.” But Mr. Galloway
contends that this “little born" was the revolutionary power of France,
and the Pope or the Papal power, one of the ten horns; thus making
two persecuting powers who should each wear out the saints of the
Most High, both horns on the same beast. -
Now this we pronounce impossible, if the prophecy be true. Turn
over the words of the prophecy as we will, it is utterly impossible to
discover more than one persecuting horn amongst the eleven. Find
these horns where you will, let them come up when they will, there can
but be one persecuting horn amongst them. If the Papal horn have
not made war with the saints, some other horn either has or will; but
as certain as that power has, for hundreds of years accomplished all
this, just so certain it is that no other horn either has or ever will;
four times in the same chapter are these horns introduced, but in every
case the language is expressive as possible, that only one shall wear out
the saints of the Most High or me. e war with them. The ﬁrst notice
is in Dan. vii. 8 :—“And it (the fourth beast) had ten horns. I con~
sidered the horns, and, behold, there came up among them another lit
tle horn, before whom there were three of the ﬁrst horns plucked up by
the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man,
and a mouth speaking great things." The next notice is in verse ll ;
there, it is true, only one is mentioned, but the mode of expression is
most forcible, as conﬁrming the view we are maintaining. It says, “I
beheld then, because of the voice of the great words which the horn
spake.” Here it is “ the horn" not the two horns that shall both speak
great words and wear out the saints ;—but one, “ the ham ,-" the same
horn above said to speak the great words. This is most decisive that
only one horn or persecuting power, was ever intended in that vision.
The third notice is in the 20th and 21st verses :-—“And of the ten horns
that were in his head, and of the other which came up and before whom
three fell, even of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth'that spake very
great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows, I beheld
and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against
them." The same are again noticed in the 24th and 25th verses :—
“And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall arise;
and another shall rise after them, and he shall be diverse from the
ﬁrst and he shall subdue three kings. And he shall s eak great words
against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints, ' 8tc.
Here we have thewhole case at one view ; in all the separate texts the
fullest possible conﬁrmation is given to the fact, that there cannot be two
of these eleven horns persecuting powers. Inasmuch, therefore, as there
"rue new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 127
cannot be two, and inasmuch as that the Papal power of Home has
been undeniably one; and, inasmuch as that other marks prove that the
revolutionary power of France could not be one; we therefore conclude
that Mr. Galloway's theory respecting the “little horn,” must, of
necessity, be false.
Mr. Galloway, together, in fact, with a majority of Commentators
on this important part of prophecy, has been plunged into the ver
lamentable errors they have committed, by considering the “little horn"
as emblematical of a purely political power. This mistake has proved
fatal to all the theories founded upon it; it is palpably at variance with
the whole prophetic description, and contradicted by all historical facts.
Notwithstanding, it has appeared impossible for the generality of Com
mentators to view it in any other light. Mr. Galloway says, “I have
no hesitation in asserting, 1st, that the little horn is a type not of the
Pope, but of a very different olitical power, to be explained hereaf
ter," page 87. Here the “lit! horn" is excluded from all application
to the Pope, upon the exclusive grounds of that horn being typical of a
political power only. His whole opposition to Bishop Newton's scheme
of the “little horn" plucking up the three horns, is founded on the
same error. In page 394, he asserts that “ at the time Ravenna was
subdued by Aistulphus, which was in the year 755 A. D., the Pope
did not possess any one mark or quality of a born.” In illustration
of which he proceeds as follows :—“As to the Pope, he was at this
time only a simple Bishop, and subject in temporal and civil matters, to
the senate and people of Rome, who had revolted from the Eastern
Empire some time before; and, therefore, he had no mark of a horn.
And when Pepin took Ravenna from Aistulphus, he, and not the Pope,
became possessed, in right of conquest, both of the civil dominion and
ecclesiastical power over it. The latter he gave to St. Peter and his
successors." But surely this did not transfer his civil dominion to the
Pope; it was in its nature, only a donation of his ecclesiastical autho
rity, as Head of the Church. Besides, after this transfer of ecclesias
tical authority to St. Peter, the Bishop acknowledges that the Pope
held even the Dutchy of Rome, and his other territory under the King
of France; so that he had not even yet become a horn."
Again, page 398, he says, “that the Pope was not an independent
civil power, at the time either of the conquest of Ravenna or Lom
bardy, or the suppression of the different rebellions at Rome, but held
his temporal dominion of the kings of France; and, therefore, could
not be then ‘ the little horn,’ or any of the three horns to be plucked
up before it." In the end he concludes that the Pope never became
“a temporal, independent power, or a HORN, until the year 814,
when Louis the Pious, King of France, conferred it on him."
128 THE new CHRISTIAN wonLn.
Such views of the “little horn” being exclusively a temporal inde
pendent power, lay at the foundation of the most numerous and greatest
errors, contradictions, and inconsistencies of Commentators upon it.
It diﬁ'uses its baneful inﬂuence through all their productions as to its
nature, its origin, the time of its establishment, together with the period
allotted to its continuance and the time of its end. This error has led
to more and greater bewilderment and confusion in the minds of the
reader, of the mass of inconsistencies which has been published upon
it, than any other; and has blinded the mind against the clearest de
ductions which would otherwise naturally ﬂow from the prophetic
descri tion itself; and has rendered the plainest impossibilities admis
sible, and even admirable, by both writers on, and readers of, this impor
tant vision. It is impossible for this subject to be understood, while
this error darkens the mind; and anything like an harmonious inter
pretation can never be given, until the mind becomes entirely freed
from this proliﬁc source of confusion.
We have abundant information given in the prophetic description,
to expel this error from the minds of all candid inquirers. It is rendered
as plain as any distinct part of the vision, that this “little horn" is
not emblematical of a temporal kingdom at all; that it was never in
tended that it should be so understood or applied. It is an unnatural,
tortured employment of parts of the description given of it, to apply
them to a temporal power at all; and even, although the true power
symbolized may have intermeddled with temporal affairs,--yet this, ac
cording to the vision, cannot be construed to give character to the horn.
The vision nowhere says, that he shall never interfere with civil affairs
at all; whereas, though every pnrt of it stamps him with a character,
altogether different to that of a temporal, civil, or political power; and
it is solely because one error has been heaped upon another, through
the inventions of men being followed, instead of the plain word of God,
that the unfounded, pernicious, and erroneous theory has become p0pu
lar, that a political power was ever here intended.
This is a “horn” it is true; and the ordinary rule applying to the
whole of Daniel’s prophecies is, that a horn is emblematical of a tem
poral kingdom. This is rendered clear in the interpretation given by
the angel, respecting the vision of the ram and he-goat. There the
temporal kingdoms of the Medes and Persians, that of Alexander, and
those of his successors, are undeniably typiﬁed by horns u on the ani
mals there introduced; and that all these were temporal kingdoms, is
attested by their whole history. So likewise with regard to the ten
horns in the vision before us, these are said to be typical of ten kings
that should arise; which beyond all doubt represent ten of those poli
tical temporal kingdoms, into which the Roman Empire became divided
THE saw CHRISTIAN woaLn. 129
after the establishment of Christianity in the World. The advocates
of the political character of the Pope as a horn, may strongly plead
here, that a rule so oft attested and so distinctly established, must be
rendered absolute in all similar cases where the same type occurs.
This would assuredly have been the case, had the veto of heaven never
been put forth to reverse this rule. Had there existed no express in
timation respecting this horn, that the general rule by which the other
horns must be interpreted did not apply to this, then we should have
had no authority to have refused the application of the common one.
But have we no intimation to this eﬁ'ect? From the facility, the ur
gency, and perseverance with which the ordinary rule is applied, there
might not have been a single intimation given, that a peculiar rule was
required; and learned Commentators proceed upon the application of
the ordinary rule here, just as though they were supported by as plain
texts as the Scripture supplies on any other subject. Let us endeavour
to examine the case.
Speaking of tlkrking typiﬁed by the “little horn,” it is said, “and
he shall be DIVERSE from the ﬁrst,” verse 24. Here we have the
ﬁrmest possible foundation laid, for the unscrupulous rejection of, at all
events, some of the rules or some rule of interpretation, which has
equally applied to all the other emblems of the same kind; inasmuch
as that this is set forth as diverse, or different from the ﬁrst. If diﬁ'erent,
a different rule of interpretation must be required.
Mr. Galloway notices this mark of the “little horn,” and says upon
it, “ Some Commentators have thought this diversity was to consist in
the form of its government; but in the Greek and Arabic versionsit is
translated thus,--“he shall exceed in wickedness all before him ;” and
without any reasons whatever being given, he throws overboard our
translators, and adopts the Greek text, and without proof takes this as
perfectly applicable to revolutionary France. We have before proved
that it is perfectly ridiculous to suppose that revolutionary France, as
such, could be any horn of the beast at all, in Mr. G.'s sense; and we
shall now show that we must have better grounds for our convictions
than he gives, before we can yield to the single quotation he has favoured
us with, as ﬁxing the true import of the difference between the horns
here asserted.
In one part of Mr. Galloway’s treatise, we ﬁnd the difference between
this horn and the others pointed out in language which we shall take
the liberty of employing against his last quoted representation of the
difference. He says, “the Pope, in no part of the prophecy is referred
to as a temporal prince, but is designated by the symbol of a beast,
which signiﬁes a cruel and wicked power, whether civil or ecclesiastical,
and it is to his ecclesiastical, and not to his civil authority, that we must
130 'rrrs new CHRISTIAN woaLn.
look for his character as a beast, and for his usurpations and inhuma
nity. In respect to his political consequence, it is well known that
amongst the kings and princes of Europe, he has always been insigni
ﬁcant and contcrnptible. The extent of his temporal territories and
the number of his subjects, have, comparatively, been small; nor has
he, from incapability, ever attempted to make extensive use of his own
temporal forces, either to acquire or support his power or grandeur, or
to exercise his acts of tyranny and cruelty. On the contrary he has,
by his ecclesiastical inﬂuence only over the minds of men, procured and
upheld his superiority over the Kings, Princes, and Bishops of Europe,
and carried into execution his seductive, his fraudulent, his bloody
schemes for the destruction of all who would not submit to his eccle
siastical will and embrace his idolatry, In the ﬁrst character in
which he has been drawn, all is in a manner but feeble, innocent and
inoffensive; in the second he has been powerful, ferocious and cruel."
——Page 87.
Here Mr. Galloway has given us a picture of the “ﬁnal power, which
answers as perfectly as face answers to face in a glass, to the prophetic
description of the “little horn.” Here we see one power amongst
the ten, evidently diverse from the ﬁrst. The ﬁrst were simply political
or civil powers, like all ordinary temporal kingdoms on earth; but this
was an ecclesiastic power; in this the words of the prophecy are liter
ally fulﬁlled, “ he shall be diverse from the first." The other kingdoms
acquired and supported their dominions by their own temporal forces ;
but this power both obtained and extended his inﬂuence in the world,
solely by his ecclesiastical dominion over the mind,—he was diverse
from the ﬁrst. Notwithstanding the comparative insigniﬁcancc of his
temporal forces and extent of territory, he acquired an irresistible dolni~
nion over all the other kingdoms; and a power by which he excommu
nicated and dethroned Kings and Princes at his pleasure ; and although
as a temporal Prince, himself in every respect inferior, yet as an eccle
siastical Prince, he was the Lord and Master of them all,—-“ diverse
from the ﬁrst.” The sole ground, foundation, and cause of all the
difference was, he was an Ecclesiastical, they were temporal Princes;
theirs were temporal kingdoms, his professedly a spiritual kingdom.
A more perfect prototype to this part of the prophetic description of
the “little horn," it is impossible to ﬁnd; and this has really existed.
Comparisons with any other power or kingdom which ever existed,
sinks into perfect insigniﬁcance and nothingness as regards agreement,
when contrasted with this; the reference which Mr. Galloway makes
to the revolutionary power of France, is perfectly ridiculous in contrast
with this. The revolutionary power was not a horn at all; but if it
had, it was a civil power the same as the ﬁrst; it founded its success
run new cnms'run woaLn. 131
upon military conquest, same as the ﬁrst; if it were inﬁdel, so were some
of the other ten ; and it was not more wicked than itself had been, when
a horn upon the head of the beast. It is true it was diverse from the
ﬁrst in its republican principles, but it was purely a civil power; and
this difference in this one partial respect, sinks into nothing when con
trasted with the complete and universal difference, which for hundreds
of years existed between the Papal power and the other, in its nature,
its origin, its means, its triumphs, and its magnitude. In these respects
it has proved itself diverse from the ﬁrst, in a manner peculiar to it
self; and which must for ever blaze upon the pages of history, in unre
stricted deﬁance to all to ﬁnd its parallel. It stands above all, the true
prototype of the “little horn," diverse from all the rest.
That this “little born” was typical of an ecclesiastical and not a
civil power, is further evident from the clearly deﬁned nature of its con
tests and the objects of its attack. In every reference made, and in
every prophetic description given of these subjects, as religious perse
cution directed against the saints of the Most High, is the one great
and only all-absorbing topic. Temporal kings and civil powers engage
in civil wars, but the “little horn" makes war only‘with the saints. An
Alexander, a Caesar, or a Napoleon, aims at conquering the world; but
the “little horn” is set forth as ambitious only “to wear out the saints
of the Most High." His great words are against the Most High,
his wars are against the saints of the Most High; his whole energies
are exhausted in wearing out the saints of the Most High; and he
continues until the judgment shall sit and they take away his dominion
to consume and to destroy it unto the end; and then the kingdom and
dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole. heaven
shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High.” The
pure spirit, intention, and only true meaning of which, can never be
construed into anything more or less, than a long continued and de
structive persecution by a power purely ecclesiastical. Such a power,
and no other, is the one and the only true prototype of the “little
horn." Such a power, exact in every particular and answering to every
other mark, all history proclaims aloud has been seated for centuries
at the head of the Catholic Church ; at the same time all history
proves, that no other power answering the prophetic description ever
existed in any age or nation since Christianity was established; therefore,
the ecclesiastical power of Papal Home, is the sure, the true, and the
only prototype of the “little horn," in this important vision. What
ever intermeddling there may have been, by this “little horn" in secu
lar affairs, all this neither adds nor diminishes from his character, as
purely an ecclesiastical power. As a “little horn” he was to be diverse
to the rest of the ten, and the only true sense in which he would differ,
132 nu; NEW cr-nus'rmn WORLD
is clearly deﬁned by the nature and objects of his constant phrsuits ;
which being exclusively of an ecclesiastical character, prove him to be
an exclusively ecclesiastical power.
Having in the former pages clearly and fully identiﬁed the “little
horn,” that would wear out the saints of the Most High; having
proved positively that this power has not yet to arise in the world, but
that it has already come; and having established the fact fully, that
the revolutionary power of France could not possibly be the “little
born ;" and, moreover, that in the whole range of the history of nations
not more than one true prototype can be discovered; and that that horn
can be no other than the dominant persecuting power of Papal Rome,
it has now become our duty to offer a few remarks on the period set
forth, through which this “little horn” should wear out the Saints of
the Most High.
This period is given in Dan. vii. 25, as “ a time, and times, and the
dividing of time." Every writer on prophecy, animated with untem
pered zeal in the support of a favourite theory, seems to have esteemed
himself as in the possession of license, to make this period into just
that length of time which would support and conﬁrm his views, and
prove fatal to the computations of all others. The advocates for the
theory that the “little born" has yet to come, maintain that the only
true import of a time is one year; times, two years; and the dividing
of time half-a-year, in all 3% years. This they maintain, is the whole
duration of this prophetic term; to such a conclusion, their theory of
necessity, confines them. They teach that this “little born," when he
comes, will carry devastation and death through the Christian Church,
at a speed and to an extent unparalleled by any pre-existing power;
and, consequently, that 315 years will be quite long enough for such
horrid transactions to prevail. Of course this party have no events to
guide them, all with them being yet future. Abstract reasoning upon
the literal meaning of prophecy, is all they have to direct their conclu
sions; and in this case, they are placed under considerable embarrass
ment to make out what can even pass for a plausible case; anything
like positive proof they can have none, and their reasonings can only
seem plausible to those who are pre-disposed to receive them.
This will appear evident from the following facts :-—It was the cus
tom of the ancients, to calculate time by the revolution of the heavenly
bodies. In ‘24 hours they found by night and day, that the earth revol
ved on its own axis; this space they calleda time, and this time, a day.
In 28 days the moon revolved round the earth, and this they called
a time ,- and to distinguish it from the lesser portion of a day, they gave
it the name of a month. The moon during her revolution, they per
ceived put on dili‘erent phases or appearances, every seven days ,- and
rmr new CHRISTIAN wonLn. 133
this space they also called a time, and named it a week; and in 360
days, according to their account, the earth revolved in its own orbit
round the sun, and this space they also called a time, which they dis
tinguished from the others by the term year. According to this, a day,
a week, a month, and a year, being equally a time; and as the prophet
has not given, in this chapter, the least intimation as to which of these
periods he refers, in the total absence of all facts to guide them, the
decisions of our friends must be most arbitrary and uncertain, in deter
mining that a year is the exact time here intended.
Considerable relief, however, they imagine they receive from the case
of Nebuchadnezzar’s insanity. In Daniel's interpretation of the king’s
dream, foretelling the period of this disease, the word times is employed
and seven times given as the period for the king's insanity to continue.
This they hold as a clear precedent, establishing a rule by which the same
word must be interpreted wherever it is found in the same prophecies.
In this case they maintain it must signify a year ,- and if a year in this
case, it must imply the same wherever it is‘ found; and, consequently,
the time, times, and the dividing of time before us, must be 3% years.
But this reasoning is by no means conclusive, for the following rea
sons :—Firstly, there is no positive proof in the history of the event,
that years are intended. It is generally so understood and so admitted;
but it might be seven months, as a month was also a time with the an
cients. We do not contend that seven months or seven years were to
be understood; we only make the observation, to show that this case
is by no means so absolute and conclusive, as the advocates of such a
theory seem to hold it.
But, secondly, we do contend that it is not to be considered of uni
versal application. If a time mean one year common time, in the
case of Nebuchadnezzar's insanity, this is no proof that the same inter
pretation must be given to the same term, in every case where Daniel
employs it. We shall very soon show that to apply this rule to all
Daniel’s prophecies, would be ridiculous, and involve us in endless con
tradictions and impossibilities; and it affords most convincing evidence
of a bad cause, when men are driven to unnatural, tortured applica
tions of rules, which have no legitimate connection, for the sake of
upholding a favourite theory. _
There is no one rule by which all the prophetic periods in Scripture
can be measured. The Butler's and Baker's dreams, as recorded Gen. xl.
12—20, included, according to Joseph’s interpretation, three days, and
in the fulﬁlment days common time were proved the true import. But
all the facts of the case as before established, prove that the 2300 days,
Dan. viii., means 2300 years. The captivity of the Jews in Babylon,
were predicted by Jeremiah xxv. l], to continue 70 years, and was ful
134 me new errars'rrau woau).
ﬁlled according to common time ; whilst the 70 weeks in Daniel ix.,
embrace a period of 490 years, as frilly proved by the facts of the case.
Many similar examples might be quoted, clearly proving that no one
rule is of universal application.
This may lead some to inquire how we are to distinguish in such a
multiplicity and variety of rules, which ought to be applied; and some
have even doubted the possibility of arriving at anything like certainty
on the subject; but such doubts arise from a want of better information
concerning the prophecies in general, and not from any deﬁciency in
our day of clear and distinctive marks in the prophecies themselves.
The fulfillment is the safest guide we can possibly follow; and this
guide we now have, as a clue to the true interpretation of so many,
that if candid, we are in no danger of being much betrayed in coming
to a decided judgment concerning the rules relating to the rest, if we
will but make proper exertion in examining them.
One general rule is this, that all prophecies to receive their fulﬁll
ment in the days of the prophets, were delivered according to the rule of
of common time, wherea period was ﬁxed, and were generally of short
duration. Exceptions may be found to this, but we give it only for
illustration. as the general rule. But if prophecy must extend through
all time, and it has pleased God so to ordain it, then it became indis.
pensible that periods of greater length should be given; periods ex
tending for hundreds, yea thousands of years beyond the days of the
prophets, and these are generally given on a scale altogether diﬁ'erent
to the former. A day is made emblematical of a year; and according
to Peter even “a day is with the Lord as a thousand years." The
above, as a geueral principle by which all prophetic periods are governed,
is abundantly conﬁrmed by all the prophecies, and by both profane and
sacred historical accounts of their fulﬁlment.
From this it follows, that time, or times, or half-a-time, ordained to
be fulﬁlled in the days of the prophet, may be rationally expected from
the above general rule of all prophecy, to be governed by one rule at the
same time, that the same words, time, times and a half; evidently fore
telling events hundreds of years remote from the days of the prophet,
may and ought to be interpreted by quite a different rule. It is in as
perfect harmony with the indisputable law of all Scripture prophecy, to
suppose a time in prophecy, which must be fulﬁlled in the life of the
prophet, to mean a year, as it is to suppose it to mean 360 years, pro
vided the prophecy alludes to events six times 360 years distant from
the days of that prophet; but is palpably at- variance with the general
law of all prophecy, to assert that one rule of interpretation must be
applied to both.
This strikes from beneath them the broken reed of Nebuchadnezzar’s
'rns new CHRISTIAN WORLD- 135
insanity, or the predicted period of its continuance, as establishing a
rule for the correct and general interpretation of the prophetic time, on
which the advocates of the theory we oppose have been mainly resting.
On this they would never have hazarded any defence whatever, nor
have had occasion to do so had not their cause been bad. Some of
our friends blame us for coming out so bold, and being so conﬁdent.
Qne great cause is, the palpable nothingness of the defence set up in
support of other theories.
Still our friends may contend that their foundation is not utterly de
stroyed, by the above undeniable law by which all prophecy is governed.
They say that the time, times, and the dividing of time, was never sup
posed to cover the whole period of time, from the days of the prophet to
the end of the “little [torn s" reign over the saints of the Most High; but
only the length of time, when the saints shall be given into the hands
of the “little born" to do this. But this again, is only heaping one
error upon another ; or making a false supposition of the “little horn"
being yet future; the great reason why a false interpretation of the
speciﬁed period of his usurpation should be adopted. We have before
proved, that it is impossible for any horn of the Roman beast to have
yet to come, answering to the “little horn ;" because one horn upon
that beast has been a persecuting power, such as the “little horn" was
to be, and there never can be two. Consequently the theory of one yet
to come, is in plain opposition to the clearest sense of the prophecy,
and all the facts of history recorded of the Papal horn of Rome.
This strips the theory of the time, times, and the dividing of time,
being only 3% years from every shadow of protection. That period up
plies to the usurpations of a power that has already ﬁgured in the'world,
and we have in this the best and surest of all rules of interpretation to
guide, namely, that of the fulﬁlment of the prophecy itself.
Yes, Mr. Galloway contends we have ; and he also, but upon a quite
different principle, defends the same duration of time, which those ad
vocate who believe the “little horn" has yet to come. He maintains
that years, common time, must be understood by the “time, times,
and dividing of time” before us; and in proof he advances what be con
ceives, the only true and literal fulﬁlment thereof. Respecting this,
he, at the ﬁrst glance, may seem to have much firmer ground to stand
upon, than the advocates of the former theory. Imposing matters of
fact, of undeniable occurrence, are laid before the public with the most
undoubted assurance, and upon theSe facts the clearest solution of every
mystery is supposed to be given.
\Ve have before seen that the revolutionary power of France, is
the only true prototype of this “little horn," according to Mr. Ga]
loway; and to make every part of the prophetic description harmonize
136 THE NEW CHRISTIAN wonu).
in the spirit and doings of this power, it was necessary, that the time,
times, and the dividing of time, should be shown strictly fulﬁlled in some
of its most prominent transactions. In an event of such magnitude as
that of the French Revolution, little difliculty would be experienced in
singling out some train of events, which would at all events, seem a
moderate fulﬁlment of this part of prophecy; and we ﬁnd him selec
ting a celebrated decree “ for the exile of the Clergy, passed the 26th
of August, 1792 ;" this he gives as the commencement of this impor
tant period. He then continues :--“As to the end of this prophetic
period, the event is equally demonstrative of it; for from the end of
September, 1792, when the Clergy were imprisoned and massacred, the
distressing state of the Christians in France surpaSSes description. In
this dreadful state, (a state in which, according to the literal sense of
the text, they were given into the hands of the French government)
they remained until the latter end of March, 1796, when glutted with
Christian blood, the atheistical demagogues passed a decree, granting
a full toleration of all kinds of religion, which virtually repealed all the
decrees against fanatics, and delivered the Christians out of their hands.
Now if we calculate the time between the latter end of September,
1792, and the latter end of March, 1796, we shall ﬁnd it in the
language of prophecy, “a time, times, and the dividing of time,"
which when interpreted, is exactly a period of three years and a
hat/I Thus taking the events as a clue, and comparing them with the
text, we have unraveled its mystical meaning and arrived at the truth."
-—Page 418.
Here Mr. Galloway makes all clear as the day, according to his
theory, and 312: years is just the time. The fate of all his computations
on this, has, however, been before sealed. Unfortunately for his theory,
the “little horn” and the revolutionary power respecting which he
calculates, are two things as opposite as the poles from each other.
The grossly delusive form of the piece quoted, is worthy of a passing
remark; all the way through, the terms “Chistian” and “C are
used, as though he had been writing an account of the hottest perse
cution ever carried out against the most pious and devoted Christians,
which he treats as the only true saints of the Most High. This is sheer,
wilful, black deception, or the most consummate delusion on his part,
through the blinding inﬂuence of a false theory. These, his idol
“clergy,” were the Catholic clergy of that day ; and as a class, they had
for hundreds of years been the heaviest curse to the French nation: as
in fact, to the whole Roman kingdom ; yet for some time prior to the
popular outburst of indignant feeling against them, they had exempliﬁed
the conduct and dispositions of incarnate devils, far more perfectly than
that of the saints of the Most High. They were themselves prostituted
THE saw cunrsrrau wonLn. 187
to every thing vile and abominable; the swom defenders of all the
bloody tyranny, the hellish usurpations, and intolerable avarice and
cruelty of the overgrown Papal power; their lives were spent in idle
ness, luxury and debauchery; and their great business was to debase '
the mind, to prostitute the judgment, and to chain as slaves both in
body and soul all France, to the thousand-fold dipped in blackest guili
the Papal chair. And these, forsooth, are Mr. Galloway’s clerical
saints of the Most High! He has, also, “the Christians.” Who are.
these? Just that part of the community, which the above great
whore of Babylon had made drunk with the wine of her fornication;
that part chiefly, which the above prostituted priesth00d had succeeded
to bind as blind slaves, to the chariot wheels of the monstrous god
Popery. These, then, who would just as willingly repeat at the bid
ding of their priesthood the deeds of St. Bartholomy’s eve, celebrated
as the memorable time of the French massacre, would do any other
thing ;—men who believed their eternal happiness depended upon the
explicit performance of the will of the Pope, whether that will was to
celebrate the Eucharist or massacre a thousand unresisting and unof
fending heretics. These are Mr. Galloway’s saints of the Most High;
—-these are his Christians against whom, at least many of them, the
wrath of the revolutionary party was justly raised to the pitch of
frenzy.
That this subject may be placed before the reader in a. proper light,
and that wilful misrepresentation, misapplication of texts, or highly re~
prchensible carelessness in the selection of facts may be seen, we will
produce a few brief extracts from history, on the state of the Catholic
Church Mr. Galloway’s saints of the Most High, for some previous
to the French revolution.
After the taking of Constantinople by the Turks, in that memorable
29th of May, 1453; when the Eastern Empire of the ltomans ceased,
and the apostate Church of Rome received a just chastiscment for its
accumulated crimes, equal to that inﬂicted on the Western by the revo
tionary power of France; yet from the one calamitous event to the
other during a space of 345 years, the corruptions of that oh urch had
gone on increasing; and within that period we have the most authentic
records to prove, that the proﬁigacy of the priesthood, the superstition
of the masses, and the general degeneracy of the whole Western world
was never greater.
At this time, according to the confession of Du Pin’s History, chap.
iii., page 56 (one of their own historians), “the Popes were more oc
cupied with the cares of aggrandizing their temporal power and settling
their families, than with ecclesiastical affairs. Yet many letters and
bulls were written in their name, about the affairs which are commonly
K
138 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
carried to the Court of Rome, as the canonization of saints, the privi
leges of monasteries, the affairs of religious orders, of dispensations,
processes about churches,” &c.
According to the same authority and from the same page, it appears
that Callistus Third, who was elevated to the Popedom, during the
very time of the siege of Constantinople, instead of repenting of the
works of the hands of his predecessors, “added to the corruptions of
the Church by establishing the festival of the transfiguration. His
successor, Pius IInd, immediately on ascending the Papal throne is
sued a bull, retracting all that he had formerly written in favour of a
Council, and forbade any appeal from the Pope to that tribunal."
Sixtus IVth, by two decrees, granted indulgences to those who
should celebrate the Feast of the Conception, and say the ofﬁce com
posed by Nogoral, a Canon of Verona; and enjoined Catholics not to
treat with Heretics, on pain of excommunication ; he limited the term
of the Jubilee, to 25 years. Alexander Vlth, the last Pope of the
15th century, having become the Head of the Church by bribery and
largesses to the Cardinals of beneﬁces and lands ; “ disgraced his dig
nity by his ambition, his avarice, his cruelties and debaucheries, and
died in the year 1503, by unconsciously taking the poison which he
had prepared for the Cardinals.” Indulgences were granted in vast
numbers and with great facility, by the Popes, who, in the same cen
tury, began to convert them into a species of tral'ﬁc.
From such evidence drawn from such a source, we may, without sus
picion or reserve, turn to other testimony; which, however, we still
choose, as before, to give without mutilation, in the very words of the
Historian to whose province it pertains.
“ The Monastic Societies, as we learn from a multitude of authentic
records and from the testimonies of the best writers, were at this time
so many herds of lazy, illiterate, proﬂigate, and licentious epicureans.
whose views of life were conﬁned to opulence, idleness and pleasure.
The rich Monks, particularly those of the Benedictine and Augustine
Orders, perverted their revenues to the gratiﬁcation of their lusts, and
renouncing in their conduct all regard to the respective rules of discip
line, drew upon themselves the popular odium by their sensuality and
licentiousness.”—-“While the opulent Monks exhibited to the world
scandalous examples of luxury, ignorance, laziness, and licentiousness.
accompanied with a barbarous aversion to every thing that carried the
remotest aspect of science, the Mendicants, and more especially, the
Dominicans and the Franciscans, were chargeable with irregularities of
another kind. Besides their arrogance, which was excessive, a quarrel
some and litigious spirit, an ambitious desire of encroaching upon the
rights and privileges of others, an insatiable zeal for the propagation of
THE NEW cnars'rran WORLD. 139
superstition amongst them, drew upon them the displeasure and indig
nation of many."
“The state of religion was become so corrupt among the Latins, that
it was utterly destitute of anything that could attract the esteem of the
truly virtuous and judicious part of mankind. This is a fact which
even they whose prejudices render them unwilling to acknowledge it,
will never presume to deny. The number of those who were studious
to‘acquire a just notion of religious matters, to investigate the true sense
of the sacred writings, and to model their lives after the precepts and
example of the divine Saviour, was extremely small; and such had
some diﬂiculty in escaping the gibbet, in an age when virtue and sense
were looked upon as heretical.”
“ This miserable state of things, this enormous perversion of religion
and morality, throughout almost all the Western provinces, were ob
Served and deplored by many wise and good men, who all endeavoured,
though in different ways, to stem the torrent of superstition, and to
reform a corrupt Church. The Waldenses, though persecuted and op
pressed on all sides and from every quarter, raised their voices even in
their remote valleys and lurking places, where they were driven by the
violence of their enemies, and called aloud for succour to the expiring
cause of religion and virtue. Even in Italy, many, and among others
the famous Savanavola, had the courage to declare, that Rome was be
come the image of Babylon; and this notion was adopted by multi
tudes of all ranks and conditions."
“But the greatest part of the Clergy and Monks, persuaded that
their honours, inﬂuence and riches would diminish, in proportion to the
increase of knowledge among the people, and would receive inexpres
sible detriment from the downfall of superstition,—opp0sed, with all
their might, every thing that had the remotest aspect of a reformation,
and imposed silence upon these unfortunate censors, by the formidable
authority of ﬁre and sword.”
“ The additions that were made to the Roman ritual, relating to the
worship of the Virgin Mary, public and private prayers, the trafﬁc of
indulgences, and other things ofthat nature, are of too little importance
to deserve an exact and circumstantial enumeration. We need not such
a particular detail to convince us, that in this century religion was re
duced to a mere show, to a show composod of pompous absurdities and
splendid triﬂes.”-M0sheim, cent. 3, sect. 3.
These, with numerous other extracts, which might be accumulated,
illustrate the insuperable dilemmas into which judicious men sometimes
plunge to support a favourite theory, at the expense of wresting the
prophetic descriptions. A wilder theory need not exist, than that
which supposes the party against which the revolutionary power of
140 THE NEW crmrsrms woau).
France directed its hottest ﬁre, was the saints of the hIost High.—
By neither of the above theories, are we supplied with the least in
formation respecting the true period intended in “time, times, and the
dividing of time. "
We must now turn to the more sure word of prophecy, and all the
historical Facts of the case. We have proved that the “little born,"
which was predicted to wear out the saints of the Most High, is not
yet in futurity, that it has most assuredly come, and yet that it was
not the revolutionary power of France; and that it could not possibly
be any other power but that of Papal Rome.
This came up amongst the ten; it had eyes like the eyes ot'a man, and
a mouth speaking great things. It was emphatically “little” as a tem
poral power ; but yet in its ecclesiastical inﬂuence, it never had an equal
in the world; its look was more stout than his follows. It was diverse
from the other ten, inasmuch as that they were temporal civil powers;
this was spiritual or an ecclesiastical power, diverse from the ﬁrst. This
power spake great words against the Most High in its blasphemous pre
tensions to be the Vicar of God, the Supreme Head of the Church
in its usurpation of the exclusive prerogative of Heaven, to pretend to
forgive sins, to grant indulgences, to distinguish and determine upon
right or wrong, to prohibit the word of God being read, to estab ish
rules of life and death for heretics; and in the excommunication of
kings, princes, minister and people, nations and individuals, and a thou
sand other enormities. Assuredly this power spake as never any other
power spake, and in this fulﬁlled the prediction of the “little horn." It
made war with the saints, it wore out the saints, it martyred 50,000,000
of them in cool blood. It was the only one single power amongst the
ten kingdoms in the Roman empire, that did this; like the “little born,"
that was the only one in the ten, of which such a description is given.
And, ﬁnally, this Papal power of Home, as the one and only true anti
typc ol' the “little horn," has achieved all above said for upwards of
1200 years. This power, and this alone, is therefore that power which
should wear out the saints, “for a time, times, and the dividing of time ;"
the true import of which we would now distinctly perceive.
In addition to all other proofs of the true period here intended,
which might be adduced, we may rest satisﬁed with a brief applicazzol'.
of a rule we have before noticed, as the best and safest guide we can
follow, that is the fulﬁlment. In the case of some prophetic periods,
we have not the privilege of adducing their completion, in indisputable
attestation of their length; of this privilege, wesre, however, in full
possession, as regards the period before us.
Before we speak of its full completion, let us ﬁx positively upon its
true duration, and that rule by which it must be interpreted and applied.
THE new CHRISTIAN wonu). 141
A time, as we have before seen, signifies alike, according to the custom
of the ancients, a day, a week, a month and a year. Not one of these
rules can possibly meet the case before us; the nature of the case for
bids it; all history proclaims that this cannot apply, inasmuch as that
it would be impossible to select out of ages of enormities, anything to
which the short period of 3% years would distinctly and peculiarly ap~
ply. One undeviating, unbroken line of policy, stretches alike over
hundreds of years; one 3% years is stamped with the same character
as its predecessors. All run together into one compact mass of ages,
through which one code of fundamental laws reign; one stupendous
plan, governs alike all the divisions of time; and one sad war conti
nues to wear out the saints of the Most High. To such a power, to
such a code of laws, and to such a war, every attempt to apply the
ephemeral rule of 315 years, is just as ridiculous as would be the effort
to measure a year with a day. Here we have unalterable facts to
guide us; theory has no province here; visionary interpretations of
misapplied texts, evaporate before them like the morning dew. The
one and only persecuting horn has come,--the black catalogue of its
deeds is before us. More than one cannot come, consequently we can
not confound it with any other. The period which will not cover the
catalogue before us, cannot be the correct one. But 3% years fall
many ages short of this power's reign; therefore it is impossible, that
this can be construed into the rule intended.
If, then, it be a clear impossibility for the rule of a time being a
year, to be the one intended here, our next business is to discover some
other rule which will justly apply. As we have, in a former part of
this work, fully established one as a clear scriptural rule, in which a
day is emblematical of a year, we will next have recourse to this to as
certain whether or not it will apply to the events before us. To guide
us in the ,pursuit of a correct rule, we must ﬁrst notice, the power we
are tracing has already existed for upwards of 1200 years. There
fore, we conclude at once, that any interpretation of time, times, and
the dividing of time, which counts less in this period than 1200 years,
cannot possibly be correct. If we could discover a scriptural rule, by
which the time, times-and-a-half might be interpreted to imply a period
of 1000 years, even this could not be the one intended; as it would
not by more than 200 years run parallel with the past existence of this
power, so as to cover the whole. But if a rule of interpretation em
bracing a period of 1000 years, must be rejected on the grounds of its
inefﬁciency to cover the past predominance of the “ little horn,” how
paltry must be the attempt to apply a rule of 3% years. These re
marks will lead us at once to a rule of interpretation which must be
adopted; not upon the grounds of abstract reasonings, but upon the
142 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
broad basis of necessity. We must adopt it, because no other will
apply.
This only possible rule, is a time emblematical of a year ; a year,
according to the computation of the ancients, 360 days. In the time,
times, and the dividing or IzaZfa-time, will be 1260 days. Take
these upon the rule s0 plainly and positively established, as a rule adop
ted by Daniel of a year for each day, we have then 1260 years in the
period before us.
In the application of this rule, every essential requisite of the pro
phetic description is satisﬁed as representing the Papal power of Rome ;
everything harmonizes, all is easy, natural, and sublime: no torturing
of a single text required; no making of two persecuting horns, where
the prophet has but one; no turning the natural current of affairs in
the eleven kingdoms, into any visionary channels; no turning of op
tics to reduce mountains to molehills, and turning them back to mag
nify men into monsters; no pompous hyperbolieal harangues required;
no absolute impossibilities to attempt to evade ; no transmogrifications
of incarnate devils, into “saints thhe Most High ;” no measuring
a day by a minute, nor a. year with a day, all common time; but in
the plainest simplest form, prophetic descriptions and historical facts,
in indissoluble union and uninterrupted harmony, travel on together
through the long period of 1260 years, leaving no blank in time, or
vacuum in events.
We then conclude, without any apprehension of refutation, THAT THE
ECCLESIASTICAL POWER OF PAPAL ROME, IS THE ONE,
THE TRUE, AND THE ONLY PROTOTYPE on THE LITTLE
HORN, in the seventh chapter of the book of Daniel,- and that
the only true meaning of the time, times, and the dividing time therein
given, for the above power to wear out the saints of the Most High is,
according to the only correct rule of interpretation, as above given,
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY YEARS.
The preceding evidences justify, and the nature of the case demands
the following appeal to our opponents :—You say that the “little
horn" just examined, is not typical of Papal Rome ;--these evidences
prove that you are wrong. You say they have not convinced you of
this ;—the evidences which Christ gave of his divinity, failed to con
vince the Scribes and Pharisees and all their blind adherents ;--they
have failed to convince millions of the unbelieving Gentiles. The
brightest, ﬁrmest, and most direct evidences on all subjects, natural,
moral, religious and political—from ignorance, prejudice, or interest,
meet the same fate every day. The basest, the most besotted, and most
ignorant, can easily say in answer to the most conclusive proofs.—
“thcy have not convinced me." But we ask, have ours confounded
rm: new cuursrrau WORLD. 143
“Wm-#:a its. assist. it
you? Do they, like guardian angels in sacred trust, present ﬂaming
swords in all directions,—-pointing,—forhidding your sacrilegious tres
pass, and causing you to ﬂy with terror ? If not, give proof of your inno
cence and courage ;—handle them if you please, with gloves of steel,
but guard yourselves. If you do not, actions speak louder than the
loudest boasting. Whatever you may speak, your deeds, your shrinking
back, will attest your conscious terror, and prove you stand confounded.
You say that the “little horn” is not emblematical of Popery :—
the Jews say that Christ was not the true Messiah,—-the Mahome
dans say that Mahomet was the true Prophet,--the fool hath said in
his heart there is no God. The Jews said, “we are Abraham's chil
dren," but our Lord replied “ye are of your father the devil, for his
works ye do.” It is possible to ﬁnd men stupid enough to say that
drunkenness is no sin, that whoredom is no vice, that the whole Bible
is a cunningly devised fable, and all religion a hoax. Excuse us for
concluding that all these are your representatives, until you fairly meet
the case.
The “little horn" was upon the head of the Roman beast; so was
Papacy.--Proof absolute.
This was there while the strength of the iron was in it: so was Pa
ac .
Th}; “little horn” came up amongst the ten; so did Papacy.—Proof
absolute.
Before whom three of the ﬁrst were plucked up; exactly so with Pa
pacyP-Proof absolute.
It was a “little horn ,-" so was Papacy in a temporal or civil sense.—
Proof absolute.
With a look more stout than his fellows; so was Papacy, ecclesiasti
cally.—Proof absolute.
It was diverse from the rest; so was Papacy. The other were all civil
powers; Papacy was noted only as a tremendous ecclesiastical power.
-—-Proof absolute.
The “little horn” had eyes like the eyes of a man ; so had Papacy her
spies and emissaries.
And a mouth speaking great things ; for this, Papacy has no equal in
the Church.
This horn has made war with the saints; so did Papacyr—Proof ab
solute.
It was to wear out the saints; Papacy did this to an extent unequal
led—Proof absolute.
To change times and laws; Papacy did this, till Christianity nearly
ceased in her Church.
To speak great words against the Most High; so did Papacy, by
144 THE new cunrs'rmu WORLD.
arrogating His attributes, changing His worship, Wlluting His
church, and denouncing His saints.
The “little horn,” was to have power over these things 1260 years;
so has Papacy.—-Proof absolute.
And this “little horn,” was the only one horn upon the head of the
Roman beast to do this; Papacy has done this, and all the other
marks agree; therefore there can be no other.
Now you who say that Papacy was not the prototype of the “little
born,” you have never met this case ;—you have never proved that Pa
pacy did not rise on the head of the Roman beast ;--that it did not
come up among the ten horns ;—that before it was established, three of
the ﬁrst were not plucked up ;—-that Papacy has not made war with the
saints ;—-that it has not persecuted and martyred millions ;—that it had
not its spies and emissaries constantly looking after its interests, and
informing of its opponents ;—-that it was not little as a civil power ;-—
that it was not stout and tremendous as an ecclesiastical power ;—-that
it was not a blasphemous persecuting power ;~-that it has not main
tained its dominancy for 1260 years ;-or, that it was not the only hem
amongst the eleven that did all this. You have never proved that the
above are not the true scriptural marks of the “little born ,-"--or that
they do not apply to Papacy. You have never proved that it is pos
sible for two powers to arise on the head of the Roman beast, answering
the clear prophetic description ;--nor have you ever met our positive
position that this is impossible. You have never proved that Papacy
was not one power, so situated; or shown the inference unjust, that
therefore there cannot be another. You have never proved that the
marks on which our conclusion rests, are not scriptural, direct, or inap
licable ;—nor that Zany other direct marks of the “little horn," exist
in Scripture.
Have you never grappled with these, because you know you cannot
prove them wrong? You dwell upon indirect, and frequently misap
plied marks. Is this because you know that all the proper, direct
marks are against you? And you do this without assigning suﬁicicnl
reason, why the direct prophetic mar/rs, ought not to constitute the ﬁrst
and most sacred rule of judgment. Is not this proof that your great
object is to diffuse around you, darkness instead of light; to bewilder
rather than instruct ; to prostitute, to deceive, and to betray, instead of
imparting a knowledge of the truth? You profess to be guided by
the Scripture, and yet the scriptural marks of Papacy as this “little
horn,” you reject, evade, and deny. Unfounded theory you substitute
to answer the prophetic marks, in the place of substantial facts, which
do answer both with regard to nature and time. An imaginary “lit/Ir
THE new CHRXSTIAN WORLD. 145
horn" you create, in opposition to all the prophetic marks and facts,
which prove that one has come and there cannot be two. But these
facts and marks completely overwhelm you. You racknowledge your
defeat in ﬂying from the face of them, and you proclaim their sovereign
power in attempting to evade them. We know you would employ
them and triumph with them, were you not conscious they are fatal to
your favourite theories; you would not wander through the Scripture
in quest of far-fetched indirect proof of your position, but from the
conviction that all the direct legitimate evidences are loud in proclaiming
your theory false. Thus all your evasions turn round in arms against
you; all your guards crush you, and your scriptural evidences them
selves declare against you because they are misapplicd.
Scripture cannot be in opposition to itself. No proofcan be admit
ted prior, or in opposition to, direct prophetic description in connection
with the prophecy itself; all must bend to this. ()ther texts may il
lustrate, but must never be made to contradict ; the true import of the
description must ﬁrst be ascertained, then its ﬁgurative meaning, by
which every correct conclusion is governed.
Because our opponents to Papacy being the “little horn," have neg
lected to follow this rule, all their conclusions are founded on error ;——
their arguments full of confusion and their whole theory proclaimed
false, by their dishonourable means of supporting it. \Ve advise them
to cast their treacherous sophistries to the wind ;-—to go direct to the
true source of light for information, for all the distinguishing marks of
a type in prophecy ;—-ﬁnd a real and easy antitype in nature ;——let his
torical facts legitimately meet prophetic description, so far as prophecy
has been fulfilled, and the truth will soon supersede all error.
It remains to be decided respecting the “little horn,” and the above
period of its dominant and tyrannic reign, “when that period begun and
when it ended.” But seeing that other prophecies embrace the same
subject, giving a varied representation of the same persecuting power,
and containing also the same period for its reign, it will be most advan
tageous to collect and concentrate the different prophetic views of this
same power, and then show when its dominion was fairly set and when
prophetically taken away.
Pursuing this line, we shall next investigate the “Alan of Sin,”
with the various theories entertained concerning it.
ON THE MAN OF SIN.
2 THESSALONIANS, ii. 3—10.
Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except
there come a falling away ﬁrst, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of per
dition; who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is
worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself
that he is God. Remember ye not, than when I was yet with you, I told you
these things? And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in
his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now let
teth will let, until he be taken out of the way. And then shall that Wicked he
revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall
destroy with the brightness of his coming: even him whose coming is after the
working of Satan with all power, and signs and lying wonders; and with all de
ceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not
the love of the truth, that they might be saved.
ACCORDING to the modern rules of interpretation generally adopted
by our millenarian brethren, the systems pursued by Newton, Faber,
Clark, and all the writers on this subject of the last age, are altogether
wrong. We are now told that it is ridiculous to suppose that any power
has ever yet appeared in the world, as properly the above “Man
Sin." It is maintained that Paul’s description thereof, is such as to
render it impossible to understand thereby, more than one single person
without doing violence to the plainest language that could be used ; that
such a person has never yet existed, consequently he has yet to come.
That Papacy cannot be intended here, for two plain and conclusive rea
sons:+-Firstly, the usurpations of Papac-y were not limited to one per
son; secondly, were never such as the Apostle asserts, “who opposeth
and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped.”
This our friends say, Popery never did, as is palpable to all the world;
inasmuch as that Popery, instead of thus exalting itself above the wor
ship and acknowledgment of God, has been in all ages branded with
and condemned for plunging into the very opposite extreme of low and
despicable idolatry, attested to all the world for centuries, in its rituals
and worship of saints and images, its foolish adoration of all manner of
cruciﬁxes and sepulchral relics. This can never, our friends assert,
be expected of him of whom the Apostle says, “he exalteth himself
above all that is called God or that is worshipped; so that he as God,
THE NEW cnnrs'rrau woaLn. 147
sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that he is God.” How
could he do this, our friends triumphantly demand, and at the same time
employ all his power and carry out the severest edicts, to enforce the
perpetual acknowledgment and worship of another god, or of many
gods, and demi-gods of all descriptions. Our friends perceive a con
tradiction in this, which they conceive it is impossible to reconcile, and so
palpable that they stand amazed that any man should still adhere to
such conﬂicting sentiments. The mystery of iniquity, the man of sin,
the new god in the temple of God, they assure us, from this prophetic
description has yet to come; and the days of wonder and of wicked
ness, have yet to dawn upon our world.
Perceiving a striking agreement between the prophetic descriptions
of this power, as given by Paul, Daniel, and John, our friends agree
that one and the same person is truly typiﬁed by all the different em
blems employed. The beast which St. John saw rising out of the sea,
to whom the dragon gave his power and seal, and great authority :—
“And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and
blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two
months. And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to
blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.
And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to over
come them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues,
and nations. And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him,"&c.
Rev. xiii. 5—--8. This, our friends assure us, is the same single person
who has yet to come, to carry out all this in its literal meaning for 42
months common time, or 3—;- years. For the credit of human ration
ality, every friend of society would most devoutly pray that such senti
ments may prove erroneous, and that all such interpretations of prophecy
may fail.
Carrying out the same literal interpretation, as' they call it, they
identify the “little born" of Daniel, chap. vii. v. 8, as this same “Man
QfSin” whom they there ﬁnd performing similar wonders in the temple
of God. In Gog, the chief Prince of Meschech and Tubal, the great
hero of the 38th and 39th chapters of Ezekiel, they meet with the
same “Alan of Sin ;" only there his downfall constitutes the chief
subject of that prophecy.
This Man of Sin, which has yet to come, will not ascend the pinnacle
of power, of glory, and of sin, without opposition; although our friends
assure us he is to acquire universal dominion, and all nations, kindreds,
and tongues are to serve him; and the only testifying powers, or per
sons against him through the 3§ years of his unlimited dominion, even
over them he will in the end prevail, and kill them, and not suffer their
bodies to be put in graves, but have them exposed in the streets of the
148 THE new CHRIS’NAN WORLD
great city 3§ days :—-“And they of the people and kindreds and tongues
and nations, shall see their dead bodies three days and a half, and
shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves. And they
that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and
shall send gifts one to another: because these two prophets tormented
them that dwelt on the earth." Rev. xi. 9, 10. These are the two
witnesses described as above, who are to come from heaven when the
“Man QfSin" has obtained his seat as god in the temple of God, and
for three years and a half, these witnesses will, our friends assure us,
faithfully testify against the abominable usurpation of this unequalled
‘ “Man of Sin;" and that immediately after their testimony is finished,
this “Man Sin" himself must be destroyed.
From the whole of this it will be seen, that we are as much in fault
in all our computations as to time, as we have been concerning the
coming of the “Man of Sin." All the best Commentators of the last
age, gave the “time, times and a half,” Dan. vii. 25, xii. 7, and Rev.
xii. 14, as being emblematical of 1260 years, according to the rule we
have before given. By the same rule the 42 months, Rev. xi. 2, con
tain the same period; there being in them 1260 days, 30 days for each
month, according to Jewish computation. 'Upon the same principles
the 1260 days ltev. xi. 3, and the 1290 days Dan. xii. 11, and 1335
days Dan. xii. 12, have been held as emblematical of so many years.
But according to the new theory of interpretation, such a construction is
wrong, and only common time must be understood.
The prophecies by Daniel and John, have ever been considered as
involved in great mystery; and there are parts thereof which have truly
been closed up and sealed, according to the angel's announcement, Dan.
xii. 9, even up to the present age. But the new system of interpre
tation, as above set forth, instead of breakinthhe seals and opening the
book, and rendering all its heretofore mysterious contents plain to all
interested in their accomplishment, appears to us to involve the whole
in greater mystery, without affording a single ray of light, by the in
crease of which the darkness of past ages may be expelled.
Into every part of this new theory, we have no intention at present,
nor do we see it necessary that we should enter. If again called to it by
correspondents, we shall enlarge. At present we shall lay down a few
plain principles and facts, which we think may prove sufficient to remove
any false impression, and prevent the spread of such amongst sincere
inquirers after truth.
The above theory seems to have originated in, and to be chieﬂy de
pendent upon, the impressions produced by reading the various pro
phetic descriptions of that power, commonly distinguished by the term
Antichrist. It is ﬁrst supposed, that according to the literal espres
"rue new CHRISTIAN WORLD. I49
sion of the descriptions given, that power has never yet prevailed in
the world ;—that when it manifests itself, it must be in one single in
dividual ;--that for one man to live 1260 years, is impossible without
a miracle ;-—and that,therefore, days instead of years must be understood.
The conclusion then is brought in, that for three and a half years,
some most extraordinary human being will rise up, in whom all the va
ried prophetic descriptions of the “ Dian Sin” will concentrate and
ﬁnd a perfect antitype: that he will literally be and do all that is said
of him; but when and where, our friends seem altogether uncertain.
Against such a theory as this, the present current of affairs and the
general state of society in all nations, springs forth with one unani
mous veto against all such pretensions. The mighty mandate has gone
forth from the millions, “ we will be free," and no power on earth can
reverse this decision. But for such a Man of Sin to reign as our friends
anticipate, implies an enslavement of the world, far surpassing all that
was ever effected in the darkest ages and by the vilest despots. Already it
is true, the world like a troubled sea is in motion ;—it seems travailing
in birth of some mighty change, and signs are strong that a new era is
at hand. But of what character? Is absolute unlimited monarchy
rapidly gaining in favour with the masses, thus to prepare the way for
the universal government of our new-made god? The opposite ex
treme is evidently the point towards which all nations are fast hasten
ing, and the signs are inﬁnitely stronger, that in a very short period all
monarchy will be unknown amongst men but in history. Even now,
in many countries, the throne trembles,—the power of despotic rulers
evaporates,—the spell-bound millions are being liberated from their
former reverence to all such establishments. The notion is spreading
that male and female, good and bad, are the only distinctions which
heaven has made through the great family of man, and all others are
rapidly losing their magic inﬂuence over the human mind. That this
is the present mighty current of the public mind, none can deny. That
means are possessed, and industriously employed to facilitate this move
ment, in a manner and to an extent which the world never before wit
nessed, is also certain. Under these circumstances, with such an
absolutely, overwhelming and hourly increasing current against him,
how our aspiring god is to mount the pinnacle of the world,—-turn back
the mighty tide of public feeling,—hush every murmur against despotic
rule,-—and reign as God for3§ years, is to us absolutely unaccountable.
From all the infallible signs abounding in the world, we feel no hesita
tion in pronouncing the whole magical scene impossible.
Our friends will answer to this, that with God all things are possible,
and what He has said he can bring it to pass. True—But he has never
said that all this shall be accomplished as they expect. We shall very
150 THE new cnarsrran worru).
soon advance an interpretation, supported by all the texts of Scripture
and historical facts bearing on the subject, which will show how all
these may receive their accomplishment, in a very different manner to
the above; and which, in fact, is the only true interpretation which can
be received.
The new theory stands in too palpable opposition to many other
plain texts of Scripture, ever to be received by the sufﬁciently minute
pr0phetic student. If ever the Man of Sin could come as our friends
expect him, this must be at or near the time of the end, in Daniel’s
sense, when Michael the great prince shall stand up for the Jews. But
at that time, Daniel says, “many shall run to and fro, and knowledge
shall be increased," xii. 4. But an increase of knowledge and the
reign of the Man of Sin, as before set forth, are extremes which can
never be brought together. This time of the end has not yet come;
therefore, between now and this time of the end, from the declaration
of Daniel, knowledge will increase. But for the ﬁlm: of Sin to rise
up and enslave the bodies and minds of men in'_ all nations, and
that to such a degree as that they will worship him as a god; and that
too when he is wearing out the saints of the Most High, making him
self drunk with the blood of the saints; destroying every vestige of
liberty in the world, by changing times and laws at his pleasure: all
this necessarily presents the whole human race as sinking from their
present position, to the deepest possible depths of ignorance, slavery,
and barbarity. This is the reverse of what Daniel maintains will pre
cede the time of the end; therefore, this will never come to pass.
The new theory of interpretation is equally in opposition to the whole
spirit and letter of our Lord’s description of those signs which shall
immediately precede his second coming. Having pointed out the time
when he may be expected, from the condition of the Jews and state of
Jerusalem, which he predicted should be trodden down of the Gentiles.
until the times of the Gentiles be fulﬁlled; when he continued, “ there
shall be signs in the sun and in the moon; and in the stars and upon
the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves
roaring; men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those
things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall
be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the
clouds with power and great glory. And when these things begin to
come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption
draweth nigh."
In all these certain signs of our Lord’s coming, there is nothing even
hinted at, which can be interpreted into the years most humiliating
and destructive reign of the Man of Sin. Whereas, had the new theory
been correct, and this new-made god immediately to have preceded the
'rua NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 15]
coming of our Lord, most assuredly it would have been amongst these
signs, what it would in reality be in the world,—-the all-absorbing sub
ject. In an unequalled age of wonder, itself the greatest, it would have
been amongst these signs, the great Alpha and Omega. Instead of
which, it is never introduced; from which we infer, it will have no place
amongst those signs, when they actually appear; such a Man of Sin
will have no being.
In the last verse above quoted, our Lord says, “ when these things
begin to come to pass, then look up and lift 11 your heads, for your
redemption draweth nigh. How irreconcilably opposite is this to
every thing implied in the new theory, to be witnessed before the second
coming of our Lord. According to this text, redemption will be draw
ing nigh; deliverance very near, in the prospect of which the faithful
are to rejoice; to look up and lift up their heads, in the full assurance of
a better state of things. This must be done when the keen overwhelm
ing distress of nations, the mental and physically prostrating perplexity,
the wide-spreading convulsions by which the powers of heaven shall be
shaken and the fearful forebodings under which men’s hearts will fail
them ;—when these things “ begin to come to pass,” at their very corn
mencement as well as all the way through, the faithful must look up
with joyful anticipation of redemption near.
But if the Man ofSin were just about to be revealed, to take pos
session of the temple of God, and there as god subject all nations:
kindreds, and tongues, to his unequalled diabolical dominion, just upon
the eve of changing times and laws at his pleasure, and of wearing out
the saints of the Most High for l260 days: and enveloping the whole
world in strong delusions and midnight darkness, that all might be
damned. If all this had to follow the signs to which our Lord alludes,
the faithful few might sooner be exhorted to look down than to look
up, to mourn than to rejoice, and to lament night and day for the ex
treme of wickedness and misery coming on the world and the church.
Our Lord might have enjoined them to fear none of those things that
would come upon them, but to be faithful unto death, and he would
give them a crown of life; and no doubt he would, as in ages past he
has done, have given a sufﬁciency of grace to have done that. But
for him to have said with propriety, “look up and lift up your heads,
for your redemption draweth nigh,” would have been impossible.
It is sufﬁciently clear from the whole case, in what this redemption
consisteth, Our Lord had been speaking of distress of nations, with
perplexity; of men’s hearts failing them for fear; and he well knew
that his faithful few would then be of “ the poor oftlzis world, rich in
ﬁzith." And being poor, he also knew that distress, poverty, and ap
parent destitution, would ﬁrst of all and most heavily, fall on them and
102 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
their class: this was unavoidable in the ordinary course of things.
Avaricc, pride, voluptuousness, and every kind of pomp and extrava—
gance in one class of society, can never be gratiﬁed but by the propor
tionate depression and suffering of another; this state of things prepares
the way for all the accursed follies and extremes of the competitive
system. This system, fully carried out, never can end in anything but
the poor becoming slaves, wasting their strength in ill-requited labour,
bound down with the galliug chain of nature’s wants to destructive
toil, and frequently unable to procure even this to an amount to satisfy
the keen cravings of hunger, or an emaciated unclad frame. Such cir
cumstances entail perplexity, and fearful forebodings on all their hapless
victims. The storm, heavy upon them now, seems to gather blackness
all around; and for them and. their children, no beam of hope can
spring from any other source but the gospel. Slaves they are, and
such they must remain, till death or their God vouchsafes their deli
verance. Something like this, we are assured by our Lord, will exten
sively prevail before his second coming. But when this is experienced,
the faithful few though ever safe in the hands of their God—and may
be, their share of the general calamities may not be so great as that
appointed to many who know not God,—yet, in a variety of respects,
to them it will be a time of trouble; in the general distress of nations
they will share; and a measure of perplexity arising from the gloomy
prospects before them, they will feel.
To such a state of things the redemption before us, has an exclu—
sive application. To the thousands of the poor followers of Christ,
new bound down to destructive toil, and know not how, nor from whence
future supplies for themselves and families may come, the words were
directed “your redemption drawet/z nigh.” Your redemption from
your present perplexities, embarrassments, extreme poverty, and pros
trating labour; your redemption from all this drawcth nigh, in that new
and better state of things soon to be established through the world,
when the perfect love of God and man shall reign in every breast. In
the contemplation of such reverses, the poor afflicted followers of Christ
see cause to rejoice, to look up, and even under their present privations
to lift up their heads.
But how changed the scene,-what blackness of darkness envelopes
all the Christian’s views,——and how inapplicable the promise of redemp
tion nigh if the [Han of Sin has yet to come. Instead of redemption
nigh it will be destruction nigh to the whole Christian Church on earth,
with but few exceptions. Instead of deliverance from poverty, wretch
edncss, perplexity, and destructive toil, the faithful would be delivered
over to the power and unparalleled cruelty of a monster in human
form, of whom history bears no records of his equal.
THE saw crrars'rras woatn. 153
That the time of trouble and the reign of the Man of Sin, cannot
mean the same calamitous condition of mankind, is quite evident from
the very different descriptions given thereof, in the'various Scriptures
wherein both are set forth ; and that they cannot both exist at the same
time, is also certain; and that this time of trouble shall immediately
precede our Lord's second advent, is placed beyond all doubt both by
Daniel and our Lord, in the parts above quoted. Daniel says it shall
take place at the time when Michael the great Prince shall stand up for
his people, and all of them found written in the book shall be delivered;
when the wise shall shine as the brightness of the ﬁrmanent, when many
shall be running to and fro, and knowledge shall be increasing, ch. xii.
l-—4. In perfect agreementwith this, our Lord determines the distress
of nations, with perplexity, which shall precede his second coming, to
take place when the times, given to the Gentiles to perpetuate the dis—
persion of the Jews, and to trample Jerusalem under foot, shall “ be
fulﬁlled;" at which time “shall they see the Son of Man coming in
a cloud with power and great glory," Luke xxi. 24—27. Light can
not be more opposite to darkness, than is all this to the description of
the reign of_ the Alan of Sin. Both cannot exist together. But
seeing that our Lord's description of the signs to precede his second
coming is clear and positive, both as regards the nature of the events
and the time of their occurrence, we are therefore compelled to con
clude, that it is not the reign ofthe Man of Sin, by which the second
advent will be immediately preceded, but by a condition of society
altogether different. By thus proving the impossibility of this Man
(if Sin’s existence in the manner and at the time, when our friends, the
advocates of the new theory anticipate, we thereby prove the whole
system of the literal interpretation wrong. as regards the coming of one
man, as the Film (if Sin, by whom the whole earth shall be enslaved
between now and the second coming of our Lord.
All our foregoing arguments receive the sealing conﬁrmation, by all
advanced in this work, in defence of our conclusion concerning 1843,
terminating the important period of 2,300 years; the times of the Gen
tiles, when it was given to them to cast down the truth to the ground,
and to trample under foot the Sanctuary and the Host. With the
present year this period must end, beginning the year with the month
Nisan ; and Daniel says expressly, “then shall the sanctuary be clean~
sed; “not then shall the sanctuary be polluted in a manner, and far
exceeding all precedent, by the ﬁlm: ofSin. As above observed respect
ing the state of things to precede our Lord's coming, light cannot be
more opposite to darkness, than is the sublime soul-reviving termination
asserted by Daniel, and the coming of the Man of Sin according to
the new theory. The one says “then,” at the end of the 2800 years
1.
154 rm: new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
-then shall the truth be cast down no longer—then shall the sanc
tuary and the host be trampled under foot no longer,—-but then shall
the sanctuary he cleansed. This period we. have proved will end with
the year 1843, consequently then, we prove, shall this all-pervading,
all-eradicating, all-cleansing work be carried on beneath the mighty
agencies ofthe seventh vial, which will then be poured into the air; but
according to the new theory, although 1843 has come, yet the Alan (f
Sin has yet to be revealed, the sanctuary to be infinitely worse polluted
than ever, the truth to be well nigh cast out of the world; the brief age
of the mystery of iniquity, of signs and lying wonders, and all deceiv
ableness of unrighteousness, has yet to open upon us. Heaven is not
more opposite to Hell, than is all this in opposition to every thing
plainly asserted by Daniel asnow near at hand, and as being assuredly
the next succeeding condition of mankind.
A strong effort is now being made, to prove the Man of Sin typical
of anything but Popery. Those of our Protestant brethren who have
recently become so enamoured with the charms of the great whore of
Babylon, and are evidently desiring a closer alliance, feel of course,
extremely solicitous to cleanse from her character the foul stains, which
the prophetic description of the Illa” of Sin immovably fixes on that
power intended thereby. To plead for, to commend, to Jiustify, or to
unite with the Man of Sin, would be abhorrent and shocking to their
pious minds. Popery, they appear much inclined to embrace, but not
as the Man of Sin ,- and here their arduous task originates. 'l‘o calm
their own conscience, to give the colour and garb of Christian motive
to their pursuits, and to divest of frightful horrors the object of their
wishes, they must make it appear to themselves and others, that Popery
was never intended by the thm of Sin. In this discreditahle under
taking, their Catholic brethren, of course unite. Their productions
fall, or are thrust into the hands of the unsuspecting. The sophistries
employed in some cases take effect, and an opinion becomes established
that the Man of Sin could not be typical of Popery.
Many, as before noticed, have thus been plunged into the ridiculous
opinion that it represents a power yet to come. Mr. Galloway and
various authors apply the whole description to revolutionary France;
and a restless anxiety has been evinced by many to make this Man of
Sin mean anything past, present, or to come, provided Popery be clear
of its deﬁlement.
Most of these authors agree that the little horn in the seventh chap
ter of Daniel, typiﬁes the same power intended by the Man of Sin.
The two beasts, the one seen to “rise up out of the sea,” and the
other coming up out of the earth, as described in the 13th chapter of
Revelations, are also acknowledged as typical of the same power; as,
nu new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 155
in fact, the prophetic descriptions of each so strikingly humanize, that
no other conclusion can be supported. These facts being acknowledged
by those who would wash out all the bloody stains which these pro
phetic descriptions make palpable in the power intended; and having
fully proved in the arguments, advanced upon the little horn, that no
other power but that of Papal Rome can be made to correspond with
the prophetic description of that horn; we may now, upon the autho
rity of those arguments conclude, that the Man of Sin, as also the
the two beasts in the 13th chapter of Revelations, can be successfully
applied to no other power, past, present, or to come, but to that of
Papal Rome.
\Ve had prepared for the press, a minute investigation and pointed
application of the prophetic description of these beasts and the Alan
of Sin, which if called for shall appear; it has, however, been consi
dered unnecessary from the length and force of our remarks on the
little horn ; all the three prophecies describe one power, and that was
Papal Rome. '
Having in the foregoing pages, broken to pieces and given to the
winds the principal theories on the little horn, the Man of Sin, and
the two apoca/yptic beasts, which have been fully proved to be founded
in error; and having proved the great Papal apostacy the only thing
intended to be set forth and understood by those various symbolical
representations; from the whole we will now proceed to show, when
that was fairly set up as a persecuting power,—-the true period of its
continuance as such,--the exact agreement thereof to the prototypes
when at the height of its po\ver,——and then show the periods appointed
for its ﬁrst, partial, and then its full and ﬁnal overthrow.
In our preceding remarks on the little horn, Dan. vii., we have proved
that it never could arise in any other nation but that ofthe Roman, be
cause it was seen upon the head of the fourth great beast, to which no
other kingdom in the world can 'answer but the Roman Empire.
We have also proved that it could not come up in that empire, prior
to its division into ten independent kingdoms, typiﬁed by the ten horns
upon the same head; among which, and qfter which, it is expressly
said this little horn came up.
It is also plainly intimated that this horn would arise amongst the
“ﬁrst ten” independent kingdoms of the above empire. Since the first
breaking up of the Roman Empire, as all history attests, constant ﬂuc
tuations and rising and falling of kingdoms within its wide dominions,
has been going on. But to its ﬁrst dismemberment, and to its ﬁrst ten
kingdoms, we are directed to look for the rising of the little horn.
The following brief extracts from history, will be sufﬁcient to show
how and when this division took place :--“ Before the end of the winter
I56 'rrra NEW CHRISTIAN wonLn.
of 395, the Gothic nation was in arms, and from the forests of Scythia
the savage warriors rolled their ponderous waggons over the icy banks
of the indignant Danube. Immense hordes of these savage tribes
poured into every part of the Roman Empire; and wherever they
marched, their route was marked with blood. The most fertile and
and populous provinces were converted into deserts. And under the
bold and enterprising genius of Alaric, their renowned leader, they
traversed without resistance the plains of Macedon and Thessaly,
stretching from East and West to the edge of the shore. The fertile
ﬁelds of Phocis and Bmotia (says Gibbon), were instantly covered by a
deluge of Barbarians, who massacred the males of an age to bear arms,
and drove the beautiful females with the spoil and cattle, to the flaming
villages. Corinth, Argos, and Sparta, yielded without resistance to the
arms of the Goths ; and the most fortunate of their inhabitants, were
saved by death from heholding the slavery of their families and con
ﬁagration of their cities.”
“Having thus invaded the entire territories of Greece, Alaric pro
ceeded to invade Italy. During a period of 619 years, the city of
Rome, the seat of goverment, had never been violated by the presence
of a foreign enemy; but in the year 408, Alaric commenced the block
ade of this proud metropolis. The ﬁrst emotion of the nobles and of
the people, were those of surprise and indignation, that a vile Barba
rian should dare to insult the Capital of the World; but their arrogance
was soon humbled by misforturre,~—-being reduced in the city to such
extremity by this blockade, that hunger raged beyond precedent, except
when Jerusalem was destroyed. Food the most repugnant to sense or
imagination, the alirncnts the most unwholesome and pernicious to the
constitution, were eagerly devoured and ﬁercely disputed by the rage of
hunger. A dark suspicion was entertained, that some wretches fed on
the bodies of their fellow creatures, whom they had secretly murdered;
and even mothers are said to have tasted the ﬂesh of their slaughtered
infants. ‘ Resistance to the power of their Barbarian invaders was in
vain ; the Sanctuary of strength was doomed to be polluted; and after
various reverses of this mighty city, Alaric appeared a third time in
arms, under the walls of the capital, and the trembling Senate, without
any hope of relief, prepared by a desperate resistance to delay the ruin
of their country. But they were unable to guard against the secret
conspiracy of their slaves and domestics, who, either from birth or in
terest, were attached to the cause of the enemy. In the hour of mid
night, the Salarian gate was silently opened; and the inhabitants were
awakened by the tremendous sound of the Gothic trumpet. In the
year 410, 1163 years after the foundation of Rome, the imperial city,
which had subdued and civilized so considerable a part of mankind,
TXIE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
was delivered to the licentious fury of the barbarous tribes of Germany
and Scythia, who during six days pillaged the city of all its gold and
jewels, stripped the palaces of their splendid furniture, their sideboard:
of their massy plate, and their wardrobes of their silk and purple, which
were loaded on waggons to follow the march of the Gothic army. The
most cruel slaughter was made of the Romans,-the streets of the city
were ﬁlled with dead bodies,—the females were delivered up to the
brutal lust of the soldiery,—and many of the noblest ediﬁces of the city
destroyed by ﬁre."
“ If a man were called," says Dr. Robertson, “to ﬁx upon a period
in the history of the world, during which the condition of the human
race was most calamitous and aﬁlicted, he would without hesitation
name that, between the year 395 A. D. to A. l). 571. The contem
porary authors, who beheld that scene of desolation, which in that
period raged on the earth, labour, and are at a loss for expression, to
describe the horrors of it. The scourge of God, the destroyer of na
tions, are the dreadful epithets by which they distinguish the most noted
0f the barbarous leaders ; and they compare the ruin they brought on
the world, to the havoc occasioned by earthquakes, conﬁagratiens, or
deluges, the most formidable and fatal calamities, which the imagina
tion of man can conceive. Ajust retributive judgment of God for
the innocent blood of the ﬁrst race of Martyrs, which had been shed
by that great and terrible beast."
“The overwhelming progress of the Barbarians soon diffusml its
powerful eﬁ‘ects through every part of Europe. The Visigoths took
possession of Spain; the Turks of Gaul; the Saxons of England;
the Hons of Pannonia; the Ostrogoths of Italy and the adjacent pro
vinces. New governments, laws, languages, new manners, customs,
dresses; new names of men and countries prevailed, and an almost
total change took place in all Europe."
'1 his is the stupendous change effected in the last of the four great
Empires of the world, typiﬁed by Daniel’s four great beasts, when the
ten horns of that fourth beast became established, and the leading sub
jects of prophetic description. And it was after these that that other
came up, which is the especial object of our present inquiries. But,
as before noticed, although after, yet it was amongst these, that this
power came up, and by them was to be supported till its destined end
should come.
The ﬁrst ten kingdoms established within the Roman territorities,
we have before given (page 106), with the time they were set up, and
thus far, Scripture and facts, prophecy and history perfectly harmo
nize. Before this event the Roman Empire had bid deﬁance to the
world, and maintained its unequalled dominions undivided by Barba
158 me new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
rians. Had she continued so till her total dissolution, the prophecy
could never have been fulﬁlled. But the ten horns came up; the mis
tress of the world was humbled; and every provision made thus far, for
the accomplishment of every predicted event connected with the rising
up of the little horn, the setting up of the Apostle’s [Wan Sin.
The rise of this abomination was slow, covert, treacherous, and im
posing. St. Paul clearly points out this in the following passage :—
Whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs
and lying wonders. And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in
them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that
they might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong
delusion, that they should believe a lie: That they all might be
damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteous—
ness. 2 Thess. ii. 9—12. The history of the Romish Church, from
the accession of Constantine, to the period when this abomination was
set up, represents one sad, plain, practical illustration of this text.
After the emperor professed and defended the Christian faith, that
love of supremacy, which is the very soul and marrow of Papacy, re
ceived a propelling power before unknown. New orders were added
to the ministry, in which title and wealth received homage, and Princes
were preferred for the highest ofﬁces. These in return, for the distinc
tion they received, engaged all their inﬂuence to extend the dignity and
power of their promoters. An almost irresistible combination was thus
formed, capable of achieving every project; for in a short period this
principle diffused itself through the most inﬂuential in all orders of the
ininistry, and supremacy became the order of the day, and the great
bone of contention in all their conventional assemblies. But in con
tests for supremacy, some must fail of success. This led to bitter
contentions and most disgraceful proceedings. But the age was propi
tious, and God wassending “strong delusions" upon a determinately
wicked populace; consequently the abomination that maketh desolate,
succeeded to its desired seat in the temple of God. Hence Mr. Jones
in his history of the Christian Church, referring to the frequent, fiery,
and detestable religious squabbles of those times says:--“All the vio
lent contentions, the assemblivg of councils, the persecutions alter
nately carried on by the dili'erent parties, were so many means of pre
paring the way for the assumption of spiritual tyranny, and for the
idolatry and superstition of the Roman hierarchy. In all these tran
sactions, the substitution of human for divine authority; contentions
about words, instead of the faith once delivered to the saints; pomp
and splendour of worshi , for the primitive simplicity of the gospel ;
and worldly power and dignity, instead of the self-denying labours of
love, and bearing the cross. This baneful change operated in darkening
“run NEW camsrun won“). 159
the human mind as to the real nature of true Christianity, until in
process of time, it was lost sight of."--Jones’s Church History, vol. I.
page 295.
Thus we perceive, that prior to the coming up of the ten horns,
abundance of appropriate material existed, for the formation of that
abominable 110m which came up after them; and there was one re
markable fact,when the Roman Empire was divided, and the ten horns
came up, which, but for the hellish working of the mystery of iniquity,
this ready-formed material. that fact would have stood forth as a re
deeming character, amongst all those heart-tending scenes of rapine,
blood, and universal devastation we have seen recorded.
“ In one particular only did these Barbarian tribes condescend to con
form to the constitutions of those diti'crent nations amongst whom they
settled, namely, in religion. The conquerors submitted to the religion of
the conquered ; which at this period, indeed, in its established form, ap
proximated closely to the superstition and idolatry of the ancient
heathen. But whatever shades of difference there might be found,
among the numerous kingdoms into which the Roman Western Em
pire was at that time divided; whether in their forms of government,
or their civil and political institutions, they unanimously agreed to sup
port the hierarchy of the Church of Rome, and to defend and maintain
it as the established religion of their respective states." In this was
removed a most powerful hinderance to the setting up of the abomination
of Papacy; and the priesthood did not fail to employ this most fa
vourable event, to the extent of its capability, as will appear from the
following quotation :—-“ In ages of ignorance and credurity,“ says Dr.
Robinson, “the ministers of' religion are the objects of superstitious
veneration. “hen the Barbarians who overran the Roman Empire,
ﬁrst embraced the Christian faith, they found the clergy in possession
of considerable power; and they naturally transferred to those new
guides, the profound submission and reverence, which they were accus
tomed to yield to the priests of that religion which they had forsaken.
They deemed their persons to be equally sacred with their functions,
and would have considered it as impious to subject them to the pro
fane jurisdiction of the laity." This'was just the kind of views and
feelings, which a clergy, already corrupt and panting for universal
power, above all things desired. “They were not blind to these ad
vantages which the weakness of mankind afforded them. They estab
lished courts in which every question respecting their own character,
their function, their property was tried. They pleaded and obtained
an almost total exemption from the authority of the civil judges; and
upon diﬂ'erent pretexts and by a multiplicity of artiﬁces, they commu
nicated the privilege to so many persons, and extended their jurisdiction
160 THE new CHRISTIAN wont).
to such a variety of cases, that he greater part of these ati'airs, which
gave rise to contest and litigation, was drawn under the cognizance of
the spiritual courts.” The surveilance of the priesthood over all aii'airs
of learning and importance, rendered necessary by the ignorance and
popular pursuits of the age, ati'orded them an immense preponderance
over all public affairs. The Barbarian tribes amongst whom this Illa".
of Sin was set up, despised the arts and sciences formerly cultivated
in the Roman Empire; their only glory was reaped in the battle ﬁeld
and the chase, and the acquirement of any other superiority than these,
they made it their business to disregard. The clergy, being the autho~
rised teachers of religion and the only interpreters of the sacred writings,
conscious of the literal superiority which these circumstances imposed
upon them, panting also for an accumulation of their inﬂuence, they
failed not to secure to themselves every high and honourable ofﬁce ac~
cessible, where a superiority in the art of writing and communicating
instruction were indis ensable. Another circumstance thatzcontributed
to raise the credit and power of the clergy was, that the Latin language
continued to be employed in those Roman provinces which had been
subjected to the dominion of the German nations. Everything was
written exclusively in the Roman tongue, which became the language
of the Church and of all public acts. The Barbarian tribes which
composed the ten horns, among which the little one arose, possessing
neither correct knowledge of this, nor disposition to acquire it, were
thereby reduced to those obligations to the priesthood, which of all
others were the best adapted to contribute to the establishment of that
supremacy, which ultimately awed the world to silence, and prostrated
kings or nations at pleasure. Beneath such congenial circumstances,
“ with all deceivableness of unrighteousness," with all craft and impo
sition, did the mystery of iniquity gradually worm itself into power, in
the tem le of God and through the Roman world, until it acquired all
the soli< ity and inﬂuence of Daniel's little horn wearing out the saints
of the Most High.
In the condition of society in the age of which we are now writing,
various causes might be distinguished, contributing along with the
foregoing, to the setting up of the Man of Sin. The Arian contro
versy, which was lon , boisterous, and bloody, greatly facilitated the
establishment of the fittle horn, as a persecuting power. The stupen
dous schism which this occasioned in the orthodox Church, the endless
ungovernahle contentions it created amongst the populace and the
ignorant, together with the violent conﬂicts, dismal persecutions, and
bloody wars to which it gave rise, led to the exactment of the law,
which prohibited the teaching of the Scriptures by any but the priest
hood, This greatly contributed to open the way for the overspreading
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 161
of that desolation, which enwrapped all Christendom in midnight dark
ness. The passing of such an edict, was most consummate policy;
Satan transformed into an Angel of Light could not have devised a
better scheme for preparing the way for the spiritual and universal su~
premacy of the priesthood. Whatever might be the motives of its
authors, it removed every hinderance, and opened every ﬂoodgate of
corruption to the priesthood, so as theymight fearlessly inculcate, under
their boasted commission from heaven, whatever articles of faith best
suited their interests, without dreading detection from the people; and
whatever they announced as the will of God, the civil power of the ten
kings became at their service to enforce; and the ignorant, deluded
masses, wildly exclaimed—“ God wills it I "
This state of society on the one hand, with a boundless ambition in
an aspiring priesthood on the other, strikingly exempliﬁes the Apostles
description of the coming of the Man of Sin, in the following ex
pressive texts:--“ Whose coming is after the working of Satan, with
all power and signs, and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of
unrighteousness in them that perish, because they received not thelove
of the truth, that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall
send them strong delusions, that they should believe a lie: That they
all might be damned who believe not the truth, but had pleasure in
unrig/zteousness. Thus was the Church and the world prepared for
the establishment of that spiritual tyranny, which afterwards consigned
its millions to dungeons and to death. ‘
We will now pursue it to the exact time, and mark distinctly the
explicit events with which it was fairly set up, in the true sense of
prophecy. This mystery of iniquity, as St. Paul distinctly asserts, had
already begun to work; and up to the time of its full establishment, one
steady and determined purpose was pursued by it. The year 378
witnessed great accession of power to this M'an ofSin, under the favour
of Gratian and Valentinian, when the churches of the monarchial
form of government were established in the Western Empire under the
Bishop of Rome. This measure may be justly held, as banishing from
the Church every appearance of Christianity, so far as Church govern
ment stands affected; and with this event and at this time, we may
fairly conclude that the future horn was preparing for his appearance.
In the year 445, the former edict of Gratian and Valentinian was
conﬁrmed and renewed, by Theodosius and Valentinian Hid; and
some have concluded, that then the little horn had made its appear
ance. This could not, however, have been the case; inasmuch as all
the ten kings amongst whom he was to rise up, had not then received
their independent kingdoms.
It is to the reign ofJustinian, emperor of Rome, to that celebrated
162 THE new cnrusnan woaLn.
code of laws which he passed; and, also, to the successes of his
General Belisarius in his campaigns to set up Popery by force of arms;
or to put down its adversaries by Roman legions, that we must look
for the exact time and events, when the Saints of the Most High were
given into the hands of the little horn, and by which the Man of Sin
was fairly set up.
Justinian, according to Gibbon, vol. viii. p. 38—44, ascended the
imperial throne in the year 527. In the year 529 he first published
his celebrated code of laws, which formed the basis of European legis
lation for 1200 years. No earthly code of laws was ever more exten
sive or more permanent than his,—nonc ever framed with greater regard
for the dignity of the Church. The new code the Emperor honoured
with his name, and conﬁrmed by hisrroyal signature. Authentic tran
scripts were multiplied by the pens of notaries and scribes, and trans
mitted to the magistrates of the European, the Asiatic, and afterwards
the African provinces. The law of the empire was proclaimed on
solemn festivals, at the doors of the Churches. By this code the order
of Benedictine Monks was instituted, afterwards the most extensive
and inﬂuential in Christendom.
Prior to the publication of this code by previous edicts of Gratian,
Valentinian, Theodosius, and Valentinian the Illd, it had been enacted,
“that no one should presumptuously dare to dispute the authority of
the Holy See:" so that Justinian’s code found the Popes of Rome and
Constantinople in the possession of great power over the Churches.
But both these sacerdotal ofﬁcers, claimed alike to be the Supreme
Head of the whole Church. Their separate claims were urged on ap
parently equal grounds,—-both were supported by powerful parties,—
the contest for supremacy had been long and often violent. Both in
this case could not be accommodated, as nothing short of absolute su
premacy could meet the demands of either ;-—the struggle for victory
seemed often doubtful ;——the case greatly disturbed the peace of the
Churches. No previous emperor had ever possessed the requisite
courage or skill, promptly and vigorously to decide the fate of either
party; and according to the words of the prophet concerning the sea
beast, to “give unto him” whom he might elect, “power” over all the
Christian Churches. Neither of the contending parties possessed power
of themselves to take the supreme government, which both desired.
Like the sea beast, even the favourite must wait, until “power begiven.
unto him.” Justinian was the emperor, and his code of laws the legal
instrument by which this long contested, and as long doubtful question
was settled. In the “novel!” of this code, the preamble of the 9th
enacts, “that as the Elder Rome was the founder of the laws, so was
it not to be questioned that in her was the supremacy of the Pontifi
'rus new CHRISTIAN wonLn. 163
sate." Here the question is decided by legal and supreme authority,
as to which of the contending Bishops should be Supreme Head of
the Church. By the “Elder Rome" in the code as above, is meant
Rome as distinguished from Constantinople, which last, in the same
code, is called “ New Rome." Preamble 131st, chap. ii., on ecclesi
astical titles and privileges adds, “ We therefore_decree that the Most
Holy Pope of the Elder Rome is the ﬁrst of all the Priest/mod, and
that the most blessed Archbishop of Constantinople, the New Home,
shall hold the second rank after the Holy Apostolic Chair of the elder
Rome.”
This legal title of the Pope of Rome to the supremacy of the
Churches, was again questioned by the Bishop of Constantinople after
the death of Justinian; but it was afterwards renewed by Phocas,
in the year 606. In the transaction of Phocas, nothing new was
enacted; the edicts of Justinian had never been abolished; all that
was required was their re-publication, which set the disputed question
at rest immediately.
But the most remarkable document respecting the establishment by
civil authority of the spiritual authority of the Pope, is the epistle of
the Emperor Justinian to John the Roman Pontiﬂ', in which almost in
the words of the Prophet, he gives all the Churches into his hands.
Tun Emsrus or JUSTINIAN 'ro Jens THE ROMAN Posrrsr,
A D. 533.--“ Rendering honour to the Apostolic See and to your
Holiness (as always was and is our desire), and as it becomes us,
honouring your blessedness as a Father, we have laid without delay
before the notice of your Holiness, all things pertaining to the state
of the Church, since it has always been our earnest study to preserve
the unity quour Holy See and the state of the Holy Churches of
God, which has hitherto obtained and will remain without any inter
fering opposition. Therefore we hasten to subject and to unite to your
Holiness all the Priests of the whole East. As to the matters which
are at present agitated, although clear and undoubted, and according
to the doctrine of your Apostolic See, held assuredly, resolved, and
decided by all the Priests, we have yet deemed it necessary to lay them
before your Holiness. Nor do we sufi'er anything which belongs to
the state of the Church, however manifest and undoubted, that is agi
tated, to pass without the knowledge of your Holiness, who are the
Head (fall the C/zurc/zes. For in all things as has been said or
resolved, we are prompt to increase the honour and authority of your
See.”
“ Here was power given unto him, in the most perfect agreement
with every allusion to similar grants to the beast oft/re sea. Type and
prototype, prophecy and history, description and fact, cannot in any case
164 Tue new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
more exactly agree, than does this with all predicted concerning the
little horn and the sea beast, being first possessed of no independent
power to carry out its own designs, but of power being given unto him
to accomplish all predicted."
“ It was not to the Pope alone that the Emperor expresses his respect
for the Papal authority; but in his constitution to Epiphanius, Bishop
ofConstantinople, dated 25th March, 533, he acknowledges his epistle
to the Roman Pontiﬁ', and maintains that he is the head of all the
Bishops, and that “by the decision and right judgment of his venerable
See, heretics are corrected." “And they, the saints, shall begiven
into his hand for a time, times, and the dividing of time," Dan. vii.
25. And it was given unto him to make war with the saints," Rev.
xiii. 7. No parts of prophecy relating to any subject predicted, was
ever more correctly fulﬁlled than these verses in the transactions of
Justinian, as above quoted.
The Pope's answer to the letter of the Emperor is also on record, in
which he commends his zeal for religion, approves his doctrine, de
nounces all who reject it as separate from the Church, adopts the titles
conferred on him by the Emperor, and commendsabove all his virtues,
his reverence for the Holy See, to which as truly the head, he had
subjected and united all the Churches."—Du I’in's Ecclesiastical His
tory, vol. v., page 30, 31, under title John lld. To these transactions
the highest authorities among the civilians and annualists of Rome, refer
as the only legitimate source of the Pope’s supremacy.
Above we have all which any civil power could accomplish, to give
the Saints of. the Most High into the hands of the Popes of Home;
more than this it is not in the hands of mortals to do, and it is clear
that Justinian seriously purposed, all that his epistles or his celebrated
code of laws expressed. He intended neither more nor less than he
therein effected, in establishing, so far as civil laws could, the Pope of
Rome the Supreme Head of all the Churches, and the only effective
carrector of heretics, he made him or the system truly the little horn,
the Man of Sin, the sea beast,- and any other prototype equally exact,
never did or will exist.
But not yet are we justiﬁed in drawing the conclusion, that the
little horn here begun his dominant reign of time, times, and the di
viding of time. The above provisions of the Justinian code could not
go into effect in favour of the Bishop of Home at the time they Were
issued, for this important reason,--Rome and Italy were then in pos
session of the Ostrogoths. These were all attached to the Ariarﬂfaith,
andas violently opposed to the Catholic creed of Justinian, as they
were envious of his imperial wealth and power. Consequently all edicts
conferring unlimited power over thejBishops or Churches of Rome,
'rm: new cnaxsrrau wonan. 165
under these circumstances must remain null, until this powerful hinder
ance was removed ; nor had the Pope any certainty of the same ever
being capable of being exercised, until the Ostrogoths were actually
expelled,
In addition to this one part of the prophetic description especially
affecting the point in hand, had not yet received its accomplishment.
The lit/[e horn was to come up among the ten. This we have seen
accomplished as far as regards Papal supremacy, but three of the first
horns were to be plucked up by the roots, prior to the Saints of the Most
High being given into the hands, or fully subjected to the power of
the little horn. This had not been done when the new code of Justi
nian was passed, consequently not until we can trace out the fulfilment
of this part of the prophecy, are we justiﬁed in commencing our data
to the prophetic period given. 7
iny one of the three ﬁrst kingdoms had been subverted when the
Justinian code was past; this was the kingdom of the Heruli, estab
lished 476. Amongst the other still remained, two violent and irre
concileable enemies to the orthodox faith of Justinian. These were
the kingdom of the Vandals in Africa, and that of the Goths in Italy;
and under the wise direction of Providence, apparently to exhibit the
most clear, direct, and striking fulﬁlment of the prophecy. These
continued steadfast to their Arian views till after the proclamation of
the new code of Justinian, and then gave sufﬁcient proof, that nothing
short of their being plucked up by the roots, could allow that code to
go into full operation. '
Not one distinct part of the prophecy, could, however, remain un
accomplished. Justinian, prompted by the same spirit which gave
existence to his ecclesiastical code, commenced in the year 533, a suc
cessful war against the Vandals; which kingdom, the second of the
three, was speedily plucked up by the roots. Justinian, says Gibbon,
“ on receiving the news of the success of Belisarius against the
Vandals in Africa, after he had celebrated the divine goodness, and
confessed in silence the merit of his successful general, impatient to
abolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny of the Vandals, pro
ceeded without delay, to the full establishment of the Catholic
Church."
Another powerful foe to the orthodox faith, still maintained dominion
over the seat of all the future splendours of the little horn. The Elder
Rome, the venerable recollections of which secured supremacy to the
Apostolic See, was still in the hand of the heretical Ostrogoths. To
pluck up that stubborn unbending horn, was the next important under
taking of the chief devoted founder of Papal supremacy.
The Italian war commenced in 534.—“On the approach of Belisa
166 THE new cnnrsrms WORLD.
rius,” says Gibbon, “several cities forsook their Gothic and heretical
Sovereign, who retired before the armies of the Catholic Emperor; and
after deciding in council to delay the offensive operations of war till the
next S ring, allowed Belisarius without opposition to enter Rome.
While e was on his way to the city, the Romans furiously exclaimed,
“that the Apostolic throne should be no longer profaned by the tri
umph or toleration of Arianism.” The deputies of the Pope and
clergy, ol' the senate and people, invited the Lieutenant of Justinian
to accept their voluntary allegiance, and to enter the city, whose gates
would be thrown open for their reception.
Belisarius entered Rome, December 10th, A.D. 536. The ﬁrst
days which coincided with the Old Saturnalia, were devoted to mutual
congratulation and to public joy; and the Catholics prepared to cele
brate, without a rival, the approaching festival of the nativity of Christ.
But the senate, the clergy, and the nnwarlilre people, trembled as soon
as they understood that he had resolved, and would speedily be re
duced to sustain a siege against the powers of the Gothic monarchy.
The Goths commenced the siege in March, 537. In the extremities
of the siege, Belisarius apprehended the most fatal results from the
despair and treachery of the citizens. On the proof or suspicion of
treason several senators were banished, and the Pope Sylverius was
despoiled his pontitical ornaments and embarked for a distant exile in
the East. At- the Emperor’s command the clergy of' Rome proceeded
to the choice of a new bishop, and after a solemn invocation of the
Holy Ghost, elected the deacon Virgilius, who had purchased the
Papal throne by a bribe of two hundred pounds of gold.
The whole nation of the Ostrogoths had been assembled for the at
tack, and was almost entirely consumed in the siege of Rome. if any
credit be due to an intelligent spectator, one-third, at least, of their
enormous host was destroyed in frequent and“ bloody combats under the
walls of their-ity. Viteges, king of the Goths, being informed that
another detachment of the Romans under John the sanguinary, was
spreading devastation through other portions of his kingdom, before he
retired, made a last eﬁ'ort either to storm or to surprise the city. This
eﬁ‘ort was fruitless, and in the month of March, 538, the Goths ended
the siege and retired from the city. One year and nine days after the
commencement of the siege, an army so lately strong and triumphant,
turned their tents and tumultuously passed the Milonian Bridge."
Thus was the last of three horns plucked up by the roots; thus
was the power given unto him, the sea beast, and the little horn. No
sooner was this great victory gained, than all which the prophet had
predicted to take place prior to the saints being given into the hands
of the little horn was accomplished. The four great beasts had come,
y
1111: NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 167
-upon the head of the fourth the ten horns had sprung up,—-amongst
them another horn diverse fr )m the others had appeared. Every legal
measure had been taken to give the saints into the hands of this little
horn, and now we see the three of the ﬁrst plucked up by the roots.
All this was necessary to fulﬁl the predictions; nothing more than this
had been foretold to precede the beginning of the time, times, and-a
half. Consequently, we must conclude that the above important events,
harmonising as they do with every minute rule of prophecy, ﬁx the
exact time when Papacy was established as a persecuting power.
We will now add a few brief extracts of facts, to show that from
this period this'lllan of Sin did really exalt himself in the temple of
God, above all that had preceded or followed him—to show that the
power thus given unto him was exercised in as perfect harmony with
prophecy, as its ﬁrst communication rby these, to add conﬁrmation to
to our conclusions respecting the time of its setting up. On this
head we may be brief on account of the numberless volumes already
existing, recording the strange transactions of this monster represented
by the little horn, the Illan of Sin, and the beast of the sea, aided by
the beast of the earth, the power and strength of the ten kings. Its
beastly edicts, canons, decrees, bulls and bans; its lying wonders, le
gendary romances, foolish rites and ceremonies, its forms of image
worship, its penances, its purgatory, its prayers to the dead and for the ‘
dead, its deiﬁed saints and virgins, its numerous holy orders, its holy
crusades and general massacres, its inquisitorial mockeries and cruelties,
its various means of torture and death, its spies, Jesuits and prostitutes ;
its monasterial licentiousness, and its martyrdom of 50,000,000 saints
of the Most High; with deeds of darkness unequalled by any other
party of professed followers of Christ, since the ten horns sprang up.
These are so voluminously laid before the public already, that only a
very few extracts may suﬁice for the purposes of this work. \Ve shall
extract from a small work of great merit for historical information, en
titled Signs of the Times, by Alexander Keith :--“As darkness deep
ened over Christendom, the Papacy became more exalted on its black
and lofty throne. In the ninth century. Pope Nicholas maintained
that he was not subject to the judgment of any man. Pope John VIII.
claimed the obedience of princes as his due, and threatened them with
excommunication. In the eleventh century Leo IX. sanctioned the
same pretensions, and maintained that it was very unbecoming that
those should be subject to an earthly empire, whom the Divine Majesty
had set over an heavenly. Gregory VII. thundered out a terrible ex
communication against the Emperor Henry IV., in which he anathem
atizes him and all his adherents; declared him to have forfeited the
kingdoms of Germany and Italy, together with all regal dignity; for
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
bad all Christians to obey him; bestowed the kingdom of Germany
on Radulphus, elected by the princes of Germany; and ﬁnally ex
horted all of them to take up arms against Henry, and to divest him
of his dominions.”—-Du Pin, vol. ix., p. 45. In addressing the Coun—
cil of Rome held in the year 1080, in' reference to the excommunica
tion of Henry, he said, “ Go on, therefore, most Holy Princes of the
Apostles, and what I said by interposing your authority, conﬁrm, that all
men may now at length understand, if ye can bind and loose in Heaven,
that on earth, also, ye can take away and give empires, kingdoms, and
whatever mortals can have; for if ye can judge things belonging to
God, what is to be deemed concerning these inferior and profane things?
And, if it is your part to judge angels, who govern proud princes,
what does it become you to do towards their proud servants? Let
kingdoms now and all secular Princes, learn by this mans example,
what ye can do in heaven, and in what esteem ye are with God,- and
let them henceforth fear to slight the commands of Holy Church, but.
put forth suddenly this judgment, that all men may understand that,
not casually but by your means, the son' of iniquity doth fall from his
kingdom.” In the same style of blasphemous gasconade; which no
language used on earth except that of his successors ever overmatched,
the sentence of deposition is put forth thus :—-“For the dignity and
defence of God‘s Holy Church, in the name of Almighty God, the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, I depose~ from imperial and royal ad
ministration, King Henry, son of Henry, some time emperor, who too
boldly and rashly hath laid hands on thy Church, and I absolve all
Christian subjects to the empire, from that oath whereby they were
wont to plight their faith to true kings ; for it is right that he should
be bereft of all honour, who is the cause of derogating from the
Majesty of the Church."—-Barrow on the Pope's Supremacy, vol. i.,
page 542
Pope Innocent III. in the 13th century, maintained that the differ
ence was as great between popes and kings, as between the sun and
the moon. Acting on that creed, he disposed in Asia and Europe, of
crowns and sceptres with the most wanton ambition. In Asia, he gave
a king to the Armenians; in Europe, he raised to royalty and consti
tuted as kings, the dukes of Bohemia, of Bulgaria, and Wallaehia;
and, also, of Arragon. He crowned in 1209, the emperor Otho IV.;
but afterwards denounced him as a rebelagainst the Holy See; anathe
matized and deposed him; and in 1212, raised the more compliant
Frederick II. to the imperial throne. In England, too, he did according
to his will. After the regular election by the convent, and confirmation
by the king of an Archbishop of Canterbury, the_authority of the Pope
was interposed; and he gave his mandate to the monks, with whom
rm: new cnrusrras woau). 169
the election lay, to make choice of one Langton, and consecrated him
to the oﬁ'lce. The convent was obsequious, but the king would not
obey; and the kingdom was threatened with an interdict. In reluctant
submission to an authority greater even in England than his own, king
John consented to undo his own act, and to conﬁrm the election of the
nominee ofthe Pope ; but preserving some show of regard to the right of
royalty, he protested that he should not be held as thereby abandoning or
infringing the prerogatives of the crown. Unconditional acquiescence
could alone satisfy the Pope, and any defence of his rights on the part of
the king, was deemed a daring and unpardonable opposition to the papal
will. An interdict was laid upon the kingdom. The churches were
shut, the public worship of God was prohibited, because the Pope
was offended. The dead were not laid in consecrated ground, but
buried in the highways, and the nation lay for three years under the
interdiction of religious privileges. When the interdict proved una
vailing, other means were tried to bring the refractory king to submis
sion, and the throne of England was shaken by the thunders of the
Vatican. Sentence of excommunication was denounced against John.
A bull was issued absolving all his subjects from their oaths of allegi
ance, and all intercourse with him was forbidden on pain of excommu
nication. The right of reigning was held as abrogated, when kings
would not obey the Vicegerent of Him by whom they reigned. The
throne of England was pronounced vacant, and all Christian princes
were exhorted to disposscss the heretic of_his kingdom. A legato ar
rived in England, and induced the king as the only means of saving
his dominions, to place them under the protection of the Roman See.
“ He did homage to Innocent, resigning his crown to the legate, and
received it again as a gift from the See of ll ome, to which he rendered
his kingdom tributary, and swore fealty as a vassal and feudatory."
The legate retained possession for ﬁve days of the crown and of the
sceptre, and in the proud domineering spirit of his master, trampled
under his feet the money, which in token of vassalage, was submissivcly
given him by the king.
Innocent IVth held the emperor Frederick ﬁnd as his vassal, and
in virtue of his occupying the place and authority of Jesus Christ,
bereaved the monarch of all honour and dignity; absolved for ever all
who were bound by oath to yield him obedience; and transmuting an
act of sworn ﬁdelity into an unpardonable crime, excommunicated all
who would aid him as their monarch. Pope Boniface VIIIth reached
the summit of papal arrogancy towards the close of the 13th century,
and declared himself to be, “King of kings, monarch of monarchs,
and sole lord and governor, both in spirituals and temporals." He ex
alted and magniﬁed himself above all; and every code on earth is
M
170 THE new CHRISTIAN \vonu).
outrivalled by the canon law, in which this decree by Boniface is extant.
“ We declare, assert, deﬁne and pronounce, that itis essentially necessary
“ to salvation, for every human creature to be subject to the Roman pon
“ tiﬁ'." He was to do in all things according to his will, and claimed to
himself a double sword—the dominion of the church and jurisdiction
over all temporal authority. “ One sword," says Boniface, “ must be
subservient to another, and the temporal authority must be subject to
the spiritual ; wherefore if the earthly authority act amiss, it must be
subjected to the spiritual.”
In addition to the preceding extracts from the canons of councils
and the bulls of Popes, it may be enough to show how the Pope did ac
cording to his will, and exalted and magniﬁed himself in a manner di
verse from that of other kings, and above them all, to state, that
the emperor Henry thh, stood for the space of three days at the gate
of the fortress of Canusium; and, as a humble suppliant, ready to dis
charge the otﬁce of a menial, waited there bare headed and bare footed,
with nothing but a coarse cloth to cover him, before his lordly holiness
Hildebrand, Gregory Vllth, would grant him absolution. At the com
_mand of another Pope, Henry 11nd of England walked barefooted to
do penance at the tomb of Becket. Pope Celestin dashed with his
foot the crown of Henry Vlth from his head. These acts of marvel
lous haughtiness, which it would be neither manly nor meet for a king
to exercise towards a beggar, would only be tantamount to the mar
vellous words which in magnifying himself above all, many a Pope did
unquestionably utter. That which was spoken by the person and in
the character of Pope, may here be adduced in completion of the evi
dence, that the things which he spake against the Most High, were
marvellous.
Though the hull of the Pope was then in Britain, the powerless
thing that it ever should have been, these are the words in which papal
infallibility thought fit to pronounce the deposition of Elizabeth, the
Queen of Protestant England. “He who reigns on high, to whom
“is given all power in heaven and on earth, has committed the one Holy
“ Catholic and Apostolic Church, out‘of which there is no salvation, to
“one alone on earth, namely to Peter the Prince of the Apostles, and
“to the Roman Pontiﬁ‘, the successor of Peter, to be governed in the
“plenitude of power. Him alone hath he constituted-Prince over all
“nations, and overall kingdoms, to root out, and to pull dOWn, and to
“destroy, and to throw down, to build and to plant."
At a later date, but with more authoritative power, in the bull of Pope
Sixtus Vlth against the two sons of wrath, Henry king of Navarre,
and the prince of Conde, these marvellous words, the common lan
guage on such occasions, are spoken against the God of gods, in
me new cnms'rras vmann. 17]
which the Pope himself in denouncing judgment against others, is
the witness that he is the very .Man of Sin, who opposeth and exalteth
himself above all that is called God or that is worshipped, so that he as
god sitteth in the temple of God showing himself that he is god—
who doeth according to his will, aud exalts himself, and magniﬁes abovo
all. “ By the immense power of the Eternal King, the authority given
to the blessed Peter and to his successors, excels all the poWers of
earthly kings and princes ;—-it passes on them all judgments, not
to be cancelled. And if it ﬁnd them resisting the ordinances of
God, it takes more severe vengeance upon them; and, however pow
erful, casting them down from their thrones as the ministers of aspiring
Lucifer,—-overthrows and prostrates them to the lowest parts of the
earth.”
Speaking thus of themselves in the face of the world, the language
of blasphemous adulation, used towards the Pope by the sy00phants of
Rome, when his own words more than those of any king on earth be
trayed the pride of Lucifer, need scarcely be wondered at, howeVer
melancholy and marvellous of itself. There is ample proof in the
summary of such godless verbiage, given by Bishop Newton; and there
would be no pleasure, as there is no need in extending it. .
He exerciseth divine authority in the Church, showing himself that
He is God,aﬁ'ecting divine titles and attributes, as holiness and infalli
bility; assuming divine powers and prerogatives, in' condemning and
absolving men; in retaining and forgiving sins ; in asserting his decrees
to be of the same, or greater authority than the Word‘of God; and
commanding them to he received, under the penalty of the same or
greater damnation. Like another Salmoneus, he is proud to imitate the
state and thunder of the Almighty; and is styled and pleased to be styled,
“ Our Lord God he Pope ;”--another god upon earth, king of kings,
and lord of lords. The same is the dominion of God and the Pope.
To believe that our lord god the Pope might not decree as he decreed,
were a matter of heresy. The power of the Pope is greater than all created
power, and eXtends itself to things celestial, terrestrial, and infernal.
The Pope doeth whatsoever he listeth, even things unlawful : and is
more than God.” Such blasphemies are not only allowed, but are even
appr0ved, encouraged, and rewarded in the writers of the Church of
Romel And they are not only the cxtravagancies of private writers,
but are the language even of public decretals and acts of councils. So
that the Pope is evidently the god upon earth, as there is no one
like him, who exalteth himself above every god; no one like him
wllp sitteth as god in the temple of God, showing himself that he is
This is the same power which the Justinian code made the supreme
172 rue NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD.
head over all the bishops; to whom J ustinian,by legal instruments, united
and subjected all the Christian churches, and decreed that by the deci
sion and right judgment of this venerable See, heretics are corrected.
Upon this same code, the pandects and the institutes proclaimed, as before
seen, through all the Roman empire, “ and were alone admitted in the
tribunals, alone taught in the academics of Rome, Constantinople, and
Berrytus,” and stood the foundation of European legislation till shaken
by the revolutionary power of France: upon this code, in perfect keeping
with its provisions, all the above unequalled usurpations have been car
ried out. This was the same power which came up among the ten
kingdoms, before the full establishment of which, three of the ﬁrst of
them were subverted, the last of the three in the year 538. This, also,
like the beast ofthe sea, had all the tremendous powers above displayed
given unto him. And in every other particular this power answers to
to the three striking predictions we have so minutely examined. And
this power became fully established by the overthrow of the Goths in
Italy, in the year 538.
In a former part of this work, we have proved that the time, times,
and the dividing of time, appointed for the dominant reign of this
tremendous power, must be understood as emblematical; ﬁrst a time,
signiﬁes a year ,- and then each day/or a year, 360 days in a year.
In the period thus interpreted, there will be 1260 years. The 42
months for the corresponding reign of the sea beast (Rev. xiii. 5), in
terpreted by the same rule, give exactly the same number of years, 30
daysfor each month. This interpretation is conﬁrmed as the only cor
rect one by the above extracts, which exhibit one and the same power
for centuries pursuing the same policy, succeeding more and more with
the same plans; rising higher and higher, becoming bolder and bolder,
destroying the saints, dethroning monarchs, and laying nations under
interdicts: and directing the same operations through centuries, which
cannot be measured by these periods under any other rule of inter
pretation.
The period of 1260 years, being then the only one which can be admit
ted a correct, if our evidences be just respecting its commencement, it
must terminate in 1798. To the events of this period we must now
look, for additional conﬁrmation of all above advanced. We wish to
inculcate no construction of rophecy, not fully supported by facts;
nor to torture historical facts (lit the purpose of forming illegitimate
connections.
On entering into this part of our subject, two errors must be noticed,
which have exercised a powerful inﬂuence in the minds of many, pre“
venting just conclusions on the whole case before us. This one is,
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 173
the temporal dominion of the Pope of Rome;—and the other, the
present existence of Papacy. The Pope still remains a temporal
prince amongst the nations, and Papacy yet exists; and these facts,
have led many to conclude that the 1260 years have not yet run out.
Sulficient has been said to prove, that the temporal dominion of the
Popes of Rome, has nothing whatever to do with either the beginning
or the end of the period before us. The little horn, the dominant reign
of which, this period determines, was solely and exclusively an ecclesi
astical power. In the Apostle’s description of the Plan of Sin, tem
poral dominion is unnoticed, and the exaltation of a monstrous power
in the temple of God, constitutes the only subject predicted. St. John
maintains the same rule inviolate, and presents the beast o/lhe sea and
that of the earth, clearly distinct; the civil power as only the willing
slave of the ecclesiastical;—the civil or temporal dominion of the
Pope, we, therefore, from the high and binding rule before us, sink
altogether.
Respecting the present existence of Popery, the 1260 years under
notice was never intended to mark out the period of its whole existence.
This must appear to all from the express declaration of Paul where he
says, “ for the mystery of iniquity doth already work.” From this it
is certain, that in St. Paul’s day, the same principle afterwards raised to
manhood, in his sense, must have been in operation. But that it was
not then within the range of the prophetic period before us, is certain,
from all other prophecies respecting it.
Proper attention to the explicit description of Daniel, will remove all
error on this subject. He says, and they shall be given into his hand,
8w. They applies to the “speaking great words against the Most
High, wearing out the saints, and changing times and laws. And
these things being given into his hands, implies that he shall have com
plete control over them. And the subjection of these things to his
will, and power to accomplish these, is the only thing to be effected
and possessed for the time, times, and the dividing of time,n chap. vii.
verse 25.
Dr. Clark in his comment on this verse, says, “In 1798, the French
republican army under General Berthier, took possession of the city of
Rome, and entirely superSeded the whole Papal power. This was a
deadly wound, though at present it appears to be healed, but it is only
skinned over, and a dreadful cicature remains."
To give this beast a deadly wound and not destroy him, was all that
was predicted for the end of the 1260 years. Or speakly strictly, as
Daniel expresses it, all to he done at this time was, to take out of the
hands of the little horn, simply that which has been put in 1260 years
before. But this was not his existence, for he existed prior to the Jus
174 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
tinian code, but power was given unto him, to wear out the saints, and
change times and laws at his pleasure. And that this power was then
taken from him, is attested by all the records of the revolutionary move
ments in France, and conﬁrmed to us by every thing we know of the
present current of affairs in all nations.
Had not power to accomplish what was predicted of the little horn,
been taken from the Papal power, the stupendous deeds of the French
revolution could never have taken place. That the overthrow of the
Catholic Church, the fresh appropriation of its property, and if pos
sible the deliverance of all the world from her galling fetters, were
objects made startlingly evident in the very early part of the movement,
there can be no dispute. Why did not the ever wakeful monster spring
forth, and in all the vigour of youth, instantly crush the energies of the
rising foes? Why were not the thunders of the Vatican launched
forth, the kingdom laid under the bann, and all its inhabitants ﬁlled
with the remorselcss horrors of eternal misery? Why was not all joy
banished from the land by the spell of the Pope, and the deluded mor
tals sunk into black despair, until his holiness the venerable Apostolic
See, again condescended to smile upon them ? As early in the move
ment as 1790, about 4500 religious houses were suppressedin France.
In Sir Vl'alter Scott’s Life of Napoleon, we are informed “that the
assembly had determined, all prejudice apart, that the property of the
Church should come under conﬁscation for the beneﬁt of the nation,
and decreed the assumption of church lands. A motion was made in
the assembly for decreeing that the Holy and Apostolic Religion was
the religion of France, and that its worship alone should be permitted;
but all who favoured this were insulted, beat, and trial-treated by a
large and furious multitude, and it was withdrawn in terror and despair.
A civil institution was framed by the clergy, declaring them totally
INDEPENDENT OF THE SEE or ROME, and vesting the choice of
Bishops in the department of authorities. To this constitution each
priest and prelate was required to adhere by a solemn oath. A sub
sequent decree of the Assembly declared forfeiture of his beneﬁce,
against whomsocvcr should hesitate." These were public acts pro
claimed to all the world. To no part of these transactions could the
Pope remain a stran er. Why then did he not direct his vengeful ﬁats
to consume the sacrilegious hosts? Why not again, as in the former
centuries, by a single bann, spread overwhelming terror and confusion
through all the ranks of his opposers, and bring the suppliant nation
with trembling homage to his toe? Prophecy answers all the inquiries.
The ten kingdoms were only to give their power and strength to the beast
until the words of God were fulﬁlled. These words were now being ac- .
complished, the 1260 years were ending, and power to wear out the
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 175
saints of the Most High, and change times and laws at his pleasure,
must be taken out of the hands of the little born. This was the real
cause why the thunder» of the Vatican were disarmed of all terror ;—
this turned the tide of terror and confusion into other breasts than
those in which it had throbbed for centuries; and this snapped those
messy fetters and destroyed those magic spells by which France, above
all others of the ten kingdoms, had been bound to the chariot wheels of
Popery for upwards of a thousand years.
And because the 1260 years were ending, the combined powers of
Europe in vain held their councils of war; in vain resolved to com
bine their wealth and unite their forces, to dispatch their bravest troops
to the source of all their alarms, and there eii‘ect what the thunders of
the Vatican had no power to accomplish, to extinguish every sign of
the new and dreaded movement, before it had extended beyond the
boundaries of France. This was impossible! Power was now to be
taken from the little horn. All the events of the French revolution
fell under the ﬁfth vial. But this was predicted to fall upon “the
SEAT of the beast,” Rev. Xvi. 10. This seat was Home. By this,
power was to be taken from the beast, and his kingdom ﬁlled with dark
ness and horror, because the 1260 years were ending. But had the
revolutionary party in France, been utterly overthrown in 1793, as was
resolved in a council of war by the allied powers of Europe, and to
accomplish which, the world was in arms against a single nation, the
seat of the beast would have been protected from those horrors of war
which 'the republican army occasioned throughout Italy.
The decrees of Omnipotence had ordained otherwise; and the ter
rors of Popish bulls, the thunders of the Vatican, and all Europe in
arms, were insullicient to reverse or to prevent the stern resolves of a
single nation to take away that power from the little horn, which had
held all Christendom in bondage for 1200 years. in spite of every
obstacle the revolutionary movement rapidly advanced. In the various
decrees of the Assembly, the tenth part of the city fell (Rev. xi. 13.)
from the Church of Rome. Not satisﬁed with separating France
from the Apostolic See, the republican armies carried a murderous war
into the heart of Italy, overran the provinces of the then powerless
beast; abolished the Justinian code of laws, which had remained un
shaken for 1260 years; and the ﬁrm foundation of Catholic usurpa
tion, by which it awed the world to silence. In all this most perfect
fulﬁlment of all predicted under the ﬁfth vial was accomplished,—the
kingdom of the beast was really ‘fﬁlled with darkness, and they gnawed
their tongues for pain,” Rev. xvi. 10. Dar/mess is emblematical of
.horror and confusion. Precisely such was the condition into which all
Italy was thrown, by the republican armies of France. Still rigorously
176 THE new cr-misuAN WORLD.
curbed, and the reins securely held by an overruling Providence, who
had decreed the time when the saints should be rescued from the deadly
grasp of the little born, the infuriated soldiery pushed their conquest
to the very seat of the beast ,- and after laying sacrilegious hands on
the ofﬁces and states of the Church, they shrunk not from laying vio
lent hands upon its august head; they entered Rome, not as Belisarius
had done 1260 years before, to put the Pope in possession of that su—
premacy he so long enjoyed, but to take that power from him, which
was then imparted; and that this might be unmistakably accomplished,
the Pope was taken prisoner in the year 1798 ;-—as a prisoner in the
victorious hands of the Republicans, he was conducted through various
states in Europe to Valence, in France, where, a prisoner, he died.
Thus was his power taken away, never to be restored. Then was
the 1260 years ended, and the fulﬁlment of the prediction is most
remarkable. In the fulﬁlment of prophecy on this subject, there are
various concurrent events peculiarly striking. In the year 529 we have
before seen the celebrated code of Justinian was ﬁrst published, when
the actual and formal transfer of absolute supremacy to the Pope may
be said to have begun. In 1260 years from this, namely, in 1789, the
States General was opened at Versailles, and the French revolution
begun, and before the end of that year it was decreed that the estates
of the Churches were at the disposal of the nation, which decree was
followed by acts and deeds which overthrew, or took from the Papal
See, that power begun to be given unto him at the former period ;—
but from the ﬁrst publication of the Justinian code, up to the time
when that code could fully go into effect, on the conquest over the ()s
trogeths at Rome, elapsed the period from 529 to 538. And in per
fect harmony with this, from the beginning of the French revolution
and the ﬁrst legal abolition of the power of the Church in 1789, there
elapsed exactly the same intermediate time up to 1798, when the Pope
was taken prisoner and his former power fully taken away. Giving
exactly 1260 years between the' several events.
Here we have the most perfect, important, and circumstantial accom
plishment of prophecy that can, or ever did exist. A fulﬁlment of no
private, or obscure, or questionable character, but one which electriﬁed
the world. Viewing the French revolution in this light, as the fulﬁl
ment of prophetic periods of such interest and importance as those
which terminated under it, it is the most sublime, providential occur
rence of modern times. The purblind, interested politician, who is far
too wise to understand the mysteries of prephecy, may perceive nothing
in that event, but horrid blasphemy, destructive, republicanism, chilling
inﬁdelity, rapine, slaughter, wholesale plunder, and devastation ;—-but
the enlightened, prophetic student, is lost in admiration of the faithful
THE new crrmsrms wouLn. 177
ness, goodness, and wisdom of God, and the sublime truth of prophecy,
while surveying that stupendous event.
And the conclusions to which these events have led us, as to the end
of the 1260 years, and the power intended being then taken from the
little horn, are conﬁrmed by all the events that have since occurred.
Many have come to an opposite conclusion from passing events; and
serious fears have been entertained, that we shall yet be again brought
under the thunders of the Vatican, and made to feel the horrors of by
gone days. This is just as impossible as it is for God to lie.
Popery is not now gaining real power, as the timid fears of some would
induce them, on delusive evidence, to believe. It still lives, and is as
active as ever to regain, if possible, its forfeited power. There can be
no doubt but its determinations to succeed, are as vigorous as ever ;
but a dark cloud yet hovers round its hopes. All this is in as strict
accordance with prophecy, as the sublime and electrical events we have
been surveying. The ﬁfth vial eﬁ'ected all to be accomplished at the
end of the 1260 years; that filled the kingdom of the hunt with
darkness, and they gnawed their tongues _for pain," Rev. xvi. 10, 1].
But it is immediately added, “And blasphemed the God of Heaven
because of their pains, and their sores, and repented not of their deeds."
These texts teach two‘ important lessons :-—“ First, that May, which
word can only apply to the subjects of the beast, and with the others
proves that they will continue to exist, or they could not be and do as is
here predicted. 2ndly, They will not only exist, but will continue to ad
mire their old system, to mourn over its sickly state, to apply every
possible remedy; and to persevere in this until the Seventh vial sweeps
them all away, who come not out of her (Rev. xviii. 4), for it is ex.
pressly said and repented not of their deeds. They have not altered
their views, nor will they; not have they relaxed their eﬁ'orts to re
establish their former power, and it is expressly in opposition to pro
phecy, to suppose they will. But all these efforts will only facilitate
their downfall under the seventh vial.
\Vith regard to their apparent successes, there is nothing real in this,
by which the prophecies can be affected. In some countries, the Pro
testants'are veering round towards the Mother Church. But this is
not with any design to give their power and strength again to the beast,
but to secure more ﬁrmly, if possible, their own.
But all considerations of their designs apart, there is an under cur
rent ﬂowing in all nations, which blazes forth evidences, irresistible by
all notjudicially blinded, or culpably ignorant, that for the banns of a
Pope again to prostrate a nation at his will, is as impossible as the
prophecy proclaims it. That under current is, the same in nature as
that which proved so fatal to priestly dominance and kingly power in
178 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD
the revolutionary movements of France, a spirit of pure democracy and
love of freedom, united with a stern and steadily increasing resolve to
be thus free. This ﬂame, fed by the freedom which the press both
claims and exercises, is rapidly rising in all nations; distress of nations,
with increasing knowledge of accumulated wrongs, are adding to its
fury; the ranks of the dissatisﬁed are accumulating daily. And whilst
a few are discussing the comparative merits of sectarian systems (all of
which are wrong), the millions are uniting in one tremendous shout,
“WE WILL BE FREE!"
\Vhoever have been deluded with the phantom that Popery, in the
real spirit of it, is gaining the ascendant, have, ﬁrst, neglected to be
guided by the sure word of prophecy, which declares the thing impos
sible; and, secondly, they have formed a lamentably incorrect estimate
of the present state of society, all parties being duly considered.
These decisive proofs of the end, gives an unerring and unbending
rule, by which to identify its beginning. If we count 1260 years back
from 1798, we are conducted to the year 538, which has been proved
the only period well supported by facts, when Papacy was properly set
up in the prophetic sense.
Our conclusions are now ﬁrm and immovable, that the abomination
that maketh desolate, to which the 1260 years belong, is the rampant
power of ecclesiastical Papacy; that it was set up in the only true
prophetic sense, in A.D. 538; and that in the same sense, it fell, in
A.D. 1798. Here we have then, the true beginning and end of the
time, times and a bat/ﬁ—or 1260 _2/ears,-—-fuﬁlled in the most striking
manner. -
With the two remaining prophetic numbers in the 12th chapter, we
shall now have no difﬁculty; we have in the above considerations, laid
a foundation for ﬁrm and easily acquired conclusions on them.
The text in which our next number is founded, reads thus :--“And
from the time that the daily sacriﬁce shall be taken away, and the abomi
nation that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a thousand two
hundred and ninety days.”—Chap. xii. v. 1].
These days must be understood as emblematical, and according to
the rule of the other numbers, a day typical of a year. We have,
then, in this text, 1290 years; which are 30 years more than in our
last. In this text we see two important events named, to only one
number given. That number cannot apply to both, because‘in the
nature of things they must, and from the history of the facts we linow
they did take place at an interval of time, of many years from each
other. They are included in the same text to teach us, that the two
events, although not simultaneous in point of time, yet that they osseas
a close and intimate connection with each other, suﬁicient tojusti y their
THE new cums'rmu woau). 179
being included in the same text. And this is still further justiﬁed by the
fact, that another prophetic term had just before been given, which by
various other texts was proved legitimately to belong to one of the events
of this; therefore, only one number to mark the continuance of one of
the two events, was at all necessary here. The two events are, the
taking away of something called the daily sacriﬁce; and the setting up
'of the abomination that maketh desolate. From the order in which
these events are placed before, we are instructed to infer that the taking
away was effected before the setting up. The nature of the events
show, that no other rule could apply.
we have before given all the facts of history on which both these
numbers are given, and of the events to which they apply. We have
seen the breaking up of Daniel's fourth great kingdom upon earth, in
the account of the invasion of Rome by the Barbarian tribes, under
their great Gothic leader Alaric. \Ve have traced, from this, the rising
up of the ten horns of the same vision.~ We have distinctly noticed
the congenial circumstances which followed, and which brought forth,
cherished, and matured that other little learn which came up after the
ten. yet amongst them. We have clearly proved this little born to be
the abomination that maketh desolate, to which the 1260 years belong.
And we have only now to glance back to those congenial circumstances,
which so facilitated this little horn’s progression to ﬁnd the beginning,
and all the other facts of our second number of 1290 years.
We have seen that, although, from the above invasion sprang up,
“ New governments, laws, languages, new manners, customs, dresses,
new names of men and countries, and an almost total change took
place in the state of Europe ;” yet in one particular these barbarous
tribes condescended to submit and conform to the institutions of those
different nations among whom they settled, which was in religion ;—
they unanimously agreed to support the hierarchy of the Church of
Rome, and to defend and maintain it as the established religion of their
respective states. And in the execution of these arrangements, as mat
ter of course, their former priests and modes of worship, their heathen
temples, rites, and sacriﬁces, were abandoned. And this forms one of
the great events in the text under notice,—this was the taking away of
the daily sacriﬁce to which the 1290 years belong.
Those trains of events, all of which are as above, so minutely re
corded in history, which form the subjects of these two prophetic
periods, are'clearly distinguished and plainly laid before us in the pro
phecies themselves. St. Paul, when foretelling both events, says,
“ only he who now letteth, will let, until he be taken out of the way,
and then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall destroy
with the spirit of his mouth, and destroy with the brightness of His
180 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
coming,H 2. Thess. ii. 7, 8. Here is the taking away of one power, and
then the setting up of another, both of which are antagonistic to Chris
tianity; but the ﬁrst acts asa hindcrance to the other, which cannot
be set up till it is out of the way, clearly showing that the second was
set up in the place and position before occupied by the ﬁrst. This can
represent nothing but persecuting Papacy obtaining the place and power
of persecuting Paganism; when the one was taken away the other was
set up, as more fully established in the following chapters in Revela
tions. In the twelfth chapter is the emblem of “a great red Dragon,
with seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads."—
This is represented as dreadfully persecuting the Church of Christ,
under the emblem of a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon un
der her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars." There can
be no dispute but that this dragon was Daniel's fourth beast, prior to
the springing up of the ten horns, and was emblematical of Pagan
tome. Proceeding to the thirteenth chapter, we are informed of the
downfall of this dragon power; of its being taken out of the way, and
of the setting up of another in the place thereof; and the transfer is
given in such regular order, the words employed so plain and applied with
such skilful precision, that they cannot be misapplied. The ﬁrst verse
presents a beast rising out of the sea, of similar description as to heads,
horns, and crowns, to the dragon; and in the second verse it is expressly
said, “and the dragon gave him his power, his seat, and great autho
rity." It is impossible not to perceive from this, that this beast was the
dragon’s immediate and direct successor; the one was “taken out of
the way," and the other putin its place; one great persecuting abomi
nation was pulled down, and the abomination that niaketh desolate was
elevated to his seat, and power, and great authority. The rise of one
kingdom on the ruins of another, in the cases of the four great empires
of prophetic description was never more distinctly set forth than in this
direct'succession. And than this, no prophetic description can, or
need be more plain. And as the sealing act of all, we may defy all
opposition to the fact, that history unanimously testiﬁes, that the reign
ing, persecuting, Pagan power of Rome, was immediately succeeded
by Papal Ecclesiastical Supremacy gaining the ascendant, and seizing
its predecessor’s “ power, seat, and great authority.”
This removal of Paganism out of the ten kingdoms, took place, ac
cording to all history by the year 508. This is conﬁrmed by the pro
phetic periods before us. Papac'y being proved to be set i'p, as the
abomination that maketh desolate, in 538. The difference between
1260 and 1290, is 30. This difference of 30 years, marks the period
between the removal of Paganism, and establishment of Papacy; the
one event was 30 years prior to the other. In these events we have
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. 18]
the beginning of the two periods, of 1260 and 1290 years. And they
both ended together in 1798, ih the following order :
Paganism removed by the year 508
Add to this the prophetic period 1290
1798
Papacy established. . . . . . . . . . 538
Add prephetic period. . . . . . . . 1260
End.. .. ..1 .. ..1793
The third prophetic period in this chapter, is the 1335 days, or years.
This period evidently begun at the same time with the 1290, and ex
tends 45 years beyond the termination thereof. This is sufﬁciently
clear from the plain reading of the closing part of the 11th and 12th
verses,——“ there shall be 1290 days. Blessed is he that waiteth and
cometh to the 1335 days." Here the two periods are connected. as to
their beginning and progress, with this solitary difference; the one ex
tends 45 years beyond the other as clear from the phrase, “blessed is he
that made”: and cometh to” the end of the longer period.
\Ve give the beginning and end of this as follows :—
Paganism removed 508
Add-... .. .. .. .. 1335
End...... 1843
We may take the following view of the same 2—
End of the 1290 years in. . . . . . .. 1798
Beyond this the 1335 years extend 45
1843
Here we have an absolutely decisive confirmation of our former con
clusion, from the 2300 days. It must always be kept in view, that the
month Nisan, is the ﬁrst month in the year. This answers to our art
I\Iarch and part April; consequently it cannot end till April, 1844.
A doubt has been raised on the text in Daniel concerning the 2300
days, some of the Greek manuscripts having 2400. This would make
100 years difference as to the end. Our text is correct. The period
is 2300, not 2400. Of which our last conclusion is positive proof.
The events at the end of the 2300 and the 1335 days, are the same;
and seeing that the latter must end with 1843, the former cannot ex
tend beyond the same period.
To show what will then take place, is our next business.
ON THE SEVENTH VIAL.
REVELATIONS XVI.
THE prophetic description of this event being given with the cover
to each number of this work, we shall not quote it here. \Ve have
selected it for the cover of each number, because we conceived it to be
of paramount importance; and we wished it to have become familiar to
our readers, before we entered upon our interpretation thereof. From
the fact of its being thus selected to accompany every number, our
readers may justly infer, that we have from the ﬁrst considered the
pouring out of this via], connected with events of extraordinary mag
nitude and importance. In our title page it is placed in a prominent
position; it there stands as the opening of a new era, at the end of the
2300 and 1335 days, we undertook to interpret; at the end of which
it is there said, “the seventh vial will be poured into the air," the ef
fects of which are then asserted in language, which has created nolittle
excitement where it has been read.
Having maintained our position as to the time ﬁrst given for this
event to take place, and having brieﬂy noticed those signs predicted to
precede it, we think we have ﬁrm ground to proceed upon to show, in
our interpretation of the prophetic description of the seventh 'vial what
is now coming on the earth.
Since our ﬁrst number appeared, and our ﬁrst computations Were laid
before the public, We have been enabled to perceive nothing in the
prophecies of Scripture nor anything in the world, which has ever pro
duced the slightest impression, to the effect that the seventh vial is now
at hand. All the public journals of the day, aid us in proclaiming
some organic changes at hand. The state of all nations tells us the
seventh vial is at the door. The signs given by our Lord abound.
And our arguments upon the unalterable periods in prophecy proclaim,
that these signs now fall when “the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled."
Not one, but many; not hundreds but thousands; with aching hearts,
the texts of Daniel and our Lord, atime qftrouble, distress qfnalians.
with throbbing breasts and faltering tongues, are preaching daily on
This doctrine has gone abroad through all our cities, towns, villages,
and rural districts. Nor is this doctrine false. It loudly proclaims,
THE saw cnarsrmu WORLD. 183
connected as it is with the times of the Gentiles being fulﬁlled, that the
seventh vial is at hand.
For the present distress of nations is far from being all that is now
coming on the earth. It is only one sign of the greater calamities soon
to follow. This is by our Lord associated with perplexify. And to the
poor man without employment, without money, without clothing, and
without food; his family helpless and almost houseless; no arm to as
sist, no friend to sympathise, none to relieve; that a bitter cup of per
jilexity is this man’s lot, all will agree. Nor are thousands now just
saved by precarious means from actual destitution, altogether free from
this perplexitq; they have ascanty, but uncertain income. Will it con
tinue ? \Vill it not decline? \Vill it remain a defence against actual
starvation? These are anxious oft-repeated queries, which leave cor
roding perplezity, drying up the spirits of tens of thousands. And
those who stand in higher stations, are, by the eventful times in which
we live, forced into the ranks of those, who on every hand are pro
claiming by exhibiting the certain signs of the seventh vial's near ap
proach. Their trade declines, or their proﬁts fall; their property wastes,
their friends become bankrupts, and the pauperism around them aug
ments the demands on their sinking incomes; and they reluctantly
attest the existence of the signs they dread,—A time qftruuble, distress
of nations with perplezity.
Amidst such wide-extending distress and perplexr'ty, nothing could
follow but what our Lord predicts,—iWen’.i- heartsﬁziliug themforfear,
and for looking qﬂer those things which are coming on the earth. Yet
how unwisely and how dangerously are many looking, Wide extended
as is present distress and perplexity; quite as common are expectan
cies of men, that there is something coming on the earth of an alarming
character. The hearts of many fail them,—-a dark cloud hovers round
them,—the coming storm they anticipate is involved in impenetrable
mystery. Some contend for one thing, others for the opposite, and
confusion proportioned to the wide-spread perpleiny prevails. None
seem capable of giving a ﬁrm and decided judgment how, or in what
the present current of affairs will end. Over some of the more fearful
indications which sometimes burst forth, one universal midnight dark
ness reigns. The sanguine hope, the timid fear, distress and perplr'rz'ty
drive them alike to look for something; and this something casts its
shadow before it, which fills them with fearful forebodings of, still they
know not what. Men’s hearts ﬁziling them]for,fear, andfor looking
qﬂer those things which are coming on the earth.
In this night of horrors is there no polar star to guide? Cannot
this fear fully unknown something be identified? Is all creation roid
of a well-executed chart, by which we may know what those things
184 rue new cmusrran WORLD.
which are coming on the earth are? and knowing this may mount
a rock of safety, when those things come? If men would but treat the
advice of Peter with that respect it merits, much calamity would be I
prevented. He says, but ye have a more sure word prrophecy to
which ye do well to take heed. Through men in general discarding
this, to unequalled perplexity and distress, is added the sickening Fata
lity of ﬂeeing a thousand ills in fearing one.
Singular and inadmissible as it may appear to some, there is not an
age in the world's history, from its ﬁrst page to this time, concerning
which the momentous transactions affecting mankind in general, are
more particularized, nor so strikingly set forth in Scripture prophecy,
as are the events of the age in which we live. There is, indeed, some
thing coming on the world of no common character. we are entering
on an age entirely new to mankind. It will soon be said in truth of the
whole world, old things arepassed away, and behold all things are become
new ; and in the highest sense the poet's words will apply, 11 new world
rises, and new manners reign. And of this new world the prophets
were not ignorant, the prophecies are not silent. Every leading char
‘acter is faithfully pourtrayed. The time and the manner of its coming,
are more largely and correctly described, than are the occurrences of any
other age of the world, by prophecy. By our leading texts, we are
plainly informed, that the kingdoms of this world shall become the
kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and He shall reign for ever.
This is the new world now rising; and the time ofits coming is clearly
proved in our remarks on the prophetic periods considered, which estab
lish the end of the 2300 and 1335 years to be at the end of 1843,
when the sanctuary shall he cleansed.v
Still, to the millions the cleansing process is involved in midnight
darkness. To those particular parts of the prophetic writings, where
this cleansing process is described, the masses have never looked. They
are loo/ring qfler those things which are coming on the earth; but they
look to wrong charts, or to the right one with pre-determined views.
The result is darkness instead of light, perplexity instead of calm repose,
and men’s hearts.failing them with fear. Many feel their hearts
sieken through hope, not deferred only, but destroyed, of a new com
mercial world; many faint for a new political world; some are looking
and labouring for a new moral world. All of which parties prescribe
their own peculiar processes, by which they have hoped their objects
should be effected. The objects for which these have been looking, not
being in accordance with the ordinations of heaven, no wonder the dit
l'erent proceSSes have originated in error and ended in perplexity ,- and
men’s hearts failing them 'for fear. The great object of Heaven is,
the cleansing of the sanctuary, the establishment of a new Christian
was new CHRISTIAN wonu). 1'8‘5
world, and the process that which is plainly revealed in' the prophetic
writings. Sooner or later, men’s attention will and must be directed
to this rule only. Until then, confusion and perplcxily must remain.
Do we ask what is coming ?—the answer is, the seventh vial. Do
we ask by what means the sanctuary shall be cleansed P—by'the uri
fying ﬂames and the renovating purgatives of the seventh vial. Do
we ask in what~manner our Lord will come to make the kingdoms of
this world His own F—just in that manner described, clothed with all
the power and attended with just that retinue which ﬁllo'ws the an
nouncement, “it is done," when the seventh vial was poured out.
This seventh vial is the only key that can open those mysteries, which
now ﬁll with sickening perplexity the hearts of millions. And we
have the authority of God for saying, that wickedness has now secured
such authority in our world, and the different sectarian Churches are so
ﬁlled with doubly reﬁned pollution, that nothing short of the dreadful
agencies under the seventh vial, can be ell'ectual in cleansing the sane;
tuary and restoring primitive Christianity to man. Hence we read,
And the temple of God was ﬁlled with smoke from the glory of God,
and from His power; and no man was able to enter into the temple,
till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulﬁlled, Rev. xv. 8.
Here we see plainly written, that which the millions will in no wise
believe. \Vhat is the astounding import of this text? The most con->
venient reply from the masses will be, they cannot tell, it is a mystery.
In this reply join all the watchmen of Zion, and all the leaders of the
people. And in- this they unconsciously supply, by millions, attesta
tions of its truth and illustrations of its meaning. And must we leave
it here,—-shall not the wise understand? Daniel says they shall. Let
us then try.
There can be no mistake in maintaining from it, the absolute necessity
of the seventh vial, if the temple must be entered; for it plainly says,
no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the
seven angels were ﬁlﬁlled. This must have a ﬁgurative meaning,
some say, for the tem le of God is entered every day. But before we
have investigated hal the description of the events of the seventh vial,
we shall see that the temple is-not entered at all, and in the strong lan
guage of this text it cannot be till the seventh vial is poured out, and
its cleansing process conducted by Omnipotence, has rendered this
possible. How needful then that this seventh vial come, that the tem
pie may be opened and entered by all the world'
The reason is given why the temple cannot be entered, and an in~
structive one it is, the temple was ﬁlled with smohe. Smoke is here
emblematical of all those damnable heresies and anti-Christian doctrines
which like a deluge had overﬂown all Christendom, and ﬁlled all.
N
186 I THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
Churches in the dark ages of Catholic usurpation, and continue to a
lamentable extent to the present time, and can only be efl'ectually ex
pelled by the seventh vial. But this is said to be from the glory of
God andfrom his power. \Ve are not to understand by this that God
was the author, the abettor, or in any sense sanctioning these heresies
in the temple. False doctrine cannot emanate from the God of truth.
It is true St. Paul said, and for this cause God shall send them strong
delusions, that they should believe a lie : that they all might be damned
who believe not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness,—
2 Thess. ii. 11, 12. This is descriptive of the most awful condition in
which a. Church can be; and in this state the nominal Church of Christ
has existed for hundreds of years. Yet these delusions which are called
strong, and are the same false doctrines above symbolized by smolre, with
which the temple was ﬁlled, originated not with God, although it is
said He sent them; and in one dreadful sense He did. He saw the
falling and already fallen Church, determined to have them ;—-they
already took pleasure in nothing else, and He in his overruling Provi
dence permitted them to come. This was the only sense in which He
sent them. And thus the temple became ﬁlled with smoke, through this
-—-their having departedfrom the glory of God andﬁom his power,
through their having believed not the truth, but having pleasure in un
righteousness; through this the temple was ﬁlled with that smoke,
which nothing but the seventh vial can now expel. And, verily, so it
will be found. Than this, there is no other antidote: it seems the
only effectual method which Heaven itself could devise, by which the
sanctuary could be cleansed. -
And that this seventh vial includes all those calamities now coming
on the earth, and will be effectual in turning the whole tide of human
thoughts and actions into an entire new channel, and eﬁ‘ectuallysetting up
a new Christian World, is certain, from the following clear attestation of
God’s book :—And I saw another sign in Heaven, great and marvel
lous; seven angels, having the last seven plagues,-for in them isjillerl
up the wrath of'God, Rev. xv. 1. Here they are called the last plagues.
By this we can only understand, that these will ﬁnish the long-continued
and mysterious contest of might against right, of error against truth ;
and make a full end of that anti-christian power, which has, for reasons
known only to God, been permitted for so many centuries to render
desolate that Church, the fair and luxuriant fruits of which shall ﬁnally
make our world a paradise. \Vhilst this desolating and anti-christian
power has maintained its ascendancy and cast down the truth to the
ground, and practised and prospered, it has not been altogether unmo
lested. Many calamities in the form of desolating wars, intestine broils,
epidemic distempers, and desolating famines have from time to time
THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD. - 187
proved distressing plagues to it; but these seven are the last ; and of
these the one which constitutes the special object of our notice, now is
emphatically the last of even the last seven. Others have severely
tormented, but this shall utterly destroy. Others have very much an
noyed and weakened, but this shall make a full and ﬁnal end. The rapid
onward ravages of tyrannic anti-christian powers, have been most sig
nally checked from time to time; but cheeks only will be no more re
peated. The last plague is in the seventh vial; which, from its being
emphatically the last, to check only is not its province, but to anni
hilate;-its Heaven-born commission is, not to reduce only, but to
destroy.
If this weakened only and did not make a ﬁnal end, the truth would
still be cast down as usual, only not to so great an extent. Might
would still prevail against right, and the Church and the world
contaminated and polluted, and no guarantee secured against all the
former deeds of darkness being re-acted. Under such circumstances,
another plague would be necessary. These plagues are sent by a just
and holy God, to chastise mankind for violating the commands; and
they must continue to be sent, so long as God continues immaculate
and just, or man remains to disobey. One or the other must change,
under that chastisement emphatically called the last; either man must
then cease to rebel, or God cease to be just, or another plague must
come to chastiSe and to destroy. This whole case can be, yea, it is ir
revocably determined. God cannot change His attributes ;-——another
plague beyond the seventh will not come ;—God assures us it is the
last. Then beneath its deadly scourge, all anti-christian institutions,
whether civil or ecclesiastical, must expire; the sanctuary must be
cleansad; sin must cease; and all nations bow in perfect obedience to
the gospel; then must the kingdoms of this world become the king
doms of our Lord. Upon this principle, and this alone, can this
plague be properly pronounced the last.
To fence and effectually guard the sacred boundaries here given to
the seventh vial, it is added,_fbr in them isﬁlled up the wrath of God.
It is not here said, these plagues are ﬁlled with the wrath of God;
to read it so would destroy its use, by divesting it of all peculiar force. A
plague is of itself, expressive ofwrath; and it is naturally ﬁlled therewith.
A force of meaning far beyond this is contained in this passage. To
see which clearly we must ﬁrst collect into one view, all those anti
christian institutions and systems in the world, the downfall of which
is certainly doomed under this last plague. These institutions, as one
great body of sin, are and ever have been, offensive to God. But from
its beginning, its days have been numbered and its limits ﬁxed; and its
exact measure of punishment and wrath, been also determined. From
188 rue new CHRISTIAN woan.
time to time, in accurately measured limits, portions of this wrath has
been poured out according to pre-determined rules. But when the last
plague comes, the last portion of wrath will be in it; its contents will
make up the full amount of all determined on, to eﬂ‘ecta full and ﬁnal end;
the sum will be complete,none will be reservedbecause none will be requir
ed; the sanctuary will be cleansed, sin will cease; and because of this,
and in this sense, in the last seven plagues isﬁl/ed up the wrath quod.
Here we ﬁnd an unerring and unbending rule to guide us, in looking
after those things which are coming on the earth; here the chart of
heaven is plainly laid open for our inspection. The seventhvial, the
last of the seven last plagues is coming. And from the fact that it is
the last, presents it armed with tremendous powers, and proves it com
missioned by Heaven for the accomplishment of deeds to which man
vkind have yet been strangers. It being the last, proves it destined to
effect a change in the world far surpassing all that was accomplished
by the preceding six. It must leave the world in an entirely altered
condition, otherwise an eighth would be as necessary to succeed this
seventh, as this was to succeed the former sixth.
To suppose that mankind can continue to live as they have hereto
fore lived,--to embrace the gospel or reject it,-—t0 obey 0r disobey the
revealed will of Heaven,—to be scripturally good or bad at their plea
sure after this vial has come,—-is to suppose what is expressly declared
impossible in the text proclaiming this plague the last. To believe
that under this vial every anti—christian system, of however long con
tinuance or in whatever way upheld, will not fall and be For ever abol
ished from our world is to believe in opposition to the only true import
of the text in which Heaven declares that this is the last. Under this
men must become true Christians, all who are not so, or they must die.
The period will be past through which Omnipotence allowed unrighte
ousness to prevail, with only temporary checks being administered ;—
such dealings with the unrighteous will be no longer continued ;-—as
proof, this plague is the last. Under this, the conﬂict for thousands of
years maintained, must terminate, this vial is the last plague. In it is
ﬁlled up the wrath of God.
This in most vivid colours shows the amazingly altered circumstances
and condition of mankind. Through the world's history to this day,
except at the time of Noah's ﬂood, men could plunge into the blackest
crimes, and could aid in the establishment of the worst institutions;
could practise every variety of fraud, oppression, tyranny and injustice,
to elevate themselves in the honours, pleasures, powers, and wealth of
this world; and generally the greatest proﬁcients in the arts of cruelty
and deception, succeeded the best; they could smile while the millions
mourned. But beyond the boundaries of the seventh vial, such circum
THE new cnarsrum wonLn. 189
stances cannot sustain their existence. Such things have occasioned
the pouring out of all the vials, and would give rise to more could they
continue. This is, however, impossible; the seventh is the last. And
this is Heaven's guarantee, that those circumstances which have ren
dered these plagues necessary shall no longer exist ; but under this last
shall cease for ever, and all who refuse henceforth to yield implicit obe
dience to the mandates of Heaven must be cut off, and removed hence
that the sanctuary be no longer polluted, that no more plagues may be
required.
This view of the seventh vial as the last plague, ought to awaken
the most lively apprehensions in the minds of all. If not prepared,
they must become so, or be swept away. It will prove itself no respec
ter of persons,—-the rich and the poor, the learned and the unlearned, the
prince and the pauper,—will all as in death stand upon equal grounds
under this vial, the only distinctions respected will be the good and the
bad. This distinction, which is Heaven’s highest and eternal law, will
be caused by Omnipotence a second time to regulate all mankind. It
has been once applied, but it laid the world in ruins, righteous Noah
and his family alone surviving the universal deluge. Under the seventh
vial the same rule must become the established law; the good will be
preserved as heirs of the kingdom to be established on earth, but all
the bad will be swept away. This seventh vial is the last plague.
The supporters of systems or institutions at variance with the gospel
may decide at once to pursue an entirely new line ofpolicy, or tohe prepar
ed to sink with their systems in the coming conﬂict. All the former vials,
after being ﬁrst poured out, rapidly effected all for which they were sent,
and the last will tolerate no interruption. It will run its course re
gardless of men or systems, on which is not found the genuine marl! of
the gospel, all of which must sink to rise no more for ever. It is the
last plague; and because of this, everything in the world calculated
to render another necessary must be swept away under its tremendous
operations, and the whole world left in an entirely altered condition.
From considerations of personal safety, every man’s close and perse
vering attention, should be forthwith directed to a full investigation of the
rophctic description of that vial ; and whatever his state or condition in
life, his highest wisdom is to be prepared forits coming. It is at hand; the
end of the 2300 days and 1335 as before examined, fully attest this vial
near. Itisin vain to close oureyes to events which cannotbe put back, with
which we shall be so vitally affected, which we might foresee and be
provided for. Let every man examine the ground on which he stands.
It is now with Omnipotence we have to do, and awful will it be for
that man or partyfound ﬁghting against God, in the events at hand.
What God has determined to put down, let no man labour to uphold;
190 rm: new cmusrran WORLD.
what God has predicted to be destroyed, let no man attempt to preserve.
The contest is unequal ;—Omnipotence cannot be successfully resisted,
what He has said He can and will perform.
Unequal and hopeless as such a contest may seem to all men, it is
to be feared that ignorance of the true import of prophecy will plunge
millions into it. Men ignorant of prophecy, will thus be found ﬁght
ing against God, because when this seventh vial comes, the signs occa
sioned thereby in the world, will be so different to their pre-conceived
opinions of what ought to prevail, that they will not believe that the
hand of God is in it, accomplishing exactly what has been foretold.
Their unbelief on this head, will lead them to destruction in a contest,
in which had they understood better, they would have had no part.
That such calamities may be partially avoided, we will proceed to
the subject. On entering on this important part of the prophetic
writing, we must observe that, although we shall endeavour to do jus
tiee to every part, yet we shall not pursue the ordinary method of com
mentators, by explaining the separate verses in the order in which they
stand, but arrange the main subjects of the whole prophecy, and take
them up in that order which will be most likely to secure the aid of one
part, or main subject, in the explanation of another.
The whole is mysterious, but not now incomprehensible. The lan
guage is highly ﬁgurative, but its meaning may be found. The wise
shall understand, are the words of inspiration, and apply as perfectly
to the nature of those occurrences and agencies, by which the sanctuary
shall be cleansed, as to the time appointed when this shall be done.
At the same time, we are compelled in sorrow to expect, that when
the last day of the 2300 years arrives, when the seven lastplagues are
all expended, save this last, and even when this last of the seven is
about to overwhelm our world, that even then, a vast majority in our
age will not understand, either the time or the nature of those things
now coming on the earth. To this conclusion we are directed by the
words, behold I come as a thief; Rev. xvi. 15. This is spoken with
exclusive reference to this seventh vial. And this implies that its
coming will be unlooked for, unexpected, disbelieved in, and that it will
surprise a guilty world like a thief in the night. Notwithstanding the
momentous and monitory facts, that six of the seven vials have already
come; yet the seventh will be unforeseen and unexpected. The time
of its coming is plainly revealed, yet men will not understand it. All
its tremendous agencies and effects are most vividly set forth; yet the
masses will not know any thing whatever respecting it. Still it will
come as a thief in the night. This is lamentable. Because the
good man of the house had known what hour the thiefwould come, he
would have watched, and not have szgﬂered his house to be broken
THE new CHRISTIAN woman. 19]
through. And blessed, says our text, is he that watcheth and heepeth
his garments, lest he wall: naked and they see his shame. Evidently
teaching us, that when this thief does come, he will be not only un
expected, but he will take all; even to leave the wilfully blind, sleep
ing, and negligent, destitute and defenceless, abashed, ashamed, and
confounded, with naked breast unguarded against the envenomed shafts
of incensed Omnipotence.
Lamentablc as these things are, various reasons are assignable for
them. A wicked heart is, by Daniel, laid at the foundation of all this.
The wic/cea’ shall do wickedly and none ofthe wicked shall understand.
The seventh vial will prove not only a cleanser of the sanctuary, but a
wonderful revealer of secrets. Under its terriﬁc agencies, men's souls
will be tried. God will sit as umpire, and point out the wicked by
their nakedness. which the wise will know. However incoherent and
opposite the opinions of parties may be respecting this vial, there is one
thing on which all its opposers agree, that it will prove a heavy cala
mity on the world. This they dread, or rather would do, if their
attention became rivetted to it. What they dread, they dislike to con
template, and gladly disbelieve. And in all this, the prophecy above
receives its fulﬁlment. Because they dread it, they will not contemplate
it, but gladly labour to disbelieve it; because of this, they do not under
stand it. But all this betrays and proves that wickedness of which Daniel
speaks; which is the great sad reason why this vial will come as a thief
Wilful ignorance in such a case, is the most consummate folly.
\Vhether men know it or not this vial will come. If men efi'ectnally
ward at? all the shafts of argument, they cannot evade the transﬁxing
horrors of the events themselves. And if all the powers of earth and
hell combine, they cannot postpone the pouring out of that viala single
day beyond the time appointed. The decree has gone forth; the ﬁat
of the Almighty has been published never to be reversed; in 2300
years then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. This period is now ex
piring, and the seventh angel coming forth with its portentous vial,
and all the world shall speedily fall convulsed with its powerful con
tents, and confess that the Lord God Omnipotent reigncth.
For the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air. This de
mands especial notice. We have seen this vial set forth as the last.
We justly inferred from that, that it was destined to be the great and
sullicient extinguisher of sin in all the world. \Ve have proved it would
come at the time appointed, for the sanctuary of the whole world to be
cleansed; and the kingdoms of this world to become the kingdoms of
our Lord and of his Christ. And now, in singular consistency with this
we are told, that this vial should be poured into the air. This is im
portant; and differs greatly from the rule observed in the cases of the
192 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
former vials. Theﬁrst was poured out upon the earth, meaning the
Papal kingdom; the second upon the sea, the central cities in France;
the third upon the rivers and fountains of water, the surrounding state
of Rome; the fourth upon the sun, the gospel in Catholic dominions;
the upon the seat of the beast, Home at the time of the French
revolution; the sixth upon the great river Euphrates, the Ottoman
Empire in the year 1822; but the seventh, not upon, but into the air.
This difference is pregnant with important instruction.
The pouring out of this vial into the air, is to teach us the univer
sality of its tremendous inﬂuences. The air spreads alike over the
whole surface of our globe, wherever man is found the air envelopes
him; not a nation, people, or language under heaven, where the air is
not. Therefore all nations will alike feel the effects of this 'vial. The
effects of former vials have been local, those of this will be universal.
It is the last, and all must feel it. It is to make an end of sin in the
world, then to all parts of the world it must extend. Christians, Jews,
Heathens, and Mahommedans, must all inhale it. The worshippers of
false gods, the scoﬁing rejectors of all gods, together with the hypocri
tical servers of the true God, must all alike breathe in it. A vial is
small, but the contents of this will ﬁll all our aerial territories, and im
pregnate our world of vital gasses. It will be alike unceremoniously
diffused through all our seats of wealth and power, as through the
abodes of less splendid state. Kings and beggars, fools and philoso
phers, will have no distinction here. Local visitations and partial ef—
fects, will be no more observed when this trial comes. One univer
sal kingdom will be introduced by it. The councils of Jehovah will
be then completed, to apply partial measures to along tried guilty
world no more; the commission is issued upon the principle, that not
one nation only, but all the kingdoms on earth have become ﬁtted for
the great, grand, and ﬁnal act of this description. The time appointed
has also come, and the seventh angel is therefore commanded to pour
out his 'vial into the air, that its reﬁning inﬂuences might circulate to
every inhabitant of the earth, and immovably ﬁx the universal extin
guisher of sin on all the world.
All commentators who have attempted an explanation of this seventh
vial, have erred. Either from a total ignorance of the fact that under
it, let it come soon or late, all sin must cease; or from an utter misap
prehension of what is, and of what is not sinful; or from partial or
interested views and motives; or from a want of Christian courage to
write the truth. From some of these, or other unknown causes, the
sad fact has arisen, that all commentators have practically united their
inﬂuence, and employed considerable pains, in takin from the true
and awful import of the account of the pouring out o the seventh vial.
'rns new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 193
The language employed is highly ﬁgurative, it is true; and some from
this, have acted as though this circumstance afforded to them a licence
to throw loose the reins of rule and reason, and stretch their ingenuity
to its extent in inventing interpretations to suit themselves and the par
ties to which they belong. Some naturally kind~hearted, would ex
pound all this description in such a manner as to keep all the world in
perfect harmony, even under the full inﬂuence of this seventh vial;—
and especially so, when the impressions are powerfully operating upon
them, that this vial comesjust at the opening of the millennium itself.
Ideas of the'universal reign of peace and righteousness so ﬁll their
minds, as entirely to exclude those images which the reading of the
account of this vial is calculated to impress upon their hearts.
However we may commend such a feeling, we dare not interpret the
above account of the last plague according to its exclusive and un
bridled dictates. WVe read, the great city was divided into three parts,
and the great Babylon came into remembrance before God, to give unto
her the cup ofthe wine oftheﬁerceness ofhis to; ath. Now wherever this
great city may be found, or to whatever this metaphor may apply, we
cannot correctly conceive its meaning to be, that perfect peace, unity,
and hap iness shall reign therein for ever. But, the cities of the na
tionsfe . This cannot signify that these cities stand permanent as
time, and immoveable as rocks. We also read, every islandjled away,
and the mountains were not found. And though the tens of thou
sands may jeeringly exclaim, where is the promise of his coming, jbr
since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the
beginning of the world, yet these sweeping declarations are very far
from teaching that all things will pass the ﬁery ordeal of the last plague,
and continue as they were to the end of time. This plague is the
last, and on this account it will prove itself the inflexible demolisher
of all existing systems on earth not purely Christian, whatever the
views or feelings of mankind may be; and as such, it is plainly repre
sented through the whole account before us.
Yet how easy for all sectarian parties to believe themselves secure,
even though universal devastation rage through all other systems but
their own. Were the learned amongst the Roman Catholics required
to expound these strong prophetic descriptions, we should be informed
by them, that the total overthrow of all Protestant nations was in
tended; the downfall of all Protestant rulers, the total extinction of
all sects and parties save their own, and the universal subjugation of
the whole people to the authority of the Church of Rome, leaving but
this one Church and one Shepherd in the whole world. All this has
of late been predicted by the Catholic clergy; and no doubt many of
them are expecting and desiring its speedy fulﬁlment. These, how
194 THE NEW CHRISTXAN WORLD.
ever, are not the things now coming on the earth. And if such only
were the purposes of the last plague, why was the vial to be poured out
into the air? \Vhy not the same rule have been held sacred, which
was observed in all the other vials, and some localities selected where
Potestantism and other sectarian parties most prevail, unto which this
seventh vial should be poured, where all its destructive fury should
have been exhausted, and have left all Catholic nations at peace?
This has not been the plan ordained; into the air this vial must be
poured, and all nations alike feel its tremendous eli'ects.
But too many of our Protestant expounders of these predictions {all
under the same condemnation. The errors and cruelties of by-gone
years, with which the Roman Catholics stand justly charged, present
themselves so vividly to the mind and operate so powerfully on the
passions of most of our Protestant commentators, that theirjudgments
are borne down the mighty current with such force, that they perceive
scarcely anything in the stupendous transactions of the seventh vial,
but the total and endless destruction of Popery. The laboured pro
ductions of such, partake largely of partiality and selﬁshness. These
principles operating strongly on the mind, close it against that expan
ded and correct view of this weighty subject, which the plain reading
would otherwise inspire.
It is true, that ﬁve out of six of the seven vials, have been poured
out on different localities of the Catholic kingdom; But that kingdom
must not have all. The vision of the vial.) passed away from that ern
pire when the ﬁfth was completed ; it must partake largely of the
seventh along with all the rest of the world, but after the ﬁfth, no other
was destined for that kingdom alone. This is sufﬁciently plain. from
the distinguishing rules expressed, in the accounts of the two last.
The sixth was appointed for the great rivﬂ 9f Euphrates; by which,
nothing but the Turkish dominions can be correctly understood. This
has been, for many years wasting, evaporating and drying up the power
of that nation. We have enlarged sufﬁciently on the seventh being
poured into the air, and from this, in connection with other revealed
facts, have established the truth that all nations will alike experience
its reﬁning powers.
In addition to this it may be observed, that all nearly partial or local
measures have no place here. All interpretations thus limited are radi‘
cally wrong, as they entirely ov'erlook the great and grand end of this
visitation. This vial is the last plague ,- but if limited to any one or two
of Mahommedan, or Heathen, Protestant, or Catholic kingdoms, sin
would prevail in the rest of the world, and another plague be required.
But the decrees of Omnipotence cannot be thus nulliﬁed. It is the
last, and under it the sanctuary wide as the world, shall be cleansed;
THE new CHRISTIAN wonLn. 195
it, therefore, must and will be poured into the air, and all mankind
shall feel its effects.
Clothed with humanity our Lord ﬁrst appeared in our world, to_
dwell for a period with man. His second coming without sin unto sal
vation, will be in this seventh vial, to make the kingdoms of this world
His own, and to make his reign universal. And singularly opp0sed to
the views of many kind-hearted advocates of' His coming, the ﬁrst
effect in the great cleansing process described is, and the great city was
divided into three parts. Division takes the lead, destruction will fol
low. First divide and then destroy, is a rule held sacred with God as
well as man. But how opposite to the views of many, is this opening
scene in our Lord’s second advent.
The ﬁrst information required here is, what are we to understand by
this great city .9 City in Scripture is a term variously employed, but
as a ﬁgurative expression in the New Testament, is emblematical of
the Christian Church; sometimes the true, and sometimes the nominal
Church on earth is intended. St. Paul, in one of his most expressive
comparisons between the old and new covenants, the Jewish and Chris»
tian Churches, thus expresses himself:—But ye are come to M'ozmt Sion
and unto the city ofthe living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, Heb.xii.22.
Here the term city is emblematicalofthetrue Church of Christ, called also
the heavenly Jerusalem, to distinguish it from the earthly city of Jcrusa
lem, of which the Jews made their boast. Ofthe same import is the fol
lowing :--Him that overcometh will Imake a pillar in the temple of'my
God, and he shallgo no more out; and I will write upon him the name of
my God, and the name of the city ofmy God, which is new Jerusalem,
Rev. iii. 12. In these, and other’s, the true Church of Christ is the
meaning of the ﬁgure before us. But the great city to be divided
into three parts, is emblematical of the nominal Church, bearing the
Christian name. The only proof required of this is, the fact stated of
its being divided. The true Church cannot be divided. Its unity is
the plainly revealed will of God. But here division is determined, and
this is proof that-the Church is nominal. The time also, and the event
of this division, seal this proof that the Church is nominal. This takes
place when the year 1335, and the 2300 years close; at the exact time
when it is said then shall the sanctuary be cleansed, and at the time
when the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of lhelingdom
under the whole heaven, shall be given unto the people of the saints of
the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all do
minions shall serve and obey him ; the time when the Lord is pledged
to gather His people out ofall countries, and will give them one heart
and one way that they may 'fear me, Jeremiah xxxii. 39. That time
teeming with events of unequalled magnitude, of which the Lord has
196 rnz new cnnrs'rum wonLn.
said, ﬁn- my determination is, to gather the nations, that I may assem
ble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my]
ﬁerce anger,for all the earth shall be devoured with the ﬁre of my
jealously ,- for then will I turn to the people a pure language, that they
may a 1 call upon the name ofthe Lord to serve him with one consent,
Zeph. iii. 8, 9. The time when all shall again be of one heart and
of one soul, according to the only one pure pattern to all generations
of a Christian Church, as plainly laid before us in the second and
fourth chapters of Acts. The time when the great city will be divi
ded, under the shattering agency of the seventh vial, is this same time
' when the true Church shall be made one, and till all nations; and
this is proof infallible, that the Church then to be as above divided, is
not a true but only a nominal Christian Church.
It is, however, the great city. It is not only a nominal Christian
Church, but emphatically the great one ; the one of all others, which,
when in the plenitude of its glory, possessed an extent of boundary
and jurisdiction unequalled in the Christian world. This is the only
correct interpretation of the words employed. But this interpretation
identiﬁes at once the nominal Church intended. If we were required
to name the great city of England, we should, without hesitation, say
London. Just with equal readiness and certainty, may we name that
great nominal Christian Church, typiﬁed by the great city before us.
This great city, or nominal Christian Church, can be no other than
the Roman Catholic. In extent of dominion and legal power, this
Church has possessed and exercised a dominion, unequalled by any
other nominal Christian Church which ever existed on the earth. Of
this, its adherents for hundreds of years made their boast; thus lend
ing their greatest inﬂuence to establish the identity we are now seeking.
All. this is established by the words of infallibility, in the prophetic
description given by St. John of this Church's rise, establishment, and
continuanceZ-ain the world. Under the emblem of a monster, of a beast
rising out of the see, he represents this Church as receiving the dragon's
power, and his seat, and great authority ,- it is further said, and all
the world wondered after the beast. Its seat so splendid, its dominion
so vast,;_its power so great, its pretensions so lofty, and its electrifying
inﬂuence so overwhelming, that it wrested with magnetic force the gaze
of all mankind to itself; struck with solemn awe and amazement the
masses throughout its wide domains; and all the world wondered after
the beast, saying who is like unto the beast ,- who is able to make war
with‘himz? In addition it is said, and power was given him over all
hindreds, and tongues, and nations in the Roman world. All of which
is abundantly established by historic facts. From which we learn that
this great Church has comprehended within its pales, the mighty domi
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 197
nations of France, Spain, England, Scotland, the Empire, Sweden,
Denmark, Poland, Hungary, and Portugal; an extent of jurisdiction
never by far equalled by any other nominal Christian Church in the
world. These prophetic descriptions and historical facts, identify be
yond real mistake the great city before us. No doubt can then remain,
but that the ﬁrst visible effect of the seventh vial, will be upon the
Roman Catholic Church. It shall be divided into three parts.
How singular and mysterious, yet how harmonious and instructive
are all the providential movements of God, when scripturally viewed.
It is the established law of Heaven, that with what measure ye mete,
it shall be measured to you again, Matt. vii. 2. The ﬁrst eﬁ'ectual
edicts which laid the foundation for that usurpation, tyranny, and
bloodshed, which have stamped with endless infamy and stained all the
records of Catholic domination, were professedly to unite and subject
all Bishops, and all Churches under one temporal head. For the preven
tion ofschisms, to maintain inviolate this unity of the Catholic Church,
and perpetuate that unity for ever, according to the best calculations we
can procure, Papacy has martyred not less than 50,000,000 of unof
fending Christians, besides millions more subjected to all manner of
afﬂictions, who dared to believe and act in opposition to her laws.
Now we see that the ﬁrst decisive stroke of God under the seventh vial,
elrects that which for ages she has most dreaded, namely, her division
into three parts. ' Verily her doings have been strictly noticed, from
the beginning until now, and strict retributive judgment will pursue her
to her end.
In what this division, in its separate parts consists, we are not in—
formed. Judging, however, by the rule just pointed out, as held sacred
at the beginning of this plague, we may infer, that it will be charac
terized by something strikingly analogous to some prominent part of
her former policy. If we may apply this rule of interpretation, it will
easily follow that it is more than probable, that politics will in some form
or other constitute a prominent feature in this division, acting in part
in the two-fold capacity of cause and event. Probably three powerful
parties, inﬂamed with opposite political views, urged into savage con
ﬂict by opposite interests, real or imaginary, will spring forth as if by
magic, from the very heart of this Church, and drive on a mad career
till the great division before us be established. In the beginning of
their reign, the Catholic clergy ceased not their ambitious elforts, until
their supreme authority was established in the court of Rome, as well
as in the temple of God. And having sat at the helm of the political
affairs of nations for centuries with such delight, we may not marvel if
God send a political mania through all her territories, and then employ
it as a mighty engine to batter down all her walls and bulwarks; and
198 THE new crmrs'rrnu woau).
through the broils of infuriated political contest, to make her the chief
author and executioner of her own extermination from the earth.
Whatever names the three parties in the above division may be dis
tinguished by, the parts they must act, and the tremendous purposes
they must serve, are all determined beforehand by that God under
whose power all agents are; and the great end of the whole drama is
clearly set forth. Hence, in the same verse in which the division is
predicted, we read, and great Babylon came in remembrance before
God, to give unto ber the cup ofthe wine oftbeﬁerceness ofbis wralb.
This great Babylon, is that great city which reigneth Over the kings of
the earth, which we have just proved to be no other than the Roman
Catholic Church. This part of our description has much peculiarly
striking in it.
She came in remembrance. \Ve are not to suppose from this, that
God had really forgotten her: that He had been like the god of the
prophets whom Elijah mocked, and said or]; aloud: jbr he is a god ,
ez'iker he is talking, or be is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or per
ad'venture be sleepetb, and must be awalred, 1 Kings, xviii. 27. None
of these cases will apply here. None of them throw any light on the
phrase came in remembrance. God never for one moment forgot the
bloody deeds by thisfgreat Babylon. He never for one moment moved
His all-seeing eye from her darkest deeds of infamy; though covered
with names of blasphemy, drunk with the blood of martyrs, and making
all nations drunk with the wine of her fornication, all her abomination
from the beginning until now, have been every moment naked and bare
before Him. But because sentence against their evil deeds has not
been executed speedily, therefore they think in their hearts that no sen
tence has been issued from the court of heaven; that all their crusades,
slaughters, martyrdoms, cruelties, that all their licentiousness, their
most blasphemous prostitutions of all the ordinances of religion to the
basest of purposes; and their almost universal degradation and pollu
tion of the public mind, is all passed away and forgotten, that God has
either winked at the whole, or rather, that by permitting the great
whore to live, is a guarantee for her future safety, or a practical sanc
tion of all her proceedings. But is it indeed so ? She came in remem
brance beﬁ>re God. To the darkened minds of her votaries, He may
seem to have forgotten her; but she will come in remembrance when
this last plague comes.
In the 18th chapter of Revelations, where the particulars of the ca
lamities now coming on the great whore, are given in detail at great
length; we see all this blind boasting and most vain and fatal conﬁ
dence set forth, in most impressive language. It is there said,jbr/1er
sins have reached unto Heaven, and God hath remembered her iniqui
rm; new cnnrs'rms wonm). 199
ties. Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her
double according to her works; in the cup which she hath ﬁlled, jill
to her double. How much she hath gloriﬁed herself and lined deli
ciously, so much torment and sorrow give her; for she saith in her
heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow. See
in this her awful and judicial blindness, just at the time it is added,
therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death and mourning, and
famine, and she shall be utterly burned with ﬁre,- for strong is the
Lord God who judgeth her, Rev. xviii. 5--8. Catholics look out!
The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth, and the last plague is at hand.
Let every Catholic, whose life and eternal welfare is dear to him, take
the heave:in advice of the fourth verse of this chapter, which says, came
in remembrance. \Vhat for? To subject the world to her sway ;-—to
make her the one/old under one shepherd F No. Let God be heard,
though every man’s vain imaginations be scattered to the winds. She
came in remembrance before God. For what purpose ;-—to lay all
her enemies prostrate at her feet? No.—-But to give unto her the cup
of the wine of the ﬁerceness of His wrath. This is what God says
she came in remembrance for. Let Catholics read, tremble, and ﬂee
for their lives. The metaphor is strong, cup of the wine. Wine is
powerfully effective, and this peculiarly so; and that too in its worst
sense. For it is the wine of wrath, not mercy and loving kindness;
but refined, pure, unadulterated wrath. And it is “ HIS WRATH."
Not the wrath of man, nor of kings, but of God. And to charge the
emblem with everything calculated most forcibly to impress the mind
with most fearful forebodings, it is set forth as being the wine of the
FIERCENESS of his wrath. lncontestibly showing, that calamities of
no ordinary character are at hand. This wine is not extracted from
the common wrath of God, by which the nations of the earth are or
dinarily visited, but it is the wine of the ﬁerceness of His wrath ; the
uncommon and extraordinary visitations of Heaven. In which cala
mities the whole fabric of Papacy, this mystery of iniquity which has
reigned predominant for so many centuries, will be engulphed root and
branch, in one universal and everlasting destruction.
But looking onward to the effects of this seventh vial, in the descrip
tion given we also read, and the cities ofthe nations This seems
extremely ominous. A due consideration of its meaning, taken in ac
cordance with previously established facts; namely, that now the same.
tuary wide as the world shall be cleansed; that this seventh vial is the
last plague, the universal extinguisher of sin, and is therefore poured
into the air; with these facts to guide us, we may be conducted to
conclusions at issue with general opinion and deep rooted prejudices;
but be this as it may, it is a duty to proceed. The cities of the na
200 ' 'rna new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
tions feel, has a distinct meaning; and to evade a candid enquiry into»
it will not alter the intention thereof, nor turn aside any calamity which
may be determined under it.
When considering the former metaphor, the great city divided into
three parts, the true symbolical meaning of the word city in this text,
was proved to be the great nominal Christian Church, which was proved
to be the Catholic. The authority there advanced, applies equally to
the subject now under notice. The emblem is the same, the plural
only being given in this, and the singular in the former case. It is in
the same prophetic description, where two rules cannot apply; in the
same verse, and moreover, in one and the same sentence. From all of
which it is certain, and no mistake, that if city in the one case, be truly
emblematical of the nominal Catholic Church, the same ﬁgure, in the
same sentence, given in the plural, must be emblematical of all other
nominal Christian Churches throughout the world.
This interpretation of this emblem, may seem startling to many.
But the great consideration is, is it the only just one P If this be not
its proper application, then the great city is not emblematical of the
nominal Church of Rome. But of this we are not allowed to doubt,
for it is the subject of positive decision in the words of inspiration.
Hence we read, and the woman which thou sawest is that great city,
which reigneth over the kings of the earth, Rev. xvii. 18. This re
moves the whole matter beyond the speculations and conjectures of
man. Here God speaks for Himself, and gives his own interpretation
and application of the metaphors city and cities, in the text under no
tice. After this we are not warranted to say it may mean this, or it may
mean that, or it may mean something else. Such triﬂing as this with
the positive decisions of Heaven, cannot be tolerated. God Says what
the great city does mean. He says, it is the same as is typiﬁed by the
woman on the scarlet coloured beast, for it is said “and the woman
which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of'
the earth." This excludes speculation and gives conﬁrmation which
must not be disputed, that the cities before us are truly emblematical
of nominal Christian Churches throughout the world, all others except
the Roman Catholic.
But it is said, “AND THE CITIES OF THE NATIONS
FELL." How is this to be explained in accordance with the above
interpretation of the ﬁgure cities? According to this it must follow,
that the nominal Christian Churches of the nations fell; and that all
disunion, party distinctions, and sectarian names will ceue for ever.
This is the only true interpretation of which the passage is capable.
This predicted downfall of all sectarian cities or churches, will be fur
ther illustrated, when we come to consider the reasons why such changes
THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD. 201
are determined, as we proceed with our work. Simply to ascertain the
true import of the emblems employed, is our principal object here;
and also to glance at the effect of this seventh vial in the church and
the world, to prepare us for a more comprehensive and better under
standing of the whole prophetic description before us. Its effects in
the Churches we already behold, will be most desolating. The Great
Catholic Church will be divided, and caused to drink the cup of the
wine of the ﬁerceness of God’s wrath ;—and of all the Sectarian
Churches it is said, “the cities of the nations fell." Thus does the
fate of all present establishments in the world, seem sealed by Omni~
potence; and the great executioner, the seventh vial, the last plague,
preparing for the speedyperformance of his work, which, when accom
plished, will leave not a vestige of our worn- out systems in being, but
in the place of them one splendid universal system, formed in all its
parts by the perfect rule of the New Testament, and shedding unadul
terated benign inﬂuences over the whole earth.
But not only all present Ecclesiastical Systems are thus doomed to
fall under the last plague, but the civil constitutions of all nations
seem destined to experience similar effects, from this great and univei
sal extinguisher of sin. Hence we read, “And every island ﬂed away,
and the mountains were not found."
On endeavouring to ﬁnd out the true import of this momentous part
of our prophetic description, we must keep full in view the caution
with which we commenced, and consider that we have now to do with
that part of God's word, which is especially guarded like the garden of
Eden, by ﬂaming curses on those who either add to, or take from the
words of this book. Its import is ﬁxed by Omnipotence; and man
cannot change it. We may misunderstand it. If wilfully so, we must
suli'er for it, for God has so decreed. Let us, then, with reverence, try
to understand the true meaning of this ominous text.
Every island ﬂed away, and the mountains were not jbuml. The
events that followed the opening of the sixth seal, as described in Rev.
vi. 12--17, will very much assist in forming correct views of the text
before us, because similar emblems are therein employed; and the events
described having taken place, the emblems are thereby translated into
historical facts, concerning which there can be no danger of mistake.
That part referred to, illustrative of our emblems is as follows:—-“And
I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and lo, there was a
great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair,
and the moon became as blood, and the stars of heaven fell unto the
earth, even as a ﬁg tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of
a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled
together, and every mountain and island were moved out oftheir places."
0
202 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
All these symbolical representations received their accomplishment, in
those mighty revolutions and changes which took place when Rome
changed its religion from Pagan to Papal, when the ten horns came up,
and an entire change, as we have already noticed, took place through
the whole Roman empire, In the whole process of this mighty change,
as Dr. Clarke observes, “the ancient Pagan government of the Roman
Empire was totally darkened, and, like a black hair sackcloth, was de
graded and humbled to the dust. Their sacred rites were abrogated,
their priests and religious institutions desecrated; their altars cost down,
their temples destroyed or turned into places for Christian worship;
their gods and goddesses, demi-gods and deiﬁed heroes of their poetical
and mythological heaven, prostrated indiscriminately, and lay as useless
as the ﬁgs or fruit of a tree shaken down before ripe, and the whole
system of Pagan and idolatrous worship, with all its spiritual, secular,
and superstitious inﬂuence, blasted, shrivelled up, and rendered null and
void as a parchment scroll, when exposed to the action of a strong
ﬁre." Upon the verse, “ Every mountain and island were moved out
of their places," the Dr. says, “All the props, supports, and depen
dencies of the empire, whether regal allies, tributary kings, dependent
colonies, or mercenary troops, were all moved out of their places." And
all the old constitutions, forms of government, and ancient edicts were
taken away. Such, in substance, were the mighty changes effected
when the sun was darkened, the stars cast down, the heaven passed
away, every mountain and island removed out of their places, under
the complete re-modelling of the Roman Empire, both in its religion,
its government, and laws, as symbolized by the metaphors before us.
And from history we know the changes were great, the struggles to
effect them desperate, the sacriﬁce of human life immense, the destruc
tion of property incalculable, and the humiliating and extreme reverses
of the privileged orders without parallel, and general suffering to an
extent of which the former history of the world had no note. Not
withstanding, the two important emblems, islands and mountains, are
employed in the account of the seventh vial, to represent a far greater
change than this. To set forth those changes to which they apply,
in the re-modeling of the Roman Empire, these emblems are thus used,
“and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.”
But in the descriptions under the seventh vial, not a word is found of
removing these things out of their places, a very different mode of ex
pression is employed; the emblems are associated with words which im
press the mind with the certainty pf a far greater change; for removing
out of their places only, would be a partial temporary change, which
can hava no place in the unparalleled effects of this last plague; and
instead of removing out of their places, we read and every island
THE NEW CHRISTIAN won». 203
FLED AWAY, and the mountains were now FOUND. Taking, however
the above texts, illustrated by the above mighty changes, as rules partly
available for our instruction on the meaning “every island FLED AWAY,
and the mountains WERE NOT FOUND,” let us pursue the subject with
care. ()n this Dr. Clarke says, “probably meaning the capture of sea
port towns and fortiﬁed places.” Whatever presented to the Dr. such
a meaning, it is difﬁcult to determine. It is at variance with all and
every result, design, and pro-determined end of the last plague, and
below the interpretation he himself gives to the same emblems, when
associated with far milder terms, as above shown, and when employed
to typify events of far less importance. The capture of sea-port towns
might be eﬂ'ected without their either changing places, or ﬂeeing away,
or disappearing; whereas the text says every island FLED AWAY, and
the mountains were NOT FOUND. On the prophecies, the Dr. could
do nothing but copy others or guess for himself; and the major part of
his guesses are most random hazards, and a majority of his copies he
ought to have known to have rejected. The above guess at the sea
port towns, we must, however, reject, as almost the climax of his ran
dom shots; for nothing in the whole range of prophetic description,
can in the least favour such an interpretation.
Wherever one emblem has been employed, and the event typiﬁed
been accomplished, so as to determine its true meaninrr, that meaning
can never be set aside in exactly similar cases, without a plain reason
being included in the description of the events. Also, all symbols
should be explained, so as to maintain as exact a similarity as possible,
between the representative and the thing represented. Thus in the
present case, mountains and islands naturally are things familiar to all,
and respecting which there can be no mistake. Considering these as
emblems, we want something in the civil or religious world corre
sponding thereto, for their application to which we have scriptural
authority.
Various texts might be quoted illustrative of this. For instance,
“ Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the
king’s son. He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy
poor with judgment. The mountains shall bring peace to the people,
and the little hills, by righteousness,” Psalm lxxii. 3. Here kingly
power is unequivocally typiﬁed by “mountains” and by “little hills,” is
in like manner meant the subordinate rulers. And by the king and
the king's son being abundantly endued with righteousness, these
“mountains shall bring peace to the people and to the little bills,” or
lower rulers, by judging them and ruling them in “righteousness.” A
plainer text explanatory of mountains and little hills cannot be given,
showing these as emblems of political powers.
204 rm; new CHRISTIAN wonco.
This is all conﬁrmed by the texts, and historical facts in illustration.
before given, when “the heavens departed as a scroll, and every moun
tain and island were moved out of their places." What were they that
were then moved? Just what the Psalmist above says we are to un
derstand by mountains and little hills. It was the whole retinue of
kings and rulers, and the whole civil and ecclesiastical code of laws, in
the Old Roman Empire, swept away or removed out of their places;
and this affords us a most tremendous and heart-rending explanation,
written with blood and devastation, printed deep in unmistakeable charac
ters upon all the fertile plains and populous cities of the Western
World, of what the Spirit designed us to understand by the ominous
emblems, islands and mountains.
With J. E. Clark, in Dr. Clarke’s comment on Rev. xvii. 9, we con
clude that “mountain, taken in a ﬁgurative and not in a literal sense,
is unequivocally the emblem of great and mighty power." '
This will lead to a natural and easy comprehension of the true mean
ing of islands, symbolically employed. In nature, island means a plot
of land enclosed and surrounded by water. It is on such different plots
of land in the world, that all our mountains rest, and on which they
entirely depend for their support. ~
Now, politically, we want a parallel case. David and 'St. John tell
us that politically, kings and rulers are true antitypes of the emblems,
mountains and'hills. Then on what do these political hills and moun
tains rest, by what are they directly and immediately sustained P This
is a question not open to conjecture; a question which does not admit
of the triﬂing, paltry—it may be this, or it may be I/tat. It is a ques
tion which admits but of one re ly, and no mistake, namely, these poli
tical mountains and hills, as immediately and essentially rest upon
what in all nations is called the constitution, as our natural mountains
rest upon the islands on which they are found.
For illustration :—In Great Britain, various and mighty political
mountains exist, together with smaller ones, which the Psalmist calls
little hills. Our highest and heaviest mountain, is that of Monarchy;
next to this, are the two great mountains, the two Houses of Parlia
ment. But all these have one foundation on which they have been
raised and on which they rest, one island on which they entirely de
pend for their continuance, and this is the British Constitution. As
it is with the mountains naturally, so it is with these politically; if the
islands in one case ﬂed away, the mountains would disappear, and so
with the other also, and it is the same in all nations of the earth. In
all kingdoms they have their peculiar constitutions, or codes of laws, in
which we sec on every hand the elevated portions of land, the moun
tains and hills, the higher and lower magistrates and oilicers of every
'rna new cnnrsrmn woau). 205
kind, from the monarch to the common hangman. All of which alike
depend upon the peculiar constitution of the country for their separate
existence.
This interpretation is at once natural, scriptural, and conﬁrmed by
the facts of a former prophetic description; but it presents the passage
under especial notice, as one pregnant with fearful tidings to those who
may stand affected thereby. Every islandjled away, and the moun
tains are not ﬁund. This is alarming in the extreme. It is not said
every island and mountain were removed out of their places, but they
ﬂed away and were notﬂund l—Plainly indicating, 0r positively assert
ing their entire and everlasting abolition. This to thousands will seem
awful. Yet it is the word of God. We may not dispute it; we must
not take from, or add to the words of this book. The whole of this
text, portentous as it may seem, God has undertaken to see accom
plished; and He can do it, and woe be to that man who lifts an arm
against its fulﬁlment.
The peculiar circumstances before established, under which this vial
is poured out, give tenfold stronger colouring to this part of our pro
phetic description. It is ;the last plague ,- therefore under it sin must
cease. It comes at the end of the 1335 and the 2300 years of Daniel,
when the sanctuary shall be cleansed. It is poured into the air, which
envelopes all nations. Daniel has informed us that the time would
come, when “the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold,”—
the emblems of kingly ower,_“ were broken to pieces together, and
became like the chaff of?the summer threshing ﬂoors; and the wind
carried them awm , that no place was found for them," Dan. ii. 35;
and here, under t e last plague, at the time of the end we read, “every
island ﬂed away, and the mountains were notfbund.“ Islands we
have seen typical of the political constitutions of nations, and moun
tains the emblems of men in power. All these positive declarations
of the God of heaven, incontestibly establish the strongest conclusions
that under the seventh vial, the present established form of civil go
vernment, in all nations, will undergo an entire change. Above we saw
an universal subversion of all present Ecclesiastical and Sectarian
systems in the religious world, and now we are driven to conclusions
equally decisive against all existing civil establishments in all nations.
“ Every island ﬂed away, and the mountains were not found.” Most
portentous prophecy! Such emblems as these, so sweeping, so posi
tive and unrestricted, seem full to overﬂowing with nothing but indis
criminate, universal, and everlasting ruin to all established systems,
through both Church and State, in all nations. Well might this vial
be called the last ;-—-well might it be distinguished as the last plague.
Wisely was it appointed for the end of the 1335 and 2300 years of
206 me new crmrsrmu woau).
Daniel; and well might such sweeping measures be so often set forth,
as the second coming of our Lord, in the many varied prophetic de
scriptions given by all the prophets. We see here sufficient to justify
the strongest descriptions given by any of the prophets, of Christ’s
second coming. We require none of our American brethren’s ingre
dients of burning the world and raising the dead, to add to these as
tounding emblems to ﬁll up the varied prophetic descriptions of his
coming, to make the scenes sufficiently awful and grand. “ The great
city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell.
Every island ﬂed away, and the mountains were not found.” Nothing
but the most dangerous unbelief can blind the mind of any man who
reads this, so as to prevent him seeing in it the irreversible doom of all
existing systems in both Church and State not purely Christian, that
will be found on the earth at the time the vial comes.
Let it be distinctly noticed, that it will be upon the then existing
systems, that this vial with its fury will fall. No matter what their
names, or forms, or duration. No matter how wisely arranged, ex
tensively admired, or strongly defended. These are no matters of
consideration with God. He knew exactly how the world would be
governed, and the Church inﬂuence, at the time of the end. His pur
poses have not been formed under the inﬂuence, of partial or defective
knowledge; He has not been led astray with false calculations. This
seventh vial will come at the proper time; and it will be upon the va
rious systems then in active and powerful force in the world that it
will fall, and that with such unrestrained destructive inﬂuence that all
will pass away, and, “like the baseless fabric of a vision, leave not a
wreck behind.” “ Behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven,
and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and
the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that
it shall leave them neither root nor branch," Mal. iv. 1. Verily this is
the day when the seventh vial, the last plague, shall cause the great
city to be divided and then destroyed, the cities of the nations to fall,
every island to ﬂee away, and the mountains to be not found; leaving,
as the prophet of the Lord says, “neither root nor branch." “Then
shall the sanctuary be cleansed," wide as the whole family of man ;—
then shall all the proud, and them that do wickedly, be as stubble be~
fore the raging flame, and the high and lofty mountains of the earth,
the great and the honourable oﬂlces amongst men, shall evaporate as
the morning dew, and present Sectarian Churches, as such, crumble to
the dust. '
Our next- consideration must be how must such mighty changes be
eli'ected,--or by what all-potent agencies will Omnipotence accomplish
such vast events? Some reply by the preaching of the Gospel only,
rns new cmus’rnm WORLD. 20
under the extraordinary inﬂuence of the Holy Ghost. Undoubtedly
this agency will be employed, in connection with the press. But the
most momentous part of the enquiry is not answered in this. The
changes under notice are those thatJnust take place under the Seventh
vial, and the enquiry is, what are those agencies set forth in connec
tion with that vial, which must come into operation when that vial is
poured out? We need not hesitate on this a moment. God expressly
informs us what they are. They are VOICES—THUNDERS—
LIGHTNINGS—and an unequalled EARTHQUAK E z—See Rev.
xvi'. 18. These are the instruments, and no other are set forth. These
are all the extraordinary means to be employed. No literal conflagra
tion of our world. No literal resurrection of the dead. No instan
taneous translation of the living here. Voices, thunders, lightnings,
earthquakes-these are all. And these are in every way qualiﬁed to
accomplish all to be effected by the last plague.
Why do not all who profess to be guided by the word of God sub
mit to this. Upon what authority do they dare to reverse, to add to,
or take from the words of this book. Their tampering is most dan
gerous. In this prophecy God plainly informs us ofeverything of impor
tance concerning this vial. He plainly informs us it is aplague, it is the
last. Under it, therefore, sin must cease. But if sin cease under this,
and if this be the last, it is a dangerous species of inﬁdelity to teach or
believe that there can be any other, or anything different to what is
there set forth, at the time when sin ceases, as extraordinary instruments
to effect its overthrow. God says all these instruments are VOICES,
THUNDERS, LIGHTNINGS, EARTHQUAKES ;—-and man
adds, Yes, Lord, and “A GENERAL RESUBRECTION OF THE DEAD,”
and “an: FINAL cosrLAonATrou,” and “ THE new HEAVENS
AND Tun new EARTH,” spoken of Rev. xxi. 1. This is all adding
to the prophetic description of the seventh vial. True, these events
will take place in the regular order of God's appointment. But they
are not connected with the seventh 'vial. We say they are not thus
connected upon the authority of the whole description, they are not
there named. And these, not being given with the events of the
seventh vial, can have nothing to do with the cleansing of the
sanctuary now at hand; they constitute no parts of the last plague.
Those who believe the resurrection of the dead, &c., will take place
when the seventh vial comes, found such opinions upon a variety of
texts, which have no more connection therewith than have the texts
concerning the overthrow of the Egyptians in the Red Sea to do with
the destruction of Jerusalem before the Babylonish captivity. The
texts speaking of the Lord Jesus being revealed from heaven in ﬂaming
ﬁre, &c., have nothing to do with the events of the seventh vial. Such
208 rue naw cnnrsrun WORLD.
texts are continually being wrested, distorted, and misapplied to serve
party purposes, at the time that the plain description of this vial is over
looked. Some will wander wildly to every part of both the Old and
New Testament, and read over dozens of texts to ascertain what the
events of the seventh vial will be, and disregard all the time the direct
evidence of God concerning it in the 16th chapter of Revelations.
Texts properly applying,-—some to the destruction of Jerusalem,—
others to the downfall of Popery,—some to the time when the seventh
vial will c0me,--and others to the ﬁnal judgment,--are all raked to
gether, and with Babel-like confusion indiscriminately ruled upon us
with the seventh vial. And if we can believe the application of the
whole, we prove ourselves utterly incapable of proper discrimination
of prophetic description.
Voices, thunders, lightnings, and earthquake, comprise all the extra
ordinary instruments to which the inspired description calls our atten
tion, and we expect no more. We believe in nothing more; we duly
revere this part of the Word of God; the word of man we utterly dis
card when not in harmony with this.
All these are to be considered emblematical. Voices are emblema
tical of strong religious and political excitement and agitation in the
world; thunders and lightnings are the emblems of war; and earth
quake the certain emblem of revolution.
By the last of these the French revolution was typiﬁed, Rev. xi. l3 ;
“And the same hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part
of the city fell.” This received its accomplishment under the ﬁfth
vial. The tenth part of the city falling, represents France, one of the
ten kingdoms falling of? from the Papal authority at the time of the
French revolution; and what earthquake signiﬁes here, it must have
the same import under the seventh vial. There is only this distinction
made under the seventh vial, the earthquake is represented as being such
“a one as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earth
quake and so great." Under the former, the tenth part of the city fell;
under the latter. the great city must be divided into three parts, and
the cities of the nations fall; the islands ﬂee away, and the mountains
be not found. Let the reader summon before him, all the facts of
the French revolution and the reign of terror; and he may then see in
real life, the true import of the prophetic description of the seventh vial.
Exactly the same modes of expression, the same emblems, the same
words are employed to describe both. And whoever looks for any
other occurrences under the last plague, is so anticipating without the
slightest Scriptural authority, and will assuredly be disappointed.
From the ﬁrst and double reference being found in the description
under notice, to the Catholic Church, we‘have invariably believed that
'rna saw cnau'rias woau). 209
in Catholic countries this vial would ﬁrst give proof of its tremendous
powers to divide and destroy. These countries will be ﬁrst wrought
up to the highest pitch of excitement, as typiﬁed by voices. Then
will follow bloodshed and slaughter, in wars and revolution, and then
will the desolating scenes rage through the world.
All this is to be followed by a. great hail, verse 21. This partof the
prophetic description, has been subjected to the grossest interpretations
of any. We cannot consistently take every other part of the account
ﬁgurative, and this as literal. There can be no literal hail storm of
this description. Under such a one there could be no protection to
man, or beast, or plant, or herb. The whole creation would perish
under it, and no remedy. But when our world is destroyed in the sense
of prophecy, it will not perish thus.
Weitake the whole as emblematical, and to represent as follows :—
It comes “ out of heaven ;”—this is emblematical of the ruling powers.
This hail is described as destructive from its weight. Had it been de
scribed as mingled with ﬁre, or blood, or smoke, we should have under
stood thereby, cruel, diabolical, and destructive enactments from the
ruling powers in church or state. Nothing but hail being mentioned,
hail being white, and white being the emblem of purity, we understand
by it nothing but the enactment of purer and more equitable laws, than
those by which all nations are now governed; but which laws will, not
withstanding their purity, be tremendous plagues to those who now
reign and rule, and abound in pomp, splendour, wealth, and luxury, by
virtue of laws in which nothing of gospel purity or equity can be dis
covered.
This completes the purposes of heaven, in overturning the cities,
and demolishing the whole fabric of mountains and islands, by voices,
thunders, lightnings, and earthquake, as before described. All combine
in splendid harmony, shewing the downfall of all corruptions, and the
establishment of a better state of things. All thus viewed, is natural;
the means, the process, and the end are legitimate, great, and worthy
of prophecy. Nothing visionary, nothing improbable; nothing but
what perfectly agrees with all Scripture truth and right.
Let others build on peace, if they dare risk the results. We believe
this prophecy must now be fulﬁlled. Let others look for distant events,
a world in ﬂames, the rising dead, and descending Judge ;-we look for
nothing more than the seventh vial, as above described. And of all
the theories yet published, although in this we have for years stood
alone, we believe events will speedily prove it the only system of
truth.
NOTICE 'I'O COBBBSPOI‘DEMS
Tnosr. correspondents who have communicated to us their views respecting the
“ end of the world,” there being “time no longer,” and the conﬂagration of the
earth, and the judgment day,will now see that we expect no such changes at the
end of our prophetic periods. Some of the texts they quote, do not apply to the
events at hand; others cannot bear an absolute interpretation. To Hlnstmte the
whole the following may be given :--“ And were by Him that liveth for ever and
ever, that there should be time nolonger," Rev. x. 6. This cannot signify “time
no longer,” literally and absolutely. If our friends will read over the following
verse in connection with the 15th verse, chap. xi., they will ﬁnd that this will have
its accomplishment, when the seventh angel “begins to sound f’ upon which the
proclamation goes forth, “the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord 2" and as we learn from the 20th chapter, the saints shall reign with
him on earth a thousand years. But a thousand years is time. Then the angel’s
declaration, “there shall be time no longer,” cannot hear a literal interpretation;
inasmuch as literally it cannot be true, as there must be this thousand years more
time, at least. The text simply means time no longer, for the world to remain in
rebellion against God; which is exactly the same as, “then shall the sanctuary
be cleansed.”
The same rule of interpretation applies to “the harvest is the end of the
world," Matt. xiii. 39, if that text has any application to the events now at hand.
~We are, however, of opinion that it has not; but that it applies exclusively to
the events predicted, Rev. xx.. 7, 8, 9, 10. If our friends will have this text to
apply to the time when the sanctuary is cleansed, then they must interpret it as
we have given them example above, “the end of the world, In rrs ransnn'r
BEBBLLIOUS STATE ;” not its end literally and absolutely, because then there
could be no thousand years possession of it by the saints. If it applies to the
events at the end of the thousand years, which is the view we take of it, then it
has nothing whatever to do with our conclusion respecting the seventh vial.
In like manner we have been pressed with 'the ﬁrst resurrection, Rev. xx. 6.
It was not within the limits of this work, nor consistent with its title page, to
have admitted into it discussion on that subject. We notice here, that, as many
of our friends seem carried away-with mistaken views on that, we purpose en
tering into it in a separate work. In the mean time we tell them, that a literal
resurrection along with the seventh vial is impossible. We have proved the
great event now coming is the seventh vialand nothing else. This is the great rule
of Heaven, by which all the present anti-christian systems must be corrected.
But a resurrection cannot take place along with this. Voices, thunders, light
nings, and ngreat earthquake, cannot exist along with a resurrection. These are
typical of events which cannot transpire, unless men live on earth to carry them
out. “Voices,” strong political and religious agitation and excitement, thunder:
and lightninys, war, earthquake, revolution. But no such‘events as these could
exist with a resurrection. It involves a ridiculous contradiction in terms to sup
pose it. Nor could these things occur after; for there would be nobody to ﬁght.
THE new CHRISTIAN wonan. ‘ 211
And these events could not now take place before the ﬁrst resurrection, if that
resurrection had to come at the end of that prophetic period, at the end of which
it is said, “then shall the sanctuary be cleansed,” because there is not time.
Therefore a resurrection cannot now take place, because the seventh vial must
come now; and they cannot exist together.
But some seem to suppose these thunders, &c.. may he literal. This is opposed
to the facts which have followed out the pouring out of the other vials. The
seventh is of similar character to the former six. Similar events must follow it.
It is inadmissible to interpret the seventh, by an opposite rule to any other.
Until this seventh can be removed out of the way. it is vain to preach about a
literal resurrection. It is also deceptive and dangerous to look for the latter be
fore the former, when God has so plainly predicted the order in which they must
come. And if men will not believe the Word, and receive it in the order in which
God has given it, distressing facts will soon convince them, that a literal resur
rection now, is impossible. A regular treatise on this resurrection, we have pre.
pared, which may soon appear.
These remarks may serve to illustrate how we apply and explain the texts of
our correspondents ;—to have inserted their papers and full replies, would have
carried this work beyond proper bounds, and answered no good purpose.
We have recently had put into our hands the following remarks :—“Note .
when the year 1843 is mentioned in the following pages, the JEWISH year is
intended, which terminates in this present year 1844.
“Although our calculations do not extend beyond the present year 1844, and
although the highest probability exists that our Lord will come within this period,
yet we do not pretend to be infallible, or not liable to be mistaken a few months,
ora few years; and from a few passages of Scripture, it seems possible that there
may be an apparent tarrying time :-—see second chapter Habakkuk, ﬁrst four ver
ses, and compare them with 10th chapter Hebrews, last four verses.
“ Therefore to all who are looking for the return of our dear Lord at the end of
the vision, we say in the language of the prophet, “though it (appear to) tarry:
wait for it: because it will surely come, it will not tarry."
This note is posted to certain publications on the second advent,
published in America some time ago; and now, that the time is at
hand for the resurrection of the dead, the conﬂagration of the world,
the formal descent of the great white throne, and all the awful scenes
of the general judgment; lest stubborn facts should speedily crush
the wild theory of such things at hand, this note has been created to
prolong the gigantic delusion, and secure akind of reprieve, or open the
way for retreat, when the events do not come at the time appointed.
It must have originated in some fearful forebodings that these things
may not happen, that our Lord may tarry; or, perhaps, that our com
putations may prove 'wrong. “ We are not infallible.”-—-No; but the
Word of God is. And as we observed in our introduction, “we either
understand it or we do not; if we do not, our province is to keep si
lence,” page 4. It is now about four years since our manuscript on
the pouring out of the seventh vial was written, and we have never felt
any anxiety to attach such a note as the above to any part of it. Let
212 THE new CHRISTIAN WORLD.
our introduction be again read over. What the reader ﬁnds there, we
yet urge with the utmost conﬁdence; and we add here, nothing different
will now take place; and we shall, by and by, present our readers with,
to many of them, the astonishing facts, that those very events are al
ready begun in the world, and that they will progress, as our work eXplains.
But respecting the Lord tarrying and the texts of Scripture which the
note says seem to support this, against those texts being prostituted to
such purposes, as that note was designed to serve, we feel it our duty
to rotest. The passages in Habakkuk have no connection whatever
wit either the time or the events of the seventh vial. From a compa—
rison between Habakkuk ﬁrst chapter ﬁfth verse, and Acts 13th chap
ter, verse 40, 41, there is reason to believe the vision had reference to
the judgments of God poured on the Jews, which terminated in their
ﬁnal overthrow. And in its application to them, it received a most
signal, and complete accomplishment,—ﬁrst in the Babylonish cap
tivity, and then at the destruction of Jerusalemby the Romans,-but
not the slightest intimation is given, of its application to, or con
nection with the events at hand.
The text in Hebrews is equally inapplicable. And both are barred
from the events of the cleansing of the sanctuary under the seventh vial,
by the positive statements connected with all the predictions of those
events. “ Then shall the sanctuary he cleansed.” This admits of no
tarrying. Christ came at the time predicted: popery had its dominion
taken away at the end of the 1260 years. The end of a prophetic
period cannot tarry, unless the revolving orbs of Heaven stand still.
But, indeed, the Lord's coming, as our American friends expect, will
“ tarry” a long time yet. The literal resurrection of, even the dead in
Christ, will “tarry” at least a thousand years yet. And they have
but little conﬁdence in their own theory to the contrary, or they would
not so soon have given us their note of retreat.
We advise them instantly to abandon their theory of the end, and
ado t our views of the seventh vial. This vial has to come; it is al
ready beginning. The present state of Spain and Portugal, and in fact
all other countries attest this. What now prevails in Spain, will spread
rapidly through the world. This is the seventh vial. To all our cor
respondents, several of whom seem carried away with the American
delusions as to the end; we advise them to examine the account of the
seventh vial more strictly. It is the last lague. Then under it, sin
must cease (see this work). But the whof; description of that plague,
is irreconcileable with the resurrection of the dead, and conﬂagration
of the world ; and as this is the time for the former, the latter cannot
now take place. The fact of the seventh vial being new to come, seals
the fate of all such theories.
THE NEW caars'r-IAN wonLn. 213
We have been strongly pressed, almost forced, against our inclina
tion, to give an opinion on the American views of the second advent,
now widely Spreading amongst us. Our opinion is, some of the com
putations are excellent. Some of them are founded on texts, not legiti
mate; and the time given for the seventh vial, is three years too soon.
But as regards the whole system of events at hand,—the millennium,
—the resurrection,--the conﬂagration,-—the judgment,—the loosing of
Satan,--the final battle with Gog and Mugog (Rev. xx. &c. &c. ,
on all these important particulars, we can easily prove the whole sys
tem to be palpably Opposed to the plain sense of Scripture; also in the
manner in which it is put forth, extremely deceptive and dangerous.
But even this opinion would not have been given, had the advocates of
the above errors remained ﬁrm to their own calculations; and made no
attempt to perpetuate the delusions, by grossly perverting a sacred text
of Scripture, to sanction the grosser deception of an apparent “TA R
RYING TIME," to the extent of even a few years.
It is this tarrying time, which has and will call forth our opposition.
We behold it tantamount to a proclamation, that we have no conﬁ
dence in our calculations.
We should have rested in conﬁdence, that a few weeks now, would
have corrected the errors, and swept away the delusions of our American
brethren, and all in England who have imbibed their principles, had
not this tarrying time interposed. But all hopes of correction from
this vanished, when this tarrying time appeared; and the only ground
of hope to rest upon, is now Scripture truth. An apparent tarrying
time throws the whole system of calculation into total confusion. And
if the real events intended in prophecy do not come at the time, we.
can have no conﬁdence to within one hundred, or even a thousand years,
as to the time they will come.
Our helm is then lost. All rule ofjudgment gone; and the popular
exclamation against us conﬁrmed, that we are impiously violating the
prerogatives of heaven, in presuming to know what God has never re
vealed. If the Jewish year, 1843, do not complete the two periods of
Daniel expressed in 2300 and 1335 days, then these days may not
mean years; and if not, we have no rule in Scripture to guide us res
pecting the end. Or if they mean years, they may commence with
different and far remote events to those we have selected, and respecting
which no rule is given by which such can- be discovered. If so, the
true events may come exactly at the time predicted, only, we do not
understand that time; and it may be, on this principle, one hundred or
one thousand years remote. But even, under this view, there can be
no tarrying time. All that remains, is our ignorance of the true
time.
2l4 THE NEW CHRISTIAN WORLD
But the abstract idea of a time being appointed, and ﬁxed, and re,
vealed in the words of Daniel, “unto two thousand and three hundred
days, then shall,” &c.—-“Seventy weeks is determined,” &c.—“Blessed
is he that waiteth and cometh to the thousand three hundred and thirty
days.” These and all similar positive statements, render a tat-Tying
time nonsensical and impossible. Suppose this apparent tarrying time
to be three years, as the above note allows, the periods would then
stand 2303 days; 7% weeks, nearly 1338 days. Our authority with
which we crush instantly all such unfounded theories, is the word of
truth. Daniel does not say 2303 but 2300, and so with the rest; and
we, therefore, unhesitatingly reject all alterations attempted in plain
numbers, to serve perverted views.
And as to a liability of being mistaken a few months, or even afew
years, the liability is just as great, to be mistaken a hundred or even a
thousand years. If we move at all from the edict of Artaxerxes, given
to Ezra 457 B. C., as the beginning of the 2300 years, if we under
stand the days, emblematical of any other period than years, or not
emblematical at all; then are we plunged into mistakes, uncertainties,
and probabilities, embracing not a few months or a few years only, but
scores, or hundreds, or even a thousand years. Yea, we are then left
utterly without rule, and know nothing whatever respecting when the
end may be; it may come this generation or the next, or ten genera
tions remote. Under either circumstance, we can admit no tarrying
time. '
All our anxiety is, that what we have written on the events at hand
may be allowed to speak for itself ;—-that it be candidly read, till well
understood. We want no tarrying time. If the events of the seventh
vial, as we have interpreted them, do not now set in and sweep
through the world, we shall candidly acknowledge, that we have not
understood the prophetic periods. If universal excitement typiﬁed by
“ voices,” the ﬁrst emblem used under the seventh eial do not soon pre
vail ;--if this great excitement on both political and religious subjects,
be not followed by bloody wars as represented by “ thunders and light
nings ;”--and if these bloody wars do not end in such a revolution as
mankind never before experienced, as typiﬁed by a “ great earthquake,
such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earth
quake and so great ;”—-if these things do not soon prevail in the world,
we shall acknowledge we have not understood the prophecies. Also,
if under these trernendons instruments in the hands of God,_if all anti
christian institutions do not fall and be utterly abolished in both church
and state in all nations ;--if present systems do not undergo such changes
as not one in one million can now believe, we shall admit we have mis
understood thc prophecies; but we shall invent no iarrya'ng fime to
THE new CHRISTIAN woann. 215
palliate our errors, or perpetuate delusion. We conscientiously believe
our own computations, and we believe these circumstances at hand: and
we do not wish men to be found dreaming about phantoms, till these
awful realities surprise and undeceive them. Thousands of those who
are now looking for the Lord Jesus personally to descend from heaven,
and to “ change their vile bodies, and fashion them like unto his glo
rious body,” will be convinced of their error, by events as opposite as
midnight darkness is to mid-day sun; and for neither the one nor the
other are they properly prepared.
It seems according to the order of prophecy, that these calamities
should ﬁrst rage in Catholic countries. This distinct idea arises from
Rev. xix. 16. There the great city is ﬁrst spoken of, as ﬁrst to feel
the effects of the seventh vial. In the same verse we read, “and great
Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup
of the wine of the ﬁerceness of his wrath.” This awful description
also, exclusively belongs to Catholic countries. From this double refe
rence and strong description of the calamities with which Catholic
countries will be deluged, we infer that they will feel the seventh vial
ﬁrst, and most severely, and for the greatest length of time. But no
nation under heaven, can escape its desolating and purifying inﬂuence.
When these calamities are abroad in the earth (and they are already
beginning), then let the people learn righteousness. Let the attention
of all be turned to the only city of refuge, and let the unfounded theory
of a tarrying time be exploded, and with all errors and anti-christian
practices be given to the winds. Let noman build on the long con
tinuance of peace, for it will not be realized. God will tolerate the
present condition of the world no longer. By every prophecy of Scrip
ture alluding to this age, it is made evident to all who can understand
them, that violent commotions and organic changes are at hand. As
to the time the last plague, the seventh vial, will occupy in overturning
all anti-christian systems through the world, many of our readers do not
yet seem to have understood us. Let them read over again the ﬁrst
paragraph, page six, of our introduction. We think the same yet.
We pledge ourselves to support from Scripture, from the pulpit, or
the press, the opinion here given on the American views; and we call
for the defence of the opposite party.
The SIGNS OF THE TIMES will be continued, but in a separate
work. And a classifﬁcation of texts which our correspondents have
collected, and in many cases misapplied, is intended to be given and
their true meaning explained.
Take the follhwing striking illustrationz—Habakkuk wrote B. C.
600 years; Daniel’s vision in chapter 8th, was about in the year 553
216 THE new crmrs'rran WORLD.
B. C.; the vision of Habakkuk was therefore 47 years before that of
Daniel. And, notwithstanding this, the note above referred to, very
modestly intimates, that Habakkuk's tarrying time, legitimately re
fers to Daniel's vision. What a ridiculous prostitution of texts. And
yet we can prove, that the gigantic delusion which that note seems de
signed to prop up, is founded entirely on equally perverse applications
of Scripture. ‘
Such is the delusive manner in which a majority of texts are em
ployed, by many present advocates of the second advent; a correction
of which is loudly called for.
All our readers, we sincerely advise, to look to realities. Look at
the revolution in Spain and Portugal. Notice the preparations for
similar events in other countries. Listen to the subterraneous rum
blings through the states of Italy,--mark well the increasing distress,
--the growing excitement,-the trades unions,—the increasing know
ledge of grinding wrongs,-and the efforts being made to redress them
in our own and other nations. These are shadows, the substances will
follow; and in those substances the prophecies to which the attention
of our readers has been called, must soon receive their fulﬁllment.
That all may soon better understand, and become prepared for the
awful events at hand, is the prayer of the author,
JAMES HUMPH REY.
.
- e -
-. J‘T' 7’“- i
o ' \'
:
THE END.
W. Bytes, Printer, Chapel Court, Kir-kgale, Bradford.
