{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__morley___elements_of_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Elements Of Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
TITMTNT8
ANIMAL MAGNETISM:
PROCESS AND APPLICATION
RELIEVING HUMAN SUFFERING
J
BY CHARLES MORLEY,
PRACTICAL MAGNETIZER.
"DECEIVE NOT YOURSELVES."—"FACTS ARE 8TUBB0BN THINGS."
STEREOTYPE EDITIO^T*
NEW Y b R K :
FOWLERS AND WELLS,
PHRENOLOGICAL CABINET, 131 NASSAU STREET.
AND BY BOOKSELLERS GENERALLY.
INTRODUCTION.
Mesmer was the first who reduced the principles of Aniinal
Magnetism to a system, and he employed it very successfully as
an auxiliary of medicine in his extensive practice. This was in
1774. la a few years he was assailed by numerous enemies.
The curative effects of animal magnetism excited the jealousy of
the medical faculty in Paris ; hence the Academe Royale Mede-
cine, in the exercise of its royal prerogative of intolerance decreed :
No physician shall declare himself a partisan of animal magnetism
under the penalty of being struck from the list of members. In
1745 this same Academy had condemned inocuiation as "murderous,"
" criminal," and 4 '
magical." Peruvian bark shared the same fate ;
also against the circulation of the blood. In 1784 this Academy
appointed a committee from their number to examine and report on
animal magnetism ; but instead of confining their attention to the
facts which were laid before them, they sought the cause by which
they were produced, and inquired into the existence of the fluid
described by Mesmer, but it escaped their research. They could
not see, taste, or touch it ; they could not collect it in masses, and
could neither measure or weigh it ; therefore they made a leap in
the dark, and concluded that animal magnetism did not exist. Plow
ridiculous would such tests now seem to determine whether the
mind exis's or not ; but it is equally so with regard to animal mag-
netism. But the decree of the Academy was assailed on all sides.
and their sophistry detected by some of the most learned men of
Europe, and the science spread in spite cf persecution, through
France, Germany, Holland, and many members of th; Academy
became believers and practisers of it, as an auxiliary of medicine ;
and in 1825, a new commission was appointed to examine and re-
port to the Society on the subject, and in 1831, they reported unan-
imously in its favor, although when first appointed, several of the
committee were opposed to it. In Europe, Cuvicr, Laplace, Hum-
boldt, Dugald Stewart, ColeriJgo, Prof. Kluge and Dr. Elliotaon
2 INTRODUCTION.
are advocates of it ; and in our own country, Doctors Burtlet of
Lowell ; Flint and Bayard of Boston ; Cutler of N. H. ; Cleaveland
of R. I. ; and Payne and Hoffendahl of Albany, usa it with great
succ3ss in their practice as an auxiliary of medicine ; besides the
president and professors of Union and other Colleges, and a large
number of the most intelligent men in our country are either prac-
tical magnefbers or advocates of it.
We are aware that it has numerous opposers. Every new dis-
covery hits had opprsar?, and the more important the discovery, tho
more numerous were the opposers. Harvey, the discoverer of tho
circulation of the blood was p-rsccuted by the most learned physi-
cian, and they so prejudiced the people against him, that he lost his
extensive practice and had to flee his native country. Gallileo wa3
condemned to the inquisition. Fu'.ton was persecuted. But like
every other truth it will triumph over oppcsi ion, and hold up to
shame and contempt, those who oppose it through ignorance and
prejudice; as opposers of this and every truth, are among those who
never have examined it ; for it is the universal result, that every
one who carefully examines it, by experiment and observation, be
comes convinced of its reality.
Animal magnetism is introduced with success into the hospitals
of Paris and London. At Berlin is a professorship of Animal Mag-
netism in the Medical College. The learned Dr. Kluge now fills
that station.
Some charge the whole phenomena of Animal Magnetism to the
devil. Admit this, and we must also admit that he is a clever sorl
of a fellow after all, to thus relieve distress, and reel rim the drunkard
from the intoxicating bowl, to become a good member of society :
to change hatred into love, so that the subject can pray for his ene-
mies, and be saved from death. Magnetism does all this, and if this
is a work of the devil, the poor fellow lias heretofore been awfully
slandered.
Animal Magnetism like every other blessing has doubtless beoo
abused by some, so has religion.
ELEMENTS.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
CHAPTER I.
DEFINITION OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Animal Magnetism is the action of one mind upon
another, so as to attract or influence it. We feel it
vvhr>n listening to the eloquence of a celebrated orator.
He is the centre of attraction ; the audience is held
in riveted attention ; he conducts them to the battle-
field ; they hear the roaring cannon, they see the fields
strewed with the dead and dying and covered with
blood. The result is similar when we listen to the
singing of an accomplished musician. But what is
more especially understood by animal magnetism, is
that power which some possess of so concentrating
their attention, and directing their will with such en-
ergy, as to put some persons into a magnetic sleep,
and frequently to cure or relieve diseases. Its more
appropriate name is pneumatology. It is a species
oi electricity.
CHAPTER II.
ANALOGY BETWEEN NATURAL AND MAGNETIC SOMNAMBULISM.
Sec. I. Natural Somnambulism. A somnambulist
mentioned by Gassendi used to rise, dres i himself in
his sleep, go down to the cellar, and draw wine from
a oask. One night h? carried on his head a table
4 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
covered with decanters, up a very narrow stair-case,
and with more dexterity than he could have done when
awake.
The Archbishop of Bordeaux, states in the thirty-
eighth volume of the Encyclopedia, edited by Diderot,
d'Alembert, &c, the case of a young clergyman who
was in the habit of rising during the night in a state of
somnambulism, and writing his sermons. When he had
finished one page of his manuscript, he would revise it,
after having read it aloud. In order to ascertain whe-
ther he made any use of his eyes, the Archbishop held a
piece of paste-board under his chin to prevent his seeing
the paper before him ; but he continued to write on
without being at all incoi nmoded. Dr. Dwight mentions
the case of a somnambulist who every morning on
awaking found himself minus a shirt. After thus losing
about two dozen, and having no remembrance of what
had become of them, his brother slept with him one
night, to ascertain, if possible, what he did with his
shirts. About twelve o'clock he arose, dressed himself
and went out ; his brother followed him to a pond, one
mile distant ; there he undressed himself and took his
shirt and thrust it into a hollow log ; then bathed ; after
which he dressed himself, with the exception of his
shirt, and returned, undressed himself, and retired to bed.
In tne morning he awoke as usual and found his shirt
missing ; he inquired of his brother what had become
of it ; he told him that if he would follow him he would
show it him ; they went to the pond and there found it,
and all the others, stowed away in the hollow log.
A man in Massachusetts arose in his sleep and threshed
out his grain, and then retired to bed ; the next day he
was much astonished, when he went to his barn for the
purpose of threshing his grain, to find it already done.
A girl in Albany is accustomed to rise in her sleep, and
sew and do other unfinished work of the preceding day ;
but has no recollection, when awake, of it.
Dr. Haycock, professor of medicine in Oxford, would
give out a text in his sleep, and deliver a good sermon
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 5
from it, nor could all the pinching and pulling of his
friends prevent him. A volume of sermons, preached in
New York a few years since by a young girl, a natural
somnambulist, have been published.
Dr. Belden gives the following description of the
Springfield somnambulist : One of her fits of somnam-
bulism continued forty-eight hours ; many attempts were
made in vain to arouse her ; a bandage was tied over
her eyes, but she read a great variety of cards written
and presented to her by different persons, told the time
by watches, and wrote short sentences. A second ban-
dage was placed over the other, but apparently without
causing any obstruction to the vision. She repeated
with great propriety and distinctness several pieces of
poetry, some of which she had learned in childhood, but
had forgotten, and others which she had merely read
several years since ; she sung several songs correctly,
yet she had never learned to sing, and has never been
known to sing when awake. In another fit, I took a
large black silk handkerchief, placed between the folds
two pieces of cotton batting, and applied it in such 8
manner that the cotton came directly over the eyes, and
completely filled the cavity on each side of the nose.
Various names were then written on cards, which she
read as soon as they were presented to her. When at
Worcester, in one of her somnambulic attacks, she was
taught how to play backgammon, and in the sixth game
beat Dr. Butler, an experienced player. But she could
not even set the men when awake.
Dr. Abercrombie gives the following extraordinary
account of a natural somnambulist : "A girl aged seven
years slept in an apartment, separated by a very thin
wall from one which was frequently occupied by an em-
inent itinerant fiddler, who often spent the greater part
of the night in performing pieces of a very refined de-
scription ; but this child took no notice of it only as a
very disagreeable noise. Six months after, she became
sick, and was removed to the house of a benevolent lady,
where, after her recovery from a protracted illness, she
O ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
was employed as a servant. Some years after, the most
beautiful music was often heard in the house during the
night. At length the sound was traced to the sleeping
room of the girl, who was found fa>t asleep, but utter-
ing from her lips a sound exactly resembling the sweet-
est sounds of a small violin. She would first utter
sounds precisely resembling the tuning of a violin, and
then dashed off into elaborate music, which she perform-
ed in a clear and accurate manner, and with a sound
exactly resembling the most delicate modulations of that
instrument. Soon she imitated the piano, and sung, imi-
tating precisely the voices of several ladies of the fami-
ly. She was, when awake, a dull awkward girl, and in
point of intellect was much inferior to the other servants
of the family."
Said S. T. Coleridge, "A young woman of 25, who
could neither read nor write, was seized with a nervous
fever, during which she talked continually, Latin, Greek,
and Hebrew. She had when a child lived with a clergy-
man, who occasionally read in each of these languages."
Sec. II. Magnetic Somnambulism. M. Delouze in
his critical history of Animal Magnetism, gives the fol-
lowing summary of the phenomena of Magnetic Somnam-
bulism. " When magnetism produces somnambulism,
the being who is in this condition acquires a prodigious
extension in the faculty of sensation ; his eyes are shut,
his ears are closed ; yet he sees and hears better than
any one awake. He is under the will of his magnetiser
in regard to every thing that cannot hurt him, and he does
not feel contrary to his ideas of justice and truth. H?
recovers the recollection of things he had forgotten when
awake. He expresses himself with astonishing facility.
When he awakes he forgets all. The magnetic somnam-
bule perceives innumerable relations in all objects, with
an extreme rapidity, and in one minute runs through a
train of ideas which to us would requir3 many hours.
Time seems to vanish before him." " Of all the disco
veries which have excited attention, this gives us the
most insight into the nature and faculties of man." The
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. I
following case was embodied in the report of the com-
missioners of the French Academy, and read to that
learned body in 1831, to which we have referred. On
the 18th of March, 182G, M. Petit was set asleep in one
minute. A bandage was put over his eyes ; one of the
gentlemen present, M. Raynal, played a game of cards
with M. Petit, and lost it. The latter handled his cards
with the greatest dexterity, and without making any mis-
take. We attempted several times in vain to set him at
fault by taking away or changing some of his cards.
They also attest other cases, among which was M. Paul,
who was put asleep in two minutes by M. Foissac, and
read fluently any book presented to him.
The following statement was published in the Salem
Gazette, in 1836 : " Dr. B , of Providence, operated
upon a young lady, during the period of magnetic sleep,
who could tell correctly the time by a watch, though
enveloped in a cloth, and at the same time having a
bandage over her eyes. The doctor had a patient sick,
as was believed, of liver complaint, and bade the som-
nambulist go in spirit to the man's house, (it being one
fourth of a mile distant.) Arrived, she, at the Doctor's
request, described the house, that there might be no
mistake, and then entered. " What do you see ?
" ask-
ed Dr. B. "A man sick." I wish you to tell me what
ails him. First look at his head ; is it well ? " Yes."
How do you know ? " Because it looks like yours or
any other one who is well." Is the liver, heart, &c,
well ? " " Yes," Do you see anything wrong 1 " Yes,
there is an enlargement of the spleen." Several ques-
tions were then put to confuse her, and also to ascer-
tain if she knew what the spleen was, and where situa-
ted ; to all which she gave correct answers. In four
days the patient died ; a post mortem examination was
instituted ; all the physicians of the city were present,
to whom the story of the girl was narrated before com-
mencing operations, and they were requested to exam-
ine the body to see if they could discover the diseased
spleen from external examination. They, sixteen in
8 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
number, declared with one voice that they could not.
The body was then opened, and to the astonishment oJ
all present, the girl was right ; the spleen weighed fifty-
seven ounces ; its usual weight being from four to six
ounces."
The natural somnambule is impelled by his own ima-
gination, and certain corporeal impressions ; the mag-
netic wholly depends on the will -and faculties of his
magnetiser. But in all the highest cases of phenomena
in magnetic somnambulism, there are cases in natural
somnambulism almost identical with them.
The following is extracted from the Journal de la
Meuse for the 20th September, 1835: "A girl by the
name of Arron, when plunged in a state of natural som-
nambulism, answers with precision the questions put to
her ; she perceives not only such natural objects as are
around her, but also those which are concealed ; and,
what is still more surprising, objects removed to a very
great distance. A physician from Chartres, saw her in
an attack and said to her, " Mary, do you know me ?"
" Yes sir." " Who am I? " " You are a physician."
—
" Where do I live ? " "At Chartres." " Can you see
my house ? " " Yes." " Is there any company in it ?
"
** Yes ; four ladies ; one old, two middle aged, and one
a young lady." " What do I hold in my hand? " "A
small wooden box." " What does it contain ? " " Sharp
little iron tools." " What do I hold in my hand ?
"
" Some money." " How much 1 " (She names the
sum.) "In what coins?" (She specifies them.) All
these answers were perfectly correct.
The following experiments were performed by the
writer: June 19th, 1840, put Miss W , of Albany,
into a magnetic somnambulism in 20 minutes ; she walked
wherever I directed her, either by word or simply wil-
ling her. Without any gesture or moving of my lips,
she would converse with me or with any other one that
I willed. She would tell accurately what was held be-
hind her head ; read cards placed on her stomach ; sung
whenever I willed. June 22d, put her into a magnetic
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 9
sleep in 14 minutes. Mr. Lancaster, T\Ir. Bulgin and se-
veral ladies were present. She walked as before ; a
large black-board was placed before her at the distance
of four afeet ; the different individuals present held
various articles behind it, and she told correctly in evrey
instance, what they were ; she also read accurately,
cards and books held behind the black-board. I went
out of the room, after requesting her to notice what I
should do, and on my return she stated accurately. She
is the natural somnambulist that I have referred to in the
first section of this chapter.
Clairvoyance at a Distance.—Dr. Arndt, the emi-
nent German physician, relates, that being one day seat-
ed near the bed of one of his somnambulists, on a
sudden she became agitated, uttered sighs, and as if
tormented by some vision, exclaimed, " O heavens
!
my father ! he is dying ! he is dying
!
" _
A few mo-
ments afterwards she awoke, seemed quite cheerful,
and recollected nothing of the anxiety she had so re-
cently manifested. She relapsed twice into the same
state of magnetic sleep, and each time she was tormented
by the same vision. Being asked what had happened to
her father, she replied, " he is bathed in blood, he is dy-
ing." Soon she awoke and was cheerful as before.
Some- weeks after, Dr. A. found this lady pensive and
sorrowful, she had just received a letter respecting her
father, who was distant 450 miles, stating that a serious
accident had befallen him. In ascending the stair of his
cellar the door had fallen on his breast ; a considerable
haemorrhage ensued, and the physicians despaired of his
life. Dr. A. had marked the precise time of the prece-
ding scene of the somnambulism of the lady, found that
it was exactly on the day and st the hour when the ac-
cident happened to her father.
10 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
CHAPTER III.
USES OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
When an individual is in somnambulism, sensibility 13
destroyed, and the most painful surgical operations have
been performed, and the patient remained the whole time
in a state of perfect unconsciousness. " The most painful
chronic diseases, as well as numerous spasmodic nervous
affections have been either perfectly cured or relieved
by its application. And it frequently restores the pa-
tient when medicine fails. Says Deluze, magnetism of-
ten assuages a fever ; and is a sovereign remedy for en-
largement of the glands, and has wrought astonishing
cures in scrofulous complaints ; ulcers which have ex-
hausted the resources of medicine, have been cured by
magnetism. A woman who had an ulcer ten years was
cured in thirty-five sittings. There have been over six-
ty cases of paralysis cured by magnetism in France.
Rheumatic affections are usually speedily cured by it.
It is a certain remedy for tic doloureux. Continues De-
luze : a young lady of twenty had attacks of epilepsy
ever since she was nine years old, and had been unsuc-
cessfully treated by the most able physicians. It is
three months since she had recourse to magnetism.
—
From the first month her attacks became weaker and
less frequent ; at the end of the second they entirely
disappeared, and she now enjoys perfect health." Dr.
Cutter of Nashua, N. H. gives the following account
in a letter to T. C. Hartshorn, of Providence, dated
—
Nashua, N. H. Nov. 22, 1837.
Tic Douloureux.—" I was called to see Miss E. M.
of this town. The disease was confined to the right
side of the face. I proposed magnetism, she assented.
After sleeping a short time I awoke her and the pain
was gone, and has not returned."
A little girl ten years of age, daughter of Mr. Mayer
CLEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 1]
of Albany, had had convulsion (its for several days, and
was given over by the physicians, who said that sho
could not live twenty-four hours ; as the last means hei
father sent for the Rev. Mr. Garfield, a magnetiser, to
try magnetism on her. When he arrived, the girl was
insensible, and her frame much convulsed ; he com-
menced magnetizing her ; in a few minutes she was pci'-
fcctly calm, and went into a tranquil slumber and slept
well during the night ; thi next morning she awoke and
conversed with those around her ; her fits had ceased ;
after that she was magnetised several times, and in five
days she was well.
Dr. J. W. Robbins of Uxbridge, Mass., thus states,
" One individual was affected with dyspepsia, had a cra-
ving appetite for fruits and aliments which were sure to
distress her. When in magnetic sleep, I enjoined upon
her in the most impressive manner not to indulge her-
self in their use. The day following, having procured
an apple, she wished to eat it, but found herself under
the control of a mysterious influence which rendered it
morally impossible. I next tried the experiment with
regard to tea ; I willed that every attempt to take the
least quantity should be followed by nausea. All her suc-
ceeding attempts to take tea was followed by distress-
ing sickness ; and it is now several months, yet those ha-
bits remain corrected. I tried the experiment of inter-
dicting the use of both tea and coffee with equal success ;
the same with the use of snuff." Another gentleman
states that an inveterate attachment to tobacco in its va-
rious shapes, has been entirely destroyed, though the pa-
tient, a medical student, knew nothing of the cause of
it, while in the ordinary state. In another individual a
spirit of charitable feeling was induced towards an in-
dividual who had rendered himself an object of the pa-
tient's hatred and indignation. Thus far the spirit of
forgiveness prevails, although the patient is ignorant of
the cause. Other experiments have been made to excite
cheerfulness, hope, &c, successfully. It may be applied
to every bad habit with equal success.
\"i ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
A materialist in Albany, when he saw the astonishing
phenomena of magnetic somnambulism exhibited in his
own daughter, exclaimed, " I have been deceived, the
soul is not material, it is an immortal spirit. I see ample
proofs of it before me." Therefore this science is not
only of vast importance as an auxiliary of medicine ;
but also as a corrector of evil habits, and a promoter of
Christianity.
Effects of Animal Magnetism on Superstition.—
Animal Magnetism throws considerable light on many
of the mystic rites and ceremonies of the ancients ; it
unseals the door of the heathen temple, and strips the
priest before his altar of all his supernatural attributes ;
it explains a variety of extraordinary facts which the
historians of all ages have recorded, and connects them
with each as effects which are identical and dependent
on the operation of the same cause. It affords, too, a
satisfactory explanation of the curious facts connected
with sorcery and witchcraft, which during the middle
ages excited the apprehensions of the vulgar, imposed
on the credulity of the learned, and led to those hor-
rible persecutions which prevailed throughout Europe.
Prosper Alpinus states that frictions during ablution
were among the se-cret remedies of the Egyptian priests :
" The mystery of Oracles, the prophetic ravings of
the Sybils, are explicable on the same principle." Jose-
phus was frequently in somnambulism. Among the an-
cient oriental nations, the treatment and cure of disea-
ses by the application of the hands is universally attest-
ed. Jarchas informs us that he saw almost every de-
scription of disease cared in this way by the Indian sa-
ges. " In looking over the trials of those unfortunate
persons who were condemned for witchcraft, it is impos-
sible to escape the conviction that the sorcerers or wiz-
zards exercised a truly magnetic influence over their
credulous disciples." " The affected persons exhibited
several of the phenomena of somnambulism, and it is
not surprising that in that age of darkness, effects so ex-
tr? ordinary were ascribed to the devil."
ELEMENTS Of ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 13
Persons in somnambulism, as we have shown, are de-
prived of sensation ; this in those times was considered
a sure sign of witchcraft and multitudes were murdered
with no other proof against them. Increase Mather
thus states about the New England witches :
" They
did mutually with the touch cure each other, and fore-
told when another fit was coming on, and it happened
accordingly ; their eyes in the fits were fast closed."
Animal Magnetism explains the phenomena of Irving's
prophctessses. Those persons who fall at camp meet-
ings are in somnambulism, and fully explain those phe-
nomena that they exhibit, which have so long excited
astonishment. " The somnambulic faculty of clairvoy-
ance, or the power of seeing events passing at a dis-
tant place, affords a solution of the mystery of what in
the north of Scotland is called second sight." Therefore-
fore a general knowledge of animal magnetism will ba-
nish superstition of every description from the globe.
—
The superstitious through ignorance attribute natural ap-
pearances to supernatural cuuses.
" Mesmerism and Surgery.—At the invitation of Dr.
Homer Bostwick, of No. 75 Chambers-st., we witnessed
Saturday, a surgical operation upon a patient in the state
of Mesmeric Sleep. The operation Avas performed at
No. 152 Church-st., and consisted in the removal of an
adipose tumor from the back. The patient was a color-
ed woman named Emeline Brown, a servant in the fa-
mily of the Rev. Dr. Higbee. She was magnetized by
Daniel Oltz, of No. 80 Chambers-st., assisted by E. J.
Pike. After the patient had been thrown into the proper
tstate, Mr. Oltz left the room, but Mr. Pike remained and
held her hand during the operation. The object of this,
as we understood, was to insure her continuance in a
state of perfect unconsciousness. Only five minutes
were occupied in magnetizing the patient. She sat in
a chair, her head thrown forward and resting on a table.
There was every indication cf a state of perfect uncon-
sciousness.
" Dr. Bostwick, before commencing the operation, sta*
14 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ted that he had been entirely skeptical on the subject,
but had desired in this instance to subject the claims of
magnetism to a practical test. Mr. Oltz, the magneti-
zer, had not known the patient until some three days
previously, and had magnetized her only some four or
five times, at Dr. Bostwick's request. Mr. Pike had
never seen her previous to the time fixed for the r
:T.
periment.
" The magnetizer having pronounced the patient in the
proper state, Doctor Bostwick (assisted by Doctors
Samuel R. Childs and John Stearns,) proceeded with
the operation. He first made an incision about eight
inches in length across the tumor, and then proceeded
to remove it by the usual process. The operation last-
ed three minutes, and required no small amount of cut-
ting. We stood within two feet of the patient, and
watched her narrowly. There was no muscular twitch-
ing and no manifestation whatever of sensibility to pain,
or even of consciousness. A physician examined the
pulse and said it was quite natural, though somewhat
feebler, perhaps, than usual. A dead body could not
have exhibited stronger insensibility to pain. The tu-
mor weighed ten ounces. The wound did not bleed
near as profusely as such wounds do when the patient is
in a naiural state. The whole operation of removing
the tumor and dressing the wound occupied just half an
hour.
" The wound having been dressed and the garments of
the patient adjusted, Mr. Oltz awoke her by a few pas-
ses, which occupied less than a minute. Her appear-
ance was much like that of a person suddenly aroused
from ordinary sleep. Questions were put to her imply-
ing that the operation had not been peformed, and that
she would have to be magnetized again. She said she
would rather submit to the operation at once in the nat-
ural state than wait any longer. She was asked if she
did not know that the tumor had been removed. She
replied in the negative, and with every appearance of
perfect simplicity and integrity, declared that she had
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 15
felt no pain and was wholly ignorant of whatever had
transpired during her sleep.
" There were present as witnesses, including several
Reporters for the Press, some dozen persons. Among
them we name the following gentlemen : —Dr. Eleazer
Parmly ; Edward A. Lawrence, from the Rooms of the
Home Missionary Society, J. R. S. Van Vleet, from the
Office of the Courier and Enquirer ; E. A. Buffum, Re-
porter for the Herald ; Dr. H. H. Sherwood ; Dr. Ed-
ward Spring ; Oliver Johnson, Assistant Editor of the
Tribune. There were others whose names we did not
learn.
We have no comment to make upon the facts thus
stated, except to express our perfect conviction that
there were no collusions. In fact we see not how de-
^ntion could have been possible under the circumstan-
ces. The most obstinate skepticism must yield in the
presence of facts like these."
—
N. Y. Tribune,
CHAPTER IV.
PROCESSES.
There are various methods practiced by different mag-
netizers. But we think the following preferable :
If you wish to put a person into the magnetic sleep,
cause him to sit as easy as possible in an easy chair,
with his head reclined back, and require him to be per-
fectly quiet ; sit down before him, place your knees
beside his ; then take his thumbs in such a manner that
the inside of your thumbs will touch the inside of his.
Concentrate your attention, and will him to sleep ; after
holding him thus about ten minutes, slowly raise your
hands with the palms turned outward to his head, then
16 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
turning the palms inward lot them descend to his shoul-
ders, and let them remain there nve minutes ; then
let your hands descend with the fingers pointed towards
the arms, at the distance of two or three inches from
them to the extremities of his fingers ; let your hands
then ascend, sweeping them off to the right and the left,
to their extent, palms outward as before ; raise them
as high as the head, then descend as before ; thus continue
from five to ten minutes, and lastly, lay the right
hand upon the pit of the stomach. Remember that un-
less you keep your attention fixed, your will steady and
unwavering, your efforts will be vain. The operation
is principally intellectual ; many make no use of the ma-
nipulations, and produce all the effects by the mere ener-
gy of the will, at a distance from the patient ; but still
the movements of the hands give some assistance in pro-
ducing the magnetic current ; the downward motions are
magnetic, the upward are not. Some persons are much
more susceptible of the magnetic influence than others ;
hence some require a longer time in being put into the
magnetic sleep than others ; in some cases the processes
are shortened, in others they must be lengthened. There
are some persons upon whom magnetism has no sensible
effects. Another very successful method is, to take the
patient by one hand and place the other hand on the
head and exert the will as in the preceding case.
But a comparative few that are put into magnetic
sleep become somnambulists. If a person in this sleep
will answer the questions of his magnetiser, he is in
somnambulism. To awaken the patient from magnetic
sleep make upward motions with your hands before his
face, willing~nim to awake, and he immediately awakes.
Its Application to Diseases.—The magnetic sleep is
highly restorative, and always should be resorted to
when the complaint is general ; but when there is simply
a local pain or disease, there is no necessity for it. For
head-ache place your hand upon the part affected and
exercise a constant and benevolent desire to relieve pain ;
and after holding :
t there a few minutes pass it lightly
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 17
over the head from right to left ; if the pain is occa
sioned by the stomach, next place your hand on it and
proceed as with the head. If the head-ache is accom-
panied with cold feet, after holding the hand on the head
for a short time, draw the hands slowly from the head
downwards, along the sides, to the knees ; soon the
head will be relieved and the feet become warm. If
the pain has existed for years it is chronic and must have
a prolonged treatment.
In rheumatism, if local, place your hand where pain
is felt, hold it for fifteen or twenty minutes, then pass
your hand lightly to the extremity of the feet, and thus
continue for ten minutes ; but if the limbs are generally
affected, make passes at a short distance from them
to their extremities, for an hour or more ; if the dis-
ease is chronic repeat the operation daily until the relief
is complete ; and so of every chronic disease. Says
Deluze, " I have seen a fit of the gout, so violent that the
patient could not put his foot to the earth, relieved by one
sitting and cured by three, and the pains have not re-
turned for eighteen months. I have also seen a som-
nambulist in fifteen days cure her magnetizer, who for
a long time suffered with the gout in the knees and feet.
For this purpose she merely employed passes along the
legs, continuing them each day for a quarter of an hour.
When the gout has mounted to the head or chest, mag-
netism readily brings it down to the feet, and then draws
it off at the extremities."
We mean by pass, simply passing the hand sor moving
them as we have stated.
For tooth-ache hold the hand on the part affected for
a few minutes, then pass the ends of the fingers slightly
over the cheek from right to left.
" In biles, magnetise when the inflammation begins."
" For a felon, make passses along the arm as far as the
extremity of the finger, and then concentrate the action,
and then draw it off from the end."
It is not pretended that magnetism cures all diseases ;
some arc beyond its reach ; but it is a valuable auxiliary
;
18 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of medicine, and every physician should be familiar with
its principles ; and a general knowledge of them would
relieve many of the ills of life, and preserve multitudes
from untimely graves. Says Baron Dupotet, " the value
of such a discovery as animal magnetism is to be esti-
mated, not by the evils to which its unskilful application
may give rise, but by the positive good which may be
derived from it. Already we have seen that during the
state of magnetic insensibility the most painful surgical
operations may be performed, and the patient remain the
whole time in a state of perfect unconsciousness. Is this
not a boon to suffering humanity ? This is not all : the
most obstinate and painful chronic diseases have been
relieved and perfectly cured by its application. It was
the successful treatment and cure of diseases which had
notoriously resisted every other remedy, which compel-
led the rudest and most inveterate of our antagonists to
recognize the influence of magnetism ; and when these
facts were demonstrated beyond all reasonable contro-
versy, it remained for them to seek in the umbrage of
their imagination the solution of the mystery. In epilep-
sy, hysteria, neuralgia, chronic rheumatism, head ache, I
know of no remedy so immediate and availing. How
often have I seen the victim of pain writhing in the most
acute agony, sink under its influence into a state of the
most placid composure ! How often have I heard thanks-
givings and prayers breathed in gratitude to the Creator
for the relief which the afflicted have hereby experi-
enced ! At Gronigen, a girl nineteen years old was suf-
fering under hysterical spasms, which sometimes contin-
ued forty-eight hours ; after being magnetised half an
hour a day for three weeks, recovered." "A lady resi-
ding in London, after a violent attack of fever, under
which she was suffering in December and January last,
was affected by convulsions of every kind, but mostly \y
fainting, which often lasted two hours, and it was difficult
to bring her to herself. I was present one day when the
fainting was coming on, and tried to make application of
magnetism ; I had scarcely begun to operate, when she
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 10
quickly recovered from the fainting, as though she had been
awakened from a dream, and from that moment she gra-
dually recovered." Says Dr. Elliotson of London, one
of the most eminent physicians in the British empire, " 1
know of no certain cure for epilepsy but magnetism, I
have cured several by it." Says Baron Dupotet, " in
many acute diseases, medicine should be used with
magnetism."
To cure a person of any bad habit, as intemperance,
he must be put into the magnetic sleep and then the
magnetizer must will with energy that the least partici-
pation in intoxicating drinks, snuff, tobacco, opium, or
whatever it may be, should cause nausea, and he will be
forever unable to partake the interdicted articles ; unless
in another magnetic sleep the magnetizer should remove
the interdiction. It may be equally well appled to an-
ger, revenge, and every evil passion. '
Hence the philan-
thropist, by a practical knowledge of this agent has his
means for relieving suffering humanity increased a thou-
sand fold; and many frightful maladies, and infidelity,
will take their flight before its bright rays from our globe.
Note. A person cannot be magnetized when under ihe
influence of any stimulating drink, food, or any excitement.
CHAPTER V.
PRECAUTIONS.
Says Baron Dupotet, " I am anxious to impress on the
minds of those who may feel inclined to try the experi-
ment, that the operation is not always unattended with
danger ; for I have known instances of many who in en-
deavoring to induce the magnetic phenomena, have
20 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
placed themselves in a very painful position, and the per-
son operated on in a very alarming state. Of course
animal magnetism, like every other science, has its own
laws, and these should be diligently studied before any
individual attempts to practice it. M. de S. C, a retired
officer, having heard a vague report of animal magneiism,
attempted to make the experiment upon his own daugh-
ter, although she complained of no illness. He merely
wished to ascertain whether he could make her feel the
magnetic sensations. With this view, and without being
aware of the extent of mischief he was provoking, he
laid his hand on the stomach of his daughter and obeyed
the magnetic injunctions. After a few moments of
magnetization, she experienced spasmodic attacks, and
shortly was siezed with violent convulsions ; and her fa-
ther, not knowing how to calm them, only increased
their intensity, and she thus remained for a week."
Says M. de Puysegur, " a young lady of Nantes, of
distinguished birth, when on a visit to her relative, the
Marquis de B., was indulging with the rest of the com-
pany in passing sundry jokes upon magnetism. Her un-
cle, M. de B., who outstepped, by his sarcastic remarks,
every one present, and was gesticulating with great
freedom, began to direct his pretended influence upon his
niece, when they both set about magnetizing each other
as fast as they could. At first the young lady laughed
very heartily, but it was soon discovered that this laugh-
ter was any thing but natural ; and she was gradually lo-
sing her reason; she followed her magnetizer every
where, and yielded to his sole influence. The spectators
attempted to separate them, but this only provoked
dreadful convulsions. Her magnetizer felt extraordina-
ry sensations ; the lady remained in that alarming state
several days." But if convulsions do occur, the mag-
netizer by being calm and' firm can soon quell them, by
making passes at a short distance from the patient, and
directing the energy of his will to soothing or calming
them. An experienced magnetizer rarely ever induces
convulsions, and if he should he can speedily remove
ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 21
them. In magnetizing for the relief of any local pain,
there is no danger; so that any one can attempt it with
impunity. In nearly all cases where there have been
convulsions, they have occurred when attempts were
made through mere curiosity, to excite the magnetic
phenomena. Women can magnetize equally as well as
men ; all nurses should be magnetizers.
CHAPTER VI.
EXPERIMENTS.
SaysBaron Dupotet. "A large marble pestle, after
being magnetized, was wholly immersed in muriatic acid,
in which it was kept until the acid had reduced the mass
to about one half of its original size, it was then drawn
out, well cleansed, and presented to the somnambulist,
who fell asleep as soon as he had touched the whole
mass of marble." There is an analogy between animal
magnetism and electricity, because if the magnetizer
places himself on an insulated glass stool, he can mag-
netize with double power, and if the hand of the mag-
netizer is on the head of the magnetized, and the hand of
the latter touches the head of the magnetizer, that mo-
ment he experiences a shock like that of electricity ;
also if a natural magnet be held near the hand of a per-
son in magnetic sleep, it follows the magnet. A bottle
of magnetized water put to the feet of a person with
cold feet, will warm them. Magnetized water is very
beneficial to persons in ill health.
22 ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM
CHAPTER VII
CONCLUSION.
The phenomena of somnambulism are similar "to the
unclouding of the mind previous to death. Thus does
the study of animal magnetism assume a peculiar sacred
interest; it is the unveiling to us our spiritual nature, and
leads us onward even to the verge of eternity." It also
demonstrates that all thoughts are in themselves imper-
ishable, and will at one view crowd upon us when sepa-
rated from our clay tenements. " Do we understand the
connection between our bodies and souls ? No. Let
proud philosophy, therefore, descend from her throne of
bigotry and intolerance, and with a spirit of humility,
prepare to investigate these solemn mysteries. I know
of no study so exalting to the human mind, none so deep-
ly interesting to all who are capable of reflecting on
their destiny."
" To practice magnetism successfully," says M. de
Puysegur, " you must have an active will to do good ;
a firm belief in your power, and an active confidence in
employing'it."
Let us thank heaven that the exercise of an agent so
useful, and sublime as that of animal magnetism, demand-
ing only singleness of faith, purity of intention, and a
development of a natural sentiment, which connects us
with the sufferings of our fellow men, and inspires us
with the desire and the hope of relieving them.'' The
female tract distributor, who understands magnetism,
has an additional power of doing good, and can be an
angel of mercy to multitudes of the poor and suffering
in our cities. If the immortal Howard had understood
it, how much more good he might have accomplished,
what sparkling gems it would have added to his crown
:
what new joys would have filled his heart.
APPENDIX.
MAGNETIC AND CLAIRVOYANT TREATMENT OF
INSANITY.
In 1847, Dr. Barker, of South Adams, Mass., cured Miss
Potter, of that place, of insanity, by magnetism. Tim following
statements on insanity were made on the evening of June 11th,
1818, hy S. G. Grooms, of Troy, N. Y., while in the clairvoy-
ant state.
Insanity, or Disease of Ike Mind.—Physicians are often igno-
rant of its cause. There are portions of the brain that cannot
bear the least pressure, without derangement, or fits. The or-
gans of Destructiveness and Combativeness are the most easily
affected. When there is an equilibrium of the circulation of the
blood, there will be no derangement : lack of circulation is the
first cause of insanity; then a portion of the serum does not be-
come blood. A bruise becomes bad blood, and pleurisy is pro-
duced by thick blood.
Different organs become deranged, as Eventuality, Constructive-
ness, Secietiveness, and Acquisitiveness; when the last-named or-
gan and Color are deranged, the person thus affected will steal arti-
cles of a certain color. The physician's first object should be, to
ascertain what organ is affected. If Mirthfulness is disordered,
excite Veneration. Try to draw the surplus blood from the brain
toward the extremities, by magnetic passes.
Insane persons ought never to be opposed. Follow them in
their views, as if they were sane, by small portions, in due sea-
son. Examine the patient's hands and feet; when they are
warm, and animal heat is equalized with moderate perspiration,
and the system is open, the health of the person is good.
Treatment.—For Nervous Derangement.—After bleeding
the patient a little, give the following medicine to strengthen the
nerves. Take tincture of iron, (made by pouring boiling water
upon iron, or boiling a piece of iron in water,) with skull cap and
a little castor, (from the beaver,) and assafoetida, and make, a tea
of this mixture. Or sulphate of iron, one ounce; rectified spir-
its, two pints. Another mode is : take ammoniate of iron, four
ojnees; proof spirits, one pint : digest and strain.
For Mental Derangement.—Reduce the patient by dieting,
and not permit him to eat food that makes blood. The following
articles are appropriate, namely: crackers, rice, aud molasses;
24 APPENDIX.
and nvoid stimulants. A person of strong, robust constitution, and
red face, needs bleeding. Palsy is produced by a similar cause
as insanity. Never let the insane know that you think them in-
sane, as it makes them worse ; and also eyeing them with suspicion
does the same. The reason why their best friends prove their
worst enemies is, because they eye them closely, which horrifies
the insane and increases their malady, and begets in them extreme
hatred toward their friends. Insane persons should be talked
with as if they were sane and rational. They ought to see fre-
quent change of scenery, the oftener the better; and in extreme
cases, let pictures in the room be changed hourly.
Persons that become insane by fixing their thoughts constantly
on one thing, are hard to cure. Any person confined in a white
glass globe, would become insane in six hours. Long and intense
thinking on one subject will render any person more or less in-
sane.
The doctrine of election causes more insanity than any other
one subject, because it leads its believers to doubt and melancholy,
and finally to despair. Universalists are rarely insane, as they
are buoyed up by hope, and are often cheerful ; but Universalism
is a passport without a signature: a robe not in the fashion of the
robe of righteousness. All insane persons are costive. Typhus
fever is a species of insanity. The nerves of voluntary and in
voluntary motion are opposite; if the one class are unusually
active, the other are proportionally inactive.
In addition to the other remedies, give a tincture of Cayenne
and alcohol, and use the warm bath, with friction, by rubbing the
patient with a wet woollen cloth.
If the foregoing treatment was observed in the insane hospitals,
in one week three-fourths of the patients would be cured.
TEE E1TD.
(• {
PROSPECTUS OF THE
AMERICAN PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL,
EDITED
BY O. S. & L. N. FOWLER.
To reform and perfect ourselves and our race, is the moBt exalted of all works. Yet,
to do this, we must understand the human constitution. This, Phrenology, Physiology,
and Vital Magnetism embrace; hence fully expound all the laws of our being, and con-
ditions of happiness, and constitute universal truth.
PHRENOLOGY.
Each number will contain the analysis and location of 6ome phrenological faculty, i*ue-
trated by an engraving, or an article on their combinations.
PHYSIOLOGY.
Health is Life, the great instrument of talent, virtue, and happiness, all of which it
augments. To its preservation and restoration, special attention will be given.
VITAL MAGNETISM,
With practical instruction, interesting facts, and those choice truths which it unfolds, will
be presented in this Journal.
YOUNG MEN,
The blessings they enjoy, the influence they can wield, and their preparation for conduct-
ing our institutions, will form the theme of a series of articles.
SELF-IMPROVEMENT.
Who does not long earnestly, and would not strive assiduously, to cultivate liis natural^
powers, and render nimself better and more happy 1 To such, each number will be a
prompter and a text-book.
THE J OURN AL
Will be published monthly, containing 32 large octavo pages, on good type and paper,
with a variety of engravings, and much practical instruction to learnBrs, on the following
very low
TERMS, IN ADVANCE:
Single copy, onz year, . SI 00 I Ten copies, one YEAm, . . $7 00
Five copies, " " . 4 00 |
Twenty copies, . . . . 10 00
SAMPLE NUMBERS
Of this Journal sent gratis, when desired. Volume XI. commences in January, 1849.
Please address, post-paid,
FOWLERS AND WEL.S,
Clinton Hall, 131 Nassao stmet, Nktt York.
