{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__scott___journal_of_a_missionary_tour.pdf","mytitle":"Journal Of A Missionary Tour","mylang":"de"}
A
JOURNAL
OF A
MISSIONARY TOUR
T H R O U G H
PENNSYLVANIA, OHIO, INDIANA, ILLINOIS,
IOWA, WISKONSIN AND MICHIGAN ;
CO MPRISING
A CONCISE DESCRIPTION OF
D IF F E R E N T SECTIO NS OF C O U N T R Y 3 H E A L T H OF C L IM A T E 3
INDUCEMENTS F O R E M IG R A T IO N W I T H T H E E M B A R R A S S ­
MENTS 3 T H E R E L IG IO U S CO NDITION OF T H E P E O P L E 3
M EETIN GS CO NNECTED' W I T H T H E MISSION 3 AND
OF THE GREAT WESTERN PRAJRIES.
B y R ey. JAMES L. SCOTT.
PROVIDENCE :
PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR.
1843.
Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1843,
By Rev. JAMES L. SCOTT,
In the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of Rhode-Island.
p. F. Moore, Printer, Providence, R. 1.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
Reflections on the Western Valley; Anxieties to visit that Sec­
tion$ Engagement for the Missionary Society5 Departure; The
Mormon Temple at Kirtland, Ohio; Man sick with the Ague and
Fever ; The Phrenologist - - - - - -
CHAPTER It.
Contention at Ashland 5 Tea at the German Tavern 5 Young
Man at the Bari; German Pedlar5 Waggon capsized in the Wil­
derness; Difficulty in obtaining Entertainment; Marion; Ceill at
Wheeler’s ; He cautions against the Robbing Tavern in the For­
est; Causeys; Bellefontain; Carriage found in the Woods; Arri­
val at Port Jefferson; Jackson Township; Eagerness of the
People to hear the Word of God; Gale; Leave for North
Hampton; L. A. Davis -
CHAPTER III:
Schools; Teacher Rejected; Health; Death of a Young Man;
Young Lady converted; Mad River; Wandering in the woods of
Quincy; Baptism at Port Jefferson ; A man disputes the Earth’s
revolution; Thunder Tempest; Leave for Bloomfield; Spring-
field; Macadamized Road; Columbus; Big Walnut River; Dif­
ficulty in Crossing; Thunder Storm; Cross the Scioto; The
Dangers; Arrival at Deacon Clark’s; Hunting Excursion; Em­
bankment; Mound; Human Skeletons; Meetings; Gay Circle
broken up; Conversion of an Infidel; Man’s Accountability;
Baptism; Butlerville; Meetings at Father Hill’s; A Grave
Yard; Interest of the Surrounding Scenery ; From Butlerville to
Cincinnati; Banks of the Ohio; Surrounding Scenery
IV PREFACE.
CHAPTER IV.
Cincinnati; Kentucky ; Anecdote of the threatened Clergyman ;
Temperance; Manner of redeeming Inebriates ; The Reclaimed
Drunkard; His Family; Temperate Drinker; Schools; Celebra­
tion; The Ohio River; Contrast of the Inhabitants; Kentucky
Mansions; Slave Huts; Poor Tavern; Traveller - 50
CHAPTER V.
Idiomatic Expressions; Shattered Dwellings; Cookery; Dan­
ger of Popery ; Extract from Pollok 60
CHAPTER VI.
President Harrison’s Homestead; North Bend ; Tunnel through
the Hill; Big Miami; Kentucky Tavern; Flood in 1832; Arrival
at Milan; The Country 5 Inhabitants; Young Gallant - - - 65
CHAPTER VII.
Leave Milan; Michigan Road; Beach Woods; Gangof“ Hoo-
siers” ; Family from Delaware ; Indianapolis; Drove of Buffalo ;
Manner of taking them; Country from Indianapolis to Terre
Haute; Emigrants in the Forest; Stranger in the Thicket ; Emi­
grants with an Ox Cart; Terre Haute; High Water; GrandPrai-
rie, III. ; Its Features; Paris; Measles in the Town ; Trouble in
obtaining Entertainment - 69
CHAPTER VIII.
Flat Roofed Tavern; Tavern in the Grove; Cross a Large
Prairie; Grave in the Midst; Returning Emigrants; Story of
Missouri; Kaskaskia; Stolen Team; More Returning Emigrants;
Their manner of Travelling; Springfield; Sangermon River; Call
for Refreshment; u Pigs in the Parlor” ; Havana Begging Emi­
grants; Illinois River; Spoon River; Profanity in theSouth; Lew-
istown; Arrival at Widow Hull’s ; Religion of the People 5 Skel­
eton of a Sermon; Gentleman from Philadelphia - • - 76
CHAPTER IX.
Macedonian Cry; Corruptions of the Church; Necessities of the
People; Increase of Popery; Her Fatal Effect; Sabbath Baptist
Churcn; Health of that Section 90
PREFACE. V
CHAPTER X.
Fulton and Peoria counties; Privileges} Prairie5Fanning Privi­
leges} Wintering Stock} Droves of Cattle and Horses} Flow­
ers on the Prairies 5 Polar Plant} Population 5 Mansions} Locust
Groves} Soil} Walk on the Prairie - - - - - - 97
CHAPTER XI.
Cuba} Rich Bottom Land}Wild Onion}French Scholar} Roy­
al Library in Paris} Country from Cuba to Canton} Ruined
Family} The Daughter in Despair} Canton} Surrounding Coun­
try} Farmington} Trivola} Paroquet} Manner of taking them - 106
CHAPTER XII.
Leave for Iowa5 Knoxville} Monmouth} The Astonished Trav­
eller ; Lowlands of the Mississippi} Forest 5 Burlington3 Stanzas}
Steam Ferry-boat} Murder} Backslider} Ferry-boat Missing;
Mississippi} Surrounding Country} Flint Creek} Des Moines Ri­
ver; Indians; From Burlington to Fredonia; Arrival at Dr.
Maxson’s ; Fredonia ; Surrounding Country ; Timber and Prai­
rie; Hillsborough; Meetings - - ........................................116
CHAPTER XIII.
Excursion in the Country; Meetings; Thunder Tempest; Eng­
lish River; Graves on the Iowa Bank; Church Constituted ; Re­
turn to Hillsborough; Pond on the Prairie} Health Declines; En-
quiringSinners; Wantsof the People; Errors Increasing; Stanzas - 132
CHAPTER XIV.
Prospect from Osceola; Iowa} Iowa City; SurroundingCountry;
Emigrants Crossing the Prairie; Prairie on Fire ; Soil of Iowa ;
Gram :Fruits ; Wild Animals; Fish ; Climate; Indian Habits 142
CHAPTER XV.
Leave Iowa; Appeal to the Church; Bloomington ; Muskatine
Slue; Thunder Storm :Cross the river at Wyoming ; Raft of Pine
Boards; Illinois Citj'; Isolated Mansion; Green River ; Rocking­
ham; Davenport; Rock River; Health of Climate; Palestine
Grove; Beloyt; Wiskonsin Forest; Arrival at Milton - 162
VI PREFACE
CHAPTER XVI.
Worship 5 Cross Rock River 3 Kuskanung Lake 3 Timber 3
Country west of the river} Ancient Fort3 Black Hawk’s Camp
Ground3 Large Spring} Gravel Mound} Forests} Meetings}
Population} Industry 3Joseph Goodrich’s Location 3 Visit at Elder
Babcock’s }Schools 3 Influence of Alfred Academy }Ancient City - 176
CHAPTER XVII.
Rosco 5 Gale 5 Two men shot by a mob } Visit with a
brother} Thunder Tempest3 Cross Fox River} Chicago} Ditch
resembling a Canal 5 Sand Banks j Michigan City 3 Grand River }
Wheat} Aspect of the Country : Health} Centreville} Elder Ty­
ler’s 3 Tecumpsie} Maume Swamp} Sandusky} Temperance
Hotel at Cleaveland 3 Arrival at Home - - - - - 187
APPENDIX.
Leave for Berlin} Conference} Visit R. I .; Call at New Lon­
don ; Westerly > Attend a Meeting with Elder Crandall« Leave
for York State >Recalled ; Return} Commence a M£eting atPaw-
catuck ; It is held eight weeks ; Concise account of its success ;
Conclusion - 196
PREFACE.
The following pages have been written during an illness, in
consequence of which, the Author has not only been deprived
of the privilege of attending to his ordinary duties, but for the
mostofthe timecloselyconfined, andinconsequence ofthestate
of his lungs, somewhat deprived of conversation. For enter­
tainment, he commenced the journal, not knowing then that it
would be published, butfrom the advice offriends, it isbrought
before the public.
No extraordinary tour is professed—no skill in writing, or
labored effort to entertain thejeader by hyperbolics is sought,
but a simple relation of facts, a concise description of some
portions of the country through which he travelled, to wit:
Penn., Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa,Wiskonsin and Michigan,
with the outlines of the religious condition, manners and cus­
toms of the people, health of climates, exuberance of the soil,
and the inducements for emigration, together with the embar­
rassments attending a settlement in those countries. Many
people set off for some country, but have no definite portion in
view. Hence, they move on until weary, and then settle with­
out knowing the conveniences or embarrassments of their new
home, until too late. After having spent some months in that
section, during which time the Author travelled many hundred
miles in different directions, he may possibly aid the reader to
some definite location on which to centre his mind, and to
which he may emigrate with safety ana satisfaction. To many
ofthe people ofthe East,the “Far West” is allin a small com­
pass, but on reaching its borders it expands astonishingly.
Many who have located there byguess, have pitched in an un­
healthy portion, and hence, in the report, it is all alarmingly
unhealthy. Others have found healthy sections, and fromthem
the report is, universal health. But a fair investigation will
V1U PREFACE.
show that some parts are insalubrious, and others far to the re­
verse. Some sections have a scanty supply of timber and
water, while in many portions, nature has been bountiful in
bestowing a rich variety. This deficiency of knowledge re­
specting “ the great valley” is in consequence of our own
country having been overlooked by both readers and writers.
One of the main objects of these notes is, to lay before the
Christian community, and more especially that Denomination
of which the Author is amember,the religious condition ofthe
thousand’s scattered through the “great valley.” When the
Author left in pursuit of the scattered and destitute, he had no
definite means ofknowing where his labors were most needed.
Hence he knew not where to go, or in what particular section
to devote his attention, and the tour was but an exploring ex­
pedition.
But the following pages will furnish the Missionary Society
with a means to decide the most important fields of labor,and
the Missionary the most easy way of access to that people.
Also those who wish to emigrate for usefulness, where they
may do the most good. And the man of the world, that sec­
tion best adapted to his time-serving schemes. With this
view of the subject, the following pages, though imperfectly
compiled, are offered tothe public, andifin any way,they sub­
serve the cause of truth, in benefiting the; destitute, his best
wishes shall be fully realized. It has been the object to con­
dense as much as possible, and much has been omitted, for the
purpose of bringing the whole into a small compass. And
may the God of Missions sanctify this feeble effort to the ad­
vancement of the Redeemer’s kingdom, and the relief of the
destitute.
J. L. SCOTT.
Westerly, April, 1843.
CHAPTER I.
Reflections on the Western Valley— Anxieties to visit that section—
Engagement for the Missionary Society— Departure— The Mormon
Temple at Kirtland, Ohio—Man sick with the Ague and Fever — The
Phrenologist.
I entered the Gospel Ministry with a resolution that
my mind should be all absorbed in that subject. A
world, deluged in iniquity with its millions floating
down the current of time, and plunging over the cat­
aract into the burning billows below, aroused the en­
ergies of the soul, and caused a renunciation of the
world for the sake of the destitute and the require­
ments of God. Of the different fields of labor that I
had in view, the valley of the Mississippi occupied
most of my moments of secret meditation. Long
had I wept and prayed over the destitute condition
of that wild scattered waste, and for a long time no
way opened through which I might call the attention
of the wandering probationers there, to the all absorb­
ing subject of their soul’s eternal interest. But not­
withstanding my feeble health, when I received the
appointment from the Executive of the Missionary
Society, I was ready to comply, assured that He who
2
10 MISSIONARY TOUR
was willing to die forthe sinner and was able to conquer
death, hell, and the grave, was capable of sustaining
and conducting his servants to the end. Not knowing
how long duty would detain me in the valley, I re­
solved on having my family (consisting of Mrs. Scott
and a son of six years of age,) accompany me. Ac­
cordingly on the sixth of January, 1842, we, after
pledging our mutual prayers, took leave of the Church,
and our friends. This was a season of the deepest
feeling to us all. But feelings were not to be substi­
tuted for duty, and often during our absence did we
feel that the parting pledge was redeemed. Oh what
a boon bestowed from heaven is that blessing of
prayer. By it the saints are brought in unison at the
throne, and there they meet, though mountains rise
and waters roll between. Through this channel saints
terrestial hold converse with those of the celestial
world, and with the God of eternity. Heaven be
praised for this inestimable treasure, and may I ever
hold it dear as the blessings it brings. Thus in the
midst of a cold winter, we left our fireside and the
bosom of the Church to face the stormy blasts, and
the frowns of a wicked world, the latter being far the
most intolerable. At first when suffering intensely
from the inclement weather, nature would recoil; but
one reflection of the Savior’s pangs for a guilty world
would quell each rising thought, and faith would take
hold of eternal rest beyond this vale of tears.
7th. Called at Olean Point. Here, in this flour­
ishing village are two families, and although lonely
situated as to society, yet persevering in the cause of
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 11
truth, fully resolved to obey God at the risk of all
things. From thence we came to Great Valley —
called on a brother, who, without interrogation, ac­
knowledged his convictions of the justice of ourcause,
and of his becoming a member of some S. D. Baptist
Church. From that we passed on to Mansfield, where
we spent the Sabbath with first day people, the thaw
preventing our reaching the Church at Persia.
9th. Called at Persia, and spent only one evening
with tlie friends there, as our instructions’ required us
to hasten to some remote portion of the Mission, and
visit nearer home on our return route.
12th. In North East, Erie County, Pa., called at
Br. Abel Babcock’s, who had for a long season lived
without any knowledge of the prosperity of his cove­
nant brethren. He said “our visit was to him as cold
water to a thirsty soul,” and wished to express his
thankfulness to the society for looking after him. He
was in the enjoyment of religion — strong upon the
bible Sabbath, and shunned not to defend its cause.
15th. Being Sabbath, spoke to an audience whose
number amounted to six, two of them were first day
people. Our friends here are faithful soldiers in the
cause of God, and an ornament to the society. Our
Br. Julius Todd, is trying to publish salvation in this
place — preaches each Sabbath to three persons, ex­
cept on accidental occasions, he also preaches in the
country around; his example is worthy of imitation.
16th. Spent the day as usual in travelling, and at
night called at Father Bailey’s and although his head
is silvered over with the frosts of eighty-seven winters,
12 MISSIONARY TOUR
yet he was strong in the Lord, and a bold advocate
fdr the doctrines of the bible. May he live to bring
in his centenary offering.
14. We came to Gerard. Enquired for a brother
Langworthy, but he was not known by any until
morning: When after we had spent the night, and
the Landlord had obtained a heavy bill, he was well
known !! and our Host gave correct direction to the
very house! ! ! a distance of some seven miles.—
With Br, L------, we dined, and continued our jour­
ney, through Coneaut to Kingsville,O. While passing
through Coneaut we conversed about the Lady, Mrs.
Applebee, who had been shipwrecked opposite the
town on Lake Erie, and lived seven days in the cabin
which was nearly full of water. But God was with
her, nor suffered the floods to overflow her soul, and
she was preserved to glorify His name. On the day
appointed for the funeral discourse she was restored to
her weeping husband, to his astonishment and inex­
pressible-joy. While reflecting upon the Omnipotence
of Jehovah’s arm, we were encouraged with the re­
flection that that arm could sustain us, and if so, “ why
art thou cast flown, oh my soul, trust thou in God, for
he is thy hope and salvation.”
Leaving Kingsville we passed on to Kirtland where
we took a survey of the “ Morman Temple.’’ Of the
Mormons, there were left to guard the Temple, about
five hundred in all, their main body having taken their
pilgrimage to Nauvoo, the promised inheritance of the
latter day saints. The Temple is a huge stone edi­
fice, standing on the brink of a towering bank, over­
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEE. 13
looking thé surrounding country. High upon its front
is written in large capitals,
THE TEMPLE
OF THE LIVING GOD.
DEDICATED TO HIM
BY THE LATTER
DAY SAINTS.
1835.
It is kept locked, and may not be entered free of
cost, or without a guide. After engaging our con­
ductor we passed through the broad hall into the main
body. Each door is as carefully bolted as those in a
prison. One room embraces the whole basement
story, with the exception of the hall, or entry, and I
should judge the room was thirty feet between floors,
and but for its architecture it would appear like a cav­
ern. On each end was a pulpit containing four seats,
each of which as it rose above, receded from the other
until the last was much elevated, and placed against
the wall. The seats in the east end was for the pre­
siding officers in the priesthood of Aaron. Each seat
is calculated for three persons, each person occupying
a seperate niche in the form of a segment of a circle.
In the centre sits the presiding officer, who has on
either side a counsellor. The pulpits are decorated
with carved work of the most costly workmanship.
In front,of each appears three initials. Those on the
front of the lowest seat were P. D. A. I inquired of
2*
14 MISSIONARY TOUR
my guide for their fullest meaning, and was informed
as follows : The initials on the first seat were
1. P. D. A.—President, Deacon of Aaron.
2. P. T. A.—President, Teacher of Aaron.
3. P. A. P.—President of the Aaronic Priesthood.
4. B. P. A.—Bishop of the Priesthood of Aaron.
“ Those in the west end are,” said he, “for the
presiding officers in the Melchisedec Priesthood.”
1. P. E. M.—Presiding Elder of Melchisedec.
2. P. M. H.—President of Melchisedec’s High
Priest.
3. M. H. P.—President of the High Priesthood
of Melchisedec.
4. M. P. C.—Melchisedec’s President Senior,
My guide said, “ Sometimes these men of God
shine with dazzling splendor.” I looked on him with
pity. Each of the seats of these pulpits could be
shut in entire by pasteboard curtains, suspended from
the upper ceiling, thus completely secluding each seat
with its occupant from every other object in the Tem­
ple. Besides this, there are curtains to inclose the
whole at once. Here (my skepticism suggested) they
can dress their Angels at will. There was a curtain
suspended, which when dropped would divide the
congregation in the centre.
This is but one of the deceptive machines invented
by the adversary of souls to their evarlasting destruc­
tion, From this apartment we ascended two flights
of stairs which led us into a school room, which con­
tained the same number of pews and pulpits as did
the basement story, but not so costly, and without
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEE. 15
curtains. Ascending another flight of stairs we come
to another loft which was subdivided into study rooms,
some of these were so destitute of light that they ap­
peared fitted for deeds of darkness.
Ascending another flight of stairs, we stood in the
belfry, the base of which was ninety-four feet from the
ground. This was the most interesting position in, or
about the Temple. From it we could survey the vil­
lage and many of the plantations, with the' hills and
dales which beautify the surrounding country. But
all was mingled with sorrowful reflections, as be­
neath our feet were those rooms which, to us appeared
fitted for deceptive purposes, and where it is feared,
almost all manner of sinful gratifications were indulged.
They were then beneath our feet, and may Heaven
grant, that such delusions with there kindred spirits,
may always remain there. In view of the thousands
thus deluded, how gloomy the thought. In the blaze
of Gospel truth how easily men are blinded and led
into fatal delusions. The soul sunk still lower than in
the beginning, the mind still more degraded and yet
they hope for a being with the blest !
How awfully accountable then, are those who lead
them thus astray. This is as concise a description
as I am able to give, and although my notes are some­
what defaced I believe it is correct. I have noticed
“ The Temple,” not because its merits demand it, but
to show how far delusion may go, even in this our en­
lightened land.
Leaving the Mormon Temple, we resumed ourjour­
ney. It being very warm and pleasant, the frozen
1 6 MISSIONARY TOUR
ground began to soften, and it was very soon exceed­
ing bad travelling. Our course led us through Cleave-
land which is a splendid city indeed. It is surrounded
with a beautiful and fertile country. Above and be­
low the city on the lake road, the country seats were
surpassingly elegant. At Cleaveland we took the pike
road for Columbus, which led us from the lake ; and
notwithstanding the wheeling was intolerable, they ex­
acted an extravagant toll. When we came to Medi­
na, the wheeling was so heavy that we left the turnpike
for back roads, at which time we thought our troubles
had begun.
Part of the time we ploded on through mud knee
deep,and so frosty that all the turbid soil adhering to the
carriage wheels congealed. Sometimes we were hob­
bling over the bubs,at others trundling the crazy log and
rail bridges, in which the country greatly abounds.
Through swamps and lonely deserts much of our path­
way lay. Twice we broke our carriage, costing much
time and money toget.it repaired again. The charity
of many of these people begins at home, and we
shouldjudge was scarcely ever found wandering abroad.
Our way, however, was through a very pleasant
country newly settled from almost every nation on the
globe. The productions of the soil, though notextrav­
agant, will reward the husbandman for his toil.
Thus we urged our way on, and although we could
make but little progress, we felt it our duty to pursue
the journey.
Jan. 18. We called at Harrisville, and from ap­
pearances I thought they were sometimes visited by
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 17
the ague and fever ; but when I enquired concerning
it, the keeper of the Inn declared emphatically that
it was not the case. Shortly after a gentleman came
in, and drawing up to the stove, said, “ I guess, Land­
lord, my fitis comingon again.” After he had shaken
sometime, I enquired if thatman was a resident of that
town. My host answered “he is sir.” “ Has he been
absent recently 1” “ No sir.” “Well sir,” I replied “he
must have the disease from his own climate;” I men­
tion this as a specimen of the smuggling spirit of the
inhabitants in unhealthy countries.
At Sullivan my Carriage was broken, by which I
was detained about a day; there 1 found a Phrenolo­
gical Lecturer, who was making extravagant strides in
the business of his profession. At about eleven, A. M.,
a company was gathered in the bar-room, and I was
invited to a seat with the spectators. From their man­
ner, I discovered that it was their intention to have a
little sport at my expense. Sin appeared their chief
delight, and a minister the object of their greatest envy.
I had desired a privilege to preach to them, and when
I entered the room which was crowded, I thought a
way might then open. Soon after entering, a rusty
looking man took the seat and the exhibition com­
menced. At the first onset, the actor fastened his eyes
upon the object of their anticipated sport, remarking
as follows: “ This gentleman [?] can never be a Chris­
tian, not having sufficient organs for marvellous con­
ceptions.” Then with a haughty air proceeded,
“ That is the case with me, 1 cannot believe in ghosts
and hobgoblins, neither can I bring before my mind
18 MISSIONARY TOUR
the form of your Christians God. If I could only see
his shape, his feet, hands, eyes, Sic.; how he looked,
walked, talked, and appeared, I should take the great­
estpleasure in worshipping him,” At the close of
the last sentence, I remarked, “that, sir, is intended
for me.” To which he pompously replied, “ Indeed
it is, sir.” Approaching him, and placing my hand
on his head, I said, “ sir, you have informed us, that
these organs are the seat of the mind. Tell us if you
please how that mind looks, its form, features, Sic.,
and we will believe you.” He saw that with his own
weapons he was slain. His hands lazily fell from the
cranium, and all was silent. I then remarked, “ Es­
tablish holiness as a common centre, and cluster around
it the other attributes of Deity, then you might wor­
ship. Add to that a renewed heart, which you very
much need, and you would delight to worship.” This
is only noticed to show that truth, if brought to bear,
will ever triumph over the advocates of error. Surely
“ our weapons are not carnal but mighty — through
God to the pulling down of the strong holds of Satan.”
uHow happy is the Christian’s lot.”
CHAPTER II.
Contention at Ashland— Tea at the German Tavern — Young Man at
the Bar— German Pedler— Waggon capsized in the Wilderness— Diffi­
culty in obtaining Entertainment— Marion — Call at Wheelers — He
cautions against the Robbing Tavern inthe Forest— Causeys — Bellefon-
tain— Carriage found in the Woods — Arrival at Port Jefferson— Jack-
son Township— Eagerness of thepeopleto hearthe word of God — Gale
—Leave for North Hampton — L. A.Davis.
At Ashland, Richland Co., for some cause I was
thought to be a friend to the slave, and a club of cox­
combs pounced upon me by guess, saying they would
“ egg ” a man of that character. I immediately began
to defend the slave when a battle of words ensued;
and although I was unflinching in behalf of the poor
“ down-trodden,” they did not execute their threatened
vengeance.
21. Called at night at a German Tavern, and as
the next day was Sabbath, we engaged our entertain­
ment during that day. In the evening, for tea the
cook filled a large tit pot with water and stained it
with black tea. In the morning the old tea waswarm­
ed over, and presented for breakfast. While there a
young gentleman from Pennsylvania called and ap­
proached the bar for the common beverage. I expostu­
lated with him and obtained his pledge. During the
day, a German pedlar, a Jew, came, and was very ur­
gent to direct me. I took his way bill, but his anxiety
20 MISSIONARY TOUR
to obtain my pledge that I would follow it, gave me
some suspicions, and I took anotherroute. The going
was so bad that we could proceed but from twelve to
twenty miles each day. And I afterwards learned
that the route advised by the pedlar, led through a
wilderness of forty miles in extent, and was sometimes
infested with robbers.
23. At night we were caught in the wilderness, and
farfrom any house, following an underbrushed road as it
wound its way around the large trees. But we were
favored with the light of the pale moon, as its borrow­
ed rays found their way through the thick woven bow­
ery above. Thus we crept along over the frozen
ground, stumps, and roots, at a very slow rate, until
late in the evening. And how far from the settlement
we could not imagine, for when we entered the forest
we were told it was “ but a little bit” through. This
term I afterwards learned was applied to any distance
however indefinite.
Late in the evening we passed a log hut, which
being well lighted within, very much resembled a pole
lantern. After passing this some distance we found a
large tree across the path, which endeavoring to shun,
led us down a steep bank, where our carriage capsized.
In my effort to save my family I was caught under
the wagon, with my face so muffled that I could not
speak, and it was sometime before I could extricate
myself with the aid of my family. This was agloomy
scene, and the more so to my family, as it was some­
time before they knew whether I was dead or alive,
and with their utmost exertion, much time elapsed be­
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 21
fore our joint effort was effectual. We were then four
hundred miles from home, and had been forhours pen­
etrating this lonely desert, and.how far it wa,s through
was entirely unknown to us. At this time we knew
not what damage might be derived by this catastrophe.
Indeed, I thought it a lonely predicament for a help­
less female, and especially before I had escaped the
danger of being torn to pieces by the wagon, if the
team should get frightened, as in the affray I had lost
the reins. After unloading the carriage we righted it,
reloaded and pursued the journey. By this time I
found that my face and head were much bruised.
After hobbling along sometime, we came to a log
house where we sought for entertainment, but to no
purpose. I begged for a shelter for the remainder of
the night, but all my entreaties were in vain, we were
directed on. When we came to the next house we
met the same treatment, we plead our condition, but
apparently to no purpose, until appealing to their sym­
pathy with all the eloquence of which we were pos­
sessed, we effected our object, and was admitted.
From that time until we left in the morning we were
kindly entertained. Thus we were preserved by a
kind Providence, and again reminded of our Heavenly
Father’s -care. The next day we crossed a low wet
prairie, passed through Marion, and a small village
which the people denominate “ Sodom,” and put up for
the night with one John Bates, a Freewill Baptist Min­
ister. We had with this family a soul-refreshing season.
25. Having been recommended to a tavern kept
by Mr. Wheeler, we called about noon, and found him
3
22 MISSIONARY TOUR
a very good man, and a Christian. He kept us over
night, free of cost, rather than let us go to a tavern
in the forest, which he said was a den of thieves and
robbers. Here, even the unconverted entreated us to
tarry with them for a season, and teach them the way
of life. Doubtless if we could have submitted, much
good might have been done, and with sufficient labor,
a church established. Indeed we never before saw
the unconverted so anxious to be taught.
26. Leaving those kind hearted people, we entered
the forest on the way to Belle Fontaine. For many
miles it was one continued Causey, or as the inhabi­
tants say, a “corduroy or rail-road,” which is made
by throwing trunks of trees into a marsh and leaving
them to settle there. This material is used where the
swamps are extremely bad. The jolts as the carriage
fell from log tolog, were uncomfortable in the extreme.
If in high water any of the logs get washed out of
their place, on coming to it, the team first plunge into
the mire, up to their mid-side, and then flounce for the
logway again, when the carriage is drawn into the
marsh, well nigh burying the forward wheels. As the
team advances the wheels come in contact with the
remaining timbers, and all are fetched up, and there we
are a dead set again. Out we must get, and wading
through the mud, raise the wheels until the}' will roll
on the logs again, and then we trudge on. These
scenes are not unfrequent with travellers in those parts,
during the muddy season, which by-the-by is much of
the year. Where the swamps are not too miry, rails
are split out of the logs and thrown in for a bridge.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 23
These rail, pole, and log bridges are often many miles
in length. At night we stopped in Belle Fontaine.
This town is in a very romantic country surrounded
With an oaken forest. In the forest through which we
passed in reaching Belle Fontaine in 1840, there
was a splendid carriage found a short distance from
the road, and the perpetrators of a supposed horrid
deed could never be traced.
27. Arrived at Port Jefferson, Shelby Co., and were
received with unusual cordiality by the friends residing
there. The town is situated within an amphitheatre
of romantic and forest crowned hills, and on the banks
of the beautiful Great Miami River. The inhabitants
were excavating a canal which passed the town. This
is an unhealthy place indeed.
On our arrival, found Br. B. C. Church laboring with
hismight. He, with his brethren, had just closed a pro­
tracted effort which resulted in much good, giving new
courage to the saints and an addition of eight to the
Church. Twelve had been baptized, many others
gave evidence ofa renewed heart. This was a day of
rejoicing to the friends there. The cloud which had
so long enshrouded them, presenting a gloomy aspect,
was beginning to give way—hope was springing up and
the sun of righteousness was shedding forth his healing
rays. Truly they hoped for better days. In that wil­
derness the kingdom of grace was advancing. For
which we bless the Lord.
28th. Left forJackson Township to join Br, Church
in one of his appointments, a distance of some ten
miles. It would have heen interesting to some of our
24 MISSIONARY TOUR
friends to have seen us following our guide through
the woodland, winding our way around the hillocks,
crossing the log, pole, and rail bridges. Thus, through
swamps and brush, we made our way, with our car­
riage tossing and reeling like a bark upon the wave,
our guide often turning to behold us in our tottering
situation, until we were obliged to abandon it, and on
horseback pursue our journey. We soon however
found ourselves in an humble cottage, fitted for the re­
ception of the gathering multitude. The people came
in flocks from all parts, and from whence we could
not conceive, only as they shot forth from the thickets
in every direction, until the house was literally jam­
med. Anxiety and ambition dwelt in glowing colors
on every countenance. These people would cheerfully
go, aided by their torches, from two to five miles
through the woods to worship God. Surely, “ the
wilderness shall bud and blossom like the rose.” We
believe the Lord met with us, and that to bless. The
silvery moon came up just in season to lend its bor­
rowed light to aid the returning groups- back to their
dwellings. The forests echoed with their songs of
praise, as they returned.
29th. This day being Sabbath, the people assem­
bled for divine worship, filling the house to overflow­
ing. As it was the evening before, so it was on the
Sabbath — they came flocking from all parts, boiling
forth from the forest in every direction. The worship
of God was attended with deep solemnity. While
Christians were made to rejoice, sinners evidently saw
the need of a Savior.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 25
3 o’clock, P. M.—We now approach a scene of
deep interest to those present. On our way from
meeting, and in the forest, very suddenly the atmos­
phere was changed from a clear sky to a tremendous
gale, and was heightened to a degree surpassing any
thing of the kind ever known before in this country.
The bellowing thunder aroused our attention, and we
soon discovered the electrified clouds arising in quick
succession, darkening the western horizon. The rough­
ness of the way forbade our hastening, and as we had
just passed a log cottage situated in a small opening,
we made our way thither with all possible speed.
We had scarcely alighted ere it blew a heavy gale.
The heavens were now shut in. Casting our eyes
westward, we saw the maddened clouds foaming and
ploughing through the etherial regions, as though the
elements had summoned all their forces, concentrating
them here — locked in each other’s maddened em­
brace, and struggling for the mastery. All was com­
motion. The lightning was flashing and starting forth
in streams, as though hastening with all its native pow­
er and velocity from the terrible scene, but was soon
met by an equal force from another direction. Their
approximation was terrible, and-the concussion caused
all nature to tremble. The heavens were in a con­
stant blaze — the raging winds, the streaming light­
ning and the heavy peals of thunder all combined,
presented a scene which could but appear to us like
the crash of worlds. The sweeping gusts which ap­
peared, sent from the mainbody as forerunners, almost
took our breath, and we were compelled to grasp each
3*
26 MISSIONARY" TOUR
other for support. Our pen fails in describing this
scene — language is inadequate. The tempest which
had hitherto been in its main body so high, that we
hoped it might pass with the most of its fury above
us, began to hug the forest as if it would, while in its
awful struggle seek for a resting place. At this mo­
ment the scene was awfully terrific. The forest ap­
peared at once like a mighty army thrown into con­
sternation— lit up by the apparently burning clouds,
and for a moment it appeared that the whole atmos­
phere was in a flame. This was followed by a mighty
crash. Much of the timber was literally shivered, the
broken fragments filling the air. Our position appeared
the more endangered, as the gale was bending its course
directly towards us, and each move seemed to redouble
its fury. The females began to sink beneath the ter­
ror of the scene, beholding the fragments of the de­
ranged forest flying and falling in every direction, but
were in a measure calmed by the deliberate expostula­
tions of Br, L. A. Davis, who at this time administered
the consolations of religion. But our situation was
awful. Our fate On earth must soon be decided, at
least for this time. And when all hope failed, either
in ourselves or nature — when it appeared that we
must inevitably be engulfed in this raging tempest, the
winds parted, passing us on the right and left, sweep­
ing before it — and we were preserved. Bless the
Lord for this deliverance. Hallelujah ! Amen.
31st. Preached at the Baptist House in Port Jef­
ferson, and on the evening of the 1st of February in
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 27
the Methodist Chapel, where they were holding a pro­
tracted meeting.
Feb. 3. We left Port Jefferson for North Hampton,
Clark Co., in company with Elder L. A. Davis. At
seven in the morning we forded the Miami. It was
rising very fast, and could not have been passed two
hours later. We found the mud exceeding deep, and
the rain fell all day upon us. After facing the storm
through the day, we were very coolly received by those
from whom we least expected anything but a hearty
welcome. The office held by the man of the house
indicated a very different course. Office did I say ?
Yes, a holy office in the church was won by that man.
Br. Davis was the more keenly affected on the account
of having led us there of his own will. But I pitied
him, surely I did, when he groaned most bitterly. It
had rained all day, and the water stood in ponds all
over the country, and that ungenerous man turned El­
der Davis’ Horse into the open lot for the night, with­
out feeding him, and would have done the same by
mine if I had suffered it. Such are symptoms of hu­
man nature in its last stages ; but so it sometimes hap­
pens. On our arrival in North Hampton, a meeting
commenced, having been previously appointed, and
was continued many days with good success.
The Ministers who reside there, were exerting
themselves to the utmost for the advancement of the
Redeemer’s Kingdom. Elder L. A. Davis, Pastor
of the Church in Port Jefferson, Shelby Co., is as­
suredly a pillar in Zion ; and a Father to the Chur­
ches in that country. Indeed as far as human
28 MISSIONARY TOUR.
agency and government is concerned, without him, I
do not know how the churches could sustain their
being. There is much lack of efficient ministry in
that country.
CHAPTER III.
Schools — Teacher Rejected — Health— Death of a Young M an-
Young Lady converted—Mad River — Wandering in the woods of
Quincy— Baptism at Port Jefierspn—A man disputes theEarth's revolu­
tion—ThunderTempest—Leave for Bloomfield—Springfield — Macada­
mized Road — Columbus — Big Walnut River— Difficulty incrossing—
Thunder Storm— Cross the Scioto — The dangers — Arrival at Deacon
Clarks— Hunting Excursion — Embankment— Mound— Human Skel­
etons — Meetings— Gay Circle broken up— Conversion of an Infidel-
Man's Accountability— Baptism — Butlerville— Meetings at Father
Hill's— a Grave Yard— Interest of the Surrounding Scenery — From
Butlerville to Cincinnati— Banks of the Ohio — Surrounding Scenery.
It is but recently that schools have been established
here, and in some districts, ignorance prevails to an
alarming extent. As a specimen of some portions, I
will notice, that in Quincy, where we called, a broth­
er informed me that a teacher had been once rejected
for teaching his scholars the sound of the letters, but
by the persuasion of some of the school proprietors,
and his influence, he was reinstated, and at that time
the entire district was converted to his practice. Ma­
ny of the inhabitants can neither read nor write.
That portion of Ohio, is very beautiful, and the soil
productive. Much of it is swampy, and when cleared
becomes dry, and is very excellent in-its production.
The weather for the most part of the time was very
warm, almost as much so as that of summer. Often,
even in February, the woods would echo with the
shrill notes of the feathered songsters. But while we
30 MISSIONARY TOUR
were there it was much inclined to sickness and death.
One circumstance will serve to show the terror of a
disease called the “ winter plague.” A very wicked
young man who opposed religion and exerted him­
self to annoy the meeting one evening, was, the next
evening, a corpse. Reader, be careful how you sport
with divine things. “ Because sentence against an
evil work is not executed speedily therefore the hearts
of the sons of men are fully set in them to do evil:”
Eccl. viii. 11. God’s vengeance often delays, but ere
long it bursts upon the head of the wilful rebel. The
only safety is beneath the covert of the Savior’s wing,
which is secured by repentance'toward God, and faith
in our Lord Jesus Christ.
21. Preached in the evening, but was so feeble
that it was difficult to stand while addressing the
audience. Great solemnity pervaded the people.
On our return to Br. Lippincott’s, we found a young
lady who had long opposed the government of heaven,
writhing under the ponderous load of a guilty con­
science. With her we wept and prayed. In the
morning she found relief at the foot of the cross, and
sung praises to God.
22. In company with Br. B. C. Church visited Br.
Joel Babcock’s, on Mad river, a distance of some
twelve miles. This river has an appropriate name,
for during a flood its fury is, I believe without parallel.
The surrounding country is the best adapted to the
farmers use of any we saw in the State. This entire
section was once possessed by the Sabbath Baptists,
but now most of them have left for other parts.
24. Left for Port Jefferson, and travelled all day,
over rough roads and through the woods ; at night
we wandered about the. woods of Quincy, from hut
to hut, to find a shelter from the inclement weather.
About ten o’clock we succeeded, and the family pre­
pared our refreshment, consisting of “ corn bread and
common doings.” While we were in the State, a
man who sometimes preached, said, that people were
fools for believing that the world revolved; for if so,
when a bird left her nest she could not find it again it
would get so far the advance.
26th. Sabbath. The meeting house in Jefferson
was filled to overflowing. The friends came from
Jackson, Quincy, &c., distance from six to ten miles.
And what surprised us most was that they were en­
gaged to that degree, that some young ladies came on
foot six and seven miles through mist and mud. In
conversation they said they were well paid, and were
willing to wear themselves out in the cause of their
Master. A caution to the dilatory. When we were
about to sympathize with them, they cautioned us,
and with tears in their eyes, pointed toward heaven,
saying, “ In ray Father’s house there are many man­
sions.” One Br. having found the Savior, came
twenty miles to be baptized and at the close of the
sermon rose and told his errand. The intelligence
coming with such earnestness and so unexpected, pro­
duced a thrill in the congregation, and for a short
time it was a house of weeping and thanksgiving to
God for his continued mercy to our lost race. Oh
matchless grace that can thus change the Infidel —
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 31
32 MISSIONARY TOUR
take him from this busy world, and lead him that dis­
tance to follow the example of his divine Redeemer.
Oh divine master, give us a resting place beneath the
covert of thy wing. We then repaired to the bank of
the Miami River which flows gently by this town.
This was as beautiful and interesting a scene as we
ever witnessed. The people skirted the'river up and
down. The bank was so formed that the gathering
multitude ranged in lines, one above another, so that
all could with ease behold the scene. The lofty syca­
mores stood in all their native grandeur along the
shore, stretching their branches over the rolling wave,
greatly adding to the beauty of the scenery. Our
soulswere filled. Heaven was begun below. Through
this ordinance, aud while upon the banks of this river,
we could but cast a wishful eye to “ Canaan’s happy
land,” and there behold “ the river of life,” gently
flowing through the City of the Great King. Our
heart leaped within us for joy. And were it not for
the salvation of others, we could have gladly, if per­
mitted, dropped this suffering tenement—departed to
be with Jesus at peace, but embrace the spirit of the
poet,
“In hope ofthat Immortal crown,
I now my cross sustain,
And gladly wander up and down,
And smile at toil and pain :
I suffer on my three-score years,
Till my deliverer come,
And wipe away his servant’s tears,
And take his exile home.”
We here baptized thirteen, whose ages were from
ten to forty-five. The candidates appeared very
happy, and crowded to the water’s edge, anx­
iously waiting their turn to follow their divine exam-
pier in the ordinance of baptism. Like the Ethiopian,
they went on their Way rejoicing, and may they thus
continue, until they arrive on Canaan’s blissful shore.
27th. Took leave of the brethren, and made our
way to Hampton. While plodding through the mud
we cast our mind over this field of labor. The cry
on every hand was, “ come over and help us.” We
rejoice that there were so many benefitted by the
gospel in those counties, and were it not for some ob­
stacles before hinted atj (Oh horrible thought!) there
would have been a great ingathering. When will all
be wise? When will they see? When will the
Church march forth unshackled, and appear fair as the
moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with
banners. May the good Lord roll on the time “ when
all shall know him from the least to the greatest.”
There have been thirty-three baptized, and more are
expected the first opportunity.
March 3. There was a heavy thunder tempest,
which threatened on every hand ; the rain fell in
torrents, and the thunder rolled tremendously. This
reminded us of that day of trial to mens’ souls, when
the thunders bellow shall astound the lost souls of
men, and the streaming lightning, as it plays across
the broad expanse, shall startle the guilty crowd.
May the Lord prepare us for that awful day in which
the dead shall be judged.
4
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 33
March 8. Left for Bloomfield, Pickaway Co., and
passed through Springfield, a town of much business
for an inland seat. It is forty-four miles west of Col­
umbus on the National pike. We were accompanied
by Br. Jacob A. Davis from Hampton to Bloomfield.
We hailed the macadamized road with much joy, as it
was the only road where we could travel with any
proficiency. Thé toll on the road is very high, but
clergymen are free. Columbus is situated on a high
bank of the Scioto river, which was then foaming and
ploughing through the country. At the upper end of
the city they have an elegant Prison. Broadway is a
splendid street, and is well walled in with spacious
edifices. The main portion of the city is built on a
high bank, which gives it a commanding prospect.
After leaving Columbus we plodded along until we
came to Big Walnut river, whose swollen waters
warned us of the danger of plunging through to the
opposite shore. There being two men on the other
bank, we enquired if it could be safely forded, to
which they replied in the affirmative, if we would
pass some rods above. Br. Davis advanced on horse­
back to try the depth, but the shrubbery prevented
our seeing him on the first entrance, or we might have
turned, for the first time, upon our heels. We how­
ever followed. The bank down to the water was so
precipitous, that after venturing to its brink it was
impossible to return. As the horses entered the water,
the shore proved so bold that, to our confusion, the
first step plunged them to the breast. The carriage
crowded on, and the first touch of the fore wheels to
3 4 MISSIONARY TOUR
the water very nearly or quite immersed them. This
brought us,erect, as we sat in the carriage. We ex­
pected the next moment to be, carriage and all, upon
the horses. But a word to the faithful steeds was
sufficient, they plunged through the Water, and we
were soon righted in the midst of the foaming
current. In crossing, the bottom of the river was so
uneven, that we came very near turning over. Our
embarrassment was sufficient cause of sport to those
en shore, and when we were safe through, they wish­
ed us to carry them across ! saying there was a good
fording place a few rods below. On our arrival at
the tavern, about one mile and a half from the ford,
we found a young lady who had emigrated from the
East. She rejoiced almost to excess. She had been
long enough deprived of her friends, to prize their
society. We had but just called for thé night, when
the rolling thunder and streaming lightning warned Us
that a storm was at hand.
The rain soon began to fall, and by morning much
of the low land was inundated. We had not the red
sea before us, nor the Egyptian army behind us, but
streams Whose depth and fury, at that time forbadp
our fording them, and on the right, the direction we
were to go, was rapidly rolling the maddened waters
of the Scioto. We started, and ploughing through
the mud, we soon stood upon the bank of the foaming
river. Here we were brought to a stand. No bridge
or boat was there, nor was it possible to ford the river.
And what was most discouraging, those rivers are
reluctant in.their fall. After searching until wè found
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 35
a man willing to Venture across the river in a skiff,
through the broken fragments and floating forest trees,
we made preparations to adventure. It was the more
dangerous, as just below where we were to cross, was
a towering dam, over which the flood-trash was plung­
ing headlong with the roaring waters as they made
their way to the boiling abyss below. And if by
some accident we had been crowded over with the
floating trees it would have been perhaps as fatal to
us as a passage over the cataract of Niagara. On
starting I left my purse with my family, and the
gloomy effect it produced repented me of what I had
done, for by the act I had betrayed my doubts of a
successful enterprise. The gloom upon my own mind
was redoubled by their entreaties that I should desist.
However we started, and were soon in the river dodg­
ing the floating flood-trash which was borne down
the rapid current. Thé family standing upon the
bank, watched the movements of every oar, until we
were safely landed on the opposite shore. I waved
my hand as a token of safety, and was soon lost in
the forest, as I advanced in pursuit of those for whom
I had thus hazarded my life. They hailed me with
joy, and soon returned with me for my family if per-
adventure they 'could be taken across the river in
safety. Haste was necessary as the river was rapidly
rising, and would soon overflow its broad expanded
bottom.
Mrs. Scott, as her mind was kept in perpetual sus­
pense for a period of time double that anticipated by
either of us, wandered up and down the river, inspect­
36, MISSIONARY TOUR.
ing every moving object, until one was seen in the
river below the dam, and by all on the opposite shore
was fancied aman Strangling^-sinking— gone. And
who could it be but the object of their anxiety ? The
sight was heart-rending to those who were thus, as
they supposed, suddenly bereft of a friend and left
alone with strangers, six hundred miles from horhe.
But the good Lord had otherwise ordered; for about
the time of this conclusion, we appeared above the
dam ready to try our skill in recrossing the river.
We succeeded in getting the family across, then
with much difficulty swam the horses. A few days
after we took the carriage over in a skiff. The water
by this time had spread over much of the low land,
and on our return run into the waggon.
We then learned how to sympathise with those
who had labored Jn that country as missionaries ; yet
we did not regret our engagement, but rejoiced and
hailed it as a privilege. If any should think we ex­
aggerate upon our embarrassments, let them take a
tour through that country, at that season of the year,
and they may be constrained to say like one of old,
“ the one half had never been told them.” In that
place we found a number of families who were like
sheep without a shepherd. Some still maintained the
cause of Christ, and had endeavored to brave the
storm, and to bear the burden in the heat of the day.
Others had neglected to pay their vows, and conse­
quently had grown cold in religion. Some few had
wholly abandoned the cause of their Savior; also a
goodly number who had settled with them from the
4*
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 37
38 MISSIONARY TOUR
East, never did profess religion. Take them as a body,
they were (religiously,) in a distracted condition.
Notwithstanding the embarrassments through which I
started and had prosecuted the journey thus far, I was
happy to be there. The young had established the
dance for sensual recreation, and had carried it to in­
toxication. And because iniquity did abound, the
love of many had waxed cold. These young people
had been led on in their sports to such a degree, that
one lover of Jesus said, “the wicked one saw his time
to be short, and was doifcg his best.”
On our arrival in the neighborhood, a man, who
was afterwards converted, said [ had better establish
a dancing kchool. The morning succeeding, a com­
pany of wicked men invited me to join them in a
hunting excursion, which I accepted against the will
of the few that professed religion. They evidently
designed to defeat the object of the Mission. In the
forest wre found a man making rails, and when inform­
ed of the meeting the next day, (Sabbath) he replied,
“ if the priest will preach this log into rails ” (which
by the by had baffled his power and skill,) “I will
then hear him preach.” [This man was soon after
converted to God.] He joined the hunt. We had
not proceeded far, when they began their sport and
glee. I well knew this day would decide for or
against my usefulness in that vicinity, as the main
opposers to religion in the place composed the party.
I sought the aid of the Holy Spirit which I believe
was granted, and joined them in every thing con­
sistent, and was sure to appear very solemn on the
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 39
introduction of any thing which would not strictly
comport with my profession. A change for the better
was soon apparent. They proceeded to an embank­
ment upon the brink of the river which was about
two miles in length, and about fifteen feet high, built
to guard the bottom land below from the bursting
flood in high water. We came in the course of the
day, to an ancient mound situated on the bank of the
river, in which were human skeletons, very closely
compact, and standing erect. The mound was some
sixty feet in diameter, of ordinary height. In it was
also found flowered earthen ware, of modem resem­
blance.
The river inwashing away its banks, had exposed
many skeletons which had been buried about four feet
beneath the surface. They lay horizontally with the
head eastward. They were of a Giant size, and the
skull very round and extremely thick. The company
although very boisterous in the morning, was now soft­
ened to a lamblike mildness. The sly hint of the
“ priestly hunt” was no more, and while this vision of
bones afforded a good text book, they were willing to
listen to remarks upon the resurrection of the dead, in
that day to which we are all hastening. No personal
application was made, but solemnity fastened its un­
flinching grasp upon my associates, while the cer­
tainty of death, the resurrection and the general judg­
ment, together with our weakness, compared with the
Omnipotence of Jehovah, was brought before the
mind. Two skeletons in particular arrested our atten­
tion. They were evidently those of amother with her
40 MISSIONAKT TOUR
infant upon her arm. They doubtless had thus slept
undisturbed for thousands of years. She, perhaps a
heathen mother, had fallen asleep with the infant on
her breast, while we were blessed in living under the
blaze of gospel truth : hence our condemnation is the
greater if we should reject its saving power. The
men of Nineveh might well rise in judgment against
us. After this day’s exercise they resolved to attend
the meetings, and were all, I believe, converted, and I
had the inestimable privilege of baptizing them before
leaving the place. After they were converted they
often referred to the excursion in the forest, in which
they professed to have realized the contrast between
religion and irreligion.
While reflecting upon my accountability, who but a
servant of the church can realize my feelings.
Here I was, surrounded by a multitude, and the num­
ber of pious comparatively small, while many were
opposed to the religion of the crucified Ftedeemer. If
I ever saw the necessity of a holy devotion it was on
this occasion. Their guilty, lost condition — my ac­
countability— the judgment-day, all clustered around
my vision, and well nigh overwhelmed my depressed
soul. I visited the forest, and poured out my soul to
God in prayer. In deep agony I implored immediate
aid of my Divine Commissioner. Immediate, did I
say, yes, for that was morally a wild uncultivated field,
and I had but a few days to tarry with them, and
what was done must be done quickly.
12. Sabbath ; many come out this day to hear the
stranger. Some of the original settlers acted as though
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 41
they thought one of the seven wonders of the world
had developed itself; and they woujd gaze upon a
Seventh-day Baptist preacher, as though he had been
some awful prodigy ih nature, or at least some super­
natural production, and would express themselves thus :
**I’ll go and hear what he says, about Saturday for
Sunday
God was there. His spirit melted the congregation
and the majority pledged themselves in obedience to
his will, and with the number, were the'most of my
hunting companions. Oh what a change! Deep
groans and sighs and prayers were bursting from them
on every hand. Hope revived in the heart of the old
professors, and here that soul converting work began.
A t evening some of the young men collected their
youthful associates and urged a dance, but to no pur­
pose. One young gentleman professed to have his
pockets full of religion, offered to peddle it out, saying,
the Missionary should not duck him, &c. &c. But
his wickedness was ineffectual. This youth was the
first to give his hand in the ordinance of baptism.
When we first visited his father’s, he would shun a re­
ligious conversation, but we did not follow him, and
after a short time he came and solicited information
respecting his salvation. The meetings continued
about three weeks, — the parties of recreation were
broken up, and we. had the happiness to see the youth
join hands in singing praises to Jesus. The leader of
their mirthful scenes filled his station with them in the
cause of God.
20. After services, repaired to the Scioto river, a'
42 MISSIONARY TOlfR
distance of about two miles, and baptized ten happy
converts. Another week was spent in the same man­
ner, and the meetings were carried on with increasing
interest. Evening meetings were so crowded that
many, very many, could only cluster around the dodrs
and windows. Often after the meetings were closed,
though kept to a late hour, it was with difficulty that
we could get the congregation to disperse.
26. Sabbath ; house and yard was crowded with
people, and we were again privileged with going' to
the river, and there leading five converts in the ordi­
nance of baptism.
27. A larger congregation still. The good spirit
fell like rain upon the people, and five more were
b a p tiz e d .
The last that were baptized was the man who
chose a dancing school when we first began our labors,
and his lady. His procedure was as follows.- Being
convicted but still unwilling to yield, he first said to
the congregation that he did not wish to stand as a
hindrance to any, and advised all who were inclined
to seek the Lord, to do it then. As soon as he said
this, some burst forth as though they were liberated
from literal bands. What an influence one indi­
vidual may exert over his associates, and especially in
youth ! May I be delivered from the hell of such per­
sons, if they should continue to their own eternal ruin.
The Savior said, “ Ye have taken away the key of
knowledge, ye entered not in yourselves, and them
that were entering in ye hindered.” But he pro­
nounced a woe upon such persons. The next eve­
THROOGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 43
ning the convicted man said, that he had decided to
leave off swearing. Well, thought I, slow but sure.
The next evening he fell prostrate before the altar
and God, through the atonement received the offering.
The last time we visited the river to attend the ordi­
nance of baptism, the forest trees had begun to put
forth their foliage, forming a delightful bowery over
our heads.
It was the opening season of the year, when nature,
arousing itself from the sleep of winter, appeared
with renovated beauty. Not only man, but flowers
and trees and birds seemed to enjoy the season,
and the scene was most glorious, as the banks on
either side were crowded with the gathering inhabi­
tants, and many were singing praises to God. Here
we were reminded of the language of the inspired pen­
man “ When the sons of God came to present them­
selves before the Lord, Satan came also among them,”
A middle aged man ascended a sloping sycamore, and
babboon-like was exerting himself to raise a shout in
the congregation. I looked at him again, and again,
until his attention and that of the congregation were
arrested, then said : “ If you are a man, exhibit his
character, that we may decide what you are.” He
slid down amid the sarcastic sneers of the crowd, and
sneaked off. Profound silence followed, and nothing
more transpired to annoy except a mimic baptism on
the opposite shore, where some young men were act­
ing the part of pupils, and appeared to improve the
opportunity to commit to memory the ceremony.
May God pity such deluded sinners. O that men
44 MISSIONARY TOtfR
would be wise, and learn that when they mock, and
deride the cause of religion, they only are “ heaping
up wrath against the day of wrath,” and preparing
sorrow for their own souls. I often thought of the
gathering thousands on the banks of Jordan. While
the Disciples were happy, the Priests, Scribes, self-
righteous Pharisees, and the rabble, were hissing even
in the audience of the Savior of the world.
What strange infatuation is found in the heart of
fallen man. But thus it-is. While a few are found
laying up for themselves a treasure in heaven, thou­
sands are crowding the broad road to death, and as
though borne upon the surge of opposition to every
good, they blindly rush forward — are foundered Upon
the rock unbelief — are drawn into the whirlpool of
Woe, and sink to rise no more ! But glory be given
the Lord of Hosts! the afflicted saints if faithful, will
soon arrive in heaven, “ Where the wicked cease from
troubling and the weary are at rest.” Reader, if you
are a despised disciple of Jesus, “ rejoice and be ex­
ceeding glad for great is your reward in heaven.”
28. Constituted a church of nine original members,
and received ten candidates. The church then elect­
ed Charles Clark for their Deacon, and Alonzo Gra­
ham, church clerk ; after which we partook of the
Lord’s Supper. Many more will doubtless join soon.
With regard to their location ; they are in a rich
fertile country, and as healthy as any we have seen in
the State of Ohio, but eighteen miles south of Colum­
bus, and two miles west of South Bloomfield, the
Scioto river and banal. There is now about thirteen
THROUGH THE WESTERN TALLEY. 45
hundred acres of wild land in the immediate vicinity,
which can be purchased at from four to six dollars per
acre. Their Post Office address is South Bloomfield,
Pickaway Co., O. Here is a field of labor for some
young man or for any one of God’s ministers, and the
brightest prospects we have seen for usefulness. The
harvest is ripe. Who will go to them? They are
praying the Lord of the harvest to send them a laborer.
Who will reject God’s holy spirit, and refuse the call ?
Shall these souls perish for the want of the bread of
eternal life, while there may be enough to go, if they
would Only consent to suffer a few privations for
Christ’s sake? Our Savior was rich, yet for our
sakes he became poor enough to say, “ the foxes have
holes, and the fowls of the air have nests, but the Son
of man hath not where to lay his head.” Mark his
example, ye soldiers of the cross. He travelled on
foot, by land and on the watér, passaged in a fisher­
man’s boat.
At length the day of our departure arrived : thè
friends gathered, but to bid them adieu, and especially
the young converts, was heart-rending indeed. And
th,e greatest cause of our grief was the probability that
we should meet no more on time’s tempestuous sea.
They implored us so stay with them, but duty for­
bade.
After taking our seats in the carriage, we endeavor­
ed to say “ adieu ” — but the choking agony stifled
the accents' as they attempted an escape from the
lips. The scene is only understood by those present.
In the midst of this overwhelming grief we left them,
5
46 MISSIONARY TOUR
and the forest soon hid us from that weeping group.
We hoped to meet in a world where the parting tear
never trickles down the cheek. No sigh, or groan,
or parting scenes shall ever enter those courts of un­
sullied glory ; and one uninterrupted ocean of peace
and love shall ever be enjoyed by those that are ad­
mitted there. These thoughts brought vividly to my
mind the following strains of Cowper :
“Then be not sad, although thy lot be cast
Par from the flock and in the boundless waste!
No Shepherds tents within thy view appear,
But the chiefShepherd even there is near;
Thy tendersorrow and thy plaintive strain
Plow in a distantland, but not in vain
Thy tears all issue from a source divine
And every drop bespeaks a Savior thine! ”
Two of the company attended us some distance.
One continued about twelve miles, and on leaving us
he gave his hand, and bursting into a flood of tears
sat down upon the ground and there we left him.
We called for the night at a tavern, where a pious
lady took a deep interest in that beautiful Hymn, “All
is well,” which we sung and which very much anima­
ted her, while she learned to sing it. In that place
God was saving souls.
Between Bloomfield and Cincinnati we passed
through some excellent country, and some very poor.
Much was of a swampy inclination. Our direction
was through Washington, Fayette Co., Wilmington,
Clinton Co., and Butlerville, Warren Co- In the
last mentioned town was once a church, but in con­
sequence of emigration it is now extinct.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEE. 47
Sabbath and first day preached at father Hill’s.
We found these friends also destitute of the preached
gospel ; but they are endeavoring kto lay up for them­
selves a treasure in heaven.
Father Hill I considered one of the most holy men
of the age, he was the only original settler there, but
has departed this life since that time. When we
passed through this portion of Ohio it was at that
season of the year when all nature was in perfect
bloom.
Box-wood, Dog-wood, fee., were in full bloom
which very much beautified the scene, giving an
odoriferous atmosphere. It was impossible to get to
Cincinnati without travelling on one of those macad­
amized roads which had not been in use long enough
to be worn smooth. They were very uncomfortable
for thé team, as the sharp corners of the broken rocks
nearly crippled them, and added to this the extrava­
gant toll, which amounted to about two dollars each
day, they were not very acceptable.
While in Butlerville we took a survey of a grave
yard, where many are slumbering in the arms of death,
nor shall be disturbed until aroused by the trump of
Gabriel, at which time the nation of the dead shall
assemble before the dread tribunal, to receive accord­
ing to the deeds done in the body. In view of the
rest that remains for the people of God, we could ris-
joice. But gloom rested on us in consideration of oq^
feeble health, the insalubrious climate there, and
through which we were destined to pass — the trials
of a tour like the one in which we were engaged
48 MISSIONARY TOUR
the distance we were then from home, and still to pro­
ceed farther— the necessities of the church — “ the
howling miseries of the expiring sbul ” —;and the
accountability of the Gospel minister, &c.
Truly, in view of these things, our minds were
much depressed. But our trust was in the God of
Missions. Nature was however clad in her most gor­
geous robe — the fruit tiees, both indigenous and ex­
otic were in perfect bloom, and appeared to declare
the praises of Him who bade the Spring return. The
rippling brook, as it murmured from the mountain
forest to the meadowy plains below, mingled its
rumbling voice with the shrillnotes of the feathered
choir, all of which combined, could but cheer the
depressed spirits of the wandering pilgrim. We could
•but anticipate the raptures of the inhabitants of the
upper world, and hope sprang within us that if faithful
-to our Master we should soon be there
“ To see and hear and know
All we desire or wish below.”
April 4. We left in search of more of the scattered
sheep of the House of Israel. From Butlerville to
Cincinnati we travelled through a most splendid coun­
try. Some portions presented the broad expanded
plain, while others the romantic mountain scenery.
The forests were loaded with foliage, the fruit trees
Were clad in tinselled blossoms, and the cultivated
fields were laden with the rich productions of nature.
About noon we struck the beautiful banks of the Ohio
river, near five miles above Cincinnati. The landscape
beauty about the city is surpassingly sublime. The
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 49
sides of the mountains and the plains are subdivided
into gardens, arranged in the neatest style. Here we
vainly hoped to see some of our friends from the upper
country, if perchance they might have reached there
with their lumber.
5*
CHAPTER IY.
Cincinnati— Kentucky— Anecdote of the threatened Clergyman —
Temperance— Manner of redeeming Inebriates — The reclaimed Drunk­
ard — His Family — Temperate drinker— Schools — Celebration — The
Ohio River — Contrast of the Inhabitants— Kentucky Mansions— Slave
Huts — Poor Tavern — Traveller.
Cincinnati is situated in the southwest corner of the
State, on the north side of the river, upon two plains,
one elevated considerably above the other, both of
which appear to have been formerly washed by the
river, and is a large city for so new a country. The
streets are interesting, and cross each other at right
angles. The city is well supplied with schools and
seminaries of learning. On entering the city from the
majestic Ohio, you ascend from street to street, which
rise in grandeur one above another. Its cleanliness
and its active inhabitants, width of streets, elegant ed­
ifices, and well arranged shade trees, present a scene
of unusual interest. From Mount Auburn, an adjoin­
ing suburb, the city is easily surveyed, and in connec­
tion with the rolling Ohio, the proud steamer, the
“ church going bell,” echoing from the spires which
rear their lofty points on high, the densely populated
town, lying within an amphitheatre of hills, presents a
prospective of enlivening interest. Opposite the city
lies Kentucky, from which it is only separated by the
river. Its towns, banks, hills, dales and mountains,
would present a pleasing aspect; but for the thought
that it is a land of slavery*. Its soil is drenched in
the gore of Afric’s sable sons. Its air is mingled with
the smothered groans of the widowed mother, the or­
phan child, the down-trodden father, all of which are
rent asundei- at will, by that foul monster Slavery,
which in many places finds a hearty welcome even in
the bosom of the Church-. While clanking bis chains
in agony and weltering and writhing in the gore of his
eternal bondage, poor, dejected, despised, -frantically
tortured, exotic son of sorrow, finds no pity from many
who wear a Christian’s garb. He too, most horrid
thought, is often sold and his price added to the hea­
then Missionary Fund !! Wild infatuation ! More hor­
rid than the (Cannibal who knows no better than to
(devour his foe. A Christian ! sell immortal beings!
and take his estimated value, bathe it in tears and bid
it God speed to a heathen land ! ! ! What land more
heathen than his own ? What heart more wild, more
heathen-like than that man’s, who chains in perpetual
bondage, and shrouds in eternal darkness and bends to
his brutal lust a fellow-being within his tyrannical
grasp. Language has not power to speak the horrors
and woes of American Slavery. None but God can
comprehend its misery and iniquity ; and none but
God can inflict punishment according to the demerit
of the crime of those whose hands are imbued in the
blood of the afflicted sons of Africa.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 51
*1 believe the most of the inhabitants of the free states agree that
Slavery is an evil, although some difference of opinion exists respecting
its abrogation.
52 MISSIONARI TOUR
While in this vicinity, a gentleman related ah anec­
dote to me, which has so much of the spirit of the
Slavery system, that I will not pass it without a no­
tice. “ A few days ago,” said he, “ one of our most
celebrated Clergyman, while passing up the river on
board a Steamer, when about twenty miles below the
city, was recognized by a Slaveholder, as a man who
dared to speak against that foul system. The intelli­
gence was conveyed to the passengers on board, who
were mostly pro-slavers, and the Captain was ordered
to the Kentucky Shore, where stood a tree on which
they swore in their wrath they would hang that man
who would open his mouth against them. A rope
was fastened around the clergyman’sneck in hangman
style, and a pistol presented to the Captain’s breast, ip
order to frighten him on shore. The Captain expostu­
lated with them, but to no purpose. It was in vain to
say that such a course was wrong, foi in that they were
happy. And when he said it would ruin him, he was
told, “ of the two evils to choose the least.” But
finally said a witty Southerner 11 “ If we hang this
man, the news will reach Cincinnati before we do,
and we shall get fired upon in attempting to pass, and
most assuredly be destroyed.” This selfish thought
was effectual, and the man was spared. Reader, this
is the true spirit of American Slavery. But may we
not say the Kingdom is rending, and notwithstanding
the pro-slavery effort, is cleaving asunder, and its
mainspring broken by the martyrs for the cause.
Cincinnati is far advanced in the cause of Temper­
ance, and is doubtless worthy of a preference over any
çity in the nation. All efforts for the inebriate are
borne on the bosom of benevolence. And when thé
poor besotted creature is met by the sober inhabitants
he is not loaded with scoffs and anatbamas, but the
warm hand of charity is extended to him, and the tear
of pity bedews his grief-worn brow. They, in imita­
tion of the good Samaritan take him out of the mire,
bind up his wounds and feed and clothe him, until he
is sufficiently restored to obtain forhimself a livelihood.
Thè city is divided into districts. Each district is
governed by a common law, and has its <fSamaritans”
appointed to gather and bind up the broken hearted.
They have also Donation Parties, by which clothing
of every description is provided for the benefit of the
inebriate, and his afflicted family. Rooms are also
furnished, and when the distressed are obtained, they
are put therein, until the drunken Father is sufficiently
restored to provide for his own household. One cir­
cumstance of this description I will notice to exhibit
the spirit and benevolence of many of thè inhabitants.
A gentleman of rank, wealth, and influence, was one
day walking the streets in company with a friend, and
while passing up Broadway he saw a man who had,
in a drunken fit, fallen into the ditch and covered with
filth, and had been rolled out. This gentleman bent
his steps to the man, and when rebuked by his friend,
he said, “last evening, sir, I pledged my influence for
the inebriate, and here is a good opportunity to exhibit
my sincerity.” (A caution to some professed temper­
ance people.) All expostulation and reference to his
greatness, and good name, was unavailing. “ He is
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 53
54 MISSIONARY TOUR
my brother,” said he, and began his operations to
arouse the drunken man. The man entreated him to
desist as soon as he could speak, saying, “ I am unfit
for society, and the more especially, that of a gentle­
man of your appearance.” But he plead to no effect,
He was led off by the gentleman, amid the shouts of
the rabble, and the scorn of the gentry, to a room fitted
for that purpose. After resting he became sober, and
his rags being thrown aside, he was dressed in respec­
table style. At evening he was conducted by his
friend to a Temperance meeting. A meeting of this
description is held nearly every evening in the week,
in some portion of the city.
During the evening, the wretch who was picked up
in the street, offered his name to the pledge, and his
influence against that foul monster who had slain his
thousands. But his experience as he related it before
the meeting was one of deep interest, and its thrilling
touch was deeply felt by the audience. He proved to
have been a man of high office in the city of Pitts­
burg, once wealthy and in the enjoyment of a lovely
family, which were all lost by indulging in the dram
drinking practice. His grief worn wife had fled to the
parental roof for home and protection. The tender
offsprings were deprived of a Father, and he, 'losing
property, character, office, family, reason and all, had
fled to that city in order to drink his life away as soon
as possible. There the “Samaritan” found him, he
was fully redeemed, became himself a lecturer, his
family was restored to him, and now he is a .flaming
seraph through the land, and his family the occupants
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 55
of a splendid mansion in Cincinnati. Thus we see
what one man has done and what others may do. “Go
thou and do likewise.” Often, in those meetings
would the mother lead her. children around the altar,
all of which had been gathered from scenes of woe —
fed and clothed by the Washingtonians, and then re­
turn her thanks for the kindness of the people. Often
was the father and husband one of the number, clothed
and in his right mind. Those scenes were extremely
heart-rending, and the happiness restored to those fam­
ilies, was a rich reward for the toil of their friends.
One gentleman rose in one of those meetings, saying,
“ The Temperance requisition puts the lash on too
hard for me, nor will I endure it.” At this, a sot
reeling and tumbling, made his way to the speaker and
said, “that’s the doctrine for me, that’s right square.”
The gentleman endeavored to rid himself of his com­
panion, but to no purpose. He fled to the opposite
side of the room, but his faithful friend caught him by
the skirt of the coat, and staggering, reeling, tumbling,
and hickupping, “ that’s the doctrine, square,” follow­
ed, or rather was drawn by the temperate drinker
across the room, much to the gratification of the shout­
ing audience, and to the extreme mortification of the
gentleman who thought it was of “ no use to sign a
pledge,” As soon as the house was somewhatcalmed,,
he called for the pledge, saying, “ If this is my influ­
ence, and these my associates, I’ll put my name there.”
This is only bringing into active life the influence of
the moderate drinkers,and those temperance men who
see no need of signing the pledge.
56 MISSIONARY TOUR
Cincinnnati ishonorably famous for its Free Schools,
of which it has so many, that no one of its population
can, by possibility, want the means of an education,
which is extended upon an average to four thousand
pupils annually. The inhabitants are proud of their
city, and conceive it one of the most interesting in
America, and with reason, for notwithstanding it is
thus thriving, and contains a population of over fifty
thousand souls. Fifty-two years ago the ground on
which it stands was a wild wood, and its citizens were
but a handfull of dwellers in scattered log huts upon
the river shore.
April 5th, was the great celebration day of the
Washingtonian Society. Several Steamers played up
and down the river, carrying passengers at free cost.
The convention was delegated from all the main parts
on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, from Pittsburg to
New Orleans, and from the cities and main towns in
the interior of the adjacent States. Entertainment
was free for all for the space of three days. Each
family in the city offering entertainment, hung white
tape upon their door posts, and but now and then a
lonely cottage was without its sign. It was estimated
that thirty thousand children, from the different por­
tions of the country, under fourteen years of age,
formed a procession, and with their banners, marched
through the city. Also fivethousand females— mem­
bers of the Martha Washingtonian Society — formed
on the north of the Park.
Thus, thousands of those who were true to their
trust, thronged the city and were marshalled by offi­
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 57
cers who pranced their majestic steeds up and down
the line,'while the flags and banners floated in the air.
The music of the day was composed, with the excep­
tion of the band of singing by the different processions,
ag they marched through the city, and the continued
roar of the cannon which thundered forth their victory
and sent terror through the marshalled ranks of Al­
cohol.
After surveying the city we continued our course
down the Ohio, which is a noble river affording in its
whole course romantic and beautiful prospects. It
flows in a smooth and easy current, and is diversified
On every hand with rich bottom lands, rolling hills and
precipitous bluffs. These hills and bluffs in many
places rise abruptly from the shore of the river, in
others they recede some miles, but in every part are in
view, and so varied is the scenery that there is no
weariness caused by monotomy. No where has the
hand of industry been wanting to add interest in pas­
sing through this part of the great Western Valley.
Farms, towns, and villages, evince the advantages that
has been taken of the exuberance of the soil. Thè
many panting Steamboats show that iudustry furnishes
the means of wide extended and profitable commerce.
One can but notice in travelling there the difference
in the taste and habits presented on the two sides of
this river. Upon the Ohio side, New England modes
and habits prevail. Upon the Kentucky side the
style of the rich Virginia Planter is seen, though al­
most all their buildings, except in villages, are made
of logs, yet there are the customs of nobility kept up.
58 MISSIONARY TOUR
Their houses are principally two story, with two rooms
upon each floor, and a wide, open, airy hall between.
One of the lower rooms is a parlor, the other is a nur­
sery and dining room. Around these log mansions are
a cluster of log cabins, the habitations of Slaves, and
but for this, the open, frank hospitality which charac­
terize the Kentuckian would be an eulogy upon his
name.
While travelling on the bank of the Ohio, we called
at a Tavern to ascertain the distance to the next house
of entertainment, to which the the Landlord replied,
“ If you are travellers this is the place for you ; for
they commit robberies at the next house.” It was
too late for us to proceed farther. During the eve­
ning we were entertained with robbing anecdotes
relative to his neighbors, and particularly, those at
North Bend*. About the time we called a huge
looking object came for entertainment, and although
they would appear as strangers, it was obviously oth­
erwise. On his head was a large piece of a Deer’s
Skin, with the ears standing erect, over his shoulders
was thrown a portion of an old tattered plaid blanket
which hung about half way to the ground, and across
his shoulder lay a spruce cudgel, from four to six
feet in length, and two inches in diameter, with the
knots left about an inch long, and brought to a point.
His entire appearance, was huge and savage. The
house was swarming with intoxicated Irishmen. We
thought they had the materials for plundering, and a
*This was the only Tavern at which we called for a night during our
absence, that we had sufficient cause to question our safety.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 59
heart but little too good. We afterwards learned that
the public were somewhat, suspicious of them. We
spent or wore away the night as agreeably as possible,
and when the grand illuminator of day appeared, we
hailed his refulgent rays with raptured delight.
CHAPTER V.
Idiomatic expressions— Shattered dwellings — Cookery— Danger of
Popery — Extract from Pollok.
In many places in the south of Ohio and Indiana,
the English Language is put upon the rack and very
much mangled. The affirmative answer to a ques­
tion is “ Well I reckon.” The negative “ All but
that.” For instance : “ Are you going to Town to­
day?” “ Well I reckon.” “ Did you accomplish
your object yesterday?” “ All but that.” When
an answer is thus given no more is to be said, as a
repetition required is esteemed dishonorable.
When in an office one day a gentleman came in,
and the following conversation ensued.
“ Well Doctor, how are you to-day 1”
Doct. “ Tolerable like.”
Visit. “ How are your concerns ?” (family.)
Doct. “ Tolerable like, how did you leave your
concerns at home ?”
Visit. “ Tolerable like.”
Doct. “ We had a powerful rain yesterday.”
Visit. “ Lots and slathers of it.”
A short pause ensues, when the visitor interrupts
the silence by saying, “ Well Doctor, I reckon you’d
ÎTHROUGH THE WESTÈRN VALLET. 61
like dearly well to see a coming a little of that are
com ?
Doct. “ Well I reckon. Did you raise quite pow­
erful of it this year ?”
“ Visit. “ Well I reckon, quite a smart chance of
it.” The visitor continues, “ I have a smart chance
of it in my barn, and lots and slathers in the field that
has n’t its jacket torn off it yet.”
Doct. “ Well I should be mighty glad to see it.
When will you haul it.”
(He designs to say in the course of this month.)
Visit. “ Well I reckon in all this month.”
Doct. “ Well, I have now a pretty smart chance
of corn, but last week I was pretty tight on’t until
M r.----------hauled me a powerful load of the smart­
est corn I ’ve had in many a day.”
When one wishes to say he is not well, it is “ l am
sort of donsey.”
At one time a gentleman came where we were to
get some one to convey the corpse of a deceased
friend to the grave, when after the usual compliments,
he began :
“ Well I have come to get you to haul the corpse
of my brother’s wife to the grave.”
“ Well I reckon I can haul it as well as any one in
the State, for I have a powerful team.”
When they wish to speak of a large assembly they
say “ a smart sprinkle of people.” The word balance
comes into almost every transaction. “ To make out
the balance he ate a smart chance of baked pig.”
“ To make out the balance of a night’s rest he slept
6*
62 MISSIONARY TOUR.
until eight in the morning.” If they refer to the in­
telligence of an individual they say “ He knows a
heap.” If they conceive a good quality in any thing,
they say, “ I t’s jam up.” For instance, “ That’s a
jam up friend or a jam up dinner,” Sic.
If a large amount is expressed, it is “ a smart
chance.” “ What did you get for your ox at the
sale ?” “ Quite a smart chance,” Sic. Sic. Sic.
Many live in shattered, leaky, log huts, or shanties,
and much of their wearing apparel compares well with
the hovels in which they stay. We often slept or
rather made an attempt, in rooms where the snow,
rain, and sleet, would sift through the crevices and
give us as they say, “ a smart sprinkle.” It is com­
mon to see the women in the field, attending to the
farming business. Tidiness is a stranger to many of
them. T have often been obliged to walk about the
yard while meals were preparing, and then, while
receiving my repast, labor to see nothing but what
was on my plate, and sometimes shut my eyes while
conveying the food to my mouth. “ Corn dodgers”
is a sort of indian bread. “ Com bread and common
doings ” constitute commonplace fare. “ Wheat bread
and chicken fixings,” “ stewed crab-apples,” “ pick-
led eggs,” Sic. Sic. comprise the extra repasts. These
things are only mentioned to open the eyes of the
more enlightened, that they may not neglect their
duty to the wretched in our own land, while devoting
so much time and expense to the diffusion of light and
education in other portions of the world. How far
into ignorance people may fall, and not be “heathen ”
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 63
is not for me to judge, but one thing I do know, that
such society demands the sympathies of the enlight­
ened, religious portion of community. In that society
what is there to hinder Romanism from having its
designed effect, if promulgated. If the Protestant
Churches do not send teachers to those destitute
regions, as far as in them lie, they must be in a
measure, at least, responsible for the neglect and
consequent results. And if the Papal yoke is fasten­
ed upon that people, the sin may be found at our
own door. That Romanism is rapidly increasing in
those parts is too obvious to require an argument.
And but give the power to her, and she will, as she
always has done, wreak her vengeance on the meek
followers of the Lamb. Popery is the same now as
when she established that horrid tribunal, and, in the
burning words of Pollok :
“ With horrid relish drank the blood
Of God’s peculiar children — and was drunk ;
And in her drunkenness dreamed of doing good.
The supplicating hand of innocence,
That made the tiger mild, and in his wrath
The lion pause —■the groans ofsuffering most
Severe, were nought to her: she laughed at groans ;
No music pleased her more ; and no repast
So sweet to her as blood ofmen redeemed
By blood ofChrist. Ambition’s self, though mad,
And nursed on human gore, with her compared
Was merciful. Nor did she always rage ;
She had some hours ofmeditation, set
Apart, wherein she to her study went,
The Inquisition, model most complete
Ofperfect wickedness, where deeds were done,
Deeds! let them ne’erbe named—and sat and planned
64 MISSIONARY TOUR
Deliberately and with most musing pains,
How, to extremest thrill ofagony,
The flesh, and blood, and souls ofholy men,
Her victims might be wrought; and when she saw
New tortures ofher laboring fancy born,
She leaped forjoy, and made great haste to try
Their force— well pleased to hear a deeper groan.”
CHAPTER VI.
President Harrison's Homestead— North Bend-—Tunnel through the
Hill — Big Miami — Kentucky Tavern — Flood in 1832 — Arrival at
Milan— The Country — Inhabitants — Young Gallajit.
Much has been said of President Harrison’s Home­
stead at North Bend. It is surely a splendid country
seat, but aside from this, in connection with the mound,
on which his remains are entombed. North Bend
would present any thing but an interesting scene.
The mound and farm are situated within an amphi­
theatre of forest crowned hills. The mound presents
a conical form, carpeted with an indigenous sward of
green grass, and upon the very pinnacle is the tomb of
the illustrious William H, Harrison, over which is
erected a monument to his memory.
The mound is about one hundred rods from the
bank of the river. I was informed that after the
tomb was commenced, it was struck by lightning,
which was most likely attracted by some mineral sub­
stance exposed by the excavation. Leaving the
mound, we crossed an adjoining hill, through which
a canal was tunnelled. Passing from the Ohio to the
Big Miami river, we were soon on its Bank.—
The surrounding plains presented a pleasing aspect.
The ungathered corn still standing (as in many places
66 MISSIONARY TOUR
they leave it until spring,) and the large cribs indicat­
ed a rich soil.
Passing through Lawrenceburg we called at a
Tavern kept by a Kentuckian. Those people almost
disgust one with their unnecessary attention. In that
country in the warm seasons, a lad is kept at the table
with a flag of Peacock’s feathers to fight the flies.—
Their charges however, are moderate. One thing I
have learned in travelling, the poorer the fare at a
public house, the greater the bills. Near this Tavern
a large Distillery had just been burned down.
After leaving we crossed a river, and high over our
heads was a board nailed to a tree, at the high water
mark of the flood in the winter of 1832. This flood
caused much damage in the lower country. We then
ascended a mountain, as we left the low land of the
Ohio river. At evening we arrived at Milan, Ripley
Co., Ia., and were gladly received by the inhabitants,
most of whom had emigrated from the East. The
soil in that section was very unproductive, and I often
wondered how they ever passed over so much good
country, to locate in a region which is much poorer
than the one they left.
In that section are many who were once in cove­
nant relation with the Sabbath Baptist, but now are
in different circumstances, having mingled with other
societies and the majority left the Sabbath. But they
wish us to notice that their practice and not their doc­
trine was changed ! and a part of them expressed deep
regret for their apostacy. Some, however, remain
permanent, but their number is comparatively small.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 67
We believe that with sufficient time, and proper
means, good might be done there by us as a Denom­
ination. Our friends there have been many years
isolated, and destitute of the privileges of society.
And although they have groaned, and repeatedly
called for help, no minister was ever sent there before,
and we at too late an hour to be successful in the time
allotted to us. They were exceedingly lonesome, and
thought that they and their petitions had been too
much neglected. But this is no apology for the vio­
lation of God’s law. The churches may consider
whether they have done their duty in this particular,
and many others, or not. If in this case it should
prove too late to accomplish what we might have
done, it is not in many others. And shall we suffer
the numerous groups,settled in those western countries
to relax, and be scattered like sheep without a shep­
herd ? As God has prospered us, and we are able, let
us forbid it, and send to them, and sustain among
them competent ministers, who shall instruct, encour­
age, and reprove, thus leading them along in the paths
of peace. As we considered our mission of an ex­
ploring rather than a local nature, we thought not best
to stay long in Ripley. And if it had been other­
wise, our appointed time was too short to accomplish
much, as there were numerous obstacles to remove
before we could establish upon a good foundation.
April 9. Attended our last meeting in Milan.
I was informed that about the time that people left
the Sabbath, many were about to join them in their
opinions and practice. They now mourn when too
MISSIONARY TOUR. 68
late their apostacy. The people were unanimous in
attending meeting while we were there. One day
while there, I stood upon the steps of the meeting
house, as the people were gathering; one circum­
stance arrested my attention. A gentleman with four
ladies in his wagon, (or as they term i: “ carry-all”)
came up with much pomp, he on the horses back and
they setting so low in the wagon, that I at first did not
discover them. When at the door they alighted, and
he rode off to the “ hitching -post.” When he first
came up I expected a general smile, but the audience
appeared as indifferent as though nothing had trans­
pired, and I could only laugh in my sleeves. At the
close of the meeting I saw the fashion out. The
Gallant unfastened his horse, placed himself as before,
then flourished around to the steps of the house, when
the four ladies hopping into the wagon, seated them­
selves as before, and he turning his eye over his
shoulder to see if all was right, galloped off in all the
pride of a gallant youth.
CHAPTER VII.
Leave Milan— Michigan Road— Beach Woods— Gang of “ Hoos-
iers” — Family from Delaware — Indianapolis — Drove of Buffalo-
Manner of taking them— Country from Indianapolis to Terre Haute—
Emigrants in the Forest— Stranger in the Thicket — Emigrants with an
Ox Cart — Terre Haute — High Water— Grand Prairie, 111.— Its Fea­
tures— Paris — Measles in the Town — Trouble in obtaining entertain­
ment.
April 10. Left Milan for a band of brethren located
on the Wabash river, forty-four miles below Terre
Haute, near Bussron’s Mills, Sullivan Co., Ia. In
consequence of the roughness of the way we were
obliged to go by Indianapolis.
In the after part of the day came to Flat Rock
Creek, Shelby Co. In that region are some who ob­
serve the Sabbath according to the commandment,
but are united with first-day people, and they, togeth­
er, style themselves the separate Baptists.
The first day the roads were quite dry, and we ad­
vanced encouragingly. But at night it rained, and
much of the next day, which caused exceeding bad
going. And when we struck the Michigan road, we
found it almost impassible. But we had before this,
learned to be patient under such circumstances.
Stopping at one Tavern we learned the corn was all
planted, and was informed that one man had planted
about forty acres in March.
7
70 MISSIONARY TOUR
On our way we found three teams stalled in the
mire. The drivers said we could not pass, but letting
my family go over on foot, I, with a quick motion,
plunged my team through, and the carriage being very
light, did not sink as did their loaded wagons. We
called for dinner at a Tavern in one of the beach
swamps, and about the time it was ready, a company
of “ Hoosiers” (a term applied to the lower class in
la.,) came for dinner, and their common language was
that of profane songs, vulgar jokes, and low ribaldry.
I discovered preparations were making for all, and
asked the Landlord if those vulgar-mouthed fellows
were to be our companions at the table. He answered
in the affirmative, to which I replied I would not dine
with such a corrupt set. He was somewhat surprised
to think I considered these gentlemen anything but
respectable. He finally gave the table to myself and
family.
Six miles before we entered Indianapolis, we stop­
ped for the night, and found in those lonely beach
^voods a family from Delaware. The man was con­
tented, but we found his wife, like the most of the wo­
men we had seen, “ home-sick.” For what was there
to cheer a person in that swampy, lonely wilderness ?
Doomed to wear out a life in such eternal solitude,
must be a prison indeed. The reader will remember
that these lonely regions are not the “ entire west.”
It was rainy, and their location may have appeared
more gloomy than it would in a different atmosphere.
I could but admire the taste of the original owner of
this isolated mansion. Shade trees of almost every
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 71
description were planted around the dwelling. The
house was well furnished, and although we regreted
their solitude, we were happy to find in that wilder­
ness such entertainment. This night wore off with
delight and astonishing rapidity. Morning came, and
we struck the graded, but unfinished National Pike,
about two miles from Indianapolis. This city is lo­
cated on a very beautiful, but rather low plain. It
rather scatteringly spreads over much territory. Its
prospects have been somewhat blighted by the injudi­
cious management of the State, and the general hard
times which have widely spread their withering influence
over the western country. I was informed that many
of the main men of this city had utterly failed. As
we entered the city, we saw on the left a group of
men, women, and children, and turned to find out
the cause of this collection. Here were twenty-five
young Buffaloes, and an Elk, directly from the Rocky
Mountains. The owner informed me that he had been
one year gathering them in their native country, and
preparing them for the journey, and driving them thus
far. He said he drove cows to the hunting ground,
and in the Spring caught the Buffalo Calves, and
killing the Calves of his Cows, filled their place by
young Buffaloes, thus rearing and taming them.
His price was six hundred dollars a pair. But I did
not hear of his making any sales. And since my re­
turn, I have heard that the same number was seen on
the Mohawk, on their way to New-York city. When
I saw them they were poor and very shabby. In In­
dianapolis, they have a very costly State House, which
72 MISSIONARY TOUR
does not very well compare with their hard times. It
was however, built when they enjoyed brighter pros­
pects. The National Pike forms “broad street,” with
magnificent buildings on either side. We then fol­
lowed the great National high way, as it led to Terre
Haute, on the Wabash. By this time the rain had
fallen in such torrents, as to make it almost impossible
to travel on any other road. I have before noticed that
there are but few bridges in all the western country.
One thing makes it more difficult in these lower coun-
trys, when the river once rises, they retain their height
a long time. From Indianapolis to Terre Haute there
issome very beautiful undulating country, and some that
is rough and unproductive. Almost every house is a
tavern, or at least, holds out a sign. There are also
many little villages. One evening just before dark,
we found in the midst of an extensive forest, a com­
pany of emigrants, who had stopped for the night,
and had a good fire on the ground. Around it, reclin­
ing upon the grass, were the men and boys. Some
were preparing their rifles, others had turned nurses
and were dandling about the unconcious infant. The
women were gathering the cooking utensils, and pre­
paring for supper. All was jollity among them. They
had two large covered wagons, or “ travelling hotels.”
I stopped and inquired if I could get entertainment.
They at first appeared surprised, but consented. On
asking their number, they said “ only nineteen!” We
bade them good night, and drove on, About one mile
from this, we passed a huge looking man, sitting in the
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 73
edge of the thicket, by the root of a tree, holding in
his hand a rifle. What was his object, I could not imag­
ine, he was some considerable distance from any house
in this dense forest. We that night stopped at a wid­
ow’s tavern. She had recently lost many of her
family by the diseases of this low land country.
Before we came to the Wabash, we passed a man
with his wife and two children. They had one ox
in the thills of a two wheeled cart, in which was one
or two boxes, and a mat or bed. This was all we
could see that they possessed. And from their ap­
pearance, I should judge they had but little money.
They told me they were “ G oing to I o w a.” We
then came to a ferry, where I left him with the ferry­
man, bantering over six cents difference on the price
of crossing. This I thought, was travelling poverty
indeed. But they were elated with the prospect of
one day treading the rich soil, and gazing upon the
unbounded plains of “ I ow a.”
15. We came in sight of Terra Haute,
situated on the margin of a prairie which skirted
the Wabash river. The prairie was enchanting
in its aspect. It was unlike the low marshy prai­
ries in Ohio, which are interspersed with shrubbery.
It was completely adapted to the plough, and its blac
soil bespoke its richness and strength. When we came
to this place, we soon learned that the river was too
high to be passed, nor could we reach those breth­
ren at Bussron’s Mills in Sullivan Co., Ia. In that
place are six or seven families, who have long wished
for an administrator to constitute them into a church
74 MISSIONARY TOUR
in connection with the S. D. Baptists. The custom
beggars flocked around us, and began their skill for
the purse, saying, that very likely we should be oblig­
ed to tarry in the town, weeks before we could cross.
We soon learned that up the river there was a ferry,
but they very much doubted our reaching it if we
made the attempt. We set off, and hired a pilot to
ride on horse back before us in the water, the river
having overflowed its banks. As I left Terre Haute,
I thought the French name appropriate, for it was
truly a beautiful “ high bank.” We then followed
our guide through the water, and Sycamore woods,
until we came to the bank of the river, seven miles
above Terre Haute, where we crossed over and were
soon on our way again.
Calling for refreshment at a private house we found
a Connecticut man, beautifully situated and contented.
Though far from the land of his nativity, he said he
was happy. Left him and soon drove on to the grand
prairie in Illinois.
When we first entered this great plain it was inter­
spersed with little groups of small bushes of various
kinds. But soon we were on an almost unbounded,
uninterrupted sea of green grass. This was rather
low and wet, and much of it unfit for cultivation. I
looked upon it and reflected upon its vast expanse,
spreading over much of the “ far west,” interrupted
only by interspersing groves of thrifty timber, adapted
to the wants of the tenants of its rich soil. A stretch
of thought, like contemplating infinity, was required,
which can measure only by succession, its expan-
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 75
sion and sublimity. Like the vanishing lines in pros­
pect, so is contemplation lost in this expanded prairie.
“ In it we see no barren or rocky wastes, no frozen
mountains. Destitute of prominent land-marks to
catch the eye of the traveller, he sees in the wide
distance before him, only, the almost horizontal lines
of level or rolling meadow. No one points him to the
peaks of dim mountains, and tells him that the range
divides two sister states, or separates two noble rivers.
He sees no clouds resting on the shoulders of lofty
Butes, and blending their neutral tint, with the hazy
blue of the landscape before them, nor Tentons rear­
ing their heads into the regions of perpetual snow.
Day after day he pursues his journey without any
thing to create in his bosom emotions of the grand and
sublime, unless it be the vastness of the expanse.”—
P a r k e r ,
We arrived at a town called Paris, just as the sun
was sinking in the western bounds of the prairie. On
entering the village, we found the black measles had
made great ravages with the people. My family had
never had the disease, and we were driven from house
to house, and could find no place to lay our weary
heads. We at last went through the place and ex­
pected to have the bounds of the prairie our room
walls, the earth our bed, and.the heavens our shelter.
But happily after getting out about one mile, we met
a man, startled at our preposterous course. Being
informed of our success, he took us and enteitained
us for the night.
CHAPTER VIII.
Flat roofed tavern— taVern in the grove— cross a large Prairie-
Grave in the midst— returning emigrants — story of Missouri— Kaskas-
kia— stolen team— more returning omigrants — their manner of travel­
ling— Springfield— Sangermon river— call for refreshment— “ Pigs in
the parlor ”— Havanah — begging emigrants— Illinois river— Spoon
river — profanity in the South — Lewistown — arrival at widow Hull's—
Religion of the people— skeleton of a sermon—gentleman from Phila­
delphia.
T e n miles from Paris, are two flat roofed cottages,
together forming the two apartments of a tavern.
Near by stands a straw covered hovel for a barn. An
old shattered bureau on which lay Scott’s Bible, as I
entered met my view. I enquired if they loved and
obeyed God ? to which the old man said “ sometimes
a little.” On leaving he said he wanted three cents
for the pail of water. This family had thus stayed
twelve years, ten miles from any inhabitants, and I
was afterwards informed that he always charged for
water, and so I should think, if he ever obtained
money, for this was all I could see that was worth
buying.
At about two P. M. we came to a small cluster of
houses, in a little grove, where we called for dinner.
On first seeing the inhabitants I wondered how so
many dirty, disgusting creatures, inclining to human,
could have got together.
But I conducted Mrs. Scott into the “ sitting room,”
MISSIONARY TOUR. 77
which was about twelve feet square, and had in it
two beds. It was also the bar-room and druggist
shop. As it was about twenty miles across to the
next grove we had expected to tarry for the night.
But what a place was this to abide ! The company
in the sitting room was about half a dozen, half
drunken fellows, and a tipsy quack doctor, and of
course not very genteel. 1 made my way to the
barn and fed my team, and then those “ horse
jockeys” eagerly flocked to see them, and their
eulogies were amusing indeed. They bantered
for an exchange, saying they would give me for my
horses another span that was worth fifty dollars more.
I told them I was not after their charity. But nothing
would do — trade I must. I wish all horse traders
could have seen this chattering group as they flocked
around me, and each patting me on the shoulder, was
to appearance, the best friend I ever had. After they
found I would not exchange, they said with emphasis,
“ your horses, sir, we ivill have at all events.” I
replied that they appeared as though they could steal
a horse, but I had hardly thought they would tell a
man of it beforehand. We then made preparations to
leave the place, in which I considered not only a den
of thieves but a vile banditti. When we were
about to start they appeared somewhat surprised, say­
ing, we could not reach the other grove, for the most
of the way the prairie was inundated, and in some
places for eighty rods, the water was four feet deep.
I enquired if the roads were more wet than those I
had just been travelling ? They replied “far more
78 MISSIONARY TOUR
difficu ltand more, that strangers would need a pilot.
It being so very early in the season I feared there
might be something in it, as before the water runs off
in the spring many of these prairies are not capable of
being traversed by a team.
The country is so level and the soil so rich, that in
some places, it is very miry, and more especially while
crossing the i: slues ” as they term them. These are
where there would be rivulets in a hard soil country,
but owing to the loamy nature of the soil these small
streams ooze through the ground beneath the thick
matted turf, and are often rods in width. In the
spring these passages are flowed with water, but in
mid-summer they are dry, or nearly so on the surface,
and can be crossed with little difficulty before the turf
is broken. Before we left this tavern I inquired of the
lady of the house if she was happily situated ? The
gushing tear told her unreconciliation to her wretched
fate.
We at length “ made off,” and concluded we had
rather spend the night in the open air, on the prairie,
than in that loathesome place. My team exhibited
their speed, and we were soon “out of sight of land ”
as the inhabitants say, that is, out of sight of every
thing but green grass, and the broad plains. On our
way we passed a grave in the prairie, and surely
thought that a gloomy grave-yard. I afterwards learn­
ed that the man who was buried there, was, in com­
pany with others, caught on the prairie in the night,
and losing the road about one half mile from the
grove, he left the waggon, and felt for the road on his
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEV. 79
hands and knees. When he found the path he called
to the company, and evidently supposed he was going
to the grove, when he took the back track. The
remnant of the company found the grove, but he in
consequence of his mistake and the chilly weather,
perished where we saw his grave.
“ Here lies the relics ofsome stranger one,
Who rests afar from his own native plain ;
His grave’s been warmed by many a summer sun,
Bedew’d full oft by spring’s refreshing rain.
But yet has not appear’d a mourning train, ,
No flowers have sprung upon this silent mound,
No tears have fall’n to damp this spot again,
No vigils made it consecrated ground ;
But man has often strode, unfeelingly around.”
Night was approaching, and yet we could not dis­
cover the grove to which we were bending our course,
but was disappointed in the road, for it was the best
we had yet found in the state. At length we came
in sight of the timber that skirted the Kaskaskia river,
and was soon safely moored in the comfortable dwel­
ling of a Christian farmer. The cold wind began to
blow, the sleet to fall, and we were thankful that the
Lord had thus led our steps to a comfortable abode
and shelter from the stormy blast. How sweet that
promise, “ I will never leave nor forsake thee.” Just
before dusk a covered waggon stopped a little below
the house, and a poor ragged set of movers commenced
a fire in the midst of the rain. The benevolent mas­
ter of the house opened his door to them, but they
said they were too “ragged ” to accept the offer.
There were besides men and children, three young
80 MISSIONARY TOUR
ladies, and the grief worn mother. I could not refrain
the tear, for it would fall, while gazing on such suffer­
ing humanity. This family had been to Missouri
Territory— spent all they had, and were on their
way back, dressed in poverty’s poorest garb. They
said that the country was a poor, muddy region, but
they were “ homesick” and by that disease I always
weigh the relation of such histories, for they are gene­
rally dressed in despair and most commonly come
from a cowardly fountain.
It is worthy of notice that a storm soon passes by
in this country, and it is considered somewhat remarka­
ble to have three days of gloomy weather in succession.
Crossing the Kaskaskia river we found on the op­
posite bank, a family of emigrants, who, two nights
before, had their four-horse-team stolen, and as yet
had found no traces of them. How barbarous a
deed! and can it be so in Christian America ? If I
had been in the old world among the mountains that
swarm with robbers, or on the sandy deserts of Arabia,
I should not have wondered. But to find it thus in
my own country, was astonishing to me. But the
reason is obvious. Many who run away from the
East to shun the penalty of a violated law, locate in
clubs in these newly settled countries. So here is the
scum and dregs of many societies. During this day
we*passed Mount Auburn. It is an elevation in the
centre of a large Prairie, gradually rising from the
base to the summit in a conical form. It contained in
all about two hundred acres of land, and sloped off in
every direction just enough to give it beauty. I
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 81
thought I.should like to cast anchor there for life.
There were a few buildings already on the mount. I
often wished my friends could get a glance at this, for
surely, I thought it did exceed, even in its wildest
state, any landscape I ever saw, being covered with
green shade trees, well arranged. At noon, after trav­
elling thirty-one miles, we called at a Kentucky tav­
ern, where I inquired after the health of the lower
country, as I often did, and found by these people
that it had been very sickly. At night we shopped at
the house of a good old Presbyterian, on whose prem­
ises two loads of emigrants that were on their return
from Missouri Territory had stopped for the night.
These emigrants in the Mississippi valley almost inva­
riably lodge in their covered waggons, cook upon the
ground, and feed their teams in a box fastened to the
side of the waggon. Thus they travel great distances
with but little disadvantage to their purse. We kept
the main road towards Springfield, and stopped the
next night at a widow’s, where I was compelled to hitch
my team under an open shed with a herd of smoking
swine. She was very anxious that I should converse
and pray with her unconverted, uncultivated fami­
ly, which I always rejoiced to do when an opportunity
occurred. She kept us until nine in the morning, and
then said she would help the cause by taking a very
small bill, after which she charged me more than they
would at the best Hotel in Springfield. I notice this
to show that all which is called religion does not ex­
hibit its principles of benevolence.
19. We drove into the Capital of Illinois, and I
8
82 MISSIONARY TOUR
went from store to store to see their inland treasures-
Their goods were old, rusty, and exceedingly dear.
They were building a very costly Capitol. I passed
the grave-yard, and it looked like a newly ploughed
field, in which four hundred had been buried during
the winter and spring thus far. The most died
by what was denominated the “ French measles.” I
did not fancy the location for the Metropolis of this
State, it being a perfect level prairie, and rather in­
clined to a wet soil. While I was running about,
Mrs. Scott saw a man with a load of corn for sale at
six cents a bushel, but had found no purchaser, for
which there were two causes ; first, it was too low
down in the country for Eastern market, and corn was
raised in abundance, costing but little labor; secondly,
times were then unusually hard, and grain could be
obtained for barter pay. We then bent our course
direct for Havana, on the Illinois river, and at night
put up with a very good Christian man, whose heart
was warm with the love of God. I found by him,
that the religious state of society there was good, to
what it had been in other places where I had passed.
Fifteen miles from there we came to the Sangamon
river. I had already become weary of waiting for a
ferry “flat,” however,we crossed after a long time, and
through much difficulty forded the inundated bottoms
to the rising bank, about one and a half miles from
the river. Here we were on a sandy plain, surround­
ed by a rich fertile country, which reminded us of the
Arabian desert. The sand was in drifts, and had on
its bosom but few shrubby burr oaks. This continued
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 83
about ten miles, and we were again on a green carpet­
ed prairie. Time was at hand for refreshments and I
called at one house, but to no purpose.
I soon stopped again, went into a hut where I saw
a woman with some small children. The dogs, hens,
and pigs, were playing round the door, and some were
already in quiet possession of the house. In the
ashes was baking a “ corn dodger.” It was enough !
I asked not to stay for refreshment. I drove across
the prairie about eight miles to Havana, which has a
great name for a small place. Here was a man
from Rochester, very sick with the ague and fever,
and wished himself back to his native State. He
kept store, tavern, and the ferry across the Illin­
ois river, which lazily meanders its way through
the beautiful prairie country. As to the state of
society through Indiana and this portion of Illinois,
the reader will have already anticipated. As a
general thing, religion is not a welcome guest, and,
if a man introduces it, he is considered obtrusive.
But profanity is considered no obtrusion. It is always
in time, and always in place. Christians must keep
religion out of sight and hearing, but the wicked may
be as open and obtrusive as they please, nor would
they have Christians cast their pearls before swine.
Gambling is practised to a very great extent, and
is a favorite amusement with those whose minds
are not sufficiently cultivated to find satisfaction in
reading or intelligent conversation. The nurnber of
“ black-legs ” that make gambling their business of
life is great, more particularly up and down the Ohio
84 MISSIONARY TOUR
river, and they are adepts in the profession. I often
thought, while on the bank of the Ohio river, that the
society in many places was heathenish enough to re­
quire Missionary stations, yet some portions of the
country are well supplied with faithful ministers.
While I was in Havana two men came along,
moving to Iowa, with an ox-team, and a prairie
cart. For fellies and tyre, they had the half of a
hickory sapling bent around the ends of the
spokes, which formed the wheels. They begged a
free ferriage across the river, and plead as a reason
their poverty, saying they had but “ six bits ” (seventy
five cents,) to carry them to Iowa. From what we
saw we all agreed they had no small amount of money.
I was informed that many, who were afterwards found
to possess wealth, took this means to travel cheap.
When we crossed the Illinois, we landed below the
mouth of Spoon river, a sluggish stream up which
we passed four miles to Waterford, and ferried
across. This was a new settlement in the woods. It
might be proper to notice, that the most of these
streams are clothed on one side at least, with a dense
forest, Rock river being the only exception I saw
while traveling on the western prairies.
Leaving Waterford, we took the road to Lewistown,
the Shire town of Fulton Co. The road led through
the woods until we arrived at that place, a distance of
about four miles. Here I was exceedingly disappoint­
ed. From information, I had expected to find a very
pleasing location. But it was in the woods, surround­
ed with bluffs and hills, nor are their appearances
th ro ug h t h e w e ste r n Va lles'. 85
pleasingly romantic. We passed through without a
call, and bent our way towards Milton. The road led
over bluffs and hillocks, and through gulfs, and when
we arrived at the top of the hill, above the little town,
it looked like a dark chasm below. Down we went,
crossed over, and ascended the bank as soon as possi­
ble, and pursued our way toward widow Hull’s, about
two miles distant. It was growing dark and we were
weary, having then travelled four hundred miles since
we left Milan, la.
When near the widow’s we took a bye path, which
led us into the wilderness, which I followed on foot, by
moonlight, and Mrs. Scott drove until we run the road
entirely out. The shrill note of the nightingale was
echoing through the woods on every hand. We turn­
ed to retrace our steps and found it difficult to find the
way back again. We at length found the road, and
soon after the family of our pursuit, and we were happy
to hope for a few days rest on our part, and to cheer
the friends thus destitute. O what a meeting we had !
how joyfully received. They praised God for answers
to prayer. We bowed around the throne of Grace,
and in melting thankfulness adored the God of heaven,
the melting scene was enough to repay us for all our
toils in reaching those five families that ought to have
been, long before this time, bound in one covenant.
We passed through several neighborhoods where it
does appear that the people must not be neglected,
and to say the least of Ohio, we think that one mis­
sionary should be kept there by us, and Illinois is still
g#
86 MISSIONARY TOUR
more destitute, for the calls were from every direction.
There is also a great excitement upon the subject
of difference between us and other denominations, and
the people wished us to plead their cause. If it was
for ourselves, or for riches, or worldly emoluments for
others, we would lay aside our pen. The needy are
calling. Parents are weeping for themselves and their
children. The cry has gone up before God. Shall
we heed or not 1 If the church could but realize the
condition of these people, we believe she would, (in
addition to what has been done,) supply them with
proper instruction.
May God send his spirit through the Churches,
from house to house, and heart to heart, until this
subject is sufficiently realized, and from the cause we
see, and enjoy the happy effect. The Lord knows,
and eternity will unfold their destitute condition,
together with the groans and tears lodged in the
bosom of our heavenly Father. Friends of Jesus,
will you let them plead in vain ? Shall they implor­
ingly cling to the last lingering gleam of hope, and
die in despair ? Our life will soon be gone, and with
it the privilege to do good. The harvest is now ripe
— tares are sown— false reapers are plundering the
field— darkness, error, and superstition are rushing
forth — Infidelity is getting deep root— Satan’s king­
dom is fortifying, and souls are deceived. O 1 for
able gospel ministers who shall come forth like flaming
seraphs with the sword of the Spirit. May all con­
sider this subject well, and not wait too long before
they act.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 87
Meetings soon commenced, and the people gather­
ed from far and near. There are many preachers of
the Gospel by profession, but they are Mormons,
“ Two Seed-ites, ”* “ Bride the Lamb’s wife,”f
“Campbellites,” “ Non-Resistants,” and “ many others
too numerous to mention,” and although I wish not to
judge, yet I thought they had an unwholesome influence
on community, and were too combative for success.
If they can raise a dispute with the different denom­
inations, they appear to be in their elements. I will
here give a skeleton of one sermon I heard delivered
in Fulton Co., founded on Matt, xiii. 31, 32. “ Par­
able of the Mustard seed.”
1st. Stalk was Jesus Christ.
2d. Planted in the earth, and springing up at His
resurrection.
3d. The Apostles were the different branches.
4th. All denominations were the different branchlets
springing from the Apostles.
5th. Leaves, the consciences of the people, which
are often fanned by the breezes of heaven.
6th. The fowls of the air, the redeemed souls lodged
in the branches of the tree.
7th. Then all should live in peace.
But in the conclusion he anathematized all who did
not agree with him. During our stay in this region,
*These hold that Cain was literally the child of the Devil,
and all his posterity are doomed to Hell. While Abel was the
son ofAdam, and his posterity are the elect by grace.
fThis sect have seceded from the Mormons.
88 MISSIONARY TOUR
which was about five weeks, I held meetings in Ful­
ton and Peoria Counties, and I found people of all de­
nominations very friendly, and attentive to the minis­
trations of the word. In this vicinity are people from
almost eveiy state in the Union, but the majority are
from the Eastern and Middle States. Here was a
Mr. Ingalls, who was once a man of business in Phila­
delphia, but had sought this retirement for the express
purpose of securing, in Christ, his soul’s salvation. He
had found favor and was happy. Well would it be
for many, if they would abandon the world for heaven,
which is simply secured in obedience to God. And
if our present pursuits any way prevent our securing a
well grounded hope in Christ, or entangle our feet
that we walk not meekly and perseveringly in the
paths of religious duties, we had better give them up
— for we are bound and do wickedly if we do not
abandon such engagements at once. What is our
will that it should contend with the will of God.
What is time’s transitory bliss, to the permanent joys
of religion — a well grounded hope in Christ — a home
in heaven above. “ O that men would be wise ! that
they would consider this, their “ best good” and latter
end. “ But the ox knoweth his owner, and the ass
his master’s crib, but my people do not know, they
will not consider.”
Reader! are you willing to leave, if necessary, the
busy affairs of life and the prospects of temporal bliss,
and wealth, for obedience to God, and eternal life?
If you are, God speed you on your way ; if not,
pause a moment, consider it well— throw into
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 89
the scale, Time and Eternity, with their relative in­
terests.
Jehovah calls! “ Give me thy heart
Nor turn thy feet astray
Prom wisdom’s paths, and let thine eye
Observe the better way.”
“ Obey ! though time’s tempestuous sea
With boisterous wind contend,
The mountain waves I ’ll calm for thee,
I ’ve sworn, and I ’ll defend.”
CHAPTER IX.
Macedonian dry— Corruptions of the Church — Necessities of the Peo­
ple— Increase of Popery— Her fatal effect— Sabbath Baptist Church
— Health of that Section.
While I was in these counties, the calls were many,
and the field spread itself out so wide and imploringly,
that I often thought I would stop there and wear out
my life with that destitute and interesting people, and
would almost yield to their earnest entreaties,
but others were loudly calling for help. Oh what a
field of labor is this ! and the cry on every hand was
“ come over and help us.” My soul could but agon­
ize for bleeding Zion. How slandered is the name
of my Master, by many of these, his professed follow­
ers. Surely this passage was fulfilled. “ He was
wounded in the house of his friends.” I often thought
while looking over the desolations of the church,
of the expression of the Poet,
“ How can I sing on Babel’s shore,
Where songs profane offend the ear,
And strangers, Idol God’s adore,
Whose hated images appear.”
That very many of the people are sincere lovers of
Jesus, is true, but their ignorance is great upon the doc­
trines of the gospel. I also considered the great accoun­
MISSIONARY TOUR. 91
tability of the Minister in those regions, for many of
the people were like the Stork,which will swallow every
thing thrust into his mouth, even to a ten-penny nail.
Hence, every erroneous notion finds in these parts
its ratio of congenial soil. Before much can be done
in honor of the true principles of religion there, much
error must be uprooted. Yet these souls are of infi­
nite value. O that God’s people would awake to
their interest, and the demands of the Gospel'. It is
well that men should be sent to distant unenlightened
lands, but why should we suffer the newly settled
portions of our own country to be forsaken by the ad­
vocates of truth, and left to imbibe every erroneous
notion. It is known, but not enough considered, that
the Pope of Rome is getting a strong hold in the great
Western Valley, and is making astonishing advance­
ments, by fortifying his soul-deceiving bulwarks. Em­
igrants from the old world, are swarming those west­
ern plains, permanently settling the cities and towns,
and spreading all over the land. Their Cathedrals,
Nunneries, &c., are springing up on every hand.
Their school rooms are not unfrequently well supplied
with students of Protestant origin.
Thus the great Roman usurper, and blood-thirsty
monster, is sweeping over this, our beloved country.
Its mild and peaceful name gives it great advantage
and influence over the inhabitants, and the greater is
their success from the fact, that Protestants, are so
remarkably passive under its fraudulent usurpation, and
then the Roman Inquisition may soon rear its fiendish
head. The Lord arouse the nation to its danger, and
92 MISSIONARY TOUR
the church to her duty. If Protestants do not soon
awake, they may pay in blood for this their sinful in­
activity. But, says the reader, “ away with this de­
lusion !” It will be happy for the nation if it proves
but a dream of sorrow. But, reader, as you have an
opportunity, give this subject a candid investigation for
Christians are accountable for the treasure committed
to their charge, and the church have to answer for
the keeping of this nation.
May 7. Sabbath ; spoke to an interesting congre­
gation.
8. Preached in Centreville to a large concourse of
people, upon the subject of the Sabbath. Much in­
terest was manifested by the listening audience. We
were also favored with the presence of about fifteen
ministers, of different denominations. After the ex­
ercises of this day, many said, they would search the
Bible upon this subject, with a determination to keep
a Bible Sabbath.
13. Met to organize a church. For a season gloom
hung over the prospects. Finally, five gave each
other the hand, and we proceeded to dedicate them ;
after which two joined, one by letter, and the other by
the ordinance of laying on of hands. It may not be
amiss to notice that this church was constituted in the
room where Elder Hull departed this life, and four
years from the day of his interment. This was a fa­
vor which he often, with unshaken confidence, assured
his friends would be conferred upon them. From the
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 93
apartment where we were, we could look through the
window, and on a little mound survey the tomb,
Where is once suffering form, sweet reposing,
Slumbers in the arms of death.
But his Spirit, ah whither has it fled,
For lo! ’tis not in regions of the dead,
Yonder the eye of Faith descries him stand,
Vieing with Angels on Immanuel’s land,
With seraph high, he sweetly tunes his lyre,
His soul rekindled with celestial fire.
Nor more to toil or suffer here below,
With Jesus reigns, his perfect love to know.
His loss we’re mourning, altho’ in his room
The Church of Christ has reared herheavenly form.
The Church—the object of his special care
Is planted there —his Father’s love to share.
His offer’d prayers with bounteous blessings come
And there the exiles find a welcome home,
Until released to dwell with Christ above,
And bask in one unbounded sea of love.
Why weep around his tomb, the trump his slumbering dust
shall wake,
And resurrection power the bands of death forever break,
Then reunited, sanctified, shall quickly join in one,
The spirit with the body, around God’s holy throne,
Where every saint their Savior, face to face shall see
And gather fruit ambrosial from life’s undying tree.
[n Fulton and Peoria counties, are about thirty
S. D. Baptists, of which a church is now consti­
tuted. In Canton there is a Baptist, a Metho­
dist, and I believe a Presbyterian Chapel, and in
that vicinity, and about Farmington, and Trivoli, there
are many devoted Christians. This however, is a
small portion of the western country. As we ad-
9
94 MISSIONARY TOUR
vanced north, we found religion more pure and pros­
perous. As I listened to a preacher (if preacher he
might be called) of Campbellism, I was surprised
when he took the New Testament, and brandishing it
around, said, “ All I ask of any one, even a 'blas­
phemous Infidel, is, for him now to say he believes
what is in that book to be true, and 1 will baptize
him.” If he scandalized their doctrine, they should
see to it, and surely I could not consider that he did,
for there were six or seven of their Ministers present,
and none disputed it. I therefore considered it as the
opinion of the sect, and if so, 1leave the reader tojudge
of its purity in view of what Jesus said to Nicode-
mus, “ Ye must be born again.” Much more might
be noticed concerning the religious society, but enough
has been said to give a glance over the field, and while
I have been speaking of the errors, I have endeavored
to notice what was worthy of an exception in this
country. The farther south you advance, the more
corrupt is society, until you are lost in a world of
mystified religious whims.
As to the health of the western prairie country, it
is known that it is universally subject to bi'llious dis­
eases, in a greater or less degree. On the rivers these
habits are far more prevalent and disastrous than in
the intermediate vicinities. The Illinois river is, as
before noticed, a rather sluggish stream, consequently,
the inhabitants are the more afflicted with billious dis­
eases, but even on this river it may not be more un­
healthy than in many places less frightful in their rep­
utation. Spoon river is also considered not so healthy
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 95
a stream as many, but that portion where we visited
was considered as healthy,, perhaps, as a.ny country,
nor .did the visage of the inhabitants indicate an un­
healthy climate. I also made much enquiry as to the
former health of the people, and found that no one
ever took' the ague and fever, unless they visited the
rivers. Many families who had dwelt there five and
six years, had been free from sickness, and but few ever
had occasion to call a physician. I thought this was
the most healthy country I had seen for many years.
When much land is broken up, or much prairie grass
decays, there originates a miasma which infects the
air, but fires are often set in the prairies to purify
the atmosphere. In 1838, when sickness and death
made such ravages, and cast such desolation and dis­
may throughout the early settlements in the western
country, there was a cause, and that cause is not
common to that country, and most likely will never
again occur. There is not, as some have vainly re­
ported, a pestilential wind that sweeps over the land,
common to that country, but I was frequently informed
by those who were there at the time, that during the
sickly season, the wind blew unceasingly from the
New Orleans country for about four months, this
no doubt brought the southern diseases, hence many
of the inhabitants fell victims to its ravages. But
no such wind or epidemic has since visited the
country, and probably will never again. In some
places they have the ague and fever, but that is
not as destructive to the constitution of man in its
native country, as the sudden colds in those parts
96 MISSIONARY TOUR.
where they are prevalent. In the western country
there is but little danger from colds, nor are con­
sumptive habits common to the country. No lung
affections are there. The water is pure but limey.
Those who migrate there in feeble health, almost in­
variably recover, especially those of consumptive in­
clinations.
CHAPTER X.
Fulton and Peoria counties— Privileges— Prairie— Farming Privi­
leges'--Wintering Stock— Droves of Cattle and Horses — Flowers on
the Prairies — Polar Plant—Population— Mansions — Locust Groves —
Soil — Walk on the Prairie.
The most of Peoria and Fulton counties are far su­
perior to any country I ever expected to see. Lew-
istown is situated in a broken portion of Fulton Co.,
but it is a region well timbered, and abounding in
living springs, and running brooks. Mill seats may
be found in abundance. Indeed many are already
driving machinery to great advantage. Saw Mills are
cutting out the lumber advantageously, and though
the towering white Pine is not a native of that soil, it
is conveyed thereon the rivers in abundance, and with
moderate cost. I find the greatest objections raised
by those indisposed to emigrate to that country, is the
lack of timber, and building materials. To this view
of the subject, I was formerly somewhat inclined,
but this is erroneous. I saw on the Mississippi,
large rafts of white pine boards that were just from
the Wiskonsin river, and common pine boards were
only twelve dollars a thousand at Chicago. But if
there was no pine, there is the black walnut, very con­
venient for Joiners’ use, such as Bass-wood, Poplar,
(a tree known in many places as white-wood,) But­
ternut, &c. &c.
9#
Thus different kinds of lumber abound in almost all
the western country. The thrifty white oak furnishes
not only sawed lumber, but is completely adapted to
the carpenter’s use for hewing timber. Thus this great
objection is obviated by simple facts, it is often said,
that flouring Mills are scarce, and men must wear out
their lives in “ going to Mill.” Once was a time that
no such Mill was in America, but privileges supplied by
nature, fitted by art to each specific object, have fur­
nished these domestic commodities in abundance, in
many places, nor is the western country destitute of
such conveniences. Nature has not neglected to do
her office work in many portions of the west, and if
hydraulic power may not be found in all parts in
abundance, Steam-Mills can be erected in almost ev­
ery neighborhood.
No country may, as a general thing, boast more of
such blessings, than these parts now under considera­
tion. In traversing the prairie, it is true, you often
find for many miles in your direct course, no such
privilege, but suppose we ascend and follow ranges
of mountains, very often found in the Eastern world,
should we not pass few of them ? But turn to
the right or left, descend the mountain, and you are
at once surrounded with conveniences for domestic
happiness. Thus while travelling on the prairie, we
leave on either hand, such natural advantages. Anoth­
er objection to that country is, it is “ new.” It is, how­
ever, already sufficiently cleared ofits timber,and a man
may purchase his farm destitute of trees, stumps, roots,
or stones; or he may have half timber, and half pra­
MISSIONARY TOUR
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 99
irie, in conjunction as beautiful as any meadow. He
can get his land ploughed, or broken up, for two
dollars an acre, for the,first time, and then it is culti­
vated with ease. He may fence only what he wishes
to till, for the surrounding prairie furnishes him pas­
ture, arid meadow in abundance. As to the quality
of the prairie, hay ; my team relished it as well as
English hay, and received as good strength from it.
Stock is wintered very easily, as they require fodder­
ing but a short time. I was informed that by the first
of March they obtained a living around the marshes
and ravines. There are three grades of prairie grass,
and also three different times for its shooting forth in the
season. In March, “ swale grass ” puts forth its blade,
this grows from six to ten feet high. On this the stock
subsists until the last of April, when the Second grade
starts forth. This grows from three to four feet high,
from which they make their hay, and yields from three
to four and a half tons to the acre, and when well
cured, is bright and sweet. This the farmers often cut
and stack in the open prairie. The last puts forth the
latter part of May, or first of June, and covers the
majority of the prairie, and grows from one to two feet
high. Thus it seems, that the grass is green and ten­
der, during the mostof the season. In May and June
their cattle are “ fall fat,” and it was interesting in
crossing these plains, to see the herds of young
cattle, as sometimes there would be more than one
hundred in a drove, also, horses were often thus re­
galing themselves.
As Spring advances, the opening flowers begin to
100 MISSIONARY TOUR
deck the green carpeted prairie, giving them all hues
and sending forth delicious odors, presenting a varie­
gated scenery that might put a shade upon many a
cultivated flower-bed.
The Botanist might be lost in this natural and al­
most unbounded garden of flowers. He might name
almost any class,, and then select at his will. The
beauty and fragrance of this scene, cheers and elevates
the mind, astonishes the traveller, and decorates
the wide spread undulating fields, and aids the Chris­
tian to adore the God that sustains him. As far as
the eye can reach, he sees the gorgeously dressed
banks and robes, and the variety is so great that he is
always seeing something new. About the first of July
the wild sunflower rears its blossomed head, about five
feet high, and appears to look down upon the smaller,
but no less beautiful flowers which spring up around.
While viewin'? the different grades of flowers, I
often thought of the proud, sullen looks of some de­
pendent, yet would-be independent men, gazing with
scornful eyes upon those very beings whose virtues
and industry placed them where they are, and
without whom, they could not sustain their standing.
These flowers do not constitute the beauty of the
scenery, nor can extort a preference from the traveller,
yet were loftily stationed and hung their heads in an
indifferent, though scornful manner, as though looking
disdainfully upon the creeping flowers below. How
applicable to those, especially who enjoy the efful­
gence of Divine Revelation, yet disdain its precepts
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEV. 101
and despise its votaries. T was informed, that as one
class of blossoms fade away, others shoot forth, thus
continuing, until September. But it is in vain to at­
tempt to describe fully, this grandeur-dressed garden
of nature, which is unparallelled in beauty.
None may know and realize but those who see,
hence when the truth is but half told, we are charged
with painting and exaggeration. But those who have
surveyed in reality, this “ garden of the west,” cen­
sured us as being faint, feeble, and incomprehensive
in our language. Physicians also informed us that
vegetation produced in those parts, is an antidote for
almost all diseases common to fallen nature. The
genuine Pink and Senna grow there in great abun­
dance. There was also a plant called the “ Polar
plant,” which neither branched nor leaved, only on
the north and south sides of its stalk, and being broad
and thin, it always pointed north and south, hence the
traveller has in nature a compass.
As to the population, although we read of an in­
creasing emigration, we are not half aware of the
density of the inhabitants. True, in many prairies,
more particularly the southe-ast portions of Illinois
and some of Iowa, -we may travel many miles in
solitude, but the groves are peopled with emigrants,
and villages are springing up in almost every part. I
have often heard of a “ town’s springing up in a day ”
by magic art, but never knew of such sudden reality
before. For instance, Iowa city, in Iowa Territory,
which three years ago last May had the first stake set
by the government surveyors, when I was there,
102 MISSIONARY TOUR
it contained about fourteen hundred inhabitants.
In the room of its appearing, with a few excep­
tions, like, a newly settled country, it wears the
features of some old inhabited portion of America.
In Fulton and Peoria counties, and many other places,
splendid white mansions have been built, and sòme of
them on the prairies, farfrom timber, where the inhabi­
tants have planted locust groves, which in their rapid
growth soon forms a forest. Add to these the thrifty
orchards and you have all that an old country can
produce ; and these are rapidly increasing. As to
roads, nature has spread her carpet of green sward so
smooth that any one may drive with pleasure any
way and any where, and all that is required, is to
build a few bridges across slues, ravines and rivers,
and your road is complete. The soil is composed ot
black loam and sand, and is exceedingly rich and fer­
tile, which, when turbid, resembles tar, being very
dark and loose, or loamy in its natural slate. It is
also very deep, averaging from one to three and five
feet, and its abundant production will often astonish
even the husbandman. As to the features of the
prairies, their grandeur has not a parallel in nature,
and no way can a just, conception be obtained, but
by an inspection On the part of every beholder.
However, we should not do them justice without an
attempted description, believing that those who have
seen them, will overlook the failure, from the fact that
they know from actual vision, that a prairie may nev­
er be perfectly described.
Well reader, follow a short time, and we will sur-
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 103
vey the country. We walk through a dense forest of
large trees, interspersed with the smaller productions
of nature. . The ground is covered with green grass,
through which the lily, the pink, wild rose, and almost
every variety of flowers shoot and open their blossoms.
We now and then rise,a bluff, pass a ravine, cross a
rippling brook, and sip from the cold spring
the pure |water to allay our thirst. We pluck
thè flowers until overloaded with the unnumbered
variety, we drop the wreath and begin again. Thus
we go from mound to mound, and vale to vale, en­
chanted by the surrounding scenery, and lost in this
inexhausted field of contemplation.
Charmed by the beauties of nature, and the win­
ders of the forest, we breathe the sweet air, and are
greeted by the warbling notes of the songsters of the
wood, that hop from branch to branch, and pour forth
their mingled strains upon the listening group, until
we emerge from this scene, and leaving the forest,
stand upon the margin of an unbounded prairie.
The eye stretches forth from one undulation to anoth­
er, in its native velocity, and view succeeds to view',
until the power oc vision fails, and yet there is noth­
ing on which to rest the sight.
The group, each alike enchanted, stand like fixed
monuments with the head bent forward, as though the
whole soul was thrown at once into the eyes. All is
silent as the house of eternal slumbers, and each is
indifferent to all around. The prairie is sufficiently
undulating to present a lively scene, and each umilila-
104 MISSIONARY TOUR
tion wafts the vision on with increased velocity, and
enchanting power.
The green carpet — the never-to-be-described dus­
ters of flowers — the prairie hen, rising and falling
into this and that bed — the snipe, with his chat­
tering bill — the turkey-buzzard floating carelessly
in the air, surveying all below — the sand sand-hill
crain strutting around — the yelping wolf as he slips
along from bank to bank — and add to this the enliv­
ening notes of the feathered songsters, who could help
being entranced ? Thus this group is fixed insensible
to any thing around them, but the multiplied objects
of their gaze.
Omnipotent is the hand that formed all these ob­
jects of beauty. Who that is a Christian could re­
frain from adoring the God of Wisdom ! Art with all
its grandeur and decorated form, is lost at once in this
incomprehensible field of natural curiosities. The
mind almost fancies itself in an unsullied world ofjoy.
Well, let us arouse from this enchantment, and advanc­
ing, let us survey still farther, what is there most
splendidly spread out before us. As we pass along
we get a glimpse of scattering groves, far, far ahead.
We at first imagine them small clouds, but soon dis­
cover the green foliage.
We soon in advancing, discover on the right and
left those clusters of trees that intersperse the prairies,
resembling orchards in old settlements. As we trav­
erse these green carpeted plains, we now and then
come to a rivulet or brook, skirted on each side by
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 105
the thrifty young forest tree. “ Clumps of wood
arise in almost every direction.
The setting sun admonishes us to return. In a
different direction we bend our course towards the
forest whence we have wandered, and soon are seated
in the cottage. Thus reader you have a faint glimpse
of the plains of the western valley, and the effects they
have upon the mind of the beholder. It should be no­
ticed that this portion of the western country is one
almost unbounded prairie, interspersed with groves,
and not, as some suppose, a woodland country, inter­
spersed with prairies. However, the latter is the
character of much of Wisconsin, while Illinois and
Iowa are to the reverse.
10
CHAPTER VIII.
Cuba — Rich Bottom Land — Wild Onion — French Scholar— Royal
Library in Paris—Country from Cuba to Canton — Ruined Family —
The Daughter in Despair — Canton — Surrounding Country — Farming-
ton— Trivola — Paroquet — Manner of taking them.
The woodlands extend some seven miles from Lew-
istown where the prairies commence, but are not as
large as some before described. Cuba is situated on
a small prairie, and is increasing in wealth and popu­
lation. It has a Campbellite Meeting House, one
tavern, three stores, several shops, Sic, and is sur­
rounded with timber at a convenient distance. The
most of the Sabbath Baptists are located where the
prairies and woodlands mingle, and have in some parts
abundance of stone coal. On the bottom lands in the
forest, the wild onion, or leak, grows to an astonishing
size, and in abundance, and the soil is so open that
they may be pulled up by the handfull. Hence, our
friends have mills, brooks, springs, woodlands and prair­
ies in abundance. Much of the land is not yet taken
up, although the settlement is more dense than I could
have imagined. While there, we visited a gentleman
of German birth, but of French education, and al­
though he once enjoyed all the luxuries of Paris, he
said he was more interested and happy in his new sit­
uation than he ever was in the city of Paris.
MISSIONARY TOUR 107
During my visit with this gentleman, he read and
translated some of the .history of Paris, from a work
published in that city, from which I took the folldwing
notes of the Royal Library, which the history stated
was kept in a building, one hundred and thirty rods
long, and in 1830, contained forty-five thousand
printed volumes, and more than one hundred thou­
sand Manuscripts ; thirty thousand volumes containing
the history of France, the most precious of which,
were kept under glass. Also, one hundred and fifty
thousand plates of paintings, and five thousand and
seven hundred volumes of paintings in the form of a
pocket-book.
The history also stated, that one pocket-book kept
all the fashions in France up to 1716. Also, that
one hundred thousand different metals were in the
building which contains the Royal Library. All was
free to the inspection of any of the inhabitants, but
none were to be taken from their respective rooms.
Each apartment was well supplied with chairs and
tables for the convenience of all who wish to occupy
them for diversion or improvement.
The history further stated, that the bell in the Ro­
man Catholie Cathedral weighed thirty-two thousand
pounds, and the clapper nine hundred and seventy
six pounds, and requires sixteen men to ring it. The
building was one hundred and eighty-eight feet wide,
of corresponding length. Near by stood two towers,
two hundred and four feet high. Thus read the his­
tory.
Travelling from Cuba to Canton, we passed many
108 MISSIONARY TOUR
splendid farm houses, and thrifty locust groves which
have been planted by the inhabitants, and were then
from twenty to thirty feet high. These trees prove
durable fencing timber, and excellent firewood. In
some places these groves are on both sides of the
road, which present an interesting pathway. At that
season of the year, the farmers were busy, and all
around was health and activity. Before we came to
this section we often found people “home-sick,” but af-
this, wherever we were, in the north of Illinois,
Iowa, or Wisconsin, we saw none who were unrecon­
ciled to their lot, or thought of migrating, except those
who were bound to the Oregon Territory. Of the
latter class, a caravan left for the western shore of
America while we were there, and with many, the motto
was, “ farther west.” Thus men are always for
something new.
May 18. While in Canton, I inquired for an old
friend, one who was like a father to me in my boy­
hood. I knew him when happiness crowned his board.
When a lovely wife met him with the smiles of youth­
ful affection, and when prattling babes gladdened his
heart with their lisping innocence, as they met him on
his return. Yea, I knew him, when fortune smiled,
and a beautiful young family seated around the fireside,
listened to the joyous tales and healthy instructions of
their noble sire. And more than this, I saw him con­
secrate himself to the church, followed by his partner
and lovely offspring. I have seen them gather around
the altar, the souls under their guardian protection, and
dedicate themselves and family to God. I was with
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 109
him in my childhood, when death tore from his em­
brace the treasure of his youthful days. When she,
in deep anguish said, “ I die, but, oh my God, what
will become of these, my babes.” I well remember
the gloom that shut around her soul, on that awful day
of lingering departure. When, with a prophetic eye,
she appeared to survey the wretched path of her fam­
ily’s future life, but finally, she gave herself and all to
God, and joyfully launched her soul into the ocean of
eternal bliss. I still remember the gloom and horror
that then shrouded that family. The sobs and shrieks
of the sorrow-smothered orphan, the stifled groan of
the bereaved husband, still howl around me. And as
I write, before my vision is standing a lovely daughter,
whose youthful heart was stolen by the fascinating
smiles of a fraudulent lover— her hand was given in
pledge of her love, and anon they follow him to this
country, where they are soon separated. He, an ine­
briated wretch, and she, whose mind was once pure,
is now filling up her catalogue of crime, the lovely
infants are tost on the cold hands of charity, and the
aged father who looked to them for support in his
declining years, is now forlornly situated.
After some inquiry, I learned that he, whose for­
tunes have thus changed, made a filthy groggery his
abode. I sought him, I entered the door of his apart­
ment, and oh 1 how shocked ! On my first entrance I
fastened my eye upon his swollen form, bloated cheek
and inflamed eyes. What a picture is this, thought I !
what an assassinating existence ! dying and yet alive !
a hell here upon earth ! O eternal God ! is this the
10*
110 MISSIONARY TOUR
creature of thy fostering care, and is this the unkind
return for all thy mercies bestowed ? Can I convince
myself, that what I now see, is a solemn reality. Is
this creature that 1 here behold, clad in rags and filth,
whose grey beard shags around his lips, whose bloated
visage does already distort his features, and who dwells
amidst a fountain of wretchedness. Is he that man
who once enjoyed a lovely family — peaceful home,
— the church of God; and a sober healthy mind ?
I looked again and again, it was he ! I then surveyed
his hellish apartment. Stretched upon the filthy floor,
lay an associate, snoring, and starting in drunken
phrensy. Behind the counter stood two guilty look­
ing grog-dealers, as mute as fixed monuments. On
the shelves were some bottles, sparkling with the
drunkard’slife ; and all within, was silent as the house
of death. Some uncouth visitants had already found
their way to the door, they too were transfixed. And
during this gaze and reflection, not a word was uttered
in this earthly hell, and soul-destroying mint, which
was owned, and conducted, by two young men, who
thus get gain at the sacrifice of every earthly comfort,
and the eternal interest of the souls of their tantalized
victims.
Nothing was heard but the groans and sobs of this
victim of dispair. His streaming eye had been unal­
terably fixed upon me, as was every open eye, in this
diabolical sink of Alcoholic degradation. At first, the
indignant flush passed over me, causing a vivid tremor
through my whole system. Excitements invincible
power, nerved my entire soul, and I wished for a voice
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. I l l
like the thunder peal, with which to utter my perfect
abhorrence at such infernal practices, and to display
my indignation at such a sight. At length I approach­
ed him, he could not speak, and in my effort, I choked
down, and took a seat just before him, and again we
looked at each other, until my soul found relief'in a
flood of-tears. All left, and soon we were alone, ex­
cept the drunken man before described, who was then
enjoying the drunkard’s heaven. After a long time, I
enquired for his family. His babes were some of them
picked up by strangers, others were living as chance
provided for them. He was waiting for the hand of
death to relieve his sorrows, by cutting him down.
He, lost to every moral principle, was ready to
deny all eternal existence. I was confounded and
lost in this scene of moral degradation, and human
misery. When I left him, I sought one of his daugh­
ters, who had lived long enough to seek the path of
virtue, industry, and religion. She was teaching a
school in the town. When she saw me, she grasped
my hand, and unable to speak, her burdened heart
sought relief in a flood of tears. She sighed over her
condition, and at length said, “ Oh that I\had a home,
a father, and a mother, as in days gone by. I have
a father, ’tis true, but he only lives to suffer, and
rend my young heart. Oh that I was in my native
land, where smiles could meet me, and the tender
hand of affection would embrace me, and I should be
greeted by my friends. But here 1 am, far, far from
my native land, and in a world of strangers. I am
despised for my father’s unwholesome conduct, and
MISSIONARY1 TOUR
my sister’s apostacy, and here I live an orphan child,
to mourn and sigh.” She unclenched her hand, and
in the most bitter sobs, returned the last adieu. By
this time the gentleman who sat with me in my car­
riage, was venting his feeling by the gushing tears,
and as we drove along, said, “ until this day, sir, I
never saw a perfect picture of suffering humanity.”
Reader, if you enjoy a peaceful home, prize it, you
cannot prize it too dear. If you are a husband, and
father, abide in the principles of religion, and boast
not of your securiiy. If you are a child, cling to the
parental roof, and seek, and be content with the hap­
piness there. Be happy under the paternal protection
of a father, and fond embrace of a warm hearted
mother, and be careful that you do not dream of com­
forts elsewhere, lest you lose this happy abode, and
one day reproach yourself of negligence, sin, and un­
reconciliation to a lot where earth’s richest blessings
ever dwell. And if peradventure the young man
should read this, who has been accustomed to take the
“flowing bowl.” let me warn him to shun it as he
would a deadly viper. “ It biteth like a serpent, and
stingeth like an adder.” This miserable man, whose
doleful picture I have faintly given, was once like you
in youthful vigor, and despised as much as you, the
drunkard’s fate. And of the youthful maiden who as
yet has known no sorrow. I would insist, that if you
wish peace and happiness in future life, if you would
shun the horrors of the inebriate’s dread abode, shun
the society of that young man, who forms any associ-
tion with Alcohol, or who will not give his name and
influence to the cause of Temperance.
]]2
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 113
Canton is a very “smart ” place for a country town,
and is beautifully located. On the south is gently
flowing Copperas creek, while on the north, green car­
peted prairies are spread far and wide. About ten
miles north of Canton is Farmington, a flourishing
little town, and four miles east of Farmington is Tri-
vola. Prairies and groves in this section are pleas­
antly interspersed, and the springs and rippling brooks
every where abound. I fancied this section far above
any I saw during my travels. The prairies were
sufficiently undulating to give health to the climate,
and delight to the settler. As we left Trivola for
Peoria, we soon entered a rather romantically featured
country. The short Oak, with its broad spread bow­
ery, began to show itself until they stood about as
compact as an orchard, and as the ground was well
swarded over, it very much resembled some of the
fruit “forests” of the wealthy farmers ofthe east. The
frequent banks, as they rose and fell, presented a pic­
turesque scene. Soon, however, we entered a dense
forest of timber, and it was the heaviest hard timber
land I ever saw. The timber, though large, was
thrifty, and very tall. In these woods are flocks of
the Peraquet. I saw a flock of about sixteen, that
had been recently taken from the fosest, and had their
wings clipped. The manner of taking them is as
follows : their coop is in the hollow of a tree, and the
hunter follows them there. After dark the tree is
felled, and they are thus secured. When they were
fed, the leader (for they appeared to have one) goes
alone and examines the food ; if it is acceptable, he
114 MISSIONARY TOUR
calls, when they all descend and receive their share.
After the repast, the leader returns to their abode,
and when he gives the call, they all follow. Then
they frequently set up a yell, enough to pierce the
senses of any one standing by. I was struck with
their order and thought it worthy of imitation. This
bird somewhat resembles the Parrot, it is smaller, but
similarly decorated. They have a hooked beak, and
when they ascend a stick, cord, or whatever they
climb, they use their beak, and feet, and ascend like
the sailor, “ hand over hand.” Since my return, I
have seen some of these birds, and they were sold for
Parrots. Peoria village is on the bank of this river,
and is the Emporium of the West. In this vicinity
there is much land to be obtained at government price.
21. Sabbath ; with other exercises, received six into
the church ; two by letter, and four by that pleasing
ordinance (the laying on of hands) still retained in
the church. The Lord appeared to sanction it, by
a special outpouring of his Spirit. The prospects are
flattering for more additions.
For the benefit of those who may travel to that re­
gion, we will add, as they pass up the Illinois river,
to visit those brethren, they may land at the mouth of
Spoon river, Copperas creek, or Peoria. Their loca­
tions are at, or near, Lewistown, Canton, or Trivola.
The church may be communicated with by addressing
James Dunham, Trivola, Peoria co., Illinois, or O.
H. Perry Hull, Cuba, Fulton co., Illinois.
With regard to our labors in Illinois, we think it
not necessary to give them a daily detail. We found
enough to occupy all of our time, and had to reject
many calls. There were bright prospects for a special
work in different neighborhoods ; but the calls were
too numerous, and time too short to confine our labors
to one place. Much might be effected there by im­
mediate action. The public are far from being prej­
udiced against us as a denomination of Christians.
Eld. Dunham, a very popular Moravian Minister, has
recently embraced the Bible Sabbath, but bis being
absent on ministerial business, prevented our having
an interview with him.
Parting scenes were too heart-rending for us to at­
tempt a description, any farther than to say, that such
sob-stifled adieus were too much for nature to endure.
But though painful, we are often compelled to rend
ourselves from those whom, as Christians, we dearly
love.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 115
CHAPTER XTL
Leave for Iowa — Knoxville — Monmoth— The astonished traveller—
Lowlands of the Mississippi — Forest — Burlington — Stanzas— Steam
ferry-boat— Murder— Backslider— Ferry-boat missing— Mississippi —
Surrounding country— Flint creek— Des MoinesViver— Indians— From
Burlington to Fredonia— Arrival at Dr. Maxson’s— Fredonia — Sur­
rounding country — Timber and Prairie — Hillsborough — Meetings.
May 24. Left for Iowa, and as we drew near the
Mississippi, the country began to deteriorate. Knox­
ville and Monmoth, shire towns of Knox and Warren
counties, are rapidly increasing, and the country around
presents great encouragement to the inhabitants. They
are also located on the great road, leading from Peoria
on the Illinois river, to Burlington on the west side of
the Mississippi. In one little village in that vicinity
the inhabitants are slothful, and consequently making
but little improvement. This was the only place we
saw in all that section, where industry and happiness
appeared not to dwell. On leaving the prairies and
approaching the Mississippi, we met a man whose
mind was all absorbed with the surrounding scenery.
I hailed him several times before his attention was
arrested. He at length stopped, gazed into my car­
riage, and then turning and looking all around upon
the prairie said, “I am thirty years of age — I have
MISSIONARY TOUR. 117
lived so long in the world, and never, Until to-day,
saw a prairie!” Insensible to what I might say
farther, he started on, and it was evident he was lost
to every thing around, but what was spread out by
nature’s own hands before him. We soon entered
the forest that Verged upon the river. For about
seven miles it was Very sandy. On the Illinois side
of the river in a high time ot water, I should judge
from appearance, that for miles back from the main
current, the land was overflowed. Sometimes the
steam ferry-boat had to run six miles. As we ap­
proached the river the forest was exceedingly dense
and heavy. When we came in sight of the “ Father
of waters,” its proud wave as it rolled majestically
along gave us a sublime emotion, and we paused for a
moment to let the mind feast upon its beauty and
grandeur. Far up the river the eye rests upon its
numerous Islands, covered with verdure. Following
its current gently along, we discover as the river
approaches us, it gathers its waters more deep and
narrow, leaving the Island, until nothing but the river
separates from Burlington. The eye again falls upon
the river, following it down amongst the Islands, until
lost sight of in its own meanderings. The view of the
city as presented from the opposite shore, where we
stood, is extremely picturesque, being situated within
an amphitheatre, formed by the hills, and rapidly
extending itself over the declivities. Beginning at the
river, each street rises over above the other, until lost
in the plain above, thus presenting a complete view of
the city to those on the opposite shore. The popula-
11
118 MISSIONARY TOUR
tion of Burlington is composed principally of the
inhabitants from the Eastern and Middle States.
Standing as before noticed, on the bank opposite, it
was with admiration that we thus surveyed the town
which can but astonish the traveller with its almost
unparalleled increase, from an uncultivated forest,
swarming with the untamed Aborigines of the
west, echoing and resounding with the “ savage
yell,” and war whoop, to that of a densely populated
city.
No Wickeup* or tattered shed
Is reared, to screen the Savage head,
But mansions in their grandeur stand
Erected by a Christian’s hand.
No war-whoop, as in days of yore,
No soil is stained with human gore,
No orphans sigh, or widows groan,
The Mississippi wafts along.
No bow is bent to send the dart
With lightning speed to seek the heart,
No savage foes in ambush kneel,
War’s dire effects around to deal.
No crystal brook to gore is turned,
No cottage by the savage burned,
No midnight cry offrenzied fear
Now strikes the calm reposing ear.
But hark! a nobler voice I hear,
The gospel trump salutes my ear,
Salvation calls from God en high,
Repent, believe, prepare to die !
*Indian Wigwam.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 119
How great the change! how soon’tis done,
A city! ere’t was thought begun,
A desert, throng’d with frowning foes,
Now blooms with Sharon’s deathless Rose.
But where’s the red man, clad infur,
Who bends his ready bow for war?
With flashing eye—grim visage—tall —
Before whose rage the foe must fall ?
Thin, Chieftains sang the warrior’s song,
Whose peals, the echoing hills prolong,
To arms ! to arms! is heard afar,
Till every soul is fired for war.
Aloud they shout with hideous yells,
The war dance every fear dispels,
Arm bent to arm with nerve-strung grasp,
All eager now the bow to clasp.
Now hark! a death-like silence reigns,
While the bold Chiefaloud proclaims,
“ Brave men— rush on, the foe pursue,
Nor yield till conquest turns for you.
Fear not, altho’thy quiver’s spent,
Crowd foe to foe till yours relent,
Your tomahawk, war-club, and knife,
Well plied, shall quickly end the strife.
The speech is done— like Time they fly,
The savage war-whoop rends the sky,
They strike the trail, the foe pursue,
Until his army heaves in view.
The foe now wheels, and face to face
They halt, the angry war-whoop raise,
Each Chieftain shouts with awful tones
“ Fear not their yell, nor dying groans.”
1 2 0 MISSIONARY TOUR
Quick nerves the arm, the bow is sprung-,
From foe to foe the arrows flung,
Dart passes dart, its poison wields
As each to each, deaths horror deals.
The dying shrieks burst on the ear,
Mid battle’s yell” dispels the fear,
The hatchet’s thrown, a deadly shower,
The war club deals its fatal power.
Now knife in hand, foe clenches foe,
In phrenzied wrath they strike the blow,
Then fainting, falling, die away
They yield. Our Chieftain’s gained the day !*
While standing on the shore and surveying the
objects worthy of notice, our reflection was interrupted
by the majestic steam ferry boat, as she raised her puff,
and plied her wheels, thus moving across to receive us.
When safely landed on the opposite shore we were
met by several gentlemen, who kindly requested us to
tarry with them for the night. It is worthy of notice,
that wherever we found people that had emigrated
from the East we almost invariably found a welcome
home, and warm hearts. I had not been in town long
before I had my blood chilled by the relation of the
following anecdote. A young man owning a house in
the place had leased it, and left. During his absence
the tenant had changed in some respects the position
of the dwelling. On the landlord’s return he discov­
*It is well known that the form ofbattle described above, is
entered upon only in the last resort, by the Indians, and then
in frenzied fear they engage, hence the issue more fatal. A
reference to Black Hawk’s speech will show at once that they
do sometimes thus engage.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 121
ered the new arrangement and began his curses. A
friend to the tenant standing by, said as the tenant
was sick he would take it up himself. This however
passed unnoticed, and the landlord sought a room for
rest. The offended young man obtained “ Colt’s
revolving pistol.” He boldly declared his intention of
shooting the young man. Being prepared, he sought
his victim, called him up, and out at the door, then
fired at him. On receiving the first shot he ran, but
soon felt the effects of another. He then turned, and
fired both of his pistols at his blood-thirsty foe, who
was as busy as himself : they both fell to the ground.
The brother of the intruder then rushed up, and with
a cane struck the victim over the head. In this out­
rageous affray, the owner of the house was mortally
wounded, and expired within ten hours, lamenting
most of all, that he was thus hurried out of time into
eternity, unprepared for the awful ushering into the
presence of a Holy God. Reader, art thou prepared
to be thus suddenly thrown into eternity and the im­
mediate presence of the judge of the quick and dead.
If not, hasten while there is time and seek through
Christ Jesus a reconciliation with thy God.
But to return. During this awful affray the bullets
flew (said my informant) in every direction, which
caused men, women and children, to rush from the
streets into any apartment. It happened about four
P. M. The young man died in despair, and was
buried. His murderer was arrested and confined in
jail, but was so badly wounded that they moved him
to his father’s, where the Sheriff was his constant
11*
122 MISSIONARY TOUR
companion. His recovery was anticipated. The
inhabitants of the entire county of Des Moines'were
so exasperated at this outrage, that they held meet­
ings, rallying its entire population, and then resolved
to drive from the County all the [family-connections
of the murderer, hoping thereby to put an end to such
diabolical habits and customs of the south. During
my stay in Burlington, I fell in company with a
Lawyer, (a quack I presume, as the soil is very pro­
ductive of such,) who said that he, or any other one,
had an undoubted right to load weapons, and threaten
in broad day the death of any man, and continue so
unmolested for aught the law may do. To which I
replied, I conceive you the assassins accomplice.
The morning after my arrival I saw M r.-------, a
man who was once professedly a minister, and with
whom I had often worshipped. But oh how deplora­
ble the change. Once he was in full fellowship with
the Church, and dwelt in the bosom of a lovely family.
But death cut down the companion of his youth. He
sought a second, and obtained the hand of a young
lady who had then seen but sixteen summers. He
left his native land, and when I saw him his family
was rent asunder by that which was worse than death.
The wife a wanderer— children scattered— and he, a
profligate. When I reminded him of former associa­
tions, the tear stole down his cheeks. As I referred
him to the vows he made to God and his people, and
warned him of an approaching judgment, he trembled,
wept, and sighed. How horrible 1 A family broken
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 123
up ! The church of God dishonoured and souls going
to hell that once bid fair for heaven !
How wretched is the lot of the backslider. He has
no sure abode or resting place — no happiness orsociety
in this vale of tears. Reader, if you are one, I be­
seech you to return to your Father’s house, and wipe
away the guilt of your own soul, and the stain from
the cause of Christ.
“ Return ere that dread day shall come,
And youreceive your final doom.”
What an awful picture this would have been to
have passed the vision of a dying wife, and Mother.
It must be heart-rending to yield the prattling babe in
the hour of our final departure. But how terrible for
that mother, had she seen her helpless offsprings scat­
tered and driven amongst strangers, more than a thou­
sand miles from where her body
“ Sweet reposing
Slumbers in the arms of death.”
Well may we repeat her last and dying accents.
“ What will become of these helpless orphans when
their mother’s eyes are closed in death.” But little
did I think then of ever seeing a portion of that weep­
ing family scattered beyond the Mississippi’s rolling
stream, and left in suffering retirement to wear out a
life of sorrow.
In this place I found for the first time, correct in­
formation as to the location of Dr. Enoch Maxson,
and the few other families of my search.
25. This morning was beautiful, and. as I looked
upon the Mississippi, I thought it more majestic than
124 MISSIONARI TOUR
it appeared the night before. This may have origi­
nated from the position of the rising sun, as it directed
its illuminating rays obliquely upon the bounding
waves of that delightful stream. I walked down to
the wharf, and found that the ferry boat was absent,
and the inhabitants in commotion about it. An ex­
press had been sent down the river in pursuit, and
soon returned with it.
They had the boat, and a man lashed to a post, he
being deranged had cut it loose and floated down the
stream with as much royal pomp as might an Alex­
ander, who was governor of all he possessed. They
dragged him off to jail and that ended the bustle.
Iowa is bounded on the east by the Mississippi, whose
remotest source has been ascertained to be the small
lake Itasca, formerly known as La Bisclic. In that
region are many small Lakes, where many of its
branches take their rise, of which are the wild rice
lakes, also, some issue from the wet Savannahs of the
north, thence flowing through a multitude of small
Lakes, about three hundred and fifty miles it reaches
the Falls of Pecagama. Thence forming a distinctive
character it pursues a southerly course through a coun­
try embracing all that is grand and beautiful, until it
pours its vast flood over the towering waterfall at St.
Anthony. From St. Anthony, it alternately glides
through meadows and deep forests, sometimes dashing
the castillated front of towering clifts,
“Whose rocky summits, split and rent,
Formed turret, dome, and battlement”
In contemplating its restless and uncontrollable
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 125
wave, it may well have been considered the “ Eternal
River.” Where else shall we find so completely com­
bined, so much of the wild, beautiful and sublime,
“ Rising in the wild Savannahs of the frozen north,
amid a solitude, broken only by the shrill scream of
the aquatic lake-bird, sweeping in its onward course
through shades of magnificent forests, blooming in the
solitude of primeval grandeur; meandering the ram­
parts of hoary cliffs, whose crumbling turrets touch the
fleecy clouds ; now, washing the lone shore of the
receding savage ; now flowing through the abodes of
refinement and civilized life ; ever and anon receiving
the homage of its thousand tributaries ; now bearing
onward, on its swollen bosom, the noble steamer; now
madly sporting the Indian’s fragile bark, whose dex­
terous arm swiftly wafts him to his native shore. Thus
ever varying in character, temperature and scenery,
this great river, the noblest of all others, pursues its
onward course 3160 miles to the Gulf of Mexico,
having its source in about forty-seven degrees, and its
estuary twenty-nine degrees north latitude, conse­
quently traversing eighteen degrees oflatitude.”
“ Nature beholds her fair features portrayed,
In the glass ofthy bosom serenely displayed.”
About nine in the morning we ascended the bank,
following the meandering streets until we were on the
broad plain above the city, where we had a fair view
of the town, which spreads out like a map, presenting
a panoramic view of enlivening beauty. We also
could survey the majestic Mississippi, ever and anon
126 MISSIONARI TOUR
enlivened by the noble steamer, as she glides from
point to point, meandering her serpentine course until
lost in the multiplicity of green Islands. Far in the
east the eye surveys the broad prairies of Illinois,
covered with brilliant robes of green, and interspersed
with newly cultivated farms. Burlington was formerly
known as “ Flint Hills ” and by the Indians as “ Shok-
ko-hon.” It was long a trading post for the Indians,
and often in excavating, is found the remains of their
dead — the war-club, pipe and hatchet.
Morton M. McCarver, and Simpson S. White com­
menced the settlement in 1823, where they endured
many sufferings and privations among the savages. In
1832 the travellers bed might have been the leaves of
the forest, the heavens his covering, wild honey his
food ; but now he can dine sumptuously at Hotels,
and recline himself upon the sofa in the drawing-room.
Iowa being situated north of the Missouri and west of
Mississippi, has not until recently been familiarly
known, and located as it is, it has produced much
excitement, and will call forth more remarks than we
have been wont to offer concerning other portions of
the country through which the tour led us. And
although many may already be possessed of more and
better information than the limits of this journal will
permit us to offer, yet this work may fall into the
hands of some who have hitherto known but little of
that section of the country.
After feasting upon the beauties of the city and the
scenery, we proceeded on our journey, which soon led
us across Flint Creek, which meanders its way across
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 127
the central portion of Des Moines county, receiving
ia its course various tributaries, and discharges itself
into the Mississippi, about one quarter of a mile above
Burlington. On its banks is found abundance of
lime-rock, which appear supplied by the hand of
nature for building purposes. It also sustains several
mills for sawing and grinding. Its uplands are densely
wooded with heavy black, white, and burr Oak, hick­
ory, linn and some ash, interspersed with hazel, thorn-
plums, &e.
And upon the bottoms the cotton-wood, sycamore,
black-walnut, buck-eye, sugar, and honey-locust, rear
their lofty heads. Their interwoven branches, clothed
in foliage, form a shelter for the traveller which pro­
tects him from the scorching rays of a mid-summer
sun.
The Des Moines river, so far as placid beauty is
considered, may be without a rival. I was informed
that it rises in the Cotean des Prairies, and in the
upper parts of its course has a rapid current. Its
general direction is south-easterly, averaging about
ten chairs in width. In the north-west portions of
Van Buren County it enters the public surveys. So
rapid has been its settlement that its banks are skirted
with villages and finely cultivated farms. The bed of
the river is of rock, remarkably level, and its water of
crystal clearness. New-Hall remarks that “ its bed is
so uniform, that in a low stage of water, the traveller
might ford it up and down for days.” In a good stage
of water it is susceptible of steamboat navigation for
about one hundred miles, and for keel boats in low
128 MISSIONARY TOUR
stages. It pours its torrent into the Mississippi at the
foot of Des Moines rapids, and there forms the divid­
ing line between the territories of Iowa and Missouri.
The Sacs and Fox Indians have their principal village
upon this river, about fourteen miles from the govern­
ment line, on a small prairie of surpassing beauty.
After passing the wood lands of Flint creek we enter­
ed a prairie which was more undulating than any we
had yet seen. As we bent our course direct for Fre-
donia the road led us through one almost uninterrupted
prairie. We could nowand then see on the right and
left a clump of timber, and once or twice during the
day, our path was through a beautiful grove. We
also passed some newly commenced settlements, but
none in time for refreshments until we came to Fre-
donia, a distance of forty-four miles.
Two or three times during the day I let my horses
refresh themselves in the green pasture which spread
itself out like an unbounded sea around us. We also
met one man on horseback. We hailed each other
with rapture. This day’s travel reminded us more
than ever, of the lonely wanderers across the Arabian
deserts. Though unlike that scene it was green and
well watered. But the eye was constantly on the
gaze, and an almost unchanged scene was presenting
its unbounded stretch, to fatigue our vision. And to
use the expression of one of the inhabitants, it was
“ all look,” and nothing to be seen but green carpeted
prairies, and the ever-changing flower beds, which
scenery was only begirt by the blue vault. As we
entered the forest that skirts the Iowa river, we were
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 129
puzzled to select our path out of the multiplicity that
crossed each other;, leading in every direction. We
several times took the wrong road, and run it to an
end, until we thought it a heavy tax upon our patience,
and more intolerable still, upon our weary steeds. We
however happened to get the right road at last, which
soon led us down to the bank of the beautiful Iowa
river. Here our patience was again most provokingly
taxed, by the indolence of the lads who tended the
ferry-boat. This was not, however, the fault of Mr.
Clark, the owner of the ferry, it being in his absence
conducted contrary to his directions. Twilight had
already shrouded that portion of the globe in her sable
mantle, and fog was beginning to settle. We were
weary, not having left our carriage since morning ;
but our hearty reception by the friends relieved our
burdened mind, and the evening wore off with unno-
ticed rapidity.
26. In the morning, took a survey of this portion of
Iowa Territory. Fredonia is a small village, situated
on the bank of Iowa river, just at the junction of the
Iowa and north fork of Cedar rivers. The prairie bor­
ders the bank of the river at Fredonia, and spread it­
self back, widening and gradually rising for the space
of three miles, where it is met by a suddenly rising
bank. The prairie, following up its eminence, spread­
ing its green carpet over its sloping declivity, then
stretci^s back to the forest which skirts the surround­
ing plain. I often thought while there, that they have
as commodious a location for a large town, as I ever
12
]30 MISSIONARY TOUR
saw, in the interior of a country. By it the proud
stream frequently glides as it follows the serpentine
river course to the Iowa city. This and Hillsborough,
however, must be the highest low water landings, as
both of the rivers become more shallow above the
junction. The soil is rich and easily cultivated, and
of a sandy inclination. Fredonia is surrounded with
a rich prairie country, interspersed with groves of lofty
timber, and is well watered, and much of the land is
uncultivated and for sale. It is, however, rapidly set­
tling. The timber I believe is universally taller in
Iowa than the most of Illinois. Opposite Fredonia is
a forest skirting the river above and below, which is
mostly very excellent sawing timber, and when we
left they were erecting a steam saw-mill. The Cedar
fork is also very heavily timbered. It is very clear
that the inhabitants will never lack'for building mate­
rials, but rather if necessary, be able to supply the
surrounding country.
Hillsborough is conveniently located for a harbor
and town, and had already begun to erect its edifices.
It lies on the opposite side of the river from Fredonia,
and about one mile above, on the Iowa branch.
Through it the Territorial road passes, from Burling­
ton to Iowa city. Here Capt. Wheelock keeps a
very commodious ferry-boat. The forest trees rear
their majestic bowery around the neat dwellings
which are but just commenced, and will there remain
until taken down for building purposes. About three
miles back, on the route to Burlington, is Columbia
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEE. 131
city, a small village, but I cannot now see what may
keep it alive, as it is situated on a dry prairie. It is,
however, a very pleasant location.
22. At 11 o’clock the people began to flock to
Fredonia, and we listened to a discourse from a Metho­
dist brother. At 2 P. M. I addressed the congrega­
tion, and commenced a series of meetings which were
kept up as much as consistent until my health com­
pletely failed, and I was obliged to leave a weeping,
anxious people.
CHAPTER XIII.
Excursion in the country — Meeting's—
-Thunder tempest — English
river— Graves on the Iowa bank— Church constituted — Return to
Hillsborough — Pond on the prairie — Health declines — Enquiring sin­
ners— Wants of the people — Errors increasing— Stanzas.
27. Took 3circuitous route back ofFredonia through
the prairies, interspersed with groves. We travelled on
a ridge of land which led us through one plantation
where was about eight hundred acres under cultiva­
tion. The corn being about eighteen inches high was
gently fanned by the breeze as it crossed the plains.
On either side of the road lay the large fields of wheat,
corn, oats and potatoes. The husbandmen were busily
engaged. We kept this ridge for some distance and
was thus enabled to survey much of the surrounding
country, which for picturesque scenery and agricul­
tural conveniences surpassed every thing I ever saw
before or ever expected to see again.
After leaving this narrow elevation, we passed a
small field of wheat, and its scanty growth aroused
my attention ; which from examination wras found to
originate from the sandy soil. This was almost an
entire sand bed, and I was somewhat surprised to find
i't surrounded, as it was, by such a rich fertile plain.
Not far from Fredonia are some ponds of water, clear
as crystal.
MISSIONARY TOUR. 133
Four o’clock, P. M. addressed a congregation of
anxious hearers. Many were from some distance.
Had a meeting again in the evening. Sinners began
to enquire the way to heaven.
28. Sabbath. This was a rainy morning. The
rolling thunder and streaming lightning followed by a
torrent of falling water, presented a scene which was
awfully sublime. The floods of electricity, as they
were poured forth in sheets of flashing lightning, were
suddenly followed by astounding peals'of thunder,
whose tremendous roll mingling with each succeeding
clap engulfed the intermediate space in one continual
roar, all of which reminded me of the belching forth
of the angry elements, driven by the wrath of a sin
avenging God, in that awful day of final conflagration.
May the Lord prepare me for that day in which the
electrified clouds shall melt the marble rock, and the
dreadful peals of thunder shall move the earth from
its course, and instead of rain shall be poured forth
the dashing waves of fire and brimstone. After the
shower, the people congregated, and we were permit­
ted to worship him
Who whispers in the thunder’s roll,
The elements restrain,
Who guides the storm from pole to pole,
And calms the surging main.
During the exercises, from my position I could look
into the current of the Iowa, which reminded me of
the river of life, gently flowing through the city of the
great King. At evening we went to Osceola, or
Hillsborough, and spent the night.
12*
134 MISSIONARY TOUR
29. Entered a canoe in company with Capl.
Wheelock and lady. Passed down the river from
Hillsborough to Fredonia. This day the people
gathered from far and near. Felt much of the spirit
of religion, while endeavoring to persuade the people
to become reconciled to God, and during the exercises
very much interest was manifested, and many with
trembling steps and streaming eyes approached the
altar of prayer. It would have drawn the deep­
est sympathy from the coldest hearted professor, to
have seen that people gather to the house appointed
for worship. I sometimes as in other places, would
almost submit to their entreaties. Surely, that field
was so extensive, and the Macedonian cry so fre­
quently bursting forth from various directions, that I
did enquire of the Lord his will concerning .me as
connected with that people.
30. In company with Dr. Maxon, went to Rich­
ard B. Davis’s who had settled near the English river.
In passing on the prairie I was surprised at the rapid
growth of its settlement. The footsteps of the red
man were scarcely turned towards the sitting sun,
and his wigwam deserted, ere the hamlet of the “ pale
face ” sprung up. The farm was opened, the school
house raised, and the Church dedicated. Where but
a few short years ago the blindness of the savage
tribes, shrouded the whole land, now the Gospel is
shedding its enlivening rays, and as last as the Indian
leaves the soil, so' fast is civilized society established.
The rays of Gospel light are waiting westward to­
ward the rocky mountains, and soon the fire now kin-
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 135
died on the western shores of America, will sweep o’er
the broad plains of Oregon, and met by the heaven
illuminated Church, on the towering mount, will send
forth a flame that shall enlighten the world. The
Lord roll on the day !
31. Went down to the bank of Iowa a distance of
five miles. Our prospect was sublime. This eleva­
tion or point of land was covered with ancient mounds.
For acres the entire surface was broken into small hil­
locks, and although each differed from the graves of
the civilized, yet the place somewhat resembled in its
location and arrangement, onr grave yards. Some
who have seen the mounds, which spreads over the
Mississippi valley, have thought it not possible for all
of them to have been built by art, for forts and bury­
ing places, but it is my lot to differ from that opinion.
Their multiplicity, I consider, an argument in Javor
rather than against the idea, that art did erect them
all. Time with its onward march, has cut down its
thousands of beings, and who but God, can tell the
number. For the number of one nation, was as
the sands on the sea shore. The thought then is
awfully sublime, when we reflect upon the millions
on millions that shall assemble at the call of “Gabrell’s
trump ” in the last great day of final retribution.
Reader are you prepared for that day ?
At four o’clock the people assembled, and a Church
was constituted, and it was a happy season.
Eld. Rolen McReynolds, formerly a ministerof the
“ Regular Baptist,” requested admission with the
number. After learning his doctrinal views, and
136 MISSIONARY TOUR
reasons for embracing the Seventh-day Sabbath, be
was welcomed. His lady also joined.
I believe this was the first Church constituted in
that section. We all felt that heavenly manna was
given us to eat. Surely “ the wilderness shall bud
and blossom like the rose.”
On the way back to Fredonia we passed a pond of
clear water upon one of the highest elevations in the
entire prairie. It was about fifty yards long, and ten
wide. The banks were beautifully decorated with
flowers, which enshroud at that season of the year the
whole country with their floral mantle. The prairie
gradually rose from the pond inevery direction, and as
they ascended the rising bank, spreading out upon the
broad expanse their floral garb, it presented a pictur­
esque scene, that could not fail to excite the deepest
admiration in the mind of the traveller. In this I con­
sidered the most celebrated pictoralist outdone., This
reservoir lies about two hundred yards from the main
road leading from Burlington to Iowa city by the way
of English River.
June 2nd. I found my health was fast declining,
and felt more than ever the necessity of a fellow labo­
rer. Many were seeking religious instruction, and
while they were flocking around, eager to be taught
the will of Heaven, I felt the necessity of a heart
holy, and full of the love of God. I often sought the
Lord for His heavenly mindedness, and unerring wis­
dom. The infidel was desirous to learn the truth and
to flee from error. The grey headed and the child were
alike inquiring if they might hope in a Savior’s blood.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 137
The meetings continued until the eighth, when I
was obliged to close in the midst of a sermon. I
however baptized one lady who was the first person
baptized in that region. The fatigues of the journey,
constant preaching, visiting from house to house, an­
swering objections, contending with Infidels, and ex­
posure to the stormy blasts, ^c., had almost worn me
out.
And during tnese exercises I often felt that I could
not endure any longer. When the appointment drew
near, I would make rny way to the house, and lay my
weary frame down to rest, saying to the people, that
I could not preach. The Soldiers of the Cross would
commence praying, and as the people congregated the
tear would begin to steal down the cheek, and soon
the sin-burdened souls would sigh aloud. This would
almost irresistibly bring me upon my feet, and to
preaching again. Thus I was led until my strength
was gone, and compelled to leave that people in the
highest state of religious excitement. Many were
converted, and many more seeking. My heart was
the most pained on leaving this field, of any one dur­
ing my tour. How gladly would I have hailed a
fellow laborer in that important crisis. But I looked
in vain for such aid. May God have mercy upon the
people in that wilderness land. O that Zion, univer­
sally, did but know the deep wretchedness and anx­
ieties of many of the people scattered through the
“ great western valley.” I do think they would fly
to their relief. Their destitution respecting the
preached gospel is but a small portion of their embar­
138 MISSIONARY TOUR
rassments. Errors there are as rapid and luxuriant in
their growth as the vegetation, and as poisonous as the
malaria of the swamps. It cannot be otherwise so long
as such abundant material exists in a population like
that, increased from year to year by floods of foreign
emigration. Romanism is entrenching itself with con­
summate skill, as if behind ramparts of granite, at every
prominent point. She is not yet openly aggressive,
and notwithstanding she has challenged the armies of
Israel by publicly burning the Bible by the hundred
in New York, yet she will not be openly hostile, nor
publicly erect her Inquisition, until the fears excited by
her career of conquest and desolation in other lands,
shall here be lulled to rest by her smothering her
fiendish head under the hypocritical banner of piety,
with which she now garbs herself to cajole Protestant
subjects. Meanwhile, as though all her vast resources
were under the control of one master spirit, she plants
her Cathedrals and Colleges, and Schools and Nun­
neries, as if they were to last for ages, and plants them
at just such places as will tell with terrible effect in
the preparation for the conflict, and in the great battle
itself when it comes. Their institutions are also swarm­
ing with protestant children, and while we are thus
slumbering, they are moulding the youthful mind, and
nerving the arm of the protestant school-boy for the
bloody fray which hangs like a highly charged cloud
over our beloved land. The people in the valley of
the Mississippi said to me, “ If the Roman Church is
so corrupt and so fatal in its success, why do you
slumber ?”
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 139
Infidelity and kindred errors, some of which have
“ gone to seed ” at the East, the enemy of truth has
scattered far and wide upon the luxuriant soil of the
west. They are now germinating, and their fruits
will deal destruction to thousands of the honest inhabi­
tants of the broad extended plains. Indeed, infidelity
of a gross popular kind, is rife among the less informed
classes, and is almost epidemic with those of greater
opportunities. Other errors, more or less dangerous
have attained a sudden and extensive influence, and
demand an antidote. Mormonism also has its contag­
ious effect, and thousands are gathering around its
corrupt standard.
The press is employed for the promulgation and-
defence of all these heresies and delusions. Books,
Tracts, and Newspapers are published, and widely
scattered by them all, and by some of them as almost
their only means of diffusing error. These errors are
embraced, not because of any special inclination to er­
ror, but for want of light, or the means of it. Let the
Christian Church but arouse, and stretch forth her
hand richly laden with the treasures and light of eter­
nal truth, let the young men speedily qualify themselves
and sally forth, and let the univocal prayer of all God’s
people ascend the holy hill, and the darkness shall give
way, and eternal truth, light, and love, shall bear uni­
versal sway throughout the length and breadth of the
land.
When we take an estimate of the soul, and realize
that none but the true followers of Jesus will ever en-
140 MISSIONARY TOUR
ter the Courts above, that heaven is a pure place and
“ Those holy gates forever bar
Pollution, sin, and shame;
None shall obtain admittance there
But followers ofthe Lamb.”
’Tis then that we see the necessity of a healthy, effect­
ual action, in the entire army of Israel.
THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY.
In the Mississippi Valley, nature spreads her treasures forth,
Prairies, woodlands, noble rivers, crown with gifts the sons of
earth.
But the soul these gifts possessing, all things else but God
pursues,
And eternal blessings proffered, blindly, madly, they refuse.
Fancy charms, how sweet therelish, fullof poison, dealing woe,
Grasping bliss— while every effort, crowds them to the shades
below.
Thus, the West is all commotion, each contendingfor the prize,
Like the rich man, rearing mansions, e’er enjoyed, alas he dies.
But we turn to scenes in future, when, a mingled mass, they’d
stand,
Crying, oh ye rocks and mountains, hide us from the great
I A m.
Rocks and mountains flee like hail stones, wrapp’d in light­
ning’s burning blaze,
While the sweeping conflagration, shrouds the mass in endless
maze.
Before their minds in quick succession, former blessings flash
along,
Like thebarbed arrowpiercing, withimmortal pangs,thethrong,
Consternations thundering terrors search the broad phalanx
through,
While Eternal wrath approaching, swells on each successive
view.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 141
But behold their horrors double, when before the Judge they
stand,
He whose precious blood, they slighted, nowassumesthe dread
command.
At his voice the millions hasten down to endless worldsofwoe,
Where, beyond the hope of Mercy, streams of wrath forever
flow.
“Hide us, oh !ye waves ofsorrow dash uponourguilty head■—
Sink us, oh what scenes of horror! ever dying, never dead!
Justly doomed,” and to the sentence echo’s back the loud,
“ Amen!”
May the Lord! while mercy’s offer'd, save the dying sons
of men.
13
CHAPTER XIV.
Prospect from Osceola — Iowa — Iowa City Surrounding Country
— Emigrants crossing the Prairie •—Prairie on Fire •—Soil of Iowa »-*
Grain — Fruits — Wild Animals — Fish — Climate — Indian Habits.
West of the Territorial road at Hillsborough is the
rising bank of Osceola, or the mound on which the
Indians met to trade, as this was the converging point
of the nation’s general resort. We ascended its coni­
cal head. This is about one hundred feet above the
river which flows directly beneath, and about one
mile from Fredonia. The sun was about thirty min­
utes high. The sky had now become perfectly clear,
no clouds were to be seen but the white thunder heads
which were gently sinking in the broad expanded
plains. Being thus elevated, we were able to survey
the surrounding plains and groves at our leisure, and
nothing rose to prevent a perfect inspection of all, as
far as the eye could reach. About one hundred feet
below us, was; gently gliding the clear waters of the
Iowa, while the well conducted canoe, was shooting
along its current so smoothly as hardly to leave a ripple
behind. A prospect from this summit must present a
still more tempting scene than that from the toweling
mount which overhung the beloved City in the eastern
world. Directly north, the Cedar river was meander­
ing its way through the plains towards its confluence
MISSIONARI TOUR. 143
with the Iowa. It was guarded on either side by the
lofty forest which stood in all its native grandeur,
whose foliage gently fluttered in the wind. The point
of land which extended to the junction of the rivers is
heavily laden with a diversity of thrifty timber, which
extends back about two miles, and then is bounded by
the prolific prairie lands. Up the Cedar, as far as the
eye could reach we could discover the strip of wood­
land, averaging about three miles in width,'in the midst
of which the river followed its serpentine course. On
either side, the prairies spread out to an astonishing
distance, interspersed with the smaller groves which
from their distance and location, very much resembled
the orchards of the East. Just over, before us, be­
tween the two rivers, was Port Island. On the right
was Fredonia, and the grand prairie which stretched
itself to the Mississippi a distance of some twenty
miles. This portion of the prairie country, was also
supplied with groves of timber planted by nature’s
own hand, to add beauty to this scene and conven­
ience to the agriculturist. About midway between
Cedar and Mississippi rivers, Indian Creek glides along.
Its banks are also skirted with timber. This stream
takes its rise in a north-easterly direction from where
we were standing. North-west of us lay another prai­
rie spreading itself over the entire surface of country
between the Cedar and Iowa rivers, on the upper
boundary of which is located Iowa City. In that di­
rection we saw a tree, which from its distance, resem­
bled an umbrella. I was informed that it was a large
oak eighteen miles distant, and stood on the great Ter­
144 MISSIONARY TOUR
ritorial road which leads from Burlington to Iowa City.
The Iowa was followed up in a westerly direction, as
far as our vision could extend. This river is also sup­
plied with woodland. About two miles south of us
lay Columbus city. Thus in every direction we could
survey the “ Garden of the West.” The small towns,
farms, and farm houses, herds of cattle, flocks of wild
turkies, prairie hens, sand-hill cranes, and bounding
deer. And who that has a mind could but be gratified in
such a sight as this, and rejoice at being favored with
an elevation like that of Osceola, from which to sur­
vey a surrounding country thus gorgeously decorated.
On that mound no doubt many a red man has stood
and surveyed his beautiful and peacefully possessed
inheritance. And from it the terrific war whoop
may have been heard, whose echo, with the velocity
of the wind, may have shot across the plains. But now
it is under the hand of the “ pale face,” and the orig­
inal owners are far away in other lands. I thought
while standing there that this mound might yet sustain
an Academy, and from it the student might survey the
Geographic features of both the earth and sky.
The Iowa river is one of the largest tributaries of
the Mississippi. It rises in the table lands, in the vi­
cinity of the St. Peter’s, affording steamboat naviga-
gation the principal part of the year to Fredoniajand
Hillsborough. From thence to Iowa city, about twen­
ty-five miles, it is susceptible of keel boat navigation.
With this view of the subject, which is doubtless cor­
rect, it is readily inferred that the Towns at the con­
THROUGH THE WESTERN TALLEY. 145
fluence of the Iowa and Cedar rivers, will eventually
take the lead in commerce, notwithstanding the Capi­
tal is above them in point of location, and its popula­
tion at present is far superior. The Iowa receives in
its course several large tributaries, draining a luxuriant
and fertile country, presenting every variety of land­
scape beauty, and producing, in beautiful profusion,
all the grains, fruits, and vegetables with which this fa­
vored land abounds. The bottom lands are of a
sandy inclination. The soil is, however, warm and
productive, and admirably adapted to the growing of
maize. On the bank of this river is located the flour­
ishing Iowa City. The following notes are taken from
Newhall’s “ Sketches of Iowa,” and I give them here
from that history, that the reader may not charge me
me with exaggeration.
“ The unprecedented growth of Iowa City from a
wilderness frontier, beyond the pale of civilization, is
indeed a wonder in the growth of towns. When the
reader reflects that on the first ofMay, 1839, this spot
was the hunting-ground of the savage, where now re­
finement and even elegance have made their visible
impress, the capitol'rearing its massy walls above the
forest, and brick stores and spacious hotels erecting
where the council fires have scarcely ceased to burn ;
surely his mind must be rapid in astonishment in con­
templating its rapid growth. On the fourth of May,
1839, the commissioners appointed by the legislative
assembly selected the site for this new city, to be the
future and permanent capital of Iowa. The spot se-
13*
146 MISSIONARY TOUR
lected is near the geographical centre of Johnson coun­
ty, and occupies a convenient and central position in
the territory of Iowa. It is situated about thirty-
three miles W.N.W. from Bloomington, sixty-five miles
west from Parkhurst on the Mississippi, about twenty
miles east of the Indian boundary, eight east of the
mouth of the Racoon fork of the Des Moines, ninety
south from the neutral grounds of the Sacs and Foxes,
eighty-three north of the Missouri line, eighty-six miles
from Dubuque, and seventy-five from Burlington.
“ The principal requisites required by the commis­
sioners in the permanent capital of Iowa, were health,
beauty of location, good water, and convenience to
timber and stone suitable for building, all of which they
found combined, in an eminent degree, at the same
spot, and centrally situated in the midst of a region of
country which for natural beauty and fertility of soil,
may safely challenge a comparison with the world.
“ The banks of the Iowa, which in many places
are cut up by ravines and slues, are, from about three
miles below this point to its sources, high and dry,
abounding with rock, with a beautiful undulating
country, with springs of pure crystal water, skirting
both its shores, and exhibiting every appearance of
health. The river opposite the town is about eighty
yards in width, a clear, limpid stream, with sand and
gravel bottom, and of sufficient depth of water for
keel or flat boats at its lowest stage, being never less
than twenty inches. Both banks of the Iowa, com­
mencing at the upper part of the town site, and con­
tinuing five or six miles above, and are stored with inex­
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 147
haustible quarries of stone. ‘Big Grove, which is
situated between the Iowa and Cedar rivers, has been
pronounced to be one of the largest and best bodies
of timber in the territory, being about twenty miles in
length, with an averaged width of six or seven miles.
In short, it would have been difficult for the commis­
sioners to have selected a more favored spot, where
building materials of the best quality are to be had in
greater abundance. The site of the location is one of
unrivalled beauty. The most vivid imagination can
scarcely picture to itself so captivating a spot, situated
in the midst of that wild and rural scenery which can
tend to embellish and render it desirable. The river
first approaches the town from the north-west, through
rocky banks of moderate height, covered with a thick
grove of stately trees, and then turns to the south, and
flows off between unequal banks scattered over with
venerable oaks ; opposite the"city, on the west side of
the river, the banks are abrupt and bold, and rising
from the water’s edge, about fifty feet above its sur­
face to the level of a smooth prairie, which approaches
the bank of the river at this place, and then sweeps
in beautiful undulations of hill and dale.’ ‘The pre­
ceding remarks, says Newhall,’ are the substance of
a well written article that appeared in one o1the Bur­
lington newspapers soon after the location of ‘ Iowa
City’ was made, and although to those unacquainted
with the character of our scenery, it may appear fan­
ciful; nevertheless, the delineations are drawn with the
fidelity of truth. He farther says, that about the first
of May, 1839, Mr. Swan, the acting commissioner,
148 MISSIONARY TOtnfc
selected this spot, then in a state of nature, surrounded”
by savages, Poweskiek’s band of Sacs being two or
three miles below, (at what is now Napoleon.) And
even as late as June following,the sojourner was com­
pelled to sleep in his blanket for nearly two weeks.
On the first of July, 1839, the survey of the city was
commenced under the directions of the board of com­
missioners, and the taste displayed, and liberality
evinced in the size of lots, width of streets, public
squares, school and church reserves, reflects the highest
credit upon the enlightened judgment of the commis­
sioners, The design of the capitol is a chaste speci­
men of Grecian and Doric architecture, with horizon­
tal cornice and entablature, surmounted by a dome
supported by twenty-two Corinthian columns. It is
one hundred and twenty feet in length by sixty wide,
two stories high from the basement. It is built upon.
Capitol street, which runs upon the ridge, or third
elevation from the river, and fronting Iowa avenue,
which is the same width of the capitol, (one hundred
and twenty feet,) presenting a captivating and impos­
ing appearance. The site of the capitol ean be seen
from every part of the city. The firstgrade or plateau
from the river is devoted to a public promenade, being
an average of one hundred yards in width, and half a
mile in length, bordering upon the river. The second
elevation is about twelve feet above the first. The
third elevation about thirty feet above the promenade.
A grade of fifteen degrees is contemplated, making
about fifty feet from the bed of the river to the site of
the capitol. On Ralston’s creek, about half a mile
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 149
from the capitol, there have been discovered three
springs, within a diameter of twenty feet, each pos-
sessing different properties ■—■one of chalybean, one
of sulphur, the third very cold lime-rock. The wa­
ters of the two first are said to be powerful cathartics*
The celebrated 1birds-eye’ marble was first discov­
ered upon this creek, of a softer texture and more del­
icate whiteness than that found in the quarries.
Up to the present time, 1840, being about fourteen
months from the commencement of Iowa city, it con­
tains a population of about seven hundred inhabitants.
A spacious city hotel, three or four brick buildings,
and several others in progress, ten dry goods, groceries
and provision stores, one drug store, one saddlery,
two blacksmiths, one gunsmith, three or four coffee­
houses, four lawyers, three physicians, one church,
and one primary school; in short, presenting all the
appearance, bustle, and activity of a city of years,
rather than a prodigy of months. ‘Should the skep*
tical feel inclined to question the accuracy of this
statement, I can assure them it has been the result of
personal inspection.’
I counted, even in the middle of last May, rising
of one hundred buildings, and saw and heard the busy
workmen engaged on half as many more. At that
time conversing with a gentleman from Pennsylvania,
who came to the ‘city’ the week preceding, and had
a frame house covered, and his goods in it; he said to
me, ‘Five days ago, my house was in the woods
growing.’ I have heard of cities springing into exis­
tence as if by magic, but in no case have I ever
150 MISSIONARY TOUR
known the application so just as when applied to this
young capitol of Iowa. When the mind refer back,
as it were but to a single leaf in the calender of time,
reviewing the recent past, and contemplating the
ominous present, rife, with the coming developements
of the future, how exalted must be its conceptions of
the destiny that awaits us, if our institutions are formed
on the broad basis public morals, religion, and virtue !
Then are our liberties secure, and our prosperity cer­
tain.”
While the reader has been perusing the foregoing
descriptive notes, he may have been rather inclined to
challenge the fidelity of the author, but were he per­
sonally to survey that city, I am sure he would be
less inclined to discredit the candor of the writer.
When I was in that section, in June, 1842, I was in­
formed by a gentleman residing in that city, that it
then contained a population of some twelve or four­
teen hundred inhabitants.
In those countries, the water and timber are so hap­
pily arranged, that, notwithstanding, nearly or quite
three-fourths of the surface of those regions are without
trees, but little difficulty from this source, however, at­
tends the settlement of any portion of it. As the water
courses approach each other, the timber approximates
frequently so nearly connecting on eitherhand, that the
traveller finds himself threading a narrow defile or
avenue, and again suddenly emerges into the broad
prairie, where the forest outline in the far perspective,
resembles the dim shore from the ocean, with its deep
vistas and distant head-lands, like harbors and capes.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 151
The simile is very striking, and it requires but little
stretch of fancy to make the illusion perfect, especially
when the distant margin of forest is skirted with set­
tlements ; the settler’s cabin appearing like the fisher­
man’s hut on the shore, and the long “ blue wagon”
of the moving emigrant, with its white flying top,
slowly passing over the wide prairie, like the sailing
craft of the ocean, beating their onward course to the
wished for haven.
Prairie is a French word,signifyingmeadow ; some­
times they are spread out in boundless plains, at oth­
ers, gently undulating, like the swell of the sea after
a subsiding storm. They are covered with a rich coat
of natural grass, frequently interspered with thickets
of hazel and sassafras shrubs, and in the flower sea­
sons are decorated with all that is lovely and capti­
vating, both in fragrance and colors.
'These gardens of the wilderness, boundless and
beautiful, untouched by the ruthless hand of man, are
smiling in all the freshness of primeval beauty. The
richest profusion of red is relieved by the yellow-
flowered honey suckle, the jessamine, the crimson
wild rose, and blue violet, perfume the desert air.
A burning prairie, especially in the night, is one of
the most sublime spectacles in nature. The flames
roar through the long grass with a noise like distant
thunder, when peal follows peal in such close succes­
sion, as to form an unceasing roll, and the horizon
often appears like one flame of vivid light. At other
times a sheet for miles in length will rise almost per­
pendicular in the air, to an astonishing height, then
152 MISSIONARI1 TOUR
struck by a sweeping gust of wind, is lashed forth,
and again spreads its full extent upon the'dead grass
which is ignited, and pours forth its fury into the rag­
ing wind, causing another bursting flame to ascend
near the skies, and each succeeding flash adds fury
and velocity to the wind and flame, until its rolling
wave dashes forth with conflagrating fury. As the
sheets of flame vehemently ascends, and anon, wrap
the earth again in their broad expanse, they light up
the heavens as do the broad flashes of lightning, as
they leap from cloud to cloud, and the unceasing roar
of the consuming Gres, present a scene superlatively
sublime, and fires the soul of the beholder with the
most refined admiration. A certain indescribable sen­
sation of lonely gloom steals over the mind of the
traveller when he finds himself a solitary being, wan­
dering over those boundless plains, and the more es­
pecially when they have been recently traversed by
the black’ningfires before described. And, after long
and weary miles, the sight of wood-land is hailed with
as much joyous emotions as the mariner beholds the
beacon light of his native strand. But soon the mur­
ky hills and meadows are clothed in the richest garni­
ture of green ;
“ The traveller now beholds on every side,
The grassy lawn relieved by Flora’s pride.”
Those plants diversely decked in grandeur stand,
Bestrewed o’er hill and dale, throughout the land.
The soil of the prairies, particularly the alluvial
bottom-lands, is extremely rich and fertile, it is com­
posed of a black, vegetable mould, intermingled with
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 153
a sandy loam, and covered with a sward of natural
grass, which soil after the sod is subdued, is easilycul­
tivated. The soil in Iowa will not average as deep as
that of Illinois, and some of Wisconsin, that is, in
those parts .where we travelled. The soil is nearly
black, through those entire regions, but the soil of Il­
linois is not as much inclined to sand, as in Iowa and
Wisconsin.
In Iowa for the most part, there is a third stratum,
or bed of blueish clay, some twenty or thirty feet be­
low the surface, to which, if the settler sinks a well,
he is sure of excellent and durable water.
All the grains, fruits, and plants of the temperate re­
gions of the earth grow luxuriantly in Illinois, Iowa,
and Wiskonsin. Wild fruits, such as crab-ap­
ples, berries, wild plums, strawberries, &c., are in
abundance, and at present supply the place of tame
fruit in the newly settled portions of the country. For­
eign vines are susceptible of easy cultivation. Excel­
lent fruit is produced from the prolific indigenous vines
of the country, and doubtless all the exotic plants and
shrubs will flourish tb'Sre. ' Wild plutns of almost un­
numbered varieties, grow in profusion, and the deep
recesses of the forest abound in wild grapes, whose
purple clusters crown the vines in most gorgeous and
tempting display. Some of these fruits ripen very
early in the season. When we were in.Folton Co. 111.
they had ripe strawberries the first of May, and when
we left,(the lfist of May) young peaches were as large
as a good sized blue plum, and the winter wheat was
14
154 Missionary tour
heading out, and on the eighth of June, in Iowa, new
potatoes were large enough for family use.
The Buffalo has taken his march for the Rocky
Mountains, and is not found roaming upon the cultiva­
ted prairies. We were informed that they kept their
march for the wilderness in advance of the Indians.
Between the Wapsipinican and Makoquita rivers, the
elk has been seen in large herds. Panthers are sel­
dom seen, and when they make their appearance, it is
in the aspect of wanderers. We only heard of one
while there, and that was seen by a traveller ^hile
traversing a large prairie, far from inhabitants, “ and
he,” said the traveller, “ was, of an enormous size.”
We came across one grey wolf in our travels, as he
was lurking about the thicket. The country univer­
sally abounds in the mischievous prairie wolf, which is
but little larger than the gray fox, and burrows in the
praries, from which abode he sallies forth in the night.
Foxes, raccoons, opossums, gophars, porcupines,
and squirrels of various kinds are also numerous. Ot­
ter arid beaver yet- inhabit the land. Deer aré also
very numerous, which often sweep across the prairies
in large droves. These, as well as the prairie wolf,
the sportsmen seek on horseback. The black bear
has been seen, but is rarely to be met with.
The speckled trout, white perch, black and rock
bass, pike, catfish, shad, red horse-sucker, white sucker,
eels, sturgeon, shovel-nose-sturgeon, buffalo, &c.,
of an excellent fresh-water quality, abound in the riv­
ers, lakes, and creeks, throughout the entire“western
valley.1
And as for venomous reptiles we were favored with
tb$ sight of but one during ourtravels in that country
apd that cost much extra pains,
- The salubriousness of the climate depends mtich
upon locality. There is a liability and predisposition
to billious diseases, fever, ague, &c., along the low
“ bottom ” lands of the rivers and water-courses. But
the atmosphere becomes salubrious, and entirely free
from “ miasma ” upon many of the uplands and rol­
ling prairies, there being about every day a breeze from
some quarter as refreshing as that from theocean. Peo­
ple frequently get sick from exposures, and then charge
their ill health to that portion ofthe country, through or
to which they have emigrated. Many, while moving
to the west,make their covered waggon their dwelling—
cook by a fire built upon the ground, and then lodge
in the waggon. And many on their arrival, erect a
leaky shanty for the/present, which often answers for
months and sometimes for years, and who would not
“ marvel ” if they did not sicken and die ?----------We
called at some of those “ hovels,” which had been for
a long time the shelter for the family, and if we hap­
pened to tarry through a heavy storm, we could only
find, protection beneath our umbrella from the dripping
rain, as it poured into the leaky apartment. And itwas
not uncommon for us to retire for the night, where the
rain and snow would freely sprinkle us over, as they
sifted through the crazy'shelter. Taking this view of
the subject,who could expect any thing but sickness and
death?. I^nd what climate ought to bear the responsi­
bility ofsuch exposures,or the reproach of notsustaiif-
THROUGH THE WESTERN TALLEY. 155
ing life and health under such ill treatment? What sen­
sible person could thus expose himself,and then charge
his debility to an .insalubrious climate ? In order to
enjoy perfect health, we need to shield the body as
the lid does the eye over which it shuts. What man
could prop open his eyes, and then censure the eye­
lids for the exposure of the pupil to the flood of pierc­
ing rays that fell upon it from a mid-summer’s sun ?
Man is the protector of his own health, in a greater
degree than he is often aware, and accountable for that
treasure committed to his charge.
While reflecting upon this newly settled country,
the mind naturally falls upon the character and con­
dition of the original possessors of the land. While
we were there we had not the pleasure of seeing one
of the sons of the forest. They are now settled in
that portion allotted to them, and so averse are they
to the customs of the whites that they seek an absence
from them. The Sacs and Foxes have been amongst
the most powerful and warlike tribes of that entire
country. They have been a restless and spirited peo­
ple, and consequently, rather inclined to errantry.
They were predisposed to a warlike life, and averse
to agricultural habits ; hence they have ever been,
changing, suffering, and diminishing.. But, notwith­
standing, they are much enfeebled, they still retain
their chivalry, and regardless of the superiority of
their foes, they are ever ready for war. They now num­
ber about seven thousand souls, and one of their maip
villages is situated on the bank of the Iowa, beyond the
United States boundary line. It is the residence of
156 MISSIONARY TOUR
Poweshiek, a Fox “ Chief,” from whom the village
takes its name. Their ideas of futurity are vague,
but they often invoke the favor òf “ Manitou” (Good
Spirit) in war, hunting, fee. The standing of thè
chief is but little above their “ medicine men” and
" prophets.” They paint their face while mourning
the loss of a friend, and the time thus spent is gov­
erned by the affinity of the kindred. Their dress is
composed of a white or scarlet colored blanket, deer
skin moccosins, trimmed with the beads made of por­
cupine quills. They have frequently various fashion­
ed and indescribable head-dresses, and some of them
have their ears hung full of rings and jewels, and a
profusioiyof wampum around their neck. They have
various dances, such as the “ war-dance,” “ council-
dance,” fee. To these are attached feasts too nu­
merous to mention they however, make much of the
"dog-feast.” Since their association with the whites,
they have become very much attached to “ whiskey.”
A writer in noticing their sorrow occasioned by this
wretched beverage, remarks. “ Words would be in­
adequate in attempting to delineate the baneful effects
of this destroying ,poison, introduced by thè enlight­
ened and Christian pale-faces.” They are greatly af-
fécted by dreams, sometimes dejected, at others elated.
They believe in sorceries, and often put to death those
suspected of witchery. In their travels they follow
one after the other, and their paths or trails which
were beaten into the earth, are yet discoverable in
many parts where we travelled.
14*
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 157
158 MISSIONARY TOUR
Notwithstanding their bravery in war, they are
often very much frightened, and run for life at the
manœuvres of some of the steam-boats. They term
them “ Scoti chiemon,” (fire canoes.) However,
they despise a coward, and boast much of bravery,
consequently they seek a title indicative of a “ man-
of-war/’ and he who kills the'greatest number of the
foe, and can inflict the most severe tortures, receives
the greatest wreath of laurels. Their general appear­
ance is wild and savage, and their chief satisfaction
consists in wreaking their torturing vengeance upon
the foe whose misfortune has placed him within their
fiendish grasp. But their friendship once secured, is
forever .sure, and their spirit of kindness runs parallel
with that of envy. As a specimen of their powers of
intellect and eloquence,' I will introduce the speech of
Black Hawk, at the time he was taken prisoner, and
one of a Chief at the tomb of a friend.
Black Hawk being permitted to speak in his de­
fence, remarked as follows :
“ You have taken me prisoner, with all my warri­
ors. When I saw I could not beat you by Indian
fighting, I determined to rush upon, and fight you face
to face. I fought hard, but your guns were Well
aimed, and the bullets flew like birds in the air, and
whizze.d by our ears like the wind through the trees
in winter. My warriors fell around me. It began to
look dismal. I saw my evil day at hand. The sun
rose dim on us in the morning, and at night it sunk in
a dark cloud, and looked like a ball of fire. That
w*as the last sun that shone on “ Black Hawk.” His
heart is dead, and no longer beats in his bosom. He
is now a prisoner to the white men ; they will do with
him as they wish; but he can stand torture, and is not
afraid of death. He is no coward — Black Hawk is
an Indian, He hath done nothing for which an Indian
ought to be ashamed. He has fought for his country­
men, their squaws and pappooses, against white men,
who came year after year to cheat them and take
Sway their lands. He is satisfied; he will go to the
world of spirits contented ; he has done his duty ; his
father will meet him there and commend him. Black
Hawk is a true Indiap, and disdains to cry like a wo­
man. He feels for his wife, for his children, and his
friends ; but he does not care for himself. Farewell,
my-nation ! Black Hawk tried to save you, and avenge
your wrongs. 'He drank the blood of some of the
whites ; he has been taken prisoner, and his plans are
stopped. He can do no more ; he is near his end ;
his. sun is setting, and he will rise no more. Farewell
to Black Hawk.”
“Let the reader now pause and imagine the scene —
A dreary storm of s n o w a mound on the wide prairie
— its top covered with some eight or ten red men,
with their wives — also the wife of Skutah, (the de­
ceased,) with her three children — a few whites were
looking on — all was silence, save the roar of the
winds, and the crackling of the fire which was burn­
ing at the head of the grave.
A large muscular Indian was standing near the
grave, one hand resting upon the hickory monument
of his chief: this is Keashus, the prophet of the tribe,
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 159
160 MISSIONART TODE
he raises his war-club, becomes excited with his sub­
ject, his eyes sparkle, and his whole countenance glows
with passion, as he invokes the departed spirit in the
following strain, which,” says the writer, “ I give in
English.”
“ Spirit of Skutah ! hear us in our lamentations :
thy brothers are around thee. We have come to bury
the remains of our brother Skutah. The prairie is
wide, the mound is beautiful and thy chief is thy
company. Thou wast born towards the rising sun,
and cradled in the beautiful prairies of Illinois. In
thy youth thy bow was strong, and thine arrow sure :
thy cunning discovered the swift-footed deer, and
thine arrow hast found his heart. Thou hast stolen
upon the wolf in his lair, and thine arrow was certain
death. Courageous were thy youthful sports, for thou
wouldst steal upon the young panther from his den,
and play with the poisonous serpent, and tame the
prairie wolf. Skutah, in thy manhood thy brothers
loved thee, for thy heart was full of courage. Thou
hast raised the war-club, and struck down thine enemy ;
thou hast been faithful to thy nation, and the Great
Spirit will bless thee. Brave and honored Skutah !
true was thy rifle, always sure, and, like the serpents
rattle, its click was a warning of death. Skutah,
thou hast lived on the banks of our beautiful river.
Now we turn with sorrow to the ravages of the white
man. When we returned from the hunt laden with
game, when we came tô our birth-place, the home of
our fathers, where we worship the great Manitou,
there we found the white man. He had burned our
wigwams,imd plpugned up the graves of our fathers.
We remonstrated with the white man to leave our
corn-fields; but his ear was deaf, and his heart was
stone. We plead our fathers’ graves, and the land of
our birth ; but, alas, they drove us from our possess­
ions, as they drive a dog from his mischief. Then we
raised a council-fire — there we broke the pipe of
friendship and peace, and dug up the hatchet in de­
fence of our wigwams.
That was a dark day for our nation. Then stood
our brother foremost in the hour of danger with Black
Hawk, pur chief. He sought the pale-faces, and they
fled before him ; his war-cry rent the air with a shrill
sound of terror to his enemies : side by side we main­
tained our rights, till a traitor betrayed our chief, and
numbers compelled us to yield. Brothers, our father
at Washington has placed us on this side of the great
river, and told us to make it our home. .Here are our
hunting-grounds', here now are our homes. Hear us,
O spirit of Skucah ! here, on this mound raised by the
great Manitou rest thy remains ; thy gun is thy com­
pany, and food we provide for thy long journey to that
beautiful land where we can hunt with our fathers, and
never be weary ; where we can drink of the cooling
rills, and never be faint. Brothers, let us imitate the
virtues of our beloved Skutah, that when the great
Manitou calls, we riiay follow him to that happy land
where no sorrow dwells.”
, “An emphatic how', how, from the red men, told the
close of the speech. The grave was now covered,
after which, a little coffee was taken from the fire, and
THROUGH.THE WESTERN VALLEY. 161
162 MISSIONARY TOUR.
served amongst those sons of the forest in tin cups;
also, a tin plate of hotcakes passed around. Some
of the bread was placed in the earth, over the head of
the graVe; a libation of coffee was also poured upon
it; the plate and cups were left on the grave, no fur­
ther use being made of them.”
CHAPTER XV.
Leave Iowa— Appeal to the Church— Bloomington — Muskatine Slue
-r Thunder Storm — Cross the river at Wyoming — Raft of pine boards
' — Illinois City — Isolated Mansion — Green river— Rockingham—*
Davenport— Rock ifover — Health of Climate— Palestine Grove — Be-
loyt— Wiskonsin forest— Arrival at Milton r
After considering all the circumstances connected
with my departure and return to my native land in
season for Conference, and knowing, that as my health
was, I could bp of but little or no service to that peo­
ple, I came to the painful conclusion ofleatlng them,
which intelligence was received with a burst of sorrow
by the anxious crowd that' gathered to listen to the
word of God. My agony of heart on that occasion,
none but the sorrow-worn Evangelist can fully appre­
ciate. The faithful Minister weeps over the desola­
tions of Zion, and toils to repair her waste places, but
under no circumstances have I ever felt half the an-
guish of.soul,. on leaving a people, that I did on that
solemn morn, that I bade those a last adieu, who ear­
nestly besought me to stay with them, and lead them
to the fountain of living waters. We stood upon the
bank of the beautiful Iowa, but its grandeur was lost
to us, while giving and receiving the last adieus. The
tears and sighs that crowned that scene, still live in
our memory, and eternity will only reveal the necessi­
164 MISSIONARY TOUR
ties and agonizing anxieties of that mourning group.
We have often been compelled to leave the lovers oi
Jesus, but then a hope of meeting them in a world of
unsullied glory, sweetens the bitter cup. But in this
case many were without a hope in the atoning blood
of Jesus, and with streaming eyes, entreated us to
arry with them and teach them the way to heaven.
This parting scene was too much for our enfebled
health to endure. We finally tore from their embrace
and left them, perhaps to meet no more in time. Nev­
er, no, never shall we forget the last farewell, that mur­
mured from that lonely group as we started offin our
carriage. We turned to take one more view ofthem as
we were fast leaving them, and they stood gazing upon
each other in lonely selitude. O that God would send
forth some one to their relief; and ifperchance a young
David should read these remarks, may God bless them
to him, and give him a heart to forsake all and fly to
the aid of the destitute.
“ What is life ’tis but a taper,
Soon it vanishes away.”
And what have we to live for but to glorify God in
doing good, and relieving the destitute, and conveying
the glad news of salvation, to earth’s remotest bounds.
Reader, if you have struggled against the light of
God’s word, and the conviction of your own mind,
ask yourself what an account you can give in the day
of “Judgment,” for this neglect of duty. Will hot
tha destitue rise up in judgment against you, and con­
demn you. If you have the true light, fly as upon
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 165
the wings of the wind, and as you go say “ repent, for
the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”
The Church constituted in Iowa, as before said, is
in a very beautiful country, and in Fredonia, a very
convenient location for a large town, being on the
bank of the Iowa River, up and down which the proud
steamer frequently plays, laden with almost every thing
necessary for domestic use in this newly settled coun­
try ; also, safely conveying the traveller up the river
as it winds its way through the green carpeted prairies,
interspersed with groves of timber, all of which are
calculated to give interest and beauty to all around.
Those wishing to communicate with the church, may
address Dr. Enoch Maxson, their clerk. P. O. address,
Fredonia, Louisa County, I. T.
After leaving the people in Fredonia, we drove di­
rect to Bloomington, which is thirty miles below
Rock Island, about three hundred and twenty above
St. Louis, and about twenty from Fredonia. It is the
seat ofjustice of Muscatine county.
Excellent sandstone, a beautiful material for build­
ing purposes, and easy of access, abounds in the bluffs
in the neighborhood of Bloomington. Its location is
somewhat romantic. Just below this town is the head
of Muscatine Slue, which has a current large enough
for steamboat navigation ■— is twenty miles in length,
and the island thus formed is a widely expanded plain,
and its rich carpet of verdure, affords excellent graz­
ing for horses and cattle, which swarm the island.
While we were travelling this day upon the bank of
15
166 MISSIONARY TOUR
the Mississippi, the roaring of the distant thunder­
peals, warned us of the gathering of one of those
thunder tempests which traverse those plains with their
astounding grandeur. I called at the first mansion
and sought admittance and protection through the
storm, which was rushing on with all its astonishing
fury. But when I informed the lady that my son was
very ill with the whooping cough, she positively for­
bade my entrance ; and though there were different
apartments, I could not prevail upon her to suffer her
roof to shield us from the approaching storm. I left
her, saying that I hoped that the God of Missions
would not send a greater plague upon her than that of
the hooping cough. I soon found that it was in vain
to seek for a shelter with any family. When I would
ask for admittance they would flatly deny, and then
exhort me not to stop in the town. After I had given
up, and took a seat in my carriage to take the worst
of it, I was hailed by a gentleman who was on horse­
back. He, after learning my success, said, “ When
you get to that distant house, call, it is mine ; say not
a word about your sick boy, for protection justly be­
longs to you in this land of strangers.” My heart
gladdened at the sight of one humane individual.
But his dwelling was far from us still, and the torrent
of falling rain was loudly roaring behind us. The
roaring thunder, attended with the apparently burning
clouds, and floods of falling water, as they were madly
driven before the raging wind, was lost in the thought
that our child’s health demanded better shelter from
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 167
the approaching tempest than our carriage afforded
us. But we felt that
“ The God who rules on high
And thunders when he please,
Who rides upon the stormy sky,
And calms the raging seas —”
“That awful God is ours,”
And why should we be alarmed, under any circum­
stances. And as the large drops of rain, mingled with
hail, began to beat upon us, we were as composed as
if we were in the palace of a King, and very likely
much more than those who had shut their doors against
us. But about this time the winds divided the cloud
add the clear sky appeared over our heads, and the
storm raged before and behind us for a long time.
While the lightning was playing, thunder rolling, and
rain falling before and behind us, we were unmolested,
except the slippery path occasioned by the falling
rain in advance of us was somewhat annoying to our
team. Though this division of the cloud might have
been only the effect of the contending elements, yet
never did I more forcibly feel the watchfulness of my
Heavenly Parent than at that time. I listened to the
roaring tempest all around — I watched the streaming
lightning as it opened the black curling clouds, and
admired the falling water as it gushed forth in torrents,
while over our heads all was calm. I could but adore,
and with my companion sing praise to God for his
wonderful kindness to us poor unworthy creatures. I
had a consciousness within that the object of my
mission was the glory of God. But why should he
168 MISSIONARI TOUR
pour so many of his special blessings upon us. It is
all revealed in this, “ Goo is L ove.” O what a
sweet reflection it was, that the God of heaven and
earth was ours, and we were his. May we ever
render homage to him who feedeth the ravens of the
valley and thus protects all those who trust in him.
Said David, “ once I was young, but now I am old ;
I have never seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed
begging bread.” We ferried the river at Wyoming.
On the Illinois side of the Mississippi was lashed to
the shore a large “ raft ” of pine lumber, which the
owners said was floated down the Wiskonsin river.
We put up for night in Illinois city. It has a large
name for so small a place. Here I distributed such
“ tracts ” as I had. This town is about one mile and
a half from the ferry on the river, and has a very
beautiful location.
June 10. This day found it so cold as to be un­
comfortable, and we were happy to be clad in our
winter apparel. On one of the prairies we passed a
splendid mansion completely isolated. I called and
asked if happiness was to be found in such solitude..
The Lady replied that it was when religion was the
object of retirement. She farther said, “ We left New
York city that we might thereby escape the snares of
the metropolis and enjoy sweet retirement and we are
happy. A splendid “ library ” graced the apartment
that I entered. At night we staid on Green river, in
a small town called Rensdenburgh. The people were
very kind — sent off their children to receive us, as
they wished not to expose them to the hooping cough.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 169
The rolling banks of Green river, crowned with all
the luxuries of wild scenery, presents a delightful view
to the traveller. This river empties into Rock river,
and Rock river pours its floods into the Mississippi, at
the mouth of which is Davenport, Rockingham, and
the illustrious Rock Island. A quotation must suffice
respecting the last mentioned places.
“ I have approached,” says a writer, “ this point
from all its bearings, and whether viewed from river
or bluff, it is like a beauteous picture, varied in all its
lights and shades. I well remember the first and
lasting impressions it produced upon my feelings. It
was on a bright summer morning in August, in the
year 1836, the sun was fast dispelling the glittering
dews, and every drooping flower was lifting its smiling
crest. On the Iowa shore might be seen occasionally
a gaily"painted warrior of the Sacs and Foxes riding
along the heights, his painted form partially exposed
to view, as his scarlet blanket waved to the breeze ;
his light feathers and gaudy trappings being in admira­
ble contrast with the verdure-clad hills. Then did I
feel the utter incompetency to describe so beautiful a
scene — then could I have invoked the pencil of the
painter or the pen of the poet.”
The distant reader may be skeptical concerning
this high-wrought description. At this I marvel not ;
as, forsooth, the land of song, of Arcadian groves, and
shady bowers, must needs be in sunny Italy, or classic
Greece.
“ I will, however,” he continues, (t add corrobora­
ting testimony of one or two graphic writers, to con-
15*
no MISSIONARY TOUR
vince the reader that nature here has been lavish of
her beauties as well as her bounties.”
“ The country around Rock Island is, in our opin­
ion, the most charming that the eye ever beheld.
Rock Island is, of itself, one of the greatest natural
beauties on the Mississippi. The ‘ old fort,’ not to
speak of its military associations, is, in truth, an object
on which the eye delights to dwell. The flourishing
town of Stephenson, upon the Illinois shore, adds
greatly;to the attraction of the scene; and Davenport,
with its extended plains, its sloping lawns, and wooded
bluffs, completes one of the most beautiful pictures
that ever delighted the eye of man. The interior of
the territory is rich, beautiful and productive. Enter­
prising and industrious farmers may flock in from all
quarters and find a rich reward for moderate toil.” A
correspondent of the New York Star, a gentleman of
much taste, writing from Rock Island, says, “There
are some bright spots in this rude wbrld which exceeds
our most sanguine expectations, and this is one of
them.”
“ In beauty of the surrounding scenery, both on the
upper Mississippi, and on the Crystal Rock, I have
found imaged all the charms I had pictured in my
youthful imagination while reading a description of
the happy valley Rasselas, but which I never ex­
pected to see in the world of reality. The Father of
Waters is a giant even here, three hundred and fifty
miles above St. Louis. It is estimated to be over
a mile and a quarter wide, and is one hundred
miles below Dubuque, and about five hundred miles
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 171
below the head of navigation at the falls of St. An­
thony.”
After leaving Green river we passed up Rock river,
near Dixson’s ferry, then struck off to Palestine grove,
which skirt3 Green river. Rock river is the most
beautiful and limpid stream I ever saw. It often
meanders through the unbounded plains, where there
is not a hill, bluff, or tree to interrupt the grassy plains,
which are gorgeously decorated in floral grandeur.
The surface is sufficiently undulating to give interest
to the scene. A short distance from the river, it is
hardly perceptible ; but as it is approached, the banks
gently fall, and there the crystal stream rolls its proud
wave toward the mighty deep. On the opposite shore
the bank gradually rises and spreads out into another
uninterrupted plain. Thus the river pursues its ser­
pentine course — now it rolls across the green carpet­
ed prairie — soon it is lost in the densely settled forest
trees, which spread their bowery far and wide. Mean­
dering beneath the thick waving foliage to the lower
extremity of the grove, it burst forth again into the
broad meadows. Thus it moves forward through that
fertile soil, giving beauty, health and luxury to all who
dwell within its influence. This is not overrated when
it is called the “ queen of the west.” Perhaps the
Rock river country has not a parallel in the world, for
every agricultural utility, beauty of location, and health
of climate. It is worthy ofremark, that in all the west­
ern prairie country pulmonary diseases are not known,
as a native ofthe land,and when consumption isconvey­
ed there, it soon leaves its victim, unless seated. It was
172 MISSIONARY TOUR
frequently remarked by the people, that an affection of
the lungs was scarcely known, and I was never inter­
rupted while preaching by coughing and hacking in
the congregation. And further, my own enfebled
lungs appeared sound after I had been there a short
time, but the difficulty relapsed on my return to the
east. I have ever thought that if I had staid in that
country the climate would have effected a perfect cure
as far as pulmonary affection is concerned. I called
on my brother in Palestine grove, Lee county.
Many of the inhabitants of this beautiful and rich
country act, as though they thought “ there was no
God.” In conversation with one wicked man, while
he was extolling the country, we asked him to estimate
the contrast between those green carpeted prairies,and
the dread abode of the finally impenitent. His coun­
tenance fell, and he acknowledged his wretched con­
dition while unreconciled to God. He, with his
blaspheming associates soon stole away, and we were
the only visitors left at this inn. If the awful condition
of those justly condemned by God’s holy law, disheart­
ens the rebel, what must be the effect when justice
thunders forth the heart-rending sentence, “ depart from
me ye workers of iniquity, into everlasting fire, pre­
pared for the devil and his angels ?” May sinners
awake to their awful condition before it is eternally
too late 1
After spending a few days at my brothers we left for
Wiskonsin. The first day, about five o’clock, we came
to a grove where we sought for entertainment, but was
refused. They said it was but a short distance across
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 173
the next prairie, and the road was good. We started
on through the grove, got out of the road and was
much detained. When we entered the prairie the sun
was about one hour high, and we could not yet see the
grove to which we were destined. The road never
was much travelled, and the high grass had almost
obscured the little path, so that scarcely a vestige was
left traceable. Some days before, there had been a
team through the high grass, and its trail was yet visi­
ble, so that by this we were enabled to keep our course.
What was still worse, the way led through a marshy
plain for about six miles, and the uneven surface tend­
ed greatly to impede our progress. We expected this
night would be spent upon the wide extended plain,
and that the cold earth would be our pillow— the
blue vault our covering. I remarked that it would be
a calm, clear night for such lodgings, and that many
had before us, taken the heavens for their curtains,
and the earth for their couch. There was no stone,
for a pillow like that of Jacob’s, no fuel to feed a flame
by which to warm ourselves, but a forest of high grass
was threshed about by the wind, and as far as the eye
could reach, it was one uninterrupted plain. We has­
tened with all possible speed, and just before dark we
could faintly discover the “ foliage ofa wavering wood,”
which was hailed with joy. Towards it \ye bent our
course. Before we entered the grove the stars were
peeping from their lofty abode.
The pale moon was rising as from the midst of the
broad expanse, with her “ borrowed” light to cheer
the weary pilgrim as he traversed the lonely plains.
174 MISSIONARY TOUR
The shrill notes of the nightingale, and the yelp of
the mischievous “ prairie wolves,” were echoing from
rill to rill, as we were bending our steps to the hamlet
before us. Soon however, we were gladdened by the
glimmering taper which was flitting behind the win­
dow of some humble cottage, and ere the perfect
gloom of night had wrapped all nature in deep slum­
bers, we were sheltered, and when a storm was burst­
ing forth in all the fury, common to those that drive
across the valley of the Mississippi, we rejoiced at
our good fortune in obtaining a shelter from a storm
which had so unexpectedly made its appearance.
17. Passed through Beloyt, which is situated just
across the line, on the Wiskonsin side. This village
resembled Eastern style the most of any I had seen
for months. It intermingled with the grove that skirt­
ed the town, and the taste displayed by the inhabi­
tants in the order of the streets, and grandeur of their
edifices gave interest and beauty to the scene. When
I first entered a forest of shrubby burr oak, in Wis­
konsin it was so diverse from what I had before seen,
that I was ready to fall out at once with the country;
but the longer I was there, the more interesting it be­
came to me. When about twenty miles from the line
I called at a house to enquire for Mr. Joseph Good­
rich’s, on Prairie Du Lac ; after the gentleman answer­
ed my enquiry, he said, “ And what do you think of
our country ?” I told him I thought they should hitch
a tackle to the forest and raise it out of the ground
about as much more, and then it will do. He said
the trees were long enough, but they extended into the
ground about half their length.
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 175
On examination I found that the roots were buried
so far in the earth, that the inhabitants could plough
close up to the body of the trees, which stood about
as near to each other as the trees in orchards, and in
the most of the Wiskonsin woods there is little or no
underbrush to prevent the plough from going beneath
the green turf, as in an old cultivated field. And
generally there is only a large central root descending
ten or twelve feet, with small ones branching out, pre­
senting the appearance of an inverted cone. The
woods afford the best of pasture ; and the prairies that
of the meadow, which are excellent for mowing; and
all the emigrant has to do is to fence what ground he
wishes to cultivate, and enjoy the rich provisions of
nature for pasture and meadow. Wiskonsin is more
densely timbered than either Iowa or Illinois. About
ten miles north of Prairie Du Lac which is in Rock
county, about tsventy miles from Beloyt it is heavily
timbered. Wiskonsin may be considered a timbered
country, interspersed with prairies. And yet there is
enough prairie land for the convenience of the settlers.
The most of the farmers choose the openings in pref­
erence to prairies. On our arrival we found the
friends happy and healthy.
CHAPTER XVI.
Wofship — Cross Rock River KuskanUng Lake — Timber — Couii*
tty west of the river — Ancient Fort— Black Hawk's Camp Ground-
Large Spring— Gravel Mound— Vokestq— Meetings— Population—
Industry— Joseph Goodrich's Location — Visit at Elder Babcock’s—
Schools — Influence of Alfred Academy — Ancient City.
18th. Sabbath ; I this day had the happiness of
seeing and preaching to a congregation of friends, with
whom I had often worshipped in my native state.
This was a day of unusual delight to my soul, and I
think, to many others. o ur hearts had often been
refreshed in other lands, and we found that religion
and holy fellowship was the same in every clime.
The feast was the more enjoyed by us, as we bad for
months been with strangers.
20. In company with Eld. Coon and lady, we ford­
ed Rock river, on the way to some of the brethren who
are located about six miles west of the river. We
crossed the river at the foot of Kuskanung lake, which
is seven miles long, and three wide, through it,
Rock river rolls its waters. It is skirted on all sides
with the scattered oaks, which are bestrewed all over
the hills and bluffs ; and as before observed, the sur­
face of the earth is finely clad in green grass, beauti­
fully decorated with blossoms of almost every descrip­
tion.
MISSIONAR? TOÜR. 177
The river where we crossed, is forty-nine rods wide,
and averages in a low time, about three feet of water.
It was so clear that the smallest pebbles were easily
seen. The west bank is bluffy, and has some mounds
and banks resembling forts. The location at the foot
of the lake, was exceedingly romantic. The timber
on the margin of the river, and foot of the lake was
very tall and thrifty, which extended about three miles
back, and then tapered into the burr oak again, which
was interspersed with prairies of a marshy inclination.
Brooks and springs are in abundance in that section.
About six miles farther back, the country widens into
rolling prairies, which are well supplied with groves,
springs, and brooks. Here is a great section of coun­
try unsettled, and those who are first, may suit them­
selves, if they can be satisfied from nature’s domain.
They were breaking up the soil in large quantities.
Some used one span of horses, and others two. We
this day in travelling through the openings, and across
the prairies, which are small, found many excellent
springs of clear cold water, which soon formed the
rippling brook, in which this section of country
greatly abounds. The bed of these springs was fine
white sand, and the water exceedingly cold. One lot
of land had on it a portion of prairie and woodland.
From the prairie the bank gradually rose, ai the base
of which, there was an excellent spring. I thought
this farm was worth going there to possess. On one
of the plains we saw several ridges, which had the
appearance of being cast up, resembling demolished
walls that had been built across from side to side. On
16
178 MISSIONARY TOUR
both sides of Rock river, at the foot of the lake, were
several mounds that resembled demolished edifices,
others, depositories for the dead. One of them was
“ dug into,” and in excavating, there would first ap­
pear earth, then ashes, and then bones of human skel­
etons. These different layers or strata, was found to
extend far into the mound. Some who were present,
gave it as their opionion, that those buried there, had
their friends burned upon the funeral pile.
On the east of Rock river is every appearance of
an ancient fort. And in some places straight ridges
run to great distances, from which others would strike
off, forming right angles. In these were often found
open spaces, resembling gate-ways. Every thing
about the foot of this lake was indicative of ancient
architecture, and that too, of a greater skill than the
Aboriginals ever evinced. Here was the camp ground
of Black Hawk’s army, and their flag staffs were still
standing. Black Hawk’s staff was the top of a sap­
ling, and the limbs were left as long as possible, on
each of which he hung a flag. The trunks of many
of the trees were painted with the hieroglyphics of the
“ red man.”
22. The people gathered in one of the dwellings
at the foot of the lake, and we, in our different ca­
pacities worshipped Him who alone is worthy.
23. We left the river and went about twelve miles
east, through beautiful prairie and woodland, to Dea­
con Wm. P. Stillman’s. About sixty rods from his
line he led us to a large spring. About thirty feet
below the head, it was fifty feet across, and its depth
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALL'EY. 179
was about eighteen inches. The head of the spring
formed a semi-circle, and for about forty feet below
the upper extremity, the water boils up through a
thousand different orifices, from its gravelly bed. The
stream formed by this mammoth of the west, flows
beautifully, meandering through the plain, which is
headed by the circling forest hut a little above the
spring. This prairie is about one mile in width, and
extends down the stream until lost in the interming­
ling forest. As this beautiful plain is skirted on either
side by the lofty trees, the foliage waving by the
gentle breeze fans the weary traveller as he pauses to
refresh himself from the crystal fountain, which so
profusely boils from the bosom of the earth.
From the spring the banks gradually rise, forming
an inclined plain until they are lost in the expanse
above. The highest banks may be some twenty feet
above the level of the spring, which it encircles, leav­
ing only a passage for the flowing waters, and from the
summit gracefully descends to the water’s edge, cov­
ered with a floral carpet. The whole forms a lively
picturesque scene, and a master-piece for the painters
skill. On this spot, the traveller may recline and
gaze with wonder and admiration until lost in this de­
lightful field of contemplation. While I was there, I
thought that nature never formed a more enchanting
seat for him who takes delight in studying her open
volume, and surveying the wonders of her hands.
24. In company with Elder S. Coon, visited a gravel
mound which is in a forest. It is about two hundred
feet in diamater at the base, and rises about thirty feet
180 MISSIONARY TOUR
in a conicle form. It iscomposed of finegravel stones,
and is as perfect in its form as though put there by the
hand of art. Our inquisitiveness for the why, and
wherefore, was confounded, nor could we settle upon
any philosophic or artificial cause. On our return we
stopped under a tree, and its outstretched limbs excit­
ed my attention. The trees in that particular section
are short, and have very heavy tops. They stand
very much scattered, and yet the bowery over head is
compact. The trunks of the trees will average from
one to three feet in diameter. The bodies are very
short. The limbs on the tree above mentioned, shot
forth from the body about ten feet from the ground.
The limbs will average from six to twelve inches
through, and most generally shoot forth in a cluster,
when the body is lost in the multiplicity. The first
limbs let off from the tree, shoot horizontally to an
amazing distance. Three limbs of about equal length,
stretched forth from this tree in opposite directions.
Curiosity led me. to pace under one to its extreme
point, and to my astonishment, it led me off from the
roots about forty feet. Indeed the limbs were the
longest part of the tree by far, Many trees in this
forest stretched forth their arms as astonishingly as did
this. This relation may appear magnified to any but
those who have travelled beneath the oaken bow-
bowery of the Wiskonsin forests. In travelling through
those openings, all is green grass, interspersed with
flowers and weeds beneath, and scattered trees, whose
thick woven branches forms a cover over head. But
it is in vain for my sluggish pen to attempt a perfect
ÏHROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 181
description of the woodland scenery of the Wiskonsin
Territory, interspersed as it is with its beautifully un­
dulating prairies. None but those who see can know,
nor does its beauty exceed its fertility. The burr oak
of Wiskonsin are not very large, and being in some
plpces short, and scattering very much, resemble an
old orchard.
25. Sabbath ; The people of our old acquaintance
filled the convenient apartments of a large barn.
When I arrived, I could hardly believe my own
senses. The horses and carriages were scattered
through the grove, and seeing the multitude that had
gathered, I could but marvel. To see such a host in
this infant settlement, all of which had emigrated from
the same neighborhood, as it were, whose faces were
familiar to me, and in so short a time as had been oc­
cupied for that purpose, was an unexpected sight in­
deed. I had known them all, and also knew that all
had left for the “new world,” but was not half aware
of the multitude that could congregate on such an oc­
casion. But few of the church were absent. When
the people were “ seated” I surveyed them, and
searched for those countenances indicative of ill health,
but they were not to be found. All was health, vigor
and activity. Joy beamed forth in every face, the
eye sparkled with gladness, and notwithstanding, we
were in a “ barn,” the people clad as they were,
would have done honor to any chapel in the world.
Eastern tastes, customs and order, were there retained.
Nothing was lost in the migration, but very much
gained. It is true, they were deprived of some of
16*
182 MISSIONARY TOUR
their original pleasures, but all was counterbalanced
in the beauty, health, and luxuries of their newly pos­
sessed homes. I thought them the most happy peo­
ple I ever saw. Natures bounties were heaped upon
them, and added to that, was the boon of religion,
which completes their happiness. Industry, the richest
and most beautiful countries, virtue, good society,
health, and religion were the ingrediants of which their
happiness was composed. And who can ask for more
than this, while passing through this vale of trees.
He must be selfish to excess, that would desire more,
and entirely unqualified to appreciate what he has.
After worship, we called at Br. Goodrich’s. His
location is one of almost unparalleled beauty and con­
venience for agricultural and mercantile operations,
which he oarries on extensively. The buildings lor
his own use, make a “little villa.” Near his door, runs
the road from Milwaukie to Madison, cut at right an­
gles by another in opposite directions. The beautiful
prairie Du Lac, spreads out all around, and the wheat,
corn, and oat fields, richly laden with the thrifty growth
of diversified crops, was truly an interesting sight in so
new a country. South of his buildings, a bank grad­
ually rises to a considerable hill, which is skirted, as
you advance, by the “ waving wood.” It is healthy,
and by digging, good water is obtained in abundance.
Here we were interestingly entertained until the fol­
lowing morning, when we, in company with many of
our friends, left for Eld. D. Babcock’s, where we had a
meeting, and, perhaps, for the last time, worshipped
God together, in that section. Very many of the friends
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 183
came to that place with us, and our parting scene was
one of unusual moment. I could but admire Eld.
Babcock’s location, as it was on the north side of a
very splendid and rich prairie, and on a very public
road. Notwithstanding this, he was isolated from his
brethren, and in a neighborhood of almost entire Infi­
dels, which was calculated to cast a gloom over his
newly obtained pleasures. But the death of a lovely
son had cankered his happiness, and well nigh defeat­
ed all his well laid projects, casting a shroud of ago­
nising sorrow around him and all he possessed. May
God protect him and his family.
Wiskonsin is settled principally from the Eastern and
Middle States. Hence the society is untainted by the
southern atmosphere, and religion is flourishing as in
the Eastern country. The Ministry is not as deficient
there, and in the north of Illinois, as in Iowa, the
middle and south of Illinois, Indiana, and the interior
of Ohio. The people are too well refined, and indus­
trious, to indulge in the vain recreations of the south.
And although a livelihood is easily obtained, the}' do
not lounge away their “ spare time” as in other parts,
by “ shooting matches,” “ throwing the sledge,”
“ pitching quates,” “ ball and card playing,” &c.
Ste. Their time not strictly required for a good and
competent support, is occupied in tasteful improve­
ments on their farms and buildings. Thus in a few
years they will enjoy all the privileges and luxuries of
the East, to which will be added the extra treasures of
the “ West.” At Milton, Rock c-o, the people were
preparing to build an Academy. Schools of this kind
184 missionary TOUR
are springing up ail over the country. I was aston­
ished at the influence cast in Wiskonsin by the students
from Alfred Academy, N. Y. Those young people
who were educated under the direction of Wra, C.
Kenyon, preceptor of that Academy, received a pref­
erence there ; thus that school is spreading its influence,
far and wide, and although somewhat circumscribed in
its privileges, yet the indefatigable perseverance of
some of the proprietors, and the undaunted zeal of its
preceptor gives it an unbounded influence, and after
ages will give honor to the name of those who thus
toil for the rising generation. Vital piety is also a
characteristic of that school, which fully qualifies the
student for usefulness in the “great western valley.” If
every other school in the union would supply its ratio,
in every necessary qualification, they would soon
spread a brilliant saving light throughout the land, and
Infidelity, and Papel priest-craft, with their attending
evils, and fatal infatuation would soon be known no
more forever in this, our beloved country.
27. We bade those friends, who remained at Br.
Babcock’s for the night, together with his family,
adieu, and left for York State. I considered my Mis­
sion accomplished, as my appointed time had already
expired, and I thought best to bend my course as direct
as possible towards Berlin, the place where our Con­
ference was to hold its Session in September. -When
within about one mile of Beloyt, we crossed a point
of the plain, somewhat elevated, and the “ mounds ”
and ridges, which covered several acres, resembled de­
molished edifices and ruined walls. The location was
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLE5T. 185
beautiful, and the objects around very much resembled
the remains of a demolished town. Some of the em­
bankments resembled decayed fortifications. In one
of those situations, tile-paved streets have been traced
for miles, corners of streets have thus been found, and
the base of ancient edifices, by digging, are found to
retain much of their original order. Remnants of flow­
ered crockery hava also been excavated from the ruins.
From what I saw and reasons which are satisfactory
to me, I am of the opinion, that the Mississippi Val­
ley was originally peopled by the “ Antideluvians.”
However speculative this may appear to others ; when
I consider the evidences of ancient towns, cities,
forts, &c., together with the idea that the Ark
could have drifted across the Pacific to Ararat, before
a strong east wind in one hundred and fifty days, and
that in all probability it did not remain passive before
a wind of that description — these with many others,
(which as I design not to discuss that subject here)
I shall not deduce, are to me of sufficient force to ex­
plain the hidden mysteries of the wonders of the west.
That the names of those rivers known by Noah be­
fore the flood, should be given to those where he
landed, is evident, when we consider that he doubtless
knew of no other portion of the world as in existence
except that where he built the ark, and where else
could he think of landing, if on this globe, but in that
very region which he considered to be all there was of
the world. Hence he fits the names to the rivers as well
he could, and he and the world have ever thought that
of course the ark rose up, and was let down in the
186 MISSIONARY TOUR.
same country, notwithstanding the wind blew a heavy
gale enough to sweep away the enormous flood which
rose mountain high, and was as broad as the surface
of the globe. However, as to “ this” or “ that” it
matters not to us, “ What belongs to us is to obey the
God of Eternity, and prepare to usher into the pre­
sence of Him who alone knows all things, and will
reveal to his children all that is necessary to their
happiness.”
CHAPTER XVII.
Rosco County — Gale — Two men shot by a mob — Visit with a brother'
— Thunder tempest— Cross Fox River— Chicago — Ditch resembling a
Canal — Sand Banks — Michigan City — Grand River— Wheat— As­
pect of the Country— Health— Centreville — Elder Tylers — Tecump-
sity— Maume Swamp — Sandusky — Temperance Hotel at Cleaveland
— Arrival at Home.
After leaving the territory, we passed down Rock
river, through Rosco, a flourishing town on its
banks. At about sundown the streaming light­
ning, and heavy thunder warned uz of a gale at
hand. We hastened with all possible speed to a
dwelling, and sought admission for the night, but was
flatly denied by a savage looking man. I told him of
the storm, our ill health, the approach of night, &z.c.,
but to no effect. I pronounced him “ a hard one,”
and drove on. He said I could not get a shelter short
of two miles, but, a few rods from him was a good farm
house, where I was cordially received. Here a trifling
incident occurred, which to me might have been very
serious. They had but one stable, and that was oc­
cupied, and I hitched my horse under an open shed.
The roof was made of polls, or rails, and on it was ten
or fifteen hundred of wet hay. After all was fixed,
and we were seated by the fireside, I began to fear
that my team would get away, and hired them to give
me the stable, which they did, and did not fasten their
188 MISSIONARI TOUR
horses under the shed, but to a wagon. During the gale
the shed was blown down, which would have killed both
of my horses if I had not moved them. Thus I thought
a trifling expense, and a little care, saved my team.
During the evening I learned the character of the man
who rejected us, and found him an unprincipled
wretch indeed. He had been the ringleader of an
awful, and diabolical fray. As near as my memory
serves me, it was as follows : Three men were taken
up for murders, but were discharged, after their ac­
quittal, a mob led by the above mentioned man, or vil­
lain, pursued them, took them, and condemned them to
be shot, and pitying the boy, released him. They
were a Father and his two Sons. Fifteen minutes
was all the time allowed them to prepare for death —
the son became frenzied before he fell. The father
was to be executed first, then the son. The younger
son was compelled to stay and see his father and
brother executed, and if he shut his eyes he could but
hear their groans, which but too faintly uttered their
agonies. So eager was the wretch before alluded
to, to be sure of his victim, that he fired when at the
number four, putting a bullet into the poor man’s fore­
head. When the young man was to be shot, one that
was selected lailed, and this demon in human shape,
took the tifle and shot him, saying, “ I have shot one,
and can another.” This was related to us by the
son of the gentleman with whom we tarried for the
night, who said he was an eye witness, and being out
with his father’s team, was compelled by the mob to
use it to accomplish their diabolical purpose. He said
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 189
the groans and shrieks of the victims were heart-rend­
ing indeed. It will be remembered that this affairwas
circulated in the public prints, and that redress was
sought for, and although one hundred and twelve men
were arrested, no satisfaction was obtained. I only
mentioned it here to show the character of that wretch,
who is destitute of human feelings. If I believed in
Devil’s incarnate, l would call him one.
28. Arrived at my brothers again in Palestine
Grove, where we stayed until July 4, to refresh our­
selves and team before leaving for home.
On the 4th of July we left, and about noon were
in one of the heaviest gales I had witnessed in the
“ valley.” A constant stream of lightning, followed
by heavy peals of thunder was poured upon us for
about one hour and a half. Even the beasts appeared
very much annoyed, and some of them not a little ter­
rified. This come just in season to drench the inhab­
itants as they were partaking of their “ Indépendance
dinner” beneath the woven bowery.
After putting up for the night, another terrible storm
burst with all its horrors over the land. At times the
black volume of clouds over head, seemed rent assun-
der by the flashes of lightning that quivered along the
earth, and made the succeeding darkness doubly terri­
ble. The thunder’s bellowed over the wild prairie
lands, and were echoed and prolonged by the sur­
rounding hill and dale.
5. We crossed Fox river, and spent the night with
those with whom we had often worshipped in our na­
tive land. This portion of Illinois, I considered not
17
190 MISSIONARI TOUR
quite as productive as that on Rock river. But its
location being so near the lake, gives it the preference.
When I left Rock river, wheat was ripening very fast,
and was the heaviest I ever saw. . The inhabitants
were preparing to gather their harvest. As we ap­
proached Chicago, we were led out upon a narrow
elevation, through a marshy region, which is inundated
in the rainy season. In some places it was also cov­
ered with trees, and it was not only very convenient,
but exceedingly pituresque. When this terminated,
we were about nine miles from Chicago. From this
point, there was a pike cast up through the marsh to
the port. I am deceived if Chicago is healthy at all
seasons. For miles around, the country must be
overflowed a good portion of the year. But the har­
bor is good, and the town a mammoth to what I had
expected. Here I went on board of a steam-boat in
order to take a passage down the lakes, but the gen­
tleman I saw was two-thirds drunk, and extravagant
in his charges, and to follow out my temperance prin­
ciples, I could not countenance his inebriation by giv­
ing him money if I could possibly avoid it, and this I
could, and did do, and came on by land. We then
bent our course for Michigan city, and found that the
most of the way from Chicago to Michigan city, is a
barren uncultivated, sandy region, with but few set­
tlers, and mostly tavern-keepers. These scatter over
a distance of about sixty miles. On our way we
travelled along in a ditch, resembling a canal, this
run in a direct course for many miles, where it begins,
or ends is unknown, and how, and for what it was ex­
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 191
cavated. Some shrubby pines are scattered over the
sandy plain, often sand-banks rear themselves like
hills, these I should judge, were moveable, and were
often changed by the wind. Michigan city is built in
amongst a forest of these sand hills, and but for the
harbor it certainly could not exist. The sandy roads
along this region are intolerable for a team. Near
this place we fell in company with Fitch Brown, a
gentleman from the east, and we accompanied him
home, where we spent the Sabbath. He resides
on the road from Michigan city to Detroit, and about
fourteen miles from the former place. The northern
section of Indiana for fertility of soil, and rural scen­
ery, very much resembles some portions of the Rock
river country. However, the time is past for a good
selection in that farming region, and will soon be in
much of the country through which we passed.
While many who expect to settle in that new and rich
country, are waiting for others to cultivate convenien­
ces for them, they will find these things counterbal­
anced by the loss of every choice location.
11. Left for Eld. Tyler’s, in Michigan. About
noon we crossed St. Joseph’s river. This meanders
through a very fertile country. Michigan may well be
noted for its wheat productions, but the quantity may
not be attributed so much to the fertility of the soil, as
fo the vast extent of territory which they cultivate
for wheat. The country was almost one uninterrupted
field of wheat, which was about ready to harvest.
The forest trees were girdled over much of the coun­
try, and the smaller production of nature being taken
MISSIONARY TOUR
192
off, prepared the way for their wheat. It was novel
to see the wheat and lofty oak standing on the
same ground. The wheat was light for common, and
I was much disappointed in the State at large. The
prairies are most all of them marshy. And that por­
tion of the State through which we passed, was bro­
ken, bluffy, and far frdm presenting a pleasing aspect.
But this country coming so far short of the western
valley, may not have received its proper value in our
estimation, for surely, I was as much disappointed in
Michigan as any country I ever saw. As to its
health, but very few make any pretence to its being
any other than sickly. The water and the visage of
the inhabitants were very indicative of an extremely
unhealthy climate. In many sections death has made
awful ravages. Some small villages were almost for-
saken by the inhabitants. A small village near
Coldwater, is almost depopulated by the unflinching
hand of death. Those forsaken mansions appeared
very gloomy. Never, no never, did I see such
desolation, and devastations as was there depicted by
the ruthless hand of death. When I passed through
the State they were looking for the accustomed fevers,
to scourge the country again, and indeed, many were
already contending with their giant grasp.
12. Passed through Centreville, in St. Joseph’s Co.,
and about seven miles from there, we found Eld. Job
Taylor. For a specimen of the water, I will notice that
our boy was thirsty, and they gave him to drink of
some which had stood all day in a barrel for domestic
purposes. This vomited him, nor did he recover un*
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLET. 193
til the next day after we left. They were, however,
digging a well, which, if it does no more, will prevent
them from using water from a barrel. Some parts of
Michigan, are said to be very healthy, which I presume
is the case, but not much of the country where we
travelled. Grand River Country, where Br. Church
lives,i s said, and believed to be salubrious. I was griev­
ed to find as faithful a minister as Br. Tyler thus isolat­
ed, and out of his useful sphere. With him I tarried one
night, and then left, knowing my time to be too short
to make any more stay of importance any where.
From that I came on to Tecumseh, where I spent the
Sabbath. After leaving Tecumseh, we passed through
Trernansville to Perrysburgh. Thence through the
Maumee, or Black Swamp, so much noted for its den
of counterfeiters. Through this swamp the road is
Macadamized, and very good. We called at the house
of the lady, who, after having clandestinely married
one of the counterfeiters, learned their plan and den,
and then exposed the entire band, much to her pecu­
niary embarrassment. While on this road in the swamp,
my horses were much frightened by the approach of a
caravan, headed by a huge elephant.
17. Passed through Sandusky, a very likely looking
town. The country along the Lake shore is the most
of it, very good, and there are many flourishing vil­
lages.
20. Stopped for the night at the Temperance Ho­
tel, in Cleaveland, which is kept by Mr. Cook, and is
a very excellent bouse. I would here observe, that
in mqst of the Western Country, notwithstanding their
17#
194 MISSIONARY TOUR
amount of irreligion, the best public houses are staunch
temperance. A man of respectable appearance, is
noticed with a jealous eye, who frequents a grog-shop,
much more he who peddles out the liquid death. It
will be observed, that at Cleaveland, Ohio, we struck
our advance route, and hence, but little may be said
about the return to our home, where we arrived on the
twenty-eighth of July, and was received with the
warmest gratitude by our Church and friends at
large. Happy were we, again to return to the
bosom of that lovely society where we had spent so
many happy seasons. We had passed through many
trying scenes, but the Lord was our stay and staff.
We bad met many friends, travelled far amongst
strangers. But our faithful Guide and Supporter had
been our constant companion. Many had died around
us., but we were preserved; and we praise the Lord
for his special preserving mercy bestowed. During
the trip we have often considered our case as deplor­
able, but, we ever found a passage through all diffi­
culties. Praise the Lord for his guardian protection.
We have also formed many new acquaintances with
the friends of Zion, and though we meet no more in
time, we hope to hail each other’s hapified spirit on
the fair banks of deliverance, when
“ The wicked cease from troubling,
And the weary are at rest.”
In view of the wants of the people at the west we
ask
Lo! child of God, hearest thou the plaintive song?
That rolls the Mississippi vales along,
THROUGH THE WESTERN VALLEY. 195
Mounts on the air, with dread impetus driven;
Each accent speaks, Where is the road to heaven ?
Angelic spirits seize the sad acclaim,
And waft to the realms of bliss again,
And up before th’ incarnate Son, unroll
The howling miseries of the expiring soul.
Grasp then the hour, nor fly from scenes ofwoe,
Thy crown in heaven with diadems shall glow,
Enrolled with angels, and with angels blest,
Bask with thy God in unmolested rest.
APPENDIX.
Leave for Berlin — Conference — Visit R. I. — Call at New London —
Westerly — Attend a Meeting with Eld. Crandall— Leave for York
State — Recalled — Return— Commence a Meeting at Pawcatuck— It
is held eight weeks — Concise account of its success — Conclusion.
After spending about two weeks in Richburgh, N.
Y,, we left for Berlin, Rensselaer Co., when the Con­
ference was to convene. About two weeks after
the rising of that body, left for R. Island and Conn.
Spent about one week in New London, and Water­
ford, and then came to Westerly. The first meeting
we attended of importance, was in•Rockville, where
about thirty members were added to the Church. This
meeting was conducted principally by Elders Greene
and Campbell. I tarried until the quarterly meeting at
the old Hopkinton Church, when in company with
Br. L. Crandall, wre continued a meeting about ten
days, which resulted in the conversion of some souls.
20. Took leave of our friends for home, and calling
at Westerly, preached in the evening to a crowded
house.
21. Left Pawcatuck for Berlin, and stopped for the
night with the brethren at Mystic. About ten o’clock
in the evening, a messenger arrived from the First
Day Baptist’s Church, in Westerly, requesting me to
return and hold a series of meeting there. I had made
APPENDIX. 197
repeated efforts to leave R. Island, but could not suc­
ceed before, and then was followed by the Macedonian
cry, “ come over and help us.” It was against my
previous calculations, and will. But I dared not re­
fuse, consequently, on the day following, I returned,
preached in the evening, and had but few hearers. I
soon learned that the wish for a protracted meeting at
that time, was far from being unanimous. Some'at­
tended the meetings, but for nearly two weeks the
number was comparatively small. At first I was at a
loss to ascertain my duty, respecting an effort, but
after fasting and praying, became decided.
At length, the people became interested, and the
holy fire began to burn, saints to weep between the
porch and altar, back-sliders to return, and sinners to
cry for mercy. Then the wheels of salvation rolled
on, soon the sceptic, infidel, universalist. rich and poor,
and all, of all complexions and conditions, began to
cry out, “ Men and brethren, what shall I do ! The
scene was changed — the spirit of prayer was poured
upon the church like an overwhelming flood. Some
of the most powerful displays of God’s Spirit was re­
alized. It was said that in some of the prayer meet­
ings, the agony for sinners was so great, that
nothing but the deepest struggling groans was heard
from all. Thus God’s people would agonize for par­
ticular individuals, for an hour or more, when they
would receive in spirit an assurance that their prayers
would be answered, then the glory like a cloud would
be let down upon them, and they would be prostrated.
Soon, all would arouse, and again in the most bitter
198 APPENDIX.
groans and agony, plead for sinners, and each time,
different individuals were specified. Thus alternately
would they receive an agony of soul for sinners, and
a burst of joy for the plan of salvation. I was not
present at any of these special prayer meetings, but
the most sceptical observer pronounced them led by
no less than the Spirit of the Living God.
I should remark, that, notwithstanding the power of
this display of God’s grace in this revival, it was ob­
served by strangers, that in the most candid and de­
liberate manner, sinners would engage in the work,
and although in all places, there is more or less com­
bustible matter, yet there was very little “ wild-fire”
exhibited during the meetings. Sometimes, many
would stay and pray all night, in the sanctuary, and
often poor convicted sinners, would spend the night
alone in the house, begging for pardon.
The shouts of the redeemed, the groans of the con­
victed, and the agony of the Church, were sometimes
thrilling inlhe extreme. I often thought the Sanctu­
ary was full of celestial spirits. Heaven and earth ap­
peared to be mingling their inhabitants, and God was
becoming all in all.
The spirit of religion increased until the spirit of
opposition rose to such a degree that one man took
the anxious seat on a wager, thus defying God, and
the prayers of his people. This was followed with
such a scene as I never before witnessed. There we
were challenged, “ Goliah like” by one man, and
none but the invisible God could give the victory.
The people were exhorted to confide in God, and
APPENDIX. 199
take him at his word, reference was made to bible il­
lustrations of the power of prayer, and certainty of
God’s defending his own character. Religious anec­
dotes were referred to, &tc. The feelings of the peo­
ple rose higher and higher, until the speaker fell upon
his knees, when all at once groaned forth their feel­
ings before Him that hears the prayers of his people.
The result was, God did as he ever has done — answer
prayer, and honored his name in converting that
man to the religion he had so much despised. One
more daring case of somewhat similar circumstances
occurred, nine young men gathered in the gallery*
and challenged one of God’s servants to pray in their
midst, which was soon done. This was doubtless as
solemn a season as was ever witnessed in this place.
God’s people trembled at the daring wickedness ofthose
blinded sinners, and many of those who did not pro­
fess religion, were confounded at the deed. At the
close of the prayer, seven of them made their way to
the anxious seat, and soon were converted. Thus
God gave an immediate victory on Zion’s side. And
thus he always delights to do when his people call
upon him with their whole heart. These young men
are now I believe, all of the nine faithful soldiers in
the cause of God, Thus~the meeting continued with
increasing interest for two months. During those
meetings, it was my lot to preach forty-nine evenings
in uninterrupted succession, besides frequently in the
*It was afterwards reported that some of them were sincere,
but that was not then so understood, or obviously exhibited.
2 0 0 APPENDIX.
day time. I was enabled to continue in the meetings
about eight weeks, when my health entirely failed,
and I was compelled to leave the spiritual walls of
Zion, Br. Burdick, one of our licentiates tvas my
constant companion, and the Lord was evidently with
him. Added to this, was Rev. Mr. Palmer, pastor of
the Baptist Church, and Rev. Mr. Newman, pastor of
the Episcopal Church.
People of all ages were sharers in this glorious
work. The grey headed who appeared tottering over
the grave, gave themselves up to God, and from that,
down to the Sabbath School scholar. The last eve­
ning I was permitted to attend, was one of deep in­
terest to those who had borne the burden and heat of
the day. The young converts, and reclaimed back­
sliders, were requested to be seated in the body slips,
which was done until for want of room, they were
compelled to mingle with the congregation at large.
Truly, they were an army of newly enlisted soldiers
of the cross. It is believed that all pledged them­
selves that night, enemies of Alcohol. An appropri­
ate address was delivered to them by Br. A. Camp­
bell, pastor of the Sabbath Baptist Church, in Wes­
terly.
Our watch meeting the last of 1842, and first of
1843 was peculiarly solemn, the house was crowded,
and prayer was offered until about twelve, when the
congregation bowed upon their knees, and in secret,
prayed to God while the bell struck twelve. It was
as solemn as the house of death, and great feeling
possessed the minds of the congregation. At the
APPENDIX. 2 0 1
close, one vocal prayer was offered, and the meeting
dismissed. Thus the meetings were continued, and
crowned with more than ordinary success. Br. Camp­
bell was enabled to leave the meetings in which he
had been engaged, and at the time of my failure,
joined his efforts at Pawcatuck.' The heavenly fire
began to burn all around, and soon religious excite­
ments were multiplied, and still souls are being con­
verted in various neighborhoods. These meetings
were conducted, closed, and the churches returned to
their respective places of worship without a division,
or unholy contention. And now may the God of
heaven bless this feeble effort to the advancement of
his cause. And may the church arise and relieve the
destitute in those regions, noticed in this journal as
well as elsewhere. O that Zion would awake and put
on her beautiful garment, when her watchman should
see eye to eye, and lift up their voice together, the
Lion lie down with the Lamb, and Nation’s learn war
no more forever. Thus the peaceful Kingdom ot
Christ shall have perfect rule in the hearts of men,
and the Nations of the Earth. And to the only true
and living God be all the Glory, forever. Amen.
18
MACEDONIAN CRY.
The following lines were sung at the close of a Missionary
Discourse atthelastSession ofthe General Conference. They
were written for the occasion.
Hark! hark! what cry arrests my ear?
It is a distant plaintive prayer:
O friends of Jesus hear!
“ Behold us in these western wilds,
Where vice the youthful heart beguiles,
And rolls its dark career.
“Our souls cry out in deep distress,
Where is the road from wretchednes ?
We die in deep despair.
A gleam of light has pass’d our brow;
To seek its source we know not how;
For help we now appear.
“ A man of Godjust pass’d us by
In haste, he said, 1prepare to die,
To meet your final doom.’
In melting strains he loudly cried,
1In Christ’s pavilion quickly hide,
Secure from wrath to come.’
“We flew, the joyful news to grasp;
He cried, ‘improve, for I’m in haste,
But little can I stay.’
He look’d on us, and as he went
‘Prepare,’ he said, for the event
Of time — for endless day.’
APPENDIX 203
“ We sought his feet, but he was gone;
His message left, his moments flown,
To other fields he fled.
On him we gaz’d—from us he flew,
His visage died upon our view —
We grasp’d what light he shed.
“ Half wak’d, we struggle here in night,
O, Christians ! where’s the perfect light
That leads the soul to God ?
Shall we in moral darkness dwell,
And crowd the road that leads to hell,
Nop flee the fiends’abode?”
O, Christians ! hear their bitter cry,
That rolls the Mississippi by,
And mounts to God above,
O, will you let them plead in vain
Since Christ the Lord for all was slain,
That all might know his love ?
Haste, then, the messengers prepare,
And quickly send them, send them there,
To teach the road to heaven.
May God on high prepare their way,
And as they point to endless day,
Salvation will be given.
When here we fail, in realms above
We’ll bathe eternal in that love
That sends this message round.
With angel’s blest, on seraph’s lyre
Our harps well tuned with holy fire,
Shall joyful praise resound.
