{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__stewart___a_holy_sacred_and_divine_roll_and_book.pdf","mytitle":"A Holy Sacred And Divine Roll And Book","mylang":"de"}
HOLY, SACRED AND DIVINE
ROLL AND BOOK;
FROM
THE LORD GOD OF HEAVEN,
TO
THE INHABITANTS OF EARTH:
REVEALED IN THE UNITED SOCIETY AT NEW LEBANON, COUNTY OF
COLUMBIA, STATE OF NEW-YORE, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Read and understand all ye in mortal- clay.
T"
y
f, - , C I, \ {
- r k. ' - - Vl . - ,
IN TWO PARTS.
PART I.
RECEIVED BY THE CHURCH OF THIS COMMUNION,
AND PUBLISHED IN UNION WITH THE SAME.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED SOCIETY,
CANTERBURY, N.H.
THE X
NEW York \
'PUBLICLIBHARvf
.\Astor, Icncx ^ T f;j( - /
-
^ 1898 ,
12601
ADVERTISEMENT.
The publishers of this work, feel that it is their duty to gay unto all who
may read the contents of the same, that in the compilation and arrangement
of
it,
they have copied the style in which
it
was originally written by the
pen of inspiration
;
that the subject matter
is
preserved entire, and wherever
supply words have been added to the original matter, they are inclosed in
brackets. The contents of each chapter, and
a
part of the leading captions
have been added also for convenience' sake.
Some of the chapters, have been divided for the sake of perspicuity, and
many of the sections also, whore
it
could he done without injuring the sense.
Throughout the work,
it
has been the object to follow the inspired dic
tion, and, in
a
great measure the original manuscript, rather than conform to
the customs of the present ago and day.
In tine,
it
has been the labor of those engaged in the publication of this
work, to preserve the sense as purely original as possible
;
and
it
has been
many times carefully compared with the original for this purpose.
As this
is
the first printed book ever issued by the United Society at Can
terbury, among whom there
is
no regular printer, the mechanical execution
may not be perfect in all respects.
We would also add, that the Society who have published the first edition
of these sacred books, feel that they have, by so doing, answered the require
ment of God unto them, in that respect, and will in no case bec ome respon
sible for any expense that maybe incurred on account of reprinting them
hereafter. All printers who may wish to reprint them, must do
it
at their
own risk.
September, 1843. The Publishers.
CONTENTS.
Page.
Introduction to the Proclamation 1
Proclamation 2
Word of the Lord to one of his mighty Angels .... 5
Word of the holy and mighty Angel to the inspired writer 8
Introduction to the Sacred Roll by the holy Augel . 11
CHAPTER I.
The Lord first announces Himself in his true character, to the
nations of the earth 13
CHAPTER II.
Briefly showing the order of his work with the children of men
in early ages 16
CHAPTER HI.
Of man's probationary state. His disobedience and loss. The
revelation of a Savior &c 21
CHAPTER IV.
Of the law of nature, and order of grace. The Daughter of Zion
declared &c 2!)
CHAPTER V.
Passages of Scripture referring to the coming of Christ ... 31
CHAPTER VI.
Of man's treatment with God's extended offers of charity and
grace ; and of God's dealings with him in dispensations past,
and in the present 36
CHAPTER VII
Of the manifestations of his Holy Spirit, and the manner of his
work, as operating upon the hearts of the children of men,
through visible and invisible agencies 40
CHAPTER VIII.
Passages or Scripture, showing the plain and pointed declara
tions of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the manner of life he re
quired of all who professed to follow him ..... 46
CHAPTER IX.
Solemn words of warning to the inhabitants of earth, never
more to follow the example practiced in the long and gloomy
period of time called the days of antichrist ..... 56
VI CONTENTS.
CHAPTER X. Page.
Passages of Scripture, alluding to the benighted reign of antichrist 60
CHAPTER XI.
Of the dispensations of God's grace to mankind ; the manner in
which man has treated them ; the effects of his disobedience,
and refusal of the offers of grace 68
CHAPTER XII.
Passages of Scripture, referring to the second coming of Christ . 74
CHAPTER XIII.
The subject continued — Declaration and testimony of the Apostles . 80
CHAPTER XIV.
Of the Mosaic law, and of the kingdom and law of Christ; also,
concerning those in heathenish darkness ..... 85
CHAPTER XV.
Passages of Scripture, referring to the second coming of Christ
in the female .......... 8!)
CHAPTER XVI.
Christ's second appearing in the female ; her office and calling as
the Bride, or Spiritual Mother ; and the character of her true
followers 100
CHAPTER XVII.
The office of the three first chosen witnesses separately declar
ed, and further illustrations of those who are their true follow
ers 108
CHAPTER XVIII.
Subject continued —The second witness . . . , III
CHAPTER XIX.
Subject continued —The third witness . .113
CHAPTER XX.
Passages of Scripture referring to the resurrection .... 120
CHAPTER XXI.
Of God's coming to visit the earth in mercy and in judgment . 124
CHAPTER XXII.
Passages of Scripture relative to the peaccablo kingdom of Christ 120
CHAPTER XXIII.
Of the rulers and great ones of the earth ; How their time is spent,
and the leading motives by which they are actuated HJfcS
CHAPTER XXIV.
Of ministers and preachers of a fashionable and popular gospel ; and
of the many ways man has sought out for salvation, but always in
the future .... 143
COHTKKTS. vii
CHAPTER XXV. Page.
The word of the Lord, concerning those who labor to turn the
scale of justice for gain; and those who would prolong disease
in their fellow creatures, for money 149
CHAPTER XXVI.
Of justness, and the goings of the people. Of the confusion,
and troubled state of man. The causes and the effects. 153
CHAPTER XXVII.
The subject continued 157
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Passages of Scripture referring to the present work of inspira
tion in Zion. Some general illustrations and warnings 161
CHAPTER XXIX.
The subject continued 168
CHAPTER XXX.
The subject continued 174
CHAPTER XXXI.
Of harmony, purity and innocence, and the true enjoyment of
the two sexes, in this state. Closing of the Roll . 180
CHAPTER XXXII, IN SIX PARTS.
Introduction to a prophecy of the ancient Prophet Isaiah 187
PART I. Words of the Prophet Isaiah in the first watch,
through his Archer 188
PART II. Words of the second watch, from the Prophet Isaiah
through his Archer 190,
PART HI. Words of the Prophet Isaiah at the third watch,
or hour of twelve ; sent forth in solemn lamen
tation, for all the children of men, both in and
out of Zion 192
PART IV. Words of the fourth or morning watch spoken by
the Prophet 196
PART V. A prophecy from the Prophet Isaiah, communica
ted through two of his Archers .... 201
PART VI. Of the awful judgments and desolation that God
has purposed shall come upon man, if he heed-
eth not his warning voice, and turncth not from
the ways of evil 211
CHAPTER XXXIII
The word of the holy and mighty Angel of the Lord, who hath
read the sacred Roll, and that contained in this book, for mor
tal hand to write 214
Supplementary article by the writer (_ . 219
A PROCLAMATION
OF THE
LORD GOD OF HEAVEN AND EARTH,
SENT FORTH BY HIS BLESSED SON, AND REVEALED IN
FLAMES OF FIRE UPON HIS HOLY MOUNTAIN,
FOR MORTAL HAND TO WRITE.-
INTRODUCTION TO THE PROCLAMATION.
New Lebanon, May 4, 1842.
This morning, between the hours of six and seven, the word
of the Lord, through a Holy Angel, came to me, saying, Arise,
O thou little one, and appear before the Lord, on the Holy Mount;
and as thou goest, kneel seven times, and bow low, seven times to
the earth ; for the Lord hath words for thee to write; and thou shalt
kneel, or sit low, by the side of his Holy Fountain, and the words
shall be revealed unto thee, in flames of fire.
I went, and in obedience to the direction of the Holy Angel, I
kneeled, and bowed the number of times required.
And as I reached the foot of the hill, whereon the Fountain is
placed, language cannot describe the sensations of my soul ; and
the noise as of a mighty rushing wind, or as of distant thunder, did
roar throughout the hill. But as I approached the Fountain, and
seated myself low, to write, all became calm ; and an inexpressible
feeling, as of a consuming fire within, filled my mortal frame, and
prepared me to write the following communication.
Philemon Stewart.
A
2
THE WORD OF GOD,
TO HIS HOLY SON JESCS CHRIST, THE SAVIOR OF MEN.
Take this shart Roll of my word, go forth to earth, and read aloud, upon the
top of my holy Mountain, that one of my servants may understand and cor
rectly write the same.
To this place, I mill cause one of my holy Angels, who shall bear thee com
pany, to lead the one whom I have chosen, even in the first watch of the rising
sun, to the sacred spot of ground, whereon I will cause my word to be revealed
inflames of burning fire.
PROCLAMATION.
Bow down your hearts, all ye who dwell in Zion, and humble
yourselves to the dust before Me, O ye worms of mortal clay ! All
flesh shall wither at my presence, and the deceitful worker in Zion
shall be consumed by the fire of my burning. For much have I
given unto Zion, and much will I require at her hand, saith the
Lord God of Heaven.
For I will have a pure people on the earth, whose hands are
not stained with human blood, nor their souls defiled with sin and
disobedience to the commands cf my blessed Son, whom I, Alpha
and Omega, the beginning and the end, have twice sent forth to
the inhabitants of earth, whom I created in my own image, that
they might bring forth offerings pure and holy, before my sacred
throne.
In tender mercy, and loving kindness, did I send forth my Son,
both in his first and second appearance, that they might learn the
way of peace and salvation, and gain an inheritance in my pure
and holy gospel, while on earth, that would insure them a peaceful
mansion of rest in my holy kingdom, when they had done with the
things of time.
But, Oh ! Ha'len si vas' ta vac la ! Mortal man hath never
been ready, from the earliest ages of the world to the present day,
to learn my will and obey my sacred word, through such means as
I was pleased to send it forth to them.
But my sacred words have been trampled under their feet ; my
PROCLAMATION. 3
law of nature disregarded and set at nought; and in the sacred
path of my gospel, which is the law of grace to the soul, their feet
have not walked. But in other paths their feet have trodden, and
[they have] shed much innocent blood. And other gods than Me,
have their souls bowed down to worship.
Thus saith the Lord God of Heaven and earth; My All-seeing
Eye hath beheld the doings of the children of men, for ages and
ages long past, even to the present day. And a cruel, persecuting
spirit, in all ages of the world, to the present time, hath invariably
risen up against my most merciful offers, to persecute, even unto
death, those who put their trust in Me, and would sooner suffer
death, in any form, than disobey my righteous commands.
But give ear, O earth, and understand, O ye people that dwell
in her! The day of my visitation hath begun, saith the Lord; and
I will never cease, nor cause my hand of judgment to be stayed,
until I have met all nations in their own paths. Mercy and judg
ment are in my grasp ; and my hand of wrath and indignation is
hovering over the earth, and my Angels are passing to and fro,
through every quarter.
And where ever I find a people on the earth, saith the Lord,
who are ready and prepared to keep the commands of my blessed
Son, either in his first, or second appearance, and heed this, my
present warning voice unto them, by humbling themselves, and
bringing forth fruits meet for repentance, which are, humility of
soul, peace, love and good will to all men, and a conscience void of
offence, before Me, their God, and each other ; my hand of judg
ment shall lightly pass them over; and in merciful rays of loving
kindness, will 1 cause my blessings to distill upon them.
But unto such as make light, in this their day, of my warning
voice, and will not even return to the law of nature, as I command
ed the children of Israel, by my faithful servant Moses, in ancient
days; but pass on, saying within their own hearts; "These are the
words of mortals and not of God;" I will surely visit them, in my
own time and season, with sore destruction and desolating judg
ments, till mountains sink and valleys rise, and kingdoms into pie
ces rend.
For I will cause peace to depart from the earth, and an awful
gloom of terror and dismay to spread itself over her face. For I
am the God of yesterday, to-day, and forever; and my spirit shall
not always strive with mortal man to no purpose.
4 PROCLAMATION.
But they shall hear my word in different parts of the earth,
sent forth through the mouths of babes and sucklings. And the
tongues of the dumb shall be loosed, to warn the people to turn
from the error of their doings, and repent before the Lord their
God, that his rolling judgments sweep them not from the earth.
And awful signs shall appear in the firmament of heaven, that
shall cause the heart of man to faint ; and his strength shall fail
because of the judgments which my Almighty hand hath sent forth
upon the earth. For she groaneth beneath her present weight of
sin and wickedness ; and crieth unto Me for vengeance to recom
pense unto the inhabitants thereof, who, by their own disobedience,
have brought this curse upon her.
Therefore, have I, the God of Heaven, in mercy and loving
kindness, seen fit to reveal, in these last days, my word and will unto
my chosen witnesses. And this short roll of my word, saith the
Lord of hosts, I command my witnesses to put up in the yard of
my Holy Sanctuary ; that all such of the children of men, as may
pass this street, upon the side of my Holy Mountain, may read and
understand the same.
But touch it not, saith the Lord of hosts; for I have placed
four of my holy Angels, to guard my sacred word. And let him
that readeth understand ; and judge not my word, judge not my
work ; for my doings are marvelous in the sight of men ; and who
can comprehend my ways, saith the Great I AM.
I have commanded my chosen people, who dwell upon this
Mount, to bow down in low humility before Me, and separate them
selves more from the children of this world ; and worship Me, the
coming season, in a retired situation, humbly supplicating the mer
cy of the Lord their God, both for themselves, and the rest of the
inhabitants of the earth.
Therefore, trouble ye not my chosen ones ; for I have called
them, saith the Lord, and they shall not appear in pomp and splen
dor; but they shall be clothed in meekness, and humility of soul;
clad in the spirit of the Lamb, and the garment of the Savior.
For my people are inoffensive, and will sooner suffer, even unto
death, than resist unto blood. Therefore, in blessing I will bless ;
and in troubling I shall trouble, saith the Lord of hosts.
5
THE WORD OF THE LORD GOD OF HEAVEN,
To one of his holy and mighty Angels of Light, Power and Truth, as He was
about to send him with a sacred and solemn Roll of his word, in mercy to the
inhabitants of a perishing earth, and languishing world.
Draw near before my throne, O ye mighty and holy Angels,
and all ye Seraphs, spread your wings and lie low in breathless si
lence, while I sound forth my word and will to this Holy Angel,
whom I have commissioned to take this Roll, which I have written
with my own hand, and place it safely upon the central dwelling, in
the heart of my Zion on earth; and there it shall remain, until the
time shall come, that I, in my own wisdom, shall send him forth to
read the same for mortal hand to write.
Have ye not beheld my doings, O ye holy and mighty Angels
that surround my throne, how that my hand of charity and mercy,
hath, in all ages of the world, preceded the hand of my judgment?
Have I not always verified unto you, the truth of that declar
ation which I sent forth by the mouths of my Prophets in early days,
that I delighted not in the death of the wicked, but I would, that
all turn and repent, in the day that my hand of charity, and loving
kindness, was stretched out towards them! "Truth, O thou mighty
God of Heaven, reply the Angels."
And have ye not furthermore seen, how that I, myself, in the
everlasting attributes of my goodness, did stoop, and come down
from my throne, and visit the earth on Sinai's top? And did I not
there, on the Mount, engrave my law on two tables of stone, for
the children of Israel, (a people whom I did call with my own voice,)
and give them into the hands of my servant Moses, to establish the
same among the people ; warning him to use all his influence and
power, to have these divine commands kept unbroken?
And at the same time, did I not acquaint him of the judgment
that would invariably follow their disobedience, should the people
persist in so doing?
And cannot all ye holy Angels bear witness that I have, from
the day that I created and placed man upon the earth, held forth
clearly and plainly to his view, both the good and comforting re
wards of obedience, and the painful and distressing rewards of diso
bedience ?
6 WORD OF THE LORD
And can ye not also bear witness, that I have made use of
every means, to bring my creature man into the path of obedience,
even to the destroying of his whole race from the face of the earth,
save a few chosen ones, who, by their faithful obedience, merited
my mercy and protection? "Truth, truth, O righteous God, we
bear thee witness from the foundation of the world, to the pres
ent day."
And can ye not furthermore bear witness, that I, in mercy and
loving kindness, did send my only begotten Son on earth, to open
the way of peace and salvation to a lost and degenerate world, and
that too, after they had broken my commandments, and trampled
my laws under their feet ; and had turned and bowed their hearts to
serve and worship other gods, that would please their own lusts?
and that, with their eyes open, knowing that they were violating the
most sacred laws of Heaven, that had been sent forth for their pro
tection ?
And nought would they learn from the judgments, which my
Almighty hand, from time to time sent forth, to restrain their wick
ed, idolatrous hearts; but as a body of human beings, (whom I had
created after my own image, with immortal souls, and rational fac
ulties, with power to exercise them for their own best good and
comfort,) they would, and did, madly pursue their own course to
their utter destruction; by denying and crucifying my only begot
ten Son, whom I had sent forth, in the sublime order of my glory,
clothed with power divine, sufficient to insure salvation to the whole
human family, had they but hearkened to his voice and kept his
commandments.
And furthermore, O ye my holy Angels, can ye not bear Me
witness, that I did promise through the mouths of my faithful ser
vants, the Prophets, that in the latter days, I would set up a kingdom
which should never be destroyed? And that a stone from the moun
tain, cut out without hands, should grow, and fill the whole earth;
and that the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent's head ?
And did I not say, by the mouths of the Prophets, that in
the last days, the. mountain of the house of the Lord should be
established in the top of the mountains, and exalted above the hills,
and that many nations should flow unto it? That the law should
go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem?
" Surely we, thy holy Angels, bear thee witness, that all is true, O
thou Everlasting Souree of all goodness.
"
TO THE HOLY ANGEL.
Then, O thou mighty and proclaiming Angel, take to thyself
other Angels, and go to the Zion on earth, where, by my Almighty
Power, the windows and doors of Heaven have been opened for
several years past, that the indwellers thereof might converse with
mortals on earth, or with such a portion of them as had forsaken
all for the gospel's sake, in a more remarkable degree of nearness
and freedom, than was ever before suffered, since the earth, by my
hand was created.
There, take to thyself a servant of my name, an instrument
whom I have chosen for this purpose, and prepare him, through
deep tribulation, and anguish of soul, to write correctly, the words
of this Roll, as thou shalt read them unto him.
But before this shall take place, thou shalt show forth strange
and striking signs unto the people, which shall appear both awful
and sublime. For in this Roll to the children of men, have I de
clared the Daughter of Zion, in her proper lot and place, as well
as the Son.
8
WORD OF THE HOLY AND MIGHTY ANGEL,
To the inspired writer, who had been at the Angel's service, many days previ
ous to the writing of this Roll, in showing forth signs, both strange, and in a>
great measure unaccounted for by mortals ; yet evidently showing that heavy
tribulation for the people of God, was even at their doors.
0 thou child of mortality, in whose body life and breath is,
but in whose power it is not, why dost thou seek to evade the suffer
ings and distress, which the Lord thy God hath meted out for thee,
that thou mayest be prepared to do his will, though thy mortal life
should be sacrificed as the consequence, and thy blood should be
required by the hands of persecutors, to seal the truth of the words
which, by his Almighty Power, thy mortal hand hath been moved
to write?
1 say unto thee, fear not mortals, nor the face of mortal man,
who is able to destroy the body only ; but rather fear Him who is
able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
Bow down thine heart, O thou instrument in mortal clay, and
suffer thy soul to drink in tribulation, as a thirsty ox drinketh in
the crystal water. Have not all thy Heavenly Parents bestowed
their strength, love and blessing upon thee, that thou mightest take
thy life in thy hand, and put thy trust in God? Hast thou ever been
forsaken by the spirit of God, when thou didst go forth, in obedi
ence, to do his will ? "Nay, nay, never, never, O holy Angel."
Then, make haste, get thee up from thy slumbers, thou child
of sorrow, no more be faint hearted or dismayed, because of the
word of thy God unto thee, that thou shouldst end thy days under
excruciating sufferings ; for none can find complete happiness,
until they have suffered the final destruction of all the life that is
natural and carnal.
But rejoice in that God who hath called thee to suffer, that
his word, pure and uncorrupted, may be brought forth to the chil
dren of men, according to his divine purpose : for to this end hath
He called thee, and unless thou resignest to his will, thy soul will
WORD OF THE ANGEL TO THE WRITER. 9
pink from his presence, and the blood of the unrighteous who would
have hearkened to his word, had it been sent forth, he will require
at thy hands. But if thou doest thy duty, and they hearken not,
after they have had my word of warning placed before their eyes,
or sounded in their ears, their blood must be upon their own heads.
The Lord thy God, sendeth forth to earth nothing in vain ;
nought of all that he giveth to the children of men, shall again re
turn unto him void. He sendeth it forth in mercy, to all such as
will receive and obey
it,
according to the best light they have; and
in judgment to all such as willfully refuse to hearken and give ear to
the words of solemn warning, which he hath sent forth, stamped
with the seal of his everlasting kindness, to all who turn and repent.
Let him that will, come and partake of the waters of life freely.
For we, his holy and proclaiming Angels, do testify and bear
witness, that the Almighty Hand of the Lord God of Heaven
is
stretched out in wrath, in judgment and in mercy, over the inhab
itants of earth, in
a
more singular and striking manner, than ever
was done before, since
it,
by
his hand was created.
And we do further testify, to all human beings, who may hear
or see the record of our words, that judgments awful, gather rnp-
jdly over the face of the whole earlh. And where ever God does find
a
people, whether they be few, or many, who fear Him, by keeping
his commandments, and denying themselves of all ungodliness and
every worldly lust, He will surely cover them with the shadow of
his wings, and hold them in the hollow of his hand, that his destroy
ing Angels, pass them lightly over.
He
is
no respecter of persons, farther than their works render
them objects of his peculiar delight and protection
:
this marked
distinction for work's sake, his attributes of goodness and justice at
all times require him to show. Therefore, put on strength, O thou
mortal child of sorrow, and be patient under sufferings, until the
will of thy God, in writing this Roll, shall be accomplished.
Six hours in each day,
I
will distinctly read from the Roll,
for thy mortal hand to write; the words thou shall clearly under
stand, as
I
sound them forth to thee; but the rest part of the day,
and time, thou shalt labor under severe distress of soul, and great
anguish of spirit.
And so thou must be patient
in
this situation, until
I
shall
have finished reading the Roll, and delivered the word which
B
10 WORD OF THE ANGEL TO THE WRITER.
the Lord my God hath given me ; and, at times, you will be requir
ed to leave writing the Roll, and write the word which is sent forth
for immediate application in Zion.
Be not too anxious to get released from thy present scene of
sufferings. Do all things in the order that God requires, and then
his Almighty Hand will stay and support thee ; and I, his Holy An
gel, will lead thee safely through the work which I have for thee.
11
INTRODUCTION TO THE SACRED ROLL,
BY THE HOLY ANGEL.
Reader, hearken ! Consider in breathless silence, every subject
embraced in the following pages, which you are about to peruse ;
for they are the sentences of your Eternal God and Creator.
And as you slowly pass your eyes along these sacred pages,
pause, and consider the source from whence this sacred volume was,
in mercy, sent forth unto all the inhabitants of the earth ; that it is
the Eternal Source of all goodness, and of your immortal existence.
Then proceed in solemn fear and reverence, considering, that
by the declaration of the Almighty, made in this your day, He has
placed before you that word, by which you shall be judged at his
eternal bar of justice. And as you treat this, his word, so will He
treat you, in the day of his heavy judgment which is at hand, and
of which you have a solemn warning, in the sacred pages of
this book.
Therefore, prepare, make no delay. And I solemnly warn
you, (says the Angel,) make not this book a subject of speculation,
for money's sake^,
for God forbiddeth that his sacred givings should
be so usecTby mortals.
Ministers, professing to preach the pure gospel of Christ, are
required, by the spirit of God, as soon as they can obtain a copy,
to keep one sacred in the pulpit of their house of worship, as direct-
«d in the latter part of this book ; and to be used accordingly.
[See Chap. xxiv. Sec. 50.]
Boards of Foreign Missions, are also required, by his Holy
Spirit, to translate correctly, into other languages, [this Sacred Roll,]
and print copies sufficient to circulate into all foreign nations,
12 INTRODUCTION TO THE ROLL.
throughout Christendom, and where ever missions have been extend
ed, making charges for the books, sufficient only to remunerate
them for their trouble ; and this is to be done, if possible, in two
years' time from the commencement of the year eighteen hundred
forty four, as will be seen towards the close of the Roll. [See
Chap. xxviiSec. 30.]
All printers, who may have a wish to re-print this book, are
under the most solemn charge, ( as will be seen by reading it
through, ) not to alter, add, or diminish, a word herein contained;
[See Chap, xxvt Sec. 33. ] And to make such charges for the
books, of those who may wish to purchase, as will justly com
pensate them for their expense, and no more, saith the Holy and
Mighty Angel of God.
.New Lebanon, Feb. 2, 1843. 12 o' clock. M.
13
THE
SACRED, SOLEMN AND SEALED ROLL,
OPENED AND HEAD, BY THE
MIGHTY ANGEL.
CHAPTER 1.
THE LORD FIRST ANNOUNCES HIMSELF IN HIS TRUE
CHARACTER, TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH.
1. The Lord announces himself in his
true character.
8. AH creation should pass into oblivion,
rather thaa one word of God should
fail.
9. Times and seasons of the accomplish
ment of God's work, seldom given
to his agents to declare.
10. Of the fulfillment of God's promise in
sending a Savior into the world.
11. Of the creation of New Heavens and
a New Earth, and the humbling of
man.
12. Of coming in the night as a thief.
11. Of blessing to those who prepared
themselves at his coming, & c.
1G. Mercy always has preceded judg
ment.
17. Of warnings sent forth in this day.
18. Character of those through whom
God reveals his will.
1. I AM THAT I AM, A God of Justice, of Wisdom,
and op Truth. A God of long Forbearance, of tender Kind
ness, AND LOVING MeRcV. A GOD OF WHOM YE READ, WHO CRE
ATED the Heavens, and the Earth, and all that is therein.
A God who sent forth the overwhelming deluge, to sweep
from the earth's face, even that which I had created in my own im
age, bearing immortality, because of their gross wickedness, in per
verting the order of nature which I had given them.
m2. A God that appeared on Sinai's top, and gave my law, engrav
en upon two tables of stone, into the hands of my true and faith
ful servant Moses, for the Children of Israel.
3. A God who fought their battles when they were obedient,
and suffered their enemies to prevail when they were disobedient;
4. A God that led them to the promised land, and sent, in my
own wisdom unto them, the promised Messiah.
o. A God who hath narrowly watched the doings of the nations and
14 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
"kingdoms of the earth, from the day they crucified my Son, up to
the present time.
6. I AM, is God ; whose power is Almighty, and whose glory
and beauty filleth all immensity and space ; yet the least creature
of my creation, is an object of my particular notice; either in
mercy or in judgment. And with Me, time does not exist, for before
time was, I AM, existed ; and the after Me can never come.
7. Jehovah Jah, is my name; through endless worlds I'm
known ; fulfilling, to the least jot and tittle, that which I have prom
ised through the mouths of my true and faithful servants.
8. All creation, that mortals can comprehend, should pass into
oblivion, rather than one word from my mouth should fail of being
accomplished, let it be spoken through whatever medium it may ;
if I have prepared that medium, I have also recorded it on the rec
ords of eternity ; and all the power that earth and hell possess, can
never falsify one word.
9. But times and seasons, I seldom give to any agent, to declare :
they are reserved in true wisdom, by the Eternal Twain, united
in one. I am that God that did promise, in ancient days, through
the mouths of my faithful servants, that in the latter day, I would set
up a kingdom that should never have an end. This I have done ; I
have begun a kingdom that shall never have an end.
10. I did also promise, that I would fill the whole earth with a
stone, from the Mountain, cut out without hands : This I am also
doing, in my own time and season. Remember that with Me, one
day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day : yet,
the very hairs of your head are all numbered, and the moments of
your lives all counted.
11. I did also promise to create a new heaven and a new earth,
wherein should dwell righteousness. And I did furthermore declare,
that my kingdom was a kingdom of peace ; and for this purpose did
I send my only begotten Son into the world. I did also promise,
that I would cause the loftiness of man to be brought low; and bring
into contempt the honorable and great ones of the earth, (or those
who felt themselves as such,) that the pride of all flesh might be
stained, and my name alone, exalted in that day. This work 1
am now doing, even in the present time in which you live.
12. I am that God who did promise, through the Lord Jesua
Christ, that I would come as a thief in the night ; and warned all
to be prepared, with lamps well trimmed and burning, having oil in
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 15
their vessels, ready to meet the Bridegroom and Bride, and not to
be found sleeping, when their Master should return.
13. And lo, I have come, and cried aloud the watch, but few an
swered ; therefore I called the lame, the halt and the blind to my
feast, and they that were the children of the kingdom I did cast
out, and compelled those from the highways and hedges, to come
in and sit at my table, that it might be Ailed.
14. I am that God who promised, through my blessed Son, that
if any would forsake all, for the gospel's sake, take up their cross,
and follow Me, they should be blessed while in time, an hundred
fold ; and in the world to come, with eternal life. And that all such
as would lose their life for my sake, should find
it;
and all such as
would save their life should lose it. For the Father and the Son
are one, and from the Eternal Essence of my goodness, did
I
send
him forth. [See St. John, Chap. xvii. 11, 21, 22.]
15.
I
AM,
is
God of yesterday, to day, and forever; my purpos
es alter not, neither do they change, with the passing events of time.
16. My attributes of goodness, justice and equity, with an offer
of repentance, have always, in the wise dispensations of my provi
dence, preceded, (in kind and merciful offers to the children of
men,) the heavy hand of my judgment, that they who would, might
turn and be saved.
17. And now, even in this your day,
I
am that God who does,
through means of my own choosing, and vessels of my own prepar
ing, send forth my word of truth, accompanied
by
a
kind and
friendly warning, to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, who
dwell upon the face of the whole earth.
18. Not through vessels polished
by
the arts and sciences, culti
vated
by
man, but through such as are humble and dependent chil
dren, who seek to know, and do my will, as the first, and greatest
object of their pursuit
;
who dwell in
a
humble and secluded posi
tion in life; choosing, rather to suffer persecution, tribulation and
affliction with my people, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for
a
season.
19. Such are the instruments and vessels, through whom the
word of my law shall go forth, from the Zion of my likeness, to the
ends of the earth. Through such as do,
in
truth, yield themselves
as clay in the hands of the potter
;
giving all the honor and glory
to my name, knowing and feeling themselves nought, but poor frail
worms of the dust, whose life and breath
is
but as
a
vapor, that van-
isheth quickly away.
16
CHAPTER II.
BRIEFLY SHOWING TEE ORDER OF MY WORK
WITH THE CHILDREN OF MEN
IN EARLY AGES;
Whom I had created in my own image, saitii the Lord,
to fill a much more honorable and exalted station, in
my view, than that to which they have applied
themselves.
1. Of ihe primitive state of man.
C. Generation, innocent and justifiable,
had it been kept in its order.
7. How corrupted, and the following con
sequences.
8. Of the original design of God in the
creation of man.
10. Man protected, had he kept his recti
tude.
H. Mankind never ceased to pervert the
true order of nature.
12. Judgments suffered to follow, a3 a re
buke.
13. Man still hardens his heart.
14. Of the earth's witness to its Creator.
15. Of the sending forth of God's warning-
17. Violation of the order of nature, Ihe
cause of war and bloodshed.
20. Expressions of the hearts of many,
concerning the judgments of God.
25. Of the call of God to the inhabitants
of the earth.
26. Of man's obstinacy against God, from
the beginning.
28. Salvation only to the obedient.
29. Criterion of the true witnesses of
God.
30. Of the dispensations of justice to
mankind.
1. When I created the earth, and all that is therein, I created
man in a state of free agency, possessing an immortal soul, endow
ed with reasonable faculties, and also with irrational, or opposite
propensities.
2. These irrational, or opposite propensities, could never have
gained such an influence over his rational mind, as to have perverted
the order of his creation, had he kept my commandments, when
first by my hand he was created, and placed in the garden, with
full liberty to partake of every flower, and eat of the fruit of every
tree, save the one that stood in the midst. This he was not to medr
die with on pain of death.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 17
3. But the irrational and inferior propensities working upon his
animal part, seduced him to yield to the pleadings of the weaker
vessel, and disobey the righteous command of his Creator God,
4. By giving way to indulge their natures, the seat of which
gratification was placed in the midst of their bodies ; and this is the
tree, standing in the midst, bearing the forbidden fruit, from which
they plucked, not for the sake of procreation, but wholly for the
sake of gratification.
5. Therefore, the death, of which I had before told them, did
now ensue ; they could no longer stand before Me in a state of true
innocence; for they had basely corrupted that order of nature
which I had strictly commanded them to keep, and violate it not.
6. The times and seasons for them to come together merely for
the sake of propagating their own species, could have been fulfilled,
sufficient to accomplish that end, and [that work] been as justifia
ble in my sight, as that of eating or drinking; and they could have
known no more shame in the transaction.
7. But by yielding to inordinate propensities, the seed of man
was basely corrupted; and by that means, the order of nature, which
I had established for his protection while in a natural state, was
wholly thrown aside, saith the Lord, by the great mass of mankind,
until debauchery, bloodshed and violence, did fill the whole earth,
save a small remnant, who had descended from him who was begotten
strictly after the order of nature, in true obedience to my command.
8. I never intended, saith the Lord, that after having created
man in our own image, to be an honor and glory unto us, by show
ing forth the image of his Creator, that he should have filled the
earth with every species of abomination and violence, and caused
jt to be covered with bloodshed and carnage : by no means.
9. But I intended it should have been a terrestrial paradise, stand
ing in its natural order uncorrupted, until in my wisdom, I should
have seen fit to introduce an order of grace, or a spiritual dispensa
tion, for such portions of its inhabitants as were adequately ripened
for the calling.
10. I should have noticed, with my blessing and protection, in
the order of my providence, those who had strictly kept the order
and law of nature, uncorrupted, as really as those who were called
into the order of my grace ; or to a work so pure and holy, that it
could allow of nothing pertaining to the works of generation ;
11. But mankind, from the earliest ages of the world, have never
c
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
ceased to pervert the order of nature, and turn it to subserve their
own ungoverned and licentious passions, until their loss and dark
ness have become so great, that the whole earth is corrupted, and
fast sinking under a curse, from my all righteous hand.
12. And all the judgments and calamities which I have suffered
to come upon the earth in past dispensations and ages, to the pres
ent day, as a just recompense for their own doings, have been for
the purpose that mankind might learn obedience to my law, by the
things which they suffered.
13. Yet, notwithstanding all these solemn warnings, accompanied
by awful judgments, if their lives were spared, they have never
ceased to harden their hearts, and again provoke my Holy Spirit to
anger by their gross wickedness, committed [by many,] with their
eyes wide open, knowing that they were disobeying the commands
of the Lord their God.
14. The whole world, and all the inhabitants that have heretofore
lived on the earth's face, bear Me witness, that it hath now become
ripe, for sore and heavy judgments.
15. Therefore, do I firstly send forth my warning voice in chari
ty, and extend the offer of repentance to all who will accept it; for
I delight not in the death of the wicked, saith the Lord.
16. But I would, that ye turn from the evil of your doings, and
learn true righteousness ; or come so far towards
it,
as to keep that
law of nature which
I
first established for the protection of man,
while yet in
a
natural state.
17. Hearken, O ye people, and hear my word, saith the Lord
your God. Had man kept his rectitude in the order of nature, as
i
commanded him, no innocent blood would ever have been shed by
his hand
;
no wars and fightings would ever have existed among the
nations of the earth.
18. But because of their awful wickedness, and of their beastly
abominations,
I,
the Lord God of Heaven and earth, have suffered
the sword, with bloodshed and carnage, famine, destruction and pes
tilence, with sweeping blasts of my fury, in earthquakes and torna
does, to devastate many parts of the earth, and swallow up in de
struction, the living thereon
;
that others might take warning and
behold the doings of an Almighty hand, that no mortal power could
sway.
19. [These events were suffered,] that those who beheld the awful
calamities, with which their fellow creatures had been visited in
a
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 19
stroke of my judgment, might take warning, and turn from the evil
of their doings, before it be too late.
20. But how, saith the Lord, have they hardened their hearts?
Truly, by saying to their fellows when the calamity was passed,
"Why this is truly remarkable, the Lord must have done this; but
perhaps the like never will take place again, and so we will go on
as usual, [and do as we have done. ]
"
21. Others would say, "These things are unavoidable in the nat
ural course and order of the elements; I do not consider that God
has any thing to do with it."
22. And by this means, they would strengthen their fellow
mortals in the belief, that my Almighty hand and power, hath noth
ing to do in bringing such sweeping calamities upon the earth, and
by so doing, [they would ] strengthen and encourage their compan
ions to go on, still adding to, and increasing the black catalogue
of crimes that was attached to those whom I had swept from the
face of the earth.
23. Yea, saith the Lord, instead of my judgments serving to
work repentance and humiliation, in those who were unvisited by
my judgments, it only served, (with many,) to harden them in their
awful crimes of wickedness.
24. I deal, saith the Lord Almighty, with the creatures of my
creation, according to my own wisdom. I deal with the different
nations, kindreds, tongues and people, dwelling upon the face of
the whole earth, both in mercy and in judgment; and in my own
wisdom I deal with them as nations, and I deal with them as indi
viduals.
25. Give ear, O Earth, and understand my words, all ye people
who dwell in her, saith the Lord of hosts. Will you receive the
word of the Lord your God in mercy, now while it is extended to
you, in this, the latter day of his glory? Or will you forbear to hear,
and refrain from repentance, as your fathers before you have done?
26. Eternity, and the souls dwelling therein, cry unto Me, as a wit
ness, that from the earliest ages of the world to the present day,
mankind, as a body, have stood against the most merciful offers of
my hand, by refusing to hearken to my word, which I sent forth
for their best good, their peace and their comfort.
27. But, as a few glimmering stars in the midst of midnight dark
ness , so have I preserved a few chosen witnesses, who were pre
pared, through deep tribulation, and much suffering, to testify of
20 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
my word, and of my work in truth, through all the dispensations
of my goodness to man, from the earliest ages of the world to the
present day.
28. I have never promised salvation nor protection, to any souls,
only in the path of true obedience to that revealed will and order,
made known to them, through such instruments, as I had prepared
and raised up to testify of Me, both by precept and example, in the
age and day wherein they lived.
29. And, as a criterion by which to tell those who were the true
witnesses of my word, I did proclaim, through my blessed Son, that
fruits alone, should declare, for or against each soul ; that I would
know no man by his words; but by the fruits which he brought
forth, should he be judged. And this declaration from my eternal
throne, must, and forever will remain unalterable, through time and
in eternity.
30. For I AM, is a just God, dispensing unto every one accord
ing as their works shall merit; and weigh every nation, accord
ing to my wisdom, in the just balance of my power ; and accord
ing to that measure which they have meted unto others, so shall it
be meted to them again.
31. And according to that cup which they have filled with the
waters of affliction for others to drink ; so shall it again be filled to
overflowing, and returned to their own mouths; and according to
the effusion of blood which they have caused in other nations to
flow; so shall it flow from their own veins, with an increased meas
ure, saith the Lord their God.
21
CHAPTER III.
OF MAN'S PROBATIONARY STATE. HIS DISOBEDI
ENCE AND LOSS. THE REVELATION OF A SAVIOR &e .
The high and exalted ideas of man, inflated by his own
ambition and pride, ^can never be brought conformable
to my will saith the lord, nor comprehend my work
or the natuhe of my doings.
1. Man strayed from God, by disobedi-
[27.
10.
19.
CO.
&
25.
His state of trial; command of God
to him.
H is bondage by the animal propensi
ties ; means of deiiverance.
Indulgences ihe cause of haughtiness
and hardness of heart ; delusion suf
fered, as the consequence.
The witness and declaration of jus
tice against the works of man.
Mankind questioned by the Almighty.
Man slights the offers of mercy and
grace.
The state in which the wicked enter
eternity.
Commands of God to man.
Mankind again questioned by the Al
mighty.
Of the crucifixion of Christ -, by what
caused, &.c.
Man's way not God's way.
The manner in which Christ was sent
into the world : for what purpose ;
his teaching and example.
Of the visitation of God and his holy
Angels to carih.
A word of examination to the children
of men.
The Heavens and earth, witness
against mankind.
Alt ranksand orders, required to heark
en and humble themselves.
Naught but humility will stay the hand
of judgment.
The manner in which all are to look
for the coming of Christ unto them.
Christ revealed, cVc.
J. Mankind, by disobedience to Me, their God and Creator, have
strayed far, very far from that way in which I intended their feet
should walk ; and from that work in which I wished to have them
engaged, while on their short pilgrimage through time.
2. But, that man might not be as a mere machine, deprived of
the power of volition, or free agency, I placed him, when created,
in a peculiar situation or state of trial, and knowing the great weak
ness to which he would be exposed, I gave him a solemn charge,
concerning the dangers that lay in his way; and that the most fatal
22 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
consequences would ensue, should he persist in acts cf disobedience
to that course which I had then instructed him to pursue. Having
done this, I left him to prove his fidelity and true obedience to my
word.
3. But the irrational or animal propensities, [called the serpent,]
soon over-ruled his right reason, and placed upon him strong bands,
which held him in bondage to the law of sin and death, which is
the animal or inferior part ; and having polluted his seed, by acts
of disobedience, the curse which followed, and rested upon him,
by increasing the inordinate and beastly passions of lust, which nev
er could be satisfied, had now become so strongly attached to the
sensitive powers of the mind, which now were bent on gratifica
tion, [that they] could never be removed, short of a full cross being
borne, against every propensity pertaining to that nature.
4. And by the influence of this degraded and beastly propensity,
(which never was, and never will be necessary for the sake of pro
creation,) mankind, as a body, from the earliest ages, to the present
day, have been exalted in their own imaginations, inflated with
pride and vanity to that degree and extent, that I suffered their
hearts to become hardened, their ears to become deaf, and their eyes
to become blind; for they had chosen their own way, therefore I
did suffer their delusion, saith the God of Heaven.
5. Not that it was my choice, but a choice that they themselves
had made, in open and willful rebellion against all the fatherly and
kind entreaties which I had sent forth to them, through messengers
of my own preparing.
6. Do not the records of eternal justice and truth, declare this
against you, O inhabitants of earth ? Do not the countless millions
now groaning in chains and fetters of darkness, bound in eternity,
witness this truth 1
7. The eternal record before my throne, which shall bring a just
reward to every human creature, declareth and sealeth this solemn
truth ; your own way. you have pursued, and not the way of your
God.
8. Your own plans of salvation you have embraced, and not the
plans of your God. Your own paths you have pursued, and in them
your feet have been swift to shed blood ; these are not the paths of
your Creator God.
9. All forms, all creeds and systems of religion that have been
established by the sword, or supported by the force of arms, are of
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 23
man's own invention, that the life of that beastly nature, (after
which the whole world, from its creation to the present day, have
wandered,) might be spared and kept alive. It never emanated
from my holy spirit, saith the God of Heaven ; but frail and mortal
man, in his bigoted and darkened condition, hath invented
it,
and
practiced the same.
10. Hearken, all ye nations, and give ear,
O
ye people of the
earth, saith the Lord your God. Can you answer these questions?
Have your souls found that which saves you from committing sin in
the present tense? Have you found that which saves you from shed
ding the blood of your fellow creatures? Have you found that
which causes you to love your neighbors as yourselves?
11. Have you found that which saves you from all the gratifications
of lust, and beastly works of nature, only that which
is
indispensa
ble for the sake of procreation, or for the fulfilling of that great
command which
I
gave to the children of men, in early days
;
un
der which the most licentious and beastly works of abomination
have been cloaked, from that day to this
?
12. The command was good, and stands good, in its order and
place, but not one act of gratification carried further than
is
neces
sary for the propagation of your own species, can ever be covered
by
this command.
13. Have you found that which enables you to dwell together in
unity, harmony and peace, having all things in common, and none
paying that aught of the things that he possessed were his own? If
not, what
is
the matter
?
Ponder these things in your own hearts
!
Communities, you say, are good,
if
they can agree.
14. But thus saith the Lord, have you laid the axe to the root of
the tree, or have you only lopped
a
few of the branches
?
Have you
found the golden cord of purity, that binds souls in one? Or do the
bands of sin and death surround you, and [cause you to be] broken
in pieces?
15. What was the reason that the inhabitants of Sodom and Go
morrah refused to hearken to the solemn warnings which
I
sent forth
unto them, through messengers of my own preparing? Did they not
mock and scorn my witnesses, and deride the word of my awful
truth at their mouths
,
that unless they did humble themselves and
repent, they with their city, should be destroyed
?
16. What was this, but the arrogance of their spirit that refused to
24 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
hearken to my word through those messengers, whom I did send
unto them 1
17. What caused the inhabitants of the antediluvian world, to
mock and scorn, the solemn and righteous warning of my servant
Noah, although they were clearly shown, by the operations of my
Spirit, through my faithful servant, that unless they would cease
from their awful wickedness, humble themselves and repent, they
should, by the judgment of my Almighty hand, be swept from the
face of the earth ?
18. And notwithstanding, they were all doomed to suffer death,
as a certain and sure consequence, if they refused to hearken; yet,
this only served to increase their epithets of scorn and derision
upon righteous Noah, for being such an old superstitious fool, ( as
they called him, ) as to believe that the Lord was going to over
whelm the world with a deluge of water.
19. Was not this refusal to hearken to the tender warnings of
my mouth, sent forth by means of my own choosing, to be attribu
ted to their gross wickedness, which had caused their senses to soar,
in lofty and exalted imaginations of their own great wisdom, and
by this means, cause them utterly to reject the most solemn and
sacred warnings, that I, their God and Creator could send to them,
through one whose humble walk in life they disdained, from the
very bottom of their hearts?
20. Therefore, they received not of my tender mercies, but were,
in lieu thereof, compelled to meet Me in judgment, and enter the
eternal world with cries and screeches, under the most horrid and
awful condemnation of a guilty conscience, loaded with crimes and
bea3tly abominations to sink their souls in flames of hell, until,
through sufferings, they had paid the utmost farthing, for all their
sinful deeds.
21. And the last error of their lives, in refusing to hearken to
my righteous word of warning, was worse than all the rest ; for here
they sinned, saith the Lord God, against light and£understanding;
for the humble walk of my servant Noah, brought forth fruits in
their sight, declaratory that my spirit dwelt in him.
22. Hearken, O ye children of men, and incline your ears to
hear, and your hearts to understand, the word of the Lord your God,
though you have not walked in my paths, and inclined your hearts
to understand and do my will, as I have required from the earliest
ages,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 25
. 23. Yet, I am a God of mercy and of long forbearance, to such
as have the least desire to return unto Me, through that medium
which I have appointed for them ; that is, to keep my law and or
der of nature unviolated.
24. Love mercy, deal justly one with another ; fear Me, and keep
my commandments throughout, which were given to regulate those
in a natural state. This requirement, is distinct and apart from
that of the order of my grace.
25. But consider, O inhabitants of earth, and in a special man
ner, those of you who make a great profession of Christianity ! How
have mankind treated, from the days of my servant Moses, to the
present time, the merciful displays of my goodness, whenever, in
my wisdom I have seen fit to send it forth unto them.
26. How oft did I have to scourge my chosen people Israel, for
their wicked and rebellious doings, in rising against that order
which I had appointed to lead and direct them, and thereby neg
lecting to keep my law, which I had established through my servant
Moses, for their protection, stay and support; which, when strictly
kept, would always ensure prosperity, and a blessing from my all
righteous hand to rest upon them by day and by night. But when
they departed therefrom, a curse was sure to follow.
27. Yet by all these things, how little did they learn, in willing obe
dience, the paths of true wisdom f Surely, not so much but that they
set their hearts against Me their God. They surely were in my
sight, a stiff necked and rebellious people, who were determined
on pursuing their own plans; and by this means, they stood ready
to destroy the animal body of the Christ whom I did send unto
them, because he did not come in that way which they had laid
out for themselves.
28. They wished him to come in great pomp and splendor, with
mighty armies bowing at his feet. They wished to behold him as
a mighty monarch, swaying the regal sceptre upon an earthly throne,
destroying by the edge of the sword, all such as did not bow unto
him in submission, and believe as he taught them, supporting the
religion of his own nation, and condemning that of others.
29. Had he descended upon them in this manner and form, and
held forth this testimony, it would at once have blended with their
own self-exalted views of the coming of a Messiah; and they would
readily have supported him, by force of arms, upon his throne.
30. But learn, Oye children of men, that man's way, is not tha
D
2G SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
way of his God and Creator. My way is equal for all ; but man's
way is unequal, unjust, and cruel. Therefore, did I send my only
begotten Son to- earth, clothed with the power of salvation, encom
passed with a garment of humility and meekness, offering eternal
life and salvation, upon equal terms, to all who would make the re
quired sacrifice to obtain it.
31. I did not send him to court the love, favor or affection of
Monarchs, Kings or Princes ; or to say unto the great ones of the
earth; Rabbi! Rabbi! But I sent him to proclaim, through the
deepest scenes of suffering and tribulation, peace on earth and
good will to men, if they would receive him in the name of his
Father in Heaven, possessing the innocency of a lamb and the
meekness of a dove.
32. Showing unto all, by precept and example, that he came in
the perfect image of his Father, possessing a spirit of forgiveness,
patience and meekness, under the most painful and excruciating
sufferings of both soul and body, that was ever before shown forth
upon the earth, by any spirit dwelling within an earthly tabernacle;
being, at the same time, possessed of my mighty power to that
extent, that he could raise the dead from their graves to life, or call
from the Heavens above, at any time, myriads of holy Angels and
justified spirits to his assistance.
33. And because I sent him, clothed in the attitude of meekness
and humility, as I had predicted for hundreds of years before, by
the mouths of my prophets, that he would come, they, as a body
of people, rejected him and gnashed upon him with their teerh.
34. But a little chosen band, who were accounted poor and illit
erate men, he did gather around him, unto whom he imparted the
words of eternal life, and baptized them with the holy spirit; and
the few that received his testimony into honest and sincere hearts,
became his true followers through life, and ended their days under
the heavy hand of persecution for so doing. But I, the God of
Heaven, have kept a record of these doings, from the earliest ages
of the world unto the present day.
35. I again repeat the question, saith the Lord ; Where is the
nation, where are the people, either few or many, that have, in truth,
denied themselves of all the enjoyments of sinful pleasure, by re
nouncing the world with all its alluring enchantments, for the sake
of embracing the blessed gospel of that holy Savior, whom I sent
forth to begin a work on earth which should never have an end,
TO THK NATIONS OF THB EARTH. 2?
though the wickedness of man should quickly destroy the body,
which, by my Almighty hand had been prepared, as a receptacle for
that saving spirit, while it acted in the capacity of a local agent,
in time below ?
36. Give ear, O inhabitants of earth, and hearken all ye people
who dwell in her ! The Lord your God hath stooped from his throne,
to visit the earth in mercy and in judgment. His holy Angels have
come forth to execute judgment at his word, and show mercy at his
pleasure. Vials filled with mercy, and vials filled with wrath, He
hath placed in their hands.
37. Hear my voice, O ye Angels, and sound aloud -
your trum
pets to the children of men, saying, Shall the spirit of the Lord
your God, always strive with man to no purpose? Will He always
endure to be scorned, mocked and frowned upon by the mites of his
creation, who are but worms of the dust, and small ones too?
38. Will He always receive a negative answer to his kind entreat
ies? Do not your own hearts bear witness in the sight of your God,
Oye inhabitants of earth, that ye have perverted the way of the
Lord, and the cross of his Christ ye have not borne in truth ; nor
bowed your necks under the yoke of the blessed Savior?
39. Doth not the haughtiness of man declare that his spirit is
high and lifted up, exalted above all that is of God?
40. Doth not the spirit of oppression, and the hand-that grindeth
the faces of the poor, declare that justice hath departed from the
earth, and the blessing of the Almighty withdrawn from her inhabi
tants?
41. Doth not the spirit of bigotry and despotism rule in the hearts
of the children of men? Are they not ready and willing, if not
bound by civil laws, to support a religion that suits their own natu
ral and carnal views, even at the point of the sword, and still main
tain, that this is the religion of the Son of God, the Prince
of Peace?
42. The Heavens bear witness against you, and the earth crieth
unto Me with a loud voice, to be avenged on her inhabitants, for
the rivers of innocent blood, which they have caused to flow upon
her surface.
43. O ye Monarchs, Kings and Princes, and all ye Nobles, Lords
and Commons, hearken to my voice of solemn warning, saith the
Lord your God ; all ye Rulers of the people, and such as move at
their command.
28 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
44. Bow down your spirits, from the Monarch on his throne, to
the humblest peasant dwelling in a lonely cottage. Humble both
soul and body ; roll in sackcloth and ashes, and proclaim ye solemn
fasts throughout your lands. Prepare, prepare, O thou mortal man !
prepare, prepare, all ye inhabitants of earth, for the day of my visit
ation beginneth to dawn upon you ; for my anger is kindled against
you, and who may quench it? The arm of my wrath is stretched
cut towards you, and who may turn it back 1
45. Naught but your cries and lamentations in the lowest of
humiliation, will cause my hand of judgment to be stayed from Ihe
earth, saith the Lord of hosts; For I purpose to visit her in judg
ment, for her wickedness and abomination, and I will fill unto her
a cup such as she never drank, since by my hand she was created.
And her inhabitants have no time to lose, in preparing to meet Me
their God.
46. My times and seasons, I have revealed not unto man ; but I
will shortly convince all flesh that my hand is upon the earth, in
very deed.
47. Look not for my word to be showered down from the natural
heavens above,—Look not for my word through those that are high
and lifted up, and feel themselves far above their fellow creatures.
48. Look not for the second coming of my blessed Son in the
natural clouds of heaven ; for I have already sent him, and the
foundations of my new Heavens and new earth, are already laid,
never more to be overthrown, and ye believe it not. But ye may
look for my word of solemn warning, from those in humble walks of
life; and from the mouths of harmless children, saith the Holy
One of Israel, shall ye hear my word.
29
CHAPTER IV.
OF THE LAW OF NATURE, AND ORDER OF GRACE.
THE DAUGHTER OF ZION DECLARED &e.
The children of men, in their own natural wisdom, can
never discern the true signs of the working of my
holy spirit, saith the lord.
1. The children of meo required to
search the Scriptures.
2. The Lord reasons with man.
7. Mankind required to come to the
order of nature.
8. Those called by the gospel, required
to keep the law of {Trace.
9. The Daughter of Zion, or the Heav
enly Bride declared.
10. Concerning the fulfillment of die
prophecies. Of the second coming of
Christ, Ate.
1. Thus saith the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth. Go
search ye the records of my holy word, which many of you so
highly venerate; for ye say that they testify of Me, and of my
blessed Son.
2. But after all the warnings which I had sent for hundreds and
hundreds of years, through the mouths of my faithful servants, to
my chosen people, respecting the coming of the Messiah, what did
it avail them, when the time for his appearance had arriven? The
sacred volume by which ye pretend to be led and guided, does tes
tify the truth so far as it goes, upon that ground.
3. Though much of the record of my sacred word, delivered in
past ages, hath been destroyed, and much that is now handed down
to the present generation, hath been greatly perverted by such as
were enemies to the yoke and cross, which the EordTesus required
them daily to bear and wear ; yet by the interposition of my Al
mighty hand, a sufficient portion of that record, containing the
words sent forth from my eternal throne, hath been preserved unto
the present day, and doth now stand before Me as a witness, testify
ing against the body of darkness which covereth the earth, and
the gross darkness that covereth the people thereon.
4. For their sins and abominations are many, and their trans-
30 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
gressions not a few, saith the Great I AM; whose eye beholdefli
the thoughts and intents of every heart, and the leading motive of
every action among the children of men.
5. But as I have said in ancient days, I would condescend to rea
son with my creature man ; so do I now, in this the last age of the
world, again say, I will this once, condescend to ixfrsolfwith the
objects of my creation ; for truly the earth is covered with many
souls, and there be millions and millions who know not their right
hand from their left; upon whom the rays of my true light hath
never beamed.
6. Therefore, I will this once and again extend the arm of my
mercy, holding forth the sceptre of true righteousness, to all such
of the inhabitants of earth as hunger and thirst for salvation, and
are ready to sacrifice all to obtain it. And to such as desire still
longer to remain in the wilderness state of nature, the sceptre cou-
taineth my law and commandments for the same.
7. I do require, saith the Lord, (who is descending to earth in
mercy, and in heavy judgment,) that all such as desire to live in
nature, propagating their own species, keep the law of nature unvi-
olated, as I have commanded from the beginning.
8. And all such as desire to come into the gospel of grace, must
keep the law of grace, as I did command in the first appearing
of my blessed Son, your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who stands
as the first true Anointed One;
9. And, as I have commanded in the second manifestation of tha
same spirit, now in this your day, though you believe it not, which
is through the Daughter of Zion, constituting a spiritual Mother,
the second AnointedjQge, who now stands in her proper lot and
placed wtnrfieT"b"Tessed Lord" and Savior; at the head of my new
and spiritual Creation, now established on flie earth; "and her name
is, and forever shall be, [called] Mother Ann Lee.
10. And now, the fulfillment of those predictions, from the
mouths of my servants, (M^tfWfug the establishing and setting up
of my kingdom in the latter day of glory, as recorded in the sacred
volume of my word, which all those of you who profess to be
Christians so highly esteem and venerate as sacred truths, are now
by my own mouth, saith ^theJLord, declared unto you to be fulfiue37
11. But J~wil] show unto you, O ye children of men, the
most plain and prominent passages recorded in holy writ, which
have come down to the age in which you live, referring to the com
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. SI
ing of the Messiah upon earth, to teach the people of his way, that
they might walk in his path, when the time should come, for him
to descend to earth.
12. And observe ye, how little these things were understood or
regarded by those who then dwelt upon the earth ; and in a special
manner the Jews, who, for hundreds of years, had been called the
chosen people of my name, and to whom I had shown great notice,
in leading them out from the bondage of Egypt, into a land flowing
with milk and honey, which I had promised their forefathers,. I
would give unto their seed after them.
CHAPTER V.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE REFERRING TO THE
COMING OF CHRIST.
Sec. 1. Those passages recorded in scripture, which refer to the
first appearing of the Son of God on earth, Ithe Holy Angel, who-
read this Holl for mortal hand to write, am commanded, by the
Most High to have here inserted.
Genesis. iii. 15. And I will put enmity between thee and the
woman, and between thy seed and her seed ; it shall bruise thy
head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
Chap. xlix. 10. The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor
a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come ; and unto
him shall the gathering of the people be.
[Shiloh, meaning the Messiah, the Anointed, that is, the same
as Christ. The sceptre departed from Judah soon after the
Messiah came, and has never returned, to this day ; and the law y as
in substance disregarded.]
Deuteronomy xviii. 15. The Lord thy God will raise up
unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren,
like unto me ; unto him ye shall hearken :
32 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
16. According to all that thou desiredst of the Lord thy God
in Horeb, in the day of the assembly, saying, let me not hear
again the voice of the Lord my God, neither let me see this
great fire any more, that I die not.
17. And the Lord said unto me, They have well spoken that
which they have spoken.
18. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren,
like unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth ; and he
shall speak unto them all that I shall command him.
Sec. 3. This refers to Christ, and is corroborated by my
faithful martyr Stephen.
Psalms. xvi. 8. I have set the Lord always before me; because
he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved:
9. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth ; my
flesh also shall rest in hope ;
10. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell ; neither wilt thou
suffer thy Holy One to see corruption.
11. Thou wilt shew me the path of life; in thy presence is
fullness of joy : at thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore.
Psalms. ex. 1. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my
right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.
2. The Lord shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion :
rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.
3. Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the
beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning : thou hast
the dew of thy youth.
4. The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent, thou art a priest
forever after the order of Melchizedek.
5. The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in
the days of his wrath.
7. He shall drink of the brook in the way ; therefore shall he lift
up the head.
Isaiah, vii. 14. Therefore the Lord himself shall give you
a sign ; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and
shall call his name Immanuel.
Sec. 4. This does apply directly to the manner in which the Mes
siah wa3 to be ushered into the world, saith the Lord, for no vir
gin can possibly conceive and bear a son, through the co-operation
of man ; for the instant she yields to nature's passions in man, her
virginity is gone.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 33
Jeremiah, xxiii. 5. Behold the days come, saith the Lord,
that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch, and a King
shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice
in the earth.
6. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely ;
and this is his name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD
OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS.
Micah. v. 2. But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be
little among the thousands of Judah, yet, out of thee shall he
come forth unto Me, that is to be Ruler in Israel ; whose goings
forth have been from of old, from everlasting.
Zechariah. ix. 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout,
O Daughter of Jerusalem; behold, thy King cometh unto thee;
he M just, and having salvation ; lowly, and riding upon an ass,
and upon a colt the foal of an ass.
II Esdras.
ij.
36. Flee the shadow of this world, receive the
joyfulness of your glory
;
I
testify my Savior openly.
46. Then said
I
unto the angel, What young person
is
it
that
crowneth them, and giveth them palms in their hands?
47. So he answered and said unto me,
It
is
the Son of God,
whom they have confessed in the world. Then began
I
greatly
to commend them that stood so stiffly for the name of the Lord.
Chap. vii. 28. For my son Jesus, shall be revealed with those
that be with him, and they that remain shall rejoice within four
hundred years.
29. After these years shall my Son Christ die, and all men that
have life.*
Chap. xiii. 32. And the time shall be when these things shall
come to pass, and the signs shall happen which
I
shewed thee
before, and then shall my Son be declared, whom thou sawest as
a
man ascending
;
33. And when all the people hear his voice, every man shall in
their own land leave the battle they have one against another.
35. But he shall stand upon the top of the mount Sion.
36. And Sion shall come, and shall be shewed to all men,
being prepared and builded, like as thou sawest the hill graven
without hands.
37. And this my Son shall rebuke the wicked inventions of
* Alluding to the falling away of the primitive Church.
.14 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
those nations, which for their wicked life are fallen into the
tempest;
38. And shall lay before them their evil thoughts, and the tor
ments wherewith they shall begin to be tormented, which are like
unto a flame ; and he shall destroy them without labor by the
law which is like unto fire.
Daniel, ix. 24. Seventy weeks are determined upen thy people
and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make
an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to
bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and
prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy.
2o. Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth
of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the
Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks, and three score and
two weeks ; the street shall be built again, and the wall, even in
troublous times. t
Matthew, i. 23. Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall
bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which
being interpreted
is,
God with us.
Chap. ii.
6.
And thou Bethlehem in the land of Juda, art not
the least among the Princes of Juda; for out of thee shall come
a
Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.
Chap^ xxi. 5. Tell ye the Daughter of Sion, Behold, thy King
cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the
foal of an ass.
Chap, xxvii. 9. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken
by
Jeremy the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of
silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the chil
dren of Israel did value
;
10. And gave them for the Potter's field, as the Lord appoint
ed me.
John. xii. 15. Fear not, daughter of Sion; behold, thy King
cometh, sitting on an ass's colt.
16. These things understood not his disciples at the first; but
when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things
t
That is, sixty nine weeks, reckoning each day for
a
year, from the date of the above
mentioned commandment, brings tke time to the public ministry of Jesus Christ — In thn
midst of the seventieth week he was crucified. And at the close of this week, which
completes the seventy, his anointed body, the primith'e Church was established. Thus
by this prophecy,
it
was clearly shown that the Messiah would b? manifested at that
very time, which plainty proves Jesus to bo the true Messiah.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 35
•were written of him, and that they had done these things unto
him.
Acts. ii. 2.5. For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw
the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that
I should not be moved :
26. Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad ;
moreover also, my flesh shall rest in hope :
27. Because thou wilt not 'leave my soul in hell, neither wilt
thou suffer thy Holy One to see corruption.
29. Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the
patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepul
chre is with us unto this day.
30. Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had
sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruits of his loins, accor
ding to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit cn his throne.
Chap. vii. 37. This is that Moses, which said unto the chil
dren of Israel, A Prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto
you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall yt hear.
38. This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with
the angel which spake to him in the mount Sinai, and with our
fathers ; who received the lively oracles to give unto us :
39. To whom our fathers would not obey, but thrust him from
them and in their hearts turned back again into Egypt.
Sec. 3. Thus saith the Lord, What different from this, have the chil
dren of men, as a body, done from the earliest ages of the world to
the present day, whenever and wherever, I have manifested myself
unto them? The record of their own histories, do declare that they
liave pursued the same path.
Hebrews. v. 6. As he saith also in another place, Thou art a
priest forever after the order of Melchisedec.
7. Who in the days of his flesh, Avhen he had offered up prayers
and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that
was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
8. Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the
things which he suffered;
9. And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal
salvation unto all them that obey him ;
10. Called of God a high priest, after the order of Melchisedec.
1 1. Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be ut-
tjreJ, seeing yc are dall of hearing.
3(5
CHAPTER VI.
OF MAN'S TREATMENT WITH GOD'S EXTENDED
OFFERS OF CHARITY AND GRACE; AND OF GOD'S
DEALINGS WITH HIM IN DISPENSATIONS
PAST, AND IN THE PRESENT.
1. Of timely warnings by the Prophets.
5. Of the darkness and opposition of man.
4. A few laid down their lives, for the
gospei's sake,
fi. The light of the gospel never suffered
to become wholly extinguished.
6. Mankind still persist in their own ways.
8. The Lord dcclareth the execution of
justice.
9. The Lord reasons upon the situation
and conduct of man.
17. Denunciation of judgments, if man
does not repent.
18. Knowledge suffered to increase.
Judgments to those who do not the
will of God, for fear of reproach.
20> Christ's mission and labor.
M. Christ not sent to save souls in their
sin*.
20. Of the confession of sins, in order to
become true witnesses lor God.
18. All rewarded according to their works.
29. Few willing to sacrifice their own wills,
and do the will of God.
1. Give ear, O ye people, and understand my words, saith the
Lord ; I testify unto you, that all the foregoing passages, and many
more, which have never been handed down on record, were dictated
by my spirit, and sent forth, through the mouths of the prophets,
that the people might have timely warning of the coming of the
Messiah, and be prepared to work with him, by hearkening to his
voice, that my peace and my blessing might rest upon them.
2. But how dark was their darkness, and how great was their
blindness, that after all the particular instruction from the mouths of
my faithful servants, they knew not the Savior, when I sent him
forth, neither would they, as a body, believe, when he declared him
self unto them, and showed forth, by the miracles which he
wrought, that he proceeded, and came forth from God, the Father
of all, and from none else.
3. But the gospel which he preached, their carnal, self-willed
and bigoted natures did abhor j and the testimony which he bore,
cut them to their hearts , therefore, in cruel rage, and malice, they
TO THE NATIONS OP THE EARTH. 37
exerted all their power, to destroy his animal body, as quick as pos
sible, that his galling testimony might be suppressed, and thus did
they accomplish their own destruction.
4. But a few chosen ones gathered unto him, and remained trte
to the cause, to the laying down of their lives; and were thereby
crowned with glory, honor and immortality;
5. And the light of that gospel, revealed through the Son, I did
never suffer wholly to be extinguished, through the gloomy, dark, and
bloody reign of antichrist; but would, at times, cause rays of this
light to break forth, in vessels of my own preparing, as twinkling
stars in a dark night, from a cloudy horizon ; and bear testimony
against the awful abominations of the age in which they lived ; not
withstanding, their natural lives were sure to be sacrificed, under
the most excruciating tortures as the consequence. And thus have
been the doings of mankind, from the creation of the world, to the
present day.
6. They have always chosen their own way, in opposition to that
which I, in mercy, sent forth unto them. Therefore, have they, as
a world of human souls, all gone astray, and worshiped the idol
god of their own lusts. Yet, as a kind and tender Father, oft have
I reasoned with them, and entreated of them to turn from the error
of their doings; to cease from doing evil, and learn to do well: to
cease from their bloodshed and carnage, and dwell together in
peace and love.
7. And many have been the holy Angels which I have sent, with
messages of love and mercy, that they might be persuaded, through
my unbounded goodness and loving kindness, to turn unto Me their
God and Creator ; but all to no purpose, save that they would draw
out their mouths in ridicule and derision unto Me, and unto my
messengers ; and sound forth blasphemous words against my holy
work, and the subjects thereof. Yea, saith the Lord, they would
gladly turn the whole habitable earth into a theatre of sin and
corruption !
8. But I have declared in my wrath, and I will execute in my
fury, justice upon the nations of the earth, such as will not hearken
and return to the law of the Lord their God : for I will surely avenge
the innocent blood that crieth unto Me.
9. My spirit shall not always be mocked by frail mortals, who
we but as worms and insects, crawling upon the earth's surface.
38 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
What is man, that I should be mindful of him, or the son of man
that I should visit him?
10. Have we not created him to pursue a different path from that
which he hath pursued, from the foundation of the world to the
present day? Have I not declared that we created him in our own
image, to be an honor and a glory unto us 1
11. And shall we suffer him, saith the Lord, instead of doing us
honor, to disgrace the name by which he was created,
12. By filling the earth with blood and violence, and covering
her face with filthy stews of abomination?
13. By trafficking in human blood, and making merchandise
of souls?
14. By grinding the face of the poor, and turning the right of
the needy away ?
15. By supporting the rich, the great and the high, who have got
gain without right, in every kind of the most extravagant luxury ;
while those of their fellow creatures who labor daily with their
hands for bread, are starving for want of the same ?
16. Shall the earth groan unto Me, by reason of such injustice,
and I not be avenged on her inhabitants, saith the Lord ? Nay,
nay, crieth my eternal justice.
17. I will visit her in mercy, if she will hearken; but if not, I
will visit her in judgment, still more severe than I poured forth
upon those stiff-necked, hard hearted and rebellious Jews, who cru
cified the holy Son of God, when he was sent forth unto them.
18. For I have suffered light, knowledge and understanding to
be increased in the earth, and where ever much is given, there
much, in return, will be required. And unto whomsoever light
and knowledge is given, to do their master's will, and they do it not,
the same shall be beaten with many stripes.
19. And where the true gospel light does shine into a soul, and
they obey it not, for fear they shall be mocked and scorned, by their
fellow creatures ; double condemnation will fall upon that soul ; and
my judgments will surely visit them, unless they speedily repent,
and obey the light which I have given them, saith the Lord.
20. Understand the word of the Lord your God all ye people; 1
did not send my beloved Son into the world for naught: I did not
send him to make a show of the gospel without possessing the sub
stance.
21. He took on him the nature of man, with all its frail and fallen
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAUTH. 39
propensities, that he might set him a true example, how to deny
himself, by taking up a daily cross, against every evil propensity
of his nature.
22. This, your Lord and Savior effectually did, by putting every
enemy of the soul's best good and comfort, under his feet. He
conquered the power of sin and death, by passing through the deep
est of sufferings.
23. And by this means, he was always able to resist the tempta
tions of every fallen propensity of nature, at the first presentment,
and was never, in any instance, overcome; therefore, he was per
fected through sufferings, and enabled to open the door of eternal
salvation to every one, that would strip themselves for the race, and
run for the prize, in the path which he directed.
24. But I never sent him on earth, either in his first, or second
appearance, to save any souls in their sins. There can be no pow
er given to do this, saith the Lord ; my attribute of eternal justice
forbiddeth it.
25. But every one, who would come into the order of my grace,
must confess their sins, one by one, before my Witnesses ; and labor
to repent of the same, by leaving them off. And none can ever come
into the true gospel of Christ, either in his first or in his second
appearance, short of doing this.
2C. And none can ever stand as true witnesses for Me, until they
have done this, in sincerity of heart and honesty of soul, and have
labored to repent, and cry to God that they might be forgiven for
the same.
27. For the heart, defiled and corrupted with sinfol abominations,
is like unto a cage filled with every unclean and hateful bird ; or
like unto a whited sepulchre, that is full of rottenness and dead
men's bones within, and it never can be cleansed, short cf a full
and free confession.
23. I AM, is a God of eternal justice, and will render to every
one their just reward. I have in past dispensations of my grace
to man, given him laws and statutes, agreeable to the age and day
in which he lived, and in keeping them, he would always have been
insured with my love and blessing, to protect him in his duty.
29. But few, very few, saith the Creator of all, have I ever found
in any age of the worfd, who were willing to sacrifice their own
ways and wills, with all their carnal enjoyments, to do my will and
pleasure; therefore have they run in their own waj, and not in the
way of their God.
40
CHAPTER TH.
OF THE MANIFESTATIONS OF MY HOLY SPIRIT, AND
THE MANNER OF MY WORK, AS OPERATING UPON
•
THE HEARTS OF THE CHILDREN OF MEN,
THROUGH VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE
AGENCIES.
God calleth unto mail, ai
with him.
Man justified in proportion to obedi
ence to the law of God.
The gospel never leads to contention.
Of the profession of Christians.
Expressions of the wicked.
Of those who declared falsely.
Falsehood not changed into truth by
8.
10.
11.
14.
16.
17. Of the operation of the spirit of Christ.
30. Of faith and words without works.
22. Han n anted to turn from his wick
edness.
24. His works merit a scourge at the hand
of God.
26. An offer of mercy yet extended.
27. Of the operations of the hand of
Providence.
29. Of the two leaved gates.
30. Of the sending forth of Angels.
33. The Lord come to declare his laws.
35. Of conviction and
calls of (
1. Draw near unto me, the Lord your God, O ye inhabitants of
earth ! Incline your hearts to understand my word, and turn your
feet to walk in my paths.
2. Open your eyes to behold, and unstop your ears that you may
hear, while I hold forth the sceptre of my mercy, and extend the
arm of my charity, once more unto you ; and teach you again of
my laws, that you may walk in my paths.
3. While I command the holy Angels, whom I have sent forth
with the vials of my wrath and judgment, to stay their hands for a
short season, that the people may hear my word, and have a space
to repent if they will, and prove unto Me, by the humility of their
souls, that they really believe my word, and will hearken unto my
voice.
4. The great I AM, who sitteth upon his throne on high, is a
spirit of everlasting goodness and eternal brightness, operating
through all immensity and space, and endless worlds unknown ;
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 41
yet, I formed this earth for my pleasure, and placed the image of
my likeness thereon for my glory.
6. And as one grain of sand to the sea shore, or as one drop of
water to the rolling deep, so it may be reckoned, in comparison to
the power, majesty and glory of Him who created it. Yet, in every
individual whom I have created after my own image, is placed an
immortal soul, or never dying part, which is of that eternal substance
that gave it being; and this must, and will, eternally exist, clothed
in happiness, or in misery, just in proportion as its own individual
works shall merit, when weighed in the balance of my eternal justice.
6. And just so far as the inhabitants of the earth have kept the
law of nature, with all its restrictions, which I did sound, through
the mouths of my faithful servants, [and cause] to be recorded in
the sacred volume, that man might know the will of God, his Cre
ator, just so far shall they be justified in that order and state before
Me, and no further.
7. And again, just so far as all those professing the Christian
religion, have sincerely embraced
it,
in singleness of heart and sin
cerity of soul, according to the very best light and understanding
given them, so far they shall be justified in my sight, and no further
;
saith He who sitteth upon the throne of eternal justice.
8. And again, hear ye my word
;
my spirit doth work
in
the
hearts of the children of men, in various ways and manners. But
understand, all ye inhabitants of earth, and rulers of the same;
never, since the days of the Messiah, hath the spirit of that gospel
which your blessed Lord and Savior brought forth unto you, oper
ated to cause you to shed each other's blood.
9. For did he not declare, both
by
precept and example, as plain
as the open light of day, that his kingdom was not of this world
,
therefore his servants would not fight
f
And did he not furthermore
testify, that his kingdom was
a
kingdom of peace, and that the sub
jects of
it
must dwell together in bonds of love and peace; at all
times, do unto others as they wished others to do unto them, and
so fulfill the law of true righteousness?
10. Consider, pause, and reflect, all ye nations, ye rulers, kings
and people, who make
a
profession of the true religion of my
blessedJ3oN.
Great, very great, saith the Lord, are the professions
of the children of men upon earth.
11. But
I
am about to visit them for that which they possess, not
that which they profess; for they who profess, and possess not, are
w
42 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
likened 'unto the man who built his house upon the sand, and the
floods came, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was
the fall thereof.'
12. And so shall it be; saith the God of Heaven, with the nations
and kingdoms of the earth. And notwithstanding my word of warn
ing unto them, many wHl say, Our God delayeth his coming;
come, let us take our ease, and rest iD our sinful abominations :
perhaps it will be just as well with us, in the end, as with others.
13. We have often heard of great warnings and prophecies,
purporting to be from God, but I d6- not know as there ever was
any thing took place on the account, any more than common ; so
I think they are all a blasphemous fiction; of some vain mortal that
wants to frighten the human race.
14. But I again declare unto the inhabitant? of earth, saitb- the
Lord, that although there have been those who spoke in my name,
falsely, saying that I had sent them, when I sent them not;. and
those who have been suffered to taste a little of the true Oil' of life
and light, and, having no vessel suitably cleansed and prepared to
receive
it,
have,
by
that means, run extremely wild, and done much
harm, in causing the heart that was already hard with unbelief, as
respects the invisible operations of my divine spirit, to become stiN
more hard and unbelieving
;
15. Yet, saith the Lord, none of these things change falsehood
into truth, or truth into falsehood
:
a
just weight, and
a
just balance
alone can stand; and
by
their works shall they be known, who be
false, and- who be true.
16.
I
work
by
means of my own choosing, through both visible
and invisible agencies. The fruit of the tree shall always stand as
the criterion,
by
which the good qualities of that tree shall be known.
17. And where ever the spirit of my blessed Son does find an en
trance into the hearts of the children of men,
it
operates in the
following manner
:
They will feel
a
spirit of prayer, to cry unto Me,
in deep tribulation of soul, that their eyes may be opened, to see
and know whether they are, in truth, continually living up to the
best light of their own consciences, or whether they are daily vio
lating the same.
18. They will feel their souls hungering and thirsting after spirit
ual food, anxiously desiring to be clothed upon wkh that true state
of justification, that they can feel they are at peace with all their
fellow creatures, and can meet their God in
a
state of true conn
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 43
dence, having followed the best light given them while upon earth.
19. And furthermore, all such souls as are operated upon by the
spirit of good, will feel a kind, tender, and sympathetic feeling
towards the whole human family: and when any of their fellow crea
tures are in distress, if it is in their, power to alleviate their suffer
ings, they will do it; for, remember that faith, unsupported by works,
is dead : but such as have true and living faith, will always have
works, corresponding therewith.
20. But uuto such as can say to a suffering fellow mortal, Go, be
thou fed, warmed and clothed; or to the heart worn down under afflic
tion, grief and sorrow, Go, be thou comforted, doing nothing fur
ther; I will liken them, saith the Almighty, unto such as profess
to be great Christians, calling loudly upon the name of my blessed
Son, to save them, by his righteous merits, while they themselves,
can readily shed the heart's blood of their fellow creatures, and
daily wallow in the filthy aud sinful abominations of their own car
nal propensities.
21. And again, O ye blind and stupid, saith the Lord, —How can
you, in reason, expect to find mercy at my hand, while you are spend
ing your days on earth in rioting and drunkenness, wickedness, and
every kind of debauchery, fulfilling .the desires of every carnal
propensity of both body and mind; yet, cloaking it under the reli
gion of my holy child Jesus, which is pure and undefiled?
22. O turn, turn, crieth the voice of Him who sltteth upon the
throne, turn ye, turn ye, O frail mortals of my creation,, turn, in the
lowest of humility and repentance, to that God who created you ;
or I will sink kingdoms and cities, in the bowels of that earth
which ye have caused to drink in the blood of the innocent.
23. For unto whomsoever ye have yielded yourselves servants to
obey, his servants ye are ; whether of sin unto death, or of grace
unto eternal life ; and but few do I find upon the earth's surface, who,
as yet, are willing to enter in at the straight gate, and walk in the
narrow way, that they may find eternal life.
24. The whole human family have gone astray; there are none
but what have sinned in mysight, and there are none, but what
their works merit a scourge at my hand.
25. Yet, in mercy do I once more extend an offer of repentance,
now, in this, the latter day of my visitation on earth, to fallen man.
And they that think they can pass lightly over the solemn warnings
which I send unto them, and trample them under their feet, I will
44 SACKED ROLL AMD BOOK
surely meet them, in an hour that they are not looking for Me, and
in a day that they are unprepared for my coming, saith the Lord of
hosts.
26. Then will they in vain call upon my name for mercy ; then
would they gladly confess their sins and abominations, that they
might find mercy at my hand; but he that gathereth not in harvest,
must perish in winter. He that receiveth not in mercy, must take
in judgment.
27. All that operates in the hearts of the children of men, to dif
fuse the principles of peace, discarding the cruel and barbarous
principles of bloodshed and carnage, and all the efforts and labors,
of both governments and individuals, to bring about and produce
a moral reform upon the minds of the people ;
28. And all the associations and societies, which have been form
ed for the purpose of encouraging the cause of temperance, whether
in eating or drinking, are the operations of the hand of my Provi
dence, upon the hearts of the children of men, to prepare the way
for my coming to visit the earth, in mercy and in judgment; in a
far more remarkable and striking manner, than it ever before was
visited.
29. For the great I AM, now openeth the two leaved gates, and
declareth, with his own voice of eternal truth, the only way of
entrance into the holy city. And all who seek to enter by other
paths, are but as thieves and robbers ; and it shall be said unto
them, depart, for I know you not.
30. I have sent forth my angels of lamentation and of sorrow,
of judgment and desolation, of mercy and of charity, to pass and
re-pass through the earth.
31. Though as yet, I have scarcely suffered them, saith the Lord,
to begin to make themselves known to the children of men : for I
will first prove the inhabitants of the earth in this age, as I have
proved them in times and ages long past.
32. I will send forth, in my own way, my solemn word of warn
ing; and if that they will receive, I will give unto them, in my own
time and season, my law and commandment, which I have already
placed in the heart of my Zion, respecting those who still desire
to live after the order of nature, propagating their own species.
33. Thus saith the Lord ; I have come to declare my laws and
my statutes to the children of men. And such as are for the law
of nature, keep the law of nature, which I have sent forth, and the
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 45
blessing and protection of an over-ruling Providence, shall rest upon
them for the same.
34. And such as are for the law of grace, keep the law of grace,
which can have no part or place in the works of natural generation ;
and the immediate protection and blessing of my Almighty hand,
shall be extended to them for the same. ; and they shall be crowned
with glory, immortality and eternal life, in the world to come.
35. When souls are awakened in their spirits, to search after
that which will save them from sin daily, then, the invisible agen
cies which I have sent forth, are operating upon their minds, to
wake them up to a sense of their great loss and distance from a
pure and holy God.
36. Souls in this situation, feel, many times, extremely bad, and
know not the cause; but if they would follow, regardless of per
sonal consequences, the beams of true light, that are suffered, by
my Almighty power, at such times, often to break forth and shine
into their souls, and strictly live to the same, regardless of sneers
and scoffs, or the ridicule of their fellow companions, this light
would invariably lead them, as the final result, to the fountain of
eternal truth; where I, the God and Creator of all, have placed my
name, forevermore to stand.
37. Where I have promised to set up a kingdom, that all the
powers of both earth and hell, can never overthrow or destroy;
where violence shall not be used, and where blood shall not be
shed ; where the spirit of the Lamb, and the meekness of the Savior,
shall characterize the goings of the people ; where no confidence
or trust is placed in the arm of flesh ; but where the Almighty
power of the Lord their God is sought unto for protection.
33. For a pure and holy people, whose hands are not stained in
human blood, and whose feet pursue not in the paths of sin and
death, I will surely have upon the earth, to bear testimony of my
word and my work, and testify against the wickedness and abomi
nations thereon committed, saith the God of Heaven.
4G
CHAPTER VIII.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE, SHOWING THE PLAIN
AND POINTED DECLARATIONS OF THE LORD JESUS
CHRIST, AND THE MANNER OF LIFE HE REQUIRED
OF ALL WHO PROFESSED TO FOLLOW HIM.
4. Christ, the end of the law for right
eousness to all who believed.
G. Laws given in every age, suitable for
the age.
7. Of fleshly gratifications.
8. Of evils forbidden.
11. Of those who are counted worthy to
obtain the resurrection.
12. Of forsaking all, Arc.
13. The situation in which mankind is
found.
IG. Of rejecting the offers of salvation,
and of Christ's second coming.
'JO. Of God's visitation to the inhabitants
of the earth, in judgment.
25. What is required of those who would
ever come to the Son of God.
27. The requirements of God unaltered,
by man's abuse of them.
28. Scripture passages quoted, sufficient
to condemn the whole world.
30. Chrisfs words not contradictory in
spirit.
31. Of a cloak for evil.
36. A declaration of God's judgments.
37. The spirit of carnal warfare and con
tention, opposed to godliness.
Sec. 1. I require, saith the Lord, the most plain and prominent
passages, spoken by the Savior when he was on earth, as referring
to the manner of life that all were required to live, who would be
come his true followers, to be here inserted ; that the children of
men may behold, with shame and surprise, the great difference be
tween the manner of life here required, and that which they have
practiced from that day to this; which stand as opposite as day
and night, or as light and darkness.
2. And the record of this word is contained in the Sacred Book,
which they acknowledge to be the true record of the word of God
to the children of men.
Mattheto, v. I. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a
mountain : and when he was set, his disciples came unto him.
2. And he opened his mouth, and taught them saying,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 47
3. Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom
of heaverr.
4. Blessed are they that mourn : for they shall be comforted.
5. Blessed arc the meek : for they shall inherit the earth.
6. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after right
eousness : for they shall' be filled.
7. Blessed are the merciful : for they shall obtain mercy.
8. Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
9. Blessed are the peace makers : for they shall be called the
children of God.
10. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness'
sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
11. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my
sake.
12. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad , for great is your reward
in heaven ; for so persecuted they the prophets which were before
you.
13. Ye are the salt of the earth : but if the salt have lost his
savor, wherewith shall it be salted ? It is thenceforth good' for
nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.
14. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a
hiU cannot be hid.
17. Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the proph
ets : I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill.
18. For verily, I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass,
one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be
fulfilled.
Sec. 3. O ye professors of Christianity, saith the Lord, compare
your past and present lives with the foregoing lessons of instruc
tion, which were given by the mouth of your Lord and Savior,
when he was on earth, in person.
4. Remember, O ye children of men, that Christ, the Savior,
was the end of the law, [for righteousness,] to all them that believ
ed; and none who name his name, as being a true follower of Him,
have, since the day he was on earth, had any right to plead, even
the indulgences given under the law, that Moses gave to the chil
dren of Israel.
5. For in Christ, was brought forth the law of grace ; which not
onry fulfilled all that had been given in the previous laws to the
48 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
children of Israel, but superseded the necessity of all other laws,
going before; being, in itself, a superior law to any that had ever
preceded it ; as all had been weak, through indulgences ; therefore
could bring nothing to perfection.
6. In every age of the world, I have, in the dispensation of my
own wisdom, given such laws for the children of men, as were
adapted to the age in which they were given, and best calculated
to effect the work for which they were designed, saith the Lord.
Matthew, v. 19. Whosoever therefore shall break one of these
least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called
the least in the kingdom of heaven : but whosoever shall do and
teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of
heaven.
20. For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall
exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall
in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.
28. But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman
to lust after her, hath committed adultery with her in his heart.
Sec. 7. This plainly declares my requirement, saith the Lord, for
all such as come into the order of the gospel ; that they can have
nothing to do with fleshly gratifications ; not so much as even to
look on a Woman to lust after her. And again ;
Matthew, v. 34. But I say unto you, Swear not at all : neither
by heaven ; for it is God's throne :
35. Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jeru
salem ; for it is the city of the great King :
36. Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst
not make one hair white or black :
37. But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for
whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.
33. Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye,
and a tooth for a tooth.
39. But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil : but whosoever
shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.
Sec. 8. Now listen, O ye people, and understand my words ; Do
not the few foregoing sentences, spoken by your Lord and Savior,
effectually forbid all quarreling, contention, revenge, and defraud
ing, which is so universally practiced among mankind? The voice
of truth, in every heart, must answer, Yea.
Matthew, v. 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 49
shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy : But I say unto
you, Love your enemies, bless thern that curse you, do good
to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use
you, and persecute you ;
Chap. vi. 5. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the
hypocrites arc : for they love to pray standing in the synagogues,
and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men.
Verily, I say unto you, They have their reward.
19. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth
and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal :
20. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where nei
ther moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through nor steal.
21. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Chap. vii.
J
2. Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that
men should do to you, do ye even so to them
:
for this
is
the
law and the prophets.
13. Enter ye in at the strait gate; for widens the gate, and
broad
is
the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be
which go in thereat
:
14. Because, strait
is
the gate, and narrow
is
the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.
21. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom of heaven
;
but he that doeth the will of my
Father which
is
in heaven.
22. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not
prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils?
and in thy name done many wonderful works?
23. And then will
I
profess unto them,
I
never knew you
:
de
part from me, ye that work iniquity.
Chap. xii. 36. But
I
say unto you, That every idle word that
men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of
judgment.
Chap. xv.
3.
But he answered and said unto them, Why do
ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?
7. Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying,
8. This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and
honoreth me with their lips
;
but their heart
is
far from me.
9.
But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the
commandments of men.
G
50 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
3faithew, xxiik 4. For they bind heavy burdens, and grievous
to-be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they themselves
will not move them with one of their fingers.
5. But all their works they do for to be seen of men : they
make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their
garments,
6. And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats
in the synagogues,
7. And greetings in the markets, and to be called, of. men,
Rabbi, Rabbi.
8. But be not ye called Rabbi r for one i» yoor Master, even-
Christ; and all ye are brethren.
11. But he that is greatest among you, shall be your servant..
12. And whosoever shall exalt himself, shall be abased ; and
he that shall humble himself, shall be exalted.
13. But wo unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites ! for ye-
shut up the kingdom of heaven against men : for ye neither go
in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering, to go in.
14. Wo unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites ! for ye de
vour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer :
therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation.
15. Wo unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye
compass sea and land to make one proselyte ; and when he is
made, ye make him two-fold more the child of hell than your
selves.
Chap. xxvi. 52. Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy
sword into his place : for all they that take the sword, shall per
ish with the sword.
Sec. 9. Consider, all ye who profess to be the followers of the
Lord's Christ, the sayings in the foregoing verses, which wholly for
bid all wars and fightings with your fellow creatures, of whatever
name or nature : compare your present lives with the same.
Mark, vii. 20. And he said, That which cometh out of the
man, that defileth the man.
21. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed eyil
thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,
22.. Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness,
an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness;
23. All these evil things come from within, and defile the
man.
TO THB NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 51
8. For, laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the
tradition of men, as the washing of pots and cups : and many
other such like things ye do. -
9. And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the command
ment of God, that ye may keep your own tradition.
Luke, xxi. 34. And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time
your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting and drunkenness, and
cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
35. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the
face of the whole earth.
36. Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be ac
counted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass,
and to stand before the Son of man.
Chap. xx. 34. And Jesus answering, said unto them, The
children of this world marry, and are given in marriage :
35. But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that
world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are
given in marriage:
36. Neither can they die any more : for they are equal unto
the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of
the resurrection.
Chap. xiv. 33. So likewise, whosoever he be of you that for-
saketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.
Sec. 10. Hearken, and incline your hearts to understand, saith the
Lord, all ye people, the words of the Lord and Savior, just men
tioned : Not that I say he has been your Savior ; but he would have
been your Savior, had you kept his commandments.
11. Hearken, saith the Lord, all ye who plead for carnal indul
gences of your natures, and the necessity of living in a married
state. "They that are counted worthy to obtain that world and the
resurrection, neither marry, nor are given in marriage."
12. And furthermore, "Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh
not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple." These two senten
ces alone, crieth the voice of Him on high, are sufficient to con
vince every honest seeker after the truth, that the whole world have
become blind to the truth, through their own lusts, and love to car
nal pleasures.
13. Therefore, in very deed, they know not the Lord's Christ,
or the purity of his work. I find, saith the Lord, the inhabitants
52 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
of earth, wandering after the beast, and a beastly nature ; not after
my holy child Jesus, the Son of the true and living God.
14. And I furthermore find them as ready to oppose the manner,
and the name, by which I have sent forth his divine spirit the sec
ond time, to a lost and languishing world, as the Jews were, to op
pose his first appearance.
15. I find the sense of man, exalted to the skies, looking into the
natural heavens, for the millennial day, or the coming of the Sav
ior, to appear the second time. But, as the Jews of old, drew their
own plans for the manner of his first appearance, so have the chil
dren of men, in this age, fixed and drawn their own plans for his
second coming.
16. But as the former rejected the Holy Son of God, and the of
fers of salvation at his hand, because of their own self bigoted wis
dom ; so, in like manner, do the latter reject the form in which I
have sent forth Christ, the second time ; for I have sent forth, [this
divine spirit,] without sin unto salvation, to all that believe and obey
him, in the order and manner that it hath pleased Me, the Almighty
Creator of all, to reveal him; that the wisdom of this world might
be confounded, and the loftiness of man bowed low ; and such as
feel themseJves great and honorable, in the earth, brought into con
tempt before Me, saith the Lord.
17. And though they should follow the example of their prede
cessors, the Jews, and anxiously look, and wait, as long for Christ
to come the second time, in their own way, and according to their
own layings out, as the Jews have, for him to make his first appear
ance, they will be equally mistaken, saith the God of Heaven and
earth; and I will, with my own mouth, declare it unto the nations
of the earth, that all may be left without an excuse.
18. For the blindness and wickedness of men have become so
great, that they will deny Me, and disbelieve my word, as their fa
thers before them have done.
19. They, as a body, will deny the Lord's Christ, who has the
second time come forth, [through a chosen female] upon the earth,
to make an end of sin.
20. Bow low, all ye inhabitants of earth, for no flesh shall glory
in my presence. The days hasten, and rapidly roll on, that my
Almighty hand of judgment shall sweep over the face of the earth ;
and those who have feared Me, by walking humbly in my presence,
and keeping my commandments, shall be marked by the Holy
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAKTH. 53
Angels, as the objects of my mercy, my favor and my protection.
21. For I have come, saith the Lord, to cleanse the earth from
her awful abominations, by the fire of my truth, and the sword of
my testimony ; and when my heavy and desolating judgments roll
on, then would her inhabitants gladly learn righteousness, by doing
my will.
22. But my eternal justice, from the earliest ages of the world,
hath always given the objects of my creation a due and timely
warning; for I delight not in the destruction of any soul; but I
would, that all turn to Me and repent, and be saved from their sins.
Luke, xvii. 26. And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it
be also in the days of the Son of man.
27. They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were
given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark ;
and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
28. Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot: they did eat,
they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they buildcd;
29. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained
fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
30. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is
revealed.
Chap. xiv. 20. If any man come to me, and hate not his
father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and
sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.
27. And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after
me, cannot be my disciple.
Sec. 23. Again, reflect and consider, all ye children of men, who
think you are in any degree, following the divine precepts and exam
ples of your Lord and Savior.
24. There can be nothing more plain, or any requirement more
positive, than that which was sounded from his own mouth, when he
was upon earth ; and is contained in the two last verses.
25. No man can ever come to the Son of God, or be a fol
lower of the same, except he first hate, and forsake, that which he
most dearly loves; and then labors in tribulation of soul, until he
hath gained a love to my holy requirements, which will far surpass
all other loves. I
20. And again, I say unto you, what do mankind love, while in
a state of nature, as their own unsubdued passion of lust, and its
coherents \ Nothing, the voice of truth from every heart must
54 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
declare ; for so have the works of man proved, saith the Lord, from
the foundation of the world to the present time.
27. But the use that man hath made of the righteous requirements
of my Holy Spirit, hath not altered the requirements, and never can ;
they remain holy and sacred, to the endless ages of eternity.
Luke, xiv. 20. And another said, I have married a wife :
and therefore I cannot come.
There were none that positively refused to come to the feast,
but he that had married a wife.
Chap. xvi. 15. And he said unto them, Ye are they which
justify yourselves before men ; but God knoweth your hearts :
for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in
the sight of God.
Sec. 28. Thus saith the Lord your God, unto all who name the
Christian religion, I have commanded my mighty and holy Angel,
whom I have sent forth to earth, to read this roll, for mortal hand to
write, to have here inserted the foregoing declarations, which were
delivered by my blessed Son, when upon earth, the first time, as
divine requirements to the children of men ; as these alone, are
sufficient to condemn the whole world, in its present state of sin
and wickedness.
29. Though many of his sayings, still more plain than the?e,
have never come down to the age in which you live ; but by them
ye shall not be judged ; ye shall only be judged by that which hath
been always before you, that ye might look upon at any time ye
chose, and shape your lives accordingly.
30. There is nothing that ever proceeded from his mouth, that
will, in the least, contradict the spirit of any of the foregoing dec
larations of his.
31. Now, O thou vain and mortal man, in what part of the gos
pel recorded in the sacred volume, dost thou find a cloak that is
able to cover thy wars and bloodshed, with all thy filthy works of
darkness?
32. And again, even in that part of the sacred bible that ye call
the law, and the Prophets, can ye find a passage, or a clause, that
will justify the awful abominations and horrid crimes, that have
stained the earth for hundreds and hundreds of years past ?
33. Where is there one single sentence, between the lids of the
sacred record, that can, in the least, justify the deeds of bigoted
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 55
priests, and wicked clergy, in shedding the blood of millions of
their fellow creatures, in the most cruel and barbarous manner,
that their fiendish passions were able to invent ; and that too, un
der a pretence of trying to bring them over to embrace the chris
tian religion ; which plainly declares, upon its whole face, that no
violence can be used, or blood can be shed, by any who are its
true subjects.
34. And the souls of millions now in eternity, cry unto Me for
vengeance to visit the earth, for their innocent blood that was spill
ed thereon, by wicked priests and clergy.
35. And I will, saith the God of Heaven, visit, upon all genera
tions, who shall follow their footsteps in shedding blood, to suppress
what they call heresy; [yea,]I will visit them in great wrath, and in
sore displeasure shall my hand of judgment rest upon them, both
in time, and in eternity.
36. And I will hunt them in my vengeance, and destroy them in
my fury, saith the Lord, as they have destroyed the innocent before
them, to gratify their own bigoted natures of lust and ambition.
37. This, I declare, with my own mouth, to the nations of the
earth, saith the God of Heaven, is as far from the spirit and the
letter of that gospel preached by my holy child Jesus, the Prince
of Peace, either in his first, or his second appearance, as the low
est depths of hell, are from the highest mansions of true felicity
and enjoyment, in the heavens above.
38. And so shall it forever remain on my eternal record, by
which every soul shall be judged, at my bar of eternal justice, saith
God, the Creator of all, and the dispenser of true justice, in his
own due time and season,, to every human being.
f)(j
CHAPTER IX.
MY SOLEMN WORDS OF WARNING TO THE INHAB
ITANTS OF EARTH, NEVER MORE TO FOLLOW THE
EXAMPLE PRACTICED IN THE LONG AND GLOOMY
PERIOD OF TIME CALLED THE DAYS OF ANTICHRIST ;
OK THE TIME IN WHICH MY TWO WITNE8SES WERE CLOTHED IN
SACKCLOTH AND MOURNING ; WHEN THERE WAS NO
TRUE CHURCH OP CHRIST ON EARTH.
1. God holds a controversy with man
kind.
3. Concerning the second coming of
Christ.
4. Of the reign of Antichrist.
6. Of the Ninevites.
11. Days of ignorance lightly passed over.
12. The treacherous required to repent.
13. Of wickedness in the reign of Anti
christ.
16. Christ's manner of instruction.
18. The subjects of Antichrist rejected
for their wickedness.
19. All warned by their fate.
20. The children of Israel a figure.
21. Of their judgments.
22. Of mockers.
24. Warning by antichrlstian wickedness.
25. The followers ofChrist,uo part in wars-
1 . Thus saith the Lord, I will condescend, in my infinite wisdom
and goodness, to reason with the objects of my creation, as a man
Would reason with his friend. This I condescended to do, in early
ages; and shall the great I AM, in this, the latter day of his
glory, be less mindful of the dangerous situation under the veil of
darkness, which the many millions of souls now upon the earth,
are resting?
2. Have not light and knowledge been suffered to increase, upon
the earth, since the days of my first anointed One, whom I sent
forth to earth to proclaim a free salvation, (not a compulsory one,)
that all, whosoever would, might take of the waters of life
freely? Surely, knowledge and understanding have increased.
But did I not fore-show, even in the days of the Messiah, that I had
not yet completed the order of my new, and spiritual kingdom ?
3. And did not my holy influence, (or spirit,) move upon the
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 57
prophets, and upon the apostles, (or followers in truth of the Mes
siah,) to speak of that day in which Christ should appear the second
time; and clearly intimate, the humiliating position in which he
would appear in the latter day? Truly, the records contained in
your bibles, bear Me witness.
4. And was not a long and gloomy period foretold, by the same
spirit, which would take place, between the two bright and last
dispensations of my eternal goodness, sent forth to earth by the
Two Anointed Ones, the King and the Queen of Zion?
5. Surely, thi3 record is also before you. And was it not foretold,
that a great declension, and a falling away from the true gospel,
would take place, after the mission of my beloved Son, was the first
time finished on earth? Truly, these things were clearly intimated
by the spirit of prophecy, through my faithful servants. But what
have all my solemn warnings, in past dispensations, availed man?
Hath he not always been blind to his own best good and interest?
Hath he ever hearkened to my solemn warnings, when they were
sent forth, and changed his manner of life; so that my hand of
mercy could be extended towards him?
6. Have mankind, in general, ever hearkened, so much as did
the Ninevites, at the solemn warnings of Jonah, whom I sent to
denounce destruction upon their city within forty days?
7. And did they not humble themselves in sackcloth and ashes,
from the king on the throne, to the meanest servant ; and lament,
and bewail their forlorn condition, and cry mightily to Me, that I
would spare their city?
8. And was not my anger appeased by their humility, insomuch
that I hearkened to their cry, and prolonged the days that preceded
their destruction, so long as they remained penitent and humble,
and walked in the way of a true reformation?
9. And when they had ceased longer to keep their vows which
they had made unto Me, in their supplications, and again turned
to their former wickedness, did I not accomplish, in full, the words
which I sent, by my prophet Jonah, that complete destruction
should visit their city?
10- Truly I did, saith the Lord ; and the great over-ruling First
Cause, Jehovah, upon his throne, is the same Almighty power, yes
terday, to-day, and forever ; whose goodness faileth not, and whose
judgments do not slumber.
11. But according to my infinite wisdom, all things are dispensed
H
58 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
in my own time and season ; anil to the honest hearted awd sin
cere seekers, though the true light of the gospel might never have
shone into their souls ; yet, if they have truly followed the best
light made known to them, the days of their ignorance shall be
lightly passed over, and my hand of mercy shall rest upon them.
12. But those who are treacherous to that light which I have
suffered to shine into their souls, and by reason of the cross
and self-denial, which they perceived it was going to require of
them, and who, by that means, labored to stifle the same, and put
it out, so that they could again turn to their former lives of sin and
wickedness, and not feel that remorse of conscience which this
light would bring, must surely feel deep tribulation of soul,
and wash in the streams of godly sorrow and repentance for the
same, or they cannot escape the heavy hand of my judgment, saith
the Lord ; for such, sin in very deed, against the true light of God.
13. But again listen, all ye people of the earth, pause, consider,
and reflect ! How awful and great, was the wickedness practiced by
man, upon the earth, after the days of the Messiah were passed ; and
his faithful followers, who had laid down their lives in support of
his testimony, were called home to eternity, to rest with their Lord
and Savior, from their wearisome toils and labors on earth, which
they had passed through in laboring to plant and establish the gos
pel of their blessed Lord and Master, in the hearts of the children
of men, who, as a body, proved themselves unworthy of salvation,
or the notice of their God in mercy !
14. For, by their cruel and persecuting spirit, against the holy
Son of God, and against those who were his true followers, they
proved themselves fit subjects for my wrath and sore destruction, to
rest upon them, and sweep them from the face of the earth, and
scatter the remnant to the four winds of heaven, seeking rest, and
finding none.
15. And for what were all these, their heavy sufferings I Because
of their self exalted ideas of the coming of the Messiah, and of
their hard and obstinate hearts, in rebelling against his word and
work, when I sent him forth, saith the Lord.
16. Though he communicated his lessons of instruction to them,
in the most mild and persuasive language, and in a most Father
ly and affectionate manner extended his hand of charity and lov
ing kindness, and would have gathered them under his wings of
protection, as a hen ivould gather her chickens;
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAKTH. 59
17. Yet, notwithstanding all this, their hearts became hard as ad
amant, their eyes became blinded with thick scales, and their ears
became deaf with their own clamors against the Son of God, against
the gospel which he preached, and against all such as hearkened to
him.
18. Therefore did I reject them, as a people, [who were] cursed
in my sight, and from their own mouths did I judge them; whose
lips were filled with blasphemy, and iniquity daily dwelling between
their teeth, and practiced with their hands.
19. And by their fate, saith the Lord, do I warn all nations, kin
dreds, tongues and people, of the present day.
20. For I had chosen this people, and had led them for some thou
sands of years, that through them, I might prefigure my work with
the children of men, in all after ages; and had they been obedient,
no power, or people, should have ever overcome them.
21. But the heavy and desolating judgments, which I caused to
fall upon them, to consume and scatter them among every nation
upon the face of the whole earth, remain as a standing monument
of solemn warning, to the nations of the earth at this day.
22. For in like manner as I have done unto them, saith the God
of Heaven, so will I do, and moreover, also to that nation and peo
ple, in this latter day, who shall mock the sacred words of my sol
emn warnings, and make light of the day of my visitation unto them;
or such as shall seek to destroy the work, or the word of my testi
mony, which 1 have established on earth, through my Two Anoint
ed Ones.
23. Also give ear, and understand my words, saith He who ruleth
on high, and will yet rule in the kingdoms of men upon earth.
24. Let the bloody and merciless reign of antichrist, which for
hundreds of years, did bind the consciences, enslave the souls of
men, and drench the earth with human blood, be a solemn and aw
ful warning to all the human race. For greater crimes of heaven-
diritig wickedness, according to the age, by man cannot be com
mitted, than was perpetrated by the secular arm, under this long,
dark and gloomy reign, in which there was no true Church of Christ
upon the earth; and all this, pretendedly, under the banner of Christ.
25. Let all nations and people, remember, saith the Lord, that
they who are, in any measure, the follouers of the Son of God, can
neither have, or take, any part in shedding human blood; neither
60 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
can they have, or take, any part in making use of compulsory meas
ures, to increase the number that may be said to believe as they do,
or belong to what they may term, their own persuasion. No exam
ple of this kind, was ever set by your Lord and Savior, either in his
first or second appearance, nor ever will be.
26. And by this criterion, may all professed christendom discern,
that where Christ their Lord and Savior reigns, there, bloodshed
and carnage must cease ; there the spirit of retaliation cannot dwell •
for the spirit of the Lamb is inoffensive, while that of the ravenous
beast, is destructive.
27. Therefore, know ye, all nations and people saith the Lord,
that where my kingdom is set up, its subjects rely upon my arm for
strength and protection. They trust not in the arm of flesh. And
they that put their trust in Me, shall renew their strength; they
shall walk and not faint, saith Jehovah. But they that trust in
flesh and blood, shall fall by the broken staff on which they lean.
CHAPTER X.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE, ALLUDING TO THE BE
NIGHTED REIGN OF ANTICHRIST.
3. Mankind questioned by the Almighty.
8. God trifleth not with his creatures.
10. Few learned righteousness, by teach
ings 9ent of God, &c.
11. Earth a paradise, had man kept his
rectitude.
15. No previous laws of God to man, dis
annulled in this day.
16. Of the law of Moses.
17. End of the Mosaic dispensation.
18. Transgression of the law of God, the
cause of destntction.
21. Mercy never withdrawn from the obe
dient soul.
22. Of those who search the scriptures, to
find a cloak for eviL
23. The sincere and obedient blessed,
although imperfect.
24. The law, a step stone, &e.
25. Of justification by the law.
Sec. 1. Again I do require, saith the Holy Angel, a few of the most
plain and evident allusions, mentioned in Holy Writ, which refer to
the benighted reign of antichrist, to be here inserted, just as they
were then spoken by the spirit of prophecy.
TO THE NATIONS OV THE EAKTH. 61
Daniel, vii. 8. I considered the horns, and behold, there came
<ip among them another little horn, before whom there were three
of the first horns plucked up by the roots: and behold, in this
horn were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking
great things.
9. I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient
of days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair
of his head like the pure wool : his throne was like the fiery flame,
and his wheels as burning fire.
10. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him ;
thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times
ten thousand stood before him : the judgment was set, and the
books were opened.
11. I beheld then because of the voice of the great words
which the horn spake : I beheld even till the beast was slain, and
his body destroyed, and given to the burning flame.
21. I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and
prevailed against them ;
22. Until the Ancient of days came, and judgment was given
to the saints of the Most High ; and the time came that the saints
possessed the kingdom.
25. And he shall speak great words against the Most High,
and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and think to
change times and laws : and they shall be given into his hand
until a time and times and the dividing of time.
26. But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his
dominion to consume and to destroy it unto the end.
27. And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the
kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of
the saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting
kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him.
Chap. viii. 13. Then I heard one saint speaking, and another
saint said unto that certain saint which spake, How long shall
be the vision concerning the daily sacrifice, and the transgression
of desolation, to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trod
den under foot?
14. And he said unto me, Unto two thousand and three hun
dred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.
Chap. xii. 7. And I heard the man clothed in linen, which was
upon the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and
62 SACHED ROLL AND BOOK
his left hand unto heaven, and sware by him that liveth forever,
that it shall be for a time, times, and a half; and when he shall
have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people, all
these things shall be finished.
8. And I heard, but I understood not : then said I, O my Lord,
what shall be the end of these things 1
9. And he said, Go thy way, Daniel : for the words are closed
up and sealed till the time of the end.
10. Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried ; but
the wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall un
derstand ; but the wise shall understand.
11. And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken
away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall
be a thousand two hundred and ninety days.
Revelations, xiii. 7. And it was given unto him to make war
with the saints, and to overcome them : and power was given him
over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations.
Micah, iv. 11. Now also many nations are gathered against
thee, that say, Let her be defiled, and let our eye look upon Zion.
12. But they know not the thoughts of the Lord, neither un
derstand they his counsel : for he shall gather them as the sheaves
into the floor.
Slatthcw, xxiv. 4. And Jesus answered and said unto them,
Take heed that no man deceive you.
5. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ ;
and shall deceive many.
15. When ye, therefore, shall see the abomination of desola
tion, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place,
(whoso readeth, let him understand,)
28. Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or
there ; believe it not.
24. For there shall arise false christs, and false prophets, and
shall shew great signs and wonders ; insomuch that, if it were
possible, they should deceive the very elect.
25. Behold, I have told you before.
26. Wherefore, if they shall say unto you; Behold, he is in the
desert ; go not forth : behold, he is in the secret chambers ; be
lieve it not.
Mark, xiii. 6. For many shall co;ne in my name, tayinj, 1 am.
Christ : and shall deceive many. .
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 63
14. But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spok
en of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him
that readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judea flee to
the mountains :
Sec. 2. Consider, O ye people, what plainer declaration of the
spirit, could be given, than the foregoing, to inform the people that
the time was then near, that the true Church should be made deso
late of Christ, by the abominations practiced by those who profess
ed to be of the same.
Mark, xiii. 21. And then, if any man shall say to you, Lo,
here is Christ ; or lo, he is there ; believe him not.
22. For false Christs, and false prophets shall rise, and shall
shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the
elect. 1
23. But take ye heed: behold, I have foretold you all things.
Luke, xxi. 8. And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived :
for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ ; and the
time draweth near : go ye not therefore after them.
I. John, ii. 18. Little children, it is the last time : and as ye
have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many
antichrists ; whereby we know that it is the last time.
Chap. iv. 3. And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus
Christ is come in the flesh, [or, manifested through a mortal
body,] is not of God. And this is that spirit of antichrist,
whereof ye have heard that it should come ; and even now al
ready is it in the world.
II. Thess. ii. 3. Let no man deceive you by any means ; for
that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first,
and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition ;
4. Who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called
God, or that is worshipped ; so that he, as God, sitteth in the tem
ple of God, showing himself that he is God.
7. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work : only he
who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.
8. And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord
shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with
the brightness of his coming :
9. Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan,
with all power, and signs, and lying wonders,
10. And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them
64 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
that perish ; because they receive not the lore of the truth, that
they might be saved.
11. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion,
that they should believe a lie:
12. That they all might be damned who believe not the truth,
but have pleasure in unrighteousness.
II. Timothy, iii. 1. This know also, that in the last days peril
ous times shall come.
2. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boast
ers, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, un
holy,
3. Without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers,
incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,
4. Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasures more than
lovers of God ;
5. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof :
from such turn away.
6. For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead
captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts ;
7. Ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of
the truth.
Sec. 3. Where is the nation or people, saith the Lord, that is
ready and prepared to come to the knowledge of the truth, when I
shall reveal it unto them ?
4. Where is the kingdom, nation or people, that will not do, in
this last dispensation of my goodness to man, as their fathers before
them have done?
5. Who is ready to receive Me in my own way, saith the Lord ?
6. And who are ye that are ever ready to carve out ways of
your own, and cry out against my word, and my work, Blasphemy
and delusion 1
7. Who among you will be ever learning, and never ready to
come to the knowledge of the truth, when I, your God and Creator,
make it known unto you ?
8. Pause, and consider your doings. The Great I AM is a merciful
God ; but trifleth not with the objects of his creation, who spurn at
his work, and turn a blind eye and a deaf ear unto his sacred word.
9. Look at the blindness of your fellow creatures, who have gone
before you, for many hundreds of years past. Notwithstanding the
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 65
plainness of my word, in giving them warning ; that they might
always be enlightened, and enabled thereby, (if they would,) to
keep from the devouring grasp of the adversary of all good, through
the long and gloomy period which did elapse, between the first and
second appearance of Christ, or the Two Anointed Ones, in their
proper order and place.
10. But few, indeed, have learned righteousness by the holy les
sons of instruction that I have sent forth unto them, in past dispen
sations, saith the Lord ; but they have labored to carve out a way
of their own, by which they might save their own corrupt, fallen
propensities of a depraved nature, and indulge the same, in open
violation of every command laid1 down, or given in the sacred
volume,
11. Had mankind gone no further, in the indulgence and gratifi
cation of their natures, than there is permission given for it in the
sacred book, which they with their mouths so highly venerate, and
pretend is their guide, by which to square their lives, this earth
would have been a terrestrial paradise to what it now is ; and my
Almighty power would have bestowed blessings of peace without
measure, in lieu of war and bloodshed, desolation and destruction ;
12. And at the present day, she would have been prepared to do
my will and pleasure, of her own choice, without being visited
with my heavy and desolating judgments, which are now poured
out without mixture for her, saith the Lord; that when she refuseth
to learn righteousness in mercy, she may learn it in judgment at nay
hand.
Revelations, vi. 12. And I beheld when he had opened the
sixth seal, and lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun be
came black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood :
13. And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig-tree
casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.
14. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled togeth
er; and every mountain and island were moved out of their
places.
15. And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich
men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bond
man, and every free-man, hid themselves in the dens and in the
rocks of the mountains ;
16. And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide
i
66 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the
wrath of the Lamb:
17. For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be
able to stand ?
Sec. 13. Thus saith the Lord, I have caused to be laid before you,
some of the most plain, and instructive passages which were spoken
by my blessed Son, and those who walked uprightly before Me, giv
ing the people warning of the day that was then at hand ; that all
such as would, might avoid practicing the awful abominations that
would be committed therein, under the pretended yoke of the pure
religion of Christ.
14. And these passages, which are but few out of many, I have
caused to be inserted in this- Holy and Sacred Rolf and Booh of
my word to the inhabitants of earth, which, in my mercy, I now
again send forth unto them, in this, the last age of the world.
15. I shall not countermand, or disannul any law or command
ment, which I have ever sent forth unto man; but I pronounce them
all good; and I shall affix and apply them, to the age and day for
which they were given ; and so shall I deal with man, according to
his treatment of the same,
16. Those statutes and laws which I sent forth for the children
of Israel, by my servant Moses, were good, and intended for a pro
tection, not only to that chosen people, but that all the inhabitants
of the earth might behold the statutes and laws, handed forth to a
people, whom my Almighty hand had condescended to lead and
notice above all others; and by this means, learn a solemn lesson of
warning, to imitate the same.
17. And had all strictly kept these laws, they would have been
blessed and protected by my Almighty hand, until they should have
reached the end of that dispensation, which did end, when I sent
my only begotten Son upon earth.
18. And never, through all the different ages, and periods of time,
which have existed from the creation of the world to the present
day, have I caused any nation or people to be destroyed, unless
they had previously transgressed, and gone forth in open disobedi
ence to that which I had commanded them.
19. Throughout the dispensation of the law of Moses, mercy and
compassion did I show, and cause my people to show, to such of
the surrounding nations, as truly blessed my people from their hearts,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 67
and treated them with kindness and respect. Such, I suffered not
to be destroyed.
20. But those who sought to do them mischief, and vex them,
while on their journey through the wilderness to the promised land,
I did cause to be utterly overthrown ; save at such times as when
my people had been disobedient, and refused to hearken to my word ;
then, I suffered those nations to scourge them with the sword, and
slay them without mercy before my face.
21. In no age of the world, have I ever withheld from the chil
dren of men, my hand of mercy, blessing and protection, when
they went forth with sincere hearts, in true obedience to my com
mands, given in the age and day in which they lived. By faithfully
keeping them, they would always be ready to embrace, and readily
unite with every increasing dispensation of my grace and goodness
to the children of men.
22. But such as have searched the record of my holy word, saith
the Lord, to find such texts and passages as would best apply and
excuse them, in the wicked and sinful gratifications of their own
natures, have only plucked brands from the fire, with which to burn
their own souls, by kindling the flames of torment within : Whether
ye be rich or poor, whether ye be priests or people, I have record
ed it against you, on my eternal record ; and ye shall meet it in
an hour that ye are not prepared.
23. But those who have obeyed, in singleness of heart, without
regarding their natural inclinations to the contrary, such parts of
the sacred volume as require them to deny themselves of all un
godliness, and every worldly lust, and have conscientiously labored
to do the same, [according] to their best understanding, though it
may have been quite imperfect; yet shall they receive at my hand
of mercy, for the sincerity of their hearts, in so doing.
24. The law and the Prophets were given, as a step stone, to
lead souls on, to the true foundation ; or, in other words, it answer
ed as a school master, to bring them to Christ.
25. But such as believed not the Christ, my only begotten Son,
can no longer be justified by the deeds of the law ; for I sent him
forth to fulfill the law, and make an end of the same, by establishing
the law of grace, which would not only embrace the whole sub
stance of the law, but would far exceed it in every point of
goodness.
68 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
26. And all who were faithful and true, to keep the law, and the
restrictions therein contained, were justified by the deeds done un
der the law; and were, by this means, prepared, when called upon
by an increasing and superior light, Bent forth by my Aiuiigbty
hand, to enter, with thankful hearts, and rejoice in that God who
called them, that they were counted worthy.
CHAPTER XI.
OF THE DISPENSATIONS OF GOD'S GRACE TO MAN
KIND; THE MANNER IN WHICH MAN HAS TREATED
THEM, THE EFFECTS OF HIS DISOBEDIENCE, AND
REFUSAL OF THE OFFERS OF GRACE.
THE LAW AND THE PROPHETS BEACHED THE DAYS OF THE MESSIAH ;
THE DISPENSATION OP CHRIST'S FIRST APPEARING, REACHED UNTO
THAT OF HIS SECOND, IN WHICH THE ORDER OF HIS KINGDOM
AND WORK ARE COMPLETED.
1. Of the daily gathering of manna. 19. What Christ foresaw and foretold.
1 Of a lesson, and the requirement of 24, Many upon whom true light hath nev
God to man. er shone.
3. By obedience, mankind could have 25. The sincere merit a blessing.
been In advance to what they now Si. A question to all professed christians.
are. 2S. Disobedience, the cause of judgment.
4. Of man's declaration to God, by 29. Of the destruction of the human race.
works. 30. Mankind never have kept the law of
5. God reasons with mankind. nature.
9. Han's excuses alter nothing. 31. The earth ripe for destruction.
10. Christ's doctrines sufficient for the 32. Of the wickedness upon earth.
people, and day, &c. 33. The faithful, scarce and few.
11 No other way to be saved. 34. Of prophecies concerning the latter
14. Of words and works, or hearers and day.
doers. 35. Of the second appearing of Christ in
15. The followers of antichrist soon be- a female.
came numerous. SB. Man ever inclined to defer the work of
IT Of the second coming of ChrisL 1 God to a future period.
I. When I caused manna to come down from Heaven, for food
J.o the children of Israel, did I not require each to gather, day by
TO THE NATION'S OF THE EARTH. 69
day, the store which they needed for that day only ? save that
which was for food on the Sabbath, was gathered the day previous.
And could any keep it longer in an eatable state ? Surely not,
saith He who sent it.
2. And from this one circumstance, mankind should have learned
a lesson, not eaaily to be forgotten ; which
is,
that God, their Heav
enly Father, requires the objects whom he hath created, to be con
stantly employed; first, seeking to do his will and pleasure,
by
la
boring for spiritual food, or that which would feed, nourish and
strengthen the soul, against every evil temptation, without and with
in; and their hands to work daily, for their own support.
3.
Had mankind learned these two important lessons, and prac
ticed the same, from that day to this, their principles of morality,
and spiritual goodness, gained
by
actual works, more than
by
words,
would have been far in advance of what they now are
;
they would
never, after having been called
by
the law of grace, again have
turned their sense and feelings to seek after indulgences, permitted
under
a
law given after [the order of]
a
carnal commandment.
4.
But the works of mankind declare unto Me, saith the Lord,
that they have neither kept the Mosaic law, nor in any way, walked
agreeable to the order and law of grace
;
or the precepts of the
gospel revealed through my blessed Son. But the law which hath
ruled among the children of men, upon the face of the whole earth,
from Adam to Moses, from Moses to Christ, and from Christ to
the present day,
is
the law of their own corrupt natures.
5. And shall
I,
after suffering the wicked inhabitants of the
earth to go on for thousands of years, in their own way, suffer them
still longer to continue their course, uninterrupted, defying my holy
power, and setting at naught my righteous commands]
6. Hath he not already begun to say, in his heart, "There
is
no
God, there
is
no Christ that will ever do us any harm, [for these,
our doings,] let us go on, and take our comfort, while we do live;
for when we die, that will be the end of us
;
for we are no more
than the beasts that perish
!
7. Nay, saith the Lord God of Heaven, whose goings forth are
from everlasting, and whose ways are past finding out by mortals,
any further than his infinite wisdom and goodness may condescend
to reveal them.
8.
I
will not always suffer man to scorn the works of his Crea
tor. All flesh shall become as dross and dung before Me; and us
70 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
a vapor before the morning sun, shall it vanish quickly away ; no
flesh shall glory in my presence.
9. Man, with all the excuses he can collect, and with all the
permission to indulge his carnal propensities, which he thinks he
can derive from the record of my sacred word, can alter nothing
in the least. The motives of his heart are recorded ; they make
nothing that is white, black, nor black, that is white. Eternal truth
and justice shall bear the sway.
10. Sufficient unto the day, and to the people who lived in that
day, were the precepts and doctrines of Christ, brought forth and
preached loudly to the world, by examples of great sufferings, and
true self-denial.
11. But few heeded his warning voice, or bettered their lives by
reason of his coming. The cross which he bore, and testified to
all, that none could come to him, who would not bear the same, was
so galling to the carnal sense of man, in that day, that but very few
made the sacrifice required, to obtain salvation, or gain the seal of
eternal life.
12. But this hath not altered my declaration through the mouths
of my servants, that there is no other name given under Heaven
whereby men shall be saved ; and he that preacheth any other gos
pel than this, let him be accursed.
13. And although there be millions of the present day, who pre
tend they are the true followers of the Lord and Savior ; yet do I
testify unto them, they are not the sheep of his fold.
14. Fair words, and fine speeches, saith the Lord, make not a
true follower of Christ. It is not the hearers of the word only, but
the doers of the work.
15. As soon as antichrist began to set up the abomination of
desolation, by remodeling the letter of that gospel preached by
Christ, that it might serve for a cloak, under which to conceal
every species of wickedness ; its followers at once became very nu
merous, and have increased rapidly unto the present day.
16. But remember, the Lord your God hath declared, that the
gospel brought forth by the Lord Jesus Christ, was never known
or practiced, in antichrist's reign ; neither was the strait gate en
tered, or the narrow way traveled, from the time that the primitive
church declined, and fell away, until Christ, or the fullness of the
same spirit was sent forth the second time, without sin unto salva
tion, by my Holy Power, and Eternal Wisdom.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 71
17. And [this second manifestation,] was, and
is,
quite as offen
sive to the children of men, in this day, as
it
was when he made
his first appearance. And they appear to be no more ready now,
to receive him in truth, in this day, notwithstanding their great
profession, than the Jews were in their day.
18. And upon which class will the greatest weight of guilt and
condemnation fall
1
Surely, upon the latter, saith the Lord. For
greater light hath shone upon them,
if
they would but have obey
ed
it,
than ever shone upon the Jews.
19. Christ plainly saw, when he was upon earth, all that was in
man. He needed not that any one should tell him what man pos
sessed
;
therefore, he did plainly foretell to his disciples, what kind
of use the wicked nature in man, would yet make of his name, and
of the gospel he preached, as
is
plainly recorded in sacred writ be
fore you.
20. He plainly saw that they would borrow his words, in blasphe
my, and use his name in deceit, and loudly proclaim the letter of
the gospel he preached
;
all for
a
cloak, and a
show of religion to
be seen of men.
21. And under this banner, they could shed the blood of millions
of their fellow creatures, and readily destroy all such as presumed
to bear testimony against their heaven-daring wickedness, the blood
of whose slain, crieth unto Me to this very day.
22. And furthermore, every species of abomination could be tol
erated, and committed,
by
those professing to be the subjects of
this remodeled religion, said to embrace the true gospel principles
of Christ. The least ray of true gospel light, would at once con
demn all their sacrilegious proceedings.
23. Had mankind, from the day that the Messiah was on earth,
to the present time, but kept the one following passage, in truth,
" Love thy neighbor as thyself," they would have been much nigh-
el to Me, their God and Creator, at this day, than they now are
;
take the body of the inhabitants of the world together.
24. Though many there be, upon whom the true light of the
gospel hath never shone, yet, they are sincere according to the best
of their understanding.
25. All such will merit my blessing and protection, until further
light
is
suffered to shine into their souls; then they must likewise
obey that, or they will fall into
a
far worse state, than they were
72 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
before it reached them ; Tot transgressions, committed in ignorance,
will be lightly passed over, saith the Lord.
26. But, saith the God of Heaven, I again call upon all profess
ing christians, to ponder well this question ; Do you sincerely be
lieve, from your hearts, that you are fulfilling the divine commands
of your blessed Lord and Savior, and are daily walking in that gos
pel he preached, by bearing the cross which he bore, and wearing
the yoke which he wore T
27. Ponder well this question in your own hearts, and let truth
decide, as ye would if ye knew ye must appear before my eternal
bar of justice at the next hour : for the time hasteneth on, in my
own wisdom, that I will know no man by his words, but by the fruit
which he produceth.
28. As I before told you, disobedience is the cause ; and judg
ment, desolation and destruction, are the effects proceeding from
this cause.
29. But my creature man, for nearly six thousand years, hath
adhered to the cause of destruction ; and for which cause, I once
swept him from the face of the earth, save a small remnant, to pre
serve his seed.
30. Yet, notwithstanding all this, he hath never learned obedi
ence to my divine commands, either as regards the law of nature,
given in the beginning; or that which was given by Moses, under
the dispensation of types and shadows, or the order and law of
grace, given under the gospel dispensation by the Holy Son of God.
31. Therefore, do I send forth my word of solemn warning; and
declare, in the voice of my eternal truth, to all nations, that the
inhabitants of the earth are ripe for the heavy hand of my judg
ments to visit them.
32. For violence doth cover the earth; deceit and hypocrisy
stand up, and walk in the congregrations and assemblies of such as
meet together, to adore my holy name. Abomination is found in
their skirts ; it weareth the clothing of a sheep, but possesseth the
body of a wolf.
33. Their fathers have gone astray, and their children have fol
lowed their footsteps ; until the truly upright have become scarce
and few, as particles of gold in the midst of crude ore.
34. Many have been the prophecies and predictions, in former
dispensations, respecting the latter day of glory, in which Christ
should come, the second time, with thousands of his saints; in
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 73
which day my kingdom should be set up, never more to be over
thrown. That the stone, spoken of by the Prophet Daniel, should
grow, and fill the whole earth. That my law should go forth of
Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
35. These are all correct and true; and many more passages
were spoken by the spirit of prophecy, referring to Christ's mak
ing his second appearance in a female ; which are also correct
36. But this declaration is so humiliating, to the proud and
haughty sense in man, that he most universally spurns at (he idea,
and rejects
it,
as folly and fanaticism; witchcraft and delusion.
37. He looketh not at the fruit, to judge whether the root be holy;
he seems wholly to overlook the criterion which his Lord and
Savior gave, when upon earth, [by which to judge,] which was
the works, or fruit.
38. But the disposition, and proneness in man, to disbelieve the
work of God in the present tenie, when it
is
sent unto him, and to
fix the period still in the future, unless
I
send forth my word in iro%
mediate judgment upon him, hath been abundantly proved, from
the earliest ages of the world to the present time.
39. But this altereth not the truth, nor in any way changeth the
order and dispensations of my work. He only shutteth the door of
mercy against his own soul
by
so doing.
74
CHAPTER XII.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE, REFERRING TO THE
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
SOME OF THE MOST PLAIN PASSAGES RECORDED IN THE SCRIPTURE,
REFERRING TO THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST, ARE REQUIRED,
8AITH THE HOLY ANGEL, TO BE HERE CORRECTLY WRITTEN,
AS HANDED DOWN FROM THAT DAY TO THIS.
1. Of a misapplication of Ihe scriptures.
2. Of the maimer of Christ's second ap
pearing.
3. Of clouds spoken of by the apostle.
5. Of the appearance of the holy spirit
of God.
7. The mortal body of Jesus, never again
to appear.
8. The visitation of God at hand.
9. Christ to appear in his chosen wit
nesses.
11. The female prepared for her office.
13. Bigotry, in this gospel will not abide.
14. Of the likeness of the Son of man.
15. Of Christ's appearance in the female.
16. Of her titles, and of the second
witness.
17. Of the third witness.
Daniel, vii. 13. I saw in the night visions, and behold, one
like the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came
to the Ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.
And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom,
that all people, nations, and languages, should serve him : his
dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away,
and his kingdom, that which shall not be destroyed.
Matthew, xxiv. 30. And then shall appear the sign of the Son
of man in heaven : and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn,
and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heav
en with power and great glory.
Sec. 1. How can the children of men, in this day, saith the spirit,
apply this one passage, in such a literal and natural sense, in con
tradistinction to the plain declaration of the Holy Savior himself,
who plainly declared to his followers, saying, Yet a little while, and
the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, because Ilive, ye shall
live also. [See St. John, xiv. 19.]
2. Surely then, his personal presence could never again be seen
by the world ; and he could never be seen again only by those who
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 75
should come into his life ; for he hath declared the truth, and Heav
en and earth should pass away, rather than his words should, in the
least, fail from the true spirit of their meaning.
Luke, xxi. 25. And there shall be signs in the sun, and in
the moon, and in the stars ; and upon the earth distress of nations,
with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring;
26. Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those
things which are coming on the earth : for the powers of heaven
shall be shaken.
27. And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud,
with power and great glory.
28. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look
up, and lift up your heads: for your redemption draweth nigh.
Acts, iii. 14. But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and
desired a murderer to be granted unto you ;
15. And killed the Prince of life, whom God hath raised from
the dead ; whereof we are witnesses.
19. Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may
be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the
presence of the Lord.
29. And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached
unto you :
21. Whom the heaven must receive, until the times of restitu
tion of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his
holy prophets, since the world began.
II. Corinthians, iii. 3. For as much as ye are manifestly de
clared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not
with ink, but with the spirit of the living God ; not in tables of
stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart.
17. Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the
Lord is, there is liberty.
I. Thessalonians, iv. 15. For this we say unto you by the
word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the
coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep.
16. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and
the dead in Christ shall rise first :
17. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up
together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air :
and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
7« SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
Sec. 3. Thus saith the Holy Angel ; Understand, O ye children of
men, and be ye no longer deceived, respecting the clouds, and the
air, just mentioned. These clouds are spiritual clouds of his eternal
light and brightness, shining forth in his true and faithful witnesses.
And this air, is the uncontaminated and uiidefiled air of purity, in
which spiritual element, Clirist, and all his true followers live, and
can live in no other.
4. And in this air, his true church doth dwell on earth, undefined
by sin. And in this spiritual air, do their prayers and thanksgiving;
ascend, even to the throne of their God, as sweet smelling incense
of praise, saith the Angel. And this is the only air, or element of
life, in which Christ can be met, or found.
5. Remember that sensual man, by all his learning, wisdom and
understanding, comprehendeth not the true meaning of the sayings
of the spirit of God ; for this spirit appeareth, both literally, and
spiritually, to 3iibdue, and bring into subjection to the law of
Christ, every member of the body, and every sinful and unruly pro
pensity of the mind.
II. Thcstalonians, i. 7. And to you, who are troubled, rest
with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven
with his mighty angels,
8. In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not
God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ :
Chap. ii. 8. And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom
the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall
destroy with the brightness of his coming :
Sec. 6. Remember, O ye children of men, saith the Angel, that
this wicked, is consumed by the spirit of his mouth, which is
spiritual.
7. There never can be the same local, and material body, again
upon earth, as it was in his first appearing; though the earth should
remain for thousands of years to come, and mankind should be
suffered to remain thereon as long, waiting, and looking for the sec
ond coming of the Messiah in this way, they would wait and look
in vain, saith the Holy Angel ; for this never will be.
Revelations, xiv. 1. And I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on
the mount Sion, and with him a hundred forty and four thousand,
having his Father's name written in their foreheads.
2. And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAKTH. 77
waters, and as the voice of a great thunder : and I heard the voice
of harpers harping with their harps :
3. And they sung as it were a new song before the throne,
and before the four beasts, and the elders : and no man could
learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,
which were redeemed from the earth.
4. These are they which are not defiled with women; for they
are virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb, whitherso
ever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the
first-fruits unto God and to the Lamb.
5. And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are with
out fault before the throne of God.
6. And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, hav
ing the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the
earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people.
7. Saying, with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him ;
for the hour of his judgment is come : and worship him that
made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.
8. And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen,
is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of
the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
9. And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice,
If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive hit
mark in his forehead, or in his hand,
10. The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God,
which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indigna
tion ; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the
presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb :
1 1 . And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and
ever : and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the
beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his
name.
12. Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep
the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
13. And I heard a voice from heaven, saying unto me, Write,
Blessed are, the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth : Yea,
saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors ; and their
works do follow them.
Sec 8. Give ear, all ye inhabitants of the earth, saith the Lord;
These days, just spoken of, are near at your doors, and you know it
7S SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
not ; and many other passages there are, of my sacred word, which
apply equally to your day ; and much of the foregoing is already
fulfilled, in the hearts of them that fear Me, and keep my command
ments. The second coming of the Son of man, they have seen ;
and received, at his hand, the holy oracles of God.
9. When my Holy Son ascended, the apostles were told, that this
same Jesus should come in like manner as they had seen him go into
Heaven. [ See acts.
ii.
11.] As none but the apostles, his chosen
witnesses, saw him go into heaven; and as Jesus signifies Savior
;
it
follows, that none but his witnesses will ever see the Savior come
again
;
but [all others] must rely upon the testimony of his chosen
witnesses, or never know it.
10. And through them, does the voice of eternal truth now pro
claim to all nations, that the spirit of the Christ, the Savior, hath
again appeared the second time upon earth, without sin unto salva
tion; and hath established hischurch, whose everlasting and eternal
foundation,
is
living truth; therefore
it
must, and shall forever
stand, saith the Lord.
11. And for the reception of this spirit,
I
did prepare, with my
holy power,
a
female, of my own choosing, upon whom
I
did, for
many years, cause deep and heavy sufferings of soul to fall, that she
might be cleansed and purified from the nature of sin, and fitly pre
pared for the holy office; which was done, according to my will and
pleasure, saith the God of heaven.
12. Here Christ was revealed, and here was he made known, to
all such as were sincerely seeking after good. And in this line, and
in no other, will he reveal himself, without sin unto salvation, while
time shall roll, and while man shall exist.
13. And in this pure and holy gospel, no bigoted priest can abide,
who preaches for hire, and selleth the sacred word, sent forth by my
spirit, for money
;
who maketh trade and traffic with that which
should be kept sacred and holy.
Revelation,
i.
7.
Behold, he cometh with clouds
;
and every
eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him
:
and all kin
dreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Even so, Amen.
8.
I
am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith
the Lord, which
is,
and which was, and which
is
to come, the
Almighty.
Chap. xxii. 20. He which testifieth these things saith, Surely
1
come quickly
:
Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 79
C. And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true.
And the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew
unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.
7. Behold, I come quickly : blessed is he that keepeth the
sayings of the prophecy of this book.
10. And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy
of this book : for the time is at hand.
11. He that is unjust, let him be unjust still : and he which is
filthy, let him be filthy still : and he that is righteous, let him be
righteous still : and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
12. And behold, I come quickly ; and my reward is with me, to
give every man according as his work shall be.
13. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first
and the last.
14. Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may
have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates
into the city.
15. For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers,
and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and ma-
keth a lie.
16. I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things
in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David,
and the bright and morning-star.
17. And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him
that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And
whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.
Chap. xiv. 14. And I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and
upon the cloud one* sat like unto the Son of man, having on
his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
15. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a
loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and
reap : for the time is come for thee to reap ; for the harvest of
the earth is ripe.
16. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in' his sickle on the
earth ; and the earth was reaped.
Sec. 14. This which my Servant John saw, sitting upon the white
cloud, was the likeness of the Son of man ; therefore it could not
be his person ; but^thatsamespirit, which once dwelt in the person
* The word one, is not original.
80 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
of Jesus. And that same spirit, is now upon earth the second time,
making an end of sin, and bringing in everlasting righteousness.
15. And this spirit did first appear, and take up its abode, in the
ftmale witness of my last dispensation of grace and goodness, to
the lost race of man.
16. The fullness of this work, in its completed order, was
perfected, in the witness whose name is recorded on my eternal
record, saith the Lord, the Daughter of Zion, the Bride, the
Lamb's wife, who once dwelt in the earthly tabernacle of Ann Lee.
The second witness, who stood through great sufferings and tribula
tion, an able helper and supporter, once dwelt in the mortal body
of William Lee.
17. The third, who was a faithful, true and proclaiming witness
of that everlasting gospel, now sent forth to the inhabitants of earth,
once dwelt in the mortal body of James WHrrrAKER.
18. These were my three first witnesses, in this last dispensation
of my goodness (o man; and I proclaim them as such, saith the
God of Heaven, to the four quarters of the earth : and let him that
readeth, understand.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE SUBJECT CONTINUED DECLARATION AND
TESTIMONY OF THE APOSTLES.
Romans, i. 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven
against all ungodliness, and unrighteousness of men, who hold
the truth in unrighteousness.
23. And changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an
image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and four-foot
ed beasts, and creeping things.
24. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness, through
the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between
themselves :
25. Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. SI
and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed
forever. Amen.
26. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. For
even their women did change the natural use into that which is
against nature :
27. And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the
woman, burned in their lust one toward another ; men with men
working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that
recompense of their error which was meet.
28. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowl
edge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things
which are not convenient:
29. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wicked
ness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, debate,
deceit, malignity ; whisperers,
30. Backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters,
inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
81. Without understanding, covenant-breakers, without natural
affection, implacable, unmerciful :
32. Who, knowing the judgment of God, that they which com
mit such things are worthy of death; not only do the same, but
have pleasure in them that do them.
Chap. ii. 2. But we are sure that the judgment of God is
according to truth, against them which commit such things.
6. Who will render to every man according to his deeds :
1. Corinthians, vi. 9. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall
not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived; neither
fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abu
sers of themselves with mankind,
10. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor
extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
Chap. vii. 1. Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote
unto me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
2. Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his
own wife, and let every woman have her own husband.
6. But I speak this by permission, and not of commandment.
7. For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every
man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and
another after that.
K
82 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
R. I say therefore to the unmarried and widow s, It is good for
them if they abide even as I.
29. But this I say, brethren, The time is short. It remaineth,
that both they that have wives, be as though they had none;
30. And they that weep, as though they wept not ; and they
that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not ; and they that buy, as
though they possessed not ;
31. And they that use this world, as not abusing it. For the
fashion of this world passeth away.
34. There is difference also between a wife and a virgin. The
unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord that she may
be holy, both in body and in spirit: but she that is married, careth
for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
38. So then he that giveth her in marriage doeth well ; but he
that giveth her not in marriage doeth better.
II. Corinthians, xi. 2. For I am jealous over you with godly
jealousy: for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may
present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
Galations, v. 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which
are these, Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
20. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath,
strife, seditions, heresies,
21. Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like:
of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time
past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the king
dom of God.
22. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering,
gentleness, goodness, faith,
23. Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.
24. And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh, with
the affections and lusts.
25. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
26. Let us not be desirous of vain-glory, provoking one another,
envying one another.
Ephesians, iv. 25. Wherefore putting away lying, speak every
man truth with his neighbor : for we are members one of another.
Colossians, iii. 9. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have
put off the old man with his deeds;
James, iii. 5. Even so the tongue is a little member, and
TO THE NATIONS OF THK KAHTH. 83
boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire
kindlethl
6. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the
tongue among our members, that it defileth the wnole body, and
setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell.
7. For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents,
and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed, of man
kind:
8. But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full
of deadly poison.
9. Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith
curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.
10. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing.
My brethren, these things ought not so to be.
Chap. iv. 1. From whence come wars and fightings among you?
come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members?
2. Ye lust and have not : ye kill, and desire to have, and can
not obtain : ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask
not.
3. Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may
consume it upon your lusts.
4. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friend
ship of the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will
be a friend of the world is the enemy of God.
5. Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that
dwelleth in us lusteth to envy f
6. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resist-
eth the proud, hut giveth grace unto the humble.
7. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and
he will flee from you.
8. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse
your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded.
9. Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be
turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness.
10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall
lift you up.
Chap. v. 1. Goto now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your
miseries that shall come upon you.
2. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-
eaten.
84 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
3. Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them
shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were
fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days.
4. Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down
your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth ; and the
cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of
the Lord of Sabaoth.
5. Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth, and been wanton;
ye hare nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.
6. Ye have condemned and killed the just; and he doth not
resist you.
16. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another,
that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a right
eous man availeth much.
I. Peter, ii. 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as stran
gers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against
the soul ;
12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that,
whereas they speak against you as evil-doers, they may by your
good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of
visitation.
Chap. iii. 3. Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorn
ing of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting
on of apparel ;
4. But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is
not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit,
which is in the sight of God of great price.
85
CHAPTER XIV.
OF THE MOSAIC LAW, AND OF THE KINGDOM AND
LAW OF CHRIST; ALSO, CONCERNING THOSE IN
HEATHENISH DARKNESS.
The word of God gives no license for
the carnal indulgences of nature.
Of the completed order of Christ's
kingdom.
Of the declaration of the work of God.
Of outstanding the day of visitation.
11. Concerning passages of scripture.
12. The intent of the scriptures.
17. More tolerable for those in heathenish
darkness, than for those who know,
and do not the Lord's will.
1. Again consider, O frail man; consider saith the Lord, the
imperfectness of you' sight, and the shortness of your understand
ing in respect to my holy and sacred word, which was sounded
forth on earth, by my blessed Son, and his faithful followers, hund
reds of years ago.
2. There is not one passage in the sacred volume, that ever
escaped from his holy lips ; that in any way gives permission, or
tolerates a life of fleshly indulgence, or the carnal gratifications of
nature. And nothing of that nature, was ever tolerated, by any of
his apostles, only in the line of a permission, or an indulgence, for
the time being, because of their great weakness in those respects ;
and this was done by the Apostle, in order, if possible, to content
them that still greater sins might be avoided.
3. But nothing of that nature was ever given by commandment,
after the gospel dispensation was sent forth by my Almighty hand;
though the full order of my new, and spiritual creation, was not
completed, to that degree of holiness throughout, in Christ's first
appearing, but that some little indulgences of that kind, could be
allowed. Yet, in the Savior himself, was a perfect work, and none
can ever supersede it.
4. But the perfect order of his kingdom could not be complete,
until the Daughter of Zion was sent forth to stand with him, in
her proper lot and place, as the spiritual Mother, in the completed
order of my new Heaven, and new earth, which I did promise, by
86 SACRED UOLL AND BOOK
the mouths of the Prophets, I would create and establish in the lat
ter day, saith the Lord.
5. And my own time has now come, to declare the work of my
hands, to the ends of the earth; notwithstanding frail mortals will
rise up against Me, amidst my solemn warnings, and try to destroy
the word of my mouth and the work of my hands ; because they
do not immediately see the heavy hand of my desolating judgments,
sweeping their fellow creatures from the face of the earth, or caus
ing her to open her mouth and swallow up the same.
6. But some will give ear and hearken, before it be too late, and
by this means, save their souls from destruction. Some will receive
my word, through whatever medium I am pleased to send it forth,
even should it be from infants.
7. But remember, all ye people, who make a pretence of hold
ing to the sacred word contained in your sealed bibles, and of fol
lowing the divine commands of your Lord and Savior, while yet
daily living in sin and wickedness ; you are only treasuring up
wrath against the day of wrath, where I shall meet you in a straight
place, saith your God, and that, at a time when ye are not prepared,
and when longer delay, for your preparation of heart, cannot be
made.
8. For the greatest portion of the inhabitants of earth, have al
ready, by reason of their awful wickedness, nearly out-stood the
day of my visitation in mercy unto them.
9. Now all ye learned priests and people, bow low your hearts,
and hearken to the voice of your God. All such of you, as name
the sacred volume for your guide, look at the foregoing passages
which I have commanded to be written in this Roll ; are they not,
the most of them, so simple, that even a child might understand
them ?
10. They are not great hidden mysteries; but plain and simple
requirements, which, by my Almighty power, I caused to be sent
forth to the inhabitants of the earth, as a protection and a guide, that
they might walk in that way, that they would always be worthy of
my blessing, whether they lived under the dispensation of the law,
or of the gospel.
11. Though the passages which I required to be here inserted,
are but a few out of the many thousands that have been, by my over
ruling hand, preserved for the children of men, that there might
always be a record upon earth, among the inhabitants thereof, that
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 87
should bear upon its face, my Almighty and sacred impression, to
testify against the growing depravities of the human family ;
12. Those passages are clear and explicit, and nothing between
the lids of the bible, can contradict them. And the whole sub
stance of all, sent forth in the sacred record, was sent for the express
purpose of causing mankind to cease from doing evil, and learn
how to do well ; that they might learn to love Me, their God and
Creator, with all their souls, might, mind and strength, and their
neighbor as themselves.
13. Had they done this, the requirements of their God would
have been fulfilled, and the earth would have been blessed with a
race of peace-makers upon it, long before this day
;
instead of
a
race of murdering Cains, who are ever ready, at the least offense,
to imbrue their hands in the blood of their fellow creatures.
14. And their depravity, at this day,
is
so great, saith the Lord,
that this popular way of murdering each other, hath received the
general sanction of professed Christendom ;
and this, they must all
acknowledge,
is
in direct disobedience to every precept taught
by
their blessed Lord and Savior, for whom they pretend to feel the
most sacred regard, and for the spreading of whose gospel, to all
quarters of the earth, they make great provisions.
15. But remember, all ye people, that
I
am
a
God that must be
served in works as well as in word, or the hand of my mercy can
not rest upon you.
It
is
not those who say unto Me, Lord, Lord
;
but
it
is
those who do the work which
I
require, that shall be known
by my destroying Angels, when passing over the earth, to whom
I
will give charge, to spare them for their works' sake, not for their
words' sake, saith the Almighty
:
words and works, with faith and
works, must go together.
16.
I
have now briefly shown unto you,
O
ye children of men,
both
by
the words of my own mouth, in the present tense, and by
those passages which
I
caused to be sent forth hundreds of years
ago, that which
I
required of the inhabitants of the earth, both
while under the dispensation of the law, and while under the dis
pensation of the gospel of Christ up to the present day and time.
17. And that which
I
now require of the whole habitable earth,
and especially of those calling themselves Christians,
I
will here
after, clearly show unto you, saith the Lord. Far more tolerable
will
it
be with those nations and people, who have never known
the record of my word, which has been with the children of men,
S3 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
for thousands of years, than for those who have been conversant
with its requirements ; yet have walked in open disobedience to,
and in violation of, every such passage, as brought a cross upon their
own carnal, corrupt natures.
18. These passages, in spirit, comprehend the whole substance
of the scriptures ; for unless these be kept, what profit doth a man
derive therefrom, as it respects the work of purifying his own
soul?
19. Surely none; but he continually heapeth upon his own head,
still greater condemnation. For where light and understanding are
given, and suffered to shine upon souls, and they disobey the same,
far better would it have been for them, that this light had never so
shone upon them. Their accountability unto Me, their God, will
be much heavier, than upon those who have never been favored
with such a blessing.
20. I here again require such passages of the sacred and inspir
ed writings of past dispensations, to be inserted, as more immedi
ately refer to the second coining of Christ, and that his apoearance
w"W K° in a female.
80
CHAPTER XV.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE, REFERRING TO THE
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST IN THE FEMALE.
I. The second Adam, male and female.
5. Of King David's prophecy, concern
ing the King and Queen of Zion.
6. The breath of God, beareih against
the wicked.
7. Of judgments.
8. Of a perfect work.
9. Of the stone cut out without hands.
12. The day now come, which John saw
in vision.
13. Of man's carving out new ways for
salvation.
14. Disobedient steps to be retraced.
15. No impurity can enter Christ's king
dom, or evil dwell therein.
1G. Of stripping for the gospel race.
17. Of coming to the law of nature.
20. God's times of judgment, reserved in
his own power.
21. Of timely warning.
23. Solemn warnings.
25. Of the abasement of mankind.
29. God destroyeth not his own work.
30. The natural man understandeth not
the givings of the spirit of God.
31. Of the law, and its requirements.
33. The ultimate end of God's purposes
with man, unchanged.
Genesis, v. 1. This is the book of the generations of Adam :
In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he
him :
2. Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and
called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
Sec. I. Understand the two foregoing passages : Ifthe first Adam,
being male and female, was a correct and true figure of him that
was to come as the Second Adam, [See Romans, v. 14.] which I
bear witness is true, saith the Angel, the second Adam must also be
male and female ; which is the case, and will so remain to the
endless ages of eternity.
2. Degrading as it may feel to the haughty sense in man, he nev
er can alter it ; for it is the work of the Almighty Creator, that the
pride of all flesh might be stained; and that the male and female,
might both have their proper and equal lot and place, in the work
of redemption.
I. Corinthians, xi. 3. But I would have you know, that the head
90 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
of every man is Christ ; and the head of the woman is the man ;
and the head of Christ is God.
7. For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, for as much
as he is the image and glory of God : but the woman is the glory
of the man.
8. For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the
man.
9. Neither was the man created for the woman, but the wo
man for the man.
10. For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head,
because of the angels.
11. Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, nei
ther the woman without the man, in the Lord.
12. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by
the woman; but all things of God.
Psalms, xlv. 1. My heart is inditing a good matter : I speak
of the things which I have made touching the King : my tongue
is the pen of a ready writer.
2. Thou art fairer than the children of men : grace is poured
into thy lips : therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
3. Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O ?nost Mighty, with thy
glory and thy majesty.
4. And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and
meekness and righteousness ; and thy right hand shall teach thee
terrible things.
5. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the King's enemies ;
whereby the people fall under thee.
6. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever : the sceptre of thy
kingdom is a right sceptre.
7. Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness : there
fore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness
above thy fellows.
8. .All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out
of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.
9. King's daughters were among thy honorable women : upon
thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.
10. Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear ;
forget also thine own people, and thy father's house ;
11. So shall the King greatly desire thy beauty : for he is thy
Lord ; and worship thou him.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 91
12. And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift ; even
the rich among the people shall entreat thy favour.
13. The King's daughter is all glorious within : her clothing is
of wrought gold.
14. She shall be brought unto the King in raiment of needle
work; the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought
unto thee.
15. With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought : they
shall enter into the King's palace.
16. Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou
mayest make princes in all the earth.
17. I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations :
therefore shall the people praise thee forever and ever.
Sec. 3. The fore part of this Psalm, speaketh so clearly of Christ,
under the character of the King, that it would seem impossible for
any to misunderstand it ; and from the ninth verse to the end, speaketh
so clearly of the Queen, the Daughter of Zion, and of the Virgins
that follow her, that none, but such as are willfully blind, can per
vert its true meaning, saith the Lord.
4. Virgin, meaneth that which is pure and undented, whether it
be male or female ; and such are the virgins, her companions, that
follow her into the presence of the King.
5. And by the inspiration of my spirit, saith the Lord, upon my
servant David, did he clearly foretell that which was to come to pass,
and be accomplished, both in Christ's first and second appearing;
though he understood it not himself. Yet he foretold the completed
order of my Zion, and the office of the King and Queen, therein
established, in this last dispensation of my goodness to mortals on
earth.
(!. And many more are the places that clearly foretell the same
work, saith the Almighty Power, whose breath beginneth to bear
against the wickedness and abominations of the earth; and whose
breath will continue to bear, harder and harder, against all the un
seemly and unnatural works of darkness; against all war, bloodshed
and carnage ; against the abuse of the order of nature, and of
oppression against the rights of conscience's freedom.
7. And if they will not hearken, humble themselves and repent,
in this the last display of my goodness and mercy unto them, I
will, by the consuming breath of my mouth, sweep from the earth's
surface, by thousands and millions, and millions on millions, until
92 SACRED BOLL AND BOOK
by my judgments, the remnant remaining, know that the God of
Heaven hath descended, with an arm of his Almighty power, to
visit the inhabitants of earth, saith the Great I AM.
Jeremiah, xxxi. 22. How long wilt thou go about, O thou
backsliding daughter ? for the Lord hath created a new thing in
the earth, A woman shall compass a man.
Chap, xxxiii. 14. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that
I will perform that good thing which I have promised unto the
house of Israel and to the house of Judah.
15. In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch of
righteousness to grow up unto David ; and he shall execute judg
ment and righteousness in the land.
16. In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall
dwell safely : and this is the name wherewith she shall be called,
The Lord our Righteousness.
Micah, iv. 1. But in the last days it shall come to pass, that
the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in
the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills ;
and people shall flow unto it.
2. And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go
up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of
Jacob ; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
his paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of
the Lord from Jerusalem.
3. And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong
nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plough
shares, and their spears into pruning hooks: nation shall not lilt
up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
4. But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his
fig-tree ; and none shall make them afraid : for the mouth of the
Lord of hosts hath spoken it.
5. For all people will walk every one in the name of his god,
and we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever
and ever.
6. In that day, saith the Lord, I will assemble her that halteth,
and I will gather her that is driven out, and her that I have
afflicted ;
7. And I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that
was cast far off a strong nation : and the Lord shall reign over
them in mount Zion from henceforth, even forever.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAKTH. 93
8. And thou, O tower of the flock, the strong hold of the
daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first domin
ion ; the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem.
9. Now, why dost thou cry out aloud? is there no king in
thee? is thy counsellor perished? for pangs have taken thee as a
woman in travail.
10. Be in pain, and labor to bring forth, O daughter of Zion,
like a woman in travail : for now shalt thou go forth out of the
city, and thou shalt dwell in the field, and thou shalt go even to
Babylon ; there shalt thou be delivered ; there the Lord shall re
deem thee from the hand of thine enemies.
11. Now also many nations are gathered against thee, that say,
Let her be defiled, and let our eye look upon Zion.
12. But they know not the thoughts of the Lord, neither un
derstand they his counsel : for he shall gather them as the sheaves
into the floor.
13. Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion: for I will make thy
horn iron, and I will make thy hoofs brass : and thou shalt beat in
pieces many people : and I will consecrate their gain unto the
Lord, and their substance unto the Lord of the whole earth.
Chap. v. 3. Therefore, will he give them up, until the time
that she which travaileth hath brought forth : then the remnant
of his brethren shall return unto the children of Israel.
Zephaniah, iii. 9. For then will I turn to the people a pare
language, that they may all call upon the name of the Lord, to
serve him with one consent.
10. From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants, even the
daughter of my dispersed, shall bring mine offering.
11. In that day shalt thou not be ashamed for all thy doings,
wherein thou hast transgressed against me : for then I will take
away out of the midst of thee them that rejoice in thy pride, and
thou shalt no more be haughty because of my holy mountain.
12. I will also leave in the midst of thee an afflicted and poor
people, and they shall trust in the name of the Lord.
13. The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies :
neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth : for they
shall feed and lie down, and none shall make thrm afraid.
14. Sing, O daughter of Zion ; shout, O Israel; be glad and
rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
II. Esdras, ii. 15. Mother, embrace thy children, and bring
91 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
them up with gladness, make their feet as fast as a pillar: for I
have chosen thee, saith the Lord.
29. My hand shall cover thee, so that thy children shall not
see hell.
30. Be joyful, O thou mother, with thy children ; for I will de
liver thee, saith the Lord.
32. Embrace thy children until I come, and shew mercy unto
them : for my wells run over, and my grace shall not fail.
34. And therefore I say unto you, O ye heathen, that hear and
understand, Look for your Shepherd, he shall give you everlast
ing rest; for he is nigh at hand, that shall come in the end of
the world.
35. Be ready to the reward of the kingdom, for the everlasting
light shall shine upon you for evermore.
36. Flee the shadow of this world, receive the joyfulness of
your glory : I testify my Savior openly.
37. O receive the gift that is given you, and be glad, giving
thanks unto him that hath called you to the heavenly kingdom.
38. Arise up and stand, behold the number of those that be
sealed in the feast of the Lord ;
35). Which are departed from the shadow of the world, and have
received glorious garments of the Lord.
40. Take thy number, O Sion, and shut up those of thine that
are clothed in white, which have fulfilled the law of the Lord.
41. The number of thy children whom thou longedst for, is ful
filled : beseech the power of the Lord, that thy people, which have
been called from the beginning, may be hallowed.
42. I Esdras saw upon the mount Sion a great people, whom I
could not number, and they all praised the Lord with songs.
43. And in the midst of them there was a young man of a high
stature, taller than all the rest, and upon every one of their heads
he set crowns, and was more exalted ; which I marvelled at greatly.
Chap. vii. 26. Behold, the time shall come, that these tokens
which I have told thee shall come to pass, and the bride shall ap
pear, and she coming forth shall be seen, that now is withdrawn
from the earth.
Matthew, xxii. 1. And Jesus answered and spake unto them
again by parables, and said,
2. The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which
made a marriage for his son,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 95
3. And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden
to the wedding : and they would not come.
4. Again, he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which
are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner : my oxen and
my fatlings are killed, and all things arc ready : come unto the
marriage.
5. But they made light of
it,
and went their ways, one to his
farm, another to his merchandise.
6.
And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spite
fully, and slew them.
7. But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth
:
and he sent
forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up
their city.
8. Then saith he to his servants, The wedding
is
ready, but
they which were bidden were not worthy.
9. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall
find, bid to the marriage.
10. So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered
together all as many as they found, both bad and good
:
and the
wedding was furnished with guests.
11. And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there
a
man which had not on
a
wedding-garment
:
12. And he saith unto him, Friend, how earnest thou in hither,
not having
a
wedding-garment
?
And he was speechless.
13. Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot,
and take him away, and cast him into utter darkness
:
there shall
be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Revelations, xix.
7.
Let us be glad and rejoice, and give hon
our to him
:
for the marriage of the Lamb
is
come, and his wife
hath made herself ready.
8. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine
linen, clean and white
:
for the fine linen
is
the righteousness of
saints.
9. And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are
called unto the marriage-supper of the Lamb. And he saith
unto me, These are the true sayings of God.
Chap. xxii. 17. And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And
let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that
is
athirst come.
And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.
Hebrews, ix. 28. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins
96 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the
second time without sin unto salvation.
Sec. 8. Remember, all ye inhabitants of the earth, saith the Lord,
that a work without sin unto salvation, is a perfect work ; and this
is the work of Christ's kingdom, which is now set up on earth.
9. And this is the little stone, cut out from the mountain without
hands, which hath smote the great image, or idol lust, [by destroy
ing the filthy propensities in man,] and shall fill the whole earth in
my own due time and season, saith the Lord.
10. Though it be small, among the countless millions of earth;
yet, by my own hand has it been planted, and by my own hand shall
it be watered with the dews of Heaven, until all the predictions
which I have sent forth, concerning
it,
are fulfilled in its growth, in
its power, and in its dominion.
I
require not the aid of mortals to
defend the work of my hands.
11. Though mankind, in their own natural wisdom and under
standing, darkened
by
the black veil of antichrist, apply and inter
pret those sacred passages referring to Mother, the Bride, and she
shall be called, The Loud our Righteousness, as alluding to the
Church; yet, this altereth not the true import of the sacred mean
ing
;
although the female had never been revealed in her sacred or
der, before this dispensation.
12. The vision seen
by
John, in the fourteenth chapter of Rev
elations, of the Lamb on mount Zion, and with him an hundred
and forty and four thousand, was in
a
future day
;
which
is,
the
day of his second coming, in the completed order of that new and
spiritual kingdom, at the head of which he stands, with the Bride,
whom
I
have prepared for him, saith the Lord.
13. Though mankind, from the earliest ages of the world to
the present day, have ever applied their strength and faculties to
carve out other ways, than that which
I
laid out for them, that they
might indulge and gratify their own evil propensities, in contra-dis-
tinction to the laws and commandments that their Creator sent forth
for their protection
;
14. Yet, every step of disobedience, they must retrace in sorrow
and humiliation, and enter in at the straight gate, and walk in the
narrow way, or remain in endless shades of darkness and misery.
15. For my kingdom
is
a
kingdom of peace and purity, and
nothing that worketh abomination, or maketh
a
lie, shall in any
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 97
wise enter therein. And such as come when called, enter my holy
vineyard in due season : such are owned and accepted of Me, for
their obedience and sincerity of heart, whether they be rich, or
whether they be poor ; whether they be bond, or whether they be
free. ,
16. But remember, they that strip for the race and run for the
prize, in the gospel dispensation of this day, must strip off all their
old filthy garments, and be clad with the new, by honestly confess
ing every known sin, in the presence of one or more of my true
and faithful witnesses, who have been tried in the furnace of afflic
tion, and purified by the gospel fire.
17. And let all such as still desire to remain in the works of
nature, return to the law and order of nature, as I have commanded
from the beginning, saith the Lord.
18. Defile not your own bodies, nor those of each other, only for
the purpose of begetting your own offspring. And all such as name
the name of Christ, as being ministers of his gospel, set ye this
example to your people; or a curse, a heavy curse, from my
Almighty hand, shall follow you and your seed.
19. All ye rulers, and great ones of the earth, set forth this
example before those over whom you do preside ; and bear against
and suppress the haunts of debauchery, by your civil laws, as fast
as is possibly in your power. You have no time to lose in doing
this work; for delays will cast you from beneath the arm of my mercy;
and when it is too late, you will cry unto Me saying, Lord, spare
us, and we will mend our lives, by hearkening to thy word.
'
20. My times and seasons for utter destruction upon kingdoms,
realms and cities, by reason of their wicked inhabitants, whose
hearts are hardened in unbelief, and disregard of my solemn warn
ings, are reserved in my own power; even the Angels whom I have
sent forth, as yet, know them not : therefore, they cannot be revealed
as yet, unto mortals.
21. But timely warning I do give, to every nation, kindred, tongue
and people, dwelling on the earth, saith the God of Heaven.
22. And all ye, of whatever grade or class ye may be, confine
the gratifications of your own corrupt propensities, within the bounds
of the law of nature. Cease, O inhabitants of earth, cease to pro
mote and encourage works of licentiousness and debauchery ; or I
shall suffer you to sink into the earth's bowels, saith the Lord.
98 SACRED ROLL AND KOOK
23. Beware, beware, and hearken to the voice of the Lord your
God, who delighteth not in the destruction of human life; nor in
the misery of those whom he hath created for a much higher call
ing, than to be slaves to their own wicked passions.
24. Turn, O inhabitants of mortality ! turn, turn ye to the Lord
your God, in deep repentance of heart, that the holy and swift wing
ed Angels, that I have sent to pass and re-pass through the earth, to
pass and re-pass again, until the time of my own appointing is ful
filled, may behold you clothed in sackcloth and mourning, turning
from the evil of your doings, and learning to do well ; and record
your names upon the list of mercy for the same.
25. For I AM, is a God, whose mercy is reached by the penitent
heart, and whose judgment, in justice, will speedily follow the high,
the lofty, and unabascd. For the haughtiness of Monarchs, Kings,
and the great ones of the earth, shall be bowed down, and the lofti
ness of man brought low, even with the dust; and my name alone,
saith the Lord, shall be exalted.
2G. Every dispensation of my goodness to man, from the creation
of the world, to the present time, hath always been attended with
an increasing degree of order, beauty and holiness, beyond that
which preceded it.
27. The time had not come, when Christ first appeared on earth,
for him to establish his kingdom, in that perfect order, glory and
beauty, that he has now, in his second coming. For its order
was not then completed, and never could be, until the female had
found her proper lot and place, as the Mother of all who should
ever after, enter the new and spiritual creation, which my Almighty
hand hath established on the earth, inseparably connected with my
holy kingdom in eternity.
. 28. I have caused a sufficient number of the sacred passages to
be inserted, as do clearly show unto every reasonable mind, that
Christ must necessarily make his appearance in the female, or the
order of my kingdom would not have been made complete, nor the
eclarations given in pa3t dispensations, from my holy spirit fulfilled.
29. And as I had before declared unto you, that I destroyed not
that which hath proceeded from my own mouth, or disannulled the
work of my own hands ; but that heaven and earth should pass away,
rather than that one jot or tittle should fail ; so will all ye inhabitants
of the earth find, that in my own time and season, all things which
I declare unto you, will be fulfilled in iheir true spirit and sense.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 99
30. But remember that a natural man, while under the influence
of nature's darkness, understandeth not the givings of the spirit of
God, for they appear like foolishness unto him : for the sinful indul
gence and gratification of one's carnal and filthy propensities, out
of the proper time and season for the purpose of begetting their
own offspring, is one of the most soul-darkening, and sunken prac
tices that man is capable of committing.
31. Even under the law, saith the Lord, if they went forth and
defiled themselves contrary to the law, they were required to take
an offering, and go to the priests, and there make an atonement for
their transgression.
32. And shall my requirement respecting self-denial, and the
laws of restriction, in this day, after having sent forth the gospel
dispensation, be less effective than under the darkened ages of the
Mosaic Law ?
33. Shall my Almighty power suffer the children of men to go
on from age to age, regardless of every law and restriction which
hath been sent forth to the inhabitants of earth, even in the dark
and wilderness ages of the world, when light, knowledge and under
standing had been, but in a very limited degree, suffered to shine
upon them? The voice of my eternal justice dcclareth, Not so; fori
have created man to be an honor and a glory unto Me, his God and
Creator ; and my purpose, in the ultimate event of my work with
man, shall not be disannulled or destroyed. But as yet, few, very
few, in any previous age of the world, have answered the purpose
of their creation.
34. And moreover, did not my servant Moses, when I sent him
to sanctify and prepare the people to meet Me before the mount,
require that none of them should come at their wives, for the space
of three days before they were called to appear before Me? Surely
he did; and does not this declare it to be the work of uncleanness?
Surely it does; and every rational mind knoweth it to be so.
Works that are attended with a shame, and require the curtains of
darkness to be spread, wherein they are committed, every rational
mind knoweth must be impure.
-i r* n O -t
100
CHAPTER A' VI.
CHRIST'S SECOND APPEARING IN THE FEMALE;
HER OFFICE AND CALLING AS THE BRIDE, OR
SPIRITUAL MOTHER; AND THE CHARACTER
OF HER TRUE FOLLOWERS.
2. Mankind questioned by the Almighty. by the hand of Providence.
4. The peaceable kingdom of Christ. 60. Of a completed state of existence.
8. Of the stone from the mountain. 61. Of being fed with milk.
9. Trusting in the power of God. 63. Natural things, figurative of spiritual.
11. Of worshiping not mortal bodies. 64. The woman's lot.
14. Of justice in many respects. 66. Of all things being created in the male
19. The watch-word of diligence. order.
20. The statutes of God. 67. Carnal desires.
SI. Government. 68. A kingdom of equality.
26. Abasement. 73. Of living so as to be prepared to die.
si. The advance guard of meekness. 75. Of seeking and finding.
38. Carnal warfare. 79. The second appearance of Christ, con
». The blessed city of peace. stituting a spiritual Mother in Israel.
35. A place of rest, and the same charac 80. The' Kingdom of Christ, established
terized. on earth.
49. The kingdom of Christ on earth. 81. Of proselyting.
St. Of the union of Saints in Heaven and 83. Requirements of God to Zion.
on earth. 84. The days of her seclusion.
a. Of washed garments. 86. Of liking a home in Zion, and hating
M. The slanderous tongue. the cross.
87. Salvation from all sin. , 87. The three first witnesses, &c
58. Resignation to the appointments ofGod
1. Thuseaith the Lord, the Holy and Eternal One, Give ear
unto my voice, all ye people, and hearken and understand my word,
all ye nations of the earth.
2. For whom are you looking, to usher in the rays of eternal life,
and open the eyes of your souls, that ye may be saved from your
sins?
3. Do you look for the Christ of God, the spirit of the Holy
Savior, the Lamb who stood upon Mount Zion, with the hundred
and forty and four thousand, having their Father's name written
in their foreheads, who were virgins, not being denied with sin 1
TO THE NATIONS Or THE EARTH. 101
4. Do you look and seek after a kingdom, of which the sacred
volume does predict ; which by the spirit of inspiration was told,
That a pure and holy kingdom, by my Almighty hand, should, in
the latter days, be set up, which should be called the house of the
Lord, established in the top of the mountains, and exalted above
the hills; of which nations should say, Come, and let us go up to
the Mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob;
for he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths ?
5. Where the Law should go forth of Zion, and the word of the
Lord from Jerusalem?
6. Where that spirit should be manifested, to rebuke strong na
tions afar off, and cause them to beat their swords into plough
shares, and their spears into pruning hooks?
7. Where the Lion should lie down with the Lamb, and a little
child should lead them?
8. Do you look for the stone, cut out from the mountain without
hands, that should grow and fill the whole earth ; that smote the
great image, and brake it in pieces, and caused it to be carried
away of the wind, as the chaff of the summer threshing floor?
9. Do you look for that kingdom that standrth and trusteth in
the strength of my power, and not in the arm of flesh; whose life
is purity, and whose dwelling resteth in my eternal brightness?
10. Whose subjects are subjects of peace, and whose hands are
not stained with human blood, and who walk not after the law of
a carnal commandment, but after the law of grace, given in the
gospel of Christ?
11. Who worship not the mortal bodies of any, but who worship
my Holy Spirit, whether manifested in man, woman or child?
12. Who use the measures of justice, and the weights of exact
ness, and decide not by the balances of deceit?
13. Who do unto others, as they would that others should do
unto them?
14. Who turn not the right of the needy away, nor say to the
hungry, cold and naked, Go, be thou fed, warmed and clothed ?
15. Who turn not the needy from their doors, nor send the poor
and distressed empty away ?
16. Who procure not gain without right, nor pervert the laws of
truth and justice, for silver or gold?
17. Who open their mouths in true wisdom with their neighbors,
and speak words of truth to one another ?
102 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
18. Whose God requireth that all should labor with their hands ;
and whose laws of equal justice, mete employment to every age and
class, according as they have ability to perform?
19. Who highly prize, and daily do obey the watch-word of the
morning from the Queen of Zion ; Hands to work and hearts to
God, with cheerfulness in your duties?
20. Whose laws and statutes from my eternal throne do emanate ;
and operate to rule and govern every soul in truth, in justice, and
in acts of love and kindness?
21. Where no one is set on high, to sway an earthly sceptre?
22. Where tyrants cannot reign, and despots do not rule?
23. Do you look for that kingdom, where the holy anointing from
my Eternal Throne, is placed in earthy vessels, to lead in meekness,
and govern by the power of my spirit, against which, in the final
result, no stiff nor stubborn will can stand unshaken, nor abide in
the kingdom?
24. Where no coercive means are used ; but power and force of
spirit, given from my Almighty hand, through prayer and supplica
tion are employed ?
25. Where seekers after that which is great and high, must rest
in hope, and die without obtaining?
2(3. Where high and exalted feelings, low and humble, stations
find?
27. Where meekness, virtue, power and wisdom, as the advancing
guard do always move along?
28. Where carnal warfares are not known ; but spiritual ones,
against the wicked foe within, are eternally waged? No quarters
given, nor quarters taken, but death complete unto the man of sin,
doth crown the victorious conqueror?
29. Do you seek to find that city, where the Lord your God hath
placed his name, in peace to dwell, in truth to reign?
30. Where all its inmates dwell as innocent lambs in the fold
of their ever watchful Shepherd ?
31. Where the bleatings of harmless sheep are heard, but where
the bowlings of the wild beasts of the forest, who hunt for flesh,
and prey upon the same, are not known?
32. Where the gentle breezes blow from my Almighty throne,
and waft upon their \ving3 the bread of heaven, and the food of
Angels;, and where streams of living waters flow in rivulets mild
and gentle ?
TO THE NATIONS OF THK EAItTH. 103
33. Where all the inmates dwell, possessing the whole, yet
claiming nothing; and aught of all they do possess, no one calleth
it his own; but as children of one family, all live and fare alike?
34. Where the sick are ministered to, those in the decline of life
supported, and the feeble and tottering knee, gently led by the hand ?
35. Do you, in truth, seek after a place of rest unto your souls,
where everlasting joy, peace and true comfort are received, as the
reward of a daily cross of true self-denial, not in word alone, but
in work perfected ?
36. Where the innocency of little children is preserved with the
utmost care and carefulness, until they reach maturity ?
37. Where all dwell as brethren and sisters, bound in one golden
chain of love and union; in clothing, food and convenience, each
preferring one another 1
38. Where none, by reason of care and trust in them reposed,
seek for any thing more pleasant and agreeable, either to eat, to
drink or to wear, than those to whom they stand as leaders?
39. Where those who are called to stand in front, rejoice to show
they bear the greatest cross of true self-denial ?
40. Where the jealous eye of wantonness cannot look upon
those of the other sex, nor nature's passions vile be gratified 1
41. Where none suffer the sun to go down upon their souls
when defiled with sin ?
42. Where Achor's valley, daily remaineth the only door of hope
for any soul ?
43. Where nought is again remembered, when once passed
through this door ?
44. Where ignorant deeds are lightly passed over; but willful
acts of transgression, the laws of conscience do condemn ?
45. Where my Holy Laws and Orders, reign as sacred guides,
impelling every heart?
46. Where the unerring lines of truth, are drawn between the
flesh and spirit ?
47. Where natural affections do abound for all their fellow beings;
but where vile affections, for fleshly kin, are banished from the soul ?
43. Where fathers, mothers, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters,
children, houses, lands, and their own lives also, are all forsaken to
obtain a life in Christ, and the resurrection of the soul from the dead ?
4!). Do you seek for that kingdom established on earth, but yet
is not of the earth 1
104 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
50. Whose subjects are in the world, yet are not of the world ;
for I their Lord and God, have chosen them out of the world?
51. Where holy Angels from the eternal world minister unto
them, and ten thousand times ten thousand gather to behold their
worship ?
52. Where saints on earth, with saints in heaven do unite in one
eternal song of praise, to Me their God and Maker?
53. Where, through great tribulation and sufferings of soul, by
living the life of the Lamb, their garments are washed white ?
54. Do you seek for that kingdom, against which, the hand of
persecution hath ever been raised ; and against which the enven
omed tongue of slander and falsehood hath never ceased to pour
forth its volumes of blackest epithets?
55. Where souls fulfill the law of Christ, as made known in his
first appearing, and by that means, are able to fulfill the whole law
in his second coming ?
56. Where souls know, by actual experience of more than sixty
years, that they have found the spirit of the Lord's Christ, revealed
in a Mother, whose name was ANN LEE?
57. For it hath saved them from all sin, and clothed their souls
in a garment of true righteousness, and created in their hearts, that
love to Me, their God and Maker, which surpasseth, in a thousand
fold ratio, all other loves ;
58. Which has given them strength and power to resign their
lives in martyrdom, if called so to do, rather than deny their faith,
or the power by which they received this, [which was] from, and
through the Queen of Zion, who stands as my first and chosen
witness in this last dispensation of my goodness to man.
59. Do you seek for that kingdom, where the gospel of a Christ
and of a Mother reigneth, united in one?
60. Were any of you born, and brought forth into a completed
state of existence in the world, by a father, —or by a mother? Or
were you only begotten by a father, and then, at the proper time
and season, brought forth by the mother?
61. And by whom were you fed with milk, and dandled at the
breast, while in your infancy; by the father, —or by the mother?
62. By whose caresses, and soothing hand of comfort, were your
troubled spirits pacified to rest? Was it not the Mother's?
63. If We, the over-ruling and Great first Cause of all created
things, on earth and in the heavens, have, in our own wisdom,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 105
created the natural order of things, figurative of that which was
spiritual, how can there be any spiritual order, or kingdom of glory
completed, unless the woman is brought to stand in her place, accord
ing to the figure ?
64. Have We not created an order and place for the woman, in-
the natural order of the creation? Was she not to travail in sorrow,
and bring forth children? And in the absence of her husband,
does she not stand at the head of her own family ?
65. If these things in nature do exist, why stumble ye at the
fulfillment of the true representation?
60. And if this is not the true representation, and this order does
not exist in the spiritual heavens, why did not We create and send
forth, all living upon earth, in the male order ?
67. O ye blind and bigoted seers, who strain at your own pride,
and must swallow your own folly ! The woman you all want, and
the man you all want; but the enjoyment of each- other in fleshly
gratifications, is your greatest desire. No longer wipe your lips,
and say you are guiltless; for the God of Heaven doth judge you,,
the Searcher of every heart, before whose eyes, your abominations
are as plain as the whited walls of your houses are in your view.
68. But hearken ; Do any of you seek for a kingdom, where the
pride of vain mortals rnleth not, and the arrogance of frail, fallen
nature, beareth not the sway ? Where the high and the low, the
rich and the poor, the lame, the halt and the blind, can all fare
alike, upon terms of strict equality and justice?
69. Where all yield strict obedience to the revealed will of
Heaven, through such agencies as are appointed, through the order
of my holy anointing power, wherever I may have caused it to rest?
70. Where all the political strifes and contentions, and party
feelings amongst the children of men, are disowned and rejected ?
71. Where an avaricious spirit, to heap up treasures on earth
where moth and rust doth corrupt, cannot dwell ?
72. And again; Do ye sincerely seek for that city of refuge on
earth, where you can know and do the will of your God, day by
day? Where you can receive strength to crucify your own evil
natures, and be born anew, as little innocent children,, into the king
dom of your God ?
73. Do you seek for that home and place, while in a terrestrial
state, where you can live day by day, as ye would, if ye knew ye
N
10G SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
were to die on the morrow, atid as ye would if ye were to lite a
thousand years?
74. Where the kingdom of Heaven, and the righteousness thereto
belonging, is the soul's first pursuit; and where all that is needful
for the body, through obedience and faithfulness, shall be given
unto it? And where, to deal justly and walk humbly, to fear God
and keep his commandments, comprise your whole duty ?
75. If so, seek in earnest, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall
be opened unto you ; ask, and ye shall receive ; follow that light
which I shall cause to shine into your souls, and it shall lead you to
the city of peace, saith the Lord your God ; but not to ease and
indulgence, thinking to procure your souls' salvation in that way ;
not where the manna of Heaven rains down, to feed and support
you in idleness, without the soul's exertion ;
76. Not where each one, or any part can do that which seemeth
right in their own eyes, according to their own natural wisdom
and understanding ;
77. But where that wisdom, that knowledge and understanding,
which is revealed in the order of my own appointment, beareth rule,
and is the main spring of action throughout, in all things, spiritual
and temporal ;
78. According to the completed order of my new heavens and
new earth, which I have, in this latter day, established on the earth
for all nations, all kindreds, all tongues and all people, who will
make the sacrifice which I require, saith the Lord, to obtain a home
therein, beneath the wings of my protection.
79. I have now declared unto you, all ye nations and people, that
the spirit of my blessed Son hath appeared the second time, with
out sin unto salvation, in the female, or Spiritual Mother in Israel.
80. And this, my kingdom, as represented by the stone from the
mountain, has been established for more than sixty years upon the
earth; and yet, ye believe it not; though various publications of
its principles, have been circulated when called for, yet, ye know
not the Christ or his true kingdom.
81. I have never required, saith the God of Heaven, that the
subjects of Christ's second coming, or the children of the Bride,
should compass sea and land to make proselytes;
82. This, my Church, the assembly of Saints, was never estab
lished upon the eternal foundation of righteousness and truth, for
a popular show to the inhabitants of earth.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 107
83. But I required her people to embody their strength in one
united capacity, and conquer and subdue their own evil natures
within, and travel in humility of soul, and tribulation of spirit, and
gain a substance of the true oil Of light, and life eternal ; That
when my time should come, in the order of my own wisdom, she
might have wherewithal, to do her duty to other souls, as I have
placed her, a city upon a hill, whose light and brightness can never
more be hid.
84. And thus, the days of her seclusion are accomplished; and
I, the God that formed her, do now declare her to the inhabitants
of the earth; and I have also declared the true characters of all
who do, in truth, compose the subjects who dwell, and safely remain
within her holy walls.
85. Though wolves in sheep's clothing, may creep within her
gates, yet, their craving wants for flesh, or fleshly lust, will soon
betray the borrowed coat they wear.
86. No ravenous beast can long remain within her holy borders;
though many like the place, yet none but the true and honest hearted
like the cross, nor will long endure the gospel fire of truth, which
doth eternally burn to guard the tree of life.
87. And furthermore, saith the Almighty Power, I declare the
three first witnesses unto you, who bore record on the earth, that I,
the Almighty God of Heaven, had sent forth the likeness of my
blessed Son, the second time, without sin unto salvation, to poor
frail mortals on the earth.
88. And through a female was Christ made known, [as a spirit
ual Mother,] to complete the order of that kingdom which was
begun in his first appearing. And I declare, to all nations, the
spirit of this chosen female to be the Bride, the Lamb's wife, the
Queen of Zion, and Mother of the new and spiritual creation
which shall never be destroyed.
89. Though I, her Lord and God, should purge and refine her
[inhabitants] to that degree of purity and holiness, that not more
than ten souls were able to abide the fire within her holy courts;
yet shall these stand, and be supported by the Almighty power of
my hand, though armies against them should be arrayed for their
destruction.
90. Remember, all ye people who dwell within the walls of my
Zion, which is pure and holy, if ye walk not worthy of your holy
calling, the great privilege, which in my mercy I have granted you,
108 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
shall only prove as burning coals of fire upon your heads, to sink
your souls from my presence ; and a far heavier stroke of my judg
ments, shall come upon you, than upon those who have never been
blessed with such a privilege of my notice, within the walls of
my Zion.
91. It is not numbers that compose my Ziori ; but the purity of
that life which souls live; and by the interestednees of their spirits,
to build up the cause to which they are called; by spending and
being spent, agreeable to that example which was invariably set by
the three first witnesses, who bore this gospel across the rolling
deep, to fair Columbia's shore, and who, by my Almighty hand,
were protected so to do.
92. And by my power, shall other faithful souls safely re-cross
the foaming deep, to plant this gospel in distant lands, to feed the
hungry souls who cry to Me for [the] bread [of life.]
CHAPTER XVII.
THE OFFICE OF THE THREE FIRST CHOSEN WIT
NESSES SEPARATELY DECLARED, AND FURTHER
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THOSE WHO ARE THEIR TRUE
FOLLOWERS, SAITH THE SPIRIT OF GOD.
]. God, able to manifest himself as he
wills, at any period.
3. Passages of scripture required to be
quoted.
5. Of the testimony of the three witnesses.
6. Of the confession of sins.
7. Of rising into life.
8. Of purchasing liberty to sin. Of hired
forgiveness,
9. Of making trade of sacred service.
10. It is God who fbrgiveth sins. Who are
prepared as witnesses for souls, cVc.
Duty of witnesses.
Not required to hear the confession of
capital crimes, until the sentence of
the civil law is possed.
Confessions to be considered sacred.
Of the representation of the spirit, by
Mother Ann Lee.
Of what was manifested in Mother.
Sec. 1. But a few passages, saith the Lord, were ever mentioned in
the Sacred Volume, respecting the three witnesses. But I am a
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 109
God of yesterday, to-day, and forever; and to all such as truly
walk uprightly before Me, doing my will and pleasure, regardless of
all personal, partial or selfish views, I am as able to manifest
myself in one dispensation, as in another.
2. And I now bear witness, (declaring my words to the ends of
the earth,) to the office and calling of the three first witnesses, in
Christ's second coming.
3. And where the witnesses are mentioned in Sacred Writ, I
require [some of]the passages to be here inserted.
Matthew, xviii. 16. But if he will not hear thee, then take with
thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses
every word may be established.
Isaiah, xliii. 10. Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord.
Chap. xliv. 8. Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I
told thee from that time, and have declared it? ye are even my
witnesses. Is there a God besides me ? yea, there is no God ; I
know not any.
Sec. 4. These three witnesses, in this latter day of my goodness,
testified before all, both publicly and privately, that there was no
true God but Me, and that there was no way of God opened or
revealed to man, by which he could find salvation, or an entrance
into his holy kingdom, while living in sinful works of whatever
name or nature.
5. And they did furthermore bear witness, that the spirit of
Christ, the Son of God, had, in truth, made his appearance the
second time, without sin unto salvation ; and that none could be
cleansed and purified, and enter into the work of regeneration,
while living after, or taking any part in, the works of natural
generation.
6. And they did furthermore testify and bear witness, by that
power which I gave them, that all souls must confess their sins, in
the presence of God's witnesses, one by one, just as they had com
mitted them, or never find true happiness; and then labor for godly
sorrow and true repentance, by leaving them off, and by taking up
a cross against their evil natures which led them into sin.
7. By so doing, they would find the favor and mercy of God, and
their souls would begin to rise in the resurrection of Christ ; and
my holy blessings would begin to distill upon them, as dews from
Heaven.
8. They never taught souls, that they could, for money, purchase
110 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
liberty from priests and clergy, to indulge in sinful abominations,
gratifying their own propensities; and then again, for money, they
could hire their sins forgiven, such as they had not bought a privi
lege to commit.
9. Awful consternation must seize on every heart, when they see
these things in their true light! Is not this making trade and
traffic, to all the extent of man's ability, of that power and service
which he pretends to hold sacred? Surely, the truth recorded
on my eternal record, declareth the affirmative.
10. But as different from this, as light is from darkness, did these
three chosen, true and faithful witnesses, declare the order of con-
» fessing sins. They testified that none had power to forgive sins but
God, [and Jesus Christ, manifested through that medium which he
established;] and that every soul must stand in a true state of justi
fication, by honestly confessing their own sins, in the presence of
God's witnesses, before they were, in any way, commissioned to
stand as witnesses for other souls ;
11. And that it was the duty of all those who stood as witnesses
for the confessions of other souls, to pray earnestly to Me their
God, that I would hear the honest souls, and bless them with strength
and power, to withstand the temptations of evil in future.
12. And furthermore, did my three witnesses testify, saith the
Lord, that no one was called as a witness, to hear the confession of
sins, now, in Christ's second coming, from such souls as had com
mitted capital crimes, for which the civil laws of man must deal
with them.
13. None were to hear any such confessions, until after the civil
authority had passed judgment upon them ; and at all times, wit
nesses were to consider confessions made in the fear of God, of
the mast sacred, solemn and delicate nature; and rather than be
compelled to divulge that which a soul had honestly confessed to
them, in my holy fear, they had better sacrifice their lives.
14. For none had any right to hear such confessions, as laid them
open to the civil powers of man to make enquiries, and demand
answers, by reason of the liability of the person who had con
fessed to them.
I. John, v. 6. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, be
cause the Spirit is truth.
9. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. Ill
greater : for this is the witness of God which he hath testified
of his Son.
John, iii. 5. Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee,
Except a man be born of water, and of the Spirit, he cannot
enter into the kingdom of God.
Sec. 15. It may truly be said of the Daughter of Zion, (That
is,
Mother Ann Lee,) that she represented the spirit; for
in
her,
the spirit of Christ appeared, with
a
full and complete salvation, for
such as were willing to sacrifice all to obtain it.
\
16. In her was displayed my sacred and saving power, to search
the hearts, and penetrate into the souls of such as came before her, to
much the greatest extent of any human being ever before sent forth,
/
save the Lord Jesus Christ, whom
I
sent on earth, saith the Lord,
>
to begin the foundation of this kingdom, which
is
now completed,
/
through and
by
the Daughter
;
and upon which the building
is
now
arising, forever more to stand
;
against which, the powers of earth
and hell shall never more prevail.
CHAPTER XV11I.
SUBJECT CONTINUED OF THE SECOND WITNESS.
1.
Of what he represented, &e.
2.
Of suffering for souls
in
eternity.
3. Of suffering for souls on earth.
4.
Of gifts bestowed, &c.
5. None redeemed, only through suffer
ings. Of passing through the fiery
furnace.
8.
None can come to God, or find peace,
10.
11.
until they have confessed their sins.
The subsequent duty of souls who
confess sins.
The second witness, an example of
true sufferings.
The effect of sufferings for righteous-
1.
The second witness, whose name
is
recorded on my eternal
record, Father William Lee, was truly "A man of sorrow, and
acquainted with grief
;"
who bore and suffered in tribulation, for
the increase of the gospel on earth, to the laying down of his nat
ural life
;
which truly represents the blood, for he ended his days
under sufferings, for the good of souls, as
a
bleeding martyr.
112 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
2. Often did I Buffer, saith the Lord, to* fall upon him, while
upon earth, a state of sufferings for souls in eternity, who were in
their sins, and could not be released in any other way, only through
the medium of that gospel which was now revealed, through the
Mother, to mortals on earth.
3. And the state of those that were bound in their sins on earth,
was often suffered to fall upon him, that through his cries and in
tercessions, under the severest of sufferings, the way might be
opened for them to be loosed from the bands of death, by which
they were holden, and enter into the gospel field.
4. And upon this same witness, did I, the God of Heaven, bestow
that power of spirit against which no wicked opposers could stand,
when in my wisdom, he was suffered to exercise it.
5. Be it known to all people, saith the Lord, that no souls can
ever be again redeemed unto Me, only through sufferings and deep-
tribulation of spirit. They have fallen so far below the moral
order of nature, and from that state of innocency io which I first
created them, that they must, before they can again be redeemed
unto Me, pass through the fiery furnace of the gospel, by confess
ing every known sin.
6. And [having done this, they must] travel in godly sorrow
and true repentance for the same, until they have conquered that
nature, and their souls are washed from the stains thereof, and have
again become pure and innocent as when I first created them,,
suith the Lord.
7. And this second witness, not only suffered to the cleansing
of his own soul ; but he suffered for thousands of other souls, both
in time and in eternity, that the door of this one sin-destroying;
soul-saving gospel, might be opened unto them.
8. Be ye not deceived, O ye inhabitants of earth I No soul can
ever come to Me, or enter my peaceable kingdom of rest, or find
the acceptance of my Holy Spirit, in peace and in purity, either in
time or in the eternal world, till they have honestly confessed their
sins, one by one, to such of my witnesses as are appointed for that
sacred duty.
9'. After which they must labor, and travel in tribulation of
soul, until they are redeemed from that nature which caused them to
sin ; and this is a journey that the soul has to perform, before it can
enter into that joy and felicity which is promised1 the truly right
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 113
eons, or stand with the Lamb on Mount Zion, clothed in white, as
was seen in vision by my servant John.
10. An example of true sufferings in spirit, this my faithful
witness and servant William, did truly set, by night and by day.
11. But remember, O ye people, my spirit of strength and con
solation never forsakes a soul, while truly suffering for the gospel's
sake, either for their own purification, or that of others; but I will,
in the midst of these sufferings, cause their souls to break forth at
times, with joy and thanksgiving, that they are accounted worthy to
suffer for Christ's sake and the gospel.
12. But remember, all have this travel to perform, as really as a
man, when in a natural body, starting on a journey, has it to per
form, step by step. Just so [must be] the travel of the soul.
CHAPTER XIX.
SUBJECT CONTINUED THE THIRD WITNESS.
i.
2.
3.
4.
&
9.
*,
10.
II.
I2.
13.
M.
15.
17.
18.
19.
The third Witness declared.
Of his tuition in childhood and youth.
His peculiar gill.
His character.
The Witnesses faithfully accomplish
ed their work, Sec.
Of (he anointing of successors.
Of the government of the church.
The consequence, should any prove
untrue to their trust.
Of King David's anointing.
The gospel superior to the law.
God's chosen people never left with
out a lead, only as a scourge for diso
bedience.
Of man's strife against good.
The lives of first witnesses sought.
Of Christ's sufferings and death.
Of the sufferings of the three first wit
nesses.
Witnesses in mansions of rest. Perse
cutors in the depths of hell.
The expressions of their souls.
The Lord's reply.
Mankind will not hearken.
The manner in which the latter day
of glory is ushered in.
Must God always work miracles, in
order to convince mankind ?
The power of working miracles, still
in the church of Christ.
Of the eternal power and operation
of the work of God.
Of the working of miracles.
The power, strength and substance of
the spirit of Christ, retained in Zion.
Of the opening of the Heavens.
Of the state of Zion.
Three leading principles.
A woe upon the unrighteous in Zion.
Of God's equity and justice.
Who can win the prize.
1. The third witness, who was a
0
proclaiming and watering witness,
114 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
and whose name, saith the Lord, is recorded on my eternal
record, Father James Whittaker.
2. This witness, by the over-ruling hand of my providence, was,
at an early age of his childhood, placed under the special charge of
Mother Ann, who brought him up in the path of true godliness and
purity; by which means he was protected from all those soul dark
ening and sinful indulgences of self gratification, which most chil
dren are suffered, at a very early age, to run into.
3. Therefore he grew up without defilement, and became an able
help and supporter, in the ministration of his blessed Mother. I
bestowed on him a peculiar gift, to water and nourish that which
his blessed Mother had planted.
4. His whole demeanor was mild, placid and gentle, yet solemn
and soul gathering ; and by this means, he would water, nourish
and strengthru all ; and many times cause the weak and drooping
plants, that were about to wither before the rays of the scorching
sun, to be invigorated with new life and courage to press on their
journey with zeal and fortitude.
5. And because of the purity of that life which he lived, from
his childhood up, saith the Lord, I did cause the most beautiful
gospel graces to shine forth in his spirit. And in proclaiming the
testimony of Christ's second appearing, and the way that leadeth
to life eternal, to the surrounding multitude, even his wicked per
secutors, would acknowledge the goodness of his spirit.
6. Yet, under sufferings was he patient, and in the hours of his
rejoicing, I clothed his spirit with feelings divinely sublime and
lovely, [and with], a portion of that mantle with which I had
olothed the Daughter of Zion from head to foot; and [in which]
her spirit was inwrapped, as was measurably Father William's also.
7. And all these, my three first witnesses, who were called first,
to open the door through sufferings, that Christ might appear the
second time without sin unto salvation, faithfully did the work
which was required of them to do, by the over-ruling power of the
Most High ; and spread their mantles of love, strength and wisdom, as
they were about to leave the world, upon all such of their children,
as were determined to pursue the gospel path, even to the laying
down of their natural lives, should they be called so to do.
8. And upon such as had been prepared, through deep sufferings
and tribulation of spirit, to succeed them in leading and directing
the sheep of my fold, or the house of Israel, [the foundation of]
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 115
which was now established on the earth, in its completed order, did
they bestow that anointing power, which I had given them for that
purpose, saith the Lord. And in this way doth the order of this
anointing devolve and rest [upon such as are prepared to receive it.]
9. My church, which is now established, in this day and age
in which you live, is governed by an authority emanating from
my divine influence, and proceeding directly from my Holy Spirit,
through those upon whom I have caused my holy anointing oil
to rest.
10. But if any should prove themselves unworthy of this sacred
calling and trust, after they had been once anointed by the unction
of my Holy Spirit, I should, in my own wisdom, saith the Lord,
send forth my anointing and saving power, to rest in other vessels,
more worthy; as I did in the case of Saul, whom I anointed king
over the children of Israel, but who departed from my statutes, by
walking in disobedience to my commands.
11. I did then cause my anointing power again to go forth,
through the same prophet Samuel, by whom Saul was anointed,
and to rest upon David, the son of Jesse, that he might be king and
ruler in Israel.
12. Though the gospel dispensation, both in Christ's first and
second appearance, is much superior in its order, beauty and holi
ness, to that under the law ; yet, saith the Lord, in every age of the
world, I have always provided means by which the sincere and
honest hearted, who desired to do my will, might be instructed
iii
the path of their duty.
13. And whenever my chosen people, in former dispensations,
were left without
a
true and faithful lead, according to the day in
which they lived,
it
was because of their disobedience and rebellion
to that which
I
had taught them
;
and
I
suffered them to run into
confusion, each doing that which seemed right in his own eyes, and,
by this means, break to pieces. Where this has been suffered,
it
has been as
a
scourge, to punish them for their own wickedness,
saith the Lord.
14. But as frail and mortal man hath never ceased to pervert
the way of the Lord, when
it
was in his power so to do, both
by
the means of
a
lying and slanderous tongue, and
by
inflicting
with his hands, cruel and violent acts of persecution upon the
b
>dies of those who sought to obey Me, rather than man, both in
Christ's first and second appearing; so that wicked nature will
116 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
continue to operate, in the hearts that are hardened in sin and
beastly abominations, until my heavy and desolating hand of judg
ments shall fall on them for the same.
15. But I suffered not the lives of any of my first witnesses to
be taken by the hands of persecutors, though that of Mother Ann's,
was in a most determined manner sought, time after time ; yet I, the
God of Heaven, did defeat their plans. I sent my holy Angels to
guard and protect her, and those who followed her in truth.
16. As these were my three first witnesses, through which I
caused the spirit and likeness of my blessed Son, the second time
to appear, without sin unto salvation ; the heaviest tribulation and
sufferings of soul that ever fell upon any, possessing earthly taber
nacles, save that of the Lord Jesus Christ himself, fell upon them.
17. But in Christ's first appearing, I suffered, when his work
was done, the life of his animal body, and that of many of his
followers, to be taken by wicked persecutors; as this was the begin
ning of the true gospel dispensation, and a perfect example of
sufferings, in both body and mind, was required, even to the laying
down of their natural lives, should the wickedness of man rage to
that extent.
18. But in the finishing and completing of that order, or gospel
dispensation, I suffered none of my first witnesses' lives to be
taken in that way. But for years were they inhumanly persecuted
at times, both by night and by day ; and in the midst of their most
severe sufferings, from the hands of the wicked, my holy Angels
have often beheld them kneeling, and praying unto Me, that I would
forgive them, for they knew not the wickedness they were doing.
19. But these, my witnesses, are now in the eternal mansions of
my rest, my glory and my delight, which I had prepared for them,
and for those who had suffered before like unto them ; while those
who hunted them from place to place, for the purpose of gratifying
their own wicked and malicious spirits, are banished from my
presence, sunk in the depths of hell, in anguish and horror, drink
ing the bitter cup, filled to overflowing, which they labored, [while
on earth,] to make my faithful witnesses drink.
20. Their cries and groans, their shrieks and lamentations, pierce
the gloomy prisons of hell, beseeching Me, the God of mercies, to con
descend, once more to warn their fellow creatures on the earth, not
to pursue the steps they have trod; not to lift their hands, nor their
hearts, to fight against that of which they know not ; but wait, and
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 117
the work of the Lord will prove itself; and the work of man will
also prove itself.
21. O merciful God, in thy everlasting kindness, warn them !
O Holy Creator of all things, O warn them ! warn them ! lest they
also pursue that course of persecuting thy righteous saints on earth,
and thereby fall into this awful place of torment where we are
bound in the flames of hell, suffering the just reward of our works.
22. O Eternal Father of all mercies ! if we may be suffered, in
the flames of hell, to breathe forth supplications unto thee, in the
midst of our unspeakable torment, suffer, O suffer thy word of
warning to reach the ears of our brethren on earth, who will be
liable to pursue the same course that we did.
23. But could we, O could we have heard but one word of warn
ing, direct from thy eternal and hallowed lips, we surely should have
hearkened, O righteous God! We know that our sufferings are just,
for fighting against thee, through those whom thou didst send upon
the earth to open a door of salvation, in thy everlasting kindness,
to poor lost souls.
24. We indeed, justly suffer the punishment thou hast inflicted
upon our souls. While those whom we distressed on earth, are
comforted in thy presence, we are banished far from thee, to suffer
the just reward of our doings.
25. But understand my words, saith the God of Heaven ; Those
who will not hearken unto those whom I have sent on earth, to warn
the inhabitants thereof of the certain destruction they will bring
upon themselves, by pursuing the paths of their forefathers, would not
hearken and believe, though I should cause one to rise out of the
grave, and go and declare my word unto them.
26. And should I cause it to roll upon the earth, like peals of
thunder, yet would it quickly be forgotten : for a moment, it would
strike consternation and terror, upon mortal man ; but how soon
would my solemn lessons of warning be disregarded, and the ways
of wickedness again be resorted to !
27. And, as your Lord and Savior said, in his parable to the
Jews, respecting the rich man and Lazarus, so do I, your God and
Creator, say unto you ; If you will not hearken to my word in
past dispensations, nor in the present, sent unto you through means
of my own choosing, neither would you hearken, if I should send
it through means that you yourselves might choose.
118 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
28. Understand, O ye people; I have not ushered in this latter
day of my glory, with great signs and wonders, working of miracles,
by raising the dead from their graves, as was suffered in Christ's
first appearing. You have the records of what I then suffered
to be done ; and if ye believe in the sacred volume, then ye must
believe the things therein recorded, respecting the Christ, and
those who followed him.
29. But must I always be compelled, saith the Lord, to call the
natural body, resting in the grave, again into life ; or command fire
to come down from Heaven in the sight of men, and destroy my
enemies, before man will be convinced that there is a God, who
ruleth at his will ; after all that I have caused for thousands of years,
by my Almighty Hand, to take place upon the earth?
30. Not so, saith the Creator of all things. Though I vested
supexuaturaj _power in Mother Ann, to work miracles, and that
power is still retained in my holy Church ; yet, I suffer it not to
be applied, in a natural point of view, to the external sight of men,
only at my command ; whether it be much or little.
31. My work in this dispensation, saith the Lord, as effecting the
work of salvation in the hearts of the children of men, is far greater
and more powerful, than any that has ever preceded
it;
yet, to ex
terna] appearances,
it
is
not so great
;
therefore,
I
warn souls to be
the more careful how they treat it.
32.
I
often suffered the power of working miracles to he made
use of
by
my first witnesses, as they were but few in number, and
the work was new and strange to all people
;
for Christ, in truth,
had become
a
great stranger on the earth
;
and moreover, there was
no body or church then established, only what consisted in these
few first witnesses.
33. And the opposition of an unbelieving world was so great,
that
I
suffered, in many instances, miraculous power to be displayed
in
a
natural point of view, from the Queen of Zion and those with
her, insomuch that the unbelieving world acknowledged, they knew
there must be
a
supernatural agency attending them.
34. But now, saith the Lord, my power, strength and substance
for the protection of souls, are concentrated
in
my Church, or Zion,
which has been tried or proved on earth for more than sixty years.
But this spiritual and divine power, has never, from the beginning,
ceased entirely to show itself to the external view
;
yet
1
have suf
fered her to feel great leanness, and much tribulation, so that at
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 119
times, she almost felt as though she was forsaken of her God : and
this I have done, to try and to prove her, and those who dwelt within
her walls.
35. But for some years past, I have again widely opened the
Heavens to her assistance, and showered down upon her, in bound
less measures, that which it pleased Me to bestow; that she might
be cleansed, as with refiner's fire, and whitened, as with fuller's soap.
And of the cup of my blessing hath she received, as well as the rod
of my chastening.
30. I found the ancients of the people, true to the cause ; but of
other classes, there were many, who had become lukewarm, and
indifferent in their zeal and feelings, respecting the true first prin
ciples upon which Zion is built, never more to be overthrown.
37. And these are her first principles: True self denial and
obedience, with a total seclusion from the popular sense, forms and
fashions of the children of this world. And upon these principles
she will always stand, and the gates of hell cannot prevail
against her.
38. And such as will not keep these principles, I will surely cut
off from my people, and cast into outer darkness without the city.
For nothing that worketh abomination or maketh a lie, shall remain
at ease in her, saith the Lord her God.
39. But wo unto them who stand in her gates, whose names are not
written in the book of life. No name can be entered upon my holy
book of life, suith the Lord, but the honest hearted and sincere
seeker after righteousness. And all such are written therein, never
more to be erased while pursuing this path : such, do make their
own calling and election sure.
40. I am not a God of partiality, towards the creatures of my
creation, consigning some to eternal misery, and others to eternal
happiness ; this would be the height of injustice, and inequality.
But let him that will, come and partake freely. All have immortal
souls, and all have a right to salvation, upon equal terms.
41. They that will pay the price, shall win the prize; and no
others can. They that will give up all, and lay down their own
lives, shall take them up unto life eternal, saith He who gave
immortality.
120
CHAPTER XX.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE REFERRING TO THE
RESURRECTION.
Sudden change of the soul from time
into eternity.
The soul not again reinstated in the
mortal body.
Such as look for a natural resurrection,
cited to past events.
Of the reinstatement of the soul into
the natural body.
9. Natural bodies caused quickly to dis
appear.
12. The only resurrection, that of the soul.
13. True resurrection, from darkness to'
light.
Sec. 1. I here require, saith the Holy Angel, such passages of the'
sacred writings,, or some few of the most prominent ones, as refer
to the resurrection, to be here transcribed entire.
I. Corinthians, xv. 20. But now is Christ risen from the dead,
and become the first-fruits of them that slept.
21. For since by man came death, by man came also the res
urrection of the dead.
22. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be
made alive.
23. But every man in his own order : Christ the first-fruits ;
afterward they that are Christ's at his coming.
24. Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the
kingdom to God, even the Father ; when he shall have put down:
all rule, and all authority, and power.
25. For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under
his feet.
26. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.
39. All flesh is not the same flesh ; but there is one kind of
flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and
another of birds.
40. There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial : but
the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial
is another.
41. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 121
moon, and another glory of the stars ; for one star differeth from
another star in glory.
42. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in
corruption, it is raised in incorruption :
43. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory : it is sown in
weakness, it is raised in power :
44. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body.
There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.
45. And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a
living soul, the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.
46. Howbeit, that was not first which is spiritual, but that
which is natural ; and afterward that which is spiritual.
47. The first man is of the earth, earthy : the second man if
the Lord from heaven.
48. As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy : and'
as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.
49. And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall
also bear the image of the heavenly.
50. Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption, inherit
incorruption.
Sec. 2. Understand, all ye people, saitb the Lord, all beings created
with immortal souls, must meet with a sudden change, and this sud
den change spoken of in Holy Writ, is passing from time into eternity.
3. And when this change, or separation between, the soul and
body is effected, the animal or earthly part, returns to earth and
dust again ; and the soul, or immortal part, returns to Me, the God
who gave
it,
there to receive its just and due reward.
4. And thus, saith the Lord,
is
effected an eternal separation
between the two, the mortal and immortal parts, as
it
respects the
soul ever again being reinstated in its former house, or tenement
of clay.
5. Hear ye my words, and understand, all ye people
;
The many
passages, contained in the sacred record of my word, from whence
you derive the apprehension, or idea of
a
resurrection of the nat
ural body, were not intended to be understood in
a
literal, or
natural sense, as you construe them.
6. And as evidence of the truth, that all such as look for
a
natural resurrection, will forever look in vain for the fulfillment
thereof,
I
advise them to look back, and consider. What do all
r
122 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
the events that have taken place, from the creation of the world to
the present day, prove, respecting the final dissolution of the animal
or natural body, and the final separation of the soul therefrom ?
7. Have those who died in early ages, been again reinstated in
a natural body ? By no means, saith the Lord ; though in some few
instances, through the cries and intercessions of my faithful servants,
I have caused the soul, for a short season, again to return into its
former house, or tenement of clay, after I had called it therefrom.
8. And this I did suffer, that the hardened hearts of the unbeliev
ing children of men, might be convinced of my Almighty power, as
operating through those that I had sent forth on earth, to bear testi
mony against the sins of the world, and open a way that ma»
might be saved therefrom.
9. And again, I have in some instances, sarth the Lord, with my
Almighty power, caused the animal, or natural bodies of some few
individuals, quickly to disappear and vanish from the knowledge of
all mortal beings ; and this I have done, that the lifeless lump of
clay, resting in its grave, should not become an object of idolatry
unto the living.
10. For in those ages of the world in which I have done these
things, the blindness and darkness of man were so great, that he
would much sooner have worshiped the animal or natural part, that
was consigned to its mother earth, than he would have worshiped
or obeyed the spirit that I had sent forth to dwell in this body, while
possessing the breath of life, and moving in its duty, according to
my divine commands.
11. Therefore did I cause that part which would have become a
snare unto him, to be removed; for I have commanded all people,
from the foundation of the world to the present day, to worship no
God but Me, the one true and living God.
12. And I do now testify unto all the inhabitants of earth, that
the only resurrection that will ever take place, either on earth or in
eternity, is that of the soul, not of the natural body. The soul,
or spiritual body, is complete within itself, and needeth not the aid
of that which is natural, to complete its order.
13. And they that rise in the resurrection of the life an(T power
of Christ, must rise from darkness into light, or from a state of sin
and death-, into a state of purity and holiness, without which, no
one shall see the Lord, or meet their God in peace.
14. This is the true resurrection of the soul, or spiritual body,
TO THE NATIONS Or THE EARTH. 123
into that element of eternal life which is promised the faithful,
who forsake all for Christ's sake and the gospel.
15. And such as take the steps that I do require, saith the Lord,
to rise and come out from under the bondage of darkness, of sin
and death, and enter into a state of life and light eternal, do rise in
the only true resurrection of .peace and happiness to the soul, that
ever was,
is,
or ever will be, saith the Lord.
16. And whether they be in time, or in eternity,
it
altereth not
the path they must pursue, in order to rise in this resurrection, as
is
clearly shown in this roll
;
and there can be no other resurrection,
save the resurrection of damnation to the soul, spoken of in Holy
Writ; and so do
I,
your Lord and God, testify
it,
in this your day.
17. And all who fear Me, and keep my commandments, though
they remain in nature's darkness, yet, by so doing, they begin to
rise from
a
state of disobedience, and come into the path of true
obedience, which will, in the final event,iffollowed, whether in time
or in eternity, surely lead them into that resurrection of eternal
life, here spoken of, and to which my servant Paul alluded while
upon earth.
18. Though the fullness and completed order of my kingdom,
(the foundation of which was then begun on earth,) was not then
made known to the children of men, saith the Lord
;
it
is
now
revealed,
in
this your day, without sin unto everlasting salvation.
124
CHAPTER XXI.
OF GOD'S COMING TO VISIT THE EARTH IN MERCY
AND IN JUDGMENT.
2. God come to visit (he earth.
3. The manner of his coming.
6. Mankind questioned, relative to re
ceiving the word of God.
9. The great reward of those who spend
their days on earth devoted to God's
will.
17. State of sinners in time.
19. Their state at the close of life.
SO. Of their punishment in eternity.
22. Ministering spirits sent forth to offer
such souls the gospel.
23. Of beginning the soul's travel in eter
nity under adverse circumstances.
21. Easier for souls to destroy their evil
natures while in time, than in eter
nity ; and more glorious will they be.
25. Of those who turn back.
27. The object for which this roll was
sent forth.
28. Not the invention of mortals. How it
was sent forth.
30. The state of those who refuse to do
the will of God.
1. Hearken, O ye people, and understand, all ye nations of the
earth. I AM, before Me none were, and after Me, none can exist.
2. The God, before whose bar of judgment ye must all shortly
appear, hath now, in this last age of the world, condescended, in
his eternal goodness, to stoop from the throne of his Almighty power
on high, and come down to warn the inhabitants of earth- With
thousands of holy Angels upon his right and upon his left, doth he
approach the habitations of man. And how doth he come? crieth
a mighty Angel that goeth before him, that the people may hear.
3. With a balance of true justice in his right hand, and a sword
of his judgment in his left; and on his right, doth a holy Angel
bear the sceptre of his mercy, and on his left, a mighty Angel of
power doth bear the besom of destruction.
4 Yet, saith the Lord, I send forth unto you my solemn warnings
in a still small voice, in language plain, simple and familiar, that a
child may understand. Will you hearken any the less on that
account ?
5. Would you be more ready to receive
it,
were the earth rocking
under your feet, and opening her mouth ready to swallow you down
?
6. Would you be more ready to receive
it,
should
I,
without
giving you the offer of repentance, send
a
pestilence through your
land, that should sweep three fourths of its inhabitants therefrom?
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 125
Would you be more ready to receive
it,
should
I
cause
a
dearth
throughout the earth, and destroy both man and beast thereon?
7. Or would you be more ready to receive
it,
should
I,
in my
wrath, take from the earth what little peace there
is
thereon, and
suffer the sword to be unsheathed, through every nation and
kingdom?
8. Or will you, in mercy, receive
it
at my hand, before my awful
judgments roll on you? My times are not man's time, remember;
but the time of times shall not pass in vain over this earth, or those
who dwell upon it.
9. But
I
will now show unto you, the rewards of those who
Bincerely spend their lives to Me, while in time, such as enter under
the law of grace, and walk uprightly therein to the end of their days.
10. When once
a
soul has heard the sound of the everlasting
and true gospel,
(
remember there is but one. true gospel,) they
no longer can be considered
in
a
state of ignorance
;
but they
must either harden their hearts to disbelieve and reject
it,
or else
they must follow the best light in their own souls in obeying it.
11. But let
it
forever be remembered,
by
all the human race,
that they who go through time and commit the least sin, are always
the most bright and glorious in the eternal world, and come the
nearest to God, their Creator; for every sinful act makes
a
stain,
and deep impression of guilt upon the soul, which can never be
eradicated, but through confession and true repentance.
12. And none have found any way or power,
by
which they
can keep from sinning, only such as have, in full purpose of heart,
embraced the one only true gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in his
first, and in his second appearing, which,
if
lived up to, completes
the work of redemption in the soul.
13. Such as embrace this gospel in their childhood, and
by
that
means, learn to love the way of purity in the days of their inno
cence, and continue faithfully to bear the blessed cross of Christ,
to the end of their days, offer unto Me, their God and Creator, the
first fruits of their lives.
14. And such souls are prepared, at any time, to enter eternity,
and stand before my holy bar of judgment, justified
by
their God
;
and there
is
no power that can condemn them
;
and in this state, they
are prepared immediately to enter
a
travel
in
eternity, progressing
from one degree of glory to another, continually rejoicing in that God
of their salvation who called them while upon earth, before they had
126 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
sunk their souls in sin and wickedness, and become hardened
against God, their Creator.
15. Such are crowned with eternal crowns of glory, having palms
placed in their hands ; and such are made kings and priests unto
Me, for they are worthy. They lived in a sinful world, but they
defiled not themselves with her sins, that they might not partake
of her plagues.
16. And now, they are prepared to stand in truth with the Lamb
on Mount Zion; therefore I will clothe them in white, and gird on
them the breast-plate of righteousness, for they have no need to
taste the second death.
'
17. But such as pass a long life in every kind of wicked and sin
ful indulgence, to which their natures are prone, often feel a stroke
of reproof from the monitions of conscience, while passing through
time, which awakens in their souls, at times, solemn feelings
of reflection and sorrow, for the time that is past and gone,
which they have spent in wickedness, against the laws of their
Maker. And in this state, many form strong resolutions of mind,
that they will mend their lives; but when temptations again appear,
their resolutions are gone, and so they again become an easy prey
to nature's vilest passions.
18. And, as they approach the close of life, they feel an awful
horror and condemnation, thrilling through their souls; a dread of
death, judgment and eternity now stares them in the face.
19. They know they are unprepared to meet their God, for they
have gone far aside, from doing the best they knew ; they now try
to pacify their own feelings, by that doctrine which they have so
often heard advanced, while passing through life; That if they will,
before they breathe their last, only confess themselves to be sinners,
by calling on my name ; by the merits of Christ, the Savior, all
their sins shall be pardoned.
20. But how awfully mistaken on this point, do they find them
selves, when they enter eternity ! Though many times, my Holy Spir
it,
saith the Lord, suffereth such souls to wander, and grope in dark
ness, for hundreds of years, before they are called to judgment;
yet no enjoyment do they find
;
but are similar, in situation, to
a
man lost in
a
dense wilderness, among wild beasts. And when
their time comes to be called to judgment, they find, that upon my
eternal record every deed of their lives
is
recorded
;
the good upon
the right, and the bad upon the left.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 127
21. And these are weighed in the balance of my eternal justice,
which finds them greatly wanting; and their doom is sealed in the
flames of hell, with the devil and his angels, till they have paid the
utmost farthing, by suffering the demands of justice.
22. I now send forth ministering spirits, to offer them this self
same gospel which is offered unto you, O ye children of men.
They thankfully embrace the least offer of mercy which I now
show unto them ; and they now have to begin, exactly in the same
way that they would, had they begun in their childhood, or in any
period of their lives while on earth, to embrace this gospel of
Christ's second coming, without sin unto salvation.
23. After losing their time on earth, as to gaining any treasure
for their souls, and all this time in eternity, enduring all the heart
rending sufferings they have had to pass through, as their due and
just reward, they now have to begin, and travel out of the nature of
that loss, with all its increased strength, which is added many fold
by indulgence, just the same as they would have had to do, had they
begun in the early part of their lives. If they had done this, they
would have saved all the time lost in eternity, and their souls from
the deep impressions of guilt, darkness and disgrace, and of a sin-
stained life, saith the Lord ; and been preserved from all the suffer
ings therewith connected.
24. And be it known unto all people, that it is much easier for
them to find a fruitful travel in this world, by yielding obedience
to the cross of Christ, while they have strength and activity, of
both soul and body, than it is for them to find it in eternity ; for
there they must pass from prison to prison, from one degree of suf
ferings to another, seeking the mercy of God.
25. And for those who have once tasted the true gospel of Christ,
and the good word of God, and of the powers of the world to come,
and then turn back to serve their own corrupt natures, it would
have been better for them never to have been born ; for such cru
cify unto themselves the son of God afresh.
26. But such as do not feel themselves called upon by the awak
ening flames of conviction, in their own consciences, to obey the
law of gospel purity, must return to the moral law of nature, saith
the Lord, or they cannot escape the heavy hand of my awful
judgments.
27. I have not sent forth this roll of solemn truth and warning,
to threaten, or terrify the inhabitants of earth ; neither have I sent
128 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
it forth for naught, or to be disregarded, trampled upon, and treated
with scorn and contempt by any, either Monarcha, Kings or Princes ;
but those of you who believe it not, let it alone, and both time and
eternity will convince you, from what source it was sent forth.
28. You shall be fully convinced, in the event, that it is not the
invention of the people called Shakers, whose religion is so uni
versally despised throughout the earth, nor the invention of man or
of woman ; but in obedience to my imperative command, and that
alone, was it sent forth unto you.
29. For the [inspired] mortal instrument, whose hand I required
to pen the words of this roll and book, to the inhabitants of the
earth, would sooner have laid down his life, than been compelled to
draft what the Angel read, for mortal eyes to view, could he have
been accepted of Me, his God and Creator, in so doing.
30. But mortals are but worms of the dust; and whosoever shall
refuse to do my will, (when I make it known plainly before them,,
with indisputable evidence,) are banished from my presence, to suf
fer in torment and anguish of soul.
31. But if they trust in Me, and obey my voice, let the inhabi
tants of the earth to whom these warnings are sent, do as they may,
they clear their own souls, saith the Lord.
129
CHAPTER XXII.
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE RELATIVE TO THE PEACE
ABLE KINGDOM OF CHRIST.
7.
10.
II.
12.
Mankind cited to the scripture?.
The Lord questioned! the inhabitants
of earth.
Of the law of the house of God, and
of man's qualifications of the same.
Of a cloak for sinners, by wrong ap
plication of scriptures.
Of living without sin, and becoming
perfect.
Christians questioned in regard to the
cross of Christ.
Of a day of justice.
No indulgences of a half way cross in
Christ's second coming.
No indulgences ever granted, only for
weakness' sake.
13. Of looking back to Egypt.
15. Of overlooking the kingdom of Christ.
16. Of the establishing of Christ's king.
dom.
17. Who can abide in it.
19. Of eloping from an evil nature at once.
20. Victory gained step by step.
23. Comfort administered to those who
travel in godly sorrow.
24. Well of the water of life.
26. Christ's yoke easy to the honest heart
ed.
27. Judgment to fall on those who hinder
souls from euteriug the straight gate.
Sec. 1. And now look, O ye children of men, and consider those
passages, recorded in the sacred volume, which I caused from the
mouths of the Prophets to be delivered, in this same line of inspira
tion that I now send forth this word unto you, which are hereafter
inserted; clearly illustrating the glory of Christ's kingdom that
should be established in the latter day. To this very day in which
you now live, a portion of them refer, and ye know it not.
Psalms, xlvi. 9. He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the
earth ; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder ; he
burneth the chariot in the fire.
Chap, lxxii. 16. There shall be a handful of corn in the
earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake
like Lebanon : and they of the city shall flourish like grass of
the earth.
17. His name shall endure forever: his name shall be con
tinued as long as the sun : and men shall be blessed in him : all
nations shall call him blessed.
19. And blessed be his glorious name forever : and let the
whole earth be filled with his glory ; Amen, and amen.
130 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
Isaiah, iv. 2. In that day shall the branch of the Lord be beau
tiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent
and comely for them that are escaped of Israel.
Chap. ix. 6. For unto us a child is born,, unto us a son is
given: and the gorernment shall be upon his shoulder: and his
name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God,
The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.
Chap. xi. 1. And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem
of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots :
2. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit
of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might,
the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord ;
3. And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the
Lord : and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyesrneither
reprove after the hearing of his ears :
4. But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove
with equity for the meek of the earth : and he shall smite the earth
with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips
shall he slay the wicked.
5. And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faith
fulness the girdle of his reins.
6. The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard
shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion
and the fatling together ; and a little child shall lead them.
9. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain :
< for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the
waters cover the sea.
10. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall
stand for an ensign of the people ; to it shall the Gentiles seek :
and his rest shall be glorious.
12. And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall
assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed
of Judah from the four corners of the earth.
Chap, xxvii. 5. Or let him take hold of my strength, that he
may make peace with me, and he shall make peace with me.
6. He shall cause them that come of Jacob to take root :
Israel shall blossom and bud, and fill the face of the world
with fruit.
Chap, xxxii. 1. Behold, a King shall reign in righteousness,
and princes shall rule in judgment.
TO THE NATIONS OP THE EARTH. 131
17. And the work of righteousness shall be peace ; and the
effect of righteousness, quietness and assurance forever.
18. And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in
sure dwellings, and in quiet resting-places.
Chap. xxvi. 20. Come, my people, enter thou into thy cham
bers, and shut thy doors about thee : hide thyself as it were for
a little moment, until the indignation be overpast.
21. For behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish
the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity : the earth also shall
disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.
Chap, xxvii. 2. In that day sing ye unto her, A vineyard
of red wine.
3. I the Lord do keep it; I will water it every moment: lest
any hurt
it,
I
will keep
it
night and day.
Chap. xxxv. 1. The wilderness and the solitary place shall be
glad for them
;
and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as
the rose.
2.
It
shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice, even with joy and
singing
:
the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto
it,
the excel
lency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord,
and the excellency of our God.
5. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of
the deaf shall be unstopped.
8.
And
a
highway shall be there, and
a
way, and
it
shall be
called, The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it;
but
it
shall be for those: the way-faring men, though fools, shall
*
not err therein.
9. No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up
thereon,
it
shall not be found there
;
but the redeemed shall
walk there
:
10. And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to
Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they
shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall
flee away.
Chap. xlii.
9.
Behold, the former things are come to pass,
and new things do
I
declare
:
before they spring forth
I
tell you
of them.
Chap. Hi.
1.
Awake, .awake, put on thy strength,
O
Zion;
put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city
:
for
henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised
and the unclean. ,
132 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
7. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him
that bringeth good tidings, that publisbeth peace; that bringeth
good-tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto
Zion, Thy God reigneth !
8. Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice
together shall they sing : for they shall see eye to eye, when the
Lord shall bring again Zion.
9. Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jeru
salem : for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed
Jerusalem.
Isaiah, Iv. 1. Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the
waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea,
come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
2. Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread ?
and your labor (ox that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently
unto me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight
itself in fatness.
3. Incline your ear, and come unto me : hear, and your soul
shall live ; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you,
even the sure mercies of David.
4. Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a
leader and commander to the people.
5. Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and
nations that knew not thee shall run unto thee, because of the
Lord thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel ; for he hath
glorified thee.
6. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him
while he is near :
7. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man
his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have
mercy upon him ; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
8. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your
ways my ways, saith the Lord.
9. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways
higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
Chap. lvii. 14. Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take
up the stumbling-block out of the way of my people.
15. For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eter
nity, whose name is Holy ; I dwell in the high and holy place,
with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 133
the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the con
trite ones.
19. I create the fruit of the lips ; Peace, peace to Mm that is
far off, and to him that is near, saith the Lord; and I will
heal him.
20. But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot
rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt.
21. There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.
Sec. 2. Thus saith the Lord, O ye people, answer me this question ;
What is it that constitutes a wicked man? Is it not in transgressing
the laws and commandments of his Creator God? And again; Is
there any such kind of wickedness as popular and fashionable wicked-
edness, that which the common usages and customs of man have
sanctioned ? Is it in the power of man, by his habits and customs,
to alter the nature of that which I have pronounced wicked, and
have forbidden ?
3. Is it in the power of mortals to change truth into falsehood,
ot falsehood into truth, in the final result?
4. Can the laws and commandments of an Almighty God be
made null and void, by the traditions of men ?
5. Or must every thing remain, as his Almighty power hath or
dained
it,
having this seal,
*'
Let God be true, and every man
a
liar,"
who perverteth his holy laws, when once made known to him?
Isaiah, Ix.
1.
Arise, shine
;
for thy light
is
come, and the
glory of the Lord
is
risen upon thee.
2. For behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross
darkness the people
:
but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and
his glory shall be seen upon thee.
3.
And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the
brightness of thy rising.
4. Lift up thine eyes round about, and see
:
all they gather
themselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come
from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.
15. Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, so that no
man went through thee,
I
will make thee an eternal excellency,
a
joy of many generations.
18. Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, wasting nor
destruction within thy borders; but thou shalt call thy walls Sal
vation, and thy gates Praise.
21. Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit
134 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my
hands, that I may be glorified.
22. A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a
strong nation : I the Lord will hasten it in his time.
Chap. Ixv. 17. For behold, I create new heavens and a new
earth : and the former shall not be remembered, nor come
into mind.
Chap. lxvi. 5. Hear the word of the Lord, ye that tremble
at his word; Your brethren that hated you, that cast you out for
my name's sake, said, Let the Lord be glorified : but he shall
appear to your joy, and they shall be ashamed.
13. As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you;
and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
15. For behold, the Lord will come with fire, and with his
chariots like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and his
rebuke with flames of fire.
16. For by fire and by his sword will the Lord plead with all
flesh : and the slain of the Lord shall be many.
22. For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will
make, shall remain before me, saith the Lord, so shall your seed
and your name remain.
Zechariah, x. 10. I will bring them again also out of the land
of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria ; and I will bring
them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon ; and place shall not
be found for them.
Chap. xiv. 20. In that day shall there be upon the bells of the
horses, HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD ; and the pots in the
Lord's house shall be like the bowls before the altar.
21. Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness
unto the Lord of hosts : and all they that sacrifice shall come
and take of them, and seethe therein : and in that day there
shall be no more the Canaanite in the house of the Lord
of hosts.
Ezekiel, xliii. 12. This is the law of the house; Upon the top
of the mountain the whole limit thereof round about shall be
most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.
Sec. 6. Consider, all ye people, the law of my house saith God.
Is it not, that all shall be holy 1 Have I ever, at any age of the
world, applied qualifications to my law, so that mankind could
apply
it,
in any state or situation of life that they chose, even from
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 135
him who possessed the most upright and blameless character, to
him who had abandoned all rule or law, but that of his own cor
rupt nature, so that the transgressor could justify himself, as well
as the upright, and pretendingly derive his authority from what he
called the word of God?
7. How oft are the two following short passages made use of to
justify known transgressions. There is no man that sinneth not.
[See I. Kings, viii. 46.] There is none that doeth good, no, not
one. [See Psalms, xiv. 3.]
8. But thus saith the Lord unto you, He that committeth sin after
having knowledge of what is sin, is of the devil, not of God, nor
of his Christ. My beloved Son taught his followers to be perfect,
even as their Father in Heaven is perfect. And the Apostle Paul
said, "Except Christ be in you, ye are reprobates." Can the spirit
of Christ be in those who know they almost daily transgress that
which he and his beloved followers taught, and laid down as rules
indispensable for every one who wished, or expected to be saved,
or made heir to eternal life, by that gospel which they preached?
9. Although the order of his kingdom was not then completed,
as he plainly showed, and his followers after him showed the same;
yet do I ask, saith the Lord, all professed Christendom, whether
they truly think and believe, within their own hearts, that they bear
that cross which Christ and his disciples required every professing
christian to bear, saying nought of the increase of his requirements
in [this] his second coming ?
10. But, as I have before told you, the day draweth nigh, when
every thing shall bear its just weight. Truth and justice to the
line, and righteousness to the plummet.
11. The completed order of my kingdom, now, in the second
appearance of Christ, is comprehended in few words ; it
is,
Without
tin unto salvation, in. every sense of the word. That
is,
there are
no indulgences granted, nor permission given, for any to take up
a
half way cross,
by
keeping from indulging their natures of passion
and lust, as much as they conveniently can, yet not think they must
bear
a
full cross.
12. In the first appearing of Christ, such
a
toleration was per
mitted,
by
some of his followers, for weakness' sake; but in his
second coming, nothing of that kind can exist.
13. And in this day, no one, having put his hand to the gospel
plough and looking back into Egypt, hankering after the leeks and
136 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
onions thereof, (or his carnal gratifications,) is fit for the kingdom.
But they that lay hold with full purpose of heart, by honestly con
fessing their sins, one by one, and press on with zeal and energy of
soul, do, by so doing, make their calling and election sure.
14. I have caused the last foregoing passages of scripture to be
inscribed in this Roll ; for they are a few, out of many that are
illustrative of the glory and beauty, and that perfect holiness which
I required to rule and reign in the kingdom of Christ, which should
be established in the latter day ;
15. That all nations and people, may see that they are overlook
ing the kingdom of Christ; or, in other words, are as blind to its
appearance, in this day of his second coming, as the Jews were in
his first.
16. For I do now, in my own time and season, saith the God of
Heaven, proclaim to all people, that the Kingdom so abundantly
spoken of by the Prophets, which should be set up in the lat
ter days,
is,
by
my Almighty hand, now established upon the earth;
and that no other kingdom, to the end of time, will ever be estab
lished
by
Me.
17. And this
I
have established,
by
the second appearance of the
spirit of my blessed Son, through
a
chosen female, or the Daughter
of Zion
;
and the names of my three first witnesses
I
have told
you, and the character of the inhabitants who are called and cho
sen to dwell in this kingdom. And none others, but those whose
daily labor
it
is
to maintain this character throughout, can long
abide within its holy walls.
18. And furthermore, remember, that He who speaketh unto you,
is
a
just God, and requireth nothing more of his people than they
are able to come to,
if
they will be truly obedient
;
and without be
ing obedient, they never can, either in time or
in
eternity, answer
my requirements unto them.
19. Since the whole human family have been so deeply baptized
into the nature of the fall, in which nature they are born into the
world, and which increases with their strength, and grows with their
growth,
it
is
not expected that any human creature can elope from,,
or overcome
it
at once.
20. Not so, but
by
a
daily cross, faithfully borne, they will, step
by
step, day
by
day, crucify that nature until
it
is
dead; which
[nature]
is
the beast, so much spoken of, after which the whole
world have wandered.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 137
21. But such as are honest and open hearted, in exposing all
their filthy works of darkness, and continue so to do, in sincerity
of heart, whenever, in any way, by its influence they are overcome,
they will surely destroy its life, and rise triumphant over its nature.
But it is by a progressive travel, day after day and year after year,
that the soul gains a complete victory.
22. And, although they perfect their travel in tribulation and
godly sorrow ; yet, if they are faithful after they have honestly con
fessed their sins, the horror and condemnation of a guilty con
science they never need to feel.
23. But in true tribulation and godly sorrow, I never fail, saith,
the Lord, to administer, from my eternal source of goodness, com
fort and consolation, which none can have any correct, idea of, but
those who have taken the right steps to obtain it.
24. This is the well of water, springing up unto everlasting life,
which enableth mankind to love the Lord their God, with all their
souls, might, mind and strength ; and their neighbor as themselves.
This fills the soul with a kind and sympathetic feeling, for the
whole human family;
25. This is that which creates such true love in the soul, that
one is ready to lay down his life for his brother; and no man hath
greater love than this, as said my beloved Son, when he was:
on earth.
26. And upon all suoh as are sincere and honest hearted, Christ's,
yoke is easy, and his burden is light. But to those who seek to do
their work by halves, it is galling and burdensome indeed ; but I
am delighted saith the Lord, in the free-will offerings of a soul, as
none can be compelled to enter the gates of the Holy City : this
must be an act of every one's free will and choice.
27. But when I cause, by whatever means I may be pleased so
to do, a spirit to awaken the flames of conviction in souls, which
leadeth them to look heavenward, and others stand in their way
and hinder them from entering, Woe shall be unto such; not
only the judgment of their own. sins shall be upon them, saith the
Lord, but the sins of such, as they have hindered from entering the
Kingdom.
R
138
CHAPTER Will.
OF THE RULERS AND GREAT ONES OF THE EARTH;
HOW THEIR TIME IS SPENT, AND THE LEADING
MOTIVES BY WHICH THEY ARE ACTUATED.
1. Of the torments of mighty men.
3. The Rulers questioned.
25. Just Rulers, a blessing.
87. Of Rulers clothing themselves in
humility.
28. Of dispensing justice.
30. Rulers warned of an approaching
day of judgment and equity.
31. The world in n state of peace, had
it been judiciously ruled.
37.
Of God's visitation to earth in mercy.
Earth's cup of judgment, yet stayed
in mercy.
Judgments promised, if the inhabi
tants of earth refuse to hearken.
Of causes and effects.
Special warning to rulers, concerning
the notice of this warning.
A blessing to those who hearken.
The consequence of rejecting it.
1. Great and mighty men shall be mightily tormented. Why
should mighty men be mightily tormented T Have I not promised
equal justice in the balance of eternal truth? Then why should
mighty men be tormented more than others ?
2. Hearken ye Monarchs, and give ear O Kings, and incline
your hearts to understand, O ye rulers of the people.
3. Do ye stand in the house of decision for the benefit of the
people, or for the benefit of yourselves?
4. Do you spend the wages of your hire in benefiting the people,
or do you spend it for your own gratification, in pleasing yourselves,
in wanton luxuries and carnal pleasures, wastefulness and ex
travagance?
5. Do you ever consider that you are mortals, and must shortly
lie as low before Me, your God and Creator, as the humblest peas
ant in your kingdoms ?
6. Do you consider, that naked, mortals come into the world,
and naked go they out?
7. Do ye stand in the seats of judgment, or the civil tribunals of
earth, to mete out justice by weight, and equity in the balance?
8. Do ye hearken to the cries of the needy, and take the wants
of the afflicted home to your hearts ?
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 139
9. Do you prolong debates, to feed your country's poor?
10. Or do ye sound forth words, in trumpets to be blown ?
11. Do ye spend the rolling moments as ye would, did ye know
each day was to be your last?
12. How often do you consider, and in solemn muse reflect, that
soon you must appear, naked and unclothed from mortal clay, before
my eternal bar of judgment, and here, on my everlasting record
of true justice, are all your works portrayed ?
13. Do you decree, and statutes bind to support the schools of
vice, where plans are drawn, and means sought out to spill the
blood of man?
14. Do fleets by sea and troops by land, bespeak the christian
life? Do armies drawn in battle array, bathing their swords in the
blood of their fellow creatures, bespeak the true religion of the
Son of God, whose doctrines ye so highly applaud?
15. Look ye in the sacred record of his word; read, and under
stand what you read, saith the God of Heaven. For of one blood,
did my Almighty hand create all nations, kingdoms, and all people.
And all these will I convince, by my Almighty power, that the Son
of God was not sent on earth for nought, either in his first, or in
his second appearing.
16. Do ye administer the right of the poor, and deal justly with
the afflicted ? Or do you even deign to feed them with the crumbs
that you trample under your feet, which fall from your full tables,
extravagantly loaded?
17. Do you tax the laborers in justice, and heap up stores of
their silver and gold for yourselves?
18. Do not the rich grow richer, and the poor, poorer ?
19. Is not justice bribed, the weights deceitful, and the measures
scanted when going out? And are they not heavily laden, when
coming in to one's private store?
'20. Can you all make out such records as will compare with
mine, at the shortest warning ?
21. Can you stand in judgment, and die in mercy?
22. Do you enslave the freedom of conscience, and bind the
hearts of men ?
23. Do you sway the despot's sceptre, and wield the tyrant's
sword?
24 Do you make use of literary knowledge, and science learned
HO SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
of men, to defraud the ignorant and blind the eyes of the weak,
who on you for justice do rely ?
25. Just and upright rulers in the kingdoms of men, are a
blessing, which my Almighty hand doth bestow, that the people
may be prospered thereby : but unjust, hard hearted, hasty and
wicked rulers, T suffer for a scourge and a curse, to kingdoms and
to nations.
26. Do you, at all times, consider the golden rule, laid down by
my blessed Son when he was on earth,
" Do unto others, as ye
would thrft others should do unto you?"
27. Do you ever lay aside, for a season, the pride and arrogancy
of your spirits, and clothe your thoughts in the ignorant and hum
ble attitude of the suffering poor, and lower classes of your fellow
beings, who are suffering with hunger and cold, with nought but
their hands to procure the stay of life, and employment for them
they cannot find ? And yet, exactions are required at their hands, by
such as have thousands to spend id revelings, extravagance, and
wickedness.
28. Do you, in dispensing judgment and justice to them, put
yourselves, for the moment in their situation, and them in yours?
Think ye that the eternal record before my throne would read as it
now does, had this been practiced by the rulers, and great ones of
the earth ?
29. Does not this dearly account for the saying of the scriptures,
That mighty men must be mightily tormented ? Surely this is the
reason, and so does it stand on my eternal record. In their power
they are exalted above their fellow creatures, and trample the rights
of the poor and needy tinder their feet.
30. But remember, all ye Monarchs, Kings, Rulers, and rich
ones of the earth, ye must shortly appear Tjefore my eternal tribunal,
as poor and destitute as the poorest.
31. Had you bnt exercised your power, throughout your different
kingdoms [and dominions,] to put an end to wars, bloodshed and
carnage, as was plainly taught by the Messiah, when I first sent him
upon the earth, your kingdoms and nations would long ere this day,
have been the habitations of peace, of equality and justice ; and
not a suffering mortal, for the want of the needful things of life,
need to have walked your streets.
32. But the God of Heaven hath stooped from his throne on
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAKTH. 141
high, to bestow a crumb of his notice, in mercy, to mortals; and
now doth call aloud, yet in mercy, to the nations of the earth.
33. Though my awful judgments slumber not, yet doth my Al
mighty hand, in mercy, longer stay from earth her merited reward,
till she shall again hear my word in truth, as she did hear it in
ages long past ;
34. And doth prove herself an object of my mercy through hum
bleness of heart, by proclaiming solemn fasts throughout her lands,
and solemnly hearing and reading this, my sacred word ; or of
my judgment by refusing the same, though sent by my Almighty
hand to her in a way not looked for by mortals.
35. And this is the way that I have worked, from the earliest ages
of the world.
36. But now, in these last days, I have condescended to visit
the earth with my holy Angels, in a more accessible manner than
I ever before have done; by reason that the foundation and order
of my kingdom is now completed thereon.
37. But if souls refuse to hearken to my word, earth's cup of
judgment is filled to running over, and this she shall surely drink,
saith the God of Heaven.
38. And I do require, saith the Lord, that all nations, and in a
special manner, those calling themselves civilized and christianized,
cultivate the principles of peace, at home and abroad, by sea and
by land.
39. Would ye be more willing to believe this, my requirement,
should I bury your fleets in the bosom of the deep, and sweep your
landed forces from the face of the earth by pestilential diseases?
40. Like causes produce like effects, throughout all created things:
principles of peace produce their like, and principles of war their
like. War and bloodshed among the objects of my creation, are
entirely contrary to every precept or example, ever taught by my
blessed Son while on earth ; they have proceeded from no other
source than from man's fallen nature.
41. If mankind will learn in mercy, they will not be compelled
to hearken in judgment : but they must speedily learn to hearken
to my voice, where they never have, or they cannot escape the
awful stroke they have merited.
42. And those who stand as heads and rulers of the nations,
consider well ; feel not yourselves too great and high to read this
plain, but solemn warning, and consider well every sentence therein
142 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
contained; for by it ye shall shortly be judged in the eternal world.
And, as ye treat this warning, so shall ye, in like manner, be treated.
43. If ye humble yourselves, and counsel your people to do the
same, by ceasing from violence and injustice, dealing uprightly one
with another, laboring so far as is in your power, to suppress all
haunts of infamy and lewdness, I will notice you in mercy for
the same : and when my judgments are rolling through your lands,
you may, with confidence, pour forth your souls in prayer to Me
for mercy.
44. But if you slight, disregard, or contemptuously treat this my
word, and regard it not yourselves, nor counsel others so to do, in
the days of your calamity you will pour out your cries to Me in
vain, saith the Lord.
45. And let these, the forewarning words of kindness, sink
deep in every heart ; read them in your palaces, and practice them
in your courts; and keep this volume sacred, throughout your
realms.
46. And again, hear my words saith your God; Whosoever shall
destroy this book, out of contempt, derision or ridicule, I will blot
out their names from the book of my mercy, and mete to them their
portion in [the place of] eternal misery, where torments shall be
their food, and the gall of bitterness their drink; for the mouth of
the Lord of hosts hath spoken it.
143
CHAPTER XXIV.
OF MINISTERS AND PREACHERS OF A FASHIONABLE
AND POPULAR GOSPEL, AND OF THE MANY WAYS
MAN HAS SOUGHT OUT FOR SALVATION,
BUT ALWAYS IN THE FUTURE.
1. The Lord calleih unto them, and 1
31. Of coming into the law of grace.
32. Warning to vain pretenders.
34. Of those who turn from the law of
grace.
36. Of different denominations.
38. But one way of life.
39. Of man's ways.
43. Of abhorrence to religion in conse
quence of false doctrines.
47. A blessing to those who hearken and
obey moral law.
48. Ministers and people required often
to pray to God.
50. Ministers required to keep a copy of
this roll in the pulpit.
51. The power of God to be felt.
52. Warnings against slighting the call of
God.
5. Of ministers preparing their own souls.
9. Where baptized.
10. Of what was learned at the literary
spring.
15. Of preaching by rule, &c.
16. Of industry.
17. Of the register of the heart.
18. The Lord promises to notice sincerity,
and integrity of heart.
21. Of proclaiming a gospel license for
war.
34. Of preaching deceptive doctrine.
26. Good deeds rewarded.
28. God commandeth them to return to
the law of nature.
29. Ministers required to proclaim the
law of nature.
1. O ye Pastors of the flock, who watch in the broad way and
cry at the wide gate, hearken ; hear my words and understand my
voice, saith the Lord your God, whose eye is upon every sincere
heart, and from whose sight no deceitful worker can be hid.
2. The God of Israel and of Jacob, in condescending kindness,
now calleth unto you, in a way of my own appointing, not yours.
Will ye hear my word, and in breathless silence let the same sink
deep into your hearts 1 Or will ye, by reason of the humble means
that I have made choice of to convey it unto you, spurn at the
same, before my face? I will, with mine own hand, prove you,
saith the Lord.
3. For what purpose do ye stand as preachers to the people,
calling aloud unto them, to enter Heaven's gate ?
144 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
4. Is this to benefit the souls of your flock ; or to increase your
numbers to be seen of men ?
5. Have you firstly prepared your own souls, for true and faithful
Pastors of the flock, as the Son of God required1?
6. Have you traveled in the narrow way of a daily cross, and
entered at the gate of true selfdenial?
7. Doth your daily walk declare these fruits in open view of
your flock, proving you to be the true embassadors of Christ?
8. Are all your secluded and secret hours, to Me your God
sincerely spent in prayer and humble supplication?
9. At what fountain was you baptized with divine and holy
power, to lead the people unto Me ?
10. Was it at the literary spring, where eloquence of words are
considered the greatest [qualification ?]
11. Did you there receive the sacerdotal garment, to enable you
to stand truly in the priesthood of a pure and holy God?
12. Or was the power of framing words, to make them answer
the purpose of real truth at heart, there diffused, and the art of dis
sembling there to perfection brought?
13. Did you there receive my holy power, which instructed you
to cleanse your souls and purify your hearts, by subduing the vile pas
sions of nature, which power would enable you to bring every mem
ber of your bodies into subjection to the law of Christ, or the Son
of God, whose name ye have applauded so highly, and whose gos
pel is a pure, sin destroying gospel?
14. Was the pure and undefiled religion of the Lord Jesus Christ,
the first object of your pursuit ? Or were the chief seats in the
synagogues, and to be called of men Rabbi, Rabbi, and the greet
ings in public squares, your object ?
15. Do you sincerely believe that the Holy Son of God, or the
gospel he preached requires you to make long and labored prayers
to be heard of men? Or to preach studied sermons by rule, embra
cing the words of my holy Son, but not the power and substance,
to save the soul from sin ?
16. Do you put your hands to work, and give your souls in prayer
to God, when not immediately in discharge of duties, incumbent
on what is termed your priestly office? Or do you live in pomp and
splendor, regaling and indulging yourselves in luxury and extrava
gance, supported by the suffering poor ?
17. Does the register of your hearts, which contains all your
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 145
proceedings by night and by day, bear upon its face that which you
are willing and ready, at the shortest notice, to appear with, before
my eternal tribunal of justice? and there meet the everlasting
record of my truth, which alterelh not, and upon whose pages my
Almighty hand of eternal justice hath stamped the deeds of every
soul and the thoughts of every heart; and to which place the
sound of my eternal summons will shortly call you ?
18. Have the leading motives of your transactions through life,
been such as will support you at the hour of death, and justify your
immortal souls, before the bar of God and his holy Angels ? If not,
consider well the cause, make no delay. Integrity of heart and
sincerity of soul, though in a state of blinded ignorance,, will I, in
my mercy, notice, saith the Lord.
19. The sincere and honest souls, though ignorant of true gospel
light, and of the way of salvation, will I cover with the wings of my
mercy, if they will hearken when once they are warned by this, the
solemn warning of their God.
20. And again ; Do ye who stand as shepherds to the flock, de
clare unto them, by precept and example, that you do yourselves
possess the true gospel of Christ, which is a gospel of peace, suffer
ings, and of long forbearance?
21. Or do you proclaim unto them, that the pure and holy gos
pel admits of quarrels, contention, wars and bloodshed ? Or ever
give the holy church a right to compel souls to join and acknowl
edge her supreme authority; or be- persecuted, even unto death,
as the consequences of a refusal ?
22. Who among you all, saith the God of Heaven, are willing
to appear before my eternal bar of justice, with this doctrine be
tween your teeth, and having also palmed it upon the holy Son
of God?
23. Who among you all, think that by the traditions of men, you
can make the commandments of God of no effect?
24. Who among you all, when you are made sensible that the
doctrine you hold forth to the people, as being the doctrine of
Christ and his apostles, is falsely so asserted, still continue, for
popularity's sake, to cast the veil of deception and falsehood still
longer over the multitude?
25. Will you not be met in judgment for so doing, by your
Creator God, and there bewail the loss of such souls as have been
blinded by your deception, or the deception of that doctrine which
s
146 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
ye preached as the doctrine of Christ and his true followers, and
by that means, spent their lives in almost every kind of sinful in
dulgence? Surely, you shall there be met by your Creator God,
and in a path where there is no turning.
26. But for every effort you have made, and for every act of
goodness you have performed, in singleness of heart and sincerity
of soul, to restrain, and bring souls to walk in the path of true
moral virtue, that has in any way saved them from committing
sin, either upon their own persons, or upon others, shall be account
ed unto you for deeds of goodness ; and a reward for the same you
shall receive.
27. Many among you, stand upon my record as having acted
sincerely in this office and calling, according to the best light and
understanding which had been given you, for the time being, not
being enlightened into the true knowledge of that life which the
gospel of Christ, in reality, doth require souls to live, either in
his first, or in his second appearance.
28. But the word of the Lord your God
is,
Return unto the
moral law of nature; propagate your own species according to the
law of nature, or cease to call on the name of your God for mercy,,
or upon the name of Christ, for
a
saving gospel.
29. And all ye who stand as priests, or teachers of the people,
teach ye this commandment of your God, respecting the law of
nature, which commandment has been from of bid
:
Indulge not
in sexual intercourse, further than
is
necessary for the purpose of
begetting your own offspring
:
indulge not the sunken and sordid
propensities of nature, for self gratification.
30. Teach your congregations to prepare, in obedience, to meet
Me in judgment, that in obedience they may receive at my hand of
mercy, in the day that all flesh shall become as grass that withereth,
and the kingdoms of men as
a
shadow before Me.
31. But [let] such as feel that they are called upon,
by
the light of
that gospel dispensation established on earth in this their day, obey
that light, and keep the law of grace.
32. But let not any souls seek for
a
refuge in the- Zion of my
likeness, or, in other words, let none who do not feel [that] they
are called upon
by
my Holy Spirit, to forsake all for the gospel's
sake, seek to enter into that completed order of my new Heavens
and new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness, now set up, no more
to be overthrown.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 147
33. Souls had better remain under the law of a carnal command
ment, or in the works of natural generation, if they will but keep
that law, than after having set out in a dispensation of greater light,
and a more perfect law, to turn back again to their former lives, in
the law of nature: for by so doing, "They crucify to themselves
the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame," through
their own weakness, by reason of the flesh.
34. For they that have been called, and have had a privilege to
taste the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
and have tasted of the same, if they then fall back, they have
nought to feel, but a fearful looking for of the fiery indignation and
judgments of God, to be revealed from Heaven, against sin and all
unrighteousness.
35. But where the law of Christ is in truth not known, and there
are many transgressions committed through ignorance, they will be
lightly passed over, saith the Lord.
36. And how is
it,
O
ye Shepherds, that the earth
is
covered
with so many different denominations and persuasions, clashing and
quarreling, both priests and people, one with another? yet all pro
fessedly maintaining the true religion of Christ!
37. Do you expect, or have you any reason to expect, that all
these roads lead along the narrow way, and enter the straight gate
that leadeth unto life
?
S3. Was
it
not plainly testified
by
the holy Son of God, that
there was but one way that souls could enter his kingdom
?
And do
you expect his words, which he received from my eternal throne,
are going to prove false?
39. Have you not carved out ways of your own, to find salvation
?
40. And have you not,
by
that means, been under the necessity
of always placing salvation
in
the future tense,
by
reason that you
never found
it
in the present?
41. [Therefore you] found nothing that could protect the soul from
the temptations, snares, and enchanting allurements of this world.
42. And whatdol, theGodof Heaven, behold spread over the do
mains of earth, but
a
religion said to have emanated from my blessed
Son, whom
I
sent into the world to open the way of life, yet, pos
sessing no power, [in the present tense,] to save the soul from sin
and death. And more than this,
it
admits of their staining their
hands in the blood of their fellow creatures.
43. Have not many souls, in consequence of the wickedness and
148 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
abominations, bloodshed and carnage that they have seen practiced,
and cloaked under the name of being sanctioned by a religion that
emanated from the Son of God, been induced in their spirits, to
abhor the very name of a religion that would admit of such awful
wickedness ?
44. And have they not even been induced to believe that the
whole is a deception, from beginning to end; and by that means,
almost or quite deny the being of a God, or of any supernatural
agency operating on the earth ; or that there is any existence in
eternity, of future rewards and punishments after death ?
45. Call not such a pretended religion, the religion of the Son
of God. Blasphemy, in very deed, is recorded on my eternal rec
ords, against those who have light and understanding, and do this.
But let it stand^for the inventions of man ; disgrace not the name
of Christ with it.
46. Nothing belongeth to Christ, my blessed Son, either in his
first or in his second appearance, that is impure, unholy, cruel, wick
ed or unjust in any shape.
47. But all such as will live a moral life, after the order of na
ture, and humble themselves at my warning, put their hands to
honest employment, and give their souls in prayer to Me, according
to the best of their understanding, they shall not fail to receive
in mercy, at my hand, of that which I have provided for them.
48. And unto all of you who stand as leaders of the people, in
sacred and divine service, do I require, saith the God of Heaven,
that ye should often bow yourselves low, and call upon the assem
bly to do in like manner, and supplicate, while clothed in sackcloth
and mourning, the mercy of that God, whose hand is stretched out
towards the inhabitants of earth, both in judgment and in mercy.
49. Let mortals cease their pleasure vain,
And learn my name to fear;
Though I'm a God of all domain,
Yet, penitence I hear.
50. And, it is my commandment uuto you, all ye who stand as
Pastors of the flock, that, as fast as ye can obtain these sacred vol
umes of my word, ye cause one to be kept in your pulpits; and
often look therein, and exhort the people to repentance; and, in
your obedience, I will often cause a portion of my spirit to break
out in your assemblies.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAKTH. 149
51. Dwell together in peace, and let harmony pervade your meet
ings. The GREAT I AM visiteth the earth with myriads of his
Angels; yet, with your natural eyes you behold them not: but, as
you feel the wind, and see it not, so shall our Almighty Power
yet be felt.
52. Say not within yourselves,
" Our God delayeth his coming,
and these pretended words of warning are all false, they are of man's
invention :" For upon such, will I break forth as a thief in the
night. Therefore prepare, all nations, prepare, all people, for the
God of Heaven will weigh you as the small dust of the balance;
therefore, prepare, prepare ye for his coming.
CHAPTER XXV.
THE WORD OP THE LORD, CONCERNING THOSE WHO
LABOR TO TURN THE SCALE OF JUSTICE FOR GAIN;
AND THOSE WHO WOULD PROLONG DISEASE IN
THEIR FELLOW CREATURES, FOR MONEY.
1. Of selling the right of justice.
3. Of turning away the right of the
needy.
5. Of popular lying.
10. Of the golden rule.
12. Of making justice a study.
14. Of being prepared to meet the de
mands of justice.
18. All nations of one blood.
2O. Of keeping the law of God, etc.
22. All flesh to tremble at the word of
God.
23. The inhabitants of the earth sick.
24. Concerning physicians.
28. Of being prepared to meet the souls
of those unjustly dealt with.
29. Of a day of truth and justice.
30. Of the visitation of God.
32. Of what God will do at his coming.
1. Listen to my words, and hearken to my voice, saith the Lord
your God, all ye who sell the truth for hire, and turn the scales of
justice for money. Can ye, by word, turn falsehood into truth, and
truth into falsehood ?
2. Do you look at the silver and gold, and then engage to sell
the rights of justice for a certain price?
150 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
3. Do you, for hire, turn the right of the poor from the bar of
equity, and cause the penniless to suffer under the heavy hand of
oppression ?
4. Are you not called to plead the cause of the widow and
fatherless, and use all your influence, that true justice be done be
tween man and man, without regard to gold or silver?
5. Does the popular liar stand justified in my sight, or excused
by the usages of men?
6. Does the habit or custom of selling one's self, for a given
sum, to pervert the truth, render it less wicked ?
7. Do yo'i reme:nber the declarations of my mouth, through my
servant John when on earth, That all liars should have their part in
the lake that burneth with fire and brimstone?
8. Do you remember, that for every idle word, man must give an
account in judgment, unto Me, his God?
9. Does equity balance your accounts, and justice settle your
demands?
10. Is the golden rule that your Lord and Savior gave, first and
foremost in your hearts;
11. "Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto
you?" And [do you] never from this depart?
12. Do you make justice your study, and uprightness your daily
companion? Or is deception your study, and false coloring your
constant companion?
13. Do the records of truth, rest upon the table of your hearts,
supporting the deeds that are past, and resolving the course to
pursue in future ?
14. And are you prepared for the summons of an eternal change,
to appear before the tribunal of the Almighty, and there to receive
your reward according to the record of my eternal justice ?
15. If ye kne-.v, each day, that it would be the last you would
have in time, would you not be in possession, at the return of night,
of a different record in your hearts ?
16. But remember, saith the Lord, Truth will stand, and justice
will not be perverted, in the end.
17. No one can take from him, that which is his just due, nor
give unto him, whose right it is not.
18. All classes, all nations and kingdoms of one blood I have
created, with immortal and never dying souls, which are all alike
accountable to Me who gave them, saith the Lord.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 151
19. Though the path-ways of men through life are very unequal,
and the inequality greatly increased by their injustice one with
another, yet shall all, in the final event, be arraigned at my bar of
eternal justice, to receive their just due, according to the record of
their lives, which they lived' while upon earth. Here, wealth,
riches, grandeur or popularity, turn not the scales of justice.
20. Do ye, while pleading the laws of man, keep in your hearts
the law of your God, which
is,
Deal justly, love mercy, walk humbly
?
21. Do you extort from the poor and needy, and spend
it
your
selves, in rioting, luxury and extravagance? Do you give place in
your hearts, for sober, serious, and solemn reflections? Or do you
put far away the day of my visitation, saith the Lord?
22. Let all flesh tremble at my word, and bow at my command,
saith the God of Heaven
;
for
I will sweep, with the blast of
my destruction, from the face of the earth, the hard and impen
itent souls.
23: For the earth and the inhabitants thereon, have become sick,
and covered with putrefying sores, from the crown of their heads
to the soles of their feet.
24. And all ye physicians of men, how do you deal with your
fellow creatures? Do you prolong sickness for money, and protract
disease for gain
?
25. Do you make just reckoning, and exact no more than your
just due? Do you administer relief to the poor, and comfort to the
afflicted, though they be penniless and have nought to reward you,
but thanks of tongue and blessing of heart
?
Or do you only pre
scribe for silver, and administer for gold
?
26. Do you pursue the golden rule laid down
by
Christ, your
Lord and Savior,, in all cases
;
Do
by
others as you would have
them do
by
you in the same condition
?
27. Are you guided and diotated
by
kind, benevolent and hu
mane feelings, towards your fellow creatures
;
or do rewards
control you
?
28. Are you prepared to meet, in judgment, the souls of those
upon whose bodies you did protract disease, until you acquired all
their temporal substance, then did leave them to die at last, and
by
this means their families were made greatly to suffer, and wholly
through your avarice
?
29. Remember, the day of truth and justice must come wilh all.
And are you prepared, while in the midst of life, and prospects of
152 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
enjoyments great, to be in death summoned by my Almighty power,
before my eternal bar of justice, there to receive the just recom
pense of your labor, and meet the souls of those whom ye did
wrong upon the earth, and cause their bodies much distress and
pain, for the purpose of getting gain to yourselves? Behold I shall
call, and from my call, no man can turn !
30. I am the God, who respecteth not the persons of men ; but
who visiteth the inhabitants of earth, for the greatness of their
abominations; and in mercy to them that will hear, and in judg
ment to them that will not.
31 . Therefore, prepare your hearts, my name in truth' to serve,
and study first, the duty you owe to Me, your God and Creator ; then,
the duty you owe to man, your fellow creature. And live each day,
as ye would if ye knew it was to be your last: then you will be pre
pared to do my will, wherever your lot is cast.
32. For behold, the powers of earth shall be shaken, and the heart
of man shall be seized with consternation and dismay. Loudly and
quickly, would he then call upon my name for mercy ! But such
as have had warning at my mouth, and have heeded it not, their
cries will be in vain.
33. For have I not declared unto all flesh, that my spirit shall not
always strive with mortal man to no purpose ? Therefore, be ye
warned by my words, saith the voice of the Most High.
15:3
CHAPTER XXVI,
OF JUSTNESS, AND THE GOINGS OF THE PEOPLE,
OF THE CONFUSION, AND TROUBLED STATE OF MAN,
THE CAUSES AND THE EFFECTS.
2. Of the purposes, and design of the
scriptures.
3. Of the perversion of them, by man.
5. Of the credentials of pian's office.
6. Of false honor.
7. Of worshiping; other gods.
9. Of the setting up of Christ's kingdom.
10. Of the fulfilling of God's, work.
Mankind not ready to work with God.
Mankind replete with excuses.
Awful judgments upon the earth,
unless shielded by repentance.
Of merchants, just reckonings, Ate.
Of living to be prepared for death.
1. Give ear, all ye people, and understand my words, all ye whq
walk in paths of life, and grope your way in time'3 dark vale below,
saith the great Jehovah;
2. A God, the record of whose word, in dispensations long past,
ye have; which record, by my Almighty and over-ruling power,
hath been preserved unto the present day, as a couch to the frail,
and lamp of true light uqto the children of men, that the path be
fore them might be plain, and the way in which they should walk
not hedged up; that wickedness might not cover the earth, nor
gross darkness the people.
3. Have these purposes, for which my sacred word was given, and
preserved among the children of men, been accomplished accord
ing to my will ? Or hath man perverted the order that was intended
he should forever keep, as a safe-guard to his soul through time?
4. Remember, all ye inhabitants in time below, that your God
remaineth the same, both in the past, the present, and the future.
God is spirit, an eternal and everlasting substance of light, power
and truth, filling all immensity and space, through endless worlds
unknown ; yet, a God that is near, and can be sought unto in mercy
and loving kindness, by such as walk in obedience to his commands,
and seek after Him with a sincere heart.
5. But where, saith your God, are the ensigns of your creation,
154 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
or the credentials of that office for which you were created 1 Were
you not required by these, always to be in a state that you could
show forth, at any time, to that power which created you, the en
sign of honor, and the credentials of glory 1 That the day in which
you were created, might not be repented of, by Him who formed
you to be an honor and a glory to Himself.
6. But they have sought, not to give honor unto Me, but to seek
for themselves, honor from men. They have not labored to glorify
my name, but have sought glory in their own shame ; and I, their
God and Creator, have not received tithes at their hands; nor offer
ings acceptable, have they brought before my face.
7. And the countless millions who have entered eternity for
thousands of years, testify these solemn truths ; That the whole
world hath wandered afar off from the law and order of their crea
tion, and made unto themselves other gods to worship than Me,
the only true God and Creator.
8. But, as the inhabitants of the earth, for ages and ages, from
the earliest period to the present day, have refused to bring forth
offerings, holy and acceptable unto Me, or sound forth praises and
thanksgiving unto my holy name, with clean hands and pure hearts,
according to the age in which they lived, and have, from time to
time, refused the most merciful offers at my hand, saith the Lord;
9. Yet, in the dispensations of my eternal goodness and mercy,
to the objects of my creation, I have, in this your day, established
a work, and set up my kingdom, which by Me was foretold in ages
long past, that shall never have an end or be destroyed, so long as
I suffer life and breath to exist upon the earth.
10. And this I have done, that the progressive order of my work,
through all preceding dispensations, may be fulfilled, and accom
plished, in this, the last and final dispensation of my grace to man.
11.. But as it has been in all preceding ages of the world, so it
is in this day, as respects mankind being prepared to work together
with Me, their God and Creator, in my time ; and not lay out their
own way and time, in which they will work, or not at all.
12. I find, saith the God of Heaven, that mankind are replete
with the same excuses in this day, that they were when I first
sent my beloved Son upon the earth ; and they are no more ready
to believe that my Almighty hand hath established a work, and set
up a kingdom on earth in a way that I declare it unto them, in
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 155
this age and day, than they have been in any age that has pre
ceded it.
13. But I created man; and as I have given him warning in all
preceding ages of the world, so will I, in this age and day, as a
kind and tender father, give him solemn and sacred watch-words
of warning of the awful state and condition in which he stands,
sunk in sin and wickedness, and every kind of abomination, with
cruelty, bloodshed and carnage, on every hand and side im
pressed.
14. In this awful and sunken situation, in which the inhabitants
of earth, as a body, now stand before Me, do I, as a kind father,
their watchful and eternal Parent, loudly proclaim in their ears,
that every heart may understand, that the face of the Almighty is
turned towards the earth, and that awful judgments are about to
break forth upon the inhabitants thereof, if they repent not, and
that speedily.
15. Give an attentive heart, and a listening ear to my word,
saith the Lord ; Do all ye merchant-men of the earth, keep just
reckonings, give true weights and honest measures to your fellow
creatures? Or does the love of gold and silver, cause deception,
lies and fraud to be practiced upon your fellow mortals?
16. Do you live, from day to day, as you wish to die ; or do you
put the day and hour of death, at a great distance, hoping it will
be more easy to prepare by and by ? Do all ye who call yourselves
the common class of people on the earth, keep the golden rule
given by your Lord and Savior, which was, Do unto others at all
times, as ye would that others should do unto you? for this is the
law and the Prophets, said the Christ.
17. Do you hearken to the rulers of the land, by obeying the
laws they do enact? Or do ye tansgress the same?
18. Do ye speak evil of the rulers of your people? Or do you
give honor to the same?
19. Do ye observe and obey all they teach you, and yet follow
no bad example ?
20. Do you come at their call, and go at their bidding, to bathe
your swords in the heart's blood of your fellow creatures ? Or do
you do it because you yourselves delight in deeds of blood, to prey
like ravenous beasts upon your fellow creatures, to rend and tear
in pieces the objects and image of my creation, saith the Lord?
156 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
21. Have not I plainly declared unto you, that vengeance is mine,
and I will repay in my own time and season ?
22. Do you consider, day by day, that for every deed you do,
while in the body, against the laws of Christ the Savior, ye must
answer in judgment, at my bar of eternal justice ?
23. Do ye keep sacred my holy Sabbaths, by bringing forth offer
ings acceptable unto Me, with clean hands and pure hearts, accord
ing to the best of your understanding, not having aught against
your brother ?
24. Do you love God, your Creator, by rendering praise and
thanksgiving to his holy name, with all your soul, might, mind and
strength ? Or is your strength far more engaged to heap up earthly
gains, for selfish purposes, where moth and rust doth corrupt ?
25. Do you rise early to praise the Lord your God, and give
unto his name the glory due?
26. Do ye abstain from revelings, riotings, drunkenness, lascivi-
ousness, wantonness and debauchery, and live a moral, temperate
and sober life, meditating upon the law of the Lord by day, and
resting in a state of justification beneath the providence of his pro
tection by night?
27. Do you consider, that my All-seeing eye is continually be
holding all the doings of the children of men? Or do ye think that
I am a God who only spoke from Sinai's top, parted the red sea,
sent fire down from Heaven, and sent the Lord Jesus Christ upon
earth ; and since then, have taken no knowledge or concern
respecting the inhabitants of the earth?
28. It is true, saith the Lord, your sins and iniquities have sep
arated your souls from the protection of your God ; that is [the
reason] why I appear at such a great distance from mortal man
in this day : It is his transgressions that have carried him so far
away from his God.
29. But they that will do as their Lord and Savior taught, when
he was upon earth, will always be nigh unto Me, and I will be their
God, and they shall be my people, in deed, and in truth; and unto
such I will often draw very near, and teach them of my ways that
they may walk in my paths.
30. The humble and contrite soul is near to Me; but the proud,
the high, and the lofty, I banish far hence) for Ihey are an abomin
ation in my sight.
157
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE SUBJECT CONTINUED.
1. Of the confused state of mankind.
3. Mankind as wicked as the builders of
Babel.
5. The expressions of their hearts.
7. Of bigotry and selfishness.
9. God will destroy the works of man.
10. The humble exalted, the proud abased.
12. Judgments to that nation or people
who stand against God.
13. God near the humble heart.
15. Of man's trouble by his own disobe
dience.
17. Of man's perversion of the record of
the word of God.
18. Custom never sanctifies deeds of evil.
19. IJnowlcdge of natural things profiteth
not the heart : but exalts it in pride.
22. Wickedness increased in proportion to
man's exaltation.
23. None fit to rule, until they govern
themselves.
26. Of applying knowledge to itl proper
use.
27. Judgments convince man there is a
God.
28. Mankind warned to hearken.
29. Command concerning the reading of
this Roll and Book.
30. Ministers required to circulate it.
31. tjirections to Zion, concerning the
same.
83. Of preserving the word entire, without
addition or diminution.
1. O ye people on the earth, who are as sheep having nO shep*
herd ! Why are ye thus confused, and broken to pieces, divided
and subdivided, throughout your kingdoms? Why is the integrity
of your hearts shaken, and your confidence in one another
destroyed?
2. How can two walk together, except they be agreed? And
what is it that destroys your agreement? Can you not search out
the cause? Confusion is an effect proceeding from some cause.
Did I not, when the children of men were building Babel, confuse
their language, so that they could proceed no further in the un
lawful enterprise which they had undertaken ?
3. And hath not mortal man upon earth, in this day, gone as far
out of the way, as the builders of Babel were in that day, con
sidering how much greater knowledge, light and understanding,
my Almighty hand hath suffered to beam forth upon the earth, in
these last days, than there was at that early age?
4. Have not the children of men in this age, in their self-exalted
imaginations, built castles into the air? Do not their senses soar
158 SACRED ROLL. AND BOOK
above all that is called God ? Do they not trust in their own hands for
strength, and in their own arm of flesh for protection?
5. Do not they say, in their own hearts,
" Who on earth do bear
rule, but us? We have plenty of silver and gold, and of our treas
ure there is no end.
6. Whatsoever our hand listeth to do, we can accomplish, and
no power can hinder the work of our hands. We are strong by
land and mighty at sea. Our armies cover the fields, and our fleets
the face of the deep; and who standeth before us? Great is our
strength, and mighty is our power." They, in their hearts, defy the
God of Heaven, and mock his righteous words to scorn.
7. Doth not the spirit of man, cry out against his fellow, " Come
not near me, for I am holier than thou ? I am rich, but thou art
poor ; I am good and righteous, but thou art a publican and sinner."
Is not the heart of man, most intently looking for gain, each one
from his quarter ?
8. My record in Heaven, saith the Lord, declares and proclaims
to all the world, this truth.
9. And again do I sound forth my voice unto you, through the
spacious arches of Heaven; Man may build, but his God wirl pull
down. He may build again and again, but I, his God, will as often
pull down, until he can build no more.
10. But he that humbleth himself in truth, I will exalt, saith
God; but he that exalteth himself, I will bring him low, even to
the dust of the ground, and the foot shall tread him down.
11. He that humbleth himself, and cometh down low at my
warning, will not have need to fall, and be dashed in pieces; but he
that standeth against my word, seeketh to stand in vain ; for I live,
saith the Lord God, and he shall fall, to rise no more.
12. And whatsoever kingdom she be that shall stand against my
word unto her, and pass it over as a matter of little or no conse
quence, but shall stand against Me her God ; I will cast her down
in my fury, and recompense in my wrath upon her own head, the
just reward of her doing, until she learn that I AM, is God, who
ruleth in every nation, and greatly to be feared.
13. Yet to the weary, the heavy laden, and humble seeker after
Me, do I draw near ; the broken hearted I bind up, the weary soul
refresh; and to the feeble and tottering knee, do I give strength.
14. But man's exaltedness before Me, is as stubble, and his
greatness, as chaff of the summer threshing floor ; for at one breath
TO THE NATIONS OF THE F.ARTH. 159
did I create him, and in one breath can I sweep him from the face
of the earth, and leave her without an inhabitant. Therefore, fear
the Lord your God, and walk humbly in his presence.
15. As I have before said unto you, so do I now again repeat it ;
Man's trouble, distress and misery, grow out of his disobedience
and rebellion to the will of God, his Creator.
16. But had he been as much engaged to keep my command
ments and fulfill my laws, as he has been to pursue his own plans,
by carving out ways and means to please and gratify his own wick
ed propensities, I never should have been compelled to visit the
earth in judgment, for the wickedness committed thereon.
17. But man hath never ceased to pervert the record of my sa
cred word, by framing plans of his own to shun the cross, and wrest
ing the scriptures to his own condemnation. Therefore, by his
own tradition, he hath made that which is an abomination in
my sight, lawful and commendable among men.
18. And let all remember, that long established habits, customs
or practices, [together] with the common usages of men, never
alter the nature of my work, or the purity of my word : they change
not the times and seasons which I have established ; they sanctify
not that which I have pronounced unclean, nor in any way make
it appear commendable in my sight. They change not the na
ture of truth into falsehood, nor of corruption and filthiness, into
parity.
19. Man's greatness in knowledge and understanding of natu
ral things, purifieth not the heart. His great attainments of knowl
edge, in learning, arts and sciences, commend him not unto Me:
though these he might render useful, if rightly applied; yet, what
wickedness is committed thereby.
20. Doth he not, by these means, exalt himself to his own des
truction? Doth he not grasp power, and use it to oppress the igno
rant and unlearned ? And doth he not, in general, feel above putting
his own hands to work, and by his meritorious industry gain his own
bread 1 Doth not his great knowledge, as he calls
it,
if
wrongly
used, prove
in
the end
a
curse, rather than
a
blessing to his soul
?
21. Doth he not, in his self exalted state of greatness and inde
pendence of feeling, seek after gain without right, and power with
out virtue? Is he not continually seeking at heart, to be called
of men Rabbi, and to be supported
by
the hard earnings of others
?
22. Do ye consider,
O
ye inhabitants, that discord, confusion,
1G0 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
wickedness, and every kind of distress and injustice, increase upon
the earth, in proportion to the self exaltedness of man, relying upon
his own bigoted knowledge and understanding, instead of relying
upon the moral principles of justice and equity, having the law of
his God planted in his own heart, " Do to others as he would that
they should do unto him ?" And in this sense, a man is enabled to
make a beneficial use of all the knowledge that he can acquire, for
the good of his fellow creatures.
23. No one is fitly prepared to rule amongst men, or to stand in
the place of decision and judgment, until he has first ruled and
controlled the evil passions of his own heart. When he hath done
this, he can rule, and the people can prosper ; for the blessings of
my providence, saith the Lord, do rest upon such rulers.
24. But where difference of opinion, in the house of rulers, is
carried so far as to break out into hatred, animosity and revenge,
even until they thirst for each other's blood, it proves a curse to
themselves, and a curse to their kingdoms and nations; and under
this curse, saith the Lerd, I will suffer that people and government,
to break in pieces.
25. But where equity reigns, and justice pervades the hearts of
the rulers, by the providential hand of my blessing, that nation will
be supported, and made to stand.
26. And when the inhabitants of the earth, learn to use and apply
all their knowledge and understanding to honor and glorify God,
their Creator, and deal justly between man and man, they will then
karn and know by experience, that which the inhabitants of earth,
as a body, have not known, for thousands of years past.
27. But the judgments of my Almighty hand will yet bring
them to learn, by the things which they suffer, that there is a God
who beareth rule in the kingdoms of men.
28. Thus saith the Lord God of Heaven, to all nations and peo
ple ; Again I do warn you to hearken to the voice of the Holy One,
when it is extended to you in mercy; for I have sent forth no
requirements hard to be fulfilled by any honest hearted souls : but you
are required to proclaim solemn fasts through your lands, humble
yourselves before Me your God, and repent in low humility when
this word shall reach your ears.
29. And read this, my sacred word, in your assemblies with awe
and with reverence, not unto man, but unto God, your eternal
Creator, at whose mercy you daily draw the breath of life.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAHTH. 161
30. And unto all such as are engaged in spiritual callings, whether
at home, or in foreign lands, I do require that they should circulate
this sacred Roll and Book, to all quarters of the earth. And who
soever shall do this, in sincerity of heart, and see that it is correctly
translated into other languages, shall be blessed in their labors, for
so doing. But make it not a theme of speculation for money's sake;
but you may make such charges to the buyer, as will fairly compen
sate you for your trouble, and no more.
31. And that society to which I sent my Holy Angels to read
this Roll and Book, for mortal hand to write, I have forbidden that
they should make any charges, saith the Lord, or take [any] remu
neration for these books; such as I require should be sent out into
the world when prepared.
32. The number they are required to print, in their own society,
is five hundred copies, for the purpose of giving to the children of
men; and it is my requirement, that they be printed before the
twenty second of next September. To be bound in yellow paper,
with red backs; edges yellow also.
33. And it is my command, saith the Lord, that if any person
or persons, shall add aught unto this book, he, or they, shall not
prosper in time, nor find rest in eternity. Or if any shall erase
aught of that which is contained in this book, their names shall be
erased from the records of Heaven, and my kingdom they shall not
enter. I have not descended to earth, with my Holy Angels, to
suffer v-iin mortals to tritle with my word, nor to make light of my
name saith the Lord of Hosts.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
PAS8AGES OF SCRIPTURE REFERRING TO THE PRES
ENT WORK OF INSPIRATION IN ZION. SOME GEN
ERAL ILLUSTRATIONS AND WARNINGS.
SJec. I- Here I am required, saith the IloJy Angel, to have those sa
cred passages of scripture inserted, that more immediately refer to
162 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
the work of the present day, of strange signs, and of the awful
judgments that are about to take place in the earth, should man's
wickedness continue, as it hath done, for many ages past.
Joel, i. 14. Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather
the- elders and all the inhabitants of the land into the house of
the Lord your God, and cry unto the Lord,
15. Alas for the day ! for the day of the Lord is at hand, and
as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come.
16. Is not the meat cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and glad
ness from the house of our God ?
Chap. ii. 1. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an
alarm in my holy mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land
tremble : for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand ;
2. A day of darkness and" of gloominess, a day of clouds and
of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains:
a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like,
neither shall be any more after
it,
even to the years of many
generations.
10. The earth sh-all quake before them; the heavens shall trem
ble
:
the sun and the moon shall be dark,, and the stars shall with
draw their shining
:
12.
'
Therefore also now, saith the Lord, Turn ye even to me
with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and
with mourning
:
13. And rend your heart; and not your garments, and turn
unto the Lord your God
:
for he
is
gracious and merciful, slow
to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil.
15. Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify
a
fast, call
a
solemn
assembly
:
16. Gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the
elders, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts
:
let
the bridegroom go forth of his chamber,, and the bride out of
her closet.
17. Let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep between
the porch and the altar, and' let them say, Spare thy people,
O. Lord, and give not thy heritage to reproach, that the hea
then should rule over them
:
wherefore should they say among
the people, Where
is
their God
1
18. Then will the Lord be jealous for his land, and pity his
people.
TO THE NATIONS OP THE EARTH. 163
28. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out
'my Spirit upon all flesh ; and your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men
-shall see visions :
29. And also upon the servants and upon the hand-maids in
those days will I pour out my Spirit.
Joel, iii. 16. The Lord also«ha)l roar out of Zion, and utter
'his voice from Jerusalem ; and the heavens and the earth shall
shake : but the -Lord *oill be the Jiope of his people, and the
strength of the children of Israel.
17. So shall ye know that I am the Lord your God dwelling ir
Zion my holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there
shall no strangers pass through her any more.
Isaiah, i. 25. And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely
ipurge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin:
Chap. ii. 19. And they shall go into the ,holes of the rocks,
and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the Lord, and for
-the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly
the earth.
Chap. xiii. 13: Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the
earth shall remove out of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of
hosts, and in the day of his fierce anger.
Chap. Iii. 2. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down,
O Jerusalem loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive
daughter of Zion.
Psalms, xlvi. 3. Thmigh ihe waters thereof roar and be
troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof.
Isaiah, xxiv. 13 When thus ;it -shall be in the midst of the
land among the people, there shall be as the shaking of an olive-
>tree, and as the gleaning-grapes when the vintage is done.
14. They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majesty
,of the Lord, they shall «ry aloud from the sea.
15. Wherefore glorify ye the Lord in the fires, even the name
t)f the Lord God of Israel in the isles ef the sea.
Chap. xxix. 17. Is it not yet a very little while, and Lebanon
shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall
be esteemed as a forest?
Ezekiel, xxxviii. 19. For in my jealousy and in the fire of my
fwrath have I spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great
shaking in the land of Israel
164 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
flagged, H. 6. For thus saith the Lord of hosts ; Yet once,
it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth,
and the sea, and the dry land;
7. And I will shake all nations, and the Desire of all nations
shall come: and I will fill this house with glory, saith the Lord
of hosts.
21. Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will
shake the heavens and the earth:
Hrbrcws, xii. 26. Whose voice then shook the earth : but
now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the
earth only, but also heaven.
Habakkuk,
ii.
1.
I
will stand upon my watch, and set me
upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me,
and what
I
shall answer when
I
am reproved.
2.
And the Lord answered me, and said, Write the vision,
and make
it
plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it.
3. For the vision
is
yet for an appointed time, but at the end
it
shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because
it
will surely come,
it
will not tarry.
Ezekiel, xvii. 22. Thus saith the Lord God,
I
will also take
of the highest branch of the high cedar, and will set it;
I
will
crop off from the top of his young twigs
a
tender one, and will
plant
it
upon
a
high mountain and eminent:
23. In the mountain of the height of Israel willI plant
it
:
and
it
shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a
goodly
cedar
:
and under
it
shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the
shadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell.
Jeremiah, xxxi. 4. Again
I
will build thee, and thou shalt be
built, O virgin of Israel
:
thou shalt again be adorned with thy
tabrets, and shalt go forth in the dances of them that make merry.
6. For there shall be
a
day, that the watchmen upon the mount
Ephraim shall cry, Arise ye, and let us go up to Zion unto the
Lord our God.
9.
They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will
I
lead them
;
I
will cause them to walk
by
the rivers of waters
in
a
straight way, wherein they shall not stumble
:
for
I
am a
father of Israel, and Ephraim
is
my first-born.
10. Hear the word of the Lord,
O
ye nations, and declare
it
in
the isles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather
him, and keep him, as
a
shepherd doth his Hock.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 1G5
11. For the Lord hath redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him
from the hand of him that was stronger than he.
12. Therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion,
and shall flow together to the goodness of the Lord, for wheat,
and for wine, and for oil, and for the young of the flock and of
the herd: and their souls shall be as a watered garden ; and they
shall not sorrow any more at all.
13. Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, both young men
and old together: for I will turn their mourning into joy, and
will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.
Chap. xxx. 23. Behold, the whirlwind of the Lord goeth
forth with fury, a continuing whirlwind : it shall fall with pain
upon the head of the wicked.
24. The fierce anger of the Lord shall not return, until he
have done
it,
and until he have performed the intents of his
heart
:
In the latter days ye shall consider it.
Zechariah, xiii.
1.
In that day there shall be
a
fountain opened
to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for
sin and for uncleanness.
Chap. xiv. 13. And
it
shall come to pass in that day, that
a
great tumult from the Lord shall be among them
;
and they shall
lay hold every one on the hand of his neighbor, and his hand
shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
Amos, vii.
7.
Thus he shewed me
:
and behold, the Lord
stood upon
a
wall made
by
a
plumb-line, with
a
plumb-line in
his hand.
8.
And the Lord said unto me, Amos, what seest thou
1
and
I
said,
A
plumb-line. Then said the Lord, Behold,
I
will set
a
plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel
:
I
will not again
pass
by
them any more
:
Chap. viii.
1.
Thus hath the Lord God shewed unto me:
and behold
a
basket of summer fruit.
Zephaniah,
i.
12. And
it
shall come to pass at that time, that
I
will search Jerusalem with candles, and punish the men that
are settled on their lees: that say in their heart, The Lord will
not do good, neither will he do evil.
13. Therefore, their goods shall become
a
booty, and their
houses
a
desolation
:
they shall also build houses, but not inhabit
than
;
and they shall plant vineyards, but not drink the wine
thereof.
■
166 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
14. The great day of the Lord is near, it is near, and hasteth
greatly, even the voice of the day of the Lord : the mighty man
shall cry there bitterly.
15. That day is a day -of wrath, a day of trouble and distress,
a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloom
iness, a day of clouds and thick darkness,
16. A day of the trumpet and alarm against the fenced cities,
,and against the high towers.
,Chap. iii. 8. Therefore, wait ye upon me, saith the Lotto, until
the day that I rise up to the prey: for my determination is 'to
.gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour
upon them mine indignation, even all my fierce anger: for all the
earth shall be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.
Joshua, vi. 6. And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests,
«nd said unto them, Take up the ark of the covenant, and let
seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark
of the Lord.
15. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they rose early
about the dawning of the day, and compassed the city after the
same manner seven times : only on that day they compassed the
city seven times.
16. And it came to pass at the seventh time, when the priests
©lew with the trumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout ; for
the Lord hath given you the city.
20. So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trum
pets: and it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of
the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, that the
wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every
man straight before him, and they took the city.
Judges, vii. 16. And he divided the three hundred men into
three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with
empty pitchers, and lamps within the pitchers.
20. And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the
pitchers, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets
in their right hands to blow withal: and they cried, The sword
of the Lord, and of Gideon.
21. And they stood every man in his place round about the
camp ; and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
22. And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and the Lord set
TO THE NATIONS OP THE EARTH. 167
every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the
host :
II. Esdras, i. 37. I take to witness the grace of the people
to come, whose little ones rejoice in gladness : and though they
have not seen me with bodily eyes, yet in spirit they believe the
thing that I say.
38. And now, brother, behold what glory ; and see the people
that come from the east :
Chap. xiv. 38. And the next day, behold, a voice called me;
saying, Esdras, open thy mouth, and drink that I give thee
to drink.
39. Then opened I my mouth, and behold, he reached' me a full,
cup, which was full as it were with water, but the color of it was.
like fire.
40. And I took
it,
and drank
:
and when
I
had drunk of
it,
my
heart uttered understanding, and wisdom grew in my breast, for
my spirit strengthened my memory
:
41. And my mouth was opened, and shut no more.
42. The Highest gave understanding unto the five men, and
they wrote the wonderful visions of the night that were told,
which they knew not: and they sat forty days, and they wrote
in the day, and at night they ate bread.
43. As for me,
I
spake in the day, and
I
held not my tongue
by night.
44. In forty days they wrote two hundred and four books.
45. And
it
came to pass, when the forty days were fulfilled, that
the Highest spake, saying, The first that thou hast written pub
lish openly, that the worthy and unworthy may read it:
46. But keep the seventy last, that thou mayest deliver them
only to such as be wise among the people
:
47. For in them
is
the spring of understanding, the fountain of
wisdom, and the stream of knowledge.
48. And
I
did so.
Chap. xv.
1.
Behold, speak thou in the ears of my people the
words of prophecy, which
I
will put in thy mouth, saith the Lord
:
2. And cause them to be written in. paper
:
for they are faith
ful and true.
3.
Fear not the imaginations against thee; let not the incre
dulity of them trouble thee, that speak against thee.
Sec. 2. These passages the most clearly show the nature of the
168 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
work of inspiration and revelation, in the present day, among the
people of God.
3. Therefore, saith the Lord, learn true wisdom, O ye people, and
let your hearts seek understanding. The foregoing passages illus
trate, in a small measure, that which is about to take place on the
earth; and also the work which my Almighty hand is doing in Zion,
and will continue so to do, in my own wisdom; and the operations
of my spirit shall break out in strange and divers manners, among
the nations of the earth.
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE SUBJECT CONTINUED.
2.
6.
7.
IS.
18.
22.
S3.
Zi.
15.
a;.
17.
Of the pouring out of the spirit of
God upon earth.
Beware of fighting against God.
Of running into wildness.
Forcwarnings of the operations of the
spirit of God.
The effects of the same.
Mortals never commissioned to usurp
authority over the souls of the chil
dren of men.
Of the laws of man.
Of the law of grace.
Of the operations of the spirit of God
abroad in the earth.
God's work will prove itself.
Not overthrown by persecution.
Will continue to break out.
28. Mankind vainly to look for mercy, after
slighting God's offers.
29. Eternal collision between flesh and
spirit.
30. Man's lamentations.
31. Of delaying the day of preparation.
33. Solemn warnings.
36. Of exceptionable characters being
wrought upon by the power of God.
37. The blessings of Providence used
both for good and evil purposes.
38. Things proved by fi-uits.
39. Of the fulfillment of prophecies.
40. The manner the spirit of God is suf
fered to be poured out upon many.
42. Some chosen vessels run
for lack of wisdom.
1. Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, all nations,
kindreds, tongues and people. The Great I AM is beginning to
pour out his spirit upon the earth; and many will be struck with
consternation at what they behold ; and many will be provoked in
their spirits, to persecute and abuse those who are the subjects of
strange and mysterious operations.
2. But take heed to your doings, all ye people, lest, unhappily for
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 169
you, ye are found even to be fighting against the wurk and power
of the Most High, by resisting and persecuting those whom He hath
chosen as instruments, or vessels for his Spirit to operate in, to,
make itself manifest.
3. The operation of my Spirit leadeth not its subjects to shed
blood, nor to commit acts of violence upon their fellow beings; but
where those whom I have chosen as my vessels, or instruments of
divers operations and exercises are abused and persecuted, I shall,
saith the Lord, in my own wisdom, defend them by my own power,
operating through such agencies as I may choose.
4. Therefore take heed to your doings, alj ye who seek to oppose
the workings of my Spirit. As well might ye fight and resist the
rolling waves of the deep, and think to put a 6top to their motion,
as to strive against my work, or the workings of my Spirit.
5. Though it may appear never so strange and singular to you,
though it may differ never so widely from your traditionated forms,
habits and customs of worship ; yet, if you have learned wisdom
by the words I have spoken, you will humble your proud, exalted
feelings, and unite, 60 far as not to be found opposing.
6. Though you may have reason to believe that many of its sub
jects run into wildness not required by my Spirit, which will, in
some instances, be the case ; yet, remember I have come to con-!
found the wisdom of the wise, and remove the vejjs of deceit and
hypocrisy.
7. And, as the greatest friend to your souls, do 1 give you a little
foreknowledge of the many strange operations and exercises, which
I shall cause upon mortal bodies, like the following: Violent shak
ing, until thrown heavily upon the floor, or ground; Every limb of
the body made stiff and unyielding ; Eyes set with a deathly ap
pearance; Pulsation of life nearly extinct; Gestures and bodies ex
hibiting frightful attitudes;
8. Little children speaking with great power, and declaring, in
bold and undaunted terms, my word against the wickedness and
abominations of mankind.
9. The power of speech, for days together, entirely taken away ;
The power of utterance given in language that mortals cannot un
derstand. Females greatly exercised in turning and suddenly
stopping, declaring to the surrounding multitude the visions of
God they have seen.
10. [Also,] The comfort and happiness of the saints in Heaven,
v
170 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
and the awful cries, screams and screeches of those who are bound
in hell, suffering for the wickedness they had committed while
upon earth ;
11. And withal, holding forth sublime testimonies, with power
and great eloquence, against the filthy and beastly abominations
practiced by mankind, and of the awful judgments of a righteous
and just God, about to come upon them for the same ;
12. Singing melodious and heavenly songs, given directly from
the spiritual world; conversing familiarly with unbodied spirits; In
extreme distress, and then immediately in transports of joy, to all
appearance enjoying the greatest degree of the sweets of Heaven,
in the presence of justified spirits.
13. Often breaking forth upon formal preachers, when sermon
izing to the people, [and not preaching the true gospel of Christ,]
contradicting certain passages, and declaring what the truth of
God is; Often setting aside all forms, creeds and ceremonies, and
denouncing in strong terms, against the religious intolerance of man.
14. Many times,, loudly proclaiming against the lives of both
priests and people ; protesting, with great power, against all laws
of inquisition, of persecution, or compelling by mortal power, either
by law or'violence; or in any way binding the freedom of the souls
of men.
15. Thus saith the Lord, My spirit never did, and never will, op
erate in the hearts of the children of men to make them increase
in that which is accursed in my sight; such like as wars, fightings,
shedding theblood oftheir fellow creatures, or persecuting and abus
ing them in any way -r or swearing, lying, stealing, defrauding, cru
elty either to man or beast, giving way to passionate fits of temper,
indulging in- feelings of lewdness towards the opposite sex; or to .
promote places and acts of prostitution by their examples of fre
quenting to indulge in such places.
16. Or bestiality, or adultery, or bigamy, or of any filthy pollu
tions or abominations, or of hardness of heart or feelings of un-
kindness towards the poor and distressed, or of any sexual connec
tion in the actual works of the flesh, farther than is indispensably
necessary for the purpose of procreation ; or in any way to profane
the holy Sabbath.
17. Therefore, saith the God of Heaven, inasmuch as my holy
and divine Spirit hath never, and will never, operate in the hearts
•f the children of men to make them increase in any of the before
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 171
mentioned evils, or sinful indulgences, but to cease therefrom,
18. I have never, and will never, commission mortal man with
power to usurp authority over the hearts and souls of the children of
men, as respects the law and worship of their God.
19. For man to controll the volition and free agency of man, is
usurping authority that I, his God and Creator, never gave him ;
and it is that in which my Almighty power never will sustain him ;
but will surely visit, in judgment, such as contend for the right of
exercising it.
20. My holy influence, operating upon the hearts of the children
of men, as I have before stated, leadeth directly away from indulg
ing in any kind of vice or wickedness whatever.
21. But the evil influence, or the devil operating in the hearts
of the children of men, leadeth them directly to indulge and in
crease in all those evils before mentioned, and in every species of
vice, productive of misery and mischief in every sense of the word.
22. Therefore, the laws that man is empowered to make, are for
those who have a disposition, through the influence of evil, to trans
gress the righteous and moral laws of their God, which I gave them
in the beginning, and which were again sent forth, with an increased
degree of restriction, when I first sent your Lord and Savior upon
earth ; and for the transgressing of which, all those evils have been
suffered as a scourge and judgment upon man.
23. He brought with him the law of grace, which not only fulfilled
all previous laws, but wholly superseded the necessity of them, by a
law which was far more perfect, and went directly to accomplish
that work, for which all previous laws served only as directors, or
pointers towards this very law, which your Lord and Savior did now
establish, and [which] comprehended all the law and the prophets
before him, in these few words ;
" Whatsoever ye would that men
should do unto you, do ye even so to them."
24. And again, of the operations of my spirit abroad in the
earth ; Strange signs shall appear, both in the Heavens above, and
on the earth beneath; and strange signs shall be made by mortals;
and when these you behold, again renew your zeal to prepare your
souls in the lowest of humiliation, and cry unto your God:
25. Remembering at all times, that my work, saith the Lord, will
always prove itself: I need not, that mortal man should undertake
to decide in his own wisdom, whether the work emanated from my
Almighty hand.
17-2 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
26. My work, saith God, cannot be overthrown ; though the
wickedness of man, by violence and persecution, may be suffered
for a short season to suppress its subjects in certain places;
27. Yet, it will keep breaking out here, and breaking out there,
with greater and greater power and evidence of the Almighty
hand that guides
it,
until man shall fear and tremble before
it
as
a
leaf shaken of
a
mighty wind
;
and all his sins and abominations
staring him in the face upon the left, and the indisputable signs of
an Almighty power, approaching him on the right.
28. Now the hearts of men shall fail them, their joints shall
tremble, their knees smite together with fear. Then shall their eyes
be turned with an imploring look, for mercy from that God whose
words they have laughed to scorn, and whose kind and fatherly
admonition, with solemn words of warning, they have set at naught.
29. But alas, for mortal man
!
The time has now come, that an
eternal separation between flesh and spirit must take place.
30. Now, man laments the day and time that
is
past, but he can
not recall it; now he sees the folly of his own doings, but too late
to retrace his steps: Now he sees that he has outstood the day of
God's visitation in mercy to him
;
now he takes
a
realizing sense
of the power of that Almighty hand against which he has been
fighting; now he beholds, at
a
glance, the exaltedness of man, with
all his might and power, sink quickly into oblivion, as the small
insect
is
crushed beneath his foot while walking upon the earth.
31. Then why will you, O vain mortals of earth, harden your
hearts, as your fathers before you have done? Why do ye delay the
day of preparation
?
Because your natures doubt whether the work
is
of God, or of man
?
32. Why do ye stand in your own light, fighting against your
own best good and comfort, and thereby hazard the awful conse-"
quences of being found fighting against your God, since He requires
nothing but what
is
conducive to your peace, comfort and happiness,
with
a
justified conscience in the present tense, and an inspiring
hope for mercy from his Almighty hand,
in
the world to come,
however quick you might be called?
33. Turn, turn O Israel; turn, and change thy goings O Jacob!
Turn to the Lord thy God, while he calleth unto thee in the still
small voice; lest his heavy thunders from Sinai's top, in forked
lightnings play upon the earth, and destroy both mm and beast.
34. For
I
testify unto you all, saith the God of Heaven,
I
testify
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAHTH. 173
unto all human flesh that presumeth to stand in this day, against
the tender mercies of their God, their delays are big with danger,
and fraught with consequences far more dangerous, both to bouI
and body, than in any age that hath ever preceded it.
35. Therefore, bow down, in low humiliation, that your judg
ment may be lightened ; for I have a controversy with all flesh,
saith the Lord. But they that truly put their trust in God, by walk
ing in true obedience to his will, shall walk and not faint; for I,
their Lord and God, will help them, and that right early; and in
Me shall their strength be renewed.
36. And again, many will be wrought upon, by the troubling of
the waters, whose previous lives and characters have been quite ex
ceptionable; but stumble not at this. And- you will see some
who have been the most forward in these strange and supernatural
exercises, again turn to their wicked lives, and deny that they ever
felt any thing but what they could avoid, saying it was all made ;
neither stumble ye at this.
37. Does not the same wind that bends the suppliant willow, try
the strength of the sturdy oak also? Do not the same waters over
which the honest merchant-man doth glide, also bear upon its sur
face the piratical brig ? And do not some start from their own shores,
on an honest enterprise, and turn pirates, or traitors to their coun
try before they return? Does this act declare that they never have
had any honest intentions? By no means.
38. But wait with patience ; all things will prove themselves by
their fruits. God's time, remember, is not measured by the span
of mortals, nor are his judgments weighed in their balance.
39. You will hear of awful denunciations in my name pronounced,
that will take place at certain fixed periods of time ; some you will
see fulfilled, and some you will see are not fulfilled, according to
the prediction, in any way that you can discern for the time being :
wait with patience, also, in this situation.
40. For as a ship having no helm, yet plenty cf sail, must drift be
fore the wind, kerping no direct course, so, in like manner, shall
the pouring out of my spirit upon mankind, cause them to drift be
fore it for a season, until antichristian superstition with fixed forms
and creeds, is greatly broken up ; then I will provide means by
which they may have a helm, that shall steer them safely to Ca-»
-naan's happy land,
174 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
41. Be not hasty, O thou mortal man of flesh and blood,
To judge of the immortal things of God;
But wait, thy judgments to portray,
Till fruits do prove the truth in every way.
42. You will see many vessels, when hard pressed by this celes
tial breeze from the eternal regions, that will run, for a short sea
son, with great speed; but, for the want of helper Wisdom, whom
I have not yet sent abroad into the world, saith the Lord, they will,
to all appearance, dash upon the rocks and sink to rise no more ;
43. By reason that they had run before their tidings were ready,
in predicting the particular periods of time and season in which
my awful judgments should be accomplished upon man. Yet,
many there be, who understand not the predictions of their own
mouths.
44. The times and seasons of these things are, as yet, reserved
in my own power ; not even my holy Angels are yet furnished with
the knowledge.
CHAPTER XXX.
THE SUBJECT CONTINUED.
1. Of warnings among the children of
men, to prepare for the coming
of the Lord.
2. Of forebodings of future calamities.
4. Of stating times and seasons.
6. Further operations of the spiritof God,
upon the inhabitants of earth.
14. Of the frailty of man.
15. Of timely warnings.
16. Of the inability of man.
18. All nations required to hail this word
of warning and preparation.
19. Required to keep the day it was sent
forth.
[
20. Or the manner of keeping it.
1
22. Nothing in this Roll, that militates
against the sacred scriptures.
24. Of marking by the Angels.
25. Of keeping the Sabbath.
26. The efifect of this word.
28. Requirement of God to the nations
concerning the Roll.
29. Of sacrificing property.
30. Of rashness.
31. Of pursuing in duty.
33. Of the insertion of a prophecy.
34. Of the Proclamation.
1. It is very true, saith the Lord, my spirit has begun to work
in some measure, among the children of men, by causing them to
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 175
stir up one another to prepare for the day of my coming, and
[warning them] that my heavy judgments are about to roll upon
the inhabitants of earth.
2. All this, saith the Lord, I acknowledge to be true; and many
are the inhabitants of earth, that can witness to
it,
from their own
experience. For several years past, they have been feeling more
and more of an inward restlessness, that all
is
not right
;
an inex
pressible something working
in
their own hearts, that created
fearful apprehensions of the day and time that
is
near at hand
;
3.
Which causes strong forebodings of mind in some, that an
entire dissolution of all material matter
is
speedily to take place
;
and so strong
is
this impression, when supported
by
the passions of
nature yet unsubdued, (which are as prone fo self exaltation, as
the sparks are to
fly
upward,) that they venture, (yet sincere, ac
cording to their understanding,) to predict and foretell the times
when my Almighty hand should accomplish an entire dissolution
of the earth.
4. The wind and breezes
by
which these vessels have been impell
ed, saith the Lord,
I
acknowledge to be in the main, correct
;
but,
as to times and seasons, they should have waited for further knowl
edge
;
for, as yet, they have no helm
by
which to steer their bark.
5. Therefore,
it
is
their wisdom and duty to labor to prepare the
people
;
but should state no times, saith the Almighty Power of
Heaven.
6. And again, -you will often behold mortal bodies, while under
the influence of the spirit which
I
shall send forth, apparently
eating that which natural eyes cannot behold, and, to all appearance,
that which tastes exceedingly delightsome and pleasant; Also drink
ing freely from cups invisible to natural eyes.
7. And moreover, mothers will see their proud daughters exer
cised
by
involuntary power, with the most foolish, silly, and morti
fying gestures that the human mind can conceive of, until their
pride
is
humbled
;
then their exercises will become beautifully strik
ing to the beholders.
8. And fathers will behold their haughty sons, who pride them
selves in their dress, rolled in the mire and dirt, compelled to go
forth in the most humiliating, and, (to the natural mind,) prepos
terous attitudes of body, that can be imagined, until they feel their
haughty natures subdued, and are willing gently to bow and bend
to the impulse of the spirit given.
176 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
9. You will again see those whose sins and abominations stare
them in the face with such terror and consternation, that they will
cry mightily to Me, their God, that I would open some way whereby
they may be delivered from the condemnation of their sins.
10. Others will be heard to cry aloud, by reason of the insupport
able weight of condemnation that rests upon their souls, and lament
the day they were born. And others you will see swoon away
in trances, and lie upon the floor like so many dead corpses; and
to all natural appearance, the vital spark hath fled.
11. But they will again return, and relate that which will astound
the heart of man. Some will lie in this situation many days to
gether ; and again, some, while in this situation, will talk out, to
the understanding of those present, that which they are told by the
spirits in eternity, which will cause the by-standers to fear and trem
ble, and many times to blush with shame.
12. And when ye behold these things of which I have spoken,
and many more of the like taking place, of which I have, as a kind
and tender father forewarned you, then see that ye are not found
fighting against the operations of my Spirit, or trying to stifle it in
your children : for if you do, I shall send it upon you in judgment.
13. But to all who will [hearken,] saith the Lord, I send unto
them in mercy ; but my work cannot be trifled with, and the soul
escape unpunished.
14. Yet, I consider, saith God your Heavenly Father, the ex
ceeding great frailty of man, by reason of his long and continued
pursuit in seeking for all the pleasures and gratifications time could
afford him. And by that means, the labor and pursuit of his mind
have scarcely reached beyond the shores of mortality; but have
been wholly absorbed by the fading, transitory, fleeting and perish
able things of a terrestrial state, whose stores do fade, and treas
ures turn again to earth and perish in the dust : therefore, his blind
ness and frailty have become very great
15. But in loving kindness and compassion, have I, hisGod, con
sidered him, and sent unto him a timely warning, that all flesh
might be left without an excuse before Me, in that day in which all
eyes shall be turned to their God, to supplicate his mercy, and es
cape his awful scourge. But as it was in the days of Noah, so shall
it be verified unto you, if ye heed not the solemn watch-word of
your God.
16. I know full well, the inability of mankind at large, in their
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 177
darkened and sinful state, to receive the solemn warnings of an
Almighty God, from the eternal Heavens, with that degree of thank
fulness and gratitude of heart, that such an unmerited act of con
descension from the Most High, to poor finite beings on earth
requires.
17. Yet, those who receive it in thankfulness of heart, and give
thanks, honor and glory to the God of Heaven for the 'same,
by hearkening to what is therein contained, will be accepted at
my hand.
IS. And I require all nations, to hail this as the greatest notice
of kindness and favor, from the Eternal Source of all power
and goodness, that was ever sent forth directly to the inhabitants
of earth since the days of the Messiah.
19. And all such as believe and obey
it,
by
turning from the er
ror of their doings, are required to keep [the. second day of Febru
ary annually
;]
the day bearing the date
in
which this was brought
forth to earth,
by
the mighty and holy Angel, to be written for
mortal eyes to view. And after the following manner,
I
require
you should keep it.
20. Assemble yourselves together in your places for sacred wor
ship, and there humble yourselves upon your knees, and suppli
cate my mercy,
by
praying earnestly unto Me, that my All-powerful
and protecting arm may yet longer be extended in mercy over you,
and over your herds, and over your flocks, until you learn to do my
will and keep my statutes holy. And sing solemn praises unto my
name, exhorting each other
in
godly fear.
21. But suffer not your hearts to spend this day in recreation
;
for
it
is
not in vain delight and pleasure that the heart of man
draweth nigh unto God, his Maker; but
it
is
in cheerful resigna
tion unto his holy will, when made known to him.
22.
I
have sent forth, nothing unto you,
O
ye inhabitants in mor
tal clay, that does in the least militate against any doctrine contain
ed in the- sacred records which
I
have sent forth
in
past dispensa
tions, but that ye may, in truth, fulfill them according to the re
quirement of the law, and according to the requirement of Christ,
both in his first and second appearing.
23. For this purpose have
I
condescended to send forth this
Book and Roll of one hundred seals unto you
;
and this regulation
I
require you to keep, as an evidence of the contrition of your
hearts, that my holy Angels may pass and re-pass throughout the
178 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
earth, and behold the doings of the children of men upon this day.
24. For I shall command them to mark upon the posts of every
door, with the seal of mercy, whether in places of public worship,
or in private dwellings, where they find the people assembled to
gether in sincerity of heart, truly supplicating my protection.
And this I require to be sacredly kept, until, in my own power
and wisdom, the time does come that I send forth a further word
to the inhabitants of earth.
25. Also remember, all ye people, to keep my sacred Sabbaths
holy ; profane them not with any kind of wickedness ; nor the day
I now require you to keep in special homage to Me your God.
26. This sacred word will strike with consternation many a heart,
and break forth upon the inhabitants of earth, at an unexpected
hour. Therefore, beware of my after-coming. Prepare, prepare
yourselves to meet your God, as ye would, if ye knew tomorrow
would close the scenes of your mortal existence.
27. Then, if in the order of my providence, you are still longer
permitted to enjoy life in a terrestrial state, you will be able to hon
or Me, your God and Creator in so doing; or to leave the world,
having made your peace with God, and all your fellow creatures.
28. Hear my requirement, saith the Lord, ye leading characters
of every nation. When you receive this Sacred Roll of the word
of your God, you are required to enter it upon your most sacred
records, and let it be engraven on the table of your hearts, there to
remain while passing through the remaining moments of your lives
below.
29. I do not require that any should make a wasteful sacrifice of
property ; but let all be diligent with their hands, to work in some
laudable pursuit; and let those who have more than a competency
[of the necessaries of this life,] help their poor fellow mortals. In
so doing, saith the Lord, you will lay up a treasure far more
precious than gold or silver.
30. Let no one be rash, nor wild in their doings, in respect to
temporal things ; but let true wisdom and reason guide your steps ;
for I have given you way-marks, saith the Lord, by which you may
safely steer if you will.
31. I would that man pursue his various employments, dealing
justly with all his fellow creatures, and be willing to work with his
own hands for his daily support; for idleness leadeth the soul
directly away from its God ; it
is,
in truth, the parent of misery.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 179
33. Let rulers do their duty faithfully; rule in justice and equity,
and suppress the haunts of infamy as much as possible. This is
the command of your God.
33. I have furthermore, here commanded to be inserted in this
Roll, a prophecy which, but a short time since, I sent my faithful
servant, the prophet Isaiah, of whom ye read, with six archers,
through four of whom he was to deliver a prophecy in Zioh, the
%ther two were to keep silent, until the time should be fulfilled.
And now their time is come, and I have sent him forth, with the
other two, to prophecy to the inhabitants of the earth; and 1 require
that they should all be inserted at the end of this Roll.
34. But the Proclamation, which I wrote with my own hand ten
months ago, and sent by my blessed Son, your Lord and Savior, to
read for mortal hand to draft upon my Holy Mount, I require
should be inserted at the beginning of this Roll.
180
CHAPTER XXXI.
OF HARMONY, PURITY AND INNOCENCE, AND THE
TRUE ENJOYMENT OF THE TWO SEXES, IN THIS
STATE. CLOSING OF THE ROLL.
S. Of the enjoyment of sexes together.
5. What breaks society to pieces.
9. Of laying the axe to the root of the
tree.
11. Of indutgence to a carnal nature.
tt. The primitive state of man.
13. Sinning against light, hastened! to des
truction.
14. Of male and female dwelling together
in innocence.
17. Of a state of innocence and purity
as exemplified by Christ.
18.
19.
20.
S3.
How to enter the new creation.
Of the government of Christ's king
dom.
Of the subjects who compose
it.
Of fighting against God.
25. Of the treatment of his sacred word.
2y. Mankind dealt with, according as they
have hearkened to the word of God.
31. Requirement concerning the circula
tion and translation of this Roll.
33. Of staying the hand of judgment, by
cultivating principles of peace.
3G. Mankind advanced
in
wickedness, to
the verge of destruction.
37. Destruction to those who refuse to
hearken.
39. Of the seclusion of Zion; and of
warnings.
40. Warnings against troubling the In
strument who wrote this Roll.
42. Of sincerity while conversing
sacred subjects.
1.
And again, saith the Lord,
I
now call upon you, O ye inhab
itants of the earth, to hearken to my words, and understand the
truth concerning that of which ye are, as yet, strangers.
2. You do not see how
it
is
possible, for male and female to
dwell in societies together and enjoy each other's association, and
good and kind feelings, and still have nothing to do with sexual in
dulgences. This, in truth, to natural man, who
is
absorbed in the
things of nature, seems to be impossible;
a
mystery that he cannot
comprehend, or understand.
3.
And truly
it
is,
saith the Lord,
by
natural man, while living
after the ordinary course of nature, incomprehensible.
4.
For this power of associating together, as little harmless chil
dren who know no evil, in harmony, purity and innocence,
is
given,
and can be found, only in the completed order of my creation,
wherein old things are done away, and all things become new.
5. All selfishness, quarrels, contention, strife, inveterate feelings
of animosity, and attitudes of hostility, are effects proceeding from
TO THE NATIONS OV THE EARTH. 181
certain causes; and no body of people, [influenced by these causes,]
can long dwell together in a united capacity, but that these effects,
or consequences proceeding from these certain causes, will break
them to pieces and scatter them asunder.
6. The cause of all those uncontrolled divisions of feeling em
anates wholly from the region of darkness, where no true light, in
its fullness, can ever shine ; and that is the indulging and gratifying
of one's own carnal, fallen, and corrupt nature of fleshly lust, that
is always at war against the soul's best good and comfort.
7. And while fed by indulgence and gratification, it will never
suffer souls to enjoy true harmony, love, union and innocence,
so that they can associate in societies together, further than the
bounds of natural private families extend ; and even they, come far
short of existing together in a state of peace and harmony.
8. The gratification and indulgence in fleshly works, whether
confined to one's self, or in connection with others, is continually
strengthening the root of this evil tree, which bears the forbidden
fruit, and hath many branches, that are continually strengthened
and supported from this root.
9. Therefore did the followers of my blessed Son, even in his
first appearance, teach souls to lay the axe at the root [of the tree,]
and destroy the cause, and the effect will cease, and the branches
and limbs of this evil tree will die.
10. When this is done, saith the Lord, then souls are again re
deemed unto Me, in a state of purity and innocence ; and not until
it is done, whether they be in time or in eternity, it niaketh no dif
ference further than this ;
11. The more they indulge themselves while in time, in the grat
ification of these works, the greater are the guilt, condemnation and
stains of sin and filthiness impressed upon their souls when entering
eternity ; and the greater must be their sufferings and tribulation to
find their redemption.
12. For I created man, saith the Lord, in the beginning, pure and
innocent; and when he is again redeemed unto Me, he will be pure
and innocent; and the more sin he commits, after he is born into
the world, the greater is the distance that he is carried from Me,
his God and Creator ; and consequently, the greater must be the
length of his journey, in retracing his steps in sorrow and tribula
tion, ag;iin to find Me, his Creator God, in truth.
13. And this is rendering unto every one a just reward, accord
182 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
ing to their works ; but mortals, when sinning against light and un
derstanding, are rapidly hastening their souls at a great distance
from Me, and from the purity of my kingdom.
14. But in the completed order of my new creation, now estab
lished on earth, male and female dwell together as brethren and sis
ters, not as husband and wife ; for in this completed order, they can
have nothing to do with those works belonging to the husband and
wife dispensation ; as that is wholly confined to the natural order,
and not to the spiritual.
15. But that degree of comfort and true enjoyment which males
and females take together, when living as brethren and sisters, in
bonds of filial affection and gospel purity, is beyond any thing that
can be enjoyed in a natural state. It is similar, saith the Lord, to
that which two little children, brother and sister, who know no im
purity or wickedness, take in their innocent plays together.
16. And for this very cause, did your Lord and Savior take little
harmless and innocent children in his arms, and bless them ; and
told his disciples to suffer them to come unto him ; for of such was
the kingdom of Heaven.
17. This example of your Savior with little children, both in his
first and second appearance, embraced the plainest and most strik
ing figure that could be made use of, to show unto the people that
state of true innocence, purity and harmlessness, that must be pos
sessed by all such souls as would ever become true heirs of his
kingdom.
18. But in order for souls to obtain a place in the completed or-
jder of my new creation, they must firstly confess their sins honestly,
as before shown in this Roll ; then give themselves up unto Me, as
-clay in the hands of the potter, to be led as little children, counsel
ed and instructed through such visible agency as the influence of
my Spirit, saith the Lord, hath appointed for that purpose; and to
be admonished, in my holy fear, when found necessary.
19. All this is done by the influence and power of the spirit,
-without coercive measures ; which measures I do not allow to be
made use of, in my kingdom, save in the case of children, when all
mild and persuasive means fail, I suffer them to be gently corrected
with small rods ; but never are they allowed to be abused, or cru
elly treated, in any way, or meddled with by any one when under
.the least degree of excitement or passion.
20. This is briefly the law and order of my kingdom, now estab-
TO THE NATIONS Or THE EARTH. 183
lished on the earth, forever more to stand. It
is,
and forever will
be, composed of subjects harmless and inoffensive, who bear no
carnal weapons of warfare, but rely, in their true obedience and
devotedness of soul unto Me, upon my arm for protection from their
enemies without and within;
21. Who will suffer at the hands of their fellow creatures, in
justice, cruelty and abuse, without retaliation, Baith the Lord; hav
ing this assurance from Me, That man can only destroy the body,
but cannot injure the soul.
22. Therefore,
O
vain and mortal man, consider all your doings,
and take heed unto your goings, lest ye are found fighting, even
against the Almighty hand of your God.
23. For there
is
no person or spirit, that can rise and seek to
stand against the eternal attributes of my goodness, purity, inno
cence and holiness, but what does fight against the Almighty hand
of Him who created the Heavens and the earth, and whose power,
in judgment, they must surely meet for so doing; for no weapon,
formed against my Zion, shall prosper
;
and every tongue that shall
rise against her
in
judgment,
I
will condemn, saith the Lord.
24. And now, my last and closing word
in
this sacred and sol
emn Roll of my mercy,
I
do send forth to all nations, kindreds,
tongues and people, that dwell upon the face of the whole earth.
25. As you deal with one another, so will your God deal with
you
;
as you treat this, his sacred and solemn word, bo will Her
treat you, in the dispensation of his judgment, and of his mercy.
As you regard the laws of nature herein required to be kept, so*
will He regard you.
26. As you regard the law of grace, or order of his new crea
tion herein required to be kept,
by
all who feel their souls called
upon to advance forward into this perfect order,, so will his Al
mighty hand regard you, with his blessing and protection.
27. As you regard the requirement of Mr, your God, respecting
the reading of this solemn Roll
of
my word, and Rook
of
everlast
ing truth, to the inhabitants of earth, in your solemn assemblies,,
so will the Lord your God, in the day of his heaviest visitation
in
judgment, regard, and cause his holy Angels to regard you.
28. As you regard, and treat the operations of my spirit, which
shall go forth abroad in the world, of which
I
have before told you,
so shaJl you be treated,
by
the over-ruling hand of your God.
184 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
29. According as you believe and obey, or disbelieve and disobey,
the words contained in this Sacred Roll [and Book,] so shall the
sincerity of your cries and lamentations, in the day that you are
constrained to pour them forth for my mercy, be regarded or disre
garded by your God.
30. And according to the zeal, enterprise and sincerity of such
as are required to correctly translate and circulate this Book through
different nations and languages, so shall their days of my notice,
in peace and blessing, be prolonged.
31. It is my requirement, saith the Lord, that in two years from
the commencement of the year One thousand eight hundred and
forty four, copies of this, my solemn warning, be circulated
throughout all professed christendom on the face of the whole
earth ; and as far among the heathen nations, as missions for civil
ization and for instruction have been extended.
32. And so far as the inhabitants of the earth regard, in truth,
the sacred requirements contained in the holy scriptures, and in
this my Sacred Roll, now sent forth directly from my eternal throne,
in the age and day in which they live, so far are they justified in
my sight.
33. And by laboring, as fast as possible, to settle all feelings of
collision, both in their own realms and kingdoms, [and with other
nations,] without hostilities being commenced, or blood being shed,
and to cease learning the arts of war, and cultivate the principles
of peace, they will, so far, stay the heavy judgments which are
already poured out without mixture, into the cup of the wrath of my
indignation, to be sent forth upon the earth.
34. But this efTort to do away the cause of war, and establish
conciliatory measures, that justice, in all cases, may be done, and
the effusion of blood, and the destruction of human life be prevent
ed, I require, saith the Lord, should be made by nations, as well as
by individuals.
35. And so far as mankind turn their attention to cultivate the
soil and procure their subsistence by their own honest industry ; so
far will they evidently feel, as nations, the blessings of an over
ruling providence smiling upon them.
36. But let all nations and kingdoms remember, saith the God of
Heaven, that they have advanced in wickedness, against the laws
of their God and Creator, on to the very last stage in which his
Almighty hand, in offers of mercy, can be extended towards their.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 185
37. And if they refuse, as nations, to hearken and take warning,
sure destruction is their certain and final doom. Herein is con
tained my word, the only true God, the Almighty Power of Heav
en and earth, the Over-ruling and Great first Cause of all created
things. The God who was, the God who
is,
through endless worlds
made known.
38. Therefore, unto that God give thanks, whose omniscient eye
is
not confined to certain limits of time and space.
39. Trouble ye not the little few from whence this, my word, at
my command, has now come forth
:
for
I,
the God of all, have com
manded their seclusion, as a body, for
a
short season, from all public
gaze and throng; that
I
may scourge them in my mercy, and teach
them how, in tribulation's vale, to walk softly before Me their God.
40. Trouble ye pot the mortal hand, or Instrument of flesh and
blood, through whom
I
caused my holy and mighty Angel of eter
nal light, power and truth, to move and guide the pen in truth to
write this, my Holy and Sacred Roll, for mortal eyes to view
;
for
he
is
but mortal flesh and blood, like unto each one of you.
41. No honor there belongs, but that of obeying Me, the Lord
his God, regardless of all other personal views or consequences.
Holy and sacred things
I
do require, saith the Lord, to be kept holy
and sacred, practiced in both heart and hand
;
and not to be made
the daily subject of comment, yet still unheeded.
42. But when souls converse together on sacred subjects, let them
be sincere in heart, possessing
a
degree of fear and reverence to
that God
by
whom they were created, and before whose eternal
throne of judgment and true justice, each soul must soon appear.
43. And thus endeth the Roll, sent forth from Me, the God of
Heaven and earth, consigned to all possessing mortal clay, saith the
Ajl pi'no of all creation, the Beginning and the Ending; even so,
eternally
it
shall stand, Amen.
X
167
A PROPHECY
FROM THE SPIRIT OF THE ANCIENT PROPHET ISA
IAH, COMMUNICATED THROUGH HIS ARCHERS,
INTHODUCTION BY THE HOLY ANGEL.
We require, saith the holy Angel, the first and second watch
to be sounded in the ears of the watchmen of the flock. Go call
the Shepherds, that they may hear ; for my God hath commanded
me words to speak, his truths to declare, to cry aloud, and spare
not; for she that did glow in mirthful beauty, is now arrayed in
mourning.
Therefore, thou Prophet of the Lord, cause four of thy Arch
ers to speak thy word, this night; but command the other two to
withhold, and speak not, until the time shall be fulfilled. And
these shall be the hours in which ye shall cry aloud, The watch ;
first, between the hours of seven and eight; second, between the
hours of nine and ten ; third, at the hour of twelve ; fourth, between
the hours of three and four.
188
PART 1.
WORDS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH IN THE FIRST
WATCH, THROUGH HIS ARCHER.
1. The Lord qucstioiroih tho Shopherds S. Warnings to Zion.
of Israel. 13. Of ihe Lord's Vineyard.
6. God's hand upon earth In judgment. 15. Of man's insignificance.
"I.
God's word to his Archers.
1.
Shall
I
gather and gather, gather and gather again, and then
scatter in Israel, and tend in Jacob, saith the Lord? Shall
I
plant
a
goodly vineyard, and cause careful husbandmen to dress the same,
that
I
may receive mine own with usury, and then suffer thieves
and robbers to break in and abuse my husbandmen, and take to
themselves the first ripe fruits, and destroy and trample the residue
under their feet?
2.
Shall
I
grant that Israel may flourish, and Jacob prosper, and
then suffer the destroyer to break down the walls of their city, and
lay waste their pleasant places? Shall
I
suffer the little ones to be
chased
by
their enemies, and scattered upon the mountains, as
sheep having no shepherd
?
3.
Or shall
I
again, saith the Lord, send my beloved Son, to
gather them under the shadow of his wings and seat them in the
low and pleasant vales of humility?' Yea, saith the God of Heaven,
over mine own will
I
stretch forth my arm of protection, to save
the offspring of my delight.
4.
But hearken, saith the Lord
:
Where are the credentials of
your office, or the signets of your calling
?
Where are the marks
from Wisdom's hand, that prove you objects of my name? Have
not
I
promised that my judgments should be to the line, and my
righteousness to the plummet
?
Have
I
not given strength to the
weak, that they might become strong to rejoice in the God of
their salvation
?
5.
And again
;
Have
I
not strengthened the feeble and totteritiir
knee, that
it
might bow and bend as
a
suppliant willow, in my holy
Sanctuary
?
Have
I
not called you all, saith the Lord, to drink at
one fountain and bathe in one stream, and to refine
by
one fire, un
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 189
til you were clean? O hail levin cet! Ifaillevincet! and where
do I find you?
6. Give ear, O earth, and hearken all ye people who dwell in her.
My hand is upon you, saith the Lord God of Heaven, in judgment,
and not in mercy ; and for your wicked abominations, shall ye howl
in distress and gnaw your tongues for pain.
7. Cry aloud, O ye archers, in Heaven, and spare not your voices
on earth. Gird yourselves with the strength of a unicorn, and bend
ye the bows of destruction, and let
fly
the arrows of death
:
but
the humble and penitent, shall ye pass lightly over.
8.
And,
O
thou Zion of my planting, and all ye people who dwell
in her! Look ye to the hole from whence ye were digged, and to
the pit from whence ye were taken. Have ye not been dandled as
an infant at the breast, and rocked in the cradle of ease, until ye
grew strong, yet unthankful; and rich, yet unholy? until ye de
nied the means
by
which ye were protected, and forgot the hand
by
which ye were sustained
?
9. O Zion, O Zion
!
Must
I
cast thee from my presence, and
suffer thee to sojourn in
a
strange land, as one with whom
I
am not
acquainted, saith the Lord, because
I
find thee set in thy own way,
and conceited in thy own plans?
10. Or shall
I
again send thee another offer
by
my first begotten
Son, peradventure thou wilt hearken and return, though in the even
tide of thy day. In lamentation and sorrow must
I
find thee walk
ing daily in my fear, and humbly in my presence
;
for thy God
is
a
God of justice, who
is
about to deal with thee.
11. But in thy beauty shalt thou be magnified, and in thy glory
shalt thou be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto
thee; for thy light shall extend far abroad, and the brightness of
thy burning to the four winds of Heaven.
12. For in thy meekness and humility wast thou exalted in the
eyes of thy God, and in thy dependence of feeling, didst thou draw
down the powers from on high to thy assistance. Therefore, though
thou become weak, yet thou art strong: though thy numbers be
come few, yet-shall myriads dwell within thy walls.
13.
I
have planted me
a
vineyard, and walled me
a
city;
I
have
built me
a
temple, and gathered me
a
people to worship therein.
I
have built me an altar, and placed thereon holy fire; and by (he
side of this altar, at my command, do fountains of living water boil
up; and here
I
have built baths, for my children to bathe and wash
190 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
in ; and none can enter this temple, and bring offerings to my ac
ceptance, save those who continue to pass through this holy fire,
and these living waters.
14. And such, and such only, will be found in the hollow of my
hand, when mountains sink and vallies rise, and kingdoms into
pieces rend.
15. What is mortal man, that thou art mindful of him, or the
son of man, that thou visitest him T whose life is but as a vapor,
that vanisheth away, or as a mist before the rising sun. To-day he
is,
but to-morrow he
is
not
:
so
is
all flesh before the God of Heaven.
PART 11.
WORDS OF THE SECOND WATCH, FROM THE PROPn-
ET ISAIAH THROUGH HIS ARCHER.
5.
The word of God to his Watchmen
and Prophets.
Of the Lord's city.
This
a
world of sorrow, through man's
disobedience.
Of watching.
C. Of the visitation of false spirits.
7.
Of God's judgments.
9.
Zion called upon to humble
10. The cry of the archers.
11. Of the exaltation of Zion.
12. Of
a
preparation for the Lord.
1.
Give ear
O
ye watchmen, and listen
O
ye prophets; for the
God of Heaven doth call aloud unto you, Shall
I
gather and gath
er, gather and gather again, and then scatter them in Israel, and
rend them in Jacob? Or shall
I
scatter them in Jacob, and rend
them in Israel? How say you, ye Prophets?
2. Have
I
not chosen you to lie low in spirit before Me, and bow
even to the dust, and make sufferings of soul your constant meat,
and the waters of affliction your pleasant drink, until ye were pre
pared, in truth to do my will, saith the Lord, and speak my word,
and that alone? But
I
will cry aloud this watch in your ears, that
you may prepare your souls for tribulation.
3.
For lo,
I
did build me
a
city, and planted me vineyards, and
with
a
strong wall
I
did encompass
it;
and faithful watchmen
I
did
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 191
place thereon, that no enemy should disturb the work of my hands.
And for some length of time, the watchmen cried their stations,
and no enemy dared approach.
4. But hearken ; Hath not man, by his own disobedience, made
this a world of sorrow? And shall he cease to watch where his own
safety is endangered, and his life is at stake? Nay, but let him
watch and pray without ceasing, and the ransom of his own soul
shall be full compensation.
5. And what I say unto my prophets, saith the Lord, I say unto
all, Watch. For Zion shall be tried as she never before was, since
I caused the light of my last dispensation to shine within her
walls. She is now encompassed with an innumerable multitude;
many for good, and many for evil.
6. False spirits in my name have gone forth, both on earth and
in eternity, to cast deception over the hearts of many. They have
already begun to try the strength of her walls, by deceitful lies, and
hypocricy : but a desolating curse shall follow up their rear, and
judgments awful shall mark their footsteps. Yea, curse upon curse
shall sweep, as a devouring flame, through the land of all such as
fight against the Most High God.
7. The breath of the Almighty, in his displeasure, shall desolate
their most fruitful fields, and they shall become as a desert of burn
ing sands : Pestilential diseases shall prowl within their doors, and
sweep them as carrion from before his face. The young shall die
for the want of food in their habitations, and they of full strength
shall go down to their graves for the want of bread.
8. The fountains of water shall be dried up, and their tongues
shall cleave unto the roof of their mouths. But again shall judg
ment be turned into mercy, and the humble seeker after truth, shall
stand by the strength of the same. For truth shall out-live deceit,
and righteousness out-stand hypocricy.
9. O Zion, speedily put on thy garments of mourning, and lie
low before the Lord thy God. And all ye her Prophets, prepare
your vessels, from sun to sun; in low humility and tribulation deep,
clothe your souls as with a garment.
10. Cry aloud, O ye archers, and spare not, for the arrows of
truth must pierce through the heart. I am a Prophet of the Lord
your God, and his word I will declare in the ears of the people.
Let good to good be gathered, and chaff to chaff be burned.
11. O ye] inhabitants of Zion, never flee from the low vales of
192 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
peace and safety, to soar on mountains high, in your own self-exalt
ed feelings, where the protection of your God cannot be found ; but
down low, in tribulation's valley, there you will find the God
of peace.
12. This, the second watch, is cried in your presence; there
fore, prepare for Me, in low humility, saith the Lord your God ;
that I find you not unprepared at my coming : for a day of trial is
at your doors, such as ye have never before seen.
13. Ye may now go and take your rest ; but I rest not, saith the
Prophet ; but shall cry aloud the next watch, when the curtains of
midnight darkness are drawn over the land.
PART 111.
WORDS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH AT THE THIRD
WATCH, OR HOUR OF TWELVE. SENT FORTH IN
SOLEMN LAMENTATION, FOR ALL THE CHILDREN
OF MEN, BOTH IN AND OUT OF ZION.
1 . Or desolation and judgments,
i The cry of the mourners.
3. The Lord's answer.
4. Of God's condescension.
5. Of the sending of his Angels.
7. The inhabitants of earth required to
lament.
8. The lamentable condition of the chil
dren of men.
10. Of protection to the righteous.
13. Of desolation, and the lamentable
condition of the inhabitants of earth.
18. Zion's children required to humble
themselves in prayer.
20. Instruction to Zion.
1. Again, hear ye the word of the Lord, O ye inhabitants of the
earth ! Desolation is within your doors, and judgment's awful gloom
stareth you in the face.
2. The howling beasts of prey surround you, and nought but your
God, can deliver you from their grasp. The voice of the mourner
is heard in your streets, crying, O Lord, how long shall the inhabi
tants of the earth be forsaken of their God ? How long shall their
nakedness appear?
3. Until they have accomplished the full measure of time, wherein
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 193
they would not hearken to my warning voice, saith the Lord. I
called, and entreated of them, as a fond mother would the darling
of her delight; but they would not give ear.
4. And as a kind and tender Father, I condescended to open the
windows of Heaven, and shower down blessings upon them, and
sent forth my words of solemn warning, that they might be encour
aged to hearken, and thereby taste the sweets of Heaven, by
cleaving to the law of their God.
5. I sent ministering Angels and spirits throughout the earth,
openly to appear in their courts of solemn worship, and teach them
from time to time, my holy will and pleasure. But for all this, they
requited Me in derision, and mocked my holy messengers to scorn.
6. The yoke of true obedience they would not wear, and the
garment of tribulation, which I had prepared for them, they would
not put on; and thus is accomplished upon them, the fruit of their
own doings.
7. Lament, lament all ye people, for judgment crieth in your
streets, and desolation marketh its way through your habitations !
For in my fury, saith the Lord, I will smite the shepherd, and the
flock shall be scattered to the four winds.
8. For the idols of abomination do rest in their skirts, and their
garments are altogether unclean ; their eyes, full of wantonness and
deceit, have been turned to serve other gods, and in the arm of
flesh have they trusted for their protection.
9. The enemy of all good hath dwelt in their hearts, and they
would not hearken to my solemn warnings to purge him out: nay,
but the inhabitants of earth courted his presence, and welcomed
him into their habitations.
10. Stoop down, O Heavens, and give ear to the few remaining
righteous and sincere souls upon the earth, who heeded my solemn
warnings, and thereby have dwelt beneath the hand of my mercy ;
for before other gods than Me they have not bowed, nor bent their
knees to worship.
11. And of this small remnant, wherever they may be, upon the
face of the whole earth, they shall become a strong nation, whose
union and relation shall be inseparably joined to that of the hosts
of Heaven, and whose dominion shall be supported by the arm of
my power from on high, saith the Lord : for obedience is their motto
and humility their garment, and no power shall wreak its vengeance
in destruction upon them.
Y
194 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
12. But cry yet again, in the glooms of midnight darkness, saitii
the Lord, to all the wicked and rebellious sons of men dwelling
upon the earth.
13. Their well cultivated fields have become a desolation, and
wild beasts do roam thereon. Their rich and splendid palaces are
broken in pieces, and their garments are moth-eaten. Their heaped
up stores are destroyed by vermin, and the canker-worm doth con
sume them daily.
14. Their fields and their vineyards have ceased to bring forth
fruit, for they are trodden by the feet of the unclean, and worked
by the hands of the disobedient.
15. O earth, earth, hadst thou but hearkened to the voice of the
Lord thy God, the rays of life, light and hope, would have invig
orated thy goings, and the cheering and life-giving rays of the
morning sun would have smiled upon thy well cultivated fields, and
beamed forth upon its wings, from the firmament of heaven, songs
of approbation to the tillers thereof.
16. But alas I Alas! briers and thorns beneath, have choked the
pleasant herbage of the fields, and in the firmament above, darkness
does obscure the cheering rays of the luminous orb; and the
twinkling stars, from the glooms of midnight darkness, have with
drawn their shining.
17. And the whole human family upon earth, is left to feel the
scourge, and just judgments' of an Almighty God, for walking in
disobedience to his righteous and holy commands.
18. But unto you who are called, and, by strict and true obedience
to my commands, have made yourselves the chosen people of my
Zion, wherever, and in whatever part of the earth you may be, bow
low before your God, and cry for his mercy and protection.
19. Consider yourselves but as worms of the dust before Him.
Pray without ceasing, that your souls may be clothed in a garment
of humility, possessing the spirit of the Lamb before all people.
20. Pray that all your fellow mortals on earth may walk worthy to
receive, at the hand of their God, his eternal blessings. Keep the
sacred oracles of Heaven delivered unto you; Love, and pray for
those who appear to be your enemies.
21. Render kindness and love unto all, retaliate upon none,
though, being ignorant of their doings, they should seek to dis
tress and afflict your souls, imprison and abuse your bodies, and
destroy your property, that which ye have honestly gained by the
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 195
meritorious industry of your own hands ; yet, render good for evil,
and revile not upon those, either in word, thought or deed, who
may appear to wish you exterminated from the face of the earth.
22. But in the spirit of the Lamb, walk ye before all people,
-saith the Lord your God. And when ye are persecuted, by reason
of the testimony that I, your God, require you to maintain, or for
that life which I require you to live, consider those of my people
who have gone before you, in past dispensations, and let your souls
break forth in thankfulness, in prayer and humble supplication,
upon your bended knees before Me, in the midst of your enemies
saith the Lord, that the spirit of the Lamb of God depart not
from your souls : for in this spirit you will be protected from all
pollution and defilement.
23. Pray earnestly unto that Almighty God, who hath created of
one blood all nations of the earth, that He would stay his hand of
desolating judgments therefrom, that all might have space to repent,
and turn to the one true and living God, who giveth grace to the
humble, and to the contrite heart draweth near.
24. Pray that his blessings and protection may distill as the
dews of Heaven from on high, upon the inhabitants of earth.
25. Bend your knees in supplication and prayer, all ye inhabi
tants of Zion, in behalf of your fellow creatures; that the true
wisdom of an Almighty God may rest in the hearts of the rulers
of the earth ; that they may frame their laws in true justice, and
enforce them in equity.
2G. Mourn and lament, and pray for your fellow mortals, when
they are suffering under the heavy hand of adversity. Hear the
cries of the poor and distressed, that when ye are in distress, and
under affliction, God may hear your prayers and supplication.
27. Hearken to my voice, saith the Lord ; cease not to go forth
in solemn praises fo my name, your God and Creator, in thankful
ness for that privilege which, in the order of my divine goodness,
I have granted you to gain your souls' salvation while upon the
earth. Though you should be cast into prisons and dungeons, yet,
cease not to glorify my name, and pray for your persecutors, and
be kind unto those who treat you ill.
28. Yea, saith the spirit of God, pray earnestly, without ceasing,
that freedom of conscience may be granted throughout the earth,
that every human creature may worship their God and Creator, iu
196 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
sincerity of heart, according to the best light and understanding
given them.
29. Pray that the whole human family may receive blessings at
the hand of their God ; Bless, and curse not, saith the Lord. Ven
geance belongeth unto Me, not unto man ; therefore, be ye always
clothed with the spirit of Christ, the Lamb of God, who taketh
away the sin of the world.
30. In Me, saith the Lord, ye shall find rest to your souls; for
him whom I love, I chasten, that he may walk in the way of my
love, and depart not therefrom. Therefore, O ye children of Zion,
be wise in all your goings forth; be harmless and innocent in all
your doings, Amen.
PART IV.
WORDS OF THE FOURTH OR MORNING WATCH SPOK
EN BY THE PROPHET.
1. Of the day of God's visitation in mer
cy, to the inhabitants of earth.
4. Of peace and quietness.
5. Of a day of rejoicing.
10. Zion called to arise in rejoicing.
12. All people called to a banquet pre
pared in Zion.
14. All creation called upon to rejoice.
15. Free salvation to all tongues aud peo
ple.
20. Words of the Prophet Isaiah.
21. Short the time of slumbering.
23. Every heart required to read.
25. Warnings to Zion.
27. Of one only true path.
28. A state of humility, soon to become
the greatest consolation.
30. Of the manner of the Prophet's mis
sion.
31. Against discouragement.
1. Give ear and attention, all ye inhabitants of Zion, and hail,
all ye people from distant lands, who have come to visit her, saith
the Lord. The day of her visitation, in mercy from on high, hath
arriven.
2. The rays of morning light beam forth in smiles of pleasant
ness upon her ; the sparkling orbs, from the canopy of Heaven,
drop down their twinkling rays of light, in streams of consolation.
The morning sun ariseth in effulgent glory bright, and spreadeth
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 197
his wings to the four winds, and gracefully hovereth over Zion's
habitations.
3. The gloomy curtains of despair are withdrawn, the loathsome
mist of darkness is dispelled, by the light-giving rays from the
ethereal worlds on high.
4. Hark! hark! O ye Seraphs, and all ye stationed Archers
round her lovely borders. All animated creation breathes forth
songs of peace to Zion, and good will to the inhabitants of earth.
The glorious orb of light hath cast his silvery curtains around her
habitations.
5. Arise, arise, O Zion, the days of thy sorrow are fulfilled, and
the hours of thy mourning accomplished. Thou hast humbled thy
self to the dust, and laid low in sack-cloth and ashes. Thou hast
drank the bitter cup of adversity, and eaten, in obedience, the gall
of bitterness. Thou hast appeased the anger of thy God for thy
many transgressions, for thou didst suffer the full measure given
unto thee.
6. Cast off thy garments of mourning, and attire thyself in the
beautiful robes of joy and gladness ; go forth in the dances of them
that make merry, and rejoice in the God of thy salvation ; for
his anger is turned away, and his loving kindness doth now extend
throughout the whole creation.
7. Sound forth his joyful songs of praise, all ye his chosen peo
ple ; make a joyful noise before Him, and chant his holy name in
your songs of adoration.
8. Praise him, all ye people, praise him when you walk his holy
land ; praise him while you sleep beneath the arm of his protection.
9. And all ye fowls in heaven, beat your wings in joyful praises
to his name ; and let the beasts who tread and graze on earth be
neath, bleat forth praises to the same.
10. O thou Zion of my delight, saith the Lord, arise and stand
upon thy feet, for I have shod them with grace and truth, and they
will now walk in my paths, for they are ways of pleasantness, and
all my paths are peace. For I will hold you as the apple of mine
eye, and as the objects of my greatest delight. Yea, saith the Lord,
I will be tinto you a God, and ye shall be unto Me a people in
whom I can take great delight.
11. Cry aloud, O thou watchman of the morning, cry aloud The
Watch in Zion; for the Heavens smile upon her; in beautiful gar
ments is she arrayed, and decked with precious ornaments. The
198 SACRED BOLL AND BOOK
Sun of righteousness hath shone upon her, and clothed her in a
robe of perfect beauty; and hath placed an ensign of safety upon
her breast, which she shall show to all nations.
12. Come, come, saith the Lord, all ye from distant lands, and
isles at sea ; come, come saith your God, to the banquet I have pre
pared for you ; for in my Zion I take delight, and glorious shall be
her name throughout the land.
13. I will lay all nations low before thee, and in humility and
meekness shalt thou ever come before Me, saith thy God.
14. Rejoice with exceeding great joy ye heavens; break forth
into singing ye mountains ; ye hills and ye vallies leap with a glad
dened heart, and clap your hands for joy ; for his anger is turned
away, and in mercy he hath looked on Zion. In thee there shall
be no more sorrow, no more sighing, no more sickness, death or
pain ; but thy spirit shall be wholly absorbed in doing the will of
thy God ; and thy body shall be wholly delighted in supporting the
same. Thus shalt thou spend thy days on earth, rejoicing in the
God of thy immortality, whose hand doth now cover and shield thee
from all harm without and within.
15. Free salvation hath the Lord your God proclaimed to all na
tions, kindreds, tongues and people. He that feareth the Lord and
worketh righteousness, by keeping his commandments unbroken,
the same
is,
and forever shall be, accepted of Me, saith God, let
him be of whatever kindred, nation, clime or people he may.
16. For
I
am
a
God of justice, and not of partiality
;
and he
that strippeth, and maketh the sacrifice,
by
running the appointed
race, shall surely obtain the prize of salvation.
17. The offers of my gospel are not decreed for any individual
nation, kindred, tongue or people; but whosoever will, let. him
come and partake of the waters of life freely.
18. Here the thirsty soul may drink to thirst no more. Here
the wandering soul who
is
sick of sin, may find
a
place of rest.
Here the widow and fatherless children, shall find there
is
a
Zion
of God upon earth, wherein dwelleth the image of his kindness,
charity and goodness.
19. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou city of peace, and Zion of
my likeness, saith God, rejoice, and be comforted from thy sorrows;
for thou now dwellest in the midst of one eternal day, whose glory
divine and resplendent brightness shall never be withdrawn. In
the bowers of peace and under the arbors of safety, thou shalt eat
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 199
the fruit of the vine undisturbed; for there shall be none to make
thee afraid. And amen, even so let it be, crieth the fourth Archer.
WORDS OF THE PHOPHET ISAIAH.
20. O hear my words, ye leaders and people in Zion. In this
manner, though strange and singular to you, was I sent forth this
night, by the command of my God, with six archers, obedient to
my word ; four of whom have cried The Watch aloud, as I was com
manded to have them. The other two remain in silence, for their
hour is not yet come.
21. They that have ears, and can hear aright, let them wisely
use them. They that have a heart to understand the truth, lay it
open wide. For I declare unto you, saith the Prophet, in the name
of the Lord my God, that these things are sent forth for a weighty
and solemn warning, to every age and class; for the time is short
that ye will have your slumbers in peace, as ye now do.
22. But the cries of your own little ones, in the silent hours of
night, shall resound through your habitations ; for God hath yet a
controversy in Zion, and He Himself will settle
it,
in
his own time.
23. Let every heart read
;
spell not, but read, saith the Prophet,
and well understand what you read. Archers are used, when sent
of God for that purpose, to draw the bow, and let swiftly fly
the ar
rows of destruction.
24. He that hath understanding, let him be wise and use
it
aright
;
for the controversy will be great, before
it
is
ended. And
he that walketh uprightly, and speaketh his words discreetly, shall
not be taken in
a
snare of his own setting.
25. And all ye inhabitants of Zion,
I
warn you,
I
again most sol
emnly warn you,
in
the name of my God, to beware at what fountain
you drink, and with what spirit you unite. Try every spirit that
cometh unto you,
by
that rule which God hath given you; for never
did the Zion of God stand in
a
more dangerous situation, than in
the present moment
:
for to this point hath He brought her, and
through this point will He prove her.
26. Could you behold that which God hath showed unto me,
your tongues would stand in breathless silence, and rest would
depart from your bodies, while sleep did flee from your eyes.
27. One path, and one only path, hath the Lord your God placed
before you
:
and,
O
how straight, how straight and nartow
is
this
200 SACRED BOLL AND HOOK
path! None can walk, I say none can walk
it,
save those who lie
low in the valley of true tribulation of soul.
28. You will soon be able, my dear gospel friends, saith the
Prophet, to humble yourselves before God upon your knees; and
it
will not become
a
form, nor
a
ceremony; but
it
will be
a
place of
the greatest comfort and consolation that you can find
;
let not this
pass through your ears as empty sounds.
29. For the rolling of the At van se. ka'lon, will surely bring
it
on
you. O do receive
it
in mercy, that
it
may not speedily come in
judgment, and scatter your little ones to the four winds.
30.
I
have not come, saith the Prophet, to prophecy of myself
unto you
;
but
I
have come at the command of my God, to speak
the word He gave me, received through one of his holy Angels, who
standeth
by
my side. Did Zion's children pity themselves, with
that true pity that God their Heavenly Father doth, they all would
have repented in sack-cloth and ashes, long before this day.
31. But let not the words of your God discourage any soul
;
but
prepare to meet [the Lord] your God, in
a
garment owned of Him.
This, my mission at this time, with six of the Archers, who
bend the bow to force the arrow,
is
a
sign both solemn and awful
unto you, although ye do but in part understand
it;
but so far as
God will suffer me,
I
have told you.
32. The foregoing prophecies, saith the Angel, cried at the differ
ent watches of the night,
by
the Archers, at the command of the
Prophet Isaiah, you will but in
a
small measure be able to under
stand, in the present tense, as the different states of Zion therein rep
resented may be some hundreds of years apart. But you may gather
much good,
if
you will, from the solemn warnings contained in them.
33. So watch, and keep your lamps trimmed and burning, and
your garments unspotted, that the Lord, in truth, may find you pre
pared for his coming.
34. My everlasting love, saith the Prophet,
I
freely give to all
Zion's children. And understand my words
;
In this love there
is
no fleshly affections to recommend
it,
nor yawning looks of filthi-
ness
:
Amen, and even so let
it
be.
The word the Father gave me,
is
finished.
New Lebanon, December 23, 1842.
201
PART V.
A PROPHECY FROM THE PROPHET ISAIAH, COMMU
NICATED THROUGH TWO OF HIS ARCHERS, BEING
THE TWO WHOSE WORD WAS WITHHELD AT THE
TIME THE FOUR PRECEDING ARCHERS COM
MUNICATED THEIR WORD.
INTRODUCTION.
The following prophecies, saith the Prophet Isaiah, I am com
manded, by the God of Heaven, to declare to the nations of the
earth, through my other two Archers, who were not permitted to
sound when the other four did.
The fore part of the first, will embrace the present condition of
the inhabitants of earth, and the last part, the blessings and good
ness of the Almighty, if they hearken to his word.
The second part, the awful calamities, judgments and desolations
that are sure to follow, should they refuse to hearken to the voice
of the Lord their God, through humility and repentance.
PROPHECY.
2. Questions to the inhabitants of the
earth.
9. Questions concerning ihe first gospel
dispensation of the Son of God.
14. Of Christ's miracles.
18. Of their effect upon the human family.
51. Of Christ's labors on earth.
S3. Of the examples of God's wrath and
judgments upon the wicked.
31. Of the present wretched state of
mankind.
39. Of God's merciful offers.
44. Of the lamentable condition of man
kind.
66. Of abused and degenerated nature.
69. Of the leading objects of mankind.
75. Warnings.
78. Man called from nature's darkness,
and promised a blessing in obedience.
83. Of the restoration of peace on earth.
87. Of a dispensation of equity and justice.
91. Of promised blessings.
1. O Ha'lcn hu'mer, I'se vdlo! O earth, and all who dwell
thereon !
z
202 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
2. Where are your offerings of tithes, mint and cummin ?
3. Where is the incense of purity, and where are the oblations
of praise?
4. Where is the light of thy brightness and the shining of thy
glory?
5. Wast thou never illuminated by the brightest shining orb
of Heaven?
6. Was not the lamp of eternal life, filled with the oil of joy and
gladness, held forth for thy reception?
7. Was not a table spread by your Heavenly Father's command,
and sufficient placed thereon to feed the whole family of man?
8. Were not his watchful words of warning, from age to age
sent forth, of what his Almighty hand, in time to come would do ?
Did not the Lord Almighty Himself, send forth a beloved Son?
9. Did he not hold forth to the whole human family, the sceptre
of true righteousness, on just and equal terms ?
10. Was not the path clearly shown, wherein their feet must walk ?
11. Were not the greatest promises that had ever yet been made
to mortals, given by this, the Son of God, who was endowed with
power from on high, to fulfill that which he did promise ? Did not
this, the Living Branch of Eternal Righteousness, promise unto
those who would forsake all and follow him, that they should re
ceive an hundred fold in time, and in the world to come Eternal Life ?
12. Did he not warn all to fulfill all the weighty requirements of
the law, which had been given before him? and that Heaven and
earth should pass away before one jot or one tittle should fail ?
13. And did he not plainly declare, that he and his Father were
one? What plainer language could he use, to show his divine mis
sion into the world?
14. And did he not restore to life, and raise the dead, before
their eyes, that all might be convinced that he was sent from the
Eternal Power on High?
15. And moreover, Did he not, with a few small loaves and
fishes, feed thousands of hungry mortals ? And was there not in
fragments much remaining, when they had done?
16. Did not he walk on waters deep, and calm the tempestuous
wind ?
17. And did he not cast out devils, and suffer them into the
swine to go? And how oft, by his mighty power, did he heal the
sick, whom no physician could restore.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EA11TH. 203
18. And what did all these wonderful miracles do towards con
vincing the darkened race of man, that he came forth from God,
his Heavenly Father? Did they not revile him, and seek his life
from day to day ?
19. And did they not lay out the work of an Almighty God ac
cording to their own plans, and in their own way ?
29. And did they not prefer their own wisdom, to that which was
sent of God, from on High?
21. How oft would he have gathered the whole house of Israel,
under his holy wings, like as a hen gathereth her chickens 1 And
for this purpose, how oft did he exhort them, and kindest language
use, that they might be persuaded to turn to God, through repent
ance and humility, before they had out-stood the day of God's mer
cy unto them !
22. Why would they not take warning from those who had lived
in ages long before ? Had they ever known God's promises to fail ?
23. Had they not the example of God's wrath and judgment on
the wicked inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah, for the hardness
of their hearts in refusing to hearken to his word ?
24. And furthermore, Did they not have the example of the
haughty Ninevites, who, at the warning voice of the Lord, through
Jonah, humbled themselves in sack-cloth and ashes, and by this
means stayed the Almighty hand of judgment, so long as they
walked humbly before Him, notwithstanding, their days had been
numbered ?
25. And did not the Lord fulfill his word, when they returned
to their former wicked lives, by a total destruction of their city?
26. And had they not the example of righteous Noah before
them, and the fate of those who mocked and scorned his word?
27. Yet, what lessons from all these awful judgments did they
learn ?
28. Did they not pursue exactly the same path, in plans of their
own devising, instead of heeding the word of the Lord ?
29. Did they not pursue their own way, and crucify the Christ
of God, and put his followers to death?
39. And were not the judgments that had been foretold, exe
cuted upon them accordingly ? All truth declares the affirmative.
31. O wretched state of man, that now envelopes the whole
earth ! who hath, from the earliest ages, sought to withstand his
Creator God; who hath refused all offers at his hand of mercy,
204 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
love and truth ; and madly hath pursued his own course, in de
struction's broad road of sin and death.
32. The dispensations of his Maker's goodness, sent forth to him
in streams of loving kindness, he hath trampled under his feet as
vain and worthless offers, designed in hearts of men, and portrayed
by lips of mortals.
33. In no age of time that is past, nor in modern days that now
are, have mankind whom God created, ever been willing, as a body,
to receive, own and acknowledge, the Great Supreme First Cause
of all creation's vast extent, when in his wisdom He saw fit, in mer
cy, to reveal Himself lo man.
34. The blind and bigoted worms of dust, have never been pleas
ed nor satisfied with the way and manner in which He chose to
reveal Himself.
35. The two gospel dispensations of his eternal grace, He hath
sent forth to earth ; and the door of saving grace and full salvation,
is opened free to man ; A salvation that can save in the present tense.
36. Though many were called, in both dispensations of his ever
lasting goodness, yet, few were willing to pay the price required,
that they might become the elect and chosen of the Lord.
37. Therefore hath man, in all ages, chosen his own way; and
his Maker, God, hath suffered his delusion; he hath chosen the
ways of death unto his soul, and the wages thereof he must receive,
as a just recompense for his determined folly.
38. O sorrowful earth ! Dost thou consider the time that is past,
and the day that is gone, wherein the Lord thy God would have
clothed thee in beautiful garments of peace, but thou wouldst not
receive at his hand ?
39. And all ye people who dwell in her, how oft would his All-
powerful hand, in mercy have gathered you, from the earliest ages
to the present day ! Yea, how oft would He have gathered you un
der the wings of his divine providence and blessing !
40. How oft would you have been fed at his hand from the eter
nal stores of his goodness ! How oft would He have watered your
thirsty souls, from his eternal springs of life !
41. And how oft and continually, would He have caused the en
livening dews of his everlasting blessings to drop down from the
Heavens above, with smiles of his approbation and pleasure, upon
the inhabitants of earth below!
42. And how much more honorable and exalted would man's
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 205
situation have been, in the eyes of his Creator God, than what
it now is !
4'3. "Would not his God now have said unto him, Thou hast an
swered the purpose for which I created thee, and my blessing of
peace and mantle of love, shall never depart from thy borders?
Thou didst receive the watch-word of warning, sent forth through
my servants to thee ; and thereby, at my coming, thou wast prepared
for my reception, and denied Me not.
44. But O thou perishing earth ! whose inhabitants languish in
sin, gToping their way in shadows of death !
45. Defiled in heart and polluted in hand, doth thy God behold
thee. The garment thy fathers did wear, by heirship hath now
become thine. The cup which thy fathers did drink, is now filled
to overflowing for thee: for by all that hath passed for thousands of
years, thou shouldest have learned that the fear of the Lord was
required of thee.
46. For his infinite goodness, in mercy and love, unto thee hath
been extended through all preceding ages, unto the present day,
in which He hath accomplished the last and final display of his
goodness and grace to mortals on earth, in the setting up of his
kingdom which is never more to be destroyed.
47. O inhabitants of earth, lamentable earth ! your God and
Creator hath called you in mercy ; but you have answered in the
spirit of rebellion, and for his goodness ye have requited Him evil.
48. Time after time hath He proved you from the foundations
of the world. And as oft ye have hardened your hearts in rebellion
and stiffened your necks in stubbornness, against his holy will,
until you have become clothed in blackness and despair, and en
shrouded in the shades of death.
49. Your garments are moth-eaten, your shoes are worn out, and
nought have you on to cover your nakedness; your shame doth ap
pear to all who behold you.
50. Instead of peace and quietness dwelling within your borders,
wars and contention, bloodshed and carnage mark your footsteps.
Instead of love and good will to each other, hearts filled with an
imosity and revenge, and hands stained in your brother's blood.
51. Instead of keeping the golden rule of the Savior of men,
doing unto others as ye would have them do to you, ye have turned
it square around ; doing to others as ye would not have them do
to you.
206 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
52. Instead of just weights, the deceitful and fraudulent balance
is used, always in favor of self, at the expense of the just rights of
your brother.
53. Instead of correct measures, scanted ones when going out,
and pressed down ones when coming in.
54. Instead of love, union and peace, whose beautiful graces,
among brethren and sisters, are as the sweet smelling roses of Sharon,
are found growing the thorn, the thistle and the brier; or pride,
strife and ambition.
55. Instead of cultivating the principles of peace at home, and
nourishing the same abroad, what do we behold, but schools of vice,
to learn the arts of war.
56. Had this been, when my Master was on earth, says the Arch
er, it would not have been so far behind the age.
57. But now, it is at least, eighteen hundred years behind the
age, wherein God intended man should enjoy, if he would, peace
within and peace without, peace at home and peace abroad.
58. And it is now more than eighteen hundred years, since the
Son of God commanded all to love one another, and said that his
servants would not fight; his kingdom was a kingdom of peace,
and he that taketh the sword should perish by the sword.
59. But what do the present works of man declare? Are not
hosts of armies trained on land, and fleets afloat at sea, watching
an opportunity to cause the blood from human veins to flow?
60. And how can mortals, in this way, prepare to meet their God,
save to drink the cup of his wrath and indignation, in rolling
strokes of judgment? And this for their works' sake, both past and
present, they surely do deserve.
61. And what is now beheld on earth, among the sons of men?
Do they present themselves to worship a pure and holy God, who
will accept no offerings from any, save those whose hearts are sin
cere, and hands undefiled 1 Or do they think the God they worship
will not behold their awful and filthy works of abomination ?
62. Can the image of God's creation, think to visit, for indul
gence, the beastly and filthy stews of vice, then wipe their lips, and
say, I've done no wrong? And go into the place of worship, think
ing to make offerings to a pure and holy God !
. 63. Awful ! awful indeed ! cry the Angels of the Most High God !
Awful, awful will be their judgments on the earth, if into the order
of nature's path, mankind do not return.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 207
64. By vile corruption, man hath sunk his soul in darkest shades
of night. The law of nature is set at naught, to gratify his own
insatiable propensities of lust; and by this means he draws down
the judgment of Heaven upon his own head, for violating his Ma
ker's laws, which are right, just and good, and agreeable unto which,
his offspring, in a natural state, was to have been begotten.
65. Had this been kept, man, at this stage of his existence on
the earth, would not have inherited from his progenitors, a curse
through life, by hereditary diseases and raging humors, which cover
his body with blains and sores, from the crown of his head to the
sole of his foot.
66. And what is now beheld among the sons of men, but the
visible marks of an abused and degenerated nature, handed down
from parents to children, and increased in every generation !
67. And thus, in this state and condition of man, his soul is in-
wrapped in darkness, and his mortal body clothed in disease; and
still he is pursuing the downward road with rapid march and quick
ened pace, to utter destruction's gate.
68. And instead of being found by their God, each pursuing the
path of true honesty and uprightness, dealing justly, loving mercy,
and walking humbly before the Lord, how different their situation
and pursuit.
69. Is it not the leading effort of the human family to get gain,
and that without right, or true honesty ? Are they not willing to
traverse both sea and land to trade and traffic, and by unjust spec
ulations heap up to themselves silver and gold? Are not many in
ventions sought out by man to procure gain without right ?
70. Are not unjust reckonings and deceitful weights constantly
employed for this purpose?
71. Is not man anxious to become rich, and popular in the eyes
of his fellow beings, without putting his own hands to honest indus
try, day by day, to obtain it?
72. Are they now, as a body, found honestly tilling the soil with
their own hands, and gaining their bread by the sweat of their face?
Is each one sitting in peace under his vine, and under his fig tree,
and none to make him afraid?
73. Or are they now found in tumult and confusion, all over the
face of the whole earth, both rulers and people, not considering
that they have departed from the law of their God, until even the
209 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
providential hand of his blessing is withdrawn, and they left to be
confounded in their own doings ;
74. While the heavy and desolating judgments of an Almighty
God are about to burst upon them, as destroying blasts on every side!
75. But O, inhabitants of earth, consider the greatness and good
ness of your God ; for when ye justly deserved the severest of pun
ishment for running, ages and ages in forbidden paths, the arm of
tender kindness, by your God and Creator, was stretched out,
clothad in mercy and compassion, to all who would hearken to his
word. Even to-day, after so long a time, if ye will hearken and
obey his voice, He promises you mercy at his hand; He whose
promises fail not, whether given in mercy, or in judgment.
76. Turn, turn O earth and all ye inhabitants thereon; humble
yourselves to the dust, and put on your garments of mourning:
from the king on his throne to those in humblest walks of life ;
for your God is merciful, and will be touched with your cries and
lamentations, in true obedience to his word.
77. O cast from thee thy tattered garments, and be clothed upon
with the mercies of thy God. Cease ye longer to grope your ways
encompassed by midnight darkness. Come forth of his prisons,
and be loosed of his bands, that ye may not be holden of him, and
ye shall become as fruitful fields by the side of pleasant waters.
78. Come ye forth from nature's darkness, and ye shall walk in
the light of the luminous orb, at the meridian of day. Come
forth to Him who hath called you ; in songs of praises and thanks
giving, adore the God of eternal mercies.
79. Yea, saith the Lord, instead of briers, thorns and thistles,
thou shalt become as a pleasant garden filled with flowers and lilies,
in the midst of a fruitful field ; whose fragrance shall be strength
to the weak, and courage to the way-faring man.
80. The king and the prince, the rulers and people, the rich and
the poor, the strong and the weak, the halt and the blind, can now
unite in one voice of thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise to the
God of their salvation, whose anger is now turned into mercy, and
judgments into blessings of peace and prosperity; who maketh the
desert to flourish, and the barren land a fruitful field, yielding in
creasing bounties to the tillers thereof.
81. In the strength of your God ye shall run, but shall not be
weary ; and by his power ye shall walk, but shall not faint ; for by
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 209
his strength ye shall be supported ; and in the sincerity of your
hearts, his Almighty power shall sustain you.
82. Your implements of war and destruction shall no more be
stained in human blood, but shall be changed into implements to
till your land to produce your daily bread. Your hands shall be
cleansed, and your garments washed from the stains of human
blood, no more to be defiled therewith.
83. Your fleets at sea shall not float to distant lands, to butcher
and destroy the objects of my creation; but they shall guard upon
the rolling deep against all unlawful prizes by any of the out-lawed
race of man.*
84. And your standing armies shall be released to cultivate the
soil, and earn their bread by daily toil.
85. Yet, laws of justice shall pervade, both by sea and land;
And I, your God, will this support by my Almighty hand.
86. And they that were clothed in darkness, and bound in the
prisons of death, are now arrayed in beautiful garments, shining
with honor and glory, glowing with brightest gems of true obedi
ence to the voice of the Lord their God, who called in love, and
they hearkened in mercy ; whose paths have now become the paths
of peace, and whose ways can now be termed the ways of true
pleasantness; whose feet no more pursue the paths of death to shed
innocent blood, or walk the winding course, that leadeth to the
house of her who keepeth open doors, for common prostitution.
87. Now, such as once did spend their strength and lives to grat
ify the vilest passions of a depraved nature, are turned to spend
their days in moral deeds of virtue.
88. Such as once their persons did adorn, and decorate with
gayety to attract, for filthy lucre, do now, in modest plainness,
adorned with goodly virtue, pursue the even tenor of their way,
in laudable pursuits.
89. Now, he that once thought himself a potentate on earth, to
rule as with a rod of iron, over his fellow beings ; who deigned not
to speak, nor in any way to associate as a fellow being, with any,
save those whom he considered equal with himself in opulence and
splendor, doth now come down upon a level with the humble
* This law is designed for people in the state of nature, and is necessary to protect the
innocent from lawless violence. But where the dominion of Christ is established in
souls, and where the law of grace reigns, the law of nature is thereby superseded.
210 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
peasant, and pursue, in quietness, the common grades of life, along
the paths of true contentment.
90. lie that did once make it his greatest study to practice fraud
upon his fellow beings, that he might be possessed of that to which
he had no right, doth now make restitution, and mend his froward
life, by daily pursuing habits of industry and virtue ; having the
principles of honesty, daily his pursuit.
91. The once lion-hearted-like and ferocious spirit in man, that
delighted to hear the thundering cannons roar, and did glory in
deeds of blood and the destruction of human life, and in making
thousands of widows and fatherless children to suffer for the want
of bread, and drag out a disconsolate and wretched life, doth now
shudder at the very thought of the deeds in which he once gloried,
and for which his nation's voice of approbation did loudly resound
in acclamations of honor to his name : but now, of such awful
deeds no one can bear the thought.
92. Thy fields, that once were covered with the slain who fell
in battle, and whose ground was drenched in human blood, have
now become the habitations of peace, cultivated by the hands of
true peace-makers, bearing the ensign of love and good will to all
mankind.
93. And in your cities which were destroyed by fire and sword,
shall a plant of true righteousness spring up, and it shall grow and
flourish, and beam forth its rays of light, as the morning sun, when
glowing in its effulgent brightness.
94. Therefore, fear God and keep his commandments, all ye in
habitants of earth, that his out-stretched arm of mercy may go with
you through time, and support you in eternity. His laws of nature
keep, and they will protect you in that state, until He sendeth forth
a further word to you, which will be in his own way, time and sea
son. Mortal clay knoweth not from whence it will proceed.
95. The state herein described, saith the Archer's voice, are
promises from on High, and will surely come to pass upon that na
tion and people who will humble themselves before the Lord their
God , and heed his warning voice herein contained. Amen.
211
PART VI.
OF THE AWFUL JUDGMENTS AND DESOLATION THAT
GOD HAS PURPOSED SHALL COME UPON MAN, IF
HE HEEDETH NOT HIS WARNING VOICE, AND
TURNETH NOT FROM THE WAYS OF EVIL.
2. Of the Lord's controversy.
5. Great the cup of earth's punishment.
11. All the disobedient to fall in one com
mon grave of rain.
17. Man's ways end in destruction.
18. Of God's morning watch-word.
19. How treated.
22. The earth ripe for harvest.
25. The Lord entreateth man to repent.
28. Of salvation by the merits of Christ.
1. Prophecy aloud unto the nations of the earth, and declare my
judgments unto them, O thou Prophet of my name, saith the Lord ;
through thy Archer proclaim unto them.
2. Truly hath the God of Heaven declared a controversy upon
earth ; a controversy with all nations and kingdoms, and a contro
versy throughout his Zion.
3. O thou Harlot and abomination of the earth, that spreadest
thy iniquities over many waters, and coverest the face of the earth
with thy lewdness; Thou hast heard the warning voice of Almighty
God, but hearkened not; neither would, so much as for a moment,
incline thine ear or open, thine heart to understand.
4. Had one fifth part of the warnings which have been given
unto thee, been given unto Sodom and Gomorrah, they would have
lain low in humility before God, that his awful judgments might
have been stayed from their city, and their lives prolonged on the
earth.
5. Therefore great must be thy punishment ; the cup of trouble
and affliction which thou hast filled to others, shall be filled to thee
double. The abominations and pollutions with which thou hast
covered the earth, shall sink with thee, as thy companions, into th#
lowest depths of Hell.
6. Desolation shall stand in thy gate, and destruction shall stare
thee in thy face. The cries and shrieks of the tormented in hell,
212 SACKED ItOLL AND BOOK
shall be thy continual food ; for thou repentest not at my warning,
and I no longer hearken to thy cry, saith the Lord.
7. O thou high and self-exalted kingdom, who hath gloried in
thy deeds of blood, and vaunted thyself in horrid deeds of cruelty;
who trusted in thy own arm of flesh for strength, and heeded not
my warning voice; who hath enriched thy coffers with gold and
silver, at the expense of others' rights and comforts ;
8. Thou shalt drink the full draught of my judgments. Though
thou art exalted in the highest pitch of grandeur, yet, I will surely
bring thee to the lowest depths of ruin.
9. I called thee in mercy, but thou wouldst not hearken. I sent
messengers unto thee, to warn thee of thy danger, but thou didst
deride, mock, and shamefully entreat them. The time that I did
give thee to prepare, in low humility, for my coming, thou didst
put far in the future tense.
10. The sun shall be darkened over thy head, and the earth shall
roar in convulsions under thy feet; until she shall swallow down,
and devour without mercy, many portions of thy wicked and ex
alted stations.
11. The high and the low, the rich and the poor, shall fall in
one common grave of ruin. And upon your fleets at sea will I
pour forth my fury, which shall dash them one against another,
until they are buried in the bosom of the deep.
12. I will also suffer, saith the Lord, nations and kingdoms to
destroy ono another. I will take peace from the earth ; and pes
tilence, sword and famine, shall consume the inhabitants thereof.
13. For my controversy on earth is great, and I shall not with
draw my Almighty hand, until I have accomplished the work which
I purpose.
14. Monarchs shall be confounded ; kings seized with conster
nation, and the rulers among the people, be silent through fear ;
For all surrounding objects are overspread with silent gloom,
And seem to speak forth loudly, the end to which they are doomed.
15. Your God is a God of justice, of truth and righteousness;
and his work of judgment, in his own time and season, He will
accomplish.
10. Give ear unto my voice, all ye people dwelling on the earth.
Why have ye chosen the way of death, misery, torment and destruc
tion, instead of the way of life and peace ?
17. The way that seemeth right unto man, or most agreeable to
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 213
his natural feelings, is sure to end in destruction and death, and in
the banishment of the soul far from the presence of his God.
18. In mercy, saith the Lord, I sent unto her inhabitants the
morning watch-word of my coming ; not from the starry regions
above, but in a low, humble manner, quite out of sight of the great
and the high ; and with this, my word, the most solemn warnings,
that desolation would follow their refusal, should they not heark
en to the voice of Him who came forth from the Eternal Father.
19. But all these entreaties prevailed to effect nought but mad
ness and derision; laughing to scorn my sacred name, and the
means by which I made known my will to them.
20. Yet, in my tender mercies did I send forth my work the sec
ond time on earth, and gave unto man a clear understanding, that
it was my last display of grace to him; yet, he believed Me not, for
my manner of coming did not agree with his own exalted ideas.
21. And now again doth the Lord your God declare unto all na
tions, without reserve, that if ye would of his mercies receive,
ye must hearken to his voice.
22. For the time is' come that the earth and her inhabitants, are
ripened for harvest ; her cup of wickedness and abomination is
filled to overflowing.
23. But, as a God of mercy, love, righteousness and truth, I
send my solemn watch-words of warning throughout the habitable
earth, that he that will hear, may hear; and he that will forbear,
may forbear.
24. For I will surely meet all nations in their own paths ; and
nought shall turn my justice, to the right or to the left.
25. Come gather near unto your God, O ye inhabitants of earth,
put away the heart that is hardened in sin and wickedness ; put
away your dead and stupid luke-warm feelings ; seek after God,
with all your soul, might, mind and strength.
26. He is found of them that seek Him early, who are willing to
sacrifice all the pleasures of time, to obtain his favor and mercy.
But such as are wholly absorbed in the cares of this world, they
will seek when it is too late.
27. They who feel they have no need to labor for repentance,
stand on the pinnacle of destruction, and they know it not.
28. They who feel that they can be saved from desolation by
the merits of Christ, without exerting themselves to do, daily, the
214 SACRED KOLL AND BOOK
works which he required, will find that they are trusting in a false
hope.
29. They that think these warnings are only words, and will
never be fulfilled, will see their great mistake, when it is too late to
remedy the evil.
30. They that call upon the name of the Lord, in word and not
in deed, are mockers of his eternal goodness. That true repent
ance which God your Heavenly Father requires, is to cleanse the
heart, by ceasing to do ill and learning to do well ; by putting away
the cause, that the effect may cease : Ameu.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
THE WORD OF THE HOLY AND MIGHTY ANGEL OF
THE LORD, WHO HATH READ THE SACRED ROLL,
AND THAT CONTAINED IN THIS BOOK, FOR
MORTAL HAND TO WRITE.
1. Of the attendance of the Holy Angel.
4. Of the four mighty Angels.
5. The Angels' names.
7. The Angels' declaration.
10. The Angels' work throughout the earth.
11. Human wisdom cannot scan the work
of God.
12. Requirement of God to man.
14. Of special judgments.
15. Mortals required candidly to consider,
before judging of this work.
1G. The Angel testifies to the truth of the
word contained in this Roll.
18.
25.
Sufferings of those who are
Instruments in the hands of God.
Speculation disallowed.
The power manifested in this work,
the same that inspired the Prophets
of old.
God's people subject to his will.
All who attend the service of God's
people, required to show respect and
reverence.
Requirements of God concerning this
sacred Roll.
1. I now declare unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people,
saith the holy and mighty Angel, that I, in presence of three more
holy Angels, (who together with me, have previously been commis
sioned by God, our Heavenly Father, to read the word which He
gave us, for each quarter of the earth,) have strictly attended, ac
cording to the appointed times in each day, fourteen days, to read,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAUTH. 215
correctly, this Sacred Roll, and the book of the three first Wit
nesses contained therein, with all the prophecies hare inserted, for
mortal hand to write ; whose pen I have guided, and whose hours
I have directed, by night and by day, according to the will of
my God.
2. The work is now accomplished ; and it remains for the in
habitants of earth, to prove, in the sight of their God and his holy
Angels, whether they be objects of his mercy, or whether they be
the objects of his wrath and heavy judgments, which will lay waste
their habitations, and desolate the land.
3. My name, saith the mighty Angel of light, power and truth,
I will now make known unto you, in my own language; also the
names of the other three, in their own languages.
4. We are four of the holy and mighty Angels of God, sent from
before his throne, to pass and re-pass through the four quarters of
the earth ; and many are the holy Angels that bear us company.
And thus we shall visit the earth in partial silence, as this Roll
goes forth, until we have marked the door posts of all, as our God
hath commanded, who shall humble themselves and repent at his
word, by proclaiming a solemn fast, and cease from their awful
crimes of wickedness, and turn to Him in righteousness.
5. My name, says the Angel whose quarter is eastward, and
stands as first, is HOLY ASSAN' DE LA JAH'. The second,
whose part is second, and quarter westward, is MI'CHAEL VAN'
CE VA' NE. The third, whose part is third, and quarter north
ward, is GA' BRY VEN' DO VAS' TER REEN'. The fourth,
whose part is fourth, and quarter southward, is VEN DEN' DE
PA' ROL JEW LE JAH'.
6. These are our names, in our own tongues, and we are sent on
earth to prepare the way for the Most High ; and the whole human
family will be convinced of this, before the final event of our mis
sion shall arrive.
7. And although we know, that the words of this book will be con
sidered by many, as- being produced in the wildest of enthusiasm,
madness, blasphemy and fanaticism ; and by others, as solemn, sa
cred and awful truths; yet do we declare unto all flesh, that this
Roll and Book contains the word of the God of Heaven, your Al
mighty Creator, sent forth, direct from his eternal throne, now, in
this your day.
8. And by this word shall every soul on earth be judged, in
216 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
mercy or in judgment, whether they believe or disbelieve. We are
not sent forth, by our God to arguo with mortals ; but to declare his
word and his work. And we furthermore declare unto all the in
habitants of earth, that they have no time to lose, in preparing for
their God.
9. If there be any who cannot understand to their souls' satisfac
tion, (though the requirements are plain,) yet, they may apply
wheresoever they believe they can be correctly informed.
10. Though our work is swift and mighty, yet in mercy do we
go forth; firstly, throughout the earth, and record the hearts, the
words, and the doings of the children of men.
11. As a new era from the Lord God of Heaven with all the in
habitants of earth, hath now commenced, and no human wisdom or
mortal power, by natural calculation, can tell the order of his
work, any further than He sees fit in his own wisdom, to reveal
it unto mortals, that they may be prepared, day by day, to do his
will and pleasure ; and then they are sure that his protection will
overshadow them, and they will run and not be weary ; yea, they
will walk in the commandments of their God, and faint not, saith
the Holy Angel.
12. What God now requires of the inhabitants of the earth, is to
return immediately to the strictness of the law and order of nature,
in all their goings forth. This you can all easily understand ; it is
that which is required in your Sacred Bibles, and that which is re
quired in this Sacred Roll; that is; Deal justly, love mercy, walk
humbly, fear God and keep his commandments; do by others as
you would have them do unto you ; labor to dwell in peace, and break
off as fast as possible, from the practice of going to war, and shed
ding each other's blood.
13. Indulge not the vile passions Of nature, further than is nec
essary to propagate your own offspring. And cease, says the Angel,
from that habit which is accursed in the sight of your God, of
keeping houses for debauchery and prostitution.
14. For I, the Angel of the Almighty, will surely mark all such
places for utter destruction, if they repent not at the warning of
their God, by ceasing from these habits of abomination.
15. Let mortals, before judging or condemning, candidly read
this Sacred Book from beginning to end ; then pause, and consider
whether it contradicts, in any way, the sacred writings of the scrip
ture, or is in any way prejudicial to the principles of your Lord and
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 217
Savior, in his first appearing ; or in any way tends to operate against
the principles of justness, morality, virtue, uprightness and good
ness, or the well being of any good and wholesome society.
16. I proclaim to all people, saith the Angel, that this is written
as handed unto me from the throne of the Almighty. I have not
suffered the inspired writer to have recourse to any books, save the
Bible, to transcribe those passages of scripture, word for word, here
inserted, as the Lord commanded me to have done, that mankind
might see, in substance, what He required of them in past dispen
sations, and how exceedingly contrary to his requirements they
had gone.
17. But I have compelled the Instrument to draft this, word for
word, as I read it unto him, as ye would transcribe a writing by
the 'sight of your natural eyes ; save the former is brought to the
view and hearing of the spirit yet in a mortal body, by the imme
diate influence and interposition of the Almighty, (through us,
his holy Angels;) while the latter is transcribed by the direction
of the natural organs of sight only.
18. But the sufferings of soul that God requires instruments to
pass through, to prepare them for this holy and sacred calling, of
speaking or writing by the immediate influence of direct revelation,
is that which no tongue or pen can correctly describe.
19. For they who are called to heavy duties in this line, saith the
Angel, are required to feel an inexpressible something, to them the
nearest like a consuming fire or breath, which runneth all over and
through them, both soul and body, until they have done the duty
that God requireth of them [in that line.]
20. But mortals are not allowed to make these things matters of
speculation, although they appear to every human being, strange
and unaccountable, especially so, at their first acquaintance ; and
always to those who possess any degree of the fear of God, or
the presence of his Angels, strikingly solemn, though many times
cheerful.
21. This much, says the Angel, I was required by the Almighty,
at this time, to make known to the children of men, respecting this
strange, and, (to mortals,) singular manifestation that He has com
menced on the earth in these latter days.
22. This is the same spirit, though brought still more familiar and
accessible to man, if he truly walks uprightly before his God, that
dictated the word, through the mouths of the prophets, in ancient
218 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
days. And they that are God's people, in deed and in truth, would
sooner lay down their lives than violate his will, when made known
to them.
23. And they worship Him by assembling themselves together, in
whatsoever place He may appoint, regardless of their own personal
convenience; whether it be upon the mountains, or in the vallies;
in the day, or in the night ; and this they will always do, in true sin
cerity of heart, possessing his holy fear.
24. And all such as attend, whether belonging to the body so
assembled, or as spectators, are required by the laws of their God,
to attend with sincere hearts, and show respect to his holy worship,
though it may look never so strange and singular to them. For
stranger still, God's work will appear among the children of men,
saith the holy and mighty Angel of God. Again I say, fear the
Lord your God.
25. I now require the inspired writer of this Roll and Book,
firstly, to sign his name as an Instrument, regardless of all present,
or after consequences ; and then, he may write a few words, ex
pressing his own feelings, in short, and sign his own name to
it,
says the Angel.
26. And God does also require, that
a
goodly number of both
male and female instruments, who have had that indisputable evi
dence of his Almighty and supernatural power, operating directly
upon both soul and body, to direct their speech and to guide
their pens, that they are ready,
if
God suffereth
it
so to be, to
seal the truth of what
is
herein contained, with their own blood, as
martyrs to his cause, should also sign their names as witnesses.
27. First, briefly expressing their own feelings, in short, saith
the Angel
;
for to the inhabitants of the earth this will appear ex
tremely strange, and incredible to their understanding, at first.
It
will feel to many, like mortals blaspheming the name of the
Deity
;
therefore, other witnesses, than the inspired writer, of the
reality of this work, and its truth, are necessary.
28. And
if
mankind will wait
a
little season, says the Angel,
these operations of the spirit of God, will be brought more to
their understandings.
Inspired Writer,
Philemon Stewart.
219
SUPPLEMENTARY ARTICLE BY THE WRITER.
1. Beloved fellow mortals, I consider myself a poor worm of the
dust; in my creation no better than any of you; and if in any way,
I have found favor in the sight of my God, it has been by and
through the means of this one true and sin-destroying gospel,
plainly stated in the foregoing pages, which I embraced in my
childhood, and have sincerely labored, according to the best of my
understanding, to walk agreeable to its requirements, unto the
present day.
2. I am now at the meridian age of life, being in possession, as
it respects letter learning, of hardly a common country school edu
cation : but my labor, through life, has been devoted to the gospel,
and sincerely to obey the call of God, when made known by indis
putable evidence, regardless of all personal consequences.
3. And so it has been, in the duty to which I have been called
by the power of the Most High, as a mortal instrument in the hands
of Holy Angels, in writing the foregoing sacred pages ; the real
ity and truth of which, I stand ready at any time, if so suffered
by the Almighty, and my fellow mortals require
it,
to seal with
my blood.
4. These sayings, contained in this book, are made to me far
more real, than any thing possessing flesh and blood
;
and never
could
I
submit myself as an instrument, in
a
matter of such vital
importance to the human family, and to my own soul also, until
this evidence was brought clearly to my view; and then,
I
no
longer dared withstand, for fear of the immediate judgments of God,
and of an eternal banishment from his presence.
5.
It
is
not my province or duty, to labor to convince my fellow
beings, that the contents of the foregoing pages are the subjects of
divine and immediate revelation, from the Most High, through his
holy and mighty Angels, for they will prove themselves; but
it
is
my duty, and that which the Holy Angel requireth me to do, to
declare, in the sincerity of my heart, to all the inhabitants of earth,
that such
is
the solemn truth of God, and such
it
will forever
remain.
6. And
I
do solemnly testify, that no natural wisdom, either of
man or of woman, has dictated
a
sentence herein contained
;
and
220 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
that I, the mortal agent, used in the hands of the Angel to pen this
word, knew nought of the subject before me, only as opened and
brought forward, word after word, by the mighty Angel.
7. And who is there among you all, my beloved fellow beings,
that would dare withstand the requirements of a righteous and holy
God, when brought thus plain before you, both by sight and feel
ings? not feelings wrought up by excitement, into wildness and
fanaticism, nor feelings of self exaltation, to which the unsubdued
passions and nature of man are so exceedingly prone, wishing to
sound his name abroad in the world; but by such feelings as come
down from God, out of Heaven, and rest upon the soul, as a con
suming fire, until the requirement be fulfilled.
8. And be assured, all ye who may read this word, that I feel my
nothingness, and unworthiness in the sight of my God ; and on Him
does my poor soul daily depend for mercy and protection, as much
as any of you. And I would much rather, if this would answer
the mind and will of my God, never to have my personal name go
abroad upon the earth; For if there be honor due, it is unto God,
not unto man, who is at best, a poor worm of the dust, before God,
his Creator.
9. Consider, O my fellow mortals below, that we are all alike in
the hands of a just and holy God ; and, that we are all created with
immortal souls, which are accountable unto Him for every deed
done in the body, while passing through the scenes of time, in this
terrestrial state, whether they be good or whether they be evil.
This our Lord and Savior plainly taught when he was upon earth.
10. Remember and bear in mind, my dear friends, that I, (the
inspired writer,) have been called by the irresistible power of God,
to act only as an agent under his Almighty influence, in conveying
this word to all my fellow beings upon earth, who are, in their
creation, as precious in the sight of a just and righteous God, as I,
or any other one. But all professed christendom should bear in
mind, that God, from the foundation of the world, hath always no
ticed mankind for their works' sake ; whether they merited mercy,
or whether they merited judgment.
11. And I do solemnly testify to all the human family, in the fear
of that holy God who created me with immortality, that the society
of people in which I live, either Leaders or any of its members,
have had nothing to do in controlling and directing this word to
the nations of the earth ; and that I, the inspired writer, have not
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 221
been suffered by the power of the Mighty Angel, to alter or vary
from what he brought forth, whether it was in reproof and admoni
tion, directly to the society, or to the inhabitants of the earth.
12. But I have been compelled to write the foregoing pages, as
held forth, by the Mighty Angel, to my view, and read aloud in my
presence, without regard to any particular sect or denomination
now in existence. And I do furthermore solemnly testify to the
whole human family, that the testimonial evidences, which here fol
low, respecting this Sacred Roll, word and work, to the inhabitants
of earth, were written, many of them, more than a hundred miles
apart ;
13. And that the inspired writers, had no knowledge, by any
earthly communication, of the work and operations of the spirit of
God in distant branches of the society, respecting this very Roll
and Book, which is now, by the kind and tender mercy of an All-
powerful and wise God, placed before us, that he that runneth may
read and understand ; and wisely fear that God, by whom he was
created with an immortal soul ; and before whom, I, with the rest
of my fellow mortals in time, must shortly appear at his eternal
bar of justice ; where we shall all receive the just reward of our
works.
14. And I do testify to all the children of men, that my soul feels
perfect peace and quietness as it respects this work; for I have an
indisputable evidence within my own soul, that the hand of God
hath done this ; not the hand of man, or the power of evil.
15. And I do daily fear and love that God, by walking softly in
his presence, who hath called me, with the rest of my dear breth
ren and sisters, (companions in tribulation,) from the paths of sin
and death, to walk in the way of true gospel light, and life eternal,
where a salvation through the spirit of the blessed Savior, is found,
that is able to save the soul from sinful works in the present tense.
16. Where souls can walk, day by day, in true obedience to the
revealed will of God ; and by this means are prepared at any time
to do his will on earth, or to leave their house of clay, and enter
eternity at his call, justified before Him, whose summons must
shortly sound in every heart to bid farewell to earth and all its fleet
ing glories, and close their eyes to all her transitory enjoyments.
17. To be enabled to do my duty day by day, in the true fear of
the Lord, regardless of all other personal, or private considerations,
is all that my soul can pray for, ask or desire ; Amd I do earnestly
242 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
entreat of my fellow beings, and of every reasonable mind, candid
ly to read the foregoing sacred pages from beginning to end, and
seriously consider, and ponder well the subjects therein contained ;
and this do, unclothed of prejudice from any quarter. Do not be
hasty, beloved fellow mortals, in casting forth epithets of scorn and
derision, before you know even the record of that solemn and
weighty word, contained in this Roll and Book.
18. Give place in your hearts for sober and solemn reflections;
look not at this denomination, or that; but look with me, to that
God who gave us being ; and to that sacred and solemn impression
of eternal truth, which his Almighty hand hath stamped upon the
foregoing pages.
19. And in the tenderest feelings of love and good will, to all my
brethren and sisters of the human family, and in obedience to the
direction of the Holy Angel, do I sound forth these sentences
unto you, my companions and sojourners in time's dark vale below.
And let all the inhabitants of the earth remember, of whatever na
tion they may be ; rich or poor, professors or profane, that by one
just and righteous God, we must and shall all be judged, according
to our works ; before his holy throne and tribunal of eternal justice,
none can be wronged of that which is their just due.
Philemon Stewart.
NOTICE TO ALL WHO MAY READ THE FOREGOING SACRED PAGES.
Wo, as a Society, feci it our duty to acknowledge that we have no more
right, in our own natural wisdom, than any other society now existing on
earth, to deviate from the true sense and meaning of the Word of the Lord,
to favor our own personal views concerning any doctrine or matter contained
in the Sacred Roll.
But as it hath pleased God, in his infinite mercy and goodness, to select
from among us, an instrument or agent, to declare his word and will to the
inhabitants and nations of the earth, and (as is the case in many of the an
cient sacred writings,) there are some, few passages in this Roll, that do not
seem to us to express so clearly to the understanding, the real meaning of the
Spirit, or what we believe to be the real meaning, we have taken the liberty
to make a few notes to illustrate our views of some particular points, which
we think are entirely free from the prejudice of sectarianism ; and here we
leave them, knowing that God is able, and will defend his own word and
work.
Note first, page 17, Sec. 10.
By this wc understand that He would have noticed them with his blessing
and protection, as really, according to their order, which is inferior to the or
der of grace, to which atl souls must ultimately come, if they ever obtain an
inheritance in the kingdom of God.
Note second, page 23, Sec. 11.
If this was to be understood as a command given to man in his primitive
state, we consider that he was thereby equally bound to keep the whole
original law and order of nature. See Genesis, Chap, i, 8 .
Note third, page 44, Sec. 33.
We do not consider that the expression, keep the luie of nature, is to be
understood that any one can continue under the law of nature, and be justi
fied, after being called by the light of Christ, into the order of grace; nay,
he must then yield obedience to that call, and keep the late of graee, or lose
his justification, and forfeit the Divine blessing and protection. See page
146, and 147.
Note fourth.
It is to be understood that the inspired writer who wrote this Book, had
the full union and approbation of the visible leading authority of the Society,
in doing the will of God, as revealed to him by immediate inspiration,
through the Holy Angel, without regard to any individual or personal feel
ings whatever.
PART II.
BEING A SEQUEL OR APPENDIX
TO THE
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH;
CONTAINING THE TESTIFYING SEALS OF SOME OF TBI
ANCIENT PROPHETS AND HOLY ANGELS,
#frs THE
TESTIMONIES OF LIVING WITNESSES,
OF THE MARVELOUS WORE OF GOD, IK HIS ZION ON EARTH.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED SOCIETY,
CANTERBURY, M.
1843.
PREFACE.
The most of the subject matter of the following pages has been written
in compliance with the command of the holy Angel of God, who dictated
his sacred word, comprising the first part of this work, entitled A Sacred
Roll and Book to the nations of the earth.
The inspired writers and testators of the word contained in this second
part, have consented to the publication of the same, only in compliance with
the requirement of God, feeling it a duty to acknowledge his mercy and
goodness in this the fourth and last dispensation of his grace to man ; yet
feeling, on every other consideration, great diffidence in offering their names
to public view, desiring a secluded station in life, and a privilege to work
out their own salvation by self-denial and the cross.
It is true, they have been greatly privileged with the blessing of God, and
made instruments in his hands, to aid in the execution of his work among
the children of men, and they claim no greater merit, than the reward
which is gained by obedience to his sacred word, with the rest of their gos
pel companions.
It may be justly due to all, to say, that many of the testimonies are not in
serted entire, as it would swell the work more than would be consistent
with our present bounds. But it has been the labor of the publishers, to
preserve the inspired matter relating to this Sacred Roll and Book in its
true spirit and meaning. We wish simply to publish to mankind the word
of God as delivered unto us for that purpose, and to connect therewith such
testimony, as is required by the Mighty Angel.
There have been many other testimonies received, and now in manuscript,
corroborating the truth, reality and authenticity ofxt. is sacred Book, and de
claring that it is the will of God, that it should go forth to the children of
men, written by those who are no less worthy, than those whose testimonies
arc here published, being faithful wearers and bearers of the yoke and cross
of Christ ; but for want of room, and as it is not our labor to prove by these
the truth and divine origin of this work, they are omitted.
It was judged advisable to select from among them, a portion from several
of the different branches of our communion, to represent more forcibly, the
unanimity and corresponding relation existing in the Zion of God upon earth.
It may be asserted with truth and confidence, that God has a holy Church
on earth, wherein He reigns, and all the living members thereof, are Wit-
kesses to his word and work; though they remain a chosen and secluded
people.
We would further state, that it was our original design, to publish the
whole of this work in one part entire ; but owing to unavoidable circumstan
ces prejudicial to a speedy publication of that portion of the work embraced
in this second part, we have been compelled to issue it in two parts.
September, 1843. The Publishers.
PART II.
CONTAINING THE WORDS OF HOLY WISDOM, WITH SOME
OF THE ANCIENT PROPHETS AND OTHER
HEAVENLY MESSENGERS.
THE TESTIFYING SEAL OP TI1E PROPHET JEREMIAH ;
REVEALED AT CANTERBURY NEW-HAMPSHIRE, JEI.Y 2, 1843.
1. Bow down thine ear to hear O man, and thine heart to re
ceive O son of man, this most sacred word of your Heavenly Father,
is the voice of me, the ancient Prophet Jeremiah, who art still
alive, and dwelling in mansions not made with hands; yea, though
the earthly tabernacle which I once inhabited, has, for thousands
of years, been mouldered to dust, yet I am still alive in the spirit ;
and in the power of my God I often go forth with his holy word to
the children of men ; and now I rejoice that the time has come for
this, his Sacred Roll, to go forth to the nations of the earth, that
all may be left inexcusable before his holy throne.
2. Therefore listen unto me, for I know the unwillingness of
man to believe, at any time, the then present manifestation of the
spirit of God ; it has been so in every past dispensation, and still
remains so ; but this altereth not the purposes of the Almighty.
3. The voice of your God
is,
Yea and amen
;
He that will lis
ten to my words of solemn warning, and reverence my holy word,
who will incline his heart to obey my voice and his feet to walk
in my paths, though he may dwell in the uttermost regions of the
earth or roam the pathless desert, yet my blessing shall crown his
soul
;
my hand shall direct, and my arm shall defend him. But he
that turneth a deaf ear to my word, and scorneth in his heart the
calls of my mercy, who wandereth where he listeth, and tread-
eth in forbidden paths, must yet meet my spirit in judgment.
4.
And now all ye people, look back and see where those whom
He had called as his chosen people in ancient days, missed the
point, and failed of the blessing and protection of their God
;
Was
224 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
it not by willfully rejecting the then present light and manifestation
of his mind and will to them? Was it not by turning a deaf ear to
the calls of his mercy, as sent forth unto them through his chosen
messengers? Most certainly it was.
5. Therefore hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and listen all
ye people, to this his Sacred Roll, as the voice of the living
God in solemn warning and tender love ; and if you believe the
words which I spake in days of old, believe me now, when I say
that this Sacred and Divine Roll which is now sent forth unto you,
is not the work of the vain and aspiring imagination of fallen man;
but was directed by the holy spirit of the Lord your God, and con
tains those solemn truths to which every soul must bow, or finally
fail of his protection and blessing ; for He hath not sent forth his
word in vain, nor will He strive with man for nought.
6. For lo his holy Angels are commissioned to bring, first his mer
cy, and should it be received in humbleness of heart and due con
trition of spirit, Amen, then his blessing and protection will crown
the soul. But if not, then, the voice of the Mighty One crieth, He
that is holy let him be holy, and he that is filthy let him be filthy.
7. And to them who turn a deaf ear to his calls, doth He give
that cup which He has prepared for them, even the vials of his wrath
in heavy judgments : for the Lord your God hath commenced his
final work with his creature man, who with wickedness hath so cor
rupted his way, in sin and filthy abomination, that the earth groaneth
by reason of the weight thereof ; for the cry of the poor and op
pressed hath ascended to his throne, and the spirit of your God
doth loudly call for justice and truth.
8. And now O man what art thou, that thou shouldst strive with
the living God, who is able to destroy thy body with a breath, and
cast thy soul in hell ? Wilt thou withstand the calls of his mercy,
and shut thy soul from the glory of his presence 1 Or wilt thou fall
before Him, confess his holy power, and seek his mercy by obeying
his holy word ?
9. Put not thy trust in earthly power, for whoso trusteth in earth
ly strength, leaneth upon a broken staff that shall pierce his hand ;
but whoso trusteth in God, will find Him a shield that is able to
cover, and an arm that is able to defend, when tribulation as a flood
shall sweep over the land.
Inspired Writer,
William Tripcre.
225
A HOLY AND DIVINE ROLL, WRITTEN BY THE HOLY PROPHET ELISHA,
BEFORE THE ALTAR OF WISDOM AND LOVE,
DECEMBER
14,
1841.
REVEALED AT CANTERBURY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JUNE 28, 18-13.
1.
Hearken all ye nations! of the earth, and bow down all ye of
high rank, of whatever grade or class, before the one true and
living God
;
and in his most holy fear meditate ye upon his good
ness and loving mercy, to warn you of approaching danger
;
and
humbly implore his favor, that you may learn his will and obey his
word to his pleasure.
2.
Behold
I
am
a
prophet,
a
servant of my God
;
before Him
I
bow, and before his throne
I
worship: His word
is
truth and everlast
ing righteousness to the soul that believeth and receiveth, and end
less misery and woe to the soul that refuseth to listen and obey.
3.
Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings shall the word of the
Lord be sounded forth
;
and mortals shall fear and tremble, because
of truths, hidden truths revealed unto them, through means of
God's own choosing
;
and all shall- be left without excuse, both
within and without the walls of Zion.
4.
Holy, holy
is
the God of my solvation, and most holy
is
his
name; fear Him
O
ye inhabitants of earth, and praise Him ye inhabi
tants of Zion, because of his excellency saith the Holy Archangel of
my God.
5.
Awaken and be quickened, all ye who are slumbering
in
your sins, who revel in carnal delights and in the vain gratifications
of
a
fallen corrupt nature; for Lo! the day cometh that shall burn
as an oven, when your days of ease and pleasure shall be loathsome
to you, and your riches, O ye noble ones, will be no more to you
than dust.
6.
Hearken ye and hear the word of your God which
is
unto ev
ery nation and .people, for thus saith the voice of the Lord God of
Heaven and earth
;
I
will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and
they that seek Me early shall find Me, and become wise and come
ly
before Me.
7.
I
will turn the mirth of the proud, the giddy and vain into
mourning, and the spirit of the oppressor into freedom and good
226 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
will to the souls of all men ; for the time shall be when mortals
shall fear my word, for I will send it forth to every nation on the
face of the earth.
8. Judgments shall roll and roll ; yea, like the tide of the rolling
deep, they shall ebb and flow, flow and ebb, until in my infinite
wisdom I shall cause, for a season, the waters to be calm and beau
tiful.
9. I will again shake the heavens and the earth, and again I will
spread sack-cloth and dust before those whom I have chosen to be
servants in my holy house; for I am All-powerful; Wisdom is mine,
justice is also mine, and I will reward every one according to their
works.
10. Those who lift up their swords, who raise their hands through
ambition or revenge, against their fellow beings, let them beware of
my great displeasure and heavy hand of cursing; for I will be known,
feared and obeyed. Those who know Me not in time, shall know
Me in eternity; and those who believe not my word, nor the divine
source from which it is sent forth, I will meet in judgments, and
close their days in unpleasantness and sorrow ; because they shut
their ears that they will not hear, and their eyes, that they will
not see.
11. I am that I Am ; and mortal man whom I have created to be
the image and likeness of Myself, shall tremble in my presence and
bow down at the sound of my voice, or I will frown upon them with
a frown of my displeasure, and blow upon their souls the blast, yea,
the solemn blast of my vengeance, which will cause their souls to
wither before Me, as the tender plant withereth before the merid
ian sun.
12. I am a God of justice, mercy, charity and love; therefore
hearken ye unto Me ; for I will yet pour out my great and heavy
displeasure upon the earth in my fury, because of her wickedness.
13. If ye heed not my word and work, O ye dwellers on earth,
ye shall perish by the sword; for the time will come when it will
be unsheathed and furbished, glittering in judgment, while on the
other hand, if ye hearken Unto Me, if ye receive my warning
word and turn from the evil of your ways, my spirit will bear
rule; my peace shall overshadow you, and you will begin to love
righteousness and hate iniquity, to serve Me your God, and not the
god of self.
14. Come out, come out from among the haughty and proud, all
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EAHTH. 227
ye who hear the word of kind Heaven, all ye who are ready to lay
down your lives to do my will, not to the destroying of the body, but
that life of self and selfish passions which ye have indulged, and by
so doing have wandered far from Me your God. Return unto Me as
harmless babes by true confession and repentance, that my wings of
protection may encircle you, that I may hold you as in the hollow
of mine hand, from the persecution of the wicked, and the vain
enticements of Satan.
15. The earth shall yet be in commotion, the fire of the ever
blessed gospel, taught by my faithful Son, your blessed Savior, and
revived through my anointing goodness, by the Mother of the New
Creation, Ann Lee, shall burn and run as flaming fire among stubble ;
and souls shall be awakened by the sound of the heavenly harpers
harping with their harps ; yea, by my holy and proclaiming Angels
whom I will send to pass and re-pass through the earth, sounding
the cheering trumpet of sweet liberty to the soul bound in sin, and
to the seeker after true righteousness.
16. I AM, that sitteth upon my throne, will judge all souls ac
cording to their works. I will give freely to the seeker after good ;
and the poor in spirit shall be nourished from my hand, and fed
from the never failing fountain of my goodness.
17. Happiness is designed by Me for every creature whom 1
have created ; but how many there are, who by indulging the baser
passions of a carnal nature, are ruined for life, disenabled in body
and distorted in mind, must drag out years in misery.
18. How many pride themselves in affluence and a great name
among men; yet how often cut down at noon! How often dis
appointment lurks for her prey and seizes her captive ! O that ye
would heed my word, before I call you to taste of my displeasure !
Long, long have I borne with those whom I have created solely to
worship and adore Me.
19. I will open their eyes through my wisdom, and teach them
new and wonderful things. Many will believe and turn from the
evil of their ways, and many will still pursue their downward and
self-pleasing road, until I can no longer feel any pleasure in their
doings, or with-hold from them my hand of judgment.
20. O my Zion, my Zion ! bow down low, exceeding low, because
I hav« blessed thee, and have in my glory shone upon thee with
great brightness and beauty.
226 SACRED IIOLL AND BOOK
21. Thy comeliness many shall yet flock to see; and thy light
shall shine forth to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, be
cause thy inhabitants confess and forsake their sins, and offer holy
offerings unto Me their God; the smoke whereof ascendeth unto my
throne like sweet smelling incense in my presence, instead of a
stench of uncleanness to provoke Me to anger.
22. Here the simple and innocent lambs of the Savior, he can
hold in his arms, and none can harm or hurt them so long as they
obey his kind voice, and are contented to remain under his care
and protection.
23. But how many there are .who delight to behold the young
and weak, captivated by vain seducers and filthy plot-leaders, and
enslaved by that base and ungodly passion which knows no bounds,
and seemeth to find no restraint.
24. And can a righteous God pass lightly over the doings of
those who pretend to walk in my way and obey my word, yet only
in the letter thereof, while their hearts are filled with uncleanness,
and are far from Me? Nay, nay; for my spirit is not in them, nei
ther does my true word abound in their long-toned voices or fash
ionable prayers ; but like a heated furnace to refine gold, so I would
my word should be to refine the soul of every human beinj.
25. My word is piercing even to the dividing asunder of the joints
and marrow ; quick as lightning, and loud as peals of heavy thunder.
26. No soul can appear before Me in peace, nor offer acceptable
offerings to Me, unless they stand in justification, freed from a guilty
conscience.
27. I am purity ; and those that gather under my hand of safety,
that would dwell in the low valley of peace and quietness, must
walk circumspectly before Me. Then I will enrich them with my
blessing, and Satan shall never take from them that overcoming
power with which I will clothe their spirits ; for all power is mine,
and the reins of justice I hold in my hand.
28. Come, come away all ye young and gay, saith the voice of
the holy spirits, and prepare your souls for a never ending eternity ;
walk ye in the pleasant paths of wisdom and love, that ye may be
rightful heirs to a holy and sweet abode with saints and angels.
29. Remember, O remember, life is short, but eternity is never
ending ; the sweet smelling flowers of the field soon pass away,
and so do the beauty and vigour of youth and youthful pleasures.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 229
Though they hold forth tempting colors, you can have but the taste
of one before the others are fled, and thorns often appear in their
stead.
30. Therefore seek that treasure which is abiding, that fadeth
not away, but is forever an anchor to the soul when trying scenes
roll on, and affliction spreads her gloomy wings over your heads ;
have your treasure in Heaven where moth and rust corrupteth not,
and where thieves cannot break through and steal.
31. Time is ever on the wing, and God, in his own way and
time, will bring to pass a work, a strange work ; for long He hath
borne with his creatures whom He hath created ; therefore as a
Holy Prophet of his choosing to sound his awakening and life-
cheering trumpet of free salvation to every nation on the face of
the earth, I say unto you, Take heed to your ways, all ye dwellers
on earth, that ye be not found fighting against your God ; that ye
be not found blaspheming his holy word sent forth unto you ; for I
tell you of a solemn truth, if you are, your God will yet meet you
in a strait place, and send forth his judgments upon you, unless you
repent and turn from the evil of your ways.
32. If ye know not how to treat the givings of his Spirit, then
be wise and mock not his word, lest in his fury He cast you off
forever ; for He will be feared by mortals, and all must bow and
confess his name Jehovah, the All-wise Creator of the world, and
all that is therein.
33. Bow down and fear Him all ye people, for he is Alphine and
Omega, the Beginning and the Ending.
Inspired Writer,
Hester A. Adams.
A SHORT ROLL WRITTEN BY THE HOLY PATRIARCH NOAH;
who lived in former days and proclaimed the word of tub
Lord unto the people; and who ceased not to
prophecy, though he was ridiculed and
mocked by his hearers.
COPIED BY INSPIRATION AT CANTERBURY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JUNE 23, 1843.
1. Come gather near all ye spirits now dwelling in tenements of
mortal clay, and hear this my word ; for even as my Heavenly Fa
ther commandeth, so will I perform. On this Holy Roll, prepared by
230 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
Eternal Wisdom, who is one with the Father, will I write my warn
ing word unto all nations.
2. I am Noah, a prophet of the Lord who dwelt on earth in an
cient days, and who prophecied unto the people concerning the
flood of waters which the Lord, as a heavy judgment, would pour
upon the earth and its inhabitants, because of the wicked abomin
ations therein.
3. When upon earth, I feared my God, and labored to do my duty
by obeying his requirements; and by many I have been called a
righteous man and servant of God. Even so let it be. Truly, by
living up to that light which God had given me, and obeying his re
quirements, so far was I found acceptable in his sight ; and even so
it will be with all souls, who do the same.
4. And now I call upon you to believe and receive my word; and
be assured it is from the same righteous servant of God, who built
the Ark according to his commandments.
5. I am a friend and well wisher to every soul whom God hath
created. I view the works of his creation, and say : O that I could
." . . sec true righteouness, O Lord, in thy creature man! O that thy
laws were regarded, that the earth might become flourishing as the
fruitful garden of Paradise !
6. Oyetaortals! My fellow brethren! Will ye not hearken to
my warning word and my declaration of truth, which now, even by
the command of a just and righteous God, I sound forth unto you l
7. The Lord of hosts has condescended to visit you in mercy ;
and as a natural father instructeth his son how to become useful in
society, a delight to himself and comfort to surrounding neighbors,
so has God your Heavenly Father, given his word plain and famil
iar, that ye may become acceptable servants of his through time,
and prove rightful heirs to his pure and peaceable kingdom in
eternity.
8. Blessed be his word. The prophets that dwelt on earth many
years ago, rejoice and give thanks in behalf of their fellow brethren ;
and may every soul now dwelling in a tenement of mortal clay, re
turn to please their Creator, and rejoice in works of righteousness;
blessing God for his unbounded charity and wide extended mercy.
9. I am Noah, the prophet of the Lord. I dwell in mansions of
eternal bliss, with Angels and happified spirits. My brethren the
prophets, and my sisters the prophetesses, are alike enjoying the
blessing of our Eternal Parents. And as a friend to all souls, I say,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 231
Slight not the call of your God which is now sent in mercy to you,
to awaken and prepare you for future happiness. O my fellow
brethren, be not found like the people in ancient days, disputing and
disbelieving the word which is now declared unto you ; for I tell
you, your day is brighter, and your privilege far exceeding.
10. And what rational, candid inquirer after the truth, will not
bow down to receive this the word of God sounded aloud by his
mighty Angel, and written upon paper by a humble and devoted
servant of his, who has sincerely labored to walk in true obedience
to the requirements of his God, and hath given himself up to do
his will? Who will not rejoice and be exceeding glad, that the day
of knowledge has come?
11. Will the noble of the earth, the learned and wise, who are
skilled in the fine arts and studies, be found like the Jews in an
cient days, when Christ the Messiah was sent unto them? Will they
rise and oppose
it,
and say
it
is
not of God?
12. And then shall the poor and mean of the earth, the unlearn
ed and untaught embrace
it,
and in thankfulness fulfill its require
ments, and thus receive his blessing and enter his kingdom before
them?
13. Shall pride, arrogance, self-knowledge and wisdom, even in
this enlightened age, shut out souls from Christ's pure kingdom?
14. Consider, and seriously reflect on the word, work and wis
dom of God. Hath
it
not been declared that the wisdom of God
was foolishness to vain and proud man?
15. Then be not led astray,
O
ye men of good intellect, for
I
de
clare unto you that God
is
surely to work in the earth; and because
of the wicked abominations therein, He hath purposed to send aw
ful and heavy judgments upon the inhabitants thereof
;
1C. And of this thing has given timely warnings, for repentance
to take place; for unto his chosen people dwelling in Zion on earth,
He hath committed his word which
is
to be spread abroad to all na
tions of the earth, that all may be left without excuse; and that all
such as know Him not, may hear his word, and become wise with
the knowledge of the truth.
17. So hear all ye people, the word which the Holy Roll and
Book contains
;
and know of
a
truth that
it
is
his holy and sacred
word; and furthermore, understand ye that
it
is
unalterable.
18. Because of the wicked abominations of man, the Lord hath be
come displeased
;
therefore,
I
warn all such as have been measurably
232 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
awakened, and have received conviction, to be wise and see that
they judge not the givings of the Holy Spirit, with a rash and in
considerate judgment. See that ye be not found fighting against
your own best good and comfort.
19. I warn you, (for this is my mission,) to be found ready to
meet the calls of the spirit, and attend to the requirements as
made plain in this Sacred Roll and Book ; for remember, as you
treat these, so will you be treated by your God.
20. I solemnly warn all souls to take heed to their ways, and
mind what they say, or how they move, as touching the holy and
sacred things of God.
21. As regards the spiritual kingdom, at the head of which
stand Christ and Mother, as is explained in the preceding pages,
be it known unto you, that we the prophets, though called servants
of God, were not exempt from bowing to Him in Christ and Mother
Ann, as the Father and Mother of the new creation ; notwithstand
ing there were Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, Moses and Joshua and
prophets many. Therefore this is the way that every soul is to find
happiness ; To bow to God wherever He has placed his name :
bowing not to man or woman, but to- the Anointing Spirit which
cometh from God.
22. The word" of God as is communicated to you, is plain and
easy to be understood. Fight not against
it,
but unite with
it
;
giving thanks, honor and glory to your God, for thus noticing you
with his word.
23. The manifestation of God
in
this day, exceedeth any that has
ever been previous to this
;
and
if
souls refuse offered mercy, aw
fully will their souls lament
it
yet. For as truly as there
is
a
God
ruling and reigning in the eternal worlds, just so surely will He
pour out his awful and heavy judgments upon the scoffer and scorn-
er of his word. Therefore, as you consider the importance of your
souls' salvation, so will you regard this saving word that
is
now sent
unto you.
24.
I
am Noah the prophet; you have learned by historical
account, something of the work which
I
did, and the same of many
of the servants of God
;
but the half ye have never learned. But
if
ye will believe the word of the Lord now sent unto you, well
will
it
be with you
:
If not, you will be as the people unto whom
I
declared the word of the Lord in ancient days
;
for they were found
repenting when too late
:
and just so
it
will be with you.
TO THE NATIONS OF THH EARTH. 233
25. For the truth of God is being declared even as in that day :
and souls who believe and repent, and return to seek God's favor,
unto the same will God be merciful; but such as disbelieve and
disregard
it,
setting
it
aside as false prediction, will He sweep ofF
in the flood of his judgment.
26.
I
bow to my God in thankfulness for the means He has pro
vided for his creature man to gain his favor, and bless the medi
um through which
it
is
conveyed to his people.
27. But know this, all ye people, that this word has not been
received without deep sufferings and heavy tribulation on the part
of the Instrument chosen for the purpose. Of this
I
can testify
unto you, for
I
have visited him many times while engaged in his
duty, and ever found him bowed down under tribulation, possess
ing the solemn fear of God
;
fearing to move the pen, save as di
rected
by
the holy Angel that read aloud the word unto him.
28.
I
viewed him as
a
prophet, even as Jeremiah, Isaiah and
Daniel
;
for by the same spirit was he led and governed, which was
the spirit of eternal truth.
29. And though he may be ridiculed and laughed even to scorn,
as
I
was when upon earth,
;t
altereth not the word nor the work
;
for
it
is
unalterable, being declared
by
the power of the Most High.
30. And even so
it
was in the days when
I
prophecied of mighty
and strange works
;
Though
I
was disbelieved and laughed to scorn,
I
feared not, knowing
I
was under the influence of the spirit of
God, and that what
I
proclaimed was his word; therefore
I
trusted
in
Him, and He led me to the knowledge of the truth
;
and even
so will
it
be with every devoted servant of God.
31. And now
I
speak unto you in the spirit of loving kindness,
saying
;
May the word of my Heavenly Father which
is
now before
my fellow brethren, reach every ear and open every heart, and cause
each rational person to forsake the sinful paths in which they have
hitherto walked, and seek the one sure and only path which leadeth
unto jovs eternal. And thus my word endeth.
Inspired Writer,
Mvba A. Bean.
D*
234
WORDS OF THE LORD BY TIIE PROPHET MICAH;
WRITTEN BY INSPIRATION AT ENFIELD, NEW HAMPSHIRE, AUGUST 9, 1842.
1. Thus saith the Prophet, I am one of the four and twenty
Prophets that have often visited this chosen vale, and have sounded
my trumpet of love therein. Yea, I am an holy Prophet of the
Lord, one that keeps the commandments of God, and follows the
footsteps of the meek and lowly Savior and blessed Mother Ann.
2. And thus do I sound the words of truth from the Most High;
even that which is given me of my Heavenly Father, will I declare
before you O ye children of Zion. Yea, it hath pleased the Al
mighty to show unto his chosen Israel many things which He in
wisdom and judgment will execute upon the earth and its inhabi
tants. Therefore doth the Lord thy God send unto thee by the
voice of heavenly messengers, many solemn warnings and rebukes;
that ye forget not his holy statutes and laws which He hath enacted
for your safety and protection.
3. And now O ye children of Zion, hearken and give ear unto
the law of yourGod, and make it your delight daily; for the consum
mation of God's work with the children of men, will make a final
separation between the pure children of light and those who walk
in darkness : yea, it will divide between saint and sinner, flesh
and spirit.
4. Therefore, bow low and bewail thyself O Zion, for the de
stroyer is passing through the land, to lay in ruins the habitations
thereof; for the abominations which make- desolate do cover the
the earth as the waters cover the sea, and she has become polluted
and defiled.
5. O ye children of this valley, know ye, I am one of the holy
Prophets that did prophecy in the days of the ancient kings of Is
rael and Judah : yea, of the present day, of the glorious reign of
the Messiah did I in the spirit of God prophecy. And ye now do
behold the word of my God verified unto the faithful chosen Israel ;
who stand even in this day as a warning in mercy to the nations, as
did also the rebellious house of Ahab stand as a warning in judg
ment to the inhabitants who beheld them.
6. Wickedness and oppression did much abound on the earth
when I dwelt in mortal clay, but surely it has increased, consid
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 235
eringthe light which has been suffered to shine into the hearts of
the children of men.
7. Therefore, saith the Lord of hosts, the Almighty Ruler of
Heaven and earth; Man, vain man, may exalt himself and set on
high, but I will pull down, I will destroy, I will lay low every soul
that walks in high places or vaunts itself in emulation or vain glory.
Cursed shall be the ground on which they tread ; for their sake it
shall yield unto them neither fruit nor herbage; nor shall any green
thing appear thereon to support them.
8. Ruinous heaps shall their most splendid palaces and temples be
come, where they have openly profaned my holy name, and worship
ed gods of their own forming, who have trusted in man and made
flesh their arm of defense.
9. Verily, saith the Holy and Just One, the gods they worship .
shall not save, neither will the arm they have trusted in, prove suf
ficient to deliver them from my Almighty hand. Surely the ma
gicians and learned divines shall in no wise be competent judges of
the signs and wonders which shall be visible in the heavens above,
and on the earth in many parts thereof; for gross darkness has
blinded their eyes until no ray of light illuminates the beaten track
in which they run.
10. They may devise and divine; they may inwrap themselves in
mysteries until my work overtakes them, saith God. What shall
their vain philosophy avail them in this day? Behold, saith the Al
mighty, when I smite with the rod of my vengeance, a certain city,
I lay it desolate of both man and beast, without respect to the high
or the rich, or those who are vainly noble ; for I will leave none, saith
God, who bfaspheme my holy name. For this I will not suffer to be
done when
^1
finish my work of destruction which I have already
begun; but the remnant which escape shall fear Me from the least
even to the greatest among them. And my holy word shall be re
vered by the inhabitants that are left upon my footstool, saith God.
For I will utterly destroy sin and sinner, until there be found no
more filthy and corruptible vessels, bearing the abominations of
theTriother of harlots ; for such have the inhabitants of the earth
become.
1 1 . Yea, every vile act has been committed which can be named
by the human tongue, until in the most flourishing kingdoms and
cities under heaven are found theatres for the foulest crimes and
the most obscene works. Therefore I the Lord Almighty will shake
236 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
to the foundation, and will sweep to the very basis on which they
now stand ; for I have no pleasure in unrighteousness, neither do I
delight in the wantonness of this adulterous generation; for they
have perverted my law and estranged themselves from Me, and have
bowed themselves down to the god of lust, and know no shame.
12. O ye inhabitants of the earth ! saith the voice of Him that
executeth judgment in righteousness ; Old and rotten are ye in
trangression ; yea , dead in sin.
13. How oft have I weighed thee in the balance of justice and
truth, and spared thee and thy little ones ! But now my hand shall
not spare, nor my eye pity, for ye are fully ripe and ready for the
sickle of destruction ; and the pit has opened her mouth to receive
those who plunge themselves therein.
14. Therefore, know ye my hand shall not be stayed, until every
work is accomplished, which I have decreed by the mouths of my
Prophets and holy Angels, shall be fulfilled unto the inhabitants of
the earth. For I am Jehovah, and above Me there is none.
WORD OF THE LORD BY THE PROPHET EZEUEL;
WRITTEN BY INSPIRATION AT ENFIELD, NEW HAMPSHIRE, ACGOjfT 12, 1812.
1 . Hearken yet again, O ye nations of the earth ! for by the
voice of many Prophets and holy Angels will I cause my word to
be perfected, and my decrees made known unto those who dwell on
the face of the earth.
2. For as in the days of old, even so shall they now prophecy of
the destruction of the ungodly ; and of the peace and salvation of
the righteous chosen number, whose dwelling is in Mount Zion and
whose souls are redeemed unto the Lamb.
3. Yea, saith the Lord of hosts, my holy Prophets shall prophecy
in the midst of Jerusalem, and many shall run to and fro in the
earth, sounding the trumpet of the gospel to the lost children of
men, who shall be left scattered over the land as sheep without a
shepherd, knowing not which way to run to escape impending de
struction.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 237
4. For with an Almighty voice will I shake terribly the earth,
and the waters of the mighty ocean shall cover the islands thereof,
and sweep from its coasts round about, many of the inhabitants who
dwell thereon. The habitations of the unclean shall be no more
the resort of debauchees ; but such as I suffer to remain standing,
and to become inhabited, shall be cleansed without and within, that
they may become the abodes of the remnant that are left who will
turn their hearts unto Me their Creator.
5. O earth, hear the voice of the Lord. Surely I will sweep thee
with the besom of destruction ; I will build up and I will pull down,
until the mountains sink and the vallies rise ; yea, until the exalta
tion of man is leveled in the dust before Me, and every high feeling
is laid low.
6. For in this day the Lord alone shall be exalted ; and man,
vain man shall fear and tremble in his presence; for the walks of
the proud are an abomination in his sight ; but the doings of the
upright are beautiful and lovely.
7. The garners of the wicked are filled with rottenness and bread
of idleness; but the store-houses of the godly are furnished with
the genuine fruits of industry gained by toil and care.
8. Corruptible art thou, O rebellious man ! In no age or dispen
sation since man was placed in the garden of Eden, and -fell from
this by transgression, has the earth been so filled with corruption
and every evil work, by man's sinning against true light.
9. When by a flood of waters I swept from the face of the earth
all its inhabitants, in the days of the Patriarch Noah, (except a
remnant which I preserved in the ark,) surely the wickedness of
men in that day of ignorance, can be likened unto this as a bud
compared to the fully ripe fruit. And shall I spare in mercy now,
where I showed no mercy then ? Surely not. But as the overflowing
deluge destroyed both man and beast, even now shall the deluge
and the famine, pestilence and many evils, come upon mankind;
for sore destruction awaiteth the sinner.
10. Ye may heap together gold and silver, and in many ways may
ye decorate yourselves and your habitations; but for all this I will
surely recompense you, saith God.
11. Your gold and silver shall be unto you as a devouring fire or
as a gnawing worm ; and in no way shall it profit you, when I pass
through your borders with my rod of vengeance in my hand, to
give unto you the cup which I in judgment have prepared.
238 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
12. For the caterpillar, the locust and the canker-worm shall de
stroy the works of your hands and shall mar the pride of your splen
did palaces in which you now glory. Thousands and tens of thou
sands, yea, numbers without end shall compass thee ; they shall
enter your chambers and fill the vessels of your most distinguished
palaces where ye have feasted to gluttonness and drank to drunken
ness and debauchery : and instead of the carnal mirth and profane
jollity now heard therein, shall arise the voice of mourning and dis
tress, enough to pierce the heart of any human being.
13. And that which is left by these destroyers will T smite with a
curse, even man and beast. Your beasts shall run howling upon
the mountains because of the barrenness of the land ; for I will
cause the ground to become unfruitful, and the springs and foun
tains of water to become dry ; until the tongues of the inhabitants
cleave to the roofs of their mouths for thirst. For as I live, saith
the Lord, I will destroy the pride of man, that I alone may be ex
alted. For I am the Beginning and End, the first and last.
14. O thou chosen Zion, builded and supported by my own hands;
in thee shall all nations find rest and quietness. Unto thee shall be
gathered of all kindreds and tongues that dwell upon the earth ; for
I am thy God, and thou art my chosen city where I have placed my
name, and where my holy Angels pitch their tents. Cursed shall be
the hand that curseth thee, and blessed shall be the hand that blesseth
thee for my sake, saith God.
15. O thou Zion of my likeness, hearken to the voice of thy
Redeemer. Give ear unto the sweet melody of the lovely Bride
groom and Bride, all ye children who are begotten of lawful pa
rentage in the spirit, and are truly formed and fashioned in likeness
of your Heavenly Parents, and have received that holy light, which
lighteth every soul that is born of the spirit ; thus saith your Heav
enly Father and his Eternal Counsellor, Let not that lamp which
We have given unto you grow dim, or the light thereof become
darkness : but let your lamps be kept trimmed and burning, that ye
may see by the light of truth to walk uprightly in purity and love.
For this is true wisdom, that ye stumble not upon your own errors,
and fall into the snares of the enemy.
16. Love one another with heavenly love, is the voice of the
Bridegroom and Bride. As children of one Mother, be ye bound
together with those gospel ties of affection that nature cannot sev
er ; for pure love is stronger than death.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 239
17. It will shield and defend in the day of trouble, and will sup
port the children of Zion through many trying scenes; therefore
hearken, Love ye one another as ye have been loved, or ye cannot
be blessed.
18. In loving one another ye shall be beloved by your Heavenly
Father, by your Holy Mother Wisdom and all the host of Heaven.
19. Forget not the children of men whom God has not blessed
with the way of salvation ; but show ye tender mercies unto the
poor and distressed, even as your blessed Mother Ann and your Pa
rents in the gospel have ever taught you, both by precept and ex
ample.
20. For if ye turn them away without showing pity or compas
sion, ye call down the wrath of a righteous God upon your souls ;
and He will in no wise pass you by unnoticed ; but will requite
you for your hardness of heart.
21. So be ever mindful of the goodness of God, and of your sa
cred and holy calling, and be careful to walk in the pathway of life
which leadeth to the city of perfect purity and holiness; that the
Lord your God may not forsake you in the days of tribulation
and affliction.
22. Thus, O ye children of Zion, are ye often reproved and re
minded of your duty to God and to each other, that ye may not
grow careless in this great day. For by the voice of many wit
nesses the truth is confirmed.
23. And now O ye faithful chosen watchmen of the house of
Israel, I the holy Prophet Ezekiel, do freely give unto you my pu
rified love, and my holy blessing ; for I am purified and cleansed
by the gospel of Christ and my blessed Mother Ann, and am made
able to render unto God true thanksgiving and praise.
24. Yea, I have that holy love that will abide all trials ; and I do
love all the children of my blessed Mother who yet remain upon
earth. They are my relation and interest; for them I pray, and for
them I rejoice and bless God the giver of all good.
Receive ye bountifully, bestow freely.
240
A WORD OF INVITATION FROM THE HOLY PROPHET EZEKIEL;
COPIED BY INSPIRATION AT ENFIELD, NEW HAMPSHIRE, AUGUST II, 1843.
1. Come now, O ye nations of the earth, let us reason together,
saith the Prophet of the Lord, for I will converse with you as a man
with his friend. I am not dead, but alive in the God of my salva
tion, and quickened by his eternal spirit and power, to proclaim his
goodness, charity and love, and warn souls to flee from the wrath
to come, which is near at hand.
2. Hearken now, O ye inhabitants of the earth, and heed the
voice that crieth, Turn ye, turn ye, for why will ye die? Why
will ye tempt the Lord your God to destroy you ? Turn ye your
faces towards Zion, the city of the living God, which is now estab
lished on the earth, in beauty and glory; whereunto all nations shall
gather, saith the voice of him that crieth unto you.
3. Though ye have long forsaken the Lord your God, and walk
ed in violation of his holy laws and statutes, yet once more doth
He loudly call unto you by the voice of his spirit, in benign charity
and mercy, to turn from the path of rebellion, and seek his pro
tection.
4. Seek the goodly Shepherd, that leadeth the flock of Israel in
safety ; (even as I predicted by the spirit of God when I possessed
mortality;) for lo he reigneth in righteousness on the earth, and
hath set up his pure and peaceable kingdom, which shall never be
demolished ; though the natural heavens and earth pass away, and
are consumed as a scroll.
5. Come, O come, all ye who desire the knowledge of the Lord,
which maketh truly wise, and drink at the fountain of light and un
derstanding now opened unto you ; and rest not satisfied until ye
are made receptacles of those living truths of the Almighty.
6. Consider thy ways, O man ! pause and reflect upon thy past
life : humble thy soul exceedingly, before the righteous Judge of
all the earth, and implore his mercy, by turning from your iniqui
ties, while mercy is held out to you : for God is now offering unto
you the means of escape from his awful judgments, and proclaim
ing his word of solemn truths that ye may repent; for He delight-
eth not in the destruction of any soul.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 241
7. O then bow down, ye high who ait on thrones and in seats of
honor, and attend to the word of the Almighty, that you may be
come honorable in his presence : for the self-exalted are an abomin
ation unto Him, and the loftiness of man shall surely be leveled
with the dust; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.
8. Give ear, all ye people: hearken and believe, repent and be
saved. Strive to enter in at the straight gate which leadeth unto
eternal life, and count all worldly fame as dung and dross, which
are alike perishable.
9. O fear ye the Lord, all ye who dwell on the earth, from the
hoary head to the prattling tongue ; and put not far away the day
of his visitation. For behold, I declare unto you, that his work
will shortly overtake you, and from his hand ye cannot escape.
10. His purposes are fixed, and his decrees unalterable. His
judgments are sure to the ungodly, who turn not from the error of
their ways, and his mercies are free for those who flee vanity and
vice ; who regard the sacred and solemn truths manifested unto
them, by setting their feet to run in the path of obedience.
11. 1, Ezekiel, am a servant of the Most High, and my soul does
bow at his sacred throne, to fulfill his holy will and keep his right
eous laws. And no one whom He hath created with a rational soul,
can be owned of Him, or feel his mercies flow unto them, unless
they reverence that eternal law of righteousness established by
Him, by falling low before Him, and keeping that which He re-
quireth in his sacred word which He hath given.
12. I am indeed inviting you to ponder well the work required
by your Heavenly Father, and let your whole souls be devoted to
reflection ; that ye may be able to comprehend your duty, and do it.
13. This is my desire for your welfare, all ye who dwell in time,
and are capable of serving and honoring your Creator, by living
righteously, walking humbly and dealing justly with all your fellow
creatures. In this, God will accept you, and bless the work of your
hands. Peace shall crown your souls, and thankfulness fill your
hearts to an overflowing for his divine goodness.
14. Thus and thus shall it be with thee, O man, saith the spirit
of the holy Prophet Ezekiel.
Inspired writer of the three foregoing communications,
Phebe Atwood.
242
A WORD OF WARNING AND INVITATION BY THE PATRIARCH NOAH;
WRITTEN BY INSPIRATION AT ENFIELD, NEW HAMPSHIRE, Al'GCST 9, 1843.
1. Bow down, all ye inhabitants of earth; hearken and hear the
word of the living God. For lo! I am an holy Prophet of the Lord,
who in ancient time, prophesied many years, of the purposes of God
that would in after days take place ; and because it did not come to
pass immediately, the inhabitants of the earth disbelieved the warn
ings of God, and mocked and derided his mercy unto their needy
souls, and would not be persuaded to believe, till the flood came
and swept them from the face of the earth.
2. But verily, God wrought by means of his own choosing, and
at his own appointed time: and all nations, kindreds and people,
were compelled, by his judgments, to believe that his word was to
be listened to and obeyed : for none, save the righteous few that
were sheltered in the ark, were saved from the flood of waters that
He sent upon the face of the whole earth, to destroy his creation,
both man and beast, because of the abominations that were in her.
3. Therefore, be not likened unto those who lived in the past
ages of the world, by refusing to comply with his terms of equity
and justice, lest He again stretch out his heavy hand of judgment,
and ye suffer like unto them; But lend a listening ear unto the sa
cred warnings which the Lord my God hath seen fit, through his ten
der mercy, to unfold in these last days, to the nations, that they may
repent, believe and obey; that ye may escape the second flood,
(though not of waters,) that He hath designed to send upon the
abominable and polluted of this world.
4. For verily, as the Lord, in the days of old, spake unto the
children of men through mortal clay, even now He doth by the
mouths of holy messengers, make known his decrees ; and as truly
as He fulfilled his purposes in former ages of the world, so true He
will bring about every decree that has been spoken by the mouths
of Prophets in this, his last display of his grace to the inhabitants
of earth.
5. Therefore be persuaded to fear God and love mercy, that wis
dom may dwell within your hearts, that ye may not be left to reject
the word of the Almighty God, to your own destruction. For surely
as the Lord has spoken by me, He hath written this Holy Roll and
Book of warnings and instructions to the nations of the earth, that
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 243
they may be left without a cloak to hide their iniquities, when He,
by the aid of Eternal Wisdom, shall accomplish the work which
is already begun.
6. How can frail mortals think to change the purposes of God,
or alter the least command He has given to his creatures? And if
any slight this, his word of warning and invitation unto them, be
cause it did not come in a way that is pleasing to the carnal senses
of vain mortals, then they must inevitably fall under loss, and be
accountable for this, as all other transgressions.
7. But suffer not, O frail man, thy immortal soul to be guided
by a spirit of opposition, or incline thy heart to the vain clamor
of the caviler upon this solemn and sacred truth of the Most High
God ; but deal with the same, in that way that ye are willing to
give an account for in the day of judgment.
8. And think not to veil thy doings from the All-seeing eye of
Jehovah, who watches around the whole human family, as a tender
parent watches his own household. Neither flatter yourselves that
this is the planning of mortal man, to obtain a high name, or gain
applause; for verily it was the express command of the Almighty:
and in his solemn and holy fear, through tribulation and sufferings
it has been written, to obey his requirement.
9. Again I warn all who are favored with a privilege of seeing
or hearing this Holy Roll, that they handle it not without the fear
of God, nor treat it with levity ; for verily the Lord will not hold
guiltless those who reject this, his offer of mercy unto them.
10. The Lord hath purposed to make an end of sin, and to put
down every system of antichrist. And He hath already established
in his Zion upon earth, a permanent foundation, where his holy
fear is kept and his righteous laws maintained. So let the solemn
feelings of your souls be increased, by this Holy Roll of light and
truth; and let it be an ensign to the inhabitants of earth, through
out every generation ; that the designed purposes of God in blessing
may be fulfilled, and lasting good gained.
1 1. This is the word of the ancient Prophet Noah : and if the
Lord failed not to speak through me in former days, I am still in
spired with the same holy power, alive in the spirit, and persever
ing in the work of the Eternal Father. And by his spirit I have
written this short word of tender charity and love to the kindreds
of the earth.
244 SACKED ROLL AND BOOK
12. For the powers of the earth shall be shaken; truth shaJl
stand, and falsehood shall flee as dew before the sun. Though
kingdoms and cities be dashed in pieces, and rent as a filthy gar
ment, yet not one soul that walks in the true fear of the Lord,
shall perish.
Inspired Writer,
Elmira Allard.
WORD OF THE LORD COMMUNICATED BY THE PROPHET MALACHI;
WRITTEN BY INSPIRATION AT ENFIELD, NEW HAMPSHIRE, AUGUST 15, 1843.
1. Hear ye and consider the word of the Lord, O ye inhabitants
of earth, ere his heavy hand of judgment come upon you ; for sure
ly, his fierce wrath is waxing hotter and hotter, as the abominations
of the inhabitants of the earth, daily increase.
2. Reflect and consider of your ways; see if ye have not forsak
en Me, saith the Lord. Ye have strayed from the path of my
appointing, and broken my law of nature which I commanded
ye should keep throughout all generations, or never inherit my
blessing and protection.
3. And am I a God who will promise and not bring to pass, as I
have declared, though the pride of poor fallen man is risen, to
trample upon every gift, which I have in my wisdom seen fit to
bestow upon him ?
4. Whenever I have revealed Myself to him, has he not been
ready to spurn at the order of my revelation, and trample upon
every thing that is holy or sacred; choosing rather to take sides
with the adversary of his soul, than to hearken to my word?
5. Yea, saith the Lord ; this have I seen until my righteous
spirit is grieved, and I will not longer forbear. But I will pour
out upon man, even of the vial of the wrath of my indignation, by
the instruments of my vengeance, as I have declared by the mouths
of my servants, the Prophets; for I am the same, yesterday and
to-day ; keeping mercy for the upright and sincere who desire the
knowledge of my ways ; but punishing the transgressor and evil
doer with my heavy hand of judgment, and thut in a day when they
are not looking for it.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 245
G. And this I am determined to do, till I soften the hearts of men
to such a degree, that they will be willing to receive any thing at
my hand which I am pleased to bestow.
7. Yea, saith the holy Prophet, this hath the Lord shown unto
me; that He will pass through the land even with a mightier and
more destructive hand, than He did through the land of Egypt,
when He slew all the first-born. And all the plagues and ca
lamities which the Lord brought upon the Egyptians, shall be
looked upon as a small thing, to what He will cause to fall upon
the inhabitants of earth in the day of his fierce wrath, when He
shall send forth his destroying Angels to hurt and destroy all that is
not consecrated to Him.
8. And in that day, He shall cause peace to depart from the earth ;
leaving the inhabitants thereof who serve the gods which they have
set up, even their own lusts and selfish desires, to wage war with
each other ; spilling their brothers' blood, and performing every act
of cruelty and abuse which Satan can invent ; thereby bringing
upon themselves, in a ten-fold proportion, the judgment which the
Lord pronounced upon their father Cain, who first set them the
example.
9. O ye dwellers on the earth, saith the holy Prophet ; listen to
my voice, for the day cometh when the voice of a Prophet of the
Lord will sound precious to you. And know ye this, that I am
now as when upon earth, a Prophet that is called to warn the souls
of the children of men of their approaching danger.
10. And I declare unto you, though millions deride the warning
I give, yet I say, there shall none escape the judgments of God,
but such as are found striving to keep his law according to their
best knowledge; and this He has condescended to make plain, and
send to the children of men, that they may know of his statutes
and judgments, and prepare for the day of his coming.
Inspired Writer,
Horace Folsoh.
216
THE SOLEMN WARNING OF A HOLY ANGEL OF GOD;
GIVEN BY INSPIRATION AT WATERVLIET, NEW YORK, APRIL 10, 1843.
1. Thus saith the holy Angel, Beware, all ye children of men,
how ye judge these things ; for ye know not that in this, ye handle
living embers, which may yet become your trouble ; for God is not
to be mocked, nor his word and work trodden under feet of men ;
for truly He has begun to work his strange work, and to fulfill his
act, his strange act ; therefore be ye not mockers lest your bands
be made strong.
2. For lo! I work a work in your day which many will in no
wise believe, although a man, yea, and although the voice of God de
clare it unto them. Therefore shall they be given up to hardness
of heart to believe a lie.
3. And thus will the Lord suffer strong delusions to come upon
those who seek to climb to Heaven some other way, save by that
which God has laid out for all souls; yea, strong delusions, that
they may believe a lie, and in the end fall under the condemnation
of their own sins, which have not gone, in mercy, beforehand to
judgment, but followed after, to condemnation and wrath.
4. So be warned, all ye children of men, who may hereafter be
favored to read the solemn word of God, given in great mercy and
loving kindness to the inhabitants of the earth, who wander upon
every high hill of imagination concerning the things of God ; and
know not that they must come down into the lowest valley of hu
miliation and self-reproach, even like the prodigal son, ere they
can find God or his infinite mercy.
5. So again do I the holy Angel of eternal truth, solemnly and
in the fear of God my Heavenly Father, warn all, as ye wish to
be treated in the day when the fierceness of his wrath shall deluge
the earth, and its inhabitants ; I say, as ye wish to be treated in
this eventful day, which is now at hand, so in like manner treat ye
the word which He giveth unto you ;
6. And if ye cannot comprehend
it,
neither wish to become en
lightened in the matter, take heed that ye do not rashly judge or
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 247
oppose it; lest ye be found fighting even against God, and his holy
work.
7. And this is my solemn warning unto one and all who may
hereafter be favored with the word of God, sent forth directly from
his mouth; wherein are contained his mind and will, and also his
positive commands to the children of men; a solemn warning
which will yet meet many of you in judgment.
From the holy and proclaiming Angel of Eternal Truth.
Inspired Writer,
Paulina Bates.
A ROLL BROUGHT AND READ BY AN HOLY ANGEL OP GOD;
COPIED BV INSPIRATION AT NEW GLOUCESTER, MAINE, JULY 16, 1843.
Word ofthe Angel to the Writer.
Awake, awake, awake! Arise quickly O thou chosen instrument of
the Lord your God, and bow your spirit and body exceeding low ;
yea, seven times bow low even to the dust; for I am an Angel of the
Lord your God, andfear thou to disobey my word. Prepare quick
ly to write, word for word, while I read unto you this short Roll.
WORDS OF THE ROLL.
1. Fear, fear ye Me saith the Lord your God, for my arm is all
powerful, and above Me there is none. And I will guard and pro
tect mine heritage, yea all my chosen people, saith the Lord, who
truly walk in my pure way ; for I will have a people that truly serve
Me ; and unto these my holy chosen, will I speak my word and de
clare my holy will.
2. By reason of the sore abominations which are now on the
earth, I have written, with mine own hand, my word of solemn
warning to the inhabitants thereof, and showed plainly unto them in
what way they shall receive my mercy and favor, and in no other.
3. But heavy judgments shall speedily follow the disobedient, who
refuse to obey my word ; for in mercy do I send it forth, that all
may understand my requirements, and turn from the evil of their
doings, and worship Me, the only living and true God.
4. Through great sufferings of spirit, and deep tribulation of soul,
248 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
I have prepared a holy and chosen one of mine, and sent my Angel
unto the same, to read aloud from my Roll. And this instrument
of mortal clay, hath written my word unto the nations of the earth,
as the Angel did read it unto him, and hath written correctly word
for word.
'5. And lo! I have sent my holy Angel with this short Roll unto
thee, thou chosen instrument, to read from the same, that thou
mayest hear, read and clearly understand, and bear witness unto my
word; for know ye, unto every branch of Zion I have, and will send
the same, that my people may know and do my will, and in so
doing escape my heavy judgments.
6. For know ye in this last display of my grace, I did purpose
to bring down the haughtiness of man, and to stain the pride of all
flesh; and this work 1 have surely commenced, and it is swiftly
going on, and by means of my own choosing I will accomplish
it,
both in, and out of Zion. So fear ye, vain mortals, to judge my
work, for
I
am
a
God of all power, and will deal with the children
of men according as their works shall merit.
Inspired Writer,
Sophia F. Mace.
WORDS OF THE HOLY PRORHET ISAIAH;
COF1ED BY INSPIRATION AT ENFIELD, NEW HAMPSHIRE, AUGUST II, 1813.
1.
I
am
a
holy Prophet of the Lord, sent forth
by
his mighty
hand, to witness the work which He
is
about to perform
in
the earth
:
for the time hasteneth when the power of salvation will be sounded
in his loving mercy, to every son and daughter of his creation.
I
was
a
true Prophet of the Lord when
I
inhabited mortal clay, and
I
still remain the Lord's Prophet.
2. Lo, all ye nations, give ear while the truth of the living God
is
sounded in your ears
:
for his sacred word He has sent forth in
his Holy Roll. This
I
did witness, and this
I
saw before
it
was
delivered to mortals on the earth; and know
it
contains the sacred
truths of the living God, written
by
his own hand and sealed with
true wisdom and love.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 249
3. Ho, all ye people who dwell upon the face of the whole earth ;
know ye the Lord is performing a work by mighty signs and won
ders. But marvel ye not at this ; although his word will go forth as
fire in the midst of stubble, to destroy all that is corruptible or un
clean in his sight, yet know ye, it is by his All-righteous hand ; for
in his loving mercy hath He condescended to send his word unto you.
4. But with a warning voice do I warn every soul, when ye re
ceive this sacred and holy word of salvation, to consider well from
whom it was sent forth, and for what purpose it was intended.
5. It is not to build up the pride of self-exalted man, and set one
above another ; but it is to set free oppressed souls, and remove
the yoke of bondage from their necks, that they may obtain true
freedom and salvation ; this He hath intended for every soul.
6. There will be various opinions concerning the Lord's work,
but this does not alter it : He will do his work in his own time, in
a manner of his own choosing. I say, let every soul beware how
they slight, misuse or destroy this sacred word of the living God.
If there be any that do these things, his judgments shall follow
them ; but unto those who give a listening ear and a heart to obey,
the blessings of the living God shall be abundant.
7. As a friend to the lost children of men, and in love to the
Father of light, have I written at this time ; that it may be known
that we, the Prophets, foresaw this very work, long ere this time ;
and now we do make it manifest to those who dwell on the earth,
and in a way of God's own choosing.
Inspired Writer,
RoSELINDA ALLARD.
A ROLL OF WARNING BY A HOLY ANGEL:
WRITTEN AT ENFIELD, HEW HAMPSHIRE, JOLY 15, 1842.
1. Thus saith the holy Angel, I will sound my ter're vac' le o'ne
trumpet to the nations of the earth, in my own appointed time ;
and they shall hear the sound of this ever blessed gospel, for it shall
be sounded throughout all the earth. For lo, the inhabitants there
of are laden with sin and iniquity, and fierce judgments are await
ing them.
250 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
2. Therefore, saith the Lord, my word shall surely go forth from
my Zion on earth, to the inhabitants of a sinful world ; that they
may take warning thereby, and be awakened before my heavy judg
ments roll on. For lo, the inhabitants of earth are filled with sin
and abomination ; and if they hearken not to my warning voice
when they hear the sound thereof, I will meet them with heavy
judgments, for these shall roll and roll through the land, in my own
appointed time, and in the way of my own choosing; and they
shall sweep down the haughty nations of the earth; yea, the wick
ed and rebellious shall feel my over-flowing scourge, saith the
Almighty.
3. O hearken again ye children of men, and give heed to my
warning voice, while I entreat you in mercy and loving kindness ;
0 hearken and give ear to my solemn warnings, lest my heavy judg
ments fall upon you. For I will, in my own time, visit the earth ;
yea, through every empire, kingdom and city, shall my holy word
be sounded ; for I am the Lord God of Heaven and earth, and all
nations shall bow before Me, and tremble at my presence.
4. O ye proud nations of the earth, thou wicked generation ; shall
1 suffer you to remain on my footstool, in your corruptions? I tell you,
nay ; I will cut you off from the face of the earth ; I will send forth
famine and pestilence to destroy you ; I will consume the nobles of
the earth ; I will destroy and lay low all that do not fear my name,
saith the God of Heaven ; I will not spare those who call on my
name, and are not doers of my work. Surely, I have always had
chosen witnesses on earth, and still have, even to this day, unto
whom I do reveal my holy will ; and all nations shall bow there
unto.
5. O hearken again unto my voice, and delay not; for the great
day of my visitation is come. Ye may think ye lie down in safety,
but I will cause you to rise up under judgment ; for with heavy
judgments I will visit you, that you may know that thej great I AM
speaketh not in vain ; but my warning voice I send forth unto you,
that ye may understand and do my holy will.
6. Verily I say unto you, Remember, the prophets of old I sent
forth with my own hand, to warn the people ; but they hearkened
not unto Me the God of Heaven. Therefore I cut them off from
my holy lan' se va' ne, and from the face of the earth ; and even so
I will do in this visitation to man.
7. For I will send forth my word, and declare unto them, that all
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 251
nations shall have an offer of salvation, which is free for all souls ;
and they shall hear the sound thereof, for this I have declared from
the beginning; and 1 created man a rational being, capable of choos
ing the way of life, which leadeth to happiness, or, the way of death,
which leadeth to misery. Therefore I say unto you, harden not
your hearts against Me your Creator. For I have sent forth my
spirit to the inhabitants of the earth, to strive with man, that he
might, if he would, receive profTered mercy ; for surely my judg
ments are pending; yea, kingdoms, thrones and dominions, shall
fall at my hand, and desolation fill the land;
8. The earth shall tremble and quake, the seas roar, and foam
ing billows shall sweep over the mighty deep ; yea, I will destroy
in my own time, kingdoms and nations; and the high and nobles of
the earth I will lay low. I will not stay my hand nor lighten my
judgments, saith the Almighty, unless ye give ear to my solemn
warnings.
9. O ye wicked and perverse generation ! how long can ye re
main in darkness, groping in sin and iniquity at the risk of your
final salvation ! For surely my word has gone forth in ages past,
and remains unalterable, even to this day. Though the Heavens
and earth pass away, my word shall not fail; but I will, in my own
time, increase my judgments according to the abominations and
wickedness that are in the land.
10. I will not save by profession; I will look upon the professor
as those that profess not ; and upon the rich and great men, yea, no
bles, kings and princes, as though they possessed nothing; for in their
hidden treasures are deceit and fraud, by speculation, and all man
ner of wickedness which I do abhor, saith the God of Heaven ; and
for this cause and many more, I have sent forth my destroying An
gels to pull down their lofty towers; yea, to lay low, even to the
ground, their high places.
11. My ter're vac' le o'ne trumpet shall sound through the land,
and many will flock to my Zion on earth for refuge, over whom I
will stretch out my protecting hand, and shield them from harm. But
to those that put far away these solemn warnings, and say, No dan
ger awaits us ; on such I will pour out my wrath and indignation ; I
will smite them with my rod of justice, which I hold in my right ,
band to accomplish this mighty work of the latter day.
12. Therefore, hearken again to my voice, and repent of your
doings, saith the Holy One of Israel ; for I am determined on a
252 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
decision with the inhabitants of earth. Hence, I entreat you in mer
cy; and will ye not hear? Will ye not come forth to the resurrec
tion of life, and escape the awful judgments that await the sinner?
13. I say unto you, Every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall
confess that I am the Lord. I will, in my own appointed time,
cause my prophecies to be fulfilled, that the inhabitants of earth
may know and feel sore tribulation for the abomination with which
the earth is filled.
14. Never was there so great a day of my visitation to fallen man ;
and never, according to the truth manifested, was the earth so laden
with sin and wickedness as at the present time. How long shall I
suffer the earth with her heavy burden to cry unto Me? Shall I
wait on the sinner that repenteth not? I tell you, nay;
15. I have appointed my time, and my work I will do; I will
smite the sinner that oppresseth, and confound and bring to nought
the lofty imaginations of men; they shall wander in desolate places,
and say to the rocks and mountains, Fall on us, and hide us from
Him that sitteth upon the throne. For great and terrible, saith
the holy Angel, will be the day of the Lord which is declared
unto you.
16. Therefore, I solemnly warn you, not to treat the things of
God as abusing them. For know ye, there is but one true God, the
great Eternal Giver of all good ; just and righteous, who will re
ward every one according as his works shall be.
17. Therefore saith the Lord, Hearken again O my people, to
my word ; prepare ye to sound the ter're vac'le o'ne trumpet ; for I
have not spoken in vain, neither will I pass lightly over those who
know my will and do it not; but those who do my pleasure, I will
gather together from the four quarters of the earth, into my ark of
safety.
18. Therefore, I say unto the children of Zion, Gird on your
helmet, sword and shield, and be ye strong in the Lord; for lo, the
time cometh when many will flock to Zion, some for good and
some for evil. But I say unto you, stand ye firm and unshaken, and
I will be your God and ye shall be my people, forever more : Amen.
Inspired Writer,
Lucinda Hartford.
253
A GOLDEN SEAL, CONTAINING THE TESTIMONY OF SIMON PETER,
IN BEHALF OF HIS FAITHFUL COMPANIONS WHO TOILED WITH HIM
WHILE ON EARTH.
WRITTEN BY INSPIRATION AT CANTERBURY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JUKE 30, 1843.
1. Hearken, O ye children of Zion, and give a willing ear, O ye
fellow brethren and sisters of mine, who dwell on the earth. I am
Peter, of whom ye read, an apostle of your blessed Lord and Sav
ior, and a servant of the Most High God, whose command I make
it my delight to obey.
2. I have long desired and been prepared for this opportunity ;
like a free volunteer, at this time, in union with my brethren and
sisters, (the faithful apostles and servants of Christ,) I thankfully
raise my voice to testify of those things which seem good in my
sight; for I have long been an ear and eye witness of the great work
of the Lord in the Heavens above, and on the earth ; and especially
in this his .late sacred and glorious manifestation to the chosen
people of his Zion.
3. I was near even at the side of your blessed Savior, in pres
ence of your holy Mother Ann, at the time your Heavenly Father
commissioned his holy Angels to go forth with the sacred Roll and
Book, which I well know, and testify to all nations and people that
move on the earth, his Almighty power did prepare, and send by
his mighty Angel to his Church on the Holy Mount of Lebanon,
there to be copied by mortal hand, in deep tribulation and the holy
fear of God ; which I know hath been done according to his own
choosing; for I have accompanied the holy Angels, with many other
glorified spirits, and have with them been a careful observer of
the operations in Heaven and on earth, in preparing this sacred
Roll and Book for the nations thereof, from the beginning to this
time ; and still shall be, till it reaches those for whom it was design
ed by the Almighty.
4. Be it known unto the many nations of this earth, that there
are thousands and tens of thousands in the eternal world of light
and life, who are ready and free to pour forth their thankfulness
and gratitude in the hearing of mortals, for the great condescension
of their Heavenly Father, in sending forth his permanent word of
lengthened mercy to fallen man ; and would be glad so to do, if
254 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
time with mortals and room on the sacred pages would permit ; for
their souls even as mine, are filled with the tender love and sweet
compassion of an All-wise and just Creator, for all who will strive
to know and do the will of their Heavenly Father, from the time
his word shall reach them, till on earth their days are ended.
5. I have heard their prayers, and seen them bowing low before
the throne of Eternal Truth and Infinite Wisdom. O ye who are
as good by nature as myself, my soul daily prayeth for you, that
you may not be found fighting against God, neither be so unwise as
to slight the day of his visitation to your needy souls, as many did
in past ages. Trust in God, if his will ye would do; for if you
trust in your own knowledge and strength, though ye may greatly
desire to do right, ye may, in the trying moment, be left to feel the
effects of your own weakness.
6. Receive the mercy of your God, that his most heavy judg
ments may not be yours to suffer. Choose wisely, and hearken to
the voice of charity, and shut not your eyes against the light of
truth which already beginneth to burn in your own consciences ; but
unite with every thing holy and good, whatever be the means by
which it is offered, or whoever be the messenger by whom it may
be conveyed to you ; remembering at all times, it is not so much
matter what the size, color, shape or costliness of the vessel
is,
as
it
is
about the cleanliness, and the precious worth
it
contains.
7. As
a
brother, and friend to your precious souls,
I
feel to warn
you all, to receive the messengers of your God when sent to you in
charity and love, and treat them with kindness
;
for many will He
yet send forth to every kindred and people on earth
;
but whether
they will come unto you, spirits dwelling in natural bodies, or spir
its freed from the earthly tabernacle,
is
not for you to lay out or
determine.
8.
Though my spirit sorroweth for the haughtiness and foolish
ness of mankind, yet
I
rejoice in the condescension of the Lord
and his mighty Angels
,
and that He hath purposed to send forth
his messengers to visit and awaken the sleepers in sin, and bring
to life the dead, restore the lame, heal the sick, and bind up the
broken hearted.
9.
By the light of my God and his holy influence,
I
am led to
see and know in part, that which will be in time to come.
10. Ye may say, Who
is
this that declareth these things to us?
I
am
a
co-worker with my brother, the faithful and beloved disciple
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 255
of the holy Savior, John the Revelator; and when it shall please
my God again to send me forth with my brethren and companions,
as in the days of Christ's first appearing, I will go whither by the
spirit of justice I am led; and will help to open the hearts of the
children of men with the key of love and light, and awaken them
with the word of faith, for the solemn word of the Lord, through
the holy Revelator, to enter. And when these things come, then
will ye know that my words are true.
11. Your noble dwellings, where kings and princes dwell in ease
and indolence, shall be the places where food shall be prepared for
the chosen servants of God ; and sweet industry shall reign.
12. In many an unfinished shed, in barns, in cottages of the
poorest peasants, in the once lonely deserts, shall the power, mercy
and justice of God yet be displayed, and his word loudly echo.
13. To the thatched and unthatched roof, and to the meanest
hovel shall some of the most renowned of this earth yet gather, and
on their bended knees seek the forgiveness of their God, and hum
bly beg for his mercy; and by those whom they once disdained to
comfort with the necessaries of life, shall they be taught the way of
eternal life, and fed with the imperishable bread of Heaven.
1 4. Times and seasons may pass away before these things are all
fulfilled; but the word of God standeth sure to the end; so be not
faithless or unbelieving.
15. Before I hold my peace, I freely declare to you ye hearers,
great and small, that the work of God, in the order of his grace,
will bring you all on a level ; the king and beggar shall eat from the
same table, the peasant and prince shall drink from the same cup,
and the professor and profane shall loudly acknowledge, they have
both been destitute of the true power and word of salvation, and
know not the living God as He is revealed.
16. Ye who read and understand the word of your God as re
corded on the sacred pages of this book, will see that it is vain for
you, any longer to stretch your senses to the ethereal skies, to find
the Lord ; or place your eyes there to look for the second appear
ing of Christ.
17. He hath appeared as declared in this book; and I bless the
bright Eternal Two who have, in their own way and time, in beauty
and order, displayed their might and wisdom, by placing at the
head of the New Creation, the heavenly Bridegroom and Bride, as
the spiritual Parents of all souls who have been begotten into the
256 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
elements of eternal life; for as true as there is a God, every soul who
ever finds access to his throne, must find it by and through them.
18. It is equally as impossible for a soul to enter into the spirit
ual creation, without spiritual Parents, and breathe the air of eter
nal life, as it would be for a child to enter into the natural world
without natural parents.
19. But thanks and honor forever and evermore I will give to
the Eternal Two, for the perfect way of life and redemption from
the nature of sin, which they have revealed through Christ the
Holy Savior and blessed Mother Ann Lee. They who worship the
spirit dwelling in these, the two Anointed Ones, do truly worship
God.
20. I bless the day that I found the second Eve, the Bride, the
Lamb's wife, a Spiritual Mother, without which my salvation could
not have been perfect, nor my joy full.
21. Blessed be her name in Heaven and on earth, and that pure
gospel and perfect cross of self-denial which she daily taught and
practiced in all her goings forth. Let her praise be spoken, and
her goodness sounded throughout the whole earth, as well as that
of the Holy Savior.
22. As I am a well wisher to all those who dwell on the earth, I
have considered it a great privilege and sacred duty, to sign and
seal the words of everlasting truth and light, by revealing in part
my sympathetic feelings for all the creation of God.
23. O that none might be found so unwise, as to disregard the
warnings of God, defy his mighty power or deny his holy name, or
that of his holy messengers.
24. Desiring all those who read the foregoing, to remember,
that the true saints of God are one in all things ; and thus, having
spoken to you, through an instrument of mortal clay, I have plainly
shown you the feelings of my companions who suffered with me
when on earth ; with earnest feelings to do good to my fellow kin
dred, in the spirit of prayer and with Christ-like humility, I close
my word by saying, O Heavenly Father, do be merciful and forgive
them, for they know not what they do.
Inspired Writer,
Susan H. Whitcher.
257
A HOLY ROLL WRITTEN BY JOHN TIIE REYELATOR;
COPIED BY INSPIRATION AT CANTERBURY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JUNE 29, 1843.
1. Come listen aandidly unto my words all ye travelers in time,
for as a true friend and well wisher to your souls I address you. I
am John, the beloved disciple of Christ ; the brother of James, and
the son of Zebedee.
2. By the goodness of God I was made a partaker of this saving
gospel of life and salvation, in the first appearing of Christ upon
earth. And by walking in perfect obedience to that doctrine sent
forth by the Eternal Father, through him unto a lost world, I have
ever found favor in the sight of God, and in no other way.
3. And I testify unto all people, that no souls, either in time or
eternity, can ever be owned and accepted of God, short of acknowl
edging and obeying Him in that order where He has. made Himself
manifest, whether it be in accordance with their vain and exalted
imaginations, yea or nay.
4. Whatever means it pleaseth God to make use of to reveal his
will unto mortals, whether it be through the agency of man, wo
man or child, there must every soul bow, and acknowledge his word
and his power, or never share in his mercy.
5. Therefore, as a wise parent would warn his son to flee from
approaching danger, so do I warn you, O ye inhabitants of mortal
ity, not to deny or defy the means which God hath chosen to make
known his will unto you at the present time.
6. Remember, God hath ever chosen the foolish things of the
world to confound the wise, and the weak things of the world to
confound the mighty; yea, and base things, and even things which
are not, to bring to nought things which are.
7. Behold Jehovah hath declared, that out of the midst of Zion
his word should go forth to the nations of the earth. And where,
0 ye inhabitants of earth, would you look for the midst of Zion ?
Would you look into the divided and subdivided parties of men,
where strife and contention reign perpetually?
8. Christ promised that his kingdom should be a kingdom ofpeace.
And where, O ye children of men, can that kingdom of peace be
found, if it be not where blood is not shed, and where strife and
contention are not known? Where one mortal man is not exalted
G*
'25R SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
above another ; but where all share alike the blessings of God ; where
they that were rich become as those that were poor and possess
ed nothing, and they that were poor, become even as those who
possessed an abundance of this world's goods; they that had wives
become even as though they had none; and all dwell together in
perfect harmony, purity and righteousness, enjoying one faith, one
Lord and one baptism, which is the baptism of fire and the Holy
Spirit : who are daily crucifying the flesh, with all its affections
and lusts, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit, and in
the knowledge of God ?
9. Of such is the kingdom of Christ, the Zion of God compos
ed. And what rational soul can dispute, but that such a kingdom,
is that kingdom of peace which belongeth to the Savior, rather than
that which is filled with contentious strivings, and confused divis
ions, where each man careth for his own household and nothing
more, and is daily striving to serve and please himself, rather than
his Maker ?
10. Through what means, I ask, O ye candid ones, would you
that your Heavenly Father send forth his word unto you ? If you
despise the humble means which He hath chosen, where, I ask,
would you that his word be given ?
11. Would you that it be given unto the haughty kings, and
bigoted princes of this earth, who are daily reveling in the most
filthy abominations, whose hearts are polluted with iniquity, and
whose hands are stained with innocent blood? Verily I say unto
you, He would sooner send forth his word through an African babe,
or a natural idiot.
12. But again I ask, Would you that your Heavenly Father send
forth his word through your appointed priests and pretended minis
ters of the gospel of Christ, who, it is known by their fruits, and
the declaration of their own mouths, daily commit sin; and who
strive to indulge and gratify the cravings of their evil passions?
13. Or would you that He send his word forth through a meek
and humble follower of Christ, who never sought to be honored
and adored by mortals, but whose constant labor from his youth up,
has been merely to know and do the will of God 1
14. Such an instrument the Lord hath made choice of, to reveal
his will unto mortals in the present case. And every rational soul
who is endowed with one spark of true light, will acknowledge the
means He has chosen, to be in wisdom, justice and goodness.
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 259
15. Although the people from whence the word of the Lord
hath gone forth, are looked upon by mankind in general, as a mean
and contemptible few, and even judged by some to be the very off-
scouring of the earth ; yet I declare unto you, and my word shall
prove eternal truth, That even the most noble among men, will yet
witness the day, that they would willingly make any sacrifice what
ever, to obtain that perfect peace, and that heavenly undisturbed
joy, which this little despised flock have merited, by their daily
walk of humility and self-denial.
16. The flock of Christ never was known by great numbers, or
much popularity j but his true and faithful followers were always
few, and that few always suffered ridicule and persecution for
his sake.
17. When our Savior came into the world, he came not in great
pomp and worldly array, exalting the great and noble of the earth;
and for this reason they despised him, and suffered him to be put
to death.
18. He called unto him those who were needy. It was not the
rich or the proud; but it was the poor and mean in the eyes of men,
honest humble laborers in the things of this world, who sought not
to be honored by their fellow mortals, although that saving gospel
which he taught was offered freely to all, kings as well as beggars,
if they would comply with its just and humiliating requirements.
19. But the self-exalted sense of human nature, was the same in
ages past that it is in the present day ; and the objections of an
unbelieving world were no more vain and unstable, eighteen hun
dred years ago, concerning the first appearing of Christ, than they
are in the present day concerning his second appearing, which it
has pleased God should be through the instrumentality of a female.
20. The wisdom of God is foolishness to vain man, and ever
was. His work is a pride-staining and humiliating work, and has
been from the beginning; but what mortal shall dare to oppose
the order of it?
21. Know ye, heavy judgments shall be set upon that soul, who
will dare, knowingly, to oppose his work and his wisdom, insomuch
as to abuse and persecute his subjects.
22. The sufferings of this little despised few, the followers of
that chosen and anointed female, have ever been like unto those
which Jesus of Nazareth and his faithful followers were caused to
suffer by the wicked ; and this is one convincing evidence to you,
260 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
that the same spirit dwelt in her and her followers, which dwelt in
Jesus and his followers ; if it had not been so, that spirit of enmity
never would have arisen as it did, to persecute and destroy her, and
to put an end to that gospel which she taught.
23. The world loveth its own ; but it hated Christ the Savior
because he was not of the world, neither was the doctrine he
taught ; and for the same cause, did the world of mankind despise
this woman, and her faithful, humble followers.
24. What rational soul can dispute the wisdom and propriety of
a spiritual Mother in the new creation, any more than a spiritual
Father? In the natural order and creation of the human race, the
male and the female are both workers together ; and the natural
creation of all things is a figure of the spiritual ; therefore no soul
is born of God that does not acknowledge a spiritual Mother, as
well as a spiritual Father.
25. That latter day of glory has been ushered in, which was
predicted by the Prophets; that day in which the virgins should re
joice in the dances of them that make merry.
26. This is the morning of the day in which the marriage of the
Lamb is come, and blessed are they which are called unto the
marriage feast of the same. Rejoice and be glad all ye nations of
the earth, for the heavenly Bridegroom and Bride stand at the head
of the New Creation, proclaiming peace and full salvation unto all
souls who are willing to hear and obey the word of the Lord.
27. The Lord hath sent forth his holy proclaiming Angels unto
all the earth, to sound the awakening trumpet of full salvation and
redemption unto lost souls. And his Angels of vengeance stand
ready to pour forth his wrath, upon the Heaven-daring mockers of
his sacred word.
28. Awaken and be enlightened, all ye children of men, look ye
and behold the City of the New Jerusalem. That City of ever
lasting peace and purity, the kingdom of the Messiah; which I
John the Revelator, did behold in a heavenly vision, when confin
ed upon the Isle of Patmos.
29. I saw the word of the Lord, and the purity of his kingdom,
even as it was to stand in the last dispensation of his goodness
unto mortals. I saw, and I knew not what I saw, but I have since
seen the fulfilling of many wonders ; and all that which remaineth
sealed, will yet be revealed.
30. But behold I saw a woman, clothed with the sun, and the
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 261
moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars;
and she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pained to
be delivered, and brought forth a man child who was to rule all na
tions with a rod of iron. Therefore rejoice, all ye inhabitants of
earth, that this woman, being the Eternal Mother of the whole Cre
ation, even as Jehovah is the Father, has been delivered even of
the remnant of her seed, which is the Lamb's Bride, the second Eve.
31. Give honor and praise, all ye sons of men, that the mystery
of God is finished, and his true Church upon earth established. Bow
down and worship before his throne, for the desire of all nations
is come. Give honor and glory to Him unceasingly, for his length
ened mercy to fallen man.
32. Be ye not found caviling with the workings of his Holy
Spirit, like the Scribes and Pharisees of old ; nor contending with
his holy Wisdom like the unbelieving Jews; lest, after the many
warnings He has given you, He smite you with heavy displeasure,
and cut off his mercy from your souls.
33. As a friend and well wisher to all, I solemnly warn you who
dwell in mortal clay, to treat the word of your Heavenly Father,
which is now sent forth in mercy and charity to all souls, with sa
cred reverence and holy fear. For know ye, every soul will have
to render account to God for the use they make of that which He
has given them. Amen. Sevac' Selah'.
Inspired Writer,
Lydia M. Chase.
A BOLL OF SOLEMN WARNING, BY HOLY AND ETERNAL MOTHER
WISDOM, BROUGHT BY HER WITNESSING ANGEL;
REVEALED AT CANTERBURY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, MAY S3, 1843.
1. Bow down and obey, all ye who hear my word, both ye who
dwell in Zion, and ye who dwell in distant lands, say I Eternal
Wisdom. O ves'ter lan sine ex fari'na, in words of solemn warning
I sound my trumpet of wisdom unto you, through my witnessing
Angel, Ah Se'lah Ves'perlon'.
2. Know ye, that I am Wisdom, eternal and unchangeable
'262 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
Wisdom; one with God I am, ever was and always shall be; even as
He is your Eternal Father, so do I Eternal Wisdom, stand as your
everlasting Mother. With Him I sound forth mercy, with Him
judgment proclaim ; We stand as one, and work as but one alone ;
nothing doth He send forth upon the earth, either in mercy or judg
ment, without my everlasting seal, Eternal Wisdom; and nothing
do I sound, or cause to be sounded forth, without his everlasting
sign and approval.
3. Therefore marvel not that my words are sounded unto you,
0 ye of little faith and weak understanding; for even as He has
condescended to stoop from his throne in Heaven, to notice his
creature man now dwelling upon the earth, his footstool ; even so do
1 accompany Him, to bless the word of his mouth, and bear wit
ness to the truth contained in the Holy Roll, sent forth by his Al
mighty power, mercy and justice; and many times have I placed
my seal thereon, and pronounced it wholesome and good, to stand
unaltered and unchanged, till He in his infinite goodness, sees fit
to send forth a further decree.
4. So beware, all who are called to read or to handle this word,
in any way, shape or manner ; for I have said and again say, that
whosoever will, knowingly, alter, add or diminish one word contain
ed in the Holy Roll, shall feel the judgments of God, and the heavy
displeasure of Me, Eternal wisdom; and whosoever will destroy,
or cause to be destroyed, this holy Book, or any part therein contain
ed, O car'bo hes'per larth vile, and de veen' through tem'po ha'
vo a' zen; I say,
5. Though you burn this Book, the truth thereof shall burst forth
in your souls, as an unquenchable fire and a tormenting flame; and
if you bury it in the earth, the power of God shall cause it to
breathe forth the curses and the heavy judgments which are written
therein ; yea the earth itself shall breathe forth plagues, pestilence
and sore diseases, upon those whose hands or voices were raised, or
whose hearts rejoiced, to have this the holy word of the Lord bur
ied in the earth, to be trampled upon ; and thus cause it to be a
curse instead of a blessing unto you.
6. Therefore be wise, all ye inhabitants of the earth ; and con
sider, ye cannot hide from the All-seeing eye of your God.
7. But why should man seek to destroy the word of Heaven, sent
unto him from his God, given for his eternal good and happiness?
It is because it strikes at the root of all evil, which is the lust of
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 263
the flesh, the lust of the eyes and the pride of life; yea, because he
is required to live strictly according to the law of grace, or strictly
to the law of nature.
8. It
is,
saith Wisdom, for these reasons that he will seek to de
stroy this holy word; but know ye, all who hear my word, that ye
cannot now, nor ever will be blessed, in any other way. Walk strict
ly
according to the principles of one or the other, or you will merit
the displeasure of your God.
9. Let those extensive buildings in which you have spent so many
precious hours of your life in the filthy and obscene works of dark
ness, now be changed into houses of solemn prayer, or of honest
employment; no more to be set apart for such foul and base pur
poses. There let holy songs of thanksgiving and praise, be sung
unto the Lord for his long forbearance; there let solemn and sa
cred fear fill every soul
;
10. There let the cries of the penitent, the humble, true seeker
after righteousness, and the broken hearted, ascend to the throne
of God, from the deepest recesses of your hearts; yea, bathe your
floors with tears of true repentance and thankfulness, that He has
seen fit to notice you in mercy, and warn you of his heavy judg
ments, which He will pour upon you, unless you quickly repent.
11.
O
may sweet repentance soften each heart, that the words
of Heaven may sink deeply therein
;
which will cause you to be
bowed down with fear and reverence, and filled with deep tribula
tion, that you may be prepared to meet your God in his mercy, and
share in his forgiving love; for He will have mercy on the faithful,
and compassion for the contrite spirit; those who regard Him, He
will regard
;
but those who scorn his words, and disregard his say
ings, He will scourge with his judgments, and meet them in his
fury
;
yea, He will disregard them in their calamity, and withhold
his protection when their fear cometh.
12. So beware how ye walk, and how ye use the givings of your
God
;
for know ye,
it
is
an awful thing to fall into the hands of the
Almighty, to feel his judgments and heavy displeasure. Carefully
use the words of Heaven at all times, wherever they may be re
vealed
;
through whatever means they may come,
it
matters not
;
if
it
pleaseth your God, you have no reason to complain.
13. But when you hear or see them, or even have them in your
presence, the eye of the Lord
is
continually upon you, to behold
the manner in which you regard them. Therefore be ye cautious
264 SACRED ROLL AND BOOK
how you use the things of God, and how you speak of the same.
14. And I do forbid, that any should take expressions or senti
ments written in the Holy Roll, and use as common by-words,
either in a light carnal way, or in any other, save with sacred rev
erence; for they are solemn indeed, and should not be used or blended
with your own carnal words and ways, to express your ideas or feel
ings in any manner; but preserve them in their order, by themselves,
solemn, sacred and divine; yea, preserve them as you would the
most valuable treasure of silver or gold, for they are of much
more importance.
15. And those of you who stand as rulers, often warn the people
to use them carefully, and abuse not the books themselves, nor the
solemn words therein contained ; and set ye the same example before
them, in all you say and do. So shall you be blessed, and your
people likewise. In obedience to the words of Heaven, you shall
be prospered, and in no other way.
16. Therefore be wise for your own souls' sake, and for your
own prosperity and happiness, take heed how you walk ; seek your
God in true humility, and you will find He hath mercy ; labor for
wisdom, that you may act wisely.
17. My delight is in the upright souls; I dwell with the honest
heart, and with the true seeker and doer of the Lord's will. I am
not found in the high lofty regions, where dwell pride, arrogance
and deceit, where each one strives to be the highest, where all
strive to rule, and none to obey ;
18. There I dwell not, saith Holy Wisdom ; but in the lowly
vale of humility and sweet repentance do I abide ; there I shower
my blessings, and cause every thing to grow in wisdom, and perfect
order; there I have planted my vineyards, and there I have prepar
ed holy fountains of everlasting waters wherewith to feed my flock.
I have there planted beautiful groves, and the blessing of God has
caused them to flourish exceedingly.
19. Come hither all who will, and walk in my pleasant valley;
purify your souls from sin and I will delight in your offerings ; wash
in the pool of repentance, and you will be lovely; enter at the gate
of final decision, bid adieu to the world without, take up your cross,
no more to put it by, and you shall be mine forever.
20. My paths are pleasant, and all who will, may walk therein ;
but nothing that is sinful or unclean, hath any place in my valley,
TO THE NATIONS OF THE EARTH. 265
saith Wisdom ; but straight as straightness, holy and divine are all
things which are under my full blessing.
21. You must bear the cross, if you would wear the crown; you
must lay down your carnal lives if you would share in life everlast
ing; you must regard the holy words of your God, and live ac
cording to his requirements, if you would enjoy peace on earth,
and eternal happiness forever.
22. Worship your God to his acceptance, if you would that He
receive your offerings ; worship Him in spirit, with life and zeal,
in truth and in reality, regardless of certain forms and ceremonies;
and it will be accepted of Him ; He will be merciful towards you,
in well doing, in loving and obeying his word. But bow down, and
give your ears to hear, and incline your hearts to understand and
obey his holy word.
23. Thus my word is finished unto you at this time, say I, Holy
and Eternal Wisdom.
Words of the Angel to toe Anointed in Zion.
O ye blessed of Holy Wisdom, the above did She sound unto me,
to have written and given unto you, on the fourteenth morning of
the fifth month, to do with as your wisdom would direct. But keep
my words, said She, for they will yet prove a benefit ; and time
may yet unfold why I wrote them. I have no more to do with
them, saith the Angel, as they are now correctly written, according
to her holy and divine will.
Inspired Writer,
Dorothy Ann Durgin.
H*
267
APPENDIX ;
CONTAINING A NARRATION OF FACTS, GIVEN BY DIVINE
REVELATION ; AND ALSO FROM LIVING WITNESSES, COR
ROBORATING THE REALITY OF THE FOREGOING.
The following, is a correct statement of the various interviews and commu
nications, witnessed and received from the holy and mighty Angel of God,
Ma' nk Me' kah, Vak' na Si' na Jah', by Adah Zillah Potter. All of which
transpired some months previous to the writing of the preceding word of the
Lord, to the inhabitants of the earth.
Testimony of the inspired Writer.
I am but a dependent mortal, and of myself equally ignorant of the divine
and mysterious purposes of the All-wise and ever righteous God, with my
fellow companions of time. Nor do I assert, that, in my very small measure
of natural wisdom and knowledge, I am able, in the least degree, to compre
hend his ways, or his doings.
Yet, I am bold and confident to affirm, in the hearing or presence of all
people, if so required to do, that I have received a knowledge and under
standing of a mighty and merciful display of the infinite goodness of the
one true and living God, to the inhabitants of the earth, which He is about
to manifest unto them, through the medium of his holy Angels ; and that
from the same divine source, it has been shown and revealed unto me.
Therefore, to obey the voice of the Holy Angel, I feel called upon, by the
powers of truth, at this time, to bear witness to the word of the Lord, which,
by his holy Angels, is proclaimed unto the children of men. For I have
known, for some months previous to this time, by the revelation of God,
that the time was near at hand, even at the door, when He would, by means
of his own choosing, make known his word, and reveal his will unto the in
habitants of the earth, even to the nations abroad.
And it is for these reasons, even because Heaven hath revealed it to me,
and for a confirmation to what has been already stated, that I now add my
testimony, and freely acknowledge the same ; and also prove the truth of
my word, by giving an account of what I have felt, seen and heard ; yea, and
2G8 APPENDIX TO THE
received from the powers above, concerning the word nnd work of the holy
and mighty Angel of God, that is now at work, for the good of the children
of men.
First Interview.
It was in the evening of the twenty second of January, eighteen hundred
and forty two, while I was busily employed putting all things in readiness,
for the close of the week, that I distinctly heard my name called very loud
ly, and with much earnestness. I could not go so well at that moment, and I
answered, I will come soon, for I supposed it to be some one in the adjoining
room, that wished to see me : but the word was repeated three times, and I
hastened to the place from whence the sound seemed to come, but there was
no one present.
I soon saw in the middle of the room, four very largo and bright lights, or
balls of fire, as they appeared to be ; they moved slowly each way, and after
a little time, joined together in one exceedingly large light, or pillar of fire.
At this moment, I heard a loud voice, which uttered many words, with such
mighty force that I feared to stay in the room, and attempted to go out ; but
found I had not power to move my feet.
For some time, I could not understand one word that was sounded forth ;
but the first that I did understand, were as follows : Hark, hark ! hearken, O
thou child of mortality, unto the word that is, and shall be sounded aloud in
thine ears, again and again, even until it is obeyed.
And lo, I say, a time, and a time, and a half time shall not pass by, before
my voice shall be heard, and my word sounded forth to the nations abroad.
But in the Zion of my likeness and true righteousness shall it be received
first, and from thence shall it go forth ; for thus and thus hath the God of
Heaven and earth declared, and purposed that it should be.
Then why will you, O why will you yet fear to obey ? What would you
that your God would do in your presence, that you might fear his power,
rather than that of mortal man ?
From this moment, I was not sensible where I was; and after a little time
of silence, the body of light, or pillar of fire, dispersed ; and I saw a mighty
Angel coining from the east, and I heard these words :
Woe, woe, and many woes shall be upon the mortal that shall see, and
will not stop to behold ; that shall hear, and will not hearken ; or that shall
understand and will not receive, and well consider upon that which the God
of Heaven and earth, of the wise and unwise, the just and unjust, shall yet
send forth, and cause to be proclaimed within Zion, and without Zion, in his
own time.
The voice now ceased, and I could not determine whether the word proceed
ed from the brightness that remained before me, or from the mighty Angel.
All was silent, for a short time, and then these words were repeated very
forcibly, and loud.
Speak not of my presence, nor of what thou hast seen and heard, until
thou hast permission, or until the time shall come ; for I have now come
forth to work mightily among the ehildren of the earth: but in the heart of
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 269
Zion I shall begin, and for a season, I shall pass to and fro, unseen and un
known as I really am.
O then thou mortal of my choice, remember the day and the hour, and
number the times, and keep the time of my coming, even from this, the first
time, until the time is fulfilled ; for thou shalt remain my witness, unto the end.
February third, eighteen hundred forty two, early in the morning, between
the hours of two and three, I heard a loud voice, resembling distant thunder ;
and as it came nearer, I could hear distinct words. After some minutes, I
arose, and looked out of the window, to see if there was any thing the mat
ter without; but I saw nothing in danger, and turned to go to my rest; and
the voice sounded forth, yet louder than before, in the following words.
THE WORDS OF A HOLY ANGEL.
These twenty days, have I passed to and fro in the earth, and have softly
sounded my word, and but very few have listened ; and shall I longer hold
my peace, and let the earth be troubled ? I have passed and re-passed, to watch,
guard and protect, and prepare the Zion of the living God, for that work
which the Almighty hath purposed, should shortly begin in her.
But lo, I go, and a mightier one than I am, will soon come ; for the All-
powerful God will not longer be still ; but will work mighty wonders in the
earth, even that which is more marvelous than what has already been wit
nessed ; and this He has surely declared in the ears of his chosen people,
many times of late, by means of his own choosing.
So I say, let the inhabitants of the earth, both great and small, old and
young, prepare to humble themselves as the dust, in the presence of the
Lord their God, the mighty one of Israel. Let Zion tremble, and let all Is
rael fear before Him, and murmur not against his sacred requirements to them.
Let the mountains break forth with lamentation, and let the vallies be fill
ed with sorrow and mourning ; for mighty and terrible are the bands and
strong holds of Satan, throughout the earth.
Surely, I say, many will there be, that will be led captive ; and this, the
captivity of Siar1 larxm', will bo far greater than the captivity of Babylon, in
ancient days.
But well will it be with thee, O Zion, if in that day, thy walls are well
fortified, and thou art found standing in that holy order and rectitude, in
which thy God hath placed thee, and purposed that the nations of the earth
should behold thee.
And woe, yea, a cursed woe, unto every soul that shall spread an evil re
port of the mysterious doings of their God in the Zion of his holiness, or
shall go out among strangers, with an intent to do evil.
Woe unto them that shall seek to understand the mighty works of their
God, among the children of men, for the sake, or by way of judging them,
or their God who is at work with them. But a far greater woe shall be upon
him, even to this day, that shall spread abroad, or declare falsely, in the
name of the living God, or his holy Angels, that which has been and will
be shown unto the inhabitants of Zion, before the full time.
For verily I say, a knowledge and understanding sufficient for the good of
270 APPENDIX TO THE
men, concerning Zion, will the Lord your God send forth, even in his own
time and by means of his own choosing, entirely according to his own will.
Amen.
The word was now finished, and all was silent.
Second Interview.
On February fifth, eighteen hundred forty two, about ten o'clock in the
morning, I saw in the room, a large ball of light, or seemingly, a body of fire,
moving slowly to the south ; it then turned and passed by me to the north,
and divided into four parts, and moved swiftly each way, east, west, north
and south ; and I saw them no more.
I thought to go to my work ; but presently, I heard a loud and terrible voice,
but did not see any thing. The word was as follows.
I am Ma'ne Me'rah, Vak'na Si'na Jah>, or the mighty prophesying Angel
of the God of Heaven and earth, sent forth at his command, to pass and re
pass to and fro, and to prophesy throughout the earth.
Within Zion, and without Zion, shall I pass continually, even as God
has commanded me, until my time of prophesying is passed by, and the days
of the fulfilling of the same shall come.
I do, and shall, speak of that which has been, of that which now is, and
of that which is to come.
I am at this time, only as one that goeth before that which is to come, and
will follow ; and that which mortals shall yet see, and understand.
But the voice that soundeth forth the word at my command, no mortal eye
shall behold from whence it cometh ; but mortals shall hear and understand
without fail ; for the GREAT I AM hath spoken
it,
and his Eternal Wisdom
hath declared it.
And again
I
say,
I
will pass to and fro, within Zion, and without Zion
;
and
I
will prophesy in the name of the GREAT JEHOVAH, that which
He will assuredly bring to pass, until my time of prophesying
is
fulfilled, as
the God of all nations has commanded me.
And if there are yet to be found in Zion, sinners or workers of iniquity,
I
will, without reserve, prophesy evil against them
;
yea, and against that part
of Zion in which they dwell, and heavy woes shall follow my word
;
and
they, and all such as rest at peace with them, shall be cast from before the
righteous like stubble.
In the days of the fulfilling of my prophecy, shall these things be
;
for the
Holy One of Israel, hath purposed and declared, that his kingdom on earth,
should be
a
kingdom of righteousness
;
and his Zion,
a
holy City of perfect
order and beauty, adorned with purity, and as
a
shining light to the nations
around. Thus and thus shall
it
be, before the mighty work of the living
Gnd
is
accomplished.
And again
;
I
am the power that ruleth and commandeth the voice
;
but
no man shall see, or be able to tell from whence the word proceedeth from
time to time, or comprehend the meaning of my word, very many times.
Yet,
I
am one that many shall hear, many shall see, many shall understand
;
and many shall believe that
I
am, and that
I
was sent forth at the command
of the Almighty One
;
and shall indeed fear my coming.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 271
But many more, yea, far greater will be the number, that will not believe
that I am, or that I am sent forth by an Almighty and eternal power, and
am indeed of the same ; but will set at nought, and deride my word, and will
put afar off the days of the fulfilling of
it,
and will sneer at those who will
believe.
Yea, and such will devise harm, and plot mischief against those who will
fear my power
;
and will geek to lie in wait and ensnare the mortal that shall
be caused to declare these things in the ears of their fellow creatures
;
for
truths, truths, and solemn truths, without reserve to the pretended ignorance
of man, will
I
command to be sounded forth.
And
I
will no more cease to pass and re-pass to and fro, throughout the
earth, or cause my prophecy to have an end, until my time shall come, yea,
fully come
;
and of that time, no power has ever yet spoken
;
but
it
is
not
far distant, according to the times and seasons above.
Nay, no power in Heaven, hath ever yet said to mortals,
I
will cause my
holy, proclaiming, or prophesying Angels, to cease their word, and return to
my throne
;
neither hath the Almighty declared, that his word should be no
more known, and acknowledged on the earth, or that
a
voice from the Heav
ens should no more be heard.
But He hath repeatedly declared, that He would work marvelously, and
do mighty wonders out of the sight of man
;
and, at the same time, warned
his own chosen people to be prepared and ready
;
plainly testifying, that
what He had heretofore done, was but the beginning.
So let no one dare to say, Why
is
the word thus, or so
?
And marvel not,
neither murmur in thy heart, O thou mortal that now beholdest my presence,
hearest my name and understandest my word, even at this time, for lo
I
go,
but
I
come again
;
so write correctly what thou hast heard, but speak not of
it,
but wait my return
;
Amen.
At this moment,
I
was surrounded by the same pillar of fire that
I
first saw,
and the mighty Angel was in the midst of
it
;
but
I
could not see to my sat
isfaction, because of the brightness. After
a
short time, all instantly disap
peared, and
I
was standing by the door of the room, and knew not that
I
had moved.
I
made mention of what
I
saw, but spoke not of the word, although
it
was
very contrary to my feelings to keep silent; but remembering the word of
the Holy Angel to me, at the first time, and feeling bound to obey the same,
I
dared not, as yet, make known in full, what
I
had seen and heard.
Third Interview.
February twenty first, eighteen hundred forty two, this morning, soon after
I
had finished my morning duties,
I
retired to my writing table
;
but as soon
as
I
was seated,
I
felt some one, as
I
thought, take hold of my arms and hold
them fast; but
I
could not see any thing around me. After
a
little time,
I
was released, and went to my writing
;
and very soon,
I
heard the following
words, very powerfully and loudly spoken.
Where, O where
is
the mortal, that will condescend to listen to
a
mighty
voice from the Heavens, and obey the same
?
Where,
O
where
is
the tongue that will speak freely to declare the word
272 APPENDIX TO THE
sounded forth to the nations abroad, and boldly testify to the truth of the
same, in the ears of the inhabitants of the earth, within Zion and without
Zion?
Shall the God of Heaven seek, and choose from among the monarch*, no
bles, kings and princes, and mighty men of the earth, that would daily defy
the name of the true and living God, and would readily take all the honor
and glory of the word and the power to themselves, and would declare unto
the people that it was their own ?
I say, shall the God of Israel be tempted to do this, even to take from
among these, a tongue, a mouth, or a hand, to do his will, or perform his
work ; because there can be none found in Zion, or among his peculiar peo
ple, that ore willing, as yet, to become as clay in the hands of the potter, or
as ore cast into the furnace, or as a tool in the hands of a cunning workman ?
Shall it be so ; or shall it be among the heathenish nations of time, that
neither fear nor serve any God but such as they serve in their own vain imag
inations ? or shall it be among the ignorant natives of the wild desert, that
have never, as yet, heard of the true God, or of his Christ ; nay, not even in
the mildest whisper ?
I say, shall it be among these, that the holy God and Father of ail, shall
seek, and choose for Himself, after all his everlasting mercy and unbounded
blessings, which He has bestowed upon, and showed unto the inhabitants
of the Zion of his own likeness and glory on earth ?
Can Zion's children bear this, rather than to humble themselves in the
presence of that God, yet again and again, from whose hand they have so
unboundedly received, and whose name they do really fear ; whose word
they have acknowledged, and whose voice they know in full reality ?
Heaven forbid that it should be so; and I bear witness, that the Mighty
One of Israel, yea, the God of the just and the unjust, purposeth to humble
his Zion, and exalt her no more, until in her most holy courts, or in the
heart of his holy city, there can be found instruments of his power, and
mouths of his word, that are sufficiently humbled to pronounce the name
of the God of their own deliverance, and boldly testify to his All-righteous
and eternal power, before the children of men, and even in the presence of
their own brethren, his chosen people.
Yea, such He hath purposed to choose, as will not deny his wonderful dis
plays, or visitations on earth, in ages past or present, because they fear the
sneers of the haughty, or the humbleness of the Lord's way.
Neither because the visitations of their God have been marvelous, and his
word mysterious, and the effects of his power, that which they could not
comprehend, in their own natural reason ; nay, nor because they fear the
many mortals that have, and will judge and despise
it,
and boldly declare
that
it
is
not of God, but of natural man.
Thus and so shall
it
be, for the voice of truth hath spoken it, and a short
time will bring
it
to pass; but
I
say, well
it
is,
and well
it
will be, with the
children of the kingdom that put their trust in the Lord their God
;
and fear
his word, and obey the same, instead of mortal power.
But woe unto the slothful and unbelieving soul, that dwelleth within the
SACRED ROLL AND DOOK. 273
walls of the Holy City ! Woe unto the heart that would fain be filled with
flattery, that the work and mighty wonders of the Almighty, to the confound
ing of the natural wisdom, and down-bringing of the haughtiness of vain
man, are at an end ; and glory, yea, and rejoice in that day ; and even in their
hard understanding, surmise that the powers of Heaven would be no more
displayed, and that each mortal might walk his own way, and fear no
power greater than his own.
But, I say, let such mistaken mortals know, that their God has decreed,
and declared, that when his time shall come, He will have mercy on whom
He will huve mercy ; and well pleased will He be with every soul of his
people, that is ready for his coming, even in his own time ; for his holy mes
sengers and proclaiming Angels, which He has sent forth to prepare the
hearts of the children of men, as well as worn the children of the kingdom,
have faithfully done their work, thus far ; and even the darkest nations of
the earth, He hath not left without many warnings of his mighty power, in
some way or manner.
So let all Zion, and the nations far and near, know the hand of the Lord
is not at rest, nor his ear slumbering, nor his eye closed ; neither hath He
said, I will no more stretch forth my hand of mercy, unto the nations of the
earth, nor send unto them my word; neither hath He said, I will no more
visit my Zion, nor proclaim my judgments through the Israel of my glory.
But He hath said, I will go before my own people, and work mighty won
ders, even to the terror of the nations abroad. And this He will in no wise
fail to do, according as He hath promised, and as He hath already prepared
to begin.
Amen, my word is finished for this time; and you that have now listened
to
it,
may now behold me, as
I
have at this time passed to and fro, that you
may believe that
I
am
;
and understand, in
a
small measure, what
I
am
about to do, in a short time.
The voice now ceased speaking, and
I
beheld, in the east, an Angel, mov
ing slowly along, and soon came very near. The appearance was solemn
and terrible
;
for the body, from the neck, was like that of
a
mighty man,
and the head was like that of an eagle. He had four exceedingly large wings,
two upon each shoulder; these were open and spread each way.
The feet were like the feet of the elephant, and seemed to be well shod
with cast iron
;
in the right hand was
a
very large Roll, sealed with ninety
nine seals
;
and in the left
a
Book, the lids or cover of which, was of some
kind of metal, but
I
did not know what
;
and
it
was clasped together with a
clasp of steel.
I
feared, but spoke not, for
I
knew not what to say
;
indeed
I
dared not speak.
The mighty Angel now spoke unto me in a voice like thunder, and said,
Me, ye now hear and see, and ye know that
I
am
;
and from this time ye
will not often hear me, though ye may see me yet again and again, for
I
am
indeed the power. But the voice that ye shall hear, ye shall not know, nei
ther shall ye see from whence
it
procecdeth, until the time shall come.
For hath not the God of his own chosen ones, made known his will, pro
claimed his Almighty Power, showed forth his greatness of love and mercy,
I*
274 APPENDIX TO THE
and made known the excellency of his kingdom, and condescended to send
forth, even from his throne, his holy Angels with his righteous word of mer-
cyi and call of charity, to his creature man even in the letter ; and in a form
so simple, and language so plain, that even the babes from the breast, might
seemingly understand if they desired so to do ?
Surely, this the God of Heaven hath done, and the same you may now be
hold. The Angel now held forth, first the Roll, and then the Book ; and said,
The time will surely come, and is not far distant, but is not yet.
But alas ! alas ! Si a'na qua', efa' ma, Lo, these days in which that right
eous God of never-ending charity, has now winked at the pretended igno
rance and hard understanding of the children of men, and even of his own
people, and hath showed mercy unto all, will be numbered and will pass
away.
And there shall a day come, when the voice that shall be heard, even to
tho four quarters of the earth, within Zion and without Zion, shall utter
words still more marvelous and mysterious in the ears of man, and hard to
be understood; and even the wise among men will be troubled, to know the
will of their God.
And then shall it be, that even Zion's inhabitants shall mourn for the days
that are past, and reflect upon the loving kindness of their God, even the
God of all power, in the days of his endless mercy and love.
And now, O thou mortal, whose eyes have beheld, and whose ears have
heard, and whose heart hath been opened to understand the word of eternal
truth sounded from a voice which you know not, hark, while I say onto
thee, Go now and consider well upon these things ; and marvel not, neither
gpeak of all this in the hearing of the people, but write ye the whole, bold
ly and with good confidence.
For with the power that is given you that is not of your own, you shall be
able to perform my work and do my will, or stand as a swift witness of that
which I, in my own time, shall do ; So number my times, and keep the
time, for the full time shall come; Amen. I go, but come again.
Fourth Interview.
Early on the morning of March first, eighteen hundred forty two, I was
awakened by a loud singing; I carefully listened to
it,
for
it
was very heav
enly and harmonious.
I
soon saw a band of Angels passing through the
place
;
they marched in regular order two abreast, about four feet from the
ground
;
I
could hear the words which they sung, but did not understand any
save the following. Zion
is
the habitation of the living God, and here
is
the Holy Mount of his glory
;
and from this place shall his righteous word
be sent forth
;
and we, his holy Angels, will proclaim the same to the na
tions of the earth.
They soon divided into four companies, and went each way out of sight.
Instantly,
I
heard
a
mighty roaring like unto heavy thunder
;
I
was sensible,
that
it
was the coming of the mighty Angel
;
it
came nearer and grew loud
er, and soon changed into
a
voice, and the words were these
;
SACRED ROLL AND ROOK.
This day thou hast seen and will see and hear, O thou mortal that now
listeneth to my word, that which will be pleasing to thee, and also, that
which will cause thee sorrow of soul ; for thou shalt not, as yet, fully under
stand nor have permission to make mention of my word unto the people.
So go your way and fear not, but remember I now tell you, that ere this
day shall come again you shall aee my work in a measure performed, and
many of my words fast fulfilling.
I now went about my hand labor ; but the sound of the mighty voice was
so loud in my ears, for the most part of the day, that it seemed I could hear
nothing else. I saw the mighty Angel four different times in the course of
the day, and received many words from him, similar to what 1 had before
received.
At the last time, which was about the hour of four in the afternoon, the
word to me was, as follows. Know, and even remember from this day, that
God your Heavenly Father, never has, and never will permit, or cause a
promise to be made to hia chosen people, nay, nor even to the nations of the
earth, but what He has fulfilled, will fulfill, or cause to be fulfilled in his
own time, and according to his divine will.
This was the end of the word at this time, and I retired to my room, feel
ing very sorrowful that I could not, as yet, feel at liberty to speak freely of
all that I had seen and witnessed. In the evening of the same day, soon
after I had retired to rest, I again heard the voice of the holy Angel, and
the word was swift and powerful as follows;
Hearken, hearken, O thou mortal of my choice, while I declare boldly
unto the people of the earth, that the days of preparation for the God of
Heaven and earth to commence his own work in full, are fast passing by ;
and his time to work throughout the whole earth, is near at hand, and the
time for his Christ, the Savior of men to be more fully known, as he now
stands, the head of the New Creation, in his second manifestation, is not far off.
And I will now, loudly proclaim to all people within Zion and without
Zion, that from this day I will no more rest, I will no more be still, and I
will no more hold my peace, neither will I longer move slowly, nor be mild
in my motion on flight ; for the Almighty is ready to be displeased with his
creatures, because of their readiness to say, The day of the Lord is fast pass
ing by, and He will no longer go before us.
But I will assuredly be known, I will be heard, and I will appear in many
shapes and forms ; and my mighty power shall be felt and acknowledged by
the inhabitants of Zion ! And the nations far and near, shall fear me, but
shall not know me, for a time; but in due season shall they know me, and
shall confess that / am.
But, before that day shall fully come, many in Zion shall deny me in their
hearts, because of my strange doings within the walls of her holy City : and
they will be tempted to sound the same in the hearing of the children of
men. But woe, woe and a lasting woe, be upon the soul now numbered in
Zion, that shall presume to do this; and my vengeance shall be upon such,
by day and by night.
I have already been seen and known in part, many times ; and my power
270 APPENDIX TO THE
has been confessed in Zion ; and even among the dark vain children of
time, it has been feared, and freely acknowledged to be from an eternal
aource ; but they know me not as yet.
1 have spoken through the mouths of the holy Prophets, and wise men
of old ; I have appeared as one that was once an inhabitant on earth, or as
a guardian Angel to the chosen people. I am the power, the strength and
the might.
And now, O thou mortal that hast these four times beheld me, even
as I am, and hast patiently listened to the voice that speakcth at my com
mand ; know thou, that I have never so fully made myself known on earth,
save only to thy view, and in thy hearing : but now I go, and after some
days I shall return, and when again I come, I will try you and will prove
you many ways.
And after my next coming, which will be my fifth, you will no more see
me for a season, as these four times you have done.
At that time, I will give you permission to make mention of all that 1
have said and shown unto you ; but as yet deal carefully with
it,
for
it
is
hardly the beginning.
So now
I
bid thee as before, to write the whole, and keep
it
sacred and
safe
;
for in my time
I
shall call for
it
from thy hand. Amen.
The word was now finished, and all was silent.
I
arose and wrote the
word, as
I
was commanded. The Angel at this time, appeared as at the
third time
;
yet holding the Roll and Book, but did not speak concerning
them. His appearance was truly fearful and terrible
;
but the voice still
more so, if possible.
I
now went to my duty, and spoke not of what
I
had
witnessed, relying upon the word of the Angel, that
I
should soon be per
mitted to make
it
known.
Fifth Interview.
On March twelfth, eighteen hundred forty two, while
I
was busily engnged
in my duty, and in conversation with those around me upon various subjects,
the holy and mighty Angel entered the room and stood before me, and
showed forth many signs in my view
;
they were singular and strange, even
so much so that
I
cannot well describe them on paper.
This scene was short, but was repeated three times
;
and now was my
time of trial
;
for those present perceived that something singular was
transacting to my view, and not to theirs.
I
was asked many questions, but dared not answer, because of the word of
the Angel
;
for
I
fully believed that in perfect obedience, all would be well
with me in the end.
Boon after this, the Holy Angel entered again, and said to me, This
is
my
fifth and last coming in this manner
;
but as
I
said, so have
I
done
;
I
have
indeed suffered you to be tempted and tried, and
I
have proved you to my
satisfaction at this time. You may now speak of my presence, and make
known my word
;
but when this you do, let
it
be boldly, yet wisely
;
for
I
am to be feared in very deed.
Suffer not my word to be written on loose sheets, but in
a
book by itself;
SACRED ROLL AND ROOK. 277
and this have ready at my call, for lo my work is only begun. Number the
times, of my coming, even from the first sound that ye heard of me ; when
ye have beheld me as I now am, and when ye have only heard me from a
voice that ye knew not.
Yea, I say keep my time, and number my times, and be ready to witness
for me, and my word, in the presence of thy companions, and the hearing of
all people, when my full time shall come.
For lo I now declare unto you, that unto my word among the nations
abroad, there shall be no beginning known, and in Zion there shall be no
end spoken of; for I am like the unceasing stream, and yet as the flowing tide.
My power no man can withstand, and my force he cannot stay. I am tho
same in the morning as at evening, and at midnight as at noun-day, I am
one and the same mighty power.
My word, even that which is sounded from a voice unknown to mortals,
shall not be trifled with ; neither that which is within or without Zion. Let
not this thing be, lest there be such confusion in the land as was never be
fore known; lest there be tumults afar off and near by, among the children
of men, and lest Zion be troubled, and know not the meaning of her troubles.
And now, even at this, my fifth coming, I repeat my words, and pronounce
yet a heavier woe upon the soul of man now dwelling in Zion, that shall
carry tidings therefrom ; or make mention of the marvelous doings of their
God and his holy Angels, as spreading it abroad, or sounding it in the ears
of strangers without, until the full time shall come, which is not afar off;
Lest Zion's afflictions come upon her before the time, and to her travail
in pain there be not an end, until her captive daughters become faint-hearted
because of the very many days of their mourning, and her forsaken sons
grow angry, because of oppression from those that were once of their own
number.
So let Zion exalt not herself, but be humble ; let the Rulers in her be
wise ; and if any man ask soberly seeking for true knowledge, if the voice
of the living God, or of his Christ, the Redeemer of souls, hath been sound
ed aloud in your hearing, or among y«u, then hide not the thing from them ;
but boldly declare it with good confidence ; showing forth your perfect faith
in that God that has called you.
Verily I now call, and shall again call upon thee O Zion, to let thy light
so shine that the nations afar off may behold thee, and seek a dwelling
within,thee; and that the sound of mighty wars, tumults and bloodshed,
may be afar off from thy borders, and stain not thy walls because of thy
readiness to proclaim the mighty goodness of thy God and the excellence of
his power in the deliverance of his Zion on earth.
And again I say, My word shall not be trifled with ; neither this, nor that
which is to come ; neither shall it be carelessly laid by for nought, or secretly
concealed as a word of mischief ; for verily I say, If Zion feareth to pro
claim that which God delivereth into her trust, then, when a time sufficient
has passed by and the Lord be weary of waiting, He will cause thee to
repent.
Indeed I say, Then shall it bo that I will, yea even I, the mighty pro
278 APPENDIX TO THE
claiming and prophesying Angel of the God of Heaven and earth, sent forth
being filled with eternal power, publish upon thy walls O Zion, and pro
claim upon thy house-tops, O Israel, that which has long been concealed
within thee, and hid from the nations abroad, that the Lord thy God did
send unto thee, by his holy Angels, that out of thee might go forth bis judg
ments and statutes, and shine forth his perfect righteousness and glory.
And remember, ye rulers and watchmen, that in the day that is not afar
oiT, I will go my own way, and will do whatsoever I will. I will answer
no man a question, nor be asked of any man the meaning of my doings; for
quite sufficient is my word, at these five times of my coming, for all to know
and believe that I am.
The Angel now put forth his right hand and bade me take the Roll, and
unseal it ; but I could in no wise reach it ; and he, stooping low, gave it to
me. I took
it,
and unsealed the ninety and nine seals one at a time, and
unrolled
it
upon the floor.
I
looked upon
it
for
a
moment, and feared to
look longer; but the Angel said, Thou mayest read freely, but
it
will not
profit thee, for
it
is
yet to be written.
But now, seal again the Roll and hand
it
unto me.
I
did so, and he then
said, Now hearken unto my word, which, if thou wilt obey,
it
shall be well
with thee
;
for well hast thou thus far done, to conceal my word as
I
bade
thee; but now, .is sonn as convenient, make known this, my fifth coming to
the rulers in Zion, and also speak freely of all that has troubled and tried
thee.
But show not my word, until thou hnst correctly written, in one book, all
that has been shown unto thee
;
even from the hour that thou wast warned
of my coming until this time.
All this
I
say, that there be no trouble in my coming, nor confusion within
or without Zion, because of the written words that may, and will be sent
forth throughout the earth
:
but woe, woe unto the hand that dealeth un
wisely with them.
This
is
my word, concerning that which has been and may be sounded
forth in thy hearing
;
save the writing nf the Book and Roll, which
I
now
hold in my hands, and which will not again be unsealed, until the time shall
come.
I.
#
And let
it
be remembered, that my word
is
not exclusively to one part,
nor to another part of Zion's inhabitants
;
but to every part, and to the na
tions abroad the same. But now, my last word unto thee, O thou mortal
child, that hast these five times listened to me, and to the voice that abideth
with me,
is
this
;
Thou shalt in no wise provide for thyself an article of any kind, where
on to write my word
;
but as
I
shall command thee, so shalt thou do. Upon
thy knees shalt thou place the Holy Bible, (for that
is
the [record of the]
most sacred and holy word now known among the children of men
;)
and
upon that thou shalt write, all that
I
shall command thee.
And that sign shall stand as
a
lasting memorial of my eternal power, with
in Zion and without Zion, for generations to come
;
and no name, save,
Ma'ne Me'rah Vak'ne Si'na Jali', shall be upon [this] my word.
SACRED ROM. AND BOOK. 279
This is the end of my word for this time ; I go now, yet come again in
season ; but not as I am now ; but number my times, and keep my time, and
be a ready witness for me. Amen.
Ma'ne he'rah vak'ka si'na Jah'.
In perfect obedience to the word of the Angel, I did write every word of
it upon a Bible, only five and a half inches wide, and nine in length, which I
laid upon my knees. And though many asked mc why I did so, yet I told
no one, until I had finished. I have now done all that I am as yet required
to do ; and to the whole communication I freely and confidently sign my
name.
Adah Zillab Potter.
Sixth Interview.
On May first, eighteen hundred forty two, while assembled with many
others, upon the Holy Mount, to sing praises and offer offerings holy and ac
ceptable to that God whom we love, serve and worship, and who had called
us there upon that day ; I saw a band of Angels coming from the east, and
the mighty Angel that I had before seen followed them ; and they all tarried
upon the sacred ground for some time, and were seen by many others that day.
The mighty Angel had somewhat changed his form and appearance ; yet
it was solemn and fearful. His wings were spread each way, and each ap
peared to extend near seven yards ; and upon each wing were written many
words, but I could not read them. His word at this time, was a lengthy
prophecy, upon the place on which we were assembled ; but he did not
speak to me, save these words ;
Child of earth, knowest thou what thou beholdest ? I answered, I be
hold the mighty Angel of God, whose time I keep, and whose word I know.
Then showing me the Roll and Book he said,
These, ye now behold closed and scalod; but when again yo see them,
they shall be opened ; and upon this holy ground, will I show forth signs of
that which I shall hereafter declare openly, and proclaim aloud.
So go thy way, but forget not to witness for me, and my word and work ;
for at an unexpected hour shall I come, and in haste shall I perform my work.
Seventh Interview.
On July sixth, eighteen hundred forty two, wednesday morning, I was
suddenly awakened, by the sound of these words. Count the time, keep
the time, number the hours, number the- days, and watch the signs; for the
days of my prophecy aro nearly fulfilled. And after a short season of rest
shall pass by, I shall commence that work of which I have spoken unto thee,
O thou child of mortality.
For five months only shall pass by, before I shall call at the same hour ;
and twelve months shall not end, before I will hasten my work, in the eyes
and ears of man ; and my time shall be kept, and the times numbered.
I arose, and wrote the words I had heard ; and at that moment, the clock
struck three. I knew the voice to be that of the mighty Angel that I had
previously seen, although I saw nothing present.
280 APPENDIX TO THE
I thought to go back to my rest, but was suddenly thrown on the floor;
and it seemed to mo, that the whole house rocked like a cradle for some min
utes. Soon, I heard a noise, similar to the roaring or bursting of a mighty
peal of thunder, or the firing of a cannon ; and aa the sound ceased, these
words followed ;
Arise and write ; arise and follow me, and write, for no longer can the
time he prolonged. I now was in the presence of the mighty Angel, and
awful indeed was his appearance ; for in addition to the frightful form in
which he had before appeared, was a crest of scarlet red on his head ; and
from that proceeded a trail of crimson, which hung to the ground.
In his left hand he held a flag of the same, tinged with white; and this
he gently waved high in the air, and then low to the ground, turning each
way. Upon this, were many words written, but I could not read them. In
his right hand were the Roll and Book, open.
The voice said, Seest thou the Roll and Book, yet again ? I answered yea.
Then humble thyself, and condescend to do my will ; for my word, at this
time, is short ; but the work of my God is mighty, and is to be hastened.
These seven times have I come unto thee, and shown unto thee these things
that thou mightest witness for me, when I shall declare unto the people
my mission on earth, and the work of the mighty God.
The Angel now handed me the Roll and said, Read now that thou may-
est know what the Almighty requircth, and what I am about to do.
I read the four first seals, and found the ninety nine scaled Roll, to be a
part of the Book ; and the Book to be a word of the Lord to the inhabitants
of the earth ; and the whole was a word and work to be hastened ; for the
time was near by, for it to be accomplished.
The Book was now presented to me, and as I reached to take
it,
the
mighty Angel still held in his hand one lid, and gave me the other
;
I
then
found
it
to be a leaf, or sheet, rolled or folded within these lids, after the
form of some maps. The voice said that
it
would extend one hundred
leagues, or seventy and seven paces [or spaces] of the Angel, when spread
its full length.
The terrible Angel, in whose presence
I
stood trembling, said to me, Now,
O thou mortal worm of the dust, speak quickly, and say whether thou art
willing to obey my word or not
;
and tell me, even now, what thou thick
est of what thou beholdest.
I
answered,
I
think
it
a
work too mighty for
mortals to handle, or in the least degree to accomplish
;
and
I
am too sensi
ble of my incapability to perform such
a
work, to condescend to begin
;
O
then thou holy Angel, do in thy mercy release me from the burden of thy
work, and
I
will readily witness for thee when thou desirest, and do with
thy word as
it
is
thy will.
The voice then said, Mortals have not this work to do
;
they have only
to yield obedience to the God of Heaven, who will, in his own time, accom
plish the whole, by and through the medium and power of his holy Angels;
and his people will only have his word to proclaim, and his will to make
known by means of his own, and signs which He will show unto them
;
and
none need to fear what shall come, although various, numerous and marvel
SACRED ROLL AND ROOK. 281
ouii in the eyes of mortals, will be the requirements of the Holy One.
So bow thy spirit low, and take in thy hand the Roll ; and at this hour,
on the morrow, will I make known the order of writing the samo.
The Angel now took the book and said, In one half time, will I again un
seal and spread this in the view of mortals, and never again shall it be sealed ;
for then shall the time be fully come. The Angel now moved slowly out of
my sight, towards the Holy Mount, and I found myself on the floor where I
first fell ; and very soon, the clock struck four.
Eighth Interview.
Thursday, July seventh, eighteen hundred forty two, I was awakened,
just as the clock struck three, by these words ; Up quickly, and gird thyself
with that which I shall prepare for thee to wear ; and at the hour of four,
start for the Holy Mount, and there will I meet thee. Three mornings shalt
thou do likewise ; and upon the third morning shalt thou begin to write.
One of the Rulers and a witness shall attend thee. Now this is my will
and word at this time.
Surely, if this be done, then shall it be the beginning of that which is
to be, and shall come, and all things will be in readiness ; but if not, then
will my work be the more hastened, and I, myself, will come with my Vcn1
sen ydes ter 'do trum, and the Two Anointed Ones shall bear witness of me ;
and thou shalt, in time, be caused to surfer my Se lac' la vos' ton de moc' na,
because of the many things I have shown unto thee.
For lo, I shall soon come again, but not as I am now ; yet thou shalt know
me, for as I said at first, I am not the word, nor tho voice that soundeth it
forth ; but I am the power that performeth the work ; and this all shall be
lieve when again I shall return.
The word ceased, and I fell on my knees, and earnestly entreated of my
Heavenly Father, and the Mighty Angel, to look upon me with pity as an
ignorant and dependent mortul, and release me from the requirement, as I
saw no way for me to perform it according to the word, in my then present
circumstances.
At this instant, the Angel took both the Book and Roll, and arose out of
my sight ; and I arose from my knees, feeling perfectly released and comfort
able in spirit, believing that my intercessions would be heard and granted.
From this time, I had no more knowledge or impressions of the holy Angel
or his work, until some time in August following; when he, the mighty An
gel, was seen by another person to unseal and spread an exceedingly large
and lengthy Roll.
I saw the performance, and knew to my satisfaction it was the same ; and
I made mention of the Angel's word to me, on the seventh of July. There
was no word to me at this time, and I felt no duty incumbent on me, con
cerning the word, until the morning of the twenty second of January, eight
een hundred forty three ; which was precisely twelve months from the day
that I first heard the Angel's voice, or received any knowledge of the mighty
Angel or his work ; and from the first date I was commanded to keep.
J*
282 APPENDIX TO THE
This day, which was the Sabbath, did the holy and mighty Angel appear
to me and to many others; and his word to me was as follows; Hearken
thou little one of sorrow, and thou true witness of me ; for lo, I now say,
Peace shall rest with thee for a season, even until I have comforted thee
with a fulfilling of my many promises, and an answer to thy just desires.
I have indeed, come now to begin my work in the sight and hearing of
many, and to command and attend the writing of the Book ; and whomsoever
I will, the same shall be the mortal instrument of the word.
But that which I required of thee on my last visit, shall be as a sign and
witness to thee, of that which I shall now cause to be performed openly, and
to the view of all. And rest assured that I shall, ere long, demand of thee
the whole that I have shown and made known unto thee, previous to this
day, even from the beginning ; and be thou ready, at my call, to stand as my
true witness, and to hand forth my word, prepared and ready, even as I have
commanded thee from time to time.
Do this, and all shall be well with thee ; for thus and thus have I done,
that mortals might know and believe that I am, and that I have come forth
in truth and reality. This is the end of my word unto thee, for a season and
time; Amen.
&. ^
Ma'ne me'rah vak'na si'ha Jah'.
I have now finished the word that I felt in duty bound to write, concern
ing what has been shown unto me from time to time, respecting the word and
work of the Lord, which, as appears clearly evident, is in reality sent forth,
and is to be spread abroad among the children of men.
This word, and these things, I freely hand forth and relate, as solemn facts
and realities ; shown forth and revealed by a holy and supernatural power,
and from a divine source, for some wise purpose. And I also testify that I,
and many others, have been eye and ear witnesses of the perfect fulfilling of
the Angel's word, so far as time has yet admitted.
I have now nothing more to say, save only that I saw the mighty Angel
with the mortal writer of the foregoing Roll, several times, while writing
the Book. And it is with a degree of pleasure, that I add my testimony, to
the truth and reality of the whole word and work ; and can readily hand forth
this statement, as a witnessing word, in obedience to the word of the Holy
Angel. And now, this whole word, I am willing and ready to seal with my
life, or in whatever manner it may please a just and holy God to require it
of me.
New Lebanon, Columbia county, j
stoic of New York. April, 1843. \
Adah Z,llah Pottie
283
TESTIMONIAL EVIDENCE, GIVEN BY DIVINE REVELATION, AND WIT
NESSED BY HARRIET GOODWIN AT NEW LEBANON,
COLUMBIA COUNTY, NEW YORK.
Sabbath morning, July tenth, eighteen hundred forty two, I saw, placed on
the top of the dwelling house, a beautiful sign ; it reached the whole length
of the house, and appeared to be about six feet wide. I could not at that
time see any writing on the sign, it shone with such very great brightness.
It resembled the color of gold.
At first, I was struck with fear at the sight ; I supposed it to be placed
there by mortal hand. But I soon beheld three mighty Angels guarding it;
I then knew it to be something placed there by a supernatural power.
On Saturday evening following, July sixteenth, I again beheld the same.
On Sabbath morning the seventeenth, it was again made plain to my view,
so that I could behold many of the letters ; but I could not read it. On the
evening of the same day, after retiring to rest, I suddenly heard a voice
sounding in my ears like peals of mighty thunder, which caused me to fear
exceedingly ; saying,
Keep silent, O thou worm of dust; for lo, I am the Almighty, who is
able, in the twinkling of an eye, to crush that soul in atoms, who dares
presume to make mention of my doings, before my time hath fully come.
But lo, in my Zion have I placed my name, forevermoro to stand ; there
have I made myself known ; and from Zion shall my light and glory shine
forth, throughout the whole earth.
The dwellings of my people shall I cause to glow with beauty, and upon
their high towers and most sacred places will I place my name, word and
will ; and from thence shall the same go forth to the nations of the earth .
while millions, from both far and near, shall flock together to behold my
word, and admire, with astonishment and fear, the wonderful and marvelous
doings of my all-righteous hand ; while the scoffer and mocker I will lay
low before Me, and cause them to howl with agony ; and the filthy and un
clean I will scourge and abase.
Behold, O thou babe in Israel, thou hast this day, in very deed, beheld,
in a small measure, the doings of my hand; but small it is to what your
eyes shall yet behold ; for Lo, I am the Almighty Creator of Heaven and
earth ; therefore great and wonderful is and shall be, the work of my hand.
Here the word finished for this time.
On thursday evening following, July twenty first, after retiring to rest, I
heard a trumpet sounded very loud and solemn, but heard not a word spoken .
yet I knew it to be from one of tho guardian Angels on the house. I then
turned my eyes towards the sound, and again beheld the sign ; but could
not yet behold a word on it.
On the fourth day of August, I again heard the trumpet of one of the
mighty Angels sounding; which was truly solemn and heavenly. I looked
towards the sign, and beheld it much plainer than I ever had before ; and
284 APPENDIX TO THE
could once in a while distinguish a letter, from amidst the dazzling brightness
that surrounded it ; and at length I could possibly discern a few words,
written towards the bottom of
it,
which were as follows
:
Lo
!
lo
!
I
am the Almighty, the Ever Existing and Never Ending
;
hold
ing in my right hand, the sword of my judgment and displeasure, and in my
left, the vial of my wrath and indignation, with which
I
shall shortly visit
the earth, and release her from the heavy weight under which she
is
now
groaning.
I
will not always strive to no purpose
;
I
will not always threaten and
not perform ;
I
will no longer be blasphemed and mocked by the vile, the
filthy and unclean. Here in my Zion have
I
placed my name, here are the
chosen of my delight, my holy, holy people; and from thence shall my
word go forth
;
and he that heareth
it,
and obeyeth
it
not, shall fall by the
sword of my displeasure.
On Sabbath afternoon, August seventh,
I
again beheld the sign, and heard
one of the Angels speak the following words
:
Behold, even seven times
have passed by, and thou,
O
little one, hast been called to behold and
witness this, the word of the Almighty. But rest assured, that thou bast not
beheld, but in
a
small measure, that which
is
now placed upon the dwelling
of the righteous.
But the word of thy God and my God,
is
this day fulfilled and obeyed
;
which was, that
I,
the Holy Angel of Almighty Power, should not rest,
until seven times
I
had called forth the least child in this part of his Zion,
whose eyes had beheld the glory of God, and whose lips had been moved to
sound forth his sacred word
;
that she might stand as
a
witness of his marvel
ous doings.
But yet louder crieth the voice of Him who sitteth on high, O Mi ka'lon
Be vin'da
;
rest shall not crown thy spirit, nor peace and quietness prevail
around thee, until my word be fully known and my righteous law fulfilled.
Even seven times shalt thou loudly sound thy trumpet of alarm, and call
forth him in whom
I
do take pleasure
;
who has, through sufferings sore,
and sorrow deep, washed his garment white, and found favor in my sight
;
for lo, he shall suffer even as did my first begotten Son, many things for my
name's sake, and the gospel's.
And on the sixth time that thou shalt call him forth,
I
will draw nigh,
and crown him with wisdom and clothe him with power
;
and cause his
eyes to open, that he shall see my glory, and the word of his God
;
and
write in full concerning the same.
And on the seventh time he shall behold the whole, and write the same
;
and at that time
I
will cause four thousand of my most holy Angels to be
present, and witness my word correctly written. For lo,
I
will have wit
nesses, both in Heaven and on earth
;
but through sufferings deep shall my
word be obtained, and in tribulation shall
it
be written.
The voice then ceased, and the Holy Angel turned to me and said
;
Little
one, hast tbou not heard the voice of Almighty Power
?
I
answered, yea.
Then go ye, and correctly write all that has passed in these seven inter
views, and
I
will be with thee to help thee. But remember,
I
shall call
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 285
forth many witnesses, ere the day cometh when mortal eyes shall behold
the word of the Lord, written pluin to be understood by the inhabitants of
the earth.
Sabbath afternoon, August fourteenth, eighteen hundred and forty two,
while in meeting, I saw a holy and mighty Angel enter the meeting room.
He marched to the head of the room, and placed his wings upon many of
the brethren and sisters, saying ; Arise, arise, and witness for me ; for lo I
am an Angel of Almighty Power, sent from the throne of God to guard his
heritage, his Zion on earth.
And surely great is my mission, and marvelous shall be my word and
work ; therefore I call you to arise and witness for me, with many others ; for
know ye, I shall work in the sight of man, and of the children of this world ;
and many things will I make plain to their view, and bring to their un
derstanding. And not seven and a half times shall pass away, before they
shall hear my voice, and acknowledge the goodness of their God, and behold
his name printed on Zion, where He has placed
it,
forever more to stand.
The Angel then disappeared, and
I
saw him no more at that time.
After meeting was closed, as
I
was returning home, feeling entirely free
from the burden which
I
had previously felt,
I
was met by the Angel after
I
entered the dwelling
;
his wings were raised, and his countenance shone
with great brightness, yet
it
was solemn and serene
;
which struck me with
reverence and awe, insomuch that
I
had scarcely strength to stand.
The Angel looked at me in
a
very sacred and solemn manner, and bid me
follow him back into the meeting room, which
I
did; and there
I
found one
of the sisters
;
he then placed my hand in hers, and bid me walk with her
and sing the little solemn song which he sung; this
I
did.
After walking
a
few moments, the Angel said to this certain sister,
I
would
that thou, little one, learn this song and sing with me.
1
am an Angel of Al
mighty Power, and have come unto thee, clothed in tby Mother's spirit
;
and
this
is
thy Mother's song of mourning, for surely she mourneth and weepcth
for Zion, because great and heavy will yet be her tribulation
;
and her chil
dren will yet mourn and weep, in very deed with her.
The Angel then desired to march this song throughout the dwelling house,
through every hall and in every retiring room, that all might feel the spirit of
their Mother, and sense, in a small measure, a degree of her tribulation
;
which was done. The Angel then entered one of the rooms where several
were assembled, and turning to the one whom his God had chosen to write
the Sacred Roll, he said
;
O
thou beloved one, prepare thy heart for tribu
lation
;
great has been, and great shall yet be thy tribulation.
The Angel then proceeded through the house, and after returning to the
place where he had previously been speaking, he spoke the following words
:
O Holy Anointed, and dearly beloved, have not tribulation and persecution
been the lot of God's people in Zion through all past ages
?
and hath not
the Lord promised protection to them in obedience
?
Surely He has
;
and will
fulfill according to his promise.
I
am an Angel of Almighty Power sent from the throne of God, bearing
286 APfENDIX TO THE
on my wings a heavy cross : and it is the will of thy God that this cross be
placed on my chosen instrument. Wilt thou not, O thou little one, take
this cross from off my shoulders ? He replied, The will of my God be done.
Also upon my head is placed a solemn and weighty Roll, containing the
word of the Lord thy God, which has been written with his own finger, and
placed on this thy dwelling place, for nations to behold; yea, that which
shall yet be proclaimed in the earth.
And lo, I say unto you, it has been through tribulation deep, that this word
has been handed forth ; and in and through tribulation deep, and sufferings
sore, shall it be obtained and written by mortal hand, for nations to behold.
Even seven times have I called thee forth, O thou little one, to view this my
word, or the word of thy God, though not through my loud and solemn trum
pet ; therefore thou hast not heard me, in full. But yet seven times more
will I agnin call thee forth, to view this solemn and sacred word, before
thou shalt write it ; but on the sixth time thou shalt write concerning
it,
and on the seventh thou shalt write the whole.
Yea, even as the Lord did place
a
rainbow in the heavens, as
a
sign and
sure promise unto Noah, that He never would again destroy the earth, or
the inhabitants thereof, by floods of water; so shall the doings of my hand
which ye have seen, stand as a sign unto his people, that ye have this day
received his holy and sacred word, which shall yet be written by mortal
hand, and made plain to mortal eyes
;
and be understood by many of the in
habitants of the earth.
I
have now finished the word which my Heavenly Father gave me to
speak
;
but
I
leave you not at present
;
nay,
I
the Holy Angel will remain
with this little one, even Philemon, until this work
is
accomplished, and the
word
is
finished. Amen, saith the Holy Angel.*
January first, eighteen hundred forty three,
I
heard a heavenly trumpet
very loudly sounding.
I
listened, and the sound ceased
;
I
paused for a mo
ment, when
I
again heard
it,
which seemed to cause the regions above to
shako with terror.
I
then looked towards the northwest, and there beheld
a
beautiful rain
bow
;
and on the rainbow, stood four thousand holy and mighty Angels, each
holding in his right hand
a
flaming sword, and in his left,
a
vial of God's
wrath and indignation.
I
gazed upon the scene, with admiration and rever
ence, yet feared exceedingly.
I
again heard the heavenly trumpeters loudly sound their solemn trumpets,
which caused the arches of heaven to echo
;
and at every blast
I
was struck
* The inspired writer of this Roll and Book had been shown by an Angel, at times,
for more than two years previous, that God had
a
word direct to the nations of the earth;
but
in
what way
it
should be sent forth,
it
had never been shown me.
The Angel repeatedly informed me that God would direct and conduct this work
in
his own time, and according to his own will and pleasure. These things
I
kept and
pondered
in
my own heart, until God should make his time known, entirely according to
his own will. Of these things the inspired writer of this communication, knew nothing,
as
1
had kept them entirely within my own heart.
Philemon Stewart.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 287
with exceeding great fear and terror. I then heard a solemn and heavenly
song sung, which was played upon instruments of music, by forty and four of
the most holy Angels that marched in front.
They moved along slowly, while the rainbow still continued under their
feet, until they reached the dwelling house, where the Roll or Sacred Sheet
was spread. Then did the ninety and nine trumpet-sounding Angels raise
their trumpets, and loudly blow a solemn blast, which they repeated four
teen times ; signifying, that for fourteen days they would all attend to the
writing of the Roll.
Then spake one of the mighty Angels, saying ; For fourteen days shall
we, the Holy Angels of Almighty Power, tarry with the son of man and
inspire him with wisdom, light and understanding, that he may behold the
glory of his God, and do his all-righteous will. Yea, we will open the eyes
of his soul, and give unto him true knowledge and understanding ; that he
may, if he will, correctly write the word, and do the will of his All-wise
and All-powerful Creator.
But let him not fear to write it in full, exact and correct, that every nation
may know that God is a God of justico ; impartial and merciful. And more
over I say, if he writeth not the word in full, but keepeth back a part, fear
ing man, and the powers of earth, rather than his God ; I say, and under
stand ye ; more tolerable was
it,
in ancient date, for the inhabitants of Sodom
and Gomorrah, than
it
will be for him. Far better would
it
have been, had
he never existed on the earth
;
or, that a mill-stone be hung about his neck,
and he be cast into the sea, than that he should see the days that he shall
live to see.
But
if
he obeyeth the voice of his Father which
is
in Heaven, all shall be
well with him. Though man be mighty, yet God
is
Almighty; though man
be able to torture and perplex, yet God
is
able, in the twinkling of an eye, to
crush and lay low the haughtiness of man, and raise up and exalt the hum
ble seeker after true righteousness. Therefore, fear exceedingly
;
yea, trem
ble with fear.
Then the forty and four holy Angels, taking hold of the sheet, raised
it
up and said unto me, Look, behold and see,
O
thou babe in Israel, the word
and doings of thy All-wise Creator.
I
looked and beheld the word of the
Lord written in full, for the first time.
It
was written upon
a
sheet which,
to my view, appeared like fire, and the letters wcro as letters of gold. And
after the Angels had raised
it
up, about six feet from the roof of the house,
taking
it
in the middle,
it
was then shown to me as
I
had before seen
it,
in
the shape of
a
sign
;
the sheet was again spread, and
I
beheld
it
in full.
Then said the Angel
;
A time and a half time, and
a
half of
a
half time,
shall in no wise pass away, nay, the sun shall not reach its meridian height
at noon-day, nor the moon spread her gentle beams of light over you by
night, even ninety and nine times, before ye shall behold the word of the
Lord your God written in full, by mortal hand, and made plain to the view
of the inhabitants of Zion.
Then did they roll up the Roll, and seal
it
with ninety and nine seals
;
and singing
a
song of rejoicing, and playing the same upon their instruments,
288 APPENDIX TO THE
they marched into the upper hall in the dwelling house, laid down the Roll,
and vanished out of my sight.
January twenty second, eighteen hundred forty three, I again beheld the
four thousand Angels approach the place of worship, with quickened steps ;
and as they entered, I heard a band of heavenly music, which sounded in my
cars like many harpers playing upon their harps. Then the Angels raised
their solemn trumpets, and gave a solemn blast ; then said they, Peace be
unto the righteous ;, yea peace, joy and tranquility shall crown the days, and
rest in the bosoms of the true and upright soldiers of Christ.
But woe, woe, and a heavy woe shall rest upon that soul that shall presume
to make mention of the doings of their God to the children of darkness be
fore the time hath fully come, when his word He will reveal, and his will He
will make known, in his own time and season, way and manner. Even of
these, the vials of God's wrath and indignation, which we hold in our left
hands, (and with which He hath purposed to visit the earth, and the inhabi
tants thereof,) shall they constantly drink ; and as a dead and lifeless branch,
shall they fall from the tree of life, to rise no more, through time or in
eternity.
The Angels then formed a circle around the chosen instrument, and said ;
Thou child of sorrow, prepare thyself for death ; for a sacrifice of all things
even to the laying down of thy life doth thy God require ! Thy path is pav
ed with tribulation ; therefore, in the bitterest of grief, the heaviest of sor
row and keenest of tribulation, shalt thou walk by day and by night ; till
thou art willing to sacrifice all to thy God, that thou mayest be able to know
and do his will :
For never again will the Lord condescend to reveal his all-righteous will
unto mortals, unless through tribulation, sorrow and grief, they have washed
their garments white, and in the lowest of humility have bowed their spirits,
and opened the door of their hearts with thankfulness and resignation, that
He might enter and work.
We say not that the Lord requires you to give up your natural life; but
He requires a willingness to sacrifice all things, even unto death. The An
gels then sounded their trumpets, and I saw them no more at that time.
Early on the morning of the first day of February, eighteen hundred and
forty three, I was awakened from my sleep, hearing the Angels again sound
ing their trumpets, and the forty and four most holy Angels playing upon
their instruments of music. I looked towards the west, and again beheld
the sheet spread. The Angels then raised their wings with joy, and loudly
rung their bells of alarm ; shouted a shout of rejoicing, and sung a solemn
song of praise, saying ;
Rejoice, O Zion ! let thy inhabitants be joyful, and let joy and rejoicing
prevail throughout thy borders. For lo, this day will the Lord of Heaven
draw nigh, and clothe with wisdom and crown with strength, that soul who
has, in sufferings and sorrow, laid himself low before God, even to the dust,
that he might find favor in his sight, and be able to do his holy will. This
day will He commence revealing that which has long been concealed ; and
this day shall long be remembered by thee, O Zion.
SACRED ROLL AM) HOOK. 28!)
I did not hear or see any more at that time. But on the morning of the
second day of February, I again heard the Angels sound their trumpet*,
and saw them take the sheet, and again roll it up and seal
it,
even with
ninety and nine seals
;
they then carried
it
into the room where
it
was to
be written, unsealed
it
and placed
it
upon the wall.
Then said the Angels to the chosen instrument, O thou child of sorrow,
this day do we, the mighty and proclaiming Angels of the Lord, commence
tarrying with thee, to feed and support thee, and to witness the word of the
Lord correctly copied from this sacred sheet, by mortal hand, for mortal eyes
to view
;
for this was thy Father's command, and this
is
our mission. He
chooseth witnesses, both in the Heavons and on the earth
;
for out of the
mouths of many witnesses shall his word be established.
On the fourth day of February, eighteen hundred forty three,
I
saw the in
strument that was to write the Roll, go into his room, and the four hundred
Angels follow him
;
and after he had commenced writing,
I
saw the Angels
place
a
seal on every page as he wrote
it,
as their witness and testimony,
that
it
was correctly written.
On the fifth of February,
I
saw yet another sheet placed upon the house
top, resembling the first, having the same word written upon
it
;
and
I
saw
an Angel standing at the top of
it,
having a head like
a
lion, and wings like
an Angel. And as tho instrument copied the word correctly, from the Roll,
the Angel blotted
it
out.
And on the ninth day of February,
I
saw the Angels ascend even unto the
throne of the Almighty, and there gather food, strength and blessing for the
instrument
;
and with
it
I
saw them feed him
;
saying, Be faithful, thou lit
tle one, even as thou hast been
;
for lo, thy God, thy Father and Eternal Ma
ker,
is
well pleased with thee.
On the sixteenth day of February,
I
again heard the Angels sounding their
trumpets
;
saying, Well done thou good and faithful servant, enter thou in
to the joy of thy Lord. Well be
it
with thee, because of thy obedience
;
because thou hast faithfully done the will, and correctly written the word of
thy Father which
is
in Heaven. And whosoever shall put forth their hand
to destroy
it,
shall fall by the sword of his displeasure, and be banished from
his presence. The Angels soon disappeared, and
I
saw them no more.
r-
TESTIMONIES OF ELEVEN MIGHTY ANGELS, THAT ATTENDED THE
WRITING OF THE ROLL:
GIVEN BY INSPIRATION, FEBRUARY 16, 1843.
I,
the Holy Angel of Almighty Power, by name, Al'sign te're Jah', do wit
ness and testify that the word of the Lord has been correctly written by
mortal hand.
I,
the Holy Angel of the Lord, do solemnly affirm that the word which
K*
APPENDIX TO THE
has long heen concealed from mortitl eyes, is now revealed by Almighty
Power and made plain to mortal view.
I, the Holy Proclaiming Angel of the Lord, do solemnly testify that it has
been through deep tribulation, and as heavy sorrow and suffering as mor
tal clay, or the inhabitant thereof, was able to endure, that the word of the
Lord has been obtained and correctly written by mortal hand, for mortal
eyes to view.
I, the mighty Angel of the Lord, by name, Con' sole te' re Jah mon'shue,
do solemnly testify that my eyes have beheld the word of the Lord correctly
written by mortal hand ; and it is in truth the invariable word of the Lord,
which will stand unalterable through time and in eternity.
I, the holy Proclaiming Angel of truth, do firmly testify that it is the
word of the Lord, which has been written by mortal hand; and should any
one put forth a hand to destroy
it,
or alter in the least degree, either by add-
ing to, or diminishing it
;
that soul shall surely fall by the sword of his
displeasure, and drink of his furious wrath and indignation.
I,
an Angel of Mighty Power, do testify, that the inspired writer of the
Roll was chosen by the Lord Almighty to write his sacred word
;
and the
will of his God he has done, and his duty faithfully executed.
I,
a
mighty Angel of glory, do firmly declare the word to be true that the
forementioned Angels have testified.
I,
a
mighty Angel of the Lord, do solemnly protest, that not one promise
of God, stated in his Sacred Roll and Book, shall fail or pass away
;
but shall
be fulfilled, even to
a
jot and tittle.
I,
a
mighty Angel of warning, do solemnly affirm that the anger of
a
justly provoked God
is
greatly kindled against the inhabitants of earth
;
and
He
is
about to visit her in the fury of his wrath and displeasure, and cut
down her inhabitants in judgment, if they hearken not to his warning voice
of mercy.
I,
a Holy Angel of the Lord, do solemnly declare, that within the covers
of this Sacred Book,
is
inserted the word of the Lord correctly written
by
mortal hand, which has been done in the true fear of God
;
and let all who
peruse
it,
do
it
in a measure of the same holy fear in which
it
was given.
For
I
will ever stand as
a
witness of the usage of this Sacred Roll
;
and
with
a
just reward will
I
meet every soul when they have done with time.
I,
a
mighty Angel of the Lord, by name Pre' line fi' nan vas' ten va' ren
ve' ne
;
do firmly testify that we, the Holy Angels, have witnessed the con
tents of this Roll correctly written
;
and the word inserted therein
is
the
word of that God who created and knoweth all things; though plain, yet
it
is
true
;
then let every soul remember, that whom the Father lovetb He
chasteneth
;
and will kindly warn them to flee from the dangers that shall
come.
Hear my word and obey the same, crieth the voico of Him who sitteth on
High, and ruleth over all.
Inspired Witness,
Harriet Goodwin.
SACKED ROLL AND BOOK. 291
I can here testify, that the foregoing statements are no fiction, or vain
imagination. But I have an evidence within my own heart, beyond all
wavering or caviling feelings whatever, that it is truth and reality, that
the Lord's time has fully come for his warning voice of mercy to he sounded
throughout the four quarters of the earth ; that He may gather the wheat
into his garners, while He separateth the chaff therefrom, and burnetii it
with unquenchable fire ; for saith God, Unto him that seeketh mercy aright
will I show mercy ; and, crieth the holy Angels of mercy, Whithersoever the
word of the Lord Almighty goeth, there shall we go ; and whosoever shall
hearken and obey it, the same shall be blessed
;
but whosoever shall de
stroy or treat
it
with scorn and ridicule, the same shall be cursed.
These things have been made as plain to my view, as the natural elements
above, or the inhabitants of earth below
;
therefore
it
would be as reasona
ble for me to dispute my existence, as to dispute the reality of them.
I
therefore stand as a witness before God and all men, through time and in
eternity, that
it
is
in truth and reality the word of the one only true and
living God, which
is
contained in the pages of this sacred Book.
New Lebanon, N. V. February 18, 1843. Harriet Goodwin.
Born June
2,
1823; and was brought
by
her parents into the United Society,
at jVeie Lebanon, December IS), 1833.
TESTIMONY OF JOHN ALLEN.
New Lebanon, N.Y. April 17, 1843.
Friends and Fellow Mortals
;
In presenting to you this my testimony, and affixing
my name hereunto as
a
witness of the divine origin of the Sacred Roll
now laid before you,
I
am induced by no other motive than the pure
love which
I
owe to that God who gave me life and breath, and by whose
power
I
am sustained while passing through the scenes of time, and
a
fear
to displease the same
;
Yea, and to fulfill that duty which
I
owe to
a
companion in God's holy scr
vice, who has fulfilled
a
divine obligation in writing the Sacred Roll, that
mortal eyes might see and behold the same. For
I
have walked hand in
hand with him in sorrow deep, and known full well the grief and tribulation
of his spirit, that he might be able to fulfill the holy will of his God and
accomplish the same, according to his sacred requirements.
And
I
know of
a
truth that
I
am called upon by tho powers of Heaven,
manifested to me by the Holy Savior, Mother Ann Lee, Father William Lee,
Father James Whittaker, with the ancient Prophets and holy Angels, who
have appeared unto me, and by whose information
I
have become acquaint
ed in a small degree, with the design of God, to raise my voice in favor and
support of the truth of God's unbounded love and charity to poor frail man
;
and of the remarkable outpouring of his holy spirit among his chosen people,
to which
I
have been both an eye witness, and an instrument in the work.
On the first of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty two,
I
plainly
-2!
1-2
APPENDIX TO THE
saw the preceding Roll, and was nuned upon by the holy spirit of God, to
sound forth words from the same, and to prophesy of the word of the Lord,
that should go forth from Zion to the nations of the earth.
I
plainly saw and beheld the sufferings of his faithful servants, who
should bo chosen, to do his will and effect his purposes
;
but
I
knew not
by what mortal hand
it
should be written, when the time should come, or
how
it
should go forth.
On the eighth and fifteenth of May, first and thirtieth of June, and four
teenth of September, did
I
again see the Roll, and oftentimes spake of the
sume to some of my companions.
February fourth, one thousand eight hundred and forty three, while ascend
ing the Holy Mount in the service, and according to the will of the mighty
Angel,
I
looked and beheld an innumerable host of flaming heralds, having
wings
;
and they moved swiftly forward to meet us.
They held in their mouths the preceding Sacred Roll. In their right
hands were offers of peace, love and good will to all men who would ac
cept the offers of salvation and loving kindness sent forth from the Almighty
;
and in their left hands were held justice, truth and equity, with the wrath
nnd sore displeasure of
a
righteous God, who
is
justly provoked to anger, to
pour out in judgment upon all such as would not heed the friendly solicita
tions of the voice of Wisdom and Mercy.
Upon their heads were other sacred Rolls. Their countenances were open,
bright and piercing, yet courteous, loving and merciful
;
in which
it
was plain
to be seen that their mission required haste. Their bodies were like as
a
flaming fire, and larger than the usual size of man.
I
beheld them for somo length of time, and knew not but
I
saw them with
my natural eyes
;
for
I
beheld them as plain as ever
I
beheld mortals
:
and
as near as
I
could judge, they extended in length from north to south three
fourths of
a
mile. Their breadth
I
knew not, as they moved towards us five
deep, one exactly over another's head, at
a
little distance apart, and ten
or fifteen feet from the ground
;
I
could not therefore see the further side of
them. Having come within
a
few rods of us, they disappeared and
I
saw
them no more
;
but
a
deep impression and strange feeling was left upon me.
I
saw the Roll several times previous to its being written, of which
I
have
not heretofore mentioned
;
and the dates of which
I
cannot remember.
But between three and four months before the Roll was written, the Angel
brought and placed
it
before me, and put the burden of the same upon me,
which at times would seemingly take my natural life
;
for
I
felt as though
the loss of all creation rested upon me.
I
felt great tribulation of soul, but
knew not what to do
;
for
I
felt incompetent and insufficient, in every sense
of the word, to accomplish that which seemed to be put upon me to execute.
I
continued in this situation about three days, when
I
prayed
I
might be
released, or enabled to do the will of God
;
for in Him
I
put my trust, and
notwithstanding my feelings of inability to perform what lay before me,
I
believed, if
it
were the will of God,
I
should have strength so to do
;
I
then
felt a sudden impression, that
I
was not the instrument intended of God to
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 293
write the Roll ; but that this burden was put upon me for a short season,
that I might know the tribulation it would bring upon the mortal who should
be chosen to do this solemn work.
I then prayed and anxiously desired that it might rest upon the inspired
writer who wrote the Roll, for it seemed to me that this was the design of God.
I then beheld a short written roll brought by an Angel of God, which con
firmed the same. I now felt entirely released, with the exception, that I
daily felt an uncommon prayerful feeling, that the will of God might be done,
and his purposes fully executed according to his pleasure.
And I now feel it my indispensable duty and privilege, solemnly to assert,
that, by the operation of the spirit of God in my own soul, I am made to
know that the preceding Roll is from the Almighty ; and by his power and
agreeably to his will, has it been written and sent forth for mortal eyes to
view :
And though my blood should be the price, in consequence of this my tes
timony, yet I say unto you, this would be a pleasing sacrifice, rather than to
renounce my faith and deny the holy work of my God ; for I have both seen
and felt the irresistible influence of his holy power, which I cannot deny.
And to this, I affix my name ; and I now commend my spirit to his holy
power and into his gracious hands. John Allen.
Born May 11, 1816 ; in the town of White Haven, county of Cumberland,
England. Gathered into the United Society at A'ew Lebanon in the eleventh
year of his age.
TESTIMONY OF LUTHER COPLEY.
On the eighteenth of April, eighteen hundred forty three, at the first hour
of the day, I was called by the holy Angel, whose name is Te le vash' ta la
Jah', to arise. And he said unto me, Thou mortal Instrument of my
choice, one whom I have supported thus far, and shall continue so to do,
until you reach the happy mansion of eternal peace and rest ;
Arise, and boldly bear testimony of the work of thy God, regardless of
mortals, who, though they can take the life of the body, cannot destroy the
soul ; but fear thou Him who can destroy both soul and body in Hell. I re
peat again, (said the Angel,) Fear not the power of mortals, for in obedience
I will support thee, through all trying scenes that thou mayest have to meet
Therefore, fearing that God whom I daily love, honor and glorify, in ev
ery faculty of my soul, for his boundless goodness in calling me when a child,
to forsake the pleasures of a lost and sinful world, and for the many blessings
of which I daily partake ; though I feel myself small in his presence, and
no better by nature than the rest of my fellow creatures, I feel loudly called
upon, to add my testimony, with that of many others, to the truth of the
word contained in the foregoing sacred pages.
-204 APPENDIX TO THE
1 do firmly believe, without a doubt, that it came forth from the Almighty
Jehovah, through means of his own choosing, and was written by the mor
tal bund of his own appointing; this I feel certain of, by what I have seen,
heard and felt ; and this I can never deny.
I can further testify without boasting, that I, through the goodness of God,
have been made partaker of that soul-saving gospel, by which, in obedience
thereunto, I am enabled to live day by day as I would be willing to die ; and
in this sin-destroying work I have been laboring for nearly forty years.
New Lebanon, N. Y. April 17, 1843. Luther Coplet.
Born in Pittsford, county of Rut/and, state of Vermont; December 15,
1800. Came into the United Society at .Yeip Lebanon, December 15, 1807.
TESTIMONY OF HIRAM RUDE.
I do testify that I have been shown by the Angels of God, at five different
times, in vision, a portion of that work now revealed in the Zion of God up
on earth.
In the last of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand, eight hundred
and twenty, I saw many things which have now taken place ; and that the
inspired writer of the foregoing Roll, would be employed as an instrument
in the hands of God to do a work for Him, concerning the nations of the
earth, and to declare, in the name of a just and holy God, that every sinful
practice must be repented of and forsaken, before the soul could find accept
ance with its God. That every high and exalted imagination, God would
lay low even to the dust.
I also saw the following motto, which has been used by the Angel who in
spired the writer of the foregoing Roll ;
"Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall."
And again I do testify, that I saw two mighty Angels at the time of the
writing of the foregoing Roll. The Angel of Mercy went before, and the
Angel of Power followed after, with a red robe ; whose eyes were like
flames of fire.
Soon after, I saw the inspired writer of the foregoing Roll, dressed in the
same manner, agreeably to the requirement of God. Thus I am confirmed
beyond a doubt, that the writer of this Roll was inspired by the Angels
of God.
JVew Lebanon, Columbia county, i Hiram Rude.
state of New York. April 19, 1843. J
TESTIMONY OF ABIGAIL CROSMAN.
The fear of God and the sacred reverence which I feel to his holy word,
induce me at this time to declare that which I have seen, heard and felt, as
SACRI'.D ROLL AND BOOK. 295
a witness to the truth and divine source from whence the foregoing work
proceeded.
This I am bold to testify before all people, feeling an undoubted assurance
that the divine knowledge with which I have been privileged from time to
time, proceeded from one and the same spirit, which caused the mortal hand
to pen the word of the foregoing Roll.
I therefore make mention in short, of some interviews, which at the time
received, were both strange and mysterious ; but in obedience to the Angel,
I wrote correctly what I saw and heard, not knowing the meaning thereof
until the Book was opened, and its contents copied by mortal hand.
I am but a frail mortal ; but through the mercy and blessing of God, have
received a measure of his holy power, light and heavenly giils ; which have
caused me to love and serve Him above all other beings, and render unto
his service, every faculty I possess; and through which I have obtained an
abiding evidence, a burning lamp of eternal truth, which can never be extin
guished by vain reason or earthly knowledge.
On wednesday, April twentieth, eighteen hundred forty two, while sitting
in silent meditation with my companions, I saw rising out of the south a
cloud of tire and smoke ; and in the midst thereof an Angel of might and
terror. He held in his right hand a sharp sword, and in his left a vial of
wrath .
I turned my eyes to the west, and beheld an innumerable company of arm
ed men, arrayed in martial attire, marching swiftly to the south. When
they approached the cloud of fire, they fell prostrate to the earth, and were
destroyed.
The vision then ceased, but left upon my feelings a chill of horror and
solemnity. I heard not the Angel's voice, neither made mention of what I
had seen.
On the following day, the same vision again appeared before me, but with
greater plainness than before. The Angel approached so near, that I could
plainly behold his visage, and the terror of his countenance, but heard not
his voice. This sight was truly awful, and caused my whole frame to trem
ble before it. His eyes appeared as balls of fire, and his presence bespoke
judgment, vengeance and destruction.
The time soon arrived for our evening worship. While engaged in our
devotion, I saw another Angel enter the room, holding in his right hand a
flaming Lamp, and in his left, a Book; often going before the Leaders of the
meeting, and opening
it,
as if desiring them to read. He spoke some in
a
language unknown to me, and soon .disappeared.
I
learned from his appearance, .that the time had not come for the Book to
be revealed, but the day was near at hand, when
it
should be read to the in
habitants of Zion.
The vision of the former Angel, caused in my feelings much anxiety, to
know the meaning thereof; but
I
received no answer, save, that he was an
Angel of judgment, sent forth by Almighty Power to visit the earth
;
and to
the chosen of the Lord, he would make known the power of his hand, that
they might seek
a
refuge from his wrath and indignation.
April twenty third, while employed in my duty through the day,
I
was
29G APPENDIX TO THE
visited with an unusual degree of solemnity, and many times a feeling of
fear, as if about to behold a scene of horror and distress.
I prayed earnestly to know the cause thereof, but received no satisfactory
answer ; neither was I permitted to make known my feelings.
Towards evening, I went to my retiring room, and in a short time, saw
again the two Angels before mentioned. As I beheld them, the latter spake
unto me thus ; Thou hast seen the sign in the south and in the west ; now
turn thine eyes to the north, and behold the vengeance of an Almighty
God ! I looked, and lo ! Desolation, distress and sorrow, filled the land '.
The Angel then said unto me, From this place were sent forth the com
pany which ye saw fall before the Angel of judgment. Desolation hath
marked their footsteps ; their dwellings are as a dreary waste ; and from
their tent doors, judgment hath followed their goings, until they were con
sumed by the sword ! But verily saith the Lord, judgments, still heavier,
await their rulers and country !
The Angel now paused, and then spake unto me thus; Speak not of what
you have seen, neither shall you know any more concerning the same, until
the morning of the coming day.
You shall then receive further information, and correctly write all that yon
have seen and heard.
Accordingly, on the following morning (April twenty fourth,) while sit
ting with my companions, I was suddenly called by a sound from an invis
ible source, to behold the rising sun, which was then shining in the east.
I looked, and lo ! it remained fixed, as if refusing again to illuminate
the earth with its noon-day rays !
I was then commanded to turn my eyes to the north ; there truly I beheld
the most horrid spectacle my eyes ever witnessed.
I saw the wretched inhabitants, walking to and fro ; friendless, destitute
and forlorn : gnawing their tongues with anguish of soul, while their bodies
were famishing with hunger, and constantly falling on every hand !
Their thrones, palaces and splendid dwellings, had become tombs for their
dead bodies ; Their lofty towers were laid low, even with the dust ; and their
kings and nobles had fallen prostrate to the earth, without a friend to raise
them up, or listen to their cries and lamentations !
Others, who were left as spectators of the scene, were putting an end to
their wretched existence, and that of their tender offspring, witb their own
hands !
This day being the Sabbath, the time for our morning meeting had now
come, and I was called from this scene of horror, to behold the peace and
quietness with which I was surrounded.
I went with my companions to our place of worship, but with a heavy
heart. In a few moments I felt a trembling of the floor upon which I stood
like that of an earthquake. I raised my eyes to see if others did not notice
the same ; but perceiving no alarm, I remained silent, and soon followed the
same dreary scene, (but with increasing horror,) which I knew not but I had
viewed for the last time.
The sun appeared as blood : the stars resumed their glittering, and the face
of nature was one scene of midnight gloom !
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 297
The hand of desolation had reached from east to west, and from north to
south ; and the earth was encircled therewith, like unto a continual flame of
lightning and constant roar of thunder !
I looked to find the chosen Israel of God, and beheld as it were, wings,
gathering them together into one band, and hovering them from the ven
geance of an Almighty God.
I also heard the tender calls of the Holy Angels, and the mourning of
saints, for those who wandered from these wings of protection, and rejected
the warning voice of their lovely Shepherds.
I observed that all who gathered beneath these holy wings, were safely
protected from danger, and in a low and pleasant vale, united even as one
body.
Hy vision now ceased, but the sensation produced thereby, can never be
erased from my memory, while in time I remain.
On the following day, April twenty fifth, while engaged in worship, the
Holy Angel whom I had previously seen with the Book and Lamp, again
appeared to my view. At this time he opened not his Book, but placed him
self before the Leaders of the meeting, and desired all present to bow in hum
ble supplication and prayer, that the hand of desolation might be stayed, and
the will of God be done.
I spake not of what I saw, to the assembly ; but soon another instrument,
bc ing mightily exercised with the power of God, loudly proclaimed that the
Angels of judgment were passing through the earth, and requested all pres
ent to bow low in supplication for the protection of Zion.
I have also seen at many different times, a Mighty Angel assemble with
us, holding in his hand a large Book, with the following inscription written
thereon. The word of Almighty God, written and sealed with his own hand,
for the children of earth.
These things may appear to some, as phantoms of a disordered brain ; but
unto the candid and unprejodiced, must stand in their true light, unalterable
truths, without veil or covering : the evidence of which nought but disobe
dience can remove from an enlightened mind, or darken with the clouds of
unbelief.
I therefore testify unto all, that to me they are solemn realities, firmly
grounded by a knowledge which I can never deny, should my life be requir
ed in consequence of a refusal.
Having proved by experience, the uprightness and integrity of this des
pised number, (called Shakers,) for the last twenty five years, I can with
confidence bear witness that it is the vineyard of the Lord's planting, and by
his merciful hand, daily supported.
A'ew Lebanon, Columbia county, )
state of A'ew York. 5
Abioa,l Ceosma*.
l*
2<>8
TESTIMONY OF HANNAH BLAKE.
New Lebanon, N. Y. January 2, 1842 ;
Sabbath morning, about the hour of ten, as I sat in solemn meditation
upon the everlasting goodness and mercy of God, I was surrounded by a
company of Holy Angels, whose brightness was far superior to any thing my
eyes ever beheld.
Upon their heads were written the nunie of the Almighty Jehovah Jin ;
just beneath, their own names were stamped in letters of pure gold, as it
appeared to my view, and were as follows ; First, the Mighty Angel of God ;
second, the Angel of Conviction ; third, the Angel of Meekness and Love ;
fourth the Angel of Merry and Truth.
Their appearance at first, terrified me, and caused me to fear and tremble
exceedingly : but the mighty Angel soon spake unto me, saying, Fear not
O thou little one of flesh and blood ; but bow ye low, and hearken to my
word, yea, look and behold our doings. I looked, and beheld upon the head
of the Mighty Angel, a large Roll. He held in his right hand, a pen of pure
gold; and in his left, a Book; and upon the cover was written thus — The
true Record of Hearen.
The second Angel held a very large trumpet in his hand. The third
opened another Book, which he held to my view ; it was perfectly clean
and white ; and on his head was a flaming two-edged sword.
As 1 turned to view the fourth Angel, I saw him shut the Book, and seal
it with yellow seals. He held a rod of truth, and waved the sceptre of mer
cy gently over my head. I bowed very low four times ; and heard the voico
of the Mighty Angel saying, I am he whose power thou hast often felt, and
whose hand hath brought thee even to the dust of the earth. Therefore,
fear thou exceedingly to disobey the word of thy God, O thou mortal frame ;
lest He smite thee with a curse, and separate thee from his holy people.
The Angel took from his head, the afore-mentioned Roll, and said, Thi»
is the word of the Lord God of Heaven and earth, and in his own time, even
as He hath declared, it shall extend from east to west, and from pole to pole.
Yea it shall go throughout the earth. For I have brought it from the Heav
ens, even from the eternal throne of light ! and I will measure its length
and breadth, and number its many folds.
The Roll was then opened, and held by the four holy Angels, and it
formed a perfect cross, pointing to the four quarters of the earth. I viewed
it with surprise, for I understood not the language in which it was written.
After a short pause, the Roll was again folded in forty eight folds, and
upon the outside fold, were written the following words;
O Ha'Ion, Ha'lon, don es que' ! Heaven, and the Angels in Heaven bear
witness, that this Sacred Roll is now sent to earth, by the Angel of Holy
Power and Wisdom. i
The Angel then placed the Roll upon his head, saying, In due season
shall all things be accomplished according as the Lord hath commanded.
The second Angel then sounded his trumpet to the four winds, and
bowed very low at each blast.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 299
They then sung a solemn song, and at the close, I again heard the voice
of the Mighty Angel saying;
I am the messenger, who was sent to proclaim the word of my God,
through the mouths of the Prophets of old, and to warn the people to turn
from their unrighteousness, and seek his mercy. I am he who protected
Daniel in the Lions' den, and delivered Jonah from the whale's belly, to do
the will of his God. Yea, I am indeed the Might)' Angel who hath ever
guarded God's chosen people who feared his holy name, and kept his
commandments.
I work in wisdom, and my doings cannot be comprehended by mortals
until they are revealed. But I am ever present with the witnesses of truth ;
and whenever they have been sent abroad, I have witnessed the persecutions
and sufferings they have borne, for the sake of their testimony ; and many
are the times I have caused their spirits'to rejoice in the God of their sal
vation, while their enemies feared and trembled before me. And now, even
at this time, hath the God of Heaven sent me forth, with these my compan
ions, to warn the inhabitants of earth with this his solemn word, that they
may, if they will, hear his voice in mercy, and seek a refuge beneath his
protecting wings, before it he too late.
The Angel then gave his word, concerning the reception of the Koll on
earth, and bade me copy the same in his presence, which I did; and he im
mediately vanished from my sight.
On the twenty third of April following, while I was engaged in solemn
worship with my brethren and sisters, I again heard the voice of the Migh
ty Angl'l, but understood not his word, for it was in a language unintelligi
ble. But soon 1 perceived that the Angel was viewing the people very closely ;
and upon his head, as he passed me, I saw a hand, and upon the back of it
was written thus; The hand of Almiuhtv 1'owfk is sow sent forth
ON THE EARTH.
I then heard a loud trumpet; I looked, and beheld in the southwest,
about a half mile from me, a thick cloud of smoke ; and the Angel spnke and
said, The hand of the Lord is numbering his chosen people, who faithfully
bear the cross of Christ, and walk in his holy footsteps. For behold ! the
Angels of destruction are this night to pass the camp of Israel ! Yea, verily
I say ; those whom the Lord hath sent throughout the earth to execute his
judgments, shall this night come near to his Zion, and call upon her inmates
to mourn and lament, for the lost children of men.
When he had made an end of speaking, I looked, and the cloud of smoke
had vanished ; and 1 saw instead thereof, a company of holy Angels ap
proaching from the same direction.
They came near, and placed themselves in the center of the room, in a
square form ; each one holding a trumpet. The Mighty Angel spake a word
to them in his own language; and immediately they all bowed low in prayer
and supplication, and the assembly united in the same.
After they arose, I saw them divido into four companies, just a hundred
each, and turning to the four winds of heaven, marched with hasty steps
each way, singing as they went.
April twenty eighth, as I was traveling with my companions a little distance
300 APPENDIX TO THE
from home, I saw the Mighty Angel coming from the north, holding in his
hand the trumpet of alarm : He sounded it to the four winds, and turning his
face toward Zion, said with a loud voice, 1 will visit thee again and again,
until the Lord shall make an end of his sayings, and thou art beautiful in
his sight.
Again on the first day of the fifth month, I beheld the Angel with hie
company, and saw the Sacred Roll placed upon his head, as I at first beheld it.
May eighth, I beheld the Mighty Angel, and he spake unto me, saying,
Famine and pestilence shall sweep through the land, and desolation shall
come near to the borders of Zion.
But unto thee hath the God of Heaven turned his face, and unto thee will
He make known his all-righteous will, and just judgments; and all who
will obey his laws, and walk humbly in his presence, shall be known by Him
in the day of his fierce anger, and indignation upon the wicked.
The Angel then rested his wings upon the Sanctuary, or house of wor
ship, and spake thus, For a time and a half time, shall I dwell in Jerusalem ;
and when the time is fulfilled, I will again number my chosen, and the clean
white book shall be filled, when the end shall be.
At four or five different times from this period, I have seen the Mighty
Angel, and heard his voice, through the mouths of other instruments ; and
can testify to the same with boldness, in love and holy fear ; for at a certain
time, through another of his chosen witnesses in the month of August, I was
called in haste and asked if I was not a witness for the Mighty Angel ; I re
plied I was ; and that I knew his voice, and feared his word with the true
fear of God.
All these things, with many others not here mentioned, have proved to
my soul the necessity of humbling myself, and seeking in humility, the favor
and mercy of that God who created my immortal soul ; knowing that unto
Him, through the medium of his chosen witnesses, I shall and must give a
correct account of every deed both good and evil.
Twenty four years of my life, have I spent among his people ; and thanks
everlasting be to the source of all good for my precious call. I was born
March thirty first, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and eleven.
New Lebanon, N. Y. January 2, 1842. Hannah Blaki.
TESTIMONY OF ORREN HASKINS.
The late manifestation of God to his people, which has been for a few
years past, I have been privileged with the opportunity of witnessing, from
the commencement, to the present time. And being one in the work, and
feeling and realizing its operation in my own soul, and its powerful influ
ence on all its subjects, I can, in singleness of heart, testify to the truth of
the work and manifestation of divine power, through the medium of holy
Angels, and those in whom Christ has revealed himself the second time,
without sin unto salvation ; and that God has begun a work which will, in
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 301
his own time, extend to every nation, tongue and people, either in mercy
or judgment.
The fulfillment of his promises which I have witnessed, establishes my
faith beyond a doubt, that the power manifested, is genuine, and proceeds
from God ; and those who receive and obey
it,
will have to confess and ac
knowledge, that the fruit
is
good, and proceeds from
a
pure source
;
and
it
thus far has proved as such, and will, to all who seek
a
holy life of self-de
nial and the cross
;
the same cross which our Lord and Savior did bear.
Therefore,
I
feel under the most solemn obligation to God and man, to
boldly testify the truth, and maintain the same, at the risk of all things else.
And, although God has, in some instances, manifested Himself through mor
tals who have not proved true unto the end, and has caused them to sound
forth his word with unshaken confidence to the inhabitants of earth, yet,
without his holy power and true fear, they were nought, but as empty sounds.
But truth standeth unalterable
;
and those mortal instruments who were
truly baptized into his holy spirit, and trusted in God, and Him alone, were
supported, and led according to his will;
and were attended with evidence
beyond
a
doubt, that they were influenced by his holy spirit.
New Lebanon, Columbia county,
)
Orren Haskins.
state of New York, August 23, 1843.
J
Born December third, eighteen hundred and fifteen, in the town of Savoy,
county
of
Berkshire, state
of
Massachusetts
;
has lived among this people,
about twenty one years.
TESTIMONY OF DANIEL CROSMAN.
As
I
have been one that has been called and chosen by the special notice
of God, to do his will and stand as a living witness, prepared only through
scenes of deep tribulation, and by that means enabled to testify before all
people, that which He hath in his wisdom seen fit to reveal to mortals
;
It
is
from no other motives, than
a
solemn sense of duty which
I
owe to
God and
a
tender regard for the good of all mankind, that has induced me
to stand forth boldly in a cause which will undoubtedly meet with much op
position, and excite the feelings of many to search deep, in order to deter
mine the cause from whence these things originated.
Therefore, choosing rather to obey the dictates of my own conscience in
laboring to do the will of God as made known to me, in preference to seek
ing the favor and applause of those who are enemies to the cross of Christ,
I
shall labor in the fear of God, to testify of that which my eyes have seen,
my ears have heard, and of which my soul has been partaker, and to which
I
can with boldness and confidence bear witness before all people, to be the
real work of God, and not the invention of man or woman.
Some time previous to the Roll being written, many signs and forewarnings
were given, indicating that God was about to bring to pass a great work
among the children of this world, which thing
I
was confident would shortly
take place
;
but in what way and manner
it
would be effected, was not then
30:2 APPENDIX TO THE
fully made known to me ; but I can truly say, when the Roll came forth it
corresponded perfectly with my feelings, and my fuith was strengthened in the
work ; and I have no hesitation in saying that it was given by the special
revelation of God, through means of his own choosing ; and if vain mortals
dare to trifle with, and make light of the solemn warnings therein contain
ed, they will in no wise escape the sore displeasure of a justly provoked
God, who will, in his own time, recompense every one according to their
works.
New Lebanon. N. Y. June 9, 1813. Daniel Crosma*.
Born D'crmhcr 10, 1*10; in Wilmington, rminty of Windham and state of
Vermont; was gathered into this socirtij, October 26, 1822.
TESTIMONY OF OLIVE WHEELER.
New Lebanon, N. Y. April 20, 18*3.
I feel bound to write a few lines, testifying my full belief in the divine
origin of the foregoing Roll, brought by the holy and mighty Angel of God.
On the fifth of February, eighteen hundred forty three, I distinctly heard
the mighty Angel, beating, as it were, upon a drum three times. I then saw
him enter the room where I was, and make some signs, for which I could
not account; he then disappeared.
But after n little while, I looked out of the window, and to my surprise,
saw him marching the street, with forty holy Angels. He appeared to me
as a man clothed in white, black and red. Another Angel then appeared to
me, who was an attendant of the mighty Angel ; he passed through the
house where I was, and showed forth a multitude of signs which were very
singular and strange. All this, I was told, represented the work of God, and
the present work of the holy Angel ; which was, to warn a lost world to
turn from the evil of their doings, and flee from the wrath to come.
And I do solemnly testify and declare to all, who may consider these few
lines worth their notice, that the origin of the foregoing Roll is divine, and
that it is the word of God, revealed, in his infinite mercy, to mortals on earth.
And I will ever stand to the truth of this assertion, while time endureth.
Olive Wheeler.
/ was born October 21 , 1802, and was brought among this people by my fa
ther, March, A. D. .ISO!).
TESTIMONY OF EMILY BABCOCK.
The town of Ashford, County of Windham and state of Connecticut was
the place of my nativity ; where I was born April
S),
1823.
I
came into the
united society in New Lebanon, November, 1825, where
I
have resided to
the present time
;
and having received many divine manifestations, which
have confirmed my faith in the present work of God among his people,
I
feel willing to declare the same to all my fellow mortals.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 15(1:5
On the Sabbath, tho sixth day of October, eighteen hundred forty two,
as I came out of the meeting house, after attending solemn worship, I heard
the sound of a mighty trumpet, which caused me to raise my eyoa to see
from whence the sound proceeded ; when I beheld an Angel standing on
the top of the center dwelling, holding in his right hand a trumpet, and in
his left, a Roll or Book.
With his trumpet he sounded aloud, turning to the four quarters of the
earth ; and it was mude known unto me, on my return home from meeting,
by that power which is not of mortals, but of the Supreme Being, who is
God of all, that a Roll should yet be revealed and spread abroad to all na
tions of tho earth, that they might be forewarned of his judgments, and pre
pare for the same.
I saw no more of the Angel after that time, until the month of January,
eighteen hundred forty three, when I again saw him bearing the Roll in his
hand ; and he spake unto me in a loud and mighty voice, saying ; I am a
holy Angel of power, from the throne of my God ; and I have come beforo
you at this time, in power and in truth ; and I speak unto you of things
very few of which ye shall understand now ; but the time shall come, when
you shall know the meaning of my sayings
Although the meaning of my words are unknown to you now, yet shall
they bear with weight on your mind, until I shall sec fit to reveal them to
you, in a language that you can understand: so remember ye my word and
forget it not.
This and this only did I understand at that time.
April fifth, eighteen hundred forty three, an Angel spake unto me, saying;
I coinc, I come again at this time to make known unto yon the meaning of
tho words which I before did speak, which you did not understand. So
hearken and hear my word, and write the same ; for I have now come to
fulfill my promise.
I am the Angel that you, and many more mortals, have seen within a
short time ; I hold in my right hand a trumpet ;. and in my left, a Roll. So
to' re ca' lo ve' riu de le' ri, ere my time has come. For thus saith tho
Lord your God :
Behold, the time has now fully arrived, when all the inhabitants of earth,
different nations, tongues and people, shall hear my indisputable word of
truth and justice. Of my all-righteous judgments shall they be warned in
due season; and all who strictly obey my warning voice, before it be too
late, yea I say, all, every class and order that heed my word in due season,
with the same shall it be well, now and hereafter. But those who slight,
disregard, mock, scoff or derido my sacred Word, shall not escape my hand
of judgment.
I have not thus warned the inhabitants of earth for nought ; but that they
might know in part, in a very small part, that which awaiteth them, and
humble themselves, if they would, and turn to Me their God ; for I am truly
to be found of those that seek Me in truth, and in the sincerity of their souls.
To those who seek aright, shall it surely be given. The hungry soul will
I feed with the bread of Heaven, and to the thirsty soul will I give to drink
304 APPENDIX TO THE
of the waters of life everlasting and eternal. I am the only true and living
God of Heaven and earth ; and not one word that I have spoken, or shall
hereafter speak, or cause, by my power, to be written, shall ever fall or fail.
So beware how, and in what manner ye treat my word, O ye children of
men ; consider, well consider, and seek to understand these my sayings.
Inspired Witness,
Emily Babcock.
I can now boldly testify and affirm that what I have here stated is the
truth, and that I am willing to meet my Maker at any hour. I know that I
am nothing but a frail mortal, in the sight of my God - but that which is re
vealed to me by divine revelation, and the power of an Almighty God, I
know to be true.
New Lebanoa, N. Y. April 8, 1843. Emily Babcoce.
We, the undersigned, hereby testify, that we saw the holy Angel, standing
upon the house-top, as mentioned in the foregoing declaration, holding the
Roll and Book.
Betsey Bootiie. Sarah Maria Lewis.
Louisa Chamberlain. Sarah Ann Spencer.
Caty De Witt. Lucinda McDoniels.
Laura Ann Jacobs. Maria Hedrick.
TESTIMONY OF JAMES X. SMITH.
I was born in Norwich, county of Chenango, state of New York, January
twenty sixth, eighteen hundred and six ; and was gathered into the United
Society in New Lebanon July eighth, eighteen hundred sixteen. And hav
ing lived here for twenty seven years, in which time I have been familiar
with the work of God, and in a special manner for the last few years, in
which the windows of Heaven have been opened and a knowledge of the
way and will of God made known to poor lost man, by the gift of divine in
spiration and revelation ; I feel it a duty I owe to God and my fellow crea
tures, to bear testimony to that which by the gift of God, I have seen, heard
and felt.
In truth, and in the fear of God, I can say, that by the gift of divine rev
elation, I have seen the lost state of poor fallen man ; I have seen that the
whole element in which he is born into this world, is opposed to God, and
to the spirit of his blessed Son ; yea, and I can say by the light of divine
inspiration, I have seen, as plain as I ever beheld by the light of the sun,
the highways on this earth, that the way revealed by Christ and Mother
Ann, is the only way whereby fallen man can find his redemption, and come
into astute of purity and holiness, and be true children of the Parents of the
New Creation of God.
I have witnessed the revelation of many things past, and things which
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 305
were to come ; many of which have come to pass according to prediction,
which could have been revealed by no other power, than that which is able
to comprehend all things, both visible and invisible.
And furthermore I believe and testify, that the word of God, as published
in this Book, has been written by divine inspiration, and that it is the great
est offer in mercy that has ever been given to man to obtain the favor of a
justly provoked God ; and it is my firm belief that no soul who will yield
obedience to it, will fall short of what has been promised therein
;
but will
see the goodness of God and feel satisfied
;
while those who despise his of
fers in mercy, will have to share in his heavy judgments.
I
have witnessed the operation of the work of God upon many souls, both
upon the faithful and the unfaithful. With the faithful,
I
have seen the good
seed take root and grow, until
it
brought forth all the heavenly virtues
which adorn the true followers of Christ and Mother. While on the other
hand,
I
have seen those who have been blessed with great light and power,
yea, and even with the gift of inspiration, yield to the influence of
a
carnal
mind, become unreconciled to the cross of Christ, lose their element in the
way of God, and manifest clearly that the spirit of Christ had ceased to
strive with them. As
a
witness for the truth,
I
do testify that
I
have no
other hope of Eternal Life, only in obedience to this gospel.
James
x
Smith.
New Lebanon, N.Y. August 15, 1843.
TESTIMONY OF CHARLES McCARTIE.
I
was born September fifth, eighteen hundred twenty one, in the City of
New York
;
And having been
a
resident in this society for twelve years,
I
feel
it
incumbent upon me to assert that my faith
is
established in the testi
mony maintained among this people, that
it
has emanated from God and
none else
;
that in, and among this people, all true prophetic types and fig
ures relative to the latter day of glory, are fulfilled to the satisfaction of ev
ery unprejudiced and true seeker after righteousness; that in every jot and
tittle,
it
fully accords with the self-denying gospel taught by Christ and his
apostles, which was, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself,
take up his daily cross and follow me. And again
;
Whatsoever yc would
that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them.
These are two principal articles in the constitution of this society, and
two main pillars which uphold this sacred temple, wherein dwell peace and
good will towards all men
;
whereon rests that cloud, the type of which
gave light unto the Israelites, while
it
was the cause of stumbling to the
Egyptians
;
and when viewed from without
it
was darkness
;
but within,
Moses and Aaron conversed with, and were covered with the glory of God.
It
always has been, still is, and ever will be, the leading principle among
this people, (notwithstanding the behavior of individuals to the contrary,)
to follow peace with all men, and live
a
life of holiness, to deal justly, love
mercy and walk humbly before their God
;
and if these will not accord with,
306 APPENDIX TO THE
and prove this to be true religion, then may it be said, that Christ was a
grand deceiver, and the Scriptures pointed lies.
I feel confident in testifying my firm and unshaken belief in the divine
emanation of the foregoing pages of this Book, believing and knowing it to
have had its origin in God alone, and being his most merciful offer of re
demption to fallen man ; and I do not hesitate to affirm, that all who will
take the doctrine herein contained, for their rule of life, and live accordingly,
will assuredly find it a guide unto their feet, a lamp in their path, and a staff
whereon to lean while sojourning through time. They will see the light
of Heaven shining upon their path brighter and brighter, and they will
grow more and more into the knowledge and love of godliness.
And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man
his brother, saying, Know the Lord ; for they shall all know Me, from the
least of them unto the greatest, saith the Lord ; for I will forgive their ini
quities and I will remember their sins no more. And that God which they
now view as a wrathful Sovereign, clothed in fury, dispensing judgment and
desolation through the land, they will then behold as a kind and tender
Shepherd, an affectionate and loving Father, watching over them with an
eye of mercy and forbearance, and directing them in his wisdom, and with
his arm of Almighty Power providing for their present and eternal happiness
and welfare.
Believing, and being confirmed in my belief, that this testimony is the
only door of hope, through which every soul must pass, in order to enter the
kingdom of Heaven, and meet their God in peace, I earnestly desire that all
who have a privilege to read or hear these sacred pages, may consider their
weighty importance, and give them the attention they demand.
New Lebanon, N. Y. August 15, 1843. Charles McCabtie.
TESTIMONY OF SALLY MARIA STEWART.
Some time in the month of October, eighteen hundred and forty two,
on the Sabbath, after divine worship, as I came out of the meeting house,
I heard the sound of a trumpet, which seemed to be in the air. I looked up,
and beheld on the north end of the centre house, a Mighty Angel, holding
in his right hand a trumpet, and in his left a Roll or Book : and by the spirit
of God it was then made known to me, that this Mighty Angel held the word
of the Lord in his hand, which would yet be sounded to all nations of the
earth. It was also made known to me at this time, who the instrument was,
that the Lord had chosen to reveal the words of this Roll to the people.
Many times before this, I had seen this Mighty Angel, and knew him to be
the same ; and as a witness thereof, I here assert an instance which occur
red on the evening of June fifth, eighteen hundred forty one, which I can tes
tify before all people, to be the truth, and was spoken by the same Mighty
Angel whom I afterwards saw standing on the centre house.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 307
I was taken from things of time, by the Angel of Almighty power, to the
top of a high mountain, where the Angel spake words unto me, as follows :
Hearken and give ear, while I tell you of things that will take place on
earth ; that when you hear of them, you may know that they are caused by
the over-ruling hand of God ; for He is about to send heavy judgments upon
the inhabitants of this world. Then extending his hand towards the east,
be said :
Look thou yonder; there lies a very wicked nation which have long sin
ned against a just and true God : and He, in his mercy, has borne with their
iniquities, and held back his furious wrath ; but now saith the Lord, ven
geance is mine, and I will repay; yea, my vengeance shall be poured out
upon the inhabitants thereof, and they shall know that I am Lord of Heaven
and earth. And as the Angel turned with his hand extended, he said :
No quarter of this earth can escape the judgments of a justly provoked
God; and many, very many of the inhabitants will be swept off from the
face of the earth. Fires, famines, earthquakes and pestilence shall prevail ;
cities and towns shall sink under the mighty hand of God ; yea, He will rule
both sea and land, and his righteous judgments will roll, roll on, till all nations
are brought low ; for all men will yet fear and tremble at the word of my God .
Truly, the abominations of the children of men are great, and the scourge
will be mighty. And, saith the Angel, all these things will yet be ; yet
never fear, but place your trust in God ; for those who love and fear the Lord,
and keep his commandments, He will protect from harm. And know thou,
that none but the humble and meek can escape the judgments of Him who
seeth all things; and whose power no mortal hand can stay. The Angel
then left me. Inspired Witness,
Sally Maria Stewart.
I know I am but a feeble mortal ; yet I can testify in truth, that what is
contained in this Roll and Book, is the work of an Almighty God^sent forth
by his Proclaiming Angel, to the inhabitants of earth; and this do I freely
acknowledge, and will to the end of time, to be the work of God, and not
of mortals; and this testimony given in the sincerity of my heart, I am will
ing to meet in the presence of God, the Father of all.
New Lebanon, N. Y. April IS, 18«. Sally Maria Stewart.
Born October 15, 1806, in the town of Spencer, Columbia county, state of
JVeie York.
TESTIMONY OF DAVID A. BUCKINGHAM.
Thus saith one who has wholly devoted and consecrated himself, soul and
body, time and talents to the service of his Creator God ; whose eyes have
seen, and whose ears have heard the wonderful things of God, and the great
display of the Almighty, in this day of Christ's Second Coming ; and whose
sonl has tasted of the holy things of Heaven, and the powers of the world
to come ;
308 APPENDIX TO THE
Being a firm believer in the revelation of Gud, and the gift of divine in
spiration, by which the Prophets of old, and the Apostles of Jesus Christ,
were enabled to declare and to write the words of the Almighty, revealed
in their day ; even so do I firmly believe that, in this day of Christ's second
appearing, the Heavenly Father in his never-ending mercy, has called forth
Prophets and chosen Instruments, to proclaim his holy word and will to the
inhabitants of earth. And I hesitate not to declare, that I have full faith
and confidence in the substance of the foregoing pages of the Sacred Roll
and Book, believing it to be the holy word of God, and written in a true gift
of divine inspiration.
It has ever been the will and pleasure of the Almighty, through every age
and dispensation of his grace to the lost children of men, to send forth his
holy word of solemn warning, showing them their lost state and condition,
and the dangerous situation they were in ; giving them suitable time to repent
in low humility of soul, that all who would, might escape the furv of his
wrath. And it has ever been so, that the only true light and knowledge of
Heaven, made known to the children of men, have been by and through the
revelation of God, in such ways and means, and through such individuals,
as He was pleased to appoint and anoint with his holy power, for the accom
plishment of the same.
Why then should it appear incredible to any rational, candid and well
informed mind, that the great Author of our existence, in his mercy, conde
scension and loving kindness, should, in this enlightened age of the world,
again make a display of his mighty power, his love and infinite wisdom ?
and by the gift of divine Revelation and Inspiration, declare to the nations
of the earth, the speedy fulfillment of the ancient predictions and prophe
cies, concerning the great day of his oming, wherein should be displayed
the fullness of his glory ?
Even as in ages that are past, so doth He now send forth his holy word of
solemn warning to the inhabitants of earth, of the near approach of his roll
ing judgments which are already going forth through the land, that all who
will, may turn from the evil of their doings, and in low humility of spirit,
seek his mercy before it be too late. In this is clearly manifested the great
wisdom, love and condescension of the Almighty to the lost children of men,
in giving them a foreknowledge and timely warning of that which will short
ly come to pass ; that those who are willing to hearken to his word and keep
his commands, may escape the fury of his wrath, and the vengeance of his
hand.
Having full faith in the present great manifestation of God, and the gifts
of divine revelation and inspiration existing in his holy Church on earth, I
have not the least shadow of a doubt of the truth and reality of the fore
going pages, and of the divine authority by which they were written.
And having been an eye witness of the manifestations of divine power
attending the reading of the Sacred Roll, before a large assembly, after it was
written by mortal hand, is sufficient evidence to me, (had I no other,) of
the purity of its composition and divine origin, and of the supreme author
ity in which it is sent forth to the nations of the earth.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 309
And even morn than this, I have an indisputable knowledge in my own
bouI, of the holy spirit and power in which the Sacred Roll is given ; and by
which power, I can safely declare it to be the holy word of God, sent forth
to the inhabitants of earth, to warn them of their danger, and give them
timely notice of the displeasure of the Almighty in beholding the wicked
ness of the world.
Therefore, in the solemn fear of God, and in the sincerity of my soul, I
write this testimony of my faith and feelings concerning the Sacred Roll
and Book, in evidence thereof, for the benefit of my fellow beings, as being
the greatest act of benevolence I am capable of bestowing. And having
now passed the fortieth year of my age, and arriven to that point of life, in
which man possesses the full powers and faculties of his mind ; and also, hav
ing had a lengthy experience of twenty four years among these peculiar peo
ple, to become acquainted with their true life and character, I hope the reader
will not consider me under a mask of deception concerning my religious be
lief, or that I am duped and influenced by others, to act contrary to what I
consider to be right and just, in the performance of my duty either to God
or man.
Watcrvliet, Albany county, N. Y- ) David A. Buckingham.
August 24, 1843. 5
Born the ninth day of March, 1803 ; in the town and county of Schoharie,
and slate of New York.
TESTIMONY OF WILXARD ALLEN.
On the eighth, ninth and tenth of April, one thousand eight hundred and
forty two, there appeared unto me an Angel, having in his possession a Roll
and Book, like unto one I heard read, on the ninth and eleventh of April,
one thousand eight hundred and forty three.
The above Roll was unsealed in my presence, and the Angel read to me
from
it,
on each day of his visit, from different sections, four different sen
tences
;
making in all, twelve.
The Angel then informed me, that this Roll and Book was to be written
by
mortal hand, and circulated for the general benefit of mankind. But the
name of the one who should pen these things, and bring them to the sight
and understanding of man, and the time of its accomplishment, was then
concealed from my knowledge.
But in the reading of the foregoing Roll and Book,
I
recognized and knew
the twelve sentences referred to above, as being the same, verbatim, as those
read to me by the Angel
a
year before. And further,
I
also knew that the
same Angel who read to me at that time, was in attendance on the reading
of the foregoing Roll and Book, on the ninth and eleventh instant. And he
there and then informed me, these were correct copies of those he had pre
viously shown me.
I,
the writer of the foregoing communication, was born April tenth, one
310 APPENDIX TO THE
thousand eight hundred and eight ; and have spent seventeen years in obe
dience to my present faith and calling.
Waiervliet, N. Y. April 13, 1843. Willabd Ali.es.
TESTIMONY OF JUSTICE HARWOOD.
As my belief is firm and unshaken in the powerful and mighty display of
the work of God that has been showered upon bis people for several years
past, I feel it a duty to bear witness to the same.
I was born in Cummington, county of Berkshire and state of Massachu
setts ; August twentieth, seventeen hundred eighty nine ; and was gath
ered into the United Society at Waiervliet, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and two.
I have been a close observer of the late strange and powerful work of God
among his peopje, from the beginning ; and have many times been overshad
owed with the irresistible and mighty power of God, which I could not
withstand, but by the influence of which I had to move as the spirit directed,
which was convincing to me, beyond a doubt, that it was the mighty power
of God ; that power which no man or woman can counterfeit.
I further testify, that I firmly believe the foregoing Roll and Book contains
the word of Almighty God, sent by his holy Angel, and by him revealed to
an instrument of mortal clay ; and that the instrument who was called by
the holy Angel to perform this sacred duty, has written it as the Angel read
to him, and is the word of Almighty God to fallen man ; that word which
will stand when all human inventions shall fall. And as a friend and well-
wisher to all mankind, I would advise them to be careful how they treat this
solemn warning from their Heavenly Father, and not speak evil of that which
they do not understand. But read the Book candidly, without any prejudice,
and consider its weighty truths, as the invention of neither man or woman,
but the word of a holy God, which will meet every soul in mercy or in
judgment.
Watervliet, N. Y. August 24, 1843. Justice Harwood.
TESTIMONY OF PAULINA BATES.
In the commencement of this late manifestation, I became exceedingly
desirous to have a part in the gifts of God, either by vision or revelation, or
in whatever manner the Lord might see fit to notice me. Not that I had any
doubt of its correctness, but for my own satisfaction and comfort I desired
to know these things by experience.
But my fervent prayers and cries to God seemed for a time all of no effect ;
it appeared as though the Heavens were shut against me in this respect. I
many times promised the Lord, upon my bended knees, that I would be
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 311
true to the least gift of his spirit, which He might sec fit to give me. And
in process of time, the Lord in his wisdom saw fit to call me forth by his
mighty power, to write, and also to speak his holy and eternal word, which
He purposed to reveal to the children of his Zion upon the earth, by the
mouth of his holy Angels, which He often sent from time to time, with the
sacred volumes thereof.
These things I do know, and can bear witness to with confidence, before
all men, even should I know that my natural life would become a sacrifice
in consequence. Yea, rather than deny the same, or in the least flinch, by
the fear of man, or forbear to declare my full confidence in the present
work of God, both as an individual and as an inspired instrument, who has
seen, handled and tasted the good things of God, and knows beyond a doubt
that God is the Author of the same, I would cheerfully face death in any form.
But for all I have been called to speak or write of the word of God, sound
ed forth by his holy Angels and ministering spirits in this great display of
his power, I stand ready to answer to God, knowing of myself I could do
nothing ; but by the power and gift of God have I been able to write and
speak many things, in his holy name, that I, myself, was as ignorant of as
a child unborn.
Many, very many proofs and confirmations have I had to confirm me, be
yond a doubt, concerning that divine origin from whence these precious
gifts and communications have been given ; and I boldly say, and bear wit
ness that I know them to be of God. And although wicked man, influen
ced by the father of all wickedness, should rise up and seek to destroy the
work of God, and the power of his last manifestation to his people ; and also
his word which He has given in mercy to the children of men, yet he can
never overthrow that which God hath so firmly established by his own
mighty power and strength.
Although the way and means which God hath laid out for the redemption
of all souls, may seem small and self-degrading, yet all will find, sooner or
later, that sufficient therein is given to undermine and beat in pieces every
false creed and form, and make, of those who call upon the name of the
Lord for salvation, one people, of one heart and mind, seeing eye to eye,
having one faith, one Lord and one baptism ; which is the baptism of fire
and the Holy Spirit that worketh the purification of the heart.
I have written the foregoing with my own hand, but not in my own
strength ; which word I am not afraid to meet both in Heaven and on earth ;
either before the Angels of God or the wicked inhabitants of earth. My
soul stands undaunted, and with boldness do I place my name and testimony
as a witness to the present manifestation of the revelation of God, to his call
ed and chosen people ; as being one who has been called to be a partaker,
not only an eye or ear witness, but as one of the chosen instruments which
God hath called, whereby to bring about his purposes. And thus is my
word and my witness closed.
Watervliet, N. Y. April 10, 1843. Paclira Batzs.
Born December 26, 1806 ; in the town of Brownville, county of Jefferson
and state of New York ; was gathered into this society in the year 1825.
312 APPENDIX TO THE
TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH WICKER.
About nine o'clock this evening, (April 20, 1843,) while engaged in prayer
and supplication to God, I received a small Roll ; and it was said to me, This is
the word of the Lord. After receiving
it,
I
returned
it
to the Angel who
brought
it,
and
I
was required to write, while he read as follows
:
Thus saith the Lord who upholdeth the righteous, and saith to Zion,
Receive my word that
I
now send unto thee. My word
is
truth, and
it
shall
not return unto Me void
;
but the word
I
have spoken,
I
will surely per
form
;
and
I
will empty out the wicked, who despise judgment and scoff at
my holy givings.
In mercy have
I
now sent forth my word anew unto the inhabitants of the
earth
;
and
I
have again set life and death before them, teaching them plain
ly, what
I
require of the souls
I
have created, and warning them of the
judgments which shall shortly pass through the earth, and enter the habita
tions of the sons and daughters of pride, who have chosen the paths of
iniquity and the seal of destruction.
Lo, from my Holy Mount, from the centre of the Zion of my likeness on
earth, have
I
caused this my word to go forth
;
and in truth and faithfulness
have
I
caused
it
to be plainly written, that all wbo desire
it,
may clearly
understand how to find my mercy and forgiveness.
O ye inhabitants of the earth,
is
it
a
strange thing, that
I
am able now, as
in days of old, to make known my word unto you, through the means of my
own choosing
?
Is my power diminished, so that
I
cannot reveal my word to
souls who dwell in tabernacles of clay
?
Who hath taken from Me, or who
hath removed my attributes
?
Will ye set bounds for Me, that
I
cannot pass,
or determine what things
I
shall not do? When did
I
ever teach you that
I
would never again speak unto the sons of men
?
If ye would be wise, receive my testimonies which
I
have revealed in
this day of my favor and kindness unto sinful man, and reject not my laws.
Inspired Witness,
Joseph Wicker.
Strange as the contents of the foregoing pages may appear to the natural
man,
1
feel no hesitation to declare my faith in the truth of the doctrines,
warnings, invitations and instructions, set forth and inculcated in them
;
and
that they are of divine origin, and eminently calculated to produce peace
and happiness in all who observe and keep them.
/
was born in the town and county of Bennington, state
of
Vermont, March
23, 1790
;
was gathered into the Society in April, 1806.
Joseph Wicker.
Hancock, Berkshire county, state of Massachusetts
;
April 20, 1813.
313
TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH PATTEN.
Feeling it a duty I owe to mankind, I thankfully bear witness to the truth
and reality of the many wonderful manifestations of divine power which
I have seen among the children of Zion.
As God did in the primitive church, so has He in these days, blessed his
people with heavenly givings. Many are inspired to speak and write his
word, to prophesy the things that come to pass, to speak in unknown tongues,
to interpret what is so spoken, to discern spirits ; and many other spiritual
gifts.
Having received some of these divine gifts, I can say in the language of a
holy apostle, What man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man
which is in him ? Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the spir
it of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit
which is of God ; that we might know the things that are freely given us of
God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom
teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth ; comparing spiritual things
with spiritual.
Having these lights before me, I feel no hesitation in declaring my entire
conviction that the foregoing Roll and Book is true ; that it has been pro
duced by the divine spirit of inspiration, as much as those written by the
ancient prophets, and other inspired servants of God.
The Lord our God has no where declared, in the record of his word, that
He never would again bless his creatures with a further revelation of his will ;
but the scriptures teach us there is to be a revelation of the righteous judg
ment of God. And I feel the witness in my soul, that God has, in this latter
day, revealed his will in divers ways, and concerning many things ; and
that his impending judgments will fall upon those who willfully disobey his
commands, and refuse to repent of their transgressions.
My counsel to all is, Let truth have its perfect efTect in your hearts ; con
demn not through prejudice, nor judge under the influence of envy ; and
let all conscientiously live according to the best light they have.
Hancock, Mass. August 13, 1843. Joseph Pattzh.
Born in Belchertown, Hampshire county, Massachusetts ; was gathered into
the United Society in Hancock, February, 1805.
TESTIMONY OF MARTHA VAN VALEN.
On Saturday evening, December seventeenth, one thousand eight hundred
and forty two, while in meeting, I saw a very powerful Angel enter the east
side of the room, clothed in shining brightness. His appearance filled my
soul with godly fear. He said to me, I am the Angel of Eternal Truth.
Look thou ! behold this Roll, which shall be written in my time. I looked
and saw a very lengthy Roll held before me, and it was sealed with many
teals.
N*
314 APPENDIX TO THE
The Angel broke the first seal, and commenced unrolling it. He unroll
ed a part, and then came to another seal. In this manner he continued
unrolling and breaking the seals, until it was all unrolled. And by the
space it covered in the room, it must have been about twenty feet long, and
several feet wide. I saw it was covered with writing, but could not read
one word of it.
Sabbath morning, December eighteenth, while in our morning meeting, I
saw the same Angel with the same Roll ; and he held it before me. At this
time a very solemn feeling came over me, accompanied with a weight of
tribulation. There was also another spirit standing hy me ; and I said,
What does this mean ? Is this for me to read? Nay, said the spirit, it is not
for you to read ; but it is the eternal word of God, and will be written and
sent to all nations of the earth. You will yet know this to be true.
The Angel with the Roll now left the room, and I looked to see where he
went; and saw him go towards New Lebanon. My impression then was,
that the Roll would In? written there, and sent forth as I had been told.
This I mentioned to some of the family at the time.
The next day I saw the Roll again, and the Angel that unrolled and unseal
ed it as before. I did not count the number of the seals, neither did I know
their meaning.
Tuesday afternoon, April fourth, one thousand eight hundred and forty
three, a mighty Angel appeared to me. He first told his name, Ha la vac'
tha na'; and then said, O thou little one, bow before me.
The appearance of this mighty Angel was majestic and solemn. When
he spake, his voice caused me to tremble with godly fear and reverence. Af
ter a pause, he said ; Bow down thou mortal instrument, bow low, low, even
to the dust of the earth, if thou wilt become a witness to the truth of the
holy word of God, which in his wisdom He hath seen fit to cause to be writ
ten. Yea, the word of your Eternal Parents hath been revealed by a
mighty and powerful Angel; and written by mortal hand at New Lebanon,
the Mount of God.
O ye witnesses of the eternal word which is about to be sent forth to the
different nations of the earth, through the mercy, power and wisdom of God,
have ye not felt the solemn and awful weight of the word and work which
have been revealed in the Zion of God upon earth ? Can you not testify, in
truth, that the Lord God hath declared, through his ministering Angels, that
the fire of his Almighty truth should be spread through earth's remotest
bounds ? Yea, to this, and to more can ye bear witness.
Hark, hear the awful sound ; Woe ! woe ! woe ! awful woes are pronoun
ced upon the inhabitants of the earth. A sign shall be given in the east.
Terrible and mighty is the army that shall be sent to and fro in the earth,
with vials filled with the wrath of God, to pour upon the proud, the high,
the unjust, the unmerciful, the filthy worker, and those who regard not the
laws of God or man.
All those who will trifle with, or in any way abuse, destroy or cause to be
destroyed, the sacred words of truth written and sent forth to all the nations
SACKED ROLL AND BOOK. 315
of the earth, by the command of the great Jehovah, better, far better would
it be for them, if they had never been born. For, saith the Eternal God, I
will meet those that do this thing, with heavy judgments. My words to
them shall be like the roarings of mighty thunders ; and no forgiveness shall
they find, but through heavy sufferings. So take warning and be careful,
O ye children of earth, how you treat that which you do not understand.
To all who are called to witness to this, the word of your God, know ye,
there will disputcrs and cavilers arise, but fear them not; for what is writ
ten is the word of your God, and all the powers of darkness will never be
able to destroy the truth thereof; but it will stand to the endless ages of
eternity.
Inspired Witness,
Martha Van Vales.
As a witness, I boldly and firmly declare to all mankind, that what is here
written is no fiction, but is the everlasting truth. It is simply what I saw
and heard.
I was born in Fishkill, Duchess county, state of New York, May first,
eighteen hundred and four ; came here to live, April, eighteen hundred and
thirty three.
Hancock, Mass. April 4, 1813. Martha Van Valkn.
TESTIMONY OF JUDITH W. COLLINS.
On the twenty seventh day of April, eighteen hundred and forty two, feel
ing my soul filled with deep and heavy tribulation, I withdrew to a place of
retirement, and there in secret did I humble myself; yea, in low humiliation
did I pray with a fervent spirit to my Heavenly Parents, to enable me to know
and to do their will. While in this labor of mind, I beheld a large Book
lying on a table in the room ; and was told to open it. I did so, but could
read very little. I looked along in the Book, until I came to the three hun
dred and twelfth page.
April fourth, eighteen hundred and forty three, I retired to my room to
meditate upon the solemn work of God. Many words came fresh to my
mind, that I had been compelled by the power of God to speak concerning
the judgments that would surely take place in the earth. While I was se
riously and solemnly reflecting upon these things, the holy Angel of the
Lord entered the room, and spake as follows :
Child of mortality, know thou that the work of God is a swift work, and it
requires souls to be alive. Understand thou, for I have come to summon
thee for a witness ; therefore write thou thy name, that it may be recorded
in the sacred Roll which God thy Heavenly Father hath purposed to send
forth to the inhabitants of the earth.
I answered, O holy Angel, this will I freely do ; for surely I have receiv
ed from thee many precious and heavenly treasures. Yea, thou hast caused
my mortal frame to tremble with holy power, and in the power of my God
310 At't'KNDIX TO THE
doth my soul live and rejoice. Should mortals rise against the truth declared
unto them in this great manifestation of the Lord Almighty, and seek to de
stroy the lives of his chosen and living witnesses, I as a witness will support
the truth of this written Word, to the laying down of my life. For I know
it to be the word of God, sent forth according to his will, as a light to lead
souls out of darkness, and cause them to seek salvation.
Then said the mighty Angel of the Lord, I now say unto you, O ye chil
dren of men, be careful and handle the word of God, which He has sent in
mercy unto you, with fear and reverence. Remember this my word unto
you. As you treat this word of God, so God will treat you. His eye will
be upon you, and heavy judgments will He cause to fall upon the soul that
dares to put forth a hand to destroy his holy word. The work of God is now
going on ; haste ye, and be ready. For He hath sent forth holy Prophets, to
prophesy and make known the things which are to come.
Before this interview with the Angel, the Prophet Daniel wrote as follows :
Great destruction shall go through the land ; cities will be destroyed, with
the inhabitants thereof. Many will be cut off in the prime of their days ;
fathers and mothers shall mourn for the untimely loss of their children, and
children shall mourn for the loss of their parents.
Yea, saith the Eternal God, I will cause mighty storms to arise, and de
stroy many from off the earth. For I am He who gave creation birth ; and in
my own time will I sweep the earth with the besom of destruction. Think not,
when earthquakes shake the earth from pole to pole, and droughts, wind and
hail, destroy rich loaded fields of vegetation, that it is a natural consequence ;
but know ye, O ye inhabitants of earth, it is the work of your God. For
many and great are your sins and transgressions; and if ye expect to find
mercy and escape the heavy judgments of God, bow low and put away your
sins, according to the word sent unto you, and you will find mercy and the
salvation of your ucver-dying souls.
Inspired Witness,
Judith W. Collins.
I, as a witness, firmly and boldly declare to the world of mankind, that
Christ hath appeared the second time without sin unto salvation ; and that I
have a part in this work, and have tasted the powers of the world to come ;
and for this I do bow low in thankfulness to my Heavenly Parents. And I
fear not what man can do, for God is able to bring to pass all things accord
ing to his own mind and will.
Hancock, Mass. April 4, 1843. Judith W. Colliss.
Born in Cambridge, county of Washington, state of New York; wu ^aM-
tred into the United Society at Hancock in September, 1820.
317
TESTIMONY OF AVERILL HASKELL.
In the summer of eighteen hundred and forty two, while in deep and heavy
tribulation, I frequently conversed with Angels and spirits. I often thought
on the trials of the Savior, who suffered even unto death, to lay the founda
tion for the redemption of fallen man ; I also thought how much Mother
Ann and her faithful companions suffered in the cause of Christ. And I
sometimes put the question to my own soul, Were some in this day, publicly
to declare what they havo both seen and heard, in gifts of vision, inspiration
and revelation, would they not be exposed to a similar fate ?
I often bowed my spirit in fervent supplication to my Heavenly Father,
that He would, in mercy to the lost children of men, cause the mighty trum
pet of his word to bo sounded through and through the earth ; and that a
preparatory work might awaken the people to a sense of their loss from God.
On the evening of the eighth of June, eighteen hundred and forty two,
while contemplating on the heavenly and divine blessings I was daily enjoy
ing, through the loving kindness of God in opening the way of salvation,
and calling me by the everlasting gospel, to be a member of the Church of
Christ, while there were millions who knew not what God was about to ac
complish on the earth ; there appeared around me a light, and I heard a
voice calling unto me, Thou chosen instrument, be ready ; have your lamp
trimmed and burning ; for the Lord is about to visit the inhabitants of the
earth.
I saw in the light, an Angel of God, and many unbodied spirits whom I
knew, clothed with brightness, having a large and beautiful box. I asked
for what purpose they had brought the box. They answered ; That you
may be a witness ; and added, that the box was sent some time previous, by
Holy Wisdom, to the Holy Anointed in the Church at New Lebanon ; and
that it had been seen in other places.
I was much pleased with the box ; and asked what it contained. They
answered ; The word and seal of the Living God, and Holy Wisdom. The
Angel then took from it a trumpet ; he also took a Book, and opened
it. It appeared like a book of considerable size, printed with ink and types.
I read on the cover as follows :
"The Three Witnesses."
"Testimonies of Christ's second appearing."
"All flesh shall see the salvation of God."
"1843."
My heart flowed with thankfulness to my Eternal Parents, that they were
about to send and make known their word and will for the salvation of the
lost children of men. I did not take the Book ; The angel said, We shall
carry it to New Lebanon, and it will be written there, by some one, through
the gift of inspiration.
With the most earnest feelings of my soul I entreated the Angel and spirits
then present, to return there, and cause the book to be seen by the anointed
instruments. Father James answering, said, It shall be seen there, and ia
318 APPENDIX TO THE
other societies of Believers. And it shall be sent abroad, even to the ends
of the earth : for it beareth the seal of the living God.
The Angel then sounded his mighty trumpet ; the sound thereof was long
and loud; and it seemed that it shook the whole earth, which appeared
shrouded in gloom, and in many places thick darkness.
And I saw people thereon, walking to and fro, mourning and weeping ;
while thousands looked towards Zion with uplifted hands, crying, Lord show
us the way. And I heard a voire from on high, saying, Fear ye your God,
and tremble at his word, all ye people; for the Lord hath descended with a
Book of his mercy and judgment, for all the lost sons and daughters of Adam.
The next day I endeavored to ascertain more fully what was meant by
showing me this Book; and I received the following answer from Father
James Whittaker.
The Book you saw, is the doctrine of the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ,
sent from God, to be revealed through his chosen instrument at New Lebanon,
for all mankind, who are yet in their sins, bound by the spirit of evil, super
stition and bigotry.
Many will believe the gospel, and will humble themselves under the migh
ty power of God. The people will quake ; the earth will be shaken from
the foundation ; and the leaves of every tree will quiver.
Inspired Witness,
AvERILL HASKELL.
I can solemnly testify, that the above is a true statement of what I heard
and saw at the aforementioned date ; and I am willing, if called upon, to
bear witness to the truth of the same before all mortals, and also before my
everlasting Judge in eternity.
I was born in the town and county of Tolland, state of Connecticut, March
eleventh, eighteen hundred and nine ; have lived in the United Society
twenty nine years.
Enfield, county of Hartford, state } Avef.ill Haskelt.
of Connecticut; April!, 1843. )
TESTIMONY OF JEFFERSON WHITE.
On the ninth day of April, eighteen hundred forty three, while in deep
tribulation, a holy Angel brought me a spiritual roll, at about eight o'clock
A. M. This Angel was accompanied by several spirits and other Angels.
The Angel who brought the roll said he was the same Angel that brought
the Book ; that is, the word of the Lord, and showed it to Averill Haskell last
June ; and stated, that on the twenty fifth of February last, at three o'clock
A.M. he showed me the same Book: which is to go to all nations, kin
dreds, tongues and people.
I recollect a Book was shown to me at that tiuic ; and the word from
the Angel to me then was, that the time would come when it would be
published to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and that the Angels
of the Lord had gone forth, to sound aloud to the nations of the earth, to
SACUKD ROLL AND BOOK. 319
prepare them to receive the word of the Lord, which in his own time would
hi- published to them.
The same holy Angel this day, testified to the truth of the Book, and so
did the Angels and spirits that were with him. The holy Angel said he
was sent here by his Heavenly Father, to have the seals atfixed to the Book,
from those who were by the Father selected in this branch of Zion, for that
purpose ; that they might be witnesses to all mankind of the truth of his
word.
The holy Angel read the contents of the roll, which was a seal of the
living Cod. I had a plain view of the words on the roll, and was satisfied
that he read as it was written. I commenced writing at about half past
eight o'clock A. M. and finished a few minutes before ten o'clock.
He read to rne as follows ;
Thus saith the All-wise Creator : I have in my wisdom purposed to
send forth to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, my word. And who
ever will hearken thereto, will be saved from the judgments which will
surely overtake those who reject this friendly call. For in mercy to the
lost children of men, do I cause this my word, which is written in a Book
and sealed with many living seals, to go to all nations ; and wise will that
soul be who accepts the offer of mercy so generously proffered.
But those who reject and rebel against the truth of Cod, which will be
made known through the Book which I will cause to be published unto them,
will have to drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which will be poured
out without mixture into the cup of his indignation.
This solemn warning I now give to all who are yet in their sins : Como
out and bo ye separate, and touch no more the unclean thing : and ye shall
be my people and I will be your God : yea, ye shall be kings and priests un
to Me, saith the Holy One of Israel, if ye will forsake your abominations,
now while the call is unto you.
Therefore, be wise and hearken to my word, which will be sounded in
your cars ; for lo, my holy Angels have gone abroad, to sound aloud the
gospel trumpet, to awaken sinners, that they may repent before it is too late.
I therefore warn all to consider well of their doings, and to read my
word which I send unto them in mercy ; for therein you will find clearly
pointed out to you, the pathway ofyour duty. You will find therein written,
that none will be owned of Me their God, except those who live up to my
requirement as it is sent forth unto them. Such souls I will own ; and it
will be the delight of Holy Mother Wisdom to own and bless all who are
true and faithful.
My word to all nations is : Forsake the evil of your doings ; come out
from your filthy abominations, and walk the lowly path laid out by the bless
ed Savior: in so doing you will find rest to your souls. But if any are so
unwise as to reject the call of God to them, and say in their hearts it is not
the word of God, it is the word of man, why should I fear it ; I will cause
that soul to know that the word I proclaim to all mankind, is not man or
woman's word, but the word of the living God.
I have seals or witnesses to my word in every part of my Zion on earth,
320 APPENDIX TO THE
who know in truth and verity, that the word I send forth to all nations in mr
name, is the truth of the living God.
Inspired Writer,
Jefferson White.
I ran say in the sincerity of my heart, that the foregoing seal is the troth
of the living God, made manifest to me. And rather than deny it I would
part with all that I hold dear on earth, not even excepting my natural life;
fearing not man, but fearing God, who knows the secret intents of the heart.
I was born in Fitzwilliam, county of Cheshire, and state of New Hamp
shire, January tenth, eighteen hundred and five. Have resided in the United
Society for thirty years past.
Enfield, county of Hartford, state ) Jefferson White.
of Connecticut; April 10, 1843. >
TESTIMONY OF MEDAD SMITH Jr.
Having had an opportunity to hear the foregoing Roll and Book, and hav
ing been blessed with a portion of the divine spirit, and received many pre
cious gins from the Father of light, in the late out-pouring of his spirit, I
feel able to add my testimony, that the said Roll and Book is what it pur
ports to be, the word of God given by divine inspiration.
Should any deem it strange that God should make a further revelation of
his will to the inhabitants of earth, let them reflect that, Jehovah has prom
ised to do his work, his strange work ; and bring to pass his act, his strange
act. In the latter day ye shall consider it.
If others would know whether this word is of God, let them prove it by
living a life answerable to its requirements. If they feel that they cannot
come up to the example set by Jesus of Nazareth, let them strictly keep the
order of nature, and be an honor to their Creator in that order : but condemn
not the word of the Lord ; for such, indeed, is the foregoing Roll and Book.
The power of evil may blind creatures, and they may be left to treat the
greatest mercies of God with scorn and contempt, trusting in a form of god
liness, but not possessing the power of an endless life ; and thus sin away
their day and fall in darkness. It is highly important that souls should
judge correctly of all things pertaining to salvation, lest they fail of securing
an inheritance in the kingdom of God. But know ye, "The word of our
God shall stand forever."
Enfield, Conn. August 15, 1843. Medad Smith Jr.
Born in Sufficld, county of Hartford and state of Connecticut, May 5,
1790 ; and has lived in the United Society in Enfield, thirty two years.
321
TESTIMONY OF PHEBE WILLCOX.
On the seventh day of April, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred
and forty three, I received the following message by a Holy Angel.
Thus saith the Lord, For many hundred years, sin and wickedness have
daily increased, until the earth groaneth beneath her burden, and calleth
aloud unto Me for deliverance. And though I have many times swept thou
sands from this earthly ball, in a moment, for their wickedness, and for a
warning to others, yet the sinner forsaketh not the paths of destruction ; but
goeth on day after day, in sin and wickedness, with a lie upon his tongue,
and blasphemy upon his lips.
O vain mortals ! do you consider there is a God who seeth in secret, as
well as openly ? and that your works of iniquity, that ye seek to hide from
mortals, are known to Me, with every thought, word and action ; and that
surely as your works have been, so shall your reward be, when you are call
ed to stand before my bar of judgment ?
O ye inhabitants of earth, fear and tremble beneath my Almighty hand ;
for lo, I will visit the earth and the dwellers thereon, with justice : the trans
gressor that will not repent, shall surely feel my sore displeasure, and the
persecutor of my people I will banish from my presence ; for no flesh can
prevail against Me.
But the soul that heeds my words of warning, and calls upon my name
when I am near, who is willing to forsake all that is of this world, and walk
the strait and narrow path of self-denial and the cross, which in my wisdom
is laid out for the restoration of all souls, I will be his God and Protector,
when in my wrath the reproacher of my word shall be smitten : I will stretch
forth my hand, and bless the righteous who regard my just requirements.
My Book of warnings I send forth in plainness ; and my unchangeable
word therein contained, standeth sure forever. In my wisdom, which no
man can comprehend, it was given ; and in my holy fear it was written.
Inspired Witness,
Phebe Wiiicoi.
I, the witness who received the above message, do here state with all bold
ness and confidence, that it is the truth of God revealed to me, by or through
a mighty Angel of the Lord.
And I furthermore say, I fear not to meet this testimony when called to
stand before the holy and eternal Judge of Heaven and earth.
And further, I feel it my duty to bear witness to the truth, which the Eter
nal Father, in his boundless mercy, has seen fit to send forth to the children
of men ; that every one may know his Master's will, and gain their relation
to their God, which was lost by transgression.
Enfield, Coan., April 7, 1843. Phebe Willcox.
Born in the, town of Foster, county of Providence,, state of Rhode Island,
January 8, 1822; and has lived in the United Society,for sixteen years past.
322
TESTIMONY OF CALVIN J. PARKER.
I was born in Lenox, Berkshire county, state of Massachusetts, April six
teenth, seventeen hundred and ninety nine ; came to live in the United So
ciety at Tyringham, in the year eighteen hundred and twenty two ; and as I
am a well wisher to mankind, and desire they may enjoy peace, happiness
and salvation, and feeling a deep interest in the offered mercies of God in
tended to secure these great blessings, I feel disposed to add my mite in
confirmation of the truth of the foregoing Roll and Book.
I am aware that falsehood and deceit have had their influence upon the
world of mankind, and that in nothing have these degrading vices been more
successfully practiced, than in what is called religion ; and that honest souls
have often been deceived by interested hypocrites. Yet truth is immaculate,
and will ultimately prevail.
Through the mercy of God, I have had a knowledge of his true work for
several years. And in the late out-poupng of his holy spirit, I have not only
heard and seen many wonderful things wrought by his divine power, but have
been a happy sharer of many precious blessings, among which is the gift
of inspiration ; whereby I have been enabled to speak and write of the lovely
things of God.
I have full confidence in the truth of the foregoing Roll and Book, fully
believing it to be the true wurd of God, written by the inspiration of his holy
gpirit. And as such, I sincerely recommend it to all who may have an op
portunity to read it, or hear it read.
I advise all to read with attention, and judge with candor. Let not preju
dice blind you, nor the love of any idol cause you to evade the convictions
of your souls; lest you become enemies to God, and find yourselves fighting
against your greatest blessings.
Tyringham, county of Berkshire, state of ) Caltin J. Parker.
Massachusetts ; August 14, 1843. J
TESTIMONY OF ELIZA L. CHAPIN.
On the evening of the first of September, eighteen hundred forty two,
while engaged in the worship of God, my eyes were opened to spiritual
discernment; and I beheld a very mighty, holy and powerful Angel, whose
brightness was like that of the sun at its meridian height, bearing in bis
right hand a Book ; having something written in his forehead, in letters
which appeared to ine iike fire ; but being in an unknown tongue, I knew
not what it was. He said nothing ; but the appearance of so holy a being
gtruck me with solemn fear and reverence.
April sixth, eighteen hundred and forty three, at the fifth hour P. M., I
heard a voice speak unto me, saying ; O thou little one, I say nnto thee,
Bow low in silent prayer to thy Holy and Eternal Father. Eat not bread
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. ;K3
and drink not water, until I, the holy Angel of the Lord, shall cause thee
to copy my word with thy mortal hand.
At the seventh hour, I heard the voice speak again and say ; Haste yo
now and write my word, or the word that 9hall be given thee.
Words of the Angel to the Inspired Writer.
1 am the holy Angel of the Lord that thou didst sec, bearing in my hand
a Book ; and in the Book was written the Roll, containing the word of the
Lord God of Heaven and earth. And this Roll has been correctly copied
by mortal hand.
Words of the Angel to the inhabitants of the earth.
O ye inhabitants of earth, ye sons and daughters of the children of men,
hearken now to the warning voice of the Lord your God ; for He hath
sounded, and still loudly soundeth his holy So vac'la ma'ca Ian in the ears of
many. His word, though strange, is heavy with his wisdom and holy pow
er ; fear ye and tremble before it. Let the sound thereof sink deep in your
hearts ; for the words of the Holy Father will forever stand, and the founda
tion laid by the two Anointed Ones will never be overthrown. Though
their faithful children should be persecuted, even unto death, for the holy
faith which they maintain, yet the stone cut out of the mountain, shall grow
and flourish, saith the Holy Angel of the Lord.
Inspired Witness,
Eliza L. Chapin.
The gifts and manifestations from those who arc in eternity, to those who
dwell on earth, and the mighty out-pourings of the spirit of the Most High
God to mortals, I have been an eye and car witness to, and a partaker of, for
the last five years; and as a witness, I am willing and thankful to be ac
counted worthy to stand forth and declare this to be the truth, yea, the plain
and simple truth. And to this do I affix my name, being willing to seal the
same with my blood if called so to do.
Tyringham, Mass., April 6, 1813. Eliza L. Chapin.
Born inNew Marlborough, county of Berkshire and state of Massachusetts,
June 12,1822 ; and was gathered to the United Society at Tyringham, in
March, 1636
TESTIMONY OF ROLLIN CRAMER.
On the twenty second of March, eighteen hundred forty three, between
the hours of eight and nine, afternoon, I saw a mighty Angel place upon the
floor of our dwelling house a large Book, which had the appearance of bright
gold, with the following words written on the outside, 'The Lord Jehovah.'
The book was not open, nor sealed ; but appeared to be fastened together
with a clasp.
The Angel bade me take it up, and he would direct me what to do with it.
I did net feel willing to receive it at that time ; but was under groat fear, so
APPENDIX TO THE
that my fietsh trembled on my bones, while I stuod in the presence of the
holy Angel.
I made known what I had seen, to one of the Leaders of the society ; and
he requested me to receive the Book, which I accordingly did on the follow
ing day : but received no information concerning it at that time, only a prom
ise, that it should be made known in due season. And a short time after, I
received information that the Book waa to be written at New Lebanon ; hut
nothing more was said about it at that time ; and I thought much upon
what I had heard concerning it.
April twenty sixth, I again saw the holy Angel with the Book open ; and
he spoke to me these words ; Thus saith the Lord, Within the lids of this
Book, shall my people place their names, when I in my wisdom shall think
proper.
May fourteenth, I was called upon to write for the holy Angel, as follows :
Bow low your spirit, O thou worm of the dust, and solemnly draft the
words I shall read unto you at this time ; for unto you am I sent to read the
word of the Lord.
I, the Lord, have purposed, and in my own time will I bring to pass my
decree. I lay my own plans ; and no mortal power is able to frustrate, or over
throw my righteous law.
I have determined to visit the nations of the earth, with my sacred and
eternal law, in this, my Holy Book ; setting before them the order of nature,
and my holy order of grace; and leaving them to choose either, and receive
according to their choice.
For thus saith the Lord, My law of nature shall no longer be trodden un
der foot, by a filthy and polluted world, in the manner it has been for so
many thousand years, and mankind go unpunished for the same.
Nay, I declare, saith the Lord of hosts, that I will visit the nations of the
earth with my judgments severe, unless they come up to this my sacred word ;
for these are my solemn and weighty truths. And I have sent my holy An
gel to testify these things to a mortal being, that he may be a witness for Me,
that the foregoing is my sacred word.
The holy Angel then spake to me saying ; will you boldly testify in the
presence of your God, and witness for Him, in behalf of the foregoing,
sirould you be brought before a gain-saying world, and you expected to have
your life taken for the same ?
Will you stand for this my sacred word, if you should see the flame of fire
kindled to receive your mortal body for so doing? And will you proclaim
this my holy word, to the nations of the earth, though you should be thrown
to the wild beasts to be devoured by them for so doing r I answered, I feel
no hesitation to testify to the truth of the foregoing, and stand as a witness
for the same to the laying down of my life.
Inspired Witness,
Grovel and, county of Livingston, itate ) Rolliu Ckahfk.
«/ JVeio York ; May 14, 1843. J
325
TESTIMONY OF ENOS LEONARD.
On the fourteenth of September, eighteen hundred forty two, at half past
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, I was suddenly stopped by a mighty Angel,
and remained insensible for a short time.
I looked up and saw the Angel standing before me, and in his hand he
held a Roll and Book, which appeared to be as large as a common sized
New Testament.
It was sealed, and the Angel opened the seals and Book, and said ; This
Book shall be laid before an instrument of mortal clay, and the instrument
shall write therefrom until all be correctly written. The Angel then sealed
the Book and disappeared.
Inspired Witness,
Groveland, N . Y. , May 14,1843. Enos Leonard.
TESTIMONY OF SETH BLANCHARD.
I was born in Petersham, county of Worcester and state of Massachusetts,
October twenty first, seventeen hundred and eighty four. In the year eight
een hundred and thirteen, I received faith in the testimony of Christ's sec
ond appearance in Mother Ann Lec; and feeling that my soul's salvation
depended upon my yielding obedience to that faith, I united myself to the
society of Believers in Harvard, and with them have traveled in the work of
purification and redemption to the present time.
Through this period, I have been a witness of many wonderful operations
of the spirit and power of God among his people, and more especially within
a few years. In this time I have seen, heard and felt that which has con
vinced me beyond the possibility of a doubt, that God our Heavenly Father,
Holy Mother Wisdom, and many of the heavenly host, have descended
from Heaven to earth, and made known their will through instruments of
mortal clay. Of the reality of this I have no more doubt than I have of my
own existence. We have found by experience, that the Lord is able to cause
his creatures to know for a certainty, the operations of his power and the re
ality of his work. And when any soul has received this certain revelation,
there is no opposite power that can destroy
it,
however foolish or inconsis
tent his faith may appear in the eyes of unbelievers.
I
rejoice that
I
have received this faith, and now testify my confidence
that the Word, which
is
now going forth to the children of men,
is
indeed
the voice of their Almighty Father. And
O
!
that they might be wise and
accept of his tender mercy
;
for verily, they with us, will be accountable to
Him, for the use they make of his Sacred Word.
And
it
is
my fervent prayer that
I
may ever honor
i>
in word and works
;
for should we, who have shared so freely in his loving kindness, deny or
326 APPENDIX TO THE
dishonor his holy word, it would he less tolerable for us in this great and
final judgment that wo are called into, than for any others; but this I will
never do, for by the grace of God his word and law shall ever be my delight
and pleasure. And now to this testimony I cheerfully subscribe my name.
Harvard, county of IVorccster, statr, > Seth Blaschaed.
of Massachusetts ; August 26, 1843. J
TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH HAMMOND.
I was born at Newton, county of Middlesex, state of Massachusetts, the
twenty third day of June, seventeen hundred eighty nine. I first visited
Believers nt Harvard, in the summer of eighteen hundred ten, and received
faith in the testimony of Christ's second appearing. I then united myself,
by an honest confession of all my sins, and took up my abode with the Soci
ety there, the first week in the following October. Thus I have spent thirty
three years of my earthly pilgrimage, in the two societies at Harvard and
Shirley.
In the course of my experience, I have seen much of the operation of the
spirit and power of God upon others, and have felt the same myself, both
in outward operations, and in my spirit.
For several years past, God has been carrying on a mighty work in the
societies of our communion, by the operations of his spirit, in various ways,
and by means of his own choosing ; but more especially through the heav
enly gift of inspiration, both in speaking and writing.
And I feel it a great privilege to bear witness, that it is the work of God,
carried on by his Holy Power, in Divine Wisdom, to cleanse his people
thoroughly, and to lay a deep and broad foundation for the future increase of
the work of salvation and redemption for a lost world.
In a particular manner, I feel to testify to all souls, that this work is the
work of judgment, the Second Advent of the holy and redeeming spirit of
Christ, without sin unto salvation; and that the preceding Holy Roll and
Book, is tho word of God to the[nations of the earth ; yea, the voice of the
trump of the Mighty Archangel, calling souls to come forth from their
graves of sin and pollution, where they lie buried ; that they may bring forth
fruit unto God, such as is mete for those who profess to be branches of the
True Vine.
This is my testimony, and this I am willing to seal, in any way that my
Heavenly Father may require of me.
Shirley, Middlesex county, stair,
of ) Joseph Hammond.
Massachusetts, August 29, 1843. )
TESTIMONY OF LUCY CLARK.
The town of Harvard, county of Worcester and state of Massachusetts,
was the place of my nativity. I was born October first, eighteen hundred
SACRED ROL.I AND BOOK. 1327
and three; and was gathered into the United Society in said Harvard, in the
year eighteen hundred and thirteen.
On the second day of July, eighteen hundred and forty three, I heard the
cry of the Holy Angel, whose name is Solemn Warning, as follows:
To the inhabitants that dwell on the face of the whole earth, am J sent.
Come hearken, ye nations of the earth ; attend and listen well to my sol
emn warnings, which I shall soon begin to cry throughout the land, when
the word of the Lord shall be published to the nations of the earth. And
woe to that soul that shall treat with indifference, the words which are con
tained in this sacred volume ! For as you treat this, so will you be treated;
for God will not be mocked by mortal man.
From the holy throne of God do I sound my word, and I will sound
it,
till
many of the inhabitants of earth will hear and believe. For thus saith the
Holy and Just One, Go thou, my Angel of Solemn Warning, and sound your
trumpet
;
yea, sound through your trumpet, that the inhabitants of earth may
hear and understand.
And
I
the holy Angel, say unto you, Touch not this Book for sport or for
speculation, nor with any such intention in your hearts
;
for know ye for
a
certainty, that
it
is
the word of the Lord God of hosts, which He has conde
scended to reveal on earth, for
a
way-mark for his creature man.
And those that do speculate upon and make derision of the same, will
I
meet, saith the Lord, in judgment and not in mercy
:
for my long forbear
ance
is
at an end, and
I
will visit the earth with sore destruction
;
and woe
to the sons of men, if they repent not, nor turn to Me their God.
And thus saith He who rnleth all things;
I
have purposed to send forth
my word to the inhabitants of earth, that they may have time to repent and
mend their lives
;
and in so doing, to stay the heavy judgments which
Ihave
intended to bring upon the wicked for their transgressions, till they have had
space for repentance.
And now say
I,
the holy Angel, repent and turn from your transgressions,
before the heavy judgments of God roll in upon you. Depend ye, that He
surely
is
in earnest, and nothing can stay his hand, save true repentance and
forsaking all sin. His word will not linger by the way, but
it
will go forth
into execution
;
and mightily and heavily will his judgments fall on the will
ful and disobedient, who repent not at the warning which
is
sent forth.
And again
I
say, Meddle not with this Sacred Word, only in solemn fear
and reverence
;
lest ye be found fighting against God, and be smitten with
a
curse.
Say not within yourselves, that
it
is
the work of man and not of God, and
that
it
concerns you not. For to God you must render up your account
;
and
happy will
it
bo for every one that striveth not against his will, although re
vealed through mortal beings.
I
warn you not to judge this revelation of
God; if you cannot understand all that
is
contained in this Book, judge
it
not
;
for you are not able to judge the work of God in righteousness.
But -strive to practice what you can understand, and light will break into
328 APPENDIX TO THE
your souls, and ye will not be left in darkness ; for God is a God of light,
charity and forgiveness ; and if soul* heed the warnings that arc sent unto
them, and mend their ways, then will the Lord show merry unto them, and
they will be blessed according to their works.
Inspired Writer and Witness,
Harvard, Mass., August 29, 1813. Lucy Clakk.
TESTIMONY OF LUCY MYRICK.
On the thirtieth day of April, eighteen hundred forty three, after hearing
the Sacred Roll, I felt the spirit of God upon ine, and I saw the holy Angels
inarching around the house. The glory of God surrounded them, and they
inarched in it; which made them appear very beautiful.
At one time they all stopped their march, faced the cast, and appeared to
sound their trumpets, but I did not hear the sound. Next I looked around
in the sanctuary where I was then sitting, and the glory of God seemed to
till the house.
I saw the spirit of the Holy Savior standing in the central part of the
room; he motioned his hands and arms as though he was speaking, but I
could not understand what he spake. And I felt that I was in the presence
of many of the heavenly host.
Soon after this, I felt inspired by the Holy Angel of God, to speak his word.
I felt the power of God run all over me, which caused me to feel that fear
of God, that I dare not strive against his spirit through his holy Angel,
whose word was as follows.
I am the holy Angel of God, and He hath sent me to this place to bear
witness to all who now stand in my presence, that this Holy Roll and Book
is the word of the Lord sent forth by his holy power, and directed by his
spirit through his Holy Angel.
O ye inhabitants of Zion, believe
it,
for
I
say unto you
it
is
the word of
the Lord sent forth by his mighty hand.
O
ye children of Zion, who have
the light of God in your souls, beware and be careful how ye treat his word
;
Walk in his holy fear, and bow your spirits in deep humility before Him.
He has not called you into his Zion for nought
;
but you are called by his
Almighty power, that ye may be shining lights to
a
lost world
;
for He hath
said that He would have
a
pure people,
a
people that would honor his
name. And He will scourge and try his chosen, and prove them.
You must foci the scourging rod
;
but
I
warn you to stand firm, to bow
your souls in humility, and walk in his holy fear
;
and his holy hand, and
out-stretched arm will protect his chosen.
Be ye prepared, O beloved children, be ye prepared to go at his bidding,
and do his holy work
;
for God will call you into
a
work which ye know
not of. So
I
say again, be ye ready like wise virgins, with your lamps trim
med and burning, to sound forth his holy word, whenever you may be call
ed
;
for He will call you to sound forth his living truth
;
and stand ye firm,
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 329
for this holy way ami work, in the most soul-trying hour, and fear none but
God, though the enemies of truth surround you ; for the Lord will protect
the upright, if they bow in humility of soul before Him.
0 come down, come down and sit in the dust before God, and his bless
ing shall rest upon you.
Inspired Witness,
Lucy Mvrick.
1 feel thankful to God for the privilege of writing that which He has giv
en me as a witness to his holy word which f have attentively listened to for
two days past ; yet I feel very unworthy to be so noticed by my Heavenly
Father.
I feel that I am a poor frail worm of the dust, and without God's holy
power I can do nothing aright. I ever can and will, when called upon, tes
tify that I know, by the spirit and power of God which I have felt, that this
Holy Roll and Book is the word of the Lord ; and I would rather give up
my own natural life in any way , than ever contradict what I have herein
stated.
I know this work was never framed by mortal power ; and I will ever
stand for the cause of God and his holy word, wherever it may be revealed.
Harvard, Mass., April 30, 18+3. Lucv Mvrick.
Born December 28, 1817 ; in Eastham, county of Barnstable, state of Mas
sachusetts ; was gathered into the United Society when ten years of ape.
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM LEONARD.
I was born in the City and Province of Saint Johns, New Brunswick, on
the fourteenth of September, eighteen hundred three. I came into the United
States, and entered the gospel of Christ's second appearing at the age of
twenty five years. I have been for fifteen years a member of that branch of
the Church located in Harvard. And having experienced, with others, much
of the heart-searching power, and many purifying operations of the spirit
of God, I consider it a duty I owe to mankind, and a great privilege to be
enabled to say, that his spirit has qualified me to give my plain testimony,
without doubt or hesitation, to go with the present word of God that is
now sent forth as a voice of solemn warning to the nations of the earth.
In the Scriptures, God's work is compared to a light, that shines bright
er and brighter until the perfect day ; und this the Believers in Christ's Sec
ond Appearing have proved, in all God's dealings with them ; especially in
the many cleansing operations that his Holy Spirit has enabled them to pass
through. God has certainly established an order among his people, unto
which He is calling the children of men, to prepare all who will be honest
and faithful, to stand as agents of his mercy and judgment to a lost world.
And this is strikingly manifest, in the present solemn and soul-searching
work among his people.
P*
APPENDIX TO THE
The purified inhabitants of the spiritual world, hnve for scveral years past
been hastening thn purification of the Church, that they might stand as a
pattern of justice and righteousness to others, when the time should arrive
that his holy word should £ti forth to the nations, God the Father, and Holy
Mother Wisdom, Christ our Holy Savior and all our Heavenly Parents, w ith
many holy Angels and purified spirits, have chosen instruments from among
the people, through whom they have made known God's requirements upon
the Church.
These instruments have been inspired at different scasons, to deliver his
word, which has revived his laws, increased the work of self-denial, and
clothed the Church with the fear of God, to that degree, that even the most
faithful and upright have been made to tremble under the inspection of the
All-seeing efc of the God that rules both the Heavens and the earth ; and
so great has been the out-pouring of his spirit and power, that none who
have been inspired with holy faith, can doubt the day has arrived, that
Christ's holy spirit and God's holy word is revealed from Heaven, by fire,
among the subjects of the great work of judgment.
During the progress of this solemn work in all its stages, I have heard
many, when in heavenly vision, or under the power of inspiration, declare
in tho spirit of prophecy, that God's word was about to go forth to the na
tions. And as I, with others of my cross-hearing companions, have been
selected by the spirit of the Almighty, to deliver, by divine inspiration, many
communications to the Church ; these holy labors and exercises have endow
ed me with confidence to know the spirit, and realize to a certainty, tho
divine authority that dictated this solemn word of God.
I have at times, when called to deliver communications of the same divine
character to the Church, experienced the same kind of suffering and tribula
tion, to prepare me for this holy calling, and have been baptized with the
same divine influence, that was felt by the instrument who was chosen by
the Angel to write this sacred and holy message to the children of men.
I have been inspired with the same holy power to write for the spirits,
have felt a measure of the same distress and tribulation betw een parts of
certain important messages ; have been often raised from this state in a mo
ment, again feeling that same holy fire kindled in my soul by attending spir
its and Angels, when permitted to proceed, until each message was com
pleted.
The Believers were hastening forward, anxiously looking for the fulfill
ment of God's promises, when tidings spread through the different branches
of the Church in a regular line of order, that in the present Message, borne
by the Angel, God's word was to go to the four quarters of the earth in its
present form.
With my brethren and sisters I have listened attentively to the same ;
I have marked its form and language, I have viewed the mercy and judg
ment contained in its promises, and have felt the gift and heart-searching
power that accompanies it. I was sensible of the presence of the Angel
when it was first read in my hearing; and from all I have heard, seen,
felt, delivered and experienced, I know, by divine revelation, that this is
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 331
tJod's holy word ; that it was given by divine authority; that it is a mes
sage of great mercy or heavy judgment to the inhabitants of time ; and that
the Almighty is about to deal with the children of men as He has been
dealing with his people, in calling them to judgment for the deeds done in
the body. And should I be called to bear persecution and sufferings, or even
to lay down my life in defence of this, God's holy word, I shall do it freely ;
for the gospel is dearer to me than life, and whatever I may be called to
sacrifice, I will support it faithfully through time.
Although we are the subjects of God's great work, and have received, in
the present generation, the first loud call to his solemn bar of judgment, yet
we feel ourselves unworthy of the great notice we have received. We feel
greatly humbled before God as poor needy mortals, and are sensible that all
we have gained of purity and holiness in the gospel, has been freely given
us of God, for what we have sacrificed to keep his holy luws.
With a spirit of earnest prayer to God, that this his holy word may be rev
erenced, that it may be a message of glad tidings to millions, and that all
who read may understand, and bow to God in mercy, I close my testimony.
Harvard, Mass., August 2G, 1813. William Leonard.
TESTIMONY OF JONAS NUTTING.
As 1 am one that was called in my childhood, into the fold of Christ, and
have long been a member of the United Society, and have witnessed the in
creasing work of God among his chosen people on earth, for more th an
thirty years, and having experienced the same in my soul, I feel it my duty
and privilege to bear witness to the same, as far as I have ability so to do.
I was born on the seventh of April, eighteen hundred and two; in the
town of Westford, Middlesex county, Massachusetts. In the year eighteen
hundred and ten, I was placed in the Society of which I am now a member;
in the town of Shirley, state and county above named, where I have remain
ed to the present time.
In the days of my childhood and youth, I was watched over with tender
ness and care, and taught the path of innocence and virtue. The good in
structions I received in my young days were of great utility to me, when I
had arrived to riper years, and had become of suitable age to make my own
choice in life.
It was then I began to reflect upon what course of life I should hereafter
pursue ; and like all the rest of my fellow beings, I was looking for that path
which would yield me the most happiness.
On the one hand, I beheld the flowery path of nature spread out before
me, with all its alluring charms. I looked around me, and beheld the great
est portion of mankind, both professor and profane, pursuing this downward
path, which my reason and conscience taught me, led to inevitable ruin and
destruction On the other hand, I could view the little straight and narrow
332 APPENDIX TO THE
path which my Holy Savior trod, and which he said would lead to everlast
ing life.
So plain and so pointedly were these two paths laid open before me, that
I was convinced, beyond a doubt, that I must sacrifice one for the other ; and
when I seriously contemplated this, my better reason prevailed, and I chose
the path of self-denial and a daily cross ; that path which has ever yielded
me solid peace and happiness, in obedience to my most holy faith. Ever
since I became firmly grounded in iny present principles, I have had no
cause to doubt the work of God.
I have seen the workings of his most holy power among this people, and
have felt the same in a marvelous manner ; especially in this late manifesta
tion of his mercy to his chosen people for several years past. Yea, verily,
I do know, beyond a doubt, that God opened the windows of Heaven, that
He might reveal Himself as He did to his chosen people Israel, in ancient
days.
And this has He done, by means of his own choosing, and in a way that
is calculated to bring down the haughtiness of man. And I do know, be
yond a doubt, that this work which God has begun in his Zion, is the little
stone spoken of by the Prophet in ancient days, which was cut out of the
mountain without hands; and which will yet grow and fill the whole earth,
as the Holy Angel has proclaimed in the foregoing Sacred Roll and Book.
I have an incontestible evidence in my own soul, that the latter day of glo
ry has been ushered in, and that Christ has made and will make, his second
appearance without sin unto salvation, to as many as have looked or shall
look for him, with full purpose of heart to obey his will.
I. am fully confident that God has begun and will carry on his work until
every knee shall bow and every tongue confess, either in mercy or in judg
ment, that it is the work of God, and not the invention of man ; yea, I can
testify, that this sacred word of the Holy and Proclaiming Angel, contains
solemn truths, of everlasting importance to every soul ; and let him that
readeth, understand and be wise.
As one that has, by the goodness and mercy of God, been called to forsake
all the alluring charms of this world, which are but passing bubbles, com
pared to the durable riches, and having full confidence in the promises of
God, as contained in the foregoing solemn Roll, and as a witness of the same,
I here subscribe my name
Shirley, Mast., August 28, 1843. Jonas Nottiho.
TESTIMONY OF DANIEL MYRICK.
I was born September fourteenth, eighteen hundred fourteen, in East-
ham, Barnstable county, state of Massachusetts ; and was gathered into the
United Society at Harvard, in the year eighteen hundred twenty seven.
The late remarkable manifestation among this people, I have known from
its commencement. Its operation has been increasing mortification and
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK.
humiliation to all carnal aspiring feelings of vain man ; rendering Its sub
jects more simple and devoted, and more willing to yield to the requirements
of God.
From its purifying effects and supernatural energy, I freely and unhesita
tingly declare it to be the work of a righteous and Holy God with his creat
ures, and his manifestation of love and mercy to the Zion of his likeness
and his peculiar care; establishing her in order, clothing her in beauty, and
making her the exemplification of all his requirements upon his lost creature
man.
I have seen, known and experienced, its humiliating operation on those
employed as agents or instruments in this weighty and solemn work ; and
many times have I seen them weighed down in sorrow and tribulation, by
the solemnity and importance of the labor they were called to perform ; then
rise in the sublime energy of the power which inspired them, and unburden
their souls of the solemn charge.
This is the nature and operation of that work which has brought forth that
Sacred Word which is now to go forth to the inhabitants of earth, which
does of itself carry intrinsic proof of its divine origin.
Having been familiar with the miraculous events of this sublime manifes
tation, from its very commencement to the present time, and having in some
measure, felt the same divine energy upon my soul and body, which moved
the mortal hand to write this Roll and Book, I do readily and cheerfully de
clare it to be the word of God to the nations of the earth.
Concerning the manifestation of the Mother Spirit, contained in this
Roll, I would point all who never felt her mild, gentle and tender, yet strong
influence, to the uniform testimony of all animate creation, and invite them
to look "Through nature up to nature's God," and sec if they can find any
"image or likeness" of the unnatural and absurd, yet popular and prevailing
notion of divinity. According to this divinity, I would ask, Where is the
prototype of woman's existence ? Where is her corresponding cause? The
commonly received divinity would indeed make her existence as anomalous
as the fabulous production of God, in the Heathen Mythology
But in thanksgiving and praise to my Eternal Parents, for light and truth,
I must' close this my testimony, and commend this Sacred Roll into the hands
of the conscientious and upright, that they may ponder well, consider and
be wise.
Harvard, Mass. , August 26, 1843. Daniel Mvricx.
TESTIMONY OF MINERVA L. HILL.
While assembled with my brethren and sisters in the holy sanctuary for
devotion, on the twenty ninth of April, eighteen hundred and forty three, I
saw a large company of Angels. The eyes of one were like flames of fire.
They would sometimes spread their wings, which would fill the whole house
334 ArrENDIX TO THE
with the glory of Goil. I also saw the Savior and Mother Ann, having
burning candles in their right hands.
The Savior turned to me saying : These are the candles of the true and
living God, the Father of all. With these candles we have searched Zion,
and with them we will search all mankind. Yea, every one shall feel our
searching power; for this the Lord hath spoken, and no man can alter it.
Little one, you have many times heard me say, that when my Heavenly
Father should speak, the inhabitants of the earth should know it; and soon,
very soon, He will speak, and all shall know it. The Roll of Eternal Truth
is the beginning of his word ; but his voice will continue to roll through the
land, till the sons of men shall learn righteousness.
In the summer of eighteen hundred and thirty nine, I saw the Savior with
t
a gold trumpet in his hand; and through it he repeated these words : When
(iod my Heavenly Father shall speak, the inhabitants of the earth shall
know it. And from that time, up to October seventh, one thousand eight
hundred and forty two, did I many times hear him repeat the same. This
was the last time, and yet 1 was left without knowing the meaning thereof.
But now he has told me, and I know the meaning of his words.
Said he, Have not I told you many times, that the work of God would in
crease, and many should hear this gospel ? Have I not told you that every
promise of God and his holy Angels should be fulfilled ? And have not many
of them been fulfilled, already, in your sight? I answered, Yea, my heav
enly Father, you have often told mo these things; and many of them I have
seen fulfilled.
He then said, The rest of the prophecies which you have heard from time
to time, shall surely come to pass in God's own time ; for this He has spok
en, and no man can alter it.
He still continued to question me, saying : Are you willing at all times
and in all places, to testify that this work is of God, and not of man ? And
can you promise to support the work of the Lord which you have heard,
both now and forever, at all times and in all places ? If you can, you may
here place your name.
I answered, I will never deny this great work of God, and will there
fore place my name as a witness to it ; for I know it to be of God, and not of
man. I can say from my heart, that I love it ; for I know it will wholly de
stroy an evil nature. I will promise before God and his holy Angels, that I
never will deny this work of inspiration ; but will confess it before all
mankind. I know I have seen my Holy Savior, Mother Ann and many of
the holy Angels ; and often felt that power of God, which I could not resist.
I am determined to be faithful and endure to the end; through dark and
trying hours, through floods of tribulation, and through persecution. Yea,
I will put my trust in God, for I know it is by his power and tbat alone, by
which I can be supported.
Harvard, Mass. , April 29, 1843. Minerva L. Hill.
Born December 5, A. D. 1H12; in Cumberlund, county of Providence, state
of Rhode Island; came to the United Society in Harvard, in 1820.
335
TESTIMONY OF JOANNA RANDALL.
As I have been an instrument in the present work and manifestation from
Heaven to earth, I can boldly testify before all men, that what has now
been revealed from the throne of the Almighty Creator to the inhabitants of
earth, are his solemn and sacred warnings, revealed through an instrument
of mortal clay, to be sent forth to a lost world.
And 1 hereby testify, by what I have received heretofore, from the invisi
ble spirits in eternity, that what is contained in this Sacred Book, did, in
truth and in reality, proceed from the source and fountain of all good, and
is that by which all souls will be judged at the bar of justice. And as a liv
ing witness of the same, I here subscribe my name.
Shirley, Mass., April 27, 1H43. Joanna Randall.
Born January 22, 1819; in Nashua, Hillsborough county, state of JVeio
Hampshire.
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM WETHERBEE.
Late in the evening, April twenty sixth, eighteen hundred and forty three,
I retired to my room, for the purpose of writing a roll which was this day
received from a holy and mighty Angel of God ; and after laboring a while
in solemn fear and prayer to God, for a portion of his divine spirit to rest
upon me, I sensibly felt the presence of a mighty Angel of God by my side.
He reached forth his hand and took the roll, saying, Bow your spirit low
O thou mortal child, and in solemn reverence, write the sacred words con
tained in this roll, as I read them unto you. He then opened the roll and
read as follows :
Hearken, O ye children who dwell in this little branch of my Zion, saith
the Lord your God ; for I have words of solemn truth to speak unto you. I
am that God whose words of eternal truth have just been sounded forth unto
you : and which, according to my will, are soon to be sent forth unto a
lost world.
And with my own voice do I call upon every branch of my Zion upon
earth, to awake in spirit, and to witness and support my holy work, which
in this day is swiftly going on. For the time has come that my tender mer
cies and my scourging judgments are to be carried to and fro through the
earth, and dealt out to the inhabitants therein, according to their just merits.
And, O ye little ones in Zion, listen now to my solemn warnings unto
you. Walk in low humiliation, that my scourging hand may not rest heavi
ly upon you. Cleave to the Anointed Lead in Zion, and follow their exam
ple ; for they arc in truth my faithful servants, and the objects of my delight
and pleasure; and upon them shall my blessing bo poured with a liberal hand.
And unto you, my little ones, will I give a portion of the same blessings,
if in faithfulness and perseverance you will walk the path of tribulation,
self-denial and the cross of Christ, which they have walked before you.
336 APPENDIX TO THE
But know ye my dear children, that if heavy tribulation and deep suffer
ings come upon them, 1 shall require you to realize a portion of the same ;
for ye are all children of one parentage, and ye must all sympathize togeth
er in sorrow and tribulation, as well as in joy and comfort.
Prepare, O prepare ye my people, for the days of tribulation which are
near at hand. But fear not ; for in obedience to my will and my word, ye
shall bo supported and able to boar whatever mav fall to vour lot. I am over
nigh to tin? meek and lowly soul, and I will never forsake nor turn away
from those who will bow their spirits before Me, acknowledge my holy work
and support the same, whether the number be few or many.
Therefore, awake and arise, O Zion, that thou mayest be prepared for thy
light to shine forth into a lost world.
Now, saith the holy and mighty Angel of God, Listen yet longer, O ye
children of Zion, and hearken ye nations of the earth; and know that I am
commissioned and sent forth by the God of Heaven, to guard the Sacred Book
containing his word and will, and to see how it is received, and what use is
made of
it,
wherever
it
goes. And
I
shall notice and regard every soul, ac
cording as they regard this sacred and holy work.
Inspired Witness,
William H. Wetherbee.
I
do, saith the mortal writer of this short roll, with gratitude and true
thankfulness, declare my full faith and unshaken confidence in the present
manifestation and work of God, which
is
now going forth through his Zion
on earth, and which will soon go forth among the nations abroad.
And having a privilege to be
a
witness in this glorious work, though un
worthy as
I
am,
I
am willing, and can thankfully and boldly testify and de
clare before all mankind, that
I
do know in my own soul, that
it
is
the way
and work of the living God into which
I
am called
;
and that
it
will be
carried on by his Almighty power, until in his own time, his designs are ful
ly
accomplished. And
I
do also know, that the Sacred Roll and Book came
forth from the eternal source of all good.
I
feel truly thankful for the tender mercies of God that have been extend
ed to me
;
and
it
is
my sincere determination to go through to the end, and
do all in my power, to honor, support and build up the gospel of my blessed
Savior. And though persecution, deep tribulation and heavy sorrows roll on,
yet
I
will never disown or dishonor my blessed Mother's name, nor her pure
and holy gospel.
To this testimony, do
I
now with firmness affix my name; and will ever
stand ready to meet the same.
Shirley, Mass., April 27, 1843. William H. Wetberbei.
Born January sixteenth, eighteen hundred and sixteen; in the town of Lan
caster, county
of
Worcester and state
of
Massachusetts.
3IJ7
TESTIMONY OF ANNIS C. GODFREY.
As God, in his mercy and condescension, has seen fit to notice me with
his gifts from on high, I feel it my indispensable duty to bear witness to the
work of the spirit, which is made manifest unto me.
On the morning of the twenty sixth of April, eighteen hundred forty three,
I saw a mighty Angel with a shining roll in his hand. He was terrible, and
out of his mouth proceeded flames of fire. And he spake unto me, saying:
0 thou little one, bow your spirit low and hearken to my words; for I am
a mighty Angel, sent forth from the eternal throne. And the fire which
proceedeth from my mouth, is the fire of the Lord, which will go forth to
destroy the wicked inhabitants of the earth who set at nought the word of God.
At the sight and voice of this mighty Angel, my spirit was brought into
great tribulation. The Angel said unto me, Fear not; but walk softly be
fore thy God, and protection thou shalt find. For wherever I can find a
people, however few they are in number, who walk in humility's vale, they
shall not feel the wrath of God.
Much I shall not say unto you ; for in this roll arc contained the words
of the Almighty One, and of me the holy Angel, which are to be passed forth
unto the children of Zion.
The Angel then gave me the roll, with a request that it should be placed
in the hands of the Anointed.
In the afternoon, the Angel again came unto me and said : Little one, go
thou and write the things which have been made known unto thee, respect
ing me. And I said, O thou mighty Angel, I am incapable of adding any
thing to the much which has already been given. But he answered, saying :
0 thou little one, remember the words of the Savior to the poor woman who
cast in her mite; for I say unto you it will be accepted of your God. De
clare also, that at the eighth hour of this night, I will attend upon the writ
ing of this roll, which I have placed in your hands.
And upon the instrument who shall be chosen to write
it,
will
I
bestow
my mighty power. But you,
I
have called as
a
witness, that these things
might be confirmed in the eyes of all.
Inspired Witness,
Annis C. Godfrey.
Thus have
I
written that which the Angel hath commanded me
;
and
I
can boldly, and with confidence, bear witness to the work of God which
is
now going on in Zion, and which He hath declared will soon spread abroad
in the earth.
1
have for some length of time been an instrument in this glorious mani
festation, and been called to sound forth the word of my ever blessed Pa
rents in Heaven, unto mortals on earth. But unto God
is
the glory due; for
1
am but as clay in the hands of the potter
;
and
it
shall be my labor through
time, to walk worthy of my holy calling, that
I
may stand as
a
shining
light in the house of my ever blessed Mother.
Shirley, Mass., April 27, 1843. Annis C. Godfrey.
Born in Waterbury, county
of
Washington and state
of
Vermont; April 14,
1810.
Q*
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM WILLARD.
I wasborn in Providence, Rhode Island, December 2, A.D. 1809. At the
age of eighteen years, I was by the goodness of God gathered into the fold
of Zion, and made partaker of that gospel which saves the soul from sin and
condemnation; and have, by yielding obedience to its requirements, gained
that love and union to the people of God, and to his pure way, which feels
more sacred, and stronger to me than any other union which mortals can pos
sess : it is that bond of union which the transitory scenes of time and the
pleasures of this world cannot yield to the soul, or take from those who
have gained it by obedience to the cross of Christ.
Having a sure witness within me, truly and with confidence can I assert,
that Christ has made his second appearing on earth, as recorded in the Sacred
Roll and Book about to go forth to the nations of the earth ; and to the truth
and divine origin of the sacred words therein contained, I can say in truth
and in sincerity of heart, and in the solemn fear of God, that I do believe
they emanated from the source of divine light, manifested and revealed to,
and through his chosen vessels; who have purified their hearts, made their
garments white, suffered deep tribulation, and thereby become fit subjects
for the holy spirit to rest upon.
Although not having received divine revelation from the spiritual world
myself, I have seen, heard and felt that among the subjects of the present
work of God, which brought abundant evidence with
it,
that
it
could pro
ceed from no other source than from the eternal fountain of all good
;
and
I
should with equal propriety, dispute or doubt the existence of a God, as to
dispute or doubt the revelation of God's will through chosen earthen vessels;
And
I
firmly believe, having the strongest evidence within myself, that the
spirit of the Lord
is,
through this medium, preparing the children of the
new creation on earth, to receive his sacred word and will, to communicate
to all nations who know
it
not
;
that all may be left without an excuse that
•'They know not Christ or of his second coming without sin unto salvation."
In addition to my duty,
I
feel thankful for the privilege of giving my tes
timony in favor of the way of God, that through the influence of divine
wisdom
I
was enabled to find the door of mercy, the path of peace, and the
only road to solid happiness
;
that
I
chose the nan-ow way, instead of the
broad road to destruction, in my youth; that
I
have the privilege of devot
ing the best of my life, my time and talents to the honor of the gospel, and
for the up-building of the kingdom of Christ
;
to lay up a treasure for my
own soul, where moth and rust cannot corrupt; and
it
is
my firm and fixed
determination ever to remain faithful in this work, even to the sacrifising of
all worldly pleasures and enjoyments.
In confirmation to the above testimony,
I
hereunto subscribe my name,
this twenty second day of August, A. D. eighteen hundred and forty three.
Canterbury, Merrimac county,
i
William Willabd.
ttate
of
A'ew Hampshire.
j
339
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM TRIPURE.
I was born in the town of Elliot, county of York and state of Maine ; from
whence I was brought to this place in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and twenty three, being then in the thirteenth year of my
age; and having been a constant witness of the work of God among his peo
ple for several years past, I feel it a solemn duty to Him and to my fellow
creatures, to give my testimony in favor of this sin-destroying, soul-redeem
ing work which has been sent forth upon earth, through the infinite mercy
of Him who knoweth the hearts of the children of men, and is willing that
all should come to the knowledge of the truth and be saved ; for I know by
the inspiration of his Holy Spirit upon my own soul, that this is the final
day of his grace to the lost and wandering children of men, and will prove
a savor of life or of death to every one.
And this sacred work that is now sent forth to the nations of the earth, is
not the production of an excited imagination, or of the efforts of human ge
nius ; but through the deepest mortification and intense suffering of soul it
has been written by the inspiration of the spirit of God, in his most solemn
fear. And the sacred truths therein contained, require the serious consider
ation of every rational being ; for whatever may be the opinions of mortals
now, it alters not the purpose of God ; for that time is approaching when
every soul, either in mercy or in judgment, will have to acknowledge the di
vine origin of its sacred truths.
I have received that evidence of this lato manifestation of the work and
will of God, that no power on earth can shake ; for 1 know I have seen my
Holy Savior, and have often felt his spirit as plainly as though he still inhab
ited the earthly tabernacle of Jesus of Nazareth, and I had been in its
presence.
And often have I felt the spirit of my blessed Mother Ann and tho rest of
my Heavenly Parents to whom I feel my soul deeply indebted, as the instru
ments of God, by whom, through deep tribulation and suffering, this blessed
gospel of Christ's second appearance has been established on earth, for the re
demption of all souls who are willing to comply with its sacred requirements.
Therefore, whether I am called to meet joy or tribulation on earth, still I
never can deny this undoubted faith which has been planted in my soul, by
a power above the power of man.
But the aspirations of thankfulness from my soul, continually ascend to
my God, through those beloved instruments whom He has chosen to revive
this blessed gospel of salvation to a lost world, that I was called to forsake
the allurements of nature in my youth, and bear the cross of my blessed
Savior, by which I feel the protection and blessing of my Heavenly Father
continually flowing through my soul, even as a stream that failuth not,
and as a fountain that is never dry.
This Holy and Sacred Roll, which is here sent forth to the nations, has
been attended throughout by those convincing proofs of its divine origin,
that no reasonable, unprejudiced mind could deny ; and whether it be re
ceived as the word of warning and mercy of God, or the fruits of a religious
»40 APPENDIX TO THE
frenzy, it never will alter the nature of the work, or change the require
ments of God upon the souls of the children of men ; for He hath purposed
a work of reformation throughout the earth, and He will effect it.
Therefore, I rejoice continually before Him, that the arm of his mercy
has been extended to my needy soul, and the light of his grace has beamed
forth to my heart ; teaching, that to deny all ungodliness, and to walk in hu
mility before Him, is the path of true peace and perfect safety, where the
soul can feel that presence of heavenly spirits and the enlivening rays of
holy love, unknown to those who seek for indulgence on the barren wilds of
nature.
Canterbury, N. H., July 2, 1843. William Tripl re.
TESTIMONY OF JAMES M. OTIS.
I was born in Portsmouth, county of Rockingham, state of New Hamp
shire; on the seventeenth day of the ninth month, eighteen hundred and
seventeen ; and was gathered into the United Society at Canterbury, A. D.
eighteen hundred and thirty one ; since which time, it has been my labor to
know the will of my God, and to do it ;
And feeling it a duty which I owe to Him as well as to my fellow men, to
bear witness to his work, and the great display of his marvelous power
among his people, I cheerfully comply therewith.
Feeling a witness within my own breast, that I have received the true
light and power of God which has been manifested in this latter day, I can
boldly and fearlessly declare before all men, that this great and glorious dis
play of power which has been in his true Church, is the work of an
Almighty hand, that Over-ruling Power which causes Heaven and earth to
move at its bidding, and sctteth the wisdom of mortal man at defiance.
Know ye, all ye people who read the solemn warnings and divine instruc
tions given in the sacred pages of the Roll and Book now sent forth to the
nations of the earth, that it is the word of God given in mercy to the chil
dren of a lost world ; and is now made manifest to them through a gift of in
spiration, by the same Power which gave unto Moses, upon Mount Sinai's
top, the commandments for the children of Israel.
Therefore read all ye people, and understand, lest the notice of your God
pass, and ye be not benefited by the call ; for the Lord of mercy and char
ity is calling loudly through the last trumpet, with a solemn blast ; and hath
sent his Angels forth unto all nations, tongues and people, that they may
hear his word, repent, and escape his heavy wrath which is kindled against
them, because of the abominations and corruptions which have been com
mitted on the earth, and have arisen as mountains before Him.
Knowing that I have been blessed with heavenly gifts from the worlds of
love, administered unto me by holy Angels and happy spirits, I hesitate not
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 341
in declaring before all men the truth of God, which is, that the Sacred Roll
and Book, containing the instructions and admonitions of Heaven, (unto
which are added these testimonies of living witnesses,) is sent forth by the
Almighty Power of Jehovah, unto whom every knee shall bow and every
tongue confess.
I would not that any should think I speak at random, or with a spirit of
enthusiasm or wild zeal; but plainly that which I know, as was fully de
clared by our Savior; If ye keep my commandments, then shall ye know of
the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself.
This knowledge I have obtained, by obeying the commands and following
the example of the Savior, (the pattern of the children of the new creation,)
by walking even as he walked, according to the best of my understanding,
forsaking that which led my soul astray from my God, and denying myself
of all ungodliness ; living soberly, righteously and godly, walking not after
the flesh but after the spirit.
Hence, by daily bearing the cross of Christ, I am able to bind that lawless
and corrupt passion which rules and reigns in the hearts of mankind, and
live a life acceptable to my God.
There is but one path in which souls can walk to the acceptance of God :
the same is the strait and narrow path, into which few as yet have sought
an entrance.
I know within my own soul, even beyond the shadow of a doubt, that I
have entered by the door of self-denial and the cross, into the narrow path
where reign peace and purity ; for which I rejoice with exceeding joy, and
give thanks to my God with unceasing prayer.
Who will despise and turn away from the out-stretched hand of their God,
which in mercy and charity is offered unto them, to lead them out from un
der the yoke and servitude of Satan, into the glorious liberty of saints and
Angels, because it cometh not according to the wisdom of vain man ?
And now by the same spirit which inspired the Prophets in former dis
pensations I would say, as a word in due season, Bow down, O ye people,
and give heed to hissword ; Hear ye O Heavens and give ear O earth ; for
the Lord has spoken, and even so it shall come to pass.
Canterbury, N . H., June 25, 1843. Jams M. Otis.
TESTIMONY OF JOHN MALOON.
As a witness unto the truth of the foregoing Roll and Book, I do solemnly
testify to all nations, tongues and people, that it is the unalterable truth of
God. I have been not only an eye and ear witness of the remarkable out
pourings of his divine spirit and power among his people, for the lust six
years, but a sharer in the same. I have many times felt the influence of the
same power operating upon both soul and body ; which gives me full confi
dence in the late work and manifestation of God to his people.
APPENDIX TO THE
Having the evidence in my own soul, I feel free to declare before all men,
that the foregoing Roll and Book is from God, Jehovah, the Father of all,
the beginning and the end of all created things ; yet, that God who hath
made Himself manifest unto his true people in every age of the world.
And oaJGod has in this latter day, in wisdom and charity, seen fit to notice
his creature man, by renewing his laws and statutes, and showing him the
only way whereby he can find favor in his sight, let souls be bowed in thank
fulness and gratitude to Him for his unbounded mercy and charity. For
God is not to be mocked, neither is his word to be trampled upon by the fil
thy and unclean of this world.
But He doth require that every soul should learn wisdom, and fear Him
before too late ; and as a friend to my fellow mortals, whose souls are as pre
cious in the sight of God as mine, I would caution you to be careful bow
you treat the givings of God ; for as you treat them, so God will treat you.
And furthermore, I do testify that I have found the truo and living way of
God, which bringa peace and comfort to the soul, and finally gives it full
victory over the least and last remains of a fallen nature.
Therefore, I will lift up my voice in thankfulness to Christ the Savior, and
good Mother Ann Lee, who are the two anointed ones, and stand at the
head of the new creation ; who through sufferings and persecutions have
opened the way of life and salvation, whereby we are made able to wor
ship God to his acceptance, in the beauty of holiness. And I would in
vite all to come and partake of the waters of life freely, and thirst no more.
Canterbury, N. H. , July II. 18-13. Johh Maloon.
Born December 27, 1818 ; in JVetc Castle, county of Rockingham and state
of Jtcw Hampshire ; came to live with the United Society at Canterbury, JY. H.
A. D. 1829.
TESTIMONY OF JAMES C. BLANCHARD.
As I have been made a partaker of this blessed gospel, I can freely bear
witness to the truth of
it,
that
it
is
the power of God to salvation. And hav
ing the evidence within my own soul,
I
am thankful for the privilege, and
feel
it
a
duty to bear witness to the manifestation of the work of God
;
for
it
has saved me from the follies and sins of my youth.
Therefore,
I
can cheerfully recommend
it
to others as
a
sure and safe
guide into all truth
;
for
I
have been made a partaker of that renovating
power which has run through my mortal frame like streams of living water.
That this
is
the same spirit which influenced our Holy Savior and his belov
ed apostles
I
have not the least shadow of
a
doubt.
I
have no hesitation in saying, that the sacred pages of this holy Book
have been written by the divine revelation of God
;
that the writer felt the
true spirit of inspiration, and was directed by
it,
to write the words of the
Holy Angel correctly. And
I
am thankful that the spirit of truth has gone
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 343
forth, that the Holy Angel has-been
gent in mercy to sound the word of life
to the nations of the earth, that they might learn obedience to the gospel of
Christ, and be saved from the snares and temptations into which they are
running.
And I can say, I love this blessed work ; yea, I love my Mother and
those who traveled with her in tribulation, to again open the way of salva
tion for all souls; and I will not deny this holy work, nor the means by
which I have received it.
For I know that through this blessed work I have received the pre
cious gifts of God, and have been an instrument of his Almighty power,
which has caused me to turn, bend and shake like a tree shaken by the
wind, and to speak in an unknown tongue by the gift of inspiration, that
which I could not speak but by the gift of God.
I feel thankful that I have a part with the true people of God, and a
peaceable home in Zion ; and my prayer is, that this gospel may spread and
flourish, and other souls be partakers of it ; knowing that it originated in
wisdom, and has been handed down to us through the mercy of God.
This Sacred Roll of heavenly truth, which is now sent forth to earth for
thousands and millions to read, I pray may be received by all with thankful
hearts; feeling sensible that it is not the production of mortal power, but is
an emanation of divine wisdom. Therefore slight it not, O ye children of
men ; for it is a word of truth and precious counsel.
Canterbury, N. H., August 1, 1843. James C. BLANcnARD.
Born A. D., 1812; in the town of Greensborough, county of Orleans and
state of Vermont ; has lived with the United Society in Canterbury, JV. H. ,
seventeen years.
TESTIMONY OF MARY WHITCHER.
Being blessed with a home in Zion, where peace and tranquility reign ;
and having been made a partaker of that gospel, in this day of Christ's sec
ond appearing, which saves the soul from sin and condemnation, my heart
is rilled with thankfulness to my God, and my voice soundeth praise for
the same.
Having the witness in my own soul, I can confidently state that Christ has
made his second appearance upon earth, as is recorded in the Sacred Roll
and Book now about to go forth to the nations of the earth.
And to the truth and divine origin of this Sacred Word, my spirit beareth
witness ; having received knowledge from a heavenly source, from time to
time, in the late manifestation of holy and divine things, that the spirit of
the Lord was preparing his Zion on earth to receive his word and will, to
communicate to every nation, tongue and people, who know not the Christ
or of his second coming, and true dwelling place on the earth ; and having
been blessed with the peculiar notice of God, I feel it a duty and privilege
to testify of the same.
I know the Lord hath greatly blessed his chosen people in this latter day,
344 APPENDIX TO THE
with the out-pouring of his holy spirit in many ways, marvelous to the be
holder, and soul-strengthening to the receiver; of which I have been a wit
ness, and even a partaker.
My soul has often been filled with that heavenly love which casteth out
all fear of mortals or any earthly danger; and with that holy power which
hath caused me to speak in new tongues, to sing heavenly and divine songs
from saints and Angels in glory ; with whom I have been able to commune
from time to time, and for many days in succession; which hath so estab
lished my faith in the reality of divine revelation and supernatural power,
that no caviler or unbeliever could cause me to disbelieve what I have seen,
felt and heard from the heavenly worlds above, or to deny my faith in the
Sacred Word of God, now sent forth in mercy to his creature man, to call
him from his wanderings, and to bring him nigher unto his Creator.
But I will stand true to the cause of Christ, to my own soul, and as a wit
ness to the unalterable truth of the Sacred Word now sent forth for the na
tions of the earth, knowing it to be the word of God ; and rather than deny
the same, or my holy faith in Christ's second appearing, and obedience
thereto, upon which my soul is anchored for salvation, I would suffer perse
cution or sacrifice my natural life.
I know the true kingdom of God is established on the earth, already com
pleted in its order, and growing in the heavenly graces of purity and love.
And that Christ the Savior and Mother Ann Lee are the Parents of the new
creation, who stand first in this heavenly kingdom, anointed and appointed
of God to lead souls out of nature's darkness, is known beyond a doubt, by
all who have entered this peaceable fold, and arc their true followers.
My spirit boweth down in thankfulness for the day in which I live, for the
mercy, charity and blessing of God to my soul, before whom I am resolved
to walk humbly, uprightly and in holy fear, till my days are finished on
earth.
To these feelings of my own heart, and writing of my own hand, I freely
affix my name.
Canterbury, N. H. , June 28, 1843. Mary Whitcber.
Born March 31, 1815 ; in the toicn of Laurens, county of Otsego, state of
Ncw York ; has lived with the United Society in Canterbury, JV'. H. , since A'o-
nember 18, 182G.
TESTIMONY OF HESTER ANN ADAMS.
On the twenty fourth of July, eighteen hundred forty two, While I was
worshiping my God under the divine influence of the spirit, I saw a large
golden cross ; and upon the cross were written these words.
"Behold ye the Inscription."
"Out of the midst of Zion, shall the nations of the earth hear the word
of their God, while his people shall fear before Him continually, and praise
his holy name forever and ever, and ever-more, Amen.
SACKED ROLL AND BOOK. 345
Even this cross which I have horne, shall every true disciple of mine
bear, saith your Lord and Savior."
On the twenty eighth of December, eighteen hundred and forty two, 1 saw
a holy and mighty Angel, holding in his hand a long und bright Roll ; pres
ently the Roll appeared in the form of a Book, and the Angel held the Book
open before me. I gazed with astonishment and great fear.
The Angel then spake and said, What you see will yet go forth to every na
tion on the face of the earth ; for holy Angels are passingand re-passing there
in, sent by Gerah Veed, God Jehovah, to work a marvelous and strange work.
The heavy word which you see, is to be copied by mortal hand, as a holy
Angel readeth word for word, from this Roll or Book, at the Holy Mount of
the most High God ; therefore bow down before me, and remember my
word in time of need ; for I will yet require mine own with usury.
Again on the first day of January, eighteen hundred and forty three, I
saw a great and mighty Angel enter our place of sacred worship and prayer,
where many, very many Angels were sounding their trumpets of praise.
As this Angel entered, all was silent; presently they raised their wings, and
bowed down low, saying in one united voice, Holy, holy is the Lord God
of Heaven and earth ; praise Him O Zion, shout aloud in solemn fear, for
his mercy and charity endureth forever. Bow down all yc afar off, and bo
prepared for the word of your God.
Then the great and mighty Angel winged his way towards the south, say
ing, Blessed, blessed are they that believe and repent: for the word of the
Lord will go forth to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. Move on
ye mighty archers ; for the day of liberty and freedom is proclaimed, and
shall be proclaimed, saith the All-wise Ruler of the universe.
Inspired Witness,
Hkster Ann Adams.
As a witness to the words of unalterable truth, which the Lord my God
hath commanded to be sent forth to the nations of the earth, I declare be
fore all people, kindred and tongues, that it is the word of the Lord, even
his warning word in due season.
Often my soul has been blessed with the soul-cheering power of Heaven ;
and I have been fed with the food of Angels, sweet and nourishing. My
faith is established beyond a doubt, that this present work is of God ;
because I have had evidence in my own soul, of its purifying and cleansing
power.
God is purity and love, and his people must possess the same, if they
would merit his protection and blessing; for his word is eternal truth, point
ed against every sin ; and like a refiner's fire and fuller's soap, it will cleanse
and purify the soul, and make it a fit temple for the Holy Spirit to dwell in.
I am thankful I have been made a partaker of the purifying work of the
gospel while young, that I may shun the flattering allurements of tiatan, and
gain wisdom and knowledge of heuvenly and divine things, in lieu of the
transitory pleasures of nature, which like a flower soon wither and fade
away, and leave the soul like a barren wilderness or fruitless field.
Tiiis Sacred and Divine Roll carries evidence with itself, of its divine
-i46 APPENDIX TO THE
origin ; surely the finger of God marked its way, and Wisdom Eternal point
ed out its saving virtues ; and I can say of a truth, that it was written by di
vine influence, without the aid of mortal wisdom.
I feel my unworthinesa to hand forth my testimony, for I am but a poor
frail mortal of myself; yet, considering the many blessings I have received
from an all-powerful source, I feel it a duty I owe to my God, to my own
soul, and to my fellow mortals, to declare my faith in the work of an holy
God ; for I know I have found that gospel which saves my soul from sin iu
the present tense, and in obedience will insure me a happy abode in the
Heavens above.
And thereby 1 can procure that substance of eternal life which fadeth not
away ; but as an anchor will hold me in the hour of trial and temptation ;
and I am determined, with a firm and fixed resolution, to stand for the cause
of truth and righteousness, even to the laying down of my life ; and pur
sue with pleasure the path of w isdom and holiness, until life's short thread
is spun, and my pulse shall cease to beat; then my spirit will be able to meet
my God in peace.
I will stand for that gospel taught by the Savior, and again revived and
made known to mortals through my ever blessed Mother Ann Lee ; for it
affords me that peace and solid comfort which the world, with all its pleas
ures, can neither give nor take away.
I here set my name to this my testimony, that I will stand a faithful ser
vant in the house of my God, through life, and forevermore.
Canterbury, N. H. , June 6, 1843. Hester Ank Adj>!*.
Born in Durham, county of Strafford, state of JVeic Hampshire, March 17,
A. D. 1817 , and was gathered into the United Society at Canterbury, in the
year 1825
TESTIMONY OF MYRA A. BEAN.
Having been peculiarly favored and abundantly blessed with the giving*
of the Holy Spirit in divers ways and maimers, I feel it to be my solemn
duty, and esteem it a sacred privilege, to stand as a true witness of his word
and work whenever I am favored with an opportunity. And at this pecul
iar time, I freely and thankfully testify, that I have had many heavenly
manifestations of the word which is now, by the wisdom of God, sent forth
unto the nations of the earth.
Out of the many evidences I have had, I give the following short sketch,
which was penned previous to my hearing or seeing the copied Roll. March
twenty eighth, eighteen hundred thirty eight, my senses were withdrawn
from earth, and I beheld heavenly and divine things. I saw blessed Mother
Ann, who held in her hand a large book ; I looked at it, and saw the cover
was yellow, and appeared to be of gold. She said unto me, Little one, the
time will yet be, when you will know this book from beginning to end.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 347
When I returned home, (having been absent twenty four hours,) I in
formed my leaders of the book I saw Mother holding in her hand.
January twenty second, eighteen hundred forty two, I saw an holy Angel
with a large book, which seemed to be the same which I saw Mother have
a long time before, as I noticed the cover and size of it. He spoke aloud
before a large company of spirits, and said, When the Lord's own time ram-
eth, this his word will go forth to the nations of the earth; first within,
and from thence without Zion.
June tenth, eighteen hundred forty two, I was shown the same book again,
and read therein certain passages of scripture. I inquired if it was the
Bible, and was told it was the wor*d of our Heavenly Father.
Thus having received much previous knowledge at different times, I have
not the least reason to doubt the divine origin of this Sacred Roll and Book ;
but affirm it to be the true and unalterable word of our Heavenly Father,
sent forth upon earth, by no other means than that of divine inspiration.
Wednesday evening, May twenty fourth, eighteen hundred forty throe,
the Angel of Almighty Power spake to me as follows; Thou feeble mortal,
Look thou and behold my presence. Listen unto my word, and prepare
thy hand to write quickly the same.
I am the great and mighty Angel who has read aloud unto an Instrument
of flesh and blood, the word of your Heavenly Father. Yet fear me not;
but listen attentively unto my word, for through many instruments, shall be
declared the truth of the work, which the Holy and Eternal Father Jehovah
is doing in the earth.
I am a great and mighty Angel, and my power is sufficient to execute the
will of Him who sent me as a messenger of his word. Therefore, write thou
my word, and alter not ; for in me is wisdom ; and by and through the words
I have proclaimed in this Roll which lieth on my hand before you, shall ev
ery soul be judged; for the word of the Almighty do I proclaim, even as did
Jesus Christ the Savior of souls, the Father of the New Creation.
Word of the Angel, sounded through a Golden Trumpet.
Gather near all ye nations, ye kindreds, tongues and people. For what
purpose hath the Lord condescended to notice you with his word, but that
ye may turn from the evil of your ways, forsake the sinful paths in which
ye have hitherto walked, and seek Him unto salvation ?
O ye people, consider for a moment one and all ; pause and seriously re
flect on the time you have misimproved. Then say ye within your hearts;
"Our God is charity and mercy. His word He has now given us, and in
love to our souls He has said, if we will now return to Him, his awful and
heavy judgments He will withhold, and cause us and our possessions to
share of his blessing.
0 merciful Father, we will repent ; we will cry fervently unto thee, for
we know that because of the evil of our doings, thou hast become heavily
displeased with us. We will humble our souls and fall low before thee,
that thou mayest grant us a place in thy kingdom."
1 speak unto you as a friend and well wisher to your souls, and say ; Be
ware, O beware how you treat the sacred giving! of yeur God; Fear ye his
348 APPENDIX TO THE
holy word. Know ye not, He who sendeth forth this word unto you, is able
to utterly destroy you from his presence, in the twinkling of an eye ? or to
cause you to suffer his heavy judgments in any way He seeth fit, by heavy-
disease or torturing puin ? Even so it is. The Lord giveth, and the Lord
taketh away. Therefore trust ye in Him, obey his solemn word and heed
his warning voire, that ye may become acceptable children in his sight.
I am an holy attendant of this his word : wherever it goeth I go also ; for
He sent nie forth unto earth with it ; and my work is not, neither can it be
accomplished that 1 can return to my Heavenly Father in glory, until this
his saving word goeth forth unto the nations of the earth.
Then shall I ret irn with the Roll and Book which I now hold, and con
vey tidings unto Him of his people on earth. And there in mansions of
bright glory will this be preserved, to be shown unto every soul who shall
enter eternity, who has received the knowledge of these his sacred require
ments; and by this shall they be judged:
Whoever has heeded the requirements herein contained, having bowed
down to God in his order, shall find peace and justification in so doing; and
whoever has disregarded and set at nought this sacred word, and pronounced
that it never came from God, the sight of this, when presented before them,
will cause them grief and sorrow inexpressible.
Therefore be wise, each one for yourselves. Repent ye and humble your
souls as it well pleaseth your God ; for He delighteth in the glory of all
souls, and so do his holy Angels. Thus my word endeth at this time, saith
the Holy and Mighty Angel.
Inspired Witness,
Myra A. Bean.
I can say without one faltering feeling in my soul, that I have tasted the
good word of God, the bread and water of life ; and have been a partaker of
the power and gifts of God.
The workings of the holy spirit, are indeed beyond the comprehension of
the natural man; but every soul who has been fully baptized into the life of
the gospel, and bathed freely in the givings of God, by way of inspiration,
is fully assured that God is the Author of the power by which they are led
and governed.
I am bold to say, this holy power which has been showered down upon
this people in various ways and manners, is, without dispute, from a heav
enly and divine source ; otherwise it would not work to the purification of
its subjects; and this is the effect produced on every true and devoted instru
ment, who has been chosen in this late manifestation.
I have been a living subject of this power for six years past, and it has
worked as a purifying fire in my soul, abased pride and self-exaltedness, and
learned me a lesson of true humility never to be forgotten ; that no external
form or ceremony, no outside adornings, will answer the purpose of an hon
est heart, or gain favor in the sight of a true and righteous God ; but the
pure and genuine substance of the gospel, firmly established in the soul,
wherein dwelleth that pure and holy faith with which good works are com
bined, will alone be accepted by our Heavenly Father and the holy and
purified spirits in eternity.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 349
In the many privileges I have enjoyed, I have often been blessed with the
gift of heavenly visions, in which, many times, my spirit has been led en
tirely away from the things of time, insomuch that I knew nothing of sur
rounding objects for several hours together, but was viewing and conversing
with unbodied spirits in eternity : some times with those who were enjoying
perfect happiness, being purified from all sin, and at other times with those
who were miserable and unhappy, because of their works of unrighteous
ness, and the condemnation thereof.
I have seen those souls who, when upon earth, honored and feared God,
and lived according to his requirements made known unto them through
whatsoever means He chose in the day in which they lived, rejoicing with
holy Angels, and praising the name of their Heavenly Father, that they
were blessed with his holy protection on earth, insomuch as to honor and
obey his word ; the happiness that those appeared to bo enjoying, was indeed
surpassing any that mortals could experience or even describe.
And to the reverse of this, I have seen those who, when upon earth,
mocked God, who set at defiance his word and work, and cruelly treated his
chosen people, in the most awful distress and heurt-rending attitudes that
could be imagined ; the awful groans and bitter lamentations of these poor dis
tressed souls, were sufficient to melt the stoutest heart into a flood of tears.
And when under the influence of the holy spirit and power of God, I
have seen that which language is too feeble to describe ; but what I have
seen, is fresh in my memory, and I have faith to believe will continue to be
through time. I view it not as vain imaginations, or fanciful notions of the
youthful mind, but solemn realities to my soul, given for somo wise purpose ;
and not all the inhabitants of earth could ever cause me to disbelieve or
deny that which I have heard, seen and felt, when under the influence of
divine power.
Being mindful that every soul is alike precious in the sight of God,
1 can but feel a particular interest in their salvation, and tenderly invite all,
candidly to peruse, and wisely consider that which our Heavenly Father
hath in mercy and charity sent forth unto all nations of the earth ; and for the
sake of enjoying present and eternal happiness, receive and obey the same.
I am thankful with every feeling of my soul, that I have been thus blessed
with the givings of God ; for I know they have given me an undoubted evi
dence of his invisible, yet Almighty power, and fully established my faith
that this gospel, revealed to us through Mother Ann and her faithful follow
ers, is the same as taught by Christ and his Apostles ; and the power, which
dwells among God's people in the present day, causing the subjects thereof
to speak with new tongues, and to behold with spiritual sight that which bc-
longeth to the oternal worlds, and by the spirit of inspiration to declare new
and strange things, is tho same as was given to tho Apostles at the day of
Pentecost.
I have received that living faith, which I feel bound forever to obey, and
am heartily thankful unto all my gospel relation, who have been helpers to
my soul in this self- denying, cross-boaring way of truth, peace and holiness.
I never can cease to be thankful for my home in Zion, and my precious
too APPENDIX TO THE
privilege with the chosen people of God ; neither will I cease to praise my
Eternal Parents, for the ever blessed means of salvation, which they have
condescended to reveal unto mortals in this latter day.
Canterbury, N. H., June 27, IMS. Myra A. Beau.
Born in Sanbornton, county of Belknap and state of ft'eic Hampshire ; June
24, A. D. 1818; came to lire icith the United Society at Canterbury, X. H.,
A. D. 1826.
TESTIMONY OF CYNTHIA B. BRADLEY.
May twenty first, A. D. eighteen hundred and forty three, as I was retired
by mvself, and my spirit drawn forth in prayer to God, I heard a rushing
sound as the noise of distant waters; yet the sound was near. The power
of God then full upon me, and immediately I felt the presence of an holy
Angel of God. He came and stood before me saying, Arise and write my word.
Word of the Angel.
I am a holy Angel of witness ; I came from the throne of the Most High,
even from the throne of Eternal Glory ; and unto me it is given to declare
the truth of God.
Behold the time, the time has fully come. He who is from everlasting,
hath begun his work in the earth ; yea, the Almighty Creator of Heaven and
earth, hath condescended again to reveal his word to the poor lost children
of men. In his own time, and in his own way, by means of his own choos
ing, hath He done this.
And I, the holy Angel of witness, do testify saying, Behold tho time has
come. I saw the holy and Mighty Angel stand before the throne of Eternal
Power and Wisdom, and from thence receive an Holy Roll and Book, con
taining the word of God to the nations of the earth. With holy wisdom
was he anointed, and with mighty power was he clothed, and commissioned
to go to earth and reveal the contents of the Sacred Roll and Book, that it
might be correctly copied by an instrument of mortal clay.
And say I, the holy witnessing Angel, This work is now accomplished.
Within the walls of Zion, yea, even at the Holy Mount, did the holy and
mighty Angel choose an instrument, whose spirit bowed to the requirement
of God, and who freely and patiently endured sufferings and tribulation of
soul, in obedience to his will.
And now the time has come ; yea, the time has fully come. The word of
the Lord is made manifest in Zion, and from her it shall go forth to the
nations.
Amen, even so let it be, say I the holy Angel of Witness.
Inspired Witness,
Cynthia B. Bradley.
I am thankful for the blessed gospel of life and salvation ; I am thankful I
am made partaker of that saving grace, which was first revealed on earth
SAORKD ROLL AND BOOK. 3T>\
through Christ my Holy Savior, and which hath been revived in this day by
my ever blessed Mother Ann Lee ; I rejoice to own my Father and my
Mother in the New Creation ; and rejoice to own the means by which I have
been brought from darkness into light, from the bondage of sin and death,
into the glorious liberty of a child of God.
I know that I have received the testimony of everlasting truth ; that gos
pel which giveth endless life, and which is the power of God unto salvation.
For by the power of this gospel, my soul has been awakened and raised from
spiritual death, and made alive to God. Yea, in obedience to this gospel I
am saved from sin, and my soul is filled with that peace which passeth un
derstanding.
My faith is firmly established, and I feel that it is built on that foundation
which is forever sure ; even on the rock of ages which can never be moved.
I believe in God, Jehovah, the holy and eternal source of Power and Wis
dom ; and in the revelation of the Father through Jesus of Nazareth. I be
lieve that he was anointed to open the way of life and salvation. He is the
true and first begotten Son of God, the Father of the New Creation.
And with the same confidence I believe in the revelation of Holy Wisdom,
through Ann Lee. She was a chosen vessel appointed of God to convey
the light of life to a world covered with gross darkness, and sunk in sin and
pollution. Yea, she is the Mother of the new creation, the Bride, the
Lamb's wife; and with Christ her Lord she is united in the work of man's
redemption ; and these are the Two Anointed Ones who stand before the
Lord of the whole earth.
This is my faith, and I am willing to declare it before all people. I know
I have found the true and living way; and that this gospel which I have re
ceived, is the means which God hath appointed for the salvation of all souls.
I have been greatly noticed and blessed of God, and have felt the givings
of his holy power; and have received the true baptism of Christ, even the
baptism of the Holy Spirit and fire, by which my soul has been cleansed
and purified from sin. I have many times felt the power and influence of
the Holy Spirit roll through my soul like flaming fire, and operating upon
my mortal body. By this power I have been raised, as it were, from earth
and earthly things, and made able to commune with holy Angels, and with
the spirits of the just made perfect. I have been blessed with the gift of
tongues, and many other precious and heavenly gifts which are as real to me
as mv existence.
Freely and thankfully do I bear witness to this truth ; that the gift of di
vine revelation and inspiration does exist in the true church of Christ upon
earth at the present day. For of this I have been made partaker; and can I
doubt that which I have myself experienced ? By no means.
I have received evidence in my own soul sufficient to convince me of the
divine origin of the Holy Roll and Book which is now about to be published
abroad. And I can with boldness testify that this Sacred Roll, containing
the word, will and requirement of the Lord God of Heaven and earth, hath
been received and written by the inspiration of his Holy Spirit. It is the
unalterable word of the one true and living God ; and it will forever stand.
APPENDIX TO THE
To this testimony I will ever bear witness; and rather than deny this my
faith, I will freely lay down my natural life.
Canterbury, May 21, 1813.
Cysthia B. Bradley.
Born December 15, 1816; in the town of Canterbury, county of Merrimae,
state of A'ctc Hampshire. Came to live with the I'nited Society in said Can
terbury, May G, A. D. 1&J5.
TESTIMONY OF CALEB M. DYER.
It feels tome to be a privilege and duty to bear witness in confirmation of
the late manifestation of the out-pouring of the spirit and power of God,
having been a subject of the same, and having frequently witnessed, in dif
ferent branches of the United Society, the same gifts and power, in speaking
in tongues and of prophesying of future events; many of which have come
to pass to my certain knowledge.
Therefore, I feel perfect confidence in the foregoing Roll and Book, that
it is the word of God, given by the inspiration of his holy spirit; and as a
well wisher for the present as well as future well being of every soul, may
they use it as such ; for it is evident and certain, that God's work with all
the human family of Adam, will go on and be completed in his own way
and time ; and every one should be very cautious that they are not found
striving against light and truth.
I was born August twenty fifth, one thousand and eight hundred ; in the
town of Stratford, county of Coos, state of New Hampshire ; and was ad
mitted into this United Society, at the ago of twelve years.
Enfield, Grafton county, state of ) Caleb M. Dyer.
New Hampshire; June 31), 1843. 3
TESTIMONY OF ABRAHAM PERKINS.
Having for several years been an eye witness of the effects of the marvelous
and wonderful power and out-pouring of the spirit of God among his peculiar
and distinguished people, and also being a subject of its influence, often hav
ing been led by it to speak in different tongues, to hold communion with
holy Angels and many of the departed of this life, some of whom have been
cotemporaries with me, with whom I have associated and been acquainted,
and others who inhabited the earth hundreds and thousands of years agn ;
and thus by their prophetic spirit moved upon to prophesy, and to reveal
what had been, what is and what will be ; some of which promises and rev
elations have already been fulfilled in my eyes, which confirms and strength
ens my faith in the truth that others will be, in God's own time :
Therefore, with this evidence from divine revelation and the spirit of God
SACKED ROLL AND HOOK.
given inn, 1 have no hesitation in declaring niv faith in the preceding call
and requirement as being the word of God. To deny which, I should deem
in me, sacrilege.
I feel interested for the happiness of all mankind, whether of my own na
tion, color, tongue or otherwise ; and in the fear of God do I invite all to be
deliberate and candid, that none be found tighting against their God and
Benefactor, neither against their own peace and salvation.
As this work will prove itself, and the day is not far distant when the na
tions of the earth will have the evidence of its reality by actual experience
of their own, if any should feel incredulous, it would he wise for such, at
least, to maintain silence; that they no more incur (he displeasure of the
Almighty, and bring upon themselves his wrath with a heavier hand. For
I would that all men could enjoy, even as I do, his approbation and love.
As an instrument in the hands of my God, to do what lies in my power
towards accomplishing that work which lie requires of his chosen people,
I freely lend my aid in testimony of eternal truth for the benefit of my fel
low men.
And in the diffusion of light and truth, the final work which God has
purposed with his creatures, is hastened, our own forwarded, and our pei-
feution and happiness augmented. And though for the defence of my faith,
[ meet many and heavy trials, though by the powers of earth 1 be not toler
ated therein, or be deprived in the action thereof, yet my mind and con
science can never be controlled, but by the spirit of Christ. For the faith
which I have adopted is my own, and my knowledge of its origin from a di
vine source too well grounded, ever to be denied; and therefore, that which
1 shall ever support.
Enfield, N. H. ; June 29, 1843. Abraham Pikkins.
Born in Sanhorjiton, Bclknaji county, JVt w lltrmpshirc ; October III, 1807;
and was admitted into the United Society at the age of nineteen years.
TESTIMONY OF HORACE FOLSOM.
The undersigned, having been called out from the practices of a vain and
wicked world by the spirit of truth ; and having in many instances, by the
same spirit, been led to bear witness of the manifestation of the spirit of
God to his chosen people upon earth, which many times has appeared strange
and marvelous, and even unaccounted for by the vainly wise, feels it a
duty at the present time, freely to give his testimony in relation to the
foregoing Roll and Book.
I believe it to he a work wrought by the hand of God Himself, and through
mercy and charity sent to earth by the means of his own choosing, to give
the inhabitants thereof an oiler of receiving mercy at his hand, or judgment
and indignation, in consequence of disregarding his law as sent forth to
them.
354 APPENDIX TO THE
I have many times, when under the immediate influence of the spirit, oeen
shown by the spirits of the holy prophets and Angels, the dreadful calami
ties and awful judgments with which God has purposed to fill the earth;
also the miseries and plagues with which He will scourge the rulers and
great ones of the earth, if they refuse to yield obedience to his righteous
commands ; and at the same time, showing what inestimable riches and heav
enly comfort thoso shall enjoy who make it their free choice to serve the
Lord their God, and Him alone. This 1 received previous to my seeing
the Roll and Book ; and it was recorded at the time received.
Soon after hearing the sacred work read, I saw a company of Angels, who
told me the Book had been written through great sufferings and tribulation
of soul, and agreeably to the will of God : that I must not be ashamed to de
clare my belief of its divine origin ; for it was that by which nations should
be tried, and according to their works justified or condemned.
The Angels said they should bear witness to the divine work, for genera
tions to come, and throughout every kingdom and nation upon the earth.
So kindred people one and all, I freely declare to you that I have foand the
straight way of life, marked out by our Holy Savior, and walked by our
blessed Mother Ann ; which does save me from all sin, by walking in obe
dience thereunto ; and it is my firm determination to abide faithful in my
calling : for said Christ, He that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved.
This work, though crossing to the natural disposition of fallen man, brings
true peace of mind ; with an hundred fold in this life, and the promise of
eternal life hereafter, according to the words of Christ.
And now I sincerely invite all who may hear the foregoing Roll and Book
read, to consider it well ; and if any are inclined to treat it with scorn or
contempt, just let them reflect and see if they had not better let it alone,
lest haply they be found to fight against God. If this work be of men, it
will come to nought; but if it be of God, no one can stop it.
En6eld, N. H., August 9, 1843. Horace Folsom.
Born February 21, 1819 ; in the town of Enfield, county of Grafton and
state of JVeto Hampshire. Admitted into the United Society at Enfield, JV. H.,
A. D. 182!).
TESTIMONY OF TIMOTHY RANDLETT.
Having been made a partaker of this ever blessed gospel in ray childhood,
and having found that substance which preserves me from evil, and being
one who has been called as an instrument to participate in the present mani
festation of the marvelous work of the divine spirit, I can with confidence
bear testimony, that the foregoing Roll and Book is the unchangeable word
of God, sent forth from his Almighty throne, by his holy Angel, and copied
by mortal hand agreeably to his will ; I am confident, that it was designed
by the Almighty to go through all nations, for a testimony unto them.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 355
While writing this testimony I am suddenly called hy a holy Angel to -
write the following, as he wings hid way through the Heavens.
Words of the Angel.
Woe ! woe ! woe ! to the inhabitant* of earth ; for the hand of the Al
mighty is stretched out in judgment upon the face thereof ; for her abomina
tions arc great, and the multitude of her transgressions are without number;
the stench of her whoredoms hath ascended up as the burning of Sodom.
The great whore of Babylon is seen marching through her streets in pomp
and splendor, clothed in gaudy attire, and receiving homage from the high
est monarch on his throne, to the lowest scullion in human shape; and in
the blood of her fellow creatures are her garments deeply stained.
Repent, O repent, yo children of earth ; for in judgment hath the Lord
purposed to visit you, unless ye repent quickly ; for his wrath is exceeding
great, and his fierce anger cannot be stayed unless ye turn and seek to do his
holy will, as it is made known in his Sacred Word ; for He will judge you in
righteousness.
As the angel ceased to sound, I said unto him, Holy Angel, for what pur
pose can this thing be, seeing the work is so nearly closed ? He answered,
What is that to thee ? Do thy duty, and thou shalt be blameless.
July fifteenth, eighteen hundred and forty three, an holy Angel appeared
before me, saying, I am a mighty Angel scut from the eternal Heavens ;
from the holy throne of the Great I AM have I come, and his will I must
do. Ho hath sent mc to proclaim to the four quarters of the earth, the great
and mighty work which must shortly extend to all nations, to prepare the
way for his holy word, which is given either for mercy or judgment ; for
saith the Angel, many signs shall be seen in the heavens and on the earth,
and in the mighty waters.
Inspired Witness,
Timothy Randlett.
To the truth of this testimony, I am at all times ready to bear witness, if
ever it be required ; for the evidence which is given mc from an invisible
source, gives mo that knowledge which I never can deny ; for the conse
quence of so doing would be the loss of my eternal salvation. Yea, my nat
ural life I should freely give, rather than deny this my testimony.
I was born December tenth, eighteen hundred and six, in Meredith, Straf
ford county, New Hampshire ; was brought among this people by my parents,
when a child.
Eafield, N. H. ; August 10, 1813. Timothy Randi.ett.
TESTIMONY OF SUSANNAH CURTIS.
While assembled in the meeting house for worship, on the second day of
October, eighteen hundred forty two, as I sat in silent meditation, suddenly
there sounded in my ears a mighty trumpet, and a rushing like the trees of a
:r>c APPENDIX TO THE
forest when moved by a strong wind, which so affected my frame, that not
withstanding all my exertions to remain calm, I could not refrain from rock
ing with the groat shaking, which appeared to put in motion every thing
around me.
Every person in the assembly appeared with pale faces, looking earnestly
upon one another, like those who were struck dumb and motionless with
fear. But before I had time to consider, or make out in my mind any cause
for this noise which I heard, there came two bright Angels fromasouth west
erly direction, and flew swiftly over my left shoulder.
Their appearance w us like that of a mighty man prepared for battle; they
turned swiftly, passing twice from one end of the meeting house to the oth
er, between the spectators, and those who were assembled for holy worship ;
and they, with their wings extended, soared over the spectators, sounding
loudly the following words:
Ho, ho! Hearken all ye people, to the sound of the awakening trumpet;
for it shall sound, and mighty power shall roll even to the ends of the earth.
Some shall be offended when they hear, and others shall rejoice ; but no
powers of earth or hell shall be able to disannul or make void the word which
has gone forth from the mouth of the Almighty God ; for his bow is bent,
anil who can evade the arrows which are prepared to pierce the hearts of the
scorner, and of those who desire not the knowledge of his ways?
0 ye generations, lend a listening ear ; and ye who are afar off, consider,
and slight not the day of your visitation which in mercy is near at hand;
for the word of the Everlasting is about to sound in your ears.
From the midst of my Holy Zion, saith the Lord, I will send forth my
word unto you ; and those who will not suffer it to have place in their hearts,
hut choose rather to walk in their own paths, I will meet in my fury, and
cause them to drink a full portion of my fierce indignation. For I have
long borne with the haughtiness of vain man, and suffered him to prosper in
his folly, till my times and seasons are fulfilled.
But the time of forbearance hath an end, and it is nigh even at vout door;
therefore, let the wise meditate upon my word, and gather to the place of
refuge before too late ; for as I live, saith the Lord, I will ere long be known
among all nations ; either in mercy or judgment shall my power be made
manifest, and not one soul which I have created, shall be left to doubt that
I, who am invincible in strength, do bear rule in the Heavens, and preside
over the destinies of man.
1 will bestow my blessing upon every nation, according to the honor which
is given to my name, by regarding the lessons of warning which I send
among them ; though the means I make use of, in my wisdom, may be far
out of their sight, and very debasing to their loftiness and pride.
Whoso hath ears to hear, let them hear; for the day of reckoning comcth
quickly, and blessed shall those be who are not found fighting against that
light which I shall cause to shine into their consciences.
For powers shall shake and kingdoms rend, high hills shall flee away;
Through all the earth, from end to end, my sceptre I will sway.
I am the Lord, my word I'll sound, through every land and clime;
Mercy and judgment shall abound, at my appointed time.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK.
Surely, my work hastencth, and whoso is found worthy to proclaim my
word to the children of men, shall bo glorified, with my holy Prophets and
martyrs, who have patiently suffered to perforin my will; for though I lead
them through the fire, yet their garments shall not be scorched, saith the
Lord; and we, the holy Angels from before his throne, are his witnesses.
For lo ! from the foundation of the world, we have never seen any put to
shame, who put their trust in the mighty God of Jacob. ,
Then hearken, ye people, as o'er you we fly ;
The great visitation of God draweth nigh ;
And though through a child He may teach you his way,
Refuse not to hearken, but wisely obey.
The mighty Angels now passed on with the same speed in which they
came, quickly disappearing from my view.
Inspired Witness,
Susannah Curtis.
I here add my testimony concerning the Sacred Roll and Book, which the
Almighty hath in mercy sent forth for the nations of the earth ; for I do
know, beyond a doubt, having had sufficient evidence, that it is the word of
the Lord written by divine inspiration.
I was horn December twenty second, seventeen hundred ninety seven ;
in the town of Granby, county of Essex and state of Vermont. I was
sixteen years of age when I embraced the testimony of Christ's second
appearing.
Enfield, N. H., June 22, 1843. Susannah Curtis.
TESTIMONY OF MARY FALL.
I can hereby testify to all who may ever read the foregoing Roll and
Book, that I do know of a truth, that it is the word of the Almighty God,
sent forth in charity, in loving kindness and in merry to the nations of the
earth, that they may, if they will, take warning thereby, and reform their
lives ; yea, repent and turn from their iniquities, before the just judgments of
the Almighty God be poured upon them.
May twenty third, one thousand eight hundred and forty two, a Holy Pro
claiming Angel of God sounded these words unto me; The gospel shall go
forth from Zion to the inhabitants of earth, through instruments of mortal
clay; and this present generation shall behold it take place in their day and
time. And although it was not made known to me in what year ; yet I have
ever felt confident, from that day to this, that I should live to see
it,
and be
able to bear witness of the same.
And furthermore,
I
have received knowledge from an invisible source,
that the judgments of God were soon to be poured out upon the inhabitants
of earth
;
and that his mighty power would cause them to fear and tremble,
.3.5S APPENDIX TO THE
insomuch that they could not stand upon their feet, but would fall to the
earth like men in a field of buttle ; that they would be filled with distress
and confusion, and many of the kings of the earth, the great and rich men,
the chief captains and the mighty men, the bond men and free men, would
seek to hide themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains ; and
would say to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face
of Him that sittcth on the throne, and from bis wrath ; for the great day of
his wrath is come, and who is able to stand?
But what is the voice of God to them ? Even this : If ye seek to cover
your abominations, after ye have heard my warning voice, I will expose you
to open shame.
But O vain ninn ! turn ye, turn ye from your iniquities, from your foul and
beastly works of darkness, and come forth into light ; enter into the one
only true and living way, which is the truth and the light. Into this way
ye must all enter, in order to be justified, and stand in union with Me, the
Creator of all, who knoweth all things, and will reward every one as their
works shall bo.
June twenty seventh, one thousand eight hundred and forty two, I heard
it proclaimed by a mighty Angel, that the time was nigh at hand when Zion
should appear in full glory : for, said he, Ye are the light of the world. A
city that is set on a hill cannot be hid ; therefore, let your light shine even
to the nations of the earth, that they may behold the glory of their Creator.
Although I am a frail mortal, yet I have received full faith that Christ is
the anointed of God, and the Savior of all souls who follow him, who, in
obedience to his teaching, will in the end find complete victory over every
evil propensity.
I also know that Christ has made his second appearance on earth, in a
chosen female known by the name of Ann Lee, and acknowledged by us as
our blessed Mother in the work of redemption. She, with the help of God
and her associates, did form a society, which is led by the same spirit that
Christ manifested in his first appearing, which constitutes it the Church of
Christ or true people of God.
I can further testify unto all, that I have heard, from an invisible source, at
three different times, words concerning the foregoing Roll and Book, that
God hath purposed to send forth to the nations of the earth. And I know it
was revealed in mercy, for mortal hand to copy ; and that the writer was in
spired by the power of God, through the influence of his mighty Angels.
I can further testify, that by inspiration I do know that the Roll and Book
has been copied correctly, as the Mighty Angel did read unto the inspired
writer ; yea, 1 do know that it has uot been done by the will of man or wo
man, but by the will of Him that sittcth on the throne.
For the word of God through an Angel unto me, was as follows: Thus
saith the Almighty, Wherever this my Roll and Book shall go, there I will
send my Angels ; and a true record shall be kept of its reception with every
nation, kindred, tongue and people on the face of the globe.
Hearken again, O ye people, saith God. If ye refuse this my word unto
you, or say it is the work of man or woman, I[will in my fierce anger, pour
out my heavy judgments upon you.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 359
But if yc thankfully receive my word, and labor to understand and live up
To the same, I will cause light to shine into your souls, till you are able to
realize every requirement that is contained within the lids of this my Book,
and receive the promised reward.
Inspired Witness,
Marv Fall.
Perhaps some cavilers may say, How do vou know these things ? I an
swer; It is because it has been made known to me by the influence of
Almighty Power, through an Angel, bearing witness of the scenes of heavy
tribulation which the inspired writer had to pass through, while copying the
Roll and Book.
I am truly thankful that I have been made a partaker of this saving gos
pel, taught by blessed Mother Ann and her faithful successors, through
whom I have received it.
Here I have been made welcome to drink at the fountain of life, and have
been fed with the food of Angels; and in wisdom I have been blessed with
knowledge and understanding of spiritual things, which are far greater to
me than any of the perishable things of this life.
To the truth of this testimony I can, at any time, bear witness, ifit should
be required of me. It is firmly grounded by the knowledge I have had in
this work, and it is that which I never can deny, but will maintain, even to
the laying down of my life.
I was born July thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ten ; in the town of Thorn
ton, county of Grafton and state of New Hampshire ; and was taken in with
the people of God, when about seven years of age.
Enfield, N. H. ; June 22, 1343. Mart Fall.
TESTIMONY QF REBECCA ROBINSON.
The writer, while in divine worship, July fourth, eighteen hundred and
forty two, sawaaighty Angel of God, and he spake as follows : I am a holy
Angel, and the words which I sound forth are truth. For lo, O ye inhabi
tants of Zion, the time is near at hand, that this gospel will be sounded to the
nations of the earth, to awaken them from the slumbers of death.
And saith the Angel, When the word of the Lord shall go forth from his
Zion upon earth, to the children of men, then will heavy tribulation and
sufferings come upon the inhabitants thereof. So be yc prepared to meet
them ; for the Lord Almighty hath sent forth his Angels of mercy and judg
ment, with his word of eternal truth, to pass and rc-pass, to view and review
the inhabitants of the earth.
Therefore, I again say, Prepare, O prepare, ye indwellers of Zion; for
now is your day, your precious time to gain a durable treasure, that which
will abide with you, that which will be a strength and support to your im
mortal souls, when trying scenes shall roll on. Treasure freely of the sacred
:«>;> APPENDIX TO THE
giving* of God your Heavenly Father, while He docs so ahundantly shower
his blessings upon you, Unit vo may have wherewith to feed the poor and
hungry souls who will yet cry to you for help and strength.
Again, some time in the month of November, one thousand eight hundred
and forty two, while in the worship of God, I saw a mighty Angel who ap
peared like a flaming fire; and he had in his right hand a large shining Roll.
He passed through the room three or four times, back and forth, holding out
the Roll as he passed.
He then came towards me and said, O thou little one of mortality, look
and behold what the Lord hath done for the inhabitants of the earth ; for
from Zion shall his law go forth even unto every nation, tongue and people
that dwell thereon, that she may be delivered from the heavy burden of
sin and iniquity under which she now lies ; and God is about to make Him
self known to her inhabitants who are groping in sin and darkness, who
know not God, neither have learned his holy way.
But He hath decreed that the children of men should know that there is
a God, who is able to stain the pride of all flesh, and lay low the haughti
ness of vain mortals; and that He iias given sufficient power in this day of
Christ's second appearing, to save every soul that will comply with his offers
of mercy, in the order that He Himself has prepared and made plain before
them. The Angel now ceased speaking.
I greatly feared the Angel would bid me take the Roll to write ; for I felt
that it contained weighty matters, and was more than 1 was able to perform.
After a little tiino the Angel disappeared from my view.
May fourth, eighteen hundred and forty three, while assembled in our sa
cred place of worship, I saw four mighty Angels who attended the reading
of the Sacred Roll ; and they had in their right hands a large trumpet, re
sembling very bright silver; and in their left, a golden sceptre of truth.
They turned in every direction, and sounded through their trumpets very
loud and powerful ; in the mean time holding out their golden sceptres of
truth as they turned. After they had finished sounding, they spoke in one
united voice, as follows :
We are the holy witnessing Angels of the living God, and thus has the
Lord Jehovah, who knowcth all things in Heaven and on earth, whose arm
of mercy and judgment is stretched out to all the inhabitants thereof, caused
this his sacred and saving word, to be correctly written by mortal hand,
through heavy sufferings and deep tribulation, for the perusal of the nations
of the earth ; that they may know his word and law, which will prove a sa
vor of life unto life to those who hearken and obey the same, and of death
unto death to the disobedient and rebellious.
The Angels now vanished out of my sight.
Inspired Witness,
Rebecca Robinso.i.
Feeling it a duty which God requires of me, I freely add my testimony as
a witness , for all who may read the foregoing sacred pages.
I can testify, and that beyond a doubt, by what I have seen and felt, that
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 3(il
this Sacred Roll was handed forth from God by his holy Angels, and correct
ly written under the divine inspiration of the power of God, and Him alone.
To this I will ever stand; and this I will maintain and support, even to
the laying down of my natural life. Yea, this I would do under the most
excruciating tortures, if my God required
it,
rather than deny the late mani
festation and work of God
;
for
I
know
it
is
of Him, and will forever stand.
Enfield, N. H.
;
Juae 22, 1843. Rebecca Robinson.
Born March 31, A. D. 1812; in Springfield, county of Sullivan, stote
of
JVe?o Hampshire
;
and was admitted into the United Society in Enfield, N. IT.
A. D. 1826.
TESTIMONY OF OTIS SAWYER.
The City of Portland, county of Cumberland and state of Maine, was my
native place;
I
was born May second, eighteen hundred and fifteen, and
was received into the United Society in July, eighteen hundred and twenty
two, where
I
have ever since lived, and of which
I
am a member. And
having witnessed and tested, by many years experience, the effects of obedi
ence to, and having gained full confidence and an unshaken faith in the pres
ent testimony of the gospel of Christ, in which he has the second time
appeared, without sin unto full and free salvation, which was immutably
established by the revelation, power and gift of God, in and through his
chosen witnesses in this favored land of freedom and liberty, and having
been made partaker of its benign and saving influence,
I
can with full confi
dence testify of the same.
That God has of late opened the spiritual avenues from the invisible to
the visible world, by which the heavenly host have been brought nigh; and
that He hath, through this means, poured out his spirit and power in a most
wonderful and marvelous manner among this peculiar people, evidently to
prepare them for some great and mighty event of his will, operating by
tongues, signs, visions, prophecies, inspiration and revelation,
is
a
fact estab
lished beyond all doubt or equivocation in my mind, having been in some
degree a subject of it; for what my eyes have seen and my ears have heard,
and what has been made plain and evident to my senses by the power of
God,
I
never can dispute or deny. And that these gifts have been and still
are clearly and plainly demonstrated beyond
a
doubt,
I
can, with many oth
ers, boldly and confidently bear witness; for "We are witnesses of these
things
;
and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given us."
And this wonderful display of Almighty power,
is
a
sure evidence that
God
is
about to commence
a
new era with mankind; for here hath He es
tablished the law and order of grace, of his new and spiritual kingdom
;
and
now
is
the mystery finished, and his kingdom in its fullness revealed, and
Zion
is
immutably established on earth.
Therefore,
it
is
obvious, agreeable to divine prediction, that from hence
must proceed the word and law of God to the nations both afar off and near.
362 APPENDIX TO THE
And this is demonstrated in the Sacred Roll and Book to the nations of the
earth, which I believe to be the sacred word of the Lord God of Heaven
and earth, as much an any part of the writings of the ancient Prophets or
Apostles, contained in the Old or New Testament ; and the same power that
influenced them to write, inspired the mortal writer and guided the pen of
him who wrote this holy and sacred word ; and I unhesitatingly declare my
faith in the same, that it is not the work or device of mortals, but the merci
ful condescension of an Almighty God to his frail creature man.
And I solemnly and conscientiously testify, in the fear of God, to all who
may see or hear this testimony, that I never will deny the present display of
God's holy power, or the word of his Sacred Roll ; nor renounce my faith
in this everlasting gospel, whatever may be the result of its promulgation;
but will boldly and confidently support and stand in defence of the same,
and in support of what I have written, to the utmost extent of my feeble
abilities, and seal the same with my blood if so required, and suffered by my
God. In confirmation whereof I hereunto sign my name this twenty third
day of August, one thousand eight hundred and forty three.
Jfete Gloucester, county of Cumber- > Otis Sawter.
land and state of Maine. \
TESTIMONY OF MERRILL BAILEY.
The town of Colebrook, county of Coos and state of New Hampshire, was
the place of my nativity ; I was born August twenty eighth, one thousand
and eight hundred. I came with my parents to live with the United Society
in this place, in the year one thousand eight hundred and twelve, where I
have remained until the present time.
Having gained a measure of understanding in the present testimony of
Christ's second appearing, and having full faith and a firm belief that this is
the only true way of God, I feel free to declare my faith to all men, concern
ing this people, and concerning the strange work that is going on among
them ; for it is a strange and marvelous work in the eyes of mankind.
This is the Church that was spoken of by the Prophets in ancient days,
that was to be established in the latter day when the true worship and gifts
of God were to be restored. The same power that inspired the Prophets of
God among the children of Israel, and which caused them to sound forth
and write God's word to that nation, and to the nations of the earth, caui-es,
or inspires his chosen ones in this day, to sound forth or write his word to
this Church, and to the nations of the earth at the present time. Yea, that
same power that operated upon the Apostles at the day of Pentecost, and
which caused them to broak forth in tongues and speak as the spirit gave
them utterance, has been these few years past, and still is, operating among
the children of Zion ; although in a more remarkable manner in the gift of
revelation.
I feel full confidence in declaring the same, because I have felt that same
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 303
power operating upon my own soul, and upon my mortal body, and have
been an eye and ear witness of the same, with many others. I believe the
Sacred Roll and Book that is to be sent forth to the nations of the earth, is
the word of the Lord to the inhabitants thereof, and is in great mercy and
condescension sent forth to mankind, in due season, in the order of God's
providence, that they may know his mind and will, and turn to Him and
live ; for as He hath declared, He hath no pleasure in the death of the
wicked.
Thus I have stated, in a few words, my faith in the present work of God
and display of his power; and it is that which I own, and will ever main
tain to the laying down of my natural life, if so required ; yea, though per
secution should rage and deep tribulation roll on, yet I will not deny my
Lord and Savior; for he that is not willing to suffer with him, is not wor
thy to reign with him. In witness whereof I subscribe my name this twen
ty eighth day of August, eighteen hundred and forty three.
Alfred, county of York and ) Merrill Bailey.
state of Maine. )
TESTIMONY OF LYDIA NOVVELL.
I was born in the town of Shuplcigh, county of York and state of Maine,
October twelfth, eighteen hundred and eight; and have lived with Believers
twenty two years. And my faith being firmly established in the gift and rev
elation of God, and gospel of Christ, in his second appearing, I esteem it
a duty and privilege to bear witness to the same, and to the display of heav
enly and divine gifts, with which, of late, this people have been so abun
dantly blessed.
I can with confidence declare this to be the only true way of God, and
the pure gospel of Christ, or He would never have blessed them to such un
extent, with the gifts of the Holy spirit, of visions, tongues and revelation,
and in many and various ways, to purify and cleanse his chosen people from
the nature of sin. All who walk in obedience to his revealed will, and the
established order of his Zion on earth, have tasted of the good word of God
and the powers of the world to come.
This I have received, and this I am not ashamed to assert and witness to
at any time. I have felt and witnessed the operation of God's power in this
late manifestation, which has caused souls to break forth into sublime songs
of the Now Jerusalem, and speak for Angels and Ministering spirits of God,
to' the delight and astonishment of every beholder.
And having been thus blessed and noticed of God, to partake of his saving
gospel, I feel under the greatest obligation to be faithful and true to my trust.
I will ever stand as a true witness to the sacred word of God, now about to
be sent forth to the nations of the earth, so long as I am blessed with my
right reason, and remain on the shores of time. In testimony whereof I
hereunto subscribe my name, this twenty eighth day of August, eighteen
hundred and forty three.
Alfred, state of Maine. Lydia Nowell
364
TESTIMONY OF LA VINA P. McINTIRE.
At nine o'clock Sabbath evening, April eighteenth, eighteen hundred forty
three, the Prophet Zcphaniah gave rac a white marble Box, wherein he said
was a Roll and Book.
Not knowing what the Prophet intended for me to do with the box, I re
tired to my room, where I intended to examine it ; but had not time to do
this, before the prophet told me the box must be given to the Holy Anointed
of this place, and by them conveyed to Holy Ground, or Canterbury, N. H.,
where it would be opened and the contents of the Roll and Book clearly
ascertained.
July eighteenth, as I was about to copy what I had received from the
prophet, suddenly there appeared a bright light passing and re-passing before
me, and these words followed, spoken by a holy Angel :
The box which the prophet gave you, was to you a sealed box; and would
have remained so, had you retained it longer; for the time had not fully
come for you to know what the Roll and Book contained. But now it hath
been sounded in your ears, and made plain to your understanding; for it was
never intended from the beginning, that this great and all-wise purpose
should be veiled in mystery.
But know ye, it has been through the prayers and intercessions of Angels
and purified spirits in Heaven, that this Sacred Roll and Book has been sent
forth for the nations of the earth ; and that it has caused much tribulation
and sufferings of soul to be felt, by many of the inhabitants of Zion on
earth ; hut the end of sufferings will not fully come, until all have had an
offer of this soul-saving gospel, taught by Christ and your ever blessed Moth
er Ann Lee.
Many of the holy Angels have already gone forth to the earth, to awaken
souls to a sense of their lost state, and to prepare them for the ushering in
of this great and glorious work ; and many there are who will embrace it in
sincerity of heart.
This word of eternal truth will not return void, but will prove a savor of
life unto life, or of death unto death. So let all those who have been made
partakers of the heavenly and divine revelations and manifestations of God,
which have been sent forth from time to time, look well to their goings; for
his judgments are already determined upon the disobedient and rebellious,
who seek to do their own wills, rather than subject themselves to the will of
God their Heavenly Father.
But those who fear God and keep his commandments, will be objects of
his peculiar delight; and when his judgments are abroad in the earth, He
will hide them as in the hollow of his hand ; yea, He will stretch forth his
arm of love to protect them, and none shall be able to turn it aside.
Inspired Witness,
Lavina P. McIktire.
I was born March twenty eighth, eighteen hundred and seven, in the
town of New Portland, Franklin county and state of Maine. When at the
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 365
age often years, my parents placed me under the care of the United Society of
Believers, where I have remained from that time to this, it being about twen
ty six years. Although I was young, yet in obedience to what I was taught,
I found salvation from sin.
I can with confidence and sincerity of soul, declare unto all who may
hereafter read this, that in obedience to the doctrine and principles of Christ,
taught by the leading influence of this Society, I have found the way of life
and salvation, and do know it is the only way, whereby any soul can find
acceptance with God, and an entrance into his pure and peaceable kingdom ;
for it is founded on the divine revelation of God, and has been by Him sus
tained, from the commencement of it unto the present time.
Although the mighty power of God has of late, been displayed in a mar
velous and wonderful manner, in the gift of revelation, inspiration and proph
ecy, yet it is only an increase of the same light and power, which has char
acterized this church ever since it was first established in this favored land.
It is no doubt a strange work, and marvelous in the sight of the world ; but
it is nevertheless true. I know, and can confidently assert that I have felt
and witnessed the power of God, and that He has blessed this people with
the gifts of the Holy Spirit in various ways and manners, and that in this Ho
has more plainly and fully revealed his will, than in any preceding dispen
sation.
My faith is firmly established in this gospel, and in the revelation of God ;
and I do solemnly declare that I will stand in defence and support of the
same, and maintain the principles of this pure and holy faith to the end of
my days.
New Gloucester, Maine, August 23, 1843. Lavina P. McIntire.
TESTIMONY OF SOPHIA F. MACE.
On tho morning of the eighteenth of September, eighteen hundred and
forty two, as I was busily engaged in my usual occupation, I heard a sudden
noise like that of a strong wind, and rain beating powerfully upon the house.
I quickly arose and passed along towards the window, and observed that the
natural elements were all calm and still ; but I cannot describe or paint on
paper that which I saw and felt. The heavenly music which I heard, and
the bright Angels which I saw, took every natural thing from my view, and
my soul was swallowed up in adoration and lovo to God.
A mighty Angel advanced towards me, holding in one hand a Book, and
in the other a large Roll. I was about to turn away from the sight, for fear
of some further requirement, when the holy Angel spake to me as follows:
Stop, and behold the work of the Lord your God, and me the holy Angel
who am shod with Eternal Truth, and in whom is no darkness at all ; for my
dwelling is before the throne of God, and I am sent forth unto tho Zion of
God, to proclaim his power and to sound forth his word of solemn warning
unto tho nations of the earth.
APPENDIX TO THE
Look ye and behold this Roll, and the seals thereon, which the Lord your
God doth purpose, in his own due time, (which time is nigh even at your
doors,) to open, publish and send abroad unto the inhabitants of the earth ;
so bow exceeding low, all ye indwellers of Zion, and seek to obey and strict
ly keep the laws of your God, and in so doing receive the blessing of
Heaven.
The Angel then disappeared from my sight, and I saw nor heard any thing
more concerning the Roll, until on the morning of the eighteenth of January,
eighteen hundred and forty three, while I was engaged in my morning du
ties, I heard a sound as of continued shouting, which sounded very heavenly
and melodious, and I was deeply struck with the solemn fear of God. I
saw nothing at first ; but this shouting, or melodious sound, apparently drew
nearer and nearer, until it took my whole sensation.
I looked and beheld a bright band of Angels, and many good and happifi-
cd spirits; they were unitedly marching in regular order through our door-
yard and dwellings ; and as they marched towards me, I saw the great and
powerful Angel of the Lord, holding or bearing the Roll which spread far
and wide ; (the length and breadth I did not exactly know.)
Then spake the Holy Angel these words unto me : Know thou that I am
an holy proclaiming Angel of the Lord, and the same Angel, holding the
same Roll in my hand which I plainly showed unto thee four months ago
this very day, whirh is now unsealed, opened and revealed in the Zion of
God on earth, by the will, word and command of God your Heavenly Father,
and is speedily preparing to go abroad in the world.
And his Angels are already sent, passing and re-passing from Heaven to
earth, and from earth to Heaven ; for the inhabitants of earth have strayed
far from their God, and their filthy abominations have come up before Him,
and his cup of indignation is filled to overflowing for the same, unless they
return unto his righteous law. But the mercy and charity of the Lord your
God is unboundedly great towards his creature man ; for in his own will and
time, doth He purpose to extend this, his Roll and word of solemn warning
unto the children of enrth, that they may learn to fear Him, and to square
their lives by his unerring word, and in so doing appease his anger, and en
joy his parental blessing and protection.
And for this, his notice unto poor fallen man, the Angels in Heaven do
greatly rejoice, and holy spirits do sing with joy and thanksgiving around
the throne of God and the Lamb, in shouts and in sougs of victory over the
beast and his image, and arc continually bowing around his throne, implor
ing that the mercy and forgiveness of God may be extended unto poor frail
mortals, and his true light shine forth into their hearts, to cause them to de
sist from doing evil, and learn to do good to their own souls, and do unto
others, even as they would that others should do unto them.
Inspired Witness,
Sophia F. Mace.
I know, and hereby testify and bear witness unto the solemn work and
revelation of God, now going on throughout Zion ; for it is that which I
have seen, felt and known ; and by my own experience do I testify unto
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 3G7
the same; for I would sooner give up my natural life, than to deny this, if I
were called so to do.
And I furthermore testify, and bear witness with boldness and with confi
dence, before God and all people, that the solemn and weighty Roll, which
the Lord God hath caused to be written by divine revelation, is not the in
vention of man or of woman ; but the unalterable word of the Lord God,
and that by which every soul must finally be judged.
New Gloucester, Maine, July 17,1843. Sophia F. Mace.
Born January 5, 1819; in the town of Strong, county of Franklin and
state of Maine; was gathered into the United Society at New Gloucester, in
the year 1835.
A SHORT COMMUNICATION FROM A HOLY SPIRIT,
RECEIVED AT ONION VILLAGE, WARREN COUNTY, OHIO ; MAY 14, 1843.
Thussaith the Spirit; O my children, unite your souls as the heart of one,
and move forward with the increasing work of God. Marvelous and great
are the mysteries revealed in this your day ; for truly the Lord hath made
known his will and word to his people on earth, and will declare the same
to all nations and people, in his own time.
Marvel not, though I tell you I have been a witness of the holy word of
God revealed to mortal clay, which must shortly be given to the rulers of
the land, and to the nations afar off.*
But know ye, when a living testimony hath gone forth from Zion, then
shall tribulation bo fully realized among God's chosen people; therefore,
stand ye firm and strong, and fear not what an unbelieving world may inflict
upon you. But keep ye low and quiet; stand firm and unshaken, amidst
storms and tribulation, for the holy hand of God will cover and protect hi9
chosen, from every harm; Zion shall flourish, bloom and grow, like a well
watered garden ; her beauty and glory shall spread far and wide ; and many
shall flock to her peaceful borders, to learn the holy way of righteousness.
Then O ye children, how necessary it is, that you keep your stores full,
and your souls well supplied with the beautiful gifts of God ; for they will
adorn the soul with heavenly beauty and glory ; yea, and your light bIihII
shine forth as the morning sun ; and all who behold it shall say, Behold the
light and glory of Zion ! the beautiful City of God, where dwell peaco and
righteousness, abounding with the blessings of Heaven forevermore.
Now, saith the spirit, I have not much to say at this time, but I have a
little anthem which 1 will give you ; that you may know that tho Lord is
visiting the earth, in mercy and in judgment.
Anthem.
Lo, the Angel of the Lord is swiftly flying over the earth ; sounding,
*The inspired writer had no knowledge of this Roll and Book, only by divine revela
tion, at the time the above was written.
368 APPENDIX TO THE
sounding through his holy trumpet, saying, Hear, O hear ye my warning
voice ! For lo, the God of Heaven, clothed with might and power, is descend
ing in mercy and in judgment; and He will smite the inhabitants of the
earth with sore and heavy judgments, for the wickedness thereof is very
grr.'it.
Then, O yc children of his holy name; O ye sc ve'se, le'no voo', be ye
lowly; fur t he humble, the holy and pure, shall abide in the day of God's
visitation ; for they arc his faithful servants, marked with his holy name.
Then fear ye not, ye lovely chosen of your God ; for ye shall be as an en
sign lifted up, and as a banner of pure light ; for, saith the Lord, whose
ways are just and true, I will be your God, and yc shall be my C le an sa
voo', and my cc lea' ta, li la va'. I will guide and comfort you, through all
scenes of tribulation, and you shall be the jewels of my holy love, and the
glory of my righteous name, protected by my holy hand forevermore.
A SEAL FROM THE LORD JEHOVAH ;
Read by a Holy Angel and copied by inspiration, at Union Village, Warren
county, Ohio, June 26, 1843; as an evidence of the truth and correctness of
the Great Roll, which teas written in his own name for the nations of the
earth : and which has been correctly copied through deep tribulation, by a mor
tal Instrument of God's own choosing, at the Holy Mount.
I AM that I AM. Before Me there was not, and above Me there is none ;
And behold, out of my mouth has gone forth my everlasting commandment,
and the word of Eternal Truth ; to which no mortal clay shall add, neither
shall they diminish, unless they are anointed of my Holy Spirit and com
manded so to do.
For I have spoken it in my wisdom, according as 1 have intended ; and
let no one that is ever blessed with a privilege of reading or hearing this
Sacred Word of mine, suffer themselves to cavil, or yield to an unbelieving
spirit, and doubt of its divine origin.
I say, be careful that you do not suffer yourselves to harbor such fcelings;
for great will be the blasphemy of all such as do this; and sore will be my
judgments that shall fall upon them, to humble them low to the dust, till
they shall know that I am the holy and righteous God of Zion, against
whom no man shall raise his voice, or put forth his hand, and prosper ; bat
every soul shall bow before Me, in low humiliation, and bend their knees in
humble prayer; and with their own tongues confess in the presence of my
witnesses, the evils whfch they have done, or never sec my kingdom in
peace.
I will deal with every soul in righteousness, according to their works ; and
blessed shall be the humble soul, that will come at the call of mercy, and
bow down to seek a place in my holy Zion ; and not wait to be driven ad
judgments, to seek a refuge and a hiding place.
For lo, in the day when the earth shall be visited with famine and desola
tion, and many sore judgments which I will send ; and when my holy An
gels shall blow their trumpets like many mighty thunders, to awaken those
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 3(39
who are resting in their sins, then shall the nations of the earth trcmhle and
be sore afraid ; and they will call on the rocks and mountains to cover them,
and hide them from the face of the Almighty.
I call on thee, O Zion, to keep my holy laws and commandments, without
the least deviation from the true spirit of the gospel; also to walk low and
humbly, and pray to Me, by night and day ; for in times of my own appoint
ing, I will send exceeding heavy sufferings upon you ; that 1 may in truth call
you my well tried and beloved few, and that you may be true examples of
patience and meekness to all who conic to learn tho way of peace and
righteousness.
And more than this, I do require you to be so prepared, that you can stand
united in one spirit, steadfast as the rock of ages, and keep your faith firm
and unshaken, although you may bo called to surfer imprisonment, banish
ment, and many other cruel and barbarous things, which tho wicked may
inflict upon you.
But remember, my beloved few, if you will keep my holy way, and cry
to Mc in meekness and humiliation, with one spirit and one mind, desiring
Me to help you to endure, I will not leave nor forsake you ; but in all that
you bear for righteousness' sake, I will be with you, and my hand shall be
as the strength of thousands in your defence. Yea, I will watch over the
lambs of my fold, and will protect my heritage, and rescue them from dan
ger, so that not one upright soul shall be lost.
When I had written my Word for the nations of the earth, I called certain
of my Angels, and rend it in their hearing ; and they bowed and said, Amen
to what thou hast written, O Lord ; But who shall reveal it to mortals? for
great indeed is the weight which it doth bring.
Then I chose from among the Angels, one of the most holy, and clothed
the same with my spirit; and told him to go to the Holy Mount, where
dwell my Daughter's first-born, and, as soon as he could, to show it to some
of my instruments there ; and according as I commanded the Angel, so was
it done, and the Angel returned to Me with the Roll, to wait for the time,
that what was therein contained should be revealed.
And when tho Angel returned, I was troubled, because of the heavy
sufferings and deep tribulation which I knew it would bring upon my peo
ple; both in -preparing it for the nations of the earth, and from what would
take place after it was spread abroad.
But now my spirit rejoices, to see that my word is correctly copied ; and
that it is owned and blessed by my Holy Anointed, as far as it has been
made known. And I do truly desire that every branch of my holy house
may lend a liberal hand in the expense of preparing my word for the na
tions and kindreds of the earth ; and you shall not be the losers, but your
reward shall be double what you give.
I do also desire that each and every one would carefully and wisely con
sider their present day and calling, and labor to walk according to it. For
if you are ever so faithful, you cannot be too well prepared for days to
come, in which you will sec much tribulation, and many heavy trials.
I have, for some time past, been careful to warn all my people to prepare ;
n*
370 APPENDIX TO THE
for I would surely do a great work in the earth, through which no soul would
he able to stand, and find favor in my sight, but such as would hearken to my
warnings. And now, as the time is drawing very near, and is even at the
door, I say, Blessed are ye that have hearkened to my warnings, and have
kept my commandments; for it shall be well with you : And those who have
not done this, must bear the reward of their own labor, and feast upon such
fruit as they have gathered.
For I have been merciful to all, and sent repeated and timely warnings ;
that all who had done wrong, and wandered from the path, might have time
to see their own state, repent and come down, where they could find
their union and relation to Mo, by obedience to the order which I have estab
lished for the protection and safe-going of my people.
Now I say unto all who love my ways, and walk in them ; Fear not the
slanders of the wicked, nor the reproach of the ungodly ; for my holy Zion
shall sit as a Queen, and feast on the good of her labors, while those who
will not obey my voice, shall perish in the dust.
Great and marvelous is the work which I will do before the eyes of many,
who are now living; therefore I say, Prepare, and do not delay the time, for
you know not the day or hour in which I will do my work, and bring to pass
that which I have promised by the word of my mouth. And lest you should
be like the unbelieving Jews, I say again, Prepare, O prepare ! and do not de
lay the time, till it is too late.
This Seal I give unto you, my beloved and well tried servants, as an evi
dence, and a warning to my people to prepare for the great day of my visita
tion among the nations and kingdoms of the earth; which will deeply inter
est every faithful child of my holy house upon earth.
Inspired writer of the two foregoing communications,
Union Village, Warren county, ) Mary Ann Jennings.
state of Ohio. J
TESTIMONY OF SUSAN H. WHITCHER, AND OTHERS.
In confirmation of tho sacred word of this holy Roll and Book, we, the
undersigned, do hereby certify and declare before all men, that we have full
confidence in what is herein stated, and that the word thereof has been writ
ten by and through the influence of that same Power divine, and holy Spirit
of eternal truth and revelation, which caused the Prophets of old, and the
Apostles of Jesus Christ to write the sacred pages of that holy Book, (the
Bible,) so universally acknowledged by the enlightened nations of the earth,
to be the true and holy word of God.
And we furthermore declare, that we have not only been eye and ear wit
nesses of the out-pourings of the holy spirit of God, by gifts of divine inspi
ration and revelation in this our day ; but we have been active subjects of
this holy work and power, and have felt, existing in our souls, the same
spirit and infusion of divine power which has caused us to move in obedience
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 3?)
to, and in communion with the saints and Angels of God, in testifying and
bearing witness to his holy words of truth and righteousness.
And we hesitate not to say, that we have an internal evidence of the gift
of divine revelation, and of the reality of this holy influence existing in the
soul, and many times manifested by operating upon the mortal body, that it is
of God, and originated from no other source whatever. And we would as
soon doubt our natural existence, as to doubt, or in any wise disbelieve the
gift of divine revelation, now existing in the true Church of Christ.
We therefore solemnly and coescientiously testify and declare, whatever
may be the consequences, that, we have full faith in the word recorded in the
foregoing pages of this holy Book, and do hereby cheerfully and voluntarily
subscribe our names as instruments in the holy work of God, in this day of
Christ's Second Coming.
.May 4, 1843.
Susan H. Whitcher. Ei.mira Allard.
Lydia M. Chase. Phebe Atwood.
Dorothy Ann Durgin. Roselinda Ali.ard.
TESTIMONY OF SETH. Y. WELLS.
The work of Eternal Power and Wisdom is incomprehensible to man ; it
is indeed far above all mortal commendation. But if the testimony of mor
tal man can be of any avail, in calling the serious and solemn attention of
his fellow mortals to the sacred and holy word of the Almighty Creator of
Heaven and earth, for their own salvation, then it is obviously his duty to
give
it,
if in his power.
As mortal witnesses may indeed have some weight on the minds of their
fellow mortals,
I
feel perfectly willing to cast in my mite for that purpose,
and consider
it
my duty and privilege to extend the testimony of my faith
and confidence in the work of God, as far as lies in my power; and
I
trust
that this my testimony will not be entirely useless to the readers of this Sa
cred Book, and doubt not those of my former acquaintance will appreciate
it
according to its merits.
Having carefully examined this work in the manuscript of the inspired
writer,
I
am fully and firmly convinced that the work
is
of God, that
it
is
a.
visible display of his infinite mercy and goodness to man; and believing
it
will be under his Divine blessing and protection, and trusting to the guid
ance of his Holy Spirit,
I
will give such testimony as
I
can maintain in life
and in death, and such as
I
can willingly meet at the bar of God in the eter
nal world.
I
am now nearly seventy six years of age, and
it
is
almost forty five years
since
I
embraced this blessed gospel of Christ's second appearing, which
was about eighteen years after its promulgation in America, in the year sev
enteen hundred and eighty. About ten years previous to my coming into
this Society,
I
was connected with various literary institutions, and for a
372 APPENDIX TO THE
number of years was employed in teaching a public school. My employ
ment in the Society now is, and for many years has been in the capacity of
Secretary and Clerk. In this capacity I consider it my duty and privilege to
employ my faculties for the benefit of the Society, and for the promotion of
God's holy work; and in ibis 1 feel myself under his divine blessing.
My long privilege and extensive acquaintance with the people in the vari
ous branches of this communion, have given me sufficient opportunities of
acquiring a full knowledge of the principles and practice of the Society in
all its departments, both spiritual and temporal. And I can truly say with
all confidence, that for strict morality, practical piety, and true godliness,
there is not another such community of Christians existing on earth.
During the last five years, there has been the greatest work of God
wrought among the inhabitants of all the Societies in this communion, both
in the eastern and western states, that was ever wrought on earth since the
fall of man. These assertions may appear doubtful to some, and probably
incredible to many; but they are true, and will yet be confirmed to millions.
The wonderful work of God which took place in the days of the Apostles,
when the Holy Spirit descended from Heaven upon the assembly of christ
ian Believers, at the day of Pentecost, has ever been considered as a mar
velous display of divine power, which then excited the astonishment of those
who were eye and ear witnesses of the remarkable events of that day. And
these events are still considered by the common professors of christianity, as
the greatest manifestation of spiritual power that has ever taken place since
that memorable period.
But let it be considered, that the work of God^s an increasing work ; and
although a long night of darkness succeeded the falling away of the primi
tive Church, which overshadowed the natural world for many ages ; yet in
the spiritual world, where the spirits of darkness could not prevail, the
work of God has not been stationary, but has been constantly increasing,
from one degree to another, even from the beginning; and ever will contin
ue to increase, through the endless ages of eternity.
Thcrcfure, every new dispensation of the grace of God, must and does
exceed the preceding. The apostolic gifts, and the work of that dav, ex
ceeded the dispensation of Moses, with all its legal restrictions and ceremo
nies of types and shadows ; though not altogether so obvious to the natural
senses of fallen man. So docs the work of God in this day, and under the
present dispensation of tho gospel of Christ's second appearing, far exceed
the apostolic dispensation, though unseen by, and unknown to a lost and
unbelieving world.
However doubtful this may appear to many; yet those who arc in the
work, and see and feel its effects, can no more doubt it than they can doubt
that the light of the sun far out-shines that of the moon.
Some will probably be ready to impute our strong language and confident
assertions to enthusiasm. But the true followers of Christ are no enthusi
asts; they arc not exalted in imagination, and raised in spirit, as on eagles'
wings, to the third Heavens, fancying themselves superior to the rest of their
fellow mortals; but far from it. Indeed they consider themselves no better
SACRED ROLL AND HOOK.
by nature than the rest of mankind. All that distinguishes thcin from oth
ers, is what the gospel of Christ has done for them, in consequence of their
faithful obedience to it.
Therefore they are not high-minded nor self-exalted ; but a calm, consid
erate and steady people, clothed in the spirit of meekness and lowliness of
heart, and feel their daily dependence on the condescending mercy and good
ness of their Heavenly Father, for their protection against evil, and for their
blessing and prosperity in the gospel of their Lord and Savior. They feel
themselves, in reality, hut as little children in Christ ; learning of him the
blessed way of salvation from a fallen, sinful nature ; and though poor in
spirit, and despised by a vain, ungodly world, yet they are not of the world :
for their Savior hath chosen them out of the world, and hath declared, say
ing, If ye were of the world, the world would love its own ; hut I have
chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.
But every faithful and honest hearted soul is truly of that class of Believ
ers who have forsaken all for Christ's sake and the gospel's, and have, ac
cording to his promise, received a hundred fold of the blessings of this life;
and they have no doubt, if they continue faithful, that they shall receive
eternal life in the world to come. Indeed the truly faithful, who have gained
a fruitful travel in the gospel, daily feel the spirit of eternal life increasing
and growing in their own souls, which feels infinitely more precious and
important to them, than the momentary enjoyments of time.
The mighty manifestations of God to his chosen people, arc truly wonder
ful, very wonderful ; far beyond any thing ever before revealed on earth. It
has often seemed as though the Heavens and earth had come together, and
that we were in reality, surrounded by the heavenly hosts ; yet those heav
enly and divine manifestations, with which we have so often been favored,
are not understood by the world of mankind ; nor can they understand them ex
cept by revelation from God, or faith in the testimony of his appointed agents.
The word of the Almighty, contained in the preceding pages, one would
suppose, might carry conviction to every soul that reads
it,
that
it
is
indeed
the word of God, and not of man. Though the societies in the various
branches of this communion, have been, from time to time, greatly favored
with divine messages, for the benefit of the people
;
yet this
is
the first which
has been given, during the present season of inspired manifestations, with
Divine authority to publish
it
to the world of mankind.
Many of the youth, both male and female, in all the societies of this com
munion, have been blessed with gifts of divine inspiration, as were the
prophets of old. Indeed, they have often been inspired by the spirits of the
ancient prophets, and by many other departed spirits, and also by the Angels
of Heaven, to convey divine messages to the society, to families and individ
uals. And
it
is
worthy of remark, that the principle instruments chosen
by
Divine Wisdom, to convey these sacred messages to their respective socie
ties and families, were such as have been taken into the community in child
hood, and are mostly classed among the youth, and have had nothing more
than
a
common school education.
Even the inspired individual who wrote the preceding pages from the
Almighty, as they were read to him by
a
holy Angel of the Lord, was taken
374 APPENDIX TO THE
into tho Society when a child under seven years of age, and has received
but an ordinary education, from a common school in this Society ; and
though ca|iable of committing his ideas to paper, he is not what is usually
called a correct writer of the English language; and he knows no other.
Perhaps some may be ready to inquire, why such youthful ones were se
lected to receive these divine messages, and convey them to the Society,
instead of the more aged and experienced members? To which I answer ;
Because God, in his infinite wisdom, chose such as were young and inexpe
rienced, whose honesty and integrity would be less liable to the suspicion
of fraud, by an unbelieving world, than those more advanced in years, that
his Almighty power and wisdom might be more clearly manifested, and show
with greater certainty, that it was, in truth, the work of God, and not of
man.
It is well known throughout all the societies in this communion, both in
the eastern and western states of the American Union, that though many of
these youthful instruments of divine inspiration were, in many instances, pcr-
snnly unknown to each other; yet their inspired communications, in their
nature and spirit, are found to be in perfect accordance, one with another,
and with the doctrines of the gospel taught by our heavenly Parents, and
practiced throughout this communion. Even the same sacred truths, in sub
stance, have, in some instances, been communicated at the same time by dif
ferent individuals, entirely unknown to each other ; and no possible chance,
at the time, for any correspondence between them.
When these things are known and considered, I feel confident that no can
did person, who is desirous to know the truth, could witness these circum
stances, and hear these communications from the mouths of the youthful
speakers, without readily admitting that the work is of God, and that their
words are the words of divine inspiration ; and surely none but obstinate un
believers and determined infidels would attempt to controvert it.
As the word of the Lord God of Heaven and earth contained in the pre
ceding pages, speaks for itself, and is confirmed by so many inspired and
faithful witnesses, and by such angelic and divine testimonies from Heaven,
1 will merely add, that 1 have not the least shadow of a doubt, that this word
is in reality what it purports to be, "jU Holy, Divine and Satred Roll and
Book," emanating from the ALMIGHTY CREATOR OF ALL.
So testifies
New Lebanon, N. Y. May 15, 1843. Seth Y. Wells.
TESTIMONY OF BENJAMIN SETH YOUNGS.
For the sake of brevity, and in consideration of the very marvelous dis
play of the mercy and goodness of the Almighty, of late, and now made
known to mortals, by the tongue and pen of his holy Angels ; I must pass
over many of the peculiar incidents of my youthful days ; my early convic
tions for sin, and my struggles to know and to find the mercy and favor of
my God ; and endeavor to make my words few, and acceptable.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 875
I was born in Schenectady, state of New York, September seventeenth,
seventeen hundred and seventy four. My father, Seth Youngs, came from
Windsor, Connecticut ; was a member of the Presbyterian Church in Sche
nectady ; and brought mo up very strictly in that order, until I was about
sixteen years of age.
In the spring of the year seventeen hundred and ninety one, a religious
movement having taken place in Johnstown among the Methodists, my fa
ther joined that Society, and immediately removed there with his family.
These movements affected me nothing. But, frequently attending their
meetings, and seriously reflecting on the discourses, my early convictions
returned upon me ; and on the eleventh of September, the same year, I also
became a member, and with full purpose of heart, set out to seek and servo
the Lord.
For the space of about two years, I did earnestly beseech the God of
Heaven, that I might be saved from sin. It was not from any open or out
breaking sin or sins, that I sought deliverance; from these, my education,
and the moral sense of the duty I owed to myself and to my fellow mortals,
preserved me. It was from the nature of sin, that I prayed and struggled to
find redemption.
It was from the secret, deceitful and base desires, from the sordid,
filthy, soul-darkening, and soul-debasing passions of a fallen and fleshly
nature, that I prayed to God for salvation. But this salvation 1 found not !
And I found by search, and by reflecting on the lives of all the ordained
ministers, pastors and preachers, and all their churches, of every class and
denomination professing christianity, within my knowledge, that they pos
sessed it not !
Among all these, "A glorious Church, "(such as the true Church of Christ
is, and should be,) A Church "not having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing;
holy and without blemish," I found not ; it existed not! Eph. v, 27.
Many were the times and seasons in which 1 sought seclusion from the
sight and hearing of mortals, in order that I might humble myself before
God, pour out the sorrows of my soul before Him, and implore his mercy
and his favor. Many are the solitary places, to which the holy Angels can
witness, where I have poured out the feelings and desires of my hungry and
afflicted soul, in tears, and in earnest prayer ,'in cries and supplications, on
my face, and on my bended knees before God, that He would show me the
way of salvation, —the salvation dwelling in his Zion, in his holy Church,
in his saints.
And, in my prayers and supplications, many solemn promises did I make
unto the Lord God, my Creator, that if in his mercy and goodness, Ho
would condescend to show me his salvation, I would sacrifice my all and
my life, at his holy will and pleasure; and that while I lived on earth,!
would faithfully serve Him, and Him only.
This salvation, a salvation from all sin, the Lord in his infinite goodness
did, in his own way and time, bestow upon me. His holy Church, his cho
sen and peculiar people, his Zion upon earth, I did find ; and thus far, by his
grace and holy favor, my promise I have kept.
376 APPENDIX TO THE
I hud often heard of a strange people at Niskeuna, (now Watervliet,)
who professed to he Christians. The reports concerning them, were uni-
formly evil ; and of nil sects nr denominations of professing christians, whom
I knew, or of whom I had either read or heard, of these, through ignorance
and the prejudices of a false education, I had formed the most unfavorable
opinion.
But in consequence of the decline of our religion ; or in other words, the
decrease of unanimity, of brotherly love and charity, and the prevalence of
self, and "worldly inindedness," together with my sad disappointment in
not having found a pure and holy Church, as delineated in the sacred Book,
I had resolved to quit all my connection and acquaintance, and to cross the
wide ocean to Europe, and thence to Palestine.
But an over-ruling Providence prevented me. I had, from my earliest
light and conviction, sought salvation, and the mercy and favor of my God.
I had, from my earliest recollection, looked upon the sacred writings, the Bi
ble, with the most profound veneration, which were my study and delight;
and now, for the first time, were forcibly applied to my condition, and the
state of things, the words of the Holy Savior, that, of his true followers,
"All manner of evil should be spoken falsely, for his name's sake." These
words wrought effectually on my mind; I soon resolved, and changed my
self-projected course.
On the twenty third of November, seventeen hundred and ninety three, I
visited those people, of whom "all manner of eril" was spoken. When en
tering on the premises of the people, I prayed earnestly, "O Lord, my God
and my Creator ! suffer me not to be deluded, suffer me not to be deceived !
but into thy truth, O Lord, do thou guide me !"
I remained with them about three days ; had free converse with some of
the leading characters ; also with some who came from England with Moth
er Ann, and with numbers of others, both male and female, all on the sub
ject of the way and work of God. And although they brought to my view
many new and strange ideas, I found nothing in reason to he contradicted.
On the Sabbath following, I attended their very still and solemn meeting.
In their singular devotions and mode of worship, I saw nothing but solem
nity, I felt nothing but the love and fear of God.
In this meeting, as I was a stranger, the emotions of my spirit were to me,
at that time, unaccountable. Had those I beheld in their solemn devotions,
and myself, been conceived in the womb of a holy mother, and nursed on
the same lap, I could not have felt a purer love, nor a more sincere attach
ment, than 1 did to this people.
During my stay, I was fully convinced, that the foundation of their faith
was hiore deeply laid, than their adversaries, or any of the denominations
professing christianity knew, or were in the least apprised of. And I found
moreover, that all and singular, the evil reports circulated against this peo
ple, were, and are, utterly false, and without the least shadow of a founda
tion in truth.
The order and harmony, the industry, the neatness and cleanliness, their
seclusion from the world, and its fading pleasures, their self-denying lives,
their freedom in conversation, humility and childlike simplicityof manners,
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 377
their charity to the poor and needy, and to the widow and fatherless of thia
world ; their holy walk, and godly example ; the peaco that reigned within
their borders ; and above all, the visible Seal, or impress of Heaven, on their
countenances.
"Ye shall know them by their fruits. A good tree cannot bring forth evil
fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Therefore, by their
fruits ye shall know them." It was not for me to doubt ; it was not for me
to hesitate, what path to pursue. If there was a pure Church of Christ on
earth in which he dwelt, if there were a people of God on earth, to whom
He revealed his will, this was the Church, and these were the people.
With these plain and incontrovertible evidences, to my sight and under
standing, and the indelible impressions stamped upon my mind, of their
truth and reality, it will not appear strange, that I should become an advo
cate in this holy cause, and a witness of "That which mine ears have heard,
that which mine eyes have looked upon, and that which my hands have
handled, of tho Word of life."
No sooner had I obeyed the heavenly calling, by honestly confessing every
known sin and error of my life, one by one, before God and his witnesses,
than I felt the effusions of the holy Spirit of peace, distilling into my soul
like the refreshing dews of heaven ! By faithfulness, and strict obedience to
the order and counsels of God, in my visible Lead, I became baptized with
the "baptism of the Holy Spirit," and tasted of the "powers of the world
to come :"
By which means, I was enabled to live free from all and every sin within
my knowledge, to govern, control and subdue, all the impure and unruly
passions of my evil nature, and to give up and forsake all, for Christ, and
the kingdom of Heaven's sake. And I can and do testify, in humble grati
tude to my Heavenly Father, the God of this my salvation, that I have receiv
ed in full, the promise made by his beloved Son, (Matthew xix, 2D,) in the-
kind and parental care, in the pure love and fraternal affection, and in the
enjoyment of fathers and mothers, and brethren and sisters, "an hundred
fold," with the full assurance of "everlasting life."
I have been a member of the United Society called "Believers" in the pres
ent appearing of Christ, for upwards of forty nine years. I have been, for
longer and shorter periods of time, personally and intimately acquainted with
all the United Societies in the United States, (except two in the state of
Maine:) At New Lebanon, Watcrvliet and Groveland, in the state of New
York ; at Hancock, Tyringhain, Harvard and Shirley, in the state of Massa
chusetts; at Enfield, in the state of Connecticut; at Canterbury and Enfield,
in the state of New Hampshire; at Union Village, near Lebanon; Water-
vliet, near Dayton; North Union, near Cleaveland; and White Water
Village, in the state of Ohio ; at Flcasant Hill, nn Shawnee Run, and South
Union, (Jasper Valley,) in the state of Kentucky.
Of all these Societies, as one and the same "peculiar people," I can and
do bear witness, in the holy fear of Him who knoweth and seeth all things,
and who "searcheth the reins and hearts" of the children of men ; That
they are the " Zion of God's likeness" on earth, the work of hit own
378 APPENDIX TO THE
Almighty hand ; and in this his Zion hath He placed Via fire and his furnaet,
to try, to purify, and to cleanse his people from all sin and dross; and hath
also placed in them his holy Tabernacle, his Mercy seat, and his salvation for
all men ; even his "salvation for all the ends of the earth." [Isa. xlvi, 13; Hi, 10.
Thus saith one who knows, one whose ears have heard, whose eyes have
beheld and looked upon the marvelous work of God among his chosen
people ; whose hands have handled of the Word of Life, and whose soul
has been bathed in the river of life, and drank of its pure and living
waters: Christ the Anointing, the Savior of men, has verily made his second
appearing in the wonum .Inn Lee, whom God had before ordained and
chosen to be the "Mother of the New Creation" and of the redemption of
fallen man, according to the testimony of the holy Prophets, and of Christ
the Savior, and his holy Apostles; as the holy Scriptures bear record:
That through her by the holy anointing power of God, the Eternal Father,
and Holy Eternal Mother Wisdom, the Eternal Two in One, after whose
"image and likeness," man was at first created, hath Christ in this latter
day and age, set up his "Everlasting kingdom of Righteousness" among
men, and commenced his reign of "Peace upon earth."
This is She of whom the Holy Spirit by the holy Prophets hath spoken ;
"This is the name wherewith She shall be called, "The Lord our Righteous
ness." [Jer. xxxiii, 16.] "I will make thy name to he remembered in all gen
erations; therefore shall the people praise thee forever:" [Psa. xlv. !>-17.]
"Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to him : for the marriage of the
Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. "[Rev. xix, 7-9.]
Now look at this, all ye who read and venerate the Holy Bible, and be
lieve what is therein contained ; Reflect, and in the candor of your souls,
consider well this testimony in all its bearings : Arc not these the people
that should "come and sing in the height of Zion, and flow together to the
goodness of the Lord?" [Jer. xxxi, 12.] Are not these the "Clouds of Heav
en," in which the "Son of man," the Christ in whom ye believe, should
come, and whom every eye should see? [Mat. xxvi, 64. I. Thess. iii, 13;
II. Thess. i, 10 ; Rev. i, 7.]
Look at this, all ye ministers, pastors, and teachers of tbe people ; con
sider your accountability to the God of Heaven ; and reflect well on the
many earnest prayers and supplications you have offered up to Him, that
"his kingdom might come ; and that his will might be done on earth, as it is
done in Heaven." Remember also the Jcws, who fully believed in the
Messiah that was to come ; how that when he came, they denied the Holy
One and the Just, killed the Prince of life, and crucified the Lord of glory.
[Acts iii, 14, 15 ; I. Cor.
ii,
8.]
Consider also the natural blindness of man, his hardness of heart, and his
obstinacy and rebellion against the work of his God and Creator, in all ages:
lest, like unto the Jews, trouble come upon you, "because ye knew not the
time of your visitation." [Luke xix, 44.]
In the year eighteen hundred and five,
I
was sent (on foot, with
two others,) as a messenger to the western country
;
particularly to the peo
ple of the Revival in Kentucky, and the adjacent states.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 379
Among these we found the mighty operations of tho spirit and power of
God in preparing them for the gospel. I have seen the bodies of men and
women, shaken as trees with a tempest ; and others cast down prostrate to
the earth, and lying sometimes for hours, cold and stiff, like corpses ! and
again reviving, and going forth in melodious songs and dances ; with many
other signs and wonderful operations of the spirit and power of God, in this
preparatory work. In this country, the gospel was extensively preached, be
lieved and received with joy, by such as were prepared.
After remaining in the western country for upwards of thirty years, dur
ing which time I was employed as a public writer and speaker, and as one of
the leaders, I returned, with others of my brethren and sisters from the cast,
who had presided in different parts, until the Churches and Societies in that
country were established.
Let it here be remembered, that no honest souls who ever believed and
received this gospel, whether through written, printed, or verbal testimony, and
lived in strict obedience to their faith, but they have received power over all
sin, the mercy and favor of God, and his salvation : No honest and faithful
soul has ever failed of this: And to this testimony, thousands now living in
the enjoyment of this gospel, can bear witness.
It must not be understood from this testimony, or any part thereof, as in
the least intimating that in the concerns and establishment of the Church of
God and the Ziou of his likeness upon earth, there is no dross among the
gold; else would there be no necessity for the Almighty to place in it his "re-
lining fire, and his purifying furnace;" else also, the parable of the Savior,
of the "kingdom of heaven being like a net cast into the sea," would be of
no meaning.
Passing over those transient beings, who seek after nothing but loaves and
fishes; I have known many who had enjoyed great privileges, and forasea-
son were prosperous, but who in the progress of the work, found the way too
self-denying, and too narrow for all their inclinations, again turn to the "beg
garly elements of this world, like the dog to his vomit, and like the sow that
was washed to her wallowing in the mire."
I have known moreover, of such as were endowed with the gifts of God
from on High, and had "tasted of the powers of the world to come; received
the gifts of inspiration and prophecy, and through unfaithfulness to "fall
away"!
And that this their falling away, came in consequence of the cross, the
purity and innocence ; the truth, faithfulness and uprightness, which God
required at their hands, f.nd to which they were unwilling to submit ; And
hence "They went out from us, iind made it manifest that they were not
of us". [I. John
ii,
19.]
After this concession, in favor of the efficacy, purity and stability, of the
work of God in this latter day, suffice
it
to know, that the "Holy City" which
the Almighty by his holy Spirit in his beloved and faithful servant John,
showed coming down from God out of Heaven,
is
now established and in
creasing on the earth
;
and that there can "in no wise enter into
it
any thing
that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh
a
lie."
3S0 APPENDIX TO THE
Within the seven last years, great and marvelous have been the displays
and operations of the Spirit of God and his Almighty Power among his
people ; in signs and open visions, showing the various states and torments
of the damned ; as also, in miniature, the happified states and conditions
of the blessed ; in revelations and prophecies, relating to his wonderful works,
both in the visible and invisible worlds, past, present and to come: as also
great have been the operations of his All-searching Power, to prepare his
people for the coining day.
Great and marvelous, beyond the power of mortal tongue to utter, or the
pen of mortals to describe, have been the manifestations of the condescension,
the mercy and goodness of the Almighty God and "Father of Ml," in pre
paring and raising up Prophets, and Prophetesses, "instruments of his own
choosing," that through them, by the ministration of his holy Angels; —
By the ministration of the spirits of his "Anointed Ones" our heavenly
Parents, and the spirits of his ancient Prophets and Saints, who surround
his throne, and who once inhabited mortality, and had their dwellings and
their occupations on the earth and among men :— I say ;—
That by these, through the "Instruments of his own choosing," hath the
Almighty God, and Father of all, in his marvelous condescension, his wis
dom, his mercy and his goodness, seen fit to make known his holy will, his
counsels and his laws ; first, to all the inhabitants of hisZion; and from
them, to all the nations and inhabitants of the earth ; as this Sacred Roll
and Book bears record.
Of these, the Instruments, through whom God had chosen to communicate
his will to mortals, I feel it incumbent on me to bear testimony. From the
first commencement of this mighty and wonderful work, as far as my knowl
edge of it has extended, I have been an eye and an car witness to its humili
ating power, when first opcrat ng upon those who were called upon to declare
the words put into their mouths to speak, or were put into their hands to
read, by the holy Angels, and other Messengers from on Hi^h, until the sa
cred injunction was cheerfully obeyed.
I have been a witness to many of the scenes of mortification, of sorrow, of
humiliation and sufferings both of body and mind, through which they have
had to pass, to preparo them for this, the most sacred of duties. I have seen
their tears, have heard their groans and their cries, and their humble prayers
to God, and their supplications to his people for their prayers, that they
might be enabled to do his will, and perform the duties required at their
hands.
And I do testify, from indisputable evidence, and with the most scrupulous
regard to truth, that the messages and communications proceeding from their
mouths, were not of mortal diction ; but by the Divine agency they were
uttered ; and that they proceeded from the source of Eternal Truth ; as their
sacred writings also bear witness.
The foregoing Sacred Roll, I have heard read before a large assembly, by
the chosen mortal Instrument that wrote it ; the reading of which was at
tended with manifestations of power, and the Divine favor from on High.
And from my experience in the work of God, and its searching operations
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 381
upon the heart, and by revelation and the inspirations of his holy Spirit ; I
do bear witness, and testify, that the contents of this Sacred Roll and Book,
came from, and are sent forth to mortals by, God the Father, the Creator of
Heaven and earth :
That it is the greatest act of condescension, of mercy and loving kindness,
the Almighty Eternal Father ever did bestow upon mortals, the work of his
hands, since man was upon the earth ; to warn them of their danger, of his
fast approaching judgments, and the calamities that must shortly befall them,
for their sins and wickedness, and their rebellion against Him ; Thus explic
itly to teach, instruct, and show them the way to find his holy favor and
protection.
Will ye condescend to look at this, O ye Kings and Queens, ye Princes and
Princesses, and all ye Rulers and Nobles of the earth ? Will ye look at this,
the great condescension of the Almighty to man, the work of his hands, and
the object of his care? Consider well the words of God, your Heavenly
Father, in this Sacred Roll and Book, now sent unto you in this your ago
and day of visitation.
Remember Nineveh, Tyre and Sidon ; Babylon and Jerusalem ; and the
many opulent cities and powerful kingdoms of past ages, who had the coun
sels and heard the warning voice of the Almighty through his holy Prophets;
but they regarded not; and what and where are they now ! Hearken there
fore, unto the warning voice of God your Heavenly Father, which in mercy
and loving kindness, He hath now sent to all the children of men, that they
may find his favor and protection, lest like those who in past ages disregard
ed his holy word, "Your cities likewise become a desolation, and without in
habitant."
To conclude : That great and distressing calamities, by sea and land, by
fire and flood, are fast approaching, and that the mighty Angels of the God
of Heaven have already gone forth to execute his judgments in the earth,
there is no doubt. And from what we have seen, heard and felt, of the very
wonderful works of God among his people, within the few years past, we
are compelled to accord with the language of the Holy Spirit, "Great and
marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty ; just and true are thy ways
thou King of saints. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name ?
for thy judgments are made manifest."
With pure and true regard for the peace, prosperity and happiness of my
fellow mortals, I am,
Watervliet JV.Y. Aug. 28, 1843. Benjamin Sith Youngs.
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM P. WILLIAMS.
I was born in Pittsfield, Berkshire county, state of Massachusetts, April
ninth, seventeen hundred and ninety one ; and united with the Society of
Believers in Hancock, in the year eighteen hundred and seven ; and have, dur
ing thirty six years, practically proved the testimony of the gospel maintain
ed in this Society, and have, during this time, found salvation and peace in
382 APPENDIX TO THE
compliance therewith. Here I finil the gospel of Christ's second appearing,
which to my soul yields the peaceable fruits of righteousness, which arc as
"a well of water springing up unto everlasting life." Here I can commune
with (iod, and unite with the angelic host, in praise to Him, for the power
that naves me from sin and iniquity, while walking this vale below.
Iii the late manifestation of God, in which He has, in a peculiar and won
derful manner, wrought among his people, I have witnessed many sublime
exhibitions of his mighty power. Sensible I am, that nothing less than such
a power could have brought souls to see, sense and feel, what has been clear
ly realized by his people in this day. They have been brought to feel such
nearness to God, and such humiliation of spirit, that thev are induced to
walk exceedingly careful in his holv fear.
I approve of the Sacred Roll and Book, which is sent forth to the nations
of the earth, and I can say in the solemn fear of God, I have no reason to
doubt its divine origin. My soul's desire and prayer to God is, that those
who read may understand, and treat the word in such a manner, that they
are willing to meet the reward of their doings at the bar of Almighty God.
Hancock, Mass.; September '20, 1813. William P. Williams.
TESTIMONY OF .JOHN LYON.
Having been called in my youth by the blessed gospel of our Lord and Sav
ior, Jesus Christ, manifested in his second appearing through the spirit of
eternal truth, revealed in and through our blessed Mother Ann Lee, which
call was to forsake sin; yea, that which is most highly esteemed by a lost
and sinful world, and with which I unhesitatingly complied, I gave myself up
to know the will of God and do it ; made the holy Scriptures the book of
my delight, searched them through and through without scepticism, infideli
ty, or desire to find something to feast a carnal mind, which resulted in the
discovery of a harmonious connection of the events relating to the work of
God with man ; showing He had begun a work with him, and in due time
would bring it to a close.
In this labor, I was often blessed of God with manifestations and revela
tions from Him, with various supernatural gifts of the spirit, such as were
manifested in the primitive Church, in the days of Christ and the Apostles.
Thus, I found the promise of the Holy Savior fully verified, viz: "If any
man will do his will, He shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God,
or whether I speak of myself."
The question will then arise, How shall we know his will ? I answer ; To
believe in the revelation of God, and to practice the same as He has made it
known, through inspiration in his faithful servants, from the beginning ; and
will continue to do, until He makes a final close of his work with the hu
man race, notwithstanding the erroneous doctrine so strongly maintained in
the senses of mankind, that the day of miracles is past, which supersedes
the necessity, or destroys a faith and confidence in looking for any revelation
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 3S:$
or inspiration from God in our day ; notwithstanding it has boon carried to
such length, that muny look upon any thing asserted as a revelation from
(iod to his chosen witnesses, who deny themselves daily to do his holy will,
as blasphemy.
How shocking the delusion, how thick the darkness which has been spread
over this sinful and benighted world ! I have often been told, even by those
who profess to be a light to the blind, that there are no such things in this
day as miracles, inspiration or supernatural communication from God to man ;
that it ceased with the apostolic age.
O how dark and blind ! Are we to be made to believe, that about the time
John wrote his revelation, God was deprived of his attributes of power and
wisdom, and became so imbecile, that He could not reveal or make known
his will to his faithful witnesses, who lived up to the best light they had,
from that day to this ; although the light and power of Christ was not known
on the earth during the reign of antichrist, being twelve hundred and sixty
years.
Again : if there has been no revelation or inspiration since the apostolic
age, where shall we find the origin of this wonderful doctrine? from whence
did it come ? It is certain, it cannot be derived from the holy Scriptures, (the
former revelation,) with any propriety. Then we must look for it from an
other source.
If there has been no revelation by inspiration from God to man, since the
days of the Apostles, we must conclude this soul-darkening doctrine is the
progeny of Antichrist, brought forth from the prolific womb of the mother
of harlots, with all the rest of her abominations.
If any think they can support this doctrine from the Apostle's words,
(I. Cor. xiii, 8 ;) "Charity never faileth ; but whether there be prophecies, they
shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be
knowledge, it shall vanish away," let them look into ecclesiastical history,
and they will learn the reason why the apostolic gifts ceased.
There they will find, as soon as God raised up a witness or Prophet, to
Himself, inspired with his word and power, against the abominations of this
mother of harlots, sometimes called the Church, then the fury of the scarlet
colored beast was raised against such inspired instrument, until he was ex
tirpated from the earth.
But charity never faileth ; because those souls who had it in possession,
were out of their reach ; for they could only kill the bodies, who were made
the instruments of his word and power, but could not touch the soul, where
faith, hope and charity had their residence.
If any still think the day of revelation is past, let them declaro to the
world what it was the seven thunders uttered, if they can. If not, let them
consider the declaration of the Angel to Christ's servant, John : "In the
days of the voice of the seventh Angel, when he shall begin to sound, the
mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to the prophets."
[Rev. x, 7.]
Thus all may see, there remained a mystery to be revealed and finished,
384 APPENDIX TO THE
when the time should como for the seventh Angel to sound ; and although a
mystery, yet we have a clue to the work that should be ushered in at the
sounding of the Angel. [Rev. xi, 18.] "And the nations were angry, and
thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and
that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the
saints, and to them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldcst de
stroy them which destroy the earth."
Now the nations of the earth have the privilege of hearing the seventh
trumpet. The call of the Almighty Jehovah has gone forth in mercy and
loving kindness, to the children of men, giving them opportunity and time
for repentance, by humbling themselves before Him, and forsaking their fil
thy abominations; for who is it that destroys the earth, but such as fill it
with corruption and violence, like the antedeluviaus in the days of Noah ?
And now let all nations, kindreds, tongues and people to whom thtfse sa
cred warnings shall come, consider that the end of all flesh came before God
in the days of Noah; at which time Almighty Power and Truth declared;
"My spirit shall not always strive with man."
Therefore, let every soul understand that the seventh trumpet is the last
call to the children of men ; and that all souls have the privilege of forsak
ing their filthy abominations, while the mercy of God is held out to them ;
and thus receive the reward of those who fear his name, and walk humbly
before Him; or if they choose, rebel against his warning voice, and remain
in their pollutions, and receive a stroke in vengeance from his Almighty arm,
which is now stretched out to decide his controversy with all flesh.
And now, as one that has obtained the mercy of God, through confessing
and forsaking all sin, and yielding myself in obedience to the revelation of
God in this present dispensation of his grace to a lost world, I can freely
testify to all the inhabitants of the earth, to whom the Sacred Roll and
Book is directed, that I do fully and conscientiously believe that the
word of the Proclamation and Roll, contained in said Book, is the revela
tion of God, and given by his Almighty Power and Wisdom, by inspiration.
And furthermore, that I do positively know that the laws, requirements
and sentiments therein contained, are perfectly consistent with every declar
ation of his will to man ; and also with his attributes of justice, mercy and
truth ; and is the voice of the Arch-angel, with the last trumpet to the na
tions of the earth ; and also the time for the full manifestation of what was
sounded when tho seven thunders uttered their voices, which was sealed up
until the fullness of time should come, when it would be revealed by the
sounding of the mighty Angel, with the great and last trump.
I wish to be understood, that I am far from thinking that by writing the
above, I am making eternal truth more permanent; as I conceive that no ef
fort of mortals can add or diminish its authority.
But having had a long experience in the work of the present dispensation,
and being somewhat extensively known, or that my name has had much circu
lation, I thought it might perhaps be the means of calling the attention of
gome who have known my long experience, to pause long enough to turn
their attention to the sacred volume sent forth to the nations of the earth,
BACHED ROLL AND BOOK. 3Pf>
and cause them to peruse and ponder upon the sacred truths contained there
in ; it being more than forty five years, since I first heard the voico of the
Arch-angel, with the great and last trumpet, which then shook the earth or
elements of nature in which my soul was enveloped ;
And from that time, I have had no hesitation but that God had begun his
final work of visitation with man; and would carry it on, until He had
made a decisive work with the children of men.
Although I am but as a speck or a mote, in the scale of created beings;
yet, whatever I am as an intelligent being, though never so small, it is my
duty to be a co-worker with God, so long as I have given myself up to do
his will. And as He has arisen to shake the heavens and the earth accord
ing to his promise, then I must work with Him and shake.
So whoever is found on his side, must humble themselves and be co-work
ers with Him, to shake out sin and pollution from their own souls, and there
by prepare themselves to be true inhabitants of the Holy City.
This is the true desire of one who is no better by nature, than the rest of
his fellow beings.
Enfield, It. H. July 17, 1843. J0115 Lvojr.
TESTIMONY OF ELISHA POTE.
To all unto whom these pages may come :
The undersigned is one who has had personal knowledge of the wonder
ful displays of the gifts and power of God, which have attended the present
testimony of Christ's second appearing, from the time it was first declared in
this land by God's chosen witnesses, who were commissioned from Heaven
to do that work, and who spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Spir
it, viz; by divine inspiration, unto the present day.
I was born in Gorham, county of Cumberland and state of Maine, July
twenty fifth, seventeen hundred and sixty four ; and connected myself with
this Society at the age of twenty years.
I have been acquainted with the gifts and operations of divine power
which have attended the present work of God from the beginning, or for
sixty years past; therefore, I can testify to what I have seen, heard and felt.
I have learned this one important lesson ; not to have my faith stand in
the wisdom of this world, nor in great natural gifts or talents; for the Lord
hath said, I will confound the wisdom of the wise, and bring to nought the
understanding of the prudent. Do all believe this? Whether they do or not,
it remains an unalterable truth, which all will have to learn, before they can
enter into the kingdom of Heaven. Their faith must center to, and stand in
the revelation and power of God, and not in the wisdom of this world,
which cometh to nought.
There is nothing which can be said or written on this subject, which will
add weight of evidence, as it respects divine revelation ; for this is immuta
ble and unchangeable, and carries its own evidence ; but blind mortals will
386 APPENDIX TO THE
shut their eyes and harden their hearts, against light, and their own convic
tion, until desolation overtakes them.
I feel to warn all, in the spirit of love and charity, not to slight or turn a
deaf car to the solemn warnings which are now sent forth into the world,
by the great Jehovah, the righteous Judge of both quick and dead, whose
judgments are according to truth and justice.
View the present state of what is called the christian world ; and what dn
we find ? Contention, strife, divisions and subdivisions, party against party,
so that poor distressed souls hardly know where to find a resting place. Be
hold the abominations which are committed, and then cloaked under the
mask of christianity ! These things are plainly described by the testimony
of eternal truth, now sent forth from the throne of God through his Angels,
and given to instruments of mortal clay, as a medium through which the
mind and purpose of God are made known to the nations of the earth.
I would ask, Is there any thing between the lids of this Book, now sent
forth to all nations ; can you find a phrase or sentence, which is not accord
ing to truth, or which docs not correspond with the revelation of God to
man ? Then let all hearken to it and tremble, and pray that they may be
able to enter immediately into the obedience of its sacred requirements
that they may escape the judgments which arc soon to fall upon the wicked.
For "it will surely come, it will not tarry." The Lord hath spoken, and
it will come to pass ; though the old heavens and earth may pass away, not
one jot or tittle of the word of our God will fail.
Think not that the present warning, which is now sent abroad, is the pro
duction of a wild fanaticism, or a cunningly devised fable, or any thing short
of the special command of the God of Heaven, sent forth by a heavenly
Messenger, and communicated to a dying world, through the medium of
earthen vessels.
What think ye ? Do you believe that messengers were sent to declare the
word of the Lord to the Prophets; and they sent to the people? O yea, some
will say ; we fully believe that. Has God altered ? or has the order of his
communication changed ? I say, nay ; but the spirit of divine inspiration has
been withdrawn from those corrupt churches who name the name of Christ,
and do not depart from iniquity, whose sins have separated them from their
God.
The time has now come, for the fulfillment of the promises of God, which
have been predicted by the Patriarchs and Prophets, from the early ages of
the world, respecting the Church of the latter day. This Church, whose
foundation is laid in the revelation of God, and has ever been supported by
the same, independent of worldly wisdom, or earthly power, is now estab
lished on earth ; and the gifts of the primitive Church are restored, accord
ing to promise.
It is through the medium of this Church thus established, that the pro
claiming Angel has sent forth this declaration to all the inhabitants of earth ;
and in the language of the Prophet I would say, O ! earth, earth ! hear the
word of the Lord ; for He has a controversy with the inhabitants of the
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 387
whole earth, for they are sunken in their abominations, and polluted in their
sins, and the day of retribution draweth nigh.
There is a warning voice gone forth from Heaven, and I feel bold to de
clare unto all, what the effect will be, (though I do not expect to live to see
it ;) that, so far as the declarations of the proclaiming Angel are promulga
ted and made known to mankind, so far they will become accountable ; for
all who slight the call of God to them, and willfully reject these sacred re
quirements, the judgments herein threatened will surely fall upon them, and
they cannot escape; but on the other hand, all who humble themselves and
accept of the merciful terms herein ofiercd, will find peace and protection ;
and God will hide them in his pavilion, while his judgments fall with pain
upon the wicked.
My fellow mortals, the way to find the protection and favor of God, is
made plain and easy ; and what can be more reasonable ? 1 exhort all to
Inave their sins, by repentance, and their iniquities, by turning to God.
Having had a long experience in this self-denying way, and being some
what extensively known as a public speaker and elder in the United Society
for many years of my life, I leave this as my closing testimony, for the ben
efit of mankind ; and do conscientiously and cheerfully recommend this,
the way of life and salvation, to all who seek to know and serve the Lord.
Alfred, Maine; July 22, 1843. Elisha Pote.
TESTIMONY OF DANIEL MOSELEY AND OTHERS.
Perhaps it may be some satisfaction to many who may read the foregoing
Bacred pages, to hear the opinion or testimony of some concerning the same
who are far advanced in life ; and who have been eye and ear witnesses of
the increasing work of God among his people, in this day of Christ's second
appearing, for nearly sixty years ; as well as of the late and special out
pouring of God's spirit and power in the dilfcrent branches or societies of
this community, throughout the United States.
We say, among his people, without arrogance or boasting, and without
the least disparagement to others ; for the Lord never displayed and con
tinued such divine and marvelous gifts among a people whom He did not
own and bless; even the same gifts which existed in the apostolic church ;
including visions, revelations, divers kinds of tongues, and the gift of
prophecy.
But these gifts cannot be truly exercised only by the direction of that
Power who gave them ; mortal man is only an organ or instrument through
which the Divine Spirit operates.
It is readily admitted that the credulity of mankind, in ancient and modern
3sei APPENDIX TO THE
times, has often been Imposed upon by false pretenders to divine revela
tion ; insomuch that many have stopped their ears, and shut their eyes
against every thing that bears the name of divine inspiration. But all tbis
docs not by ony means, prove that divine inspiration or revelotion does not
in truth and reality exist; but on the contrary, it proves that there is a sub
stantial reality in both ; for there cannot be a counterfeit without a genuine
original pattern of the same name. There cannot be a counterfeit coin
or bank bill, without the existence of a genuine original character bearing
the same name and description ; the imitation of which is the object of
the counterfeiter. But as there is evidence accompanying each of these,
sufficient, under a watchful and discerning eye, to show the difference be
tween the true and false, so there is in relation to true and counterfeit
inspiration or revelation.
It would be blasphemy in a high degree, as well as the height of folly and
presumption, for any mortal of common reason, to attempt to make, or pub
lish a sacred proclamation to all the world, in the name and authority of the
Almighty Creator, unless he was conscious, beyond all doubt, that he was
authorized or commanded so to do by that Divine Authority. And that the
foregoing Sacred Roll and Book, have been authorized and written by divine
inspiration, we arc confident beyond all doubt; whereas we have had, and
still have, abundance of evidence to establish the truth of it.
It has been our serious impression, for some years past, that God would,
ere long, visit the children of men in a manner more extraordinary than He
had done for many ages: and this impression has been corroborated from
time to time, and finally confirmed by that spirit of prophecy which has al
ready, in many instances, proved itself to be from the God of Truth.
Many events known to this community, having recently been foretold by
the spirit of prophecy, have already taken place ; all concurring to prove
that God is about "to do his work, his strange work, and bring to pass his
act, his strange act," among the nations of the earth. Some of these proph
ecies, alluding to the same event, have been proclaimed through various in
dividuals, remotely situated from each other, and without any previous cor
respondence whatever; yet with that similarity of expression and other
circumstances which could only proceed from the light of eternal truth.
And we have no more reason to doubt the fulfillment of what now stands
predicted in the aforesaid Sacred Roll and Book, than we have of that which
has already taken place.
Finally, from what we have seen, heard and felt of the marvelous opera
tions of the spirit of God in this community, for six years past, we as fully
believe the contents of the preceding Sacred Roll to have emanated from
Almighty Power and Wisdom, and that the same were communicated to the
writer by divine inspiration, as therein stated, as we believe that God spake
to the people in ages past, by Moses and the Prophets ; or that He wrought
miracles by Christ and his Apostles : Or as fully as we believe any part of
that sacred volume, denominated The Scriptures of truth.
Indeed, the evidence in the present display of God's power is more clear
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 389
and striking to us, than that in former dispensations, because it is more
immediate and impressive : and as such, we feel in duty bound to treat and
sustain it with reverence and godly fear.
Should any suppose the preceding pages exceptionable, because they are
not written agreeably to the popular stylc and refinement of the present age,
let them consider that, in this respect, they bear the greater analogy to the
sacred Scriptures; and also to all divine proclamations in every age ; and
that God never was, and we have no reason to believe He ever will be de
pendent on mortals, for language to communicate his requirements to man.
But the foregoing divine Message is written in plain, simple, unaffected
language, (though solemn and weighty,) adapted to every capacity of com
mon understanding. And however incredulous, or indifferent many may be
respecting this solemn Proclamation, or whatever may be their treatment of
the same, this cannot invalidate the purpose of God, nor weaken our confi
dence in his word; we confidently believe it will be verified; and that it
will finally effect that for which it was designed by the hand of Almighty
Power.
It is the prevailing belief with many in this, and perhaps other countries,
that the Second Advent, or day of judgment is near at hand ; and so it is.
That event has already commenced, although, as yet, out of their sight : but
every eye will yet see it. Therefore these impressions are, no doubt, correct,
emanating from an invisible reality ; and go far to confirm the truth of what
was said to the prophet Daniel concerning the near approach of that day ;
That many should run to and fro, and that knowledge should be increased.
But some have run before their tidings were ready : they have underta
ken to limit the time, and prescribe the manner in which this great work is to
take place, by calculating the prophecies relating to that event, according to
their own natural wisdom ; but they have been hitherto, and will forever be
disappointed in all their human plans. They have mistaken both the time
of its commencement, and the manner of its operations. They have greatly
transcended the limits of man, by limiting the times and seasons which God
hath reserved in his own power until the event should declare it.
And although that day has already commenced, having been declared by
the event ; yet it has come as a thief in the night, and "as a snare upon all
them that dwell upon the face of the whole earth," according to the testimony
of eternal truth. But "every eye shall see him ;" (in the clouds of his wit
nesses ;) for God is about to "destroy the face of the covering cast over all
people, and the vail that is spread overall nations."
Thus havtng been members of this community for about sixty years, we
have given a brief sketch of what wc have experienced in that work of God
which was promised to take place in tho latter day ; and especially of the
late and universal out-pouring of God's spirit among his chosen people. We
have ever found this work replete with all the promises of God to his Church
in the latter day. It is that gospel which is the power of God to salvation
in the present tense.
And being now far advanced in life, it would not be reasonable to suppose
AITENDIX TO THE
thai we should have any selfish nr improper motives, with a view to excite
a false impression in the minds of our fellow mortals : there is nothing more
foreign from our intention ; but out of love and good will to all mankind,
we leave this testimony as a conscientious seal of that sacred truth, by
which we are willing to be judged at the final bar of Eternal Jvstiee.
September, 1843.
New Lebanon, J\". Y. Daniel Moselev, aged eighty three
years ; embraced the testimony sixty three years since.
Jethro Turner, aged seventy nine
years; embraced the testimony sixty three years since.
" Stephen Munson, aged seventy seven
years ; embraced the testimony sixty one years since.
" . " Amos Stowers, aged seventy eight
years ; embraced the testimony sixty three years since.
Hancock, Mass. Comstock Betts, aged eighty years ;
embraced the testimony sixty years since.
" William Df.mino, aged sixty four
years; embraced the testimony in childhood.
Canterbury, JV. H. Francis Winklet, aged eighty five
years ; embraced the testimony fifty eight years since.
" Micajah Tucker, aged seventy
nine years ; embraced the testimony fifty nine years
since.
" John Whitcher, aged sixty four
years; embraced the testimony in childhood.
Enfield, JV. if. John Beck, aged seventy years;
embraced the testimony sixty years since.
" " Abraham Blodget, aged seventy
two years; embraced the testimony sixty two years
since.
WITNESSES OF THE WORK OF GOD IN ALL AGES OF
THE WORLD; AND TESTIMONY OF THE ETERNAL
WO IN ONE, TO THE ORDER OF THEIR
ANOINTING ON EARTH.
RKVEALKO AT NEW LEBANON, N. Y. FEBRUARY 17, 1843.
PART I.
1. Listen O ye Heavens, and keep silent all ye powers of earth,
for that I AM, who have manifested myself in part to the creatures
of my creation, both in Heaven and on earth, will now declare
again, through the medium of my ever true and faithful witness,
(Eternal Wisdom,) truths, concerning my work with the creatures
of my kingdoms in Heaven and on earth, that bear testimony to
my unerring mercy and justice which I have dealt out without
measure unto them, ever since them I created.
2. Thus saith the faithful Mother Wisdom, the Eternal Mother
of my Anointed, in Heaven and on earth, to the children of my
kingdom established on earth; listen unto her voice.
3. I AM, THE ETERNAL, is a God of perfect order : harmo
ny marks his way, in order and harmony did He create the Heav
ens and the earth, in order and harmony did He place all the
powers therein ; In subjection to his eternal and unchangeable
laws of order and harmony, did He form the creatures thereof, and
place them in order therein.
4. And this order, He has manifested in all his works to the
creatures of his creation, so far as was necessary to hold them in
that order wherein they were placed, so long as they walked in
obedience thereto.
5. And He has now sent Me, Wisdom, to witness thereto, and
declare again the order of his manifestation to his creatures, both
in Heaven and on the earth ; therefore hearken unto Me.
6. The witnesses of the > rtler t.f God throughout, remain to be
seen by his creatures. When lie said, Let there be light, I was
with Him, and light was created; the witness whereof is manifest
392
APPENDIX TO THE
unto this day. And that at no period the witness should be invisible,
the moon He also created to rule the night, and to declare that his
justice remains unmoved.
7. When He gave the earth, the seas and the heavens, with the
orbs that roll therein .their bounds, I was there, and saw all that
was done ; and the witness thereof remaineth unto this day.
8. When He formed the creatures with his word, and placed
them upon his creation, gave them their ranks of superiority and
power, and their laws for action, which are unchangeable, I was
there, and witnessed that all was good, and subject to his unchange
able law; the witness whereof yet remaineth, and will remain to
the end of time.
9. When He formed man, his noblest creature, in the image of
Himself, and placed him at the head of his creation, to lead and
direct the creatures thereof in obedience to his will, I was there,
and saw all that was done; in witness whereof, his creature man
yet remaineth.
10. When He gave unto man his laws, and the limits of his pow
er, when He made known to him his will and pleasure : when He
showed unto him his work, and the blessings he should enjoy by
faithfully performing the same ; when He showed unto him the way
of life and happiness, and the fruit of the tree of life of which
he might eat, I was there and saw all that was done; the witness
whereof I have come to declare.
11. When He told him that if he ate of the fruit of the tree of
the knowledge of good and evil, he should surely die, I was there
and witnessed to the truth of the same ; and the witness thereof is
manifested to this day, in every thing that He has created.
12. Death was his portion, for disobedience; and in death doth
he yet remain; judgment is written on his brow, and stamped on
the soles of his feet ; the witness whereof remaineth and declareth
the truth thereof.
13. And with his feet, did God's creature man walk in forbidden
paths; with his hands did he handle unclean things; with his
tongue did he curse his Maker and take his name in vain ; with
his heart did he mock his God, and the judgments pronounced up
on him by his God.
14. Yea, and the whole desire of his heart was evil; therefore,
it repented God that He had made him ; and He promised to de
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 393
stroy him from the face of the earth. And when He did all this,
I, Mother Wisdom, was there; and pronounced it agreeable to his
unalterable decree of justice.
15. Again, when He had left a chosen seed to re-people the earth,
and gave them their laws and ordinances, and promised unto them
that He never would again drown the earth with water, I was there.
And when He set his bow in the cloud as a token of the same, I
saw
it,
and We pronounced
it
good
;
the witness whereof yet re-
maineth in the heavens.
16. When in peace He promised
a
blessing to the chosen few
He had saved from the ravages of his destruction, giving unto them
his laws, to multiply and replenish the earth,
I
was there, and bore
witness that all was agreeable to his unalterable law of justice
;
and
the multitude of people, which now inhabit the earth, are
a
witness
of this unto this day.
17. When men began again to do wickedly, and forget the Lord
their God, and bow down themselves to idols, He then destroyed
their cities with fire, and sank them into the bowels of the earth,
and covered them with stagnant waters; the witness whereof re-
maineth unto this day, as
a
memorial against them.
18. When they began to war and fight, and destroy each other,
and to trust
in
their own arms for strength, then did He select
a
chosen people, to rule among the nations; and endowed them
with his power, which He allowed them to use after the manner of
men, to fight and destroy the kingdom's of the earth, which were
wicked, and again to set up his standard upon earth.
19. Yea, He resolved to meet them in their own path, and there
execute his laws of justice
;
and He gave unto them his laws and
his statutes, which He had designed for his creature man
;
and they
did, in reality, meet man in his own paths; for these laws were,
An eye for an eye, and
a
tooth for
a
tooth
:
Whosoever sheddeth
man's blood,
by
man shall his blood be shed. And the destruction
of the human family which has been upon the earth, the desolated
kingdoms and wide wastes, remain as
a
witness of the truth of this,
unto this day.
20. When He promised,
in
the seed of Abraham the nations of
the earth should be blessed,
I
was there, and saw that
it
was agree
able to his attribute of mercy. The witness of this, his most holy
promise, has been declared,
is
now declaring
;
and the work which
will be performed
by
his Two Anointed Ones, Christ and
x*
394 APPENDIX TO THE
Mother Ann, will yet continue to declare and witness to its truth.
21. When his chosen people began to forget their God, and to
follow their own lusts, He warned them by the mouths of his holy
Prophets, to repent and turn to Him, but they refused ; In consequence
whereof, through the mouths of his holy Prophets, He did pronounce
the destruction of their place and nation, and to scatter them to the
four quarters of the earth ; the scattered remnant of which, re-
maineth as a witness of the same unto this day.
22. When again through the mouths of his holy Prophets, He
promised unto them a Savior, who should set up his kingdom on
earth, and restore again peace to his creature man, I was there,
and saw that it was agreeable to his attributes of mercy and truth.
23. And the witness of his goodness, in sending his only begot
ten Son, to save his people from their sins, and restore to them the
blessings of his protection, was manifested by the mighty miracles
which he wrought, and the good deeds which he did to the fallen
race of mankind, who had lost the protection of their God, and
been left to destroy each other; in which manner of going, they
must inevitably have been left to destroy themselves, together with
their possessions.
24. But the precepts of his beloved Son, his only begotten, and
his word to the nations of the earth were, Peace on earth, good will
to man. As a witness of the reality of this Jesus being the Son
of God, his life and death bear record.
25. For God has declared, and borne witness, by all created
things, that his law is order, and his kingdom is peace ; That the
Heavens, wherein is his throne, should be peace ; and that the earth,
which is his footstool, should not be noise and tumult; but that all
should harmonize one with the other.
26. And his beloved Son declared that peace was his mission,
peace was the name of his kingdom; and, as there was nought in
the world but wars and tumults, he boldly declared unto them, that
his kingdom was not of this world, else would his servants fight;
That the world must come to an end ; that the inhabitants thereof
must be regenerated and born anew, or never see their God in peace.
27. The witness of this testimony, I, Wisdom, do declare unto
you, is manifested in the sacred record of the word of God, which
I have caused to be preserved by the order of my providence, for
the conviction of the human race.
28. Though by some, this Holy Book has been set at nought and
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 395
derided, declared to be false, and the work of man's hand ; yet, I
have punished, and will continue to punish the Heaven-daring spirit
that will do this, with judgments too awful for man to utter.
29. But I, Wisdom, do now call Heaven and earth to declare,
that this was the Son of God, the Savior of the world, the blessing
that was promised to the nations ; yet the world received him not,
but crucified him, and tried to overthrow his kingdom.
30. And this is the witness that declareth unto all, that his king
dom is not of this world ; for the world would not tear down a
building of its own.
31 . The order of God doth declare, that like produces like. Had
Christ been of the world, had his life been conformed to the law
less passions of the children thereof, they would have loved him ;
and his followers would not have been the subjects of their deris
ion and scorn ; but destruction was the law of their god, and it
they determined to obey.
32. Yet, the Almighty had purposed, again to restore the earth
to its order and place ; and in accordance therewith, He boldly de
clared, through the mouths of the Prophets, and through his only
begotten Son, that his work should be perfected ; that He would
again send the Savior to the world ; and that sin and sinners should
be cast from his kingdom which should be established therein,
never more to be destroyed.
33. For his unalterable attributes of love, mercy and order, for
bid that mankind should remain lords therein, and worship gods of
their own forming.
34. But, as He said to his first chosen people, Thou shalt have
no other gods but Me ; so shall it remain to the end of time ; and
the judgments which He has sent, and will send to the inhabitants
of the earth, shall bear witness, that this his word is true and faith
ful, and correspondent to his unalterable law of justice.
35. When God in his mercy did again send the Savior, the sec
ond time to the world, without sin unto salvation; then I, Wisdom,
was there, and did declare that it is finished; this is the perfect
day ; this is the last display of God's grace to his fallen creature
man.
36. The order of his grace is now complete ; Through this me
dium, shall earth again harmonize with Heaven, and God's eternal
plan of order and harmony, be fully accomplished.
37. The witness of this, is now manifested by the communica
396 APPENDIX TO THE
tions from Heaven, to those in this sacred order of grace upon the
earth ; which have been, still are, and forever shall be manifested,
with the power and glory of the Eternal God, out of the sight of
mortal power, and contrary to the devices of mortal reason ; yet,
conformable, in every particular, to the manifestation of his will to
man, throughout all generations; which
is,
that he should be his
image on earth, and the object of his delight and pleasure.
38. The power and wisdom of God,
I,
Wisdom, do declare un
to you,
is
now vested in the Son and Daughter, the Two Anointed
Ones, the head of this, his new earth, and the Lord of the new
Heavens, the Father and Mother of the New Creation.
39. Through these, his mediators, He will continue to bestow
his blessings upon the nations of the earth, till time shall have an
end. This
is
his means of redemption to the fallen race
;
and this,
his sacred order of grace, shall yet be revered, throughout the na
tions of the earth.
GOD DECLARETH THE VESTMENT OF HIS POWER, IN
WHICH HE HATH CLOTHED THE TWO
ANOINTED ONES.
PART II.
1.
Thus saith the Lord, Listen O my people, and hearken all ye
people who dwell on the earth; for
I
will declare unto you, the
means whereby you may find access to my throne, and
a
rest within
my kingdom.
2. My Two Anointed Ones, Jesus Christ and Mother Ann,
the Father and Mother of all souls born into the New Creation,
1
have sent upon the earth, clothed with the garment of my power,
to reveal to my creature man, (who has strayed from my paths, and
marked out for himself
a
way and ways of death,) the way of life
and liberty, to lead and direct him in the narrow way, direct to the
mansions of my love.
3.
Know ye, O my people, and know ye, all the inhabitants of
the earth, that power
is
given to the Two Anointed Ones, over
jny creature man, in Heaven and on the earth. Yea, even over
Angels in Heaven, are they Lord and Savior.
4. And whatsoever they shall bind on earth, shall be bound
in
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 397
Heaven; and whatsoever they shall loose on earth, shall be loosed
-in Heaven. Lo! them I have called to judge the earth, and the Heav
ens ; and whatsoever is by them condemned and cast off, shall never-
enter my eternal kingdom of peace ; such I will neither know, nor
receive ; but my judgments, which through these Anointed Ones I
have pronounced upon the inhabitants of the earth, shall meet
them when they look not for Me. I will sweep them with the be
som of destruction from my presence; yea, they shall neither abide
in the Heavens nor upon the earth.
5. And whatsoever is by them accepted, shall be accepted by Me,
at my eternal throne, and shall have a place in my kingdom, in the
endless ages of eternity.
6. Therefore, hear ye, all ye people, and receive, with hearts of
gratitude, whatsoever may be bestowed upon you, by my Holy and
Chosen Ones. Yea, let every soul bow unceasingly, and give thanks
for the many blessings they have bestowed, and still are bestowing
upon you, from my heavenly kingdom.
7. Hearken ye, therefore, unto them ; for they will teach you of
my ways, that you may walk in my paths. But know ye every soul
of man, yea, every spirit in Heaven and on earth, that ye cannot pass
by this order of my Anointing, and find access to my throne. Ye
cannot enter, but by this door of mercy ; for thus will I be revealed
in Heaven and on earth. Amen.
Inspired Writer,
New Lebanon, N. Y. ; February 17, 1841. Giles B. Avery.
WORD AND SEAL OF THE ETERNAL FATHER,
BROUGHT AND READ BY A HOLY ANGEL.
COPIED BY INSPIRATION AT CANTERBURY NEW HAMPSHIRE, MARCH 26, 1843.
1. Thus saith the holy spirit of Eternal Truth and of Endless
Light in one voice ; Great have been the out-pourings of my spirit
upon my Zion, and many are the blessings which I have bestowed
upon her inhabitants. And behold, I have chosen and prepared
Me Instruments who shall move at my will, in the various parts of
my Zion, which I have established by my own hand in this devoted
land of America; who shall stand as living witnesses to the weighty
398 APPENDIX TO THE
and important word which I, the living God, did write and seal
with my many seals, and send forth from my Eternal Throne;
guarded by the Holy Savior and many holy Angels, unto my Holy
Mount, to be revealed in the strength and union of my holy order
there, and copied by mortal hand, through deep tribulation and
heavy sufferings.
2. And behold this is now done as pleaseth Me ; for the Lion of
the tribe of Judah hath prevailed to open the book, and loose the
seals thereof. Ninety and nine are the seals revealed; but lo! in
wisdom I planned it; for one was, and is not, and again is, and
may this be affixed, in due season and order, to that word which I
have purposed should benefit the nations of this earth, in ray own
way and time.
3. Thus saith the Holy Angel who brought the word and Seal ;
The last shall be first, and the first last; then write and fear not
while I read the words on the Seal, for the will of God must be
m
done.
The Hundredth, or Unchangeable Seal of the laving God.
1. Thus saith the Lord God of hosts; If any man shall careless
ly or purposely add, alter, or diminish this sacred and permanent
word of mine, by writing, printing, translating or reading it in any
degree, shape or manner whatever, I will reward him in judgment
seven fold ; and he shall feel my anger, both day and night, for
times and seasons, yea, until the sin shall be washed away by the
waters of true repentance, and consumed by the fire of my justice.
2. Cursed shall be the body and soul that shall alter my Word,
or cause it to be destroyed; yea, the tongue that shall blaspheme it
also; and every one who may dare to lift up their voice, or put
forth a hand to aid in burning my word, shall not escape the awful
plagues which shall be poured out on the earth ; for with a curse, I,
the God of justice, will smite them, from the crown of their heads
to the soles of their feet ; and in inexpressible anguish shall they
lament with bitterness their sin.
3. But to those who shall seek to keep my word holy and safe
from all harm, believe, repent and obey in sacred fear; bend their
knees in prayer, bow their souls and bodies low even to the dust,
and raise their feeble voices to my throne, in. tears of repentance
and entreaty, I will hearken in love, and like a kind Father draw
near and befriend them.
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 399
4. I will lead them to the true light of salvation ; make them my
holy and well beloved servants, and they shall dwell in my kingdom
forever, saith the Holy and Just One ; for I am the Beginning and
Ending, and this is my unchangeable Seal which shall forever stand.
Amen, even so let it be.
Inspired Writer,
Susan H. Whitohf.r.
CLOSING WORD OF THE MIGHTY ANGEL OF GOD;
REVEALED AT NEW LEBANON, NEW YORK, APRIL 17, 1843.
1. Give ear unto my voice, all ye nations of the earth, and listen
with attention all ye dwellers in Zion's habitations.
-» 2. By the command ofmy God have I been required closely to ex
amine all that enters between the lids of this sacred book, whether
brought forward as testimonies from those who at times had clearly
seen it by the immediate inspiration of God, for many months previ
ous to the writing of this Roll and Book, in different societies, and
in various places, held in my hands or borne upon the wings of other
holy Angels ; or whether it be merely as witnesses to the truth of
that word herein contained.
3. My God did require that there should be many signers to his
word, not for the sake of substantiating its truth ; for it hath pro
ceeded and come forth from no other source, than the source of eter
nal truth itself; but that all the inhabitants of the earth may know
that God has a seed remaining upon the earth, a little chosen few,
a poor afflicted and despised people, yet numbered in the Zion of
his likeness ; who are ready and thankful for a privilege to do his
will and pleasure, should it cost them all the enjoyments of life,
and even the sacrifice of life itself.
4. My God doth not require, saith the mighty Angel, that all the
inhabitants of Zion should sign this his first word to the children
of men, in this the last dispensation of his grace to them, by affixing
their own personal names; neither does He require that all whom
He hath caused to be used as inspired agents, in this his late man
ifestation, should sign their names, individually ; but a number suffi
cient to show the general union and approbation of the body of
Zion at large, are permitted to sign it.
40(1 APPENDIX TO THE
5. And further than this, says the Angel, is unnecessary, and
not, at present, required by your God. But wait God's time for
further requirements. Remember that He hath declared to all
nations, that He worketh in a time of his own appointing, and
willeth at his pleasure, the work for mortal man to be engaged in.
6. Therefore, hear and understand, all ye inhabitants of the earth,
that but a few of those who have forsaken all for Christ's sake, now
in this his second coining, without sin unto salvation, have placed
their individual names in this Book ;
7. Yet there are many, not herein named at this time, who stand
equally justified before their God, as those who have affixed their
names. And many there are, of various ages and classes, who
have not signed their names as inspired instruments or agents, al
though they have had equal evidence in their own souls, with those
who have signed, of the sublime and divine manifestations, for sev
eral years past, of a pure and holy God, to the inhabitants ofZion.
8. I, the Holy and Mighty Angel of God, do proclaim unto ail
people, both in and out of Zion, that God is able to make use of
such an agency as He chooses, to convey his word and his will to the
people :
9. But remember, that souls may be blessed with great gifts of
discerning spirits, and of inspiration and revelation ; yet lose their
own salvation at last. These gills can save none, any further than
they yield true obedience to the revealed will of God, made known
to them for their protection.
10. Again, I do testify unto all, that the true children of my
Heavenly Father's kingdom, take no delight in having their names
sounded abroad in the earth; they had much rather remain through
life secluded, and enter eternity, having been unknown by the
world at large. But if by any means, the will of God requireth
their names to go abroad, they yield as rendering obedience, not as
pleasing themselves.
11. God's word is truth, and needeth not the aid of mortals for
its support ; yet, for the sake of the unbeliever, He doth require
a short testimony from such as He hath shown the Roll and Book
which He was about to send forth to the inhabitants of earth, and
that previous to the time of its being written.
12. As the inspired writer of the Roll and Book, was not suffer
ed by his God, to know of these things until after the requirement
of writing this Sacred Word had been accomplished, saith the
SACRED ROLL AND BOOK. 401
Holy Angel, through whom this word has been revealed to man ;
13. Therefore, read, and reflect in solemn silence; for here are
truths recorded, that will stand in time and in the endless ages of
eternity ; not the "cunningly devised fables" of man or of woman ;
but truths of that God, before whom all must shortly appear, in
mercy or in judgment
14. And all that is placed between these sacred lids, I have close
ly examined, according to the direction of God, my Heavenly Fa
ther. And the spirit and substance of all herein contained, I pro
nounce and declare to all the inhabitants of earth, to be solemn and
unalterable truths of God; and that which will stand for the same,
in the endless ages of eternity.
15. Though the mortal writers or instruments of the word stand
or fall from their present faith, and that sincerity of heart, in which
they have written these testimonies, it can niter nothing, as respects
the solemn truths they do contain.
16. They only alter their own situation; and by denying the
sacred truths which, by the spirit of God, have been sounded through
their mouths, they disinherit themselves from his Holy Kingdom ;
And their testimonies shall stand before the eyes of all people, as a
solemn and awful record against them, both in time and in eternity,
saith the Angel.
17. There never was, and never will be a dispensation of the mer
cy and grace of God opened to mankind, that can save them from
their sins while walking in disobedience to its requirements.
18. But the greater the privilege that God hath granted them,
by favoring them with his divine and sacred influence, the greater
must be their horror and condemnation in turning therefrom, and
walking again in open disobedience to that true light and sacred
power, which, by the mercy of God, had once been suffered to rest
upon their souls.
19. Therefore, hearken and understand, all ye nations, kindreds,
tongues and people; for I, the mighty, holy and proclaiming Angel
of God, do declare in your ears, and to your understanding, solemn
truths of God.
20. None of the agents nor instruments that were ever used by
the command of God, or in the hands of holy Angels, to sound forth
his word and will to the people, were, ever finally saved thereby, short
APPENDIX TO THE
tii' walking in strict obedience to that which was required of them,
in the order that God had appointed.
21. But whenever they turn their feelings in disobedience to these
requirements, and reject the same, they rapidly hasten their own
destruction, and separation from the holy spirit of God. Whether
they be instruments that have been used in the Zion of his likeness,
or whether they be instruments that are abroad in the world, it alter-
eth not the path that all must pursue, to find their own souls' salva
tion and protection from the power of evil, which is the path of strict
and true obedience to that revealed will and order of God that is
established for their souls' protection in the day and time in which
they live.
22. By the fruits shall mankind discern whether the work be of
God, saith the holy and mighty Angel, whose word faileth not.
Therefore read and understand, by holy fear and sacred reverence,
the word of that God who giveth immortality, and eternal life to all
who keep his commandments.
Inspired Writer,
Philemon Stewart.
Errata to Part II.
Pafce.
294, line 1" from t»p, for 15, read 12.
298,
" 2
" " deln Aeio Lebanon, JV. V. January 2, 1842.
" " 14
" " dele ye.
3(12,
" 1
" " f. know, r. known.
308,
" 47
" " f. in, r. by.
310,
" 9
" " f. Berkshire, r. Hampshire.
312,
" 38
" " f. 1806, r. 1803.
313,
" 33
" " after Massachusetts, add April 1, 1794.
316,
" 39
" " after New York, add November 9, 1805.
320,
" 11
" " f. thirty, t. thirty four.
334,
" 45
" " f. 5, r. 15.
N. B. There are many places where the solemn and familiar style are inter
mingled in the same sentence. These may be corrected whenever the
work is reprinted.
CONTENTS TO PART II.
Page.
Testifying Seal of the Prophet Jeremiah, 223
A holy and divine Roll, written by the Prophet Elisha, 224
A short Roll written by the holy Patriarch Noah, .... 229
Words of the Lord by the Prophet Micah, .... 234
Word of the Lord by the Prophet Ezekiel, 236
A word of invitation from the holy Prophet Ezekiel, . . . 240
A word of warning and invitation by the Patriarch Noah, 242
Word of the Lord communicated by the Prophet Malachi, . 244
Tho solemn warning of a holy Angel of God, .... 246
A Roll brought and read by an holy Angel of God, . 247
Words of the holy Prophet Isaiah, 248
A Roll of warning by a holy Angel, 249
A golden Seal containing the testimony of Simon Peter, . . . 253
A holy Roll written by John the Revelator, .... 257
A Roll of solemn warning, by Holy and Eternal Mother Wisdom,
brought by her witnessing Angel, 261
Interviews with the holy and mighty Angel of God, Ma 'no Me'rah
Vak'na Si'na Jah ; by Adah Zillah Potter, .... 267
Testimonial evidence given by divine revelation, and witnessed by
Harriet Goodwin, 283
Testimonies of eleven mighty Angels, that attended the writing of
the Roll, 289
Testimony of John Allen, 291
" " Luther Copley, 293
" " Hiram Rude, 294
" " Abigail Crosman, 294
" Hannah Blake, 298
" " Orren Haskins, 300
" " Daniel Crosman, 301
" Olive Wheeler, 302
" "
Emily Babcock, 302
" " James X Smith, 304
" " Charles McCartie, 305
" " Sally Maria Stewart, -
306
" " David A. Buckingham, ... 307
" Willard Allen, 309
" Justice Harwood, 310
" " Paulina Bates, 310
" " Joseph Wicker, 312
"
Joseph Patten, 315
" *'
Martha Van Valen, 313
CONTESTS TO PART II.
Page.
Testimony of Judith W. Collins, 315
" Averill Haskell, 317
" " Jefferson White, 313
" Medad Smith, Jr 320
" Phcbe Willcox, 321
" Calvin J. Parker, 322
" Eliza L. Chapin, 322
" Rollin Cramer, 323
" " Enos Leonard, 325
" Seth Blanchard, 320
"
Joseph Hammond, 326
" Lucy Clark, 326
" "
Lucy Myrick, . - 32S
" " William Leonard, 329
" " Jonas Nutting, 331
" "
Daniel Myrick, 332
" Minerva L. Hill, 333
" " Joanna Randall, 33a
', " William H. Wetherbec, 335
" " Anuis C. Godfrey, 337
" William Willard, 336
" William Tripure, 339
Jaines M. Otis, 340
" " John Maloon, 341
" " James C. Blanchard, 342
"
Mary Whitchcr, 343
" " Hester Ann Adams, 344
" "
Myra A. Bean, 346
" " Cynthia B. Bradley, 350
" Caleb M. Dyer, 352
" " Abraham Perkins, 352
', " Horace Folsom, ...... 353
" " Timothy Kandlett, 354
" " Susannah Curtis, 355
" Mary Fall, 357
" " Rebecca Robinson, .
... - 359
-- " Otis Sawyer, 361
" Merrill Bailey, 362
,' " Lydia Nowell, 363
" " Lavina P. Mclntire, 364
"- Sophia F. Mace, 365
Communication from a Holy Spirit, 367
A Seal from the Lord Jehovah, 366
Testimony of Susan H. Whitcher and others, . 370
Seth Y. Wells, 371
Benjamin Seth Youngs, 374
, /
CONTENTS TO PART II.
Pago.
Testimony of William P. Williams, 381
" John Lyon, .... . . 382
" Elisha Pote, ...... 385
" Daniel Moseley and others, .... 387
Witnesses of the work of God in all ages of the world ; and testimo
ny of the Eternal Two in one, 391
God declareth the vestment of bis power, in which He hath clothed
the Two Anointed Ones, 3%
Word and Seal of the Eternal Father, 397
The Hundredth or Unchangeable Seal, 398
Closing word of the Mighty Angel of God, 399
\
