{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__teste___a_practical_manual_of_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"A Practical Manual Of Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
A
0
PRACTICAL MANUAL
OF
ANIMAL MAGNETISM;
CONTAINING
AN EXPOSITION OF THE METHODS EMPLOYED
IN PBODOCINO TBE
MAGNETIC PHENOMENA;
WITH ITS APPLICATION TO THE
TREATMENT AND CURE OF DISEASES.
Bv ALPHONSE JESTE, M.D.
Tramlatedfrom tM Seetmd Edition,
BY D. SPILLAN, M.D. A.M.
FELLOW OP TilE DUBLIN COLLEGE OP PHYSICIANS.
LONDON:
HIPPOLYTE BAILLIERE,
PUBLISHER AND FOREIGN BOOKSELLER,
219 REGENT STREET•
.1843.
LONDON :
PBlNTBD BY KOY£8 AND BARCLAY, CASTLE SftEET,
LEICESTER 8QUABB.
r,
I
TO
)HN ELLIOTSON, EsQ. M.D. CANTAB. F.R.S.
&e. &c. &c.
aOSE FIRM DETERMINATION IN THE INVESTIGATION OF TRUTH
IS ONLY EQUALLED BY HIS UNFLINCIDNG COURAGE
IN OPENLY AVOWING IT,
~bfs ~tanslatfon
IS MOST RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED
BY HIS OBEDIENT SERVANT,
D. SPILLAN.
,
TRANSLATOR'S ADVERTISEMENT.
THE study of Mesmerism having become so very
general in this country within the last few years,-a
circumstance for which we are mainly indebted to the
untiring zeal and indefatigable exertions of Dr. Elliot-
son,-it was found necessary that the English public
should possess some work in their own language, which
might serve as an introduction to this truly interesting
science. The great popularity of Dr. Teste's Manuel
Pratique de Magnetisme Animal, the very clear and
methodical exposition which it gives of the various
processes employed in the production of the magnetic
phenomena, and of the application of this science to
l" the alleviation and cure of disease, at once pointed it
f out as one which, presented in an English dress, might
prove not unacceptable to the English public. It will
be found to possess those qualities which must recom-
mend every didactic work, viz. great simplicity and
great clearness of arrangement.
CONTENTS.
Page
CIIAP. 1.-HISTOBICAL SuRVEY • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I
§ I. Mesmer and his Theory ..........•.....
RA!fiections on the Report of Bailly •••.••
Conclnsions of the Report of Jussieu .•..••
Effect produced by the work of Thouret,
entitled Recherches et Doutes sur le ltfag-
n/Jti811U! Animal •••••••••••••••••.••••
§ II. Magnetism among the Egyptians..•.•.•.
§ ill. Magnetism among the Hebrews....•••.
§ IV. Magnetism among the Greeks .•....•.
§ V. Magnetism among the Romans •...•...
§ VI. Magnetism among the Gauls •.•.••••••
§ VII. Magnetism in the Middle Ages ...... .
§ VIII. Magnetism in our Times ••••..•••••.
Letter of the Marquis de Puysegur to one
of the members of the Societe de !'Har-
monie ••..•.••.•••••••••....•.•.•.••
Transactions ofthe Royal Academy ofMedi-
cine relative to Magnetism •••••••.•••.
·§ IX, Conclusions of M. Husson's Report in
1831 •••••••••.•• ' •••••••••••••••
ih.
9
11
ih.
ih.
12
13
14
15
i'h.
17
ih.
2()
22
..
,1'
Viii CO!tTBNTS.
P.,e
CRAP. 11.-()p THE CAU8B8 WBICB BAVE BETABDED THE
PBOPAGATIO!t 01' MJ.GNETI8lll , • , • , , • • 31
CaAP. m.-CottDITIO!t8 ltECB88ABY TO THE Paonuc-
TIO!t OF THE MAGNETIC PBBNOMB!tA , , , , 35
§ I. Of Sex •••••••• ••. •••••. • •• •••••. ••. • 37
§ II. Of Age .. •••••.. .. . .. •.. .. •••. ••••• 38
§ill. Of the Temperament ................ 41
§ IV. Of the Physiological State .. .. .. •.. .. • 42
§ V. Moral Conditions •••• ••. • •. •••••••••• 44
§ VI. Phrenological Conditions •••••. •• •. •• 45
§ VII. Of Places, Witnesses, &e. •••••••• •••• ib.
CRAP. IV.-CLA88IFICATIO'N AltD DE8CBIPTIO!t OF TBB
MAGttETlC PBBttOlllB'NA • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 47
§ I. Precursory Signs of Sleep •.. •.. •••.. ••• 48
§ II. Of the Magnetic Sleep ••.. .. .. •.. . .. •• 55
§ m. Of Somnambulism .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . 56
§ IV. Of Somnambulism properly so called. ••• ib.
§ V. Intelligence and Moral Faculties during
Somnambulism. . •. ••••. •. ••••••••• 58
§ VI. Of Isolation • .. •. .. .. .. .. .. .. • •.. .. . 61
§ VII. Of Physical Insensibility •••. •• •••. •• 65
Case of Madame Plaintain •••. •••••• ib
Case communicated to the Academy
by M. Oudet. •••••••••••••••• ••• 67
§ VllL Of Incomplete Isolation ••••• . •. •• . • 69
Of the Functions of Organic Life dur-
ing Somnambulism •••••••••• •• 70
CHAP. V.-ON LuciD SoMttAlllBUIJSM •••••••••••••• 71
1. Vision without the Aid of the Eyes •••••••• ~l
~
I
Jl
CONTENTS. ix
Page
Case of Madame Hortense ••• •. . ••. . . . . •. 75
1st Sitting . ••••. ••. . . . •••. . . •• •••••. 79
2d Sitting •. •••••••• •••. •. ••. • . •••. . 82
3d Sitting . •••• . •. . . . . •••••• •. •••••• 85
4th Sitting (at which MM. Bousquet,
Amedee Latour, Ch. d 'Orbigny, &c.
assisted) ••. . ••. ••. . . . . . . . . •. •••. ib.
5th Sitting (witnesses, MM. Bouillaud
and Cornac) . . . . . . . . •••. •••••. . . . . 88
6th Sitting (witnesses : MM. Frapart,
Latour, Jeanselme, d'Epagny, &c.) •. 91
Reading a Paper enclosed in a Box •. •. 95
2. Intuition •••••. ••. . ••. . ••••• . . . •. •• . . •. 96
3. OfInterior Prevision •••• . ••• . •. . ••• . • . . . 99
Case of Mi88 Clary D*** • . • . • •• . • • . . • • 101
4. On External Prevision •••••.•.....•.•... 105
Remarkable Case •.•••.•••.........•• 107
Case of Madame B. •. .. . . .. .. •.. .. . . . .. 112
5. Ofthe Penetration of Thought . . •••. ••. ••• l 17
Case of M. Barrier •••• . . . . •. • . . . . . . . . . 118
Case ofCallixte ••.. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. . . 122
6. Transposition of the Senses ••. . ••. . •. . . •• 126
7. Ofcertain other Particularities remarked, or
supposed to be remarked, during Som-
nambulism •••. •••. •••. .. • . • . • . . • . . . . 133
Letter written to the Sacred Penitentiary,
under the direction of the Bishop of Lau-
sanne ••.••••••••.••.••••.••.••••... 137
8. On Awaking •••••. . . . . . • . . . . . . . . ••. •. . 140
Case of Pradhier ••••.••••...· . . . ••. •••. 145
--
CONTENTS.
Page
CHAP. VI.-OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS OF MAGNET-
18ING • •,, •• ,.,,,,.,, ••••••• ,.,.,. 149
Ordinary Method according to Deleuze •••• 151
Magnetisation by the Head • ••••••••••• • . 154
by means of the Look •••• •• 157
by the mere Will •••••..••• 158
Experimentsmade at the Hotel-Dieu ofParis,
by M. Dupotet ••••••• ••••. • . •••. •••• ib.
Method of Faria ••.. .. .. ••.. .. ••.. .. .. •• 164
Of Insuffiation • •••••••• •••.. ••• •••• .••• 165
Magnetising one Somnambulist by another
Somnambulist •••. ••••••••. . •••••••••. ib.
Of Faith •• • . •••••. •••. •••••••••••••. . • 170
Of the Number and the Hour of ~e Sittings 171
CHAP. VII.-0F THE PROCESSEtl TO BE ADOPTED TO
AwAKEN SoMNAlii:BULISTS • • • • • • • • • • 175
CHAP. VIII.-OF THE MAGNETIC FLUID • • • • • • • • • • • • 178
CHAP. IX._-OF TilE FATIGUE FELT BY MAGNETISEB8-
0F SOMNAMBULISM OCCASIONED BY CEB•
TAJN MBmciNES- soME CoNSIDEBA-
TIONS ON THE NATURE OF MAGNETISM 185
CHAP. X.-ON THE lliGNETISATION oF FooD, oP
DBINK.S, OF RINGS, AND OF INANilllATE
SUBSTANCES IN GENERAL,,., •••• , ••• 192
Letter of M. Clocquet relative to the Treat-
ment at Busancy ...................... 193_
1st Experiment on Magnetised Water •••••• 201
CONTENTS. zi
Pap
2d Experiment •. •• •. •••••. ••. . •••••••. •• 204
3d Experiment ••• . •••••• . . • ••• •. •••• •••• 206
Considerations on Magnetised Water. • •••••. 207
Experiment of M. Foissa.c •••••••••••••. •• 209
Manner of Magnetising Water •• •••••••••• 210
--------Trees•••••••.•••.•• 211
--------Tubs.............. ib.
--------Baths •••.•.•••••• 212
Facts tending to prove the Existence ofa Mag-
netic Fluid•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 216
CHAP. XI.-MAGNETISATJON OF ANIMALS •••. •••••• 226
CHAP. XII.-bFLU.BNCB 01' ANIMAL MAGNETISM OK
TBB SYSTBlll ••••••••••• ••• •• •••••• 227
CHAP. XIII.-Or MAGNETISlll, CONSIDERED AS ATBB-
BAl'EUTIC AGBNT ••• ••••••••••••• •• 229
1st Case.-Asphyxia in an Infant, &c., by M.
Thiriat •••••••••••••••••• •••• 233
2d Case.-Paralysis and Atrophy of the two
fore-arms, &c. •••••• •• ••••• ••. 236
3d Case.-Paralysis, &c.. •••••••••••••• •. •• 237
4th Case.-Paralysis of the Thighs and Legs,
&c. •••••••••••••••••••••••• 238
6th Case.-Chlorosi.s •••••• •• •••••••••. . • 241
6th Case.-Exhaustion, sweats, &c. •••. •••• 261
7th Case.-Occult Cancer • ••• •••••••••••• 262
8th Case.-Gout •••••••• ••••••••• ••••••• 266
9th Case.-Sciatica, Headache, &c. •• •••••• 257
loth Case.-Rheumatism ••••••••.••••••• 258
11th Case.-Partial Convulsions •••••••••• 261
xii CONTENTS.
Page;
12th Case.-Epilepsy •...• • •••••.• •..... • 264
13th Case.-Epilepsy ...••••.•.•••••...•. 268
14th Case.-Madness ...••.....••.••••.•. 270
General Reflections on the Therapeutic Action
of Magnetism. . . . . • . . • • . . •. •• . ••• • . . . . . 272
CHAP. XIV.-OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT....•......• 280
Case ofMadame Comet •.....•.•••••.•••• 286
15th Case.-Fistulre and meers . . . . . . •. •. . . 300
16th Case.-Chronic Deafness cured in two
months ••.••.•••.••.••.•.•••••.•...•. 320
Of some Peculiarities in the Therapeutics of
Somnambulists . . . . .. . . .. .. • .. . . . .. .. .. 324
Case of Madame Teste............ . ....... 337
CHAP. XV.-MEDICINE OF SoMNAMBULISTS ..••...... 368
Of External Prevision • • • • . •• •• • • . • • •• • . • . 376
Of the Instinct of Remedies. • . ••• . • • • •. • . • • 378
Of the Sensations experienced by Somnambu-
lists on the Contact of Patients . . •• • • •• • • 385
Of the Manner in which Consultations ought
to be give~. . • . . • . . . . • . . • . • • . • • . . •• . . • . 388
Important Remark • . • . . . . • . . •. • . • • . . . • • . 10.
Case •••••.••.•.•..•••••••.•.••••••••.••• 390 I
CHAP. XVI.-ON THE NEcESSITY or MoRALITY IN
MAGNETISERS • . • • •• . • . • • . . • • •. . • 397
CHAP. XVII.-CoNCLUSION . •• • . . • . . . . . •• • . . . • . • • 403
Postscript .••.•...•.••.•••••..••.••....• 405
I
I
I
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
CHAPTER I.
HISTORICAL SURVEY.
§ I. Mesmer and hu Theory.
IT is now well-nigh sixty-five years since animal mag-
netism made its entree into t~e world. Its discovery is gene-
rally attributed to Mesmer, a physician of Vienna.* The
nature and limits of this work will not allow us to give in
this place a detailed history of this discovery, with all the
changes it underwent in Germany from the first practical
attempts of Mesmer in 1773 to 1778, in which year he came
to France. It may be well to mention, however, that it was
·n almost total despair of the cause that Mesmer left his
* F. Antoine Mesmer was born at Weiler, near Stein, on the
, Rhine, in 1734; died at Mersburg, near the Lake of Constance, on
he 5th of March, 1815. He studied medicine under Van Swieten
d de Haen, and was admitted a doctor at the Faculty of Vienna in
166. His inaugural dissertation was well calculated to indicate the
bias of his mind ; it was entitled, Of tlu lnftumce of tlu Planet8 on
tlu Human Body.
B
2 WSTOBICAL SURVEY,
country, where the artful misrepresentations ofFather Hell*
and oflngenhousz had brought discredit on it. However,
he was indebted for several cases of success to the em-
ployment of his new method ; and in the year 1775 h
published, in his Letter to a Foreign Physician, the complete
exposition of his theory. We shall present to our readers
the twenty-seven propositions which comprise it, under the
form of aphorisms :t-
1. There exists a mutual infiuence between the heavenly
bodies, t)le earth, and living bodies.
2. A fluid universally diffused -and continued, so as to
admit no vacuum, whose subtilty is beyond all comparison,
and which, from its nature, is capable of receiving, propa-
gating, and communicating all the impressions of motion, is
the medium of this infiuence. ·
3. This reciprocal action is subject to mechanical laws
unknown up to the present time.
4. From this action result·alternate effects which may
be considered a flux and reflux.
5. This flux and reflux is more or less general, more or
less particular, more or less compound, according to the
nature of the causes which occasion it.
6. It is by this operation (the most universal of th~
presented to us by nature) that the relations of activit§
occur between the he:~.venly bodies, the earth, and its con :
stituent parts.
7. The properties of matter and of organised body
depend on this operation.
8. The animal body experiences the alternate effects of
* Of the Society of Jesus, and Professor of Astronomy In Vienna.
t Memoir on the Discovery of Animal Magnetism. Paris, 1799.
I
•
l MESMBB AND HIS TIIBOBY. 3
this agent ; and it is by insinuating itself into the substance
of the nerves that it immediately affects them.
9. There are manifested, more especially in the human
,-body, properties analogous to those of the magnet; there
are distinguished in it poles equally different and opposite,
which may be communicated, changed, destroyed, and re-
stored ; even the phenomenon of inclination is observed
therein.
10. The property of the animal body which renders it
susceptible of the influence of the heavenly bodies, and of
the reciprocal action of.those which surround it, manifested
by its analogy to the magnet, has made me to call it animal
magnetism.
11. The action and virtue of animal magnetism, thus
characterised, may be communicated to other bodies, animate
and inanimate: both, however, are more or less susceptible
of it.
12. This action and this virtue may be reinforced and
propagated by the same bodies.
13. There is observed by experiment the discharge of a
matter whose subtilty penetrates all bodies, without percep-
tibly losing its activity.
14. Its action takes place at a remote distance, without
the aid of any intermediate body.
15. It is increased and reflected by ice, like light.
16. It is communicated, propagated, and increased by
sound.
17. This magnetic influence may be accumulated, con-
centrated, and transferred.
18. I have said that animate bodies were not equally
:~r susceptible of it; there are some even, though very few,
'~
dh
4 MSTORICAL SURVEY.
which poRSe88 a property so opposite, that their mere
presence destroys all the effects of this magnetism in bodies.
19. This opposite virtue also penetrates all bodies; it
may also be communicated, propagated, accumulated,
concentrated, and transferred, reflected by ices, and propa-
gated by sound ; a circumstance which constitutes not only
a privation, but a positive opposite virtue.
20. The magnet, whether natural or artificial, as we11 as
other bodies, is susceptible of animal magnetism, and even
of the opposite virtue, without, either in the one ease or in
the other, its action on iron or on the needle undergoing any
change; which proves that the principle of anima] mag-
netism differs essentially from that of the mineral.
21. This system wilJ furnish new illustrations with
respect to the nature of fire and light, as well as in the
theory of attraction, of flux and reflux, of the magnet and
electricity.
22. It wilJ shew that with respect to diseases the magnet
and artificial electricity have merely common properties with
several other agents presented to us by nature ; and that if
any useful effects have resulted from these, they are owing
to animal magnetism.
23. It will be seen by facts, from the practical rules
which I shall establish, that this principle is capable of
curing diseases of nerves immediately, and other diseases
mediately.
24. That with its aid the physician is instructed with
respect to the use ofmedicines; that he perfects their action,
and excites and directs their salutary crisis so as to make
himself complete master of them.
25. By communicating my method, I shall prove by a
MESMEB AND RI8 TBBOBY.
new theory of diseases the universal utility of the principle
which I oppose to them.
26. With this knowledge the physician shall judge with
certainty of the origin, nature, and progress of diseases, even
the most complicated ; he will arrest their increase, and
attain their cure, without ever exposing the patient to dan-
gerous effects or fatal consequences, whatever be the age,
temperament, and sex. Women, even in the state of preg-
nancy, and at the time of their accouchement, will enjoy the
same advantage.
27. This doctrine, finally, will enable the physician to
judge accurately of the degree of health of each individual,
and to preserve him from the diseases to which he might be
exposed. The art of healing will attain its ultimate per-
fection.
~n grant that this hope may one day be realised;
but we much fear, for the sake of humanity, that Mesmer's
prophecy is still far removed from the period of its accom-
plishment. Be this as it may, the propositions which have
been just read, a true imbroglio where we meet a little of
every thing, ofthe absurd and the true, offacts and ofmeta-
physics,-these propositions, I say, met but little sympathy in
the learned world of the time ; and their author, from being
too refined in his theory, passed as an eccentric in his
practice. Besides Mesmer had no right to claim to himself
the honour of his doctrine, since we find all the elements of
it scattered through works more than a century anterior to
his birth ; an assertion whose truth may be readily appre-
ciated by turning over the writings of· Paracelsus, Van
Helmont, Santanelli, and especially of Maxwell ; we may
r say further, that the philosopher of Weiler shews himself,
6 HISTORICAL SURVEY.
in more places than one, a rather servile copyist ; for, as we
might prove by comparing with the enunciation of his prin·
ciples certain texts quoted from the work of Bertrand,* he
does not scruple to transcribe his models almost literally.
However, if we think we can dispute with Mesmer the
glory of having discovered animal magnetism, we cannot
refuse him the merit ofhaving made a dexterous and able
display of it. It is still a disputed point whether this man
possessed genius ; but certain it is that his philanthropy was
never denied. Some arch persons assure us even, that he
sold it very dearly ; witness the two hundred and fifty
thousand crowns which he received, it is said, from his
pupils in Paris. But .this is not all: to the honour of
teaching his method to the physician d'Eslon, and several
other persons, Mesmer joined the still more profitable
honour of treating, whether sick or not, all the great no-
blemen at the court of Louis XVI. It is plain, that in
orJer to excite the enthusiastic population of our new
Athens, there would have been no necessity for such strange
and such extraordinary innovations as the therapeutic pro-
cesses which he employed. We 'may form an opinion of
them by the description which the reporters of 1784 have
left us ofthem:-
" They (the commissioners) saw in the midst of a large
room a round oak chest, raised about a foot or a foot and
half, called the baquet (tub) ; the upper part of this chest
was perforated with a great number of holes, through which
came branches bent at an angle and movable. The patients
were placed in rows around this baquet, and each with his
* Du Magnetisme Animal en France. avo. Paris, 1826.
f! ,......A~BQ ........,, 7
iron branch, which by means of the bend might be applied
directly to the affected part; a cord, passed around their
body, united them one to another. Sometimes a second
chain was formed by their joining bands,-that is, by each
applying the thumb between the thumb and inde:r finger of
his neighbour; then the thumb thus held is pressed; the
impression thus made on the left is transmitted by the right
band, and it is thus circulated.
" A pianoforte was placed in a corner of the room, and
according to the different moYements different airs were
played on it. The sound of the voice and singing were
sometimes joined to it."
To complete the picture, it may be added, that all those
who magnetised were armed with an iron rod from ten to
twelve inches long ; and that the patients, besides tbejluid
which they received from the common reservoir, were again
magnetised directly, either by means of the look of the
magnetiser, or with the finger or the rod held out before
their face or over their bead, or by the application of the
hands and the pressure of the fingers over the hypochondria
and abdomen.
From the combined and sufficiently prolonged action
of these different agents there occurred in some of the indi-
viduals who submitted to them (especially in the case of
delicate women) phenomena of a variable kind, but always
more or less unusual, such as fits of coughing, spasm,
vomiting, sweating, pains, local or general, convulsions, &c.
These were the famed artijicial cr~ses from which Mesmer
and his followers augured the certain and immediate cure of
all diseases without the exception of a single one. God only
Jlm~ wh""'' M"'"" .....,If bcli<v<d in th• proun..
o;,;r;'ed ,, Coogle
8 MSTORICAL 8tJKVBY,
which he made to his patients; but if Germany carried
her ingratitude so far as to recognise in him nothing but a
barefaced, avaricious charlatan, we are almost tempted at
the present day, magnetisers as we are, to join our judgment
to that of his countrymen.
However, setting aside the so-called miracles of Mesmer,
it was scarcely possible to refuse admitting, that there really
existed something beneath the prestige with which the true
manifestation of facts was so adroitly veiled ; and one
might even suspect that in Mesmer's tub, and in the Mes-
merism of that day, there lay a mighty science in its cradle.
Widely different, however, was the judgment formed of
it by the commission of 1784 ; we must make bold to say,
that, notwithstanding the great merit and imposing names
of the men who composed it, there cannot be a doubt but
that the obvious incorrectness in the conclusions of their
report must be attributed solely and exclusively to their
injudicious manner of observing delicate facts against which
also they were already prejudiced.
Borie, Sallin, d'Arcet, and t.he celebrated Guillotin, were
the medical men appointed members of the first commission.
At their request it was that the five members of the
Academy of Sciences were added, Franklin, Leroi, Bailly,
de Bory, and Lavoisier.*
f
.!
Mesmer had then quitted France (March 12, 1784); he
went to take the Spa waters for his health (what contra-
dictions in the life of a man !) and he had given up his
practice in Paris to his pupil d'Eslon, one of the most dis- 1
* Borie having died at the very commencement, Majault was
elected in his stead.
o·,wea,,Google
r MBSIDIR AND HIS THEORY. 9
tinguished members of the Faculty, but in disrepute with
his c011j'rerea since his conversion to magnetism.
There are few physicians, and no magnetisers, who have
not read Bailly's report. It is the regular trial of the
Mesmerian doctrine; and, most certainly, the conclusions
which terminate it were well calculated to settle definitively
the question of magnetism, if the judgments of men could
subvert truth. But truth is eternal as God himself; we
may malign or honour it, proclaim or proscribe it; this,
however, produces no change in its existence.
The report of Bailly, spread with profusion, and pro-
bably with ostentation, throughout all the schools and all
ranks of society, produced scarcely any other effect than
that of souring minds already convinced, and of exciting
among the partisails of the condemBed doctrine recrimina-
tions more or less bitter against their judges. It is in the
nature of the human mind to cherish independence and to
feel exasperated by opposition; let power adopt and pre-
scribe a creed, it will create a schism; let it proscribe this
creed, it will create apostles for it ; let it persecute it, it will
gain martyrs to it. It would have gone as far as this
in the case of magnetism, if power had wished it ; power,
however, would have had too much to do. Magnetism, in
fact, now reckoned too ~nany partisans on its side, and
among them men of too much weight; it had found a
defender even in the very bosom of the Royal Academy,
into which it had made its entree under the auspices of one
ofthe greatest geniuses of the day. The report of Ant. L.
de Jussieu, drawn up with the minute exactness ofan honest
and strict observer, was the counterpart of Bailly's report.
¥';,onlywoak ...., that """" '""""""""" ;, • """
"''''''ed,,Coogle
10 HISTOBICAL SURVEY.
of which they are sure, and which are afraid to put them·
selves in collision with the strong and the majority. Jussiea
closed his report thus :-"The theory of magnetism cannot
be admitted so long as it will not be developed and sup-
ported by solid facts. The experiments instituted to ascer·
tain the existence of the magnetic fluid prove only that mao
produces on his like a sensible action by friction, by contaet,
and more rarely by simple approximation at some distance.
This action, attributed to a universal fluid not demon·
strated, certainly appertains to animal heat existing in
bodies, which constantly emanates from them, is carried to a
considerable distance, and is capable of passing from one
body into another. Animal heat is developed, increased, or
diminished in a body by moral as well as by physical causes.
Judged ·by its effects, it participates in the property of tonic
remedies, and like them produces salutary or injurious
effects according to the quantity communicated, and accord·
ing to the circumstances in which it is employed. A longer
use of this agent will make its real action and degree of
usefulness to be better understood. Every physician may
follow the methods which he thinks advantageous in the
treatment of diseases, but only on condition that he pub·
lishes his mode of cure when they happen to be new or
opposed to the ordinary practice. Those who have esta·
blished, propagated, or followed the treatment called mag·
netic, and who propose to themselves to continue it, are
accordingly bound to publish their discoveries and observao
tions ; and all treatment of this kind should be proscribed
the processes of which shall not be made known by im·
mediate publication."
Even though Jussien had not pointed out to m
MAGNETISM AMONG THB JIGYPTIANS. 11
netisers their obligation to publish an account of their
works, such a duty would have been imperative on their
part. Ardent and disinterested innovators, they desired
nothing so much as the propagation of their creed. Ac·
cordingly we see memoirs, polemical works, and dogmatic
books, developing new facts, rapidly succeeding each other.
Thouret's works entitled, Recherches et Doutes sur le
Magnhisme Animal, published in 1784 for the sole object
of stripping Mesmer of a celebrity which was beginning
to give annoyance, produced a diametrically opposite effect.
The vast erudition displayed by the author excited emula·
tion, and opened a new road. History was consulted, old
chronicles were searched, and all the facts which, in the
annals of antiquity or of the middle ages, presented any
analogy with the magnetic facts, were explained by a refer-
ence to the new doctrine. Hence the origin of those
numberless erudite bibliographical researches which, thanks
to the efforts of MM. Deleuze, Abrial, &c., united to the
writings of the Germans, enable us at the present day to
trace magnetism among nations now extinct or altogether
changed, as also among all modem nations.
We shall now present to our readers a summary of
these historical researches ofa new kind.•
§ II. Magnetism arrwng the Egyptians.
Charlatans, according to Celsus, performed extraordinary
cures by the mere appos-ition ofthe haruis, and cured patients
by blowing.
* Nowadays magnetism is practised every where: in the deserts
of Louisiana as in France, at Pekin as at Paris. Even In Auvergne
jUld in Limonsin there are somnambulists who never awake.
12 BISTOBICAL 8UBVBY.
Arnobius, who confirms the same fact,• states the re-
proaches which the Pagans addressed to Jesus in these
terms: "He is a magician," said they, "who bas done all
these things by a clandestine art : he bas furtively taken
from the Egyptian temples the name of the powerful
angeU., and bas robbed them of their ancient customs, their
secret doctrines."
Finally, the supposed intervention of the goddess Isia,t
who, according to the Egyptian priests, iuspired the faith·
ful during their dreams with a knowledge of the meaus of
curing themselves of their diseases, seems to us nothing
else than the imtinct of those remedies with which our som·
nambulists are endowed.
§ III. Magnetism amo111J the Hebrews.
The prophets of Israel, designated by the name of 11eer,
were as well consulted for the ordinary events of life
as for sacred things. We read, for example, in the ninth
chapter of the Dook of Kings, that Saul went to consult
Samuel to learn from him what had become of his father's
asses, which had been astray for several days.
Abab, king of Israel, wishing to know if be should
make war to take Ramoth in Gilead, assembled his pro- ,
phets to the number of four hundred. t
God speaks duri111J drea17111 in the vi8io1111 of the night•
to warn man of the evil which he doeth, and to instruct
him in that which he should know.§
The son of the widow of Sarepta became sick, and hit
* Adv. Gentes, liv. 1. t Diod. Sicul.
l Kings, b. iii. chap. uvlii. § Job, chap. xuili.
, .MAGNBTJSM AMONG TBB GBBBitS. 13
disease became so severe, that he no longer retained a
breath of life. Elijah took the child in his arms, carried
him into the apartment where he resided, and laid him on
his bed. He then extended himself thrice over the child,
measuring himself by his little body, and he cried out,-
" I..ord, my God, grant, I pray thee, that the soul of this
child may re-enter his body ;" and the child was restored
to life.•
In nearly the same manner Elisha cured the child of
the Shunammite.
§ IV. Magnetism among the Greelu.
The Greeks had derived most of their customs from
India and Egypt. Medicine with them was a species of
priesthood, the mysteries of which the initiated could not
reveal to the profane under pain of sacrilege. Thus we
see the first Greek physicians employ, for the cure of their
patients, certain mogic processes, which can only be com-
pared to the acts of our magnetisers.
Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, cured persons suffering from
the spleen by touching them slowly, and for a long time, on
the painful side.+
JElian says that, on approaching the Psylle, persons were
struck with stupor as if they had drunk a soporific potion,
and that they continued deprived of their senses until
the Psylle was removed.t
The affections suffered by the body, says Hippocrates,§
the soul sees quite well with shut eyes.
* Kings, book iii. chap. xvii. t Plut. in Pyrrho.
:1: ..Elian. Hist. Animalium, lib. xvi. c. 26.
,' · § De Regimine, lib. Iii.
14 BISTOBICAL SUBVEY.
According to Strabo, there was between Nepa and
Fralea a cavern consecrated to Pluto and Juno, in which
the priests slept for the sake of the patients who came to
consult them. Lastly, according to M. Foissac, the familiar
spirit, the demon of Socrates, that interior voice, which ap-
prised him of that which waa to happen, and ofthat which
be should do, was nothing, but a state of crisis or of
natural somnambulism, with which this godlike genius was
frequently affected, whom our countryman, M. Lebut,•
bas in vain sought to represent to us as labouring under in·
sanity.
§ V. Magnetism among the Romans.
Esculapius delivered oracles in a dream for the cure or
his patients.t
" I will not suffer persons," says Varro,t "to deny that
the Sibyl bas given men good counsel during her life, and
that she left after death predictions which are still eagerly
consulted on all difficult emergencies."
We read in Saint Justin "that the sibyls spoke many
great things with justice and truth, and that when the
instinct which animated them ceased to exist, they lost tAt
recollection§ of all that they bad declared." U
According to Celsus,,- Asclepiades put to sleep by mea111
offrictions those affected with frenzy. It happened even
* Le Demon de Socrate, specimen d'une application de Ia scieaet
de Ia psychologie acelle de l'histoire. Paris, 1836. In-8.
t Cicero de Divin. lib. iii. t De Re Rustica.
§ We shall presently see that this is one ofthe characteristic traits
of the magnetic sleep. 11 Justio. Adm. ad Gnecos.
, De Medicina. Paris, 1834. Lib. iii. p. 147.
MAGNETISM IN TBB MlDDLB AGES. 15
rather frequently, according to the same author, that too
much friction mightplunge the patient into a state oflethargy.
These facts, to which several others of a similar kind might
be added, leave no doubt with respect to their identity
with the magnetic phenomena observed at the present day.
§ VI. Magnetism among the Gauls.
There is not probably throughout all antiquity a people
among whom the power of magnetism held a more pro·
minent station than among the Gauls. Women, brought
up and instructed by the Druids, delivered oracles, foretold
the future, and cured diseases. The accounts given by
Tacitus, Lampridius, and Vopiseus, regarding the Druids,
bear testimony to the confidence they had in the accuracy
of their predictions.
"Endowed with extraordinary talents, they (the Druid-
eases) cure diseases deemed incurable, know the future,
and announce it to the people."*
Lastly, Pliny designates the Druids this way, This
description of prophets and physicia118,-Hoc genus vatum
medicorumque.
§ Vll. Magnetism in the Middle Ages.
In all times as well as in all countries, extraordinary
things have passed for supernatural, from the moment they
no longer admitted of explanation ; and as it is natural
to refer and attribute supernatural things to a divine
power, the history of magnetism in the middle ages, in the
I
* Pomp. Mela, t. iii. chap. vi.
I
16 BISTOBlCAL SUJI.VB'f.
1
same way aa in pagan antiquity and among the Gauli, il I
inextricably mixed up with the history of religion.
"The churches," says M. Mialle, " succeeded the temples 1
of the ancients, in which the traditions and processes of ~
magnetism were consigned. The same habits of p8811ing l
whole nights in them, the same dreams, the same visions,
the same cures. The true miracles performed on the I
tombs of saints are recognised by characters which it is not
in the power ofman to imitate; but we must exclude from the
list of the ancient legends a multitude of very extraordinary
cures, where religion and faith interfered only so far aa to
produce dispositions eminently favourable to the natural
action of magnetism.•
It is impossible for us to attempt in this place a critical
analysis of those dark records, and it would require a
volume merely to name the facts from the exorcisms of
Saint Gregory Thaumaturgns to the convulsionaries of
Saint Medard.t
And, as we have already observed, some intelligent men
one hundred years before the discovery of Mesmer, expressed
their objections to pretended miracles, and gave to mag·
netic facts their true interprete.tion. "Magnetism," saya
Van llelmont, "is active every where, and baa nothing new
but the name; it is a paradox only to those who ridicule
every thing, and who attribute to the power of Satan
whatever they are unable to explain."
* Foissac, Rapport de I'Academie Royale de Medeclne sur It
Magnet. Anim. Paris, 1833. 8vo.
t For these details we refer our readers to the work of C~ de
Mongeron (La Vlritl dts Miracles). Paris, 1737·1741. 3 vol.J2mo.;
to the Thldtrt Saerl dts Ctet~tnu; to the work of A. Bertrand : D• ~
Mapltilmt Animalt t11 Franct.
MAGNETISM IN OUB OWN TIMES. 17
§ VITI. Magneti8m in our own Time8.
Somnambuli11m, of which Ant.-L. de Jussieu had ob-
tained some glimpse in the practice of Eslon, but which
wu entirely overlooked by Mesmer and the magnetisers of
that day, is at the present day the prominent fact of mag·
netism, and all that is required to resolve definitely the
great question connected with it, is to make known
and demonstrate the existence of the phenomena which
constitute it. We shall see presently what the state of
public opinion is on this point, and more especially the
opinion of medical men. But first, not to anticipate, let us
continue our simple relation of facts.
The first cases of artificial somnambulism were observed
by the Marquis de Puysegur, at hisestate of Busancy.* He
wrote as follows, 8th of March, 1784, to one of the mem-
bers of the Societe de !'Harmonie.
"I feel great pleasure, sir, in communicating to you
some experiments in which I am engaged at my estate. I
am so agitated myself, I may even say so transported,
that I feel I stand in need of some repose and relaxation,
and I hope I shall find it in writing to one who is capable of
understanding me. When I censured the enthusiasm of
Father Hervin, how far I was from understanding the
cause of it! Even now I am as far from approving of it,
but I excuse it. More fire, more heat of imagination, than
probably I possess, have carried him away. Would that I,
as also those who, like me, shall be engaged in animal mag·
* Armand-Marc-Jacques Chastenet de Puysegur, born in Paris
·in 1750.
c
18 HISTORICAL SURVEY.
netism, could contribute to restore composure to the mind
of those who witness our extraordinaryexperiments, and that
by our own composure. Let us, however, after Mesmer's
example, make efforts to restrain ourselves; and, certainly,
powerful efforts are required to prevent ourselves from
being exalted to the very extreme point, when we see all
the surprising and beneficial effects which a man with a kind
heart and a desire to do good may produce by means of
animal magnetism. I enter then on the subject, and with
no inconsiderable ardor.
"After ten days' rest at my estate, without attending
to any thing but my repose and my gardens, I had occasion
to enter the house of my steward. His daughter was suf-
fering from a violent toothache ; I asked her in jest if she
wished to be cured ; she, of course, consented. I had not
been ten minutes magnetising her, when her pain was
completely gone; and she felt no return of it after.
"Another woman was cured on the following day of
the same affection, and in as short a time.
"This slight success made me try to do some good for
a peasant, about twenty-three years of age, who had been
keeping his bed for four days in consequence of inflammation
on his chest. I went to see him: it was last Tuesday, the
fourth of this month, at eight o'clock in the evening; the
fever had just become lighter. I made him get out ofbed and
magnetised him. What was my snrprise to see at the end
of half a quarter of an hour this personfall into a tranquil
1lecp in my arms, without pain or convulsion. I urged on
the crisis, which caused him some giddiness in the head:
he spoke aloud of his ordinary affairs. When I thought
his ideas must affect him disagreeably, I arrested them, a~
MAGNETISM IN OUR OWN TIMBS. 19
began to inspire him with others of a more pleasant and
lively turn. It required no great efforts on my pan
to accomplish this. Then I saw him quite happy, fan-
cying that he was dancing at aflte, &c. I cherished theee
ideas in him, and thereby I forced him to move himeelf
with considerable activity on his chair, as it were to
dance to an air which, by singing mentally, I made him
repeat quite loud. By these means I made the patient
sweat profusely from that day. After an hour's crisis I
quieted him, and left the room. A drink was now given to
him, and having ordered some bread and broth to be
brought to him, I made him on that same evening eat
a considerable quantity, a thing which be had not been
able to do for the last five days. He slept all that night;
and the next day, not remembering my visit of the evening,
he informed me of the improved state of his health. I
gave him two crises : Wednesday and Thursday I had the
satisfaction of seeing him affected merely with a slight
shivering. Every day I had the patient's feet put into
water for the space of three hours, and gave him two
crises a day. To-day (Saturday) the shivering lasted a
less time than usual, his appetite was kept up, he enjoyed a
good night's rest; in fine, I had the satisfaction of seeing
him perceptibly better, and I expect that in three days
more he will resume his usual employments, etc."
Many facts of a similar nature have been published
by M. de Puysegur since this letter; and since this period,
cases of artificial somnambulism have been so multiplied,
that there is now scarcely any person who has not had
an opportunity of collecting some. This novel order of
tr....,,..mwt n - y ......
y tho fimt XI"' fonnod
"''''''ed,,Coogle
20 mSTOBICAL SURVEY.
of magnetism ; every thing is now changed in the pro-
cesses,• as in the theory.
A neri10U8 fluid bas been substituted for Mesmer's
universal fluid; but this modern hypothesis scarcely de-
serves mention, for in the natural sciences the facts alone are
more or less immutable, and the explication given of them
depends on the turn of mind, and the degree of know-
ledge of the men who observe them. But it cannot be
disputed that the question ofanimal magnetism had really
changed soil since the discovery of Puysegur; and that
when M. Foissac proposed, in 1825, to the Academy of
Medicine the examination of a case of somnambulism, the
object was by no means to resume and reconsider the
observations of 1784, but rather to observe a something
altogether new. Messieurs, the members of the Academy,
charged by their colleagues to avail themselves of the
opportunity of a new commission, expressed themselves in
the following terms:-
"1. The decision formed in 1784 by the commissioners
charged by the king to examine animal magnetism, should
not, by any means, sanction you in dispensing with examin-
ing it de novo, because in science no decision whatever is
absolute and irrevocable.
"2. Because the experiments, on which this judgment
was founded, appear to have been conducted without the
simultaneous and necessary assembling together ofall the
commissioners, and also with moral dispositions, which,
according to the principles of the fact which they were
appointed to examine, must cause their complete failure.
• See the chap. "Oil the Dill'erellt Modes of Magnetlslng."
MAGNETISM IN OU:R OWN TIMES. 21
"3. Magnetism,; thus judged in 1784, difters entirely
in theory, processes, and results, from that which close,
attentive, and strict observers, and which enlightened,
indefatigable physicians, have studied in later years.
" 4. It is to the honour of French medicine not to
remain behind German physicians in the study of the
phenomena, which the enlightened and impartial favourers
of magnetism declare to be produced by this new agent.
*' 5. In considering magnetism as a secret remedy, it is
the duty of the Academy to study it, to subject it to trial,
finally, to take away the use and practice of it from
persons quite strangers to the art, who abuse this means,
and make of it an object of lucre and speculation.
"After all these considerations, your Commission is of
the opinion that the section should adopt the proposition of
M. Foissac, and appoint a special commission to direct
their attention to the study and examination of animal
magnetism.
"(Signed) ADELON, PABISET, MA:ac, Bu:aniN, sen.,
HussoN, reporter."
After long debates these conclusions were adopted by
the Academy, and the commission called for in October
1825, was at length formed in May 1826; consisting of
MM. Leroux, Bourdois de Ia Motte, Double, Magendie,
Guersant, Husson, Tbillaye, Marc, Itard, Fouquier, and
Gueneau de Mussy.
Almost immediately after their nomination, the com-
missioners commenced their task, and continued it up to
the middle of the year 1831; at length, at the sittings
of the 21st and 28th ofJune of the same year, they com-
22 HIBTOJI.ICAL SUII.VET.
municated to the Academy, through .1\[. Husson as their
organ, the results oftheir obeervations.
M. Husson's Report, remarkable in more points than
one, will always form an epoch in the annals of magnetism;
and it would be difficult for us to give our readers a more
distinct and more authentic idea of the existing state of
the science, than by tranBCribing for them literally the
conclusions of this Report.
§ IX. Concluaiot18 ofM. Hus1on'1 Report in 1831.
1. The contact ofthe thumbs or of the hands, frictions
or certain gestures made at a short distance from the body,
and called passes, are the means employed to connect, or,
in other words, to transmit the action of the magnetiser
to the magnetised.
2. The means which are external and visible are not
always necessary, since, on several occasions, the will, fixed·
ness of stare, have sufficed to produce magnetic phenomena,
even without the knowledge of the magnetised.
3. Magnetism has acted on persons of different sexes
and different ages.
4o The time necessary to transmit and comrD.unicate the
magnetic action has varied from one hour to a minute.
50 Magnetism does not act, in general, on persons in
good health.
6. Neither does it act on all who are sick.
70 During the process of magnetising, insignificant and
momentary effects manifest themselves sometimes, which
we do not attribute to magnetism alone; such as slight
oppression, heat or cold, and some other nervous pheno-
'" b,Google _ __ l
:M, HUSSON'S BEPOBT. 23
mena, which may be accounted for without the inter-
vention of a particular agent, namely, through hope or
fear, prejudice, and the expecting of something strange
and new, the ennui occasioned by the monotony of the
gestures, the silence and calm observed during the ex-
periments, and, finally, through the imagination, which
exercises so great a dominion over certain minds and cer-
tain organisations.
8. A certain number of the effects observed have
seemed to us to depend on magnetism alone, and are not
reproduced without it. Theee are well attested physio-
logical and therapeutical phenomena.
9. The real effects produced by magnetism are very
varied : it disturbs some, tranquillises others ; most usually
it causes the momentary acceleration of the respiration and
circulation, temporary convulsive movements of the fibres,
resembling electric shocks, stupor more or less profound,
somnolence, and, in a small number of cases, that which
magnetisers call somnambulism.
10. The existence of some one character proper to make
known, in all cases, the reality of a state of somnambulism,
has. not been ascertained.
11. However, we may conclude, with certainty, that
this state exists, when it occasions the developement of new
faculties, which have received the denominations of clair-
"01Janee, intuition, internal prevision ; or when it produces
great changes in the physiological state, as insensibility, a
considerable and sudden increase ofstrength, and when this
effect cannot be attributed to any other cause.
12. As among the effects attributed to somnambulism
there are some which may be simulated, somnambulism
24 HISTORICAL SURVEY.
itself may sometimes be simulated, and furnish charlatanism
with means of deception. Also in the observation of those
phenomena which still present themselves as isolated facts,
which can be connected with no theory, it is only by the
most attentive examination, the most strict precautions,
and by numerous and varied trials, that we can escape
illusion.
13. Sleep brought on with more or less readiness, and
established to a degree more or less profound, is a real
but not a constant effect of magnetism.
14. We are satisfied thllt it has been excited under
circumstances where those magnetised could not see, and
were entirely ignorant of the means employed to occa-
sion it.
15. When once a person has been made to fall into
a magnetic sleep, there is not always a necessity to have
recourse to contact and to passes in order to magnetise
anew. The look of the magnetiser, his will alone, have
the same influence on the person. In this case, one may
not only act on the person magnetised, but even put him
completely into somnambulism, take him out of it without
his knowledge, out of his sight, at a certain distance, and
through closed doors.
16. There usually occur changes, more or less remark-
able, in the perceptions and faculties of those individuals
who fall into ·a state of soinnambulism by the effect of
magnetism.
A. Some, amid the noise of confused conversations, hear
only the voice of their magnetiser ; several answer with
precision the questions put to them either by the latter or
by the persons near them ; others bold on conversations
M. HUSSON'S REPORT.
with all the persons around them ; however, they seldom
understand what passes around them. Most of the time
they are entirely strangers to the external and unexpected
noise made in their ears, such as the sound of copper
vessels forcibly struck, the fall of any heavy substance,
&e.
B . The eyes are closed : the eyelids yield with difficulty
to the efforts made with the hand to open them. This
operation, which is not without pain, allows one to see
the eyeball convulsed, and directed towards the upper and
sometimes towards the lowe•rt of the orbit.
C. Sometimes the sense of smell is, as it were, abolished.
One may make them respire hydrochloric acid or ammonia,
without their being inconvenienced by it, or without even
suspecting it. The contrary occurs in certain cases, and
they are sensible to odours.
D . Most of the somnambulists that we have seen were
completely insensible. One might tickle their feet, nostrils,
and the angle of the eyes by the approach of a feather,
pinch their skin so as to produce ecchymosis, prick it
under the nails with pins put in to a considerable depth,
without their evincing any pain or being at all aware of it.
In a word, we have seen one person who was insensible
to one of the most painful operations of surgery, and whose
countenance, pulse, or respiration, did not manifest the
slightest emotion.
17. Magnetism has the same intensity, it is as promptly
felt, at the distance of six feet as of six inches, and the
phenomena developed by it are the same in the two cases.
18. The action at a distance does not seem capable of
being exercised with success, except on individuals who
have been already subjected to magnetism.
26 HISTOBIC.A.L SURVEY.
19. We have not seen that a person magnetised for
the first time fell into a state of somnambulism; sometimes
it was not till the eighth or tenth sitting that somnambulism
declared itself.
20. We have constantly seen ordinary sleep, which is the
repose of the organs ofthe senses, of the intellectual faculties,
and of the voluntary movements, precede and terminate the
state of somnambulism.
21. Whilst they are in this state of somnambulism,
the magnetised persons we have observed retain the exer•
cise of the faculties which tlllt have whilst awake. Their
memory even appears to be more faithful and more ex·
tensive, since they remember what bas passed during all
the time, and on every occasion that they have been in the
state of somnambulism.
22. On their awaking they say that they have entirely
forgotten all the circumstances connected with the state
of somnambulism, and that they never remember them
again. With respect to this point we can have no other
surety than their own declarations.
23. The muscular strength of somnambulists is some-
times deadened and paralysed; at other times their move·
mente are but constrained, and somnambulists walk or
stagger like persons intoxicated, and without avoiding,
though sometimes carefully avoiding, the obstacles which
they meet in going along. There are some somnambulists
who retain intact the exercise of their powers of moving;
some are seen to be even stronger and more active than in
the state of being awake.
24. We have seen two somnambulists distinguish
with their eyes shut the objects placed before them;
they have told, without touching them, the colour and
Jl, BlJSION'S B.BPOBT. 27
value of the cards; they have read words traced with
the hand, or some lines of books opened by mere
chance. Thia phenomenon took place even when the
opening of the eyelidl was accurately cloeed by means of
the fingers.
25. We met in two somnambuliats the power of fore-
seeing acts ofthe organism more or less distant, more or less
complicated. One of them announced several days, nay,
aeveral months beforehand, the day, the hour, and the
minute when epileptic fits would come on and return ;
the other declared the t4 of the cure. Their pre-
visions were realised with remarkable exactness. They
aeemed to us to apply only to acts or lesions of their or-
ganism.
26. We have met but one somnambulist who described
the symptoms of the diseaae of three persons with whom
she had been brought into contact. We instituted re-
searches, however, on a considerable number.
27. To establish with any accuracy the relations of
magnetism to therapeutics, it would require to have its
effects observed on a great number of individuals, and to
have experiments made on the same patients for a consider-
able time and every day. This not having been done, the
Commission must restrict itself to saying that which it has
aeen in too small a number of cases, without pronouncing
any thing.
28. Some ofthe patients magnetised have felt no benefit;
others have experienced a relief more or less marked, viz.
one the suppression of habitual pains, the other the return
of strength, a third a retardation for several months in the
recurrence of epileptic attacks, and a fourth the complete
cure ofa aevere paralylil of long standing.
2$ HISTORICAL SURVEY.
29. Considered as an agent of physiological phenomena
or as a therapeutical mean, magnetism must find its place in
the cadre of medical knowledge; and, comequently, medical
men only should practise it, or watch and superintend its
employment, as is done in the northern countries.
30. The Commission has not been able to verify, fo~ the
want of opportunity, other powers which magnetisers have
declared to exist in somnambulists ; but it has collected and
communicated facts sufficiently important to induce it to
think that the Academy should encourage the researches 011
magnetism, as a very curious .nch ofpsychology and natural
history.
The Commission having arrived at the termination ofita
labours before the closing ofthis Report, asked itself whether,
amid all the precautions with which they had surrounded
themselves to avoid all surprise ; whether with the feeling
ofconstant distrust with which they had always proceeded;
whether in the examination of the phenomena observed by
them, they had scrupnlously performed theirduty? What
other course, said we to ourselves, could we have followed?
With what distrust more marked or more cautious could
we have been influenced P Our conscience, gentlemen, has
answered us aloud that you could expect nothing from us
which we have not done. Then have we been honest,
accurate, faithful observers? It is for you who knew us
for so many years, for you who see us constantly either in
public life or in our frequent meetings, to answer this
question. Your answer, gentlemen, we expect from
the old friendship of some of you, and from the esteem
ofall.
Certainly we do not presume to make you share our
conviction regarding the reality of the phenomena observed
Ill. HUSSON'S BEPOBT. 29
by us, and which you have neither seen, nor followed, nor
studied with us and as we did.
We do not, then, claim from you a blind credence in all
that we have reported. We conceive that a considerable
portion of these facts are so extraordinary, that you cannot
gran~ it to us ; probably we ourselves would presume to
refuse you ours, ifyou came to announce them at this tribunal
to us, who, like you, had neither seen, observed, nor studied
any of them.
All we require is, that you judge us as we should judge
you ; that is, that you would TJt convinced that neither the
love of the marvellous, nor the desire of celebrity, nor any
interest whateYer has guided us in our labours. We were
animated by motives of a loftier character, more worthy of
you-by the love ofscience, and by the necessity ofjustifying
the hopes which the Academy had entertained of our zeal
and our devotion.
" (Signed) BoUDOIS DE LA Mo1:TE, president; Fou·
QUIEtt, Gui:NEAU DE MussY, GuEBSANT,
ITARD, J. J. LEaoux, MAac, THILLAYE,
HussoN, repQrter.''*
The report of M. Husson produced a great impression
on the Academy. However, ifit awakened some doubts, it
produced few convictions. No one could question the
veracity of the commissioners, whose good faith as also their
great knowledge were undeniable, but they were suspected
ofhaving been dupes. In fact there are certain unfortunate
* MM. Double and Magendie, not having been present at the
experiments, did not deem it right to sign the report.
30 MSTORICAL SURVEY.
truths which compromise those who believe in them, and
those especially who are so candid as to avow them publicly.
Magnetism is among the number of these truths. But let
magnetisers console themselves and take courage; posterity
has done justice to Galileo ; in their turn posterity will
render them justice. The past answers them for the future;
for if they open history, they will there see that at all times
the academies were as they are at the present day, barri·
caded citadels against all innovation. Truth penetrates
them only by stratagem most frequently, but sometimes
also it enters there by force, •hen after having successively
attacked all understandings, it assails the walls of the
sanctuary:by its boisterous waves, and, finally, forces them to
crumble.
Here our historical notices regarding animal magnetism
terminate ; for the academical discussions of the follo\\ing
years, the prize proposed in 1837, and Gerardin's Report•
in 1838, do not seem to us to constitute any new phases in
this history.
With respect to ourselves, our profession of faith is, that
animal magnetism will have acquired, after a little, the
right ofbeing enrolled among the discoveries which do most
honour to the human mind.
* Bulletin de I'Academic Royale de Medecine. Paris, 1838, t. ii.
P• 962.
•
31
CHAPTER II.
OF THE CAUSES WffiCB HAVE RETARDED THE PBOPAGATIOlf
OF MAGNETISM•
•
THEBE are two principal eauses,-the inconstancy of
the magnetic phenomena when it is required to produce
them before witnesses ; the want of perseverance in men of
good faith who wish to convince themselves by personal
experiments. To this we may add that the magnetic phe-
nomena rest on principles unknown, and therefore rejected
as absurd ; lastly, that they are so eccentric from every
received idea, so extraordinary in their nature, that one
passes for a fool, when he believes in them after having seen
them, and for an impostor, when he succeeds in making
others see them. With respect to me, I am persuaded that
in stating what happened to me on this subject, I shall state
what has happened to all magnetisers, and what happens
every day to those who do not yet believe in magnetism.
Since 1830 I read the ImtructWn Pratique of Deleuze,
several articles inserted in the periodical publications, and •
an account of the experiments made at the Hotel-Dieu in
Paris by M. J.Dupotet. All this had amU8ed me very much,
but did not convince me, and all magnetizers appearing to
me to be mere knaves or fools (I was explicit in my judg-
•
32 OF THE CAUSES WWCH HAVE RETARDED
ments), I. indulged one hundred times in very many plea·
santries at their expense, for which I can now scarcely
pardon myself. However, I tried magnetism myself; but
whether from want of faith or want of nervous sympathy
between the subjects of my experiments and myself, I
attained but laughable results, so laughable that even to
this moment I cannot help laughing at them as often as I
recollect them. Subsequently (in 1834) chance threw in
my way some serious works, which I felt myself forced to
read attentively. The impression which these works made
on me determined me to resume my experiments, and to
follow them up as far as possible. Accordingly I set myself
to work, but I only performed the half of that which I
proposed to do ; that is, I magnetised two persons once, of
whom one had pandiculations after one half-hour's JKU8e,_,
and the other more or less perfectly set to sleep after three
quarters of an hour's efforts, answered (in a very silly
manner, I admit) the questions which I put to him. I am
now satisfied that if I then had had the patience to recom-
mence on the following day, I would have produced on one
of my subjects at least the phenomena of complete somnam-
bulism ; but, whether through carelessness or presumption,
I stopped there ; and thoroughly convinced that I had
attained the ne plus ultra that was possible in magnetism, I
thought it right to insert the following proposition in my
inaugural thesis :-
" There is somethingtrue in animal magnetism, but every
thing that has been said of it is far from being true. Since
Mesmer's time, who was nothing but a charlatan, up to our
modem folk, among whom might be counted more than one
Mesmer, magnetism found by turns fanatical supporters and
THE PBOPAGATIOl'l OF NAGNBTIBM. 33
extravagant defamers. But in facts appertaining to science,
it is as dangerous to take one's word as it is to be sceptical
through prejudice. ·when litigious questions are under con-
sideration, before admitting nothing or denying nothing, it
is necessary to experiment and to see. Now this is probably
what those who have admitted and those who have denied
every thing, have not done at all; or, what is worse, have
done badly (I was satisfied that I did it very well). Thence
the ridiculous character, or the absurdity of most of the
articles signed magnt>tism in our encyclopredias."
In the first part of the last sentence I obviously had in
view the article of M. Rostan, on which so many persons
had raised a hue and cry. With respect to the absurdity
alluded to, I know more than one editor of a dictwnary or
of a review, who might have taken my criticism to hiniSelf.
It is, however, but just that reparation be made to M.
Rostan, who has not only had the merit to ascertain the
truth, but who also had the courage to avow it, when ii was
still more laughed at than even at the present day.
With respect to M. Bouillaud's article, Magnetism,• the
nature of this work prohibits polemical disquisitions.
Such, then, is the state in which I stood in 1836, flj'ter
having my•elf experimented. Now, I declare it, that to lead
me to the point where I now am required a concurrence of
circuDIBtances which can butseldom happen, a chance almmt
prodigious, and a perseverance which probably I would not
have found in myself alone, if to encourage me in it I had
• DictioDDIIire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiqu~s, tom. :d.
p. 299, et 1eq.
D
34 OF THE CAUSES WHICH HAVE RBTARDED, &c.
not had enlightened and persevering men who pointed out
to me the route and drew me after them.
·well, I repeat it, the obstacles which I encountered
must have always existed and must still exist even at the
present day for every one. However, it is a positive fact,
that in the case of magnetism every one believes only what
he has seen and distinctly seen; and as, according to what
we have already said, it is often extremely difficult to see,
we should not be at all astonished at the almost general
incredulity with which the accounts coming from magnetisers
are still received in France, notwithstanding their previous
scientific and moral characters.
To conclude, as it is easy to avoid a rock when duly
pointedout, and as, after all, the matter, in more respects than
one, deserves close examination, every thing inclines us to
think, and to hope, that the most incredulous themselves will
not be slow in setting themselves to work, and that from
the eoncurrence of so many efforts there will result in a
little time a general, a universal faith, in a class of facts
destined, in our opinion, to become throughout all countries
so many popular truths.
35
CHAPTER ill.
CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE
MAGNETIC PHENOMENA.
WnATEVER be the idea formed of magnetism, whatever
·be the theory with which we connect the phenomena occa-
sioned by it, it appears to me that a rational deduction from
this theory is, that all men may become by turns, and
according to the physical or moral conditions in which they
may be placed, magnetisers and magnetised. Accordingly,
in invoking the analogy of psychological facts and of the
characters of anthropology which are knoWn to us, it is
scarcely to be supposed that a faculty with which any organ-
isation whatsoever is endowed, may not be found, at least
in the rudimentary state, in an analogous organisation.
Only it is natural to suppose that on a considerable number
of individuals, the magnetic infl.uence, being exerted accord-
ing to its nature and its ordinary mode, not only does not
manifest itself in a way appreciable to the observer, but
even escapes the perception of the very individual who is
the object ofit. I go farther; I do think that this infl.uence
is constantly exerted, though in a latent way, in such a
manner that all men, and probably all the beings of nature,
are reciprocally and incessantly magnetised. This is far
36 CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO THE PRODUCTION
fetched, I admit, and very far from being susceptible of
rigorous demonstration ; but after all, if this law were to
become one day an axiom of physiology, should it astonish
us more than the phenomena of weight, gravitation, &c. ?
Certainly not; and I would not by any means be astonished
at ascertaining that this magic power, which some men
exercise on their like, is neither more nor less than a
magnetic power. Plato has told us that Aristides made great
progress in the study of philosophy from the mere fact of
inhabiting the same house as Socrates. But the reflections
which might be made on this subject would astound our
readers by their strangeness, and could be well understood
only by magnetisers. Let us leave the thing to time, and
those reveries which Voltaire would have ridiculed will
probably one day become the basis of a grand system of
anthropology. This, however, is not the place to develope
at full length hopes which too many persons would still
consider extrava.:,aant ; besides, it is a practical book that we
have undertaken to write.
Who are the subjects who, by reason of their sex,
their age, their temperament, &c., are most susceptible of
the magnetic action P These are the questions to be
solved, and certainly we may affirm that the facts of which
science is now in possession are sufficiently numerous to
constitute the elements of a conclusive statistical detail.
Our own experience, joined to that of industrious and cre-
dible men, will then furnish us with the general principles
which it is important to establish.
OF THB MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 37
§I. OfSez.
Women, generally speaking, are incomparably more
susceptible of the magnetic influence than men. This may
be easily conceived if we admit, what is certainly true, that
the magnetic impressionability is but, as one might say, a
negative quality, which has a tendency to render the soul
and the entire organisation passive and subjected to an
external power. Every thing, in the case ofwomen, seems
to draw them naturally to this sort ofdependence, which, in
their normal state, constitutes in most of them one of the
prominent traits of their organism and habits. Almost all
of them actually feel the necessity of submitting to this
dependence, when it is not carried to a painful servility.
Dominion (with some few exceptions, which resemble ano-
malies) would be above their powers, and, by their own
acknowledgment, contrary to their instincts. To this we
may add, that if certain propensities of the soul are by
nature suited to favour the reception of the magnetic action, •
women are endowed with these propensities much more than
we are. Thus they have more sensibility, more tendency to
the marvellous, more veneration, less energy, less pride,
and, in consequence of all these circumstances, a livelier
faith, which constitutes, as we shall have occasion to remark
presently, one of the most necessary conditions to the
production of magnetic phenomena. Men, in general, do
not believe without difficulty; and, when they have been
brought to believe, I say not merely matters the most
reasonable, but the most unquestionable, they often have
the unpardonable weakness to blush at their belief. This
is the reason why men dispute religion whilst women prac-
ll8 CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO THE PRODUCTION
tise it ;-a circumstance owing, no doubt, to this, that the
latter can only feel without reasoning, whilst some men,
who very often are incapable of either the one or the other,
reason and do not believe. But all these considerations ·
might be summed up in one word : women are weaker,
more delicate, more impressionable than men; which signi·
fies merely, that, with respect to us, the nervous system in
them is the predominant system. This is the true cause-
the evident, palpable, anatomical cause of their magnetic
susceptibility; and the enemies of the truth which we have
taken on us to disseminate, would be wanting in honesty if
they affected to attribute solely to weakness of mind in
women the prodigious phenomena which are daily de-
veloped in a great number of them. Many men may be
magnetised, and have been so; but most of them, it should
be remarked, very much resembled women in the weakness
and delicacy of their organisation ; or they happened to be
placed in physiological conditions, which deprived them for
• a time ofthe prerogatives of their sex.
§II. Of Age.
!havemagnetised a great manychildren from the age ofsix
months to five years, and I must own that, except with some
weak, puny children,I never succeeded. AndthisI can easily
account for. Independently of the circumstance of children
beingdistracted, inattentive, and impatient, their nervous sys·
tem, imbedded in the abundant fat which gives a roundness to
their forms, has certainly not yet acquired all the suscepti·
bility which it is to have. It is plain that we are here
conside~lng children in a good state of health ; for every
..
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 39
·one knows that disease may modify ad infinitum the organic
condition ofwhich I speak. However, it appears to me from
my own experience,and thesmall number ofcases to be found
in books, that it is in general difficult completely to mag-
netise a very young child, even when it is ill ;-witneSll the
following fact related in M. Husson's Report:-" A child,
twenty- eight months old, affected with epileptic fits, was
magnetised at M. Bourdois' by M. Foissac, the 6th of Octo-
ber, 1827. Almost immediately after the commencement of
the passes, the child rubbed its eyes, inclined its head to one
side, rested it on one of the cushions of the couch on which
it had been placed, it yawned, became restless, scratched its
head and ears, seemed to struggle against the sleep which
appeared disposed to attack it, and soon recovered itself. It
felt a desire to pass its urine, and, after satisfying it, it was
again magnetised for some moments ; but the somnolence
not being as marked at this time as on the former occasion,
the experiment was discontinued." We find that this
little boy was afterwards put into a state of somnambulism
by M. Foi8sac. Still it is evident that children do not yield
to the magnetic action in the direct ratio of their state of
weakness.
Old men, also, may be magnetised. But the experiments
made on them are few in number ; and, for my own part, I
can only cite a single instance known to myself. The indi-
vidual on whom I operated was seventy-two years of age ;
he was tall, of a well-marked, nervous temperament, of a
mild character of mind, but fickle and sensitive. At length
he was attacked with gravel, and also with incontinence of
urine, of which it was very difficult to ascertain the cause.
The most remarkable result of our first sittings, was the
40 CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO THE PRODUCTIOK
sudden and perfectly unusual manifestation of a eort of
convulsive cough, which gave rise on the second day to a
slight spitting of blood. At length, on the fifth day (each
sitting lasted for half-an-hour), Courtois (that was his
name) fell asleep, and spoke to me during his sleep. But
his words were confused, embarrassed, almost devoid of
meaning, and oftentimes bore no relation to my questions.
On the following days I was not more succeseful, and, after
eight or nine days of unavailing attempts, I gave up con·
tinning an experiment which appeared totally devoid of
utility either to myself or my patient.
The first approach ofyouth and adolescence appear to
me, then, to be the periods of life at which magnetism
succeeds best; but it is chiefly at the beginning and during
the first periods of puberty, that young girls are most
susceptible of its action. However, I here give my readers
a useful advice suggested to me by experience. To magne·
tise a girl fourteen or fifteen years old, who sees her menses
for the first time, is by no means devoid of danger. Differ•
ent cerebral or nervous symptoms, which I witnessed under
such circumstances, awaken my refl.ection, and have taught
me to my cost that there might be cases, very rare to be sure,
in which it was right to be circumspect in the practice of
magnetism. I must state, however, that the cases to which
I allude were not attended with any absolutely fatal conse-
quences. But it is not the less annoying to a medical man
to have himself occasioned a delirium ofseveral days' stand·
ing, nor less annoyance, perhaps, not to have foreseen it.
Some recent cases I have met dispose me to think that
women on the point of attaining the critical period are
circumstanced in a similar manner with young girls who
01' THE :MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 41
have just menstruated. Nor is there any thing at all
astonishing in that, as the appearance, as also the cessation
of the menses, really constitute two morbid states, which,
without taking into account the other points of analogy
between them, evidently approximate one another by the
extraordinary influence which they exercise on the nervous
system in general, and on the brain in particular.
§ ill. Of the Temperament.
Hitherto, in the case of magnetism, the chief difficulty is
when it becomes necessary to solve a general question, and
to establi!!h its solution into a principle. Certain it is, that
persons of a nervous temperament are, in general, those who
appear most sensible to the action of the passes; but som·
nambulism is not always the consequence ofthis sensibility.
Probably, too, and I would almost venture to say so, there
might exist an obstacle to somnambulism·in excessive sensi-
bility. All the efforts of the magnetiser then terminate
merely in producing a very extraordinary state, difficult to
be described, because the signs of it are very variable, and
the constant character of which consists solely in a great
moral and physical exaltation. I have seen persons in this
state feel and comprehend, as well as lucid somnambulists,
all the shades of my will. Some even appeared endowed
with a sort of second sight, which made them speak with
assurance regarding the causes and nature of the diseases
under which they were labouring, and predict, without
error, the termination of these diseases. But it will be said,
were they not true somnambulists?-Probably. But they
did not exhibit any of those pathognomonic traits of the
42 CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO THE PRODUCTION
magnetic sleep, such as insensibility, forgetfulness on awak·
ing, &c.
To recapitulate. I have observed perfect or complete
somnambulism-!, In very nervous persons; 2, In others
who were but moderately so; 3, Lastly, in others, who
stated -that they were not at all so, and presented, in fact, all
the signs of a lymphatic, or even a scrofulous constitution.
I shall add, moreover (and the remark is important), that
certain traits of resemblance bring close to each other the
phenomena produced in persons of similar temperaments, so
that, with a larger number of facts, we shall probably
succeed in establishing the relation which exists between
such a temperament and such a group of phenomena.
§ IV. Ofthe Physiological State.
It is chiefly in emaciated persons enfeebled by some
chronic disease that it is easy to produce magnetic pheno·
mena. But we should deceive ourselves very much indeed,
were we to suppose that it is only invalids or convalescents
that were capable of presenting these phenomena. N ume-
rous cases prove even that a state of absolute health is not
an insurmountable obstacle to the production of artificial
somnambulism.
But a fact which is no less certain is, that a tedious
disease, or even an acute disease of a nervous or debilitating
nature, may render a person magnetisable who previously
would have appeared not to be at all so. I tried several
times, but ineffectually, to magnetise Miss Julia S--, a
young person twenty-two years of age, of a lymphatico-
sanguineous temperament, and in excellent health, when, in
01' THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 43
the month of March 1839, this lady had an attack of mu-
cous fever, which, after it had put on for some days well-
marked typhoid characters, soon improved under the use of
active purgatives. Eight or ten days after the onset of her
disease, she might be considered as convalescent. Still she
had not yet recov~red her strength. It was then, at her
own request (for my gr~·maces, she said, amused her very
much), I magnetised her in the presence of her mother and
two of her friends. But, this day, the young lady gave
over her ple&I!IUltries; for, after continuing the passes for
ten or twelve minutes at the very most, she yawned, sighed,
shook on her chair, then fell asleep, to the great admiration
of those present. She then fell into a state of complete
somnambulism, during which she spoke very seriously of
magnetism.
In this fact there is nothing at all extraordinary ; and
certainly it would not be difficult to collect a great number
of similar cases. The explanation which might be given of
it is extremely simple. Neither the fever, nor the purga-
tives, in fact, had caused the young lady to acquire a new
faculty. But the painful excitation of her nervous system
for eight days of suffering bad increased her impression-
ability. So much for the physique. Whilst the disease, by
wasting her energy, had deprived her of her power of re-
sistance. So far for the moral. All this falls under the
cognisance of the senses. We shall sum up then and say-
tlw.t it i8 Mt indispensable to be sick in order to be magnetised
with succeu ; but that diseases, especially nervous diseases,
IUCh as hysteria, epilepsy, ~c., very much favour the power of
the magnetic action.
44 CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO THE PB.ODUCTIOK
§ V. Moral ConditWnl.
No one will doubt that the intellectual disposition with
which an individual submits to an experiment must have a
considerable share in the result of such experiment. I know
full well that it is often very difficult-even impossible, for
the experimenter to appreciate this disposition ; but it is his
duty, if he wish to succeed, to endeavour to discover it, and
even to modify it, if it is adverse to him, by rea8on and
proper address. If there are certain suspicious minds which
it is not easy to inspire with confidence, there are others
which readily yield to the proofs offered by a man of
honour. Here success may depend on a something imper-
ceptible, and nothing should be neglected if we are anxious
to succeed. It is then, to say the least, useful, when we are
about to magnetise a person who is a stranger to the science,
to explain ourselves clearly, seriously, and, above all, kindly,
on what we propose to do.
There sometimes exists between the magnetiser and the
individual who submits himself to him, a certain moral
antipathy which nothing can dissipate. This circumstance
is unfavourable. I think it even an insurmountable obsta·
cle, when the feeling ofaversion of which we speak is prin•
cipally felt by him or her whom we intend to magnetise.
Still this sort of moral repulsion may, to a eertain point, be
compensated bygreat disproportion in the physical strength,
and in the will between the two parties. Chance has given
me an opportunity of witnessing such circumstances. I
have seen, for instance, a young lady submit through petite-
ness to the passes of a physician, for whom she felt invohin·
01' TBB MAG!IBTJC PHENOMENA. 45
tarily an extreme dislike. Sleep was produced, but it was
disturbed, painful ; and the lucid state, which is generally
very remarkable in a young somnambulist, was altogether
absent on that day, to the great disappointment of the
bystanders.
§ VI. Phrenological CondititJns.
The relative sizes of the cerebral masses, and of the
nervous centres in general, perform an important part here
also. But we dare not yet venture ourselves on the un-
stable soil of phrenology, and establish a science which is
only in its birth on the too uncertain data of a science of
yesterday.
§ VII. Of Places, WU7ie88e8, ~c.
How could one imagine a serious experiment performed
amid the tumultuous bustle of a room, for instance, in the
midst of witnesses who are either noisy or distracted, or
unfavourably disposed, or merely incredulous? E~plain as
we may the reciprocal transmission, if not of ideas, at least
of the moral dispositions, certain it is this transmission is
effected. In all associations, whatever be their end, there
always arrives a moment, if they continue for any time,
when a sort of indefinable equilibrium is established between
all the thoughts of those who compose them, so that one
nniform shade of joy or of pleasure, of gaiety or sadness,
extends over all the countenances of the party, and is
diffused throughout the apartment as a common atmosphere.
Let a magnetic experiment take place in such an assembly,
will not the reciprocal influences of the two organisms
46 CONDITIONS NECESS4-B.Y TO THE PRODUCTION, &e.
which are about to be brought into connexion with each
other, be crossed in every direction by the external inftu-
ences? All this is abstract. That may be ; yet we cannot
deny that it is so, since nothing proves to us the contrary.
Let us explain the fact as we may, the fact exists. Magnetic
experiments scarcely ever succeed before numerous wit-
nesses.
It is necessary, then, to conduct the process in quiet, as
far as is possible in solitude, and in places which inspire the
soul with neither emotion nor constraint, and where there
is nothing to captivate the attention too much. With
respect to witnesses, let the number be limited as far as
circumstances or propriety will warrant. Let us strive,
above all things, to have them kindly disposed. But again,
what neces~ity for witnesses, if magnetism be practised only
as an act of charity and philanthropy ?
47
CHAPTER IV.
CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE MAGNETIC
PBENOIIIENA.
Tms chapter being one of the most important in the
entire book, we shall devote all our attention to the com-
position of it. Whilst we shall avail ourselves of the
assistance of the writings of our predecessors to complete
the details, we shall give as certain only that which we have
ourselves observed, and we pledge ourselves to be faithful
and scrupulous in the recital of our observations. It is
chiefly when one treats of a new subject, and of extraor-
dinary facts, that it behoves the writer to be strict, to
imagine nothing, and to present the truth quite naked, in
its true form and true aspect, without altering it by a single
inaccurate or false expression. As for me, whatever be the
marvellous nature of the facts which I shall recount, I shall
never be ashamed to assert them when I am convinced of
their existence; and there is but one means of being con-
vinced of them, and that is to have seen them.
Further, I set out with renouncing every sort of dog-
matical interpretation, because in the case ofmagnetism no
theory appears to me possible as yet. This theory, more-
over, if one went about establishing it, would, probably,
upset all our physiological ideas, and almost the entire of
48 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
physiology would have to be commenced de 'wt~o. The
mischief would not be great, I know, if most of the princi-
ples of this science are erroneous ; but still it is dangerous to
substitute for useful errors an error which, for the present,
might run the risk of being of no advantage. It might
happen, moreover, that the magnetic facts, instead of being
contradictory of those admitted and described by physio-
logists, were merely and simply facts of a new kind. By
way of an example, vision by the closed eyelids, or even by
the occiput, does not necessarily invalidate our theory of
optics; but one may suppose, that besides vision by means
of the eye, there may be another kind of vision, the
mechanism of which we do not yet understand. Socrates
used to say to his disciples, " Every thing that bas been
taught me, all the human sciences which I have studied, all
the researches which I have made regarding the beginning
and essence of things, have only served to make me know
that I know nothing."
The magnetic phenomena present in their developement
four different phases, viz. I . the precursory signs of sleep ;
2. sleep; 3. somnambulism; 4. awaking. In order to pro-
ceed methodically, therefore, we intend to devote to each of
these phases one of the chief divisions of this chapter.
§ I. Precursory Signs of Sleep.
Generally speaking, they are very complex and very
difficult of description. Varying ud infiniJum, according to
the different individuals, they depend not only on the con-
stitution of the latter, but also on the kind of disposition
in which they happen to be, the circumstances in which
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 49
they are placed, the witnesses who observe them ; lastly,
they depend on the constitution, on the magnetic power, on
the process employed, and on the mental character of the
magnetiser. A ·young somnan1bulist of my acquaintance,
when magnetised successively by four persons, went asleep
four times after a different manner. However, the general
traits most commonly observed are as follow:-
a. The head becomes heavy; but this needs explanation.
We do not here mean merely that dulness ofthought which
characterises slight cerebral congestion, such as that which
might be occasioned by the application of a hot body to the
forehead; we mean, in this place, a peculiar sensation which
it is not easy to understand when one has not himself
experienced it. It seems that the band of the magnetiser
rests immediately on the apex and lateral regions of the
head by pressing an elastic body on these regions, which
become, at the same time, the seat of a keen sensation
of heat or cool (which is more uncommon), the hand which
approaches it being neither hot nor cold.
b. A sensation, similar to that we have been describing,
is felt in the epigastrium when the magnetiser touches
it, and traverses the course of the nerves when the passes
are made over the extremities. Sometimes, in very nervous
indi'dduals, it is a well-marked pricking sensation, that is
felt even to the ends of the fingers or toes, and agitates the
entire limb by a slight convulsive tremor.
c. The eyelids undergo a peculiar twinkling, which
becomes more and more marked, according as the operation
advances ; before they close definitively, their orbicular
muscle contracts strongly several times, as happens when
vision is fatigued by long-continued contemplation, or the
B
50 CJ,ASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
sight of a luminous object. The tears, also, seem to
moisten them more copiously than in the ordinary state.•
d. The globe of the eye, at the approach of sleep,
performs 8everal rotatory movements, after which it be-
comes convulsed towards the roof of the orbit, and
much more rarely towards its inferior wall. This sign is
not constant, and it happens at times-one might say,
indeed, rather frequently-that the eye remains fixed; but
then the pupil dilates, which gives a degree of vagueness
and dulness to the look. Lastly, there is sometimes
strabismus.
e. The spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the face
in some individuals impresses on the physiognomy an inde-
finable stamp; whilst the convulsive trembling of the
11Ul8seter, which comes on at intervals in other individuals,
causes the dental arches to chatter one against the other
with incredible rapidity.
f. The functions of the stomach undergo a temporary,
but very manifest, disturbance rather frequently.
g. The pulse is sometimes retarded, sometimes accelerated,
without its being possible to determine the circumstances
which occa.qion either the one or the other of these two
opposite symptoms, but almost always there is an increase of
heat in the skin.
h. The respiration, at fint evidently retarded, then
becomes sighing and panting. The chest is, as it were,
compressed by a physical force; and I have seen sometimes
a painful stit~. suddenly develope itself in the substernal
region, and continue till sleep occurred. Then we have
* Magneti8m seems to stimulate all the secretions•
•
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 51
frequent, prolonged, irresistible yawnings, general uneasi-
ness, a nervous cough, and occasionally hiccup; but it is
chiefly on awaking that I have had the opportunity of
observing these two last characters, which are, indeed, very
far from being frequent.
i. What is less uncommon, is a sort of hilarity without
any motive, an eccentric hilarity, oftentimes very pleasant,
and which ceases not till sleep comes on.
k. Lastly, the entire body may be seized with violent
convulsions, those convulsions which constituted the crisis
of Mesmer, but which nowadays are scarcely any more than
the result of accidental circumstances, apparent or not for
the observer. There is nothing more common, on the
contrary, than a species of subsultus, which might be taken
for the sudden effects of electric discharges. The slightest
agitation existing previous to the operation scarcely ever
fails to produce it.
It may happen that all these precursors exist simul-
taneously on the same individual, and at the same sitting;
such, however, is not the usual occurrence. An observation
of some importance is that they are, in general, so much the
more marked as the subject operated on is less accustomed
to magnetism. .Madame H--,+ whilst I am magnetising
her, converses and jokes with me, without the least emotion,
up to the moment when sleep comes abruptly to close her
eyelid, and from the first second this sleep is a perfect
somnambulism.
The manner in which Paul Villagrand fell asleep,
• I shall often ha\·e occasion to mention this young lady : she Is
the most remarkable somnambnllst I have seen.
52 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
one of the individuals submitted to the examination of
Monsieurs the Commissioners of 1826, is one of the most
remarkable. We shall borrow the account of it from M.
Foissac:-
" In all the works on magnetism we find no instance of
the effects which Paul experienced before entering into
somnambulism. The first passes at first excited his hilarity,
but at the end of two minutes his countenance became
serious and expressive of astonishment. The entire body
was agitated with partial or general shocks, resembling
those occasioned by the action of electricity. The eyelids
were raised and depressed, following the direction of my
fingers with mechanical precision ; presently the entire head
participated in this movement. If I moved away, he ad-
- nnced, as if attracted by the magnet ; if my hand stopped
at the distance of some inches from his eyes, he drew back
his head with a frightened air ; if I made passes with both
hands, he then carried his eyes rapidly from one to the
other: presently he grasped one, pinched my fingers se·
verely, and let them go almost immediately to follow the
movements of the other. Sometimes he put forward his
face toward my hand, and yet seemed afraid to touch it;
he smelled it, suddenly he opened his month to seize it,
but his lips scarcely grazed it, when be drew back with
fright.
" At the Cbarite we often endeavoured to prevail on
him to keep himself quiet during the magnetic operation.
1Ve placed a watch before him, requesting him to apprise us
when the third minute bad elapsed; he promised to do so,
and fixed his eyes upon the watch. During the first minute
he remained quiet, but at the second, his eyes passed rapidly
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 53
from the watch to my fingers, and from the latter to the
watch ; at length, at the third minute, after useless efforts,
he seemed to lose his memory and will, and confined his
attention to my hand. It was in vain we reminded him of
his promise, pinched him, pulled him by the hair ; he was
insensible to every thing. If I spoke to him, he repeated
the last word of my sentence, like a faithful echo, with
different and very strange inflexions of the voice ; but,
.according as sleep laid hold ofhim, he pronounced this word
lower and less distinctly, and at length his lips, no longer
able to emit sounds, still made a movement to articulate the
first syllable. When I wished to put a stop to this amusing
pantomime, all I had to do was to place one hand on the
epigastrium of my patient ; he immediately let the head
fall, and soon after drew a long sigh, which was the pre-
cursory·sign of somnambulism. If I then asked him what
~mnambulism made him feel, his answer was that he first
saw my fingers multiplied, luminous, and becoming elon-
gated sometimes, so as to make him think that they were
going to put out his eyes,-that then his ideas were becom-
ing obscured,-that his vision was entirely dimmed, and
that he was under the sway of a true fascination. On
awaking, all these circumstances were effaced from his
memory ; he answered our questions naturally, and thought
he had complied with our injunction to keep quiet."
I own I never observed any thing similar to that which
has been just read ; but though the fact reported by
M. Foissac appears to me to be one of the most curious, I
might produce some which, probably, possess no less in-
terest. In fact, as I have already remarked at the com-
mencement of this chapter, nothing is more varied than the
54 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
precursory signs of the magnetic sleep; and to give a com-
plete idea of them, it would be necessary to give almost as
many descriptions as we have magnetised persons. With
respect to the moral part of the question, it is to be pre-
sumed that all the individuals, in these circumstances,
undergo the graduated modifications produced by natural
somnolence; that is to say, that the soul retires gradually
into itself, according as the senses suspend their functions,
until, at length, thought, completely deprived of external
excitations, no longer lives except by its internal power;
for sleep is a life ofintuition, when it is still a life.
Hefore we terminate what relates to the precursory
signs of magnetic sleep, we shall sum up in a few words all
that is practical in the preceding pages. Thus we may say,-
1. That these signs have nothing constant in them.
2. That they are so much the more marked, as the
individual on whom the experiment is made has not yet been
magnetised, or .has been so but a few times, or else has
never been so by the present magnetiser ; and according as
he presents, voluntarily, a moral resistance,-according as
there enters more of energy than of kindliness into the act
of the magnetiser.•
3. Lastly, that the duration of these precursors, which
manifest themselves only by one half, or do not manifest
themselves at all, in individuals refractory to magnetism, is
subordinate, as may be readily conjectured, to the presence
or absence of the different conditions which we have noticed
in the preceding chapter, as favouring the magnetic action.
* By energy is meant will. The following chapters will render
the meaning of the passage more intelligible.
OF THE .MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 55
§II. Ofthe Magnetic Sleep.
Men, in general, seek rest only when they feel the
necessity of it; and as they take this rest at certain and
determined hours, the consequence is that their daily sleep,
even when it is not with them an actual want, still comes to
be an habitual act, which the very nature of their organisa-
tion drives them irresistibly to perform. But suppose that,
in the bustle of his active life, a man were to be taken
by surprise, just at the moment when he is chiefly ac-
customed to exercise his mind or his body, and suppose
that, by some means or other, he came to be plunged sud-
denly into sleep, is it to be considered that this impromptu
sleep is, with respect to the man in question, the analogue of
that reparative repose, which comes every day at equal
intervals to refresh his thoughts and his senses? Certainly
not ; because in forcing nature we make her deviate from
her laws; and such is precisely the case with magnetic
sleep. Further, this species of sleep (which we do not
by any means pretend to explain), if somnambulism be not
included under it, constitutes, strictly speaking, but a very
limited, and often even an inappreciable time, with respect
to its duration, in the group and succession of the magnetic
phenomena. Let an individual be magnetised ; you think
him asleep, and yet the mere contact of your hand will
make him open his eyes ; whence it might be inferred that
he was not asleep. But he is not aroused by touching him.
Speak to him, then he will answer you, for he is in a state
of somnambulism.•
* This passage is, probably, too explicit; for, in certain cases, a
profound sleep is really observed without somnambulism.
56 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
§III. Of Som:ruzmbtdism.
Somnambulism is a very extraordinary state, and, even
up to the present time, but very little studied. Depending
on external circumstances (the magnetic passes), .or on
internal conditions which escape our means of investigation,
it presents itself to us under two principal forms, whieh
we shall endeavo•n to describe. The first of these forms is
somnambulism properly so called, and the second lucid
somnambulism.
Of Somnambulism properly so .called.
If a man found himself at birth bereft of everyspecies of
senses, whether external or internal, that is to say, if there
existed a man, who could live without vision, without hear-
ing, without smell, without sensitive organs, and even
without the least perception of what was passing in him,
I maintain that, unless we admit divine revelation, it would
be absolutely impossible that this man should have one
single idea. This picture is, in my opinion, that of pro·
found sleep, during which a separation almost complete, but
one perfectly inexplicable, is established between the lt1lll
and the organs.
If, on the contrary, we suppose that the man in question
perceives merely the physiological acts of his internal life,
this man will have a sensation, and so far an idea, that of
his own existence. Further, it is very probable that, in this
case, this single idea would become developed and perfectecl
beyond every thing that we can imagine, for this very
reason, that it would be to itself alone the incessant element
OF THB MAGDTIC PHENOMENA. 57
-of an entire life of sensation and re6ection. This is
precisely the intuition of isolated, and not lucid somnam-
bulists.
Let us now suppose the existence of one of the senses
of the life of relation, but of one only,-of hearing, for
-
instance, joined to the normal exercise of some only ofthe
jnstinctive or intellectual faculties, or else to the incomplete
exercise of all the faculties; the thought thenceforward
becomes complicated, since it may feed itself on multiplied
and varied sensations ; and if the will succeeds in tranR-
mitting itself to the organs of voice, this is 80111niloquy; or
if the will reacts on the muscles of locomotion, this is true
somnambulism with perception ofsounds.
This being supposed, it is clear that somnambulism will
approach real life so much the more, according as there will
be more of the senses and more of the faculties au1akened.
But let us also observe, that the more complete the less
perfect will it be, for this reason, that in consequence of a
-system of compensation inherent in our nature, our sensa-
tions lose in their perfection by becoming multiplied.
What has been just now said seems capable of being
applied exactlyto all species of somnambulism; and I cannot
understand why authors endowed with good sense and a
spirit ofobservation have taken it into their heads to make
of natural somnambulism and of magnetic somnambulism
two entities absolutely different. There is one circumstance
which may probably justify them, namely, the permanence
of tbe nervous or magnetic relation, as it is called by some,
-in a word, of that sort of organic association which, in a
considerable number of eases, seems to place the magnetic
80fDnambulist in explicit dependence on his magnetiser. But
68 CLASSIFICATION .AND DESCRIPTION
what will then be said of somnambulists who go to sleep by
magnetising themselves?
Now that we have established some general principles
in a summary way, which we shall diAcuss more at length
some other time in a special work, we shall proceed to the
examination ofthe phenomena ofsomnambulism by studying
in succession the intellectual and sensitive apparatuses in the
somnambulists who have been observed up to the present
time.
§ V. Intelligence and Moral Faculties.
These faculties are subordinate to two principal con·
ditions : the first is their norJnal state during the time of
being awake ; the second, the degree of somnambulism in
which the individuals magnetised are placed. At the first
experiments the intelligence is usually confused, and the
individuals, whilst expressing true ideas, cannot arrange
those ideas, and are almost always incapable of forming or
of comprehending a consecutive reasoning. And when
there exists an absolute stupefaction of all the external
senses, so that it is possible only for the magnetiser to make
himself understood by the somnambulist, the latter is
taciturn, and scarcely speaks, except to answer the questions
which the former puts to him. However, as he sometimes
feels admirably well that which is passing within him, he
redects on this sensation ; and it frequently happens that he
expresses quite aloud the astonishment he experiences from
it. The memory also is in him one of the first faculties
whose existence can be ascertained. From the beginning,
most somnambulists recollect with astonishing precision all
OJ' THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 59
the events which have occurred to them ; sometimes, too,
from so long a date back, that they had absolutely lost the
recollection ofthem during the state of being awake ; but
their most evident tendency then is to speak of and interest
themselves about those things only which concern them-
selves personally. Their health chiefly, even when the
experiment is made on perfectly healthy persons, engages
their attention to an extraordinary degree; accordingly, the
first question which a kind magnetiser addresses to his
somnambulist should have reference to his health.
At a later period, though the isolation may continue, the
intelligence becomes developed, and we soon arrive at that
point where all the faculties of the soul present a most
remarkable exaltation. We may satisfy ourselves of this by
addressing ourselves to each of these faculties separately.
It is the memory which has become extraordinary, the
sensibility which is exquisite, self-love, vanity, &c., which
are set agoing on the least occasion given to them. It should
be observed, however, that I am speaking here only of those
somnambulists who have been a long time accustomed to
magnetism.
A remarkable faculty also developed by somnambulism
is the appreciation of time. A somnambulist has no occasion
to be lucid to indicate the hour pointed out by a watch
which goes well.
I had one day magnetised a young lady in the Rue
Saint-Dominique, and I Mked her what hour it was.
"Three-quarters past four," was her answer.
I pulled out my watch, and that was the precise time.
" You have then seen the hour on my watch, madame P"
"No, sir."
60 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
" Where then have you seen it·
P"
" I have seen it nowhere."
" Then how do you kDow P"
"I know it."
" But again P"
"I feel it."
I repeated this experiment one hundred times on other
individuals.
Very frequent experiments ultimately give to 80rnnam-
bulism the most perfect resemblance to the 11tate of being
·awake.
Madame Hortense •••, during her sleep, rea10ns and
converses with me on the most refined metaphysical sub-
jects ; she often puzzles me by the quickness of her repar-
tees and the subtility of her arguments. Her language is
brilliant, easy, often metaphorical, and 10metimes pichl·
resque, but still, for all that, true. Madame Hortense ***
is, no doubt, a person of sense and mind; but she is far, infi-
nitely far, from having in her habitual state that facility of
thought and of expression which the magnetic sleep confers
on her.
It is well known that La Fontaine wrote during sleep
his fable of the Two Pige0718, a delicious poesy, wherein the
two predominant faculties of our great fabulist, candour
and sensibility, are so beautifully redected.
The instincts, such as hunger, thirst, the affections, &c.,
are also felt by somnambulists, and there are certain ques-
tions on which it would be inconvenient, not to say immoral,
to put their frankness to the proof. We may say, however,
that after a small number of sittings, provided they possess
the habits conferred by a good education, they soon sub-
OP TBB MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 61
stitute during their sleep the sentiments of decorum and
propriety for the sometimes brutal suggestions of nature.
This sentiment may be carried in them even to excess.
Some remarks of a purely medical nature have brought
some severe reprimands from a young lady, at which the
bystanders smiled.
Perhaps we should here mention some of the faculties
which, though much more evident during lucid sleep, exist,
however, likewise in ordinary somnambulism; but to avoid
tiresome repetitions, we refer our readers to the following
paragraphs, and pass on to the consideration of the pheno-
mena of the life ofrelation.
§ VI. Of Isolation.
We have already expressed metaphorically, and yet very
exactly, what is to be understood by this term. In the
sense in which we employ it, it signifies the complete
suspension of the functions of relation, that is to say, the
absolute stupefaction of the external senses, so that the
somnambulist no longer perceives any other sensations save
those which come to him directly from his magnetiser.
Thus:- ·
a. The eyes are shut; but when we succeed in opening
the eyelids mechanically, a thing which is not accomplished
without difficulty, the somnambulist does not see. It is so
easy to convince one's selfof this fact, that it is not at all
necessary to cite cases in its support. The eye, in this case,
is dull, without expression, and convulsed towards one of
the walls of the orbit, usually towards the upper.
b. Somnambulists do not hear, or at least they only
62 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
hear the words addressed to them by their magnetiser. A
long time before the experiments instituted in 1820, at the
Hotel Dieu in Paris, there was no uncertainty on this subject
in the minds ofmagnetisers; but the testimonies of men so
well known as MM. Husson, Recamier, &c., should not
now leave a doubt in the mind of any person. It is not
easy to play the deaf man, esj>eeially with medical men. On
the other hand, the ear ofsomnambulists acquires, in respect
to the voice of the person who magnetises them, an unusual
and sometimes an extreme delicacy. I shall mention an
instance. In the month of March 1840, !magnetised, in the
presence of a considerable number of persons, a young girl,
Adele Defossey, on whom I had already attempted several
experiments. This young girl, whose health was very
fragile, and her intellect still more meagre, was asleep at the
end of ten or twelve minutes, fell immediately into som-
nambulism and into perfect isolation. The day of which I
speak, in consequence, no doubt, ofthe many witnesses I had
assembled together, I employed a little more time than
usual in putting her to sleep ; but at length her eyelid
became heavy and closed; she drew a deep sigh, her head
fell on her chest, and I thought I could question her.
" Are you asleep, Adele ?"
"Yes, sir." •
"Who put you to sleep P"
"You did."
" Has your being put to sleep occasioned you pleasure P"
" It gives me no pain."
* It is to be remarked, that all somnambulists are not conscioua
of their state ; and that several, especially at the first experiments,
are very far from thinking that they are asleep.
OF THE MAGNETIC PBENOMEl'iA. 63
One of the bystanders having made a humorous remark
quite close to her, I continued:
" Do you hear, Adele?"
"What?"
" What bas been just spoken ?"
" I heard nothing."
" Yet some one has spoken ; we are not alone here."
" I know it well."
" Do you know these gentlemen ?"
" I do not see them."
" But have you seen them?"
"Yes, but I no longer see them."
" Do you see me?"
Adele hesitated, and at length answered," No, sir."
At this moment, one of my friends, who had inflated a.
paper bag by long blowing into it, caused it to produce an
exceedingly loud noise, by striking it violently on his hand.
Adele did not make the slightest movement, and her coun-
tenance did not indicate the least emotion. We did not even
remark that imperceptible twinkling of the eyelid which the
girl Samson presented at the Hotel Dieu, when the metallic
vessel was thrown beside her on the floor. In fact,
Adele had heard nothing. Then an animated and loud
conversation was commenced among the persons present,
during which I continued to converse in a very low voice
with our somnambulist, precisely as if I had been alone with
her, and in the most perfect quiet. What is remarkable is,
that it was all to no purpose that I brought Adele and the
several persons who came to see her in her somnambulism
in close relation, it was my voice alone that she heard.
Furthermore, if we be permitted to recur once more to
-
64 CLA.SSIFICATION AND DESCRll'TJON
the identity, or at least the great analogy, of natural and
magnetic somnambulisms, we assert, that we have seen a
natural somnambulist by whom it was impossible to make
one's self be heard, and whom no kind of noise could
awaken. The want of cases will not suft'er us to know
whether there are or are not individuals who present the
other conditions of isolation, but we shall state a little
further on to what this manner of being in magnetic som-
nambulists is chiefly attributable.
c. Smell. Conclusive experiments have proved that not
only the sense of smell was suspended during isolation, but
even that the mucous membrane of the nasal foSSie had lost
all sensibility. I made a young female somnambulist who
was not accustomed to tobacco take some, and she felt no
eft'ects from it. It was only on awaking, that is, an hour
after taking the sternutatory that she began to sneeze with
the most amusing contortions. Another time I substituted
snuff for tobacco, and the same result ensued. ·We know,
besides, that during the experiments of 1820 flasks of the
volatile alcali were placed under the nose of several som•
nambulists, who did not even perceive that which had been
brought to them in order to Inake them smell it.
d. TUite. I made but one experiment, which tends to
prove that this sense is suspended during somnambulism. I
placed a morsel of colocynth one day in the mouth ofAdele
Defossey, who was in a magnetic sleep, requesting her to
masticate without swallowing the delicious sugar-plum with
which I gratified her. Adele did as I told her. She mas-
ticated for more than a quarter of an hour the colocynth
pulp, and at length told me that my delicious sugar-plum
had no taste whatever. On some occasions, however, the
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 6S
smell and taste seem to acquire in somnambulists an admi-
rable perfection.
§ VII. Of Physical Insensibility. .
It exists not only in the skin, but also in the subcu-
taneous tissues, in the muscles, and even in the nervous
ramifications; witness the well known fact commtmicated by
M. Jules Cloquet to the Academy of .Medicine, on the 16th
ofApril, 1829. .Madame Plaintain, sixty-four years of age,
residing in the Rue Saint Denis, consulted .M. Cloquet about
a cancer in the right breast, which she had had for several
years, and which was complicated with a considerable
engorgement of the corresponding axillary glands. .M.
Chapelain, the physician of this lady, and who magnetised
her several months since, with the intention, he said, of
dispersing the engorgement of the breast, had been able to
obtain no other result but a very profound sleep, during
which the sensibility appeared totally abolished, the ideas
retaining all their clearness. He proposed to M. Cloquet to
operate during the time she was in the magnetic sleep. The
latter, who considered the operation indispensable, con-
sented to it, and it was determined that it should take place
the following Sunday, April 12th. The two days immediately
preceding this she was magnetised several times by M.
Chapelain, who disposed her, when she was in the state of
somnambulism, to endure the operation without fear, and
who brought her even to discourse of it with ease, whilst on
awaking she shuddered at the idea of it.
The day fixed for the operation .M. Cloquet, arriving at
half-past ten A.M., found the patient dressed, sitting in an
arm-chair, in the attitude of a person who was tranquil and
F
66 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
in a natural sleep. It was nearly one hour since she had
returned from mass, which she was accustomed to hear
every day at the same hour. M. Chapelain had put her
into the magnetic sleep since her return ; she spoke with
considerable calmness of the· operation she was about to
undergo. Every thing being arranged for the operation,
she undressed herself and sat upon a chair.
M. Chapelain supported the right arm. The left was
allowed to hang down by her side. M. Pailloux, an ele-ce
interne'of the hospital Saint Louis, was directed to present
the instruments and prepare the ligatures. A first incision,
setting out from the hollow of the axilla, was carried above
the tumour to the inner side of the mamma. The second,
commencing at the same point, was carried below the tumour
and continued so as to meet the first. M. Cloquet dissected
the engorged glands cautiously, in consequence ofthe vicinity
of the axillary artery, and extirpated the tumour. The
operation lasted from ten to twelve ~nutes.
During all this time the patient continued to converse
tranquilly with the operator and gave not t.he least sign of
sensibility : no movement in the limbs or in the feature•, no
change in the respiration nor in the ooice, no emotion, even
in the pvlse, were observed. The patient continued in the
state of indifference and of automatic impassibility, in which
she was some minutes before the operation. There was no
necessity for holding her, all that was required was to sup-
port her. A ligature was placed on the lateral thoracic
artery, which was opened during the extraction of the glands.
The wound was united by adhesive plasters and dressed, the
patient was put to bed, still in a state of somnambulism, in
which she was left for forty-eight hours.
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 67'
One hour after the operation there appeared a slight
hemorrhage, not attended, however, with any consequences.
The first dressing was removed the following Tuesday, 14th;
the wound was cleaned and dressed again ; the patient
evinced neither sensibility nor pain; the pulse retained its
natural rhythm.
After this dressing, M. Chapelain awoke his patient,
whose somnambulic sleep lasted since one hour before the
operation, that is to say, for two days. This lady did not
appear to have any idea or feeling of what bad passed; but
on ascertaining that she had been operated on, and seeing
her children around her, she evinced considerable emotion,
which the magnetiser checked by immediately putting her
to sleep.• ·
M. Dr. Oudet communicated to the Academy of Medi-
cine (sitting of the 24th January, 1833) a case which,
without being perhaps as conclusive as that just cited, tends,
however, to corroborate it and to establish the insensibility
of a good number of somnambulists. Here is the fact as it
was related by the magnetiser, with the approbation of
M. Oudet:t-
" Madame B-- is twenty-five years of age and of an
extremely sensitive cltaracter ; she has an intense dread of
the least pain, and suffers from the action of causes scarcely
appreciable by others. Thus she cannot bear the fingers ot
a person crack without suffering palpitations and a sort of
faintness.
"I bad several times produced somnambulism in her,
* Bulletin de 1'Aeaolemie de Medeeine. Paris, 1837, t. ii. p. 370.
t Ibid. t. i. p. 343.
61:1 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
and ascertained her insensibility in this state, when on the
6th of last September, she complained to me of a toothach,
which, she said, was torturing her for some days. The
extraction of the diseased tooth was the ouly remedy for her
sufferings ; but the idea of an operation almost threw her
into convulsions. I brought her to Dr. Oudet, who, having
been previously apprised of the peculiar state of this lady,
assured her of the urgent necessity which she so much
dreaded. I arranged privately with my worthy coofrere
that he should find her at my house in a state of somnam-
bulism.
"On the 14th of November, at the hour appointed,
M. Oudet saw her tranquilly seated on a fauteuil, and for
about an hour in a magnetic sleep. To ascertain her state
of sensibility, I pricked her several times with a pin ; I held
one of her fingers for some seconds in the flame of a candle ;
she gave not the least sign of pain. During these trials
Madame B-- answered my questions with her usual ease.
M. Oudet opened out his instruments. The clashing of his
instruments seemed to occasion no sensation; my somnam-
bulist thought herself all alone with me. I requested her to
let me see her diseased tooth (it was a large molar). She
opened her mouth readily, saying, 'It no longer pains me.'
M. Oudet placed his instrument on it. At the moment of
extraction the head seemed to avoid a little the hand of the
operator, and we heard a slight cry. These two signs of
pain had the rapidity of lightning The pulse of the
patient was tranquil; her countenance indicated not the
slightest emotion ; her hands continued motionless on her
knees. I hastened to put this question to her. 'Have you
suffered P' She answered calmly, '"Why suffer P' She knew
OF THE MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 69
nothing of what had been done. I presented to her a gl&88
of water, desiring her to wash her mouth. She undentood
not the object of my advice.
" For half-an-hour that I prolonged her sleep I made
her speak a good deal, but I could not discover in her any
mark of pain. When she awoke she suspected nothing and
complained of nothing at fint. Twenty minutes after she
put her hand to her cheek, saying, 'There is my tooth
recommencing to torment me.' At length I told her what I
had done in order to save her terron and suffering.''
§ Vill. Of Incomplete lsolatiun.
The complete insensibility of which we have now given
examples does not always exist in somnambulists. On the
contrary, there are several ofthem whom one might arouse
from their state by pinching them or shaking them vio-
lently, and who, in communication from the commencement
with the persons around them, answer indifferently the
questions which these persons put to them.
If it were allowable to generalise a principle from a
limited number of facts, I would say that complete isolation
in somnambulists is subordinate to the existence of a disease
more or less painful.
What is certain is this, that most of the persons in good
health whom I have magnetised have constantly retained a
portion of their sensibility, only their sensations were more
obtuse than in the normal state. Howevtor, according to
M. Georget, the contrary might happen sometimes. "My
somnambulists," he says, "retained at first the faculty of
feeling such as it exists in the state of being awake ; but
-..
70 CLASSIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION, &c.
further, in certain respects, they acquired a peculiar exalta·
tion oi this sense (the sense of touch), by means of which
they became capable of perceiving impressions, of having
cognisance ofobjects, which, under any other circumstance,
they would neither have perceived nor known, &c."* This
statement may be true, but it needs precision, inasmuch as
Georget omits to tell us whether his somnambulists were
lucid ; a circumstance which, as we shall see presently, would
completely change the question.
Ofthe Functio718 of Organ·
ic Life during S()TTinamb'l.ll.Um.
The respiration and circulation undergo during sleep
considerable modifications, and it is but natural to suppose
that the aame takes place with the other functions of animal
life. 'Ve may observe, for instance, that certain medicinal
or other agents appear to have lost their power with respect
to the organs on which, during the state of being awake,
they exert a marked action. Thus we know that the fumes
of tobacco, in persons who smoke without being accustomed
to it, occasion a very marked sickness, a sort of drunken-
ness which very much disturbs the functions of the brain
and stomach. I myself made a young somnambulist smoke,
who certainly had never done as much in his life, and he
experienced not the slightest inconvenience from it.
* De Ia Physiologie du Systeme Nerveux, specialement du Cer-
ve n ; Recherches surles Maladies Nerveuses. Paris, 182:, t. i. p. 279.
71
CHAPTER V.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
ON reflecting on the extraordinary circumstances re-
corded in history of the celebrated extatics, such as Saint
Cyprian, Saint Paul the Anchorite, Tasso, Mahomet, Car-
dan, &c., in considering more especially the curious cases
left us by Petetin of Lyon, and those recently published by
Drs. Barrier, De Privas, Despine, d'Aix-les-Bains, &c., we
cannot help admitting that there exists a striking resem-
blance between lucid somnambulism and a certain form of
extasy. But as this question of high medical philosophy
cannot be debated in an elementary book such as this is, we
shall confine ourselves to the bare mentioning it without
nndertaking its discussion. In fact, from the point of view
from which we consider it, the subject which we are about
to embrace appears to us sufficiently extensive iu itself
without there being any necessity for extending it still
further by eccentric digressions. We are now on a new
soil, where every object borders on the extraordinary, and
of which it is impossible to give an accurate description
without passing for a cheat or a fool ; but what matters
that? The reputation of a man, whoever he be, is not equi-
valent to a great truth, and if our recitals appear at the
72 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
present day monstrous or ridiculous to certain strong minds,
before ten years probably they will be judged of differently.
All somnambulists are not lucid; but most of them
become so more or less after a certain number of experi-
ments. Some are lucid from the first sitting, others are not
so till the second, some till the third, others, in fine, do not
become so till after eight or ten sittings ; but, in this case,
they feel and announce several days in advance the day and
hour when they shall see. That which then happens to
them astonishes them very much, and the description which
they give of it differs according to their character and the
education which they have received. This description, con-
stantly the same in substance, never varies except in form.
It is almost always a bright light with which they are in-
undated, a splendid sur., according to the expression of
Catherine Samson.*
Lucidity seems to depend on very complex circum-
stances, and so much the more difficult to determine,
inasmuch as every instant the facts which might furnish
some inductions for this subject seem to be contradictory of
each other; thus, whilst patients almost in the last .agonies
are perfectly lucid, others cease to be so on the least indis-
position happening to them. Further, almost all patients
who are magnetised become lucid, when, on the contrary,
almost all somnambulists in good health lose their lucidity
on contracting disease.
Again, lucidity never appears to last but a very limited
time, which may vary ad injinitum,t according to the tem-
* Experiments made at the Hotel Dieu, by J. Dupotet. 1826, Svo.
t Madame Ch-, the celebrated medical somnambulist, is lucid
for the last ten years.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 73
peraments, and especially according to the processes and
precautions of the magnetisers. In general, it is good in
all respects not to thwart somnambulists in that which they
do or say, not to harrass them with experiments of mere
curiosity and renewed incessantly; lastly, not to exact from
them beyond what they declare they can do with ease. 'Ve
may sum up all these counsels in one single one : from the
moment the personal interest of a somnambulist is in ques·
tion, consult himself and conform explicitly to the adYice
which he will give you; when somnambulists arc them-
selves interested they are never deceived.
Oftentimes lucidity is not permanent and is reproduced
only from time to time. It is here again that it is indis-
pensable to interrogate the somnambulists to know the
return of eclipses of this sort, which they predict several
days before hand up nearly to a second. The little account
which the medical public has hitherto taken of these
predictions has been, I may say, one of the great causes of
the disfavour in which magnetism is still to be found.
Your somnambulist announces to you that he tcill read on
such a day at four o'clock in the afternoon. This being
said, you believe and invite your witnesses for the appointed
time. The messieurs of the Academy think that they are
doing too much honour to magnetism by coming to you at
five o'clock, and the experiment is all over.
A person would be grossly deceived if he imagined that
all the marvellous of lucidity is reduced to a single phe-
nomenon of vision. Independently of an admirable exalta-
tion of all the intellectual faculties, faculties without
analogues and unknown to the physiologist are then revealed
in the somnambulist. His memory sways it over his entire
74 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
existence; an indefinable instinct associates him with all the
events of the present moment, and we shall see by and by
how far he succeeds even in raising the veil offuturity.
Vision without the aid of the eyes,-intuition,-interrvd
previsum,- external prevision,-penetration of thought, -
transposition of the senses,-such are the titles under which .
we are going to pass successively in review the phenomena
of lucid sleep, reserving the insti'IU!t uf remedies for the
chapter which we shall devote to the medicine of
somnambulists.
I. Vision without the Aid of the Eyes.
This is one of the leading questions, the final solution of
which will leave not a retreat to incredulity, and will cause
the other visions of magnetisers to be considered, at least, as
reasonable. Our readers will pardon us, then, for the
minuteness .of our details.
To apply a bandage over the eyes of a somnambulist, to
make this somnambulist read in this state, and, if he read, to
be convinced either that he reads without his eyes, or that
he sees through his bandage, this you would suppose is a
simple experiment, conclusive and unanswerable. Others, as
well as you, supposed the same thing, as MM. Orfila, Pariset,
Gueneau de Mussy, Adelon, Bousquet, Reveille Parise,
Ribes, &c. at the time when they honestly affixed their sig·
nature to the bottom of the proc&-11erbaux of the sittings
Pigeaire. Well, these distinguished persons were in error
-as you, as I, and as we all were- do you not know,
in fact, that there is a certain academy -- Oh I if this
was the place to speak out I But patience ! the time of
ON LUCID SOMNA.MBULISM. 75
reprisals is at hand andjustice will prevail!• Vision through
the closed eyelids and through opaque bodies is not only a
real fact, but a flert/ frequent fact. There is no magneti.ser
who has not observed it twenty times, and I know at the
present day in Paris alone a very great number of somnam-
bulists who might furnish proofs ofit.
The fact of reading under the same conditions, a fact
which, on the whole, is just the same, is met with much
more seldom, which may be readily conceived; this is the
phenomenon in all its perfection. A single instance will
serve to illustrate it ; books on magnetism are filled with
cases more or less similar to those which we are about to
mention:-
Case of Madame Hortense • • •.
Madame Hortense • • •, whose real name we are pre-
vented from giving in consideration ofher position in society,
was born at G--, in Franche-Comte. About twenty-two
years of age, she is married for the last six months, and lives
in Paris only for the last three months. The friendly
intercourse which I have kept up with her family for near
twenty years enables me more than any other person to
know her temperament and physiological history. Born of
very ro~ust parents, Madame Hortense bas enjoyed but
delicate health since her birth. It is now five years ago
* M. Prosper Lucas seems to us to have demonstrated to perfec.
tlon the incompetence of the Academy of Medicine in the case of
magnetic questions, in his letter to the editor ofthe Annaks d'Hygi~nt.
(See Annalu d'Hygiene Publique tt de Medecint Legale. Paris, 18371
t. xviii. P• 243.
76 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
since she was attacked with a serious and complicated dis-
ease which continued nearly till the time of her marriage,
and for which I was several times called on to attend her.
It was a sort of neurosis, of which I never saw another
instance in all my life, and of which I can nowhere find a
description. After having commenced by a species of gastric
disturbance, with acute pain in the right hypochondrium,
this affection soon put on a nervous form, which became
modified successively in one hundred different ways, pre-
sented all sorts of strange appearances, passing from one
organ to another, and ultimately became so strange, so ex-
traordinary in its symptoms, that no physician ventured
to qualify or localise it. Frightful spasms, convulsions,
during which the patient broke her bed, then absolute
paralysis of the lower extremities, with continued fever and
emaciation of the entire body, delirium, idiotism ; then, at
length, lethargy simulating death, and which lasted for three
monthA, were the prominent traits of this incomprehen-
sible disease, the regular and methodical details of which
would be here out of place. Madame Hortense has enjoyed
tolerably good health since her marriage; without, properly
speaking, being in a state of embonpoint, she is far from
being in a state of extreme emaciation. Her temper has
recovered its natural evenness and sweetness since the im-
provement in her health ; lastly, this lady bad never been
magnetised, when I received from her husband the following
letter, dated 3d of last March :-
"My dear Friend,
" I am astonished, confounded. I have attained a li:dJa
1en1e; I believe in magnetism. But do not sing out victory,
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 77
for to you belongs not the honour of my conversion. To
whom, then, will you say P- To my wife, my dear
doctor-to my wife-w:ho, after having been prodigiously
ill, is now become a prodigious somnambulist. Read quick·
ly; it is all a history. Last Sunday, the Gazette des Mede-
cina Practiciena contained a delightful paper entitled A Con-
sultation of a Somnambulist, and in which, of course, magnet-
ism was very pleasantly ridiculed. Now, yesterday, Mon-
day, my housekeeper, who always reads my journals before
myself (and all fair, for she receives them first), after having
amused herself with the paper which I have just mentioned,
found an excuse to come to my room, and very adroitly
proposed this mischievous question-' Monsieur, what is
magnetism?'-' Magnetism,' said 1,-and, at the same time,
I drew myself up very gravely in my dressing-gown, whilst
Madam Defossey listened very attentively. I spoke for a
full quarter of an hour without taking breath. I said all
I did know, and all I did not know (mark, I spoke as a
believer). At length I acted so well, that the good woman,
whom my mere dissertation had nearly put to sleep, believed
every thing good of magnetism, and proposed to me to
magnetise her daughter. There was no drawing back; so
I accept; an~ the sitting was appointed for six o'clock in
the evening. The moment being arrived, Adele and her
mother came up to my room. I make the little Dne sit
down on my sofa, and place myself opposite to her ; and,
after having called up all my faith (I own I bad not much
of it), I set to work, biting my lips in order not to burst out
laughing. Well, my friend, conceive my astonishment ! I
had not been ten minutes gesticulating, when lo ! my little
one is asleep-in a profound sleep. I speak to her-she
'18 ON LUCID SO.MNAMBULIS.M.
answers me. I pinch her-she feels nothing. I open her
eyes-and all I see is the sclerotic. Adele was evidently a
somnambulist, and I became her fou de plaisir. At length,
after having satisfied myself in a hundred ways of my
triumph, I awaken her by the force ofpinchi'R{f and shaking
her.
"After Adele and her mother bad retired, Hortense, who
bad been present at the experiment, requested me to mag-
netise her, an idea which certainly would have occurred to
me, had she not thought of it. Then, as you may
suppose, I accept the proposition eagerly, and 8et about
making the passes. Oh, my God I in six minutes my
wife, after having laughed heartily, begins to tremble, com-
plains a little, sighs two or three times, and goes to sleep.
But the matter was quite different from Adele. She was
no sooner asleep, than she gets up briskly, takes a sheet of
music, of which she makes a fan to fan herself, traverses
the entire apartment without injuring herself with any of
the furniture, and at length returns to her seat at my
request, and then enters into conversation with a confidence
and volubility quite unusual to her.
" I could never describe to you, my good friend, what
passed then within me. It appeared to me that I was after
discovering magnetism, and the joy I felt bordered well-
nigh on delirium.
" From having put others to sleep, I did not sleep
myself for the night, and this morning I would make any
sacrifice for the honour of Mesmer. Hasten, then, and come
to me, that we may recommence together my experiments
of yesterday, and let us make proselytes forthwith; for I
feel that ifI was long right all alone, I would soon run mad."
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 79
It is needless to say that I complied eagerly with my
friend's invitation. I arrived at his house at two o'clock,
and, in his enthusiasm, my friend had already magnetised
his wife twice since the morning, which fatigued her very
much in consequence of the extraordinary process he em-
ployed to awaken her.• However, as they anxiously wished
that I should witness an experiment, Madame H--, who
yielded with the most agreeable readiness, was magnetised
for the third time. Commencing from this period, we shall
render an account to our readers of each ofthe sittings, the
numbers indicating only those where I had an opportunity
of being present.
1st Sitti"!{! (4th March, 1840). Madame Hortense is
magnetised at half-past two. She occupies not more than
seven minutes in being put to sleep. Her sleep is lucid, for
she distinguishes every thing passing around her. Accord-
ing to her husband's request, it is I who put the questions.
"Are you asleep, madame ?"
" Do I sleep, monsieur ? What a jest! I assure you I
never had less disposition to sleep."
The eyes are closed ; the eyelid, raised by means of the
thumb, which is done with considerable difficulty, permits
us to see the globe of the eye turned convulsively upwards.
The sensibility is blunted.
" Do you see me, madame?"
" How! Do I see you P Are you then become invisi-
ble P"
"No! But you have your eyes shut."
" I! I have my eyes shut?"
• He pinched her knees.
80 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
" Yes, madame."
" Have you been magnetised then, Mr. Doctor P"
"Why so?"
"Because I think that you are a somnambulist to-day."
"Why soP"
" You say that I am asleep-that I do not see you-that
I have my eyes shut."
" ·well, madame, I was jesting. How do you do?"
"I told you already-very well! Shall we go this even-
ing to the Bois de Boulogne ?"
"I could not accompany you, madame. I have to
answer a very pressing letter from G--."
"A letter from G--, indeed ! and about what?".
" You are curious, madame !"
"Like all the world ! Find a woman who is not so.
Let us see your letter, monsieur."
" Do you wish to read it?"
"Yes!-ifthere be nothing wrong in so doing."
"Very well, madame; I am satisfied but on one con-
dition--"
"'Vhat?"
" That you will read it aloud ?"
"What a whim! But no matter, give it. I shall read
it for every one. My husband and I are hut one."
At a sign which I made to my friend, he covered his
wife's eyes with a woollen shawl.
Mter the shawl which covered almost her entire face
had been properly tied at the occiput, I drew from my
pocket the first paper that came to hand-it was a prospectus
of a book-shop. I had no sooner placed it in the hands of
our young somnambulist, than she exclaimed :-
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM, 81
"You are mistaken, doctor-this is not the letter which
you have received; they do not print letters." Then she
added, " What a heat l This room is actually a stove !"
" Well, madame, my letter ?"
"I told you, monsieur, that you have not yet given it to
me. That is not a letter. There l" (She throws away
the paper impatiently.)
"True, madame; I was mistaken. But here it is."
" I have no longer a wish to read it for the present."
"Why then?"
" Because I am suft'ocating here. Oh ! I beg of you,
let me have some air, or let us go out, for I can no longer
hold out."
"We shall go out, madame, so soon as you will have the
kindness to read us merely a single line."
" 'Vell, you do tease me so, monsieur."
These were the last words she uttered. The unfortunate
shawl in which we had wrapped her up, amidst a temperature
already high enough, had suddenly rufHed her disposition.
Her face was covered with perspiration; the head fell on
the chest and shoulders ; her breathing became panting ;
-there was, in fact, a threatening of syncope, and to follow
up the matter further would have been inhuman. I there-
fore awoke her. After some moments of feebleness and
heaviness, she recovered her usual sweetness ofmanner.• But
the experiment was not deferred longer than the next day
• I ought to remark here that there was on that day, as well as
on the day on which the first experiments which followed were made,
pains in the heart and slight headach. All these symptoms dimi-
nish progressively according as the individuals become accustomed to
magnetism.
G
82 ON LUCID SOlllNAMBULJSJil.
at the same hour. The fact, of which the first Bitting
satisfied us, was that Madame Hortense, with her eye• and
face almost entirely coiJered with a thick woolleR 1hawl, had
been able instantly to discover that the characters traced on
the paper which I had presented to her were printed, and
not manuscript.
2d Sitti11g (5th March).-Madame Hortense appears in
very good dispositions.• Her husband magnetises her at a
quarter past two. She is asleep for two hours and twenty
minutes.
" Are yon asleep, madame P"
"Why do you ask?"
"Does it distress you ?"
"No ! But I do not understand it. What answer
would you give to me if I asked you the question P"
" I would say that I am not asleep."
" And you would think that I am a fool."
"Ah I madame--"
"No jesting, monsieur. You know not to what I wish
to come."
The subtility ofthis reasoning, ofwhich but the half was
expressed to me with an excellent tone of pleasantry,
amused the bystanders very much, and I escape the con-
clusion by continuing :
" Would you like to be magnetised, madame P"
" Oh ! no, monsieur, that annoys me too much."
" What harm does it do to you ?"
" It causes nausea, disposition to vomit, and a frightful
headach."
• This experiment was made in presence of Dr. Millardet and of
some persons not connected with medicine.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 83
" Then we will not magnetise you. But will you be
kind enough to read for ns some lines of a charming book
which I have in my pocket ?"
" What book is it ?"
"Some very beautiful verses."
"Let us see."
Madame Hortense has her eyes covered with s silk
bandage stuffed with cotton. We satisfy ourselves that it is
impossible that this bandage, arranged and fitted on as it is,
does not completely intercept the light. I present to her
Pascal'a Thtnl{Jhta. She takes the book, opens it, raises it
up as high as her eyes, turns over the leaves for some
minutes after having adjusted the book properly, then throws
it away with disdain, saying :
" I shall not read that."
"Why?"
"Because yourfine veraea are not to my taste. And I do
not read for every one. When I read, I read for myself.
But before every one I should acquit myself too ill."
"Madame, I beg of you-recollect that the triumph of a
great truth is in question."
"I do not at all understand. Of what do you speak?"
" Of magnetism."
" Ah ! there it is. For the last three days we hear of
nothing but magnetism. But you know, sir, that your
magnetism is a double calamity, for it makes fools of those
who mix themselves up with it, and breaks the heads of
those who are not willing to do so."
"Madame, we admit our importunity. But read one
word--<>ne single word-and we shall say no more of it."
84 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
"Ah ! do let me alone. You do torture my nerves."
After these last words, uttered with a tone of impatience,
Madame Hortense rises, singing with an under voice, and an
air of indift'erence, a verse of a ballad of Aubert, after which
she enters into her husband's library, whither we follow
her.
"There is some order here," says she. "My husband
has never had order except in 'his books. Ah ! I thought
there were no books here except medical books ; and here
arc the Complete Works ofJean Jacq!U!B Rouaseau."
We observe that the bandage is not displaced, as we fully
satisfy ourselves, and that the books just mentioned occupy
a shelf sufficiently high, so that the somnambulist, even
supposing that the light could reach her eyes from beneath
her banda.,<re, would still be obliged to turn her head quite
backwards, which she did not do, in order to perceive the
title of the book she is after reading. But this is not all.
Madame Hortense takes one of the volumes, raising herself
on the extremities of her feet, opens it abruptly by chance,
and 80 much by chance that· the leaf where she opened it
was not cut; and it was I who cut it whilst the book
was in her hands. I then said to her :
"'Veil, madame, a sentence out of the book which you
now hold?"
"Monsieur," she answered, with quite a pleasant air,
"when you desire a thing, you desire it 80 ardently, that it is
difficult not to comply." At the same time she commenced
to read with astonishing rapidity all that passage of the
Social Contract:-" perd sa rectitude naturelle lorsque elle
tend a quelque objet individuel et determine, parce qu'
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 85
alors, jugeant de ce qui nous est etranger, nous n'avons
aucun vrai principe d'equite qui nous guide." •
The sitting had been long, and the awaking was a little
more painful than the day before. Madame Hortense not
only recollects nothing of what she said and did during her
sleep, but positively refuses to believe it.
3d Sitting (8th March).-Madame Hortense was mag-
netised at three o'clock. She falls asleep in a few minutes ;
but, as on the former occasion, she is not yet conscious of
her sleep, and refuses to read. To make up for it, she very
readily accepts a game at cards, which I propose to her, and
we play. She gains constantly, so that it is clear she sees
with both eyes; for, even when I endeavour to conceal my
hand from her, she takes an arch pleasure in naming
all my cards one after the other. At length I ask my
friend's permission to invite some medical men of high
character, and some literary persons, to one of his first
sittings.
4th Sitting (12th March).- Though still we are not
very numerous, this sitting presents a little more solemnity
than the preceding. We have the attendance of Doctors
Bousquett and Amedee Latour, of M. Charles d'Orbigny,i
and of some persons not belonging to the medical profession.
Madame Hortense was by no means moved, and feels no
annoyance, as I apprehended she would, from the presence
of witnesses who were perfectly unknown to her. After a
quarter of an hour's general conversation, she was put to
sleep precisely at three. At this time her husband magnet-
* Lib. 2. chap. iv.
t Secretary to the Council of the Academy of Medicine.
:1: Director of the Universal Dictionary of Natural History.
86 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
ises her by the mere infiuence of a look, and this almost as
quickly as by means of passes. It was my province always
to interrogate her.
" Your health, madame P"
"Not too good, sir. But, however, do not meddle with
it; for physicians make a sorry hand with me."
"Do you wish them well, then P"
" Not the least in the world."
" Yet you seem to say that they have done harm to
youP"
"Ah I as well as to a great many others ; but they
think they do good; we can dispense with them now."
"You have not, then, been well treated in your very
serious illness P"
"No, sir ; no, far from it."
"What should they have done with you ?"
"Just what you have done."
" Then you would have confidence in me now,
madame?"
"Eh I just as in any other."
"Not more P and yet I have cured you."
"By chance."
"Ah I madame, you are unjust."
"No sir, no; be assured of it I am neither unjust nor
ungrateful ; I have great, very great, confidence in you.
more especially to-day, as I can dispense with your at·
tendance."
"Eh I so much the better, madame; you have had
recourse to it for a considerable time; but since you find
yourself so well to-day, will you have the kindness to read
a few lines for us !'"
ON LUCID 80MNAIIBULJ8M. 87
".Again ! ever wanting to make me read. It is a sort of
monomania!"
I must obser:ve that madame never read aloud whilst
awake, and that the last exclamation which escaped her
clearly proved that, during her somnambulism, she re-
collected what pa88ed in her previous sleeps. In con-
aequence of her still refusing to read, we were obliged
to have recourse to various stratagems to obtain from her
what we wanted; at length, after debating for half an
hour, she promised to read in ten minutes. Each of us then
took an accurate notice of the hour, and in precisely ten
minutes M. Hortense took up the book which I pre-
sented to her, and read ftuently the following passage:-
" La qualite de citoyen etant considerable dans lea de-
mocraties, ou elle emportait avec elle Ia souveraine puis-
sance, il s'y faisait souvent des lois sur l'etat des bAtards,
qui avaient moins de rapport."•
On the one hand the book was selected by us, to be
sure, in the library of M•••, and it is evident that MadanJe
Hortense ••• might very easily know by heart the five
hun~ed volumes composing this library ; such extra-
ordinary memories are there I On the other hand, bandages
are bandages, and Messieurs the members of the Academy,
have long since proved, ez professo, that it was morally
and physically impossible to cover up a man's eyes so as to
prevent him from seeing. This being laid down and
perfectly understood by all our readers, it is clear as day
that the experiment now stated proves nothing. .Ask our
professional brethren on the subject; ninety-nine out of
* MONTBSQUIEU, Esprit du LIM, t. ii. p. 265.
!!8 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
every hundred will tell you precisely what I have told
you. Accordingly, before drawing any conclusion, it was,
to say the least, but reasonable to expect another ex-
periment. M. Bousquet draws a small volume out of
his pocket, which he wraps up in two sheets of white
paper, and presents to Madame •••. I took the liberty,
however, to remark that this was changing the conditions
of the problem, since the characters destined to be read
no longer have the access of the light ;• besides, that it
very seldom occurs that two experiments of this nature
succeed one after the other at the same sitting, considering
the distress and fatigue which the first made the som-
nambulist undergo. However, the matter is insisted on ;
Madame •••, notwithstanding the evident agitation she is
in, again complies with their request ; but this time she
fails. After extraordinary efforts to decipher the un-
decipherable print of M. Bousquet, she read but one trifling
word (il), and threw away the paper, declaring she can
go no farther.
It is now half-put four, and Madame Hortense •••,
being awaked by me, asks me what she has done, an<\what
she has read. We spare her the details, for fear of
annoying her feelings, and take our leave of her.
"What do you think of it," said Dr. Amedee Latour to
me on going out ; " must it be believed P"
"My good friend," said I, "I am not yet concerned for
the convictions of others."
5th Sitting (2d April).- The entire medical world is
* We shall see presently that this circumstance, thoogh render-
ing, oo doubt, the phenomenon more difficult to be accomplished, Is
not still ao iosurmonotable obstacle.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 89
essentially feudal; it is all serf, or great vassal. These,
mounted on stilts, and raising their voice to make them-
selves the better heard, impress liking or disliking on the
common people, who have no better authority for their
beliefs or their doubts. Denying, of course, every thing
which they cannot understand, they make a parade of their
incredulity on all occasions, and pass for men of strong
minds; then, seriously taking their own verbiage for elo-
quence, and their presumption for genius, they contrive to
collect around them a crowd of little-minded persons
(servum pecus), that is, low, weak minds, who think only
through others, reflect even the very grimaces of their
master, and faithfully re-echo his very flatness. Now, of
the men of whom I speak, I shall never endeavour to
convince either the one or the other ; the latter are in-
capable of being convinced, the others wish for no other
conviction than that which is suited to their own interests;
that is, in other words, their scepticism is with them a
regular system, and, accordingly, an incurable vice. In
defending the truth which I have espoused, I require only
honest and independent minds, capable of penetrating and
~
studying this truth, possessed of sufficient courage to main-
tain it, and sufficient self-denial to sacrifice every thing
for it.
This is the reason why, among all the illustrious dis-
believers of my acquaintance, I had, at. our sitting of the
2d of April, none but l\1. Professor Bouillaud, who was
subsequently joined by Dr. Cornac, whose amiable and
benevolent character tempers his incredulity, and may
serve as a means of sympathy between a man convinced
and a man who dreads being so. I then hoped much;
90 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
but, as if intentionally, every thing went wrong this un-
fortunate evening, and the result cruelly disappointed my
expectations. At first, :M:. Bouillaud delayed, so that we
were obliged to wait for him, and that is extremely wrong.
I shall not say to the learned professor that the renown of
his reputation, or the gravity of his demeanour, cause
magnetic experiments to fail by intimidating somnambulista
and magnetisers; but I shall merely remark that he in-
disposes and disarranges both the one and the other by
failing in punctuality. Thus our sitting, which should
have taken place at seven o'clock in the evening, did not
commence till eight. First, the moment is no longer
favourable, but that is not all; for the last hour persons
are yawning, tired, impatient, and waiting, so that I have
still to ask myself, now that I have undergone failures not
so easily accounted for, how, in such a state of mind, we
could obtain the results presently to be seen. Here is a
succinct, but accurate reaum~, of all that took place at that
sitting.
Madame Hortense •••, who is in some degree in a
natural sleep, is magnetised at ten minutes past eight, and
takes no more than three minutes and a half to enter
into somnambulism. The bandage which is to cover her
eyes was folded up at the sitting, and applied bg M.
BI)Ui/laud himself. This being done, the phenomenon was,
I admit, very slow this time in developing itself, and we
have to wait an entire hour until the will or the possibility
of reading comes to our somnambulist ; at length she
decides, and reads ; she reads an Alexandrine 11er1e in a
book brought by M. Cornac, a book printed in small
Roman type, and which, in order to reach from the banda of
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 91
these gentlemen to the hands of Madame H •••, did not
pass through mine. However, by the very admission of
the witnesses themselves, the bandage which comes down
to the a1re nasi was not displaced even a single line, and was
found exactly as M. Bouillaud applied it.
But here is another fact which, perhaps, leaves still less
doubt. All the lights are put out, and profound darkness
reigns through the apartment. M. H. is then disengaged
from her bandage, but M. Cornac's book is still in her
hands.
" Could you read thus, madame P"
"Yes, sir." (The darkness was so great that we could
scarcely see each other.)
" Well, what is the title of the book you hold P"
Madame ••• makes no reply, and M. Cornac several
times says, in a low voice,' &:nuseau's Works.'
"No, sir," says she, at length, after some minutes,
" they are the poems of Malherbe ;" and such was the fact.
Thereupon the gentlemen of the Academy retired, saying,
" The experiment to be~n again r•
6th Sitting (April 8th).-To-day we have magnetism
judged by its peers, or, at least, engaged in an encounter
* A very strange peculiarity, but one which I ha.e often noticed
without being better able to explain it than the other magnetic facts,
is, that a lucid somnambulist, even when he sees sufficiently tO read
with a bandage on his eyes, may very well not distinguish an
individual sitting beside him. What is still more annoying in such a
case is, that somnambulists deceive, or are deceived (I know not
which of the two), and affirm that they see things which really they
do not see. Magnetisers know to what mistakes of this kind are to
be attributed ; but certainly they injure magnetism when they occur
before witnesses ; .this is what happened to us on the 2d of April.
92 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
with kind adversaries. Drs. Frapart and Amedee J...atour,
M. Gustave Jeanselme, et M. d'Epagny ; such are the
witnesses of our sixth sitting. It commenced at three
o'clock. Madame H ••• was magnetised at a distance,
merely by the look ; she takes not more than three
minutes to go to sleep, and again, during these three
minutes, she exchal)ges several pleasantries, which cause
both of them to laugh, and, probably, have the effect of
retarding the coming on of sleep. At length she is asleep,
and all are attentive, Dr. Frapart more especially (we must
do him justice), whom one might suppose to be blinded by
his enthusiasm, is, in matters connected with magnetism,
more circumspect and more distrustful than an incredulous
person.
As there is always something equivocal in the employ-
ment of bandages, of whatever kind they may be, we come
to the unanimous determination to renounce their use
henceforward, and to substitute for them a plain sheet of
paper, so that it may be interposed between the object
to be deciphered and the eyes of the somnambulist; MM.
Frapart and A. Latour discharge this duty by turns. For
the first time Madame Hortense is aware of her state, and
comprehends what we want when we entreat her to read;
but she does not yet possess an accurate knowledge of
the extent of her powers, she sometimes promises more
than she can perform, and undertakes, for example, to
read when her degree of lucidity does not yet permit her.
Besides, vision through a sheet of paper is a new ex-
periment, and one in which she requires some little prac-
tice. .However we attempt it. Madame •••, whose hands
touch neither the sheet of white paper nor the journal
I
(
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 93
presented to her behind the paper, sets herself to work,
makes efforts which exhaust her, becomes impatient, names
some letters, but, on the whole, does not succeed. I must
here account to my readers for a trilling circumstance,
which will put them on their guard against the tricks of
somnambulists, and the disposition to deceive, even in those
persous who, when awake, are most trustworthy. Madame
H *"'*, who, always in a state of somnambulism, used to
pass with her husband and me into a room next to that
in which the experiment took place, and the high tem-
perature of which annoyed her, asked us in confidence :-
"What is there, then, in M:. Latour's journal?"
"What, Madame," replied I; "in the first place I do
not know ; and then it is very likely that, if we repeat
the experiment, it will be another journal that will be
given to you."
" Oh, my God ! my God ! what if I cannot read to-
day?"
"Why should you not read? Have the patience to
await till the power to do so comes to you, and awaiting
your good pleasure will cost us nothing."
"That's it," she whispered into my ear on entering
the room, "and if I cannot, I shall say I will not."
A quarter of an hour afterwards 1\Iadame H ••• read
this phrase through three sheets of strong paper. "En
Chine il n'y a point de loi mr la diffamation !'*
Is this fact conclusive ? At first one would be tempted
to think so ; but who can assure us that the eyes of the
somnambulist are not open? who can assure us that just
*Journal d'Hggii-M.
94 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
at that moment, by a false movement of M. Frapart or
of M. A. Latour, the journal did not fall within the reach
of her eyes P Who can satisfy us P " Gentlemen, you are
incorrigible, and I know but one way more by which I
can convince you; but, as I have never seen the experi·
ment performed, it is, to say the least, doubtful that it will
succeed ; however, let us try it, if you please. Here is
a box, my friends, let one of you write legibly whatever
phrase he may think fit ; let this box then be corded, and
sealed by you ; if on to-morrow I send you the whole
untouched, with an accurate and literal copy of your
phrase, will you believe P"
"Yes, without any doubt whatever."
On the next day I wrote to Dr. Frapart,-" There is
in your box, Le pom"ble eat immense." (The possible is
immense.)
M. Frapart answered me. " My dear friend, we have
gained ; for Madame Hortense has really read in the box
the hemistich of Lamartine which I had written. Le poa-
~nze est immense ; only it is preceded by this, Le reel est
~troit." (The real is very narrow.)
There evidently could be no objection to this ; but as
M. Amedee Latour, who till then distrusted only mag-
netism, now did us the honour of distrusting us (he knows
full well that I excuse him), it became necessary to re·
commence the experiment for him. It was he, then, who
sealed the box after having written, without any one being
cognisant of it, this phrase, which never could have
occurred to a lady, L' eau eat compoa~e d' hydrog'tne et
d' oxygene." (Water is compounded of hydrogen and
oxygen.)
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 95
Three days after I called on Dr. A. Latour, returned
him the box, he examined it, and recognised his seals.
" Well ?" said he to me, after making this examin-
ation.
"L' eau est compos~e fl hydroghle et floxyghle."
"Well, you are the devil," cried he, " or magnetism is a
truth."•
The experiment I have just now mentioned was per-
formed, no doubt, without any other witness but myself;
but is it not evident, from its nature, that this circum-
stance takes nothing from its authenticity? This experi-
ment proves, then, that lucid somnambulists can not only
see and distinguish through opaque bodies objects as minute
as the characters of printing, but, also, that they can see
these objects without the intervention, at least the apparent
intervention, of light, since a bit of paper, inclosed in a
wooden box, is certainly placed in complete darkness.
Several questions arise here for which it is not easy
to find a positive solution. 1st. Do somnambulists see
through all opaque bodies indifferently ? 2d. Do they use
their eyes to see ?
To the first question I shall answer, I do not think
(without, however, affirming the contrary) that we shall
ever succeed in making a somnambulist read through a
* When Madame H *** reads in a box, she takes the latter in
her right hand, fixes it at the distance of some millimetres from one
of her eyes, just as a watchmaker holds his lens, except that the
eye remains closed ; then she continues so for about one quarter of
an hour without seeing any thing. At length she names some of
the letters, then a word (seldom the one commencing the sentence) ;
then she reads out the whole phrase, and puts away the box.
96 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM,
partition, a wall, &c. ; but I think I may safely say that
somnambulists see through these bodies, and that some of
them distinguish at enormous and incredible distances.
The examples I might bring forward would absolutely
prove nothing; precisely for this reason, that they would
have no other guarantee than mine. These magnetic phe-
nomena must be seen publicly at the risk ofgiving ourselves
the air of jugglers and merry-andrews; but to quote facts
which have been observed without witnesses would evince
a desire to get ourselves taken as impostors without any
benefit to science. So unmanageable are people I
Do somnambulists use their eyes in order to see ?-Yes;
at least that is my opinion, and this is what I ground it on.
1. Whether from habit or necessity a somnambulist, whom
we desire to make read, turns his face towards the book
which is presented to him, raises it up to his eyes, and holds
it in this way without moving it till the experiment is ter-
minated. 2. I have several times heard a somnambulist
complain of an acute pain at the bottom of the orbit during
the course of the experiments, a circumstance which would
prove, at least to a certain extent, that the retina and optic
nerve were performing some part on the occasion. The
restrictions to be applied to what has now been said will be
found elsewhere in our article on the TranapolitWn of the
Senaes.
2. I1duition.
This faculty is one of the first which somnambulism
developes, but lucidity carries it to its maximum of perfec-
tion. Intuition is then a new sense, a sublime instinct which
all at once initiates the individuals in whom it is developed
ON LUCID SOMN.umULJSM. 97
into the most ob8eure mysteries of his intimate nature. It
never could be imagined, with what tact, accuracy, and
precision, somnambulists account for every thing which takes
place within them. They are literally present at the per-
formance of all their organic functions ; they detect in them
the slightest disorder, the minutest change. There are no
affections so slight or so latent; even those which at the
commencement of their existence not only do not give occa-
sion to any external symptom, but do not betray themselves
by any species of internal suffering; there are none, 1 say,
which escape the investigation of the somnambulist. Then
of all this he forms a clear, exact, and mathematical idea.
He could tell, for instance, how many drops of blood there
are in his heart ; he knows, almost to a gramme, how much
bread it would require to satisfY his appetite at the moment,
how many drops of water would be necessary to satisfy his
thirst, and his valuations are inconceivably exact. Time,
space, forces ofall kinds, the resistance and weight of objects,
his thoughts, or rather his instinct measures, he calculates,
appreciates all these matters by a single glance of the eye.
A woman in a state of somnambulism is conscious of her
pregnancy from the first hour of conception ; she feels
whether she is or is not in a disposition to conceive ; nay,
she will not be pregnant for eight days when she will tell,
without ever being mistaken, the very sex of her infant, &c.
All this, I am well aware, will astonish more than one
of our readers, and will cause certain grave doctors to smile
with pity, who yet speak of irritation, of i7iflammation, of the
fJital principle, &c. &c., with as much certainty as if they bad
actually seen all these things; for such is the world, a large
bouse of fools, where every one, feeling pity for his neigh-
H
98 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
hours, thinks that he has got all the wisdom to himself.
Are our honoured confreres, then, the most incurable indi-
viduals of the whole establishment? Let them take care ;
it is not a theory I submit to them, it is merely facts which
I bring them together in order to verify, and which they
will verify if they only have sufficient patience and sufficient
honesty for the purpose.
Though the phenomena of vision contribute much in
lucid somnambulists to perfect and probably to rectify
intuition, it is still beyond all doubt that this latter is not
necessarily subordinate to a perfect clairvoyance. I admit,
however, that the integrity of the one of the two faculties
seems to me a guarantee for the excellence of the other ;
and, as we possess no means of verifying most of the phe-
nomena of intuition, I do not give implicit credence to these
phenomena, except in the case of somnambulists endowed
with clairvoyance.
Intuition is to clairvoyance what physiology is to anato-
my ; with this difference, however, that somnambulists, even
the least lucid, feel apriori the vital actions which are
taking place within them, and have no occasion for organo-
graphic notions in order to be endowed with a very passable
physiological appreciation.
We must observe, in terminating this paragraph, that
all which has been said regarding intuition relates only to
that which somnambulists enjoy and make use of on their
own account, reserving to ourselves to speak, when treating
of their diagnom, of the intuition which they may employ
in the service of others. (See Medicine of Srnnnambulist8.)
ON LUCID SOlllNA.MBULIS.lll. 99 .
3. Of Interior Prevision.
Lucid somnambulists have not only the conscioll!lness of
their present physiological or pathological state, but they
can even announce by a sort offoreknowledge which belongs
only to them all the modifications destined to occur in their
system. Is it a calculation on their part, a process ofdeduc-
tion by means of which they determine from that which
exists that which does not yet exist ? This is what no one
can tell ; but what is quite certain is, that the instances of
interior prevision- that is, of prevision bearing on occur-
rences and events relating to the individual himself are
exceedingly numerous. Every author on the subject cites
several of them.
Peter Cazot, a somnambulist mentioned in the report
of 1832, predicted several weeks beforehand the day and
hour when he will be attacked with a fit of epilepsy. He
not only determines the instant when the fit is to come on,
but also its violence and duration. The commission which
verifies the fact vouches for its authenticity.
Paul Villagrand, who is also mentioned in :M. Husson's
work, predicted a long time beforehand all the phases of
his disease, and every thing occurred precisely as he pre-
dicted.
The ecstatics of Petetin, of Barrier and Despine, present
similar facts. From the remotest antiquity we find in history
patients who are instances of prevision. Aretreus, Aristotle,
Plato, Plutarch, Porphyry, and all the philosophers of the
school of Alexandria, have left us their share ofobservations
on this extraordinary faculty; in fact, it is enough to have
magnetised successfully once in our lives to be thoroughly
100 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
convinced of its existence. Now for the explanation which
has been given of it (for there is nothing that physicians
can't explain). A simple passage out of M. Bertrand's work
on ecstasy will present to us nearly all that has been said
most rational on this subject ; but we state beforehand that
we are very far from participating in M. Bertrand's con-
victions:-
" We have already had occasion to observe that the
ideas which arise in the mind of ecstatics act not only on
them.during the ecstasy, but that their influence may often
extend even to their ordinary state. It is, however, certain
· that at the moment when the ecstatic awakens, he retains no
recollection of what has passed during the accession; but
this want ofrecollection is not sufficient to prevent the ideas
by which he was moved, from producing, at a certain .mo-
ment, those effects which must naturally result from them.
I explain myself. We have already seen that when the
convulsionaries of Saint-MMard announced that in expia-
tion of such or such a fault, or for any other cause, they
were obliged to fast for a shorter or longer time, they found
themselves totally unable to swallow any species of food all
this time.
" Well, what happened on this occasion in the case of
the convulsionaries is observed to occur in general in the
case of ecstatics with respect to a great number of organic
modifications ; and it suffices that the somnambulist should
have declared that at such a given moment he is to be affected
so and so, for him to be so in reality. • • • • • •
Nothing is more common than to see women in the state of
somnambulism predict, at a fixed hour, the appearance of
the menses, partial paralysis, &c. I have even seen a swell-
ON LUCID SOJ\INAI\IBULISJ\1, 101
ing of the face with infiltration of the eyelids predicted, and
the prediction was fulfilled. I mention this last instance,
because it scarcely appears capable of being the result of a
predetermination. The partisans of animal magnetism, who
believe in a true prevision existing in somnambulists, will
then object to me the very case which I have just stated.
" I shall answer them. 1. That we caunot positively
determine the limits within which this extraordinary in-
fluence of somnambulists on their organisation may extend
itself. 2. That it cannot be denied that in most of the cases
the predictions are really the cause of the effects produced."
Revolting absurdity, Dr. Bertrand, to which there is nothing
to be objected- but facts I I shall cite one, but one that is
worth a thousand :-
Case of Miss Clary D ""*.t
Miss Clary is twelve years of age at the most. Nature
has endowed her with a precocious intellect, but at the same
time with a delicate constitution, which the cruel disease
under which she is labouring easily exhausted.
On the 6th ofMay, 1840, I saw her for the first time.
She was in her bed, her face emaciated and pale, pulse
feverish, skin hot. A hasty examination satisfied me that
there existed, 1. A tuberculous abscess in the superior
lobe of the right lung ; 2. Tubercles of considerable size in
the mesentery; 3. A gastro-intestinal affection, which might
probably be only the consequences of the preceding organic
alterations.
As we see, the case was more than serious; it was des-
' M. D***, one of our principal booksellers in Paris, resides at
the Rue Pavee-Saint-Andre, No. 2. ·
102 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
perate. Miss Clary had phthisis in, at least, its second
stage. However, I ascertained the treatment which had
been followed up to that time. If all the old women of the
province had assembled at Madame n••••s, to prescribe for
her daughter, a more strange, complicated, and barbarous
treatment could not have been devised. It consisted of
live pigeons with their throats cut, with which tlie patient's
feet were covered or shod ; of plasters with which the ab-
domen and chest were covered ; fumigations of all kinds,
drugs, tisans, mixtures, such as no apothecary ever made up.
In a word, a lucid somnambulist had passed by that way ;
one of those somnambulists who live privately on the cre-
dulity of fools or of hopeless invalids, and who sometimes
make us blush at being magnetisers. Miss Clary was mag·
netised. The poor child was put to sleep at once, and at
once she astonished her family by her lucidity. Unfor-
tunately she never bad that which would have been most
necessary to her. Miss Clary saw her disease, described it
accurately, as far as one could judge, but the instinct of
remedies was wanting, and she never could succeed in pre-
scribing a course of treatment for herself. Here we subjoin
a succinct account of the last sitting where she was put to
sleep:-
" How do you find yourself, Miss Clary P"
"Very ill."
" ''Vhere do you feel pain P"
" Every where."
" But where do you suffer most P"
" In the bowels."
" In what part P"
" Below the stomach."
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
" Do you see your intestines ?"
"Yes, sir."
" And what do you seeP"
103
"Red spots of blood, and others of a blackish colour.
Then in one place, about the length of my hand, a vast
number of small red pimples."
" Is that all ?"
"Yes, sir."
" In what state do you see your lungs?"
" As if they were dried up." •
" Do they not seem to be traversed with wltite grai718 in
their upper part ?"
" I do not see clearly enough to be able to say."
" And do you not know what you ought to take to cure
you?"
"No, sir."
" How will you go on to-morrow?"
"A little better than to-day."
" After to-morrow ?"
" I shall have a good deal of fever."
" How will you be on the 25th of this month?"
" Very ill."
"On the 1st of June?"
" Worse still; my entire body will be swollen."
• The signs furnished by auscultation and percussion never gave
me bnt a very obscure diagnosis on this point, one that was not
cleared np either by the cough, or the matter of the expectoration ;
and I often asked myself whether the accumulation of the natural
sputa, In a thi~kened state, in the bronchial ramifications, might not
give rise to the circumscribed imperviousness and dulness which I
bad detected.
,
104 ON LUCID SOMNAXBULISK.
" And then ?"
.. On the 2d and 3d, oh! how sick I shall be !-my God!
-my God!"
"And then?"
"Wait I"
Miss Clary hesitates, refiects a long time, at length she
says, " The 4th I cease to see."
She was aroused, retained uo recollection of any thing
she had said, and I expressly advised that she should not be
spoken to on the subject; however, every thing occurred
almost precisely as she had predicted up to the 4th of June,
the day on which Miss Clary died.
This case is curious in more respects than one. First, it
is au undeniable proof of the prevision of somnambulists ;
but, besides, this prevision brings with it a sort of hopeless
fatality, since whatever method of treatment be followed,
the event must take place, and death occur at the predicted
hour, and without there being any means whatever of
retarding it by a single hour.
Now I would ask Bertrand if it was because Miss Clary
fixed the time of her last struggle, that this struggle took
place precisely at the hour predicted P Is it because she
said that on the 4th of June she should cease to see, that
Miss Clary died precisely on the 4th of June P There is no
alternative; either the fact now stated must be denied, and
ten persons will bear testimony to it with me, or we must
believe, as we understand it, in the prevision or somnam-
bulists.•
* See similar facts in the work ofM. Foissac, Rapport• tt Dilcu-
ftoM de l' Acadlmie Royale de Mideciae 111r le Magnitisme Allimal.
Paris, 1833, in Svo.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 105
On External Prevision.
Without speaking here of that prevision which con-
stitutes the prognosis of lucid somnambulists in reference to
the crisis or to the different phenomena which are to occur
in the patients brought into connexion with them, some
individuals, very few, I admit, possess the incomprehensible
faculty of predicting during their somnambulism events with
which their existence will be mixed up, but the cause of
:which, evidently foreign to their system, or one to which
their system bore no relation, cannot have any species of
connexion with it that can be at all explained. We shall give
some examples of it :-
On the 8th oflast May (it was ona Friday) I magnetised
Madame Hortense •••, who has been already so often the
subject of experiments in the case of vision without the
assistance of the eyes. The day I speak of, this lady was
in a state of admirable lucidity; but for reasons which it is
not necessary to mention, we had for a long time given up
experiments on her of mere curiosity, and the only subject
considered any longer at our sittings was her health or our
own. This time I was quite alone with her and her hus-
band, and after having interrogated her for some minutes
on objects of more or less indifference, we wished to lqlow
how far her penetration of the future could reach ; but
notwithstanding the form of our questions, madame's own
destiny was always sure to mix itself up in her answers to
us. She discovered the future, but only in one direction,
namely, that through which she herself had to pass.
However, among other striking things she said this to us,
"I am pregnant now fifteen days, but I shall not go my
106 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
full time, and I already feel acute sorrow in consequence.
Next Tuesday (12th) I shall take fright at something, I
shall have a fall, and a miscarriage will be the result."
I acknowledge, notwithstanding all I had already seen,
that my reason revolted at one of the points of this pro-
phecy. In fact, I readily enough conceived the fall, and
all that might follow from it ; I went even so far as
to understand the circumstance of the fright, but the
motive of this fright was what confounded me.
"At what will you take fright then, madame?" I asked•
her with an expression of interest which was far from being
simulated.
"I know nothing about it."
"But where will it happen to you?-where will you
suffer the fall ?"
"I cannot tell-I know not."
" And are there no means of escaping all this ?"
"None."
" Ifwe did not quit you ?"
"That would have no effect."
" God alone, then, can prevent the accident which you
apprehend ?"
" God alone I but he will not do so, and I am very
mueh distressed at it."
" And will you be very ill ?"
" Yes, for three days."
"Do you know precisely what you are to suffer ?"
"Certainly, and I am now going to tell you. Tuesday,
at half-past three, immediately after having had a fright,
I shall have a weakness come over me which will last for
eight minutes ; after this I shall be seized with very violent
• ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM• 107
pains in the kidneys, which will last the remainder of the
day, and will continue for the entire night. On 'Vednesday
morning I shall commence to lose blood ; this loss of blood
will increase rapidly and become very profuse. However,
there will be no occasion to be alarmed at all this, for it
will not compromise my life. Thursday morning I shall be
much better, I shall even be able to leave my bed for
almost the entire day; but in the evening, at half-past
·five, I shall suffer another attack of hemorrhage which will
be followed by delirium. The nights Thursdayand Friday
will be favourable ones, but Friday night I shall lose my
reason."
Madame Hortense said no more, and without believing
explicitly what she told us, we were so struck with it that
we did not interrogate her further. Monsieur •••, how·
ever, very much moved by what his wife had stated, and
more especially at her last words, asked her with the most
intense anxiety, whether she should be long delirious.
"Three days," she replied, with perfect calmness. She
then added, with the most winning sweetness, "Be not
alarmed, Alfred, I shall neither remain bereft of reason,
nor shall I die; I shall suffer, that is all."
Madame H"'"'"' was aroused, and, as usual, retained
no recollection of any thing that had passed during
her sleep. When I was alone with Monsieur ••• i
expressly recommended him to observe secrecy, especially
with his wife, on the events which, though probably chi-
merical, may, however, have the effect of giving her great
pain if she were apprised of them, and which, on the other
hand, it was of the utmost importance for us to keep her
ignorant of, for the interest of science. Monsieur ••• pro·
108 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
•
mised every thing, and I know his character sufficiently
to state positively that he kept his promise. With respect
to myself, I carefully noted all the circumstances which
Madame Hortense *** had predicted ; and on the following
day I took the opportunity of communicating them to Dr.
A. Latour, who was much amused at my confidence. I
must acknowledge that a sort of shame prevented me from
communicating my thoughts on this point to any serious
person; I was afraid he would have taken me for a fool.
It is for this reason I cannot now say whether it was before
or after the event was realised that I mentioned it to
Dr. Frapart; but this I know, that I blush now at my
feeling shame then, and that I very much regret that I did
not call on a greater number of witnesses in support of a
fact so very extraordinary as that I_,am now about to relate.
The fatal Tuesday having arrived, Madame H***'s
fright was the only thing that engaged my attention.
When I came to the lady's house she was at breakfast in
the company of her husband, and appeared to me in the
best possible state of health.
"My worthy friends," said I, on entering, "I am at.
your service for this day until evening if it does not incon-
venience you. My business is here," I whispered into her
husband's ear; he readily understood me.
"Welcome," replied Madame Hortense, "but on one
condition, and that is that you will not talk too much
about magnetism."
"Madame, I shall not speak of it at all if you consent to
sleep for me ~mly ten minutes."
" Oh I sir, what you promise me will cost you 80 very
much that I cannot refuse obliging you so far ; 80 as I
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 109
appreciate the greatness of the sacrifice, I grant you a full
quarter of an hour."
After one little half hour's conversation in this way,
the breakfast being concluded, Madame Hortense ••• was
magnetised, and fell asleep in less than one minute.
"How do you go on, madame?"
"Very well, monsieur, but will not do so long."
" How is that P"
Madame ••• then repeated her solemn phrase of
Friday, viz. "Between three and four o'clock I shall take
fright at something,-I shall have a fall; the result will be an
abundant hemorrhage," &c.
"But what is the object that will give you the fright P"
" I know nothing of it."
"But where is it P"
" I know nothing of it."
"Then, madame, if what you say be realised, we must
admit a fatality in the events which befall you."
"Yes, monsieur, as in most of those which befall all
persons."
"Is there no means of withdrawing ourselves from this
fatality?"
"None."
" This evening, madame, I shall be able to contradict
you."
"This evening, monsieur you will be very much
alarmed about my health, for I shall be very ill."
To this I had not for the moment any answer to make ;
it was necessary to wait, and I waited. Madame Hortense
having awoken in a few minutes after, remembered no-
thing, and her countenance rendered somew gloomy by
110 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
the visions of her sleep, recovered all her habitual serenity.
Just before going to sleep she converses and jests with us
without any thoughts of the past, and resumes the current
of her sprightly sallies, which are so natural to her, and
which she is so capable of. For my part, I was in a state
of mind not easily described ; I was lost in conjectures, in
hypotheses, in suppositions which caused my faith to
stagger every now and then,-1 doubted every thing-I
doubted myself. However, as it was as yet but mid-day,
I went out for a moment with Monsieur •••, but we re-
turned long before three o'clock. The health of Madame
*** was always the same, and it would have been impos-
sible for the shrewdest observer to discover any signs of an
approaching change. On our return the lady was singing
gaily one of Mademoiselle Puget's songs, making a little cap
for the infant she was then said to be pregnant with. Her
husband and myself sit beside her, and, fully determined not
to quit her again for a moment, we watch even her slight·
est movements. We close the windows for fear that any
accident occurring in the street or in the neighbouring
houses should come to realise the prophecy ; in fact, if the
bell rang, it is one of us who went to the antechamber to
receive the person, lest the visitor, forsooth, should be
some frightful person. "We have the appearance of play-
ing with the devil," says Monsieur ••• to me; "but ifbe win
this time he will be very dexterous." It appeared, indeed,
difficult that he should. Well, I advise my readers ne,·er
to play high with such a party, for the devil won. It
was a little more than half-past three o'clock. Madame
Hortense, who was astonished at the little attentions which
s}je saw paid her on every side, and who could not fathom
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 111
the secret of our precautions, said to us, on rising from the
sofa where we bad made her sit,-
" 'Viii you permit me, gentlemen, to withdraw myself
for a minute from your very anxious and unaccountable
solicitude." ...
" Whither do you say you are going, madame ?" cried
I, with an air of anxiety which I could not well conceal.
" My God ! monsieur, what is the matter with you P Do
you suppose I have any intentions of committing suicide?"
"No, madame, but--"
"But what?"
" I feel that I am indiscreet, but it is your health that
interests me."
" Then, monsieur," replies she, with a smile, "an ad-
ditional reason for suffering me to go out."
The motive was evidently a plausible one, and we could
not well persevere: However, Monsieur ***, who wished
to carry the matter to the last, says to his wife,-
" Well, my,dear lady, will you permit me to accompany
you so far?"
" What ! is it a wager then ?"
"Precisely, madame, a wager between you and me,
and which I shall certainly win, though you have sworn to
make me lose it."
Madame Hortense looks at us alternately, and is still
unable to guess what we are about.
" A wager between us both !" she repeats. " Come, I
cannot make it out,-but no matter, we'll see.
She takes her husband's arm, and goes out laughing
aloud.
I too laughed, and yet I felt a sort of presentiment that
112 ON LUCID SOliiNAMBULISM:.
the decisive moment was come. This idea so occupied my
mind that I did not think of re-entering the room during
their absence, and I remained at the door of their ante-
chamber. On a sudden a piercing shriek is heard, and the
"'noise of a body which fell. I run up; at the entrance of
the water-closet Monsieur *•• holds his wife with all the
appearance of dying in his arms. It is she then that cried
out, and the noise heard was occasioned by her fall. The
moment she let go her husband's arm to enter the water-
closet, a rat, of which she had an incredible horror, in a
place where one had not been seen for twenty years before,
presented itself to her view, and gave her so great and so
sudden a fright, that she fell back without there being a
possibility of sustaining her. Such is the fact that oc-
curred; I swear it on my honour.
The first point of the prediction was realised, the re-
mainder was fulfilled with the same exactness. Madame
••• had her exhaustion, her pains, her hemorrhage, her
delirium, her day of calm, and her three days of mental
aberration. Nothing was wanting to the completion of
the prophecy; neither the nature of the phenomena an-
nounced, nor the order in which they followed each other.
Dr. A. Latour, and several friends ofMonsieur •••, followed
with deep interest the different phases of this miraculous
affection, of which, thank God, no trace any longer remains.
Who would dare, after such facts, to set bounds to that
which is possible, and to define human life P
ClUe ofMadatM B.
The account I am now about to give is far from being
as interesting as that already given. However, the case of
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 113
Madame B., without being euctly a case·of external pre·
vision, pre~~ented a singularity which struck me very much1
namely, an error of time committed; by a somnambulist,
a sor.t of blunder which rarely occurs•
.Madame B., though of a ne:rvous and irritable tempera-.
ment; stiU enjoys tolerably good health, with the exception
of some fits of epileptio hysteria whioh attaok her occasion·
ally, and the frequency of which has been already con•
siderably diminished by magnetism. She saya ehe is about
thirty-three years of age, but, as some persons worthy of
credit have told·me that snob was.her age seven years ago,
I concluded thatshe was·about forty, if not a little more. Be
that as it may,it was in the course of last April that I com-
menced to magnetise her. Afterabout.ten·days she became
lucid, but bel' lucidity never presented· any thing very
remarkable. I shall mention here one occurrence only :-
On the 3d of May I went to·pay my usual visit to
Madame B. I found the lady busy in cleaning and
arranging some very beautiful porcelain plate!, on which
I took the opportunity of complimenting her. This atten-
tion on my part flattered her very much, and put her into
excellent magnetic dispositions; of which I hastened to take
advantage. In.ten .minutes Madame B. was in a state of
somnambulism.
When the lady was magnetised, she never failed to
break forth in sorrows and lamentations, at whieh it was no
easy matter to keep from laughing. I never could even
once get her to go to sleep without speaking, and, especially,
complaining; then the sleep seized her so suddenly that
often she had not time to finish the phrase which she com-
menced, and, sometimes, eyen the word which was on her
I
114 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
lips. Then came some moments of silence. The head, at
first resting on the chest, then rested on one or other
shoulder alternately; then suddenly all these movements
were arrested. Madame B. adjusted herself, threw herself
a little back, sending forth two or three deep sighs, then
commenced speaking with great volubility, and with a
harsh, nasal twang, quite different from the timbre of her
natural voice. Her conversation then was likewise very
extraordinary. It was made up of broken inconsecutive
phrases, which frequently bore no relation to the questions
proposed to her, questions, however, which she always
commenced to answer. The following dialogue will serve
as an example :-
"Are you asleep, madame P"
No answer. I repeat my question after a few seconds.
"Are you asleep, madame P"
"Yes, but I have no sleep."
"But you are asleep P"
" I am very unfortunate ! always sick !"
" Madame, you do not answer me."
"·what would you have me tell you?"
"Tell me whether you suffer much."
" Yes, I sleep,-I already told you that, and I should
like always to sleep."
"WhyP"
"It is frightful to be as I am."
" How are you then ?"
"Misfortune on misfortune I that's what is happening
to me."
" \Vell, madame, it is all your own fault."
"Indeed!"
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 115
" Employ all your energy to persuade yourself that you
are the happiest woman living, and you will be so at
length."
"Do you think so?"
"Not a doubt of it."
" I must, I suppose, persuade myself that I am among
the angel$ when my fits come on me I Oh, my God! my
God I what beasts these wits are I"
"You flatter me, madame."
" Again, I had little business to touch them !"
" To touch what?"
"Those odious plates."
"What have they done to you?"
"They have caused me to break one of them."
" That is a pity ; yet the loss is not so serious that you
should fret so much about it."
" Indeed I according to you one should laugh ifthe house
were on fire P"
" I did not say that, madame, but--"
" What becomes of my husband, then ?"
" I really do not know."
" Ah ! poor fellow I"
" Do you feel so towards him P"
" Ah I the drunkard I That man, sir, will destroy us
by his drinking."
"Say, then, that he will drink you out."
"I said what I said."
Madame B- continued for some minutes in the same
tone, spoke to me a little regarding her illness, and awoke
by the mere influence of my will, a thing which happened
to her now for several days past.
116 ON LUCID SOMIUMBULISM.
"Well,. madame," !aid 1 to her then, "when 1 con·
gratulated you on the good taste displayed in your porce-
lain, it was quite involuntarily I annoyed you, as I did
not know that you had broken one ofyour plates."
" Broken one of my plates !" she exclaimed, with an
ipimitable expression of terror; " God preserve me from
such a thingI. I value mypoor platesmorethan myveryeyes.'•
" In fact, madame, I could see as much ; but yet the
thing has occurred.''
" What is that you say P"
" I repeat what you have said.''
"I said--"
" Some one else besides you has committed this blunder,
but--"
"No one has touched them but myself, and you shall
ha,·e a proof of it.''
"One, two, three, four," &c. Madame B-- counts and
re-counts her plates up to the twelve, and there is not one
wanting.
This appeared strange to me ; in fact, I suppose that
some particular circumstance must have occasioned this
magnetic anomaly. I left Madame B-- at her occu·
pation, and took my leave ofher.
Now I had.scarcely descended one halfthe stairs.leading
from her apartment into the street when the sound of a
piece of china which was broken by falling on the floor over
my head struck my ear. I immediately return up-stairs,
and find Jladame B-- in a flood of tears.
One of her valnable plates had juat slipped from her
bands. In her sleep Madame B- had taken the future
for the past.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 117
5. Ofthe Penitration 'of Thqugltt.
The singular faculty with which certain extatics, and a
IID1811 number of somnambulists, are endowed of pene·
trating into the thoughts of the persons around them before
these thoughts have assumed a sensible form, is one of
those which have excited the greatest share of incredulity,
However, even before direct observation bad convinced me
of the existence of this faculty, the testimonies which go to
establish it are so numerous, and seem to me so respectable,
that I felt myself rather disposed to believe in it. In fact,
since the Middle Ages, at the time of those epidemic exta·
sies, which Professor Andral was the first to consider in a
tmly philosophical point of view by ranging them in the
number of pathological facts; from the time of the con-
vulsionaries and of the poSsessed; the communication of
tlwught was 8.n admitted faet, so much so, that it con-
stituted the pathognomonic character of possesslon, and it
was not permitted to proceed to exorcisms before its exist·
ence was ascertained. Father Surin, when charged to
recapitulate the proofs of the possession of the religious
ursulines of Loudun, presents us one of the most indis-
putable, that thev told the most secret thoughts. " The day
after my arrival," writes this candid .ecclesiastic, " there was
at the exorcism a man who expressed to me .a desire to see
if the demon knew our thoughts. I bid him to form a
command in his mind, and, after he had made it, I pressed
the demon to do that which the man had commanded him;
after having refused for some time, he went to take on the
altar the case \vhere the Gospel of St. John was, and this
118 ON LUCID 801\INAl\IBULISl\1.
man stated positively that be had commanded in his mind
the demon to shew the last gospel which bad been said at
mass.
" One of our fathers, wishing to try if it was true that
the demon knows our thoughts, formed another command
within his breast for the demon, who was on duty, and
then formed anotber,-in a word, within the space of an
instant, he formed five or six commands, and, revoking them
one after the other, be tormented the demon by saying,
obediat ad mentem. The demon repeated quite aloud aU the
commands which this father had formed in his mind for him.
He commenced at the first, then said, ' But monsieur does
not wish it.' Being at the seventh, he said, 'We'll see
whether we shall execute this,' where he has at length
fixed."
In a case communicated by M. Barrier, a physician of
Privas, to Dr. Foissac, the subject of it was a young extatic
female, named Euphrosine, who possessed so perfectly the
gift of divining the thoughts of the person with whom she
happened to be that she readily kept up a very well-con-
nected conversation, in which one of the interlocutors spoke
but mentally. "At the time of my second visit," says
M. Barrier, " I found Eupbrosine, with her body forming
the arch of a circle, in the middle of her room. She rested
on the ground by the heels and the top of her head ; more
than twenty persons were around her; all observed the
most religious silence. I approached, came up close to her,
and wished the patient good morning, carefully checking
my tongue and Ups.
"' Good morning, Monsieur Barrier,' she replied.
"'"Then will you come to La Voutte P'
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 119
"'As soon cu ever it is pouible.'
" I turned towards the mother, and said to her,-
" ' Your daughter divines the thoughts, place yourself
in contact with her and try.' We soon heard Euphrosine
pronounce these words, ' To Alissa&.' A moment after, she
repeated, in a sprightly manner, 'No, to Alissas, I told
you.' Madame Bonneau had proposed to her daughter to go
the following day to Cous to walk with her ; the second
time she pressed the same place for a walk. A friend of
hers placed herself in contact with her, and presently we
collected these words, ' Eh I fool, do you think I do not
know that you are to go to VemouxP' The friend grew
pale, but recommenced her.questions. ' No, it is very far
from that,' replied Euphrosine. This lady stated to us that she
bad said to the patient, mentally, that she had to go the next
day the journey to Vasence, and that she would execute her
commissions ifshe had anyto give her; at her second question,
she asked her if she should find her husband at V emoux.
Three or four days after, I met this person at Vemoux ;
she comes up to me, and, with a terrified air, she told me of
the absence of her husband. A waggoner then comes, and
immediately we heard the words, ' No, to la Vuutte.' This
man had proposed to her to bring her to Aubenas. The
greater part of those present addressed mental questions to
her; she answered firmly and instantaneouslywith the great-
est precision. Some children also wished to make trials, but
she sent them away good-humouredly, calling each by
name.''
Cases similar to that now stated are, no doubt, very
numerous in the annals of the. medical sciences, and we
might readily adduce proofs of it if we were not afraid to
il20 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
augment our work by too many quotations; but a matter
which it is of importance to • to obllen'e is, that solely to
the existence of this faculty of meu.tal penetmtioD must be
referred the t~upposition, fbrmerly 8SIIC11:ed. by exoroista aDd
magnetisere, viz. that the possessed of the oae, and the som-
nambulists of the others, understood all languages.• We
shall take the opportunity at another time of recurring to
this aubject.
Of Lucid Somnambulism.
The communication of thoughts is observed less fre.
quently in magnetic somnambulists than in extatics; and
yet, what is somewhat remarkable, it is one of the first
faculties noticed by the magnetisers of Mesmer's time, who
set it down as a characteristic trait of the magoetic sleep.
* We read in the Dt!inonomanie ik Loudun,-" M. Launay de
Barilte, who had resided in America, bore testimony that, in a voyage
he made to Loudun, he had spoken to the reHgious penone the lan-
guage of certain savages ofthi8 country, and that they llllSWered hilll
very readi!y.
" The Bishop of Nimes, having put questions in Greek and
German, was answered in both languages.
" The Bishop of Ntmes commuded Sister Claire, in Greek, to
raise her veil and kiss the grating in a plaee which he mentioned 1
she obeyed him, and did several other things which he desired her,-
a circumstance which made the bishop declare, pubHcly, that he must
be an Atheist or a fool who did not beHeve in possession.
" Some physicians interrogated tltem also in Oreek on -
terms of their science, which were very difficult, and known oaly bJ
the learned amongst them,-they gave a clear explanation of them.
" Some gentlemen of Normandy certified in writing that they had
questioned Sister Claire de Sarelly In Tnrklsh, Spanish, IIDd I tallaa,
and that she ~mswered them very readily.''
ON LUCID 80MNAXBULISM. 121
Thus we read in the letter of the Marquis of iPayaegur,
partly transcribed in our inttoduetioa, that he made tbe
peasant Vietor dance iB his -chair by singing a ail' to him
mentally.
For my part, I have seen but a very small nmnber of
somnambulists who were endowed with this faculty; I have,
however, seen some, and among the modern mag-
netisers several respectable writers also quote instances
of it.
Alexander Bertrand, among others, relates,• that, on
unmagnetising the first somnambulist he ever had an oppor-
tunity of observing, he had one day, at the same time,
the determined wish that she should not awake. Con-
vulsive movements were immediately,observed in the som-
nambulist.
" What ails you P" said the magnetiser to her.
" Why," answered she, " do you tell me to awake, and y011
do not wish that I should awake t"
M. Bertrand again cites in the same work t the example
of a poor woman, uneducated, not even knowing how to
read, and who, nevertheless, was capable, in a state of som-
nambulism, of understanding the meaning of words, the
signification of which was wholly unknown to her in her
waking state. This woman explained to him, in the most
accurate and ingenious manner, what was understood by
the term encephalon, which he proposed to her,-" A phe-
nomenon," adds Bertrand, "which, if people will not see in it
a chance as difficult, perhaps, to be admitted as the faculty
which it supposes, can only be explained by acknowledging
*Tralte du Somnambulisme. Paris, 1823. P. 247. t P. 729.
122 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
that this woman read in my very thoughts the signification
of the word on which I questioned her."
We shall terminate what we have to say on the pene-
tration of thought by the case of Calli.xte, an individual
whom M. Ricard magnetises publicly at his course for some
years back.
Cll8e of Callixte.
The 7th of June, 1840, I repaired, at two o'clock in the
afternoon, to the house of my friend Dr. Frapart, to be
present at a sitting of magnetism, which M. Ricard was
kind enough to give us. The number of the invited was
very considerable; for on my arrival I found M. Frapart's
salon crowded with upwards of sixty person11, most of them
unconnected with the medical profession, amongst whom,
however, I remarked some well-known physicians, incredu-
lous persons, whose names, however, I shall not mention, as
they have not authorised me to do so.
The sitting commenced at a quarter after two by differ-
ent experiments attempted on a young somnambulist, whom
M. Ricard had been then magnetising only for some days.
These experiments did not succeed, a matter which did not
at all astonish me, for I never would have expected that the
lucidity ofa somnambulist could resist the warm and tainted
atmosphere of a middle-sized room, in which sixty in-
dividuals respire and tltink.
Callixte's turn comes next ; be was magnetised at within
a quarter to three. He is a young man, about twenty
years of age, of a tolerably good constitution, provided with
a muscular system which does honour to magnetism. How-
ever, his countenance is changeable, restless, as it were,
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 123
wild, and his habitual gait evinces in his entire person an
irritability by no means common. Magnetised, for the first
time, five years ago, he was put to sleep, and was rendered
lucid from the first sitting, and became, in a very little
time, one ofthe most remarkable individuals we have seen.
Up to the present time, according to M. Ricard's account,
not the interruption of even a single day has occurred in his
lucidity. Callixte, then, is one of those rare and valuable
subjects whom science may work on with confidence for
the advantage of its dissemination. Put to sleep in a few
minutes by M. Ricard, and his eyes covered with a bandage
applied by an incredulous bystander and myself, that is,
with one of those bandages which could leave no hope
for deception. Callixte commences by forming several
card parties with such persons of the present company
as thought well of offering themselves. We may observe
that the cards are new, that they are just after being bought,
and that, for the greater regularity, we were requested
to supply them ourselves.
All this precaution does not prevent Callixte from
winning on his adversary. The rapidity with which he
plays is incredible, so much so, that it would astonish one,
even if observed in a man broad awake, and with his eyes
wide open.
"Monsieur, I propose. Do you consent?"
" Three cards, and you will take but two ; for there is
the one you are going to put down." And he names the
cards.
On another occasion, before his adversary had time to
look at his game, and whilst he still holds it firmly in his
hand, Callixte throws his on the table, saying, " Monsieur, 1
124 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
play without proposlng, and !JflU have wsl, :for :yqu have 81/Ch
and such cards in yoltr ltand."
Nor was he mistaken on ~ one oecasion.
He plays four games one after the other, with the same
address or the same success, to the great admiration of the
assembly, who rise up and applaud him, thinking, no doubt,
that they were present at a representation of Conus or of
M. Comte ; but let us remind our readers that our juggler
has his eyelids covered with combed cotton, and over this a
thick handkerchief. In this case we have, as may be
readily guessed, a phenomenon of vision through opaque
bodies, and which, though remarkably developed,. does not,
however, go so far as to allow him to read.• But let us
come to the experiments whieh caused us to introduce this
ease here.
On a great number of small cards there were written
beforehand the different movements which the persons
present may make the somnambulist perform, by presenting
to the magnetiser such of the cards as may express their
desire. M. Ricard, after this plain admonition, repeated
each time, Callixte, my f.riend, pay attention, I am guing ·to
8p«lk to you; reads mentally the phrase, or phrases, which
were just pre!lented to him, adds not a word, makes no
gesture, and Callixte, who constantly bas the bandage on
him, obeys hie t!umgltt.
a. The first eard presented to M. Ricard bears this
phrase : Let the somnambulilt rai.te, at tAe /IQtlle lime, lti& two
legs. The magnetiser, after his usual admonition, proceed~,
• M. Ricard assures us that Calllxte read on one oeeasion, but
that tbis experiment bad so fatigued him that he did nbt thinkit rlgtlt
to make him recoJalllenee it. ·
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 125
but CallW-e does not comprehend; his lower extremities
ar.e agitated by different. movements, but his feet do not
quit t.be groUDd.
b. The second card bore this phrase : Let the aomnambulut
raile the kjt arm. The mental order is given ; Callixte
perfonps it, and raises mechanically the left arm, saying,
with a tone of impatience, that be does not understand.
c. The third card : Let the 80f1lnambulut ri1e, take four
1teps, and IIIUck witk AU right hand the cltest of AU. mag•
netiler. The same procedure on the part of M: Ricard;
Callixte reflects an instant, riae8, walks, counting his steps,
hesitates some seconds, then fini&bes by completing the per-
formance of. the mysterious order which he has received.
d. Callixte is seated at the extremity of the room, in
such a manner as to tuni his back to us ; an organ ia
going to play an air in the ante~chamber, and M. Ricard
says to me, "When you will make me the signal, the
somnambulist shall beat the time of the air which is going
to be pe,rformed, and·he will cease to beat·when you will
express to me the wiah that he should do so by another
signal. This being agreed on, the organ commences ; I make
a signal to M1 Ricard, and Callixte beats the time : some
minutes after, I mame my second signal, and Callixte ceases
to beat the time. I recommence, he recommences ; I wish
him to stop again, and he stops ; quicker than lightning my
thought flies from me to the magnetiser, and from the mag-
netiser to the somnambulist.
e. I ·myself draw at hazard three of the cards from a
hat where they were mixed; their united sense forms this
phraae : Let the somnambulist rise, 11WIJIIt ox a chair, and
let himself fd B..l.CKW.UIDS into the arms ofhis mag11etiser.
126 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
The cards being presented to the magnetiser, Callixte
rises, mounts on a chair, hesitates, then lets himself fall all
at once into the arms of M. Ricard, who fancies himself
upset by the violence of the shock.
These are the facts such as ·they occurred, without any
change, exaggeration, or addition by me; fifty-nine persons
would be there to convict me of a lie if I acted otherwise.
I know already what consequences disinterested readers
will draw from them. With respect to medical men most
of them will not believe them, because that, as they do not
understand them, the whole is either self-deception or a
deception of them. To explain common facts, as they ex-
plain every thing, and to deny extraordinary facts, that is
their eternal system, the vicious circle, aro1md which their
incredulity has been rui:m.ing for the last sixty years•.
6. TrampositWn ofthe Se718ea.
When the cases of his famous cataleptics, who aaw,Jell,
tasted, and heard, by the stomach or end of th~ fingers,
were found in the works of Petetin,• this physician, who
during all his life had enjoyed a well-merited reputation,
was no longer considered any thing but a mere visionary.
However, ulterior testimonies soon restored to the esteem of
the learned the unjustly depreciated recollection of this
upright and distinguished practitioner; for the individuals
* Jacques-Henri-Desire Petetln, born at Lons-le-Saulnier ill
1784, and died at Dijon ill 1808. The works alluded to are: Ml-
moirt aur Ia catakpak, ill 12, 1787. L'Bltctricitl tuti-lt protot'ie
par Ia dlcou~trtt du phlnomenu phyriqwu tt moravz dt Ia cataltpm
hyltlrique tt dt IU ~anltla; d par Ita bol&l tfftta dt l' lltttricitlarti-
Jkkllt dalll lt traittrMitt dt cu maladiu. Lyon, 1808, ill 8.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 127
affected with extasy or catalepsy, and presenting, like those
whose history he has left us, the transposition of certain
external organic functions, soon became .so numerous that
it became necessary to admit, at least, the possibility of
these prodigious anomalies, or to ts.x with imposition men
of undeniably good faith. At the present day there
scarcely passes a year that the Royal Academy of Medicine
has not to devote its attention, either directly, or after
some report has been made on the subject, to questions
similar to those now under consideration. We are about
to place before the eyes of our readers one of the last
communications of M. Despine the elder, inspector of the
mineral waters of Aix, in Savoy.•
" I have at present in my house a young girl from the
country, sixteen years old ; her name is Sophia Laroche,
from Virieu, the famous thaumaturg from the environs of
Grenoble, about whom the journals made so great a noise
in 1834. This girl became a somnambulist at eight years
of age, after a fright ; she is paralysed from the top of the
spine dow"!l to the toes, and thus, for four years, she has
not left her bed since the 1st of January, 1834. The
crises during this lapse oftime have varied much ; and it is
in order to study this character, and to compare the
phenomena which they present with those I have observed
in other patients, that I took Sophia in order to attend her.
This I did gratuitously, because she belongs to a very
poor family, and was unable to defray the expenses of the
removal ; I was also obliged to bring to Aix along with
* Bulletin de I'Acad!mie royale de M{decine. Seance du lOth
Avril, 1838; t. ii. p. 631.
128 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
her her mother, and a younger sister, without whom she
would not have eQme.
" This pei'SOn, when she is in the crisis, hea,.a, sees;
read8, feel8, tll8tes, and· touches, by means of the feet and
bands. I 1!11-W her do it at Virieu, and r see the same
here every day. My son also saw some ofthese phenomena
at Virieu; what he saw may enable him to judge of the
rest. M. Dr. Mercier de Coppet, physician of the school of
Paris, and physician of the families Girod de l'Ain, de
Stael, de Broglie (who can bear testimony to the capacity,
integrity, and sound judgment which he possesses in physics
and medicine); M. Dr. Mereier, I say, has seen thette
phenomena, as well as myself, and with myself; he has
himself seen them without me also. The same may be
said of Drs. It.ome, Eyruard (Sylvain), Raymond (Aspbee),
ofM. Pages, formerly sub-prefect ofTour-du-Pin, and of a
thousand others."
Uy reason of the position whieh he occupies, and of the
delicate experiments to which he bas devoted himself witlt
so much patience, M. Despine possesses a great number of
cases similar to that just now read ; but there are few of
them which possess so much interest as those left us by
Petetin. Nothing can be more strange or more amusing
than the manner in which the latter discovered the exist-
ence of the faculty now under consideration. Madame •••,
during one of her fits of catalepsy, having commenced to
sing, at first with a weak and then with a strong voice, an
arietta of somewhat difficult execution, with all the taste
imaginable, her relatives made unavailing efforts to make
her bear; she was totally insensible to noise, and even to
pricking. The song lasted one hour and a half; towards
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 129
the conclusion the patient was very much oppressed, and
vomited a great quantity of red and frothy blood. Con·
vulsions and delirium having supervened, Petetin had her
immersed into an ice-bath; some minutes after a calm was
restored, her reason returned, and Madame ••• stated that
she found herself relieved, and that the intense pain which
she had felt in the stomach was entirely gone. After
twenty-two minutes she felt a shivering, she was taken
out of the bath and put to bed ; but, contrary to Petetin's
directions, they heated the bed. As soon as she went into
bed her countenance becalne flushed, she felt two convulsive
shocks in the arm, and fell again into a fit of catalepsy.
She set about singing, as in the morning ; though, to pre-
vent her from doing so, they had -placed her in the most
painful positions, the arms raised and stretched forth, the
body bent forwards, the head on the knees. All this
proving useless, and the patient suffering very much,
Petetin determined on throwing her on her pillow ; but in
attempting to do so, the arm of the chair on which he was
sitting fell under him, and he fell half inclined on the bed,
crying out, at the same time,-
" It is very unfortunate that I cannot prevent this
woman from singing."
" W7zat, D!Jctor," replied she, "do not be a1tgry, I shall
sing no ~nore."
However, a few moments after, she resumed her song
just at the part where she had left off, nor could the cries
poured into her ear produce the least interruption. It
appeared certain that the patient had heard ; but as she
no longer heard, Petetin determined to replace himself in
the position in which he had been previously, he raised the
ll
130 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
clothes, approached her stomach, crying out with a toler-
ably loud voice,-
" Madame, will you be always singing?"
" Ah ! what mi&chief you have done !' said she ; " I im-
plore ofyou, IIJH!ak lower."
At the same time she carried her bands slowly to her
stomach ; be lowered his voice, and asked her bow she had
beard:-
" As all the world heara."
" Yet it is on your stomach I speak to you."
" Ia it possible 1"
She entreated him to direct some questions to her ears,
but she did not answer when be did so, not even when
he employed a speaking-trumpet to augment his voice. He
applied again to her stomach, and asked her, in a low voice,
if she had heard: " No," said she, " I am rJery urifor-
tunate !' Some days afterwards, Petetin satisfied himself
that the sense of hearing was not the only one that was
removed to the stomach, since he made her taste some bread
and milk by placing it on the epigastrium; he also made
her name several cards by placing them on the same
region.
It was no longer, then, a matter ofdoubt that the trans-
position of the senses was a real fact in a great number
of extatics, and the evident relation existing between som-
nambulism and extasy must lead one to presume that
we should soon see some somnambulists also possessed of
this faculty. And this very circumstance occurred; and
though facts of this nature are still few in the recorda
of science, the experiments which M. Filassier bas detailed
in his inaugural thesis, and those, more especially, of M.
ON LUCID SOMN.\MBULISM. 131
Professor Rostan,• leave no doubt on this point. " Here is
an experiment," says Professor Rostan, "which I have
frequently repeated, but which I was at length obliged
to discontinue because it distressed my somnambulist very
much, who told me that if I continued it she should become
insane. This experiment was performed in the presence
of my colleague and friend, M. Ferrus, whom I think it
right to mention here, because his testimony must be of the
greatest weight. He took my watch, which I placed three
or four inches behind the occiput; I asked the somnam-
bulist if she aaw any thing.
"' Certainly, I see something that shines; it annoys me.'
" Her countenance was expressive of pain, as was ours of
astonishment. We looked at each other, and M. Ferrus,
breaking silence, aays to me, that since she aaw something
shine, she should certainly state what it was.
" ' What is it you see shine ?'
"' Ah I I do not know, I cannot tell you.'
"'Look attentively.'
"• Wait,-that wearies me,-wait' (and after a moment's
attention)-' it is a watch.'
" A new cause of surprise.
" •But if she sees that it is a watch,' aaid M. Ferrus,
'she will surely see what hour it is.'
"'Could you tell me what the hour is?'
"• Oh, no; it is too difficult.'
" ' Pay attention, strive and do it.'
"• Wait, I am going to try. I shall, probably, tell the
* Article: Magn{tilmt du Dictionnaire du Mldecine. 18 vols.
Patls, 1825.
132 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
hour, but I never shall be able to see the minutes.' And
after having strove with great attention, ' It is within ten
minutes to eight;' which was precisely the time.
"M. Ferruswished to repeat the experiment himself, and
did so with the same success. He made me several times
turn the hand of his watch, we presented it to her without
having looked at it; she never missed telling the hour
correctly. Another time I placed the watch on the fore-
head : she told the hour correctly, but stated the minutes
wrong, reading those minutes as additive which were sub-
tractive and reciprocally; which can only be attributed to
a less degree of lucidity in this part, or to the habit we
had adopted of placing the dial behind the occiput. Be
this as it may, this somnambulist so much distrusted her
clairvoyance, which, however, surpassed any I had ever
witnessed, that it never seemed to her possible to see that
which was asked of her. It would be much too tedious
to relate all the extraordinary matters she told me ; the
fact I have just mentioned is sufficient. Here, then, is the
power of seeing transferred to other organs than those
which are charged with it in the normal state. This fact I
have seen, and have made others see."
These experiments of M. Rostan are really so simple,
that it is impossible to suppose that this judicious obserYer
has himself been the dupe of any illusion or juggling. At
the time, then, that he printed the account of them, in-
voking, in support of their authenticity, the testimony of
Dr. Fcrrus, there was absolutely nothing to do but to tell
him this, "l\I. Dr. Rostan, you are practising imposition.''
But rational people would not have failed to lll'k them-
seh·C!', " Why, then, does he deceive us P what interest
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULJS)[, 133
can he have in palming on us absurdities which will bring
him nothing but ridicule ? If what he says be not true,
the man must be mad." Now every one knows how it is.
If these children of Esculapius would only find time for
employing a little logic, where would it not bring them?
Further, it remains no less certain that the transposition
of the senses in magnetic somnambulists is a very rare
phenomenon ; for my part, I never had an opportunity of
witnessing it, and Dr. Frapart has declared to me that
he never, in all his life, saw more than one young som-
nambulist who, with the head turned in another direction,
told the numbers of certain homreopathic tubes placed
behind it, by touching them with the fingers. Did this
somnambulist see with the fingers ? M. Frapart assures us
she did.
Ofcertain other Particularities remarked, or supposed to be
remarked, during Somnambulism.
We remember how, by the clearly demonstrated inter-
vention of another faculty, that of penetrating the thoughts
of others, we have proved that the unfortunate extatics of
Loudun were able, without knowing either Greek, or Latin,
or Arabic, &c. to answer the exorcists who interrogated them
in these languages. However, the superioress of the com-
munity answered in Latin, mauling and mangling the words
by her mode ofpronouncing them, and committing, it is said,
.numerous solecisms, which exposed the devil to a host of
railleries. It was, in fact, because the devil, without count-
ing the psalms and the anthems which he had learned in
his youth, had had frequent communications with the
134 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
director of the convent, who, in his leisure hours, taught a
little Latin to his dear ursulines ; in a word, the poor
superioress remembered, and did not invent; but it may be
readily conceived how such particularities might impose
on credulous and superstitious observers, whom the spirit of
imitation, joined to the fear of Satan, with whom they were
convinced they had to do, caused more than once to be
possessed in their turn. Further, certain somnambulists
really believe that they express their thoughts by articu-
lating a string of strange sounds, of more or less euphony,
but bearing no resemblance to their natural language. In
the first place, these cases are extremely rare ; and in the
next place, let persons not deceive themselves, the syllables
articulated by these somnambulists do not form the words
of any spoken idiom. The whole matter is a strange fancy,
or an imperfect disconnexion between the thought and the
organs destined to express it. What a great many things
in magnetism would cease to appear marvellous to us if
we could but understand them.
With respect to the mistakes to which the exaltation of
the memory may give rise, mere chance has furnished me
with a striking example of it. I had magnetised a young
lady living in the Rue d'Enfer, who, before being put
to sleep, was engaged in preparing and arranging some
lace. Among the questions which I put to her in her
sleep, I took it into my head to ask her where she got this
lace. "It is a present from my sister-in-law," answered she ;
" a present which baa given double pleasure ; for" (added she
in Italian) " dolce in ogni tempo ~ il benefizio; ma me pile
dolce quando~ accumpagnato dalla sorpresa."
"Ah! do yon understand Italian, madame P"
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 135
"Yes, monsieur," said she, smiling.
" Not a word, monsieur ! she understands not a word of
it," cried out M--, who appeared to me almost agluut at
seeing his lady so learned.
" Madame, however, has studied this language P"
" Never I certainly never I"
Now whilst M-- continued to evince his astonishment
at the newly acquired knowledge of his lady, who smiled
very archly at him, I found in my reminiscences the ex-
plication of the enigma. In fact, the exotic phrase with
which our intellectual somnambulist had seasoned her an~
swer, was neither an inspiration from heaven nor from hell,
but merely a quotation borrowed from a little work found
in the hands of every one who is beginning to read Italian.
What is remarkable in it is, that Madame --, when she
awoke, was totally unable to translate this phrase, which she
certainly understood in her sleep, since she quoted it quite
O.propos. However, when, on the day following, the lady
was again put into a state of somnambulism, I began to
speak Italian to her ; but she could not at all understand me,
though she had declared to us the day before, that she had
studied the language for several months.
It is not uncommon to see somnambulism assume the
forms of well-known morbid states, foreigu, however, to the
ordinary habits of the individuals who present them. No-
thing more common, for instance, than magnetic sleep
changing into a fit of catalepsy. The mere name of this
affection uttered before poor Miss Clara D--, whose case
we have already mentioned, wa~ quite sufficient to give her
all the symptoiDB of it. Her limbs then yielded to all the
136 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
impulsions given to them, and continued up to the end of
the fit in the most distressing and fatiguing positions which
they could J>e made to assume.
Finally, artificial somnambulism degenerates sometimes
into mystical extasy. The soul of the SOIJlnambulist, then
transported into the regions ofimagination, bursts its earthly
chains, and no longer feels the emotions of this nether
world. Admitted into the contemplation of the Eternal, it
exults in its glory, converses with the angels, and delights
in the unspeakable concerts of the seraphim. But, alas !
the infiexible will of the magnetiser soon brings it back to
the sad realities of our wretched planet, and, in a few
minutes, nothing will remain to it of its heavenly pilgrim-
age, nothing-not even a recollection.
We here terminate the sketches which we intended to
present to our readers on lucid somnambulism. To the
details already read, many others, still more surprising,
might still be added ; but I do believe that the time is not
yet come to tell all we know on this subject. However, I
shall conclude this chapter here, and, in order to exhaust
the subject of it by the production of an authentic case,
I shall just mention one of the most important which the
history of magnetism now possesses, and which collects,
with admirable conciseness, all its most extraordinary phe-
nomena. It is a letter written last year to the Sacred
Penitentiary, under the direction of M. S. Bishop of Lau-
sanne. It will be seen elsewhere, that the conditions under
which this letter was written exclude all suspicion, much
more even than the high name, the elevated position, and
the sacred character of its author :-
ON LVCID SO.MNA.MBVLISM. 137
" Most eminent Sire,
" Seeing the insufficiency of the answers given, up to
the present day, regarding animal magnetism, and it being
much to be desired that the cases which so frequently pre-
sent themselves may be decided with more certainty and
more uniformity, the undersigned makes the following
exposition to your eminence :-
"A person magnetised, who is generally a female, enters
into such a state of sleep, or drowsiness, called magnetic
4omnambulism, that neither the loudest noise made in her
ears, nor the violence of iron or of fire, can draw her out of
it. The magnetiser alone, who has obtained her consent
(for her consent is necessary), makes her fall into this
species ofextasy, either by certain touches and gesticulations,
made in various directions, if he is ncar her, or by a simple
internal command, if he is distant from her, even several
leagues distant.
" Then being interrogated viva voce, or mentally, on
her own disease, or on the diseases of absent persons, who
are absolutely unknown to her, this magnetised person,
though notoriously ignorant of all, finds herself, at the
moment, endowed with a knowledge far superior to that of
physicians ; she gives anatomical descriptions of perfect
exactness, points out the cause, seat, nature of the internal
diseases of the human body, the most difficult to be known
and to be characterised ; she details their progress, their
variations, and complications, the whole in appropriate
terms ; she often predicts their precise duration, and
prescribes the simplest and most effectual remedies for
them.
" If the person about whom the individual magnetised
138 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
is consulted be presept, the magnetiser brings them both
into correspondence by contact. Is he absent, a lock of his
hair is merely approximated to the hand of the magnetised
individual, the latter tells what it is without looking at it,
also to whom the hair belongs, where the person from whom
the hair came is at the present moment, what he is doing ;
and with respect to his disease, she gives all the information
above mentioned, and that with as much accuracy as if a
post-71Wrtem examination of the body bad been made.
" Lastly, the magnetised person does not see by her
eyes.• She may be blindfolded, and she will read any
thing whatever, even without knowing how ·to readt a
book or a manuscript, which shall have been placed, open or
shut, either on her head or on her abdomen. It is from
this region also that her words seem to come. Drawn out
of this state by a command, even an internal one, of the
magnetiser, or, as it were, spontaneously at the instant
announced by her, she appears to be completely ignorant of
every thing that happened to her during the accession,
however long it may have been ; nothing of all that was
asked her, of all that she answered, or that she suffered,
has left an idea in her understanding, or the slightest trace
in her memory.
" It is for this reason that the writer, seeing such strong
reasons for doubting that such effects, produced by an
occasional cause evidently so little proportioned, could be
purely natural, most urgently supplicates your eminence to
* An assertion true In general, but In certain cases contradictell
by facts, as we have already stated.
t I have not seen this, which does not, however, prove its In~
correctness.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 139
have the kindness, in your wisdom, to decide, for the greater
glory of God, and the greater advantage of the souls, so
dearly redeemed by our Lord Jesus Christ, whether, sup-
posing the truth of the facts announced, a confessor, or
cure, can, without danger, permit his penitents or his
parishioners,-
" I. To practise animal magnetism thus characterised,
as being an art auxiliary and supplementary to that of
medicine;
" 2. To consent to be thrown into this state of magnetic
somnambulism ;
" 3. To consult persons so magnetised, either about
themselves or about others;
" 4. To make one of these three choices, with the pre-
vious precaution of formally renouncing in their heart all
compact with the devil, whether implicit or explicit, and
even all Satanic intervention, seeing that, notwithstanding
this, some persons have obtained from magnetism either the
SaDie, or, at least, some effects.
" By order of the most reverend Bishop of
Lausanne and Geneva,
" Most eminent Sire,
" Your Eminence's
" Most humble and most obedient Servant,
"JAc. XAVIER FoNTANA,
"Chancellor ofthe Episcopal Chancery.
" Fribourg, Switzerland, Episcopal Palace,
" May 19, 1841."
140 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
On Awaking.
If somnambulists fell asleep instantaneously"'-if their
awaking was not accompanied by any special and character-
istic sensation-the time of somnambulism would not be to
them an interruption in their real life, but rather a real
subtraction of some hours, of which they would have no
consciousness. It is in this way matters go on in catalepsy.
I was very young when I made this reflection for the first
time. This is the circumstance which suggested it to me.
At the time I commenced my studies at the College of
Poligny, one of our schoolfellows, whose name was Achille
"'"'",was subject to rather frequent attacks of catalepsy, the
duration of which never exceeded a few minutes. It was
sufficient, however, frequently to expose the poor fellow to
the ridicule of his comrades ("This age is devoid of pity,"
Fontaine says) ; and none of us could help laughing to see
him, whether at recreation, or at the refectory, or elsewhere,
stop suddenly in the gesture which he had just commenced,
and continue like a statue in the attitude in which chance
had placed him. Now on a holiday (and it is probably
that circumstance which caused me to think so much on the
subject of catalepsy) our merriment cost us dearly; for our
companion annoyed us through an entire morning's study by
the scandal which he innocently occasioned at mass. I re-
member it still. It was on a Thursday. Achille was then
discharging the office of sacristan in his turn in the chapel ;
whilst the clergyman, who, they said, was to breakfast in
town that morning, was hastening on with the divine office
* This sometimes occurs.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 141
with all possible despatch. I am even disposed to believe
that our good abbe, who was a gourmand, involuntarily
mixed up with the reading of the canons the delightful
image of a banquet, for it was a benediction, as he had
filched away from us the Gloria, the Gospel, and the Credo,
when, to the annoyance of us all, came on the offertory. I
fancy I still see the eagerness with which our worthy cler-
gyman presents his chalice to the cruet of the sacristan, and
the latter, amid his baste, stumble on the steps of the altar.
At length he is about to pour out the sacred mixture. But
no !-nothing flows; for his fit has seized him. The wine
in his right hand, and the cruet in his left, there he is
without budging any more than the statues of St. Nicolas
and St. Christopher, which were standing in the niches of
the choir. The abbe becomes impatient. "Pour out then,"
cried he aloud,-not a stir. "Pour out-pour out!" he
repeats, stamping with his feet. No use: he may as well
address the wall, for our young friend is quite petrified. It
is easy to judge whether there was any thing to laugh at.
Now, one minute after, the unlucky sacristan had recovered
his functions, and all was quiet; but, as the mischief was
committed, we were not the less punished. One only among
us all was ignorant of what had occurred, and would not
believe it, and that was precisely the person who caused it.
One of Petetin's cases, with respect to the forgetfulness
of cataleptics, is still more striking. We shall give a
part of it. Madame *** asked if they would nvt put a tin
bowlfilled with hot water under her feet; that she felt--.
The convulsive motion of the arm, the precursor of the
cataleptic fit, appeared like lightning. She could not finish
the sentence, and became motionless cs a statue. Petetin
asked her how she found herself?
142 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
" Tolerably well," she replied.
" And your head P"
"Always engaged."
"Do you still see your inside P"
" So per:fectly, that I apprise you it will .7Wl be right to
bathe me either to-TII(Jrrow orfor some days."
"I understand you. Butwhat tells you that the obstacle
will happen to-morrow?"
" My eyes and my foresight, which cannot deceive me," &c.
This dialogue lasts for inore than an hour, during which
Petetin made several of the experiments which we have
mentioned; after which, the fit of catalepsy being termi-
nated, Madame • • • opens her eyes without the least
astonishment, anti says aloud, " A great chill all over the
body ; this bou·l cannot be attended with the inconoeniences of
lighted charcoal,"-the termination of the sentence which
she had commenced at the coming on of the fit.
But, just as the invasion of the magnetic sleep has not
always the instantaneousness of the fit of catalepsy, the
awaking of somnambulists scarcely ever comes on abruptly
and unexpectedly. The instant it approaches, the fine
powers of somnambulism vanish, become confused, and are
dispersed ; at the same time that there is progressively
developed a certain state of distress or snffering which
brings back accurately, but in an inverted order, the pre-
cursory sigus of sleep. Thus there is oppression, heat of
skin, yawning, sighs, subsultus of the limbs, &c. Then on
a sudden, the eyelids open, and the individual awakes.
Nothing more remarkable than his astonishment, more
especially at the first experiments. Where am I P Whence
do I come P What has occurred P What are you doing to
me P Such are the questions. If he noticed any stranger
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM, 143
who may have come in during the sitting, and with whom
he enters into conversation. " Ah !" he says, " how is this ?
There is Monsieur Such-a-one ! How does he come to
be here ?" &e.
However, his power of reflection returns to him with
his normal state. He remembers that he has been magnet·
ised; he remembers what he experienced during the passes.
But has he slept ?-That is what he does not know.
He is assured that he has not only slept, but that he has
spoken also ; that he has said such a thing ; that he has
done something else ; this he never can be persuaded to
believe. I have known a somnambulist who would not
believe in magnetism I Scepticism, too, over which it would
have been easy to triumph, since the mere wish that this
somnambulist should retain, ori awaking, the memory of the
events of his other life, would have sufficed for this. This
deserves explanation.
Oblivion, on awaking, is the characteristic trait of the
magnetic sleep. But it sometimes depends on the magnet·
iser that this leading circumstance should not exist, and
that the somnambulist should accurately remember on
awaking all that he has done, and said, and heard during
his sleep. Let the magnetiser only wish energetically that
it should be so, and let him express this wish aloud, in order
that it may pass into the mind of the person magnetised;
that is the whole secret. I own I was not apprised of this
particularity, which is mentioned, however, in most of the
works on magnetism, when a somewhat singular circumstance
disclosed it to me. It was a somnambulist who gave me the
idea of it. A lady during her sleep had required of me a
delicate explanation concerning some family matters. The
144 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
confidence she exacted from me was so embarrassing in its
nature, that though I probably might have had the courage
to comply with her request whilst she slept, nothing could
induce me to do so whilst she was awake. On the day of
which I speak I yielded to her urgency, as I had no means
of escaping it. I told her with reserve, and in the best way
I could, what she wished to know; and when I had con-
cluded, I was so satisfied with myself, that I cried out,-
" Madame, I would wish very much that you would
recollect all that."
" Never fear, monsieur," she replied. "Your desire that
I should do so is so very strong, that I can't but remember
it."
I no sooner awoke my somnambulist than I said, "Well,
madame, do you recollect any thing to-day?"
"I remember all, monsieur," said she ; and she told
truth, for she blushed.
Since this period, which formed an epoch in my magnetic
studies, I have many times repeated the same experiment,
and always with the same success. Only I must here make
one important observation : viz. that if by chance a som-
nambulist has been guilty of any indiscretion, or has pre-
dicted any event fatal to himself or his friends, charity
should, in both cases, prevent the magnetiser from ord~ring
him to recollect it. It seemed to me also that reminiscences
of this kind, which necessarily confound the events of the
waking state with those of sleep, prejudiced the lucidity of
the individual. Reserve is therefore required on this point;
and we should not require somnambulists to remember what
they have said, except in cases where they have prescribed
to themselves the use of some therapeutic agents, which
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 145
there might be a risk of forgetting, or to which they might
refuse to submit without the conviction which they find in
their own conscience of the benefit which will accrue to
them from it.
It is important t6 add here that persons have several
times succeeded in making this phenomenon useful as a
means of instruction. M. Mialle quotes some examples of
it in his Expose des Cures, &c., and I have myself published
in my Transactions* the case of a young painter from Ham-
burg, of the name of Pradhier, w~o$e German pronuncia·
tion I thus corrected:-" This young man, who put himself
under my care for a chronic neuralgia of the face, was put
to sleep after the second sitting, and became on the following
days uncommonly lucid. But what I found particularly
remarkable in him was the horror and painful sensations
which the contact of metals occasioned to him ; their mere
approach was quite enough to throw him into convulsions.
As M. Pradhier is, both awake and asleep, a boy of con·
siderable mind, I felt pleasure in conversing with him during
the hour of sitting ; only his unfortunate German accent
distressed me and tired my patience, and yery much dimi-
nished the charm l felt in his discourse. One day as he
was after doling out to me a string of words, in which, as if
by design, those Yery consonants which he bungled most
disagreeably, happened to be collected together, I exclaimed,
no longer able to contain myself, ' For goodness sake, M.
Pradhier, speak :French as it is spoken in Par!s !' . . . ..
My somnambulist stopped quite short, seemed absorbed a
minute or two, then, on my invitation, resumed the thread
* Un vol. in-s. Paris, 1842; dlez J. B. Bailliere. Prix: 6 Cr.
L
146 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
of his story, but with a purity of accent that actually con-
founded me. I then asked him if it would not be possible
for him to retain, on awaking, the happy fruits of the
strange grammar lesson I was after giving him, without
however intending it. • Nothing more simple,' said he ;
' you have but to wish it.' ' Well, then, I wish it: be it
so.' And M. Pradhier having awoken to my great annoy-
ance, I confess, articulates the French like a Parisian child.
However, the next morning his discourse is again disfigured
by certain Hamburg NCUliarities, and more than one soft 11
becomes once more hardened in his mouth. He recovers
the French accent, however, on going to sleep. Two days
after the progress is very marked, and the week after one
might listen to M. Pradhier for whole hours without ever
suspecting his birth-place. And what is very remarkable is,
that this young man is the only person not to perceive the
change which has taken place in his manner of speaking,"
&c. It is evident that this fact, as also those of the same
kind which we reported last year,• open a new road to the
investigations of magnetisers.
The nature and intensity of the uncomfortable sensations
which accompany the period of awaking, natural1y depend
on the conditions in which the experiment is conducted ;
the manner in which the magnetiser acts is then almost
every thing in such a esse, and we shall see presently what
it ought to be ; but in general as soon as there is a collision
between the wish of the magnetiser and that of the mag-
netised, the result is attended with distress to the latter.
It is necessary, also, to avoid crossing or thwarting som-
* Transactions, &c. Paris, 1842, in-8.
ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM. 147
nambulists, if we would not do them some real harm. If
they speak, we should listen to them, and suffer them to
speak; if, on the contrary, they do not wish to answer the
questions put to them, we should not importune them too
much. If, in fine, there be any delicate experiment in
question, it is then more especially we shoul4 be careful to
spare their susceptibility, and that we should have the
utmost patience to await their fancies. I think I have
already mentioned that those caprices to which all som-
nambulists are liable, are most frequently nothing more
than petty shifts whereby they conceal their inability at the
moment with respect to the things required of them; a sort
of subterfuge, in a word, for their vanity. We should,
then, if we do not wish needlessly to wound their self-love,
affect not to perceive those harmless tricks, and should con-
tent ourselves with desiring mentally those things which
they may desire themselves. To know how to await, to
commence over again one hundred tinies if necessary, in
that lies the entire secret of fine experiments.
The apparent consequences, to which the period or stage
of awaking may give rise, and by which persons who are
only beginning to practise magnetism are so often made
uneasy, have nothing really setious in them. In no case
have I seen them continue for more than a few days, and
even this does not occur in the case of individuals who have
been accustomed to magnetism. A slight headach, a sort
of pricking sensation in the eyelids, these are the principal
effects experienced by somnambuHsts who have been awaked
with the necessary precautions; but such is not the case
when violent means have been employed to arouse them
from their sleep ; nervous disturbance may then proceed
148 ON LUCID SOMNAMBULISM.
so far aa to terminate in spasms, and intellectual dulness
may pass even into idiotey. We shall point out at the
proper time and place all the precautions to be adopted in
such eases.•
*See Processes to bo adopted iJ1 order to awaken Somnambulists.
149
CHAPTER VI.
OF THE DJJTERENT JllETRODS OF JU.GNETlSING.
" I. MAN has the faculty of exercising on his fellow-
man a salutary influence by directing on them at his own
will the principle which animates us and causes us to live ;
" 2. To this faculty is given the name of magnetism : it
is an extension of the power which all living beings possess
of acting on such of their own organs as are subject to the
will;
" 3. We are sensible of this faculty only by the results,
and we make use of it only so far as we wish it ;
" 4. Then the first condition for magnetising is to will."•
As magnetism involves no profession of philosophical
faith, the mtaliata, as well as the materialuta, may derive
these principles from their respective doctrine; these prin-
ciples still continue to be the strict and accurate expression
of the truth. The will is not a chimerical being, it is a real
force; and this force to which all the other intellectual or
moral aptitudes are subordinate, not only overrules the
organism ofthe individual who possesses it, but may again
* DELEUZE, Instruction Pratique sur le Magnetism Animal.
Paris, 1825, in-8.
150 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
react on the beings which surround the latter. The will is
then in a manner every thing with me in magnetism ; and
the art of the magnetiser is reduced, as one might say, to
knowing how to impress his will opportunely.
But to form a just idea of magnetism, it is important
duly to comprehend the sense of this proposition which, at
first sight, presents a something so abstract that it estranges
ordinary minds from the study ofthe facts which it involves.
Now all those facts conspir~ in proving that there exists
in man, and probably in all organised beings, a subtle agent,
a cause or product of life* (I know noi which of the twoj,
but transferable from one individual to another, and esta-
blishing by this transmission a sort of intimate association
between the living aggregations which are subject to its
effects. This is, in short, the whole theory of the fluid to
which magnetisers assign so important a part. Further,
this theory, as all those of the same kind, is but a rational
hypothesis employed to explain phenomena, for which it
would not probably be impossible to render an account in
some other way. We have no intention whatever to ex-
aggerate its value; but we ask our readers' permission to
make use of it, for want of more certain data, as the basis
of the precepts which we are about to lay down, precepts
which the experience of facts is quite sufficient to render
legitimate.
Thus the magnetic ftuid is moved by the will; but since
it is our organs which serve it as conductors, the gestures
become in consequence the indispensable auxiliaries of all
* Vid. In my Tra71$actions, the chapter entitled, Un mot de Plagrio-
logie Glnlrale.
OF MAGNETISING. 151
mental action. But if these gestures, if the manual pro·
cesses, in a word, are really endowed with an intrinsic
value, they deserve to be studied by all those who desire
to practise magnetism; and the title to this book distinctly
states that this study enters into our subject. The processes
of which we speak vary besides ad infinitum, t~ince every
magnetiser has, one might say, his own. We are going,
nevertheless, to pass in review the principal part of those
now in use, reserving to ourse~ves, in the examination of
each of them, to notice their respective advantages ~nd
inconveniences.
Ordinary Metlwd according to Deleuze.•
" Once you will be agreed and determined to treat the
matter seriously, remove from the patient all those persons
who might occasion you any constraint; do not keep with
you any but the necessary witnesses (only one if possible),
and require of them not to interfere by any means in the
processes which you employ and in the effects which are
the consequences of them, but to combine with you in doing
good service to the patient. Manage so as to have neither
too much heat nor cold, so that nothing may constrain the
freedom of your movements, and take every precaution not
to be interrupted during the sitting.
" Then make your patientt sit in the most convenient
manner possible, and place yourself opposite to him or her,
on a seat somewhat higher, so that his knees may be between
yours, and that your feet may be beside his. First require
• Instruction Pratique, p. 22.
t Deleuze magnetised no peiSon but invalids, and he was right.
152 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
of him to resign himself, to think of nothing, not to distract
his mind in order to examine the effects he will experience,
to banish every fear, to indulge hope, and not be uneasy
or discouraged if the action of magnetism produce in him
momentary pain.
"After matters are well adjusted, take his thumbs between
your two fingers, so that the interior ofyour thumbs may
touch the interior of his, and fix your eyes on him. You
will remain from two to five minutes in this position, or
until you feel that an equal heat is established between his
thumbs and yours. This being done, you will draw back your
hands, separating them to the right and left., and turning
them so that the inner surface may be on the outside, and
you will raise them to the height ofthe head; then you will
place them on the two shoulders, you will leave them there
for about one minute, and you will bring them back along
the arms as far as the ends of the fingers, slightly touching
them. You will recommence this pass five or six times,
turning away your hands, and separating them a little from
the body, so as to reascend. You will then place your
hands above the head ; you will keep them there for a mo-
ment, and you will bring them down passing in front of the
iace at the distance of one or two in~hes, as far as the pit of
the stomach; there you will stop for about two minutes,
placing the thumbs oil the pit of the stomach, and the other
fingers below the ribs. Then you will descend slowly along
the body as far as the knees, or better; and if you can
without incommoding yourself, to the extremity of the feet.
You will repeat the same processes during the greater part
of the sitting. You will also approach the patient some-
times so as to place your hands behind hie eho\Ilders, so as
~
OF IIU.GNETISJNG. 153
to descend slowly along the spine of the back, and from
thence on the haunches, and along the thighs, as far as
the knees, or even to the feet. · After the first passes, you
may dispense with placing the hands on the head, and make
the subsequent pas.'!eS on the arms, commencing at the
shoulders ; and on the body, commencing at the stomach."
The method which bas just been described is in general
that which must be adopted when commencing to magnetise.
However, I think I may remark that the B,bsolute contact of
the hands on the bead and epigastrium is not indispensable;
this contact, on the contrary, is a subject of distraction, and
adds nothing to the efficacy of the process. I thought, also,
that I remarked the passes along the spine bad no very
marked action; and, for my part, I have this long time
ceased to employ them. J.astly, as a general rule, every
kind of direct touch seems superfluous ; and, for the sake
of their own practice, as well as for the sake of seemliness,
I advise all magnetisers to abstain from it.
Most commonly, I stand up before the person I wish to
magnetise, and even .at a certain distance from the indi-
vidual; after the few minutes of collecting one's self which
should precede every experiment, I raise my bands to his
forehead, and I direct my passes slowly from above, down-
wards, before the face, chest, and abdomen; only, each time
I raise the hand, I take care to let my fingers fall so that
their dorsal surface looks towards the magnetised person
during my motion ofascent, and their palmar surface during
the passes. This process is simple, probably too simple ; so
that I would not advise it to be ado-pted, except on persons
already accustomed to magnetism, and susceptible of being
readily set to sleep. The method of Deleuze, with the
154 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
slight modifications which I have pointed out, is much to be
preferred for the first essays. But, in fact, all processes
succeed when they inspire confidence into those who employ
them.
Magnetisation by the Head.
This is one of the readiest and most ·energetic processes
with which I am acquainted ; it consists in this : you place
yourself opposite the person you wish to magnetise; at first
you make some long passes from above, downwards, in the
direction of the arms, before the face, and along the axis of
the body; after which, you extend your two hands some
inches from the forehead and parietal regions, and you
remain thus for some minutes. All the time the operation
lasts you vary but little the position of your hands, content
to carry them slowly to right and left ; then to the occiput,
so as to return then to the forehead, where you leave them
for an indefinite time, that is, until the individual is asleep.
Then you make passes on the knees and legs, to attract the
fluid down, according to the expres~ion of magnetisers.
The fact is, that the intervention of the fluid is at least very
convenient to explain clearly that which we wish to make
understood ; and in the case of which I speak, I would like
to be certain that this imponderable exists, in order to be
able to say, that in recommending passes on the lower extre-
mities it is a magnetic revulsion, or, rather, derivation, that
I advise. Farther, notwithstanding this precaution, mag·
netisation by the head is far from being without its incon·
veniences : it exposes at least to headach, sometimes to
megrim, and at other times, though very rarely, to more
serious consequences. Of this we shall give an instance :
OF MAGNETISING. 155
Henriette ••• is fifteen yelll?and some months old, of rather
a pleasing physique. She enjoys, generally speaking, good
health ; but the numberless romances she has read have
excited in her bad and mischievous ideas, and if not vicious
morals, at least certain erotic habits, which will terminate
ultimately in compromising her reason. I consider her in·
corrigible on this point (not that I have undertaken her
conversion), but because, unfortunately for her, nature has
endowed her with only the lowest grade of reason, which is
controlled and carried away by an incredible obstinacy.
Henriette felt for some weeks in the right knee an obscure
pain, the origin and nature of which equally embarrassed
me, and of which I would have been delighted to learn the
diagnosis which she herself would give of it in a state of
somnambulism. For this purpose I magnetised her. With
respect to the process I adopted, it was suggested to me by
the impatience and unsteadiness ofthe patient's character. I
hastened to avail himself of her favourable dispositions, and
I wished to expedite the matter. In this I succeeded ; for,
in less than three minutes, Henriette, who had had the
invincible fancy to remain standing, was set to sleep, and
fell in her chair. I then freed her (momentarily) of her
pain in the knee, by making passes over this part; hut the
answers she gave me yielded me no information with respect
to the <etiology or nature of this pain. I then determined
to awaken her, and it was here I became uneasy ; for, after
a full half-hour's gestures and efforts, Henriette still slept.
Besides, she was evidently disturbed, and occasionally all
her limbs became spasmodically rigid, and she sent forth
shrieks that terrified the persons who ran up in consequence
of the uproar she made. At length she opened her eyes,
/
156 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
rubbed them for a long time with her hands, then rose up
abruptly, setting up loud peals of laughter. The poor girl
was in a state of madness, and this delirium lasted for three
days.• We now give the counterpart of the result which,
in this case, might be fairly laid to the account of mag-
netism. Two days after, Henriette being magnetised again,
but by the method of Deleuze, recovers her reason in her
somnambulism, and points,out what should be done in order
to cure her so accurately; that she was cured by her own
prescription not only of her mental affection, but also of her
pain in the knee. Still this event gave me a distaste for the
magnetic process which had given rise to it.t
* I since learned that Henriette bad had several attacks of this
kind ; so that the magnetism was but the occasional cause, and pro-
bably but the apparent cause, of a disease which I first attributed to
it entirely.
t It is often very dangerous to concentrate on one organ, chiefly
on the brain and on the heart, when these organs have become a
centre of fluxion. I have seen very serious consequences brought
about by this very imprudent concentration, even in somnambulists
who then did not fail to awaken my attention to this point. I agree
that this acquires great importance only when there is no somnam-
bulism, or when the somnambulism is still incomplete. In local
aft'ections of the chest, I never ceased to engage the entire organi-
sation by magnetising with great currents, which still continues the
surest mode, until somnambulism comes to eulightenus on the modi1i-
cations of the processes in which our own sagacity cannot direct us.
I once observed a remarkable exception to the ordinary method. A
person whose mind was deranged became furious when magnetised,
by commencing at the head so as to go to the feet ; the happy idea
suggested itself to magnetise in an inverted direction, by ascending
from the feet towards the head. On seeing these facts, one cannot
help admitting, in the nervous system, currents similar probably to
those which are seen in the sanguineous system, and which some
OF .MAGNETISING, 157
Magmtisation by mea718 ofthe Look.
This process cannot be employed by every one. It
requires in the person who employs it a sharp, penetrating
look, capable of long-continued fixedness ; it will likewise
seldom succeed on indh;duals who should be magnetised for
the first time; though it has happened to me to put to
sleep by the mere power of a look, and at the first sitting, a
man thirty years of age, and unquestionably stouter than
myself. Further, I scarcely ever magnetise my habituated
somnambulists in any other way, when the experiment is
one in which vision is concerned; for I thought I observed
that this kind of magnetising increased the clairvoyance.
This is the mode of proceeding :-You place yourself oppo-
tlite your subject ; you direct him to look at you with all pos-
sible fixedness, whilst on your part you fix your eyes on
him steadfastly. At first, some deep sighs will raise his
chest; then his eyelids will twinkle, will become moistened
with tears, will contract forcibly several times, and ulti-
persons think they perceive in the phenomena which precede san-
guineous and nervous congestion.
I would not, however, recommend that persons should employ this
inverted method on light grounds : I have seen permanent paralysis
and temporary catalepsies arise from it. I have seen a spasmodic
aft'ection, very serious and permanent, follow an attempt of this
kind, which the magnetiser had employed to facilitate the motions of
the stomach in an attack of vomiting. I was obliged to employ all
the means within my power to overcome this spasmodic aft'ection,
which for several years was renewed every time the patient made an
eft'ort to vomit.-Ltttre d'un Midecin Etrangtr (M. Kortff) a
M. DeltiiZe, p. 17, broch. in-B, Paris, 1825,
/
/ '
/
158 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
mately will close. Just as in the process already described,
we may here terminate the process with some revulsive
passes on the lower extremities; but, again, if your subject
offers you any resistance, you will have something to do to
save him from some attacks of megrim which magnetising
by the eyes often occasions, and from which you yourself
will not always be exempt.• Experience has also satisfied
me, that the closer the magnetiser is to the subject mag-
netised, the more powerful will be the action of the look ;
but this will not prevent us from being able to magnetise
thus even at considerable distances.
Magnetisation by the mere Will.
Two cases may present themselves : either your sub·
ject knows that you are going to magnetise him, or he is
completely ignorant of what you are going to do, and igno·
rant even of your very presence. Proving that the last
experiment is possible will surely prevent any thing like
discussion on the first. Now, independently of our personal
observation, authentic and well-known facts will serve as
our proof. There is no one who has not read the account
of the experiments made at the Hotel-Dieu of Paris, by
M.Dupotet,t under the eye and in the service of M. Husson.
The character and scientific position of the physicians who
were present at these experiments not allowing any one to
* It bas been said that certain animals mRgDetise in this way
others that are weaker than themselves, and which they make their
prey. Now, it is exceedingly probable that this hypothesis is well
founded ; and, for my own part, I consider It worthy of credit.
t Paris, 1826, in-8.
Ol!' 1\IAGNETISING. 159
suspect the veracity of the narrator, we shall now lay before
our readers an account of some of them.
Sitti71{! of the 7th of NoTJember.-" On my arrival at a
quarter past nine o'clock, M. Husson came to apprise me
that M. Recamier desired to be present and to see me put the
patient (Catherine Samson) to sleep through the partition.
I at once expressed my wish that so respectable an evidence
should be at once admitted. M. Recamier came in and con-
versed with me, more especially regarding my conviction
with respect to magnetic phenomena. We agreed on a sig-
nal. I passed into the closet, in which I was shut up. The
woman Samson was brought forward. M. Recamier placed
her at the distance of more than six feet from the closet, a
circumstance of which I was not aware, and with her back
to it. He converses with her, finds her better; they tell
her that I am not to come ; she expresses a wish to
retire.
" At the moment when M. Recamier asks her if she
digests herfood (this was the phrase a.,OTeed on as the signal
between M. Recamier and myself) I set myselfto work. It
is now thirty-two minutes past nine; she is asleep at thirty-
five.minutes past nine. Three minutes after, M. Recamier
touches her, raises her eye-lids, shakes her by the hands,
questions her, pinches her, strikes the furniture in order to
make as much noise as possible ; he pinches her again, and
with all his force, five times; again he begins to torment
her ; he raises her up three different times and lets her fall
back again; the patient continues absolutely insensible to so
much violence, which I could not witness without consider-
able pain, knowing that the painful sensations which were
not eyinced at this moment, would be reproduced on
•
•
160 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
awaking, and would occasion convulsions, which were
always difficult to quiet.
"At length, M. Husson and those present invited M.
Recamier to discontinue experiments, which were now be-
come useless, the common conYiction regarding the state of
insensibility of the patient being now complete.
"During her probation I put several questions to this
individual, to which she returned answers. M. Recamier
interposed his own, on which she was invariably mute. She
told me that she had no pain in the head, but she com-
plained of a sense of shivering in the side, which, however,
did not annoy her so much to·day as it had done yesterday.
"I return to the closet, and the signal for awaking her
having been given at twenty-eight minutes past ten, she
awoke in two minutes," &c.
Sitting of the 9th of November.-" M. A. Bertrand,
Doctor of the Faculty of Paris, had been present at the
preceding sitting. He had there said that he did not con-
sider it extraordinary th~t the person so magnetised should
fall asleep, the magnetiser being placed in the closet; that he
thought that the particular combination of the same sur-
rounding circumstances produced a similar effect out of my
presence; and that, moreover, the patient might be natu-
rally predisposed to it. He proposed then to.institute the
experiment which I am about to describe.
" It was proposed to make the patient come at the usual
hour, to the same place, ~o make her sit on the same seat,
to enter into the same discourse with her regarding herself;
it seemed to him nearly certain that sleep must follow. I
agreed, consequently, not to come till half an hour later
than usual.
OP .MAGNETISING. 161
" At three-quarters after nine they began to perform
what had been agreed on before the woman Samson : they
made her sit on the chair on which she was usually placed,
and in the same position. Different questions were put to
her, then they left her quiet; they simulated the signals
previously employed, as throwing the scissors on the table,
and made an exact repetition of all that usually took place;
but in vain did they wait for the magnetic state which they
expected to produce in the patient. She complains of her
left side, became restless, rubbed her side, changed her po-
sition, finding herself incommoded by the heat of the frying-
pan, and evinced no symptom of any desire of sleep, whether
natural or magnetic."
Sitting ofthe 1Oth of November, in the eveni11g. - " I ar·
rived nearly at seven o'clock at the place of meeting. We
all went up together to the ward Saint Agnes; our patient
occupied the bed No. 34; I was placed with the utmost
silence, accompanied by two of these gentlemen, between
beds 35 and 36.
" M. Husson, passing before the bed of the woman
Samson, proeeeds to visit another patient farther on, to
whom he says quite loud, ' It is for you I am come this
evening. You made me somewhat uneasy at my first visit,
but I find you better ; be calm, all will be well.'
" He returns back to the bed No. 34, and asked Samson
if she was asleep. She replied that she had no disposition
to go to sleep, and that she never goes to sleep so early.
She coughs ; he retires, and places himself some beds' dis-
tance, so as to be out of the patient's view, but near enough
to observe what was going on.
"At seven precisely I magnetised the patient; at eight
..M
....
162 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
.minutes past seven she says, speaking aloud to hel'lldf, 'It is
astonishing what a pain I have in the eyes, I am falling
asleep.'
"Two minutes after M. Husson passes up towards her,
addresses some words to her; she makes no reply ; he
touches her, but elicits nothing.
" Eleven minutes past seven we all approach her, and I
put the following questions to her :-
" ' Miss Samson, are you asleep ?'
" ' Ob I my God I how impatient you are !'
"'How do you find yourself?'
" 'I have a pain in the stomach at times.'
'' ' How comes it that you are in a magnetic sleep P'
"'I don't know.'
"' Did you know that I was there ?'
"'No, monsieur.'
"' What if you were let to sleep all night ?'
" ' Oh, no I that would be bad.'
" 'At what hour would you awake?'
"'To-morrow morning.'.
"'I wish you good night,' and we aij retire together.
"Mr. Bertrand did not fail to be present at this experi-
ment, which he bad himself proposed. Our success had
been complete, every one was convinced, and be himself felt
no difficulty whatever in signing the document, which was
drawn up on the occasion."
Here, then, we see beyond all dispute the will of one
individual transmitting itself in silence, and without any
gestures, to another individual, who does not even suspect
what they are going to do with her. Now what is the
vehicle of this will? No doubt, tile mag71eticfluid, of which
OF MAGNETISING. 163
we have the hope of giving, if not a precise, at least a
rational idea, in the chapter which we shall devote to it.
Some magnetisers have gone so far as to state that the
will did not confine itself to the producing of phenomena
similar to those just described, and they say that once the
magnetic relations are well established between two persons,
the one of those two individuals (the magnetiser) may act
on the other at very considerable distances, from one house
to another, for instance, or even from one extremity of a
city to the other. This possibility I by no means deny ; but
I am not quite sure of its existence positively to affirm it.
As far as regards that point, here is what I have seen. On
going up one day to the bouse of M*** (the husband of
M. Hortense) I met in the housekeeper's apartment Adele
Defossey, already mentioned, and whom I had already mag-
netised several times with the greatest facility. I inquired
after her health ; she replied she was very well, and I passed
on. When I reached my friend's house, the idea struck me
of magnetising her without apprising her of it, from the
place where I was (the first story) to her apartment. I set
to work, and ten minutes after, when I sent some one to
inquire after her, the a~swer I received was, that Adele did
nothing but yawn, that she had a pain in the heart; in a
word, that she felt an intolerable itching in the eyes. Five
minutes after I sent to inquire. Her state was nearly the
same; she was dying with a desire to sleep, but she did not
sleep. Feeling myself fatigued, I went no farther on that
day ; but it appears to me very probable that by persevering
I might have completely magnetised her. Since then I had
no opportunity of repeating the experiment
164 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
Method of Faria.
The Abbe Faria, a magnetiser who exhibited his som-
nambulists as a show, and died with the finest reputation
of a quack that any man in this world ever possessed or
merited, this man, the better to increase the marvellous
appearance of his experiments, and thereby give more
eclat to his exhibitions, devised a method which had no
imitator, and hardly ever succeeded, except in his own
hands. He placed in a chair the person who wished to
submit himself to his manipulation, recommended him to
shut his eyes, and after adjusting himself for some minutes,
said to him in a loud and commanding voice, "Sleep f' This
simple word, uttered in the midst of solemn silence by a man
whose wondrous feats were so much spoken of, made some-
times on the patient an impression sufficiently intense to
produce in him a slight shock of the entire body, as also
considerable heat, transpiration, and sometimes somnambu-
lism. If this first attempt did not succeed, he subjected
the patient to a second, then to a third, and even to a fourth
trial, after which he declared him i{lcapable of entering into
the lucid state.
This method differs not essentially from the preceding;
only the cabalistic apparatus with which the Abbe Faria
frightened the weak minds which gave themselves up to
him, by neutralising in them all species of moral resistance,
prepared them to receive more promptly the in1luence of a
will in other respects very powerful.
OF MAGNETISDIG, 165
OfIns7':1Jlation.
This is a mixed means, which, according to the caprice
of the magnetiser, and the direction of his thoughts, may
likewise serve to put to sleep and to awaken. Most mag-
netisers have recourse to it to sustain the state of their
somnambulists during long and delicate experiments. In-
sufHation is scarcely ever practised except on the head or on
a diseased part ; the breath is then the vehicle of the mag-
netic agent.
Magnetising of one Somnambulist by another Somnambulist.
This is an experiment which I have never made, but
which I propose to myself to try ere long. It might not be
impossible that it should be of happy application to thera-
peutics. I derived the idea of it from a small work of much
merit, from which I have also taken the opportunity of
quoting a passage in a former part of this work.'" We read
in the sixteenth page of this brochure, " The most extraor-
dinary spectacle which can present itself to the eyes of an
observer is to see, when two somnambulists of different
clairvoyance become magnetised, how the superior som-
nambulist subjects to his will and impulsion the inferior
somnambulist ; what physical power he exercises on him
to excite unexpected crises; what sway he has over his
sensations ; how he gives to his limbs extraordinary move-
ments, similar to those of the most active mountebanks ;
what frightful contortions he obliges him to make; with
* Lettre d'un Medecin etranger aM. Deleuze.
166 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
what readiness he frees him from pains which he had on
entering into these violent crises. I could not help tracing
here a sketch of this treatment which I witnessed three
times, and of which no mention is made in any of the works
which I have read. It is to magnetism exercised in som-
nambulism, and a long time continued, that we were indebted
for the recovery of several hydrocephalic children, and of
another child who was nearly imbecile ; children for whom
the somnambulist interested himself with a supernatural
or rather a natural tenderness, and the treatment of which
we did not venture to undertake, inasmuch as we bad not a
hope of the least success." This power of action which one
somnambulist may exercise on another somnambulist is a
singularity which I think may Le tolerably well explained.
In fact, independently of the magnetiser being here super-
saturated, as one might say, with the magnetic agent, he
transmits this agent so much the better, as he is endowed,
lUI he has already proved, with more aptitude to receive it.
To this we may add that all his movements, all his inten-
tions, in a word, all the acts of his will, are directed by
an admirable instinct, which suffers him justly to appreciate
the intensity and nature of the effort which he must make
to obtain such or such a result.
To recapitulate the preceding observations, we think we
may conclude that the method described by Deleuze is, in
the majority of cases, that which should obtain the pre-
ference. But whatever method be adopted, it is important
not to suspend the passes immediately when the sleep is
established ; for by continuing to magnetise we determine
a series of' phenomena, of which the last only are the mani-
festation of complete somnambulism. The young patient,
OF IIIAGNETISING, 167
for instance, whose case has been given by M. Despine in
the Bulletin of d'Aix (Estelle), first saw particles offire
scintillate before his face. After eight minutes she ex-
perienced a feeling ofchewing in her mouth ; in ten minutes
slight subsaltus in her arms and legs; in fifteen minutes she
distinguished with her eyes shut the hands of her ·mag,
netiser; in thirty-five minutes she divined the thoughts of
the persons present at the sitting, and expressed them aloud.
A little after it was a fantastic vision which frightened her.
In some minutes after luminous tufts seemed to her to
shine at the extremities of all the fingers of her magnetiser.
At length another vision came on which filled her with
joy and hope. It was a heavenly figure, which became her
tutelary divinity, her preserving genius, and which, like
Socrates' genius, was to serve her as a guide, to enlighten
her on the nature of her suffering, to direct her mode of
living each day and to bring about her cure. This instance
is sufficient to explain our meaning; but it would be wrong
to suppose that it includes the precise elements ofa practical
rule ; for, with every new subject that is magnetised, it is
observed that the different phases of the sleep are marked
by different signs. In general, magnetising must be sus-
pended, when the patient, evidently put to sleep for some
minutes, seems to experience afresh the pandiculations of
which he complained on commencing the experiment. Such
is, at least, in my mind the symptomatic character of a
sufficient saturation.
When you have reason to suppose that your patient is
sufficiently magnetised, wait some minutes before you ad-
dress a word to him. At length speak to him, but in a
subdued voice, with· gentleness and kindness; and if he
168 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
does not answer the question you put to him, allow some
minutes to elapse before you repeat it. Then make yourself
acquainted with the state of his health, as also with any
thing which may annoy him, or with whatever he might
wish for in order to be better. If he feel pain in any part,
carry your band to this part, make some passes there, and
slight frictions, with the sincere desire of removing the
pain, and you almost invariably suceeed. In case he com-
plain of heat, allow him some fresh, cool air. ·Ask him
how long he wishes to be allowed to sleep ; and in case of
any experiment for purposes of demonstration, whether he
consents to submit to this experiment, if it will not distress
him; and when he shall have given his assent, what will be
the precise moment when it is to be tried. Lastly, an
obligation which charity imposes on you towards him is
to interrogate him regarding his health the next day and
the following·days, and to take a note, if he is to be sick,
of the prescriptions which he will suggest after your
questions.
Whatever be the nature of the magnetic experiments,
the somnambulist, not to be needlessly fatigued, should
never have more than one interlocutor, and this charge
devolves by right on the magnetiser. The latter cannot be
too careful or watchful in his manner, too precise or too
discreet in his language. His mission is a serious one, and
he ought to discharge it seriously. Let him beware, for
instance, of giving way to the ridiculous whims of the
by-standers, who are so fond of tricks and jugglery. My
recollections supply me with the motives of this reflection,
for I have seen these weaknesses, and they have excited
my pity. A magnetiser who, to satisfy the fancy of some
OF MAG"NETISI"NG. 169
fool, or some little miss, makes a pilferer ofhis somnambulist,
degrades and prostitutes a magnificent discovery. With
respect to myself, when I magnetise, I make up my mind
to have no other will but my own ; but, at the same time,
I strive that this will should never evince itself in any
other way but under the form of a desire. Thus instead
ofspeaking in the present time, which often appears to offend
the elegancies of politeness, I say, I would like, a phrase
which it is impossible to finish otherwise than by the words,
ifyou would have the kindness.
One cannot imagine how far the susceptibility ofsom-
nambulists sometimes proceeds. Wben after having ad·
dressed a question to Madame Hortense, I inadvertently
add, Reflect, madame! I seldom escape a reprimand from
this lady, because, as she says, to tell her to reflect implies
a sort of supposition that it is not her usual practice to do
~o. I..et us figure to ourselves the exposing a somnambulist,
male or female, to the pleasantries ofan Academic Commission
(for the gentlemen of the Academy, who oftentimes take the
pleasantest things in the world in a serious way, sometimes,
to make up for so doing, indulge in pleasantries in serious
matters).
Except in the case oftherapeutic contra-indications, som·
nambulists should sleep but a limited time ; your duty is
then, as we have already said, to consult them on the matter,
and to be directed by the answer they may give. It is
necessary, also, before closing each sitting, to ask them the
day and hour when they should be magnetised again.
J,astly, never forget that the interest of your somnambulist
is the only thing you should have in view; and that, on the
other hand, you will find, for your guidance, in the sug·
170 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
gestions he will make to you, more certain rules than any
you will get in books.
Of Faith.
As this manual is writwn much less for magnetisers
than for persons who wish to become so, I deem it my duty
to explain myself on the questions which are the most
simple and the most easily solved.
Is it indispensable to believe in magnetism in order to
produce magnetic effects? Yes and no; we shall make
ourselves understood. If you magnetise, that is to say, if
you make passes with the firm conviction that you will
obtain nothing because there is nothing to be obtained, pro-
vided your subject is in the same disposition, it is to be
presumed that your conjectures will be realised; but in this
case I do not see why you should try a thing which appears
to you to be impossible and absurd. If, on the contrary,
only doubting magnetism, and seeking to obtain information
on the nature of its phenomena, you inspire into your sub-
ject a confidence, which no doubt you yourself have not
as yet, but which however you are striving to have in
order to conform to our principles, courage I continue, have
patience, for you will not fail to attain your end. As I
have said, in my second chapter, this is the history of all
magnetisers; all commence by being incredulous, because
there is no reasonable man who finds all at once in himself
faith in things which are prodigious and, to all appearances,
physically impossible. But according as he sees them, he
yields to evidence; and when be bas seen them sufficiently,
he believes in them steadfastly, and feels even a pride in
OF MAGNETISING, 171
a belief at which, but a little while ago, he would have
blushed. But there are certain heads unfortunately organ-
ised, into which some truths cannot make their way. Such
a man who passes for a wit has but memory, and has not
even sense to appreciate palpable facts, oculos habent
Of the Number and the Hour ofthe Sittings.
It rarely happens that we succeed at the first sitting in
producing magnetic sleep. Oftentimes, too, it happens that
the first effects occasioned are so little marked that they
pass unnoticed ; but that is no reason for concluding that
the subject is incapable ofentering into somnambulism; and
much less, again, for supposing that magnetism will be
devoid of influence on his health. Commence again the
following day, then the day after that, then eight days con-
secutively, and it is then only you will be able to form a
definitive judgment. This judgment, again, should involve
only one single fact,-the degree ofyour magnetic power, or
of your complete want of power relatively to such a person.
On every occasion, beware of allowing yourself to be
discouraged by one or two failures, and especially of betray-
ing any signs of this discouragement ; for this would be the
means of depriving you for the future of the confidence
which persons might have in you.
I cannot impress too strongly on those persons who
wish to apply themselves to the practice of magnetism, to
attempt their experiments first only on persons who present
favourable conditions for succeeding ; if not, they will yield
to discouragement, and be stopped on their way.
Each of the sittings ought to last twenty minutes at
172 OF THE DIFFERENT METHODS
lcast. When persons are not in the habit ofmagnetising,
these twenty minutes seem very long, in consequence of the
fatigue occasioned by the various movements. The mag-
netiscr should not defer resting himself, until this fatigue is .
extreme ; for it would then become an irresistible cause of
distraction, and so far an insurmountable obstacle. It is
useful, on the contrary, frequently to take rest; and if the
will, which, moreover, is fatigued much less quickly than
the arms. retains its direction during these moments of
stopping, the magnetic action is continued, and there is
nothing to oppose the continuance of the sitting.
The important point is, that the experiments should be
instituted every day at the same hour. Persons unac-
quainted with medical observation and physiological studies
have, in fact, a difficulty in conceiving with what prompti-
tude and whatfacility ourbody contractscertain habits. The
regularly periodical return of their appetite, of their sleep,
and, in a word, of all their physical wauts, may give them
some idea of it. A physiologist of Lyons, after being for
three consecutive nights immersed in a cold bath precisely
as the clock struck twelve, felt a shivering on the fourth
night at the same hour, though he was then lying in his bed
warmly covered up. It is not then astonishing that the
magnetic effects should speedily acquire some tendency
to be reproduced at certain fixed hours ; and thus it is that
the experiment of the previous day may prepare that ofthe
day following, ifthey be both performed at the same hour.
During the moment of recollecting yourself, which,
strictly speaking, should precede every sitting, collect to-
gether and concentrate your forces ; banish from your mind
every thought foreign to the object in hand; call back and
OF MAGNETISING. 173
reflect on those various associations which may strengthen
the confidence which you have in yourself: lastly, trace out
clearly and distinctly the image of the results which you
propose to yourself to attain.
The duty of the person who submits himself to your
action is quite different from yours. It is a passive duty ;
wholly to resign himself, and to think ofnothing: in that it
consists.
If your subject is a person of a delicate frame, of a
nervous and impressionable constitution ; if, also, after the
first passes, be confesses a feeling of disquiet and uneasiness,
which he declares be cannot long sustain, moderate your
mode of proceeding a little, and direct your action towards
the parts remote from those where the pain or uneasiness
manifests itself.
If this feeling of uneasiness increases notwithstanding
your precautions, retire to a somewhat greater distance,
adopting more slowness in your movement and less ofaction
in your will, and address your subject in such terms as may
strengthen and encourage him.
Lastly, if he complain of real distress, such as violent
spasms, convulsions, syncope, &c., appeal to your coolness
and self-possession; call in no one for assistance ; beware of
having recourse to any pharmaceutical agent, which would
only increase the evil ; above all, expressly forbid any
person to touch your patient, or even to approach him, but
collect all your own will, all your calm, and all your kind-
liness of disposition ; thoroughly penetrate yourself with
this idea, that you are endowed with the power of trana·
mitting this calm which is in you; entertain the certainty
that it must manifest i-lf at your word, at your gesture,
174 ON THE DIFFERENT METHODS, &c.
and you will soon witness, to the great astonishment of the
by-standers, the salutary effects of the magic power with
which nature has endowed you. It frequently suffices
merely to diminish the intensity of the magnetic action in
order to remedy instantaneously the disturbance which it
produces. At other times, on the contrary, the convulsions
and similar symptoms are but the natural precursors of
somnambulism ; in this case, which nothing but long
practice can enable you to appreciate, it is only by perse-
vering we can succeed in restoring a calm. To conclude,
never lose sight of this great principle : the state ofyour
patient depends on you- on you alone ; it is from you
enjoyment or pain must be derived to him ; but whether it
can be explained or not, keep this in view, in order that
your power may be real, you must commence by being
firmly persuaded of it.
175
CHAPTER VII.
OF .THE PROCESSES TO BE ADOPTED TO AWAKEN
SOMNAMBULISTS.
THE elements ofthis short chapter, which strictly should
form part of the preceding, are reduced to a very small
compass. However, I experienced such embarrassment in
awakening my first somnambulists, that I then promised
myself, that if ever I came to write a didactic work on mag-
netism, to collect together in a separate article whatever I
should have learned on this subject. At the commence-
ment, it is true, the least reflection should have traced out
to me the indications which I had to fulfil ; but who can
flatter himself with reflecting just at the nick oftime? And
then, are 11ersons disposed to meditate on a thing in which
they do not believe, or in which they only half believe?
The hope of setting to sleep the first somnambulist I acted
on was so far removed from my mind, whilst I was mag-
netising him, that I scarcely thought of the means I should
employ to draw him out ofhis somnambulism; but nothing
is better than faults to give experience.
Nothing in the world is more simple than to awaken a
somnambulist; but, for all that, there are certain precau-
tions to be taken with which we must be thoroughly
176 OF THE PROCESSES TO BE ADOPTED
impressed. The first thing to be done is, to apprise him of
your intentions, and to advise him to participate in them;
one-half the business will be done as soon as he will have
a wish to awaken. One circumstance, not,however,a common
one, but one that is very embarrassing, may present itself
here; it is this: that your somnambulist may not be conscious
of his state. How, then, are you to impart to him a desire
to awaken, if he is persuaded that he is not asleep? vVe are
then obliged to act without his concurrence, and to awaken
him in spite of himself,-a thing which seldom fails to
agitate him a little. The first time I magnetised Madame
Hortense, I was frightened when the business came on
about arousing her from her somnambulism; it was always
a quarrel, and sometimes a regular combat. We know that
the same thing holds with respect to natural somnambulists;
but, fortunately, as I said before, we have seldom experienced
any unpleasantness of this kind.
As soon, then, as your subject is apprised of it, collect
yourself for a minute as in commencing the operation; then
set about proceeding in the inverse order,-that is to say,
let the will to awaken replace that of putting to sleep, and
make horizontal instead of vertical passes. The two opera-
tions must in general last the same time; and if you desire
not to witness the state of somnolence and stupor much
prolonged which will follow the awaking, you must not
consider your subject as perfectly awake the moment he will
have opened his eyes, but you must continue the process of
demugnetising him until he feel himself perfectly re-esta-
blished in his normal state.
With respect to the horizontal passes, this is how they
arc performed. You approximate your wo hands by their
TO AWAKEN SOMNAMBULISTS 177
dorsal surfaces; you then separate them suddenly. You
repeat the same movement a certain number oftimes before
the face; after which you repeat it, going along the
entire median line down to the lower extremities inclu-
sively. In general, the act of awaking is slower according
as the sleep has lasted longer. I have several times occu-
pied an entire half-hour in accomplishing it; this case,
however, is extremely rare. What is fortunately still more
rare, is the absolute impossibility of determining it, as
happens either when we wish to awaken certain somnam-
bulists against their will, or when, in consequence of some
unknown physiological circumstance, your somnambulist
must sleep a determinate time, which has not yet elapsed.
·what must be done in that case? You must wait, and re-
sume the work when the favourable moment shall have
come.
With respect to certain nervous symptoms, they are
avoided by proceeding with reserve, with slowness if neces-
sary, and always with patience. Lastly, it occasionally
happens, that whatever may be done, these symptoms will
supervene : it is, however, the business of only some mo·
ments to dissipate them.
Ifthere remain any tendency to sleep, I recommend some
hours' rest on the bed ; but most frequently there is abso-
lutely no necessity for having recourse to any means, either
hygienic or therapeutic ; and somnambulists have found in
some hours magnetic sleep the reparatory rest a whole
night's ordinary sleep gives us.
178 OF TBB MAGNETIC FLUID.
CHAPTER VIII.
OF THE MAGNETIC FLUID.
Forgetting the sound maxim proposed to us by the
great Newton, and to which he always strictly adhered,
hypotheses non jingo, most of our cqrifreres in magnetism
admit, in order to account for the phenomena which they
witness, the subtle intervention of an unknown agent, to
which they have given the name of magneticfluid. Cer-
tainly, I .am far from condemning this hypothesis, since,
after all, it is the property of rational beings to test the
analysis of their sensations in the crucible of their under-
standing. But what I cannot help blaming is, the error of
accepting a simple conjecture as equal to a truth offact, and
of materialising all at once an agent which is probably
purely fictitious, since no one has ever seen it, nor touched
it, nor in any way felt it. Let us reflect, in fact, on the
great propensity to feed on nothing but matter, vainly to
torment the human mind : the great forces of nature, never-
theless, continue devoid both of extension and body; for our
senses have not as yet apprehended the planetary attraction,
that sublime and magic power from which the harmony of
the universe eternally emanates. But let us distrust analo-
gies, the exactness of which there is nothing to prove, and
let us endeavour to fill up the void left by our predeceaors
by judging the fact by the fact itself.
OF THE MAGNETIC FLUID. 179
Every one knows how limited are the notions we possess
regarding human life. Haller, Brown, and our immortal
Bichat, taking, as the theme of their speculations, some of
its most prominent properties, have in vain endeavoured to
define it. Some do not yet see in the aggregate of the
phenomena which constitute it any thing more than the
special reactions of a matter modified in its intimate pro-
perties by becoming organised; whilst some, cutting the
difficulty without solving it, peremptorily reject every kind
of approximation and comparison between man and the
other beings of nature, and leave to us the association of a
•oul with a body. Finally, there are some who, after the
example of St. Paul (Epialle to the Thessalonians, chap. v.),
find the means of extracting three entities from the human
organism, viz. a spirit or immortal soul, a living soul, and a
body, spiritus et anima et Corpu8. For reasons which will be
readily understood, we shall abstain, as much as possible,
from approaching the first of these abstractions ; for the
existence of an immortal soul is an article of faith, and
therefore is not discussed. But fortunately it is not so with
the living soul-the anima of St. Paul. This belongs to us
by right, and forms part of the domain of science, for its
essence is entirely earthly.
Now if, as we presume, it differs in nothing from the
fJitalitg ofour physiologists, from one ofthe secondaryarchod
of Van Belmont, from the material soul of Stahl, from the
tlital principle of Barthez, in a word, from vital movement,
that being of reason, which for so long a time occupied the
active minds of the great Locke and the Abbe Condillac, we
have some hope of establishing a definition of it, I do not
say merely a rational one, but almost a strictly accurate one.
180 OF THE MAGNETIC FLUID,
The simple properties of matter admitted by all philosophers
under the names of adhesion, affinity, molecular attraction,
&e., t~eem to us, in fact, to give a sufficient reason of life, but
that we may not be suspected of materialism, we repeat it
once again, only of organic life.
And first, it is not in man, of all living machines the
most complicated, that we should in the first place study
vital action, and investigate its laws. It was the employ-
ment of a method contrary to that which we propose, which
produced all the absurd reveries which most of our anthro-
pologists have presented to us up to the present time, under
the pompous title of systems. Let us then replace analysis
by synthesis, since experience proves to us that the first is
impracticable. Let us, in a word, proceed always from the
simple to the compound ; and we shall infallibly have touched
at the end, if we succeed in finding in some part the eternal
motion, or rather the source of this motion, which, by being
transmitted from age to age, animates successively all gene-
rations of beings.
Every one knows that in nature there are simple bodies
and compound bodies. I shall not stop here to define either
the one or the other, a thing which would, to say the least,
be common-place. I shall, however, state to such of my
readers as are but little familiar with chemical studies that,
whilst the latter are numberless, the number of the former
i11 so limited, that we can scarcely count more than fifty of
them, the barbarous names of which I shall refrain from
mentioning. Now it is by combining, and by aggregating
together in a thousand ways, and in proportions varying ad
infinitum, that the latter give rise to all the substances with
which we are acquainted. So true is this, that chemical
OF THE MAGNETIC FLUID. 181
analysis bas already succeeded in initiating us in the pri-
mary formation of almost all the individualities of inert
nature ; only it bas not yet solved, and probably never will
solve, the problem of the incomparably more complex com-
binations which furnish the succession of organised bodies.
But if we attentively descend along the grand series
of beings, which leads by almost imperceptible degrees from
man to the mineral, we feel so struck with the analogy
which unites the links of this imaginary chain, that we are
almost disposed to admit-
1st. That, taken in its widest acceptation, life is every
where identical, in whatever direction we observe it ;
2d. That we may almost tlatter ourselves with having at
least made it conceivable in man, the moment we shall have
made it intelligible in an atom. Well, let us prove by
an example that we may find its fundamental element
(motion) even in the simplest of all chemical combinations.
If, under certain conditions, we place in contact two
elementary bodies, oxygen and hydrogen, the molecules of
these two bodies will, by reason of a force of affinity which
is essential to them, approximate each other, and combine,
so as to form the molecules of a new body. A whitish and
ft.occulent vapour will at first fill the whole apparatus,
giving rise to a disengagement of caloric and of light pro-
portional to the rapidity of the operation. Then this vapour
will soon become clear and condensed ; and presently there
will remain in the glass ball, whi.ch was used in the com-
bustion, nothing but a multitude of small spheroidal and
diaphanous pearls, suspended from its sides. Now, if in
all these little drops of water (for it is water which bas been
just formed) we are agreed to see just so many real indi-
182 OF THE MAGNBTIC FLUID.
vidualities, I maintain that each of them will present to us
the image-I do not say complete, but perfect-of organic
life in the rudimentary state. J..et us resume the operation
just where we left off. J...et us set on fire new volumes of
hydrogen and oxygen, and instantly an internal and regular
motion recommences to manifest itself in each of these drops
of water, which, without losing its spherical appearance,
moves and enlarges in all directions, as an animal which
becomes increased in size. But how long will this epheme-
ral existence last ? Until the moment when the elements
which sustain it shall cease to be supplied to it. And it is
then only that motion will be succeeded by repose-that
repose, that eternal immobility, which men have styled
death.
But this is not all. Independently of motion, in the life
of my drop of water I find, as it were in miniature, all the
epiphenomena of animal life. Philosophers have detected
therein a continual disengagement of imponderable fluids.
Heat, light, and electricity, are lodged, just as in the flesh
of man, in all the molecular interstices of this water, which
has jwt come to life, and which will become cold tU a dead
body, after the entire accomplishment of its formation.
I..et not the reader for a moment suppose that the last
few lines contain merely a paradoxical allegory ; for if there
be a means of explaining the transmiBSion of motion in a
manner just as plausible as that motion itself, we shall have
truly penetrated the great mystery of life. Well, let us
imagine that, in the product ofa chemical combination there
be primarily developed some embryonic bodies, which, after
the cessation of motion-that is to say, after the accomplish·
ment of this primary combination-may be capable of
01' THE MAGNETIC FLUID. 183
recommencing a new one by the simple contact of the
surrounding bodies ; and we shall have divined the summary
history of all plants, of all animals, of all men-in a word,
of all the organised racea. Every thing inclines us to
believe, that things go on thus in nature. The seeds and
buds of trees, just as the reproductive germs of animals, are
developed at the same time as these treea and theae animals
themselves. Earth, water, sun, air, and assimilable sub-
stances, furnish or set in action the multiple elements of the
combinations, of which these germs and these seeds them-
selves form part. These reproduce in their tum their
analogues in obedience to the same laws ; and in this way it
is the living world is perpetuated.
It would now remain for us to investigate the nature
and cause of the abstract properties which matter contracts
on becoming organised. It would be a curious thing, for
example, to shew what is the relation existing between
simple chemical affinity and the first traces of that confused
sensibility, which characterises individuality; by what tram-
formations this sensibility mayengender instinct; and, finally,
instinct intelligence. But supposing that researches of this
kind were practicable, should we not, for the satisfaction of
all, refuse at first their consequences P Luckily, Providence
foresaw our extreme greediness, and on this point no one
will ever obtain the forbidden fruit.
Be this as it may, I am not afraid of being accused of a
$0phism, for summing up all that I have just said in this
double conclnsion.
lat. We know the properties of matter but very imper-
fectly ; for this very reason-that we can investigate them
only in inert matter.
184 01' THE MAGNETIC FLUID.
2d. The most complex of all animal lives, that of mao,
does not differ, probably, as to its principle, from that of the
lowest of beings.
If, then, it is true that every species of animal life is
nothing else but the saturation of the livirtg element,• by
elements which may be assimilated to its substanee,-if, in a
word, this life, properly speaking, is but a great chemical
combination, in which the properties of matter acquire
probably a developement and perfection proportional to the
perfection which this matter itself seems to acquire in the
high degree of the living scale,-does it not follow that every
organism must be the permanent focus and the point of
departure of phenomena analogous to those which we see
developed in all the ordinary chemical combinations? Thus,
whilst the drop of water which is forming is surrounded by
electro·luminous emanations, which our natural philosophers
do not pretend to have accurately defined, ought not some-
thing similar escape incessantly from a human organism P
Now, this something, of which we are very far indeed from
forming a distinct idea, but which we are not disinclined to
admit to be more than the thought itself, ofwhich it appears
occasionally to be the vehicle, this subtle intermedium of
the will must, in our opinion, be neither more nor less than
the 'fll(lgneticjluid, of the existence of which we shall, at a
subsequent period, endeavour to adduce direct proof.
* The oxygen of the air, as well as the nutritive part of aliments,
are constantly combining with the embryonic element, so that, with·
out the accidents which occasion it, death would not occur till the
complete saturation of this element. This appears to be clearly
proved by the petrification of the bones and the ossification of the
arteries in old persons.
185
CHAPTER IX.
OF THE FATIGUE FELT BY MAGNETISBB8-0F SOMNAMBULISM
OCCASIONED BY CBBTAIN MBDICINBS-SOMB CONSIDEBA•
TIONS ON THB NATURE OF MAGNETISM.
"THE treatment, especially by contact," says de J ussieu,
" may fatigue those who administer it. I have not expe-
rienced it in my own person, but I have seen several persons
debilitated after long sittings have recourse to the tub
(baquet) and to the contact of another person, and recover
strength by employing these two means." I know not
whether the contact of the mesmerian tub would have pro-
duced this last effect on me , I do know full well that I
should consider myself very fortunate to find so effectual a
means of recovering my strength after a long magnetic
sitting. Independently of the frequently extreme lassitude
which I feel after making the passes, a lassitude which is
accompanied by a copious transpiration, and is followed by
a bruising in all the joints, I feel after each operation
another sort of fatigue, which, directly affecting tlJe nervous
centres, resembles that sort of depression occasioned by
forced intellectual toil. My hand shakes, my sight is dim,
I should be incapable of writing, and if I go to bed, an in-
describable disturbance prevents me from sleeping. These
186 OF THE FATIGUE :EXPERIENCED
effects are, besides, subordinate to the individual who is
magnetised, to the manner of proceeding, and, above all, to
the dispositions in which the parties are; vigorous mag-
netisers do not even suspect their existence. For my own
part, I have several times heard myself say during the
sitting, " Monsieur, you are pale." I satisfied myself of the
fact by looking into a glass, and I always ascertained the
correctness of it. However, this sudden paleness was not
the result of physical fatigue, for I then frequently mag-
netised without gestures. But wi8hing intensely, and for a
long time, is attended with the same effect ; and every one
knows that the efforts of the brain have a limit, beyond
which the organ begins to suffer. It is, indeed a laborious
occupation that of the thinker, and the health is worn out
by it sooner than by carrying loads from the market.
"Meditation harasses the body" (Solomon). Now, to wish
as maguetisers wish is much worse than thinking, for I feel
I should die by it if I went on maguetising even an entire
day without discontinuing. Further, I never found in
myself that the contact of other men was, under such cir-
cumstances, a means of recruiting my strength ; but, to
speak the truth, I never tried to make myself certain on
the point.
This circumstance, however, should not alarm our pros-
elytes, since, after having magnetised several hundreds of
persons, I am not yet dead of exhaustion. My intentions
were confined then to the mention of a physiological fact,
which, by reason of an excessive impressionability, I should
perhaps appreciate better than another, and from which im-
portant corollaries seem to me to dow. In fact, it is partly
from these data that we are enabled to establish the phy· .
BY MAGNETISEBS. 187
sical conditions of a good magnetiser. He must be strong,
endowed with an energetic morale, and, above all, in a good
state of health ; for how could a sick person find in himself
health for others? It is probably by yielding to a somnam-
bulist the half of the vital power with which he is endowed,
that the extraordinary life is created in him by the ex-
uberant functional activity of which all his acts are charac-
terised. It is necessary, in fact, to have an excess of strength
to magnetise with success, otherwise the party must suffer
from the efforts he is obliged to make; for when he hasjust
the necessary share of health for himself he must necessarily
make himself ill by yielding part of it to others. What
sacrifices of this kind have I already made to truth ! But
what sincere apostle has ever refused martyrdom ?
Besides the magnetic sleep, extasy, and natural somnam-
bulism, there still exists a species of somnambulism which
differs from the latter only in the cause which occasions it.
I now speak of @Omnambulism produced by certain medi-
cines, such as opium, belladonna, &c. This species of som-
nambulism is far from being one of constant symptoms of
intoxication by narcotics ; but it is certain that those
substances, administered in certain doses and in states which
have not yet been determined, produce a very singular
state, one which can be compared only to the magnetic
sleep. Dr. Frapart has communicated several cases, which
leave no doubt on this subject. Somnambulism, then, is a
manner of abnormal existence, it is true, but one inherent,
however, in our nature, the elements and oftentimes the
causes of which each individual includes within himself.
" The will of man," says the author of a letter to Deleuze,
"is but one of the means to excite in the organisation that
188 OF THE FATIGUE EXPERIENCED
instinctive or medicinal force (as it has been called) which
acquires its highest developement in somnambulism. Plain
water, sea-water, metals, violent pains, diseases, internal
dispositions, the nature of which is to us unknown, may
bring it into action without the will of another individual
performing any active part. We have laid too much then
to the account of the will and of benevolence to call it
forth ; I think rather that, this force once awakened, en-
lightened reason and a benevolent will are necessary to
direct it properly, for it is very rarely that it can by itself
make use of the compass. It appears to me that a superior
mind and a benevolent will, sustained by positive know-
ledge and great experience, give it a salutary direction ;
whilst a bad will, selfish passions, and the want of experi-
ence, may disturb it, drive it even to madness, and cause it
to float at random on a dark ocean, where up to the present
time there have been but few stars to guide the traveller."
These reflections seem to me to present a vast fund of truth ;
but, without determining whether there is or is not a
necessity to direct the lucidity of somnambulists, we present
the fundamental idea included in this passage, and adopt it
as a part of our profession of faith. Every species of
somnambulism consists in a certain state of the nervous
system, which may be produced by a multitude of causes
indifferently, not bearing any analogy to each other. Thus
the somnambulist's own will may be substituted for the
will of the magnetiser, since there are subjects which go to
sleep and awake by themselves, and when it pleases them;
then, also, a certain organic disposition is equivalent to
every species of will, since somnambulism is produced often
enough of itself. Thus again a disease (extasy) gives rise
(
I
I
I
BY MAGNBTlSEBS. 189
to the same ·result. Lastly, it is in this way that several
medicinal agents may replace the will, the passes, &c., so u
to produce the same effects. This delicate question formed
one day a subject of conversation with me and a young
somnambulist, whom I have already frequently quoted :-
"What difference," said I to her, "do you suppose
exists between natural somnambulism and artificial som-
nambulism ?"
"None, as I think."
" When you magnetise yourself, then, do you find your-
self the same as when another magnetises you P"
" Precisely."
" You do not then believe in the existence of the tluid ?"
"I never saw it."
" But how do you explain the circumstance that a
somnambulist can think by his maguetiser P"
" Because the former divines the thought of the latter,
and has the condescension to submit to it."
" Whence, then, comes the closeness of the relations
which uni~ them P"
"From their contact and habitude."
"But again this community of thought P"
" Eh, sir! you told me that extatics divined the thoughts
of all persons who approached them ; there were not, how-
ever, between the one and the other those pretended ties in
which you pretend to enchain them by maguetising. Go,
you are a physician, and you will die in your Atheism, for
you have learned Atheism with anatomy."
I present these retlections of a lady to our readers
without comment; they seem to me well deserving oftheir
consideration.
190 OF THE FATIGUE EXPERIENCED
Be this as it may, and notwithstanding the large share
which we have attributed to moral agents in the produc-
tion of the magnetic phenomena, it is not the less true that
the passes and frictions employed and made in a certain
direction, have also an intrinsic power, since they have
frequently sufficed to produce somnambulism. It follows,
then, that one might magnetise a man precisely in the
same way as we charge the resinous plate of an electro-
phore with electricity. Would the two facts be identical P
I do not think so ; but I should not like to take it on
myself to prove the contrary. Still further, bodies re-
puted electric are also endowed with a peculiar magnetic
virtue. We know, for instance, that certain polished sur-
faces are electrified by striking them with the skin ofa cat ;
now cats produce one of the most marked effects on all
somnambulists, and it would require no more than the
mere contact of one of these animals to produce a crisis on
Miss Estelle l'Hardy, one of M.Despine's cataleptics. Som-
nambulists are also very sensible to the contact, and even to
the approach, of metallic substances. Copper, in particular,
affects them painfully. The persons who were with us at
those sittings of M. Ricard, of which we have given the ac-
count,• were able to convince themselves of this circum-
stance. Callixte, on passing before the ladies, stops all at
once, crying out in a sort of fright, " Copper I there is
copper there I" We look and find nothing. However,
Callixte repeats, "I tell you that it is copper," and hesitates
like a man who was afraid of putting his foot on a serpent.
The by-standers stoop and look again, and the result of
* Chap. V. PnutratWII qfIM Tlaouglat.
BY MAGNETISEBS. 191
their new inquiries justifies the strange apprehensions of the
somnambulist, for they find under the sofa an umbrella,
which a lady had let fall there, the extremity of which was
covered with copper.
I am at the present time engaged in experimental re-
searches, the object ofwhich is to determine the nature of
the relations which may be established between animal
magnetism and electricity; but the results which I have
attained are not yet fit to place before the public.
192 OF TBE MAGNETISATION
CHAPTER X.
ON TBE MAGNETISATION OF FOOD, OF DRINXS, OF RINGS, AND
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES IN GENERAL.
WHEN I read, for the first time, the description of the
effects occasioned by wat~r, by rings, tubs (baquets), hand-
kerchiefs, and especially by trees, after these several sub-
stances had been magnetised, I threw away the book,
shrugging my shoulders and asking myself how there could
be men so prodigal of their time as to consume it in relating
such fooleries, and others so silly as to take such stories as
serious. Well, pride is but a fool, said a man of wit ; but
all proud persons are not incorrigible. Let the incredulous
now laugh at me as much as they list, I consign myself to
their pity ; but they shall not prevent me from crying out
with all the strength of my lungs, "the things which I
ridiculed are true, infinitely true." Formerly, I had the
pride of incredulity, now I have the pride of faith. Let our
adversaries recollect that incredulity is oftentimes mere
ignorance.
The famous tree of Busancy, magnetised by MM. de
Puysegur, was the first wonder of this kind against which
my reason revolted. I own there was cause for doubting.
Let my readers weigh the motives of my pyrrhonism by
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 193
glancing over the following letter. It is one of M. Cloc-
quet, a custom-house receiver, who had gone to Busancy, as
a number of other curious persons did, in order to witness
the treatment of M. le Marquis de Puysegur :-
"Soissons, June 13, 1784.
" Attracted, like others, to this exhibition, I carried with
me to it the dispositions of a calm and impartial observer,
determined to keep myself on my guard against the illusions
of novelty and of astonishment, determined also to see well
and to hear well.
" Represent to yourself a country village. In the Inidst
is an elm, at the foot of which flows a fountain of the
clearest water,-an old, immense tree, but still very vigorous
and verdant,-a tree respected by the ancients of the place,
who on festival days assemble there in the morning to
discourse about their crops, and more especially concerning
the approaching vintage,-a tree cherished by the young
folk, who hold their meetings there in the evening to form
their rustic dances. This tree, magnetised from time im-
memorial by the love of pleasure, is so at present by the
love of humanity. MM. Puysegur have imparted to it
a salutary, active, penetrating virtue. Its emanations are .
distributed by means of cords, with which the body and
branches are surrounded, which are affixed to it all around,
and are prolonged at pleasure. Several circular stone seats
have been placed around this mysterious tree, on which all
the sick persons are seated, who twist the cord around the
affected part of their body. Then the operation commences,
every one forming the chain and holding each other by the
thumb. The magnetic fluid circulates at these moments
0
194 OF THE MAGNETISATION
with greater f1·eedom. The impression of it is felt more or
less. If it so happen that any one breaks the chain by
letting go his neighbour's hand, some of the patients feel a
constringing sensation, and declare aloud that the chain is
broken. The time comes when, in order to give them rest,
the master permits them to let go bands, recommending
them to rub them. But the most interesting act·is this :
M. Puysegur, whom I shall henceforward call the master,
chooses among his patients several persons, whom, by the
touch of his bands and by presenting his wand (an iron rod
about fifteen inches in length), he throws into a perfect
cns1s. The completion of this state is an appearance of
sleep, during which the physical faculties appear suspended,
but to the profit of the intellectual faculties. They haYc
the eyes shut, the sense of bearing is gone; he awakes only
to the voice of the master. Great care must be taken not
to touch the patient in the crisis, nor even the chair on
which he is sitting, as it would cause him great distress and
convulsions, which the master only can control. These
patients in a state of crisis, who are called physiciaiJS, bave a
supernatural power, by means of which, on touching a
patient who may be presented to them, by applying their
·hand even above the clothes, they feel what is the organ
affected, the part that is suffering ; they declare it and direct
nearly the proper treatment.
" I caused myself to be touched by one of these physi-
cians; it was by a woman of nearly fifty years of age. I
certainly had not informed any one of the nature of my
disease. After she had dwelt for some time, particularly at
my head, she told me that I frequently suffered, and that I
bad habitually a great buzzing noise in my ears, which
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 19.5
was actually the truth. A young man, an incredulous
spectator of this experiment, then submitted to it; and he
was told that he was affected in the stomach, that he had
an engorged state of the abdominal organs, and this ever
since a disease which he had some years before. This he
owned to us was strictly comformable to the truth. Not
satisfied with this divination, he was, at the distance of
twenty paces from his first physician, touched by another
of them, who told him precisely the same thing. I never
saw any thing like the stupefaction of this young mao, who
certainly had come to contradict and banter, and not to be
convinced. A singularity not less remarkable than what I
have been mentioning is, that those physicians who for
four houn have been touching patients and conversing with
them have remembered nothing, absolutely nothing, when
it has been the wish of the master to disenchant them and
restore them to their normal state; the time which elapsed
from their entrance into the crisis up to their exit from it
is, as one might say, none, so that a well-supplied table shall
be laid before these sleeping physicians, they shall eat and
drink, and if, the table being cleared away, the master
shall restore them to their normal state, they will not re-
member that they have eaten any thing. The master has
the power, as I have already said, of making himself heard
by these physicians in a state of crisis; but, and I have fre-
quently seen it with my eyes open, I have seen him point
his finger towards one of these physicians always in the
state of crisis and in a spasmodic sleep, make him follow him
every where he pleased; I have also seen him send them to
a distance from him, either to their own residence, or to
different places which he conceived in his mind without
196 OF THE IIIAGNETISATION
telling them. Remember, the physician always bas the
eyes closed. I forgot to tell you that the intelligence of
these sick physicians is singularly susceptible. If, at a con-
siderable distance, discourses are going on which are in any ·
way offensive to propriety, they hear them, as one might
say, interiorly ; their soul suffers in consequence, they
complain of it, and apprise the master of it, a circumstance
which several times occasioned scenes of confusion for those
arch jesters who indulged in those inconsiderate and mis-
placed sarcasms at MM. Puysegur's. But how does the
master disenchant these physicians ? It is sufficient to
touch them on the eyes, or else he says to them, ' Go, em-
brace the tree.' Then they arise, go direct to the tree, and
soon after tbetr eyes open ; there is a smile on their lips,
and an appearance of satisfaction on their face. I interro-
gated several of these physicians, who assured me that they
had no recollection of any thing that passed during the
three or four hours of their crisis. I questioned a great
many of the ordinary patients who had not been put into a
crisis, for all have not this faculty, and all assured me that
they experienced much relief since they submitted to the
simple treatment, either of the touch by the master, or of
the cord or chain; all told me of the very great number
of cures which had been effected on persons of their ac-
quaintance.
"I think, sir, that all these details regarding these phy-
sicians in the state of crisis are new to you ; I do not see
them in any of the works published on animal magnetism.
"You will ask me, probably, what is the essential end
of this magnetism !' Do MM. Puysegur pretend to cure all
diseases ? No ; these gentlemen entertain no such extra-
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 197
vagant idea. They enjoy the pure, unalloyed pleasure of
being useful to their fellow-creatures, and they exercise
their power with all the zeal and all the energy which the
love of humanity inspires. They think that the magnetic
emanations, which they dispose of at their own option, are
in general a principle which renovates life, sometimes suffi-
ciently to restore tone to a weakened viscus, and to give the
blood and other humours a salutary movement. They be-
lieve and prove that magnetism is a sure index to attain the
knowledge of diseases whose seat escapes the sensations of
the patient and the observation of physicians, but they
declare positively that practical medicine must concur with
magnetism and second its effects.
" Whilst I was observing the most interesting spectacle
I ever witnessed, I frequently heard the word charlatanism
pronounced, and I said to myself, it is possible that two
young persons, light, inconsiderate, and of no rank, may
get up a concerted scene of illusions and of legerdemain, and
make dupes in order to laugh at them; but I can never be
persuaded that two men of the court, who have been brought
up with the utmost care by a highly educated parent, hon-
oured in his province for his talents and personal good
qualities, which he has transmitted to his children, in the
bloom of health and in the height of enjoyment on their
estates, where they come to relax their mind in the finest
season of the year,-I can never be persuaded, nor can any
rational man, that MM. de Puysegur would, for one month,
abandon their business and their pleasures to devote them-
selves to the repeated ennuiof saying and doing things of the
falsity and inutility of which they must have been internally
convinced. This continuation of mendacity and tiresome-
198 OF THE MAGNETISATION
ness is inconsistent not only with the nature, but with the
well-known character of these gentlemen.
"I could more readily conceive that M. Mesmer (if I
could augur badly of the veracity of a man capable of
making a great discovery, and who besides, for several years
back, was watched by very clear-sighted eyes) would
indulge in the fastidious repetition of false and lying experi-
ments, because, one might suppose that M. Mesmer would
have some object in doing so; but what interest could induce
MM. Puysegur to do so? It is only necessary to see them
in the midst of their patients to be persuaded of their inter-
nal conviction, and of the satisfaction which they feel in
turning to a useful account the interesting and sublime doe-
trine which has been disclosed to them.
"Ask all the unfortunate persons who came to implore
the assistance of the Lord ofBusancy ; they will all tell you :
he bas consoled us, he has cured us ; several among us
wanted bread ; we dared not to appeal to his beneficence ; he
divined our thoughts and relieved our wants. He is our
father, our liberator, our friend.
"I have the honour to be," &c.
It is certain that if any reader, who had never been
present at any magnetic experiment, happened to open my
book at hazard and just to alight upon this letter, he would
not fail to imagine that I extracted it from some Arabian
tale, or that I drew it up as a romance. 'Veil ! it is no
such thing. This letter is that of a serious observer, who
tells nothing but what he has seen. I know well that
magnetiscrs have not had the same success with trees as
MM. de Puysegur , but their experiments were, nevertheleea,
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 199
repeated with success, first by the Marquis de Tissard, their
contemporary, and subsequently by M. Segretier, of
Nantz, &c. If the same experiment did not succeed in
presence of the commissioners of 1784, that was attributable
to reasons which we shall make known after having quoted
the passage of Bailly's report, which refers to this question :
" When a tree bas been touched according to the principles
and method of magnetism, every one who adheres to it must
experience, more or less, the effects of this agent ; there are
some even who lose their consciousness, or are thrown into
convulsions. It was mentioned toM. d'Eslon, who answered,
that the experiment should succeed provided the subject
was very sensible, and an arrangement was made with him
to make it at Passy, in presence of M. Franklin. The ne·
cessity that the subject should be sensible made the com-
missioner think that to render the experiment decisive and
satisfactory it was necessary that it should be made by a
person selected by M. d'Eslon, and whose sensibility to mag-
netism he should try beforehand. They marked in the
orchard an apricot-tree perfectly isolated and fit for pre·
serving the magnetic fluid impressed upon it. M. d'Eslon
was brought there alone in order to magnetise it, the young
man having remained in the house with a person who did
not quit it. They would have wished that M. d'Eslon
would not be present at the experiment ; but he stated that •
it might fail if he did not direct his cane and his looks on
this tree, in order to increase its action. Care was taken to
remove M. d'Eslon as far as possible, and to place some of
the commissioners between him and the young man, in order
to satisfy themselves that be would make no signals, and to
be able to answer that there was no understanding between
200 OF THE JIIAGNETISATION
them. These precautions in an experiment which was to be
authentic are indispensable, without being offensive.
"The young man was then brought up, his eyes band-
aged, and they presented him successively to four trees,
which were not magnetised, making him embrace each for
the space of two minutes, according to the arrangement
made by M. d'Eslon himself.
" M. d' Eslon, being present, at a considerable distance,
directed his cane on the tree which was really magnetised.
"At the first tree, the young man being questioned, at
the expiration of one minute declared that he sweated large
drops, be coughed, spit, and said he felt a slight headach ;
the distance from the magnetised tree was about twenty-
seven feet.
" At the second tree he felt himself stunned ; the same
pain in the head: the distance was thirty-six feet.
" At the third tree the feeling of stunning was re-
doubled, as well as the headaeh. He says he thinks he
is approaching the magnetised tree ; he was then about
thirty-eight feet from it.
"Lastly, at the fourth tree not magnetised, and at about
the distance of twenty-four feet from the tree that was so,
the young man fell into a crisis ; he lost consciousness, his
• limbs became rigid, and be was conveyed to a neighbour-
ing grass-plot, where M. d'Eslon recovered him."
What does this experiment prove? nothing, absolutely
nothing; except that the imagination is sufficient, as no
one doubts, to produce magnetic effects. Why does the
young man fall into a crisis under trees that had not been
magnetised? Is it to play pranks ou the commissioners ?
Not by any means : the poor child knows they told him
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 201
that he is to be magnetised, and this idea pre-occupies
and entirely engages his young mind. At length, in con-
sequence of having been persuaded that he is to experience
such and such things, he actually does experience them ;
and, as the phenomenon does not develope itself all at
once, his state of indisposition and disquiet follows an
ascending course, the phases of which, however, are not
proportioned at all to the distances which separate him
from the magnetised tree. Further (the great Broussais
often repeated the phrase after Jussieu), negative facts do
not invalidate positive facts; and when again M. d' Eslon's
young man experienced nothing under the apricot-tree of
Passy the elm of Busancy should not the less continue
an historical tree. We shall, in another place, detail the
differe;t experiments made by ourselves with respect to
the magnetisation of different inert substances; unfortu-
nately, the greater part of these experiments had not wit-
nesses whose names are of sufficient authority ; but testi-
monies, however high, add nothing to a truth when this
truth is a fact, which every one may reproduce when he
pleases.
lst Experiment. On Magnetised lVater.-This experi-
ment is performed at table, and was accompanied with
burlesque circumstances; which, however, take nothing
from its scientific value. The 4th of May, 1840, being
invited to dine with one of my patients, M. Gu•, in the
Rue St. Honore, the idea occurred to me to magnetise a
decanter of water, in order to see whether this water, of
which Miss Julia G•• was to drink during dinner, would
produce any effect on this young person, who was often
submitting to magnetic treatment. My preparations were
202 OF THE MAGNETISATION
made in secret, and none of the guests had any knowledge
of it. There was no reason, then, if my experiment should
happen to succeed, to attribute its success to imagination.
About one quarter of an hour after my arrangements were
made we sat down to dinner, and, to avoid introducing any
complexity into the causes of the result I promised myself,
I strove not to think of magnetism, to forget even my
experiment, and to banish from my mind the very thought
of Miss Julia. All this was much more difficult than may
be imagined ; but I said I was indisposed, the better to
conceal my joke, and the. thousand common-plac~s with
which they overpowered me prevented me from thinking
of any thing else. However, my situation becomes more
and more embarrassing ; my magnetised water circulates
freely, every one drinks of it, and as no one seems to ex-
perience any thing from it I begin to feel ridiculous. What
foolery, said I to myself, to pretend to put people
to sleep with water over which I passed my hands two
or three times ! there is no common sense in it, and I
would not for the world that they should know what I had
done. These maguetisers are quite absurd, and if I don't
look sharp they will ultimately make me as great a fool
as themselves, &c. In a word, I lost all relish for it ; and
yet, I must own, notwithstanding my disappointment, some-
thing like hope remained at the bottom of my thought.
At length, I thought no more of the magnetised water ; but
I would cheerfully have given twenty francs to see Miss
Julia yawn. But, as if by design, my water diminishes
without her touching it. Every thing, then, conspires
against me I Will this young lady dine, then, without
drinking!'
'ed'vGoogle
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 203
" Have you still a horror of wine, then, Miss Julia?"
'! More than ever, monsieur."
" And water ?"
"One must drink something."
" Why do you not drink any thing? Take care of
your gastrite."
"Do not mention it."
" Does it make you afraid ?"
"It terrifies me : the disease, the remedy, and the doc-
tors; all make me tremble."
"Drink, then, whilst eating; or if not--"
Miss Julia at length empties her glass, but she continues
in the same way, and I lose all hope. The decanter is
nearly dry : there scarcely remains enough of the liquid
soporific to cover the bottom. No matter, this is for Miss
Julia. The devil! now her grandmother hands me her
glass. In my life rll never magnetise another drop of
water. What do I see ? ,
"Are you sighing, Miss Julia?"
"You are too polite, sir,-hut it is not my fault."
" How ! are you--"
" Yes ; I know not what I feel. Ah ! you are mag-
netism personified.''
"Indeed!"
" I am not jesting; I know not whether it is an idea,
but I have a mind to sleep. Oh! but-"
On finishing these words she yawns again, and her eye-
lid is evidently falling. I would have readily embraced
her.
"I beg ofyou," continued she, "give over magnetising
me."
204 OF THE MAGNETISATION
Now, indeed, I can no longer contain myself, and with
a triumphant air I apprise all the company of what I had
done. I was little aware of the consequences of this im-
prudent acknowledgment.
Monsieur and Madame G••, whilst astonished at what
I had told them, took the thing as they should ; but grand-
mamma had also drunk of the magnetised water! In
my life I never witnessed a more amusing scene. The very
Academy of Sciences would have laughed at it. The good
old dowager thinks herself actually pQssessed, and recom-
mends her soul to all the saints. Imagine then ! the devil
bas dipped his paw into what she drank ; and deservedly,
as she had never said her benedicite! My water burns her
stomach like boiling oil, and causes her sulphurous regurgi-
tations. At length, after being assured that I had not
cloven feet, and that there were no horns beneath my hair,
she becomes somewhat more tranquil; but I am satisfied
that, but for this grotesque episode, Miss Julia would not
have been far from being asleep.
2d Experiment.-Three days after this cabalistical ban-
quet, having gone to pay a visit to the family G.., I asked
Miss Julia if she would taste magnetised water again; she
consented, and the experiment took place in presence of
her friends. I then magnetise my glass of water, but this
time with a confidence which nothing could destroy.
"Are you not afraid of the devil, Miss Julia?"
"You know well I am not, sir."
"Well, then, drink."
"Drink without any thirst?"
"It is one of the specific characters of humanity."
" What taste has it ?"
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES.
"The taste of water."
" But still--"
205
" Of the Seine water ; it is possible I may be mis-
taken."
They look at me and laugh.
" Do you feel nothing ?"
"No."
" What ! you do not feel ?"
"I feel I have my stomach distended by a large glass of
water, but that is all."
"Let us wait."
We wait accordingly, and Miss Julia continues her
bantering But matters soon begin to change, for three
minutes did not elapse when she says to me :-
"It is surprising! I no longer have an inclination to
laugh."
"Why?"
"Because I am inclined to yawn."
"Do not restrain yourself, Miss; you agree, then, that
though my water may be devoid of taste, it has not the
less virtue ?"
"Ah! it is astonishing!"
Saying these words, she rises up· briskly, and takes two
or three turns round the room, then throws herself on her
seat, crying out:-
" All in vain ; I shall not succeed in preventing myself
from going to sleep."
Accordingly, in half a minute, Miss Julia says to me,
in a state u/perfect somnambulism,-
" I beg of you, sir, magnetise me a little on the head
and extremities, for I am agitated."
206 OF THE MAGNETISATION
"Whence comes your agitation ?"
"From having gone to sleep against my will."
3d ExpP.riment.-There is no doubt but that, if the first
experiment had completely succeeded, it would have been
infinitely more conclusive than the preceding one, for the
imagination in the latter might have had its share; but here
is one where the imagination went for nothing, and which
decided me perfectly with respect to the magnetisation of
inanimate bodies, or, if you will have it, with respect to the
transmission of the magnetic action by means of inert sub-
stances.
On the 15th of May, Mr. and Mrs. G** came to my
house, accompanied by their daughter. After some moments
of general conversation, chiefly relating to magnetism and
our last interview, the idea occurred to me to try whether
a magnetised chair, on which Miss Julia should sit, would
be capable of putting her to sleep. Having then formed a
pretext for absenting myself for a moment, I went to mag-
netise a sofa. in the adjoining room, into which I summoned
the family G**. I am certain ofhaving managed the matter
so as not to afford any suspicion with regard to my intention.
Miss Julia, sitting between her mother and me, occupies
herself in turning over the leaves of an album which I put
into her hands, but she does not proceed beyond the third
drawing before she goes to sleep. I have accordingly made
up my mind on this point, and this third experiment is the
last I made, and probably shall ever make for mere curi08ity.
Magnetism does not require or admit of frivolous and
especially useless experiments. Besides, there is no mag-
netiser who, with respect to the different questions we have
just examined, has not arrived at the same results as I ha,·e.
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 207
Thus we read in Deleuze,• "The magnetiser may com-
municate his fluid to several objects, and these objects be-
come either the conductor of his action, or fit it for trans-
mitting it and producing magnetic effects on those persons
with whom it is in connexion. By means of some of these
auxiliaries, he may also conduct at the same time, and
without distressing himself, the treatment ofseveral patients,
when they are not somnambulists.
" These auxiliaries are magnetised water, wool, cotton,
plates ofglass, &c., which have been magnetised, magnetised
trees, magnetic tubs or reservoirs .
" Ma.,O'Jletised water is one of the most. powerful and also
the most salutary agents that can be employed. The
patients with whom the connexion is established are made
to drink of it either during meals or between meals.t It
directly conveys the magnetic fluid into the stomach, and
thence into all the organs : it facilitates the crisis to which
nature is disposed ; and for that reason it sometimes excites•
the transpiration, sometimes the evacuations, sometimes the
circulation of the blood : it strengthens the stomach, calms
pain, and oftentimes it is capable of taking the place of
several medicinal substances.
The foreign physician, whose letter to Deleuze serves as
it were as a complement to the works of the latter, ex-
presses himself in these terms on the same subject :t-
" I have made the most varied and decisive experiments on
* Instruction Pratique.
t Magnetised water does not always produce sleep ; I have fre-
quently employed it as a sedative, and, according to Deleuze, it may
fulfil several other uses.
:::Page 28.
208 OF TUB MAGNETISATION
the power and mode of action of magnetised water. They
have brought me to verify two points, which are now proved
beyond all doubt. The first is, that somnambulists, and
even several persons who are in the magnetic state, discover
by an impression for which we cannot account, because this
modification of taste slumbers within us, whether the water
has been magnetised, whether it has been magnetised by
their magnetiser, or by another person, whether it has been
merely touched by any one after having been magnetised,
and that they vomit sometimes even to the last drop the
water which has been touched by a stranger. I have seen
a female somnambulist who thought she had schirrus
of the stomach, and who for two months and a half could
bear nothing but water magnetised by her physician : if
inadvertently they gave her any other, she instantly vomited
it. The second result of my observations is that very
exalted somnambulists require a great quantity of magne-
tised water for drinking, and th~t they assimilate this water
in a manner different from that which takes place in the
waking state ; that is to say, that this water does not pass
with the ordinary promptitude into the organs of secre-
tion,'' &c.
We read in Georget's work,• " Wishing to satisfy myself
whether the bodies which have received the magnedc in-
fluence really acquire new properties with respect to taste,
I made them several times taste water in different glasses,
one of which had received this influence ; the only interest-
ing fact which I obtained was this, the magnetised water
was discovered to have a ferruginous taste, and distinguish~
• Physiologic du Systcme Neneux. Paris, 1821, tom. i. p. 2111.
OF INANIJIIATE SUBSTANCES, 209
from other water contained and successively tasted in five
glasses."
M. Foissac• thinks he can employ the same fact to prove
the existence of a magnetic fluid. " Here," says he, " is an
experiment which may serve to prove the reality of a
magnetic fluid or agent. I presented to Pault two glasses
of water on a plate ; one of them was magnetised ; he tasted
them slightly, and immediately recognised that which was
magnetised. He found in this water a peculiar taste, and
the moment he drank it, there arose, he said, from his
stomach a heat similar to that which came from the ex-
tremity of my fingers. I frequently repeated this experi-
ment with the same success, taking all the precautions pos-
sible, and carrying the number of glasses up to eight."
To this pas.~age is annexed an important note, in which it
is stated that a person affected with spasmodic vomiting,
was, under the eyes of Professor Fouquier, cured of this
affection by magnetised water prepared for her by M.
Bertrand. These gentlemen having wished to satisfy them-
selves whether the imagination of the patient was not the
cause of the salutary effects which she experienced, sub-
stituted, without her knowledge, common water for that
which was magnetised, and the vomiting immediately re-
turned. At length they made her take water which she
did not know to have been magnetised, and the digestion
was duly performed.t
* Rapports et Discussions de I'Academie Royale de Medecine sur
le Magnetisme Animal. Paris, 1833, p. 409.
t Paul Villagrand, a somnambulist, already mentioned.
:1: These diJferent considerations explain to us the origin and
nature oC talismans, amulets, soporific philtres, &c., which perCorm so
p
210 OF THE MAGNETISATION
It would be easy for us to multiply ad i7ifirtilum the
number of our authorities; but we do not feel it necessary,
for the merit and reputation of the men whom we quote
are at least worth the trouble ofrepeating their experiments.
Now this is all we can ask of our readers. They would not
believe us sufficiently well, if they contented themselves
with believing us on our word. In the matter of mag•
netism, I repeat, a man must see with his eyes, hear with
his ears, and touch with his hands; for what signify all the
testimonies in the world, when the question is concerning
facts supposed impossible? This is just what happens in
such cases. The name of the witness, however illustrious
he may be, gives no credit to the thing; it is the thing on
the contrary which discredits the witness. J,et us now pass
on to some practical details on the magnetisation of water,
trees, &c.
a. Nothing in the world is more simple than to magnetise
a glass of water : you take the glass in one of your hands,
while you pass your hand several times to the surface of
the liquid.
important a part in the legends of the middle ages. M. Mialle tell&
us (Expose par ordre alphabtftiquc des cures oplries par le Magta{timae
Animal, Paris, 1826,2 vol. in-s), that having told M. Pnysegnr that
his sleep was disturbed and painfnl, the latter gave him a bit of mag-
netised glass, which be recommended him to put on his chest, when
be wished to sleep. M. )fialle had some difficulty in comprehending
bow this could come about ; but the very same night be saw that
one should never ridicule a thing which be did not understand. " Ae
soon as I went to bed," says be, " I wished to try the eft'ect of my
glass ; I bad scarcely placed it on my chest when I experienced a
beat like that which M. Pnysegur communicated to me ; my eyelids
soon became heavy, and I passed an ezcellent nigbt."-II&Irodudiolt,
p. 8.
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 211
b. The magnetisation of a bottle of water is not more
troublesome. Two or three minutes' pa8ses in the same
direction constitute the entire operation. " There is a pro-
cess," says Deleuze,* " which I employ in preference, to
magnetise a decanter of water, when I am certain that it is
not disagreeable to the person whom I magnetise : it con-
sists in placing the bottle on my knee, and placing my mouth
on the aperture.
" I breathe into the bottle, and, at the same time, I
make passes with my two hands over all the surface. I
think this method gives a strong charge, but it is not neces-
sary. The hands are sufficient to magnetise." The same
author adds elsewhere that whatever processes be followed,
they would be absolutely useless, if not employed with
attention and with a determinate will. This reflection,
which we consider just, and which we shall not repeat
again, seems to us applicable to every species of magnetic
operation.
c. " To magnetise a tree, we commence by embracing
it for some minutes; we then go from the tree, and direct
the fluid towards the summit, and from the summit towards
the trunk, following the direction of the large branches.
When we have arrived at the union of the branches, we
descend to the bsse of the trunk, and we conclude by mag-
netising the surrounding parts in order to diffuse the fluid
over the roots, and to bring it from the extremity of the
roots to the foot of the tree. When we have finished on
one side, we then place ourselves on the opposite side and
do the same thing. This operation, which is the business
* lustnu:tiou Pratique, p. 73.
212 OF THE MAGMETISATIOM
of half an hour, should be repeated four or five days con-
secutively. We fasten cords to the tree to serve as con-
ductors. The patients who place themselves around the
tree commence by touching it, resting on the trunk. They
then sit on the ground or on seats ; they take one of the
cords suspended from the branches and put it around them.
The union of the patients around the tree keeps up the
circulation of the fluid. However, it is as well that the
magnetiser should come from time to time to renew and
regulate the action. For this purpose it is sufficient for
him to touch the tree for some moments. He also pays
particular attention to those who stand in need of it; and
if among the patients there be any one who experiences the
crises, he removes him to a distance from the tree, to mag·
netise him separately."•
The same author adds a little farther on that the selec-
tion of the trees is not a matter of indifference ; that all
those must be excluded whose juice is caustic and poisonous,
such as the fig-tree, the rose-bay, the cherry-laurel, the
sumach, and even the walnut-tree. The trees which have
been chiefly employed up to the present time are the elm-
tree, the oak, the lime-tree, the ash-tree, and the orange·
tree ; the latter, when it is in box, bas the advantage of
being capable of being conveyed into the apartments.
d. The tubs to which recourse was had only when
the patients to be treated were numerous, are at present
scarcely at all employed; we shall give, however, the plan of
constructing them. To construct a magnetic reservoir, you
take a wooden box, from two to two feet and a half high,
* D&LBUZE, book cited, p. 81,
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 213
the lower edge of which insulates the bottom by separating
it some inches from the ground. The form of this box is a
matter of indifference, and its dimensions depend on the use
to be made of it; that is, on the number of the patients to
be placed around it. An iron stand firmly fixed by its base
on a glass block, or in a boca!, descends "ithin two inches
of the bottom, and rises vertically to the height of two or
three feet above the cover. Bottles of magnetised water
communicating by means of iron wires which p81!8 through
the stopper with the chief conductor are placed circularly
around the base of the latter. These bottles, if the tub is
large, may form several planes placed one over the other.
Sand, iron filings, pounded glass or water, carefully mag-
netised, fill up the interstices. The lid or cover which is
formed oftwo symmetrical pieces ofwood, united carefully at
their edges, is pierced by a certain number of holes through
which pass iron rods bent and moveable, which serve also
as conductors. Finally, from the summit of the central
conductor linen or woollen cords are given off, which the
patients may put around them during the treatment. In-
dependently of the general preparations which we have just
describ(d, the reservoir must be regularly magnetised at
the time we are going to make use of it. This operation is
to be repeated several days consecutively on commencing,
and the same magnetiser must always perform the duty.
Once the reservoir shall have been well charged, in order
to charge it anew, it will be sufficient that the magnetiser
bold the central conductor for some moments in his hand.
The baths are magnetised by means of longitudinal
passes made at the surface of the water, and over the sides
of the bathing tub. Magnetised baths present a therapeutic
214 Ol!' THE MAGNETISATION
resource, from which I have several times derived advantage.
Somnambulists prescribe them for themselves very often.
e. Magnetism is also practised by means of passes,
frictions employed in the same direction, rings, handker·
chiefs, other articles of the toilet, &
.c. ; but for all metallic
substances, it is good, according to Deleuze, to choose only
among the metals not readily oxydised, such as gold and
platina, or among the metals whose oxydes are not poisonous.
Copper, antimony, zinc, &c., must then be rejected.
Many individuals, a long time habituated to magnetism,
are put to sleep by means of a magnetised ring ; but the
sleep, in such cases, is often painful, a circumstance owing,
no doubt, to the insufficiency of the means employed. In
fact, as we have already had occasion to remark, nothing
fatigues somnambulists more than incomplete magnetisation.
Sufficient prolongation of this state makes it even degenerate
into spasms and convulsions, and this is, perhaps, the
origin of the nervous symptoms experienced by certain
subjects on the contact of mesmerian tubs. To this we may
add, that the intention of the magnetiser makes a great
modification in the influence which he exercises; thus, he
calms by the mere fact that he magnetises with the idea of
calming, just as he might produce disturbance if he mixed
up a malignant desire with his proceeding. Now a hand-
kerchief, a ring, &c., have no intention; it is only IOm·
nambulists by profession who, when they are deprived of
their magnetiser, have a right to recur to these intermediate
agents, in which their lucidity oftentimes finds powerful
therapeutic auxiliaries for their own account or for tha&
of othen.
OF I!IA.lU!I.&TB SUBSTANCBS. 215
Facts tending to profJe the Existence ofa Magnetic Fluid.*
1. Henrietta, a young woman about twenty-six years of
age, of a bilious temperament, and whose nervous sensibility
appean very irritable, sleeps the magnetic sleep. The
penon who puts her to sleep presents to her a glass ofwater,
which he subjected to some passes in the adjoining room,
without any other intention than that of communicating to
the liquid a magnetic virtue. Henrietta, after having
carried it to her lips, declares that this liquid has a taste
which she cannot define, but which seems to her to have
something like the taste of lemon. Another glass of water,
which was also magnetised for the same purpose, and with
the same precautions, but by a stranger brought iuto cor-
respondence with the somnambulist, awakens in her the
idea of chocolate, though she knows, she says, that there is
none of it in this liquor. At length, there is brought to
her a third glass of water, which was not magnetised.
Henrietta drinks off some of it, makes a slight grimace, and
declares that it is but mere water.
2. Rosalia, on whom the following experiments were
made, is a young girl of about eighteen years of age, of ~
somewhat sanguineous temperament. Her nervous system
does not appear to be too much developed. She would
enjoy very good health, if, from the age of puberty, she did
not suffer, from time to time, rather violent pains in the
stomach. Her education is that of a poor artisan, solely
occupied in supporting by the labour of her hands an aged
and feeble mother. To this must be added, in order to have
* CommUDicated by Viscount du Ponceau.
216 OF THE MAGNETISATION
a physical and moral appreciation of the subject, that
Rosalia never left a province which was very distant from
Paris.
Rosalia being in a state of somnambulism in a separate
and well-closed closet, a ball of wool is magnetised by the
person who put her to sleep, and placed in one of the hats
of the men, which were thrown carelessly in a corner of the
room. The somnambulist is then introduced into the
apartment, and invited to seek out an object, without giving
this object any other designation. She begins by walking
around the room, touches different pieces of furniture, but
stops not; then, at length, after having carried her ex-
amination towards the corner above mentioned, she dis-
covers the ball of wool, which she brings with her without
hesitation.
3. Rosalia is asleep for some minutes. An incredulous
doctor, with the intention of satisfying himself, as to
whether the magnetic action may be really concentrated
on inanimate objects, carries away the magnetiser out of the
room, and proposes to him to operate on a step of the stairs,
-the tenth was the one chosen by the doctor. The tenth
step, setting out from the bottom of the stairs, receives the
magnetic passes. At the moment of withdrawing, the
magnetiser wishing, in his turn, and at the same time, to
make an experiment of his own, declares that he mentally
places a barrier above the tenth step, to prevent Rosalia
from continuing her route. Things thus prepared, the
doctor leads back the magnetiser, whom he no longer quits,
to the somnambulist still asleep. According to his expre11
wish, she is aroused without being touched, and merely by
some gestures made at a distance. It is only after a serioue
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 217
examination of the perfectly normal state of the young girl,
that, on the order of the incredulous doctor, Rosalia takes a
taper in order to go to bed. In so doing she must neces·
sarily pass by the stairs to the magnetised step. After five
or six minutes they go in pursuit of her; the doctor passes
first, and what is his astonishment, when having arrived
at the bottom of the stairs, he perceives the young girl
standing up and immovable on the tenth step. The follow-
ing dialogue then takes place :-
"Rosalia, what, then, are you doing there P"
" I am asleep, sir."
"And who has put you to sleep P"
" The step on which I stand : there escapes from it a hot
vapour, which has ascended to my legs, and has put me to
sleep."
" Well, then, since you are asleep, are you going to
bed?"
" I cannot, sir, because there is a barrier which prevents
me from passing."
4. Rosalia is eighteen lea,<TUes from her magnetiser; the
latter addresses to her, by post, a paper under envelope,
which contains nothing but this word, " Sleep." The
letter is sent three days after having been written. On
receiving it, Rosalia appears very much astonished at this
pleasantry, at which she laughs very much, then, after some
minutes, she falls into a state of somnambulism, and, whilst
in this state, she declares that she has been put into it by
means of the paper which her magnetiser sent her.
All these facts, obtained by acting on inert matter, in
the absence of the somnambulist, have been frequently
repeated, and almost always with complete success. But
218 OF THB MAGNBTISATION
there are others which it is no less curious to observe, and
which constitute, perhaps, a new order of phenomena.
They are referable to the modifications which may be made
magnetically in the sensatious of taste, in the form and
property of matter.
On the Taste.-A glass of pure water, subjected to the
magnetic action, has taken, with respect to the somnam-
bulist, the taste which it pleased the magnetiser to commu-
nicate to it; and.this liquid bas always, not vaguely awakened
the recollection of a similar taste, but produced the very
sensation of the liquor; in other words, pure water bas
made the young girl experience the sharp causticity ofrhum,
or caused the mild and cooling sensation of orgeat, accord-
ing as the one or the other of these liquids was intended by
the magnetiser.
On Form.-Numerous experiments have proved, even to
evidence, that in magnetising inanimate objects out ofthe eyes
ofsonmambulists, the form ofthese objects might be modified
to them, and even be completely changed. What cannot be
dwelt on too much is, that the effects thus wrought always
produce all their consequences, as if they really existed.
Rosalia, being asleep, was placed at the extremity of a
room, with her bead turned towards the wall. An in-
credulous person requires that the magnetiser, placed at the
distance of several feet from the somnambulist, should
break one of the feet of the chair on which she was sitting.
Scarely were two or three passes directed towards the
object designed, than Rosalia rises abruptly, and cries out,
" My God I I am going to fall, my chair bas but three feet."
Another time, in the absence of Rosalia, the floor of &he
room was magnetised, with the intention of changing it into
~
o;,;r;'ed ,, Coogle
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCBS, 219
ploughed land. When the girl, who is fast asleep, waa
introduced, she refuses to advance, and pretends that the
furrows prevent her from walking, and that she knows not
where to place her feet. The same floor also assumes the
appearance of a frozen river, &c., according to the demand
made on it.
On 8ome Propertie8 of Matter.-These facts consist in
proving that magnetism may give to matter a virtue which
it does not possess of itself. Examples :-Rosalia is in a
closet adjoining that in which her magnetiser is, and in a
state of somnambulism. Before a bracket are placed,
casually, two chairs, one of which is very light. This
is precisely the one which the magnetiser is requested to
load with a considerable weight, which he sets about doing
by means of numerous passes. The operation being over,
the somnambulist is introduced. After some experiments of
another kind, she is asked to take one of the chairs and to
sit near the fire. Chance made her select that one of the
two which was really the heavier. Rosalia brings it with
ease up near the fire. A lady being in want of a seat,
Rosalia is asked to go for the other. . She goes up to it,
takes it with her two hands, then seems to make a violent
effort to raise it ; the chair remains immovable. At the
request of those around her she tries again, but still without
success; however, her muscles are tense, her face is flushed ;
at last, she cries out, with a voice, altered, as it were, by the
violent efforts she had made, " My God! I never shall be
able, it is too heavy." A book was magnetised on the
chimney-piece, with the intention of making it adhere to
the marble. At the request made to Rosalia, she goes
to bring it, but her efforts to raise it are unavailing; only,
220 OF THE MAGNETISATION
as the will of the magnetiser had no other end than to affix
to the marble that part of the cover in contact with it,
Rosalia opens the book, turns over the leaves, but without
being any more able to tear it from the chimney-piece, than
if one of the sides of the covers were really affixed to it.
Thus, again, a saucer having been magnetised, Rosalia is
requested to take and carry it. At the moment she pre-
sents it, her fingers were contracted tightly on the china,
and she declares that she cannot let it go. Such was the
will of the magnetiser, communicated through the medium
of the object.
We now come, we might almost say, by an insensible
transition, to a series of facts which still constitute a parti-
cular class. For we have seen that the modifications occa-
sioned in the form of objects were such in the experiments
of the ploughed land and of the frozen river, that they may
be well considered as creations completely new. It will be
understood then, at least by analogy, that the magnetic
action may create objects entirely imaginary. Here are
some examples of it. Rosalia, in a state of somnambulism,
converses with some persons. An incredulous spectator
entreats the magnetiser to place on an unoccupied seat an
open pair of scissors. Some passes are made on the seat
pointed·at. After about a quarter of an hour the somnam-
bulist is made to rise ; then, as if brought by mere chance,
she is invited to sit on the seat which has just been mag·
netised : Rosalia refuses.
"Why, then, will you not sit down?" they ask ;her.
" Because I do not wish to hurt myself."
" Come, now, do sit down."
• "No, sir, there are scissors there that would hurt me."
--
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 221
Another time, at the request of a person who does not
yet believe, a wooden pillar was raised magnetically in the
centre of the room ; there is attached to it mentally a cord
which is to go round the neck ofthe somnambulist. Rosalia
cries out almost at the instant :
"Ab ! sir, bow this squeezes my neck."
" What then ?"
"The cord fastened to this wooden pillar."
On asking her where this pillar is, after she was freed
from the imaginary tie of which she complained, she gets up
and points with her finger to the very place where the
magnetiser bad raised his fantastic pillar.
Rosalia is sleeping her magnetic sleep calmly on the
aofa. Her magnetiser raises her feet, then passes his band
between them and the floor. This signal, according to the
request made of him, is to place a stool under the feet ofthe
somnambulist. Actually, from this moment the two feet of
Rosalia remain in the air as if they were supported by an
object placed beneath them. When strong pressure is made
on them, they are forced to yield; but then the entire body
follows the movement, and instantly as the action ceases the
two feet rise together in the position given them by the
magnetiser. This is somewhat the effect experienced by a
person jolted in a vehicle; the point of support on which
the feet rest, rises and falls, without, however, the relations
of position of the different parts of the body being sensibly
changed. After having remained a long time in this way
without evincing any fatigue, Rosalia is asked why she keeps
her feet riused. " Because," says she, "I have placed them
on a stool." Without enumerating a greater nuruber of
facts of the same kind, in order to terminate this order of
222 OF THE MAGNETISATJO'N
phenomena, here is a case, which it is useful to notice,
because we shall have occasion to recur to it. Rosalia is in
a closet.adjoining a drawing-room in a state of somnam-
bulism ; the communication between these two apartments is
closed, but another door giving egress from the drawing-
room to a staircase bas remained open. The magnetiser
places a barrier there magnetically ; then Ro@alia is intro-
duced by a stranger. She is then requested to go out to
the staircase; but she declares that she cannot do so, " be-
cause," says she, "this dGor is barred." In order that she
may pass through, it is necessary that the magnetiser should,
in a manner, break the charm.
Not only, as bas been just seen by the above examples,
can the magnetic action create for Rosalia objects completely
imaginary, but, further, at the will of the magnetiser, it
deprives her of the power of seeing objects which really
exist, and which are placed in states so as to be perfectly
distinct to her in the ordinary state. Thus a simple mag-
netic pass is sufficient for a piece of furniture, a person, a
portion of a room, to disappear from the eyes of a somnam-
bulist. Question her by surprise, lay for her all the snares
you will, never will she see any of the persons or things
that her magnetiser shall have rendered invisible, and what
should scarcely leave any apprehension of fraud in this
experiment is, that those who may be so disposed with respect
to the subject of invisibility will try in vain to call forth in
the somnambulist a laugh, astonishment, fright, &c. &c., or
any other impression whatever.
All those who have given their attention to magnetism
have remarked, that one of the characters of somnambulism
is not to leave any recollection on awaking, except, however,
I
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 223
the magnetiser may have had the intention of making an
idea survive the cessation of the magnetic effect. Then the
thought conceived under the sway of the agent is continued
in the ordinary state, and almost always produces the
expected result. This observation must necessarily incline
one to think, that perhaps it might be possible to transport
into the natural life of somnambulists some other pheno-
menon of their magnetic existence. With respect to invisi-
bility, numerous experiments have left no doubt of this.
possibility. We shall content ourselves by quoting merely
the following fact. Rosalia is asleep. A thick layer of
carded cotton is applied to her, covered with a bandage
fastened behind her bead. In this state she is brought into
the midst of people whom she does not know. Among
these, they select, for the purpose of rendering invisible, a
strange person whom she never could have seen. After
some magnetic passes, this person goes with two others clad
in the same manner behind a screen. The bandage is then
taken from Rosalia,-she is demagnetised. She resumes
her habitual countenance, converses as usual with those
around her. Suddenly an arm rises above the screen.
Rosalia is one of the first to perceive it ; a second arm then
appears,-she sees it again; but when the third is raised
near the others, she persists in saying that she sees but two.
The third arm is really that ofthe person rendered invisible.
This experiment is repeated ten times, twenty times, always
in a different way; ne11er does Rosalia perceive the person
that had been rendered invisible, though that person
changed clothes with those who were placed behind the
screen with him.
A fact of the same kind took place with respect to the
224 OF THE MAGNBTISATION
barriers of ":'hich I have spoken. Whilst Rosalia is in a
state of somnambulism the entrance-door of the closet in
which she is was shut magnetically, though in reality it is
open. At the conclusion of the sitting, when Rosalia is
entirely awake, she takes leave and prepares to go out; but
on approaching the door, she says she sees a cloud which,
according to her own expression, obstructs her, and prevents
her from passing. In vain does the magnetiser strive to
dissipate this apparition ; be cannot succeed until after
having put the girl to sleep again.
We now come to the last experiment, the object of
which, as of the preceding, is to make the fantastic creations
ofmagnetism pass into real life ; and this time, as the case is
not my own, I quote from the original, so as to omit no
detail :-
"After having magnetised Rosalia in the little closet
of Madame ***, I ask what it is they desire I should
make her see. 'A little girl,' replied one of the by-
standers. I then approach a chair, and strive in making
some passes to fix my idea to it, as we have often done
together. Rosalia, whom I bring right before me, after a
moment's hesitation, concludes by saying to me, 'It is little
Hortense.' Having sent her into another room, I remove the
chair from its place, in order that she may not recognise it ;
but I hesitate, and place it in several different places before
fixing it. I then go to awake Rosalia in the closet of
Madame ***,then I proceed with her into the little room.
Now that she is well awake, what d«?CS she see? Not one
little girl, but six little girls, to my great astonishment. In
vain I endeavour by transverse passes to abolish my mani-
fold creation; 'tis quite impossible. Curious to have an
---
OF INANIMATE SUBSTANCES. 225
explanation of all this, I again put Rosalia to sleep, and ask
her the solution ofthe enigma.
"In good faith, sir," replies the girl, "you need not have
removed the chair from its place; then I should have seen
but one child; but every where you put it down, thejlt.tid
passed through, and formed a child quite like to that one
which is above."
" What is that fiuid ?"
" A slight wind passing out of your fingers?"
Q
226
CHAPTER XI.
MAGNETISATION OF ANIMALS,
Is it a magnetic power which the celebrated Martin,
Van Amburgh, Carter, &c., exercise on their lions and their
tigers ? This is commonly said, but how prove it ? The
nervous centres are, it is true, proportionably more de-
veloped in man than in animals; but the latter are endowed
with a power ofvital action which withdraws them from our
influence. It is, besides, extremely probable that animals
are not completely exempt from the magnetic actions
which men or their like can exercise on them ; but the
results are so vague, so fleeting, so inappreciable, that it is
not possible to certify their existence.
It happened me one day to magnetise a cat for an entire
hour. I sweated large drops of sweat at it ; but at length
I fancied that I bad succeeded, when the noise of a dish
suddenly dissipated my illusion, by making the villanous
beast who feigned to be asleep on them fly from off my
knees.
However, a young person repeated the same experiment
before me on a young dog, and really I know not what to
think of it ; for the animal, after a quarter of an hour's
passes, panted, kept its feet but badly, and actually seemed
to be asleep ; but was it the magnetic sleep ? . •••.
227
CHAPTER XII.
INFLUENCE OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM ON THE SYSTEM.
THIS is one of those questions which we do not propose
for ourselves, but for others; one which we do not pretend
to solve, but which we hope to see solved one day by some
one more skilful than ourselves. However, let us collect
our data and reflect.
If we were to make a man in perfect health (if there be
such a person) contract the habit of magnetic sleep, would it
do any harm to this man ? I have no reason to answer in
the affirmative, and I would not dare to answer "no." My
answer would be" yes," if magnetism has the property of
increasing the action, the force, the vitality of certain sys-
tems, of certain principles, since then, tbe equilibrium
comtituting perfect health would be interrupted; but it
would be "no," if this special tonification produced by mag-
netism occurs only in subjects wbo feel the want of it.
However, there are somnambulists who actually enjoy a
more than passable state of health, and in whom magnetism
was never, at least to all appearance, the cause of any indis-
position. Callixte, among, others, whom M. Ricard has
been magnetising several years back, is a strong and muscu-
lar man. But, we must say, the health of the somnambulist
228 INFLUENCE OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
depends principally on the method and attentions of the
magnetiser. If we succeed, in fact, in putting to sleep and
in awakening our subject without cau~ing him the slightest
illness, one may readily conceive that somnambulism may
become for him a sort of normal state incapable of doing the
slightest injury to the integrity of his organic functions
during the state of being awake; supposing, however, still,
that somnambulism itself is not a source of painful emotions
(as happens in the case of somnambulist pl1ysicians), or of
fatigue of the senses (as in the case of somnambulists for
experiments). But if the question regards neither experi·
ments nor consultations, what good is there in magnetising
a man in good health? In conclusion, the summary of my
thoughts on this subject is, It is useless and probably not
devoid of danger frequently to magnetise an i11dividuol ia
perfect health.
229
CHAPTER Xill.
OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT.
IF a reasonable physician were asked what is the thera-
peutic action of bark, he would answer that bark, under
certain circumstances, strengthens the stomach, raises the
circulation, restores the appetite, puts a check to perspira-
tion, in a word, acts as a tonic, and cures principally inter-
mittent fevers an<l periodical neuralgire. But how does bark
cure the latter affections ? Is it by strengthening the
digestive organs? Is it by restoring the appetite ? Is it by
rousing the circulating system ?-Now, then, gentlemen
physicians, say that you know nothing about the matter, if
you want us to believe you. How does mercury cure
syphilis ? How does opium cure delirium tt·emens ? How
do Meglin's pills cure tic-cloloreux of the face? How does
the subnitrate of bismuth cure spasms of the stomach?
How does tartar emetic cure pneumonia? How does sea-
salt cure phthisis? How does blood-lettingcure a multitude
of diseases, widely differing from one another? How--?
But we should never be done, if we set about adducing
instances to shew the defect of medical sagacity. Human
penetration has its limits ; and the conquests of empiricism
constitute the only indisputable progress that medicine has
230 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
made for the last two thousand years. Well, magnetism
should be placed, even by those physicians who are the
greatest sticklers for the powers of medicine, among the
number of those useful discoveries which extend their
domain, since magnetism also cures diseases intrinsically,
without its being possible to tell why. How does it happen,
then, that our confreres make no more use of it than if it
did not exist at. all. It is because there is no medium. If
they used it once, their reason would condemn them to use
it always; and it has cost them so much labour and so much
money to learn what they call their science ! And then,
sixty years ago, the Faculty of Paris raised the hue and cry
against the magnetisers. The order is given; it passes from
mouth to mouth ; they remind each other of it ; they
transmit it from father to son ; it is engraved on the tables
of the law, and carved in full relief on the pediment of the
temple ; it will last, then, till the temple itself is destroyed.
Well ! be it so : we shall wait, for this grand struggle ap-
proaches its end. The result can no longer be doubtful,
since we have truth for our motto and the universe for our
judge.
Is magnetism alone sufficient for the cure ofall diseases P
No; and the best proof that can be given of it is, that som-
nambulists almost always prescribe something more than
magnetism. It is then beyond all doubt that Mesmer and
d'Eslon were deceived when from their magnetic wand they
effaced the word incurable from the list of our infirmities.
I wish to believe that a natural enthusiasm misled these two
men ; but what would they have done if, more favoured by
chance, they had discovered the secret ofour magnetic treat-
ment as it now exists ; if, in a word, they had found for their
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT, 231
guide, in each of their patients, the unerring instinct and
sublime reason of a somnambulist. We shall see in the
following chapter what this new medicine is of which we
make ourselves the apostle; but let us first fulfil our first
intention, in deducing simply from the analysis of facts the
intrinsic influence of magnetism on the suffering body.
Those facts, which the disciples of Esculapius never
wished either to count or to study, are as numerous as they
are authentic; volumes have been filled with them, and libra-
ries might be heaped with them, which a new Omar might
burn in vain, as they would be reproduced forthwith. What
injury would the abolition of all the treatises written on
optics do to vision? Would a single individual become
one·eyed or blind in consequence? Certainly not; the
integrity of my eyes is not dependent on your theories,
gentlemen idealogists. Now, magnetic truths are as unal-
terable, as unchangeable, as inaccessible to your systems, as
essential, in fact, as our faculties ofseeing, feeling, and hear-
ing. Magnetism is not then a science whose value and utility
depends on the degree ofintelligence ofthose who practise it:
it is a resource which the Eternal in his benevolence has
dispensed indifferently to all human beings. But we are
forgetting that we are concerned at present only with the
simple chapter of the materia medica.
The influence of magnetism is exercised chiefly on the
nervous and circulating systems ; but as the functional state
of these two systems is almost constantly changed in all
diseases, it follows that in almost all possible cases magnetism
must impress some modification on the system. However, it
is chiefly in the affections characterised by abnormal phe-
nomena of innervation, or certain errors in the circulation
232 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
of the blood and lymph, that this modification becomes
quickly appreciable. Thus, on the one hand, epilepsy,
chorea, spasms, primary convulsions, and the different forms
of hysteria ; on the other hand, sanguineous and glandular
engorgements, scrofula with all its shades, such as phthisis,
mesenteric disease, &c., chlorosis, amenorrhc:ea, and even
cancerous degenerescences; such are the diseases which the
first magnetisers vied with each other in curing, whose suc-
cess made such a noise that their followers rejected with
disdain every species of nosological division and claasifica-
tion, persuaded that, notwithstanding the nature of the evil,
nothing was wanted to make it disappear but magnetising
the patient. There was Fome enthusiasm, and therefore
some exaggeration; but what innovation was ever made
without drawing abuses with it?
The diseases consisting in a deficiency of innervation,• in
a word, the different forms of paralysis, such as amaurosis,
lead·colic, &c. &c., were also those treated with most
success.
Cases of all kinds abound in the books of magnetisers;
but, in general, they are reported so imperfectly and so
strangely, that it is scarcely possible to draw any precise
inference from them. We shall, however, borrow some
from the best known magnetisers in support of the princi·
pies which we have just laid down.
* The Afleme~ of M. Piorry.
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 233
FIRST CASE.
Asphyxia in an infant at birth, at Epinal, 1818, by M. Thiriat,
physician and inspector of the waters of Plombicres.*
"The asphyxia of new-born children is often followed by
real death, notwithstanding the employment ofall the means
prescribed by the worthy doctors, and continued with una-
bated assiduity. Insufllation of the chest holds the first
place among these means, and I have often derived great
advantage from it. I have employed it empirically, without
explaining to myself its mode of action.
" On reflecting more on the phenomenon of respiration, I
am very much inclined to think that the internal air is not
the cause of the first inspiration, consequently of the con-
traction of the diaphragm, since this contraction takes place
before there is any air in the chest; further, that this con-
traction ceases the moment air is introduced, whence ex-
piration results. Thus, this automatic movement which
commences in the child the moment be sees the light, and
which terminates only with life, is not owing to the feeling
of the air; thus insufllation is not only useless, but it is in-
jurious, since the vitiated air which it introduces into the
luog of the child is more suited to increase the asphyxia
than to destroy it. However, the experience of the most
distinguished accoucheurs has proved the utility of insuflla-
tion ; its methodical application accelerates the movements of
the heart ; the internal passages of the chest are excited
gradually, the respiration is established, the skin becomes
* Extract from a Letter to M.le Comte d'Aunay.-Bwliotheqn
lk MagnetisrM, No. n., p. 149.
234 OF MAGNBTISM, CONSIDERED
flushed, the child is roused, and cries. Twenty times have I
restored asphyxiated children to life by these means. What
is then the stimulant in this operation which re-establishes
life in the system? The magnetic fluid.
"The mother of the child on whom I acted according to
these data, was small ; her pelvis narrow, without being
deformed ; the accouchement was tedious, the bead was
considerably elongated, and I concluded with the forceps.
"The infant was asphyxiated, the heart beat weakly and
slowly. At first I employed frictions, immersion in warm
water. I cleared the posterior fauces, irritated those parts
very much. I blew into the chest methodically ;-this last
manreuvre increased the movements of the heart. I con-
tinued the operation for an hour: the hope of succeeding
became more and more uncertain. Then, only, I determined
to act more particularly on the heart and diaphragm. I
applied over the region of those two organs a dry linen
cloth, and I began to blow warmly over the former. Some
minutes sufficed to bring the pulsations to a degree of
strength which astonished me. A more prolonged action
became useless, even dangerous, in producing too intense
an irritation. I commenced blowing warmly on the an-
terior and inferior parts of the thorax ; it soon moved, at
first slowly, by degrees with more force. Then some inspi-
rations came on at considerable intervals, and which
approached each other more and more closely. At length
the respiration became perfectly established. In order oom-
pletely to reanimate this weak little child, which scarcely .
moved its extremities, I began to magnetise with large cur-
rents and at a short distance. It was on my knees, lying on
hot linen clothes, uncovered, and the face up. Soon the
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 235
entire surface of the body became more highly coloured,
the extremities moving at each passage of my hand over the
inferior part of the chest, the inspiration was more intense
and much deeper. After having magnetised the child thus
for the space of a quarter of an hour, I handed the child to
the nurse, in order to clean it, bathe it, and wrap it in its
swaddling clothes.
" This species ofresurrection, which I despaired ofeffect-
ing by the ordinary means, was ensured after about an hour
of the magnetic influx. This case explains completely the
way in which insufllation acts. It introduces into the lungs
the decomposed air, which is, consequently, injurious to
respiration ; but it introduces, at the same time, the vivi-
fying fluid which carries life to the heart and diaphragm,
and then it is useful," &c.
Reflections.- What is the therapeutic action of mag-
netism in the case which has been just read? Is it ~imply
that of excitation ? In my opinion it is much more than
that ; I see in it a real vi!Jijication; I see in it, in one word,
an unknown agent, which reanimates I know not how, a
little dying being. The manner in which magnetism acts
in the following cases, is just as difficult to be qualified.
SECOND CASE.
Paralysis and atrophy of the two fore-arms, considerable obstruction
in the liver, in M. Thomas Tabary. Nantes, 1784; by M. de
Boissiere.*
"Thomas Tabary, a shoemaker in the environs ofMans,
bas been for the last two years paralysed in the two fore-
* Precis des cures de Nantes. Paris, 1785; in-s, p. 194.
236 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDBllBD
arms. The paralysed parts were without motion and with·
out heat, there was little sensation; they were in a state
of dryness which constitutes perfect atrophy. This disease
was the consequence of violent colics which Tabary had
suffered : he had a considerable obstruction in the liver,
and a commencing jaundice, accompanied by slow fever.
This patient was subjected to the magnetic treatment, 28th
of July, 1784. The 3d of August he began to feel some
heat all over the paralysed parts : this heat increased
gradually, and at length attained the natural state. On
the 15th he had profuse bilious diarrhrea, which lasted up
to the 25th ; the diarrhrea ceasing, so profuse a sweating set
in that drops of it actually flowed from the fingers. This
sweat was local, and did not extend beyond the paralysed
parts; that is to say, beyond the articulation of the tore-
arm ; it lasted up to September 3d. At this time the
parts had assumed considerable embonpoint, strength, and
power of motion ; sensation was entirely re-established.
The patient was in a state for working, even for cutting out
a shoe; he went on from better to better, and continued to
work a little every day.
" 20th September.-The arm and left hand were in the
natural state, as well as the right arm, the hand of which
still required some days treatment to resume its original
consistence and all its strength ; the obstruction was con-
siderably diminished, complexion good, the fever had dis-
appeared.
"23d.- The patient asked me for a certificate which
he had sent me, bearing testimony to his state, signed
by M. Loiseau, surgeon, who had attended him in his ill-
ness, and had witnessed, as he was candid enough ~ state,
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 237
the little success of the different remedies employed to
combat this obstinate disease. This certificate was further
signed by the rector, and authenticated by the judge. I
sent it to him on his stating that a gentleman of the town,
whom I felt no desire to know at this time, wished to see
it, in order to compare it to his own state, and had pro-
mised him money to assist him in living.
" I saw this person no more, he did not appear after ;
this mode of sheering off has something extraordinary and
mysterious in it, on which I did not wish to reflect."
THmD CASE.
Paralysis in Father Borrit, an Augustinian, 75 years ofage,
at Bayonne, 1784; by Count Puysegur.*
"Father Borrit, an Augustinian friar, was attacked with
paralysis of the entire right side, in the month of June,
1783. 1.'he month of August following, he had gout in
the knee and leg. These pains gave him a little motion.
He could walk by dragging his leg after him, and with
the help of a stick, but he could not move the right arm ;
since the month of May, 1784, he was able to carry his
hand to his chest. He scarcely had any hearing in the
right ear, had no sight in the right eye, spoke with great
difficulty, his mouth was awry. Since his attack he did
not sleep one hour at night, and from time to time he
felt very acute pains in the shoulder and right arm. In
this state he was presented for magnetic treatment on the
* Rapport des Cures operees a Bayonne par le Magnetisme
Aniinal : page 62.
238 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
28th of August. After the first sitiing Father Borrit was
able to carry his right hand to his head, behind the loins,
and used it for eating ; he slept the entire night. On the
following day the mouth became straight; the third day he
fonned the chain with the other patients, and in a few
days more he was able to walk with ease without a stick
and without dragging the foot. Since then he entirely
recovered the use of all his limbs and of all his faculties,
eating with a good appetite, sleeping very well, and no
longer suffering in any respect.
" To the certificate of Father Borrit are added those
of Father Marsalcns, the prior, of Father Larrieu, the pro-
vincial of the Augustinians.
"We should add here, that in acknowledgment for the
cure of Father Borrit, the Augustinians offered to 1\L de
Puysegur one of the halls of their convent to continue his
magnetic treatment during the winter."
FOURTH CASE.
Paralysis of the thighs and legs, and atrophy of the legs, vomiting,
nervous affections, &c., on Madame de La Malmaison, thirty-
eight years of age, at Creteil, near Paris, 1778 ; by Mesmer.*
" Madame de J...a Malmaison, thirty-eight years of age,
though ofan apparently strong constitution, had always had a
disposition to the vapours, the attacks of which had caulled
her several miscarriages. These attacks were preceded and
followed by vomiting, absolute loathing, headachs, cough,
* Precis Historique des Faits relatifs au Magnetisme Animal.
Paris, 1781. Page 221 .
AS A THEBAPBUTIC AGENT. 239
convulsions, and spitting of blood ; at length, her legs
totally refused their office, and induced her to go to the
waters of Plombieres three consecutive years. She ex-
perienced the good effects of them till the approach of
winter, which threw her back nearly into the same state in
which she was before. These variations took place up to
the month of June, 1777, when a fall from a carriage
caused her legs to be so lacerated as to expose the tendons.
This painful aceident renewed and increased all the affec-
tions which had preceded; the vomiting, in particular,
became so violent that the patient could retain no food.
Her legs, previously weak, became cold : it was evident that
they no longer received any nutrition. . They became dried.
The toes were curved. The thighs, also, were devoid of
motion. In a word, the paralysis reached up to the haunch.
The physician whom she had with her succeeded in quieting
.the vomiting, and in putting her into a state for going to
Paris in the month of February 1778.
"M. Leroi, whom she consulted, and whose advice sl1e
followed, had succeeded in restoring the tone of her
stomach, and in quieting the other symptoms; but the
paralysis still remained, and she was very much annoyed by
a hysterical asthma. The patient was on the point ofsetting
out for the waters of Balaruc, when having learned that M.
Mesmer bad had under his treatment diseases just as alarm-
ing as hers, in the village of Creteil, after having con-
sulted him, and received hopes from him, she prepared to
follow his treatment."
To this aceount M. de La Malmaison adds the following
certificate:-
" After the above history of my case, which I certify to
240 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
be true, I declare that having submitted to the treatment
of M. Mesmer and his new method, since the month of
last May up to the present day, I have recovered the power
of walking freely and without support, so as to be able
to ascend and descend without difficulty; that my legs have
recovered their nourishment and beat ; that they are, as
well as my toes, in a natural state; and, lastly, that I am
perfectly cured of the paralysis, as well as of the other
annoyances with which I was afflicted.
(Signed) " DouET DE VIcHY DE LA MALMAtso:s.
"Creteil, 30th of August, 1778."
Remarks.-We have taken these three cases from among
several thousands similar to them contained in the works of
Mesmer, d'Eslon, Puysegur, Boissiere, &c. Up to the dis-
covery of artificial somnambulism, which was the true
origin of the medicine which we presume to propagate, the
treatment of the different forms of paralysis was one of the
most splendid triumphs of magnetism. The cure of
amaurosis (paralysis of the optic nerve) was the first
instance of Mesmer's success; and since this remarkable
event, which excited the envy of some and the incredulity
of others, ma.,anetism probably owed the disfavour into
which it fell, to the marvellous character of the cures
effected by its followers. But bow does magnetism act in
paralysis ? is it as a tonic P as an excitant? after the
manner of the sulpbureous waters? like strychnine? elec-
tricity? Is it on the muscular masses, or on the nerves
only that it exercises its action ? how, in fact, does it act P
It cures paralysis, that is all I know of it; but let us study
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 241
it as a modificator of the circulation and of the functions
connected with it.
FIFTH CASE.
In the April of 1840 I was consulted by a young
woman, a servant, whose name was Josephine Dulau, resid-
ing in Paris, Rue de Lille, who, after having submitted to
several modes of treatment without any benefit, came to me
in despair, in order that, as she said, magnetism may kill
her or cure her.
Josephine is about twenty-five and a half years old, she
is of the middle size, her features are rather pleasing,
though she is very pale; she complains of great debility,
though by no means deficient in t'11!bonpoint, and her ex-
terior is far from indicating those serious organic changes
which occasion her despair. It was only since the last ·
eighteen months she quitted her native village, Dordogne,
where she was born of healthy parents. Before the disease
of which she now complains, she always enjoyed tolerably
good health, and was of a very cheerful disposition : now she
is gloomy, morose, and sullen; she is irritated at a mere
nothing, complains of every thing, is alarmed for the future,
and twenty times a-day she wishes for death.
Symptomatology.-Mouth dry, parched, tasteless, and
sometimes bitter; tongne nearly natural, except a slight
yellowish coating, which covers its base ; breath indicative
of the sharpness of carbonic acid ; the saliva instantly red-
dens turmeric paper.
There is some thirst and little appetite; still the di-
gestion cannot be said to be absolutely bad; but there is
R
242 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
acute sensibility in the epigastrium. Slight meteorism of
the abdomen; frequent colics, occasioning very frequently
half-liquid defrecations; pulse small, frequent (96), at times
it is almost impossible to perceive it; at other times it makes
itself perceptible only by a small, confused, and irregular
fluttering. The sounds of the heart are normal, but ex·
tremely weak. This organ is frequently disturbed by
violent and painful palpitations, which seem to ascend up
to the vessels of the neck (no bruit de diable), and oblige the
patient to discontinue walking, and sometimes even to lie on
the bed. The breathing is a little frequent, but yet natural.
Percussion of the chest produces a normal sound over the
two lungs; in fine, auscultation detects nothing abnormal,
and still a dry and very painful cough accompanies each
attack of palpitation. No sweats. Menstruation has been
completely suspended for more than six months. Hypo-
gastrium not painful, but a white, constant discharge, and
one that is very copious confirms, with respect to a well-
marked chlorotic affection, the diagnosis which I had already
deduced from the clayey colour of the skin, from the state
of the heart, and the disturbances of innervation.
The physicians consulted before me by Josephine had
taken precisely the same view of the case. The prescrip-
tions, which she shewed me, left me no doubt on this point.
They had exhausted the whole list of steel tonics success-
ively, from the old subcarbonate to the modern lactate,
from the iron-rust water to ferruginous chocolate. No-
thing, however, succeeded. Neither the iron nor digitalis
improved her condition ; and I own, for my own part, that
if I had been merely a physician I would have felt some-
thing more than embarrassment-! would have felt remorse
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 243
at writing a new prescription for this poor girl. But no-
thing embarrasses a magnetiser. "Sit down there," said I
to her, "and we shall soon know what Dame Nature wishes
to be done for you." Josephine had already made up her
mind ; she made no resistance, therefore, and every thing
went on for the better.
1st Sitting (April 16th).- At half-past two I commence
to magnetise Josephine. The icy seriousness and the half-
piteous, half-resigned air with which she submits, almost
give me a desire to laugh. However, after eight or ten
minutes' passes, her countenance relaxes, and a smile plays
on her lips.
"Why do you laugh?" said I to her.
" I know not," said she, "but I am dying with a desire
to laugh."
" Just as you please, my poor child ; do not check your-
self; only let me go on."
I go on, accordingly, and Josephine makes ample use of
her permission ; for she laughs out aloud, drawing, at long
intervals, deep sighs.
At the end of twenty minutes she is more calm. Her
eyelid is weighed down ; drops of sweat fall from her fore-
head ; and she feels an inclination to vomit. It is certain
that if I went on sleep would soon come on ; but I myself
feel fatigued. For this reason, after some transverse passes,
which restore the patient to her natural state, we agree to
resume the experiment on the next day, at the same hour.
2d SiJting.-Josephine arrives at a quarter past two,
according to her promise the day before. I begin again to
magnetise her at precisely half-past two. Nothing parti-
cular occurred to her since our interview, except that she
244 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
seemed to have felt a little agitated during the night ; but
as this circumstance is very usual with her, she was suffi·
ciently just not to attribute it to magnetism, and the re11ec·
tions she made on tl1e chances of cure, on the contrary,
increased her confidence. Besides, what relief had medicine
afforded her ? None ; she is satisfied on that head. Had it
done her any harm ? Of that she is ignorant, as well as
myself. Let us see, then, if we shall be more successful.
Matters go on precisely as on the day before. The same
sighs, the same cheerfulness, the same disposition to vomit.
Only all this takes up less time in developing itself. At
length, at the end of about twenty minutes, Josephine t~lls
me several times that she is going to sleep, and twenty
minutes do not elapse until she is actually asleep. I go on,
however, magnetising her for five minutes more, after which
I address her :-
"Are you asleep, Josephine?" She does not answer.
I repeat my question; but it is only the third time that
she answers,-
" Yes, sir."
"How do you find yourself?"
"Well."
"Are you afraid that magnetism will kill you P"
"Oh, no!"
"Will it cure you?"
No answer.
" Come, Josephine, reftect; do you think that magnetism
will be able to cure you?"
"Yes, sir."
" Will it require a long time P"
" I know nothing regarding that."
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT.
" How long do you wish to sleep ?"
" Halfan hour."
245
I followed her directions to the letter, and awoke her
half an hour after having put her to sleep. Her awaking
was very calm. " I fancy I am coming out ofa bath," says
she to me.·
3d Sitting (April 17th).-Josephine is a little late, not
having arrived till twenty minutes before three. I reproach
her with this, and she promises to be more punctual the
next day. I inquire how she finds herself since her first
two sittings.
" Very well, indeed," says she ; "I dined yesterday with
a better appetite than usual. I have not wept at all, and I
have passed an excellent night."
" And the palpitations?"
" I have had a little of them on going up-stairs to go to
bed, but they were nothing, compared with those I have
had. I thought I should have died at your door the first
time I came to your house."
" The walk overcame you ?"
" Yes, at first; but with that --"
" What besides P"
" Fear : I thought I was come to the house of a sor-
cerer."
" Well, I am glad to see you possess a little more con-
fidence; but let us not lose time, for the hour is past."
It is precisely three o'clock. Josephine submits with
confidence, and is asleep at ten minutes past three. An im-
perceptible smile has this time taken the place of the frank
hilarity of the preceding days. It is not the expression of a
pleasing thought; it is a symptom depending on a phy-
246 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
siological cause, inappreciable to the patient as to myself;
but I observe that it takes place at the time my hands are
passing over the lateral regions of the thorax and hypo-
chondria. It must be remembered, that at our fourth
chapter we mentioned that sort of hilarity, altogether phy-
sical, as being one ofthe frequent precursors ofthe magnetic
sleep. Is it a mere automatic expression or a cerebral phe-
nomenon ? This, probably, no one can tell. There are, in
fact, diseases which make persons gay, and cause them to
smile, just as there are others which make them sad, and
cause them to weep. Several of the neuroses give rise to
these two opposite effects; too much astonishment, ~here­
fore, should·not be felt that magnetic influences should have
the same result. But let us return to our chlorotic patient.
"Are you asleep, Josephine?"
"Yes, sir."
" Are you sufficiently magnetised?"
" Yes, sir; but when you pass your hands over my
cl1est you do me the greatest good."
I magnetised her for some minutes over the region of
the heart, and she says she feels a calm and an agreeable
sensation.
" Do you now think that magnetism will cure you ?"
" Yes, I am certain of it, nor will it require a very long
time."
" How long will it require ?"
" I do not know yet ; I shall be able to tell you in a few
days."
" You do not see clearly P"
"No; but I shall soon. Wait-! shall see clearly to-
morrow."
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 247
" At what hour ?"
"At three o'clock. No-at a quarter past three."
" Will you then be able to tell us what we should do to
you in order to cure you?"
" Oh! yes, I shall tell you."
" How long must we let you sleep?,.
" Till within one quarter to four."
"What is the time now?"
" Twenty-five minutes after three."
I look at the clock, to which Josephine's back is turned,
and she is perfectly right as to the time.
" How will you be this evening?"
" I shall be very well."
"And during the night?"
" Very well indeed."
"Will you have appetite for dinner?"
"Not much-but I must eat, for all that."
""\Vhat?"
" Soup and beef."
" You told me that you digested soup with consider-
able difficulty, and that the meat always disagreed with
you."
" True ; but this evening it will do me no harm."
" You must then recollect this when you are awake."
"Yes, sir. Oh! I beg of you," adds she, "magnetise
me a little more over the heart-that does me good."
I submit to Josephine's desire; she thanked me several
times, in the most grateful terms of acknowledgment.
Some minutes after, I awaken her just at the time she men-
tioned. She smiles at awaking, as at going to sleep. Her
looks at first express dulness, then astonishment, then com-
248 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
fort and gratitude. She rises in a sprightly manner, and
cries out with enthusiasm,-
" It is astonishing how much better I feel than I felt
these some days past; I feel myself as light as a dancer."
I impress on Josephine the obligation imposed on her to
take soup and beef for dinner, which causes her to make the
most humorous grimaces; but at length she makes up her
mind to it, and after having given me her formal promise to
conform in every particular to her directions, she leaves me,
and goes down the stairs running.
4th Sitting (18th April).-Josephine comes to my house
at within one quarter to three. I know not whether it is
owing to the air ofsatisfaction diffused over her countenance
and over her entire person, certain it is, her paleness is
diminished.
" If this continues, sir," cries she, on her coming in, " I
shall consider myself more than half cured. I have not had
palpitations, I have eaten well, drunk well, slept well, and,
especially, laughed well, to such a degree that my mistress
thinks I am becoming foolish. But I know to what I am
to attribute this. Oh! it is because, you see, I am doubly
satisfied; first, I am glad at going on better, then I am glad
at being no longer sad. Do you laugh ? Then I do not
explain myself well. So much the worse; but I compre-
hend myself, and I'd rather have health than mind."
" Has your dinner done you any harm ?"
" Not the least in the world, and yet I ate most greedily."
" And the discharge is still the same ?"
"Ah! sir-but that will go."
" Yes, I warrant you it will."
Having been magnetised at three precisely, Josephine
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 249
was put to sleep in less than eight minutes. Slight spas-
modic contractions of the orbicular muecle of the lips suc-
ceeded the inextinguishable laugh of the first sittings. One
would suppose the patient slept a natural sleep.
"How do you find yourself, Josephine P"
" Very well."
"Do you seeP"
"Not yet; but I shall see presently."
" In bow many minutes P"
" In seven minutes."
" Should I continue to maguetise you P"
" A little more, if you please, over the chest and ab-
domen."
I obey this injunction, and the patient is again in an
extasy at the good I do her. However, the seven minutes
elapsed, and Josephine, astonished at her nascent lucidity,
cries out, with a tone of admiration which contrasts with the
impassibility of her countenance,-
" Oh! there! there I I see as clear as in the open day I
·what is that [ said then ? it is much worse ! I see within
you as if you were a lantern I Oh! there is fire at the
extremity of your fingers. Well ! how astonishing! But
I see something within myself also. It is certain-it is my
heart! Tic, toe-tic, toe-how curiously it beats! And
my blood, then !-bold, hold-red on one side, and black
on the other! And my abdomen!-there are guts! 0
God, how disgusting!
"And, Josephine, do you see your own disease P"
"No, I don't see it, because I think it is every where;
but no matter, I feel right well what it will be necessary to
do to me in order to cure me."
250 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
" What will it be necessary to do to you ?"
" To magnetise me, to make me drink wine and eat roast
bee£"
"Is that all?"
" Yes, for the present.'~
" And when will your menses come on?"
"I shall have them-in five days." (The rell.der may
remember that she bad not seen them for the last six
months.)
" And the fluor albus?"
" After the menses shall have gone off, they will be
diminished by one-half."
" Should we return to the use of the steel preparations?"
" No; it is that took my appetite from me; but it will
soon return."
•• Must you be magnetised, then, every day?"
"Yes, sir, till my menses appear. The first day I shall
have them, magnetise me again, in order to keep me from
colic; then we shall have a suspension for two days; after
which we shall resume for some time.-Oh! how astonish-
ing is that which I now see ! Dear I only to think that one
has all this in the body!"
" What sort of drink will suit you best ? Will you
require any ptisan ?"
" No ptisan.''
"Will you be lucid to-morrow?"
"Yes, sir.''
" At what hour?"
" I shall be so all day."
" Still it will be necessary to magnetise you at the same
hour as to-day?"
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 251
"Yes, sir."
"That will do-awake."
Josephine continued to be magnetised every day, up to
the 22d of April, when, as she had announced, her menses
appeared. They were scanty, and lasted for three days;
but the general improvement in her state still kept up.
The excessive secretion of uterine mucus was now restored
to its normal state ; her strength returned rapidly with her
sprightliness; and after a slight purgation was prescribed,
and, two days after, a bleeding to three ounces,• Josephine
declared herself cured.
What was the therapeutic action of ma.,onetism here ?
Did it act as a tonic?-as an aperient? This is what I do
not know ; but it cured one of the best marked cases of
chlorosis that could possibly be met.
SIXTH CASE.
Exhaustion-sweats, In Gervais Necbenger, thirty-five years old, at
Oberherklein near Colmar, in 1785, by M. Baron Klinglin
d'Esser.t
Gervais Nechenger, attacked by vertigo, and exhausted
by continual swe~ts every night, came under the care of
* This strange treatment reminds us of a case mentioned by
M. Mialle, in the Expose des Cures opbees par le Magnetismc, &c.
t. i. p. 369. " The third day that Madame B. was magnetised, she
became somnambulous, and said her disease would last for a year ;
that it was occasioned by a medicine taken during menstruation,
which caused a reftux of the humours into the blood. She assured
us that the magnetism cured her of it in less than a month. She was
perfectly cured on the 20th of November, without having bad any
other remedy save a small bleeding, which she prescribed for herself
at the sixth sitting, and after having taken some bottles oforgeat and
magnetised water."-Extrait des Annales de Strasbourg, t. i. p. 75.
t Annates de Strasbourg, t. i. p. 30.
252 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
M. Klinglin, 16th of September, and was cured the 22d of
the same month.-Witness, SANNER, Surgeon.
There we see magnetism producing the effect of red
bark, tannin, &c. But it will be said, then may magnetism
be substituted with advantage for every species of remedy?
What is to become of those unfortunate apothecaries ? To
this I shall answer, that if it should so happen that we could
dispense with medicines to cure the sick, the harm would
not be great; but we have already said that it was not so.
With respect to apprehensions regarding the future dis-
tress of the apothecary, it is clear that it is not for us to
make ourselves uneasy about it. Who would not feel satis-
fied with the suppression of lawyers, if there were to be no
more lawsuits? But let us follow up our examination. We
stated that animal magnetism was capable of affording a
remedy in those deep-seated organic changes which phy-
sicians have designated by the name of deghterescencel.
The books ofthe first magnetisers are replete with authentic
facts, which allow no reader to suspect the validity of this
assertion.
SEVENTH CASE.
Deafness of fifteen years' standing cured iD one month.
EYery one must be aware of the last communication
made to the Academy of Sciences with respect to the suc-
cessful employment of magnetism in the treatment of deaf·
ness. Now, the following case (though not regarding a
person deaf and dumb) appears tome not less worthy ofthe
attention of the learned and the public than those which
have been submitted to the Academy.
Monsieur G•u is about twenty-two years of age.
Though born in the neighbourhood of Marseilles, he is far
. AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 253
from having a southern constitution. Lymph and the adi-
pose tissue evidently predominate in his temperament; cir-·
eumstances which, in our common ideas, must leave me very
little hope of finding in him great sensibility to magnetism.
But the fact, fortunately, belies my anticipations in that
respect. It was the 16th of last January that Monsieur
G*** came to consult me for the first time. He told me in
a few words the history of his case. After scarlatina, under
which he laboured in 1825, and which was very severe, he
completely lost the faculty of hearing with the left ear.
To recover this, Monsieur G**"' had laid all the resources of
art under contribution, but without success. After having
at first applied to the physicians of his own country, he
resolved on consulting the most eminent physicians of the
capital. M. Professor Andral was so candid as to tell him
that medicine was completely impotent in such a case, and
M. Jules Cloquet recommended the waters of Aix, in Savoy,
which at first seemed to produce some improvement; this
improvement, however, did not last long.
Monsieur G*** returned to Paris, despairing more than
ever of an infirmity, of which he no longer expected to be
cured, and the annoyances of which he much exaggerated;
for whilst it interfered but very slightly with the happiness
of his mind and the facility of his social relations, to hear
with only one ear seemed to him to be but half life. He
made, therefore, a final effort by placing himself under a
homreopathic doctor ; but this was not attended with any-
benefit.
Here, then, is an additional proof of the assertion that
we have made in our Tramactiom: "It is only when the
ease is desperate, that is, after having exhausted all the
254 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED.
ordinary resources of medicine, that patients determine oil
consulting us." In fact, after homreopathy what could
M. G*** try? Nothing, or magnetism, which seemed to him
nearly the same thing. Now we shall see the result; but
let us first ascertain the state of the patient the first day he
was magnetised.
M. G*** having given me the history of his case, as
already stated, entreats me to examine his ear, which, since
the commencement of his ailment, has been the seat of rather
a copious discharge. The extraction of a polypus, which he
had some years back, caused him to apprehend the exist-
ence of a similar body in the meatus auditurius externus. It
is certain that such a circumstance would have rendered the
chances of magnetism very slight; but a minute examination
soon satisfied me on this point. My probe merely detected
a longitudinal and rough projection at the vault of the
meatus,which seemed to be a swelling with excoriation of the
fibro-mucous membrane; in fact, the disease is neither more
nor less than simple otorrhrea, with paralysis of the acoustic
nerve. " Shall I be cured by magnetism?" said M. G***,
after this examination. " You hM·e two chances out of
three," said I.
I magnetise M. G•** with the intention ofputting Aim to
1leep, a thing I never fail to do at the commencement of my
treatment. After the first passes he experiences a very
marked impression, and at the end of the sitting I find it
necessary to free him from a state of extreme stupor, but he
does not go to sleep. On the second, third, and fourth day,
I obtained no other result than a painful somnolence, IWd
as it appears to me almost proved that I must not calculate
on somnambulism, henceforward I magnetise M. Gu* only
AS A TliERAPEUTIC AGENT. 255
with the intention of relieving his head, and of curi11{f his ear.
The effect of this second intention continues uncertain for
some days, that is, until the relation between the patient
and myself is well established ; but at the eighth sitting it
is so well marked that M. G*... says to me when I give
over magnetising him, "Methinks I ha>e the entire left
side of my head emptg."
On the following day M. G*** says that he hears better
with his left ear than he has heard for the last fifteen years.
Three days after he assures me that he has no doubt of
being cured.
Simple injections with salt water, and then with soap
and water cause the discharge to diminish so rapidly, that at
the end of .February there did not exist a vestige of it. The
water of these injections merely brings away some slight
membranous debris resembling the furfura of herpes.
At length, on this day, March 12, 1840, M. G*** has no
more than the bare remembrance of his disease, for there
exists no appreciable difference between the acoustic sensi-
bilities of his two ears.
There is the plain simple fact ; ·let the medicine of the
physicia118 produce one like it.
EIGHTH CASE.
Attack o( gout on M. Perruchot ; Paris, 1781, by d'Eslon.
M. Perruchot, after a considerable long walk in melted
snow, suddenly felt in one of his feet a sharp pain, which
eoon presented the symptoms ofa fit ofgout. M. Perruchot
did not believe in magnetism ; he even used frequently to
laugh at those simple people who used to place confidence in
256 OF MAGJSETISM, CONSIDERED
it, and at the visionaries who practised it. But pain renders
one credulous just as danger renders one superstitious. The
sailors who are so much addicted to blasphemy in fair wea-
ther, never fail to invoke the Virgin at the time of a ship-
wreck. M. Perruchot sent for d'Eslon and shewed him his
foot, which Wll8 black up to the tendo Achillis. The latter
immediately set to work and did not take leave of his
patient till he had magnetised him for the time he thought
expedient. But now indeed, the honest cit believed for the
rest of his life in magnetism; for d'Eslon had scarcely left
when a prodigious discharge which came on, immediately
produced such an abatement of the pain that he was able to
return to his bed, passing through two rooms. Two hours
after there is another discharge, which gives him further
relief. At length, at noon, feeling the pain abate every
moment, he gets up and goes to pay two visits. In the
evening the same relief is felt; he now has only the recol-
lection of the sufferings he had undergone, and of which he
does not think at all the next day; from this period he
continued to enjoy perfect health.
Much might be said on this case ; but I wish to confine
my remarks to a narrow compass. \Ve know full well
that evacuations, such as occurred here, sometimes come on
spontaneously in gouty subjects, an occurrence which almost
always relieves them unexpectedly and suddenly. But our
conjrh-es are well aware that the fact is not very common;
whilst the purgative power ofmagnetism is, on the contrary,
very frequently witnessed. M. Mialle's book alone might
furnish ample proofs of it. But will it be said that the
purgation in this case was the effect of fear P Gentlemen,
Perruchot did not believe in magnetism; do persons fear a
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 257
thing in which they do not believe ? And then, after all,
let us be consistent; if there exist only one hundred cases
similar to that now related, is it fair to attribute the effect
produced to chance, that is to say, to an inexplicable coin-
cidence, and one which our medical experience belies? Cer-
tainly not, and since, in whatever manner we view the
matter, our causality is still at fault, I am just as willing to
believe in a miracle as in an absurdity.
NINTH CASE.
Sciatica, headache, stupefaction, sleeplessness, &c., in Father
Herviert, Paris, 1738, by Mesmer.
We have just seen a fit ofgout removed by two copious
evacuations ; here now is a rheumatic affection which
yields to magnetism, terminating in profuse sweats.
Father Herviert, Doctor of the Sorbonne, and librarian
to the Augustinians, was very passionately addicted to
study; but his constant watchings bad considerably altered
his health. The learned father, to whom we are indebted
for several excellent works (among others, for a Letter on
the Discovery ofAnimal Magnetism*), felt so much more
from his disease as it deprived him of indulging in his
favourite pursuit. But there was no struggling against it.
His sight was so far weakened as to prevent him from stu-
dying more than one hour at a time. He complained of
violent headaches, di~ziness, frequent sleeplessness, and, be-
sides all this, an intolerable pain in one of the sciatic re-
gions on the least variation of temperature. · Father
• The case we give is extracted from this work•
•
258 OF MAGNETISM, CONIIIDBRED
Herviert had tried every thing to cure himself; but nothing
bad succeeded. Neither baths, nor mineral waters, nor
amusement, nor travelling, which had been recommended to
him, procured him any relief; in fact, he was now almost re-
signed to suffer for the remainder of his life, when the euree
effected by Mesmer induced him to have recourse to him.
Let magnetisers look sharp ; it is still in our time as it was
in Mesmer's, it is scarcely any but the mi!lerable that give
themselves up to us. But if the disease of Father Herviert
was found to be inaccessible to the resources of the Faculty,
magnetism set them right by curing him. His improve-
ment was marked from the very first attempts. At the
same time that he felt an unusual degree of heat in his
entrails, the pains of his head and limbs were entirely dissi-
pated. Even his sight was re-established, and six weeks
after his admission to public treatment be was more than
convalescent.
Father Herviert proved himself grateful towards mag-
netism and Mesmer. A disciple of the latter, and a zealous
propagator of the discovery, he ultimately became one or
the most famous magnetisers in Europe.
TENTH CASE.
Rheumatism in M. Ducrest at Strasbourg, 1785, by M. de Ia
Jomariere. (Annales de Strasbourg, t. i. p. 94.)
A man named Ducrest, a fireman, in the discharge of hie
dutie~, at a fire, which had broken out at the king's maga-
zine at Strasbourg (May 1784), bad a fall, in which he was
very near breaking his right leg. The contusion resulting
from this fall was so great that he was well-nigh unable to
1
'
J
I
•
J
I
I
AS A THBBAl'EUTIC AGENT. 259
stand on the foot. However, he got better, when in the
month of June following, in consequence of a violent effort,
he felt something crack in the lumbar region, in which part
be instantly felt very acute pains. He thought he had
rupture; but, after some hours, nothing appearing in the
groin, his fright was removed. However, the pains increased
by degrees ; so much so, that in the month of December
he could neither stand nor sit up. The slightest motion
caused him excruciating pain, and when he attempted to
settle himself in the bed, the torture she suffered made him
cry out. Then, it became wholly impossible for him to take
any rest or sleep. When he lay on one side he could not
return to the other, and the least muscular contraction
caused him severe punishment. At length, towards the
middle of December, convulsions came on, the attacks and
severity of which went on increasing until spring, when the
unfortunate man began at length to find some relief.
In the month of May following, Ducrest having gone
down into a well full of saltpetre, to repair the pump of
the royal nursery, and having remained there about eight
hours at two ditlerent times, his pains, which were but im-
perfectly removed, returned with renewed severity, first in
the kidneys, then in the lower extremities, where they
fixed themselves. They increased in such a manner that in
a little time Ducrest became entirely unable to move. He
then had recourse to fumigations and baths of every kind ;
but this gave him relief only for a moment, and soon left
him a prey to the most cruel sufferings. In the month
of August he was treated with blisters ; one was applied on
each calf, one on the right ankle, one on each hip, one on
the right knee, and another on the kidneys. As long as
260 ON MAGNETISM1 CONSIDERED
the blistered surfaces were in a state of suppuration, some
relief was felt ; but they no sooner closed than the pains
returned more severe than before.
After having tried all possible means of cure, he applied
to the Society of Strasbourg. On the 17th of December,
M. de La Jomariere began to magnetise him. On the fol-
lowing day he felt some relief, and he had rather an easy
night. On the 19th his pains ceased entirely all the time
the sitting lasted. After three or four days' treatment, the
headach he had had during his entire illness passed away
entirely : the pains diminished gradually ; he recovered his
sleep, and at the end of five weeks he was perfectly cured.
The cases in which magnetism may act as a sedative
present themselves very frequently. The 1st of July last I
was called on to attend Madame Tr., Rue Sainte-Margue-
rite. When I arrived at this lady's house, she experienced
since the last half-hour excessively violent spasms, to combat.
which the classic mixture of the aqua lactucte with rether and
laudanum had been ineffectually employed; the spasms
degenerated into convulsions. The patient, stifled in her
clothes, which they had not the precaution to remove,
writhed in her bed, uttering terrific cries. Now, I had no
sooner extended my hand to her, than she became quieted
as if by magic. Some passes threw her into a state of som·
nambulism.
" Are you more calm, madame P"
"Yes."
" Who has calmed you P"
"You."
" What must we do to you P"
"Let me sleep."
, I
I
j
l
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT.
"How long?"
" Half an hour."
" Will your state of agitation return no more ?"
"No."
" What has been the cause of it ?"
" Do not make me speak, it distresses me."
261
The paroxysm was over ; but it returned some days
after, and I had again the happiness to quiet her by the
same means, and with the same promptness. This occurred
in the presence of ten persons, whom I might name if it
were a matter of importance. The following case presents
infinitely more interest: we borrow it from M. Pigeaire's
work:*-
ELEVENTH CASE.
" Madame A ...•. , about fifty years of age, fell in going
down-stairs ; in consequence of this fall she experienced p.
violent concussion of the entire trunk; eight days after her
left arm was convulsively agitated: by little and little it
was removed from the body with nervous movements,
which became more intense and more continued, and which
changed into vermicular, irregular, violent, and very painful
contractions. The patient was forced i.Mtinctively to carry
it up to her head, to place her hand on her head, and to
keep it constantly in this position with the right hand,
without the movements ofcontraction ceasing for an instant ;
so that this lady could not satisfy the least want without
the assistance of some other person.
* Puissance de l'tllectricite animale ou du magnetisme vital et de
ses rapports avec Ia physique, Ia physiologic, et Ia mooeciue. Paris,
1839, in-s.
262 OJ' MA.GNETISM, CONSIDERED
"After having submitted without advantage to the treat-
ment recommended by the physicians of her own country,
Madame A. came to consult the physicians of the capital.
M. Professor Marjolin was consulted ; he recommended
magnetism for the patient. Her husband, fearing that the
magnetic treatment would be tedious and uncertain, thought
it well to take the advice of some other physician ; M.
Bouillaud was called in, and prescribed the application of
two or three moxas at the interval of eight days between
each. This remedy was repugnant to the lady's feelings.
" I had been just three days in Paris, when I received a
letter requesting me to go to the Maison de Sante of
Madame Baric, Faubourg Poissonniere, to see a sick lady I
who wished to consult me. It was for Madame A., whom I
found in bed in the state I have just mentioned. The j
countenance of the patient was red and flushed, expressive
of great irritation. After I became acquainted with the
history of her extraordinary disease, I attempted, with great i
care, to draw down the arm that was placed on the head, and j
was convulsively agitated. I had not displaced it four or
five inches, when the cries of the patient forced me to dis- 1
continue my attempts. This arm, left to itself, moved as it J
l
were by a spring, aamck against the lower part of the fore-
head, and reascended to the head, where the right band
kept it, in order to moderate its movements.
" My opinion, and it was also that of the physician iD
ordinary to the Maison de Sante, was to employ ma.,ouetism
first ; and if, at the termination of fifteen days, t.hese mea111
produced no improvement, it would be well to follow the
advice of M. Bouillaud.
" I then learned from the patient that her hnsband bad ,
A.8 A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 263
written to her to have herself magnetised by Madame
Pigeaire, who had recently arrived in Paris. I told her,
that before making some magnetic experiments Madame
Pigeaire could not take it on her to magnetise her; that I
would bring her a well-informed physician who had great
practice in magnetism.
" ' I do not wish a man to magnetise me ; I desire that
it should be your lady; she will have pity on my state, I
IIDl sure.'
" On the next day, Madame Baric requested Madame
Pigeaire to comply with the wishes of the patient.
" Under the magnetic influence the nervous agitation
became quieted; the movements of the arm became less
violent. The patient was able to sleep from five to six
hours every night. After eight days magnetising, the mere
application ofMadame Pigeaire's hand suddenly arrested the
contractions. At length the affected arm, following the di-
rection of the hand which magnetised it, quitted its posi-
tion. Ten days after the employment ofmagnetism, Madame
A. went down into the garden with the arm hanging dowu,
and free from suffering. The clonic movements were but
little perceptible, and intermittent. All the individuals in
the house were astonished. The patient felt unspeakable
joy ; she went up to her room twenty times a-day to shew
herself to every one.
" M. Bouillaud called to see her again fifteen days after
his first visit. He found Madame A. sitting before a table,
and trying to knit. The surprise of the professor, they tell
me, was very great.
" 'Ah I I am delighted at your state of health ; that is
very well; I hope that we shall have no occasion to continue
264 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
my prescription. I have made you sufft!r a little; but you
must be content.'
" • Monsieur, I have not suffered at all ; I did not
apply your moxas.'
" •And what have you done?'
" ' I have had myself magnetised.'
"At this word M. Bouillaud's passion burst forth.
" ' You do not wish to get well, then P'
" ' But you see I am much better. And, besides, you
know full well that M. Marjolin recommended me mag-
netism.'
" M. Bouillaud went out in a furious passion.''
In his place I would have acted otherwise. I would
have wished to be present at the process of magnetising ; I
would have wished to satisfy myself whether any other
treatment had been employed. The question was not here
about an extraordinary vision ; but passion never reasons.
M. Deleuze was perfectly right in saying that prejudice can
lead astray men with an honest heart and intelligent head.
TWELFTH CASB.
Epilepsy in a person named Wagner, at Strasbourg, 1785, by M. le
Baron de Dampierre.-Annales de StrMbourg, t. i. p. 51.
A person named Wagner, a soldier in the regiment of
Artois, was epileptic since he was three years of age. To be
sure, he had but three or four fits per month ; but the
slightest annoyance he met, these attacks were increased in
number, so as to recur two or three times a-day. Being
incapable of discharging his duties as a soldier, Wagner bad
just received his discharge ; and Baron Fumel, his colonel,
consented to keep him in the regiment only at the request of
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 265
Baron Dampierre, who had conceived the hope of curing
him. He commenced magnetising him on the morning of
the 21st of August. After seven or eight minutes, Wagner
fell into a kind of stupor, accompanied with considerable
perspiration, and which was followed by an epileptic fit.
The eyes, half closed, were convulsed towards the roof ofthe
orbits ; the teeth chattered ; the breathing was panting and
constrained; and whilst the lips were covered with froth, all
the limbs were agitated, and writhing under horrible con-
vulsions. Wagner was in this state for more than two
hours, without his magnetiser being able to succeed in
tranquillising him. When he recovered his consciousness,
M. de Dampierre had him asked by an interpreter (he only
knew German) how he felt; he answered, that he suffered
in every part, and more especially in the head, chest, and
heart. They wished him to drink magnetised water, but
the resophagus was so contracted, that he could scarcely
swallow a mouthful. When he had entirely got over this
crisis, M. le Baron sent him to his quarters : but he was so
feeble, that he could not walk, and they were obliged to
convey him in a coach.
In the afternoon, M. le Baron went to see him, accom-
panied by M. le Marquis de Puysegur, whom he had
invited to join him, to strive and throw this man into a state
of somnambulism. · They found him still suffering. M.
de Dampierre began to magnetise him ; which occasioned,
after seven or eight minutes, a second epileptic attack.
Seeing, after a quarter of an hour, that be could not succeed
in tranquillising him, he requested M. Puysegur to magnetise
him ; but the latter was not more successful. The crisis ran
its course, as in the morning. M. le Baron went to mag-
266 OF .MAGNETISM, CONSIDERBD
netise him exactly twice a-day, and at each time the same
crises were renewed with the same violence. When Wagner
was asked how ·he felt himsel~ he answered, wor1•. He
remained in this state up to the 28th, when he began to be
purged twice or thrice by the mere action of the mag-
netism. The evacuations took place on the following days,
· during which, suffering horribly in the head and stomach,
scarcely able to breathe, he humbly implored of his mag-
netiser to let him lie still. However, M. le Baron, not
wishing to interrupt the work of Nature, persevered in
going on ; but this time the attack was so violent, that he
thought the patient would not sustain it. He let him lie on
the bed, overcome by the sufferings he had endured. Thia
last crisis had such an impression on him, and he was ao
much afraid that the man would die in his hands, that he
was well-nigh determined to give him up.
M. Puysegur, to whom he communicated his fears, ad-
vised him to persevere, adding that this ~Jll!:.n, if left to his
disease, and without treatment, was lost. M. de Dampierre
yielded to this advice, but, on returning to Wagner, be was
accompanied by M. Jregltl, surgeon-major of the regiment,
in order to have his assistance if required. When they
arived at Wagner's residence, expecting to find the patient
much worse than usual, they were very agreeably surprised
when he assured them that he had not felt so well since the
commencement of the treatment. However, as soon as be
was magnetised, he had his usual attack, but much less
violent than the preceding. This was followed by a sort of
magnetic sleep, which la.'lted three quarters of an hour, at
the termination of which the patient awoke of himself. In
the afternoon Wagner lost consciousness after three minutes.
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 267
M. le Baron then suspended the magnetism. The convul-
sions were infinitely less violent, and the patient awoke in
ten minutes. He spoke immediately, a thing which he had
not done as yet; for he always required half-an-hour to
recover himself, and put himself in a state of being under-
stood. He states that since the morning sitting he had
been five times at stool, and that in the three last he had
passed black blood. M. le Baron then magnetised him, and
put him into a magnetic sleep, but an imperfect one. His
pains had gone down into his legs and feet. The 31st, he
says, that he passed an excellent night, and that he only
suffered a little in the legs. On this day he had no more
convulsions, and became a somnambulist. On the next day
be found himself very well, and began to speak of his cure.
He was made to drink some magnetised water, which he
found excellent. At length, on the 4th, he declared himself
cured. However, during his somnambulism, he required
that they should effect a purgation in him three times con·
secutively, at two days interval. Finally, on the last day
of his treatment, he prescribed for himself a bleeding from
the left arm, repeated every month ; and he assured them
that his health was perfectly re-established. The cure was
attested by all the officers of the regiment, including the
surgeon.
Witness, JlEGLE, Surgeon.
This case is more especially remarkable in this, that it
characterises th~ ordinary mode of action of magnetism in
epilepsy. An increase in the number and severity of the
fits constitutes almost always the first effect of the treatment.
But these crises soon diminish in frequency and severity, and
268 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
ultimately disappear without returning. The following fact
reported by M. Koreff,• may also be quoted in support of
this great therapeutic principle.
THIRTEENTH CASE.
I
" A young person had become epileptic in consequence
of a fright, and the attacks were always accompanied by
delirium. One day she was bled in the midst of a violent
fit, which presented alarming symptoms of apoplexy. Im-
mediately after this fit, a spontaneous somnambulism de-
veloped itself instead of the habitual delirium. During
the somnambulism the young patient instructed her uncle
in the method he should adopt in order to magnetise her,
and in the means of treating her. The uncle, surgeon in a
small village, and little acquainted with matters ofthis kind,
sent her into a large city, where she was magnetised ; they
very imprudently allowed her to become an object of
curiosity ; she was overpowered with questions, which dis-
turbed her state of somnambulism. I was called in ; I
restored the equilibrium, regulated the action of her ordi-
nary magnetiser, directed the treatment for some time, and
obtained very good results. She possessed lucidity only for
her own state ; she suggested scarcely any remedies, but
marked with precision the very time when they should
put her to sleep. It was generally a little time before the
accession of the fit, which was then ligh~r, left no bad
traces on the brain, and passed into somnambulism by an
• Lettre d'un Medecln Etranger, &c. p. 418.
AS A. THERAPEUTIC AGENT• 269
easy transition. She ·was magnetised with large currents
during the entire accession. Being obliged to leave her,
I consigned her to the hands ofher original magnetiser, to
whom I recommended the most scrupulous exactness. She
had predicted that she would have a frightful succession of
fits, more fJWlent than any of the preceding, but that thi.f
stormy lil:prosion was necessary to terminate her disease.
She stated that for several consecutive days, which she
pointed out, it would be necessary to magnetise her with-
out leaving her, from seven o'clock in the morning till
three, and that after this number of days she would be
cured for ever of her epilepsy. For the last two days her
magnetiser being obliged to absent himself, and not believing
in the necessity of strict precision, did not magnetise her
till eleven o'clock, the epilepsy disappeared, but the patient
remained in a state approaching idiotcy, and was plunged
into a distressing state of apathy. A little time after the
epilepsy recommenced, and the detractors of magnetism
began to triumph. A remarkable occurrence, which it
might be too long to recite here, having thrown her back
into a state of somnambulism, she declared that the fault
which had been committed, of abridging her treatment by
some hours, was the cause of her relapse. She now gave
new directions, which were scrnpulously attended to, and
by means of which she was perfectly restored. It is now
better than two years since this occurred, and the young
person continues to enjoy excellent health.
"KoREFF, Physician."
These violent paroxysms which terminate epilepsy, when
treated by magnetism, do not occur constantly. The work
270 OF MAGNETISM, COliiSIDBBED
of M. Mialle (Cure1 u]beu par le magr.eeume, tc.) con·
tains a considerable number of cases, in which the diseue
observed an inverted course, that is, began by exhibiting an
amendment from the first days of the treatment. Mattera
happened also in this way in the case of Miss J•••, an
epileptic for seven years, whose history M. Pigeaire baa
given in his work.* Magnetisation at once removed the
accessions, and made them to disappear altogether.
M. Esquirol states that he has subjected a great number
of insane persons to the influence of magnetism without
any advantage; but this gentleman, instead of contenting
himself with a bare assertion, should have stated to us,
with some details, the facts which decided his conviction on
this point ; for his asserted instances offailure seem to us so
much the more equivocal, as they are, in some degree, con-
tradicted by the accounts of other observers just as re-
spectable as himself. The writings of MM. de Puysegur,
de Bossiere, de Corbaux, &c. vouch for the truth of what
we state ; but among all the cases of mental alienation
cured by magnetism, I know none more curious than that
related by Dr. Meijer, of .Amsterdam, in a work which
we have not been able to procure. Such of our readers u
are not acquainted with M. Pigcaire's brochure, where this
case has been copied from the original, will be pleased with
us for transcribing it here.
FOURTEENTH CASE.
"In the month of August, 1819, Mr. Crooswijck, of
Rotterdam, aged twenty years, was attacked with epileptic
• Puissance de l'Electricite Animale, &e. p. 242.
I
j
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 271
fits. These fits frequently returned, and assumed such a
degree of severity, that in the month of October fol1owing
the patient passed into a state of frenzy and madne8!1.
Four strong men were scarcely able to hold him. Placed,
by way of precaution, in an alcove, he broke with his own
hands a strong camp-bed; the doors of the alcove, though
secured with great strength, fell to pieces under his vio-
lence ; they were obliged to reconstruct them three times.
"During the months of January and February there
was a little calm, but the 1st of March his madness broke
out anew, and the patient demolished every thing he could
lay his hands on.
"After having exhausted, without succes.~, all the ordi-
nary resources of the medical art, the last physician they
had consulted, the learned M. Sander, took advantage of
some moments of calm to induce .the patient to let himself
be magnetised; I was cal1ed in. At my first visit, though
I had been informed of all the previous circumstances, I
wa5 struck with astonishment and fright on seeing the
furious state of this young man, and the havoc which he
had committed. I could not but recoil at the idea of
risking my own existence in my attempt to save him, an
attempt, too, that was to all appearance hopeless. I suc-
ceeded, however, in calming my own emotions before the
persons who were present at this visit, and I made up
my mind. The feeling of my duties to humanity, the
desire of restoring an unfortunate young man to his dis-
consolate family, the ambition to vindicate the honour of
my profession, urged me to the resolution of despising
every personal danger, and of devoting myself to the
destinies of my patient.
272 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
" On the following day I undertook my first operation.
By the effect of magnetisation, the .patient passing into
the magnetic sleep, became calm; but he experienced a
dragging sensation, and convulsive movements in the arms
and legs, joined to a sense of fluttering over the entire
body. The tongue projected from the mouth, and though
he retained his intellectual faculties, a circumstance which I
ascertained by the signs he made.to me for the purpose of
answering some questions I put to him, he was completely
deprived of speech. Dreading the explosion ofhis madness,
the terrible effect of which I had constantly before my
eyes, I sometimes calmed the motion of the nerves, and
sometimes left him his free course, leading him gently to its
termination.
"After having slept the magnetic sleep for one hour,
the patient awoke, and extended his limbs three times with
considerable force. He had no consciousness of what had
passed, but he felt himself relieved and comforted. When
I left him he was in rather a comfortable state.
" I continued the magnetisation for two days; the mag-
netic sleep, which was ·gradually developing itself, was
interrupted by fits of frenzy so violent that the patient
tore his clothes, his bed, &c. I allowed him to proceed
to a certain extent, and then abruptly interrupting his fury,
I exercised on him that great magnetic force, by blowing
my breath upon him. He generally awoke after a mag-
netic sleep of an hour, calm and relieved. The effect of
magnetisation and of somnambulism increased from day to
day. The number of persons who came to be present at
the treatment likewise increased daily. Already they were
rejoicing at seeing the calm succeed the violent paroxysms.
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 273
This joy, however, was entirely premature: the frenzy of
the patient became so alarming that, not only for myself,
but for all those who were to approach him, the enterprise
was extremely dangerous. My magnetic force, however,
retained its influence over him. After these operations
I succeeded in making him pass into the complete state of
somnambulism. Then it was he declared to me that he
could be cured only by magnetism ; and announced to me
beforehand, with the strictest accuracy, the hours and
minutes when his paroxysms would take place. I obtained
in this way the knowledge of the danger I should have
to encounter, as also of the means of preparing myself to
meet it.
" After eight or nine days' magnetisation, the critical
moment for the patient and for me was decidedly approach-
ing. He foretold to me that in three days he should have
a paroxysm of madness which was to last for two hours and
a half.
" ' This frenzy,' says he to me, 'will be so violent, that
I cannot answer for the danger you will have to incur.
It is a great task for you to undertake my cure. ·when
my madness will commence to develope itself, you must
allow it to go on for twenty minutes, and then it will be
excessive; but after having burst the doors, you must sud-
denly throw yourself on me, and stop my paroxysm. I do
not dare promise you that this great effort will succeed; but
if you do not undertake it, there is not a hope for me : I
must inevitably perish. The only means remaining for me
I have now told you ; but mind, in no case will you get
out ofit without suffering.' He became silent for an instant;
and then, with tears in his eyes, he asked me, ' Will you
T
274 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
venture to undertake it ?' I was moved to the very soul ;
I had to sustain the struggle of a thousand different im-
pressions which alternately lacerated my heart. I took my
resolution. ' In the name of God, be it so !' I exclaimed.
The poor young man seized my hand, kissed it with trans-
ports, expressed his gratitude to me, and advised me to tell
him nothing on his awaking of what had occurred in his
magnetic sleep.
" The dreaded day appeared ; at five in the morning I
repair to Mr. Crooswijck's house, accompanied by the worthy
surgeon, Van-Wagening, who, under all these painful cir-
cumstances, faithfully afforded me his aid and assistance.
Though my heart was oppressed, I formed my plan of
conduct. I took off my cravat in order not to be strangled;
I took a cordial, and prepared for the attack. At six o'clock,
the moment predicted by the patient when in the state of
somnambulism, the paroxysm commenced. The madman
set up a frightful howling ; he tore the clothes about him,
the bed-clothes, and his shirt.• The twenty minutes were
nearly elapsed; we took away the pieces of timber which
barricaded the doors of his room, and all around me took a
precipitate flight. I remained alone, the door of the
apartment was shut on me. At a distance I contemplated,
not without horror, the frightful figure of my phrenetic
patient, like to a ferocious beast; his tongue hung out of
his mouth, and his hands were directed towards me like the
claws of a tiger: his countenance was really frightful. The
fatal moment was come, the battle must begin. Collecting
* Are we to suppose that strait waistcoat were not yet in-
vented in Holland ?
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 275
all my force I spring on the unfortunate fellow, and seize
him by the shoulders. There we are pitted, one against
the other, like two spiteful enemies ; he seizes me also by
the shoulders, and the struggle commenced. The earth
seemed to sink beneath my feet, my hair stood erect on
my head, I aroused my courage, blew my breath on the
poor madman with all the intensity I could, knowing by
experience that this means gave me most power over him :
I had the good fortune to triumph. This terrible struggle,
which I sketch with difficulty, had lasted but five minutes,
when the patient fell on the ground as if absolutely dead :
he was in the magnetic sleep. I fell myself quite exhausted
by his side. My clothes were torn to pieces. ' Rest a
little,' said the somnambulist to me ; ' two more violent
paroxysms are still to follow ; I shall apprise you of it by
making the signal with my hand • • M. Dr.
W agening and the elder brother of the unfortunate patient
came in. I had scarcely recovered from my exhaustion,
when the patient gave the fatal signal. These two gentle-
men had to support me by the loins ; the patient, in his
frenzy, made every effort to seize me by the throat; it
was only by the intensity of my blowing that I succeeded
in keeping him sufficiently removed from me to prevent
him from satisfying his rage. Let any one figure to himself
my situation ; I was just on the point of yielding, when all
at once this paroxysm was checked and a calm supervened.
After some minutes' rest, the third paroxysm was manifesting
itself in a form still more alarming than any ofthe preceding.
I passed once more through the terrible ordeal, but came
off victorious.
" It was thought that the ·evil was now surmounted,
276 OF NAGNETJSM1 CONSIDERED
already they were shedding tears ofjoy, the patient himself
was covering my hands with the most ardent kisses to testify
his gratitude to me. Alas I we had conjured away but the
least portion of the storm. In the ordinary magnetisation,
and the same day at eleven o'clock before noon, the hour
at which I magnetised him, the somnambulist predicted to
me, that for three consecutive days he would be attacked
with madness and hydrophobia ; that the third day the evil
would be at its height; that if on that day before four
o'clock in the afternoon he had not drnnk water three
times, his rnin was inevitable ; the first two days passed
away under frightful circumstances. The unfortunate mad-
man was more dangerous than ever : he broke the strongest
pieces of furniture with his hands, demolished the chimney-
piece and the window-sashes, at the risk of tumbling down
the wall. The terrors of the third day were beyond all
conception ; the maniac called for a drink the third time;
I take the vessel, but he upsets it, falling on me in order to
pull out my teeth. The fatal hour was going to strike, all
was lost. The unfortunate man continued his demolitions,
always without hurting his hands, his only instruments.
He is often going even to break the door! we are all on
the point of running away, in the conviction that we had
done every thing that men could do in order to save him•
.Four o'clock is just going to strike! but the thundering
voice ofthe unfortunate man crying out three times, ' Drink!
drink! drink !' strikes our ears with a feeling of inex-
pressible joy ; I run up to him, present him the cup ; he
hesitates, refuses ; I exhaust all my magnetic power on him,
and he drinks.
" Nothing was yet done. In the course of our ulterior
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 277
magnetisations, some days after the last trials, he predicted
to me three other paroxysms still more terrible, which
would occur at different epochs more or less distant. ' He
would be saved, provided I could continue on him the same
treatment.' These three crises really did occur in fright-
ful progression. The unfortunate man was encompassed
by a copper girdle, to which had been affixed an iron
chain, fastened by strong hooks to a stake fixed in the
ground.
" In the first of these crises he demolished every thing
that the length of his chain allowed him to reach. Before
the second, he was placed in a house which was in a state
of demolition. Nothing could resist him. More than two
hundred persons came to be witnesses of this formidable
delirium.
" The day preceding the day when the third crisis was
to take place, the patient was removed to Schiedam, to an
uniBhabited house; and there, attached to a long chain which
was fastened to a solid block, he could vent his rage on the
thick stone walls. At Schiedam every one was in motion;
here, as at Rotterdam, the police were at my disposal, and I
had great need of them to keep order among the people,
whom curiosity or the idea of seeing a miracle had brought
from all parts. The last three crises were got over as the
preceding.
" When restored to his reason, the patient still experi-
enced some nervous attacks, which were soon calmed by
magnetisation, and the paroxysms went on diminishing by
little and little, and at length returned no more.
" This interesting young man enjoys perfect health, and
278 OF MAGNETISM, CONSIDERED
joins to a calm mind the full possession of his intellectual
faculties.
"J. N. CRooswiJCK, father ofthis young man.
"Rotterdam, Dec. 11, 1820."
"In consequence of this extraordinary and unheard-of
cure, the undersigned cannot refuse to pay homage to truth,
having been present at the magnetisations at different times.
" (Signed) L. PoRTE, pastor in this city; B. NAEF·
KENs, public functionary; C. Jo.&-
CHIM,publicfunctionary; Jou.MuNTs;
P. J. VAN WAGENINGE, accorteheur;
TuioD. DIKGERs."
Independently of the cases already reported by us,
animal magnetism has still been successfully employed by
us in a number of other diseases of an entirely different
nature, and I know not whether I should be going too far
in stating that the first magnetisers who made a panacea of
it against all the infirmities capable of afflicting man, were
still at least as succe8sful in their practice as the physiciane
of the old school. If, however, we are called on to explain
distinctly and categorically the therapeutic power of this
unknown agent, we shall answer,-
}. That magnetism succeeds chiefly in asthenic diseases ;
that is, in those whose predominant character is a general
debility, such as chlorosis, amenorrhrea in consequence of
anemia, scrofula, commencing phthisis, mesenteric diseaee,
white swelling, redema, passive dropsies.•
• Hydropericardium, hydrothoru, hydroperitonitis, ofM. Piorry, &c.
AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT. 279
2. In all the neuroees, such as epilepsy, chorea, hysteria,
hemicrania, convulsions, spasms, &c.
3. In partial neuralgire, as sciatica, &c.
4. In changes of the fluids accompanied or not by ab·
normal productions, such as rheumatism, gout, &c.
Magnetism, in a word, appears to me to be the regene-
rator, par excellence, of the circulation and innervation ; but
the doctors will cry out, " This catalogue is immense! It
includes all pathology ; and consequently, you are talking
absurdities." Let us distinguish, my dear confreres; what I
tell you is absurd, because you will have it so: but it is
undoubtedly true, since facts have proved it.
280
CHAPTER XIV.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
"MEDICINE," says Broussais, "was, in its origin, nothing
but a coarse empiricism, which chance or instinct suggested
to primitive mortals."• But philosophers soon began to dog·
matise, and to add their hypotheses to the already equivocal
data of a science which was not one, since medicine, as we
understand it, escapes the most subtle investigations of the
mind. There is precisely where all the efforts of those
illustrious thinkers terminated (if we are to believe the his-
tory of Greece) who succeeded each other-from Empedocles
to Herodicus, the inventor ofgymnastics, or if you will, from
Pythagoras to Hippocrates. This last-named person, it is
true, effected a happy revolution in medicine by separating
it from philosophy ; but his successors, Plato, Aristotle,
Diocles, Praxagoras, &c., soon returned to dogmatism, that
is, they commenced reasoning, beyond all bounds, on things
of which they had not even an idea, and to deduce from
misinterpreted facts the principles of an ordinary art.
Setting out from this epoch, medicine (though human nature
bas not undergone the slightest modification, and bas invari-
ably continued the same),-medicine, I say, ceases not to
* Broussais, E~amen du doctrines m{dicaks, &c. Paris, 1829, t. i.
p. 2.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 281
undergo alterations, and to change its principles; there are
empirics, humorists, pneumatists, humoro-pneumatists, eclec-
tics, methodists, &c. &c.-a real tower of Babel where every
one deafens his neighbours with a jargon of which he under-
stands not a whit more than those who hear him.
Next came Galen, who, by crying out louder and perhaps
for a longer time than the others,• ultimately effected a
predominance of his own ideas; his profession.of medical
faith (if he had any) was a dogmatism so complex that it
would require more than one volume to give an abstract
of it.
After the death of the Physician of Perga~us, there now
remained but an extensive field of darkness, where the art of
Asclepiades became changed into an occult science, the
infernal jargon of which old Nick himself could not make
out. But was the ignorance of the physicians of that day
more prejudicial to humanity than the sublime inspirations
of our modern folk? God only knows; the dead are mute.
However, towards the end of the middle age, medicine
shook the dust off its wings, after three ages of lethargy, and
resumed her aerial flight under the auspices of Paracelsus
and Van Helmont. But what a restoration! We have no
longer to consider, as in the time of Heraclitus and Aristotle,
philosophy mixing up its dogmas with the precepts of the
art of healing; it is all the sciences, all the liberal or
mechanical arts which vie with one another in deforming
* There never was a more fruitful writer than Galen. He wrote
more than five hundred books on medicine and pbllosophy, and
almost as many on geometry, grammar, &c. A great many of these
books perished in the tire of the temple of Peace ; others were lost
since, and there now remain none but a part of his medical works.
282 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT,
and disfiguring it. The great discovery of William Harvey
producesno changein thecourseofthings,for notwithstanding
the circulation of the blood, which remained for a long time
in dispute, we now come to have the molecular and matke-
matical medicine, with Sylvius and Willis, just as we had the
chymical or alchemistical medicine with Paracelsus. Next
the vitalism of Stahl and Frederic Hoffman puts the finish
to the perplexities of the adepts. Without intending any
disparagement to the apologists of this period, all was still a
chaos. Let us now see bow we have got out of it. Some
indefatigable nosologists, at the head of which we must place
Sauvages and Pinel, had the heroic courage to dig the
rubbish, to rake it up; to prepare it and turn it to account
for the purpose of building up a new edifice, which is to
stand for this time. The edifice is raised ; its plan is unob-
jectionable, its base is solid, and all that will remain for
posterity to do is to complete the details. Henceforward,
then, we are to have an immutable, an eternal medical doc·
trine. Error! lllusion I Behold the man with the voice of
thunder, with the eye of an eagle, the arm of a Hercules,
comes hastening from the West. By his powerful blast he
will in one instant crumble all this scaffolding, one vestige
of which will not be traced in less than twenty years. This
man is-Francis-Victor Broussais, who, after having made a
tabula rasa, leaves nothing behind him but-his name I
Where then is truth now, Gentlemen doctors P What!
for the last three thousand years you are pursuing it without
overtaking it !-threecenturies of debates, and the suit is not
yet over I There is error then. You and I are the dupes
of some mistake. Let us change our route, if you please,
for if we go on, Moliere was quite right in making Argan's
OP MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 283
brother say, "That he sees nothing more laughable, nothing
more ridiculous, than one man busying himself about curing
another." Do you wish to know where the truth in medi-
cine lies ? it lies in the heads of your patients, my friends,~
do now listen to me, and you will understand me.
I know not how far the hypothesis, which I have laid
down occasionally regarding the medical instincts of primitive
men, is .well founded; but one thing which I hold to be
indisputable, is, that these instincts do really exist at the
bottom of all human organisation, and that the only state in
which these instincts reveal themselves at the present day
is the state of somnambulism. Broussais said, some twenty
years ago, to a friend of his, "If magnetism was true, medi-
cine would be an absurdity;" a strict proposition, of which
the most distinguished of physicians rejected the consequent
only because he did not believe in the antecedent. Now, I
say it, and I proclaim it in the face of the world, this conse-
quent which startled the great systematist of Val de Grace,
I admit wholly, explicitly, and without reserve; for the two
terms of his proposition equally constitute in my mind two
undeniable truths.
All that remains, then, is to solve this question : Are all
patients susceptible of falling into somnambulism, and con-
sequently of treating themselves? Certainly not; but for-
tunately, as we have already shewn, the medical instinct of
a great number of somnambulists may be exercised to the
advantage of others. To remove every obstacle then, all
that is to be done is to bring the one into relation with the
sick persons on whom the magnetism shall have failed to act
directly. Thus to wrest for ever the practice of medicine
from intelligence, and to trust it to instinct; such is the vast
284 OF IIU.GNETIC TREATNENT.
project which I conceive; for I tell you sincerely, the clair·
voyance of an idiot in a state of somnambulism would
inspire me with more confidence, if I were sick, than the
greatest geniuses which grace modern medicine. And I
mean that this new practice of the medical art should be
universal, and be applied to all cases. The study of anatomy, .
of operations, will alone remain in our schools for the pur-
pose of making surgeons ; but all the acts of the latter again
shall be subordinate to the suggestions of the somnambulist.
I know well that in saying this, I am covering myself with
ridicule, because we must not outrun our own age. Jean
Jacques has said somewhere, that it was a sort of madness to
be wise among fools.-Well ! be it so ; I am satisfied, if it
must be so, to pass for a fool; but I never shall have to
reproach myself with the cowardice of having seen an im-
portant truth without daring to announce it. My resolution
is taken on this point, and I shall follow up my task to the
very end.
We are then now going to pass in review two orders
of facts.
1st. The patients themselves directing their treatment
during their somnambulism.
2d. The somnambulists directing the treament of other
patients.
The first question must be treated immediately; the
second will form the subject of the following chapter.
Extatics predicting months beforehand the return of
their accessions, and describing with perfect exactness all the
symptoms of their disease, were phenomena which mOl&
have astonished to an extraordinary degree the first obser·
vera who witnessed them. But when they recovered from
OF MAGNETIC TBBATJIIBNT. 285
their astonishment, must not reflection on what they bad
seen have sugges~ to them strange inferences? Could it
not be, in fact, that a patient so well informed on the causes,
the nature, the course, and the issue of his disease, might
know something regarding the expedients to be employed to
cure him or relieve him? Certainly, such an idea could
scarcely fail to occur to a physician, however infatuated be
might be with his profession ; and if the patient answered,
if he suggested remedies, and traced out a plan of regimen,
would there be a reason for wavering about conforming to
his advice? For my own part, I think that my medical
pride would not hesitate about bowing before these prodigies,
and that I should be profoundly ridiculous, if I attempted to
write a prescription for this new oracle of Epidaurus, who
foretold, a month ago, a disease, the existence of which I
would not have not suspected one hour before its invasion !
What! when his life is at stake, and consequently he can
have no idea of deceiving me; when he assures me that he
knows the remedy required for his disease, as he knows the
causes and the nature of this disease, should I dare to give
him my advice and mix my voice with his? Oh ! no; I am
silent : I give up my rights; I renounce my poor, miserable
knowledge, and I bow with admiration before those sublime
revelations which must emanate from God himself. To hear
this prophetic voice, to register with minute exactness all
the words it utters; then to follow, stepby step, the counsels
I have received from it; to this alone shall I confine my
functions. Now, what is the result? That under the in-
fluence of his own prescriptions, this fortunate demoniac
obtains a rapid cure. Well I now let us conclude ! he is
cured t he is cured by means of which I should not have
286 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
even thought ; by a strange mode of treatment, the idea of
which would never have occurred to me. His medicine
then is the true one ; but then what would mine have
been? •..••
The histories of extatics who have thus treated and cured
themselves, are exceedingly numerous; but to relate only
one, as remarkable for its authenticity, as astonishing for its
details, we shall select that of .Madame Comet, of which all
Paris has heard, and which the members of the Academy of
Medicine were called on to observe.
CASE OF MADAME COMET.•
(Dec. 7th.)-Nov. 25th, 1839, Madame Comet predicted
in the presence of several members of the Academy, that
Dec. 5th, she should be seized with a stitch in the side, and
that, without any reference to the period of her menses, it
would be necessary to bleed her. Accordingly, the day
before yesterday, she was attacked with a severe pain in the
left. side. In her last sleep, she stated that this pain is
seated in the lung, that there will be spitting of blood, and
that to-morrow, at nine o'clock in the morning, it will be
necessary to bleed her to twentu ounces.
The skin hot, and giving off a slight halitus; pulse full,
and rather frequent ; the respiration a little short ; the
patient complains of a deep-seated pain anteriorly, inferiorly,
and on the left side of the chest. This pain seems to in-
* Extracted from the letters published by M. Frapart ill the
Journal HygU.
The dose was, deuz gros quarant~-quatr~ grains d~ laMdallMa d.
. Rouss~au.-Tr.
OF MAGNBTIC TREATMENT. 287
crease in inspiration. Some cough, and the sputa are
tinged with blood. No dulness on percussion ; but by
auscultation, there is readily distinguished at the base of the
left lung some crepitous rale.
The other functions present nothing remarkable. The
intellectual faculties seem perfect, tongue pale, muscular
system flaccid ; and it is easy to see, on looking at the
patient, says Dr. Frapart, that tlteir medicine has passed by.
(Dec. 7th in the evening.)-We have no longer to con-
sider, as in the morning, a mere fluxion of the chest; but
rather a very extraordinary state of the nervous system, or
rather a strange disease, which we must be content with
describing without attempting to give it a name.
The accession is to come on at nine o'clock precisely.
The patient seems to have the breathing still more diffi-
cult than during the day; the skin is more balituous, and
the pulse fuller; her right band is applied to her left side.
Madame Comet speaks in a manner to prove that her intel-
lects are intact, and there is no indication that in some
moments extraordinary phenomena will develope them-
selves. How~er, at within eight minutes to nine o'clock,
the patient commences to yawn once, then a second time,
and so on ; at within four minutes to nine, she bas one
pandiculation, followed by several others ; she soon com-
plains of indisposition; then, at nine o'clock precisely, she
closes her eyes. Then M. Comet, who just measured out an
immense dose of Rousseau's laudanum, mixed with nearly
equal parts of pure water, gives them to her instanter;
then, for the purpose of removing the disagreeable taste of
this drug, he makes her drink two spoonfuls of white wine.
All this passed before witnesses; and if the members of
'the Academy were not there, it is because they did not wish to
288 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
be there. Which of them would have dared to prescribe
the enormous dose of opium administered the day before at
her own demand? This powerful narcotic, which, in Similar
proportions, would be sufficient to put four men to sleep an
eternal sleep, will this time only have the effect of relieving
the patient. What member of the faculty would have fore·
seen that? In what medical work would they ha>e found
this indication ? But let us return to the fact.
One minute after nine, the patient fell into a state of
absolute immobility; at five minutes past nine the scene
changes. Madame Comet, whilst letting her elbows rest on
the bed, raises her hands slowly, which she seems to direct
towards heaven, as if to invoke God. Then she says, with
a voice so weak that we can scarcely hear her, "I suffer
much in .my side ; to-morrow, at nine in the morning, it
will be necessary to take a pound and a quarter of blood
from me-twenty good ounces. The fluxion of the chest is
independent of my crisis. I shall state, in one of my next
sleeps, the time when the first of these diseases shall be
cured. With respect to my crisis, if all my prescriptions be
accurately followed, I shall be free of them on Saturday the
28th of this month. To-morrow my crisis will come on me
at half-past eight; it will last one quarter of an hour. It
will be necessary to give me six drops of opium more than
to-day.
It is now sixteen minutes past nine ; the patient ceases
to speak, raises her head a little, seems to collect herself
and to pray; then she says, " Oh I my God f' Suddenly
her hands and head fall back, and she cries out with an
accent expressive of distress, " It is gone!" At this instant
she carries her right band to her left side, and rubs it; the
state of extasy ceased. Madame Comet is spoken to ; she
01' MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 289
answers naturally ; and, on a question being proposed, she
states that she sees her side. Twenty minutes past nine-
silence I M. Comet then says that his lady is cataleptic.
The sleeve of Madame Comet's chemise is laid bold of; it is
held up, and the entire arm follows, presenting as little
resistance as a hair would ifraised up. The sleeve is let go;
the ann continues in the air. The same is done with the
opposite arm, then with a leg ;-the same result. The leg
is replaced on the bed, but the upper extremities are not
touched ; they do not stir. At twenty-seven minutes past
nine, the patient opens her eyes ; her look is fixed, dull, and
vacant. At twenty-nine minutes past nine the eye-lids
twinkle, the eyes become animated; at last, at half-past
nine, just as it strikes, the arms become weak, lower, and
fall, before the stroke of the clock bas ceased to be heard.
After ten seconds, Madame Comet smiles at her family,
which is standing around her, and immediately returns to
her normal state. The next morning Dr. Comet, after
having taken all his measures to follow strictly the pre-
scriptions of his wife, performs at nine o'clock precisely the
bleeding which was prescribed the day before. The symp·
toms soon appear to diminish in severity, without the
patient appearing more dejected than ordinary ; however,
as she is constantly lying down, it is difficult to appreciate
her strength.
(Dec. 8th.)-As M. Frapart's letter, which corresponds
to this phase of the disease of M. Comet, includes a multi-
tude of little details, the recital of which we cannot abridge
without altering the truth, we shall transcribe this letter
without altering the text.
lJ
290 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
TO MONSIEUR BAZILE, A C~URQUETAINE.
"Paris, Dec. 16th, 1839.
"My good Friend,
"I take up the history of the disease of Madame Comet
at the moment this lady is just after losing twenty ounces of
blood. It was the eighth of the month. Since then, every
evening Madame Comet has an accession of somnambulism,
which lasts sometimes a quarter of an hour, sometimes half
an hour, during which every thing occurs just as in that
which I have described to you ; that is, it presents two very
distinct successive states, one of extasy, the other ofcatalepsy.
In the latter, the patient appears tohear nothing, see nothing,
feel nothing, comprehend nothing ; does not speak, stirs not,
scarcely breathes, retains immovably all the positions given
to her, and, I hardly dare say it, aeeTTUl to have lost a portion
ofthe weight of her limbs. In the former there are other
strange phenomena. The patient finds herself- I mean,
has the air of finding herself in communication with a being
whom nobody sees, no one hears, no one touches; and to
whom, however, if a serious man may be allowed to narrate
such impressions, one would be almost tempted to believe
she speaks and answers. The first of these facts is extra·
ordinary, the second is astounding!* It is in this state of
extasy that Madame Comet speaks of her disease, says
where it is, how it will go on, when it will terminate, orders the
treatment suitable to the duxion of the chest under which
* These facts are not new. All Petetin's cataleptics presented
similar ones; and Mi•s Estelle !'Hardy, as we have already stated,
had mysterious interviews with a mystic aod llllknown being.
OF MAGNETIC TREATIIIENT, 291
she labours, does not forget the regimen, prescribes the
dose of opium which ought to be given to her, predicts the
hour and the duration of her accession of the following day,
determines in fine the day when she will no longer have any
accession.
"At each sitting it is just the same thing, with some
variations depending, no doubt, on the course of the disease,
and which I shall notice as I go on. Thus, during the
crisis of the 8th, Madame Comet states that the twenty
ounces of blood taken from her in the morning were incon-
siderable, and that it would be necessary to take a pound
from her again the day after to-morrow. We weigh the
blood drawn, and we actually ascertain that the measure
prescribed was not obtained. If it is for this that we must
recommence the operation, it is rather disagreeable, and
even a little alarming ; for the disease is so old and the
patient so weak, that further depletion may prove fatal.
Besides, supposing the prescription infallible, how arc we
to keep clear of some slip or oversight that may occur in the
execution of it P This seems to me very difficult. In the
practice of our professiOn, it is only by an exception that
even the most skilful can attain their end accurately and
correctly. It is deplorable, but so it is. Decidedly, Madame
Comet is in a bad way ; and however learned her physician
may be, however devoted her attendants may be, I am un-
easy regarding the result. I think it will be difficult to
reach the harbour in perfect safety. However, as we have
no reason to distrust the prescriptions of the physician, they
are made up to the very letter. Accordingly on the lOth,
after all the precautions taken beforehand, M. Comet takes
from his patient nearly stwentccn ounces of blood. This
292 OF IIIA.Gl!IETIC TREA.TIIIEl!IT•
.time, at least, we do not err by deficiency. The fact is, that
in the course of the day the symptoms of fluxion of the
chest diminish ; and, in the accession of extasy in the even-
ing, Madame Comet assures us that all is going on better,
that all is well, that every thing has succeeded. On the
next day, the same assertions on her part, the same security
on ours. But it is all mere chance in this world. On the
12th, the patient declares that another bleeding will be
necessary to destroy entirely the pulmonary inflammation;
that this bleeding is not to be performed either on the 13th
or 14th, but on Sunday the 15th; that we shall hesitate to
perform it for her, and that she cannot yet detennine the
quantity. Such a prediction puts us to a nonplus. M.
Comet is not so fonned for passive obedience as to .be able
to walk with his eyes shut; and as for me, though a little
more pliant-at least, with facts of this kind-considering
that for some years back I practised horilreopathy, I have
got out of the habit of butchering my patients, I fell almost
disposed to doubt and kick. But all at once, recalling my
long experience, which taught me that a somoombulist, no
matter what he prescribes for him.felf, ne"er prescnoes any
thing wrong, since he is always safe when his prescripticm.s are
accuratelyfollowed, and my profound ignorance of the se-
crets of nature, I submit, and endeavour to induce M. Comet
to do the same. At length, submission. During the storm,
it is better to accept as pilot the first that ofters, than to
take none. It is taking at least a chance of safety.
"On the evening of the 14th Madame Comet, who, no
doubt, up to this did not wish to alarm us, tells ns it will be
necessary to take from full twenty-four ounces of this pre-
cious liquid which sustains life; and that, even if she il
OF MAGNETIC TREATIIIENT. 293
weak, the bleeding must not be neglected, for syncope is
neces80.r!J. Without this that matters cannot be concluded,
or rather that they would be concluded very soon.
" M. Comet staggers ;' his poor patient is so long ill, she
is so weak, so pale, so bloodless, so sunk, so dying, that in
truth one must have a stupid faith, or a deeply rooted con- .
viction to venture to continue a course which appears beset
with so many rocks. For my part, however, my resolution
is formed; tme it is, it is not my own wife I have to butcher
in this way ; and yet, if it were my wife, I am convinced, I
would not flinch. No somnambulist was ever a suicide.
In the midst of a dark sky have we not a star to direct us,
and which will not disappear until we shall have no further
occasion for it ? But if this star should happen to fail us
before the time? Oh, darkness I darkness !-that would
be dying alone in the catacombs.
" Amid the hopes and fears which disturb our minds,
after having taken all our dimensions so as not to go either
to the right or to the left of our destination, so as not to
remain short of the goal, or to go beyond it, yesterday at
nine o'clock in the morning, M. Comet performs a large
bleeding, in which the blood flows quite freely ; nearly
twenty ounces were taken I and we see no syncope come on.
The arm is tied up ; but scarcely is the bandage applied,
when alarming circumstances appear, all present become
alarmed at them: they, however, are ultimately appeased, I
then leave the patient; Mventy minutes after new symptoms
arise, all present are terrified and commence to weep, ~hey
run up to me as if I could do any thing! there am I the
doctor again in spite of me! but what part am I to take,
where there is no part to be taken ? But, instead of pre-
294 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
tending to cry, as every physician who knows his business
should do in such circumstances, I endeavour to set a good
face in a bad game ; I encourage the disconsolate family by
saying to them, 'We are not mis~ken, the somnambulist is
never deceived, let us remain calm.' Besides hope did not
yet abandon me ; have I not myself been bled eight times
in one and the same disease, not to mind several hundred
leeches besides ?-and I am not dead: then my principle
i11 not to despair of the game till it is absolutely lost. Ma-
dame Comet is not dead, she will not die.
"However, the day passes on amidst great anguish of
mind on all sides ; in the evening the crisis does not occur,
as it always did, at the hour it should occur; there are
cruel efforts to vomit ; some hesitation is felt about giving
the large dose of opium, there is but one instant for the
seasonable administration of this disgusting draught ; in
short, the accession does not arrive, the star no longer
shines, we are out of our latitude. I arm myself with cou-
rage, and fly for refuge to my,conscience. However, as
luck would have it, the accession is only retarded, there it
is! 'All has passed off quite well,' said the patient in her
extatic sleep; 'the bleeding bas not been too much. Give
me instantly the dose of opium I was to take. To-morrow,
the stitch in the side will be diminished; and next Wed-
nesday, I shall be quite freed from it. With respect to my
accessions, their disappearance is for the 28th of this month.
I am weak no doubt, and I shall h6so for a long time; my
convalescence will be painful ; it is necessaary to begin to
give me nourishment in order to recover my strength by
degrees. The food I shall point out will do me no harm.
To-morrow, at half past eight, my accession will come and
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 295
will last for fifteen minutes; the same quantity of laudanum
will be given to me as to-day. Thank God, it is gone !'
Then comes on the cataleptic state, which is ~oon followed
by the waking state. And I too awake, and much relieved
I feel, for I had a nightmare; the life of a woman was lying
heavy on my chest!
"Fortunately, in great crises the depth of the abyss is
not measured until it is quite cleared.
" Adieu, etc. FBAPABT, D. M. P."
Madame Comet predicted the cure of her pulmonary
inflammation for Wednesday the 18th of December. Ac-
cordingly, the day following the last bleeding which she
prescribed for herself, the symptoms of the pneumonia were
perceptibly diminished. At length, the evening of the day
announced by her, the" patient assures us that she feels not
the slightest vestige of her pain in the side ; and after the
most strict examination we can discover nothing abnormal
either in the respiration, circulation, or in any other func-
tion; in a word, on the 18th of December, there is no more
vestige of her pulmonary inflammation than if it had never
existed : the bleedings extinguished it. But let us now see
what became of the affection of the nervous system. '
Just as the patient had foreseen, every evening up to
the 27th of December, inclusively, she had an accession of
extasy and of catalepsy, similar in almost every respect to
that already described. In the accession of the 26th the
patient again affirmed that she should have none on the
28th and 29th, and that she should experience one on the
30th, during which she would give notice of the course to
be followed afterwards. Accordingly nothing occurs on
296 OF MAGNETIC TB.EAT.MENT.
the 28th or 29th, but on the evening ofthe 3oth there is an
accession. In this last Madame Comet prognosticates an-
other for the 15th of January, and states that in case there
should be any difficulty in knowing what to do, she should
have in the nick oftime, and towards noon, no matter what
day, a sleep of half an hour's duration, during which the
means of removing the obstacles would be revealed to her.
She sleeps on the 6th and 11th of January, at noon, and
intimates what is to be done, and not to be done. At
length, on the evening of the 15th, the accession of'extasy
arrives, and presents nothing remarkable, except the pre-
diction, for the last day of the month, of another accession,
"for" says the patient, "I require to have one from time to
time to direct me. On the 31st, everything happens just u
foretold ; Madame Comet always prescribes opium, but in
diminished doses, constantly becoming smaller and smaller.•
There is no independent and conscientious Inind whom
this pathological history of Madame Comet must not inspire
with an invincible distrust in the ordinary practice of medi-
cine, together with some serious reflections.
In this ease we have a severe, complicated disease, the
* The previsions of Madame Comet on the length of her eoa-
valescence were realised like the rest. We had occasion to be in this
lady's house in the coorse of last April ; she was still in a state of
great debility. Her accessions retoroed always at distant interval~~,
and as she continued to take opium in considerable doses, it was thil
circumstance chiefty that 1candalistd the physicians, seeing, said they,
that the reproduction of the extasy was nothing but the efFect of tho
narcotic. Well, this remark might be very jost, but was not the
retoro of the extatic phenomena a kindness of Providence, liDce
Madame Comet had still occasion to be counselled by her t.tellll"l
gtnira f Butwhat unknown genii are those that come to intermeddle
in the a1Falrs of medical men, and to spoil their trade I
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 297
causes of which are unknown, the progress of which is
uncertain, and the issue of which cannot but be fatal. Few
physicians would have had the courage to undertake it ;
not a single one of them would have conducted it to a
favourable termination. Now there, amidst the natural
perplexities of relatives and friends, the patient herself
suddenly inspired by Heaven, commences to state one by
one all the alternations of her disease, to predict the modi-
fications of it, and to fix the day when it is to be conjured
away. This is not. all ; in order that matters may take
place as she announces them, it is necessary that the advices
which she gives be minutely followed ; for the mysterious
pilot who discovers to her the rock, traces out for her at the
same time the route that must be taken to avoid it. But
between the actual wants of her suffering organisation, and
the treatment she prescribes (or herself, what human eye
would ever discover the inappreciable connexion that existsP
Depressed by incessant pains, this poor patient seems blood-
less, her countenance is pale as that of a person dying; well,
what does she order for the purpose ofrelieving so much de-
bilityPthree successive bleedings, three enormous bleedings!
in which in the course of eight days more than four pounds
of blood have been taken from her ; it is trne it is not her
fault if she is treated with so little pity. The slight error
committed in executing her first prescription, alone rendered
the others necessary. When dealing with somnambulists,
we mnst count millegrammes and seconds, as they do not
proceed upon chance as our other physicians; one minute's
error, and every thing goes wrong; life itself may depend
upon such a. blunder. But what, is this rigorous precision,
this mathematical punctuality, so necessary? Yes, facts
298 OF IIIA.GNETIC TREA.TIIIE.NT.
shew it. To what is it owing P No doubt to the exigencies
of our nature, which we know not, of which we have not
the most fleeting idea, and which we maim unworthily like
stupid butchers. But then, what do the gentlemen of the
faculty do, when, in treating their patients, they do not
take any of these things into account P Would you wish
that I should answer you P They follow their trade.
After experience and reasoning had shewn that the
medicine of extatics was almost the only medicine that was
suitable to them, what physician, being a real philanthropist,
ought not to desire that in difficult and embarrassing cir-
cumstances, each of his. patients should be seized with an
accession ofextasy, in order to his being enabled to cure him-
self? Now the discovery ofartificial somnambulism realised
this desire ; but the consequences which this new order of
things brought with it, wer.e not within the grasp of low
minds, and so alarmed the private interests of the men of
the old school, that they refused to admit them. What is
to become of us, cried they, if we proclaim a truth which
(lnables people to dispense with our ministry P What shall
I do with my books? says one to himself. What shall I do
with my genius P says the other. Your books? Sir-
you'll burn them. With respect to you, Mr. Man ofGenius,
-ah! but you are jesting! Would it not be one hundred
times better for mankind, and for yourself, that you should
apply your fine talents to useful purposes, and not to lavish
them, as you are now doing, in the extension oferror P And
then, observe this, namely, that do what you will, all your
knowledge, all your cleverness, all your eloquence, will not
succeed in making you avert the harm.
The medical sagacity of magnetic somnambulists is no
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 299
way inferior to that of extatics. The principal circum-
stance in their mode of action, consists in the same way, in a
scrupulous attention to the doses of medicines, and to the
hours when they should be administered. Their medica-
tion, with respect to the old pharmacopreia, is also sometimes
very strange; but it is in general remarkably simple. Per-
sons are often astonished, when they first devote themselves
to the practice of magnetism, at the importance which
somnambulists seem to attach to trifling circumstances ; but
the astonishment soon ceases, when it is seen what immense
effects may result from slight causes; they ultimately be-
come minute themselves; but for this time and habit are
required, and in that really consists the whole science of the
magnetiser.
A method which is very prudent, and one to which
I have had some difficulty in accustoming myself, consists
in writing out during the sitting all that the somnambulist
says, and especially all that he prescribes. There results
from this a double advantage: first for. the patient, whose
counsels you will be more certain of not forgetting, and
in the second place for yourself, as it will afford you the
means of never collecting"any but exact and perfect cases.
With respect to the hours at which you are directed
to act, you must always ask the somnambulist whether he
means the true hour or the hour indicated by such or such
a clock. Some somnambulists regulate themselves by the
clock oftheir apartments, others by their parish clock, &c.,
but almost all have reference to the true hour, and calculate
by it. These remarks will appear to inexperienced readers
over-nice; but magnetisers will not find them, probably,
sufficiently detailed, and it would be much worse ifa som.
300 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
nambulist himself were to write a book. Further, only
one month and some attention are required to make a good
magnetiser. Magnetism, then, is not a thing that can be
long monopolised by covetousness. The following fact
proves satisfactorily that it will become ere long the JMtii-
cine offamilies.
At the time of the invasion in l814, an unfortunate
child, after having seen its family butchered on the still
smoking ashes of their cottage, was itself stripped by the
Cossacks, and hung up quite naked by the feet to a tree.
Some of the country people took it, and restored it to life;
but the terrible impression which these frightful events had
made on it rendered it epileptic. However, it came to the
next town (Saint Quentin) to implore from the pity of
its inh!'bitants that relief which its unfortunate relatives
were no longer able to afford it. As its sufferings were
well known, every person made an effort to alleviate them ;
but the alms which it received were not capable of restoring
to it the health which it had lost ; and in order that ita
frequent attacks might cease to be the distressing and
hideous spectacle of the streets and public places, it pleased
God to extend his hand to it. Now Heaven had pity on
this poor child; for it was Heaven, no doubt, that inspired
M. Aubriet with the idea of magnetising it. The success
of the measure surpassed all hope. The unfortunate being
became a somnambulist and was cured ; and as no one could
question the reality of the disease, the cure carried con·
viction to the breasts of the most incredulous. Such wu
the enthusiasm excited by this event, that when in 1817
M. de Puysegur came to Saint Quentin, he found one half
the town magnetising the other half.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 301
Now, M. Aubriet and his epileptic being the general
subject ofconversation every where, a mason, whose name
was Louis Pelletier, living at Curlu, near Peronne, presents
himself to the successful magnetiser, throws himself on his
knees, and supplicates him to cure his son for him, who
was also an epileptic. M. Aubriet attempts it, magnetises
the young man, and puts him to sleep. There is not a
doubt of success, but it would require time, a regnlar course
of treatment, in fact, and Pelletier is not rich enough to
remain long in town ; however, in less than an hour M.
Aubriet transfers all his knowledge to the peasant, who,
after loading him with benedictions, returns to his village a
..
perfect doctor.
Pelletier no sooner reached his home than be mag-
netises his son, and puts him to sleep. The lucidity of the
young man is developed ; be sees, he treats patients. The
inhabitants ofthe place come to consult him in great numbers.
The epileptics of the surrounding neighbourhood flock to
him in crowds. Pelletier is at a loss whom to attend first.
At length he adopts the plan of converting his cottage
into a maison de santl!; he receives pensioners, makes som-
nambulists, and the patients are cured. However, as
some one has truly said, "a great reputation has its in-
conveniences." The curate of the place, much more in-
terested for the spiritual salvation of his flock than for
their temporal well~being, persuades himself that Pelletier
has entered into a compact with the devil, and making the
sign of the cross on himself, he comes to him to admonish
him. The admonitions of the rector set the police in
motion. The Inquisition would have burned the poor
mason alive ; the sub-prefect of Peronne despatches his
302 OF M.AGNEl'IC TREATMENT.
gens-darmes to him. However, as it is at length ascer-
tained that Pelletier does nothing but good, and that his
proceedings have nothing diabolical in them, he is per-
mitted to continue his miracles, and to receive from his
clients some marks of gratitude. Pelletier sent to his
master, M. Aub1iet, an account which our readers will find
printed entire, and without any change, in the Bibliotlle~
du Magnetisme ;* but they, probably, will not learn without
astonishment the cures which this man effected at the end
of some months.
1. That of his son, which commenced December 6,
1816, and terminated January 17, 1817 (!le was ill for
several years).
2. That of Catherine Leroux (who had become epileptic
after a fright), commencing in March 1817, and ending the
5th of June following.
3. That of a sister of Catherine's, who had contracted
her illness twelve years ago in consequence of a fright.
4. That of Philippine Cardon, eighteen years of age,
and ill for three years, in consequence of violence offered
to her by a young man, who had been alone with her in
his house.
5. That of ***, who, in consequence of some severity
exercised towards her by her step-father, for a long time
had been labouring under a nervous affection, the paroxySID8
of which were so terrible, that from morning till night two
or three persons were required to watch her.
6. That of Josephine Pale, seventeen years old, who
became an excellent somnambulist for consultations.
* No. 14, page 148, et seq.
OY MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 303
7. That of a man thirty-six years of age, ill from the.
age of eighteen, and who was cured in five months.
Lastly, Pelletier cured other patients, also, on whom
his operations are not sufficiently clear for us to be able to
cite them. With respect to those whose names have been
just now mentioned, certificates authenticated by the ma-
gistrates of the place are annexed to their history. The
Esculapius of Curlu, then, merited his reputation. How
many physicians can say the same of theirs?
Before setting about the writing of this chapter, we had
for a moment thought of establishing some nosological
divisions, which, at first sight, seemed to us calculated to
facilitate for our readers the study of magnetic treatment ;
but, independently of the circumstance that all divisions
must be arbitrary, a moment's reflection made us feel the
unsuitableness of it, since it should be understood, accord-
ing to what has been already laid down, that magnetism is
really applicable to all diseases. However, as we have
advanced that it may be introduced even in the treatment
of surgical diseases, we shall quote one instance out of a
thousand in support of that assertion.
FIITEENTH CASE,
Fistula and ulcers in the rectum, with narrowing of the intestine, in
Madame Perier, aged thirty-five years. Paris, 1813,
The cure we are about to relate is one of those which
have done most honour to magnetism.• The importan
* .!.nnales du Magnetisme. No. 11-14.
304 OF liiAGNBTIC TBBATMBNT.
nature of the fact, its complications, the long standing of
the disease, and the acknowledged incapacity of the pro-
fession to treat it, all must give to the cure of Madame
Perier the appearance of a real miracle.
For the last eleven years this lady was ill. Her disease
consisted chiefly in several ulcerations in the rectum, one
of which corroding successively the wall of the intestine
and the subjacent tissues, was transformed into a fistula.
A contraction, situate a little higher up, added still more
to the difficulty of emptying the bowels. In fact, the
situation of the patient was so much the more desperate
as she seemed to become worse and worse, and every day
seemed to diminish the chance of cure.
Madame Perier first committed herself to the gt'09I
ignorance of an apothecary of the grand army, who purged
her beyond all bounds, sold her one half his shop, and
without arresting the progress of her disease, ultimately
deranged her health.
Two years afterwards Madame Perier, being at Toulouse
with her husband, and undergoing intolerable suffering,
consented to follow a new mode of treatment, propoeed to
her by a surgeon of this town. This person having thought
that he discovered a syphilitic character in the ulcerations
under which she was labouring (simiJarly to the diagnosis
of Sabatier, whom the patient had also consulted), deter·
mined on prescribing for her accordingly; his treatment
consisted in mercurial frictions, the introduction of mercury
into the rectum, purgation, sudorifics, and a cautery on the
leg; after which, the doctor having concluded his treat·
ment, declared the patient perfectly cured. But, alas!
irritated, emaciated, depressed to the very lowest, deprived
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 305
ofsleep and of appetite, the poor woman suffered more than
ever ; and so great was the pain she suffered in the evacua-
tion of her bowels, that she went so far as to refuse the
nourishment necessary for the maintenance of life.
However, the cessation of all remedies, joined to the
natural goodness of her temperament, having produced a
return of strength, she found herself, in about a month
after, in a state for going to the waters of Bagneres, where
she passed two seasons. The baths and injections per-
ceptibly improved her state ; but the fatigue of the long
journey which she was obliged to make in order to return
to Paris, neutralised the good effects produced by the waters.
Several professional men were again consulted. Some
recommended an operation, which others deemed imprac-
ticable. A. :M:. Jenouville offered to cure the patient merely
by injections, the composition ofwhich was a secret; but this
infallible matter, which was tried, and which was nothing but
a simple solution of corrosive sublimate, as was ascertained
three months after, succeeded no better than the rest. At
last, Madame Perier, now tired out, hopeless, and finding, no
doubt, that it was now more prudent to reconcile herself to
her disease than to her doctors, determined to bid adieu to
the latter, and to live with her enemy.
In this way she passed several years, suffering courage-
ously, and astonishing all who knew her by the continuance
of a life, which the learned prognostics of her medical
attendants had some time back denied her. However, she
lost patience. The celebrated Boyer was called in. After
having visited the patient, he declared the operation impos-
sible, and he prescribed the introduction into the rectum of
a bougie smeared with cerate, with soothing injections ; but
X
306 OF MAGNETIC TREATlllENT,
the difficulty of introducing the bougie caused the entire
treatment to be rejected.
M. Perier having been attacked at this time with an
inflammation of the lungs, complicated with severe typhoid
symptoms, his wife then found strength to attend him,
which she had not for herself; but the day the physician
declared that her husband is out of danger, this super-
natural strength abandons her on a sudden; she takes to
her bed, a thing she did not do for the last fifteen days ; a
burning fever ~~eizes her, and in a little time her life is
despaired of. However, to satisfy the pressing desires of
her friends, she consents to receive the aid of medicine.
MM. Dubois and Damiron, being called in on consultation,
entirely approve of M. Boyer's prescription, and to remove
all difficulty, with respect to the introduction of the bougie, it
is determined that M. Damiron shall discharge that office
himself every day ; when, however, the patient shall have
recovered a little from her present weak state. A natural
crisis soon removes the danger ofthe moment, and as soon as
Madame Perier recovered sufficient strength, they commence
the treatment, which produces a perceptible improvement
during the first few months, and even holds out some hope
of a cure ; but this hope proved a lure, for the progress
toward!t a cure is soon stopped, and the patient relapses into
all her suffering.
Now things were in this state about three months,
when a fortunate accident makes M. Perier become
acquainted with magnetism, and reveals to him all
the advantages he might derive from its employ-
ment.
It was in the midst of a large company assembled ath is
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 307
bouse, when one of those present, M. Dupre, proposed to
Madame Perier to magnetise her.
M. Perier, who was somewhat prejudiced against mag-
netism, did not even pay one moment's attention to this
preparatory sitting, and when he saw his wife yawn, and
complaining of numbness in all her limbs, he thought the
thing very natural after half an hour's sitting still. How-
ever, the propensity to sleep was so marked in the patient,
that they all thought they should retire in order to let her
at liberty. In fact, they were obliged to undress her, and
to help in putting her to bed, for she was asleep before she
lay down. M. Perier soon went to bed himself, and thought
no more of what had occurred, when his wife began to
laugh quite loud, and to speak to him. This circumstance
does not astonish him much, seeing that it is a thing of not
uncommon occurrence during natural sleep. Madame
Perier herself frequently presented to him the same phe-
nomenon ; but here the conversation is so well sustained
and kept up, the answers are so distinct and precise, that he,
at length, asks himself, Whether it might not be the effect
of magnetism ? He then puts several questions to the
patient, regarding absent persons, with whom one would
suppose her to be in communication ; she speaks to him
of those persons as if they were near her. He is now
urged on by curiosity, his questions increase in number,
and, notwithstanding his scepticism, he is now anxious for
morning, in order to verify the disclosures that had been
made to him. Now in the morning be is decidedly con-
verted, for every thing wcu realised. Then he stops no
longer, his bead becomes turned, he runs about to his
friends, writes every where, and, at length, assembles around
308 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
him experienced magnetisers, who give him the only ra·
tional advice that was given him for the last twelve yean
respecting his wife, namely, that of treating her by mag·
netism.
Madame Perier is then magnetised by her husband,
Nov. 6, 1813. From the first sitting she is sufficiently
lucid to make some change in the remedies she was
taking, and asks not to be magnetised till the end of three
days.
On the 9th, she says that tile sight of her disease dis·
tresses her much, and that she must not be left in the state
of somnambulism but as short a time as possible.
On the 13th, M. Perier, astonished at the precision "l'dth
which the patient described her wounds, and sensible of all
the advantages wUch a well-informed medical man might
derive from such details, expresses to his wife a desire that
M. Damiron should be present at the sittings ; but she
answers him, and says, that M. Damiron would ridicule,
like all his confreres, a thing of which he had no idea, and,
besides that, " they wanted no one."
After this, Madame Perier required to be magnetised
every day.
Her husband having asked her, the day following,
whether it would be necessary to magnetise the water
which she drank, she told him that it was not necessary.
On the 15th, she says that in two days a tumour would
form at the extremity of the left arm, which was occa-
sioned by her having been magnetised too much on this
side, to which the humours were attracted.
On the 17th, the tumour announced having appeared,
M. Perier asked his wife what was to be done. "Nothing,"
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 309
said she ; " three others are forming on the left side, which
are not apparent."
She says that she was in a moment of crisis, that, for the
last five days, all the blood-vessels were swollen, and that
she experienced much difficulty in menstruating. " This is
.the case," added she, " for employing all the strength of
magnetism." Then she recommended her husband to mo-
derate the desire he had of her being cured, because this
gave her blood too great an effervescence.
On the 20th, two of the wounds of the rectum were
cured. 1;'he last one, which, in consequence of its very
high situation, the injections could not reach without diffi-
culty, still yielded profuse suppuration. The patient being
oppressed, and the menses not appearing, she made some
change in her treatment, because she has, she said, other
diseases besides that of which they were aware.
On the 21st, Madame Perier felt a perceptible improve-
ment in the affected part. The rectum recovered much of
its elasticity, and the local pains are almost entirely gone.
Her cheerfulness is now returning with hope, though her
temperament, enfeebled by so many years' suffering, is
coming round but slowly. She informs her husband that
she will soon menstruate, but that it is indispensably neces-
sary for her to go out and walk.
On the 23d, she introduces the necessary bougie into the
rectum, with great address, with her own hands, because
l\L Damiron (who, probably, is afraid of magnetism) does
not now come as regularly as formerly.
On the 25th, Madame Perier is evidently recovering,
,and every thing inclines her husband to expect a speedy
cure. She now tells him that the ulcers are healed, and
310 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
that the fistulous opening is closed; but he observes her
change countenance, and shivering in all her limbs, when
he questions her on the rest. At length she answers that a
new collectWn of humour8 was forming, that the remedies
should be allowed to act, and that she entreated him not to
question her any more on the matter for eleven days,
after which she would change her regimen.
December let, the patient suffered more than usual.
The last night was a very disturbed one; and when her
husband, having put her into a state of somnambulism,
forced .her, by his will, to direct her attention to her
disease, her agitation became so great that he was obliged
to awaken her. On the next day she declared to him that
it was magnetism alone that did her good, but that som·
nambulismfatigued her.
On the morning of the 3d, Madame Perier vomited a
great quantity of blood, mixed with some fluid. On the
night ofthe 3d to the 4th, she passed by stool an incredible
.quantity of pus, mixed with a little black blood, and shreds
of membrane. On the morning of the 4th, she aguin
vomited much blood. On the same day, her husband
asked her, during the sitting, if that was one of the crises
which she had announced. " Yes," she answered; " it
commenced yesterday, and will conclude to-morrow; it is
this pouch filled with humour, which I had near.my heart,
and which has now opened, and which I have voided almost
entirely,-see the place it occupied! * It is very fortunate
that I have bad a stoppage, for if this humour had been
* Madame Perier was In the habit or speaking to her husbuad u
If he participated In her clairrJoyance.
_J
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 311
mixed with blood, it would have choked me, and I would be
now dead."
At the sitting of the 5th, Madame Perier said that she
was going on better ; she prescribed some slight remedies
for herself, and told her husband to force her to go out and
take exercise ; that she was now strong enough to go and
walk with him. She also recommended him to make her
WJe the injections more frequently, and to introduce two
bougies every day.• On the 6th, a moral cause having
once more retarded the menses of the patient, it happened,
unfortunately for her, that at this critical moment, when
her state required so much care, her husband was attacked
with a violent fever, with all the symptoms of acute pneu-
monia. However, in spite of the state in which he was,
M. Perier magnetised his wife, who attended to nothing but
him. On the next day it became absolutely necessary to
suspend all magnetic operations, and this mischievous inter•
ruption must annul, all at once, the results obtained up to
this period. However, on the 8th of December, in spite of
his own illnef!S, M. Perier put his wife to sleep; but when
he asked her if he could magnetise her, she answered, no,
that his fluid at the last sitting had done her much harm.
Then she added, that he must continue to put her to sleep
every day, but to magnetise her only when she asked
him.
On the lOth, she states at length that her menses were
commencing, that they would last just fifteen days, and that
for three or four days they would be so profuse, that, if she
was not apprised of it, shE; would think, when she awoke,
*The ulcer in the upper part of the rectum still existed.
312 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
that she had hemorrhage, as all the physicians who should
see her in this state, would think as well as hersel£
On the 11th, she tells her husband, that she has bad
seven suppressions; she mentions even the different periods
of them, and states also the causes. She adds, that she has
in the uterine vessels some blood that has been stopped for
more than a year ; that she will pass much of it on the fol·
lowing days, &c. &c., and it is necessary to suspend the use
of the bougies during the time of her menses.
On the 12th, she permits her husband to magnetise her;
and as he puts to it a great power of his will, the patient
says to him, " Here is a very extraordinary thing; thy fluid
restores life to this blood which was dead and putrid
for a long time; but enough ; thy will is too strong ; it is
more so than mine, and is no longer er£ rap]JQrt with
thy fluid.''
On the 13th and 14th, M. Perier succeeds in displacing
clots of blood, by magnetising his wife in the places she
directed him. She voided them then in the course of the
day. When she felt violent colicky pains, i~ was sufficient
for him to carry his hand to the suffering part, in order to
quiet her. At length, as the suspension of the treatment
had allowed the inferior ulcerations to open again, the
patient tells her husband that she must be cured before the
upper ulcers be touched, where the injections cannot reach
until the rectum has recovered its strength; but that, in all
cases, magnetism would assist in the cure very much.
On the 15th, Madame Perier found herself better. She
railed much at the incapacity Qf medical men, who, when
she had had, six weeks before, an eruption on the skin, had
not perceived that it was caused by the decompositWn of tAt
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 313
watery part of the ·blood! The poor somnambulist did not
know that the penetration of the most quick-sighted phy-
sician had never gone so far. She then took her husband's
hand, and placed it on her side, at the part where she felt
pain ; but she removed it almost immediately, telling him
that his will was too active, and that the effervescence which
it caused her blood. might occasion her a discharge.
On the 16th, Madame Perier having prescribed for herself
some injections, with a decoction of morel, parsley-root,
marsh-mallow, &c., her husband reminded her th11t one of
her surgeons (Boyer) had also prescribed morel for her.
"Yes,'' said she, "but he joined poppies to it, a thing which
paralyses the cure rather than accelerates it ; it is the
opium ofsores."
On the 18th, the patient was weak and suffering; the
abundance of the menses was frightful, and yet she is no
sooner in a state of somnambulism, than she prescribes for
herself walking, for the purpose, says she, of accelerating the
exit of the clots, and to facilitate the escape of a red water,
which exasperates the sores by remaining on their surface.
She then predicts for herself two other crises similar to that
which she experienced, and which were to take place at
periods considerably distant from each other.
On the 20th, Madame Perier apprises her husband that
she had had a fit of indigestion on the day before; that she
had suffered much, but that she would have been much
worse still, ifshe had Mt been near him.
For some time, the patient., at the approach of the hour
when she used to be magnetised, experienced some agitation,
and demanded to be put to sleep. On the 21st, this state
was more marked in her, the sitting was some minutes
314 OF .MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
advanced. As soon as she was in a state ·of somnambnlism,
she laid her husband's band on her heart. " This sore," says
she, "is the only mortal one I have; it bas caused me a
great deal of fright, and to-day, for tlu: first time, I examine
it without suffering." Thea she added, "Ifwe were in the
fine season, I might take some depuratives, but it is enough
that thou placest thy hand there every day; and in order to
diminish the too great activity of thy will, think only of
relieving me, without wishing to cure me."
On the 23d, Madame Perier was going on so well that
she accepted an invitation to dine with one of her friends ;
but when her husband came in the evening to bring her, he
was sadly astonished at finding her suffering much. He
brought her away, and as soon as he returned home, he put
her into a state of somnambulism, to ascertain the cause of
this unforeseen indisposition ; the cause was her having been
inagnetised in the morning by her husband, whilst he wu
annoyed by some important and disagreeable circumstances.•
On the 25th, at length, the patient announces lier cure.
Her magnetic sleep is calm and tranquil, and the interior
satisfaction she feels is expressed on her countenance. " II
I wrote," says sire, " all the circumstances which may arise
from my disease, and which I had foreseen, all the mCIUI8
which I had found to avert them, or to diminish them, the
remedies which may be applied to them, there would be
enough to fill volumes; and, after all that, I am content
with drinking a few glasses of camolnile and lemonade.
* There is no magnetiser who has not had an opportwlity of
witnessing similar occurrences. One of my somnambulists lost her
lucidity for nearly three weeks, In consequence of the bad humour I
was In one day when magnetislng her.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 315
I reckon on curing myself without employing more com-
plicated remedies. I carry my prevision even further, for I
turn my attention to what I must do after my cure, when
I shall have ceased to sleep."
The 1st of January, 1814, M. Perier having been
obliged to put his wife to sleep two hours sooner than usual,
the result was a feeling of indisposition, which lasted the
remainder of the day. What she complained of was con-
siderable oppression, accompanied by such an extinction of
voice, that she could scarcely make herself heard.
On the day after, the oppression and loss of voice were
scarcely gone; but the patient told her husband, that from
having been put to sleep, the day before, before the usual
hour, she had suffered much, and that, at eleven o'clock, the
hu11WUr, which was wont to receive a strange impression, was
arrested on her chest. In a word, she announced that she
would have fever up to the 6th.
On the 4th, Madame Perier complains of the rapidity of
her cure. " Diseases cured too rapidly return," says she;
" my sore is entirely cicatrised, and it would be easier now
to form another by the side of it, than to open this again."
On the 5th, the patient was no sooner in a state of som-
nambulism, than she says, " I am easily frightened. This
humour, which passed by my chest, made me alarmed for
my life. Well! to-day this will pass away entirely, and
nothing will remain, at least nothing dangerous. I shall
have the last paroxysm of fever from six to nine o'clock.
I must take a remedy, consisting of milk and eassonade
rousse, and let me keep it as long as possible. It will
produce a great effect on me ; it will effect the discharge of
this humour, which will be mixed with black blood in clots.
316 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
As I shall make considerable efforts, the sores in the
rectum will be tom, and I shall resume the use of the
bougies." :H. Perier, after having awakened his wife, and
informed her of every thing she had to do in the course of
the day, went out, and did not return until after midnight.
He was then far from finding her in the favourable state in
which he had left her. According to her previsions, the
effects of defrecation had enfeebled her, but half an hour's
magnetic sleep sufficed to tranquillise her, and to restore her
strength. She then went to bed, and passed a good night.
Nothing remarkable in the sittings ofthe 6th, 7th, or 8th.
On the 9th, the patient complained of the too great
activity which magnetism gave her blood, and she forbade
her husband magnetising her. " I should have a back-
wardness in my menses," says she, " and they appear at this
moment; thus, instead of being retarded, they are five dayt
in advance."*
On the evening of the lith, M. Perier having had the
idea of magnetising some water, begged his wife to hold the
decanter on which he was acting during the process; but
the poor woman, soon receiving the influence destined for
the liquid, commenced the contndsive laugh, which preceded
each of her sleeps,. and implored her husband, quickly, to
take back. the decanter, which became 8(J heaD!J, says she,
that she had no longer strength to support it. However,
M. Perier completed his operation, and wished to make his
wife taste the magnetised water. She drank a very little of
it from a glass, and found no particular taste in it. But she
had no sooner emptied her glass, than she was seized with
'" This eft'ect or magnetism is constant.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 317
acute pains in the ears, accompanied by fever and nausea,-
an indisposition which continued all night.
At the sitting on the following day, the patient was in
very bad humour. She reproached her husband for having,
in spite of her prohibition, magnetised her at an hour which
was not that of her sittings. She then added, " When
thou didst make me hold the decanter which thou didst
magnetise, thy fluid came in abundance into me ; I know
not what it is, but the glass has something which is con-
trary to me, and I am persuaded that much mischief might
be done me by using it."
" What would have happened, then, if, on yesterday
evening, thou hadst drunk several glasses ofthis magnetised
water?"
" I should have had convuUions, which would have bor-
dered very closely on mania."
She constantly refused to direct her attention to her
disease, and continued to answer with ill humour all the
questions addressed to her on the subject.
On the 13th, the patient was quite downcast; every
thing went on badly ; her menses were suddenly arrested,
and the sanguineous congestion which, in consequence of
this suppression, was established in her head and chest,
prevented her from attending to her cure. However, her
husband tried every means to rouse her courage, and, after
having exhalisted all the resources of his logic, be. at length,
addressed her thus, ': Since thou would'st renounce thy
cure, thou shalt not have thine own way in the matter; my
will is too firm to change, and I am too certain ofcuring you
to abandon you thus. I will not even awaken you, until we
shall have found the means of restoring you to the state in
318 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT,
which you were before this occurrence." These words pro-
duced their effect; the patient explained the way in which
she should be magnetised, and in the same sitting the menses
reappeared, but lasted only three hours.
On the 16th, she gave up the use of the bougies for
three days, because a new abscess was forming in the rectum,
which would go on to increase for these three days, and
would open in five.
On the 18th, she again complained ofthe too quick cicatri·
sation of her sores. She stated that she should be cured in
the month of March, five hours after her last abscess should
break, and that after this she should sleep no more.
On the 25th, she says that, as she was cured too soon,
she was afraid that the fistula would reappear in eightu•
months, but that she was going to direct her attention to the
means of preventing this return. She then praised the
benevolent will of her magnetiser, and assured him that no
one could have obtained, even in a very long time, the
effects which he produced on her in a moment.
The patient said at the sitting of the 30th, " My sores
are almost entirely cured; I cannot feel rejoiced at it ; what
however consoles me is, that I hope to be able to keep my
fistula as long as I shall deem it expedient."
On the 5th of March, the revolution occasioned by the
idea of her approaching magnetic separation from her hus-
band, brought on the appearance of the third and last crisis.
The abscess which had formed in the rectum, broke at the
same moment, and did not cause her much suffering, in
consequence of its proximity to the anal orifice.
On the 11th, M. Perier tried to put his wife to sleep,
but he could not succeed. The same thing occurred on the
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 319
following days. However, though the ulcerations were
completely cicatrised, and no longer did there exist any
narrowing of the gut, the fistula still existed. But when
Madame Perier followed up to the month of June, the
treatment prescribed, the fistula itself ultimately dried and
disappeared; and according to her prediction of the month
of December, the cure of this terrible disease, which the
Faculty had declared to be incurable, was complete and
perfect.
Animal magnetism may then be a common resource in
surgery; and if it be really necessary to be a medical man to
treat properly a surgical affection, the intervention of
somnambulism, or at least of a somnambulist, will be indis-
pensable in the treatment of every external lesion. I am
persuaded first that we shall thus succeed in avoiding most
of those painful operations, which most frequently offer to
the patient in exchange for death, merely a mutilation or
deformity almost as hideous as death itself. At length,
when dire necessity shall have imposed on the surgeon, the
obligation to practise these operations, shall we not have
isolation left for us, whereby we may remove from the un-
fortunate patients condemned to undergo them, the horror
and suffering arising from them ? Let us call to mind the
excellent observation of Madame Plaintain. I assure you,
that our archives, if they pleased, would be filled in less than
a year with thousands of similar facts. The cries which
you make patients send forth, good gentlemen, add no orna-
ment to your crowns that I can see. Your mission is to
relieve your fellow-creatures and not to torture them ;
reflect then on it ; if there should happen to be any means
of sparing your victims the punishment you make them
320 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
endure, and if you refuse to make yourselves acquainted
with such means, you are culpable, very culpable, for the&
man is nothing but a butcher who knowingly and wilfully
me.kes martyrs.
SIXTEENTH CASE.
Chronic deafness cured in two months.
I know no case more complete, and therefore more COD•
elusive, than that about to be read. The social ~ition of
the person who is the object of it, the extent of his relatioDS,
the superiority ofhis mind, the respectability ofhis character,
the rank of his family, will not suffer us to suspect or
question his testimony.
M. Adam, jun. superintends at Rouen a considerable
institution, which necessarily brings him into close connexion
·with a great number of individuals. He has also taughl
music, according to the analytical method of 1\l. Aime Paris,
in classes frequented by more than a hundred and fifty
pupils. The result is, that there is scarcely an inhabitant in
the entire city of Rouen who cannot affirm, 1st. That he
was obliged to give up his courses of music, merely becalllle
he could no longer hear the voice of the singers; 2d. That
he was on the point of giving up teaching, because he could
not hear the voice of his pupils. Hence, in order to follow
his teaching, he was obliged to make use of acoustic truro·
pets, the dimensions of which he increased almost e\·ery
month; still, notwithstanding this troublesome but india-
pensable instrument, he was obliged to approach, within a
very short distance, each of his pupils, whom he was ad·
dressing, and whose answer he was expecting. But this is
OF I\IAGNETIC TREATMENT. 321
not all ; the just minuteness and strictness of the various
learned bodies, as of the Institute for instance, would, no
doubt, require of us competent witnesses in support of these
assertions. Well; we certainly should find no difficulty in
adducing them ; for, not to reckon a great number of dis-
tinguished practitioners in his native city, several professional
men in Paris have, at various times, borne testimony with
respect to the existence of this infirmity of M. Adam. We
may mention among others M. Itard, Dclcau, and Menit'lres,
whose talents and integrity are equally well known. All
three have successively attended my patient for entire
months, and they all agreed in declaring incurable a disease
which I had the good fortune to c.ure. Let not these gentle-
men take offence at my thus quoting their names. I have
the highest respect for themselves personally, and for their
great knowledge, and I name them here merely to appeal to
their justice. No doubt they will attain the success which
we have attained when they decide on employing the same
means.
Here, then, is a first fact established. M. Adam, jun.,
was positively deaf; and nothing now remains except to
prove that he is no longer so. Now, to do this, I have no
necessity to evoke the testimony of the learned ; for all
persons who will only apply to M. Adain will be enabled to
detect me if I impose on them.
This short preliminary is addressed evidently to our
confreres in medicine who do not yet believe in magnetism.
See, gentlemen, see, and declare yourselves. What precedes
must sufficiently prove to you that deception in such a case
is not possible. We have not here to do with sleight of
hand, nor with a miracle, but with a plain fact of patbo-
Y
322 OF 'MAGNETIC TREATMENT,
logy; make yourselves acquainted with it, then, and decide
its value. I now enter on the subject, and I commence my
narrative, quite indifferent with respect to the effect which
it may produce on the mind of certain readers. For the
sake oftruth, I shall be minute; but my subject is a fruitfo1
one, and if it will not prove interesting, it will be my fault,
and not its own.
M. Adam is from thirty-five to thirty-six years ofage:
he is of the middle size, and of a nervous constitution. The
prodigious intellectual activity with which he is endowed
must have a considerable share, as we shall mention pre-
sently, in the developement of his infirmity. Further, he
believed in magnetism before be applied to it for relief, and
the confidence he bad in this agent, so powerful, and as yet
so little known, naturally increased that with which I was
fortunate enough to inspire him. I mention these circum·
stances, because I am certain that they accelerated his cure.
Nothing, in fact, is more striking than the influence on tbt
physique of certain moral dispositions. It appears sometima
that the hope of success is a step made towards attaining it.
We have spoken on this subject in the theoretical ide&!
published by us some months back.* And, further, mag·
netism was for M. Adam the last plank of safety. For the
last ten years he came regularly every year to pass tli'O
months of the autumn in Paris. When it was known, at
the time of his last departure from Rouen, that he ~
coming here to have himself magnetised, his friends set up a
foolish laugh at his confidence in magnetism. 'Vhat han
they thought of the success which has crowned his rlti-
* Transactions du MRgDetisme Animal, &e.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 323
merical hope ? I hesitate not to affirm, that magnetism will
soon have more than one neophyte in the great city of
Rouen.
State ofthe patient on tlte 26th oflast August.-It was on
the 26th of August, 1841, that M. Adam presented himself
at my house for the first time. I made him go over at full
length all the details ofhis disease; I then tried to determine
·the degree and nature of it by an attentive examination.
The ears are well formed ; but the pavilion, as also the
portion of epicranial muscles surrounding them, are occa-
sionally the seat of an redematous swelling, which renders
the touching of these parts painful to the patient, and is
accompanied by a dull pain, which seems to be more acute
according as the efforts to hear are kept up for a longer
time. This swelling (on the 26th of August) is perfectly
visible. The fingers, on compressing the lateral and pos-
terior parts of the head, evidently cause ·an imprint which
continues for some time ; but the pain caused by this trial
will not allow the repetition of it. There is no species of
discharge from the ears. A probe penetrates without any
obstacle, and to the ordinary depth, in each ofthe meatust.'6,
where the speculum auris of MM. Deleau and Menieres
discovered nothing abnormal. The introduction of an
instrument satisfied M. Deleau that there was no structural
change whatever. The entire disease, then, seems to be
reduced to an incomplete paralysis of the acoustic nerves,
an opinion confirmed by a perceptible diminution of sensi-
bility in the skin which covers, immediately beneath the
ears, the superior and lateral regions of the neck. The sort
of experiment selected by us to ascertain the state of hear-
ing, and then its progress, gives the degree of this paralysis
324 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
in a manner sufficiently precise. M. Adam hears his walcA '
at a distance somewhat less than three inches from the left ear;
he sCARCELY hears itfrom the right ear, when the watch il
applied immediately to the orifice of the meatus auditorius.
Conversation at the ordinary pitch of the voice is absolutely
impossible for him. When one wishes to be heard by him,
it is necessary not only to raise the voice considerably, but
to approach his left ear, where he makes an ear-trumpet of
his left hand. Also, one is frequently obliged to repeat the
same question two or three times, of which at length he
catches rather the sense than the words. If there be some
distance between his ear and the vibrating body, the sounds
reach him no more than if they were not produced at all.
He has been obliged for some years to do violence to his
favourite tastes, by depriving himself of the theatre, where
he not only no longer heard any thing, but where, also, he
was attacked, almost suddenly, with the swelling already
mentioned by us, by reason of the useless efforts he made to
catch the sense of the dialogues.
Singing he can catch much better than the speakiug
voice.
Acute sounds are much better heard than grafJe 80II1tlll,
and, consequently, a female voice much better than a man's
voice.
This is so marked that M. Adam, whilst appearing com•
pletely deaf to the grave intonations which ring in a manner
on his ear, still can hear at a considerable distance the shrill
chirping of a bird. I shall not close the enumeration of &he
symptoms presented by this interesting patient withoat
noticing a particularity which is common to him with a
great many deaf persons, and which merits redection; il is
OF .MAGNETIC TREAT.MENT, 325
this, M. Adam positively hears better in the mid¥t of noise than
in absolute silence.
One day we were travelling together to Versailles, I was
astonished at the extraordinary facility with which he kept
-up the conversation, when deafened myself by the noise of
the wagons, I let three-fourths of his replies escape without
understanding them. "I have my revenge," said he, smiling,
"for you perceive that now it is you who are deaf." A
gentleman who heard our conversation, and whom by his
technical and sententious language I recognised as a phy-
sician, attempted to explain to us a phenomenon which I
owned I did not understand. " From the very fact," said
he, " of the gentleman's being deaf, he is less affected than
we are by the great noise coming from without, and that
is the reason why he hears our voices better." Unfortu-
nately this explanation led to a false result, and, con-
sequently, explained nothing. In fact, numerous experi-
ments have proved to me since that not only the noise does
not diminish, in deaf persons, the little hearing they have
left, but it even favours it and developes it temporarily in a
way that is sometimes astonishing. So true is this, that
when 1\I. Adam, in my house or in his own room, measured
the distance at which he could hear his watch, this distance
suddenly increased some inches, whenever a carriage hap-
pened to be passing rapidly under the windows of the
apartment. There is no aurist who has not had an op-
portunity of observing this phenomenon ; but I know not
whether they have deduced from it the consequences which
it seems to me to furnish. Since sounds must be considered
as the special excitors of the sense of hearing, may it not
be that there are certain forms of deafness which require
326 01' MAGNETIC TBEATJIBNT.
this kind of excitement ? The determining of the cues
where this sort of exercise of the ear is necessary seeiD8 to
me the subject ofan important work, which I shall certainly
compile, when I shall po!!SeBS documents on the matter in
sufficient numbers. But let us follow up our narrative.
lEtiology.-Nothing is frequently more difficult in patho-
logy than to determine the cause of a chronic disease when
it bas not commenced in the acute form. Still further, as
morbid states of this kind are preparing and elaborating
themselves as one might say for a considerable time, before
giving any indication of their existence, one is almost always
puzzled to fix with certainty the true period of their origin.
This in some measure occurred in the case of M. Adam.
But we shall see, however, that if we possess regarding tbe
origin of his disease only conjectural data, some are so
rational that they may be taken for certainties:
Predisposing Causes.-To avoid common-place digre&-
sions, I shall notice only one cause, but it was a terrible, a
desperate one. M. Adam's father died deaf, and three of
his sisters were affected in the same manner. We had
evidently then to struggle with a hereditary predisposition.
Now we know how difficult it is, in general, to overcome
these congenital tendencies of an organisation almost essen·
tially affected with disease which must attack it some day.
Determining Causes.- These were apparently numerous,
but might be reduced to one : the long-continued over·
excitement of the brain. This, independently of the IaboWI
of teaching to which M. Adam devotes himselfwith extreme
ardour, this zealous and conscientious professor still devotee
the chief portion of his unoccupied time to study. Coo-
atantly urged on by the desire of extending the circle of
OF MA.GNETIC TREA.TMBNT. 327
his knowledge, he passed half his nights in learning lan-
guages, history, &c. Of late more especially, when the
acoustic paralysis made such progress as to force him to
renounce the world, where his talents and amiable character
so lately made him sought after, he lived in almost absolute
seclusion, no longer existing, as one might say, except in
himself, and vainly seeking in obstinate and almost frantic
study a sort of consolation to the anguish under which he
was labouring. Alas ! poor l\1. Adam did but aggravate
his disease by seeking to remedy it, like unfortunate persons
who commit suicide to free themselves from suffering.
At length, as we already said, M. Adam, when M. Aime
Paris quitted Rouen, succeeded this ingenious professor in
his chair of analytical music, and we have a strong inclina-
tion to believe that this new kind of instruction must
have given the final blow to the sensibility of his auditory
system, already almost extinct. In fact, every thing is
relative ; and if the detonations of pieces of artillery be
sufficient sometimes to deafen all at once a normal ear,
there is nothing astonishing in the loud concords of singing
multitudes producing the same effect on an ear already
seriously affected. M. Adam had great difficulty in ter-
minating his second course.•
It was at this period that the first case appeared in my
"Transactions" ofdeafness cured by magnetism. The reading
of this remarkable fact changed the course of M. Adam's
ideas, and it was with a strong hope, which was justified by
the event, that he determined to take advantage of the
vacation to have himself magnetised.
*Each course lasted three months.
328 OF MAGNETIC TKBA.TMENT.
Cour8e.-A perfect eqnalityofinnervation in the double
eenees is as rare as an absolute parity in the developement
and muscular strength of the corresponding limbs. .Almost
always, if we look closely, we shall find that a personsees
better with the right eye than with the left, or mce M1ti,
just as one hears better with one ear than with the other,
&e. It follows that when a debilitating cause or a morbific
agent comes to exercise its action on a sensitive system,
one of the two senses, that which is naturally the weakest,
is the first to feel this influence, or rather appears to be the
first affected. This is precisely what occurred in the ease of
M. Adam. Fifteen years ago the right ear, which had
become the seat of buzzing and tingling, precursors or
deafness, began perceptibly to lose its delicacy, whilst there
appeared no lesion whatever as yet in the left ear. The
progress of the disease was slow, but regular, and all that
was done to arrest it, had no influence on its course. It
was only twelve years after, that phenomena, absolutely
similar, began to manifest themselves in the left ear. Thus
the same tingling, the same redematous swelling externally,
the same extinction of the external sound, and all that
developing itselfwith the same regularity of progression ; ~o
that M. Adam, measuring from month to month the new
loss of acoustic sensibility, which he was after suffering,
might have rationally predicted, very nearly at least, the
time when he would be completely deaf. From what we
have said of his state in the month of August last, this
period was certainly not far distant; so that it was not
without reason he was alarmed for the future.
Treatment.-! shall not mention here all the different
kinds of treatment which M. Adam adopted from 1827 to
ON MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 329
1841. With the exception of magnetism I can certify it
would have been difficult to recommend him a mode of
treatment which he had not tried. There was one, how-
ever which put all his patience to the test. At the risk
almost of his displeasure I would willingly give the name
of the quack, if I could find it just now. However, it
consisted of drastic purgatives continued without relaxation
for four entire months. Certainly, I am no enemy to pur-
gatives ; I even think that they may be useful in certain
cases of deafness. But in such doses in the case of a
nervous and debilitated subject! Oh I M. Adam, had you
persevered in this treatment, you would have been cured
of all your ailments, and magnetism would not now have
to reckon you in the number ofher most ardentapostles, nor
would I have to hold you in the list of my friends. I shall
not mention the different therapeutic methods of MM.
Itard, Deleau, and Menieres. Coming from men so dis·
tinguished, they must have been at least rational ; but in
the present case, as in many others, they were not attended
with the least success. Let us now come to that which
we did ourselves.
26th August.-As I was satisfied that M. Adam's deafness
consisted in semi-paralysis of the acoustic nerves, my object
was to bring back life to these organs by means of an active
magnetisation directed to the regions which they occupy.
The first sitting lasted one quarter of an hour. The sen-
sation experienced by the subject is not very acute, as
was to be expected, as our meetings had not yet been
sufficiently numerous to bring me completelyen rapport with
him. This sensation consists in a particular formication,
accompanied by heat and by a state of a general comfortable
330 OF MAGNETIC TBBATKBNT.
feeling. However, after some minutes, a little oppression
manifests itself, which I readily dissipate by freeing the
chest. Passes along the course of the principal nerves of
the trunk and extremities are equally accompanied by a
formication. There is no weight of head nor yawning, no
pricking sensation in the eyelids ; in a word, no disposition
to somnambulism.
The consecutive results of this first sitting were abso-
lutely insignificant. The sleep of the following night wu
not disturbed, as happens frequently in such cases. In fine,
if magnetism has not yet done any good, it is evident it
has done no harm.
5thSeptember.-AB from the end ofAugust to the middle
of September I was suffering considerably from rheumatism,
I exercised at this period on my patients an action that
was very feeble, and probably not very salutary. M. Adam
after each sitting felt in his neck and shoulders pains which
were decidedly ofa rheumatic nature, the cause of which I
was not anxious to conceal. By way of compensation he
communicated to me a ringing in the ears similar to his
own, of which sensation I could not free myself till two or
three hours after each of our interviews. Up to this time
we bad forgotten to measure in a regular way the progress
which his hearing appeared to have as yet made. For want
of a more precise instrument we employed on this day
a brochure to measure the distance at which he heard his
watch with the left ear. Now to his great satisfaction this
distance seemed to be from sixteen to seventeen centimetres
instead of eight. With respect to the right ear, it hu
not yet gained perceptibly.
Sept. lOth.-! perform insuffiation into the ears. There
OF MAGNETIC TBBATMBNT. 331
immediately results from it a perceptible improvement.
But is this improvement the result of a real magnetic
action, or merely the result of the moist heat which my
breath concentrates in the auditory passages? This I
cannot tell. Be it as it may, during the five or six follow-
ing days, I never fail to terminate each sitting with the
employment of these means, which appear to me to be
of decided advantage. M. Adam commences to hear his
watch at the distance of ten centimetres from the right ear,
which he, at first, thought he had lost without the hope of
return. With the left ear he can hear it at the distance of
more than twenty centimetres.
Sept. 15th.-The two ears seem disposed to bring them-
selves into equilibrium with respect to their reciprocal
degree of innervation. Thus, whilst, since the sitting of
the 1oth, the left ear gains very little, M. Adam hears his
watch with his right ear at more than twenty centimetres
distance. But from this period his condition remains sta-
tionary, and the exclusive magnetisation of the upper parts
of the body begins even, evidently, to fatigue him. What-
ever be the direction of my passes, whatever be that of my
will, his head fills, to use his own expression, at the approach
of my hands, and I see myself forced to acknowledge that
there is in magnetism a something essentially different from
the moral power, and which, in certain cases, seems by no
means subordinate to the latter. During eight days I in
vain expect some new progress. I blame my own state of
indisposition; I accuse the temperature ; but I no longer
suffer, the barometer and hygrometer are all right, and the
same negative phenomena recur to discourage me. Truly,
it was high time that Providence would send us a column of
332 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT,
fire to enlighten us in this unknown desert, for I no longer
felt within me the courage to proceed. But who will dare
to attribute to mere chance the fortunate and extraordinary
circumstance which traced out the route that we were to
follow?
Sept. 28th.-The instant I commence magnetising M.
Adam, according to the usual method, be says to me,-
" Do you believe in dreams, M. Teste P"
" That is according to circumstances."
" There are some, then, which, in your opinion, merit
attention?"
" Hippocrates, at least, thought so, judging from his
chapter on Dreams."
" Well, I have had rather a strange night of it with
one; see now what the import of it is. I dreamed that
I entreated you to magnetise my feet, but my feet only, and
in a bot bath. You were not willing, but, at length, by the
force of my solicitations, I succeeded in prevailing on
you, and I found myself so well, that, after a quarter ofan
hour, I beard as distinctly as if I had never been deaf."
Though this extraordinary communication was made to
me in a tone of pleasantry, I could not help being struck by
it. It occurs to me that in several similar circumstances, a
sort of intuition had suddenly discovered to different
patients what ought to be done to cure them. " If you
wish," said I to M. Adam, " we shall put to the proof this
method, which bas succeeded so well with you to-night.
Who knows P your dream is, probably, a revelation from
above. God grant it ; but I fear very much that it is a
sitting lost. That of yesterday profited you ao little, that
after all the loss will not be great; let us try."
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 333
Accordingly, I set about concentrating my action on the
feet of M. Adam, fully determined that, if I succeeded only
one hal~ to complete my success the next day by means of
the pediluvium indicated. Now, after the first passes, M.
Adam feels his head relieved. A sense of formication, ac-
companied by an icy coldness, is felt in the feet; but who
could describe his joy, his astonishment, his state of intoxi-
cation, when he discovered, after the sitting, that his hearing
had gained ten centimetres at each ear,-a progress posi-
tively surpassing that which we obtained for fifteen days.
" Oh! I am saved!" he cries, with the most lively emotion,
~· and you will be to me a second parent." And Providence?
is it not that which has done all ?
Sept. 29th.-Before the hour at which M. Adam is wont
to come to my house, his hearing lost a little since the
preceding day. The watch was heard at thirty-five cen-
timetres with the left ear, and at twenty-seven 'vith the
right. Every thing inclines us to hope that we may hence-
forward count on the continuance of the effects obtained.
However, M. Adam puts his feet into the hot water, and I
commence to magnetise him as the last time. The same
sensations, except that the cold is arrested at the surface of
the liquid. The head is again disengagt:d under the in-'
1luence of the magnetic action ; but, on terminating the
sitting, we find that the foot-bath has added nothing
remarkable to the effects which we obtain, which deter·
mines us on dispensing for the future with this inconvenient
accessory. The hearing has gained, as yesterday, seven or
eight centimetres at each ear, and now we are certain of
being in a fair way.
Among the different phenomena now mentioned, there
was one in particular which attracted my attention very
334 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
strongly; it was the intense cold felt in the feet during ·the
magnetisation of these parts, whilst a similar action, directed
to the upper parts of the body, gave rise to an opposite
sensation. Was this a general fact, or only an anomaly P
Experience alone could decide the question, and since tbe
evening of the 21!th I am anxious to recur to it. Three
persons were successively magnetised by me in the head and
in the feet, and all three experience the two opposite sensa-
tions in the order mentioned by M. Adam. I no longer
doubt, then, that I have discovered a fact, and I am now
thinking of publishing a principle which I hold to be a
general one. Unfortunately, the opposite result which I
obtain, the day after, on a fifth person, comes to destroy my
axiom. There I am then obliged to renew and to multiply
my experiments, from which I no longer expect much on
this subject; but (relatively to my own organisation) here
is the fruit of my researches on this point :-
1. Almost always magnetism gives rise to opposite sensa·
tions, according as it is directed to the head or feet.
2. Most frequently the sensation of heat is felt at tbe
bead, and that of cold at the feet ; but the contrary may
also happen.
3. Some persons experience indifferently either cold or
heat, that is, the same sensation, whatever part of the body
may be magnetised.
4. The intensity of the sensation, whatever be its nature,
is invariably proportioned to the effort of the magnetiser'e
volition, and also to the intensity of the sensation which the
latter experiences in the fingers.•
• All practitioners know this fact, which goes very IV in proriDJ
the ezlatence of the tuid.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 335
5. The magnetiser, independently of the electrical
formication which he feels in his hands, feels, also,
very frequently in these organs, a sensation of heat or
cold, but always the inverse of that which the patient
feels.
October l5th.-The cold and moist temperature, which
prevails for some weeks back, has rendered the progress
more slow, but yet has not arrested it altogether. M. Adam
hears his watch at seventy-five centimetres from the left
ear, and at forty from the right. He enjoys perfect health,
which proves that magnetism has not aroused the vitality of
the senses to the detriment of other organs; on the con-
trary, it appears that his sight, which is naturally weak, and
a long time fatigued by study, has recovered a little strength
during the course of treatment. M. Adam has determined
to carry some cotton in his ears, to secure them from cold ;
but we find that, in affections of these organs, there are no
certain means ofstruggling with advantage against moisture.
Cotton, independently of the fact that it preserves the
auditory passages from the impression of the air, possesses,
also, another sort of advantage, that ofextending the sounds
a little, so that it becomes for the hearing what preservers
are for the sight. I recommend, therefore, all deaf persons
to carry some of it till the return of heat.
October 30th.- The hearing is so much restored that one
may converse whole hours with M. Adam without perceiv-
ing that he is deaf, or rather that he has been so. We talk
in the ordinary voice, or even in a low voice, from one
extremity of my room to the other, that is, at a distance of
more than seven metres. He went yesterday to the The!tre
du Vaudeville and heard the actors perfectly from one of
336 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
the scats of the pit.• He hears the moving of his watch at
the distance of more than a metre from the left ear, and at
seventy centimetres from the right, which is almost the
normal state. I regret much, however, that M. Adam's oc·
cupations do not allow him to tarry a month longer in
Paris. In fact, however satisfactory his state may be, I do
not consider his cure as quite complete. Thus the noises in
the ears are not yet entirely gone. Whatever may be the
cause of these noises, it is clear that it has some connexion
with that of the deafness. The two phenomena, it is true,
should not improve in the same proportions, for we may
readily conceive that the hearing on recovering its delicacy
only becomes more and more sensible to the internal noises
of which they are the seat, so that the latter would appear
to increase, if they did not really diminish. Be this as it
may, I have no doubt that the treatment, if continued a
little longer, would have removed, with the remainder of
the paralysis, these unpleasant phenomena, which are most
frequently its precursors and termination.t
·we are going to conclude this chapter by the recital of
one ofthose events, all the particularities of which are en·
graven in letters of fire in the mind of the person to whom
they relate, and for ever determine the profession of ecien·
tific faith of those who witnessed them. The emotions of
* He beard the last piece much less distinctly, the organ bei11J
very feeble, and therefore very soon fatigued.
t An unfortunate, but unforeseen accident neutralised the good
eft'ects obtained by M. Adam from magnetism. The diligence iD
which be was returning to Rouen baviDg upset on the road, M. Adams
was obliged to walk two leagues on foot iD pelting rain. ln8amma·
tion of the chest followed, and in consequence a new lose of heariDf.
But Is magnetism to be blamed for this ?
OF MAGNETIC TBEATIIIENT. 337
the soul, in fact, are probably still more permanent than the
most strict deductions ofthe understanding, and nothing can
efface from the mind the impressions which reach it only
through the heart. Thereare terrible and awful moments
when the most circumspect observer no longer thinks of
distrusting men. The loud-sounding word of an orator in
his tribune is often less persuasive than the weak and almost
unintelligible voice of one struggling on his death-bed with
the agonies of death, for it seems that it is God himself who
speaks on the threshold of eternity. And yet-and yet who
is this dying person ?-A man like yourself whom you
know not, whom probably you have never seen. But what
would it be, good heavens ! ifhe were your friend, if he were
your brother, if he were still more P Oh! yes, I repeat it, each
of his last words would sink to the bottom of your soul, as
a revelation from the Eternal ; and live as you may, mix as
you may, once more in the stormy conflicts of the world,
your belief would be fixed, and would die only with your-
self. J..et the reader judge, then, of mine ; the case I am
about to give is that of my own wife :-
C£Ue of Madame Teste.
Madame Teste is but twenty-two years of age, but of a
frail and sickly constitution. More sensitive than the ther-
mometer to the air, her extraordinary impressionability does
not leave her a moment's rest. She is gladdened by a ray
of sun, excited by a puff of wind, and alarmed by the fall of
a leaf. A cloud passing through the sky will sadden her ;
shefeels and predicts a storm several days beforehand; in a
word, she often perceives and participates, unknown to me,
z
338 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
in all the alternations of my humour. It will be readily
seen, then, that with such a constitution, it must be difficult
to enjoy perfect health ; accordingly, my wife is so often a
sufferer, that I am almost tempted to consider sickness 111
her normal form of existence, and when she happens to be
well I feel a something which very much resembles un·
easiness. I should mention, however, that since she lw
been subjected to magnetism her state is very much im·
proved, an assertion the correctness of which our friends
(even those who most decidedly refuse to agree with me in
opinion) will not hesitate to certify. But I shall han
occasion to call for their testimony in support of a circum·
stance much more serious, or, at least, more decisive.
On the 28th of June, 1840, Madame Teste, complainiDg
offeeling an indescribable sort of illness that is new to her,
I put her to sleep, with the hope of obtaining from herself
some useful}nformation on this subject. The event verified
my conjectures, and satisfied what I wanted. But what it
sometimes costs to wish to penetrate a mystery ! I fre-
quently repeated it to myself. We have to thank Pron·
dence for the impenetrable veil which He has thrown,
through pity for us, over our future destinies ; and, for my
part, I take God to witness, if any infernal genius C\"er
gratified me with a magic mirror where the future was
reflected, I would wish to break the mirror tor fear of beiug
tempted to look at it.
Madame Teste, whose magnetic sleep is very calm, is DO
sooner in a state of somnambulism this time than she
becomes moved, disturbed, and agitated. Her eountenaDCie
becomes pale, her features are changed, her breathing ie ,
accelerated, all her body trembles, and whilst her bud ·
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 339
convulsively squeezes mine, horror and suffering are depicted
on her countenance.
" My God I my God!" she cries at length, with a hoarse
and despairing voice. .And her two hands are pressed upon
her heart as if she wished to stifle some piercing sorrow
there before its birth.
"What ails you?" said I to her. "Do you see what
afilicts you ?"
She makes no answer ; I only become the more pressing.
I repeat my question, twice, thrice, ten times. .A secret
terror mixes itself with my curiosity. I tremble already at
what I am going to learn ; but I would not for all the
world be longer ignorant of it.
"I conjure you, my dear," says she to me at length,
" cease questioning me.''
"Why?"
"Because misfortunes are always known too soon."
"But if this prevision can afford any means of avoid-
ing it?"
" No, no; it is impossible."
"I ask you on my knees, my love; tell me what you
have seen."
"It will affiict you," she says, taking me by the hands
and pouring tears on them.
" No matter ! I swear to you that it cannot affiict me
more than your silence."
"Well, listen! I see-oh! what have I then done to
heaven ?-I see a great disease I"
"For which of us two? For me?"
" No ; for me, thank God I"
".Always I Is it then you that are always to suffer?"
340 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
" But that is not all. Be quiet, won't you !'"
"Yes, I promise you."
" Well, I see my last struggle f'
Oh ! my God! these terrible words left me no strength
to follow up the matter. I seemed to have descended into
an abyss, where my head reeled ; the depth of this aby&l
I dared not measure, for I no longer saw the bottom.
However, I summoned all my courage and made a last
effort.
"And after?" said I to her.
"After" ... . . repeated she slowly . .. • • " after • •.. .
I see nothing;" then, some seconds having elapsed, she cri~
out in a voice that harrowed my very soul,-
" Awake me I awake me! •.••• Alphonso, awake me,
for I feel myself sinking."
I saw no more. The tumultuous beatings of my heart
seemed to mix a real sound with that of our oppressed
breathing. "Nothing!" that fatal word ceased not to vibrate
on my ears more horrible than death itself.
However, I set about awaking my patient. Each of my
passes seems to dissipate a little some visions which betel
her ; the blood returns to her cheeks ; her countenance
resumes its natural appearance; and soon, when her eyelids
begin to open, a smile plays upon her lips, which, not a
minute ago, were expressive of despair I ..... Ah ! that I
cannot forget as she can I
June 29th.-Alas! I had forgotten nothing I the fatal
prediction I had heard rang incessantly on my ears ; I could
think of nothing else. However I could not yet form an idea
of what was to happen; but we know that doubt is some-
times more insupportable than the most melancholy certainty,
OF MAGNETIC TBEATJIIENT. 341
My readers then will easily conceive in what state of mind I
passed the night from the 28th to. 29th; it was to me a
night ofreal anguish, as were those which followed. Neither
did my wife sleep; but the disturbed state in which I was,
and the agitation which she herself had experienced during
her somnambulism, explained to me sufficiently the cause of
this sleeplessness. At length the day appeared, and I felt
myself relieved. During the night the soul turns in upon
itself; whether suffering or happiness, it feels every thing
more acutely, because, during silence and darkness, it feeds
at its leisure on its enjoyments or its emotions, which no dis-
traction then prevents it from analysing. Morning, on the
contrary, raises the courage and the strength of the afflicted;
it seems to them always to bring them some ray of hope.
However, as Madame Teste was not to be magnetised
till noon, the morning passed slowly on. She was fatigued
at not having slept ; but taking every thing into con-
sideration, her countenance was as usual, and was far from
expressing sadness. I too forced myself to be calm and
cheerful ; but this effort cost me something, and no matter
what I did to keep my countenance in suitable order, I
had sometimes the misfortune to forget my part. However
I only entered the stage, and this powerful constraint must
last a long time still. At length, as the hour approached, we
prepared ourselves to recommence the experiment of the
preceding day. My wife, contrary to her custom, submitted
with extreme reluctance.
"Judging by our sitting of yesterday," said she to me,
~· I think that magnetism does more than tire me, and that
it fatigues me. Did you remark how agitated I was yester·
day evening P"
342 OP MAGNETIC TltBATMENT.
" Yes, but that was not the fault of magnetism."
"Was it yours, theq P"
"Perhaps so; I had taken some coffee contrary to custom,
and as ever since magnetism has placed our nerOOUB fluid in
common, you cannot prevent yourself from participating in
every thing which I feel, the stimulant which I had drunk
only for myself will have served for us both."
" That is extraordinary," said she, smiling, " but it is
very unfortunate for me that you yield to me only the bad
side of your sensations; now, I assure you, I had not the
slightest idea whatever of the aroma which your coffee might
have yesterday evening."
" That will happen, of course."
" Indeed ! now do not go poison yourself, for I should
run the risk of dying."
She had not pronounced these last words when sleep
attacked her. It was then within some minutes to noon,
The expression of the smile remained on her features ; but
without any ofthe muscles of the face seeming to undergo
any new contraction;. this expression changed and became
sardonic ; it was the smile of death. Some nervous move-
ments set all her limbs in motion. Her paleness became
extreme, and you would have said she was a marble statue.
At last she cried out,-
" I see I oh ! yes, I see .•..• but let me weep, my dear,
and I will speak after."
She wept accordingly, and for my part I was so heart·
broken that I could not articulate a word. There are
emotions which well-formed souls may understand, but
which no pen can describe. At length she says to me after
a few minutes,-
OP liiA.GNEI"IC TBEATliiENT, 343
" My dear, it will not be merely for an hour we shall
have to suffer, but for an entire night !"
"But when then, if you can tell P"
"Next Saturday."
"Only."
And we were then only at Monday; and there was still
nearly an entire week to elapse for me in this horrible state !
what days! what hours! what minutes to count I What
was to become of me ! for six long days to have the smile on
the mouth, and death in the soul!
However my wife took me by the hand, and said to me
with an angelic sweetness,-
" Have courage, my dear, I understand you; but Heaven
is just, and will not abandon us ; and we do not yet know
what lot is reserved for us."
"But, pray, what is the disease with which you are to
be attacked ?"
"Listen: Saturday evening, at eight o'clock precisely
I shall have convulsions ..... Oh! very violent .....
such as I never had in my life. These convulsions will last
till nine o'clock."
"And then?"
"Then I shall be very ill."
"And during the night?"
"I shall be very ill still."
"Will you have your consciousness?"
"Wait-no."
" Will you not know me ?"
" No. When you will magnetise me, I shall be able to
speak to you; but, awake, I shall no longer hear you."
"Up to what hour will you be thus?"
344 OP MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
"Until morning. At six o'clock it will be all over."
"What do you mean by that?" said I, trembling.
"I mean that at six o'clock-! shall be better, or else-
Oh! my God I if it must be that I am to leave you."
" No, child ; do not speak so, you exaggerate the e-ril
that is to befall us."
" Ob, no, ifyou knew; what I see is frightful."
"And Sunday, what do you see?"
"I see nothing."
"The following days?"
" Nothing, nothing ; awaken me."
"But what is to be done for you P"
"I shall tell you to-morrow. Awaken me, awaken me,
or I shall faint."
I obey. Madame Teste having entered into real life
retains of the emotions of her sleep nothing but a vague
agitation, of which she mistook the cause. With an air of
carelessness which only makes me the more sad, she resumes
the playful conversation which she commenced before being
put to sleep ; but this time I no longer bear it, and I answer
her questions so badly, that she determines to let me alone,
crying out against the capriciousness of my temper. I then
reflected on the part I bad to take. The first thing I
did was to inform my friends of what occurred to me.
Some laughed at my credulity, others participated in my
fears, all assured me of their sympathy and their devotion.
I thank them all, but none of them I am sure, if he was
to-day in the circumstances in which I was then, would be
less alarmed than I was. Once or twice I was tempted to
place in my confidence some ofour high medical men who do
not yet believe in magnetism, when it was justly obsen-ed
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 345
to me, that under such circumstances I should assemble
around me none but kind and devoted persons; and that at the
moment when the life ofmywifewas in question, the scientific
convictions ofsuch or such an one ought no longer to interest
me. These reflections were no doubt just; I had made them
before they were suggested to me; I acknowledge, however,
that if I could have known the true issue of the event
which I dreaded, this event should have had as witnesses
other men besides intimate friends, whose depositions will
always be suspected. Yes ! if the question regarded only
myself, I would not have hesitated, and if my death was one
day to effect the triumph of magnetism, I should like all
Paris to be present at my death-struggle. But circum-
stanced as I was, sacred duties imposed on me a sacrifice
which I would not have made for myself. There was then
but a small number ofpersons present.
On the evening of the 29th, Madame Teste continued to
go on passably ; nothing, certainly, indicated in her the
approaching attack of a serious disease ; however, she had
no appetite for dinner, and merely took a little potage.
The following night was again a night of sleeplessness for
her and for me.
The heat being considerable, and the weather stormy, I
saw nothing unnatural in her little appetite and in the
absence ofsleep. Probably, too, I would not have noticed
it under any other circumstances. Still, as this sort of
functional disturbance continued till the end of the week, I
was at length forced to see in it the precursor of a morbid
affection. But let us not anticipate ; for things did not pass
so rapidly as I narrate them.
346 OF MA.GNETIC TREATMENT,
June 30th.-Dr. Frapart and M. Thevenot; apothecary:
came to my house, according to my invitation, at two
o'clock in the afternoon. Madame Teste was magnetised
before them at half-past two. Matters went on almost in the
same manner as at the sitting of the 29th, except that the
patient, concentrating her suffering more effectually, an-
swered merely with a stoical sang froid the questions put to
her. Her revelations differ in no respect from those made
to me on the preceding occasion. With respect to the pre-
scriptions which we shall have to conform to, they are
reduced to something very simple. First, nothing in the
world can conjure the crisis, and prevent it from taking
place; all treatment would then be superfluous up to the
decisive day (Saturday, July 4th). Even this day there
will be nothing particular to do up to half-past seven in
the evening, at which hour two leeches are to be applied
to the patient (over the region of the heart). From eight
to nine o'clock some ice is to be put into her mouth every
quarter of an hour; from nine to ten, she is to take a bath
at twenty-eight degrees. At two o'clock I shall ha'\'"e to
magnetise her, in order to receive from her the indications
to be followed for the remainder of the night. Madame
Teste promises us to recur to these different points in the
next sittings. Besides, her determination is irrevocably
fi.xed with respect to that which she has already prescribed
for herself. Thus, M. Frapart presents to her in vain a
homreopathic box, assuring her that she will infallibly find
in it some specific appropriate to her coming disease. She
• Dwelling in the Rue Sainte-Marguerite, 36.
----·
_.. -·· -
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 347
takes up some of the tubes, uncorks them, applies them to
her nose, and replaces them immediately, assuring us over
again that beyond the leeches, the ice, and the bath, which
she has prescribed for herself, no species ofmedicine can be
useful to her. I awaken her, then, after having noted
down all the details she is after giving us; and these gentle-
men, on leaving, promise secretly to meet at my house on
Saturday evening.
From this period I made it my business involuntarily to
note down the slightest changes which should occur in the
health of Madame Teste. The moral dispositions in which
she was during the last days of the week, constituted a
remarkable circumstance, and one for which I should ac-
count to our readers. No one had disclosed to her the
event which her destiny was reserving for her ; no indiscreet
expression could have caused her to suspect it; and yet she
had the presentiment ofit. Thus, as if some interior voice
had suggested to her that there only remained a small
number of days to pass together, an irresistible instinct
attached her to my steps. She did not quit me for a second;
and if any plausible reason forced me to go from her, she
wept as if she were afraid that she should never see me
more. However, she was not suffering. She constantly
said that she was not sick. A hundred projects respecting
the future mixed themselves up with the indefinable terror
which she experienced. But do as she may, she did not
succeed in dissipating her gloom ; and, notwithstanding all
her appearance of hilarity, it was easy to see that she spoke
and acted thus only for the purpose of shaking off all
thought, as a dying person endeavouring to persuade
himself that he is going to sleep.
348 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
" Something must happen to us," said she to me ; " I
feel that I am not calm, and when you are not there I am
afraid."
" Mraid of what P"
" I know not, but it is too strong for me. Hold ! I am
constantly in the state of a person who, still moved on
awaking from a frightful dream,cannot, however, recollect it."
" Have you dreamed, then ?"
"No," says she, smiling," since I have not slept."
" Whence comes it, then, that you no longer sleep P"
"It is I who should ask you that, Monsieur Doctor."
" True, I shall consider the matter ; for that give me
till Sunday."
" Willingly ; but could you tell me why you no longer
sleep P"
"!-study, fatigue, mental exertion-these things de-
prive me of sleep."
" Possible; but I presume, my dear, that there is SOJDeo
thing else with that."
" What then P"
" Perhaps a foretaste of the calamity which is about to
befall us I"
" Fool that you are P"
" Yes, I am a fool, I do not deny it ; but believe me,
my dear, presentiments are not mere chimerical things, aud
it is only strong minds that ridicule them."
" I must then in this case possess a strong mind, for my
scepticism on this point is absolute, and ever will be so."
" So much the worse for you ; but I hope, at least, that
your incredulity will respect my weakness, and that you
will not prevent me from following my own idea."
OF MAGNETIC TRl!ATMBNT. 349
" What idea have you, then ?"
" One of those which do not often occur to you : I wish
to go to confession."
"To-day P"
"This very day."
"Why?"
" :M:y God ! do not ask me, for I should answer you no
better on that than on the rest.''
This sudden and strange desire quite upset me. I felt
my old medical materialism give way, and I, too, was
tempted to see for a moment in those presentiments some
mute revelations of the Divinity.
" Follow thy inspiration," said I, with a seriousness at
which Madame Teste was astonished; " it comes, perhaps,
from heaven."
Our magnetic sitting of this day (2d of July) gave us
no more information than that of the preceding, except that
we could not help seeing a very unfavourable presage in the
gloom and extreme depression which probably commenced
to manifest themselves the next day. Great gaiety would
be, on the contrary, a good omen, but that was hardly to
be reckoned on. The day after accordingly, my wife was
sad and much depressed. Every day, then, was depriving
me of hope!
July 3.-However the chimerical desire of struggling
with destiny took possession of me, and, in order to succeed
the better in making my wife cheerful, I invited several
friends to breakfast. Doctor Amedee Latour was of the
number; but it had been agreed on that we should neither
speak of medicine nor of magnetism, seeing that from the
rencontre of these two irreconcilable enemies interminable
350 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
and unpleasant disputes inevitably ar011e, the only effeet of
which is to sever the parties engaged, as also to annoy those
who ha>e the ill luck to listen to them. Here, then, there
is neither magnetiser nor physician, but only pleasant guests, ,
each of whom, in order to conform to the order of the day,
does his utmost to furnish his contingent of bons-'171()13 aDd
hilarity. Madame Teste complains several times of the
lassitude she feels in all her limbs, but, on the whole, she
does not appear much worse than the day before. She does
not eat, it is true, but she takes part in the conversation;
she jokes with us, and seems to laugh heartily at the sallies
of wit which escape us. One would have said, in fact, that
she guessed at and participated in our intentions. For my
part, I exerted so much obstinacy on the occasion that I
almost succeeded in overcoming my lowness of spirits. So
true is it that the excitation of the senses is the best anti-
dote for the spleen, that there are but few vexations whieh
can constantly resist violent physical emotions. Pleasure, if
it is far from rendering us happy, enjoys, at least, the pri·
vilege of making us forget our sorrows. At the conclusion
of the repast, Madame Teste having left us for some mo-
ments, Dr. J..atour says to me:-
"Well, my friend, what becomes ofyour faith?"
"My faith is unchanged," said I.
" What is that you say ?"
" I say that my faith is more unalterable than your in·
credulity."
" How I Have you still the same ideas regarding Madame
Teste?"
"Decidedly."
"But, my friend, 'tis madness."
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 351
"God grant it. But, be it as it may, this madness will
be incurable in me up to next Sunday."
" You so astonish me, that I no longer recognise you."
"That is because you did not know me well enough."
" But let us see, my friend, reflect. Whatever your
prejudices may be against medicine, your medical good sense
should still remain. Examine, question your wife, and tell
me, if you can, which organ in her is affected, and what is
her disease."
"I acknowledge, with all possible humility, that I cannot
satisfy you on that point ; but even if I could, it is clear
that my opinion to-day would prove nothing for to-morrow
night."
"To a certain extent. Now, is it necessary to be sick in
order to die P"
"You know as well as I that it is not necessary to be so
long."
"It is perfectlyclear that Madame Teste is not so at all."
"That is what you do not know, and what I know very
well is, that she will be so to-morrow night."
"Why?"
"A Mussulman could answer you, Became it was written.
And I will answer you, Became she has said so."
" Then, my friend, I commiserate you, and your
conviction aiD.icts me doubly."
" I swear to you that it aiD.icts me more than you ; but,
however painful it may be to me, nothing can shake it."
Amedee J..atour, whom these last words left without a
reply, shrugged his shoulders, and retired.
"Well," said I to my wife, when he left us," have our
friends succeeded in distracting you a little P"
352 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
" No," said she ; " for ifI were alone I would have been
weeping."
July 4th.-This morning, Madame Teste is so feeble, tbst
she can scarcely support herself. The pulse is a little
frequent, but still regular. She complains of some pain in
the prrecordial region. At ten o'clock in the morning I
magnetised her for the last time. Her predictions corre-
sponded with those of the preceding days, and I wrote
under her dictation the programme of the next night.
Madame Teste cannot account for the causes of her disease.
" 'l'hat mU8t be so," said she, "and magr.etism, wltich !JOlt
would be tempted to 8U$pect, has absolutely 110thing to do wiiA
it." In fact, with respect to the nature of the disease, she
gives an explanation very little qualified to satisfy what a
physician wants. She says that it is blood which is to
mount up and choke her, if the ice does not prevent it.
" I am very sick," adds she, " and if this night at nine
o'clock I do not speak nor smile ...... we must no longer
hope for any thing." Scarcely had she pronounced this
last phrase, when I found myself obliged to awaken her
precipitately to avoid syncope.
The remainder ofthe day passed on slowly, very slowly!
Visitors were annoying, and solitude still more so. I \\ished
to speak, and I found nothing to say ; I wished to read, and
I understood not what I read ; in a word, I passed the
hours, counting the minutes, and each ofthem seemed to me
endless.
In the afternoon Madame Teste suffered more in the
chest, at the same time that she complained of violent
headach. One of her cheeks (the left) was injected with
blood, as that of a phthisical patient ; it was then evident
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 353
this time that Madame Teste was really ill ; and if, how-
ever, one ofour confreres had asked me the name of her
disease, I would have experienced the same difficulty in
answering which I did the day before. How, in fact, was I
to qualify the strange group ofsymptoms presented by her P
I did not recollect, in all my medical reading, a single name
that wonld have suited her.
Nigkt ofthtl4th to 5th ofJvly.-Now the awful moment
approaches when the frightful question oflife or death is
about to receivea final solution. The impressions it left on me
are still fresh in my memory, and my pen can find them all
in the bottom of my heart, if it were of any use to describe
one by one to my readers all the turns of this awful night.
But the business here is to give a scientific narrative in
which the narrator must forget himself so as to speak only
offacts.
At seven o'clock Madame Teste feels herselfsomewhat
~faint, and is so oppressed that she finds it necessary to retire
to bed. I state to her, then, that abe predicted in the
morning a slight indisposition, which she will certainly
avoid by lying down ; but one which, in all cases, must not
be prolonged beyond nine o'clock. Some moments after, I
introduce to her a young physician of her acquaintance, my
talented friend, M. Edoua.rd Le Carpentier. Mad!Lme Teste
receives him with her habitual amenity, and converses with
him, eo as not to let him perceive that she is suffering.
Now shewas made uneasy by the goings and comings which
are occurring in the neighbouring apartments, but the
explanation I give her on the subject satisfies her, and dis-
sipates all her suspicion&
At a quarter past seven, MM. Doctors Frapart, Amedee
.A A
354 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
Latour, Millardet, MM. Le Carpentier, Guinier, and some
other persons, are Rilently assembled in one of the rooms
adjoining that in which the patient is lying. She now says
that she is better since she went to bed. I alone am near
her.
At half-past seven, Madame Teste does not seem worse ;
however, she said that at half-past. seven it was necessary to
apply two leeches over the region of the heart. Certainly,
I was very far from having forgotten this injunction, and yet
I hesitate to conform to it. What ifthe crisis of eight hours
was not to come ?-if she was mistaken ?-if there was
nothing true in her prophecies? But to employ medicine
with a woman who does not appear sick, who might,
probably, not be so at all, this staggers me, and I feel my
faith give way. I then enter the room where the gentlemen
are assembled.
" It is half-past seven," said I to them. " Must the
leeches be applied ?"
" How! must they?" cries Dr. Frapart, with that
shrill voice and lively mimicry of which those persoD8
who know our friend can alone form an idea. " Go,
then, unfortunate fellow I go, then, your wife's life is con-
cerned; these leeches should have been taken one minnte
ago."
"But if she does not wish that we apply them to her?"
" Go, then, I tell you ; it is necessary to know whether
she wishes them or not."
Alas! Dr. Frapart was then with me, as I would,
no doubt, have been with him under similar circumstances;
he had all his sang froid. The leeches were then applied,
at eighty seconds past half-after seven. These supplement-
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 355
ary seconds will seem ridiculous to more than one of our
readers, but now that I am become calm again, and have
recovered, I shall not say all my logic, for this is no ques-
tion of logic, but all my recollection, I am persuaded that
this miserable error of eighty seconds had a marked in-
fluence on the manner in which matters went on during the
remainder of that night.
At within a few minutes to eight o'clock, our confreres
came into the apartment; they range themselves in silence
around the bed ; but the patient no longer sees them, for
she appears to be in a state of syncope. The eyes are shut,
the features are dull and devoid of expression, all the limbs
are motionless. However, the pulse is regular, that is to
say, almost normal, both in fulness and frequency. We
wait.
At length, eight o'clock strikes, and all eyes are fixed on
the patient. The sound of the clock still rings in our ears,
when, lo ! she begins to move. All that she has predicted
will be accomplished then ! Oh I my God I Here com-
mences for me one of those horrible scenes which mark and
form an epoch in the life of man, and the image of which
remains for ever the same if he lived a thousand years.
Oh ! yes, I still see within the great alcove, where the dull
light of the wax-lights faintly reaches,-I still see my poor
wife extended on her bed of pain, and tacitly devouring her
sufferings. At first, it is her fingers and hands that are
agitated; then her arms, which are twisted in every di-
rection, as if there no longer remained either joint or bone;
then the lower extremities are attacked, then the muscles of
the spine, then the entire body. At ten minutes past eight
the scene becomes more stirring. The deep sighs which
356 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
raise the chest, soon change into smothered cries, then, in a
little time after, into loud cries. The clonic movement,
which alternately separates and approximates the dental
arches, produces, every now and then, a grinding which is
heard indistinctly. Ice is given to her every quarter ofan
hour, but it is with difficulty it can be put into her mouth.
Sometimes the closing of the jaws invincibly opposes it;
sometimes, at the instant the morsel of ice is presented,
a sudden contraction of the masseters causes a portion to fty
oft' into small bits, whilst the remainder is broken by one
stroke beneath the teeth. At half-past eight the agitation
is at its height. Four strong persons can BCarcely keep
Madame Teste in her bed. One would say, every moment,
that she is on the point of breaking her forehead, or one of
her limbs. Oh! good God! what a long hour this is!
at length, the convulsive exaltation progressively becomes
more interrupted, and is succeeded by marked paroxysms,
which become more and more distant from each other.
The last occurs at within ten minutes to nine o'clock; it ia
more violent than the others, it is terrible; it is a cry which
astounds us all. But, at length, it becomes calm, and is
followed by great depression, and yet the hour•-the hour
has struck, but we did not bear it.
Nine o'clock! and she had told me that if at nine
o'clock she did not speak or smile, all was over, and no
hope remained. Well ! it is after nine and she has no&
spoken I she has not smiled I in vain I call her by her
• Madame Teste told me in the morning, that on magnetiaiar
her during her convulsions, I did but retard the crisis, witboat pre•
venting Its occurrence.
,
~
I
01!' IIU.GNETIC TBEATMiilNT. 357
name one hundred times ; she no longer hears me, for
she no longer answers mel Now then, it is her dying
struggle I Oh, I suffer more than she does !-She is put
into a bath ; but, except an insensible breathing, and some
scarcely perceptible arterial pulsations, nothing, absolutely
nothing, evinces that life still remains. Her hair has
fallen and is wet in the bath, whento prevent her from
drowning, it becomes necessary for me to support her by
the shoulders. Her bead oscillates and inclines according
to the position given to it, and yields without resistance
to the laws of gravity ; is there still a thought in this
head, which falls thus? This none of us could tell.
However, at the other end of the room an animated
discussion, which indeed I did not hear, was raised be-
tween two of the bystanders.
"It is abominable," says one, "this woman is dying, it
is evident, and you do nothing for her I"
"What would you have done?"
" What do I know I I ! call in some physicians ; let her
be bled ; let antispasmodics be given to her ; a lavement
of assafc:etida; but in the name of Heaven, let her not be
left in this way!"
" She has not prescribed either lavement, bleeding, or
assafc:etida for herself."
"But what she has prescribed is absurd !"
"What do you know of it?"
" Let me have none ofyour magnetism !"
"And let me have none ofyour physicians!"
" Be it so ; but you will have to answer for the death
ofa woman."
At these words the first speaker, who was no other
358 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
than Dr. Amedee Latour, went out indignant, and left Dr.
Frapart quietly reading his journal. I could do no more,
and the corporeal fatigue which I underwent in supporting
my wife three quarters of an hour in the bath added to
my mental sufferings, was nigh making me faint. And then
it was a fact,-I saw her die.
" Is it the hour, M. Frapart P"
"There are ten minutes still," answered the impassible
reader, after satisfying himself with throwing an eye
towards the clock. "Ten minutes ! how long it is ! At
length if all that is wanting is courage, we shall go on even
to the end."
Ten o'clock at length strikes. I magnetise Madame
Teste, who had been replaced in her bed. This time she
speaks! but so low, that I scarcely hear her.
" All very bad," says she to me, " and rm very ill."
" Will you soon be able to speak, being awake ?"
"No."
"But when at length will your speech return to you ?"
"I know nothing of it."
"Do you suffer much P"
"Oh! yes."
"What ought to be done for you?"
•• Some mustard."
" To the legs ?"
•• And to the feet."
u How long at each plaee P..
.. Ten Ininutes."
u Must the ice be continued,..
uyes."
"All the night P"
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 359
"Yes. Let me sleep a little, and don't make me speak ;
it fatigues me."
" How long must we let you sleep ?"
"A quarter of an hour."
I obey her, and did not awaken her till after the quarter
of an hour was passed. As soon as she awoke, she fell back
and spoke no more. It was evident that she was then
without consciousness ; a circumstance which suggested to
me even this night certain reflections which I wish to
submit to our readers. Certainly, this is scarcely the place
to discuss the nature and immortality of the soul, and yet,
since this metaphysical question was running through my
mind at the very instant of which I speak, it must be
connected directly with the events which I relate. Is it
not an astonishing thing, in fact, this woman, in the very
agony of death, recovering all the integrity of her intelli-
gence at the very gate ofher tomb ?
The most powerful argument ever advanced against the
immateriality of the soul has always appeared to me to be
this : the soul cannot exist without organs ; it is born with
our body, is developed with it, and grows old with it.
Thought is evidently and essentially subordinate to physical
conditions. The infant scarcely thinks ; the adult (in good
health) enjoys all his intellectual faculties; the latter
decline in the old man, become perverted in very advanced
age, become nearly annihilated in the dying, and completely
abandon the dead. What then becomes of the soul when a
man expires ?•
• We would recommend to our author to stick to the plain
motter1 of fact of animal magnetism, and not to trouble his head
360 01' lllAGl'IETIC TBEAT.MBNT.
But this is not all : interrogate the phrenologists ; on
the mere inspection of the skulls they will tell you, Then:
is a man who thinks well; There is another who thmu badly;
Here is a third who thinks such and such a way. The
phrenologists are not wrong ; it must be admitted then with
them, that all the manifestations of our soul depends OD
the conformation of our cranium, or, ifyou will have it, of
our brain; so that if it was possibletotake awaysuccessively
from a man without killing him, the parts of his encephalon
which correspond to each of the mental faculties, we migh&
progressively reduce the domain of his intellect in such a
manner as not to leave him either an idea or sensation. In
this latter case again, what would become of his soul P Now,
this fiction is almost daily realised by facts. Enter into a
mad-house : one has lost memory; the other has lost hia
affections ; a third, his judgment ; a fourth, even the instinct
of his own preservation. But what is the origin ofall these
misfortunes ? What causes, then, could thus alter the
unalterable essence which animates us? An accident en-
tirely physical, a fall, a blow on the head, or a violen&
emotion; this is what for the last ten years and more ca111e1
all these souls to become delirious. But what I oursoul, theu,
is thus subject to the slightest casualties of matter I its ex-
istence is so far connected with that ofthe organism. No
suffering, no changes, that are not common to the two I aDd
with theories. The above specimen of metaphysical m1801llng (?)
proves the soundness of our advice. It would not require an Aristotle
to point out the large amount of sophistry which figures in all this
tirade. We almost think it had been as well omitted in the Engtiah
translation ; we did not, however, feel perfectly warranted ill lea-riDg
it out.-TRANSLATOR.
J
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 361
you say that they do not die together I Paradoxical ! I tell
you, proud paradox with which men amuse themselves,
who, to render the approaches of a total disaolution less
bitter, have pleased to dream of the consoling chimera of an
eternal life. Let us still retain·our judgment for one
moment ; for here is the counterpart of all that has just
been read. Magnetise an idiot :-he thinks justly. Mag-
netise a mad man :*-he thinks rationally. Magnetiseadying
man :t-he will tell you with all his good sense as much
as there will remain strength to speak. Magnetism, then,
isolates our soul, and frees it in a manner from its terrestrial
ties. The case we give is the proof of it ; but let us now
follow up the course of our narrative.
11 o'clocli.-The state of the patient has not changed.
She is ~m or rather immovable; her face is perceptibly
flushed ; the veins of the neck are swollen and prominent ;
the pulsations at the wrist are isochronous and perfectly
regular ; but there is still no consciousness.
* See p. 155. The case of Henrietta L*** in the midst of an
acute accession. Immediately when in a state ofsomnambulism, she
says to me, " I am mad, very mad, but it will not last long if you
attend me properly. My state is owing to the suppression of my
menses. I must be bled in an hour. I will not wish it; but I must
be bled in spite of me. Only to accomplish it, employ gentleness
rather than force, for you would increase my disorder by irritating
me." I hope this was not more than madness.
t Having made this remark before one of our confreres, he says
to me, "What proves to you now that Madame Teste was really as
sick as she appeared to be ?"
"Nothing," said I ; "but if you are not satisfied with this exam.
ple, I will· cite you another: Miss Clary D*** (seep. 104) half an
hour before dying, in a state of somnambulism, had all her friends
ealled to her, and spoketo them with all her reason. But who knows ?
Miss Clary perhaps counterfeits death since that time."
362 OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT.
" What do you think, my friend ?" said I to Dr. Frapart.
"Seemingly what you think yourself," replied he;
"that is, that there is no deceiving ourselves, and that she
appears to me very ill ; but I think, however, that, God
aiding, you will succeed in bringing her round."
" You see nothing particular to do, gentlemen P" So
one answered me.
I was overcome, and as I retired into another room, my
friend Frapart followed me; he understood me, and re-
mained for more than a quarter of an hour before he spoke
to me. He then asked me if I thought that his presence
could be of any use for the rest of the night. I said no.
He then took my hand, squeezed it affectionately, and
promised to return to me before six o'clock in the morning.
M. Le Carpentier left me in a little time after, and MM.
Millardet and Guinier alone remained with me.
The sinapisms had been applied; but excepting the red-
ness of the calves and soles of the feet, they produced DO
sensible effect. We continued to give the ice every quarter
of an hour.
Midntg'ht.-The patient is magnetised.again ; her voice is
still so weak, then no one can hear her but myself; my ear
must be close to her mouth.
"How do you find yourself, my love P"
" Still very ill."
" Where do you feel pain ?"
"In the chest; I am smothering."
Accordingly, her hands, which are brought by a apon·
taneous movement constantly to the sternal region, are
contracted just as if she wished to tear away eomet.hiiJ8
which was constraining or oppressing her.
OF MAGNETIC TREAT!IIENT. 363
"I am going then to leave you !" continued she, sorrow·
folly.
" No ! God will not have it so."
" What have I done to Him then ?"
At these words her eyes opened and turned themselves
upwards. They were quite dull, though a mystical expres-
sion seemed to animate them. I spoke to her again, but she
ceased to answer me, and continued so for some minutes.
At length hereyes fell, and I said to her,-
" Will you not speak to me any more ?"
"If, but I prayed to God not to separate us. I would
like to see Him-God."
" Have you never seen Him ?"
"No."
"Will you remain long without consciousness ?'
"Yes."
" When, then, you are awake, will you be able to hear
and understand me ?" She hesitates and seems pained by
my question. I feel on my shoulder a slight pressure of
her arm ; then at length she utters a sti11e4 cry,-
" Never!"
I now observe silence, for my thought dies upon my
lips without my finding strength enough to express it.
However, I resume in some minutes after.
"Is there any thing new to be done ?"
"No ! all would be useless."
" When will it be necessary to magnetise you P"
"At three o'clock." •
* At this moment, Dr. *** put this strange question to the
patient, " Madame, what is the hour?"
"Is this the time for thinking of experiments?" said I, abruptly.
364 OF MAGNETIC TBE.ATMENT.
" Must I awaken you?"
"Yes!"
I awaken her, and I am certain that she no longer sleeps
from the moment when she ceases to hear me.
From one to three o'clock slight convulsive movementl
shew theuu;elves, which l quiet by means of some pa~~~~&
The respiration is evidently constrained, and the patieu1
continues to apply her hands to her chest. At lenA jua
as three o'clock strikes, I magnetise her. Her voice is a
little stronger than it was at midnight. She says, also, that
she thinks she finds herself a little better. However, she
still holds out but little hope regarding the issue of the
disease.
"At six o'clock all will be over."
"What do you mean by that?"
"That at six o'clock I shall be going on much better, or
else ••..·. • This would be a great misfortune for magnet-
ism," continued she, "for they will not fail to attribute my
death to it (she thought of every thing)."
"But do you see beyond six o'clock?"
"No."
"To-monow, for instance, how will you go on?"
The answer she gave was another cry, accompanied by
convulsive movements. The future for her then extends DO&
beyond some hours. Miss Clary D • • also stated, that abe
saw nothing beyond the 4th ofJune, and that waa the very
But Madame Teste had already anticipated me by sa~, "TweDt)'
minutes past midnight;" an answer, the correctness of which asto-
Diahed the aperime11ter still leas than hia WliCIIaoll&ble apoetn1p11e
had scandallaed me. It is aearcely 11ecesaary to obaene, that lien
we had 11otbillg to do with a phe11omeDo11 of visio11.
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 365
day she ceased to live. No matter what I did to banish it,
this thought recurred to me incessantly, and I BCarcely
passed one minute without being annoyed by this gloomy
and striking recollection.
Madame Teste asked to be magnetised at half-past four.
Notwithstanding the apprehensions which she had just ex-
pressed to me, I now begin to participate in the hope of my
friends, for though she continues still not to speak, the
improvement in her state seeiUS undeniable. For if she
does not speak, she evidently understands me, since she
endeavours to retain my hand in hers. At last, I magnet-
ise her. She owns she finds herself better; but at half-
past five, a new accession of convulsions is to come on, as
violent, at least, as those of the night, an accession which is
to decide the rest. This revelation, to which we did not
attend, sends death into the very soul.
"You see, gentlemen," said I to my friends, "we hoped
too soon ; and when a somnambulist is alarmed, he has
reason to be so. . But, let us see! Since we must wait to
the end, we shall wait."
Faithful to his promise, Dr. Frapart just came in at half-
past five o'clock. The convulsions came on at the same
time, and I really think I never saw any like them. Alas I
it is because the patients whom I had hitherto observed had
not touched me so nearly. At length, six o'clock strikes ;
the stroke of the clock rings on my ear like a funereal
knell ! I see no more, but I hear a mournful cry; then, in
the Inidst of the mournful silence succeeding to it, the
impassible voice of my friend Frapart pronouncing these
two words, " It is o11er f'
"It is over! !I What ! life P"
366 OF MAGNETIC TBEATMENT.
" No ! the crisis."
"Does she live then, still ?"
"Wait I Yes ! In a few instants we shall judge bet·
ter."
At seven o'clock, Madame Teste opened her eyes aDd
spoke.
She had talum a lethargy for death ! !
The case just read raises several important questioos.
Ist. It may be said that the disease of Madame Teste
was not so severe as we supposed, which is very possible;
and it might have.been as well relieved by the means ordi·
narily employed in such cases, as under the influence of the
leeches and of the ice which the patient prescribed for
herself, which last assertion we do not think is at all devoid
of probability. But supposing physicians had been called ia,
as Dr. Latour wished, and that we had followed their ad·
vice, do we know what would have been the ulterior results
of their skill? Five years ago, I had occasion to atteod
Madame Teste as her physician. She was then labouring '
under a nervous affection. It is a thing well known to her
relatives, that I had the signal honour of soon triumphiDg
over her paroxysms. But what became of my triumph~­
That the poor patient was obliged to keep her bed for five
years. And let it not be supposed that this is an excep-
tional case; for, to my own knowledge, there is scarcely a
single case of nervous affection cured by medicine.
2. What are we think of the error of prevision, which.
in the case of Madame Teste, made us apprehensh·e of
death P I answer, that this error is one of those which eom·
nambulists may commit, but which they certainly rarely
commit. On this subject we read as follows in the broclnut '
OF MAGNETIC TREATMENT. 367
of M. Koreft':• "You mention in your fifth chapter (the
author addresses Deleuze) a prediction of the somnambu·
lists, which several times made me uneasy, and which I
often found incorrect-that of their death. I since dis·
covered that somnambulists often deceive themselves on
this point, in taking dangerous crises, violent syncopes for
death ; confounding, perhaps, that which there is analogous
between these abrupt transitions and the irrevocable termi-
nations of life. This is one of the most uncertain points in
this obscure region, we are altogether in want of positive
signs to distinguish truth from error. It has been my lot
to find that somnambulists have correctly predicted the
death of several persons, and have been completely deceived
regarding others," &c.
* Lettre d'un Medecin Etranger, &c. P. 30.
368
CHAPTER XV.
MEDICINE OF 80MNAMBtJLIST8.
IT must be admitted that hitherto the conduct of tbe
Royal Academy of Medicine towards animal magnetism hu
been at least strange. Here are the facts. Let the publil:
judge.
The 11th of October, 1825,Dr. Foissac addrelllleS a letter
to the Academy of Medicine, in order to obtain from this
learned body a circumstantial examination of the magnetic
phenomena, which he offers to present to their observation.
A Commission is then named to examine the question, viz.
whether the Academy ought or ought not to consider tbe
subject of magnetism. The gentlemen appointed for this
purpose, Adelon, Pariset, Marc, Burdin, sen., and HuiSOII,
decide for the affirmative; and after the noisy debates occa·
sioned by their report during the succeeding sittings, from
the 13th .of December to the 14th of February, the Aca-
demy Yotes by a secret scrutiny, and adopts only by a -
jority of ten voices the conclusion of the report. HoweYer,
notwithstanding the inconceivable and unqualifiable prejn·
dices of the minority, the Commission claimed by 1\l. Foi-
is at length named. We gave in our first chapter• the
names of the honourable members who composed it. Now,
during six consecutive years, these distinguished ~at"GIIII
* Page IU.
MBDICINB 01' SOMNAMBULISTS> 369
devoted themselves to incessant labour to fulfil the mission
intrusted to them; and it is only after the lapse of these
six years, during which it is absurd to admit that these
skilful observers have constantly been dupes, that they
decide on submitting the relation of the facts they saw to
the proper tribunal. Well! what is produced by this
report to the Academy P Still discussions, discussions for
ever (as if facts could be discussed), and nothing more!
But, gentlemen, the commissioners whom you yourselves
have named were competent, or they were not. If they
were not, they should not have been appointed ; and if they
were, whence comes it, then, that you no longer think of M·
Husson's report any more than if it never existed P Is it on
your part but a want of conclusiveness P Through respect
for you, gentlemen, I am willing to believe so; but you
will not take it amiss that, for the purpose of popularising a
little the remarkable statements of your colleagues, whom
several among you have not hesitated to undervalue by
ridiculing them, I should borrow from the text the elements
of those convictions which I am endeavouring to propagate.
I borrow then from the report of 1831 my fin!t facts
respecting the medicine of somnambulists.*
" Mademoiselle Celine has been put into a state of som-
nambulism in presence of the Commission, the 18th and
21st of April, 17th of June, 23d December, 1826, 13th and
17th January, and 21st February, 1827.
"In passing from the waking state to that of somnam·
bulism, she feels a coldness very appreciable to the ther-
"' Foissac. Rapports et Discussions de I'Academie Royale de Me-
decine 8UI' le Magnetisme Animal. Paris, 1833, &e. P. 189.
DB
370 M.BDICINB OF SOMNAMBULISTS.
mometer : her tongue becomes dry and rough from beiDg
soft and moist as it was before. Her breath, previously
sweet, is fetid and repulsive.
" Sensibility is almost abolished during her sleep, for
she makes six inspirations, having under her nostrils a &sk
of hydrochloric acid, and she evinces no emotion from it.
M. Marc pinches her in the wrist; an acupuncture needle is
sunk three lines into the left thigh ;· another, two lines into
the left wrist. The two needles are connect~ by a galvanic
conductor; convulsive movements are developed in the
hand, and Mademoiselle Celine seems quite a stranger to all
that is done to her. She hears the persons who speak to
her quite near her and touching her, and hears not the
noise of two plates broken unexpectedly beside her.
"It is when she is plunged into this state of somnambn·
lism, that the Commission recognised three times in her the
power ofdiscovering the diseases of the persons whom she
touches, and to indicate the remedies to be opposed to them.
" The Commission found among its members some one
who consented to submit himself to the examination of this
somnambulist ; this was Monsieur Marc. MademoiBelle
Celine was entreated to examine carefully the state of our
colleague's health. She applied her hand to the forehead
"and region of the heart, and after three minutes she says :
that the blood had a tendency to the head ; that at preeent
Monsieur Marc was affected in the left side of this cavity;
that he frequently had oppression, especially after eating;
that he must frequently have a slight cough ; that this part
(pointing to the region of the ensiform cartilage) was con·
tracted ; that to cure M. Marc, it would be neceesary to
bleed him copionsly ; that they should apply cataplaeml
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 371
of cicuta, and that frictions with laudanum should be em-
ployed over the lower part of the chest ; that he should
drink limonade gommee, that he should eat little and often ;
and that he should walk out immediately after eating.
" We then endeavoured to learn from M. Marc, whether
he felt every thing that the somnambulist said. He told us
that he really felt oppressed when he walked on rising from
table ; that he frequently had some cough ; and that before
the experiment, he had a pain in the left side of the head,
but that he felt no difficulty in the passage of the food.
" We were struck by this analogy between what M.
Marc feels and what the somnambulist announces; we noted
it carefully, and we waited another opportunity to test anew
this singular faculty ! This opportunity was offered to the
reporter, without his having called for it, by the mother of
a young lady whom he was attending for a very short time.
" Mademoiselle de N•••, daughter of M. de N•••, peer
of France, about twenty-four years old, was labouring under
ascites for about two years, accompanied with several ob-
structions, some the size of an egg, others the size of the fist,
some the size of a child'~ bead, the principal of which had
their seat in the left side of the abdomen. The exterior of
the abdomen was uneven, crimpled, and these inequalities
corresponded with the obstructions seated in the abdominal
cavity. Dupuytren bad already punctured this patient ten
or twelve times, and always drew otr a great quantity of
clear, limpid albumen, void of odour, and without any mix-
ture. This treatment was always attended with relief.
" The reporter was present three times at this operation,
and it was easy for Dupuytren, and for him to satisfy them·
selves of the size and hardness of these tumours, and conse-
372 MBDJCINB OF SOllllU..JI(BULI8T8.
quently, to know their inability to cure this patient. They
prescribed, however, different remedies; they attached some
importance to Mademoiselle having been put on the use of
the milk of a goat with which mercurial frictions had been
employed.
"On the 21st of February, 1827, the reporter went in
search of M. Foissac and Mademoiselle Cetine, and he con-
ducted them to a house, rue de Faubourg du Roule, without
informing them of the name, seat, or nature ofthe disease of
the person whom he wished to subject to the examination of
the somnambulist.
"The patient did not appear in the room where the
experiment was conducted, until M. Foissac had put
Mademoiselle Celine to sleep; then having put one of her
own hands into hers, she examined her for eight minutes,
not as a physician would do, by pressing the abdomen, by
percussing it, by searching in every direction, but merely by
applying the hand lightly several times to the abdomen,
chest, back, and head.
" When interrogated to ascertain from her what she had
observed in Madlle. de N***, she answered that the entire
abdomen was diseased; that there was scirrhus and a I~
quantity of water on the side of the spleen ; that the intes-
tines were much swollen ; that there were pouches in which
worms were inclosed ; that there were masses of the size of
an egg, in which were contained puriform matters, and that
these masses would be painful ; that there was at the bottom
of the stomach an enlarged gland the size of three of her
fingers ; that this gland was within the stomach, and must
injure digestion ; that the disease was of long standing, aod
that at length Madlle. de N*** would have headacha. She
MBJ;IICINB OF 80JIINAJIIBULI8T8, 373
prescribed the use of a ptisan de bourrache et de chiendent
nitree, offive ounces of the juice of parietaria, taken every
morning, and of a very little mercury taken in the milk..
She added that the milk of a goat which had been rubbed
with mercurial ointment half an hour before milking her,
would answer better ;• besides, she prescribed cataplasms of
elder flowers constantly applied to the abdomen, frictions on
this cavity with oil of laurel, or for want of that, with the
juice of this shrub joined to the oil of sweet almonds, a lave-
ment of decoction of quina mixed up with an emollient
decoction. Her diet should consist of white meats, milk, and
farinaceous diet, no lemon. She allowed very little wine,
&c. &c. This treament was not followed ; and even if it
had, it would not have saved the patient. She died a year
after. There was no post-mortem examination of the body,
so that what the somnambulist had said could not be verified
in all its details.
"In a delicate circumstance where very skilful physicians,
of whom several are members of the Academy bad pre-
scribed a mercurial treatment for an engorgement of the
cervical glands which they attributed to a venereal taint,
the family of the patient perceiving serious symptoms super-
vening, wished to have the advice of a somnambulist. The
reporter was called on to be present at this consultation and
* Without attaching great importance to this singular rencontre
of the prescription made by the somnambulist, of the use of the milk
of a goat rubbed with mereurial ointment with the same prescription
recommended to the patient by Dupuytren, and by the reporter, the
Commission felt bound to notice this coincidence in its report. The
said Commission presents it as a fact, the authenticity of which is
vouched for by the reporter, but a fact which neither the Commission
nor be can explain.-Note ofthe Reporter.
374 .IIIBDICINE OF SOIIINAliiBULlSTS.
he neglected not to avail himself of this opportunity of still
adding to that which the Commission had seen. He found a
young woman, Madame la Comtesse deL. F ., having all the
right side of the neck deeply engorged by a great quantity
of glands crowded together. One of them was opened and
gave exit to a yellowish purulent matter.
" Mademoiselle Celine, whom M. Foissac magnetist'd in
presence of the reporter, put herself en rapport with the
patient, and said that the stomach had been attacked by a
substance, as ifpois011; that the intestines were slightly in·
flamed ; that there existed on the upper and right side of
the neck a scrofulous disease, which would be more con·
siderable than it was at present ; that in following a treat·
ment which she was going to recommend, there would be
some improvement in fifteen days or three weeks. This
treatment consisted in eight leeches to the pit of the stomach,
some grains of magnesia, oatmeal gruel, a saline purgative
every week, two lavements every day, one of a decoction of
quina, and immediately after one of marsh-mallow root,
frictions of ether on the limbs, a bath every week ; and for
diet, milk, light meats, and abstinence from wine. This
treatment is followed up for some time, and there was a
perceptible improvement. But the impatience of the sitlt
lady who thought that the return to health was not suffi·
ciently rapid, determined the family on calling in a new set of
physicians. It was resolved that tlie patient should be
submitted to a new mercurial treatment. The reporter then
ceased to see her, and learned that after the employment of
the mercury, she had had very severe symptoiD8 with regard
to the stomach, which hurried her to the grave, after two
months and a half of suffering. A written account of tile
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 375
autopsy, signed by MM. Fouquier, Marjolin, Cruveilhier;
and Foissac, shewed that there existed a scrofulous or tuber•
cular engorgement of the glands of the neck, two small
cavities filled with pus, resulting from tubercles in the
summit of each lung; the mucous membrane of the great
cul-de-sac of the stomach was almost entirely destroyed.
Thesegentlemen ascertained, moreover, that nothing indi-
cated the presence of a venereal disease, either recent or
of old standing.
" The result ofthese observations is, 1st, that, in the state
of somnambulism, Madlle. Celine pointed out the diseases
of three persons with whom she had been brought en rap·
port; 2d, that the declaration of the one, the examination
made of the other after three punctures, and the autopsy of
the third, were in exact accordance with that which the
somnambulist had stated; 3d, that the different treatments
prescribed by her, do not go out of the circle of the remedies
which she might know, nor out of the order of the things
which she could reasonably recommend ; and 4th, that she
applied them with some sort of discernment."
It must be admitted that, if in the cases now read, the
diagnosis formed by Madlle. Celine, were but the mere result
of chance, the chance was so great that it must appear
miraculous. But miracles of this kind are nowadays so
common that it is impossible to refuse them without ad-
mitting that for the moment all the civilised world is
sprinkled overwith a multitude of honourable folks abjuring
all species of honest principles to make themselves magne·
tisers, that is, knaves and impostors. But let us suffer those
flat recriminations, to which a few years more will do ample
justice, pass for what they are worth; for giving the lie in
376 JIBDICINB OP 801DiAJIB't LISTS.
polemics is reckoned no more than an insult, and to delly
the existence of a fact is very far from proving its im·
possibility.
What are the faculties which somnambulists should
present to be qualified to give advice to patients ? Such il
the problem we are now about to solve.
And, first, I shall say that whatever be these faculties, all
somnambulists are far from possessing them. I have 1rnowo
even perfect lucid somnambulists who did not possess them,
or who p088C811ed them but imperfectly. These, however, in
describingexactlythe organic changes which they 8tH!, mayltill
render great services by calling attention to serious diseases,
which sometimes have not even been suspected, or regardiug
the nature of which there was great risk of mistake. Bot
all their utility reduces itself to this, since they know DOt
how to prognosticate the crises, nor to indicate with certainty
the remedies proper to cure or to alleviate,-a double fileulty,
which constitutes, properly speaking, the medical aptitude of
somnambulists, and which we are now going to COIIIIider
separately.
Of External Premwn.
We have already said what internal prevision is. Wt
are now concerned with the extension of this faculty to the
pathological modification in an organism foreign to the
somnambulist, and merely brought into contact with it.
According to the facts which we have extracted froio·tht
report of M. Husson, facts tending to prove that 11010oambu·
lists have as well ihe consciousness of that which take
place in the system of individuals brought n rapport with
them as ofthat which passes within themselves, the pheuo-
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 377
mena of external prevision ought not to cause more astonish·
ment than the phenomena of internal prevision. I own,
however, that the former are observed much more seldom,
and that almost always the predictions of somnambulists
relatively to others have not the precisionof those which con-
cern themselves personally. I have had, however, the op-•
portunity of observing several very conclusive cases of
external prevision, one among others which I shall here
detail.
On the 4th oflast June I was consulted regarding a child
sixteen months old, labouring for the last six weeka under a
pulmonary affection, the severity of which I did .not at all
suspect at first. The little patient had the embonpoint
which is usual at its age ; it was weak, no doubt, but they
assured me that it never had more strength, and that since
the last four months that they had withdrawn its nurse
from it, they had not yet succeeded in making it walk.
Further, it had some appetite,alittle diarrhrea, but above all
a very frequent cough, accompanied with considerable op·
pression, and an excessive mucous secretion, the nature of
which could not be easily ascertained, seeing that degluti-
tion in infants replaces the expectoration. However, I took
it on my knees, and found the skin dry and hot. I had
beard it cough, and the kinks of coughing were not those of
hooping-cough. Was it then but simple bronchitis ? The
subclavicular regions are perfectly sonorous to percussion;
the respiratory murmur appears normal in these parts,
with the exception ofsome large mucous bullrewhicb burst
every now and then in the bronchi and trachea. The pulse
is frequent, it is true ; but for this frequency I can no more
account than for the oppression. Be this as it may, it is
378 MEDICINE OF SOJINAJ\IBULISTS.
only after this previous examination made with closed doon
that I present the child to my somnambulist who sees him
for the first time only in her sleep. She examines the little
patient for a long time without touching him, after which
she turns to me and says to me in an under voice,.,-
"This child is very bad; worse than you suspect."
"What ails it P"
" Its lungs are gorged with blood and mucosity that is
almost purulent."
"Do you see any ulcerations there?"
"Yes; in the lower part of the right lung."
"This child has had pulmonary inflammation ; they did
not perceive it first, and you will have some difficulty in
getting the child over it."
"But what is to be done for it P"
" Place a large blister on the chest. Make it take every
day two tea-spoonsful of syrup of ipecacuanha. Rub the
extremities with dry flannel ; give it oatmeal gruel aod
bread for its food."
"And with this do you think the symptoms will sub-
side?"
"Please God."
When the relatives of the little patient retired, my som-
nambulist says to me,-
" This child is lost, it will die in twenty days."
On the 26th June the child died. The error was then
only two days.
Of the Int~tinct of Remediea.
I do not deny that the pretensions of magnetisers have
gone very far when they stated that somnambulists knew
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 379
and prescribed, according as the occasion required, all the
possible remedies, even those whose very names they were
ignorant of in their state of being awake. The reason of
this is, that amongst the men generally of a low education,
it must be admitted, who have hitherto devoted themselves
to the practice of magnetism, there are some whose credulity
knows no bounds. I have been told, for instance, that M.
Ch"'"' wished one day to teach Madame Pigeaire the way of
making somnambulists see the angels, and what is still more,
the way to see them herself. Now it is certain that this
poor man's brains were turned, and even if he were to tell
me the finest truths in the world, I would always feel ant
irresistible desire to laugh at his discoveries.
But as the occasion presents itself I must relate to my
readers what happened to myself personally with respect to
those pretended revelations of the other world. One day I
magnetised a young somnambulist, who, without being
remarkable for habits of piety, had however religious pro•
pensities, the origin of which was no doubt referable to
the organs of maroellou.mess and veneration, which being
enormously developed in her head, filleu the whole capacity
of the cranium almost solely with them. This young girl
was accordingly often seized with these paroxysms of extasy
during our sittings ; and as soon as I saw her eyes open and
her face turn upwards, I ceased to address a word to her,
seeing that it was the commencement of her mysterious
intercourse with the spirits of heaven. One day then
when she was in communication with the angels, she ex-
claimed all on a sudden, whilst tears of emotion really fell
on her cheeks: "Oh I delicious music I divine harmony I The
pleasure alone felt at hearing you would suffice to make one
380 MBDICINB OF 80MNAKBULI8T8.
ambitious of the happiness of the elect all their life." Thia
I heard with my own ears ; but not a single note of the
celestial symphony reached me.
Moreover, my somnambulist said herself that she no
longer heard, but she resumed a moment after,-
" There ! there they are beginning again !"
I then listened, and for this time [ did hear ! what ? a
wretched organ, which, in an adjoining street, was tearing
to pieces in the most barbarous manner one of the songs
in the opera of Guido.
Do somnambulists select their remedies only among sub-
stances which are known to them in the waking state ; or
do they divine, as some credible persons assure us, the
names and virtues of medicines, of which they never heard
mention made during their entire lives? I acknowledge that
my own observations, though already sufficiently numerous
leave me in complete doubt on this particular point ; that
is to say that, in all cases, it was possible for me to attribute
reasonably to reminiscences the pretended arts of intuition
which I witnessed. But still I do not deny the reality of
the facts opposed to them, and I confine myself to the mere
declaring that I never saw any such. Be this as it may,
the therapeutics of somnambulists are composed in general
of numerous means, but almost always very simple. The
substances they employ are almost always natural products,
and we generally find in their preacriptious rather geueral
indications than real formulae. Sometimes, however, they
insist in a very particular manner on determining the doee;
and this circumstance, when it is confirmed by great exacti-
tude of diagnosis, is an additional guarantee in favour of the
lucidity of the individual.
IIBDICDI'B OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 381
It now remains for us to ask whether it might not be
useful to teach somnambulists a little pharmacy and materia
medica P I think, for my own part, that it would be en-
larging the circle of their knowledge, that is, multiplying
their resources, without in the slightest degree injuring
their discernment, which alone constitutes their superiority
over us.
Certain detractors of magnetism have stated that som-
nambulists, by allowing themselves to be swayed by the
thoughts of their magnetiser, must consequently participate
in the medical opinions of the latter, if be be a phY.sician,
and of course conform their practice to his. Fortunately,
the thing is not so. On all the propositions that may be
proposed to him, a medical somnambulist has always his
own strictures and his veto, which nothing can interfere with.
M. Koreff* gives us a proof of it. A very extraordinary
position says be, is that in which I found myself placed,
opposite the wife of a gardener of Sans-Souci. In her
somnambulism, which was very extraordinary, this woman,
about fifty years of age, requested me to propose remedies to
her, because she was not endowed with that species of
clairvoyance, by means of which a person can order them
for himself; she had only the gift of criticism. I saw with
astonishment, mixed up with rather a painful humiliation,
that she rejected as injurious most of those which I pro-
posed to her according to my medical conviction, and that
she selected those which l considered as least appropriate to
her state." A little farther on the same author adds, "I by
no means deny the possibility that the ideas ofa somnambu-
* Lettre d'un Medecin Etranger, &e., p. 68.
382 MEDICni'E OF SOlllNAMBULI8T8.
list carry in them the reflection and colour of the ideas o(
his country, his time, and even of his magnetiser; but
I entreat those men who have made this ingenious
objection duly to consider whether the difficulty is greater
to see a plant, some other substance, than to read in the
thoughts ofanother being."
According to what we have now stated the lucidity of a
somnambulist does not infallibly guarantee his medical com·
petency; but here arises one of those questions on which
magnetisers do not seem to have sufficiently reflected, or at
least one which they have not solved in my opinion in 1
satisfactory maner. Is it indispensable for a medical som·
nambulist to be lucid, or, in other words, cannot the instinc:t
ofdiseases and of remedies exist independently of lucidity? I
declare that numerous experiments incline me to think, that
the two faculties may exist separately, and I would be disin-
clined to admit, according to the theory which I have formed
for myself regarding isolation,• that each of them obtains ica
II}aximum of perfection only so far as it exists alone.t But
then how are we to verify the instinct of remedies P aDd
what shall be the criterion of this faculty P I own that I
know of none other, save experience. However the som-
* See page 60.
t These principles of compensations are indisputably true (or tile
faeulties which depend only on sensitive exaltation. Thus I IDIIIIk
some time since the following experiment: After having completeiJ
isolated a somnambulist, leaving him only the sense of hearing witJa
respect to myself, I went some distance from him, and kept up 1
conversation with him for a long time in a low voice, whilst one ol
the spectators shouted into his ear. This so excited the admiratioa
of my friends, that they begged me to repeat the same experiment tJae
following day. But this time it succeeded rather incompletel)', tJae
somnambulist being lucid.
MEDICINB OP SOMNAMBULISTS. 383
nambulists who should give great proofs of intuition and
prevision, those particularly who, during the course of
serious diseases, had attended themselves to my own know-
ledge; those, I say, should inspire me more particularly
with confidence. " What must render this faculty much
less frequent in demoniacal or religious extatics," says
Bertrand,* " is that their health not being in general de-
ranged, there was no occasion to observe in them an instinct
which can only serve in the state of disease." From this it
would follow that the medical instinct is acquired and
developed by habit, which, however, I do not think univer-
sally true. In fact, I maintain that from the moment the
state of somnambulism is perfect, all the faculties which
appertain to this state are in their last degree of develope-
ment. Thus I think that at the end of fifteen days, for
example, a somnambulist is every thing he can be ; and if
further experiments prove the contrary, the magnetiser
ought to impute it only to himself.
With respect to medical instinct in somnambulists not
lucid, the fact is indispu!&ble. Yesterday, for the third
time only, I magnetised a woman, twenty-eight years of
age, who fell into somnambulism after the first sitting, but
who is not lucid, and probably will never be so. Well!
this deficiency of clairvoyance does not prevent her from
enjoying a penetration and medical tact truly surprising.
After the second sitting, having requested her to turn her
attention to my health, she told me that I was affected in
the stomach and in the left knee; which was quite right.
Having then been brought into contact with a lady whom
* Work already cited, page 116.
384 MEDICINE OF 80liiNAJIIBVLI8T8.
she saw for the first time, and whom she c:ertainly had never
heard speak, she said to her,-
" You have headache (which was not true); you have a
sense of stiffing (which, moreover, was not true); but, 1110re
especially, a constant disposition to vomit" (which was per·
fectly true). Now it is certain that in these two cases the
principal points carried by my somnambulists are irre-
proachable. Shall I still be told that there was an error ?
I agree ; but these are errors which, after eight daya, my
somnambulist will probably never commit again.
It sometimes happens that somnambulists prescribe dan-
gerous substances, regarding the effect of which there is
some reason to be alarmed. It is then very important that
the ma.,<>'lletiser should .revert several times to the doubtful
point, and, if necessary, that he should have recoun~e to
another somnambulist. This precaution would be a sort oC
hors-d'U!UI11'e, ifthe case were that of a somnambulist attend·
ing himself. " I have seen a woman," says M. Koreft",
" insist on taking substances which appeared to me to be
dangerous for one in her condition. Thinking her in error,
I opposed her opinion. I directed her attention to the &taU
of her organs, such as it seemed to me. I ordered several
drugs to be brought, among which were those which abe
desired : she recognised them, and insisted on them. I
struggled with her for several hours, and I at length gave
way to her, being convinced, by all the means at my dis-
posal, of her perfect lucidity. Uterine hemorrhage, which
was the alarming symptom of her malady, was iDstaotJy
arrested, without any thing unpleasant occurring."
In recapitulation of what precedea, and notwithstandiug
what we have said of the medical instinct with which noo-
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 385
lucid somnambulists may be endowed, lucidity, in the actual
state of science, must be regarded as the surest seal of this
instinct, since, nearly in all cases, the diagnosis formed by
clairvoyant somnambulists is at least found accurate. It is
unfortunate that we have nothing more precise to say on
this subject; for nothing would be more important than to
find the means of tracing and detecting charlatanism and
imposture, which have for a long time back been endeavour-
ing to get magnetism into their hands. But whose fault is
this, if not the fault of medical men, who give up con-
temptuously to equivocal hands a philanthropic resource,
the possession of which of right belongs to them P Let this
be now attended to. Before the practice of IJlagnetism has
decidedly taken its place, ignorance and avarice will have
brought discredit on it; for the part of philanthropy, such
as that of the magnetiser, can never suitably appertain to
persons devoid ofknowledge, and too often devoid ofmorals.
One might truly say, that to attain the summit of the social
scale, the great truth which we now defend requires to clear
all the steps one by one. She shall take her flight, gain her
height, or we shall die in the struggle.
Ofthe Sensatio718 experienced by Somnambuli8ta on the
Contact of Patients.
Some somnambulists are endowed with the melancholy
privilege of feeling momentarily the pains experienced by
the patients with whom they are brought in contact, and
even of presenting the symptoms of the affections under
which these patients happen to labour. This observation
was made a long time back, and Georget expresses himself
cc
I
386 MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS.
in these terms on this subject:-" If my somnambulists,K
says he, "were brought in contact with a sick person, they
· instantly experienced a sensation of uneasiness in the limbs,
which extended quickly to the head, then in the mll8Cles,
and, further, a still greater uneasiness, a sort of constraint,
or an acute pain in the same part where the other individual
was suffering; several times hysterical or epileptic patien~
on the point of having their attacks, have suddenly caused
a violent headach aod an attack to those already affected
with these diseases. These occurrences have prevented me
from multiplying the experiments as much as I should han
wished. One day three somnambulists were together in the
same room. The one at the foot of the bed WliB suffering
violent pains in the head aod stomach ; another on the bed
was very well ; the third, beside the bed, was taking a foot-
bath. The second comes to conv-erse with the first, touches
her, and is immediately seized with an attack. W1illst I
assist in holding the latter, the third, who suspected nothing
of what was going on, not wishing to keep her feet in the
sinapised water, I rest one of my hands on her knees, io
order to retain them there. Immediately she feels a brisk
commotion, which she compares to a shock resulting from a
strong electric charge, aod she has a severe attack. Ev-ery
time that, after leaving my somnambulist!', I again found
them suffering unusual and unforeseen accidents, I wu cer-
tain that this arose from the circumstance of their hav-iDg
had communication with patients, contrary to my expRJ~
prohibition." It is not difficult to account for this : we
know with what promptitude certain neuroses may be tnna-
mitted from one individual to another. It is impossible, for
instance, to see a person yawn in a company without bia
,.~,,Coogle J
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 387
soon having imitators. Some persons have seen epileptics
seized with a fit at the sight of another epileptic in a crisis.
But this is still more striking : A woman, on the point of
being confined, runs a great risk of being seized with the
pains of parturition on seeing another female who is actually
in labour. I observed a similar fact four or five years ago,
at a private course of obstetrics-the pupils had two ac-
couchements instead of one. Now, if the infiuence of imi-
tation can exercise itself during the waking state, what are
we to judge of its effects during somnambulism, during
which all the impressions are so quick and so vivid ? Again,
the facts noticed by Georget are far from being capable of
generalisation. Among somnambulists for consultations,
there are some who only feel a painful sensation at the con-
tact with patients, but bearing no resemblance to that which
the patients themselves feel ; in fine, there are some (true,
the smallest number) who feel nothing at all. I own that
in the latter I could feel but very little confidence, and of
all, the first are certainly the most perfect; but their per-
fection, even, is 11robably a defect ; for they cannot follow
for a length of time the frightful trade of participating con-
stantly in the pains of others. I have seen one lately (.MaJ.
Caria) who, when consulted before me for a patient in such
danger that he died three days after, uttered such piercing
shrieks, and made such contortions, that I thought herself
in the last struggle. This girl received, I am told, five or
six francs for each consultation; but certainly she well earns
the money they give her, if she repeats at each sitting the
scene which I witnessed.
888 MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS.
Ofthe Manner in which CoMr.tltations ougl!t to he gfoetc.
Lest the somnambulist should form, or have the appear-
ance of forming, any preconceived idea with respect to the
patient who comes to consult him, it is right that he be pld
to sleep before being brought in contact with the latter.
Introduced into the consultation room, the patient must ob-
serve silence ; for every kind of commentary on his diseue
would be, on his part, a perfect superfluity. You yourself
have not to question him, or at least you cannot do it till
after the consultation is over. It is for your somnambulist
then to speak. He ought to be isolated up to the moment
when, putting one of the hands of the patient into one o(
his, you ask him to turn his attention to the health of this
third person, to tell you all that he thinks, and to enter into
all the necessary details with respect to the treatment. This
being done. you let him speak without interrupting him,
still taking note of his words, after which you return with
him to the equivocal points. In fact, do you yourselfdraw
up the consultation, and take leave of your patient without
awaking your somnambulist, who, on awaking, should not
even suspect what he has done.
Importanl remarh.-If any relatives of the patient, 80IDe
of her friends, her physician, &c., think it right to accom-
pany her to your house, take care that your somnambulist
remains a stranger to the discussions which may arise between
these persons and you. It is necessary even (and for this
you have only to express to him the wish) that be sboold
.not hear your voice, when you do not address yourself to
him. Besides,_
discussions in such casesare always misplaced.
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 389
It never has happened, and never will happen with me, not
that I dread the thing the least in the world, with whom-
soever it may be, but because every thing must have its
time.
Of latter times, a very extraordinary question has been
started, which may be expressed in these terms: Is it just
that somnambulists should receive fees for the consultations
they give? If by just is meant legal, I shall say that the
magnetiser should be a physician; but if by just we only
understand that which the word signifies in its absolute
sense, the answer is so simple that I refrain from making it.
Every one lives on what he has in this world below ; one
person on the rents which he derives from his father, another
lives by his head, a third by his arms ; some by their pen,
others by their pencil, almost all, in fact, by the services
which they render, or are supposed to render, to their
fellow-creatures. Well! a fine magnetic lucidity is a gift
of nature just as rare, at least, as the fine talent of the
artist or advocate; and if physicians are paid (and some-
times they are very badly paid), why should it be expected
that somnambulists should not be paid? But some one
will say, Is somnambulism then. to become a trade? And
why not? Would those gentlemen, the officers of health,
find this trade less honourable than that which they follow ?
Ifso, I should like to know in what honour consists. Let
magnetism become a domestic medicine, a family medicine,
8ccording to the expressions I have already employed, and &
better I require not. But until every one has a brother,
sister, or wife, who may be & somnambulist, to take care of
them, it is necessary, if persons be ill, to have recourse to
professional somnambulists. But as all services are bought
390 MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS.
and sold among persons who do not know each other, it is
just,-nothing, indeed, can be more just, than-that tboee
persons should be paid when they are employed.
CASB.
Madame c••• was born in Paris in 1812. She is of a
small size, but of an agreeable countenance, and with an
embonpoint which does honour to her profession. The
phrenological character ofher head is entirely in her favonr.
Kindness, intelligence, and justice, are well developed. !10
that our friend Frapart might, at first sight, answer for her
moral qualifications. Her temperament which, with tbe
medical folks, would pass as essentially lymphatic, is lym-
phatico-nerrou~, according to the expression of the penon
to whom I refer. The manner in which she is put to sleep,
and is awoke, is almost as remarkable as her sleep itself.
It is never till after a great many passes that her eye-lid
falls with a tremor, and then closes after letting large tears
.to escape. A slight indescribable gesture apprises me or
her somnambulism. Then when the sitting is finished, I have
only to say these words, " Awake, madame !" and two or
three violent frictions, which I cannot prevent herself from
practising on her eyes, restore her immediately to life.
An extraordinary peculiarity, and one of which I never
saw another instance, constitutes in this somnambulist the
type of a distinct species. Madame c•••, when asleep.
recoUects nothing, neither the tm"&Ofl8, nor the nmta aJie Aar
&een during the waking state : she has forgotten even to her
name, and all her sleeps, which are linked together by a
wondrous precision of memory, really constitute for her a
separate existence, and one having no point of contact with
liiEDICINE OF SOliiNAliiDULJSTS. 391
her other life. But let us now pass in review the inestimable
prerogatives of this wonderful state, by relating to our
readers what we see every day.
When a patient presents himself to me for a consultation,
I expressly recommend him to tell me nothing of his state.
I neither ask his name, age, residence, nor, in fact, any thing
concerning him ; I wish, in fact, that he should continue
unknown to me, for every form of interrogatory is banished
from my house, where nothing is asked, but all that is
necessary is revealed. Being introduced into my room, he
gives his hand to the somnambulist, sits beside her, and still
observes the same silence. Madame c••• then gives him
the history of his disease in a few words, and not one of
those prolix descriptions in which every one may recognise
himself. It is a concise, clear, rapid diagnosis, and one
which cannot lead the patient astray. To a madman she
will say, for instance, You have not your reason; to a
phthisical patient she will say, You cough, you spit. blood,
you have a blister to the left arm, and you have a pain
there, putting her finger to the apex of the ulcerated lung.
Now after that I ask any person of common sense whether
with such facts there is a possibility of mistake or of decep-
tion? But this is not all. The somnambulist then enters
into detail which medical men never notice, but the accuracy
of which the patient alone recognises with astonishment.
She describes to him better than he could himself the
precise hours of his paroxysms, and all the shades of his
pains. This reminds me of a trifling anecdote which I wish
to relate:-
" It is now about three months since M. X"'"'*, a wealthy
banker of Berlin, came to consult my somnambulist. This
392 lllEDICINE OF SOIIlNAliiBULISTS.
gentleman did not belieYe in magnetism ; but as he ad
put all the resources ofmedicine under contribution wit tut
any advantage, he wished to try it. I still see the p tic
but jeering expression of his countenance when he pl'eSCI :ed
his hand to the somnambulist, saying to her, ' The ph si·
cians, madam, do not appear to me to comprehend the na1 are
of my disease ; let us see, then, if you will be more t K·
cessful.'
" Madame c•u then took the patient's hand ; then, a Ler
a half minute's attention, she turns to him and says, ' 1 on
know it, sir, the nature of your disease; but you are aft aid
to own it to yourself.'
" ' I !' exclaimed l\1. X. ' Well ! yes •.•. I think I have
an affection of the heart.'
" ' No, sir ; it is not there you have it ; neither is that
what you think you have.'
" ' ·what is it, then ?'
" ' I do not wish to tell you.• But here is what you
feel.'
"Now, at each symptom which the somnambulist men-
tioned, M. X., who no longer smiled, seemed to become
paler, and appeared to pronounce only with horror the ter-
rible affirmation which a sort of magic power forced from
him. However, when the diagnosis was established, Madame
C*** added, in a lower tone of voice, and with a kind of
hilarity,-
" ' Well, sir ; since you no longer think, as you did
awhile ago, of calling in question my power of IICCing the
disease, I hope you will willingly believe in the power I
possess of curing it.'
• It was phthisia iD the second etap.
-
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 393
" On this she dictated his prescription, which I wrote
out; appointed to see the poor patient again in fifteen days;
and M. x••• quitted us, at once terrified, consoled, and
converted !" •
A remark which may be placed here as a complement of
the above is, that Madame C""""' never designates a disease
dangerous in the presence ofthe patient, when she perceives,
judging of the character of the latter, that such a communi-
cation might be injurious.
But let us now speak of her treatment. I must admit
that it is oftentimes strange enough, and without the least
resemblance to that adopted by physicians; but what
matter, ifit be good? Now, the proof that it is good is,
that it cures; and the proof that it cures is this :-Towards
the Iniddle of last February, I was invited to bring my
somnambulist to Madame V .•.• y, Rue Saint Georges.
The diagnosis was the business of a moment. Madame
V ...•y had a very acute rheumatism, seated in .the two
shoulders. M. Professor Velpeau and Doctor Moreau, who
for the last two days attended .the patient, vied with each
other in martyrising the poor woman according to all the
rules of art, and promised her that she should be well in a
month. Well, Madame c••• declares that if her treatment
be adopted, the disease shall not be prolonged beyond six
days, and that it shall be amended by more than one half
instantaneously. Nothing renders us more ·confident than
pain. My advice is followed ; the prescriptions of our il-
lustrious confrb-ea are laid aside for ours ; and Madame
V . ...y, who after the first day finds herself considerably
* M. X. has just returned to Prussia perfectly convalescent.
394 MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS.
relieved, leaves her bed just in six days. Let us remark.
however, that the classic medicine had all the honour ofthis
cure, because they never ventured to tell M. le Professeur
of the intervention of a aomnamlndist. Heaven confoUDd
the great physicians and prejudice ! Let them hasten to
enjoy their last triumphs; for their temple is tumbling, aDd
their gods are taking their leave. What distinguishes
Madame c•••in particular-! shall not say, from the stupid
ninnies who infest our capital, but from real, genuine som·
nambulists-is the constancy of her lucidity. It is alwa~
equally perfect, no matter what may be the moment of the
day at which she is magnetised.
Let us not conclude this chapter without examining a
proposition made by Deleuze, and accepted by a consider·
able number of magnetisers. The question is, whether it
would be expedient or not to associate magnetism with
medicine. Now let us hear what M. Koreff says on the
subject:
"My worthy friend (addressing M. Deleuze), I am op-
posed to the advice which you give to combine these two
methods, which cannot go hand in hand. My conscience
devolves it on us as a duty not to rely on a somnambulis&
on light grounds; to satisfy ourselves at first of his good
faith, and then to examine the degree of clairvoyance with
which be is endowed. Then to invoke science rather than
to make a medley of two heterogeneons clements, or to
throw ourselves with blind credulity into the vagueness of
reveries fed by recollections, and provoked by the desire or
exciting surprise, or by other motives which existed in the
waking state. I revere somnambulism more in its state or
isolation and purity ; and I attach less importance to it
MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS. 395
when it is not entirely foreign to the ordinary state. Many
persons who have no idea of the end to which nature has
destined it, and who are destitute of the knowledge neces·
sary for appreciating and directing it, have often sought to
produce it, either in order to satisfy their curiosity, or
through interested views. It is chiefly to this abuse I at-
tribute the decline of magnetism in France, and the con-
tempt which the learned heap on it. In the north, where
the study of magnetism bears a grave and scientific character,
the observation of somnambulism has become fruitful in
results which have already proved very useful, and which
promise to throw the greatest light on mental alienation,
and on a thousand phenomena of psychology, which, up to
the present, are the terra incognita in the geography of our
intellectual and moral world." There is no medium ; either
medicine is but a chimera, or magnetism is but juggling.
But as we think we have proved the impossibility of this
latter supposition, the first is necessarily true. There is
nothing in common between the medicine of physicians and
that of somnambulists; and to wish to fuse these two
things, between which I deny the possibility of any media-
tion, is neither more nor less than an absurdity. When we
consult a somnambulist, if we wish his advice to be profit-
able, it is necessary to follow it in all its details-that is, it
is necessary to do every thing that he bids you to dp, and
to add nothing to it. What, then, is the use of the inter-
vention of a physician? I tell you that he knows no more
of the method of the somnambulist than the latter does of
his. And you desire that these two beings should under-
stand each other and combine their means. But such an
association is revolting to sound sense. We must choose
396 MEDICINE OF SOMNAMBULISTS.
between the two. Believe in medicine or believe in mag·
netism. In a word, believe in the two if you like ; but, for
God's sake, give up the idea of uniting them.•
* It is worth remarking, that among magnetisers it is those
always that were not physicians who have proposed the association
of medicine and magnetism, whilst physician magnetisers reject it.
The cause of this curious .circumstance is, that magnetisers have, in
general, as false an idea of medicine as physicians have of magnet-
ism.
397
CHAPTER XVI.
ON THE NECESSITY FOR MORALITY IN MAG!'IETISERS.
IT is unfortunate for those who do not find in them-
selves sufficient reasons for determining them to be ho·
nest ; for they do not appear to me capable of ever be-
coming so. This chapter is not intended as a flat homily
addressed to corrupt minds, which might be tempted to
practise magnetism for the profit of their viciousness. The
only object I propose to myself in writing it is to put my
readers on their guard against the degrading and wretched
concupiscence of the men of whom I speak ; and that is the
reason why, without being prevented by the fear of opening
new paths to immorality, which, sooner or later, it would,
no doubt, have discovered, I boldly expose abuses which, to
the shame of humanity, I consider to be too real. I know
not, indeed, whether chastity be, as some cynical dreamers
have stated, merely a conventional matter, but this I do
know, that the honour of their wives and of their daughters
is dear to every husband and every father. Now I am
sorry to predict it, magnetism will bring decay and desola-
tion into more than one family ; as ifthere was a necessity
that the best things should have their compensations in the
dangers which their use brings with it.
Independently of the close and more or less frequent
398 o• THE·~~ro> MO>~ 1
relations which magnetism necessarily establishes between
the person who practises it and the person who submits to
it, it is with me beyond all doubt that, in the common ma-
jority of cases, it gives to the first over the second an abso-
lute unlimited power, the depository of which may not
always prove himself worthy of it. Not only the person
whom you magnetise is irresistibly constrained to yield, at
your instigation, in the performance of all her physical acts,
but it may happen that, regulating all the transactions of
her soul by you, without herself or you being aware ofit,
she penetrates your most secret desires, associates itself with
all the emotions of your soul, and, without perceiving that
she only obeys your will, anticipates even your most secret
intentions. A somnambulist, in a word, the moment that
sleep delivers her up to her magnetiser, no longer sees, no
longer hears, no longer acts, but through him ; and though
she still retain the discernment of right and wrong, she be-
longs body and soul to him, if he is base and dastardly
enough to abuse such power. The different observatioDS
which we have scattered through the preceding chapters
might probably save us the trouble of adducing new proofa
in support of this assertion ; but for the purpose of corro-
borating to the eyes of our readers the judgment which we
form, we shall sum up the facts for them in a few words.
1. A magnetiser paralyses at his own option such or snch
a limb, such or such an organ of his somnambulist. Thus
he renders him deaf to every one but himself (paralysis of
the auditory nerve) by merely addressing to him these
words, "I wish you to hear no one but me alone ;" then
he renders him insensible to every other contact but his
own (paralysis of the skin); it is thus again that he para•
IN l\IAGNETISERS. 399
lyses him at once in all his organs and all his limbs, so as to
condemn him to complete immobility, and to the exterior
passiveness of a life altogether intuitive.
2. The magnetiser may, on the contrary, by a mere
suggestion, and sometimes even by a desire not expressed,
substitute motion for paralysis in the being whom he holds
in dependence. He may exalt his sensibility, or he may
extinguish it; he may produce an extraordinary erethism
in his senses, and even agitate all his body with spasms and
convulsions. So far for the physical question; let us now
examine the moral question.
1. The extraordinary developement of the instinctive
faculties during somnambulism is a fact long since proved,
and almost generally admitted; but that which is much less
known is the possibility in the magnetiser to give to those
exuberant faculties the aliment and direction suggested to
him by his own caprice. The experiment is a delicate one,
and does not always succeed; but I at length succeeded in
making it, and in repeating it several times ; that is, by
isolating successively by my will each of the instincts of a
somnambulist, I have succeeded in rendering him alternately
vain, lying, a gourmand, and a sensualist; whence it follows,
that it is possible, at least to a certain extent, to excite even-
tually in the mind ofa somnambulist that propensity which
we may have reason to wish him to have.•
2. Not only is it possible to force the person magnetised
to avow the thoughts occupying his or her mind, but we
may even extinguish this thought in her, and substitute
* It may be, and I like to think so, that my assertions rest only
on exceptional facts ; but, rare or frequent, these facts have been
produced, and I am bound to mention them.
400 ON THE NECESSITY FOR MORALITY
another ; that is, in one word, we may modify at pleasurt
the intellectual disposition of a somnambulist, as we han
said that we modified in one of our own the instinctive dB-
position.
We may readily conceive of what monstrous application
such facts may be in obscene hands. Without attempting
to dilate more on a subject which we have probably treated
already with too much detail, we leave our readers the task
of commenting on the matter.
Further, as every thing we have now written refers
absolutely to the time, usually very limited, which each
sitting lasts, we have now to examine this other question,
which is at least just as important, viz., what remains
of the magnetic influences during the waking state, that is
to say, when the somnambulist, having entered into real life,
is apparently freed from his or her ties. This is serious, I
declare, and in approaching such a subject I dissemble noae
ofthe arguments which it might supply to our detractors.
if they treated us with less disdain; but be that as it may, I
shall say what I know of it; for I see nothing more deplor·
able than the mania of certain authors to plead the caUie of
a scientific system, as an advocate would that of a man. tha&
is to say, never to shew but the fair side of a truth, u if
they were afraid of injuring it by shewing it all.
If fortunately there are but few men base enough to
gratify and indulge themselves in usurped pleasures, the~
are few whose vanity resist that delicate preference whieh coo-
stitutestrue love. The former persons are scarcely tobefound
butin the humbler classes ofsociety, or among thoscunfortu·
natebeingswhose stupidconventions have exactedan absolute
and unnatural continence : the second are, on the contrary,
IN MAGNETISEBS. 401
to be found every where. Thus duly considering the mat-
ter, the moral affections, the cause of which might be
attributed to magnetism, are more to be dreaded than the
unclean but rare sallies of brute instinct, for this sole
reason, that they do not bring shame on the party con-
cerned, and they are not amenable to law. Let us see,
then, if the charge is well founded, and if magnetism can
become guilty of those illicit and irresistible attachments
with which it has been charged. The question of right is
already settled, and with respect to the question of fact,
which is not discussed, experience forces me to solve it in
the affirmative. Yes, that is true, unfortunately too true ;
magnetism may produce between two persons of different
sexes a profound, extreme, and insurmountable attachment.
'Ve may cease then to be astonished at the desire I have
several times expressed, that of seeing magnetism practised
by physicians. It is, in fact, a public homage I owe our
c01!{reres; there is not, probably, in all society a class of
men more honourable, more disinterested, and especially
more moral. Some very rare exceptions may have con-
tradicted this eulogium, which almost all of them deserve.
But are there not magistrates who have disgraced them-
selves? Are there no priests who have soiled their cassock,
and even stained it with blood ? 'What does that prove, if
it is not this-that in all conditions of life men may some-
times forget the most sacred duties, and become vicious !
Physicians, besides, offer the guarantee of a good education,
and that is a great deal. Well brought up, in general ihey
know and practise decency and propriety; and if their
decorum is not always on the side of virtue, their deviations
at least never give scandal. Lastly, they are accustomed,
DD
402 ON THE NECESSITY FOR MORALITY IN MA.GNETJ8EB8.
from an early date, to the observation of nature and
of physiological phenomena ; a truth so indisputable, that in
running over the archives of magnetism, there are scarcely
any facts, save those reported by medical men, to which I
would feel warranted in attaching any importance. Let our
brethren pardon us for the severity of some expressions
which may have escaped us: it was not to them personally
they were addressed, but to their boasted science, which we
too have studied with ardour, and which proved to us but a
bitter deception.
403
CHAPTER XVII.
CONCLUSION.
ONE of our most distinguished contemporaries having
said to me one day, "I believe in animal magnetism, but I
do not believe in your miracles," I sought for a long time
the sense of these words. At length, however, I discovered
that they contained none, M. Bouillaud not having explained
himself on the sense he attached to the word miracle.
Could it be by any chance that M. Bouillaud understood
by miracle any thing that he does not comprehend? I
believe bim to possess too much intelligence to suppose him
capable of so much pride.
Now, let nature deprive us of one of our senses, and
the fortuitous production of the perceptions belonging to
the eliminated sense will become for all men a succession of
miracles. Let a sixth sense, on the contrary, come to be
developed in us, and we shall have, with our new sensations,
the apprehension of phenomena, which hitherto went beyond
all the limits of our reason. Now every thing inclines us
to believe that magnetism when it produces the lucid sleep,
really developes a supplementary sense, of which the entire
nervous system may be the organ; but let us recur to an
idea which an example will enable us to comprehend.
404 CONCLUSION.
Imagine, in the midst of a population of blind men, a
single individual endowed with the sense of vision ; it is
certain that the visual perceptions of this individual will be
so many impossibilities, and his revelations so many false-
hoods, for the imperfect beings who shall receive his com·
munieations. No person shall ever succeed in making them
understand that it is possible to make them reach by a seme
to the very limits of the horizon; to see the heavens and the
stars several millions of leagues distant ; and to dirine,
without touching them, their slightest movements : they
will say, no doubt, as M. Bouillaud said, we do not believe in
miracles.
Let us follow up the matter, however. Let us suppose
that by some means or other our seer (voyant) ultimately
proves that which he states. Miraculous or not, the filet
exists ; the thing is to believe it; no more remains but to
explain it, and it is explained ; but how ? In the extensive
field of conjecture which it raises, each department of the
knowledge acquired brings in its turn its contingent of
analogy ; the organs of the sensations are interrogated in all
their possible modifications ; hearing, touch, smelling, aDd
taste itself, are successively put into requisition; in fine, in
order to account for the fact of vision which perplexes their
understanding, our blind friends forget all the Belllle8 but
one, that of vision which they have not. And this is the
history of the magnetic theories.
The almost absolute impossibility of systematising the
phenomena produced by magnetism depends on our unfitnesl
to judge of perceptions foreign to our habitual state; the
greatest evil resulting from it is, that magnetism is not, aDd
probably never will be, a regular science.
1
POSTSCRIPT. 405
However, let us set theory aside, that is to say, the dog-
matical interpretation of facts (a thing which alters in no
respect either their occurrence or their utility, if they have
any), and the practice of magnetism still remains subordinate
to general rules founded on experience. The combination
of these rules really forms an art, and it is solely this new
art that we have proposed to ourselves as our object in the
Manual now written.
P08TSCBIPT.
Just when putting the last sheet of this work to press,
we receive from our learned and respected friend M. Mialle,•
a communication of so much interest that we cannot resist
the pleasure of informing our readers of it.
It is concerning a man who, in his natural sleep, that is
to say, without being previously put to sleep by magnetism,
sees through opaque bodies. This man is a Polish Jew; his
name is Rabi Hirsch Damemark ; he arrived at Metz, last
August, possessing certificates delivered to him by the Pope,
Prince Metternich, and the first professors of Germany.
The three sittings which M. Hirsch gave at Metz have not
in the least belied his reputation. He reads fluently in a
*M. Mialle, the most learned and sensible of modem magnetisers,
is on the point of publishing a Synoptical Tabk of Animal Magnetism;
or, an analytical rmew of all that has been published in France, on the
theories, proceue~, agents, au:eiliaritl of Magnetism, and all the phe-
IIOmtna ofSomnam-
bulism. No one can be better qualified for bringing
out such a work than M. Mialle.
406 POSTSCRIPT,
shut book, provided that contact or a simple gesture lw
put him en rapport with this book.
His son, ten years old, who is at Saint Petersburg,
possesses the same faculties as the father, but in a higher
degree. He is consulted for diseases and processes of which
they wish to know the issue. Before his Majesty the Em-
peror of Russia, he told what was contained in the chamber
of the Empress.
THE END.
1
SELECT LIST OF WORKS
TO BE HAD OF
H. BAILLIERE,
BOOKSELLER AND PUBLISHER,
FOREIGN BOOKSELLER TO THE ROYAL COLLEGE
OF SURGEONS IN LONDON, AND THE ROYAL
1\IEDICO-CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY.
219 RECENT STREET, LONDON.
H. B. ~ontinues to recei·ve a weekly parcel from France, containing
the mu·est Works on Scie11ce and General Literature, ·which he SUJ•·
plies at One Shilling 11er F1·anc on the advertised Price at Pa1·is. He
begs to acquaint his friends, and the patrons of German Scientific
!Vorks, that he is able to furni>h Ge1•man IVorks and Periodicals every
Th1·ee Weeks, at the mte fj' Four Shillings the Rix·Dolla1·.
THE NATURAL HISTORY OF MAN;
Comprising Inquiries into the modifying influences of Physical
and !\lora! Agencies on the d1fferent Tribes of the Human Family.
By J. c. PRICHARD, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.S.
Illustrated with 36 Coloured and 4 Plain Plates, engraved on
Steel, and 90 Illustrations on Wood. 1 vol. royal 8vo. elegantly
bound in cloth. London, 1843. ll. lOs.
ETHNOGRAPHICAL MAPS.
Six Ethnographical Mavs, lnrge folio, coloured, with a Sheet of
Letterpress.
By J. c. PRICHAnn, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A.
In Illustration of his Works, THE NA·ruRAL HISTORY OF MAN, and
ltEsEAP.CHES INTO THE PHYSICAL H1s10RY oF MANKIND. London,
1843. ll. h.
ON THE DIFFERENT FORMS OF INSANITY, IN
RELATION TO JURISPRUDENCE.
By J, c. PRICHARD, M.D. F.R.S. 1\t.R.I.A.
Corresponding Member of the Institute of France, &c. &c. •
Dedicated, by permission, to the Right Hon. Lord LYNDHURST,
Chancellor of England.
In 1 vol. Post Bvo. London, 1842. Price Ss.
2 Select List of Works to be had of
ON THE DISEASES AND DERANGEMENT OF
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
In their Primary Forms, and in their Modifications by Age,
Sex, Constitution, Hel'f'ditary Predisposition, Excesses, General
Disorder, and Organic Disease.
By MARSIIALL HALL, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E.
8vo. with 8 Plates, engraved. London, 1841, 151.
ON THE MUTUAL RELATIONS BETWEEN
ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, PATHOLOGY, A..~D
THERAPEUTICS,
AND
THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE.
Published as an Appendix to his Work on the Dial!tiSea and
Derangement ofthe Nervous System, being the Gulstonian Lectures
for 1842.
By MARSIIALL HALL, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E.
8vo. with two coloured Plates and one plain. London, 1842. 51.
ATLAS ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE ANATOMY OF
THE HUMAN BODY.
By J. Cnuv£1LIIIER,
Professor of Anatomy to the Faculty of Medicine, Paris.
Drawn from Nature by M. E. Beau, with Description by M.G.
Bonamy, l\J.D.
This Atlas will consist alt.ogetber of 200 Plates, small 4to. and
is published in Numbers, encb containing Four Plates with J>e.
scription•, to be continued Monthly until the completion. Price
2s. 6d. plain; coloured, 5•. (Parts I. to XX. are out.)
Extract from a letter of Professor Cruveilbier to H. Bailliere,
dated Paris, June 10, 18·ll :-
" Je declare que Its Planchts sont ertrememtnt rtmarquabka par
leur exactitude, tt par les soins actc lesquellts tllu aont e.ticutin. Jt
me prqpou d'y rtnw.ytr toujaurs da111 (LA 2£ EDITION DE) !11011 A!<A•
TOM I£ DESCRIPTIVE!
(Signed) "J. CavvEILHts:a:•
This Atlas will be particularly referred to in the Second Editioo
of M. Cruveilbier'a Anatomie Descriptive, which will abortly ap·
pear in English.
,
H. Bailliere, 2l!:J Regent Street. 3
THESAURUS MEDICAMINUM;
OB, THE MEDICAL PRESCRIBER'S VADE·MECUl\1.
To which is subjoined a Table of Incompatible Substance.
By D. SPILLAN, M.D.
London, 1842. 18mo. 3s.
IJ..LUSTRATIONS OF CUTANEOUS DISEASE;
A series of Delineations of the Affections of tbe Skin. in their
more interesting 11nd frequAnt }'orms, wi1h a Practical Summary of
their Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment, including appropriate
Forrnule.
By R. WILLIS, M.D.
Licentiate of tbe Royal College of Physicians, and Physician to the
Royal Infirmary for Children.
The Drawings are after Nature, and Lithographed by Arch.
Henning.
These Illustrations are comprised in 94 Plates, folio; the Draw.
ings are Origin•Is, carefully coloured. Complete, bound in cloth,
lettered. London, 1841. Price 61.
ELEMENTS OF THE GENERAL AND MINUTE
ANATOMY OF MAN AND THE :MAMMALIA.
Chit>lly after Original Researches.
By F. GERDES,
Prosector in the University of Bern.
To which is added an Appendix, comprising Researches in the
Anatomy of the Blood, Chyle, Lymph, Thymoua Fluid, Tubercle,
&c.
By G. GuLLIVER, Esq. F.R.S.
In 1 vol. 8vo. Text: and an Atlas of 34 Plates, engraved by
L: Aldous. 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1842. Cloth boards, ll. 41.
A GENERAl, INTRODUCTION TO THE NATURAJ,
HISTORY OF 1\:lA.J."\fMIFEROUS ANIMALS.
With a Particular View of the Physical History of Man, and
the more closely allied Genera of the Order Quadrumaoa, or
Monkeys.
By W, C. L, MAR111fo
Illustrated with !96 Anatomical, Osteological, and other En-
gravings on Wood, and It full Plate.Repreaentations of Animals,
drawn by W. Harvey. 1 vol. 8vo. 1841. 16s.
",.,,",,Coogle .111
4 Select List of Works to be had of
MEDICO-LEGAL REFLECTIONS ON THE TRIAl.
OF DANIEL ?oi'NAUGHTEN,
FOR THE MURDER OF MR. DRUMMOND;
With Remarks on the different }'onns of Insanity, and the
Irresponsibility of the Insane.
By JAMES GEORGE DAVEY, M.D.
Physician to the County Lunatic Asylum, Hanwell.
8vo. London, 1843. h. 6d.
ON THE PRESENT STATE OF THE ~IEDICAL
PROFESSION IN ENGLAl.~D.
Being the Annual Oration delivered before the 1\Jembera ofthe
British Medical Association, on tbe :Zlst October, 1841.
By R- E. GRANT, M.f>. F.R.S. L. & E.
Professor of Comparative Anatomy in the University College,
London, 1841. Price 21. 6d.
ELEMENTS OF MEDICINE, :MORBID POISONS.
By R. WILLIAMs, 1\l.D. Trio. Coli. Cambridge,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Senior Physician to
St. Thomas's Hospital, aud President of the Roya11\ledico-
Cbirurgical Society, London.
1836-41. Two vola. avo. 11. 81. 6d.
Tbe second volume may be had separately. 1841. 1&.
ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY;
INCLUDING THE APPLICATION OF THE SCIENCE IN THE .&..aTS,
By T. GRAHAM, F.R.S. L. & E.
Professor of Chemistry in the University College, London.
One thick vol. 8vo. illustrated with Woodcuts, cloth boerds.
1842. ll. 61. Part VI. and last, containing Organic Chemistry,
separately. 8vo. 9s.
!CONES PLANTARUM;
Or, Figures with brief Descriptive Characters and Remarb ol
new and rare Plants selected from the Author's Herbarium.
By Sir W. J. HoouR, K.H. LL.D. F.R-A. and L.S. &c. &c.
Vice-President oftbe Linnean Society, and Director of the Ropl
Botanical Gardens, Kew.
New Series, Vols. I. II. or Vola. V. VI. of the entire work, coo·
taining 100 beautiful Plates. Price, bound in cloth, ll. &. -b.
Part XII. aeparately, to complete aet, containing 50 Pl8lel.
London, 1843. Price 141.
H. Bailliere, 219 Regent Street, London. 5
CHEMISTRY OF ORGANIC BODIES, VEGE·
TABLES.
By 'f. THOl4PSON, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E.
Regina Professor ofChemistry in the University of Glasgow, Cor.
responding Member of the Royal Academy of Paris.
I large vol. 8vo. of 1092 pages. .London, 1838. In boards, 11. 4s.
AN OUTLINE OF THE SCIENCES OF HEAT AND
ELECTRICITY.
By T. THO:KPSON, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E.
Regius Professor ofChamistry in the University offJiasgow, Cor.
responding Member of the Royal Academy of Paris.
Second edition, remodelled and much enlarged. 1 vol. 8vo.
llluatrated with Woodcuts. 1840. 15s.
GEOLOGY FOR BEGINNERS.
Complising a familiar Exposition of the Elements of Geologv
and its associate Sciences, Mineralogy, Fossil Conchology, Fossil
Botany, and Palleontology.
By G. F. RICHARDSON, F.G.S.
Assistant in the Geological Department of the British Museum.
1 vol. post 8vo. illustrated by 251 Woodcuts. 1842. 12s. 6d.
Was commenced on the 1st of January, 1842, and continued
monthly, price 2s. 6d. 8vo. containing fifty-six pages of Letter-
press, and two Plates engraved,
THE LONDON JOURNAL OF BOTANY.
By Sir W. J. HooKER, K.H. LL.D. F. R.A. Rod L.S.
Vice-President of the Linnean Society, and Director of the Royal
Botanical Gardens, Kew.
The year 1842, done up in cloth, ll. lOs,
NOTES ON THE BOTANY OF THE ANTARCTIC
VOYAGE,
Conducted by Captain J A>~ES Cuu Ross, R.N. F.R.S..in
Her Majesty's Discovery Ships EREBUS and TERROR; with
Observations on the TusSAC GRASS of the Falkland Islands.
By Sir W. J. Hoona, K.H. LL.D. F.R.A. and L.S.
Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens of Kew.
With two Coloured Plates and a Woodcut.
London, 1843. 4s.
6 Select List of Works to be had of
THE GEOLOGIST,
A Monthly Record of Investigations and Di•coveries in Geology,
Mineralogy, and their Associate Sciences.
Edited by C. MoxoN, Esq.
Honourable Curator of tho Scientific Society of London.
Published quarterly, containing three sheets of Letter.preea and
Plates. Price 3r.
The year 184!, done up in cloth boards, 1S..
ESSAY ON THE INDIGENOUS FOSSORIAL
HYMENOPTERA;
Comprising a Description of all the British Species of Bar.
rowing Sand Wasps contained in the Metropolitan CollectioDI,
with their Habits as far as they have been observed.
By w. E. SHUCKARD, .M.E.S.
Librarian to the Royal Society.
8vo. with four Plates.
London, 1837. 14r.
ELEMENTS OF BRITISH ENTOMOLOGY;
Containing a General Introduction to the Science, a Sylfe.
matic Description of all the Genera, and a List of all the S~es
of British Insects, with a History of their Transformation, Habita,
Economy. and Distribution, with Outline Figures of the Families,
and the Lan re, and Pupre, an Explanation of the TechDical
Terms, and full Directions for Collt!cting.
By W. E. Saue~:un, R.S.
Librarian to the Royal Society,
Author of" Essay on tho Fossorial Hymenoptera."
8vo. illustrated with Woodcuts. 8s.
ICONES OBSTETRIC..£ ;
A Series of 60 Plates, illustrative of the Art and Science of
Midwifery in all its Branchea.
By A. L. Moauu,
Professor of Midwifery to the Fllculty of Medicine, Paria.
Edited, with Practical Remarks, by
J. s. STRF.ETER, M.R.C.S.
.Complete in Sixty Plates, with Descriptiona, in cloth boards,
foho, London, 1841. Plain, Sl. Sr.; coloured, 61. & •. I
j
H. Baillier11, 219 Rege11t Street. 7
ON THE TREATMENT OF STONE IN THE
BLADDER,
BY MEDICAL AND MECHANICAL MEANS.
By R. wILLIS, M.D.
1 vol. 8vo. 1842. 5s.
ON URINARY DISEASES AND THEIR
TREATMENT.
By R. WILLIS, 1\l.D.
8vo. London, 1840. 12s.
ON BLOOD-LETTING;
An Account of the Curative Effects of the Abstraction of
Blood, with ~ules for employing both local and general Blood-
letting in the freatment of Diseues.
By J. WAROIIOP, M.D.
Umo, London. 41.
OBSERVATIONS ON TUBERCULOUS
CONSUMPTION ;
Containing new Views on the Nature, Pntboiogy, and Cure
of that Disease; being an Attempt to found its Treatment on
Rational Principles, deduced from Physiology, and confirmed by
Extensive Application.
By J. s. CAMPBELL, M.D.
Member of the Hoyal College of Physicians,
Senior Physician to the St. Mary-le-bone
General Dispensary, &c. &c.
8vo. illustrated with coloured Drawings, cloth boards. 1841. 15•.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF 1\URRIAGE,
In its Social, Moral, and Physical Relations; with an Account
of the Diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, witb the Phy.
aiology of Generation in the Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms.
Fourth edition, very much improved.
By M. RYAN, M.D.
I 't'Ol. I2mo. London 184S. 6•·
.Coogle ...
8 Select List of Worlts to be had of
BRITISH AN~'1JAL, AND EPITOME OF THE
PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
Edited by R. D. THOMPSON, M.D.
S vols. t8mo. cloth boards, lettered, Ss. 6d. each.
FIRST YEAR, 1837.
Contains numerous Practical Tables of Weip.bts, Measures, and
Coins. The popular Papers are by the Rev. B. Powell,
C. Tomlinion, Esq., W. S. B. Woolhouse, Esq., T. S. Davies,
Esq., R. D. Thompson, M.D.
SECOND YEAR, 18:38.
The popular Papers are by T. Thompson, 1\I.D. Regios Professor
of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow, R. E. Grant, 1\l.D.
Professor of Comparative Anatomy in the University College,
London, R. D. Thompson, M.D. Life of James Watt, illus-
trated with a Portrait.-H. H. Lewis, Esq.
THIRD YEAR, 1839.
The popular Papers are by J. S. Russel, .Esq., Professor R. E.
Grant, H. Garnier, Esq., R. D. Thompson, M.D.
ON THE PATHOLOGY AND CURE OF STRICT-
URE IN THE URETHRA;
Illustrating, by a seiPction from numerous interesting facts·aud
cases, the Origin, Progress, and History of this Disease, in all its
Phases: thus forming a Complete Practical Manual and Guide to
the Appropriate Treatment and Cure of every species of Urethral
Stricture. The whole followed by some Observations on the
Chronic Enlargement of tba Prostate Gland in old Men, and its
Treatment.
By FRANCIS BuRDETT CouRTENAY,
Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London.
Second Edition. 7s. 6d. Svo. London, 18-!3.
OUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY,
By RoBERT E. GRAJ<T, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E.
Professor of Comparative Anatomy in the Uni~ersity College,
London.
8vo. Illustrated with 148 Wood-cuts. London, 1835-41. In
boards, ll. 81. Part VII., with title-page, just out, 11. 6d.
NEW MANUAL OF HOM<EOPATHIC MEDICINE.
By G. H. JAHR.
Translated from the third original edition, with Notes and Preface.
By Dr. P. CURIE and Dr. LAURIE,
In 2 vola. Post 8vo. 1841. Plice ll. 81.
-
H. Bailliere, 219 Regent Street. 9
PRACTICAL ODSERVATIONS ON SOME OF THE
CHIEF HOM<EOPATHIC REMEDIES.
By Dr. J. HARTMANN.
Translated from the German, with Notes, by
H. 0KIE, M.D.
Umo. Philadelphia, 1841. 5s.
PRACTICAL VIEW OF HOM<EOPATHY.
By s. SIMPSON, M.D.
8vo. London, 1836. lOs. 6d.
PRINCIPLES OF HOM<EOPATHY.
By P. F. CuRIE, M.D.
1 vol. 8vo. London, 1837. 7s.
DOMESTIC HOM<EOPATHY.
By P. F. CuntE, M.D.
18mo. Second Edition, 1841. 4s,
PRACTICE OF HOM<EOPATHY.
Bv P. F. CuRIE, M.D.
1 vol. 8vo. London, 1838. g,,
A POPULAR VIEW OF HOM<EOPATHY,
Exhibiting the Present State of the Science.
By T. R. EvEREST,
Second Edition, amended and much enlarged, 8vo.
London, 1836. Price &.
SCARLATINA:
AND ITS TREATMENT ON HOM<EOPATIDC PRINCIPLES.
By Jos. BBLLUOMINI, M.D.
8vo. London, 1843. ls.
PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY.
By .Juus SvHE.
Professor of Clinical Surgery to the University of Edinburgh, and
Surgeon in Ordinary to the Queen,
Third Edition, much enlarged, and illustrated with Plates and many
Wood-cuts in the text.
1 voL Bvo. London, 184!. 11. !J,
Coogle ...
THE .ANIMAL KINGD6M,
Considered Anatomically, Physically, and Philosophically,
By EMANUEL SwEDENooao,
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Upsala, 811d oft!Je
Royal Academy of Sciences of Stockholm.
Translated from the Latin by JAMES J. G. WILJUNSON,
Member of the Royul College of Surgeons, Loudon.
Vol. I. 8vo. London, 1843. 161. 6d.
ODONTOGRAPHY;
Or, Description of the Microscopic Structure of the Teeth in nri·
ous existing and extinct Specil!'s of Vertebrate Animals.
By RrcHARD OwEN, Esq. F.R.S.
Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences of
Paris, Berlin, &c.
This splendid work will be published in Three Parts, ach
Part containing bO plates, with their description. When compl~.
it will form One Volume of letter-press, and an Atlas, roy~tl S•o.
of 150 plates, engraved by Mr. L. Aldous aud Mr. Dinkel.
Afew copies are printed i11 4to. and the platu, fJ''DDf copiu 011 IIIIIM
paper, 7>rice ~l. Us. 6d. each part.
FACTS
IN
ME S MER ISM,
WITH
REASONS
FOR
A DISPASSIONATE INQUIRY INTO IT.
BY THE
REV. CHAUNCY HARE TOWNSHEND, A.M.
L.A.TE OF T&JNJTY B~ C.ui.B&IDOS.
SECOND EDITION, MUCH IMPROVED.
l vol. 8vo. London, 1848.
London :-Prloled by Moyes aod Barc:lay, Cutte Street, Leiclelta Sq-.
~Coogle
1
I
