{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__ward___israel_and_the_holy_land.pdf","mytitle":"Israel And The Holy Land","mylang":"de"}
LZ
ISRAEL AND THE HOLY LAND:
"
THE PROMISED LAND."
IN 'WHICH AN ATTEMPT IS MADE T0 SHOW THAT THE
OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS ACCORD IN THEIR
TESTIMONY TO CHRIST AN'D HIS CELESTIAL
KINGDOM, AND IN THEIR TESTIMONY TO'
HIS PEOPLE, ISRAEL, AND ALSO TO
THE PROMISED HOLY LAND.
BY'IIE¥IRY'I ATIA.;;A]RD.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMES,
14 Dsvonsnlns Srnsnr.
1843.
i>~f
`
W QE
lonfon
DDW IJACKOOIPI POW@ PRESS
M Dvniln ltnot.
. J`
ISRAEL AND THE HOLY LAND:
"THE PROMISED LAND."
_l_.
IN the number of the Methodist Quarterly
for last April, A. D. 1842, was submitted to
the public an article on The Hope ofIsrael,
which some have been pleased to commend,
and to regard astproving great ability in the
writer
surely,
however it succeeds in proving
the hope o Israel to be identical with the
resurrection of the dead. Before entering
upon a kindred topic in the present article,
the author reverently acknowledges the
divine goodness which enabled him to speak
a word in season to his brethren, who are
the Israel of God in Christ; and while he is
most grateful for the artiality of those rea-
ders who approve ofp the execution of his
work, he is at the same time desirous to cau-
tion them against the danger of deadening in
the slightest degree the power and grace of
ho? truth, by imputing its own eloquence
an natural force to the ingenuity, talents,
or learning of an humble mortal. These
¢
4 ISRAEL AND 'ran HOLY LAND:
gifts, so far as they may be entrusted to
man, are
wholly inadequate to the full ex-
hibition of the C'hr1Lstian's claim to all Israelis
promises; and on them the writer relies no
farther than to set forth in their proper order
the proofs which the Bible furnishes,-that
Israel are the people of God, chosen out of
every nation under heaven; that Christ is the
eternal King of Israel; and that hah king-
dom and their promised holy land are rwt of
this world, but of the habitable world to come
with the resurrection of the dead.
Far removed are these glorious truths
from the reach of human ingenuity. As the
heavens are above the earth, so are these
gracious truths above the invention and
above the natural aspirations of man. The
Lord be praised that man has a. faculty to
discern them in the firmament of divine rev-
elation, and distinctly to point them out in
the word of God to the faith of the humble
and devout believer.
The Old Testament bears witness to the
coming King and kingdom of Israel, in the
language of the children of Abraham; but
the New Testament bears witness to the
same things in a language common to the
Gentiles. Hence arises a wide difference in
the mode of expression, suited to the peculiar
idiom and genius and customs of the different
people through the medium of whose lan-
guages the revelation is made, which makes
an apparent ditference in the testimony of
"
'nm rnomxsan LAND." 5
the two books; and which makes the Old
Testament welcome to the Jews who reject
the New Testament; while the Gentiles, in
their preference for the Gospel, grow indiffer-
ent toward the Old Testament. The aim of
what follows is to show, that the witness of
the two Testaments is one and the same
testimony; that the difference of their testi-
mony is apparent, not real; but that the
language of each is its own native expression
and description of the same
coming events.
Three axioms are offered for consideration.
1. "The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of
prophecy." No matter where the prophecy
is found, whether in the Old or New Testa-
ment, one
spirit animates the page; the testi-
mony it bears is still to Jesus; and that inter-
pretation of all
fprophecy
is to be preferred
which testifies o Jesus.
2. The Old Testament ought always to be
interpreted in holy conformity to the New
Testament.
'
3. The Old Testament doctrine of the res-
urrection should be received in harmony
with the Pharisees, as Christ taught; and
not in harmony with the Sadducees, whom
the Lord put to silence.
The tirst of these axioms rests on the word
written in Rev. xix. 10. The great Author
of prophecy hereby announces what is the
s irit of prophecy. The prophets were of
the flesh of
Aliriaham,
and their language and
/
6 ISRAEL AID THB 11LAND! LAND!
nation were employed to make known to
the world the things that are to come to
pass; and that the Gentiles need not be de-
ceived by the national costume of the proph-
ets,-that the Gentiles need not think they
are excluded from any portion in the king-
dom of Messiah, and in the promised holy
land, as foretold in the
fprophets,--the Holy
Spirit gives this word o universal explana-
tion: "The testimony of Jesus is the spirit
of prophecy." The testimony of Jesus is the
life, aim and end of prophecy. Though
concealed under the garb of the Mosaic ritual,
the spirit which animates the prophet is the
testimony of Jesus. Though arrayed in
terrors of judgment against Babylon, Assyria,
Egypt, Edom, and the nations of anti uity,
the spirit of the prophecy is to testgy of
Jesus. Though decked in the splendor of
Solomon, on the throne of David, ruling over
the house of Jacob forever, the spirit of the
prophecy is the testimony of Jesus; and this
spirit is
ply
no means to be limited by the
national ebrew in which it is clad; but it
is a spirit embracing all languages and peo-
ple
and time, testifying of the coming and
ingdom of Christ.- In this way we
may
read the ancient prophets with
(personal
edifi-
cation, being ourselves Wame and admon-
ished of the work of the Lord; but, on the
contrary, if We take the ancient prophets in
the .Bible to be only foretellin g of things which
have been long since fulfilled and finished,
"
'mn raomssn nun." 7
we alike empty their words, for the most part
of the testimony of Jesus, and of any personal
warning to the present age of the world.
That their prophecies have a fulfilment in
the names and nations of antiquity, is true;
and so sure as the testimony of Jesus is the
spirit of prophecy, another and larger fuliilf
ment remains to be accomplished in Christ
and his people and their foes: as Isaiah
named Cyrus and meant the king of Persia,
while Jesus is understood in the spirit; and
as the Lord himself foretold the destruction
of Jerusalem, and therein testified of his own
coming, as in the days of Noah, in the end
of the world, to make desolate the whole
earth. "
The testimony of Jesus is the spirit
of prophecy."
Snconn Axiom: The Old Testament ought
always to be interpreted in holy conformity to
the New.
This second axiom rests on the word of
the Lord enjoining the search of the Scrip-
tures, for they testify of him; (John v.
39.)
which Was, when spoken, applicable only to
the Old Testament. A similar assurance is
found in 2 Tim. iii. 15: the holy Scriptures
are able to make thee wise unto salvation:-
which intends only the Old Testament; The
Lord darkly veils those things in the law
and the prophets which he fully reveals in
the Gospel. Col. ii. 17. Heb. viii. 5, and x. 1.
It is therefore the dictate of common sense,
8 ISRAEL nm 'nie sour mum:
as well as of revelation, to make the plain a
light for interpreting the obscure; it is com-
mon law, as well as the law of the Lord, to
expound the first part of the will in accord-
ance with the plain import of the latter part
of the will; -the former will and Old Testa-
ment bythe more recent will and the New
Testament:-the mind, purpose, and the will
of the blessed and holy God not having
changed in respect to his Christ and to his
Israel, from the Old Testament times to the
New; but only his will in the Old being
more clearly developed in the New Testa-
ment. The romises, from thedaysof Adam
to the end ol?the book of Revelation, revard
the recovery by the seed of the woman 0?the
dominion, bliss and immortality, which, by
disobedience in Eden, were lost: the promises
have respect to the destruction of the devil
and of l1is works, and to the restitution of
the children of the second Adam, by Christ
our Savior, to the everlasting kingdom of the
renewed earth. This is the burden of the
prophets; this is the object of Adam's desire,
of Abraham's faith, of David's aspirations,
and of Immanue1's agony, passion,
`
and
death. The Old Testament veils it, and the
New reveals it; therefore the Old Testament
should be read without a veil, under the
economy of the New Testament, and should
be interpreted in holy conformity with the
Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
.
"rua rnonrsrzn uno." 9
Tnmn Axiom: The Old Testarnent doctrine
ofthe resurrection of the body should be re-
ceived in harmony with the Pharisees, and
not in harmony wdh the Sadducees. A
The Pharisees learned from the law and
the prophets to believe in the resurrection
of the body, and our Lord approved of their
faith. The Pharisees understood by Isaiah:
"
Thy dead men shall live," and by Ezekiel:
"
Behold, I will open your graves;" and by
Daniel: "Many that sleep in the dust of the
earth shall awake;" and by other like pas-
sages, the literal and actual resurrection of
the dead: while the Sadducees turned these
and all similar passages into figures of speech,
and interpreted them politically and carnally;
as if the men of Israel were dead in a na-
tional point of view, and were buried under
Gentile oppressors; and the promised resur-
rection means their recovery of supreme
power under the victorious arm of Messiah,
and their irnperishable dominion with him
over the wide earth, so long as the sun and
moon endure.
*Many Christians fall into the same snare
with the Sadducees, and interpret these
promises politically. They turn the texts
*Bishop Hors1ey's Sermons. Rev. and Hon. Gerard.
T. Noel's Brief Inquiry. The paramount dominion in the
New Jerusalem will be in Christ and the immortal saints ;
"
and the subordinate dominion of the regenerated earth is
reserved, not for the risen Jewish saints, but for the re-
stored Jewish nation." Rev. Hugh M'Neile's Prospects
of the Jews. (Lit. p. 51.)
10 ISRAEL AND THB HOLY LAND!
on which the Pharisees founded their gloriou
hope of a resurrection, into rhetorical figures
of a secular empire of the Jews. They
empty the Old Testament of the plainest
proofs of the resurrection of the body; they
remove the pillars of the Pharisees' faith;
they break the staff of Israel's hope; they
cast out of the prophecy the testimony of
Jesus, and fill it instead with the spirit of
Judaism, with the hope of the kingdoms of
this world becoming subservient, to the Jews
in Syria and Jerusalem. Our third axiom
reproves this error. Christians ought to
understand the Old Testament doctrine of
the resurrection as the Pharisees did, and not
as the Sadducees did, whom the Lord Jesus
put to silence.
We have no controversy with those who
believe the Jews must, in order to fulfil the
holy Scriptures, be led back bodily to Pales-
tine; though we seek to show them a better
way; for that doctrine is nothing to the Gen-
tiles-we have neither part nor lot in it. We
do not deny that the Jews will be restored;
but we maintain that the restoration of them
is nothing but the life of the dead. (Rom. xi.
15.) We maintain the apolcatanstas-is of all
things which God hath
sipoken.
And most
frequently by the month o all his holy proph-
ets since the world began hath he spoken of
the restitution of the Jews. We maintain
their restoration; and that their return on
the wings of many winds, in chariots, in
;' "Tux rnonnsrzn LAND." 11
ships,
on horses and camels and dromedaries,
an in litters, with joy and singing from all
nations whither the Lord has scattered them,
is a feeble description of the glory of their
restoration; and falls far below the magni-
tude of the event itseltQ as it will be mani-
fested in the great and notable day of the
Lord. It would often seem as if they must
go back nationally in the flesh and blood;
and we will not dispute with such as believe
it; but we have no part in such a return,
except we be circumcised and keep the law
of Moses. Far other is the return we
delight
to contemplate, and roceed more fully to
illustrate under the iidllowing heads of in-
quiry.
1. Who are the Jews, the Israel of God,
and the heirs of the promises?
2. Who is their King and Savior?
3. Where is the promised holy land 'l
1. Who are the Jews, the Israel of God,
and the heirs of the promised land ?
The purposes of the holy God are a great
deep which no man can fathom : his thoughts
are above our thoughts; man cannot find
them out to perfection. In rehearsing his
promises and revealed purposes, we must
take them as he has expressed them, not re-
fusing to believe what seems to be inconsis-
tent or apparently impossible; for in the
word, as in the works of the blessed God,
some things, at iirst sight incredible, and con-
IB xsaur. um rn non Lum:
trary both to experience and to common sense,
(as the world's turning over and not spilling
out the
lakesa)
come at length to be under-
stood by chil ren, and to be clearly demon-
strated by man. Not only the rustic, but
the leamed philoso hers did mock at Galileo,
and imprison him En teaching that the-rising
and setting of the sun is the result not of the
sun's diurnal circuit of the earth, but of the
earth's daily revolution on its axis. It is
possible to mistake the divine economy in
matters of revelation, as much as the leamed
mistook in matters of astronomy two or three
centuries ago.
In presentin a
theory somewhat new, to
this enlightenedage, in explanation of the di-
vine economy toward the Jews, it were vain
to expect it will fare better with some of the
devout, than Galileo's did with a majority
of his leamed cotemporaries; or that this
revived theory is not liable to objections con-
clusive as the nnspilled lakes, to disprove
the earth's revolution on its axis; liable to
some objections as plain and visible to every
reader, as that the sun does travel up and
down the sky daily. Nevertheless, having
in ourselves no confidence in ourselves, we
confess the mystery of the holy word, with
the deference due to him who gave it, and
we proceed humbly to show our opinion even
to those who have the keys of knowledge.
Again:
Who are the Jews, or Israel, that
shal inherit the promised land?
"
'rmz rnomrssn L/mn." 13
Neither good Adam nor righteous Noah
peopled
the earth with a holy race. Faith-
ul Abraham in due time was taken out of
idolatry, and separated from the world, to be
the friend of God and the father of many na-
tions. Neither did his offspring prove all
faithful. He had eight sons, but Isaac only
succeeded to the promises. Isaac had two
sons, but Jacob was chosen to be the father
of the house of Israel, while Esau, his elder
brother, became a type of unbelievers: Israel
and Edom being prophetic names of the two
great classes of mankind, the faithful and the
unbelieving, to this day. Moses led up the
seed of the house of Jacob from the land of
Egypt, with assurance of entering the land
that Jehovah had promised with an oath to
give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; but that
generation did not set foot in the land. They
died in the wilderness, pilgrims seeking a
country, as Abraham had sought "a better
country, even an heavenly ;" and so they
became a type of believers, the church, the
true Israel in this world, travelling through
the wilderness in all time to the passages of
Jordan, and to the promised holy land of
everlasting rest. Joshua gave to the tribes
their inheritance; but the Canaanites dwelt
in the land, and the days of the Judges were
centuries of calamity, in which the offspring
of
`
Jacob were brought under tribute and
bondage to Ammon, Moab, Canaan, Midian,
Gath, and others. Under Saul and David
2
14 rsanr. mn 'ras son! mlm:
they were continually embroiled in wars.
Under Solomon alone they had peace. From
his time Judah and Israel were constantly at
war with each other or with the surrounding
nations, until the Assyrians removed them
from Palestine, and made Jerusalem as Sa-
maria, a heap of ruins. From the dominion
of Assyria, after seventy years, Judea passed
under the yoke of Persia; and with the do-
minion of Persia passed, after two hundred
six years, under the yoke of Grecia ; and with
the dominion of Grecia passed, after one hun-
dred sixty-three years, under the yoke of
Rome, by the hands of Pompey the Great,
B. C. 63. From the conquest of Jerusalem
by Pompey to that by the Saracens, A. D.
637, was just seven hundred years; and from
that day to this hour the Mahommedans
have ruled Judea, only with such interrup-
tions as the crusaders gave, which added
nothing to the possession of the Jews. Such
is a sketch of the dealings of Providence with
the land of Judea and the offspring -of Jacob
in the flesh.
Can this people be that seed of Abraham
to whom the promise of the land was given?
The promise runs thus: "I will give unto
thee and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of
Canaan, for an
everlasting possession." Gen.
xvii. 7. Abraham had it transiently, and
only so have his posterity had it; but no
ingenuity can make a transient possession
"
'ms raomsan LAND." 15
satisfy the promise of an everlasting posses-
sion. It was
promised to him forever, not in
his seed, but to him and his seed. His off-
spring, however, do not possess Judea, neither
have they had it, "for an everlasting posses-
sion ;" therefore, if we say they were intended
in the promise, the oath of the Lord Jehovah
would seem to fail, which is impossible.
This is an
important view of the subject,
which may be illustrated by an example.
There is a sense in which a negro is an
African, wherever he may be born, and
Africa -is his country, though he never set
foot in it: but were the blacks driven out of
Africa now above seventeen hundred years
'
had the entire continent been fairly swept of
them, and colonized by the whites during
all that time; so that, though sometimes at-
tempting it, they obtained no foothold on the
continent, owned neither town nor settlement
on the continent, never held a public meeting,
nor appeared except rarely by stealth one
among a thousand, and then in the greatest
contempt, under tribute and the yoke of hard
masters,-we should not say the negroes had
Africa for their possession, though we might
say Africa was their country. And had they
a holy promise of it "for an everlasting pos-
session," would not the promise to them by
this time seem to have failed for at least
seventeen centuries, unless they should be
hereafter raised from the dead, and restored
to Africa in immortal bodies? Then, they
i
16 rsmsr. nm 'nm nonv umm:
might have the promise of an "everlasting
possession" literally fulfilled to them indi-
vidually and nationally. In the same way,
and no other, does it seem the promise of
Judea, the land of Canaan, can be fulfilled to
Abraham and to the seed of the house of
Jacob: the true Israel and heirs of the
promised holy land,
"
for an everlasting pos-
session." ,
Palestine is the country of the Jews:
though born in Poland, they regard Judea as
their own land; but they cannot be said to
have it for their possession. It belongs _to
the Turks, and it has belonged to the Assy-
rians, Persians, Greeks, Romans, and Ma-
hommedans, (in uninterrupted succession, so
far as the offspring of Jacob are
con5:erned,3
for the space of twenty-three hundred an
sixty years: and, for above seventeen hun-
dred years, since Adrian Caesar, A. D. 130, it
has been swept of all Jews as clean as arbi-
trary power, imperial authority, and the bit-
terest zeal of persecution united could possi-
bly sweep it. It was made death for a Jew
to step into Judea: not an Israelite was
allowed there. Never did they so eifectually
expel the Canaanites, as they were them-
selves expelled from Judea by the Romans;
and never since have they obtained any foot-
hold in the country. It is believed to-day
that more Jews live in the city of New York,
10,(l00, and fare better, than in all Palestine.
Can this be the fulfilment of the promise
"
'ras rnonnssn nun." . 17
made with an oath to Abraham and his
seed? _
With one voice Jews and Christians ex-
claim,
"
No; the fulfilment is yet to come."
The Jew lives in ho es his posterity will yet
possess the land, and that the tabernacle of
David will be erected again in Jerusalem,
and give the law to this world. Should it
be, David's tabemacle is David's body,
"
which is fallen down," and when the Lord
"returns and builds again the ruins thereof,
and sets it up,"
§Acts
xv.
16,) it will be in
the Jerusalem o the world to come. The
sum total of the years since tl1e promise was
made to Abraham is three thousand seven
hundred and fifty years nearly, and the por-
tions of that time during which his offspring
did not possess the land were, iirst,
400 years in Egypt,
70 years in Babylon,
1712 years since Adrian Caesar.
2182
Making a total of twenty-one hundred and
eighty-two years in the three thousand seven
hundred ifty, during which the offspring of
Abraham had not even a qualified possession
of Judea, besides six hundred years of Per-
sian, Grecian, and Roman bondage, while
yet inhabiting the countryf* Therefore, the
*"According to the chronology of our most leamed
writers, about 3740 years have elapsed since the promise
2%
18 rsrmsz. mn Tru: non uma:
event demonstrates the true meaning of the
promise to be as the New Testament explains
it, for the seed of the woman, for the first
begotten of the dead and his brethren; and
the promise to Abraham and his seed neither
intended Abraham's offspring according to
the flesh,_except as a type, nor this world's
Canaan, except as a type ;* but the true heirs
of the romised holy land are an immortal
race otpthe first resurrection, on whom the
second death has no ower; they are a holy
nation which the blessed God will bring
again from the dead with Jesus our Savior,
when he comes in clouds, with the voice of
the archangel and the trump of God, to give
hrst made to Abraham, that the land of Canaan should be
given to ,him and to his seed forever. During these 3740
years, it will be [ou nd, that the whole period, during which
any part of the posterity of Abraham have possessed the
promised land, has not exceeded 1481 years ;-and as the
ten tribes were carried captive into Assyris. in the year
721 before Christ, this part of Abrahatn's Seed have s-
sessed the land of promise only 730 years ,out of the whgle
period of 3740
years.
If there be no national restoration
of Israel to t e land of their fathers, we
may well ask
what is to become ot" the promises so often repeated, that
God would give unto Abraham and his seed the land of
Canaan forever?" Jewish Expositor quoted by M'Neile,
p. 87. Lit.] We repiy, that a national restoration will not
fulfil the promise to Abraham and his seed,
"
which is
Christ ;" but only the resurrection can do it.
*' "
The nation was a
type of the church, the promises
of the land of Canaan to the nation, were typical of the
promises of final salvation, body and soul, to the people of
God: and the whole history of the nation was typical of
the experience of New Testament believers." [.M'Neile's
Prospects of the Jews, p. 82. LiteraIist.]
,
"THE rnomsan LAND." 19
his saints their everlasting possession in the
habitable world to come. This is the testi-
mony of Jesus in the spirit of prophecy;
and this is the interpretation put by the New
Testament on the language of the Old:
"They which are the children of the iiesh,
these are not the children of God; but the
children of promise are counted for the seed."
Rom. ix. 8. "Know ye, therefore, that they
which are of faith, the same are the children
of Abraham." Gal. iii. 7. "Then are ye
Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the
promise." Gal. iii. 29. This is enough to
establish the claim of all the faithful in Christ
to the name, to the promises, to the hopes, the
privileges,
and immunities of the house of
acob. Were any poor mortal to stumble
upon evidence equally explicit to prove his
right to the name and inheritance of some
royal line or princely estate, he would not
be slow in consulting a lawyer about the
prosecution of his claim; and hefwould be
certain to think it was gospel, "glad ti-
dings," to his starving family, and broken
fortunes, and despised name. He might be
expected to say to himself while he reflected
on the new testimony,-" My common
name is Gentile; but this faithful and true
Witness informs me that my proper name is
Israel: that I am a child of Abraham, and
an heir of the promise 'made of God unto the
fathers; especially of the holy land which
Jehovah promised to Abraham and to his
20 isrusr. Arm 'ms sow LAND:
seed after him, for an everlasting possession.
Let him who disputes my
riillit
confront the
Witness. I trust wholly to im and to the
word of his grace. He has redeemed both
me and my inheritance, with his own blood
paying the costly price; and in his time he
will bestow the purchase for an everlasting
possession."
Therefore, the true Israel is a people whose
first born are reckoned not according to the
letter of a carnal commandment, but accord-
ing to the spirit of truth; a people whose
father Abraham did not inherit the promise
in this life, and it is impossible they should
inherit of him what he did not posse s; a
people whose King lived a
pilgrim in the land,
without inheriting so much as where to lay
his head, and surely they cannot expect to
possess forever this perishing world. They
will look for their country in that world
where Jesus, our Forerunner, is
gone.
Heirs
in common with Abraham, an joint heirs
with our Lord Jesus Christ, they will expect
to inherit with Christ, not in this land of
death, but in the resurrection of the dead
and eternal life,-not in these clay-taberna-
cies, but in immortal bodies.
Israel in the fiesh has another hope than
this, even the same they cherished when they
slew Jesus. They expect Messiah to come
and save them ; to deliver them from their
oppressors; to gather their dispersed among
the Gentiles, to lead them like some great
"
'rua raomxsan LAND." 21
warrior victorious over their enemies through
hard-fought battles; to end the contest in the
field of Armageddon, and to establish the
dynasty of David in triumph at Jerusalem,
swaying his sceptre over the subdued nations
forever in this world ! 'I'his was their hope;
this is their hope. The children of the flesh
cherish it in all their dispersions to this day,
with some modifications that individuals
make each for himself; and this prevalent
modification among the most distinguished
for piety, viz., that when Messiah brings back
his people, the dead of the house of Jacob
will rise and be restored with them. Unlike
Abraham, however, most Jews and many
Christians depart from the faith and hope of
"a better country," and of "a better resur-
rection," while they live in the hope of a
better kingdom in Palestine before they die.
Their eyes turn .toward Palestine. They
watch for the decay of the Ottoman Porte,
and for the national political resurrection of
the Jews; and, eager in the pursuit of the
riches.of this world, its glory, honor, and
dominion, they, the Jews, expect to rule over
the nations, and to make the Gentiles their
tributaries.
Taken with the letter of the promises, as
men are taken with the apparent motion of
the sun about the earth,* many Protestants
* "
The restored Jewish nation shall have national pre-
eminence in the earth."
[ékl'Neile's
Pros. of the Jens,
p. 112. Lit.] Mr. Bickersteit makes the restoration of the
22 rsuxr. mn 'ms non LAND:
expect this Jewish empire, and pray for its
coming, and they search among the nations to
find the lost tribes of Israel, with this conti-
dence, that, in order to be restored, the ten
tribes must be found somewhere on the face
of the earth: accordingly, Dr. Buchanan's
Star in the East pointed to their residence in
the east; and Dr. Boudinot's Star in the West
Winted
to their residence in the west; Mr.
olfe, the missionary, personally hunted for
them in the four quarters of the globe; and
Dr. Grant, the missionary, thinks he has found
them,
"
where they were lost," an uncircum-
cised race of Christians, iu the moimtains of
Armenia, called Nestorians.
Suppose for one moment that the lost ten
tribes are found in Affghanistan, or the Rocky
Mountain , in Armenia, or the islands of the
sea, and were to be led back to Canaan "for
an everlasting possession," that would not
fulfil the promise for seventeen hundred years
past.
The promise broken so long may be
roken again for two thousand years; and,
if broken at all, it is treacherous, and cannot
be trusted in the time to come. But the
Jews "the crisis of all nations, the fulfilment of the largest
hopes of the church, the momentous event on which all
the kingdoms of this world are suspended." [Time to
Favor Zion, p. 11. Lit.] But again he says: "All believers
in Jesus are partakers of his promises." [p. 19.] Again:
"What is every believer in Jesus, but a son of Abraham?
What are all the churches ot' Christ among the Gentiles,
but the seed'of Abraham?" [p. 25.]
"
'rms raomrsnn LAND." 23
promise is not broken. It was made to
Abraham and his seed. "
He saith not, And
to seeds, as of many; but as of one, to thy
seed, which is Christ." Gal. iii. 16. It was
fulfilled to Christ in the resurrection from the
dead: and it will be fulfilled to all the true
Israel in a similar glorious manifestation of
the sons of God. "Abraham sojourned in
the land of promise which he was after to
receive for an inheritance; (Heb. xi. 8;) but
has he ever possessed it otherwise than by
faith? The promise to him yet lies unful-
filled upon the sacred page." [Noel's Brief
Inq., p. 53. Lit.] Then he must rise from
the dead to receive it. And though his off-
spring, under Joshua, Gideon, Jephthah and
David, had uncontrolled possession of Judea,
yet the New Testament assures us they re-
ceived not the promise. Heb. xi. 39. There-
fore, the promise of the land, and of their
restoration to it, does not belong to this
world's inheritance; and if the natural Jews
were transplanted to-day to Palestine, they
must die in the faith, and be buried, as Abra-
ham was, and must be raised from the dead
as Christ is, before they could inherit the
promise. "He lucked up the temporal
ambition of his fgllowers by the roots, and
told them if they were to be great, it must be
through the grave." [Noel's Brief Inq., p. 40.
Lit.] The Son of man is the Messiah of the
world to come, and not of the Jews in the
flesh only. They must go with all mankind
24 xsimsr. Ann 'ras nonv LAND:
over Jordan with Jesus our risen Savior, be-
fore they can inherit the promised holy land.
In this world they cannot have it any more
than Abraham and David had it: therefore,
no future political resurrection of Israel, if
made, can be anything but a
type of the
true heirs of the promise in the kingdom of
God. And the answer in brief to our first
inquiry, Who are the Jews, the heirs of the
promised land 'l-is-They are the saints,
"
the
people of the saints of the most High God,"
the elect church of Jew' and Gentile, joint
heirs with Christ in his kingdom, children
of God chosen out of every nation from Adam
to the end of the world, children of the resur-
rection, to whom it is spoken from the throne
of judgment,
"
Come, ye blessed of my
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you
from the foundation of the world."
II. It is time to inquire, Who is the King
of the Jews ?
"And Pilate wrote a title, and put it.on
the cross: and the Writing was: Ji-:sus or
Nazuznrn, 'rua Kms or 'rue Jaws." John
xix. 19. This is our answer, without cavil.
Another form of answer is but music of dis-
cords; for the carnal Jew replies, "He is
the Messiah to come," the Judaizing Chris-
tian replies, "He is the Messiah to come;"
and the catholic Christian replies,
"
He is the
Messiah to come ;" which is perfect harmony
of sounds; yet each respondent has a discord-
ant interpretation of the harmonious sound.
The natural Jew boldly blasphemes the name
"
'ma rnomsan LAND." 25
of Jesus, and charges on him the calamities
of the race. Jesus is not the Messiah of 'the
carnal seed. The J udaizin Christian knows
and honors Jesus as the Kang of the Jews,
and expects him as the King of the camal
seed in the flesh, to give them the dominion
of the earth, and to reign over them in Jeru-
salem of Judea. The catholic believer in
Christ knows no man according to the flesh;
"Yea, though We have known Christ after
the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him
no more." 2 Cor. v. 15. The apostles at
one time regarded Christ as the Savior of the
natural seed of Abraham only. They had
no idea that he was the Savior of the Gentiles
also. For years after his ascension they
confined their ministry to the circumcision;
and Paul confesses that the time had been
when he knew Christ after the iiesh, and
looked upon him as the Messiah promised to
the Jewish nation, in whom the Gentiles had
no part. The Jews were a holy people; the
Gentiles were unclean. The Jews had the
promises; the Gentiles were strangers to the
commonwealth of Israel. Peter and all the
congregation of Christians were astounded at
the discovery that Jesus is Messiah of the
Gentiles as well as the Jews; that Jesus is
the King of the Israel of faith, and not of the
i'lesh.*
*Jerome, on Is. liv. 1,-Sing, Obarren, 5-a.-says : "This
and the following, the Jews and Judaizers refer to Jerusa-
lem, which they say is to be renewed in the 1000 years?
3
26 ISRAEL mn rm: non uma:
When the Lord promised to David,-"I
will set up thy seed after thee-and I will
establish his kingdom: he shall build a
house for my name, and I will establish the
throne of his kingdom forever," (2 Sam.
vii. 12, he says,
"
Moreover, I will appoint a
place or my people Israel, and will plant
them, that they may dwell in a place of their
own, and move no more; neither shall the
children of wickedness afflict them any more,
as before time." 2 Sam. vii. 10. The im-
port of the promise has respect to Solomon
and Israel in form and fiesh; but in spirit
and in truth it respects Christ and his saints.
Christ builds the house for the Lord's name,
and his people are the lively stones of the
heavenly structure. He is the seed of David,
the throne of whose kingdom is established
forever. "He shall rei n over the house of
Jacob forever; and ofg his kingdom there
shall be no end." Luke i. 33. The same
thing is promised and foretold in the Old
Testament, and recognised as fulfilled by the
Lord Emmanuel in the New Testament.
"
God, according to his promise, raised unto
reign; and is the same which once had, and then ceased
to have a husband; and that divorced one will have more
sons than when she had a husband. Nor is this strange
ofthe Jews, whose eyes and ears are shut; but what to
say of the Christians I know not, who transfer the things
Epoken allegorically by the
apostle,
and by him referred to
arah and Hagar, the two estaments, Old and New, to
the
I¢n,;.;, fora hope pf tcrrestdal pleasgres for a thousand
years!
'
'
'
'
'
_
"ras rsomrssn LAND." 27
Israel, a Savior, Jesus." Acts xiii. 23. "
It is
he vhich was ordained of God to be the Judge
of quick and dead." Acts x. 42. "To him
give all the prophets witness ;" and that wit-
ness is so veiled in Jewish attire, that his own
disciples misapprehended the nature of his
kingdom, and confined the promises ofhis glo-
rious dominion entirely to their own nation in
the flesh for years after his ascension, even as
the Jews do now.
"They had expected life
without suffering, a crown without a cross;
to
(go
straight forward to glory, as ,those who
ha never fallen: whereas, God's pathway
to glory, for a fallen creature, is through dis-
cipline and suffering. The suffering of Christ
was the rock on which the Jews fell; his
humiliation, his degradation in the eyes of
man was the stumbling-block to 1srael."
[M'Neile, Sec. Ad., p. 77. Lit.] They disown
and hate the name of the Son of David, whose
title was
put on his cross,-" Jesus of Naza-
reth, the King of the Jews :" yet he is the
Savior of the world, and their Savior; the
King of kin s, and their King; the Judge of
quick and gead, and their Judge. He is a
King, and his kingdom is not of this world:
his people are a peculiar peo le, raised in his
likeness from the dead. G03 has appointed
a place for them,
"
a place of their own,"
where the children of wickedness shall afflict
them no more. But that place is not in this
world of change and death; that place is not
in the world under the curse, where our King
28 rsuzr. mn 'mx new LAND!
was crucified; it is not in Jerusalem which
is Sinai and Hagar, but it is in the Jerusa-
lem above, which comes "down from God
out of heaven."
We do not
`
ropose to reason With the Jew
here in prooipthat Jesus is the Messiah, or
with the Judaizing Christian in
piéoof
that in
Christ "there is no difference tween the
Jew and the Greek; for the same Lord over
all is rich unto all that call upon him." Rom.
x. 12. This is not the place to dispute; and
if any reader supposes that our Lord Jesus
Christ is to bestow peculiar honor, and su-
preme
tpower
over this world, on the camal
seed o Abraham, we would simply advise
that reader, as he loves the honor and is
ambitious of the power of this world, to put
himself forthwith in a lawful way to attain
to it. If the carnal Jews have a promise of
God not in Christ, we Gentiles have no part
in it, unless we become Jewish proselytes;
and if we come under the law we fall from
grace; if we go after a
promise not in Christ,
we forsake Christ. Any blessing of heaven
to man out of Christ may well be some car-
'
al good, not worth a Christian's aim; let
lhe carnal Jew have it. No Jew can be
more an heir of Abraham than the Christian
is,
except
his claim rests on some foundation
not in hrist, the Jews' King. It would be
singular, if the natural seed were preferred
above the spiritual seed; if the Jew has a
betterpromise through Abraham, than the
"
'ran rnourszn LAND." 29
Gentile has through Jesus Christ. Such, if
we mistake not, some take the promise of a
restoration of the Jews to be. They think
the kingdom will be restored to Israel in the
fiesh ; the natural Jews will be the free peo-
ple; the Gentile nations will be their servants
and tributaries*
If these things are so,-if the natural seed
have this
'pre-eminence,-if they are to be
princes, an the Gentiles their servants and
maids of honor, thc policy of the wise seems
to dictate that the believer of this Jewish
supremacy inthe flesh should early take the
first step toward securing for himself and
his offspring the freedom of the Jewish em-
pire, and the highest place of honor within
the court of the King of the Jews. If the
circumcised have all the promises in Christ,
and some more exceedingly precious and im-
portant to the Jews, they have advantage,
not "chiefly because that unto them were
committed the oracles of God ;" but because
*
"Where the church catholic is considered simply in
its totality, the whole church is taken as the wife; but
where it is considered as consisting of two great branches,
the churdr of the natural Israel, and the church of the Gentiles,
(of which the whole was
compxosed
in the primitive ages,
and will be composed again) t en the former is considered
as the wife, or queen consort, and the Gentile congrega-
tions as her daughters or ladies of honor of her court."
Hflorsleyks Sermons, p. 73.] Astonishing! the natural Israel
t e wife, the queen, and the Gentile Israel maids _of her
honor! This is putting a great difference in Christ be-
tween Jew and Greek.
3*
J
1
v
30 isnxm. mn 'rms notvmmnz
that unto them will be committed the empire
of the world!
Plain it is that the Jews in the flesh reject
Christ and his cross; that they feel the high
importance of having Abraham for their
father, and also feel a
contempt for the Gen-
tiles 3 and that they cherish proud hopes of
the kingdoms of this world and the
géory
of
them, which Jesus of Nazareth, the ing of
the Jews, rejected. The King of the Jews
preferred
the death of the cross to the king-
om of this world. Him we would humbly
follow; and by faith in his name walk in his
steps down to the silent tomb, hoping for the
redemption of the body in the resurrection
of the dead, and for eternal life with Abra-
ham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of
heaven. Let the Jews in the flesh have the
'kingdom of this world; let this Jerusalem,
which is in bondage with her children, reign
'paramount between the seas; let the humble
outcasts of Judea have endless dominion on
Mount Zion. When the heavens make the
circuit of the earth, they may; when the sun,
moon and stars revolve daily around our
planet we shall see it; and the Lord can
make windows in heaven that this thing
maybe; and many things, we admit, do
greatly favor the hope of it. Yea, it is as
plain on the sacred page, as the rising and
setting of the sun in the heavens; and we
blame no man for believing it, as the sure
word of the Holy One. Nevertheless, we have
'Urns rnomssn msn." 31
a way to prove and to demonstrate that the
sun is the firm centre of the solar system,
about which our globe revolves; and we
think we have also a way to prove and to
demonstrate that the King of the Jews is
the glorious Sun of righteousness in the firm
centre of the holy promises, about whom the
covenant made with Abraham and with the
Jews revolves, and on whom all the divine
promises depend. In him all our
hopes cen-
tre; he is our life, our Savior, the King of
the Jews, by whom all Israel shall be saved;
"
for this is my covenant unto them, when I
shall take away their sins." Rom. xi. 25.
He is the King of the Jews, whom God
"raised from the dead, and set him at his
own right hand in the heavenly place,"
Whom God will send, when the times of re-
freshing, or anapsy:ris,* shall come from the
presence of the Lord, together with "the res-
titution of all things, which God hath spoken
by the mouth of all his holy prophets since
the world began." Acts iii. 19.
`
If it lease him to introduce the children
of the flesh into the kin dom of God in mor-
tal bodies, his will be gone; though we are
unable to conceive how this would consist
* St. Chrysostom, on this word, says the apostle
"
speaks
obscurely of the resurrection, for these truly are the times
of refreshing," or of recovering breath again. John Mil-
ton, the poet, translates it, the times of "respiration," or
breathing again; and the original word, which perplexes
the commentators, has the natural force of the English
word resuscitation.
32 isxux. Ann 'rms Hour LAND:
with his word,;-"Flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God." 1 Cor. xv. 50.
Let the King of the Jews reign; let him rule;
let his will be done: our groans unite with
all creation's prayer for the coming of her
rightful and eternal Lord, and "for the
adoption, to wit, the redemption ofour body ;"
(Rom. viii. 23;) which is the resurrection of
the body:
"
ourselves groan within ourselves
for the resurrection's bliss."* With holy
reverence we would exclaim, in the language
which the chief priests used in mockery,
"Hail, King of the Jews!"-our king!-
With humble hope we would say, "Come,
Lord Jesus, come quickly."
CREEDS AND `CONFESSIONS' AND STANDARDS OF
FAITH.
'
Positions so fortified by the holy word, do
not admit of being strengthened by the hand
of men; nevertheless, the manner of the
primitive church in defending them may be
instructive even to this enlightened age.
This manner is displayed in her creeds.
Until the fourth century the church managed
her triumphs without any distinct formula
of faith known to us. The Apostles' creed,
so called, is not found in any work ea.rlier
than the fourth century. Then creeds began
to be multi lied. We havesearched them
out, and fins in none a contradiction on the
subjects of the L0rd's resurrection, ascension,
_* St. Chrysostom, on Rom. viii. 19-23.
"
'ran rnomsan LAND." '33
and coming again with glory, to judge the
Yuick
and dead in the kingdom without end;
n a note we subjoin them on this point, to
show what sort of a kingdom and people the
ancient church were
expecting for the Lord.
If Christians of the fourth century supposed
the natural Jews were to reign on earth with
Christ in Jerusalem, we might naturally ex-
pect to find the evidence of it in the lectures
of the eminent Bishop Cyril, of Jerusalem, on
the creed. But the creed of Jerusalem admits
no such thing, nor does Cyril, A. D. 350.
The Nicene creed says of the Lord's king-
dom, "He is coming in glory, to Judge the
quick and dead, of whose kingdom there
shall be no end." This is Jasus or-' Nkzaiuarn,
'run KING or 'rua Jaws,
"
who was crucified
under Pontius Pilate, buried, arose from the
dead on the third day, ascended into heaven,
and sits on the right hand of the Father,
whence he is coming in glory to judge the
living and the dead, of whose kingdom there
shall be no end." *
*A second council convened at Antioch, A. D. 341, say,
"Vénturus est judicare vivos et mortuas: et Rex ac Deus in
sacula permanere : He is about coming to judge the
living
and the dead, and he will remain King and God forever. '
[Bar. Annals, A. D. 341, Sec. 10.] Or, as another version
of the same author gives it, "
Enndemque iterurn venturum
csse cum gloria et potentia ad jmlicandum vivos et mortuos,
eundemque perrnanere in saacula: and the same is about
coming again with glory and power to judge the quick and
dead; and the same will abide forever." [Bar. Annals,
A. D. 341, Sec. 23: Socr. Lib. 3, Cap.
'li Another ver-
sion of the same creed is furnished by thanaaius, (De
84 rsnur. mn 'rms now LAND:
Our inquiry is, Who is the coming King
of the Jews? Our answer is, The cruci-
fied Jesus; and our inference is, that the
Jews, over whom he is King, are of the seed
of Abraham, by the faith of Abraham, and
not by the flesh of Abraham. We have
deduced this inference from the Holy Word;
we have confirmed it from the primitive
creeds. Those creeds do not fail to take
hold of Jesus as our King, and to maintain
the eternity of his dominion, and to point out
Synodo Arimin) in the following words: "Et venturum
esse in consummatione, ut judicet vivos et mortuos, red-
datque singulis secundam opera sua. Cujus regnum inde-
strnctibile rmanet per intinitas uetates. Sedet enim ad
dexteram Etris non solum in hoc saaculo, sed etiam in
futuro. And in the end ofthe world he is coming to judge
the quick and dead, and to give to every one according to
his works; whose imperishable kingdom endures through
eternal ages: for he sits at the right hand of the Father,
not only in this world, but also in the world to come."
[Bar. An., A. D. 341, Sec.
26.3
From all this it is very
plain that the council believe the coming Lord will re-
main- King and God of the risen dead, in a kingdom im-
perishable, dispensing to every man the just reward of his
works to eternity.
A third council was held at Sardis, A. D. 347. Their
creed says: "Venturus judicare vivos et mortuos, et red-
dere unicuique secundam opera ejus; cujus regnum sine
cessatione permanet pcr imrnensa smcula.; sedet enim in
dextera Parris non solurn in hoc saacnlo, sed etiam in
futuro. (Hilar. Lib. de Synod.) He is coming to judge
the quick and dead, and to render to every man according
to his works; whose kingdom, without ceasing, remains
throughout immeasurable ages; for he sits at the right
hand of the Father not only in this world, but in the fu-
ture also." [Bar. An., A. D. 347, Sec. 68.] In the general
letter of this council to the churches, preserved by Hilary,
"
'rim PROMISED Lum." 35
the risen dead as his subjects: but they do
fail every one to recognise his kingdom as
of this world, and the natural Jews as his
subjects. This was not an oversight. It
did not arise from ignorance of the Jews'
claims. Both Jews and Judaizing Christians
were on the alert to maintain, in the fourth
century, the pre-eminence of the circumcised;
and the total neglect of it in all the creeds is
proof that the assembled councils regarded it
as
unworthy of the least notice. Bishop
Frag. Lib. 2, the council repeat in the following words:
"Venturus in fine mundi Judicare vivos et mortuos et
reddere unicuique secundam opera sua; cujus regnum
incessabile
lpermanet
in mterna saecula; est enim sedens
in dextera atris non solum in isto saeculo, sed et in fu-
turo." [Ban An., A. D. 347, Sec. 95.]
The next council, whose creed Baronius gives, is that
of Sirmia, but it varies from the foregoing in no point,
and, therefore, it is now passed by with only a reference
to Bar. An., A. D. 359, Sec. 9. Athenag. Lib. de Synod.
The great council of Constantinople, held A. D. 381, by
the command of Theodosius the Great, is the last whose
creed is given in the fourth century, and the last to be
noticed of the ancients here. "
Et iterum venturus est cum
gloria judicare vivos el mortuos, cujus regni non erit fmis:
and is coming again with glory, to judge the living and
the dead, of whose kingdom there shall be no end."
IBar.
An., A. D. 381, Sec. 29.]
The above are the words of all the creeds of the councils
ofthe fourth century, relative to the nature of his kingdom
who was born "King of the Jews," and was cnicilied
"King of the Jews." Matt. ii. 2, and Matt. xxvii. 37.
Does any one say: This only teaches the Lord's final com-
mg to judgment? We assent: that is the only coming
and kingdom of our Lord which the creeds recognise as
taught in the New Testament.
They
had no conceptions
of any other kingdom of Christ and o the natural Jews.
36 mum. mn 'ru sou Lum:
Cyril, of Jerusalem, in a course of lectures on
the creed of Jerusalem, A. D. 350, makes no
allusion to the doctrine of the Jews' return to
that city, and to their reign over the Gentiles;
but zealously he discourses of Jesus and his
kingdom, according to the Nicene creed and
to the positions taken in this article.
The King of the Jews is not a. monarch
of this world, nor are his_ Jews a carnal race.
Though they have Abraham to their father,
they must be born again, or they cannot see
the kingdom of God. John iii. 3. "That
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
which is born of the Spirit is s irit." The
King of the Jews is the glorified Jesus, and
his Jews are a people raised from the dead
and glorified with him. Not only do the
creeds of the fourth century recognise this
doctrine, but all creeds of all ages of the
church recognise it. And now we
aéppeal
directly to the age ofthe reformation. very
creed of every reformed sect, framed in the
sixteenth century, so far as our information
extends, is framed in harmony with this doc-
trine; and some of the earliest, staunchest,
and most celebrated among them openly re-
buke and publicly "repudiate the contrary
doctrine; to wit, that the restored Jews
are to have the dominion of this world.
The Lutheran creed, or Augsburg confes-
sion, is the most ancient of these, and re-
nowned. That expressly condemns "those
who circulate the Judaizing notion, that
,
"
'ras rnomssn LAND." 37
prior to the resurrection of the dead, the
pious will engross the government of the
world, and the wicked be everywhere op-
pressed." [Aug. Con., Art. 17.]
These were great men, Luther, Melanc-
thon, and company, in presence of a great
emperor, Charles V., on a trial of the Protes-
tant faith; and this article was a. part of the
plea put in by the Reformers in the defence
of their faith. The article rejects not only a
Jewish form of government of this world
under Christ, but every form of government
of this world by the pious, "prior to the resur-
rection." It condemns to the grade of a
"Judaizing notion," the idea that the pious
will engross the government of the world
prior to the resurrection. This does not for-
bid that the impimts Jews may do it; p
but if
once the unbelieving race become pious, it
condemns the notion of their engrossing the
government, as a carnal doctrine.
'I'he creed of the Church of England may
be considered next in authority on this point.
lt was framed by martyrs, in the form of
forty-three articles, A. D. 1552. The forty-
first article reads as follows: "Qui mille-
nariorum fabulam revocare conantur, sacris
literis adversantur, et in Judaica deliramenta.
sese
precipitant: they who seek to restore
the millenary fable oppose the Holy Scrip-
tures, and plunge into Jewish fanaticism."
Now, what was "the millenary fable?"
This was it: a notion that the glorified Jesus
4
38 rsnaax. .mn 'rms HOLY Lum:
would lead the Jews back to Jerusalem in
the flesh, and reign with them a millennium
in this world. The same is understood to
be condemned by the makers of the thirty-
nine articles, though for the sake of brevity
this forty-first was omitted, with three more,
when the present creed was settled, A. D.
1558.
The Presbyterian confession of faith and
the Congregational Platform both receive and
teach the Westminster catechism, which ex-
pounds the words in the Lord's prayer,
"
Thy
kingdom come," after this manner, in the
shorter catechism: "We pray that Satan's
kingdom may be destroyed, and that the
kingdom of grace may be advanced; our-
selves aud others brought into it, and that
the kingdom of glory may be hastened ;"
whichthe larger catechism explains among
other ways thus: "We pray that Christ
would hasten the time of his second coming,
and our reigning with him forever." This
seems tp leave no room for a. kingdom of the
Jews in the flesh: the transition is direct
from the kingdom of Satan, through grace,
to our reigning with Christ in glory.
The Dutch Reformed creed, article 37, is
framed in the same faith. The' Baptist con-
fession, preserved in Crosby's history of that
sect, with Bunyan and Gill, is in the same
faith. Tillinghast, Jeremy Taylor, Baxter,
Mather, and a. great company, died in the
same faith.
"
'rim Pnomrszn LIAND." 39
The Methodist Discipline enjoins the Ni-
cene creed, which is explicit on this point:
teaching us that the same Jesus who was
born King of the Jews, and who was cruci-
_/iecl King of the Jews, is coming again in
glory, to Judge the quick and the dead, whose
kingdom is without end. It makes no pro-
vision for a kingdom of the natural seed of
Abraham in this world; and any brother
Vh0 attempts this indulgence to the lineal
descendants of Abraham, does it without any
countenance from the book of Discipline.
But it is not by the creeds of churches, ven-
erable as they are, that we defend our
posi-
tion in relation to the natural seed of Abra-
ham. We only appeal to them, both au-
cient and modern, to show how the church
has been wont to maintain her own position.
We rely on the holy word alone: and no
portion of that remains to be considered at
this time, save the eleventh chapter of Ro-
mans. To some minds our views seem un-
answerable, and yet not easily to be recon-
ciled with the doctrine of that chapter.
We are not dogmatists; we are far from
understanding all mysteries; we desire to
hold our views with a deep consciousness of
the unfathomable and irresistible pow of
the holy word. We speak, as the Lord egives
us utterance, and have no strength in us, but
to hold to the Bible. Some things in the
eleventh chapter of Romans rejoice the heart
of the natural seed of Abraham with a
pecu-
40 rsnuu. um 'ras Hour LAND!
liar hope. We would not rob them of it;
but rather win them, through it, to the hope
of the Savior, not of the Jews only, but of
all men, especially of such as believe.
Remus, Errfzvnnur Curran.
Our views, as already expressed, are
drawn from the pure fountain of truth, the
holy Scriptures: and if there seem to be any
uovelty_in the sparkling movement of the
limpid element, or any peculiar savor in the
fresh taste, the creeds of both the primitive
and of the Protestant ages here quoted are
enough to show that the church, both Catho-
lic and Protestant, have, by their formulas of
faith, recognised the same opinions, and ex-
pressed the same views; though the Protes-
tant views of this subject are sometimes con-
tradictory amongst themselves. All ages
and sects of the church agree with the Thes-
salonians: "to serve the living and true God,
and to wait for his Son from heaven;" 1
Thess. i. 10;
"
who shall judge the quick
and the dead at his appearing and his king-
dom." 2 Tim. iv. 1. The most renowned
ages and sects of the church make small
account of any kingdom of the natural Jews,
and so do we. The New Testament makes
very small account of their kingdom. We
fpiestion
whether it so much as names it.
he New Testament, like the ancient church
creeds, takes no notice of any such kingdom;
e
"rua raomsan LAND." 41
and we hope no Christian brother will allow
himself to speak lightly of us for treating the
subject of the kingdom of the natural Jews,
just as the Ncv '1'estament does, with great
indifference.
Their falling away (paraploma, trespass
or transgression) and theirfulness, (pleroma,)
are treated of in the eleventh chapter of Ro-
mans; where pleroma, "fulness/_' being put
in antithesis with paraptoma,
"
falling away,"
must be taken in a
moral sense.
"
Fulness
"
is of different kinds; it may be of quantity,
number, or quality. The "fulness" here
intended is undoubtedly the fulness of qual-
ity, or perfection, as
opposed to transgression.
"For if the casting away of them be the
reconciling of the world, what shall the re-
ceiving of them be'!"-For their parap-
toma they were cast away, and this opened
the gospel of reconciliation to the world,
which gospel had previously been preached
only to Jews. If the world gained so much
by the casting away of them, what would
its gain be in the receiving of them? This
seems to imply their carnal restoration. If
"the casting a.way of them" means their
national rejection from the divine favor, and
from their own land,
"
the receiving of them"
must be taken to mean their national resto-
ration to the divine favor, and to their own
land. But this is the question :
"
what shall
the receiving of them be (H //1; Cow FK
vrugwv)
but life from the dead?" What shall the
4=x=
42 ISRAEL nm 'ras nom: turn:
national restoration of them be, if not the
life of the dead? So it is implied that they
shall be restored, and on that it is positively
affirmed in what the said restoration shall
alone consist, to wit, the life of the dead-or
"life from the dead"-which is the resur-
rection of the dead. The language of the
apostle carries in it the idea of the Jews'
nationally recovering the divine favor; and
that we
may not mistake the heavenly and
eternal character of their restoration, the
apostle at the same time declares absolute]
that such recovery is life from the deai
Men often quote it, "as life from the dead,"
but that is a corruption. The
excpression.
U
#11, 'ei me, never means as; nor oes the
apostle here institute a comparison between
the restoration of the Jews and the resurrec-
tion; but he positively affirms the restoration
shall be not/ting but the resurrection, or the
life of the dead.
This form of afiirmation with ei me, trans-
lated "if not," or "but," is very com/num in
the New Testament. Many of the most
solemn and positive declarations are made
with these very words, a few of which are
as follows. In Mark ii. 7: "
VVho can for-
give sins, ei me, but God only?" that is most
positively to affirm that God can forgive
sins. Again, Mark ii. 26: "Not lawful to
eat, ei me, but for the priests :" which affirms
that it was lawful for the priests to eat.-
Again, Matt. xix. 17: "There is none good,
"
'ras rnonnssn uno." 43
ei me, but one, that is God :" which is to af-
-firm beyond all contradiction that God is
good. And so in this text:
"
What shall the
receiving of them be, ei me, but life from the
dead?"-this is to affirm that it shall beyond
all dispute be life from the dead, neither more
nor less, or the life of the dead ;--that is only
the resurrection of the dead. A multitude
of similar aiiirmations of plain truth are
found in the New Testament; they abound;
though to save time, we quote only three,
and they show that the receiving of Israel
again must be "life from the dead," as
clearly as that God is good and can forgive
Sins.
The_ pleroma, or "fulness" of the Jews
corresponds with the receiving of them, or
with their resurrection. It accords also with
the pleroma, or "fulness of the Gentiles,"
mentioned verse 25,-"until the fulness of
the Gentiles be come in." When "the ful-
ness of the Gentiles" is in, no more can come
in, otherwise fulness is not fulness. When
the. fulness of the Gentiles is come in, then
will be the end of their times, the end of
their race; the times of the Gentiles will be
fulfilled. See Luke xxi. 24: "Jerusalem
shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, tmtil
the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled :" that
is, to the end of the Gentiles' time, and to the
time of the end of the Gentiles: which also
accords with the end of this world, and with
the resurrection. Jerusalem is trodden down
M rsanr, Ann nn: from LAND:
of the Gentiles, and it will be trodden down
by them, until the end of this Gentile
disfren-
sation; until the receiving again of the ew-
ish nation; which receiving is pronounced
by the apostle to be nothing "but life from
the dead." And so, he continues, "all Israel
shall be saved, as it is written: There shall
come out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall
turn away ungodliness from Jacob; for this
is my covenant unto them, when I shall take
away their sins." Rom; xi. 26, 27. This
also accords with the resurrection. Not
until then, since the day Paul wrote, "shall
come out of Sion the Deliverer." Not until
the death of death shall un odliness and sin
be turned and taken away gram Jacob. Not
until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in,-
not until the times of the Gentiles be ful-
filled,--not until the Deliverer comes out of
Sion, and all Israel shall be saved, will the
pleroma, or the fulness, or the restoration of
the Jews, or the resurrection of the dead,
take place. "And so all Israel shall be
saved" in the resurrection of the dead: the
fulness of both Jews and Gentiles will have
come in when the King of the Jews comes
again "the second time,without sin, unto sal-
vation." Heb. ix. 28. Since Jesus is the Kin
and the Saviorof Israel, we cannot think 0?
Israel's embracing only the children of the
flesh. Our King is "
Jasus or NARARETH,
'ras Kms or 'ras J1-:ws ;" and when the Jews
are
restored, their King will go before them,
"run raomrssn, LAND." 45
"
the nrst fruits 'of the dead." Our King is
not a king of this world, but of the next
world; our king's people, the Jews, belong
with the king to the next world; it were
strange if they belonged to this world, while
their peculiar king belongs to the other world.
The people are sometimes called Jews, some-
times Christians, and sometimes believers;
but this does not imply that they are different
people.~ It is common and proper that great
nations should have more names than one.
All Frenchman are Gauls, Englishmen are
British, Austrians are Germans, Spaniards
are Iiberians, Irishmen are Hibernians, New-
Yorkers are Americans, and so are Christians
Israelites; not in name only, but in rights,
privileges, and hopes. The promises to Israel
are their promises, and among others this:
"So all Israel shall be saved." That does
not intend' the carnal seed, any more than
the name of the King implies that he is the
Savior of the carnal seed. It means all
Christians circumcised of heart. Like the
King are the people; such as Jesus is, his
people are, whom he will restore to their
own land, over which he will reign forever
and ever. He arose from the dead a spirit-
ualr body. They will awake in his likeness.
He is become the first fruits of the dead:
they will be the plenteous harvest. He is
the head of the body, his
(people
are the
members; but the head an members are
one and the same body. "He is the head
1
46 isanr. um 'ms now Lum: _
of the body, the church; who is the begin¢
ning, the first-born from the dead, that in all
things he might have the pre-eminence."
Col. i. 18. He is the Father of the
r&ghte-
ous nation which have the promise o the
world to come, as Adam is the father of the
sinful race which possess this world. "He
took not on him the nature of angels; but
he took on him the seed of Abraham." Heb.
ii. 16. He took on him our nature, he bore
our inirmities, and became obedient unto
death; wherefore God hath highly exalted
him; and when he bringeth again the first
begotten into the world he saith, "Let all
the angels of God worship him." Heb. i. 6.
Even so, come, Lord Jesus, King of the Jews,
come quickly.
III. Wanna is 'ran rnomrssn Hom Lmn?
It is plain that the holy people are not a
carnal race. The Israel of the blessed God
are a chosen generation, chosen, not in Jacob
which is Judaism, but chosen in Christ,
which is Christianity. It is plain that their
King and Savior is risen from the dead, and
in order to be united with him, the must
likewise be restored from this land ofydeath
to the holy land, that the king and his peo-
plp may dwell together in etemal life.
here, then, is the promised holy land?
First, we observe where it is not. It is
not in the sun; for although a glorious lumi-
I
.
"eras rnomssn Lum." 47
nary, the King of the Jews was not born
there; and his inheritance is of the land
where he was born. Again; _it is not in the
moon or
starr? heavens; for the root and
the offsprin o David is robed in a glorified
portion of tie land of his inheritance; he is
clothed in a body like our own, which is a
body of this earth; and not of regions un-
known. Again; it is not in this world;
though on many charts it is laid down in
this world,-for this world is under a curse
from Adam down; from the upper skies to
ocean's deepest caverns. No part of this
world is excepted from the curse; no coun-
try on the face of the earth is exempt from
the calamity of Adam's fall. How can the
holy land be in this world, except a holy
thing is also a cursed thing; which is im-
pious to su pose, and equally profane and
absurd? Wpere the holy land in this world,
that which is holy cannot be found: "The
whole world lieth in wickedness," (John v.
19,) and lieth also under the curse. It is far
from the blessed God to curse a holy thing,
or a
holy creature; and much less a
holy
land containing many things and creatures.
The promised holy land is laid down on the
map of this world, in Syria; but surely this
is a very great mistake. Syria is far from
containing the holy land, or the holy people.
It is a very hard country, whose people get
their living by the sweat of their brow, as
we do here. It is a distressed land, in which
48 isnu. mn 'rss non mmm:
our missionaries preach the Gospel of the
kingdom to an oppressed people, and point
away to America for a
pattern of the prom-
ised holy land.f Not to Jerusalem trodden
down, but to the rising cities of the New
World; not to oppressed Judea, but to free
America; not to Mahommedan Palestine,
but to Christian America, they direct the at-
tention of their hearers for an idea of the
promised holy land. That holy land is free.
I'he tyrant of this world has no dominion
there; the wicked are forever cut off from its
face; the righteous dwell in immortality on
Mount Zion, the city of our God. The King
of the restored Jews has a goodly inheri-
tance; its rivers dow with wine and milk,
its mountains drop with honey, its waters
never fail; its inhabitants are all righteous;
sin and death have no dominion, have no
palace, have no hiding-place in all that land:
even sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
0 happy, holy land, whose veryocreatures
rejoice in the liberty of the sons of God;
whose animal tribes feed peaceably together;
whose reptiles are devoid of all venom;
whose fowls and fish obey the voice of man,
as once of Adam in Eden! Holy, heavenly
land! Abraham sought it, and died in the
faith. Moses had a glimpse of it, and died
also in the faith. David fondly desired it;
he died also in the faith. But Jesus, the
Son of God, bought it with his most precious
blood; he is gone to receive the kingdom
"
rm: rnonrszn msn." 49
and having received it, he will come again
to reckon with his servants. From his
Father's throne he gives the Holy
Slpirit,
"the earnest of our inheritance, unti the
redemption of the purchased
(possession."
Eph. i. 14. This earth is sol under sin
now to Satan and death, whose reign has
been unbroken, save by Jesus of Nazareth,
the King of the Jews, from Adam to this
day.' The price of its purchase was Adam's
sin. The second Adam has ransomed it
from the power of the devil. By obedience
even unto death, Jesus ransomed it eighteen
hundred years ago. It seems a long time
to wait yet for the possession. However,
the times and the seasons the Father hath
put in his own power. Acts i. 7. Waiting
for the times of the restitution of all things,
our King sits at the right hand of God, until
the King's enemies are made his footstool,-
(Heb. x.
12,2when
he will come in his glory,
and all the oly angels with him, and then
shall he sit on the throne of his glory.
Matt. xxv. 31. Then he will fold up these
heavens as a vesture, and they shall be
-changed; Heb. i. 12; he will destroy the
wicked that destroy the earth; Rev. xi. 18;
he will take the possession of his purchased
inheritance and he will make all things
new. Rev. xxi. 5. The New Earth is the
promised Holy Land.
Having ascertained that the promised holy
land is not in the sim, nor in the moon or
5
_
150 rsnnr. mn 'ras nom Lmn:
-starry regions; and also that it is not, though
it is commonly said to be, "in this present
evil world,"(Gal. i. 4,) we proceed a second
time to search for it,
"
Where it was lost ;"` as
Dr. Grant did for the lost tribes of Israel.
One may find land in the mid ocean; but
it is land still under the plague of sin and
death. One may find land under the polar
snows; but it is a barren country. One may
'Lind a land between the seas, called "The
Holy Land ;" but it is a land of thorns and
briars, inhabited by a miserable people, under
dominion of death and of the false prophet.
In neither of these places particularly did
Adam lose the holy land, and it is not wise
to expect to find it in either of them. In
Paradise was the loss. In blissful immor-
tality Adam lost the holy land, and was ex-
pelled from it. By transgression he passed
away from it. For his sin, the earth of
which he was made was cursed under his
feet, and he passed with it under the yoke
of death. We must return to immortality
for the Holy Land. We must look for it in
Paradise, where it was lost. We must look
for it where Abraham did, in "
a better coun-
try, even an heavenly." We must look for
it where all the patriarchs. and prophets did,
in "a better resurrection," and in eternal
life. By perfect obedience the second Adam
regains what the first lost.. For his righte-
'ousness the curseis removed, and the earth,
iof :which also he condescended to be made,
,
"nur Pnonuszn LAND." 51
passes with him, through the resurrection
from death unto life; from the sceptre of
coils to a right straight sceptre; from the
dominion of the God of this world, to the
everlasting dominion of the people of the
saints of the Most High God, and all domin-
ions shall serve and obey him.
But who can find this promised holy land 'P
Who can ascend and dwell in the heavenly
hill? Who can search out Paradise, can
pass by the flamingsword unscathed, and
enter into the walks and bowers of immortal
Eden? Who can disarm the chcrubic guards,
and open the gates of Paradise, and give to
eat of the tree of life, which stands in the
midst of the garden? Adam could not: he
was a. sinner, and he hid himself. Noah
could not; though saved from the flood, he
perished at last. Abraham could not ; though
he sought for it, and by faith saw it afar oth
He Was a great man, and had the promise
ofit; but he could not enter into it, even so
much as to set his foot there. So likewise
Moses had a distant view of it, but could
obtain no more
footing there than Abraham.
Nor could David, with all his mighty men;
nor Solomon with all his wisdom. But
Jesus, the Son of David, the King of the
Jews, the Savior of Israel, the Lion of the
tribe of Judah, the second Adam, the Lord
from heaven ; he has triumphed over sin and
death, he has brought life and immortality
to light; he has opened the way to the gar-
m ISRAEL AND THE HOLY LAND!
den of God; he has paid the sinner's ransom;
he commands the cherubic guards; he tums
away the flaming sword; he throws wide
open the gates; he invites the transgressor
to return, to dwell with him in the holy land,
and to reign with him in the kingdom of
heaven forever. "Thou, Lord, art worthy,
for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to
God by thy blood out of every kindred and
tongue and people and nation, and hast made
us unto our God kings and priests; and wx
shall reign on fthe earth!" Rev. v. 9,-the
New Earth,
"
the land of the living and not
of the dead." [First Council of lVice.]
Jesus, born and crucified the King of the
Jews, is the appointed heir of all things;
Heb. i. 2; and we, with the primitive church,
and the Reformed churches of every evan-
gelical denomination, look for and wait for
his glorious appearing to take the possession
of his inheritance, not for the carnal Jews,
but for the people of the saints of the Most
High. The first thing to be done by the
King on coming into possession, may be un-
derstood by a
perusal of the last chapter of
the second Epistle of Peter. Peter describes
the catastrophe "of this present evil world,"
and its heavens; and he points our
hope to
the New Heavens and Earth, in which dwell-
eth righteousness. That is the promised
land. "There shall be no more curse; but
the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be
in it: and his servants shall serve him."
"
THE Pnomssn LAND." 53
Rev. xxii. 3. God himself shall dwell with
men; and "shall wipe away all tears from
their eyes, and there shall be no more death,
neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there
be any more
pain: for the former things are
passed away." Rev. xxi. 4.
Contention is seldom profitable, especially
with men who openly give the preference to
the circumcision; who admit the Jews to all
the Christian's hopes and privileges, and to
some more.
They are honest in this, as the
men are who believe the earth is fixed in the
centre of the universe, and that the sun,
moon, and stars revolve daily around it.
Appearances are very much in their favor.
The Bible is so full of favor and of promise
to the Jews and Israel, that men, not con-
sidering who is the King of the Jews, are
confident of a re-eminence of the natural
seed, and carnal) offspring of Abraham over
the Gentiles. No rustic is more confident
that the earth stands still, and does not spin
around the sun like a
top in the great circle
of the heavens. It is impossible to reason
with one on the perfection and beauty of the
solar system, if he gravely opposes you with
first appearances of the earth and the skies.
He has much to unlearn, before you can dis-
course with him on the visible heavens.
The laws of gravitation, of motion, and of
light, must be examined, before he can well
reconcile appearances with the truth of the
Copernican system. Then he may be made
54 rsium. nm 'ras aofv LAND:
to understand how fast light travels, how the
sun's eclipse is accurately foretold, how de-
ceitful are the appearances of motion, how
certain are the influences of gravitation : and
he will pursue with delight the learning he
once
despised, even to distrust the honesty
of the men who could preach a system so
contrary to manifest appearances and to
common sense.
Are we, therefore, philosophers, and our
readers ignorant men? Far from it; we
are only babes in knowled e, and have no
confidence in ourselves. IFthe reader finds
any wisdom in our pages, it is not of our
learning, but of the Lord's truth. And so
vast is his truth, that We do not pretend to
understand it perfectly, and to know and tell
all about it; but only to present some of the
glorious outlines and blessed forms in which
it presents itself with deepest interest to our
own minds. We will not dispute about the
claims and hopes of the natural Israel; they
cannot be important to us. We will not dis-
pute whether the Palestine of this world be
the holy land; for we have no
portion of in-
heritance there. Not from that did Adam
fall; not to that will the second Adam restore
his race. He is the Redeemer of Israel, even*
of the Gentiles, "which in time past were
not a
people, but are now the people of God."
1 Pet. ii. 10. He is the Savior of "the peo-
ple
of God," them he will restore in his
ikeness to their own promised holy land;
"
rm: Pnomssn umm." 56
to "a city which has foundations, whose
builder and maker is God," and to
"
a better
resurrection," in a "better country, even an
heavenly," where Jesus our forerunner is
gone, to prepare a place for his eople. The
Old Testament promises and fgretell it for
Abraham and his seed; the New Testament
explains who is that seed, and preaches the
kingdom of God and the resurrection of the
dead through that seed, which is Christ, the
Sonor' God and the King of the Jews. '1'ell
the_name of the King, and we will tell you
the name of his people. Is it Cesar? The
Romans were his people. Is it Christ 'l The
circumcised of heart are his
dpeople;
"bom
again, not of corruptible see ,
but of incor-
ruptible;" 1 Pet. i. 23; and though we call
them Jews, it does not alter their character.
They retain their character, one and the
same, however various or diverse their names
may be, Judah, Israel, Jacob, Christ. There-
fore, the "glad tidings, how that the prom-
ise which was madeunto the fathers, God
hath fulfilled the same unto us, their children,
in that he hath raised up Jesus again ;"
Acts xiii. 32; these "glad tidings" make
perfect harmony of the Bible, by declaring
to us how the promised seed of Abraham is
Christ and his risensaints, and their prom-
ised land is the habitable "world to come,
whereof we speak ;" which world is not put
in subjection to angels, but to our King Jesus.
Heb. ii. 5. His people are his disciples, be-
56 isanr. Arm 'ras Hour uma:
lievers, followers, Israel, and the Jews,
"which shall be accotuited worthy to obtain
that world, and the resurrection from the
dead--and are the children of God, being
the children of the resurrection;" Luke xx.
35; even now "begotten again to a lively
hope, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ
from the dead, to an inheritance incorrupti~
ble and undeiiled and that fadeth not away,
reserved in the heaven for you, who are
kept by the power of God through faith unto
salvation, ready to be revealed in the last
time." 1 Pet. i. 3. "For you," not for car-
nal Jews; "reserved in heaven for you,"
not in miserable Palestine; by faith now,
but to be revealed when faith is swallowed
up in the vision, "in the last time."
This view of Israel, of Israel's King, and
of the promised land, comports with itself;
no inconsistency is discoverable in it. Also
it comports with the axioms laid down in
the commencement of this article, and with
the Hrst principles of Christianity, and with
the ancient creeds of all denominations. It
sustains the Pharisee against the Sadducee
in the matter of the resurrection; it interprets
the Old Testament in holy conformity to the
New; and it preserves throughout the testi-
mony of Jesus in the spirit of prophecy, even
of "Jesus and the resurrection." We hum-
bly present it to our readers, in the name of
our crucified and exalted Lord, hoping it
accords with his royal word, and will rejoice
"
'nm rnomsan LAND." 57
the soul of the faithful. Were it even a vis-
ion, it is one of glory, where Christ is, and
not of this world, where death reigns. But
it is the word of the Great King, and no vis-
ion; it is the language of the
primitive,
catholic, and reformed churches: srael are
all saints, the ransomed of the Lord, who are
bought with his most precious blood: they
return and come from the land of their dis-
persion and approach with everlasting joy
upon their heads, and are restored to the
Paradise of God, and to Jerusalem, the city
of the great King, the metropolis of the prom-
ised hol land in the habitable world to
come, oty which the crucified Jesus is the
bright and morning star, and the glorified
Jesus is the everlasting King. For "the
kingdom and dominion and the greatness of
the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be
given
to the eople of the saints of the Most
igh, whosellringdom is an everlasting king-
dom, and all dominions shall serve and obey
him." Dan. vii. 27.
