{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__saxon___the_master_key_of_love.pdf","mytitle":"The Master Key Of Love","mylang":"de"}
.
'
The Master Key
of
LOVE
and
The Psychology of Human Behaviour
... ·.:-·
~A~
~
/
New, R evised and Enlarged Edition
Series B 3
The Triangle Psychological Pub. Co.
(NOT INC.)
CHICAGO
The Master Key of Love
and
The Psychology of
Human Behaviour
Including the Psychology and Philosophy of
Human Relations
BY
HARRY 0. SAXON
+
HARRY 0. SAXON
Author and Publisher
APLIN HOTEL 27 E. HARRISON ST.
Telephone Wehster 7363
CHICAGO
Copyright 1932
by
HARRY 0. SAXON
Cop)'right 1926
by
HARRY O. SAXON
Credit Must Be Given to 'bhe Following Authorities
DR. SWINBURNE CLYMER, M.D.
DR. P. B. RANDOLPH, M.D.
FREEMAN B. Doun, F.R.C.
DR. CoLVILLE, M.D.
CHARLES F. HAANEL
MASTER KEY SYSTEM
DR. ALFRED ADLER, M.D., D.P.
DR. SIGMUND FREUD, M.D., D.D.
DON CABOT MCCOWAN, M.D., D.0.
H. SPENCER LEWIS, F.R.C.
EIGHTH EDITION
Printed in U. S. A.
DRAKE PRESS & BINDERY
Printera-Bi'llder&-Boolo Mcnufaoturera
THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
FOREWORD
There never was a time, as far as history tells
us, when the need of true sex knowledge was more
necessary.
The time has arrived according to statistics on
this subject, when divorces have increased almost
over marriages.
Young people are getting married and divorced
before they reach Manhood and Womanhood. Why?
is the universal question. The answer is very sim-
ple and will be found in this book. Never mind
what you think you know on this subject. Read
this book carefully and then you will know All that
is known on this subject. Then you will be sur-
prised to find .
how little the average man and
woman know about this beautiful and sacred sub-
ject.
The Author does not want any credit. What he
desires is to see humanity a super race of beings.
Not only physically but mentally superior to any
thing human yet known. Do not read this book to
believe or to disbelieve. Read it to know. There
is only one way to get anything and that is create
~~ it and if these United States wants to become a
great nation, we will have to create great and
strong children.
So mote it be.
H. 0. SAXON.
3
THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
FIRST DIVISION
Love
Its Nature and Realization
We have many definitions for the word or term
Love and in all philosophies love is given such a
wide and abstract meaning that, after all our an-
alysis of it, we do not thoroughly understand it.
Buddhism considers love as one of the Viharas or
Sublime Condition, the others being sorrow, joy
and equanimity. In the Christian doctrine we find
love interpreted as one of the central motions upon
which good conduct depends, the other notion be-
ing faith. On Love depends the "fulfilling of the
law," and the sole moral value of Christian duty-
that is, on love to God, in the first place, and sec-
ondly love to all manind.
Out of this love of God and mankind comes The
Ideality.
So our definition of Love is a conscious realiza-
tion of ideality.
Now let us analyze this statement. We find, first
of all, that Love is a conscious realization. Love
has been crudely yet correctly termed an emotion.
It is an emotion because it is sensed, realized; it is
an emotion because it stimulates certain nerve cen-
ters and produces certain physiological conditions.
Iii
6 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
In the process of mental realization to physio-
logical actuality we have involved the difference
essentially between reality and actuality. Thus in
some cases Love may be a conscious realization
without resulting in an actual stimulus. We know
we Love. Love itself naturally presupposes a re-
alization of something; without its realization it is
not possible. To love requires apperciation of its
realization-but realization of what? Physiologic-
ally the only condition that is actually made con-
scious is in a degree proportionate to the degree of
realization of the element making for love.
Thus love is capable of intensity, depth and ex-
pression.
When the conscious realization of love is ex-
treme, full, satisfying, it produces the maximum of
stimulation on the nerve centers just as do joy,
sorrow, fright, anger and other elements of emo-
tion, and whereas in all other emotions an effect of
exhilaration, excitement and rising spirit is felt and
experienced, Love produces a calmness, peace, quiet·
ing of the nerves, an attunement with harmony
which is not resultant from any other emotion.
So we say that Love is a conscious realization of
Ideality
Take the normal young man or woman in search
of a mate ·or his or her ideal of a ~ate. 'They go
out to search for their Ideal. Do they find it?
No, they do not. Why? Because they allow them-
selVes to be carried away with passion, which may
be a grade of Love but can hardly be called Love.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 7
Just fancy, the average young man tells the aver-
age girl she is his ideal woman; just fancy picks
her from among all the daughters of men to be his
wife; and strange to relate, he really believes it,
too. She also more often than not thinks he is
the greatest young man in the world, etc., and car-
ried away by a degree of love they get married
and do not live happy ever after. How sad, but
how true. Well, it can all be avoided and we will
show you how before you finish reading this book.
Now, we cannot go into detail here about the
causes of disappointments before and after mar-
riage. But it is a well known fact that the greater
part of them .could be avoided if young people un-
derstood Psychology and Psycho-analysis. Owing
to this complex civilization under which we live 98
per cent of us have "complexes," if we are to be-
lieve the very greatest minds that this century has
produced; so in the next chapter we will give you
some very interesting facts about Sex complexes
and how they can and are being overcome.
THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
SECOND DIVISION
Complexity of Sex and Sublimation
Sigmund Freud, M. D., D. D., the father of
psycho-analysis and probably the world's greatest
authority on the subject of sexual suppression and
perversion which influence man materially in so
far as health, strength, normality and success are
concerned, voiced his professional opinion thus:
"The sexual instinct, or accurately speak-
ing, the sexual instincts (for analysis re-
veals that the sexual instinct consists of
many elements, of many partial instincts) is
undoubtedly more developed in man than in
the majority of the higher animals; at any
rate it is more constant in man for it has
almost entirely outgrown the periodicity
which characterizes it in animals. Owing to
its peculiar capacity to change its object
without losing any of its intensity it places
great amounts of energy at the disposal of
civilization. That faculty to exchange the
original sexual object for another object, no
longer sexual but psychic in nature, is known
as the faculty of sublimation. (1)
"In contrast with the versatility of the
sexual instinct wherein resides its cultural
value, we observe in the sexual instinct also
8
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 9
a stubborn fixity which makes it impossible
to transvaluate it entirely and leads to what
we call abnormalities. (2)
"The original intensity of the sexual in-
stinct must vary greatly in each individual;
at any rate the proportion of it which lends
itself to the process of sublimation is ex-
tremely variable. (3)
"We may well imagine that the person's
organization determines in every individual
case what part of the sexual instinct can be
sitblimated and transvaluated, and the influ-
ences of life and the intellectual influence of
the psychic apparatus extends somewhat
further the process of sublimation. (4)
"But the process cannot be carried on ad
infinitum any more than the mechanical
transformation of heat into energy. (5)
The majority of human organisms seem to
require a certain amount of direct sexual
gratification, and the lack of that gratifica-
tion, whose amount varies with every indi-
vidual (6) bring forth manifestations which,
on account of their functional harmfulness,
and of their subjective character of unpleas-
antness, we must consider as pathological."
(7)
1. The Art of Sublimation, which is termed the
Science of Transmutation, was taught continually
and successfully by the Randolphian or Redrosian
school for more than fifty years previous to the
10 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
publication by Freud of his theories and experi-
ences.
In the school mentioned, sex was considered as
the dynamic energy, the potential force, underlying
all successful achievements. It was, and still is
maintained that the primary object of the creative
power is the reproduction of the species, but aside
from this, and of greater importance to the indi-
vidual, is the employment of the potency for the
Rejuvenation and Regeneration of the self-being,
and inclusive of this process is the resultant health,
strength, efficiency, success and final spiritualiza-
tion of the inner man, the Soul.
Freud terms this the "faculty of sublimation,''
and correctly so. He is dealing with the r:efine-
ment of the gross sex power, or passionate nature,
into the potent energy which prevents man from
falling into . degrading habits-by misuse of the
constructive power.
The method for the accomplishment of the power
of transmutation, or Sublimation, has been the
quest of the ·ages.
2. Instinctively an normal men seek to express
their creative impulses in the propagation of the
species. But herein is ·the enigma, there is a con-
stant urge for further and other exercise. Due to
the universal ignorance of any other avenues for
the expression of the creative nature, except that
of procreation, men either suppress or abuse the
godly function. As so thoroughly pc;>inted out by
Freud-the result is neuratic or neurasthenic con-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 11
ditions if the desires are suppressed; or the degra-
dation and degeneration ·Of body, mind and soul if
unholy exercise is permitted the creative energy.
Freud was not by any means original in his the-
ories or experiences. Centuries before the Chris-
tian era a master of men had thoroughly learned
these lessons by daily, hourly and minutely watch-
ing a nation of formerly healthy men and women
being decimated because of their unholy expression
of the creative passion. Moses was the greatest
psycho-analyst and instructor in the Art of Sub-
limation known to the human race.
3. Individuals differ greatly. Each human be-
ing is a law unto himself and must be personally,
characteristically and individually considered. The
Redrosian school has always done this. It has
sought for the weakest link in each individual
chain; the while laboring to strengthen that weak-
ness, at the same time transmuting the greater
strength into refined elements, thus establishing a
state of health, strength, potency, normality, suc-
cess and spiritualization-in the individual.
4. Not only is it essential to analyze the per-
sonal characteristics of the individual, it is just as
necessary to determine to what degree the mind-
these thoughts and desires-are governed by sex
longings. If these aspirations, having their foun-
dation in the creative nature, are below par they
must be strengthened, otherwise the person is
negative, inert, and a failure; vice versa, if there
is an ungovernable inclination toward continued
and unseaonable expression, the thoughts and de-
12 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
sires, through a process of sublimation, or trans-
mutation, must be turned into other channels, such
as success in the Arts, the Sciences and other es-
thetic labors, or into avenues leading to achieve-
ment in J:msiness or constructive enterprise.
5. Illogical and unreasonable as it may at first
appear, there is actual danger in carrying the proc•
.ess of transmutation or ·spiritualization too far.
Total non-physical expression is capable of inducing
a mental-physical state analogous to that of degen-
erative practices. The only sane and normal state
is that of equilibrium. Physical expression must
not be .entirely suppressed. Nature has an equal
demand with the Divine on man. ·
Continual, exclusive and unceasing-therefore
unreasonable--laboring to turn the Cl'.eative (sex)
energy into Spiritual channels frequently, nay al-
most always, ends in mental and physical inertia-
a dangerous neurosis-more difficult to overcome
than conditions resulting from libertinism.
6. The human organism must be considered as
a complete unit. Its requirements, both physical
and spiritual, must have the most careful, sane and
logical attention. The body must be strengthened,
the creative energy elevated and controlled. Only
then can man be at his highest spiritual state,
mental efficiency and physical strength.
7. When man (or woman) has so misused him-
self as to have induced functional disorders, men-:
tal inertia, creative weakness or abnormal tenden-
cies, he becomes "a case" and is· in immediate need
of analytical attention. Destructive habits must be
14 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
body in ignorance, perhaps deeper than his
own.
"All criminals and parasites have a feeling
of inferiority and compensate in the wrong
way. Instead of going to work, the burglar
will take your money and perhaps kill you if
you resist him. The professional beggar will
disarm you with his tears.
"Other neurotics feel inferior to the task.
of living in this world of struggle and compe-
tition. They create an absurd world of their
own in which they live. Then we call them
insane·
. Instead of trying to be wealthy and
powerful by socially acceptable m~ns, study,
work, co-operation with their fellow beings,
they 'imagine' they are all those things and
become violent when we contradict them.
"Every nervous disease, be it a headache,
or epilepsy, or loss of memory or stammer-
ing, or absolute insanity is an asset to the
diseased person. It makes him a privileged
character, enables him to shirk his duties, to
become a parasite on his family or the com-
munity.
"The cure (generally and in part) consists
in revealing to the neurotic what he is try-
ing unconsciously to do through his nervous
ailment and then develop in him a sense of
his obligations to the community. After
which the neurotic will seek happiness* in
less direct but more social and ethical ways."
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 13
eliminated; elevating thoughts and desires instilled;
constructive practices daily pursued and normality
established.
Dr. Alfred Adler of Vienna
Dr. Adler, internationally known as a physician
and acknowledged as one of the world's greatest
psychologists, has this to say. To quote him:
"All mental disturbances can be traced
back to some 'feeling of inferiority' which
compels the person suffering from it to seek
easier, safer ways. There may be something
the matter with our heart, our stomach, some
gland, our appearance, etc.
"Like Nature herself, we constantly seek
compensation. When a kidney is removed,
for instance, the other kidney grows larger
and does as much work as two did.
"When we feel inferior in some way, we
try to gain superiority in other ways. The
normal man seeks a kind of superiority,
which will be good for him and others ; if
weak he will go to a gymnasium and develop
a set of good muscles. The abnormal man,
on the contrary, will compensate in the
wrong, unsocial, selfish way. He is weak.
Instead of becoming strong, he will try to
make everybody weak or imagine that every-
body is weak. He is ignorant. Instead of
learning something he will try to keep every-
16 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
accepting the statement that the· Soul of man-
that one part of the human which is directly from .
the Divine, can be commercialized wihout destroy-
ing it.
Irrespective of the completeness of Man's knowl-
edge of Psychological Law, if the creative function
has been weakened, debased or destroyed, there can
be neither mental energy nor physical strength.
Without these failure is assured. In addition to
these acquirements a thorough knowledge of the
subject in which one desires to achieve must be
attained.
As an ilustration, let us state that in an inves-
tigation of more than twenty-five hundred men and
women who had taken courses in so-called Psychol-
ogy and momentarily been deluded into the belief
that "mind is all potent" irrespective of physical
conditions, only three actually succeeded. The rest
returned to their previous state of mental inertia.
Health-Strength-Success-Immortality
Desirable as these are, they have their beginning
(as the mighty river in the mountain springlet)
in intellectual understanding and the strengthenecI,
purified, exalted sex life.
Seeking all lawful attainable knowledge on the
subject is there~ore man's duty, and quickly re-
turns him the greatest compensation for time,
money and energy expended in the research.
The true physician, philosopher, scientist and
psychologist, the thoroughly awakened man and
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 15
. The Psychologist
The true Psychologist--the man and woman giv-
ing serious study to Psychological science with the
sincere intention of benefiting the race, has been,
like the Physician, forced to the conclusion that
even with a complete fUndamental knowledge of
all the laws (were that possible) governing mind
and soul, the application of these laws to the end
of health, strength, efficiency and success is utterly
impossible if the sex-the creative function-is
weak, debased, degraded, suppressed or destroyed.
The Pseudo-Psychologist
W are well aware that America, more than any
other country in the world today, is the "happy
hunting ground" for a numerous brood of those
who have given a superficial study to the potency
of mental vibratory forces; that these are drawing
audiences numbering thousands; inculcating super-
ficial, though flowery, dogmatic statements, which
they term "laws of success,'' and, because of their
personality, are inducing their listeners to believe
that if they- the hearers-will but enroll for their
course, they will quickly meet with success, gather
the shekels and be able to spend nine-tenths of
their time on expensive vacations. As one of these
empirics voices it: "Commercializing Your Sub-
conscious Mind." Imagine it! A gullible people
*Dr. Adler unconscioualy sums up the " whole law and prophets" in
the one word "Happiness." Evidently, subconsciously, he admits that
"happiness" is the aim and end of life.
18 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
hidden thoughts and impulses which, for lack of a
better name, we call "subsconciousness," and bring
to the surface facts and conditions amazing to the
patient himself.
The indiscriminate and inaccurate use of the
word "sex" in connection with modern psycho-an-
alysis has, unfortunately, led to much misunder-
standing and confusion on the subject. "Sex com-
plex," in the sense in which it is employed in pres-
ent day psycho-analysis, is a broad term including
many different things not ordinarily identified with
the word "sex." Love of home, love of family, and
love of wife or husband, to quote familiar exam-
ples, might properly be described,.from the stand-
point of psycho-analysis, as "sex complexes." ·
·A man goes to ~ physician, for example, and
complains of headaches or even some more serious
localized symptom. A thorough examination of the
patient fails to reveal any underlying cause of the
symptom complained of. Here, then, is a physical
ailment without any real physical reason for its ex- ·
istence. It develops that the man is away from
home and has had word that his wife has taken
sick. He is unable to go home and has been over-
wrought with anxiety over his wife's illness and
the welfare of the children. The worry and the
anxiety have precipitated, as it were, in the form
of a localized physical aillnent. A clear case ot
physical trouble due to mental anxiety originating
in a readily discernible "sex complex"-love of wife
and family.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 17
woman in whom has been born the longing to
attain the highest is no longer satisfied with the
husk of the knowable facts concerning procreative
and recreative Laws. These demand The Truth,
the highest, most divine knowledge obtainable.
. .
Sex Complexes
Probably the most prominent modern investiga-
tor into mental states and their influence upon gen-
eral health and well-be~ng was .Freud. Of recent
years there has come prominently before the public
a so-called "new" science of health and happiness
called psycho-analysis and based largely upon
Freud's teachings.
Freud's experiments led him to conclude that all
human troubles are traceable, in the last analysis,
to a sex complex in some form. In many cases-
perhaps most cases-the last fundamental root-
ci:tuse of the thing complained of is so obscured that
it is extremely difficult to make the "last analysis."
Frequently, patients themselves are not conscious
of an yunderlying sex complex. Many times, the
suggestion that such a fundamental cause may ex-
ist is indignantly dismissed as absurd-particularly
by cultured women with all the instincts of delicate
refinement. To such a woman, the suggestion
seems to verge upon the indecent, and she will have
none ·of it. Yet, Freud found that, even in cases
where it seemed almost impossible to trace back to
a sex complex, he could, with adroit searching of
the patient's mind, delve deep into that vast pool of
THE PSYCHOLOGY -OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 19
Few cases, of course, are so obvious and so read-
ily analyzed as ·this. Yet, psycho-analysis has
established to the satisfaction of the foremost phy-
sicians and psychologists that in back of every case
that comes to a doctor in his practice there lies a
sex complex of some sort-if it can be but reached!
The patient himself may be entirely unconscious of
the fact that sex repression of some sort is at the
root of his ailment. Nevertheless, psycho-analysts
are satisfied that it is there, whether discovered or
not. In the case described above, of course, the
sex repression lay in the fact that the patient, by
reason of his inability to go home at the time, was
obliged to repress the natural urgings of his love
of wife and family.
Happiness: Love
An Approach to the Personal Problem
· In the working out of any personal problem-in
fact, of any human problem-unquestionably the
most important and at the same time the most elu-
sive element to be reckoned with, is that intangible
something peculiar to the individual which (for
lack of a better name) we call the "personal equa-
tion."
To deal with the various factors entering into
the make-up of a man or woman is to deal with
shifting sands. Each individual--so far as per-
sonality is concerned-is as a law unto himself or
herself. In not two persons is it ever possible to
20 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
find exactly duplicated the same balance of im-
pulses, habits, virtues, vices and lines of thought.
True,· we .have certain common denominators of
human conduct such as the law, the accepted moral
code, convention and, perhaps, that somewhat
vague and much abused standard of action called
"common sense." Outward conformity to these
norms, however, simply means that society's dic-
tates of behavior have been followed; by no means
does it imply that identical thought and stimuli
have actuated those who obey.
Individuality holds sway in each and every mem-
ber of .the human race. Our present day highly
organized .civilization, operating under established
customs and rules of action, forces most of us into
an apparent sameness of mind and behavior - as
far as all outward signs are concerned at least -
while within each heart and brain there often
seethe thoughts and impulses entirely at variance
with the outward actions. Occasionally, these in-
ward urges prove so strong that the fetters of law
and convention are thrown off and outward expres-
sion is given to the heretofore hidden thought-
ofttimes, unfortunately, to the ultimate harm and
distress of the individual.
Unique as are the circumstances in each individ-
ual case, nevertheless there -
exists a general start~
ing point from which consideration and solution of
the personal problem may be approached. That
starting point lies in the common aim or goal of
all mankind: happiness. Every individual wants
to be happy and is striving for .that, one way and
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN REHAVIOUR 21
another. Just as the moral, mental and physical
make-up varies with each individual, so does his
idea of happiness. To the guilty conscience happi-
ness means peace of mind. To the ambitious man
happiness is represented by wealth and power.
To the ascetic, happiness is moral exaltation. To
the scholar, happiness means knowledge. To the
sick, happiness lies in recovering health.
So we see everyone has his different idea of
what constitutes happiness for him. But funda-
mentally we all agree happiness means everything
to us all.
But how few attain happiness. Men make mil-
lions in business, and lose their health mostly in
doing so; is tlmt happiness? Emphatically no.
The only fun the average millionaire gets out of
his millions is the getting of it. Money has been
called the root of all evil. Well, it may be, but it
is certainly very useful here, and no matter how
angelic you may become, you will not be able to do
much good without it. Money is a means to an end.
A ·serv~nt, not a master, and anyone who loses love
or health over money is to be pitied.
Love is the Real Happiness. It does not matter
much who you love or what. But we really live by
Love, _
although we do not actually realize it. Peo-
ple do not commit suicide (unless mentally unbal-
anced) if they have someone or something to love.
Many a dog has saved people from destroying
themselves. So love much. Love is the Law. Love
under Will.
22 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
Love and Its Power
Love can take the stars out of the sky and jug-
gle with them. The old Jew in "The Golu.m" did
that for the love of his people. Love is the most
strong and terrible thing on earth. But it is also
the most beautiful created thing, because it creates
all. Without love there would be no life, because
it is Life. Life incarnate. Life is life in its full-
ness of Love. Love is the feeling in Spirit, and
Spirit is all; because if we take away the spirit,
there is not life. Spirit is the essence of life ever-
lasting. We see life or spirit in all created things.
Love produces Life and Power. The miser who
lives for gold will spend all for a loving woman.
The genius will be full of inspiration and write,
play, and sing beautiful songs for Love.
The Power of Love has driven people to commit
suicide. The wise man, and the great man, are
full of wisdom, but Love sometimes drives them
foolish. The brave man is made weak. The cow-
ard is made strong by Love. Because Love rules
the Universe. Love made darkness into Light and
is God incarnate.
Love is the Law. Love under Will.
THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
THIRD DIVISION
THE PRINCIPLES OF HARMONY
Applied to the Selection of Sexual Consorts
Thi,s division contains a clear exposition of the
laws of Nature governing the s.election of com'[><Ln-
ions for life. It shows what temperaments are
adapted to each other, and what are discordant, and
the reason why. It .explains the great laws of elec-
tro-magnetic affinity, the relation of the anatomical
te.onperaments, and the laws of chemical affinity as
expressed in human organization. It also gives
direction for the detection of organic sexual weak-
ness in either sex and the signs of complete manihood
and womanhood. It is the design of the author to
instruct every young man and woman in the prin-
ciples that underlie the conditions of happiness in
the marriage relation, so that no mistake will be
made in the selection of a companion for life. It
shows
1. How to judge what temperament in suitable to
your own.
2. How to test the possibility of love and enioy-
ment of companionship.
23
24 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
3. How to avoid those who are unfit for matri,..
mony by disease or organic incompleteness.
4. How to conduct a magnetic courtSthip.
5. How to preserve the harmonies when they
have been secured.
6. Causes and cure of jealousy.
7. The true philosophy of divorce, showing for
what reasons and how a marriage should be termi-
nated, and the behavoir of the parties after divorce.
Modern society has established the conventional
marriage after many years of evolution. It is sup-
posed to be an ideal state, in which the parties find
great felicity; but this supposition is seldom realized
in practical experience. As a matter of fact, obser-
vation justifies the belief that the great majority of
marriages are positively unhappy, and it is well
known that some are completely destructive of life
and health. · These unhappy conditions cannot be
ascribed to evil actions or bad character ·of the par-
ties, or of either of them, in many ·cases. Some of
the most deplorable conditions I have ever observed
have existed in marriages in which both parties
possessed exalted ·character and ·were actuated by
the loftiest impulses of devotion and love.
The · true law of happiness may be declared in
these words: THE PARTIES MUST BE ADAPTED
TO EACH OTHER IN THEIR PHYSICAL OR-
GANIZATIONS, AND THEY MUST UNDER-
STAND THE Ll\WS OF HARMONY AND PRAC-
TICE HUMAN ASSOCIATION WITH THE SAME
SKILL WITH WHICH MUSICIANS PRACTICE
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 25
MUSIC. To do this successfully requires a knowlr
edge of the elements of human character as the
musician must understand h°is instrument. The in-
strument (i.e., the huma;n characters associated),
must be such as can be adjusted to l/w,rmony, and
the laws of harmony must be observed in producing
the music of human happiness.
Proper Selection of Sexual Consorts
and the Harmony Which Results
Therefrom
First
How to Tell What Temperament Is
Suitable to Your Own
The temperament of any individual is made up
of a great many conditions. The seven primary
conditions of temperament are called, the Electric,
the Magnetic, the Motive, the Vital, the Mental,
the Acid, and the Alkali. As the names indicate,
the first two of these relate to the relative propor-
tion of electric or magnetic conditions, the next
three to anatomical development, and the last two
to relative proportion of chemical elements. The
temperament of the individual is the fin.al propor-
tion in which all these elements combine in his con-
stitution, .and to make a perfect affinity his consort
should have a temperament in which the elements
26 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
are so blended that those which are strong in him
shall have a corresponding strength of the harmo-
nious elements in her. That is to say, electricity
should be harmoniously opposed to magnetism, acid
to alkali, the anatomical temperaments should be so
blended as to secure harmonious relations other-
wise.
It is not unusual that we find the ~mperamental
elements uniformly distributed over ·the whole in-
dividual so as to make his whole body belong to the
same temperament. This occurs sometimes, and in
such cases the individual is adapted to a person of
the opposite S€X who has a corresponding tempera-
ment. But as a general rule, a careful analysis
has to be made of various parts of the body to de-
termine the temperament of each. Thus it often
happens that a man will be electric in his brain
and magnetic in his digestive organs, acid in the
upper part of his face and alkali in the lower, mo-
tive in his legs and vital in his trunk, etc. ; and in
all of these cases it is true that he should have a
different, but harmonious condition in his consort.
To understand my analysis of this subject, the
reader must remember that electricity is always
manifested by the states of gravity, respectivity,
coldness, and darkness; that magnetism is always
manifested by the states of. vibration, radiation,
heat, and light. So whenever we find any part of
the body dominated by electricity, that part will
always be found to be dark and cold, and if it is
dominated by magnetism it will be found to be
light colored and warm. In studying the tempera-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 27
ment of the individual, I consider it first as a
whole, in general appearance of the body, and then
observe particularly the temperament of the skin,
the digestive organs, the heart, the lungs. The
relative states of electricity and magnetism of
these parts of the constitution being determined,
there is not much else that is likely to exert any
controlling influence.
The electro-magnetic conditions of the sexual
organs is indicated by the color of the organs
themselves and by the color of the beard. Where
electricity dominates, the organs will be dark in
complexion and the beard will be dark or black,
according to the intensity of the condition. Where
magnetism dominates, the organs will be ruddy in
color, the beard will be light brown, red or flaxen,
according to the degree of magnetism. Females as
a rule, develop no pronounced beards, but an in-
spection of the dovm on the upper lip and the
cheeks will show what the color would be if the
beard were developed. It is hardly necessary to
add that the most delightful effects of sexual inter-
course can only be experienced by those whose
sexual organs are harmonious in temperamental
adaption.
Those who are electric in the skin have a dark
skin, while the magnetic skin is ruddy, in all sex-
ual association the electro-magnetic conditions de-
veloped in the skin are important factors in the
pleasures to be derived from personal contact, and
persons who possess the same conditions are natu-
rally repulsive to each other, while those who pos-
28 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
sess harmonious conditions find that personal con-
tact is always delightful and productive of health
on both sides.
The electro-magnetic conditions of the digestive
organs is indicated by the color and temperature
of the lips, tongue and mucus membrane lining in
the mouth. Here, as in all other cases, the electric
condition is indicated by dark color and cool tem-
perature. A magnetic condition will be indicated
by a bright red in the lips and tongue, while the
gums and mucus lining of the mouth will be much
paler than in the electric temperament. It is a
great truth, not generally known, that persons pos-
sessing .the magnetic condition of the digestive
organs are repelled by persons having a similar
condition, while those of an electric type are re-
pelled from persons having the electric state. The
most delightful effects are produced by the union
of harmonious conditions here as elsewhere.
The electro-magnetic condition of the heart is
indicated by the temperature of the chi.n and ex-
tremities. Persons who are ruddy or florid in com-
plexion of the chin, and who have warm hands and
feet, are magnetic in the heart, and possess a
powerful circulation. This is one of the most im-
portant conditions of temperament, and in the se-
lection of a consort it is imperatively necessary to
select a person whose .circulation is opposite to
your own.
The electro-magnetic condition of the brain is
indicated by the color of the hair. The darker the
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 29
color of the hair, the more electric. The lighter the
color of the hair, the more magnetic the condition
of the brain. It follows therefore that two per-
sons having the same color of the hair never can
be harmonious in their intellectual processes, be-
cause they possess brains which are approximately
in the same electro-magnetic condition, and there-
fore antagonistic.
Black hair harmonizes well with all the colors
above brown, including red. Brown hair, if dark,
will harmonize with light brown, red, and golden.
Dark red hair will harmonize with light .brown,
golden and flaxen. Light red hair will harmonize
with dark brown and black. Light brown harmon-
izes with black, dark brown, and dark red.
The electro-magnetic condition of the lungs is in-
dicated by the nostrils. Persons who have electric
lungs have dark nostrils and the breath is _
cool.
Persons who have magnetic lungs have wide and
red nostrils and the breath is usually warm. The
pleasure of sexual companionship is greatly en-
hanced by a correct condition of harmonious asso-
ciation in this particular.
The electro-magnetic condition of the cerebellum
is indicated by the color of the eyes. The cerebel-
lum is the seat of amativeness, or sexual love, and
the eyes indicate the harmonies of this passion as
the hair indicates the harmonies of purely intellec-
tual intercourse. The association of two persons
having the same color of eyes is sexually antag-
onistic, because the cerebellum of each is in the
same condition. To secure the highest expression
30 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
of sexual passion the cerebellum of one person
must be electric and the other magnetic. For this
reason blue eyes are harmonious with dark brown,
violet with hazel, gray eyes with brown; while
those persons whose eyes are mottled with a mix-
ture of blue and brown may consort with either
light blue or dark brown, heing careful to select
the color which is least represented in their own.
It is impossible to emphasize too greatly the im-
portance of harmonious adaption in these particu-
lars. Love is simply the mutual attraction existing
between positive and negative forces, and the ac-
tion of these forces is entirely dependent upon
electro-magnetic conditions. The reason why any
man loves any woman or· any woman loves any
man, is simply because he has magnetic conditions
which correspond to her electric ones, and vice
versa. The reason a hungry man loves food or an
overheated one seeks shade is found in the under-
standing of the same great principle. Hence it
follows that when one or more of these conditions
are harmonious and the rest are inharmonious,
there will be some gratification between the parties,
but it will fall short of a cOilllplete happiness just
as much as the adaption is lacking in complete
obedience to the great law of electro-magnetic affin-
ity. Thus we will suppose the case of a man and
woman who are adapted to each other in every-
thing except the·color of the eyes. They may have
the most delightful experiences in mere intellectual
conversation; they may enjoy personal contact,
kisses and caresses, and even sexual intercourse to
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 31
a great degree (if these organs are all harmoni-
ous); but they will fall short of the realization of
complete harmony in sexual passion, because the
cerebellum of each is in the same electro-magnetic
state, and they will fail to reach the same electro-
magnetic state, and they will fail to reach the
highest forms of ecstatic experience. In the case
of a man and a wo:qian who are harmonious in
every point except the color of the hair, there may
be ecstatic sexual experience, great pleasure in per-
sonal contact and caresses, but they will be antag-
onistic in their habits of thought, and will not be
able to afford each other mutual assistance and co-
operation in purely mental occupations. While it
is true that a compani~nship involving the loss of
only one condition of adaptation might be infinitely
better than none, or the results attained in the
average marriage, every well organized person will
concede that where complete happiness is possible
of attainment, it is folly to accept anything less.
The electro-magnetic conditions are the great
fundamental facts to be considered in estimating
any adaptation for companionship. But the ana-
tomical and chemical relations are important inci-
dentals which aid us in understanding the minute
details of the electro-magnetic conditions, and must
never be treated with neglect. These anatomical
and chemical relations of the various parts of the
body enable us to determine the relative intensity
of the action of the electro-magnetic forces.
Thus it may be stated, as a general rule, that
the anatomical conditions indicating the vital tern-
32 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
perament in any part of the body are an evidence
that that part of the body is more magnetic than
electric, that the conditions indicating the Motive
Temperament are an evidence that the part is more
electric than magnetic, and that the conditions in-
dicati'ng the Mental Temperament are an evidence
that magnetism is more rapidly radiated, and that
the body will pass rapidly from positive to negative
conditions, and vice versa.
For the foregoing reasons, therefore, we should
select for a person having the Vital Temperament
a companion who possesses a strong endowment of
the Motive, while those persons who are deficient
in Vital development are naturally associated with
those who are stronger in this element. This prin-
ciple should be extended to different parts of the
body. It is not unusual to find a person who is
vital in the form of the trunk who is nevertheless
very muscular in the arms and legs. Such a per-
son should be associated with a companion in which
these conditions are reversed. And it is equally
true that where there is a strong endowment of the
Mental Temperament, causing a rapid expenditure
of magnetism, association should be made with a
person who has less of the Mental and more of the
Vital and Motive, while those persons who are
deficient in mental vivacity and rapidity should be
associated with persons who possess a stronger
endowment.
I do not wish to be misunderstood here as advo-
cating the union of great extremes of development.
I do not think that the best results are obtainable
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 33
in companionship of extremes. I do not advocate
that a very fat man should consort with a living
skeleton; that a man six feet tall should select a
woman under five feet in height; nor that a dull
stupid man should be joined to a b.right vivacious
woman. I do not hesitate to assert, however, that
the union of such extremes, as a general rule,
would be more happy than the union of persons of
similar character. But in the exercise of good
sense and judgment, the reader will understand
that an excess in any direction is to be counter-
acted by a difference in the consort, which will in
a harmonious degree correct the eccentricity.
The inferences to be drawn from the chemical
conditions of temperament are as follows: Where
the Acid Temperament exists, it indicates an excess
of one of the elements of chemical equilibrium and
it should be neutralized by the opposition of the
other element, viz., the Alkali. Acid persons will
show in their conduct, in their vivacity and quick
actions, rapid thoughts, and sometimes in sharpness
of temper, the corrosive action of the excessive ele-
ment. Alkali persons on the other hand show by
their slow and deliberate action, the absence of the
acid stimulant. When these temperaments are
united harmoniously, a great beneficial mutual in-
fluence results. The alkali person is excited to
quicker and more effective action; the acid person
is soothed and restrained. The most important
effect is shown in the result of sexual intercourse
and in kisses and caresses. Sexual intercourse be-
tween two persons of the Alkali Temperament is
34 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
stale, flat, and unprofitable; between two persons of
the Acid Temperament it is irritating and ~xhaust­
ing; between persons harmoniously adapted in
these particulars it is, when properly performed,
exquisitely enjoyable and mutually beneficial. The
same results are experienced in a minor degree in
the effects of kisses and caresses. The reader who
will study the doctrines set forth by me in my
divisions, Nos. 3 and 4, will understand at once that
it is impossible for parents possessing the same
chemical conditions of temperament to produce
perfect offspring or to experience the highest joys
of the act of sexual intercourse.
The Acid Temperament is distinguished by con-
vexity of feature and sharpness of angles; the
Alkali Temperament by concavity of features and
the absence of angles. This is true both as to the
general contour of the body and the outline of
each feature.
In the Acid Temperament the body is usually
slender (never fat), angular in contour, and of
medium weight. The face is pyriform, or oval, in
general outline, convex in profile; the chin round-
sometimes slightly retreating; the teeth sharp, and
arranged in a convex form of jaw-sometimes pro-
jecting. The tongue is sharp and round, and the
lips prominent, whether full or thin; the nose is
not so sharp (generally_Roman); but when the
acidity is not so pronounced it may be straight.
The eyebrows are prominent; cheekbones usually
so; the forehead slightly retreating, and most
prominent at the base.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 35
The Alkali Temperament is distinguished by the
reverse of the foregoing conditions. The body is
plump, often fat, rounded in contour; weight usu-
ally heavy. The face is round in general outline
and concave in profile. The chin projects forward
at the base. The teeth are flat, or receding in ar-
rangement in the jaw, causing the mouth to fall in
slightly, a·dding to the general concavity. The
tongue is broad and flat; the lips usually finely
formed, but concave; the nose concave, sometimes
degenerating into a pug; the cheekbones and lower
part of the forehead not prominent; the forehead
flat above the eyebrows, bulging at the top, usually
high and wide at the top.
When the Acid and Alkali Temperaments are
blended in the individual, causing some of the
features to take to acid and others the alkali forms,
great care should be taken to select a consort hav-
ing the opposite condition of each feature. It must
be constantly borne in mind that the sweetness of
sexual intercourse is always in direct proportion
to the intensity of the magnetic current, and that
this intensity depends upon features being opposite
to features in harmonious conditions throughout the
entire organization. For instance, the acidity ex-
pressed in the forehead of one person could not be
harmoniously set against the alkali expressed in the
chin of the consort, because the forhead and chin
have no sexual correspondence. Each · feature ex-
presses the condition of a department of the organ-
ization which must be harmoniously opposed by a
36 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
different condition in the same department of the
character of the consort.
I am sometimes criticised by those·who have only
a smattering of physiological knowledge for empha-
sizing too much the temperamental conditions of
adaption. In the light of these explanations of
effect, I think, the candid reader will agree with
me that it is impossible to dwell too strongly upon
their importance. It is also true, that when the
temperaments are harmoniously adapted the sexual
organs will also be adapted, unless there is sQlne
congenital deformity which makes the character so
eccentric as to place it outside of all general rules
for calculation.
The temperament governs the form of the head
and the relative activity of the brain organs to a
great degree. It will be found by examination that
persons possessing the same temperament in all
particulars will agree substantially in the develop-
ment of the organs of the brain and in the mani-
festations of character. It is a general rule that
the largest and most active organs .of any given
brain are more magnetic in their conditions than
those which are smaller and less active. To secure
perfect electro-magnetic opposition, it is therefore
important that persons having very active and pow-
erful development of the brain should select com-
panions who are less powerful and active in these
departments and more active and powerful in those
which are comparatively dormant in the first in-
stance. I advise those persons who are large in
love to select those who are "medium" in develop-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 37
ment; but never advise them to select a person who
is "small" in any department. There is a great
difference in having an organ or group of organs
medium in size and dormant in action, and there-
fore capable of being a·roused to a great degree of
enjoyment by the superior magnetism of a compan-
ion, and that condition which represents weakness
and deformity. It is necessary for a man of large
amative affection to select a woman of good, full,
medium, or even large development; but if he .is
magnetic and positive in the action of this organ,
she should be electric and negative, and then both
will experience the highest degree of pleasure, be-
cause she will be capable of receiving his love, and
he will be capable of furnishing enough to satisfy
her. The same principle applies to all organs and
groups of organs. A person who is strong in lan-
guage, and who loves to talk, will be antagonized
by one who possesses the same characteristics. On
the other hand, he does not want a dumb person
for a companion, but one who possesses the organ
of langµage sufficiently large to ask questions and
suggest further conversation but possessing a
receptive condition which may profitably absorb
the information which the first person is so ready
to impart.
The careful observation of the rules of tempera-
mental affinity which I have discussed in the pre-
ceding paragraphs, constitutes the only method by
which .this congenial and agreeable relationship
can be established. It may be remarked that the
adaptation of conditions of organic quality are gov-
38 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
erned by the same general rules, persons possessing
very great strength being benefited by association
with those who have relatively greater delicacy and
responsiveness, etc.
How to Test the Possibility of Love and the
Enjoyment of Companionship
Courtship is an institution of modern society,
designed to afford the prospective candidates for
matrimony an opportunity to test their affections
and to become acquainted with each other's char-
acteristics. But as the parties are- usually ignorant
of the first principles of character study, the proc-
ess is very much like bringing an ignorant boy or
girl into the presence of an exquisite musical in-
strume1rt and ~xpecting such a novice to produce
harmony. The ridiculous and destructive false
modesty with which nearly all persons treat the
subjects of marriage and the sexual relations pre-
cludes the possibility of giving intelligent instruc-
tion in most cases.
I will also assume that the reader has selected a
candidate who in physical aspect seems to realize
the harmonious adaption of the temperamental con-
ditions; also, that the family history, the education,
accomplishments, and personal appearance are sat-
isfactory, and that both parties are actuated by a
sincere desire to ascertain whether a congenial con-
dition exists. As courtship is generally conducted,
no intimacy is allowed until the young man has
declared his love and proposed matrimony. If the
<. .
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 39
young lady for any reason thinks he is a desirable
match, she accepts him, and thereafter it is con-
sidered dishonorable to break off the match. The
result is that the parties marry without any rea-
sonable knowledge of conditions of happiness, and ·
when the intimate association of marriage discloses
their incompatibility is is too late to separate
without scandal and loss of social position.
I have shown how this unnatural condition of
things can be avoided by the substitution of a ra-
i;ional system of selection. But as the plan out-
lined requires the co-operation of a number of
persons who are well informed in relation to these
topics, and as modern society does not contain the
conditions of such co-operation, I shall endeavor
to here set forth a modification of the plan, so that
any individual may conduct his selection upon
rational principles.
I may as well remark that I consider that a
woman has as much right to select a man for com-
panionship as a man has to select a woman, and
that a proposition leading to the experimental stage
of courtship comes with propriety from either sex.
The notion that a woman must passively await the
advances of a man is a relic of barbarism, and
owes its origin to the passive condition of the
female slaves who awaited their purchasers in the
mart.
Begin your advances to a favorable acquaintance .
with a declaration·of your admiration and respect-
ful friendship, and a statement that you feel hon-
ored by a compact of fraternal affection. Declare
40 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
your intention of soon selecting a permanent com-
panion, and i·equest the privilege of intimate asso-
ciation and affectionate regard. Be careful, how-
ever, to state in explicit terms that you do not
mean at this time to make a proposition of mar-
riage but that you wish the opportunity to show
your own excellencies and to test your feelings. If
this declaration is made in diplomatic language and
in a sincere manner, it is likely to be accepted, un-
less the person is antagonistic to you in some way,
or is dominated by ideas of propriety founded upon
false philosophy, or is perhaps precluded by cir-
cumstances from granting the request. When the
proposal is accepted, and both parties cultivate in-
timacy with sincere desire to test the possiblity of
love, the following tests are invaluable:
1. Clasp hands, and note the harmony or inhar-
mony of .the clasp itself, and the effect of its pro-
longation. If the hands do not seem to fit harmo-
niously, and if the contact becomes unpleasant when
prolonged, it is a sure sign that the dispositions
will not harmonize. If the clasp is harmonious
and the effect of prolonged contact continues to be
agreeable it indicates that the general effect is har-
monious ; but there may be inharmonious condi-
tions which this test will not reveal.
2. In every intimate association kisses and
caresses will reveal the most important infor-
mation, if the parties are sufficiently instructed to
make the tests intelligently. As a general rule, in
courtship between refined persons, the advances are
..
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 41
so delicate and the contact of the parties so re-
stricted that little is learned. To be of any value
as tests, caresses and kisses must be sufficiently
passionate and complete to enable the parties to ·
obtain the complete effect of the flavor of the fluid
and the magnetic or electric effect of the caresses,
and the parties must exercise sufficient jurisdiction
over the passions to form a judgment as to the
effects of both. If this instruction is fully carried
out, they will find that where the adaptation is
reasonably perfect, the caresses exert a highly
beneficial effect, and that the kisses increase in
sweetness and enjoyment is greater at each inter-
view. If this result is not reached; if the kisses
become repulsive and the caresses become weari-
some, or the parties find that after complete and
intimate association that love does not continually
augment in intensity, the conditions of harmony are
absent, and all thought of continued companionship
should be dismissed; but the parties may continue
to be affecionate friends as long as it is mutually
agreeable. This judgment should not be formed
hastily and I consider it unsafe to form a con-
clusion from any impression which may only be
momentary. I recommend that this experiment
should last at least six months unless the parties ·
discover in a shorter time that it is positively dis-
agreeable. .In some of the best adaptations I have
ever known it took some time for the best results
to be established, especially in. those cases where
the parties were young and inexperienced, and had
not learned the art of expressing the emotions
42 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
freely. Love, like everything else, is a creature of
growth, and takes time to develop.
3. In walking together, keep step, and notice if
it is an easy thing to do and if the gait of one is
harmonious with the other. The walk is an un-
failing indication of character, and it is impossible
for persons to harmonize in character who ex-
perience great difficulty in keeping step or who
tire each other by the walk.
4. Notice the effect of conversation. If after a
long interview you experience the feeling of fatique
and you find this the usual result, the character is
inharmonious with your own. Language is the
principal avenue of expression, and its effects can-
not be too closely watched. If the conversation in-
spires you, and you feel rested and instructed after
each interview, or this is the general result, the
indications are in favor of harmony.
5. Some nationalities are sufficiently well in-
f01·med to know the desirability of previous tests
of intimate association before marriage, and the
custom of "bundling" among the Dutch, and similar
customs among other nationalities, have their origin
from a crude effort to establish a test of this kind.
In the custom of "bundling" the male and female
are each sewed up in sacks in such a manner that
it is impossible to have sexual intercourse. without
rupturing the sacks, and thus being detected. In
this condition they are allowed to sleep together and
note the effects upon their feelings. Whatever may
be the general result of such a custom, there is no
question as to its value as a test. It is impossil;>le
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 43
for two persons to sleep together a number of nights
without the conscious of increased affection and
desire for companionship or the entire loss of such
desire. The effect of sleeping together may be
summed up as follows: If the parties are not har-
monious, they will in a short time exhaust their
magnetism to such a degree that all mutual at-
traction ceases. If they are harmonious the effect
will be delightful, and the desire for its continuance
will increase for a number of months. Then there
will be a culmination in which no great degree of
increase of desire will be felt, but it will continue
to be a pleasant experience. If .the parties are
perfectly harmonious this may continue for many
years, but as a general rule the pleasure of contact
will be greatly intensified if they do not continually
sleep together. If they are not perfectly har-
monious, the magnetism will gradually be lost,
hence as very few couples are perfectly harmonious,
it is a good rule to occupy separate beds, and sleep
together occasionally as desire and expediency may
dictate. The loss of magnetism, and the subsequent
neutralizing of affection, will be slow or rapid in
its progress as the parties are more or less har-
monious.
The period of experimental courtship may be as
long or short as the prudence and the circumstances
of the parties may dictate but I suggest that six
months is not unreasonably long, and I also be-
lieve that any reasonable man or woman ought to
be thoroughly satisfied of the results of such a test
in one year of continued intimate association. In
44 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
the meantime the matters considered in the next
section are of the greatest importance.
How to Avoid Those Who Are Unfitted for
Matrimony by Disease or Organic
Incompleteness
It is of the utmost importance that all persons
who become parents of offspring should be able to
transmit to such offspring bodies unimpaired by
disease. Hereditary taints of insanity, consump-
tion, syphilis, scrofula, and similar diseases exist,
and it is impossible to prevent them from being
handed down to the third and fourth generation
unless every person who contemplates parentage
searches his own family history as weH as that of
the proposed consort for the evidence of these con-
ditions. When a well defined tendency of this
nature is found, there is no choice but to avoid t:Q.e
selection of such a person. I do not believe that
persons tainted with hereditary disease should be
deprived of a legitimate sexual association and the
joys of congenial companionship, but I do insist
that all such persons should avoid offspring. Re-
production should only be of the best.
Hereditary diseases of the types mentioned above
do not always appear upon the surface, and are not
easily detected. Sometimes the effect skips one
generation entirely, to reappear in the next. It is
a good rule to remember that a woman is more
likely to inherit the conditions of her father and
that a man is more likely to inherit the conditions
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 45
of his mother, and then search the family history
of both accordingly. When this has been done, the
conditions exhibited by the individual selected are
to be closely observed.
"The following points of female beauty are
nature's own advertisement of a healthy condition
of the sexual system :
"l. Large limbs, indicative of strength to sus-
tain the body during the period of pregnancy.
"2. Broad hips, indicative of a large ' pelvis,
giving abdominal support during pregnancy, and
easy delivery.
"3. A relative narrow waist, indicating freedom
from suppressed menstruation, and a proper ex-
pansion of the hips.
"4. Breasts, standing out prominently, firm in
texture, with large nipples, and a bright pink
aureolla surrounding nipples, free from discolor-
ation, all of which indicates a correct condition of
the womb.
"5. A graceful carriage of the bqdy, a spring-
ing, vigorous, rythmical step, a sweet breath, good
teeth, clear complexion, pleasant musical voice, a
well-shaped neck and back-head, red and full lips,
and a well developed chin, projecting forward
slightly, clear, bright, animated eyes, all are indis-
pensible indications of good sexuality, and any de-
parture from these pecularities is a warning that
the female is in whole or in part unsexed and
(NOTE-In a correct female figure the waist should measure, in cir-
cumference, two-fifths of the height, the hips at broadest part, nine inches
more.)
46 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
should be avoided in selecting a companion for
matrimony."
The points enumerated in the last paragraph
apply equally well to estimating the sexual strength
of the male, with the addition of broad shoulders,
deep chest and a contour of body broadest at the
shoulders and tapering toward the feet.
What is here stated as indicative of a healthy
condition of the sexual system applies with equal
force to the general health of the whole body. I
will here add certain indications of inherited weak-
nesses which the reader may find very valuable.
Inherited weakness of the heart is indicated by
a narrow and receding chin, and a general un-
steadiness of the walk and movements of the body
and a lack of a graceful correlation of these move-
ments.
Constitutional weakness of the stomach and
digestive organs is indicated by sunken cheeks and
a general narrowness of the face across the lower
part in a line with the mouth.
Weakness of the lungs is indicated by narrow-
ness of the face at the cheekbones, and if this is
complicated with the weakness of the digestive
organs just noted it is a pretty sure sign of con-
sumptive diathesis. This will be emphasized if the
chest is narrow and contracted and the nostrils are
narrow, and small in .
size.
Organic incompleteness is, in my opinion, the
most fruitful cause of sexual misery, next to whole-
sale ignorance, of which it is the legitimate off-
spring. By organic incompleteness, I mean a
I
!
£i
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 47
rudimentary condition of the sexual organs of the
body, of the sexual organs of the brain, or both.
The sexual organs of the body are the penis and
the testes, and those organs intimately associated
with them in the function of reproduction. It is
also evidenced by a general completeness of the
face, especially of the lower part of it, and by a
full, round chin. When these organs are small and
incomplete it is evidenced by a deficient chin, and
deficiency of the backhead and neck, which is very
noticeable to anyone who has paid any attention to
observing human characteristics.
Some persons have only rudimentary sexual
organs of the body. It is quite common for
females who have never menstruated, and who have
only rudimentary sexual organs, to marry, through
the universal ignorance which exists on this sub-
ject. Of course, such persons are incapable of
sexual desire or intercourse in any form, and yet
they are frequently selected as wives by ignorant
men. The consequences are deplorable in the ex-
treme, often resulting in the most frightful per-
sonal injury by attempting intercourse where it is
manifestly impossible. This rudimentary condition
results from arrested development, caused by
paralysis of the organs in infancy. The same con-
dition exists in the case of many men, whose sexual
organs have never developed, owing to paralysis,
neglect or disease. Such men are incapable of cor-
rect intercourse, or of satisfying the desires of any
normally organized woman, and it is a truth that
persons of either sex afflicted in this way can never
48 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
expect anything in marriage but disappointment,
unhappiness and personal injury.
Where there is organic incompleteness of the
sexual organs of the body it is always evidenced by
a deficient development of the organs of love in the
brain and by a deficient chin, and also by a de-
ranged condition of the circulation evidenced by
clammy cold hands and feet. The eyes are dull or
glassy in expression, and the mouth is always re-
pulsive in appearance.
A keen observer of human nature once remarked
to me, "It is a safe rule never to fall in love with
a woman, unless you can love her mouth." I re-
plied, "The rule applies to both sexes."
It is a curious fact that the organs of love in the
brain may be so deficient that the individual may
be utterly incapable of affection, and yet he may be
sufficiently intellectual to learn to repeat the most
ardent expressions of love in written or spoken
language. It does not therefore follow that be-
cause a person is able to breathe the language of
passion that he is able to experience it. And it
does not even follow that he is insincere, for under
the impulse of the weakest scintillation of love, he
may make the most ardent expressions and sin-
cerely believe that he means all he says, when he is
simply repeating what he has learned in a literary
way as the proper thing to say on such an occasion.
The trained observer of human nature would
never be deceived, however, as he would be able to
estimate, before a word was spoken, what the
possibilities of the person would be in the ex-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 49
perience of a natural passion. And those who
have trained the sense of taste to discriminate in
the flavor of kisses would not be deceived, because
persons who are afflicted with organic incomplete-
ness are incapable of giving a kiss which .is
sweetened by love.
Right here I wish to say, that the reason a kiss
from a loved and loving human is sweeter than a
similar caress received from an animal is because
the human being is organically more complete. A
kiss from a reptile would be so destitute of flavor
that it would not be desirable to any well organized
person, even if he were friendly to the reptile, as
all persons should be. A kiss from a dog would be
several degrees better, and I have seen some ladies
kiss and fondle their dogs with evident relish,
although I could not but criticise their taste as long
as reasonably decent manhood was obtainable. ·
The more complete the manhood or womanhood
of a person, the sweeter and richer will be the
flavor of a kiss. It is this fact which gives to the
kiss its great value as a test, and those persons
who are afflicted with organic incompleteness will
give kisses which are as destitute of flavor as those
of the lower animals. A superbly sexed woman
remarked to me once, in speaking of an incomplete
man, "I would as soon kiss a toad!" There was
more philosophy than contempt in the remark.
How to Conduct a Magnetic Courtship
Assuming that the reader has made a successful
selection, according to the principles announced in
50 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
the foregoing sections, and that he is himself a
complete specimen of manhood, the following sug-
gestions will be useful. I direct my remarks to
the man for conventional reasons, but there is no
difference in the application of the principles in
the case of the woman :
First of all, remember that in order to make the
proper impression both parties must be well in-
formed on these topics, else you are likely to waste
all of your magnetism where it is not appreciated.
. When a lady and gentleman know the facts, and
they test each other intelligently, great profit re-
sults from the mutual respect called out by the
display of each other's powers. The following rules
will enable the reader to make all necessary tests :
1. Study carefully the strong and weak points
of the proposed consort, and remember that all
strong organs manifest themselves by positive
action, and that this .action gives the greatest en-
joyment to their possessor. Now, when you want
to make a fine impression, call these organs into
action, and let them have a full expression. The
person thus experimented . upon will enjoy your
company exceedingly and think you have given her
an opportunity to display her powers.
One of the most popular women I ever knew
explained the secret of her power to me in these
words: "I always find out what the person I am
conversing with likes to talk about the most, and
then ask questions on the subject." On the other
hand, the most insufferable bore is the man who
.'°j;
..
•
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 51
insists on talking about his own affairs or the sub-
jects he alone is interested in.
-2. When dealing with a receptive and attentive
listener who encourages you with questions, let
yourself out, and be as entertaining as possible.
But be sure you know something to say.
3. When you see that your associate is excited,
vivacious and anxious to talk, become negative at
once and receptive and show a lively sympathetic
interest.
4. N~er talk for the sake of talking and keep-
ing up the conversation. If you have nothing to
say, keep quiet. It is a sublime test of congeniality
for two persons to be in each other's company for
half an hour and be able to be happy without talk-
ing.
.5. Never giggle. It is the most exhaustive
action young people are guilty of. A great many
young men and women think it is necessary to
giggle at everything a friend of the other sex says.
This strained effort exhausts magnetism of your
brain, and leaves you powerless to say anything
really bright. When a bright remark is made,
smile serenely or come back in repartee brilliantly,
if you can. If it is very funny, laugh heartily.
6. In exchanging kisses and caresses, have an
understanding which shall be positive and which
negative. Change the conditions as frequently as
you please, but do not oppose positive to positive,
or negative to negative. While one is declaring his
passion and pouring out his love in a positive
52 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
carress, the other should be sweetly receptive, but
express appreciation; and ,when the first has ex-
hausted his strain, and become in turn negative, it
may be returned with a full measure.
7. The most important fact is to closely observe
the proposed coRsort, and. see if she is capable of
receiving your love and appreciating it. There is
the same difference in capacity in persons as to
love that there is among teacups and barrels as to
liquids. Some delicate and undersized capacities
are overwhelmed, surfeited, and disgusted by the
expressions of those of larger and perhaps coarser
organizations, while these in turn are starved by
the inability of their cons()rts to give ·them the
full, rich expressions for . which they crave.
Measure the capacity carefully, but do not overtax
it at first. Many a woman has been disgusted by
the extreme passion of a man, who would have re-
sponded fully to it if she had been given time to
comprehend it. It is a fine art-to know just how
much passion to express so as to fill the measure of
happiness, but · not to overflow and surfeit it.
Sexual passion is like the appetite for food, or any
other appetite. It is attractive 'while it is hungry;
it revels in satisfaction; but it is repulsive when
surfeited. ·Love your sweetheart passionately and
devotedly, but do not overdo it. Keep your dignity.
Give kisses and caresses freely where they are
gratefully received, but be on your guard and quit
at th.e dght time. Go home before midnight, and
leave her in a condition in which she will welcome
your next visit.
•
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 53
How to Preserve the Harmonies When They
Have Been Secured
1. Remember that the present form of marriage
ceremony is absurd, and that because a woman has
promised to love and honor you, it does not follow
that she can do it, even if she tries. You must be
lovable and honorable in your conduct, and, in the
words of the new marriage ceremony given in
"Love and Cherish,'' PRESENT YOURSELF TO
HER DAILY IN THE MOST LOVABLE AND
COMPANIONABLE ASPECT OF WHICH YOU
ARE CAPABLE. This rule, conscientiously ap-
plied on both sides, will pretty nearly solve tlie
problem.
2. Do not · remain constantly in each other's
society. The electro-magnetic conditions will
neutralize in spite of all you may feel to the con-
trary. Be together enough to have a delightful
companionship, get all the enjoyment and satis-
faction there is in it; bu.t do not withdraw from
the society of other good men and women. By go-
ing into society you exchange magnetism with
others, and come back to each other constantly
renewed. It is the hardest thing in the world to
teach the average married ·man and woman that
the reason they have become stale and flat to each
other is because they have been too much to-
gether; and have not ·· renewed their electro-mag-
netic conditions by coming in contact wfth others
of the other sex. It is the pre\iailing habit even in
54 THE ·MASTER KEY OF LOVE
social gatherings for the married men to get to-
gether and the married women to flock by them-
selves. This form of social intercourse is better
than nothing, but married women need the com-
panionship, conversatio·n and social contact of
other men than their husbands, and married men
need the contact of good women in the same way.
Of course all the prudes will throw up their hands
in holy horror at this last sentence, but I am writing
scientific truth, not caring at all for your criticism.
3. In applying the foregoing rule, do not slight
your consort. Have a distinct understanding when
and where you shall indulge in association with
others, and at such a time if it happens that you
come in contact with your consort, show the most
distinguished consideration.
4. In you;r intimate social contact never· forget
the proprieties. I really think most married couples
lose more on this point than any other. In mat-
ters of the toilet and at all times when you appear
at a disadvantage preserve the strictest privacy. I
know a great many good but ignorant people who
think that any indecency is permissible between
persons who are married. The present form of
marriage undoubtedly educates people to forget all
the decencies as soon as the contract is made. But
love cannot exist except under constant culture, and
wretched are they who forget this ·rule.
5. Sleep in separate beds and only sleep to-
gether on occasions of special indulgence. lV!ake
the general rule of your sexual intercourse kisses,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR · 55
and caresses correspond to the facts set forth in
the fourth section of this instruction, and let your
entire association be a magnetic courtship, never
carried to a surfeit, never characterized by the
indulgence of lust, but always a feast .of unselfish,
considerate love.
Causes and Cure for Jealousy
Jealousy is the legitimate child of the modern
form of marriage, in which the man and wife are
educated to believe that each is the property of
the other. A great many men and women are
naturally selfish and suspicious. The selfish idea
dominates, and when a selfish individual purchases
a desirable consort in the matrimonial market he
naturally wishes to deprive all others of the
pleasures she may be able to bestow. The man or
woman who submits to the selfish dictation of such
a consort is a coward and a slave and sacrifices all
happiness and self-respect as cowards and slaves
generally do.
When the association of the consorts is entirely
exclusive, as it usually is in marriage, and sexual
intercourse is indulged in an extent which creates
a surfeit, a species of insanity is developed and the
individual is guilty of absurd and insufferable
actions. He treats his consort with suspicion, and
acts as if he believed she were a prostitute, ready
to make an appointment with the first man she
meets. Bear in mind that all my remarks .on these
subjects apply equally to both sexes. Jealousy of
this kind usually happens where the victim (thE
56 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
jealous person) is inflicted with an inferior organi-
zation. I pity the man or woman who is obliged
to live with such a consort. Life is too short to
spend it with lunatics or barbarians.
The cure for jealousy, where it is not caused by
insanity as above stated, is the enforcement of the
doctrine that all men and women are free, and that
no one is entitled to love unless he can win it by
good behavior and genuine lovableness. No man
or·woman should be required to love another one
moment after that person has become hateful. As
soon as this doctrine is accepted jealousy will dis-
appear, because it is in itself disagreeable and
prevents love. As long as disagreeable persons can
claim love as a right granted by law, and not to be .
deserved by good action, jealousy will be a popular
pastime among inferior, selfish and suspicious men
and women.
The True Philosophy of Divorce
I will not here enter into an argument, but will
simply state the proposition.
The only reasons why a man and woman should
ever join in a compact of marriage are these:
1. Their mutual gratification of love and enjoy-
able companionship.
2. The production of offspring. ·
3. Mutual support of themselves and offspring.
If the union has become insupportable to either
part mutual gratification of love and enjoyable
companionship has disappeared, and the first of
these objects is a failure.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 57
If perfect love and mutual gratification is de-
stroyed the production of good offspring is im-
possible and the production of depraved offspring
is assured, and the union should be dissolved in
the interests of humanity as well as of the parties.
When the parties have become antagonized
mutual support of themselves is in a large measure
destroyed, their improvement. and progress is
arrested,. and their offspring already in existence
neglected; But consideration of future offspring
should overbalance consideration of those already
existing, as it is better for a well organized child
to suffer neglect than for one to be born of an
unhappy union foreordained to suffer all his life
the ills of an unnatural condition of organization.
I do not advocate the capricious rupture of the
domestic relations for trivial pretences, but I hold
that every man and woman is the final judge of
the question of his or her relationship, and should
not suffer a disagreeable condition or to appeal to
the courts for a remedy. And I hold further, that
the knowledge that either party is free to rupture
the union puts the other party on his good be-
havior to maintain and preserve it. Most of the
tyrannical and disagreeable actions of husbands
and wives which produce the misery of matrimony
grow out of the inability of the other party to
escape.
When this philosophy is recognized, and sexual
associations is placed upon the ·plane of love, in-
stead of being as now a commercial commodity,
happiness will be possible, and education will make
58 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
it a certainty ; and when a matrimonial mistake is
committed, the parties will be permitted to rectify
i~ and after a divorce is granted, they may re-
main good friends, prmoting each other's welfare
by every means in their power, instead of de-
generating into hateful enemies as is usually the
case under the present system.
The -careful observation of the rules contained in
this instruction will reduce the possibility of
divorce to a minimum, because under the con-
ditions herein directed to be produced, the constant
growth of love will be a fact.
Beloved reader, you may be able to comprehend
it, and so live that you will be worthy of a beauti-
ful and harmonious consort, the sweetest and best
of all of Nature's gifts to man. And when you
have thrilled with the transports of the inde-
scribable ecstacies of a correct sexual association,
and have prolonged the harmonies through many
years of delicious experiences, as a consequence of
this instruction, you will have realized the hopes
and experienced the joys of life.
THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
FOURTH DIVISION
The Embarassments of Wedlock and
Their Removal
Conditions Essential to Perfect Happiness
If reproduction is the highest privilege of man-
kind, as it surely is, then certainly as much at-
tention should be paid to the intelligent ·study of
the act of reproduction as to any subject within
the intelligent grasp of mankind. The instructions
herein given are based upon the following cardinal
propositions :
That .the perfection of offspring is always in
exact proportion to the pleasure experienced by the
parent in producing them.
The act of ·copulation is designed not only for
reproduction of offspring, but also for the forti-
fication and reproduction of the powers of the
participants.
Following this line or argument I wish to show:
The conditions essential to perfect production.
The conditions essential to the highest develop-
ment of enjoyment.
59
60 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
The evils attendant upon excessive, unnatural
and immoral use of the sexual functions.
The benefits derived from the correct use of
these powers in the perfection of offspring, the
enjoyment of sexual relations, and the development
of self-control.
There is no more fruitful source of human
misery than an improper sexual intercourse.
Tihere is no pleasure so ecstatic as that which ac-
companies the creative act, when surrounded by
proper conditions.
Nothing is so conducive to health, happiness,
longevity, and prosperity as a proper sexual con-
dition and association with a companion of the
opposite sex who is the sexual affinity.
These postulates are accepted by the entire scien-
tific world.
Read and ponder, all who seek enjoyment;
beauty, virtue, love, offspring, health and pros-
perity, and if you can bring one single, natural
fact to militate against the principles herein pro-
pounded, do so and let me know.
The Conditions Essential to the Perfect
Development of Sexual Harmony
Nature has ordained that the best possible con-
ditions of reproduction should be attendant with
the highest possible degree of pleasure. It is
therefore true that by learning to enjoy sexual
intercourse fully, man is doubly rewarded by ex-
..
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 61
periencing the esctatic emotions and at the same
time insuring the perfection of his offspring.
The male and female must be mature and of
appropriate age, and of the same race.
Mature age in the male is usually reached at
twenty-five, and in the female at twenty, within
the meaning of this article. As a general rule an
appropriate age between the parties consists in the
male being from three to five years older than the
female. This rule will vary much accordfog to the
constitution and habits of the parties, and the in-
fluence of climate, but for the best results should
not be more than ten years and the female should
always be the younger. · Intercourse between dif-
ferent races is always degrading and if offspring
results, it will be inferior to either parent.
The parties must be free from disease.
In proportion as either party is diseased, th('
pleasure of .sexual intercourse and perfection of
offspring will be impaired. Diseases of the sexual
organs are always destructive of enjoyment, and
take away the reciprocal pleasure which is a para-
mount condition of sexual happiness.
The Parties Must Be Adapted to Each
Other in Relation to the Size and Proportions
of the Organs of Reproduction and in Sexual
Magnetism or the Mutual Attraction and Re-
pulsion Which Exists Between Certain Tem-
peraments of the Species.
The parties must be adapted in sexual mag-
netism. This sexual magnetism exists in all per-
sons to a greater or less degree, and it attracts.or
62 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
repels according as the conditions of temperament
and mental calibre are favorable or unfavorable to
the production of perfect offspring.
The Act Must Be Entirely Voluntary on
Both Sides, and the Enioyment Must Be Re-
ciprocal.
Sexual intercourse must be voluntary, and must
be entered into by both parties with the liveliest
:;i.nticipations of pleasure on both sides, and a
sympathetic desire to confer pleasure. This ex-
plains why intercourse between parties who have
married for financial or social reasons merely, is
attended with such dire consequences. Where it is
merely a commercial transaction, as with a prosti-
tute, who does not manifest attachment and
pleasure, it is simply double masturbation. Wives
who simply submit passively to their husbands, and
from prudery or other motives, refuse to enter
fully into the spirit and passion of intercourse, are
guilty of a crime against nature, and reap their
reward in unfaithful husbands, sometimes brutal
treatment, and always in the loss of the greatest
pleasure in existence, and produce inferior off-
spring, if any.
The Act Should Be Performed at a Time
·When Vitality and Sexual Magnetism are at
the Highest Degree.
In a perfect sexual interview, vitality and mag-
netism must be at their highest degree. This pro-
hibits intercourse whenever disease or temporary
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 63
injury has reduced vitality, whenever the system
is strained and tired from exhaustive labor, when-
ever the mind is wrought upon by excitement,
grief, or anxiety, or any other condition which
would interfere with enjoyment.
Sexual Intercourse Should Always Be a
Prolonged Enjoyment and Should Always Be
Performed Under Circumstances Which ·In-
·volve a Perfect Security, Happy Frame of
Mind, Freedom From Apprehension of Any
Unpleasant Consequences, Complete Comfort,
and Which Allow Plenty of Time for Its
Commencement and Completion, According
To The Rule Herein Set ForfJh.
It is a fact that more than seventy-five per cent
of men are unable to properly prolong the sexual
act. It is an almost universal experience, that as
soon as the sexual organs are brought into contact,
the emission of semen occurs, and the female is left
unsatisfied. If the male is unusually strong in sex-
ual power, he is able in a short time to produce
another erection and emission, but these repeated
orgasms are always injurious and unnatural. Where
the male is unable to do this the female being left
~n an excited and unsatisfied c·ondition, experiences
the most painful disappointment, and diseases of
serious nature are engendered.
The only correct intercourse is that in which both
parties reach the form of satisfaction desired. Td
be able to produce this is an accomplishIDP.)lt worthy-
of the most patient and conscientious effort to ob-
64 THE .MASTER KEY OF LOVE
tain. I have been repeatedly consulted by men who
believe that the inability to retain the semen and
to have a satisfactory intercourse was the result
of disease, "lost manhood," and a great many men
believe it to be the natural condition and hence
never take any pains to overcome it. Personal ex-
perience and the years of observation, practice, and
instruction have convinced me that all of those
views are erroneous. While it is true that debility
of the sexual system might be attended with this re-
sult, I have found hundreds of men who were in
excellent health in every way, who are unable to
control the orgasm for any length of time until
instructed, when the difficulty immediately dis-
appeared. In the majority of cases this em-
barrassment arises entirely from ignorance. This
ignorance will be removed by the contemplation of
the following facts :
The sexual organs are organs of sense. As an
eye senses light, so the sexual organs sense gender.
The delightful sensations of the act of sexual inter-
course are simply the intense impression of the
sexual magnetism received from the companion.
Where the companion is not well-sexed and very
little magnetism is given or received; the sensations
are very tame. The sexual organ of the male is
strictly analogous to the eye in construction. The
parts of the female are strictly adapted to those
of the male. Those sexual eyes receive and trans-
mit the gender of the companion in precisely the
same way that the eye receives and transmits the
impression of the light of an image, and it follows
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 65
that the sexual organs are subject to the same
conditions as those which govern the eyes.
If you were to treat your eyes the same as the
average man treats his sexual organs, you would
be blind -in less than a week. . Imagine the eyes
covered with hot, sweaty flannel, bandaged from
contact with air and light, seldom bathed, and the
circulation of all the surrounding parts impaired,
and you can imagine that, after a few days of
such treatment, they would be in such a condition
that, if exposed to the light and required to per-
form their duty, they would be utterly unable to
respond. In such a case precisely the same results
would happen to the eyes that occur to these sexual
organs. The eyes would be dazzled by the light, the
person would be unable to control the vision, and
there would be a spasm of nervous action entirely
beyond the control of the owner. This is precisely
what occurs to the owner of sexual organs which
have been kept in the usual condition, swaddled in
a roll of flannel or cotton with the circulation im-
paired by tight-fitting clothing, deprived of light
and air, and frequently in a condition of filth which
only those who make professional examinations can
fully appreciate. It is proper to add here that the
almost universal sentiment, that the sexual organs
are dishonorable, and to be held in contempt, and
that there is something inherently nasty about
them, has in a large measure caused thi'S condition.
Convince a man that a part of his body is naturally
filthy and he will allow it to become so in fact.
66 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
The loss of pride in sexual strength which this
doctrine has inculcated is almost increditable.
It is also true that the majority of men are
habitually constipated. In nearly every case there
is an habitual accumulation of foecal matter in the
rectum, which presses against the delicate nerves
and blood vessels of the sexual organs and produces
a temporary paralysis, which sometimes becomes
permanent.
While this constipated condition lasts it is impos-
sible for any man to properly control the sexual
organs. When the bowels are open and free from
accumulations, the sexual nerves perform their
functions, self-control is possible, and greater pleas-
ure is sure to be experienced. There is also greater
room for the accumulation of semen, as the seminal
reservoirs are directly between the bladder and the
rectum.
From the foregoing facts I have reduced the fol-
lowing propositions, which furnish a solution of
the problems before us :
First, get into proper condition. Second, remove
the constipation. Third, practice the art of self-
control.
To get into proper condition it is necessary to
remember that nudity is the natural condition of
man and that the wearing of clothing is an un-
natural habit, contracted through the excursions of
our ancestors into those climates to which they
were not accustomed, through their greed of ac-
quisition of territory and conquest. While custom
compels us to retain the practice we can in a
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 67
measure counteract its effects. Practice carefully
the following rules :
1. Expose the body to sunlight, air, and friction
as much as possible. Bathe frequently and prac-
tice alternate shocks of cold and heat in bathing.
Be sure that the sexual organs have plenty of ex-
posure, friction, heat, cold, light and sunshine.
Bathe the sexual organs at least twice a day in .
cold water and see that all sebaceous matter is
removed from under the foreskin.
2. Wear loose clothes and see that the sexual
organs are suspended on their own muscles and
not supported by the pantaloons or swaddled in
rolls of underclothing. Let them hang loose and
receive the friction of the clothing in walking.
Wear as light clothing as can be worn with safety
and comfort, especially in summer, and have the
shirt so short that it does not cover the sexual
organs. Let the pantalons hang low and be
careful that no article of clothing is worn that
will in any way impair free circulation. Sleep
under light bed-clothing and accustom the body to
exposure.
3. Those who are in .any way debilitated from
the effects of self-abuse or inherent weakness
should never resort to the ignorant methods of
quacks and attempt to restore vitality by the use
of pernicious drugs. The best remedial treatment
possible to bring permanent and lasting results
will be found elsewhere in this work.
To remove constipation do not take pills, but use
exercise and massage, which will be explained more
68 ·THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE·
fully elsewhere in this work. Always empty the
bowels and bladder at frequent intervals, which will
give you greater freedom and thus enable you to
prolong the act of intercourse and greatly increase
the possibilities of pleasure.
To reach perfect control of the sexual act some
special drill is often necessary. It is true here as
elsewhere that practice makes perfect. Very few
men ever approach the act of sexual intercourse
except in a blaze of passion which makes any form
of deliberate action impossible. To all such per-
sons I commend the following rules :
1. Keep cool. Do not be a fool, and do not dis-
gust the female by your evident desire to satisfy
your passion at her expense, without considering
her enjoyment. Be deliberate in all your actions
and do not be in a hurry.
2. Spend at least fifteen minutes in caressing
endearments before you begin intercourse. This
will enable you to compose your nerves and to ob-
tain greater control and will allow the lubricating
fluids which are secreted in both sides to begin to
flow. If the female does not furnish a copious flow
in this length of time, which will sometimes be the
case, anoint the penis thoroughly with vaseline or
sweet oil, especially under the foreskin.
3. Begin intercourse by making up your mind
that you will control yourself and that you will not
emit the semen until you get ready to do so volun-
tarily. Resolution is a great aid to the accomplish-
ment. Press the penis gently but firmly into the
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 69
vagina, being careful not to be rough or impetu-
ous. After the entrance is effected and the penis
has passed the constriction of the lips there is less
danger of losing control. If you feel doubtful of
your self-control, withdraw, lie down and cool your
nerves until you feel that the tendency toward the
emission has been .overcome, then repeat the proc-
ess. The entrance and withdrawal of the penis
should be practiced until you can do it with perfect
impunity, and if you fail at first and have an emi-
sion, do not be discouraged. Keep up the practice,
,and every attempt will increase your power of self-
control, until at last you will be able to enter and
remove as freely as you desire without losing con-
trol. When you reach this stage, you are a master
of the situation.
The exchange of sexual magnetism is the prime
factor of all pleasure, the creative force which be-
gets all offspring, and in proportion as it is intense
or weak will sex pleasure be intensified or de-
stroyed, and offspring perfected or deteriorated. In
view of these facts, the value of other principles
herein shown which describe the adaptability to
produce the most force of this magnetic element
may be appreciated.
A period of preparation, before intercourse be-
gins, is absolutely necessary to the generation of
this magnetic fluid. It is most easily excited by
the contact of these parts which are best supplied
with nerves of sensation. The sexual organs them-
selves, the hands, the eyes, the breast of the female,
the testicles of the male, the lips and tongue, are
70 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
all filled with nerves, all connected. with the organs
of love in the brain, and from this fact we see the
philosophy of kissing, loving glances, clasping
hands, manipulations: of the breasts and sexual or-
gans, as well as other parts of the body, all of
which are necessary preludes to this intercourse,
and should be indulged in freely and reciwrocally
for at least a half hour, or any limited time, to
bring about proper magnetic conditions, before the
act of coition.
The neglect of this '[J'f'eliminary exercise is a fre-
quent cause of premature emission in 1
healthy males
who copulate with properly adapted females, be-
cause the magnetic influence has not been allowed to
generate. Nature abhors an intercourse without
this magnetic element and sets her seal of disap-
proval upon it and endeavors to prevent the crea-
tion of offspring, who are sure to be inferior with-
out it, by causing the male to throw off the semen
before the female reaches the climax whenever
intercourse is attempted without this preparation
or by parties sexually related, between whom there
can be no intense magnetic exchange. Every
healthy female reaches the climax slowly in order
to give time for the magnetic generation. When
the magnetic exchange is at its height the male
should have perfect control of himself and may
postpone the climax until the female is fully ready.
The female, likewise, should have control of the
sexual emotions completely. And thus the act may
be prolonged at pleasure and may be terminated by
a mutual climax when both parties have been fed
TEE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 71
to satisfaction by the mutual and reciprocal ex-
change of sexual magnetism, which should never be
less than one-half hour after entrance, and may be
prolonged to one or two hours with no worse effect
than the ecstatic gratification of both.
Positions, manipulations, and caresses are im-
portant factors in proper intercourse. Ignorance
of these details is the most frequent cause of un-
happy results between parties mutually adapted.
The recumbent position of the female with the
weight of the male upon her is fatiguing and can-
not be maintained for th.e time necessary for
proper intercourse. It also prevents her having
the free use of herself necessary for the proper
movement for the act. She should lie upon her
back at first, spreading the limbs well apart, and
presenting the vulva to the free access of the male.
Many wives fail in this and from prudery and
other motives keep the, limbs close, which delays
entrance and disappoints the male to whom nothing
is more delightful than a free entrance. When
entrance has been well effected the male should
ease himself over and recline upon his back or left
side upon the bed with his face toward her, lifting
his right leg and carrying it over with her left
leg. At the same time she turns slightly upon her
right side and clasps her limbs closely around his
left leg. This positions may be maintained without
fatigue to either, or may be reversed by changing
sides. The parts are thus brought more closely
together and, what is more important, the testicles
are lifted from contact with the cold sheet and
72 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
clasped in this warm embrace of the limbs when,
at every moment, warm, strong pressure is brought
to bear upon offspring, who are sure to be inferior
without it, by causing the magnetism redoubled.
If the testicles are suffered to come in contact with
a cold substance, or if they are not pressed con-
tinually, the male magnetism is checked and his
pleasure is lost.
The left hand of the male should clasp the neck
of the female under the organ of amativeness,
which will be greatly excited thereby, while his
right hand should continually caress her face, hair,
breast, etc. Endearing words and lively conver-
sation, laughter, etc., should be freely used, and
the eyes should be employed in endearing glances,
each feasting on the personal charms of the other,
hence intercourse should best not be indulged in
the dark, or under any circumstances not per-
mitting the utmost freedom of proper expression.
Most men ruin the pleasure of intercourse by
violent strokes and movements in the first stages.
For some time after entrance the movements should
be slow and gentle, and should be more dependent
upon the movements of hearty caressing than used
to excite the penis and vagina.
Caresses are indispensable and should be con-
stantly employed during the entire duration of the
intercourse. Kisses should be freely exchanged
with the perfect abandon of passion. The lips and
tongue are furnished with innumerable and most
susceptible nerves which when brought in contact
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 73
produce the most exquisite sensation. The fluids
of the mouth are far superior ~o the most delight-
ful nectar when tasted under the circumstances of
perfect sexual intercourse. To render it so, and
to make this perfect intercourse absolutely delight-
ful, involves, of course, habits bf scrupulous clean-
liness in respect to the mouth and teeth, as well as
attention to proper food, digestion, and the condi-
tion of the stomach. This rule of cleanliness, of
course, applies to all parts of the body. Any neg-
lect in these particulars may cause disgust on the
part of the companion, and, however temporary, is
destructive of enjoyment.
Frequency of sexual intercourse should be regu-
lated by the feeling of the parties and may be read-
ily determined after a few trials. It should never
be indulged in to such an extent that the parties
lose the peculiar feeling of exaltation and exuber-
ance which always results from a proper inter-
course. Sexual intercourse may be terminated with-
out the climax and on either side, with the happiest
results to both, provided the act has been properly
performed, so that each ihas been fully fed with
sexual magnetism. The Actual climax will be found
to be only a small part of the pleasure of such an
inaerview as this instruction contemplates. The re-
tention of the semen is highly beneficial to the male,
provided it is not effected by artificial compression
of the natural channels of egress. And furthermore,
any excess in the loss of this semen is detrimental
and often brings about a feeling of disgust toward
the person on whom it is wasted.
THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
FIFTH DIVISION
The Evils Attendant Upon Excessive,
Unnatural, and Immoral Use of
the Sexual Functions
For lack or instruction upon the principles enun.
ciated in the preceding section, the greatest abuses
of the sexual organs have occurred and have gone
on for centuries without any i:atelligent effort being
made to correct them. As a consequence, the hu-
man race has deteriorated and man has been made
a slave of his passions. It is impossible to enumer·
ate all of the evils, but the following have im-
pressed themselves upon the author as being the
most deplorable and at the same time, most easily
corrected in the light of intelligent instruction:
Excessive Sexual Intercourse. Men and women
who do not get a satisfactory experience in sexual
joys do not experience a satisfaction of the passion.
It is impossible for the average man to have correct
intercourse, as has already been said, he does not
know how. Consequently he indulges to a ruinous
extent and thus produces an irritated and inflamed
condition of the sexual organs which goads him on
to still greater excesses. As a consequence, the ma-
jority of men are much more fitted for a hospital
than for the marriage bed, and their wives are com-
pelled to submit to an inordinate demand for sexual
gratification, which produces a fearful train of fe-
male diseases, besides impairing the functions of
maternity and rendering the woman, pepraved, ~nd
74
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 75
maternity and rendering the woman unfit for
motherhood. There are hundreds of weak, depraved,
and deformed children, caused by these sexual ex-
cesses of the parents. The ~xcessive indulgence
weakens the organs at last to such a degree that a
natural and satisfactory enjoyment is impossible.
r·
The Benefits Derived from the Correct Use
of These Powers and the Development
of Perfect Self-Control
The greatest benefit conferred by this instruction
will be realized in the perfection of offspring. As
before stated, Nature has ordained that the condi-
tions which produce the greatest pleasure to the
participants in sexual intercourse results in the
highest perfection of offspring. But when he re-
fuses he reaps most condign punishment, not only
in the loss of his pleasure, but in the actual de-
struction of his powers. The prolongation of the
act as herein described enables him to arouse and
employ during that act of sexual intercourse every
organ of his brain and every expression of his pow-
ers, if he has intelligence enough to do so. When
he does tltis he transmits these powers to his off-
spring, and the child comes into the world with a
splendid inheritance of intelligence and happiness.
So absolute is this fact true· that I will undertake
to describe to any individual not only which parent
he resembles, but what the condition of that parent
was at the time of his conception, and which par-
ent enjoyed the greatest amount of pleasure in the
act of intercourse in which he was conceived. The
76 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
reason is that the person who enjoys complete
pleasure produces offspring with complete heads,
while those who destroy the pleasure of intercourse
by improper conditions in the same ratio destroy
the completeness of the offspring resulting from
such intercourse.
For it goes without saying that the pleasure of
intercourse will be greatly increased by the careful
obedience of these instructions. But very few per-
sons realize the actual amount of pleasure that can
be experienced. In other departments of human
effort the pleasure derived from correct actions are
publicly enjoyed and all persons are inspired to
emulate a similar experience, but in sexual rela-
tions all this is changed, and those persons who do
experience pleasure are deterred from giving their
experience publicly by the sense of shame by which
this whole subject is enshrouded.
It has been demonstrated through experience
that the brain organs have been developed and en-
larged and actual increase of power becomes no-
ticeable under the conditions and the stimulus of
sexual activity, and it is within the power of any
man who wishes to adhere to the instructions
herein given to generate greater power physically
and mentally than that of which he has hereto-
fore conceived.
Perfect Offspring
How They May Be Created, and the
Regulation of Sex
The highest consideration for the welfare of the
human race, the comfort and safety of individuals,
THE PSYCHOLOGY ·OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 77
and the protection of families from privation and
want, demand that the conditions which surround
pregnancy should be better understood. Science
has demonstrated that the production of idiots,
deformed, depraved and diseased offspring are the
result of ignorance of parents of the great physio-
logical facts surrounding the beginning of the new
life.
To furnish parents the knowledge by which they
can have the kind of offspring desired, to make
the production of superb offspring a possibility, to
reduce the number of paupers, idiots, criminals,
cowards, and invalids in the next generation, to in-
crease the pleasure and benefit the sexual strength
of its favored readers is the object of this work.
In order to understand the theory of conception
and pregnancy it is necessary to explain a portion
of the anatomy of the female. The womb is a
small, hollow, pear-shaped organ, forming the ve-
hicle in which conception takes place and the child
is carried. The ovaries are two small sacs in
which the life germ originates in the form of an
ovum, or egg. The ovum at maturity is itself no
larger than a pinhead, but is surrounded by a pro-
tecting envelope resembling a clot of phlegm or
mucus, slightly discolored and fringed and making
the whole about the size of a pea. In a healthy
female at regular periods of about twenty-eight
days, one of the ovi, or eggs, matures and passes
through a tube connecting the overy with the womb
mto which it is discharged and where it remains
during a period varying in different females from
78 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
an immediate discharge to fifteen days. If, during
the period while the ovum remains in the womb,
the semen Of the male is brought in contact with
the ovum, which is the natural result of coition, at
such time, the ovum is impregnated, and immedi-
ately attaches itself to the walls of the womb and
begins to grow and gradually assumes the form of
an infant.
The expulsion of the ovum from the ovary and
its passage from the womb is attended (in a healthy
female) with a slight discharge of discolored mu-
cus from the vagina, a small quantity of blood, and
general feeling of lassitude (bearing-down pains),
etc., which should not last more than three days.
This is the process of menstruation and at the
period of three days and the cessation of the symp-
toms, the ovum should be in the womb ready for
impregnation, the female is more likely to desire
coition at that time because she is in a condition to
become a mother. By some authorities it is con-
tended that the ovum may be fecundated while it
is passing through the fallopian tubes, or while it
is in the tube itself.
The process of impregnation or fecundation takes
place when the semen of the male is brought in
contact with the ovum by the act of coition. The
penis of the male in coition is brought in close con-
tact with the mouth of the womb, and at the mo-
ment of climax, or when the passion of the male
reaches culmination, a nervous spasm ensues, fol-
lowed by the ejection of about one-half ounce of
whitish fluid called semen. Under the microscope
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 79
this fluid is found to contain innumerable little ani-
malcule called spermatozoa, which unquestionably
are the vehicles of the life principle. These sperm-
atozoa resemble tadpoles and move at the rate of
about an inch in two hours.
At the moment of climax on the part of the fe-
male she experiences a similar nervous spasm, and
the glands of the womb and its appendages secrete
a fluid copiously, which forms and excellent medium
for the preservation and nourishment of the sperm-
atoza after they have left the body of the male.
At the same time the mouth of the womb dilates
to receive the semen, which is thrown into the
womb with considerable force. The spermatozoa
come in contact with the ovum, enter it, and unite
with it and the ovum attach.es itself to the womb
and begins to grow. Impregnation h::ts been ef-
fected and new life has commenced. Its destruc-
tion after the moment of impregnation is murder.
The mere contact of the semen and the ovum,
while unquestionably necessary to conception, is not
all that is necessary. The creative force which
molds the child is magnetism, which originates in
the body of each parent, passes through every
nerve, and culminates in the union of two forces,
negative and positive, in the womb of the female
upon the ovum and the spermatozoa. There are
really four elements necessary to conceptivity in
one parent, and positive magnetism from the other
all uniting under favorable conditions to form a
child. The total absence of any one of these ele-
ments will defeat conception; the inferior quality
80 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
of any one of them will produce an inferior result
in the offspring, which may be idiocy, deformity,
depravity, stupidity, or disease, according to vary-
ing conditions.
Causes of Barrenness
The theory of conception and pregnancy being
thus explained I shall proceed to discuss the causes
of barrenness.
l. In order to obtain a perfect conception, in-
suring perfect offspring, it is necessary that the
constitution of the parents should be adapted to
each other. That is, that the excesses and deficien-
cies of development in each should be balanced .by
a different constitutional condition in the other.
If the constitutions are similar in development, if
both have the same weaknesses, or excesses, or the
constitutions are so neutral to each other as to be
devoid of mognetic attraction, the creative act is
shorn of its powers and total barrenness will result.
If these conditions exist only in a degree the re-
sult will be partial conception, the child will only
be partially made, something will be left out, and
congenital deformities will result.
2, Barrenness may be caused by an improper
marriage, where the parties have such a maladap-
tation of the ·sexual organs as to make coition pain-
ful or prevent the.female from reaching the climax.
The inteTcourse of persons of harmonious constitu-
tions result in delightful coition and perfect off-
spring.
3. Barrenness may be caused by congenital mal-
formation of the womb and its appendages, or by
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 81
an arrested development during childhood, caused
by paralysis, which is of course in some cases in-
curable. Many females who are in this condition
marry with most unhappy.results.
4. · A fourth case is found in a deliberated con-
dition of the sexual organs producing a physical
incapacity on the part of the female to furnish a
healthy well-formed ovum, or to retain it in the
womb, and on the part of the male of a physical
incapactity to furnish healthy and impregnating se-
men. This may or may not be curable according
to the individual case.
5. Non-participation in the climax of coition on
the part of the female is a frequent cause of non-
conception and barrenness. It may be wilful, or it
may be because of inability to work up her feeling
to the extent of passion, thereby interfering with
conception, both through lack of magnetism and the
failure of the womb to dilate and receive the semen.
Many women conceive without participating in the
pleasure of coition because the mouth of the womb
is in such cases dilated by a relaxed condition of
the system caused by disease.
6. Premature emission on the part of the male
is another frequent cause of non-conception. If
the emission takes place before the female has had
a reasonable time to reach the climax, the design
of nature is frustrated.
7. Some females discharge the ovum during the
menstrual flow. In such cases, when offspring is
desired, copulation during the early stages of men-
struation, just before flow commences, or immEdi-
82 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
ately after its cessation, will often have the desired
effect, particularly if coition is refrained from for
two weeks previously to enable the semen of the
male to reach its full vitality. In such cases, the
offspring will probably be female. The ovum is
likely to pass at the close of menstruation and be
discolored with menstrual blood, and mistaken for
a clot of it.
The mere statement of the foregoing causes of
barrenness and the causes of deformity and disease
in offspring, carries with it the irresistible conclu-
sion that it is necessary that all married persons
should beget their offspring intelligently. They
should have absolute control of the time, place and
circumstances attending conception, and no child
should ever be forced into the world the unwelcome
offspring of parents who have ceased to love each
other, or who for any reason are not in the most
perfect condition of parental effectiveness and mu-
tual desire.
Children should be begotten at a time when the
condition of the parents is at the highest point fa-
vorable to reproduction, and when iiurrounding
circumstances have been intelligently arranged to
endow the child with the best possible organization.
Whenever men and women learn the truth as
explained in this volume, there will be brought into
the world healthy matured, properly formed chil-
dren.
The first great lesson which every man must
learn is that sexual intercourse is the highest of
life's great functions, and is only to be used for the
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 83
benefit of himself, his consort, and his offspring.
In the absence of instructions, nothing is more na-
tural than for him to acquire the habit of indulging
merely for vhe gratification of morbid feelings which
are usually due to inflammation of th;eisexual organs.
Most unhappy is the lot of a woman who is bound
for life to a man afflicted with such desire, who is
unwilling to learn or to practice any rule of life
which interferes with his ignorant and lustful pleas-
ures. Such men never reach a comprehension of the
highest joys of sexual pleasures and they are vhe
real destroyers of society.
The Master Key of Sex Control
As soon as the fact of conception ha's been estab-
lished then all exercise of bridal rites should at once
cease ; but if the man has been generated so badly
himself that he is controlled by his passions he still
should strive to control himself, at first, at least for
30 days, .then for 40 and so on. After the child
has been born, then in the name of mercy forbear
to molest the mother so long as the child continues
to draw nourishment from the maternal fountain.
But if he must resume bridal rites, then wean the
child from the mother at the end of six weeks and
nourish it on good cow's milk. A child thus born
will be able to continue continent for 60 days as
easy as you did for 30 and his child a11d his child
forego, etc., and so on until in nine generations a
man may be produced who would abhor to solicit
his wife during either gestations or lactation.
THE MASTER· KEY OF LOVE
SIXTH DIVISION
How to Produce Perfect Offspring,
Their Creation, and the
Regulation of Sex
The Philosophy of Correct Generation
The first three great laws of reproduction are as
follows:
I.
In reproduction the offspring is the composite
product of the transmission and combination of all
traits and conditions of the composition of all
previous ancestors.
II.
The temporary condition of the parents at the
time of conception becomes the permanent condi-
tion of the offspring by transmission.
III.
The temporary condition of the mother during
pregnancy becomes the permanent condition of the
offspring.
I have already remarked that the creative force
which molds the child is magnetism which orig-
inates in a body of each parent, passes through
the nerves, and culminates in the union of two
84
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 85
forces, negative and positive, in the womb of the
female upon the ovum and spermatozoa. I will now
elaborate this explanation.
All matter radiates magnetism. All space is re-
ceptive to magnetism and receives it as it is radi-
ated from matter. This is a general statement 01
the creative force as it exists in all nature and as
it produces all the manifold changes in matter
which constitutes life.
Electricity is the generative passion of love of
space for matter. The corresponding degree of
generative passion or love which matter rediates
into space is called magnetism. The radiation of
magnetism from matter gathered into a current. by
restraining forces is erroneously called electricity.
It should always be spoken of as magnetism. A
correct understanding of these terms is necessary
to a comprehension of the philosophy. I shall give
enough of it here for the reader to understand how
to apply it.
The phenomena of electricity are composure, re-
spectivity, coldness, darkness.
The phenomena of magnetism are radiation, vi-
bration, heat, and light.
The electric state is negative, the magnetic state
is positive. All bodies, human beings included, are
organized and are composed of molecules which are
held together by electro-magnetic affinities. All
growth is caused by changes in the condition of
electricity and magnetism is the environment. The
conception and growth of human beings are subject
to the same great laws.
86 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
A man or woman is in a electric or negative
state when the body is composed, receptive, and
cool. Brunettes are more subject to these condi-
tions than blondes, hence they are called electric,
01 of the electric temperament.
A man or woman is in a magnetic or positive
state, when the body is vibrating, radiating mag-
netism, anGl warm. Blondes are more subject to
these conditions than brunettes, hence they are usu-
ally called magnetic, or said to belong to the mag-
netic temperament.
It must be borne in mind, however, that all per-
sons are subject to either condition under the
proper circumstances. The difference is simply in
the amount of magnetism generated, the period nec-
essary for it to reach the highest culmination, and
the facility with which the change from one state
to the other is effected.
Any person can become negative by becoming
composed, remaining passive, and allowing the body
to become receptive and cool. Conversely, and per-
son can become positive by becoming sufficiently
excited, vibrating the body in violent exercise and
radiating magnetism and this is true whether the
excitement is pleasant or unpleasant. When the
reader .has thoroughly mastered these definitions of
electric and magnetic conditions he will be prepared
to follow me through the most important discussion
of the correct conditions of parentage ever submit-
ted to intelligent consideration.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 87
There are four forms of sexual intercourse. They
may be properly designated as: (1) Male Positive
(2) Female Positive. (3) Double Positive. (4)
Double Negative.
In the Male Positive intercourse, the female l'.>e-
comes negative, remains as composed as possible,
giving little or no expression to emotion, allowing
her passion to be passive, and moving the body no
more than she can avoid. She should be in an easy
recumbent position sustaining as little weight as
possible, and perfectly free from all unpleasant
fears or emotions of any kind. At the close of the
intercourse, if conception is desired, she should ex-
perience the orgasm, but should allow it to occur
without any great excitement. The male, on the
contrary, should cultivate and express the most in-
tense emotion and passion, vibrate the body with
such caresses and exercises as will generate a great
amount of radiation and magnetism and be in a
position where he will have perfect freedom of ac-
tion for this purpose. He should culminate the act
with a strong orgasm, but should exercise restraint
over this function until he is certain that he has
called out in his actions an expression of every
one of his faculties of intelligence. If conception is
desired, he should have the orgasm at the same time
that the female experiences it. In this form of in-
tercourse, the magnetism of the male is most pow-
erfully generated and is poured into the body of
the female, who will be greatly benefited thereby,
and if the female is weak or exhausted from nerv-
ous excitement, or any cause, it will be found to
88 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
have a wonderful strengthening effect. If the male
is in a high state of vitality and good health, the
expenditure of his magnetism in this form will also
be beneficial to him, if repeated until he reaches a
full re<*!peration of his powers.
In the Female Positive intercourse, these condi-
tions are exactly reversed. The female expends her
magnetism in a powerful expression of emotions
and action, while the male remains passive. In this
form, the male should not permit the emission of
semen to occur .unless conception is desired, and
in that case it should only occur quietly and with-
out violent emotion or expression. In this form
the magnetism and strength of the female is trans-
ferred to the male, who will be correspondingly
benefited.
In the Double Positive intercourse, both parties
are positive and the magnetism is wasted. This is
the form usually practiced by the passionate man
and woman who are ignorant of .the laws of gener-
ation. In this form neither party is benefited, ex-
cept by the discharge of magnetism from the body.
If both are in a high state of magnetic strength,
such an intercourse may be permissible, as it is
permissible to waste a surplus of steam in an en-
gine by opening the safety valve, but no conception
of offspring should ever occur in a double positive
intercourse.
The Double Negative intercourse is simply an em-
brace of the parties in which the sexual organs are
brought into contact, but neither party experiences
the orgasm or expends much force. Such an em-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 89
brace is often delightful for the purpose of restor-
ing an equilibrium to the brains of ·both parties
after mental exercise which has been prolonged,
affecting the frontal lobe. The moderate sexual ex-
citement of such an embrace draws the blood to the
posterior lobe of the brain and relieves the conges-
tion of the frontal lobes, often inducing sleep when
all other methods fail. The conception of offspring
should never occur in a double negative intercourse.
Having in the foregoing paragraphs explained
how the four kinds of sexual intercourse may be
performed, and briefly allued to their effects upon
the participants, I will now explain their philo-
sophic bearings upon the production of offspring.
All creation is effected by the union of negative and
positive forces, and it is a general rule to which
science furnishes no exception, that the strongest
creation occurs when the most complete negative
conditions are opposed by the most powerful force
or forces, from all of which I deduce the fourth
great law of reproduction.
The best offspring results from intercourse in
which one parent is very completely negative and
the other very powerfully positive.
Of course it is impossible for either parent to be
entirely negative, but the nearer this condition is
approximated, the .more perfect will be the result.
The importance of this fact will be more appreci-
ated wheri the reader has comprehended the tre-
mendous facts disclosed in the next section.
The sex of offspring is governed by the applica-
tion of this great law. In order to maintain the
90 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
equality of the sexes in numbers and quality, na-
ture has ordained that in each succeeding genera-
tion the elements of human character shall cross the
line of genesis. The history of the world reveals
the fact that men do not t:Fansmit their character-
istics to their sons. Neither do women transmit
their characteristics to their daughters. No great
man has ever yet appeared above the horizon of
mediocrity who did not have a mother who embod-
ied in her character the elements which made him
successful. No woman has ever astonished the
world with her genius who was not the @ffspring
of a father who possessed the germs of the same
genius. Differences in environment, in education,
and immediate conditions have of course had their
influences, but as far as the law of inheritance fur-
nishes a cause of observed effects, there are no ex-
ceptions to this rule. In any apparent exception
where a son has followed in the footsteps of his
father with success, it will be found that the mother
possessed the elements of character which made the
success possible. In all ages men have mourned
the fact that their sons were unable to follow in
their footsteps, while the current theology and so-
cial customs of society have relegated their daugh-
ters, because the occupation in which those talents
would shine have not been considered within "wom-
an's sphere." And so the development of humanity
has been retarded and set back until another gen-
eration after decades of disuse and suppression,
the talent has appeared in the grandson. It is in
the same way gifted and talented boys, inheriting
..
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 91
from sensitive and refined mothers the grace which
would have made them brilliant musicians, accom-
plished painters, and incomparable poets, have been
cempelled to adopt commercial pursuits for which
they were utterly unfitted, in order to succeed to
their father's business. And so the miserable in-
harmony proceeds.
The fifth great law of reproduction may be stated
as follows:
The positive parent governs the sex and reverses
it, and if the positive parent is very positive and
the negative parent very negative, the result will
be a child of the opposite sex from the positive
parent, but possessing that parent's qualities of
character in the highest degree of perfection possi-
ble to that parentage.
According to this law, a negative female and a
positive male will produce a female child, and that
child will resemble her father and be like him in
character; and being like him, will be as perfect
as it is possible to produce a female child, for it is
impossible for the mother to transmit her qualities
to her daughter, who resembles her in any degree,
it is because she was partly positive and so far
opposed her positive force to that of the father,
defeating his creation and to that degree impairing
the perfection of the child. It is universally true
that boys who resemble their father and girls who
resemble their mother in any degre are to just
that degree inferior. This resemblance to the par-
ent of the same sex is often superficial and fre-
quently exists only as to the color of the hair and
92 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
eyes, while the formation of the brain and the es-
sentials of character are properly inherited from
the right parent. It is not unusual to find such
cases referred to as "the very image of her
mother" or "the picture of his father," when the
truth is in the reverse. It is a fact, however, that
all persons who resemble the parents of the same
sex in brain formation ~nd the essentials of char-
acter are the result of either double negative or
double positive intercourse, in which the forces
were nearly equally opposed, but having just enough
preponderance on one side to effect the creation.
If the forces were exactly equal in opposition, no
creation could result. It follows that as the oppo-
sition decreases the creation becomes more perfect.
According to this same law, a negative male and
a positive female will ·produce a male child, who
will . resemble his mother and inherit her charac-
teristics, and will be as perfect as it is possible for
the couple to produce a male child. Such is, in
fact, always the case.
The sixth great law of reproduction naturally
follows as a corollary to the second :
The more perfect the receptivity of the negative
parent and the greater force generated by the posi-
tive parent, the stronger will be the offspring.
Both the negative and the positive conditions are
enjoyable. Both should · be made the subject .of
careful study and practice by all prospective pa-
rents until it is possible to assume either at will and
enjoy it thoroughly. Unless this is done, whe11 the
time comes to generate offspring they will probably
,.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 93
fail in producing the desired results from lack of
practice. It is just as necessary to practice in this
great art of production as in any other. The
greater the harmony existing in the temperament
and constitution of the parents, the easier it will be
for them to establish harmonious positive and nega-
tive conditions. Here again is seen the inestimable
value of perfect harmony of sex. For this reason,
it is possible with such a consort to enjoy a high
degree of pleasure in all social and sexual relations,
and because of this reciprocity to have more per-
fect offspring than can possibly be obtained by :my
other combination. And this brings us to the enun-
ciation of the seventh great law of reproduction.
The conditions of ,pleasureable enjoyment of the
act of sexual intercourse are always in direct pro-
portion to the conditions favorable to the perfect
creation of offspring. I have frequently been as-
sailed by hostile critics who have contented that I
dwelt too much upon the pleasures of intercourse
and that my philosophy tended to make man sex-
ual. My answer has always been the enunciation
of this great law that follows logically from the
others we have considered, and I have always de-
clared that as long as I knew that my doctrine
would continue to add beauty to children yet un-
born, I would continue to teach this great law and
let the critics do their worst.
These ideal conditions are possible and easy of
attainment between all persons w,ho are physically
fit and willing to make lust subservient to love.
Love is simply .
the attraction felt by one person for
94 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
anether, restrained and directed so ·as to produce the
greatest good for the loved subject. Lust is the swme
attraction unbridled and indulged irrespective of fJhe
welfare of the object. Ponder on these definitions
and decide which form you are experiencing.
In order to carry out the philosophy of this sys-
tem and to reap the benefit of a knowledge of the
laws herein expounded, it is necessary:
First. The male should secure perfect control
of his sexual powers to the extent that he can be
negative or positive at will, that he can control the
emission of semen perfectly, so as to prolong sexual .
intercourse to a necessary extent, and be able to
terminate the act with or without emission, or with
a violent orgasm or a gentle one, according to his
desire, and the ·object to be obtained.
Second. The female must be in possession of a
knowledge of her condition as to possibility of im-
pregnation, tire exact stage of her menstrual period,
and be able to control her own condition of nega-
tiveness or positiveness, and to terminate the act
with or without orgasm, violent or gentle, accord-
ing to her desire and the object to be obtained;
Men who have never experienced anything but
the violent and abortive effects of the positive form
of intercourse usually indulged in by the unin-
formed will be inclined to look upon the require-
ments of the male as above stated as impossible.
But in the light of instruction there is nothing un-
reasonable or even difficult to obtain in these re-
quirements. A more full and complete discussion
of the method of cultivating self-control ·is found
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 95
in another chapter of this great work; but for the
application of the principles herein discussed I con-
sider the following suggestions necessary. To at-
tain these requirements, it is necessary that the
sexual organs should be in a perfectly natural con-
dition, that the bowels should be kept open and free
from accumulations, and that intercourse should
never be attempted when these precautions have
been neglected. When a man puts himself in this
perfectly natural condition, he is fit to become the
father of offspring, and not before. Then all that is
necessary is a comprehension of the laws and prac-
tice in their application. If you are not able to
reach all the requirements with a reasonable degree
of practice, there is something wrong, either with
your organs or your method of practice, or the
adaptation of your consort. You will find great
benefit in any case from the information contained
in another part of this work.
Females as a rule have very little trouble in con-
trolling their negative and positive conditions and
in regulating the force of the orgasm. I attribute
this to the fact that the sexual organs of the fe-
male are not so much restricted by unnatural and
debilitating clothing as those of man. Much as
has been said to the contrary, there is more need
of dress reform among men than among women.
But very few women understand the various
stages of menstruation or their condition at each
state, as to negativeness, or positiveness, or liabil-
ity to impregnation. The following instructions
96 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
are indispensable and should be comprehended b.y
every woman before sexual intercourse is attempted
under any circumstances.
The menstrual month of the female who is
healthy and regular consists of twenty-eight days,
continuing from the commencement of one flow to
the commencement of another. There are slight
variations from this rule, but they are not numer-
ous. When there is a great variation, it is evi-
dence of disease and treatment is required to estab-
lish regularity. This month of twenty-eight days
is divided into three periods, viz., the period of
flux, the period of retention of the ovum, and the
period of sterility. These periods are all variable
in different women, but generally invariable in each
case, and when established become sources of great
convenience in the management of proper sexual
relations.
The period of retention of the ovum properly be-
gins about two days before the menstrual flow, in-
cludes the time of its flow and extends for a number
of days beyond it. The ovum ripens in the ovary
just before the beginning of the menstrual tlow
and it is possible for the impregnation to take place
if intercourse occurs at that time. After the men-
strual flow ceases, the ovum remains in the fallo-
pian tubes and uterus for some time, varying in
different females from three days to fifteen days.
In each female, however, the discharge usually oc-
curs about the same number of days after men-
strual flow ceases, so that if the period is once
. "
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 97
established, the female may look for its repetition
with tolerable regularity.
When the ovum is discharged the period of ster-
ility begins and continues until about two weeks
before the next flow commences, when, as already
stated, it is possible for the female to conceive with
the ripened ovum which is then in the ovary.
To enable a woman to surely understand her
conditions, and to conceive her offspring at a proper
time and under proper conditions, she must know
exactly when the ovum is discharged from the
uterus and when the period of sterility begins. To
accomplish this observe the following instructions
carefully.
As soon as the menstrual flow ceases, carefully
cleanse the vagina with warm water at about blood
heat. No other in]ection should ever be used.
Now carefully notice all discharges that come from
the uterus, and for this purpose it is desirable to
wear a thin cloth, not heavy enough to heat the
parts, but upon which all discharges from the
uterus may be caught and examined. It is desira-
ble until the period has been established, to strain
the urine through a thin cloth and observe. When
the ovum is discharged there is nearly always a
flow of mucus, or this watery fluid, from the vagina
more than usual. Just previous to the appearance
of the ovum there will be a feeling of contraction
and bearing down in the uterus, as in menstrua-
tion. The ovum will be discharged in the form of
a grayish clot about the size of a small pea, and
of a firm and elastic texture. The ovum itself is
98 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
only about the size of a small pinhead, but it is
surrounded by enveloping matter and ·mucus which
makes it clearly visible if the observer is careful.
As already remarked, the period of retention
varies in different females from three to .fifteen
days. Just a very few females discharge it during
the menstrual flow, and some on the first day or
second day, but these cases are very rare. No case
has ever been· found where the ovum has been re-
tained beyond the fifteenth day, so females who
from any cause are unable to detect the passage,
may with certainty rely upon the fifteenth day as
establishing the period of retention whether dis-
covered or not.
The female being in possession of the knowledge
of her condition, the act of sexual intercourse be-
comes perfectly easy to regulate. She will find,
however, that immediately after the cessation of
the menstrual flow, and for several day~ thereafter,
she will be more negative than positive, hence if
she conceives at such a time, the result will be a
female offspring, unless for some i·eason the posi-
tiveness of the male is still more reduced. Such
a conception would, of course, be disastrous to the
offspring by the creative force being reduced to a
mm1mum. But if female offspring is desired and
the male is magnificently positive, it is the most
desirable time. The female will begin to manifest
her most positive condition after the seventh day
following the close of the menstrual flow, hence this
would be the most favorable time to conceive male
.
.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 99
offspring, provided the ovum has not been passed
previously. .
Another point that is worth noticing is that when
the female offspring is desired after the intercourse,
the female should lie quietly and sleep, thus pro-
longing her negativeness. When male offspring is
desired, she should move about and prolong her
positiveness by cheerful occupation, pleasant com-
panionship, active movements, and gayety.
The greatest difficulty I have experienced in
teaching my philosophy of the sexual relations is
the unwillingness of man to believe there is any
pleasure in .sexual intercourse except that which is
derived from excitement of the orgasm and the dis-
charge of semen. As a general rule, the man meas-
ures his pleasure by the number of orgasms he can
force in the length of time he has possession of the
female. It is this view of the sexual relations
which makes it hard to enforce or to accomplish
anything in behalf of the great number of women
who are bound for life to masses of organized sel-
fishness known as husbands. I am driven to de-
spair frequently when some beautiful woman to
whom I ha ~le given my instructions returns to me
with tears and says: "It is no use. I believe all
you say is true, but my husband says it is all hum-
bug, and I cannot even persuade him to try your
method. All he seems to think of is gratification
of his passion, and when we have intercourse, all
his pleasure consists in the excitement and the or-
gasm, and that is so quickly over that I experience
no pleasure at all. And he requires so much that
100 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
he keeps me in a family way all the time, and as
soon as I am through nursing one child I am preg-
nant with the next."
Now this is simply barbarous. And yet it is the
unhappy condition of thousands of families all over
the world, resulting in the production of thousands
of iU-made children, destroying the health of the
mothers and making them incapable of producing .
healthy offspring, and not less certainly destroying
the health of men who practice the outrage and
causing them to sacrifice all the real pleasure there
is it true sexual embrace.
The man who has not learned to control himself,
so that he can have satisfactory intercourse without
any emission of semen is uneducated and unfit to
be the companion of any woman. When he does
learn this degree of control, he experiences pleasure
infinitely beyond the comprehension of the man
who experiences only the usual abortive form of ·
intercourse. In fact I do not believe that any man
has ever experienced true sexual joys until in the
exercise of his manhood and self-justification, he
has caused himself and his loved consort to thrill
with ecstatic emotions which may result from the
intelligent use of sexual functions when held under
this complete control. The same rule applies here
which is true in music, or in any other accomplish-
ment. Skilled performances give joy, while un-
skillful discords produce misery.
The emission of the semen in coition is never
necessary except for propagative purposes. By the
cultivation of self-control, and by adhering closely
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 101
to habits of living, diet, etc., promotive of sexual
vigor on the part of the male, he may enjoy coition
to the fullest extent, prolong the act for an unlim-
ited time and withdraw without emission, with full
feeling of satisfaction, both to himself and consort,
provided that the conditions surrounding the act
are proper and natural.
I am aware that this statement will be received
with great incredulity by those who ·have never
experienced anything but an abortion coition-at-
tempted under circumstances contrary to the law
of nature and all conditions of enjoyment. That
nature intends the discharge of semen to be entirely
under the control of the male I have not the shadow
of a doubt. The fact that I have met hundreds of
well-sexed men who have been able under my in-
structions to duplicate my experience prove the
fact.
A great many magnetic men are able to prolong .
the act of coition to a satisfactory extent, but find
it necessary to eject the semen at the conclusion
of the act, which may take place after withdrawal
without injury, provided the coition has lasted half
an hour or more and the male has been fed by the
magnetism of the female and has experienced the
feeling of satisfaction which enables him to close
the act without a severe nervous spasm inducing
prostration. Any mf..n of average physique and
sexual vigor should be able to reach this degree of
self-control. To attain to a higher degree in which
no secretion of semen occurs and no feeling of dis-
comfort arises, requires excellent health, perfect
102 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
sexual vigor, and strongly developed habits of self-
control, with the ability to elevate the feeling above
mere selfish gratification, and to so sublimate the
act as to make it the highest degree of mental en-
joyment as well as physical.
To attain the full dP.gree of satisfaction in this
method of coition, the ad must be performed under
the following conditions:
1. The husband and wife must be adapted to
each other in harmony, with physiological princi-
ples, in order to have correct sexual magnetism,
natural attraction, and enjoyment.
2. The parties must live in harmony with the
laws of nature as to diet, bathing, habits, sleep, etc.
3. The act must be performed in the proper
way, at a proper time, when both parties are highly
qualified to enjoy it, and with all disturbing condi-
tions removed.
A full discussion of these topics is referred to
in another division of this work, but with reference
to the methods of cultivating self-control, the fol-
lowing suggestions are here given:
The male should accustom himself to entering the
female and remain quiet for some moments, then
withdraw without emission. ·This may be repeated
frequent!y until the male has become accustomed to
exercising this restraint, which is highly beneficial.
At each interview the period of contact may be in-
creased in duration and the male accustom himself
to gentle mt1
n::H-:<>nts, always being careful to ter-
minate the ir_s0rtion before emission is imminent.
This discipline n:ay be kept up for some time with
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 103
the assistance of the female until the habit of self-
control is established. The act may then be pro-
longed by continuing the movement until emission
seems to be imminent, when both should cease all
movements, allowing the penis to remain in the
vagina and rest, in the meantime cultivating a live-
ly conversation on agreeable topics. When the feel-
ing of the approaching orgasm has subsided, the
movement may be renewed.
The male should accustom himself to seek the
gratification of his mind in the beauty and conver-
sation of the female, in loving caresses and endear-
ments, and enjoy the self-control which he is striv-
ing to maintain. As far as possible, make the act
a reciprocal enjoyment and remove the thoughts
from the contact of the organs. When the habit
of self-control is thus established, and the male is
able to prolong the act and enjoy it mentally, if it
is properly accomplished and the rules as given in
another division properly obeyed, the enjoyment on
both sides will be delightful in the extreme, and
so far transcend the pleasure of the mere orgasm
that the participants will never again resort to im-
proper methods.
The most perfect results are obtained by those
who pay the closest attention to the reciprocation
of negative and positive conditions. During the
period of retention the female is most likely to de-
sire intercourse. If she refrains entirely from fear
of conception, she will suffer a certain degree of
sexual starvation. During the period of sterility,
many females have no passion at all, and when
104 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
they are required to perform intercourse in a posi-
tive way, it is at considerable expense to the nerv-
ous system. My philosophy gratifies both at the
proper time. During the period of retention, let
the female be as positive as she likes, but let the
male be negative and retain the semen. During the
period of sterility, let the female be negative, if
she desires to be, and let the male extend his force
as freely as his health and temperament require.
During the menstrual flow, decency requires com-
plete abstinence.
The physical effects of such coition are in the
highest degree beneficial: I have yet to find a
man who has appreciated and adopted it who has
not been greatly improved in health and appear-
ance by the practice. Its beneficial effect upon the
female is equally good, and she should accustom
herself to the same mental enjoyment and termi-
nate the act without orgasm and its accompany-
ing nervous spasm.
The performance of the act of coition under
these conditions places the matter of conception
entirely in the hands of the parents and enables
the wife to enter fully into the enjoyment of the
act without fear of unwelcome 'offspring. In prac-
ticing this theory, the male should be careful to
withdraw whenever he feels the approach of the
orgasm to such an extent as to render it beyond his
control. If the act has been prolonged, it will not
be in the least injurious to let the emission take
place outside, but it is better to retain the semen
if possible.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 105
A most important fact to be borne in mind is that
the mental condition of the participants and their
state of conscientious conviction exert a very great
influence in the find effect which will be felt. A
great deal has been written by ignorant persons
concerning the injurious effects of "incomplete in-
tercourse," and withdrawal, etc. "As a man think-
eth, so is he." If a man believes he is injuring
himself by any act, it will injure him in fact, no
matter how harmless the act may be in itself. A
gentleman once complained to me that "incomplete
intercourse," this is, terminating without emission,
was very injurious to him, although he had prac-
ticed it for years to save his wife from unwelcome
offsprng. He was asked, "Who told you so?" "My
family physician," he replied. He was informed
that his family physician did not understand the
case. It is not only not injurious, but that the re-
tention of the semen will cause one to be less nervous
and to increase in weight. He followed my advise
and reported in three months that he had gained
fifteen pounds and that his nerves were much
stronger.
The ·Cure of Sexual Weakness;
Manhood Restored
SEVENTH DIVISION
A Brief Review of the Conditions Generally
Described As Sexual Weakness, Lost
Manhood, Nervous Debility
Degeneracy of the sexual organs exists in some
cases and may frequently be remedied by proper
treatment. Degeneracy would be indicated by de-
ficiency in size or by malformation. For actual
malformation amounting to inability to sustain
sexual relations there would be no remedy, but
such cases are extremP.ly rare. The most common
form of malformation, which i::., remediable, is
phymosis. This is a condition in which the fore-
skin is long and the opening is so contracted that
it cannot be drawn back over the glands. This
causes a lack of growth of the organ and a filthy
condition which breeds disease and is frequent
cause of nervousness and idiocy in boys. An
examination by any competent and reputable
surgeon will settle this question and provide a
remedy, which is usually found in circumcision.
This is the only condition in whkh I recognize the
act of circumcision as being in. any degree neces-
sary.
106
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 107
Deficency in size of the sexual organs is a much
advertised condition upon which the quacks reap a
fruitful harvest. Nearly all young men are anxious
to have a vigorous condition of these organs and
naturally the size seems to be an indication of
power, as in the case of the rest of the body. But
as very few men have an opportunity of com-
paring sizes of development, and most of them are
filled with distrust of their own conditions through
reading quack advertisements, it is not to be won-
dered at that many a man comes to believe that his
organs are small and weak when in fact, they are
well-proportioned. It must also be remembered that
the sexual organs have two conditions, flaccidity
and erection, and that the size of the organs in
flaccidity is no indication of their size in erection.
Hundreds of men contemplate their sexual organs
in a state of flaccidity size in that condition and
being worried over their distrust and lack of con-
fidence, have arrived at the conclusion, that they
are hopeless degenerates, when in fact they are
vigorously sexed.
When there is an actual deficiency of size in the
orga1is the best remedy is found in their legitimate
use and in massage ·and remedies hereinafter de-
scribed. But if a satisfactory sexual relation is
experienced there is really no reason for worry
over the size' of the organs. Women differ in size
of these organs as much as men and where the
parties are properly mated, there is not great dis-
parity in size, and the action of the organs are
harmonious. It is of far greater importance that
108 . THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
every man and woman should secure the knowledge
which enables each to make a correct selection of
a sexual mate than to submit to treatment for
deficiencies which may have no existence except in
the mind of the victim.
It is safe to say that a large majority of boys
learn to practice the vice of self-abuse to some ex-
tent. While this is true that a great many injurious
effects result from this practice, and in the mis-
guided expressions of a great many moralists such
emphasis has been laid upon the injury and so little
practical instruction has been given as the real
power and use of sexual organs that a great injury
has been done. I am constantly coming in contact
with a class of men, young and middle-aged, who
have been so impressed with the awful consequences
of self-abuse, that they believe they are hopelessly
ruined because they have indulged in it to a limited
extent. This imagination is really the cause of the
breakdown. In most cases where there is an in-
ordinate desire for sexual excitement and an actual
practice of self-abuse to an injurious extent, the
cause will be found in an unnatural diet, in filthy
habits, neglect of the bath, constipation and indul-
gence in stimulants, and the act of self-abuse is a
resulting symptom, instead of fJhe cause of the
trouble.
When this condition exists and there is a con-
tinuation of the practice, the remedy is found only
in total abstinence. Adopt the proper diet, avoid
all forms of meat, stimulating foods and drinks,
eat fruits, nuts, and vegetables, of the right kind,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR J09
and temperature, according to your temperament,
bathe properly, see.
k agreeable companionship, wear
loose clothing and learn the current of your mag-
netism and control it. All of these practices are
taught fully in physical culture magazines. If you
have discontinued the habit and still have some
fears that your sexual strength has been diminished
by the practice of it, the best thing to do in any
case is to dismiss this fear and proceed to de-
velop and enjoy your functions regardless of a
past which you cannot recall. The probabilities
are that as soon as you adopt this mental attitude
and dismiss fear, you will have no further trouble.
Where there is really any .deficiency in size of
the organs, or a debility resulting from sexual
bause of any kind, the first thing to do in any case
is to improve the general health. The study of
the functions of generation, depuration, nutrition,
circulation, observation, respiration, and reflection,
and the improvements of the functions according
to directions given in other portions of this work,
will greatly increase the force of your gender.
Varicocele results from the relaxation of the
muscles of the scrotum caused often by keeping
the affected region in a hot, sweaty condition by an
excess of clothing, frequently of an unwhole-
some character. The remedy for this condition is
found in the massage and cold compress herein-
after described, frequently applied and in reducing
the amount of clothing surrounding the scrotum,
exposing the parts to air and sunshine, removing
all suspensories and other bandages and keeping
110 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
the scrotum muscles contracted by cold appli-
cations. It is especially important that the parts
should be exposed constantly to ventilation and
air currents, which can easily be accomplished by
correcting the clothing.
Total or partial failure of erection may occur
from two causes, the debility of the sexual organs
and the lack of control of the current of mag-
netism, in some cases both causes exist. Where
there is a debility of the sexual organs, correct the
general health according to natural methods and
apply the massage and cold compress hereinafter
described, vigorously and frequently. This treat-
ment has been known to restore vigorous erectile
power to the sexual organs of men of advanced
years who have not known such a power for in-
tervals of five and ten years. In such cases, the
circulation was good and all that was necessary
was to direct it specially to the sexual organs.
Where the failure of erection is due to the dis-
turbance of the current of magnetism, the cor-
rection of the condition is only a matter of in-
telligent effort. This will be fully discussed in
subsequent pages.
Premature Emission of Semen, or the ability to
prolong the act to a satisfactory termination may
also be due to these causes. Where there is debility
of the organs, follow the directions carefully and
vigorously, the same as for the failure of erection.
The conditions arising under the current of magnet-
ism will be fully discussed under that head.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 111
.The inability to reach a satisfactory prolongation
of the sexual act results in mutual disappointment
and reversion of affections and is a serious cause of
marital unhappiness, as well as the deterioration of
offspring. Unless the sexual emotions are entirely
under control in both parents, the offspring are sure
to be seriously impaired in functionality, irritable,
nervous, and short-lived. The inability to control the
act, however, .is so general that I have found the
greatest difficulty in convincing a large class of in-
telligent people that it is necessary to have the
sexual emotions under the same control that is re-
quired in all other forms of human action, where
effectiveness is desired. Briefly stated, however, the
causes which give rise to this lack of self-control
and cause the impairment of sexual effectiveness
are as follows :
1. Debility of the sexual organs and of the
general constitufion.
2. Ignorance of the current of magnetism and
how it may be controlled.
3. Constipation, causing a partial paralysis of
the sexual nerves by compressing the tissues of
the sexual organs.
4. Lack of temperamental affinity in the com-
panion.
5. Disturbing influences, such as fear, anger,
distrust, or interruptions.
6. Ignorance of the fact that such form of
intercourse is profitable and consequent lack of
effort to reach and enjoy it.
112 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
7. In the absence of intelligent co-operation be-
tween the parties ·to secure the best possible re-
sults to each other and to the resulting offspring.
As stated in previous chapters, many . nervous
troubles can be successfully treated through proper
understanding and practice of coition.
Briefly stated, the sexual organs of most men
are small, deficient in circulation, unclean, and in-
efficient in the performance of the function of
generation. Few men experience anything near
the normal pleasure in sexual intercourse, and very
few are able to exhibit any degree of control dur-
ing the performance of the act of copulation.
Many complain of the failure of erection, others
of premature discharge of semen, others are en-
tirely impotent in generation, while the conscious-
ness of weakness in any form .is destructive of
character by reducing self-confidence, destroying
ambition and making the unhappy victim a prey
to misery worse than death.
All involuntary seminal emissions are the effect of
constipation accompanied by nervous excitement of
some kind.
All debility of the sexual organs not directly due
to inherited general debility, of the constitution, is
caused by uncleanliness and the wearing of cloth-
ing in such a manner that the organs are deprived
of the conditions of growth.
All lack of self-control, premature emission in
the sexual act, failure of erection and similar em-
barrassments result from the continued unnatural
conditions in which the sexual organs are kept as
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 113
a result of the neglect, contempt, and general dis-
honor inculcated by a depraved sentiment.
The foregoing statements are made, of course,
with reference to men who have originally pos-
sessed normal conditions of health and who do not
come under the following classifications; which
may be considered as having acquired sexual weak-
. ness from diseased ancestors or from causes which
may be directly traced. In the following cases the
causes may be · more easily determined when the
facts are known, but the remedy is the same in all
cases.
1. General Heredity Weakness of the consti-
tution, resulting from parental incompatibility,
parental disease, or an improper condition or
method of sexual intercourse at the time of con-
ception of the parent, resulting in small or un-
developed sexual organs, weak and excitable nerves
and the inability to properly perform or prolong
the act of copulation or to become the parent of
perfect offapring.
2. Effects of Acute and Chronic Diseases of the
reproductive organs in male and female, such as
gonorrhea, syphilis, stricture, or inflammation of
the bladder, lucorrhea, womb disease, or the effect
of injuries received by accident or otherwise.
In all of the above forms the general results are
the same in the end, viz.: a general debility of the
nervous system, failure of erection, seminal
emissions at night or in the urine, palpitation of
the heart, failure of memory, aversion to society,
loss of sexual enjoyment.
114 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
In all cases of sexual debility the fact must be
borne in mind that the sexual organs are organs
of sense. Man has seven senses, to-wit: gender,
touch, taste, hearing, sight, smell, and clairvoyance.
The sexual organs are the organs of gender, and
the exquisite pleasure which is derived from their
correct uses is due to their perception and sensi-
bility to the vibrations of magnetism in the lowest
stage, which constitutes the sensation of gender.
If man would subject his eyes, ears, nose, or
mouth to the abuses with which he afflicts his
sexual organs, he would soon lose the senses of
sight, hearing, smell, and taste. Because these
senses are necessary to his daily vocations, he has
learned to keep the face and hands practically ex-
posed and these organs have nearly normal con-
ditions. . But he is not supposed to use his sense
of gender at all, and it is possible to live without
it, he has been instructed to keep it covered with
several layers of dry goods, to neglect the exposure
of the organs of gender, to neglect cleanliness, to
think of it only with shame and to suppress all
talk concerning sexual pleasure. Is it any wonder
that men and women are sexually blind?
The remedy is obvious. Subject the sexual organs
to the same treatment that you would apply to the
eyes if they weakened by the continued application
of bandages accompanied by conditions of filth,
constriction, and impaired circulation.
The following rational system of cure is based
on the principle of avoiding all causes which pro-
duce these results and the substitution of con-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 115
ditions tending to produce development of the other
direction. There is always present in nature a
grand force directed toward recuperation. Nature
is constantly employing impulses toward the build-
ing up of health and normal conditions. Disease
is the result of the recuperative forces being foter-
fered with, or the extraordinary effort which
nature makes to expel abnormal conditi~s.
Civilization has its disadvantages and the pre-
vailing fashions of wearing clothing ·are a fruitful
cause of debility and disease by causing pressure
on the organs, obstructing circulation, and causing
abnormal conditions in both sexes.
The Vital or Recuperative System of the body
consists of the digestive organs and the blood
vessels, the heart and lungs, and the various glands,
such as the liver, stomach, spleen, kidneys, testes,
etc., and it is by means of the circulation of the
blood manufactured in the bowels from the food,
circulation by the heart and blood vessels, and
purified by the lungs and glands, that disease and
wasted tissue is thrown out and new life injected
into all the organs of the body.
Exposing the sexual organs to natural con-
ditions, regulating the d1gestion, and promoting
circulation will cure ninety-five per cent of all
sexual debility. By these simple measures we
secure the proper nourishment of the parts and
the disposition of all diseased, dead, or unnecessary
accumulations.
Exposing the sexual organs to fresh air, sun-
shine and friction as much as possible, every day,
116 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
and apply plenty of hot and cold water in the
form a general bath over the whule body once
a day, and a special bath of the sexual organs as
hereinafter set forth as often as is convenient.
Fresh air and sunshine are just as important to
the sexual organs as to any other form of growth.
If you deprive your eyes of these conditions you
would soon be blind. It is because you have de-
prived your sexual organs of natural conditions
that you are daz7Aed, sexually, whenever you come
in contact with the gender of the other sex, and
you are unable to control the action of these
organs, as you would in the case supposed, be·
unable to control your eyes.
Be nude as much as possible, expose the sexual.
organs to a sun bath at least an hour each day if ·
you can spare the time. Bathe as directed and at
all times cultivate the feeling that your sexual
organs are as respectable as any other part of
your body. Be proud of them and keep them in
natural, healthy, and clean condition, and never
prostitute them to base uses.
Wear clean underclothing and never wrap the
sexual organs in fold of shirts or underwear of
any description. Let the scrotum hang on its
own muscles, and let the sexual organs have the
friction of the clothing as you walk. If you get
chafed you will soon get over it. Persevere. Have
your trousers and drawers made loose and do not
have your shirts long enough to necessitate wrap-
ping the fold around the sexual organs.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 117
It is desirable to change the underwear every
day. If this makes too big a laundry bill, have
suits so you can change very frequently and allow
the former garments to air until you have made
the round.
. Promoting circulation in diseased parts will en-
able Nature to use her own forces, which are always
employed for health and enjoyment. This magnifi-
cent principle is the secret of every cure made since
the foundation of the world. The only rational use
which can be made of medicine is to assist nature in
the application of this principle, and the less one
uses drugs of any kind, the better they are off
physically.
The following directions will enable the intelli-
gent reader to succeed in promoting circulation.
1. The cold sponge bath should be taken as
frequently as possible, either in the morning or
evening. Apply cold water to the entire person
and immediately rub with a rough towel until the
whole body is aglow. Dress quickly and take
brisk exercises. The cold bath should be taken in
a warm room.
2. A cold foot bath and hand bath should be
taken on retiring. Plunge the hands and feet into
the coldest water obtainable. Repeat the plunge
once or twice. Dry quickly and then rub and slap
the hands and feet for five minutes. Jump up and
down and rub the feet on a piece of brussels carpet
until they are in a glow; jump into bed and cover
the feet warmly. This process will produce a re-
action of circulation and make the hands and feet
118 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
hot, unless the patient has a very impoverished
heart action and condition of blood, and when it
fails to produce the proper effect, the patient
should use hot water and sleep with the feet in
contact with something warm until reaction does
set in, keeping the soles of the feet hot and the
body comfortably covered. If the case is urgent
and hot applications cannot be conveniently ob-
tained, rub a small quantity of cayenne pepper on
the soles of the feet and ankles with the hands
and cover warmly in bed. The foregoing directions
are sufficient in most cases to cure any case of
acute catarrh or cold.
The Massage of the Sexual Organs. At night,
after the foot bath, and in a comfortable room,
protected from cold draughts of air, and with
proper privacy, perform the following exercise:
Subject the entire pelvic region to a vigorous slap-
ping and punching exercise, as follows, avoiding
any part that may be inflamed or sore; slap tne
penis, the scrotum, and the testicles .(gently) unW
they are red and glowing with increased circu-
lation; slap the groins, the entire surface of the
abdome:i and upper part of the thighs, the anls,
and in cases of females, particularly the region of
the ovaries and lips of the vulva. Slap rapidly
and smartly with the open hand for five minutes,
and then roll, punch and knea:d the parts another
five minutes. Follow this up with .another round
of slapping and then another round of punching
and kneading unitil every part has been thoroughly
treated. lt will be found less painful to slap the
•
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 119
penis if the latter is drawn up on the abdomen
with the left hand and stretched while the right
administers the massage. The outer skin of the
scrotum may be drawn and stretched over the left
hand while treated, with best results. When this
has been done for at least twenty minutes-don't
guess at it-then apply-
The Cold Compress, a towel wet with the coldest
water obtainable, &pplied directly to the sexual
organs. In male cases apply around the scrotum
and testicles; in females, to the vulva and wrap
around with another dry towel and let remain for
twenty minutes. By that time there should be a
vigorous reaction of circulation, a profuse perspi-
ration of the parts, and the sexual organs should
be hot. If on several applications this reaction is
not obtainable, suitable hot water and cold alter-
nately for several nights. When the reaction is
obtained, the compress may be left on all night.
If not, or if considered inconvenient, the compress
may be removed after twenty minutes and the
parts wiped clean and dry. The object to keep in
view is the reaction or quickened circulation, which
calls a large volume of healthy blood to the weak-
ened parts, sweating out the diseased matter and
local inflammation and restoring healthy vigor.
Persons possessing a magnetic temperament
with good circulation, will find no difficulty in fol-
lowing this treatment with the coldest water ob-
tainable, and such persons are benefited by fre-
quent plunge or tub baths in very cold ·water.
They are also benefited by eating cold food and
120 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
drinking copiously of cold water. Persons who
possess the electric temperament are more easily
chilled and should resort to tepid or hot baths, use
warm food, drink hot water, and the use of the
compress on the sexual organs hot. All persons
are benefited by the slapping, punching and knead-
ing exercise.
In every case a certain amount of experiment
and observation are necessary to adapt the treat-
ment to each individual temperament and consti-
tution.
General Directions
The bowels should be kept in a normal con-
dition, and where the habit can be formed, it is
best to evacuate them before retiring. Empty the
bladder on retiring and establish the habit of
awakening toward morning and emptying the
bladder the second time. The presence of accumu-
lated matter in the rectum and of urine in the
bladder creates a pressure upon the seminal reser-
voirs, which are situated directly between the
bladder and rectum; and this pressure is a fruitful
cause of seminal emissions.
Cultivate a happy, cheerful frame of mind, seek
a healthful and congenial occupation, pleasant
associates, and don't indulge in moody reflections
upon your condition or your indiscretions.
Association with virtuous persons of the opposite
sex is highly beneficial. Be continuously in the
society of the other sex as much as possible. Avoid
exclusive association with persons of your own sex
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 121
as far as practicable. Avoid all lewd conversations,
jokes, or associations. Cultivate gallantry, love-
making, kissing, caressing, etc., to the full extent of
purity.
Refrain entirely from sexual intercourse for the
first three months, and in extreme cases, six
months; and avoid everything which inflames the
passion or excites lascivious desires, especially
lewd imaginations. There is a vast difference be-
tween love and lust. Cultivate love to the fullest
extent and expel lust in all forms.
The cold · foot and hand bath may be used to
good advantage daily. The cold compress aid
massage may be used as often as benefit is derived.
Your own feelings are the best guide. If emissions
take place at first as a result of the treatment they
should not be regarded with any alarm but the
result of increased activity of the organs, which
will soon disappear.
When varicocele exists, the greater amount of
the treatment should be expended in promoting
circulation in the scrotum, and the cold compress
should be used frequently. Do not wear a sus-
pensory, as it weakens ·the muscles of the scrotum
and increases the complaint.
By adhering closely to the foregoing instructions
and practicing cleanliness, which is very essential,
in all bodily treatments, and by giving special at-
tention to the thought current, and bearing in mind
that proper thinking goes a long way toward
establishing healthy and harmonious conditions of
the body.
122 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
One of the essentials in the enjoyment of sexual
intercourse is the quietude of mind and nerves, as
when these elerments are disturbed nature cannot
perform her normal functions.
The practice of the principles herein laid down
will prove beneficial to thousands of readers, if
properly adhered to.
Introduction by Dr. Don Cabot McCowan,
M.D., The Endocrine Glands
The Endocrine gland or the glands that have an
Endocrine Secretion. This secretion is also called
a hormone. The glands that are best known and
their functions determined are: Pineal Aut V Post
Pituitary Thyroid. Porathyroids, Thymus Mam-
uary, Liver, Spleen, Lymph glands, Pancreas
Adrenals, Testicles, Ovaries, Prostate and Corpus
Lantum. The Pineal has to do with the development
of the testes and ovaries. The pituitary ·governs
the nervous system. The Aut Pituitary stimulates
the brain cells, growth and the gonads. The Thy-
roid stem, the Post Pituitary and combats toxins.
The Thymus regulates·the growth of the long bones.
The Liver Spleen and Lymph glands all work to-
gether to combat toxins bacteria and deleterious
substances in the body. The pancreas which regu-
lates the sugar. The Adrenals regulate muscular tone
and strength; they also act in conjunction with the
gonads to regulate growth and produce the sexual
characteristics. The gonads (testicles in male and
o.varies in female) stimulate every gland in the body,
but especially do they work in harmony with the
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 123
Aut Pituitary Thyroid and Adrenals. ·
A hormone from a gland is a secretion that stim-
ulates the secretion from some other gland or an-
tagonizes it or holds it in balance, therefore if any
gland is deficient in the production of its normal
amount of hormone secretions, other glands are im-
mediately thrown out of balance. The interaction
and ~o-relation of the secretions from these glands
are very important in the body economy, so much
so that a man or woman is what they are because
of their glands.
The Sex Hormones
. If one were to ask a group of physicians which
class of remedies recently discovered had proven of
the greatest value in medicine, the almost unani-
mous verdict would be : "The hormones from the
glands and organs of internal secretion!" And in
justification of this decision, we need only cite, as
examples, thyroid extract for myxedema, the inter-
nal secretion of the pancreas, in the form of insulin,
for diabetes; adrenalin, pituitary extract, etc.
The failure of the organism to produce any of the
hormones mentioned above may readily result in
death; therefore, the use of potent remedies that
contain the hormones or autacoids in question may
be life-saving in character. ·
One by one the glands and organs of the body
are offering up their endocrine secrets to the physi-
oligical chemists.
The latest achievement is the solution of the rid-
dle of the sex glands.
124 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
So common are the disturbance due to an in-
sufficient or perverted internal secretion of the
gonads that the average physician is confronted
with them every day in his practice. Indeed, it is
probable that few persons go through life without
at some time suffering, temporarily at least, from
symptoms due to disturbance of the gonadal endo-
crine function.
The Endocrine Function of the Testicles
That the internal secretion of the testicles has a
profound influence on man's welfare is no new
theory. In the seventeenth century, Bordeu, physi-
cian to King Louis XV, promulgated the idea that
the male sex glands discharge some substance into
the blood which influences the well-being of the en-
tire body. Subsequently, physiologists supplied the
proof of Bordeu's contention.
As a matter of fact, the effects of castration on
the bodily structure and character of the male have
long been know. Among some sects, removal of
the testicles was practiced quite commonly as a re-
ligious tenet.
The ancient orthodox Mohammedan belief re-
garded women as articles of property without souls,
provided by Allah for the physical pleasure of the
male. Consequently it was only natural that the
male servants in the harem should try to steal some
of the master's property. Hence arose the custom
of emasculating men as the only safe means of fitting
them for employment in the harem.
The eunuch possesses no sexual desire, as he is
usually castrated before puberty, and sexual power
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN BEHAVIOUR 125
is lacking. Many of the female attributes are prom-
inent in his make-up. His hips are large and
rounded and his skin smooth and hairless. There
is an abundant growth of hair on the head, but the
chin remains as smooth as a woman's. Eunuchs
practically never become·bald; the bald head has
been regarded as a sign of virility.
Not only the body but also the temperament of
the eunuch is profoundly affected. He lacks agres-
siveness, is evasive, even cowardly, in his character.
The voice of the castrate is like that of a woman.
.Indeed, it was at one time the practice of church
choirs to secure their male sopranos by having
promising boy singers castrated before puberty.
Very much more common than complete eunuch-
ism, and proportionately more important to the
practising physician, is a partial loss of the endoc-
rine function of the sex glands. This is a condition
that few men escape, especially after middle life.
After the age of ~ixty, a marked diminution in
the endocrine funtion of the testicles often occurs.
This period has correctly been termed the male
climacteric. It marks the time when tne sexual life
of the average man ceases, when his desire wanes,
and his power to complete the sexual act is lessened.
Diminution of the sexual 1ife is due to the gradual
failure of production of the hormones or autocoids
of the gonads; that is, to an atrophy of the glan-
dular structures that make a man a man.
Diminished potency after the age of sixty may be
physiological, but it is not always logical. It is just
Nature's way of doing things on a wholesale scale.
126 THE MASTER KEY OF LOVE
But there is many a hale and hearty man over
sixty with soft arteries and a good heart, and in .
his case, the onset of the male climacteric is not a
safeguard but a distinct misfortune.
Impotence in Younger Men
Young men in the prime of life sometimes suffer
from functional defects of the internal secretory
glandular structure of the testicle. The result is
impotence, which may be temporary or sustained,
according to the gravity of the disturbance. There
may be an inherent weakness of the endocrine cells
of the testicle, for, unquestionably, some men are
decidedly more virile than others. As a result of in-
fectious diseases or other debilitating causes, the
internal secretory function may be temporarily in
abeyance. Gonorrhea and other inflammatory con-
ditions may result in an absence of the male sex
hormones.
Impotence does not long remain merely a symp-
tom of failure of the genital apparatus. It soon
affects the entire mentality. The impotent man suf-
fers from a deep sense of inferiority; there is no
shortcoming of which he is more keenly sensitive.
His mental perturbation soon makes him a neuras-
thenic.
The same is true of the syndrome of sexual neu-
rasthenia. In this disturbance, there is not only sex-
ual apathy, but loss of power of mental concentra-
tion, forgetfulness, and a lack of the vim and energy
required to carry on business properly. In the back-
ground of this clinical picture of sexual neurasthen-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN . BEHAVIOUR 127
ia, the essential factor is the cry of the body for the
necessary hormones or autacoids from the testicle.
Testicular Hypofunction in Brief
Physicians have long recognized definite bodily
and mental changes in the make-up of the eunuch.
Whether castration is performed as a religious or
social custom or for therapeutic purposes, the result
is identical. ·There is a great group of everyday
disturbances due to a partial defect of the endoc-
rine function of the testicle. These conditions in-
clude the male climacteric, the various forms of im-
potence, sexual neurasthenia, and general debility
in the aged.
Mother! To Her Child
Out of my body was fashioned the whole of you
Life of me, breath of me, soul of my soul.
Get we no part in the Miracle soul of you,
How can I dare to call you my own.
Out from the sea and the starlight and flowers,
Out from the magic of God given Spring,
Out from the dusk of twilight hours
Sprang forth your spirit, that God given thing.
Pale was my gift in the sight of that other, ·
Mine was the infinitisimal part,
God will forgive the vain pride of a mother,
Calling you her's as you lay at her heart.
-From F. to H.
BOOK BY THE SAME AUTHOR
"VIBRATIONS-LIGHT
COLOR AND SOUND''
Contents
CHAPTER I
Light and Fire
CHAPTER II
The Occult and Scientific Relation of Color and Sound
CHAPTER III
Division of Colors
CHAPTER IV
Odie or Psychic Colors
CHAPTER V
Some Effects of Light and Color
The Healing Power of Red :-"Drugs" !
CHAPTER VI
The Lowest and Highest in Visible Color Vibrations
CHAPTER VII
The Reflection of Light
CHAPTER VIII
Odie Light and Color-Its Nature
CHAPTER IX
Color and Personalities
CHAPTER X
Psychic Color Pictures
CHAPTER XI
Eight Lessons, Teaching How to DeYelop Psychic Sight
Postpaid All Over the World, Price $1.00
Published by
HARRY 0. SAXON
Author and Publisher
APLIN HOTEL 27 East Harrison Street CHICAGO
Telephone Webster 7363
The Two Books $2.00 Postpaid All
Over the World ·
1
!
