{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__galusha___reasons_for_believing_christs_second_coming_at_hand.pdf","mytitle":"Reasons For Believing Christs Second Coming At Hand","mylang":"de"}
@f_
0
A D D R
EAS S.
or
ELDER ELON
QALUSHA,
mm
lilifllii
POR BRLIBVING
CHRlST'S SECOND COMING
AT HAND.
Behold, the Judge utandeth befor! Use door.
nocunsrmnz
Plum-:D nr nlwrus sxmrmn, eo; s'rA'rr:.suam'r.
1844
ADDRESS.
"TO ALL WHO LOVE OUR LORD JESUS CHRIST
IN SINCERITY."
Bsnovzn Bn:-rrnnmnz
Allow me, in all kindness and
humility, to urge upon youea serious and candid
consideration of the present crisis. To me, it ap~
pears that we are on thelsst cnzmbling verge of
time. The rapid approach of the wor1d's catastro-
phe, is not, to me, a new thought. For several
years past, at times, I have viewed theworld as
rushing with rail-road speed, on the track oftime, to
theelast depot-its bustle, like that of a person do-
ing up his last work under a strong impression that
his time is short-its restlessness, like that of an
individual on his dying bed, each moment more and
more anxious for a change of position as the
time of his expiration draws near-its new disco-
veries, shedding sudden light on the human mind,
like the Hash of the taper just before its light expires,
or the momentary revivification of a person at the
approach of death, when nature puts forth all her
energies, in the final struggle, and soon exhausts
them in the last desperate elfort. Hence in years
__
__
--__.1-_-.=g==:
4
gone hy, I have frequently expressed, in my public
discourses, a conviction, that at no distant period, the
world's history would be completed. Although I had
previously read some of Bro. Miller's Lectures,
and deemed them worthy ofa critical examination,
as they evinced the laborious biblical and histori-
cal research, as well as the godly sincerity of the
author, yet other subjects, and other duties, so en-
grossed my attention, that I did not very seriously
consider the subject of "
the Savior'e Advent near,"
till something more than a year ago, when a belov-
ed son who had embraced that faith, called my at-
tention tothe subject, by letters, papers and publica-
tions, containing arguments and Scripture quotations
in favor of the speedy coming of our Lord. These,
to some extent, I examined, together with authors
who advocate opposite opinions. I consulted Rol-
lin, Josephus, Newton, Gill, Pool, Henry, Whitby
and more modern writers on that subject, and
sought the aid of the Holy Spirit in searching the
sacred Scriptures.
About a year since, I received a
kindly letter
from Brother N. N. Whiting, expreéing the con-
victions of his own mind, the result of a thorough
and patient examination of the subject, in which
he sifted the arguments pro and con. As an old
friend, he exhorted me to study the word of God
with diligence and without delay, till I should be
satisfied that I had obtained aknowledge of the Di-
vine testimony on the subject. As I deemed this as
reasonable a request as it was friendly, I resolved to
comply therewith; having already adopted the
5
_
rule of biblical interpretation observed by Br. Miller,
which appeared to me to be the only safe one,-that
in ascertaining the meaning of any passage of
Scripture, we should compare the various other
portions of the Divine word embracing the same
subject, and adopt such a construction as will har-
monize the testimony of all the inspired witnesses.
By applying this rule to the writings of Moses, Da-
vid, the prophets, apostles and the revelator, I be-
came satisfied,
lst. That there will never be a restoration of
the carnal Jews, as a nation, either to the favor
of God or the land of Canaan, since they as a.
people, are as
utterly rejected as
Hager or Ishmael.
See the Apostle's allegory, Gal. 4: from the 24th vs.
to the close. Seeing also that all national distinc-
tions are by the gospel entirely abolished,-see Eph.
2: 14 to the close, also, Rom. 9 : 8, and 2: 28.-
Whatever is contained in the prophets respecting
this people must be made to harmonize with those
and various other positive and unequivocal passages.
The 36, 37, 38, and 39th chapters of Ezekiel, and
the 12th chapter of Zachariah, so
generally referred
to by the advocates of a literal restoration of the
carnal Jews, were written, as appears, about half a
century before theirretum from the Babylonish capti-
vity, by which they were scattered among all nations
or throughout the inhabited world, Nebuchadnez-
zar's kingdom being universal. See Dan. 2: 38.
Hence what was to be literally fulfilled in their re-
turn may have been accomplished at the end of
that seventy ycar's captivity, and some portions of
6
those chapters evidently refer to the tinalingatlxer-
ing of all the true Israelites, in the eternal Canaan,
when they shall come out of their graves and Christ
shall reign over them even
"
forever," as God pro-
mised to David. See Ezek. 37: 12, 24 and 27,
compared with Rev. 21: 3, and Luke 1: 32, 33.
The llth chap. of Rom., the strong hold of Juda-
ism, (as some consider it,) proves the national re-
jection of the Jews, and shows that there is no res-
toration but that of individuals by faith in Christ,
and "life from the dead." So that "all (true) Is-
rae1," whether Jews or Gentiles, according to the
flesh, "shall be saved" (by faith.) See Rom. 11 :
1, 5, 14, 15, 23, 26, compared with Rom. 9: 6, and
Gal. 3: 7, 16, 28, 29.
2nd. That there is to be no Millennium till the
Son of Man shall come in the clouds of heaven,
became evident to me, from an examination of Dan.
7 : 13, 22, and 27; also, Matt. 13: 38 to 43, showing
the prevalence of sin to the end of the-world; also,
Luke 13: 23, which declares the way narrow, and
thatjkw find it; also, 2 Tim. 3 : 12, which assures
us that "
all who will live godly, kc., shall suffer
persecution," so there can never be a time till this
sin-cursed earth is cleansed and the wicked destroy-
ed, in which "
all will be righteous." and none
be persecuted. I saw that the Millennium was to
be on the renewed earth, after the resurrection of
the dead in Christ, and before that of the wicked,
who will be burned up root and branch, at Christ's
coming, and be ashes under the soles of the saint's
feet during the thousand years. For the Bret resur-
`
'I
rection,see Rev. 20: 4to 7; also, 1 Thes. 4: 14
to the close; also, Phil. 3 : 11, where the Apostle
labors to "
attain unto the resurrection (ezanaatasis)
out oi or from among, the dead, leaving a portion of
the dead (the wicked,) still under the dominion of
death, or in their graves; also 1 Cor. 15: 23, show-
ing that only they that are Christ's rise at his
coming. For the destruction of the wicked who
shall be alive on the earth (when the living saints
will be changed, as seen 1 Thes. 4 : 17,) sec
Mal. 4: 1, 3. At the end of the 1000 years, the
wicked rise where their ashes were deposited by the
tires of the confiagration, are deceived by satan,
(then loosed for a little season) come up on the
breadth ct' the new earth, encompass the beloved
city, (that descended from heaven when the earth
was removed, see Rev. 21 : 1, 2, 3, compared with
Isai. 65: 17, and 2 Pet. 3: 13,) and are destroyed by
the vengeance of God, see Rev. 20: 0, which is the
second death; for the saints reign, as joint heirs
with Christ on earth for a 1000 years. See Rev. 5:
10, and 20: 4.
'
3d. By a comparison ot' Dan. 2: 44 and 7: 13-27,
with Ps. 2: 6-8, and Rev. 11: 15, &c., I was con-
vinced that the eternal kingdom of which the saints
are joint heirs with Christ, will be set up in the new
earth, at the coming ofthe Son of Man in the clouds
of heaven_(the Nobleman returning from a far
country to take his kingdom)-that the Millennium
is the commencement of that endless reign, and
marks the consummation of the happiness of the
righteous and that ofthe misery ofthe wicked. That
B
this kingdom is identical with the future inheritance
of the saints, is evident fiom a comparison of Dan.
7: 22, 27, and Rev. 11: 15 with Ps. 37: 9, 18, 20, 22,
28, 29, 34, and Prov. 10: 30, Matt. 5: 5, (tho meek
shall inherit the earth, doc.) As soon as I was fully
established in these views of God's word, I pro-
claimed them as a part of his long neglected truth,
which sheds a glorious lustre on the pages of the ho-
ly scriptures, and gives vividness and tangibility to
the objects of faith and hope, and shows us hohv the
Son of God will accomplish the purpose for which
he was manifested ("to destroy the work ofthe de-
vil") (1 Jno. 3: 8,) and, as the second Adam, re-
instate man in the "
kingdom prepared for him from
the foundation of the world," which, by the Hrst Ad-
am, he lost, (Matt. 25: 34.) Finding that the proph-
ets searched for the time of Chri-st's sufefings, and
glory, as also the sort of time, (Kendrick's transla-
tion,) given for the computation, and that the angels
desire to look into the same, see 1 Pet. 1: 11, 12,
Dau. 8: 13. 14; also 12: 5, 6, 7, I deemed the pro-
phetic numbers and symbols suitable and desirable
subjects of my anxious and prayerful inquiry.
On examination of the subject it became obvious
to me that cymbolicalprophecy and symbolical chrono-
logy coincide. If the subject of prophecybe symboli-
cal, the time is symbolical ; but if the subject be literal,
then the time is literal. A few instances will illus-
trate the rule. In the case of the 400 years bondage
in Egypt, the subjects were literally described as
the descendants of Abraham, and the time was lit-
eral. The same is true ofthe 70 year's eaptivityin
9
Bapylon--literal Jews-literal Babylon--literal
time. So in the abasement of Nebuchadnezzar.
The prediction was literal-the King of Babylon-
hence the 7 times were literal. So likewise of the
65 years to the time of Ephraim's being broken,
Isai. 7, 8, écc. But in the prophecies of Daniel
and St. John, the language or types representing
the subjects are symbolical, and hence the time is
symbolical. The four great monarchies, the ten
kingdoms, paganism, papacy the people of God, the
two witnesses, the church, the Greeks the Turks,
écc., in Daniel and Rev., are all described by sym-
bolical language or
types; hence the time noted in
all those prophecies is symbolical. And a careful
comparison of the predictions and corresponding ful-
filment, show conclusively that in each symbolical
number given a
prophetic day represents a literal
year.
Observing thatGod had taught his servants to use
I
day as the representative of a
year, see Num. 14:
34, Ezek. 4: 6, and that the 1260 days of Rev. 11:
3; the 42 months of Rev. 13: 5: the time, times
and half of Dan. 7: 25,were all fulfilled in the same
manner (a day for a year)-a literal time, (accord-
ing tolosephus, see Dan. 4: 16,) being a year, and a
prophetic time 360 years. I applied this rule to the
various prophetic periods which appear to reach to
the end of time, and saw that they all pointed to the
Jewish year 1843, and seem there to terminate as in
afocal point. All the attempts of the learned to
lhow the fulfilment of those prophecies in literal
days, have proved abortive. The 70 weeks of Dan-
10
iel 9: 24, reaching from the going lbrth of the com-
mandment to restore and build Jerusalem, recorded
in Ezra 7: to the cnzcitixion of Christ, are seen by
Ferguson's astronomical demonstrations, inwhich he
refers to the Julian period, the Olympiad period, and
the writings of Phlegon, to have terminated A. D. 33
-490 years from their commencement-just as ma-
ny years as there are days in the 70 weeks. These
and other considerations, are to my mind, satisfacto-
ry proof of the correctness of the opinion that the
2300 days of Dan. 8: 14, as well as the 1290 and
1335 days of Dan. 12: 11, 12, and the corresponding
numbers of Dan. 7: 25, and Rev. 12: 14-also 6
vs., and Rev. 11: 2, 3, are so many years as there
are days in each respective number. This is the
only rule of interpretation by which they can be
made to harmonize, and therefore must be the only
true mode. Now if we apply this rule to Moses'
snvmt mans, which denote the duration of the pun-
ishment of rebellious Israel, from the time of break-
ing the pride of their power, and subjecting them to
the power of their enemies, see Lev. 26: 18, 19,
and 'Deut. 28: 37-notice at what time this punish-
ment was predicted-Isai. 7: 8-742 years B. C.
and was to be indicted 65 years after, which brings
usto 677 B. C., when Ephraim (i. e. the 10 tribes,)
was to be broken that it be not a people, and notice
that Manasseh, king ofJudah,was carried captive into
Babylon at the same time (677 B. C.,) see 2Chron.
33: 11, we see that the pride, of "both Israel and
Iudah's" power was broken and their punishment
commenced 677 B. C. Then observing that one
ll
prophetic time being 360 years, and 7 prophetic
times being 2520 years, taking 677 before Christ,
from 2520. leaves 1843 after Christ. Coneequendy
their punishment must end with the fulfilment of
the prediction, in the Jewish year 1843; upon which
we have already entered.
The next prophetic number we notice as relating
to the "
end" of God's "
indignation"which il to be
iniicted upon the rebellious in this world, is the2300
days (years) of Daniel 8: 14. This embraces the
vision of the "
dai1y" abominable, (as Hebrew |ch0~
lars tell us the original signifies,) or the pagan abo-
mination which was to be taken away, and the trans-
gression of desolation, or Papal abomination, seo
Dau.1 2: 11, 12, and 2 Thes. 2: 1 to 10 venes,
where both these abominations are brought to view
in their order, the one taking the place of the other.
This period also extends to the end of the treading-
down of the host, or people of God-to the clean-
sing ot' the sanctuary, meaning the perfection of
the church of Christ in holiness, or the purification
of the earth which was once the holy place of God's
worship, and will be again, when purified and filled
with righteousness; it also extends to the "
last end
of the indignation," see verses 11, 13, 19. The
2300 days, (years) then reach to the end of time.
It is evident this number, was all that Daniel
soughttounderstand; as the rest of the vision, Bl;
well as the preceding one, had been explained to
him. See 27 ver. He searched books to obtain a
knowledge of the time. See Dan. 9: 2, when he
beams tohave supposed it referred to the end of the
I2 _
Babylenieh captivity, and that it was the literal sanc-
tuary in Jerusalem, that was to be cleansed; so his
following prayer indicates. But Gabriel comes to
cmrrect his mistake, andshow him that only 70 weeks
of the time related to his people and the holy city.
The remainder of the 2300 years, related to God's
people, alter the Jewish nation should be rejected ;
and that instead of the sanctuary at Jerusalem being
cleansed at the end of the time, it would long before
that, be destroyedby the people of the prince,('I'itns)
and that soon after the crucifixion of Messiah. See
Dan. 9: 24, 25, 26. Gabriel tells him to "
under-
stand the matter and consider the vision" (of the
2300 days about which he was troubled.) Then
says,
"
70 weeks are cut qjl" (as the best Hebrew
critics tell us, the original word should have been
rendered ;) cut oil'from what 'I Why, surely, from
the 2300 days, the only period given in the vision.
He then informs him, what is to be accomplished in
that 70 weeks: verse 24; which finishes the work of
Messiah, up to the time of his crucifixion. Then
he gives Daniel the beginning ofthe 2300 days, from
the Hrst end of which, the 70 weeks were cut off;
dividing also the 70 weeks into three parts, showing
what should be accomplished in each, and touches
upon the subsequent destruction of Jerusalem, and
the over-spreading of the two abominations (Pagan
and Papal) which were to reach to the consumma-
tion-the end of the 2300 days-the end of time:
last 3 verses. Now taking the starting point, the
going forth of the commandment, .verse 25, which
we have seen in the decree ofArtaxerxes Longimen-
13
us, Ezra, 7 chap., as noted by Ferguson, (457 B. C.)
and the 70 weeks (490 years,) as he demon-
strates, brings us down to the crucifixion, A. D. 33.
Then deducting the 490 from 2300, leaves 1810, to
which, must be added the 33 years of Christ's life,
(the 490 years reaching to his death) and we arrive
at the Jewish year 1843. Or, which is equally
plain, deduct 457 years, the time from the date of
the decree to the birth of Christ from 2300. and we
have 1843 left; the end ofthe vision, and the end of
time.
'
In the 12th chapter of Dan. 11 and 12 verses, the
Pagan and Papal abominations, are again introduced,
as is evident from the Apostle's showing, 2 Thes. 2
chap., where a most graphic description of the latter
is given, and the former isalluded to,as hinderingits
developement, which was to be preceded by a fall-
ing away (an apostacy.) That apostacy was brought
about by the royal patronage of Constantine, in the
early part of the fourth century, and gave scope
to the spirit oi`Papacy, the mystery ofiniquity which
began to work in the Apostle's day, (see 7th verse
of the above chap.) By the best historical evidence,
it appears that papacy gained the ascendancy over
paganism about 608, which is the takingaway ofthe
daily and setting up of the abomination that maketh
desolate. The point at which the 1290 and 1335
days begin and reach, the former to 1798 (the time
ofthe end-See Dan. 11 :40, and 12: 4, 9,) the lat~
ter to 1843 (the end,) when Daniel is to stand in his
lot, or inheritance, on the renewed earth, see 'Job
19: 25, 26, 27; which, with various other passages,
I4
shows that it is at the resurrection of the saints.-
Thus it is clearly seen, that we have three different
linelof prophetic chronology; commencing at dis-
tinct and distant points oftime, and reaching, by the
same rule of measurement, to the same period, the
goal of time. Again, the prophetic types point to
the same period. The great year of ummm which
is to set all the servants of God _/rea, at the end of
seven prophetic years, 2520 literal years, from the
time they lost their liberty, which as we have seen
was 677 B. C., must come 1843, as appears by add-
ing the 677 B. C., to
1843 alter Christ, which make
the 2520-see Jer. 34: 14. The great Jumnrx,
also, in which the people of God are to receive their
inheritance, reckoning from the time when they lost
their possessions, by being carried into their ene-
mies! land, in the days of Jehoiakim, 607 B. C., eo-
incides with 1843, as appears by multiplying 49 by
50, which gives us 2450, the time ofthe 60th jubilee,
and then adding 607 B. C., to 1843 alter Christ. Seo
Lev. 25: 8, 13. Omittingthe notice of other types,
which appear to denote the end of time, and point
to the same period, I remark that as the skillful
surveyor in establishing an important corner, not
only places the stake and stones at the end of his
measurement, but also makes the corner conspicu-
pns, by marking a number of trees in the vicinity as
svitnessess, in such a manner that each mark (or
blaze) shall face and point to the corner, thus appri-
sing every one who traces the line, to find the cor-
ner, when he is near it; so God»by his prophets, has
not only given ns the chronological measurement
15
which reaches to the krmination of the present state,
but has also marked several neighboring periods by
events of prophecy, which point to the end, and
show us when it is near. Of this class is the reign
ofthe papal beast, see Rev. 13: 5, compared with
Du. 7: 8, 11, 25, commencing 538, when Juslin~
ian gave him the three kingdoms,
"
plucked up,"
and eatecutcdthe decree which constituted him "true
and eE`ectual correctorof heretics, "and ending 1798,
when Berthier took him from his throne and abol-
ished power. This is the time of the end
dlnoted by Daniel's 1290 days, and reaches within
45 years of the termination of the 1335-the end,
when Daniel is to stand in his lot, or inheritance:
Dan. 12: 11, 12, 13. Notto mention several others
l1f08dy and exactly fulfilled, I will only refer to the
lounding of _the wo trumpets, Rev. 9: 1 to 19, and
ehap.10a 1 to 7, compared with Rev. 11: 15. Here
U8 have two periods given; lst, five months (150
gears) chap. 9: 5, commencing according to Gibbon,
when the Turks made their first incursion into the
Greek territories, July 27th, 1299, and terminating
1449, with the end of the independence of the Greeks
and that of the first wo; then begins the period de-
lopdby "an hour, a day, a month and a
year,"
(391 years and 15 days, Rev. 9: 15, which termi-
nated Ang, 11, 1840, with the surrender of the Sul-
¢an'| independence into the hands of the allied pow-
Ono. This is worthy of more particular notice, asBr.
]§M>ll,(|eehisDissertation on the Fall ofthe Ottoman
Empire) by a critical investigation of the prophecy,
liihkf¢] relating thereto, was enabled to ascer-
16
tain the pncice character ofthe closing event, as well
as the preceding ones, and the very day of its ac-
complishment, and published the same to the world,
two years before the fulfillment. A striking proofof
the correctness of the rule which we have adopted
forthe understanding and application of prophetic
chronology, and a demonstration that, as the second
wo is past,and the third comes quickly, Rev. 11 : 14,
which is identical with the seventh trumpet-see
Rev. 10: 7 and 11: 15, the kingdom of our Lord
and his Christ, in which he is to "
reign forever," is
about to be set up. The signs of Christ's coming
also are fulfilled. The church's tribulatiou, Matt.
24 : 29, ended in the last century, alter which (1780)
the sun was darkened, and the moon withheld her
light; the stars of heaven fell, (1833-1835.) The
sign of blood appeared 1837-that of pestilence was
seen in the terrific cholera, sweeping as a besom of
destruction over the earth. Earthquakes have been
frequent and_/Ear/`ul, and in many places where they
were before unknown. Then what shall we say to
these things? Is not the Son of Man nigh-even
at the door 7"
Now, my dear brethren in the Lord, although in
the above sketch, forwant of time and space, I have
done little more than refer you to some ofthe prin-
cipal data from which my convictions that the end
of`al1 flesh is at hand, are derived, I beg you to ex-
'amine the subject most prayerfully; laying aside
entirely all prejudice, pride and love of human ap-
plause, and submitting your understanding to the
control of the word and_Spirit of God, in all the sim-
17
pllcity and docility of alittle child; remembering
your Savior's words, "
Verily I say unto, you who-
soever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a
little child, he shall not enter therein," Mark 10: 15,
and not forgetting the words of the Psalmist, "
The
meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will
he teach his way," Ps. 25: 9. Do not
'rely on
pop-
ular commentators or preachers. If the Jewish
Doctors, whose it was to expound the law of God,
and explain the prqzheciec, could be so far blinded
by their preconceived opinions as to fulfil those very
prophecies which they read and interpreted every
Sabbath day, by crucifying the Lord of life and glo-
ry, (see Acts 13: 27,) is it not more than probable,
that prepossession, long-cherished predilection, pride
of opinion, and a dread ot' the frown of a perverted
public sentiment, may have blinded many of the
Gamaliels of our day 7 Especially when we con-
sider the fact, that not a few of them have shrunk
from the public vindication of great moral princi-
ples ln their practical bearings, while they have
seen outraged and crushed humanity bleeding at
every pore, in me very bosom of the churches of
their own denominations. Have we no evidence of
"
blindness," in part,-which has happened to Israel,
in the painful fact, that many of her teachers, espe-
cially where pnblic opinion ihvors it, force the gos-
pel of our blessed Savior into the support of a
sys-
tern of cruelty and injustice which legally annihi-
lates the attributes of man, sunders every tie of con-
sanguinity, virtually annuls holy marriage, tram-
plee the helpless in the dust, and makes merchandise
18
of the image of God! Do you not see evidence of
blindness, also, in the melancholy proof, that scarce-
ly any thing renders a minister of the gospel so un-
popular, even with the clergy of his own order, as
an uncompromising war upon the prevailing sins of
his own age, his own country, and especially his own
church? Have we not fallen upon
"
the last days,"
the "
perilous times," predicted by Paul. when men
shall be lovers of themselves 7" (2 Tim. 3: 2.)
When I look at the present state of things in chut-
ches of our own, as well as other denoninations-
the chain of caste that separates the poor from the
rich-the practice of selling the most eligible seals
in the house of God, often, to wicked men, for the
sake of their support, and crowding the pious poor
into some obscure place-the odium of color-the
love of oftice--the desire of titles of distinction,
which a Baptist would have spurned fifty years ago
-the smiting of fellow-servants for an honest dif-
ference of opinion-the artilice resorted to to raise
monies for religious purposes-the neglect to disci-
pline opulent and influential church members, for
offences for which the powerless widow and friend-
less orphan are excluded--the ministerial obsequi-
ousness to publicopinion, in regard to both morals and
manners-the fashionable dissipation-the sectarian
feeling and denominational pride which is substitu-
ted for pure charity and holy emulation-the cove~
tousness,sellishness,worldly mindedness, dnc. so pre-
valent, I would, were it in my power, utter in thunder
tones the Savior's words,
"
Take heed to yourselves,
lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with
19
surfeiting and drunkenness, and cares of tbis life,
and so that day come upon you unawares! Luke
21: 34. See also, Matt. 24: 48 to 51. To the
incredulous in high places, who seem to regard
their popularity as the very breath of life, and who
charge with fanaticism, monomania, or a delusion
of the devil, their once loved and respected breth-
ren who are now looking for the speedy coming of
the Savior, I would kindly address the Master's in-
terrogation, "How can ye believe which receive
honor one of another, and seek not the honor which
cometh from God only?" Be careful, my breth-
ren, that ye be not "false accusers." It is of little
consequence to me what use you make of my name,
or what letters from "venerable correspondents"
are published and republished, if' in "
the day ofthe
Lord" I may be "free from the blood of all men."
While I freely forgive my brethren who know not
what they do, I sincerely thank God for the sweet
consciousness I feel, that the acts for which I sulfef
reproach, are the most disinterested and se1f-deny-
ing of my life.
To those who believe the end is nigh 2-Dear
brethren, be watchful-be prayerful-be humble-
be holy ;-believe all that God has spoken-do all
that he has commanded ;-breathe a spirit of kind-
ness to all-avoid the spirit of controversy-pray
and labor for the salvation of sinners ;-fix not your
faith. on March or April, but on the Jewish year
1843; which, should it prove to be the civil instead
of the sacred year, may extend to September. Bn!
be instantly and constantly ready, as we have no
20
assurance of another day. We have evidently en~
tered upon the last year of prophetic time-and can
see
nothing beyond but the eternal state. The pro-
phetic periods, the signs ofthe Savior's coming, and
the end of the world blaze around us, and bid us
trim our lamps, gird our loius, be sober and hope to
the end.
Dear impenitent reader,-receive a friendly
warning; it may be the last-You may soon hear
the trump of God, see the dead in Christ arise,
feel the earth tremble beneath your feet, and be-
hold the Judge descending from the parting skies!
And should the time seem. to have passed away,
and, Belshazzarlike, you should spread the bach-
analian feast, deride our hope, and insult out God,
your triumph will be short :-The song of revelry
soon will cease-the voice of mirth be heard no
more forever-the chilling horror will suddenly
seize upon you#-the sheltering rocks will not pro-
tect you-the falling mountains will not hide you
-the lirey stream will not spare you-the wail of
anguish will not relieve you-Nor gushing tears-
nor Mercy's name-nor bleeding Lamb,-will then
avail you!
"
Now is the accepted time-now is
the day of salvation." Now, while the last tide
may be ebbing-while the last sand may be falling
-Hy to Jesus-swiflly _fly-your sins confess-for
mercy plead-while He is on the mercy-seat.
Your unworthy servant for Jesus' sake,
ELON GALUSHA.
8]
From the Southern llldnight Cry
WHERE ARE WE IN THE CHRONOLO~
GY OF PROPHECY?
I. We learn by the fulfilment of those predic-
tions w 'ch shadowed forth the events which were
to prece e the coming of Christ, that that event is
now at the doors. Among the discursive prophe-
cies, we can find none unfulfilled, save such as are
connected with the second appearing of our Saviour,
and subsequent events. The glorious visions of the
latter day glory of the church, which, for the last
one hundred years, have been applied to the doctrine
of a temporal millennium, are
evidently only appli-
cable to the earth redeemed, when in the restitution
of all things spoken of by the mouth of all the holy
prophets, the saints of the Most High will take the
kingdom and possess it forever, even forever and ever.
Then the kingdom and dominion and the greatness of
the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given
to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose
kingdom shall be an
everlastingkingdom, and all do-
minions shall serve and obey him; and then the
meek shall possess theearth. Also those prediction!
which have been snpposedby some to predict the
restoration of the carnal Jew to the land of Judea,
can only refer to the restoration of all of the faith of
our father Abraham to the new earth wherein dwell-
eth righteousness. _
In the discursive prophecies we find that we have
passed down, in the fulfilment of each succeeding
event, to the very termination of the last link in the
chain of prophetic events.
22
We have passed through all the kingdoms symbo=
lised by the ditferent metals of the image seen by
Nebuchadnezzar, (Dan. and are now at the very
end of the toes of the image, and only waiting for
the stone cut out of the mountain without hands, to
smite the same image on its feet and break it in 'pie-
ces, so that no place shall be found for any of the
kingdoms' of this world, when the God of heaven
shall set up a kingdom which shall never be destroy-
ed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other peo-
ple, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these
kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. We have alsd
passed all the successive kingdoms and their divi-
sions symbolized in the seventh of Daniel; and are
only waiting for the Ancient of Days to slay the
fourth beast, give its body to the burning iiame, and
give the dominion, glory and a kingdom to one like
the Son of man, that all people, nations and langua-
ges should serve him; his dominion is an
everlasting
dominion, which shall not pass away, and his king-
dom that which shall not be destroyed. We have
passed the kingdoms and powers symbolized in Dan-
iel viii., and only wait for the horn that waxed ex-
ceeding great to be broken without hand, and the
cleansing of the sanctuary. The events predicted
in Dan. xi and xii. have all been fulfilled in the his-
tory of this world, but the standing up of Michael,
the time of trouble such as never was since there
was a nation, the delivering of the people of God
found written in the book, and the awaking of those
who sleep in the dust of the earth, some to everlas-
ting life and some to shame and everlasting conf
23
tempt. We have passed all the events mentioned
by our Saviour in Matt. xxiv., before the coming of
the Son of man in the clouds of heaven; We have
passed the only event mentioned by Paul, in 2d
Thess. ii., to delay the coming of Christ, and only
wait for the Man of Sin to be destroyed by the bright-
ness of Christ`s coming. And we have alsothe va-
rious successive changes in the alihirs of this world
brought to view in the Apocalypse of John, and only
wait the lirst resurrection, the new heavens and earth;
and the reigning with Christ forever on the earth.
We ate therefore, near the judgment, and should
live in momentary expectation of the coming of the
Son of man.
II. The signs of the times admonish us of the
neamess of that event. We have seen the fearful
signs and great sights predicted by the prophets; the
wonders in heaven and earth,-the blood and fire,
and pillars of smoke, and darkening of the sun and
moon, foretold by Joel, to precede the great and the
terrible day of the Lord. The sun has been dark-
ened, the moon 'has withheld her light, and the stars
have fallen as leaves from the vine, or
Hgs from the
fig-tree when shaken by a
mighty wind, according
to the word of our Saviour in Math. xxiv., so that
we
may know, as he commanded us to when we
should see these things, that the generation which
saw the first of these events May 19,1780, will not
pass away till the Lord come. We have seen the
heaping together of treasure spoken of by James
chap. v., the unwillingness of men to hear sound
doctrine predicted by Paul, 2 Tim. iv.; thescotfers
24
that Peter (2 Peter iii.) predicted should arise in the
last times, saying, Where is the promise of his com-
ing? We have seen the perilous times, the depar~
ting from the faith, and the arising of false teachers,
spoken of by the Apostles, who would bring dam-
nable hcresies and tum many unto fables. We are
also under the sixth seal of Rev, vi., between the
falling of the stars like figs from the tree, and the
departing of the heavens like a scroll when it is roll-
ed together; in the Laodicean state of the church;
under the sixth trumpet, with the seventh just ready
to sound, and the last wo
ready to come quickly.
III. We also find that we must be near the end
of all the prophetic periods. The six thousand
years from creation, according to the best chronology,
expires about 1843. The seven times of Lev. xxvi.,
beginning with the captivity ofManasseh, according
to the best chronologers, commenced B. C. 677;
and must terminate about 1843. The great .Tubilee,
beginning with the seventy years' captivity in Bab-
ylon, according to the best cbronologers,began B. C.
607, and must therefore tenninate about A. D. 1843.
And the 1335 days of Dan. xii., beginning with the
Erst ecclesiastical war, when the dail had been ta-
ken away and that wicked was revealed, which ac-
cording to the best historians was about 508, must
ex ire about A. D. 1843.
glaving therefore seen the fullilment of all these
prophecies, witnessed the appearance of all these
signs, and reached that point of time when all the
prophetic periods appear to terminate, sustained by
the best historical and
chronological evidence, we
cannot be far from the ushering in of eternal reali-
ties. We ought, therefore, not to sleep as do otherm
