{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__godwin___popular_view_of_the_doctrines_of_fourier.pdf","mytitle":"Popular View Of The Doctrines Of Fourier","mylang":"de"}
▲
y
/
/
OF THE
DOCTRINES OF CHARLES FOURIER.
4
4I f I have spoken e v il show m e w h erein I have e rre d ; if I have spoken good, w h y
sm itest thou m e ?”—J ohn, xviii, 23.
4
4A ll hum an interests, com bined hum an endeavors, and social grow ths in this w orld, have,
at a certain stage of th eir developm ent, required organizing: and W ork, th e g ran d est o f
h u m an interests, does now require i t ”— P ast and P r e se n t , by Ca r l y l e . ,
’2 _
BY PA R KE GODWI N
N E W YORK: *
J. S . R E D F I E L D , C L I N T O N H A L L
CORNER OF NASSAU AND BEEKMAN STREETS.
1844
Digitized by Google
H X
1 0 ^
■F S
G
*59
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1844,
By J. S. REDFIELD,
in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of
, New York.
STEREOTYPED BY REDFIELD A 8AYAGE,
IS CHAMBERS STREET, N. Y.
Digitized by Google
0 !3 'J 3 £ u £
TABL E OF CONTENTS.
%
PREFACE.—Design op the Work
p a g e .
,. . 5
5
6
H
3
1. Introduction.............
2. Generai. Principles.
Chap.
Chap.
Chap.
Chap.
I.—Social Architects, in general........
II.—Charles Fourier, in particular....
III.—Of God and of Evil...................
IV.—Formula of Social Movement....
7
18
29
33
3. Unity op Man with
himself. (1st sec­
tion.)
fChap.
Chap.
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
V.—OfMan andhisEssential Faculties
VI.—The Organization of the Township
i. —Material Arrangements.
ii. —Passional Arrangements.
h i.—Consequences of these Arrange­
ments........................................
iv. —Education........................
v. —Division of Profits......................
vi. —Property..........................
vii. —Order and Liberty............
42
50
50
54
56
60
65
69r
70
INTERMEDIATE.—Distinction between the two parts of the Work. ... 73
I
(
4. Unity op Man with
himself. (2d sec­
tion.)
' Chap. VH.—Organization of Society..
§ i.—Hierarchy...............
► § ii.—Atmospheric Equilibrium.
§ h i.—Equilibrium of Population
kChap.VIII.—Manners and Customs....
5. Unity of Man with
God, and with the
- Universe.
Chap.
Chap.
IX. —Cosmogony...........
X. —Universal Analogy
75
75
79
82
84
91
99
POSTFACE.—Objections on the score op Morality and Religion ......... . 110
NOTES , 118
Digitized by Google
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
P R E F A C E
DESIGN OF THE WORK.
A clergym an once said to the author, that he had an instinct against all
schemes of Association; we do not write for such. There may be men whose
natures are so sublimated that they can discover truth by instinct; yet the
probability is that the larger part of our fellow-mortals prefer the old-fashioned
faculty called reason, when they have occasion to decide upon grave and im­
portant matters. It is the latter faculty to which our remarks are addressed.
We hope, however, that no class of men will be so silly as to mistake their
prejudices for their instincts, and therefore conclude that our remarks are not
intended for them. Every science, particularly eveiy new science, conflicts with
our more vulgar impressions, so that it is the first duty of a man who would
come to the knowledge of truth, to guard against the influences of prejudice.
According to Bacon, we can not approach the temple of science, without first
demolishing the idols or false images which beset all the passages that lead to
its sacred chambers.
Sir John Herschel, in the introduction to his treatise on Astronomy, gives us
this advice: “ In entering upon any scientific pursuit, one of the student’s first
endeavors ought to be, to prepare his mind for the reception of truth, by dis­
missing all such crude and hastily adopted notions respecting the objects and
relations he is about to examine, as may tend to embarrass or mislead him ; and
to strengthen himself by something of an effort and a resolve, for the unpreju­
diced admission of any conclusion, which shall appear to be supported by logi­
cal argument, even should it prove of a nature adverse to notions he may have
previously formed for himself, or taken up, without examination, on the credit
of others.” “ There is no science,which more than Astronomy stands in need
of such a preparation,or draws more largely on that intellectual liberality which
is ready to adopt whatever is demonstrated., or concede whatever is rendered highly
probable, however new or uncommon the points of vieto may be in which the most
familiar objects may be placed. A lmost a l l it s conclusions sta n d in
OPEN AND STRIKING CONTRADICTION WITH THOSE OF SUPERFICIAL AND VUL­
GAR OBSERVATION, AND WITH WHAT APPEARS TO EVERY ONE, UNTIL HE HAS
UNDERSTOOD AND WEIGHED THE PROOFS TO THE CONTRARY, THE MOST POSITIVE
EVIDENCE OF HIS SENSES.”
Now, we wish to rest the claims of the Social Science of Fourier upon pre­
cisely the same grounds on which Herschel rests the science of Astronomy.
Fourier and his disciples hold that his social principles are entitled to rank as a
science, being capable of that rigorous demonstration which only wilful preju­
dice rejects—as the Italian philosophers denied the existence of Galileo’s tele­
scope, although he gave them the opportunity of looking through it, or as the
chemists of Europe scouted the system of Lavoisier, for more than fifty years,
although they might have satisfied themselves of its truth, by a few simple ex­
periments.
The object of the present volume is to furnish the public with a brief syn­
thetic view of all the doctrines of Charles Fourier, who professes to have dis­
Digitized by Googk
6 PREFACE.
covered the Science of Social Organization. Oyr limits, however, have enabled
us to give results only and not discussions. Readers who may desire to see any
subject fully developed are referred to the works of the master and his school.
This book contains all that is required to enable an impartial mind to determine
whether the subject is of sufficient importance to need a profounder investiga­
tion.
During the last few years, the spread of Úie pracUcal doctrines of Fourier
in France, Germany, Great Britain, and the United States, have been most
rapid; and it has therefore become important that the public should be in pos­
session of a manual, containing a short account of the whole science, as now
taught by the followers of the discoverer. It is doubly important, in this coun­
try, because the doctrines of Fourier have never received a complete exposition,
and because they have been subjected, on the part of enemies, to the grossest
misrepresentations. The practical parts of the system and some of the higher
questions have been fully explained by Mr. A l b e r t B r isb a n e, to whose inde­
fatigable energy we are indebted for the introduction of the science into the
United States, and to whose works we refer; but the abstruser points of in­
quiry were judiciously left until public sentiment was prepared to distinguish
between the practical and the purely theoretical doctrines. Most of these
points will be found treated of in the following pages.
An interesting part of the subject, viz., its bearing upon the religious research­
es and controversies of the day, we have postponed to smother work which we
are preparing with exclusive reference to the Moral and Religious Aspects of
the Doctrine of Association.
It ofily remains for us to say that this work professes no higher character than
that of a mere compilation from the larger works of the school to which it be­
longs. The arrangement and the substance of most of the chapters have been
translated from the “ Vue Synthetique” of Renaud, one of the most clear and
admirable of the French works on the subject, and the facts of the Memoir of
Fourier and a few pages in the latter part of the book have been furnished us
by Hugh Doherty, of London, one of the most profound and brilliant writers
of the day. In all cases, however, in which we have borrowed from others, we
have modified the language in such a way that the author alone desires to be
held responsible for what is said.
Digitized by Google
A POPULAR V IEW
DOCTRINES OF CHARLES FOURIER.
CHAPTER I.
SOCIAL ARCHITECTS.
“ Thinkers who are inspired with the hope or knowledge of a better social state,—Utopians in
the best acceptation of the word, have a right to the respect and attention of men. Some of them
sure fools; bat some are Reveklers of Truth; and all are useful, because Time, the Refiner, will
separate the gold from the dross.”—Retsaud.
B e fo r e entering directly upon the consideration of Fourier’s social system,
there is an interesting preliminary inquiry, which may prepare our minds for the
reception of his teachings. '
In the history of human society, there is one peculiar and significant fact—a
fact that stands out with signal and striking prominence in the current of its
opinions. It is this: that a set of men have appeared from time to time, who
have been led by the oppressions and disorders of society, into a position apart
from others, as the projectors of an entirely new and radical reorganization.
We see them springing up at such regular intervals,sand possessing such a
strong resemblance, that we are irresistibly compelled to regard them as mem*
bers of the same family. They are characters of an altogether novel and im­
pressive kind. They are not simply reformers, who have come with single
thoughts which they labor to infuse into the ways and feelings of the race. A
much higher, broader, deeper relation to us is the one which they assume.
They are not mere tinkers or tailors, who would mend our old wares and gar­
ments, by here putting on a little solder, and there sewing a ragged patch; but
master-mechanics rather, who would create us new utensils and cut us clothes
out of whole cloth. Not as crude jack-planers or carpenters do they present
themselves, who when our old buildings have been undermined by the rats or
grown rickety by age, or become too narrow for the offspring of our growing
thoughts and*desires, would build us lean-tos and outhouses, in the manner in
which the Italian style of villa is made, by adding one structure to another, un­
til the whole becomes a rude conglomeration of ill-shaped and inconvenient
tenements. N o; but as true and noble architects they stride forward, who
would roughly strike the old edifice into the earth, leaving it to perish in the
mire and dust, while they unfolded their plans of more glorious structures,
worthy to be the habitations of men ofa larger stature and movement. In short,
the men of whom we speak may be called S ocial A r c h itec t s—a class which
has never been satisfied with any measures in the sphere of social reform, short
of a most thorough, vital, and permanent reconstruction of the very fundamen­
tals of social existence.
This class, we say, has been marked by characteristics which were common
to all its members. They have been, for the most part, men of superior intel­
lect ; they have been men of broad and living sympathies; men of boldness
and hardihood of thought; men of indefatigable zeal; men of a free sincerity,
suffering willingly for their convictions; men of a high, can we not say, of an
almost sublime consciousness of the imperative claims and moment of their
Digitized by Google
8 SOCIAL ARCHITECTS.
own mission. In fact, in many cases, they were men who aspiied to somewhat
of a universal character; who have looked upon themselves as consecrated to
a grand and deathless work; who embraced within the scope of their ^mbition^
all arts and all sciences; who were at once philosophers, legislators, teachers,' .
economists, generals, and even prophets; and who, in some instances, not con­
fining the sweepof their genius to the narrow limits of the earth, sought to ascend
to the throne of God, and to penetrate the secrets of Providence and Human
Destiny. Truly not without force does the French language speak of them as
the Temeretes (the Audacious Ones), since they rush with so impetuous a bold­
ness over the entire domain of possible knowledge. .
These daring and original spirits, arrange themselves in three classes; the
mere theoretical,—the simply practical; and the theoretico-practical combined.
In other words, the' Social Architects whom we propose to consider, may be
described as those who ideally plan the new structure of society; those who
set immediately to work to make a new structure, without any very large and
comprehensive plan; and those who have both devised a plan and attempted its
actual execution.
I. T h e th e o r e t ic a l class is one which is most numerous, but whose
claims are the least worthy of attention. Although the most insignificant of
these have had some influence in moulding and vivifying their day and genera­
tion, only a few of them are sufficiently commanding to arrest our notice in this
brief and hasty review. We might speak of St. Pierre, with his sentimental
“ Dream of Perpetual P e a c e of Hall, whose goods were stripped from him
on account of his “ Mundus A l t e r of the monk Campanella’s “ City of the
Sun” (civitas solis); of the “ BasMade” of Mprelly, a long while supposed to
be the production of Diderot; of the good Fenelon, in his “ Salente” and his
“ Voyage to the Isle of P le a s u r e of Retif de la Breton in his “ Australian
Discovery,” and of a hundred others of kindred tastes, but that their works are
rather curiosities for the antiquary than utilities for the student. With still
greater propriety, we might refer to the School of Pythagoras, the most extra­
ordinary and advanced•mind of antiquity ; to that prince of wits and satirizers,
Rabelais, who is supposed in the “ Pays de Teleme,” with which his famous
Pantagruel closes, to have sketched the outlines of his own ideal of a perfect
society; to Daniel De Foe, the author of Robinson Crusoe, whose “Essay
on Projects” became the inspiration of our all too practical Franklin; or to
gigantic Bacon, whose towering and capacious genius, had not his manifold
pursuits prevented, would have extended the uNeio Atlantis,” now an imperfect
draught of a philosophical school, to a full development of the right constitu­
tion of all human relations. Our space, however, will not allow us to dwell
upon these men. We must pass to three, Plato, Harrington, and More, who
ha^e made a more decided and lasting impression on human opinion, and who
may serve as a sample of the rest. .
(1.) Plato, the brilliant and profound philosopher of Greece, was among the
first, as he is among the most sublime of social architects. His “ Republic,”
which is only a part of his larger treatise on the “ Dikaiosuna,” or Justice, the
storehouse and magazine of so many that have come after him, in the same line,
merits a more elaborate study than we can give it here; for rightly to under­
stand it, we ought to be familiar with both the age in which he lived and the
peculiar character of his philosophy. He was a man formed under the influ­
ences of the imaginative theology of the East, and the practical teachings of
Socrates. Like the latter he gave his investigations the direction of Morals
and Happiness; but like the Pythagoricians and Orientals, he considered them
under the light of a lofty ideal of Virtue and Beauty. Living too, in that pe­
riod of Greece, when her greatest munificence and splendor were contrasted
with great degradation and outrage, his political work is a mirror, not only of
his philosophy, but of his age. From the ethereal regions of his high meta­
physics, it drew the grandeur of its conception, and the mighty genius and ex­
quisite grace of its execution ; while to the spirit of his times it owes those per­
petuations of Injustice and Wrong, which disfigure and disgrace its practical
Digitized by Googk
SOCIAL ARCHITECTS» *
provisions. Thus Plato, in the midst of many winning and impressive decía*
mations, constituted his republic on an inexorable basis of caste. Magistrates*'
warriors, and mechanics, are the three classes of men whom he never confounds;
which áre separated by insuperable barriers,—which have each their peculiar
social virtues; and each of which is bound to its sphere by the hand of iron
necessity. The race of gold—the race of silver—the race of iron—these are
the elements of his social mechanism. A shepherd, a dog, and the sheep, are
the three agencies out of which he is to form a true social relation! Jt were an
impossible task; for at the very outset he introduces two of the most active dis­
solvents that could be found to any harmonious aggregation of men; we mean
the implacable division, the selfish rivalry, of castes. In the older nations, these
elements had long before struck their forms of civilization with a deathly immo­
bility. Bramas, Zatyras, Soudras; priests, fighters, workmen; the three organs
of head, heart, and hands,—were the materials which in India and Egypt had
smitten their societies with palsy; which had made Labor the trodden and tom
victim of fraud and force. Plato was not unaware of this fundamental error,
where, seeking to escape from it, he cries out, “ You are all brothers, but God
has made the Rulers, who are most precious, of gold; the warriors of silvery
and artisans of iron and brass. Yet a citizen of the golden race may have
children of silver, another of the silver race may generate brass, while the de­
scendants of the iron race may become of the purest gold.” A felicitous soph-'
ism, but wholly at war with his frontal principle! Where a fusion of castes is
thus rendered possible, the continuance of castes becomes only a question of
time. Again; he fells into conflict with his original principle, when he insti­
tutes community of goods and promiscuous intercourse. “ Let the women,”
he says, “ be held in common, let children be in common, and on no considera­
tion, in the transactions of trade, let even thé name of property be heard.”
Now, to abolish the relation of family, to extinguish the titles of individual pos­
session, and, at the same time, to preserve a rigid distinction of ranks, is a con­
tradiction which it requires all our respect for the philosopher to consider with
seriousness. It is a fault, however, that must not blind us to the prodigious ex­
cellences by which it is redeemed. When we consider the era in which Plato
lived, before the Revelation of Christ had shed the sunbeams of its life and
light upon the world, seeing only a foreshoot of the glorious day about to open,
and conjecturing obscurely as to the true relationship and destiny of men, we
are astonished at the beauty and justice of his sentiments, and his deep devo­
tion to the laws of Eternal Order and Duty. It was a penetrating, expansive,
magnificent nature with which God had endowed him, and the “ Republic,” es­
teemed by some short-sighted scholars as the feeblest of his works, will remain
an enduring monument of his penetration and wisdom. When mankind shall
have learned to read the riddle of history aright they will see in that work a
profound use and significance.
(2.) Next to Plato, we choose to speak of the chivalric and glorious Sir
Thomas More,—the most illustrious of English Chancellors,—one of the
bravest and heartiest of English Men. His clear and noble intellect, made an
impression in that dark reign of the Eighth Henry, which is still felt in the re­
motest seats of English Literature and Law. It is to him that we are indebted
for the name which characterizes the entire class of bold and independent think­
ers that we are now discussing. Utopia, is one of the indestructible words of
our mother tongue. The romance in which it took its origin, is one of our most
indestructible books. Its chaste, silvery tone/its upright manly spirit, its treas­
ures of criticism, will long make it a source of delightful and profitable reading.
W e see in it, everywhere, the unequivocal marks of More’s high, cheerful,
transparent nature. As a work of art, it possesses the rarest merit. With so
much skill and simplicity, says a biographer, “ are the dialogue and narrative con­
ducted, that many people did not suspect the writer had imposed on them a pro­
duction of his own fancy. Some envious critics even went so far as to affirm,
that to their certain knowledge, Hythlodaeus had not duly furnished the ma­
terials but had actually dictated the whole; while the mere Scribbler, who car­
Digitized by Googk
IO SOCIAL ARCHITECTS.
ried off the reputation, had acted as only an amanuensis. Some grave and
«ealous divines, on the other hand, strongly moved by the virtues of the Uto­
pians, had actually determined to embark m an attempt to achieve the good
work of their conversion to Christianity!”
In regard to the spirit of More’s imaginary society, as compared with Plato’s,
we immediately perceive the influences of Christ’s religion. Community of
property is preserved, but we hear no longer of a community of wives; we are
not indoctrinated into the efficacies of impassable distinctions of caste. It is
true, he allows the iniquity of slavery, which is one of the few blots on his
work, otherwise consistent and elevated. But in general he recognises and re­
spects the rights of Man, disposing his political arrangements so as to confirm
the interests and give force to the will of the masses of his community. The
government he described was republican, established only to maintain the gener­
al good. Public lectures, he says, were instituted for the enlightenment of the
popular mind. All kinds of productive labor, but especially agriculture, were
held in the highest esteem and made the duty of every member of the race.
Idlers of all sorts,—priests, lawyers, book-worms, and gentlemen, were not
endured; yet the hours for labor were moderate in length, and alternated with
afgreeable recreations. The punishment of death was abolished, and provisions
made for the reformation of offenders, on the ground that crimes more often
spring from the injustice and wrong of society than the inherent vice of the in­
dividual.
Every city in Utopia had a well-supplied market; every house, the most airy,
large, and comfortable apartments. At the tables, it was an ambition to make
the conversation lively and entertaining; “ They never sup without music, and
there is always fruit served up after meat; while they are at table some bum
perfumes, and sprinkle about fragrant ointment and sweet waters; in short they
want nothing that may cheer up their spirits; they give themselves a large al­
lowance that way, and indulge themselves in all such pleasures as are attended
with no inconvenience.” To use all things as not abusing thein was the rule
of life. Contempt of the precious metals, as signs of wealth, the most per­
fect religious tolerance, manners at once soft and peaceable, simple habits, laws
founded on natural right, completed the beautiful theoiy of existence in the
ever-blessed island of Utopia. The conception of it, is the rare manifestation
of an exquisitely fine and benignant soul. ,
We can not, therefore, be surprised at the strong hold which this celebrated
work has taken of the minds of scholars and reformers. If it had no other merit
than the beauty of its style, it would be worthy of a lasting remembrance. But
its claims to respect rest upon better grounds than any trick of art. It was for
the time in which it was written, akeen and cutting criticism of the worthlessness
ofstatesmanship and the fooleries of morals. The foremost minds and best hearts
of that day saw in its rude outlines a pleasing fulfilment of their noblest aspira­
tions. All that their faculties had idealized, in the deep longing for a better
social state, they found embodied in it, with crystal clearness of style and logic,
and the rare ornamentings of a lively and brilliant fancy. Even now, after the
lapse of centuries, it may be read with instruction, and certainly will be read
with delight. A work which has so long escaped the oblivion jaws of Time,
which in the darkness and void confusion of the darkening past, still shines
clear and glittering like a star in the sky, must possess many of those perdura­
ble properties which fit it for the guidance and illumination of all times. Sir
Thomas More himself was one of those pure and celestial spirits which give a
lustre to their generation, and his Book, as all good books are, was the record
of the purest and best feelings of his purest and best moments.
(3.) After Sir Thomas Moie, came Harrington, the author of Oceana. He
lived in the time of Cromwell, and was a man of various learning and high
character. His life was sp^it in the consideration of the question of govern­
ment—the flower and fruit of all his studies being the Oceana, which he offers
to us as the model of ^ perfect and Christian Commonwealth. It is written in
the manner of a Romance, the assumed names of persons and places answering
Digitized by Google
s o c ia l a r c h it e c t s ; 11
to persons and places in actual existence, as Adoxus for King John ; Olphaus
Megaletor, Oliver Cromwell; Panthenia, Queen Elizabeth; Leviathan^
Hobbes ; Neustrians, Normans, &c., &c. The book consists of Preliminaries,
or dissertations on the objects and generation of government ; the Model, which
makes the body of the book, where the principles are unfolded ; and the Cor­
ollary or conclusion, which mostly relates to forms. In the first part, he mana­
ges under the fiction of a Council of Legislators from all the world, to give thé
most elaborate history of the various governments of the Past; in the main
treatise, we have definitive propositions, enforced with considerable vigor of
logic and eloquence ; while in the closing division, we find^many, and some of
them admirable suggestions, for remodeling the offices of the state, for the en­
couragement of trade, for the discipline of armies,—the establishment of re­
ligion, and the right constitution of the degrees of Nobility. On the whole, it
is a remarkable work. Although it merely professes to deal with the question
of government, it treats that subject in such a large sense that it becomes in ef­
fect a plan for the complete reorganization of society. There can be little
doubt that the author so regarded it; for he esteemed it “ an equal government,
completely framed in all its fundamental laws, without any contradiction to it­
self, to Reason, or to Truth.” In the outset, he apostrophizes, in the celebra­
ted description of Pliny, “ The most blest and fortunate of all countries, Oce­
ana ! How deservedly has Nature with the bounties of Heaven and Earth in­
dued thee ? Thy ever-fruitful Womb, not closed with Ice, nor dissolved by the
raging Star ; where Ceres and Bacchus are perpetual twins. Thy woods are
not the harbor of devouring Beasts, nor thy continual Verdure the ambush of
Serpents, but the food of innumerable Herds and Flocks, presenting thee, their
Shepherdess, with distended Dugs and Golden Fleeces. The wings of thy
Night involve thee not in the Horrors of Darkness, but have still some white
feather, and thy Day is (that for which we esteem Life) the Longest.” And
again, in the Corollary, following Plutarch’s closing up of the story of Lycurgus,
he says, “ When he saw that his Government had taken root, and was in the
very Plantation strong enough to stand by itself, he conceived such a delight
within him, as God is described by Plato to have done, when he had finished
the Creation of the World, and saw the Planetary Orbs move in their spheres.
For in the Art of Man (being the imitation of Nature, which is the Art of God),
there is nothing so like the first-call of Beautiful Order out of Chaos and Con­
fusion, as the Architecture of a well-ordered Commonwealth.”
Harrington's fundamental principle was that the balance of power always fol­
lows property, and the centre of his system, consequently, is an agrarian divis­
ion of property, in order to keep the power in the hands of the many, and a
hierarchical distribution of the people into regularly-organized orbs or orders,
possessed of the Ballot. It is wrought out with infinite ingenuity and learning ;
and contains a vast number of suggestions greatly in advance of his age ; but it
has a fatal defect in the fact that it is both fanciful and arbitrary. Yet let Hon­
or be done to the memory of the man, since he labored sincerely in the cause
of his race, and suffered manfully for his faith. Less poetical than either Pla­
to or More, he is more scientific ; his plans have more of an every-day air
about them ; while his principles seem to us quite as liberal in their sentiment
as those of the latter, and more practicable, if not more profound, than those
of the former.
But these men were mere speculative thinkers, who resorted to these ideal
republics, not to propose any actualization of them, so much as to ac­
quire an inoffensive and, at the same time, effective mode of bringing what they
esteemed important political and social truths before the minds of their contem­
poraries. In this light their criticisms were of high value ; and we should like
to dwell upon them, did not our plan compel us to turn to another class, who
sought to teach kindred truths in a more direct method. We mean,
II. T h e P ra ctica l A r c h itec t s of society, or the communities instituted
to exemplify a more perfect state of social life. These have existed in all ages
of the world, expressing a sort of living protest against the frauds, the corruption.
Digitized by Google
12 SOCIAL ARCHITECTS.
the disorder, and the injustice of prevalent society, and opening an asylum for
the refuge of those disappointed and unhappy spirits, or those ardent devotees,
whom misfortune, principle, or enthusiasm, had driven into exile. In the for­
mer part of our inquiries, we had to deal with speculations; our business now
is with speculations transformed into facts. From individuals we pass to bodies.
(1.) The most ancient community, of the sort with which we are engaged, was
the Essenian, instituted among the Jews. Theirsentiments were so exalted that it
isyet a question among the critics whether they lived before or after Christ, wheth­
er they drew their notionsfrom his religion, or whether he had passed a portion of
his earlier life among them—the fact that he does not denounce them in the gos­
pels, as he does the other Jewish sects, agreeing equally well with both hypoth­
eses. They are minutely described by Pliny, Philo, and Josephus,—from'the
latter of whom we learn that at that time they were four thousand in number,
“ united only by the ties of mutual affection. They are the most moral of
men, agriculture being their chief occupation, and a complete equality prevail­
ing among all the people. Property is in common among them ; they many
no wives; they allow no servants; yet they adopt children, and by turns serve
one another. The elders, chosen freely from the best among them, take charge
of their revenues and prepare their food; their dress is plain and white ; they
have no cities; they neither buy nor sell; and at the end of their labors, at the
fifth hour, they cleanse themselves and partake of a Communion Feast, which
is begun with prayer. They avoid oaths, as marks of peijury, and admit no
strangers to membership, without formal initiation and preparatory trials.*’ To
these interesting particulars Philo adds that they did not sacrifice animals, lived
upon vegetables, and though skilful in the arts, were never known to make any
warlike or destructive instrument. They avoided cities, because they thought
them infected with both moral and physical disease; they had no slaves because
they esteemed domination of any kind injurious to both master and servant,
and because all men were brothers; and they worshipped God, in a simple man­
ner, as the Creator of the Universe, and a Lover of Purity, Justice, and Truth.
We see in this remarkable community, either a foreshine or a reflection of
Christianity, modified by an ascetism which suppressed the splendors of dress
and of outward comforts, and almost annihilated the existence of woman; yet
it cherished many manly virtues and lofty sentiments.
(2.) Similar to the Essenians, in many respects, are the Herrnhutters, or
God’s Watchmen, better known as the Moravians, of Germany. Their history
is familiar to every child, since every child must have read the memoirs of their
noble founder, Count Zinzendorf, and in every land, where their miracles of
missionary enterprise have planted the seeds of civilization and Christianity.
They differ from the Essenians in that they have less asceticism and more en­
thusiasm. Unlike the more ancient sect, too, while they live in common, and
profess totbe guided by the law of Love, maintaining a complete equality be­
tween their members, they do not hold property entirely in common. They
marry and confer separate households on such as are married. They are given
to music; they cultivate the finer arts ; their ceremonials and intercourse are
marked by tenderness; and their religion, while it is decided and striet, allows
for the play of the gentler affections. But it is in the zeal of propagandism
that they have displayed their most extraordinary characteristics. A few men, de­
scendants of the Waldenses, nurtured in persecution, retire from the world to a
wild, silent, and distant retreat, where they cultivate the earth and exhort each
other to ahigh religious life. In a few years, they find themselves spread over all
nations, and penetrating the most inaccessible deserts. It was not more than a cen­
tury from the time that the munificent and pious Zinzendorf opened his arms to
embrace the outcast Moravian carpenter at Dresden, to the period when his com­
munity thus begun, numbered its sixteen settlements in Germany, its three in
Denmark, its five in Sweden, its twenty-two in Great Britain, its one in Russia,
and its twenty in North America, each or all connected with missionary stations
m Greenland, Labrador, the West Indies, among the Northern Indians, in
South Africa, in Patagonia, and among the fiercest Kalmucks of the steppes
Digitized by Googk
of Asiatic Russia—thus extending their influence over millions of human
souls.
(3.) The Shakers of this country are another instance of exclusive commu­
nities, in which, however, with great external prosperity, there is a rigid internal
discipline. They sprung from the Quakers in England, and still retain many
of their peculiarities of speech, dress, deportment, and thought. They reject
civil and ecclesiastical authority and military service : they take no oaths; they
deny the obligation of the sacraments; and they believe in the immediate in­
spiration ofthe Holy Ghost. Mother Anne Lee was their acknowledged founder
in the United States; but since her time, they have assumed a more definite
organization. All their possessions are common: they live in common, except
that there is a separation between the sexes; they labor in common, with R
uniform dress; and they worship in a kind of wild, monotonous jumping dancp,
which they accompany with the voice. It is understood that they are frugal,
industrious, and wealthy, although they are ignorant, prejudiced, and despotic»
There is another community in this country, which took their origin from
the Quakers, established at Zoar, in the state of Ohio. The settlers were ori­
ginally from Wittemberg, in Germany, whence they were driven by religious
persecution. Only eighteen years have elapsed since they purchased their 8,000
acres, then the midst of a wilderness, but now a thriving and populous village.
They allow of no rights of property; their government is entirely democratic;
and, tolerating all religious opinions, they maintain only the public inculcation
of the rites commonly recognised by all sects and nations.
(4.) But not alone among Christian people has the impulse towards asso­
ciated efforts and life been manifested. Mr. Urquhart gives us an account of R
most extraordinary association at Ambulakice among the Turks; but as that is
rather a commercial corporation, in which the interests of labor are united,
rather than a community, we shall not now dwell upon its results.
These partial and imperfect attempts at social" harmony deserve one or two
feneral reflections. The first is, to use the discriminating language of Miss
lartineau, speaking of the Rappites, that “ whatever is good among them, iw
owing to their economical principles, and that whatever they have that excites
our compassion, is owing to the badness of their moral arrangements.” The
second remark is, that if, in spite of their ignorance, their mistakes, their im­
perfections, and their despotisms, the worst of these societies, which have
adopted, with more or less favor, unitary principles, have succeeded in accu­
mulating immeasurable wealth, what might have been done by a community
having a right principle of organization, and composed of intellectual and up­
right men ? Accordingly, the discovery of such a principle has become aft
object of earnest investigation on the part of some of the most acute and disin­
terested men the world ever saw. This inquiry has given rise to our thiitl
division, called
III.1T h eo r et ic o -pr a c tic a l a r c h it ec ts of so c ie ty , or those who have
combined the enunciation of general principles ofsocial organization with actual
experiments, of whom the best representatives are St. Simon, Robert Owen, and
Charles Fourier. This class will extend the basis of our inquiries, and demand
a more elaborate consideration. We shall begin with—
(1.) St. Simon.—'‘‘Arouse yourself, oh count! for you have a great work to
do !” were the words with which a young Frenchman sprung out of hed, on
one of the mornings of his seventeenth year. “ Arouse ! for you have a great
work to do !” said Claude Henri, Count de St. Simon, a descendant of Charle­
magne and the bearer of one of the most illustrious names in the annals of
France. But it is not to the virtues of his ancestry that we must look for his
title to our regards : he was a bold, original, self-sacrificing, and lofty genius $
in himself worthy of our close and sympathizing study. His earlier life had
been passed in the midst of sounding cannon and clashing swords—a soldier of
independence under our own majestic Washington—a Colonel at twenty-three
years of age, in the corps of the patriotic Bouille. But the destructiveness of
war was not his vocation: “ I was destined,” he says, “ to no such repugnant
SOCIAL ARCHITECTS. c 13
Digitized
d by Dogle
14 SOCIAL ARCHITECTS.
labor,—
-rather to advance the human mind and perfect civilization.’* He ac­
cordingly devoted his next years to the acquisition of fortune, not for the sake
of wealth, but that he might found houses of industry and schools of science.
It was a grand project, executed with the energy of genius. By the year 1797
(about seven years in all), he closed the commercial period of his life, with a
property of 144,000 livres.
His next task was to perfect himself in all knowledge. He took a house Hear
the Polytechnic school, the doors of which were ever kept open to the profes­
sors of the natural sciences, whose lectures he constantly attended, and ofwhose
.private instructions he became a complete master. Three years were thus oc­
cupied in the study of inorganic nature, when he removed to the neighborhood
.of the medical schools, where his pursuits related to the higher subjects of the
organic and animated creation. He was the friend of the most accomplished
savans of the French metropolis, and his table was free to whoever was able to
contribute to the enlargement of his knowledge or the elevation of his senti­
ments. Seven years more were thus consumed in acquiring the philosophy
and science which were then current. A tour in England, Germany, and Italy,
either in the investigation of industrial processes, in the visitation of learned
universities, or in the study of art, completed his inventory of the intellectual
treasures of Europe.
But he was not yet ready to undertake the work of communicating the result
of his researches to the world.
The larger field of actual humanity had yet to be explored. Associating
with him a woman of congenial taste, he abandoned himself to the refine­
ments and pleasures of society. It is not enough, he reasoned, that I know the
men of science : I must know the operation of the various passions, in all their
modes of development. He frequented balls, dinners, and soirées, that he might
enlarge the basis of his experience. Calm in the midst of every vortex, silently
judging others while he was himself unobserved, following all common prac­
tices, evil as well as good, gaming and license no less than elevated conversation
and instructive debate, he sought the knowledge to be acquired by every char­
acter and in every condition. “ A gourmand, a debauchee, and a profligate,
from principle more than inclination, by system rather than by instinct, St. Si­
mon,” says Reybaud, “ lived five years in one ; he acquired the experience of
an old man even while a youth ; he used and abused all things, that he might
prepare the elements of his future calculations ; he inoculated himself with
diseases, that he might the better understand the methods of their cure. His
life was an experiment, and therefore not to be judged by the rules of ordinary
morality.’*
It was, however, in our opinion, a mistaken experiment, and by its costliness
introduced its author to a round of experiences of a very different sort. His
funds were exhausted, and he shortly fell into the condition of absolute want.
The parasites that had fed on his bounty, deserted him ; his professed friends
and admirers fell away, and he wandered homeless and pennyless about the
streets of Paris. But destitution and suffering could not suppress the ardor of
his enthusiasm. From the thickest of his distresses, he sent forth work after
work, filled with the severest criticisms of life, and with the boldest suggestions
of reform. “ This fortnight,” he writes In one place, “ I have subsisted on
bread and water ; I have labored without fire, and I have sold all, even to my
wearing apparel, to defray the expense of some few copies of my work. It is
the passion for science and public happiness—it is the desire to find the means
of terminating in a gentle manner the frightful crisis in which all Europe is now
struggling—that has reduced me to my present distress ; so that it is without a
blush I avow my present destitution, and solicit the aids I need, in order to be
able to go on with my work.” Thus, in tribulation and anguish, too, was he
prepared for the great task to which heliad been called from his early sleep.
The work here referred to is doubtless his “ New Christianity,” in which he
assumed, more distinctly than he had done before, the character of Evangelist
and Prophet. This was an extraordinary production, although it was neither
Digitized by Googk
SOCIAL ARCHITECTS. 15
very new nor very original. The name of new Christianity was only relatively
true; for it was not so much a new form of religion that the writer propounded
as a mere republication, in a new and vivid light, of the morahprecepts origin­
ally advanced by Jesus. It was an attempt to show what had been often
before attempted, that the spirit and practice of religion were not at one;
that there was a wide chasm separating the Revelation from the Commentary,
-the text from the gloss, the Master from the Disciples. Nothing could have
been more forcible than its attacks on the existing Church, in which the Pope
and Luther received an equal share of the blows. He convicted both parties
of errors without number and heresies the most monstrous. But he did not
carry the same vigor into the development of the positive portions of his
thought. He ceased to be logical, that he might be sentimental. Yet the
truth which he insisted on was a great one—perhaps the greatest, viz., that
the fundamental principle in the constitution of society should be Love. Christ
teaches all men, he says, that they are brothers; that humanity is one; that
the true life of the individual is in the bosom of his race ; and that the highest
law of his being is the law of Progress. The perpetual aim of religion is to
ameliorate the condition of man, by which is meant, of “ the most poor and
the most numerous class/* And in the spirit of this saying, he appealed with
startling eloquence to all the votaries of science, of literature, of art, and of Re­
ligion. “ Young men! let us unite then! Poets, artisans, theologians, literary
men, men of industry, men of science, our career is marked out for us, since
to-dav we can occupy ourselves directly with the elevation of the Mass. Let
the Past, to which we have paid ample obsequies, repose in peace: let there
be no more funeral orations over its tomb; yet let us not disdain it, but honor
it, since it has brought us to die Present, and opened us an easy route to a
brilliant Future. Let us all have but one wish and but one hope. Let us,
according to the beautiful expression of the author of the book of Judges,
march as one man, having inscribed on our banners, *P a rad ise on E a r th is
b e f o r e u s!’ The age of Gold, which a blind tradition has hitherto placed in
the Past, is in the Future, and the Future shall henceforth show itself to men,
not as a breaker, but as a secure and noble haven.**
But, alas! the magnanimous spirit which could utter these thrilling words
was not destined to see their realization. The long process of starvation finally
brought St. Simon to his end ; but in the sufferings of death, as in the agony
of life, his mind retained its calmness and sympathy, and he perished with
these words of sublime confidence and hope on his lips: “ The future is
ours.**
The few devoted friends who stood round that death-bed took up the words,
and began the work of propagation. The doctrine rapidly spread; it received a
more precise and comprehensive development under the expositions of Bazard
and Enfantan, and a few years saw a new family, which was also a new church,
gathered at Menilmontant. On its banner was inscribed, “ To each, according
to his capacity, and to each capacity, according to its work its government
took the form of a religious hierarchy, and its main political principle was the
abolition of inheritance.
It was evident that a society so constituted could not long be held together.
Made up of enthusiasts, without definite principles of organization—trusting to
feeling and not to science—its members soon began to quarrel, and the latter
days of its existence were stained by disgusting license. St. Simon was one of
the noblest spirits, but an unfit leader of any enterprise. He saw all things, says
a friendly critic, through his heart. In this was his weakness; he wanted head;
he wanted precise notions; he vainly hoped to reconstruct society by a senti­
ment ; he laid the foundations of his house on sand.
But it must be said to his credit that he began an able and brilliant school
of criticism, and that among his disciples have been found many of the most
clear-headed and benevolent of modern thinkers. No previous school have done
one fiftieth part as much as these men to direct the attention of Europe to the
awful condition of the laboring classes of civilization.
Digitized by Googk
16 SOCIAL ARCHITECT!.
(2.) Robert Owen. He was born at Newton, Montgomeryshire, in the year
1771, and appears to have had little education, except what he acquired by his
own industry. His industry and economy were such, however, as to enable
him*, in the various capacities of clerk and cotton-spinner, to lay up a comfort­
able fortune in a few years. About the year 1784, he became associated with
his father-in-law, Robert Dale, in the manufacturing establishments of New
Lanark, a rude district in Scotland, on the romantic borders of the Clyde.
When he joined the enterprise, it was in no sense a prosperous one ; for the
workmen engaged in it were composed of the refuse of the population, and
crimes of every description were perpetrated. Mr. Owen’s benevolent sympa­
thies were touched by the sight of so much misery, and he instantly undertook
vigorous measures for its relief. It was a long and painful task, to convert a
society, in which masters and workmen were alike debased, into a family of
brothers. He studied their vices one by one; he gradually introduced changes
In their habits of cleanliness, of economy, of order, of intercourse ; and a few
years saw the almost miraculous transformation of an entire community. Dirt,
theft, intemperance, were banished; neat cottages had taken the place of filthy
hovels ; the children were educated in beautiful school-houses; and New Lan­
ark, spite of all natural drawbacks, became the home of happy and thriving
families.
The moral change which Mr. Owen had effected by the mere change of out­
ward circumstances, was a pregnant fact for his suggestive and benevolent mind.
In 1812 he published an account of his experiment, and proposed its extension
to other districts, in a work called “ New Views of Society,” which attracted
almost universal attention. Travellers to New Lanark returned in raptures with
the orderly and beautiful results of its arrangements. His name became a
theme of newspaper praise; his system a subject of debate in the cabinets of
kings. The Dukes of Kent and Sussex presided at his meetings; Lord Liver*
pool, the premier of England, aided by Lord Sidmouth, in their official capa­
cities, sent his speeches and plans to every prominent man in Great Britain.
Even the clergy, generally the last to sustain any scheme of well-doing which
does not emanate from themselves, took part in the organization of new indus­
trial colonies. Mr. Owen was, beyond all question, the most conspicuous and
influential man in the kingdom, if not in the world.
But while his popularity was at its flood, he ran foul of the breakers. Before
this, he had not developed his opinions on the subject of religion and politics,
satisfying himself with a negative toleration of creeds and parties. His business
had been to organize labor; he now undertook the criticism of church and
state. He openly accused all existing religions of falsehood and impotence;
he denied the personal responsibility of the individual, whose destiny, he said,
was controlled exclusively by society; and he argued that all systems of reform^
other than those which looked to a reform of outward circumstances, must in­
evitably lead to injustice, oppression, and misery.
Such sentiments were sufficient to startle the Church. Yet Mr. Owen pro­
ceeded to show also that the plans of radical politicians were alike futile and
absurd. He attacked the most famous leaders of the people; he proved the
yearly increase of pauperism, in the face of all their supposed ameliorations;
he denounced their superficial notions; and he was never forgiven. From that
moment, he fell in public esteem.
Religion was regarded as too sacred an element of society to be rudely han­
dled by any man, however great and good, and therefore his Noble and news­
paper patrons withdrew their countenance. His persistence in his course soon
rendered him as odious to public sentiment as he had before been agreeable.
Mr. Owen’s views, by this time, had settled into the permanent convictions,
that man is utterly irresponsible for his character, and that society is best con­
stituted on the principle of community of interests. These views he unfolded
for many years, with an energy and enthusiasm which have seldom been equal­
led. He has taught them personally in several of the continental nations, and
In North and South America; he has spent millions of dollais in the pub-
Digitized by Google
SOCIAL ARCHITECTS. 17
Hcation of tracts; newspapers have been founded to propagate his doctrines;
communities, more or less prosperous, have been started in many parts of the
globe; and his disciples, in England alone, are numbered at five hundred
thousand.
His character and merits may be summed up in a few words.
Mr. Owen is one of the most extraordinary men that ever lived, whether we
regard either his errors or his truths. The former are few, but are fundamental;
the latter are many, and also important.
His errors are the denial of personal responsibility, and the doctrine of com­
mon property, which we hold to be utterly untenable in argument, radically
defective in morals, and of course, extremely pernicious to society. But our
limits will not allow us to discuss the matter.
His truths are, or rather his services have been, that he has taught moralists
and the world the important, almost vital, influence of outward circumstances
upon inward well-being and happiness. He may be called the Apostle of Cir­
cumstances, and his experiments and arguments in this respect have done in­
describable good in meliorating prevalent views as to the effects of social insti­
tutions. Those beautiful treatises on the laws of diet, cleanliness, the physical
results of different kinds of employment, &c., on health, which have illustrated
the latter days of benevolent exertion, may mostly be traced to the efforts of the
despised and abused Robert Owen.
No one can regret more strongly than we do the moral and religious delusions
into which Mr. Owen has fallen; but we trust we shall never allow any amount
of error to blind our eyes to the positive and surpassing excellences of any indi­
vidual or system. It is so rare that men of immense wealth devote their ener­
gies to enterprises of even mistaken benevolence, that we are disposed to forgive
the mistake, for the benefit of the example.
We here close our review of the Social Architects of all ages, by a few re­
marks intended to characterize respectively their merits and defects.
(1.) Their defects have arisen either from ignorance or excess. Deeply pene­
trated with the evils of our present societies, conscious that there must be some
better form of society, they have rushed into new organizations before they had
scientifically understood the real wants of the old, or the principles required for
the right constitution of the new. They have failed, therefore, because they were
ignorant of the true science of social organization; or, driven to madness by the
pressing necessities and grinding wickedness of existing arrangements, they have
run into the opposite extreme, and rejecting all the institutions of the Past, in­
stituted social forms that were wholly at war with the instincts and habits of the
race. Thus, the doctrine of a community of property, we have no doubt, is a
H reaction from the flagrant injustice and intense suffering produced by the pres­
ent unequal division of property.
(2.) Their merits have been, that they have been a living and perpetual protest
against the disorders of prevailing institutions; that they have pointed public
attention to the enormity of social abuses; that they have called in question
those taken-for-granted sentiments, which hang like an incubus over the human
mind; that they have kept alive and stimulated the hope of social perfectability,
and, from time to time, from the storm-clouds of their tempestuous restlessness
and discontent, have shot those thunderbolts of wrath, which have shocked and
overturned the rotten and perishable structures of the state.
But their chief value, to our mind, is the testimony which they bear to the
fact, that in all ages of the world there has been a lurking faith that God had
prepared abetter social system for the adoption of man. They have been groping
their way after this system, in the midst of much darkness and many entangle­
ments of error; and while their want of success proves that they have been de­
ficient in head, their continued energy and enthusiasm show that they were
not wanting in heart. Their instincts led them in the right direction, but there
was not enough of practical skill among them to teach them when and where
to stop. In this respect, they may be compared to the early alchymists, who
went in pursuit of the Philosopher’s Stone, which was to transmute all the baser
2
Digitized by Google
18 SOCIAL ARCHITECTS*
metals into gold, and of the Elixir of Life, destined to confer wealth and happi­
ness upon all mankind. In the course of their inquiries, they departed on some
fool’s-errands, they turned out much dross, they spent valuable days and nights
in many a silly, many a dangerous experiment ; but they were animated Iw a
sublime Hope, and prepared the materials which a future Man of Genius (La­
voisier) was destined to construct into the orderly forms and proportions of a
beautiful and useful science.
Has there yet been a Lavoisier, to gather the scattered observations of Social
Alchymists, and, out of the rude mass, build up a True Social Science ? We
shall see !
CHAPTER II.
CHARLES FOURIER.
“ We must not speak lightly of Fourier. A man who could devote his whole life to the worship
of such an Idea, who wished to turn the Passions of man in a good direction, who undertook to
associate all families and interests, and who labored with such unprecedented energy for the ex­
tinction of social evil, was no vulgar dreamer, however Utopian the character of his projects. And
after all, Utopianism is often only a more advanced opinion, proclaimed in the face of a generation
which does not yet understand it, and destined to become a standard of faith in the generation that
follows.”—Blanqui.*
O u r object in the last chapter, in showing that Man in all ages had been gro­
ping after a more perfect and agreeable social state, was to prepare the reader to
perceive how all the advantages of former undertakings have been combined,
and all their difficulties and errors avoided, in the discoveries of Charles Fourier.
W e consider him the flower and consummation of all these rude and frag­
mentary efforts—the true Teacher whose system fulfils all the aspirations of the
past, and is also adequate to the demands of Humanity for many years to come.
He was born at Besançon, in Franche Compte, on the 7th of April, 1772.
From his earliest infancy he was remarkable for the aviditywith which he sought
knowledge and the tenacity with which he maintained his opinions when he
conceived himself in the right. An incident which occurred when he was only
five years of age seems to have produced that implacable hatred of falsehood
which was ever afterward one of his most marked characteristics. He was
punished for telling the truth in the shop of his father, who was a woollen-dra­
per, and he never forgot the injustice. It was the first hint his mind had re­
ceived of the necessary dishonesty of commercial dealing, as it is now con­
ducted.
At school he was remarkable for his diligence, and generally took the prizes
for French themes and Latin verses, although the favorite study of his youth
was geography, for the prosecution of which he was accustomed to spend all
his pocket-money in the purchase of charts and globes. He had also an ex­
quisite taste in cultivating flowers, and his sister relates that when he was a boy
he had his room so lumbered with plants that a narrow passage from the door
to the windows was the only space left unoccupied. His great pleasure consist­
ed in cultivating all the varieties of any favorite species of flower. But his
passion for music was even more intense, the theory of which he understood
perfectly, so that among other indications of reform in arbitrary methods, he has
given a plan of musical notation, “ by which all the different voices and instru­
ments may give the same name to the same note, instead of employing seven or
eight different keys or particular scales.”f
* M. Blanqui, the able and distinguished Professor of Political Economy in the University of
Paris, is one of the few men, not professed disciples, who have given anything approaching a fair
statement of Fourier’s doctrines.
t See Mr. Doherty's fuller explanation in the London Phalanx.
Digitized by Google
CHARLE8 FOURIER. 19
Another striking trait of his ehildhood was his kindness and generosity, of
many of the manifestations of which he never spoke himself, his family having
learned them subsequently from other persons. A particular instance, related
by Mr. Doherty, may serve as a specimen of his modes of charity. As the
college which he attended was not far from the residence of his father, he slept
at home, returning every morning to his studies. His habits had always been
considered somewhat eccentric, and it was not therefore remarked as extraor­
dinary that he breakfasted earlier than everybody else, and after breakfast, al­
ways filled his pouch with bread, fruit, viands, &c., which were intended appar­
ently for a lunch. One day, after he had departed ¡from home to begin his com­
mercial life at Lyons, an old cripple hobbled to the door and asked if the young
gentleman was ill, and on being informed that he had left Besançon, the poor
man burst into tears, and said he had lost his guardian angel, who used every
morning to feed and comfort him. The first time Fourier wrote to his friends,
he begged of them to protect the old man, whom he had forgotten in the hur­
ry of departure, and his request was complied with; but the helpless crea­
ture lost his all when he lost his comforter, and though still protected by his
absent benefactor, he pined away and died, as much from grief, it is supposed,
as from infirmity.
At Lyons Fourier entered as a clerk in a commercial house, being then about
eighteen years of age. He soon after, in the capacity of agent, travelled over
the greater part of France, Germany, Belgium, Holland, and Switzerland.
Wherever he went, the chief objects of his attention were the physical features
of the country, the nature and processes of the industry of the people, and
particularly the arrangements agd architecture of the towns. His memory of
details of this kind was prodigious. His walking-stick was regularly notched
off in feet and inches, and he never passed or entered a building that struck
him, without taking its dimensions, &c. He was also profoundly acquainted
with every branch of science, particularly of the exact sciences, which he stud­
ied passionately, while he cared very little for the more uncertain and arbitrary
speculations of the moral departments.
In 1793 Fourier’s father died, and left him about sixteen thousand dollars, as
his share of the family property ; but before the close of the year, having em­
barked it in commercial undertakings, he lost the whole of it, by the sudden
seige and ransacking of Lyons, where it was stored. During the same fearful
and revolutionary disturbance he was several times in danger of losing his life.
On the 9th of October the city surrendered, many of its inhabitants were
slaughtered, and others, among them Fourier, thrown into prison. He was
condemned, by the blood-thirsty tools of the National Convention, to perish on
the scaffcdd, but he made his escape in about five days and fled to Besançon.
In a state of complete destitution, and worn down by fatigue and sickness, he
was there again incarcerated, and only saved his life by conforming to the gen­
eral requisition, which forced all ranks, sexes, and ages, into the national service.
His only offence, in all these trials, was that he would not join the different par­
ties of revolutionists who were successively in the ascendant.
He served two years in the army of the Rhine, when he procured his dis­
charge on account of ill health.
“ On obtaining his liberty, he entered again as a clerk in a commercial house,
pursuing his studies with perseverance whenever he had leisure. In 1799 he
was employed at Marseilles, in a wholesale warehouse, and in the early part of
the year was charged with a commission which gave a powerful stimulus to his
favorite speculation, of introducing the practice of truth and honesty in com-
hnercial dealings. He was chosen to superintend a body of men while they se­
cretly cast an immense quantity of rice into the sea. (In the hope of realizing
a great profit, this rice had been kept till it was completely spoiled.) France
had been suffering from exceeding scarcity during the past year ; ana notwith­
standing the risk of famine among the people, these secret monopolizers of
corn had allowed their stores to rot, rather than sell them at a reasonable profit.
These abuses of monopoly, and many other fraudulent operations of commerce,
Digitized by Google
ao CHARLES FOURIER.
with which Fourier was well acquainted, appeared to him in the light of real
crimes against humanity, and he thenceforth resolvedupon studying incessantly
until he had discovered, not the means of detecting and punishing, but of per­
manently and effectually preventing them. This holy resolution, if we may be
allowed the expression, was crowned with success before the end of the year.
“ In 1799, Fourier discovered the laws of universal unity, and the essential
destiny of humanity upon earth.
“ From his earliest youth. the great object qf hjs flynbition had been to dis­
cover the means of introducing truth?honesty, and economy.Tn commercial op-
¿rations, Being InmselF engage^in ^ercantile "pursuits, nis natural love of
trutTf, and obstinate adherence to equity, were daily and hourly thwarted by the
common practices of his profession. His predominant passion being constantly
irritated, left him no respite from the task he had undertaken, notwithstanding
the endless difficulties he encountered. Something or other constantly occurred
to give him new courage in continuing the arduous task, which had been sever­
al times well-nigh abandoned, in the despondency of impossibility. Besides the
every-day practice of lying and cheating in trade, there were certain anomalies
which made an indelible impression on his memory. We have already men­
tioned the impression left on his mind by the injustice of being punished for
speaking the truth in his father’s shop, when he was only an infant. Another
fact which had a powerful influence in directing his thoughts, happened when
he was about eighteen years of age. Shortly after leaving school, he was al­
lowed to visit Paris : it was in the year 1790, and his first visit to the capital.
The things which attracted his attention most were the Boulevards, the public
monuments, the general style of bujlding, and the excessive dearness of all the
necessaries of life. One circumstance in particular seemed a most revolting in­
stance of mercantile extortion: being exceedingly fond of fruit, he was obliged
to pay sevenpence for one apple, of a particular sort, which he had often pur­
chased at the rate of three farthings a dozen in the country. This instance of
a simple commodity like fruit, being augmented to one hundred and twelve
times its original value, seemed to him an almost incredible anomaly. It is true
that the year 1790 was an exceptional period in France ; but the circumstance
of the apple was not the less remarkable for its influence on Fourier’s mind.
Frqm that period to 1799, a lapse of nine years, he labored incessantly to ac­
complish his favorite project, but all his efforts were inadequate to the task : the
more he advanced in science and a true knowledge of the world, the more his
hopes were chilled by the deep shadow of impossibility. Despair of success,
however, did not quench his thirst for science in general; and, as we have al­
ready stated, he was again induced to resume his favorite meditation, by the
painful idea of monopoly forcing the people to starve while an abundance of
provision was exposed to rot in the sordid clutch of private speculation.
“ His first inquiries concerning commerce, led him to discover the evils of in­
coherence and jarring individual interests. He perceived that the only possible
mode of introducing truth, equity, and economy in productive and distributive
industry, was by means of agricultural association and wholesale trade. This
discovery only increased the difficulty of realising his favorite project—com­
mercial honesty. He was under the necessity of discovering the practical means
of associating human beings, with their natural instincts and tastes, diversity of
character and conflicting opinions, before he could proceed; but he was en­
couraged in his task, by a firm conviction of such a practical science existing in
principle, and only remaining to be discovered in order to be applied. The
immense advantages of economy, rapidity, equity, education, and science,
which he saw might be realised by association, thoroughly convinced him that
Providence had pre-ordained society as the natural destiny of man, and he
believed that these pre-ordained laws of association were permanently revealed
in the general laws of Nature. He found that attraction and repulsion were the
two principal laws by which the Creator governs the world; and in order to ob­
tain a complete knowledge of these laws, he resolved to study simultaneously
the highest and lowest orders of creation in the universe. He considered the
Digitized by Google
CHARLES FOURIER. 21
ytars as the highest order of creation, mankind as the middle term, and the in*
ferior orders of creation as the lowest step in the scale. He supposed that there
must be certain general laws of unity common to these three orders of existence,
or it would be impossible for them to compose one harmonious whole ; and he
hoped that by studying all that was known in the positive sciences concerning
them, he might discover the natural laws of correlativeness, which bind them
together in unity and eternity. His principal lever in the work of discovery
was a sort of algebraical calculation, by which he supposed every law that was
common to any two of these general terms, must Be common to the third ; and
he never abandoned any branch of study until he had discovered those princi­
ples of nature which were common to the medium and the two extremes. •
4
4His first discovery was the universality of distribution, according to a law
of ascending and descending progression, in every order of the creation, from
the highest to the lowest degree of animate and inanimate beings. This law of
progressive distribution he termed series : accordingly, the first grand axiom
which he established was this—‘All the harmonies of the universe are distrib-V/
uted in progressive series.’ /
4
4Having observed a perfect correspondency between the various orders of
creation in the universe, he was led to infer, that, as the Creator was one and
the same being, infinite and eternal in his attributes, there must necessarily be a
principle of unity in all his works : that the creation must necessarily be a re­
flection of the attributes of the Creator; that the Creator being all in all, it was
impossible for him to paint or represent anything but himself in the creation.
If he had represented anything foreign to his own attributes, that something
must exist independently ; and, in that case, the Deity would not be infinite.
Such an hypothesis being perfectly absurd, we must admit that the Creator is
infinite, and that it would be impossible for him to create anything which was
not analogous to some of his own attributes. From these considerations, Four­
ier derived his second axiom—4The Creator being one infinite harmonious be­
ing, everything in nature must be an imitation of his attributes, and therefore)^
there exists in every order of creation, similarity or universal analogy.’
4
4Considering attraction and repulsion as the universal laws of nature, and
God as the original distributor of all sorts of attraction, it is perfectly rational to
infer, that the respective faculties or impulses of attraction and repulsion in all
orders of beings, are distributed exactly in proportion to their respective func­
tions in the general harmony of the universe : the affinity which binds the atom
to the atom, the attractive power which rules the movement of the planets, the
affections which bind human beings to each other in society, are only so many
different modes of the one universal law of attraction and repulsion ; and from
this self-evident induction, Fourier derived his third general axiom—4The per­
manent attractions and repulsions of every being in creation, are exactly in pro­
portion to their respective functions and their final destinies in the universe.’
4
4With these three axioms for guides, he set out in quest of the grand prin­
ciple of associative unity. The first thing to be discovered was, an exact
knowledge of the nature of man ; his natural impulses, attractions, and repul­
sions. The second object for consideration was, the progressive distribution of
these faculties according to the general laws of series which regulate the har­
mony of the universe : the third fact to be ascertained was, the analogy between
the newly-discovered principles, and the other known laws of nature, as a con­
firmation or refutation of the discovery.
4
4It would be superfluous to enter further into these details at present ; they
will be fully developed in the following treatise : but we may observe here, that
F ourier does not speak of 4Revelation* as a guide to him, in his first work,
published in 1808, though he never fails to appeal to it for authority in his sub­
sequent publications. He mentions one fact, however, in his last work, which
proves that he never was indifferent to religion. In refuting a newspaper alle­
gation of 4materialism,* he states that he was imprisoned at Besançon in 1793,
for refusing to renounce his faith in the Gospel, and in 1835 he was falsely ac­
cused of materialism ; and in both cases by what he terms the dupes of false
philosophy in different characters of corporate duplicity.
Digitized by Google
CHARLES FOURIER*
“ By ‘false philosophy,’Fourier alludes to both theology and arbitrary science,
as erroneous and one-sided interpretations of Scriptural and Natural Revelation,
though he seldom alludes to errors in theology, otherwise than by observing that
‘neither philosophers nor their rivals (divines) have had sufficient faith in Provi­
dence to discover a remedy for social misery;’ and that their views of permanent
subversion are equally fallacious. He objected strongly to a republication of his
first work, on account of some considerable errors it contained, and which were
rectified by subsequent discoveries he made in 1814 and 1819.
“ About the time of his discovery, Fourier returned to Lyons; and as he was
not able to devote the whole of his time to study, he endeavored to combine his
favorite pursuits with an easy occupation, which would procure him the common
necessaries of life. To be constantly confined in a warehmise or countinghouse
would have occupied too much of his time ; he preferred being free, and gaining
less ; he became what in France is termed a ‘Courtier Marron,’ an unlicensed
commercial agent. This function, occupying very little of his time, formed a
valuable link between practical application to business and theoretical specula­
tions concerning society. It is probable that this every-day recurrence to the
actual practices of the world, formed a very wholesome check to the illusions of
theory ; for no philosopher ever wandered so little from the confines of reality,
or advanced so far in the intricate mazes of actuality, as Fourier : his most trans­
cendent speculations are traced through analogy, down to the lowest orders of
creation, the insect, and the atom ; his critical analysis of history and existing
society proceeds from the most minute details of every-day life to the highest
considerations ofnational policy. His favorite method ofdemonstration consisted
in contrasting the infinitely small with the infinitely great, according to that uni­
versal law of nature, the contact of extremes, in every branch of the creation, in
eve series of natural classification.
4
1 i 1808 Fourier published his first work, under the title of ‘Théorie des
quatre Mouvemens,’—the theory of universal attraction and repulsion. The
first volume was merely a prospectus of the work, intended to procure the means
of publishing the rest by subscription ; but little or no notice being taken of the
prospectus, the publication was suspended. He had bestowed eight years’labor
in working out the principles of his discovery before he attempted to publish
them ; and having discovered that certain parts of his theory were still incom­
plete when he published the first volume, he resolved to withdraw it from circu­
lation, and continue his studies. After seven years’ additional elaboration, he
was preparing to go to press, when Napoleon returned from the island of Elba,
in 1815, and France was again thrown into a state of agitation. During the
short reign from the time of his return from Elba until the battle of Waterloo,
the Emperor Napoleon named the Count Fourier prefect of the department of
the Rhone, and the count placed his namesake, Charles F ourier, at the head
of the statistical department of that provincial government. On the return of
the Bourbons, Fourier retired to his sister’s, at Tallissieu, that he might quietly
continue the preparation of his manuscripts. This sister wa$ a widow, living in
a country village near Belley, where her husband had been sub-prefect, a func­
tion similar to that of county-sheriff in England. Fourier had another sister
living at Belley, where he resided chiefly from 1816 to 1821. Two of his
nephews are now residing in that neighborhood. One is a barrister, the other
a notary. *
“ As he always led a very quiet and studious life, little is known of his par­
ticular habits and private transactions during his residence at Lyons from 1799
to 1816; but it is probable that they were in every way similar to his general
bearing from that time to his death. He was thoughtful and reserved ; more
studious of comforting and assisting the poor who surrounded him, than desirous
of flattering the rich, or courting their acquaintance. Indeed, he had an abso­
lute dislike to the falsehood and dissimulation which pass for politeness. Mo­
rality, justice, and the love of truth, were the principal features of his private
character. He was very moderate in his eating and drinking ; but particularly
desirous of obtaining the best quality of everything, free from adulteration. He
Digitized by Google
CHARLES FOURIER. 23
used to say that half the things we eat and drink are poisoned by adulteration,
which is only one of the many evils of false competition and monopoly. From
a continual habit of study, he had acquired the habits and manners of a hermit,
lived almost entirely alone, and appeared to avoid long conversations with stran­
gers. He lived and died a bachelor, almost as great a stranger to his own family
as to the rest of society. This taciturnity increased as he advanced in years ;
for those who knew him when young, say that he was very lively and witty.
General Pajol relates that he was in the habit of dining with him every day for
several years, at a table d’hote in Lyons, while Fourier resided in that city; and
that his wit and gayety rendered him the admiration of all who knew him.
Even in later years, particularly during the last two years of his life, he was
cheerful and communicative with those persons whom he knew intimately, and
who had the good fortune to possess his confidence.
“ Having withdrawn his first work from circulation, a few copies only were in
the hands of the public, and no notice had been taken publicly either of him or
his system. In 1814, however, one of those copies which were in circulation fell
by chance in the way of an inquiring mind at Besançon, Fourier’s native city;
and the gentleman, M. Just Muiron, who had accidentally come in possession
of the book, was so much struck with its originality, the sublime simplicity of
the theory it announced, the immense importance of the discovery, if it were
practicable, that he immediately resolved to find out the author, and learn more
of the subject. This was no easy matter, as the book had been printed at
Leipsic, without indicating either the name or address of the author: the only
clue to his residence was contained in a paragraph relative to the subscription
for publishing the rest of the work. Those who were desirous of subscribing
were referred to M. Charles at Lyons. It was not until the beginning of the
year 1816 that Muiron succeeded in discovering the retreat of Fourier at Belley.
when informed of his real residence, he wrote to Fourier, to inquire about the rest
of the publication, and received a very simple, polite, and friendly answer. The
correspondence was continued for some time ; and Muiron, more and more con­
vinced of the truth and importance of the discovery, became the intimate friend
and the first disciple of Fourier. ,
“ Muiron soon became as anxious as Fourier himself concerning the publica­
tion of the system, now almost complete in every detail, and he offered to ad­
vance money for the necessary expenses. As Fourier had saved a little money,
and had inherited about forty pounds a-year from his mother, he lived very eco­
nomically, and labored incessantly to prepare his manuscript for the press; but
the materials were so immense, that nearly four years were occupied in the labo­
rious undertaking. The publication was again purposely delayed by a new dis­
covery which Fourier made in 1819 ; and though this discovery related princi­
pally to cosmogony, he deemed it prudent to delay publishing until he had
thoroughly verified the unity and universality of his whole discovery. Having
fully satisfied himself of the correctness of every part, he removed to Besançon
in 1821, where the first two volumes of his great work were printed. In 1822
they were published, under the modest title of *A Treatise on Domestic and
Agricultural Association ;’ and he went to Paris in the hope of having them
favorably reviewed, as a means of obtaining the necessary funds for realizing the
practical part of his system. After remaining more than twelve months in vain,
he found that money was the only means of obtaining notice in journals and
reviews ; and his funds being exhausted, his book was left unnoticed. In this
position he had no resource but that of patience. Not being able to live on
forty pounds a-year in Paris, he was obliged to employ a part of his time in pro­
curing the necessary means of subsistence. He returned to Lyons, where he
remained about a year ; but finding it inconvenient to be absent from the capital,
he became corresponding clerk to a commercial house in the Rue du Mail in
Paris, and remained five years without obtaining any serious review of his work,
or making himself known to any influential person. At the end of that time, his
friends in the country advised him to publish an abridgment of his work, which
would be cheaper and more simple. In accordance with this advice, he published
Digitized by Google
24 CHARLES FOURIER.
a methodical elementary treatise in 1829. This volume met with the same recep­
tion as the others—absolute silence on the part of journalists and reviewers.
Fourier still remained in Paris, sending his book to everybody he thought likely
to understand it, and take an interest in the realization of his theory. Silence
and indifference, however, were still the only result of his efforts to obtain pub­
licity, until a lucky occurrence brought him into notice in 1832.
“ In the beginning of that year, the St. Simonians made a stir in Paris by
their preachings and writings. Fourier had sent his works to the teachers of
these new doctrines as early as the year 1830, informing them of the possibility
of realizing that social regeneration for which they appeared so anxious in their
predications. Instead of listening to the simplicity of Fourier’s advice, they
deemed themselves vastly superior to everybody else, and gave him to understand
they were perfectly competent to the task which they had undertaken. They
did not, however, neglect to read his works privately, adopting many of his
principles without acknowledging the source from which they had drawn them,
until at length several of their proselytes, who were really serious in their con­
victions, abandoned the defective theories of St. Simonism, and publicly professed
the principles of Fourier. It may not be improper to observe here, that these
principles are directly opposed to all systems of community, and that it is quite
erroneous to confound Fourier with Owen. Soon after the desertion of Tran-
son, Le Chevalier, Paget, Lemoyne, and several other learned and influential
men, the St. Simonians were dispersed, and a weekly journal was commenced
for the diffusion of Fourier’s principles of association and progressive policy.
This journal, called ‘La Reforme Industrielle,’ was conducted with spirit, and
obtained many adherents to its principles. A joint-stock company was formed
to realize the new theory of association; and one gentleman, M. Baudet Dulary,
member of parliament for the county of Seine and Oise, bought an estate, which
cost him five hundred thousand francs (one hundred thousand dollars), for the
express purpose of putting the theory into practice. Operations were actually
commenced; but for want of sufficient capital to erect buildings and stock the
farm, the whole operation was paralyzed; and notwithstanding the natural cause
of cessation, the simple fact of stopping short, after having commenced opera­
tions, made a very unfavorable impression upon the public mind. Success is the
only criterion with the indolent and indifferent, who do not take the trouble to
reason on circumstances and accidental difficulties.
“ Fourier was very much vexed at the precipitation of his partisans, who were
too impatient to wait until sufficient means had been obtained. They argued,
that the fact of having commenced operations would attract the attention of capi­
talists, and insure the necessary funds: he begged them to beware of precipitation;
told them how he had been deceived himself in having to wait more than twenty
years for a simple hearing, which, from the importance of his discovery, he had
fully expected to obtain immediately. All his entreaties were in vain: they told
him he had not obtained a hearing sooner because he was not accustomed to the
duplicity of the world; and, confident in their own judgment, commenced with­
out hesitation, and were taught, at the expense of their own imprudence, to ap­
preciate more correctly the sluggish indifference of an ignorant public.
“ Since that time, numerous partisans have been recruited among the learned
and influential classes in France; many elementary works have been written on
social science, and the epoch of a successful realization is probably near at hand;
but Fourier himself has descended into the tomb, as a martyr to the skeptical
' indifference of the age in which he lived. Sent by Providence to deliver hu­
manity from the bondage of duplicity, to discover the promised land ofpeace and
happiness, and bid the suffering multitude to enter and be glad, his body, worn
with years and exhausted with fatigue, yielded the spirit on the eve of success,
that his soul might be crowned with a glory in heaven worthy of its more than
terrestrial perseverance in the cause of truth and justice upon earth.
“ In 1835 he published the first part of another volume, entitled ‘False Indus­
try.’ There is little in this work which had not been given in his earlier pub­
lications, if we except the spirited criticisms which it contains on general dupli­
Digitized by Google
25
city. He was on tMe eve of publishing the second part, when he was cut short
in his career by the unsparing hand of death. There remained but one chapter
to write, which he vjs.9 obliged to defer on account of the rapidly-declining state
of his health. As those chapters which were written had been printed, he was
asked, as an especial favor, to have a copy stitched before the work was com­
plete. In compliance with this request, four copies were prepared in an incom­
plete state; and, as he did not live to finish the work, it is worthy of remark
that the last words he wrote were—
“ ‘ E xegi m onum entum aere perennills.,
“ In the early part of 1837 he met with a very serious accident, from which he
never thoroughly recovered. On returning home, rather later than usual, one
dark night, he missed his footing on the staircase, and in falling down the stairs,
his head was cut and bruised considerably. The wound was healed in the course
of a few months, but he never recovered his health. His strength failed him, his
features became totally changed, his stomach refused the functions of digestion,
and his whole frame was evidently hurrying on to dissolution.
“ Having no confidence in medical science, he constantly refused all medical
aid. Though two of his intimate friends were physicians, he neglected their
prescriptions, and confided in his own judgment. He had a particular dislike
to being surrounded by servants and friends during his illness: accustomed to
being alone, he preferred solitude to the tiresome assiduities of officious per­
sons. He would not allow any on%to attend him during his illness but the old
woman who was in the habit of serving him on ordinary occasions. Many of
* his friends offered to sit up with him, and regain in the adjoining room, that
he might not be disturbed by their presence, but he refused peremptorily. He
would not even allow the nurse to remain with him after midnight. He must
have been sensible to the last moment. On the eve of his death, he sent the
servant to bed about twelv#o’clock, requesting her to be up at five the next
morning. When she went to see how he was at the appointed hour, she found
him out of bed. He had had the energy to get up, and go to the night-table;
and as he was making an effort to return, his spirit fled, and the dead body was
left kneeling at the bed-side. He could not have been long dead, as his corpse
was warm two hours afterward. .
“ His body was embalmed, his head and bust were moulded, and the conforma­
tion of his brain was minutely analyzed. He was buried on the 11th of October,
in the cemetery of Montmartre; and on his tomb are engraved the three funda­
mental axioms of his doctrine:—
“ 1. ‘La Serie distribue lea Harmonies.’
“ 2. ‘Les Attractions sont proportionnelles aux Destinees.*
“ 3. ‘Analogic Universelle.’
“ The third axiom is represented by mathematical symbols, instead of being
expressed in words.”*
Now this life, we conceive, is not the life of a quack, nor indeed of an ordi­
nary man. Such life-long devotion to an object of inferior magnitude would
indicate more than ordinary greatness. What shall we say of it, then, when we
consider that it was devotion to the grandest and most sacred interests of man ?
Is an intellect which can thus slowly, painfully, patiently, evolve and elaborate
its conclusions, to be despised ? Is not the wnole air and manner of the Man,
the air and manner of one who looks earnestly into the facts of existence, and
who wrestles sincerely to find the key of this mysterious and terrible life of suf­
fering, and struggle, and despair, and darkness?
It does seem to us that no one can read the simple details of this life—so
quiet, yet so intense—so scholar-like, yet so mingled with the sternest realities
of every day—so impassive in its intellectual dignity and strength—so high in its
moral aims—so rigid, direct, full of the consciousness of a mighty mission, but
all the while so child-like, modest, without pretension or uneasiness—without
feeling that it approaches the morally sublime. That lone man—friendless,
companionless, poor—sitting there for forty years, in his scant garret, while the
* Doherty.
. CHARLES FOURIER.
Digitized by Googk
CHARLES FOURIER.
splendor and bustle of busy Paris rolled at his feet, working out his dark prob­
lem of the Destiny of Humanity on Earth, forging link by fink in the chain of a
complete science, as year after year came around, furnishes me with a concep­
tion of human grandeur and power, far more exalted than any that I ever derived
from contemplating the debates of the Senate-house or the shock of armies.
There, with his bread and water, while thousands of his fellow-mortals lay sim­
mering and fretting in their petty cares, above even the fringes of lamplight that
struggled upward through the dense cloud of dust and smoke of the great city,
alone with Midnight and the Stars, with Thought and God!
As it is the object of this work to describe Fourier’s principles, we shall not
point out their peculiarities here, deeming it best to allow the reader to decide
for himself; nor shall we dwell upon what we consider the defects of his method
and of his discoveries, for there are plenty who would be right glad to do that,
if they only knew what they were: but we must make a few remarks, in conclu­
sion, upon the character of his writings and of his mind.
Fourier has left the impress of two periods of his life on his works: the first,
of his earlier years, when his nature was lively and gay, and his head full of the
glow of his fresh discoveries; the second, of his later years, when repeated dis­
appointments and protracted neglect had soured his heart to many of the better
phases of existing arrangements. The works undertaken under the former in­
fluence, flash and glitter with the exaggerated brilliancy which his exalted hopes
lent to his warm imagination; those pubHUied during the second, teem with
fierce and contemptuous denunciations, not of men, but of things, which show
that he was poignantly alive to the stupid ridicule and more stupid indifference
of the world. At no period, however, did he betray either the bitterness of self­
ishness or the meanness of personal malignity. He lived in his Great Thought,
and with \hat alone he rose or sunk. '
His books are by no means easy reading; not sifcply because their language
is sometimes crabbed and harsh, for these traits are redeemed by a lucid direct­
ness and vigor of style, but because he has left numerous gaps and chasms in
the'train of his reasonings. He is like the Chamois guide, of which we some­
where read, who is perfectly familiar with the most inaccessible regions—so
long as you are in his handis, you feel that you are held up and directed by a
mighty arm, and you pass confidently along fearful precipices and over bottom­
less gulfs, knowing that your guide is there; but the moment you seek the way
for yourself, your brains reel with amazement at the height to which you have
reached, and the enormous abysses over which you have been carried. The
glories unfolded on the journey, however, are a sufficient inducement to cause
you to turn back to your place of departure, and to trace out the whole distance
for your own delight and«satisfaction.
As a thinker, he is equally remarkable for his critical and constructive facul­
ties. Had he done no more than furnish the world with his exhausting analysis
of the present relations of society, he would have been entitled to rank as one
of its greatest men. His power of dissecting any method of business or social
institution is so delicate, that he lays bare the minutest nerve and fibre, and yet
it is so comprehensive, that it takes in the “ thick rotundity of the earth;” nay,
the complicated movements of the entire series of worlds in space. He is both
microscopic and telescopic, permitting no object to escape his gaze, either small
or large, and discerning the atom and the mountain with equal facility. It is for
this reason that his criticism of existing society is so sharp, unsparing, and thor­
oughly unanswerable.
But his constructive power was much more remarkable than his critical power,
because the sharpness and force of the latter were mostly derived from the for­
mer ; we mean, that he had rare penetration in discovering the wrong, because
he carried with him the touchstone of the right. Truth is your most biting
and implacable critic. No man sees or feels so quickly or keenly even the
slightest aberrations as he who possesses a universal standard of correctness.
When Fourier, then, lashes with such vehement and caustic eloquence, the
waste, the absurdity, the injustice, the iniquity of the present forms of society,
Digitized by Google
we are to look for the cause of it in the fact, that he carried in his mind the
mature conception of the right form. He had already worked out for himself,
in all it» details and in all its breadth, the structure of a perfect society. It is
here, in the art of construction, of building up, that his mind shows itself in its
noblest proportions. No poet, in the amplest circuit of his imaginings, has
bodied forth such a magnificent ideal of the future life of Humanity on Earth
as Fourier presents us, in rigid and mathematical outline, as the strict scientific
development of his theory. He opens up to us views of Destiny, in the regular
course of his moral reasoning, no less brilliant, grand, kindling, solemn, than
those which colored the rapt vision of the stem but gorgeous old Hebrew
prophets. And here let us observe, that it is for this reason that many of his
more enthusiastic disciples think they will see/in the prevalence of his system,
the realization of those bright Hopes of the Better Future, early ushered and
long continued by the Seers of God, which have cheered the drooping heart
of Humanity in her long pilgrimage through the valley and shadow of this liv­
ing Death.
Fourier’s Doctrine possesses a particular value to our minds because it seems
to us to be Universal and consequently Reconciling and Pacific. It is both con­
servative and radical, Protestant and Catholic. It has resolved more difficulties
for us, both in Politics and Religion, both ás to the organization of the Church
and the organization of the State, than anybther doctrine that we have happen­
ed to fall in with in the works of uninspired man. W e see by means of it,
more of the bearings and tendencies of prevailing controversies, both in Church *
and State, than we ever did before, and we are better able to estimate, as well
the excellences as the defects, of all creeds and parties. A brilliant light has
been shed for us over many of the darkest and abstrusest questions that concern
man’s life on earth, in the P/st, the Present, and the Future. Many too, are
the secrets which it has revealed to us in Science—many the mysteries it has
unlocked in Scripture. If, therefore, we were to attempt to assign Fourier his
place among modem thinkers, we should cut him a niche higher than Bacon in
Method, and higher than Newton in the importance of Discovery.
But this, we are aware, will appear to the uninitiated as an exaggeration, and
we do not nowinsist upon his claims. One thing, however, we shall insist upon
—that Fourier is at least one of the leading minds of the last century, destined
to mould the thought and action of his fellows for some centuries to come.
He has announced two truths, not to mention others, the bare announcement
of which would have distinguished him, but the successful development of
which has rendered him immortal. We refer, first, to the principle that Indus­
try can be soorganized as tobe rendered A t t r a c t iv e ; and second, to the mo­
mentous fact of the S o lid a r ity of t h e H uman R a c e.* These truths, sim­
ple as they appear, are enough to give a turn and color to the destiny of the
coming era.
By the former, Attractive and Organized Industry, the most inspiring and
consolatory word that was ever spoken to them, has been spoken to the trodden
and worn millions of the laboring classes, who in all ages and nations, and more
in civilized nations than in others,! have cried to Man in vain for relief in the
agonies of their distress. After centuries of hopeless degradation, of remedi­
* It is to be regretted that there is no word in English to answer to the nnconth French word.
SoHdarité, now coming into such use. For the meaning of it, metaphysically, we must refer to the
works of the school of Fourier, to Mr. Leroux’s Humanity, to the Abbe De Lamennais, and to
some of M
rV Brownson’s writings,—who as a metaphysician is superior to any man we know
Just now. The term expresses generally that the life of a man is not extensively the life of an
individual, but a life which he possesses jointly with his race, that men live in solido, soldered
together in one, if we may say so, that each man is an indivisible and indissoluble part of the
life of all men, and all men are indivisible parts of each man. Fourier’s writings imply what is
meant by the term throughout all his speculations. St. Paul gives it in this shape,—“ For as
we have many members in one body, so we being many are one body in Christ, and every one members
one of a n o th erRom. xii. 4, 5; also see in 1 Chron. xii. 12, Ephes. iv. 25, and other places.
Those moralists and philosophers who hope to reform the world through individuals alone, may
have their eyes opened by studying this subject of Solidarity. They will not, thereafter, seek to
restore a dead body to life, by acting upon one of its limbs,
t See a pamphlet by the author on Constructive and Pacific Democracy, printed in this city.
CHARLES FOURIER. 27
Digitized by Googk
88
less wrongs and sufferings, they have at last received the assurance that their
destiny is not for ever to a debasing, monotonous, repugnant, ill-paid, painful,
and disease-producing Toil; in filthy and pestilent shops; under cruel task­
masters ; from night to morning, without relief or change; at cut-throat com­
petition each man with his fellow; and all for a niggardly stipend, never enough
to secure a man, much less his family, against sickness and old age, and always
keeping him hovering in poignant anxiety on the brink of starvation and death.
No : thank God, a way of escape has been found for the poor from the hovels
of nastiness, the regions of darkness, in which they abide—a hand has been
lifted to stay the wild deluge of ignorance, carelessness, and crime, which is
sweeping their Manhood into Savagery and Brutedom. The fiat has gone forth
that Industry—ever honorable, nay, noble and divine Industry,—must be organ­
ized, and already the Purveyor* to this glorious host of disciplined and valorous
Workers and Doers has gone before to provide its food and habitations. Let a
seven-fold chorus of rejoicing go up from the myriads whose emancipation is at
hand.
By the second truth, to which we referred above, we learn, that each man of
us is deeply and vitally concerned in the weal and wo of every other individu­
al of the race. Never shall we obtain true happiness, never shall we gain true
Liberty, until we shall have elevated all men to Happiness and Liberty. We
are members one of anotner, parts-of one great whole, living links in the great
living organism of Humanity. The neighbor is most truly our brother,—nay,
more than brother,—he is our other self; his crimes, our diseases; his sufferings,
our curse. A nerve of the sauje Life runs through the whole human kind» and
it can not be tormented in one, without sending its shock of pain to others, asthe
wounding of the remotest limb quivers throughout the frame. The pulse of
moral life in society must beat irregularly, fitfully, feverishly, while the circula­
tion is obstructed or vitiated in the least portion of its structure. Surely,
those old dogmas of the Church heretofore so mysterious, relating to the feder­
al headship of Adam, to the imputation of sin, to the Eucharist and com­
munion of saints, may have a profound significance!
The superiority of this view of the relations of mankind is that it is the only
one which affords a good ground for the conviction of perfectability in indi­
viduals and the race. It is a lamentably low and inadequate view which our
preachers and moralists take of the whole subject of human improvement. On­
ly reform the individual, they say, and you have reformed society ! Most im­
potent and imperfect conclusion! Not to speak of the impossibility of reach­
ing individuals at all, the utter hoplessness of giving a scientific and religious
development to all the powers of the human soul, as society is now constituted,
let us ask if mere reform is all we are to hope for, if there is to be no progressive
refinement, no gradual perfecting and development of each sense and faculty 1
Conceive then, that you have reformed and perfected the individual, that his
natural senses have received an increased sensitiveness and his moral perceptions,
increased acuteness, and sensibility, both of which are implied in the word prog­
ress, and place him in the social medium in which he now is—why, you have
only made him more miserable! The medium must be perfected along with
him, to say the least, before you can more than begin his individual perfection.
To Fourier, therefore, we give our warmest gratitude for having, under God,
taught us the true method of Societary Progress, including both social and in­
dividual advancement. He has been the instrument of discovering to us the true
principles of social organization. It may be that we estimate him too highly in
other respects; it may be that, misled by the enthusiasm of system-making, he
has erred in his higher speculations, but the honor of being the first to propose
the O r g a n iza tio n of t h e T o w n s h ip, on the basis of Human Nature and
Christianity, is his forever. He has introduced a new Truth to the fiunfan
race ; he has given a new direction to human thought; he has turned the cur­
rent of human opinions; he has evoked the spirit of a new era; in short, he is
what his French name indicates, F o u r ier — T h e H a r b in g e r .
* Fourier’s name in French means a Harbinger ; also a Purveyor, or Quarter-Master to an army
CHARLES F O X IE R .
Digitized by Googk
BOOK SECOND.
G E N E R A L P R I N C I P L E S .
CHAPTER III.
OF GOD AND OF EVIL.
Q. For what were you created ? s
A. To know God, to love him and to serve him, and thereby obtain eternal life.—Catechism.
I t is not presumptuous in Man to inquire into the character of God, nor to
ask what He requires of Man and in what mode He governs his creations. On
the other hand, it is one of the highest duties of the creature to find out the
ways of his Creator, that he may have the true and proper grounds for worship
and love. If we have faith in Him, we shall be certain, by sounding his decrees,
to admire his wisdom and goodness the more we are familiar with his operations.
Timidity in this respect would indicate that we either distrusted Providence, or
our own Reason, which is the image of God.
This reason teaches us, that if we have duties to fulfil towards God, he has
duties to fulfil towards us, or in other words, that he would not have conferred
existence upon any being for evil, inasmuch as he is infinitely intelligqpt and
merciful. It is no hardihood, therefore, to inquire how far the works of the
Deity bear the impress of these essential attributes.
Infinite msdom. Consequently the laws of God are immutable; for if they
could be modifiedor deranged in their action under any circumstances, we.could
conceive that they would have been more wise if they had foreseen and resolv­
ed these particular cases of exception. They must produce the greatest effect
from the smallest means, or otherwise we could imagine the same results to be
brought about by more simple, economical, and better methods. They must
work together in p»1
^ * haj^ony, and for a single end, lest otherwise there
should be contramction, and lossm power through the effect of opposing forces.
Infinite Goodness. Consequently, every law or force of nature must tend to
the greatest good of the whole Universe. We can only conceive of creation,
then, as governed by laws, at once unchangeable and essentially good, for all
ranks of creatures.
But here the first objection arises: Evil exists! How can you reconcile
Evil with the paternal character of Deity ?
This difficulty, never resolved or only half-resolved, has led men to doubt
and scepticism, and produced those unfortunate atheists and infidels that are
“ without God and without Hope in the world.”
At the first blush of the question it would seem as though we had underta­
ken to defend a contradiction or sustain a paradox; we are to show that Evil
can exist in a kingdom governed by laws which only bring forth Good! Yet
the reply is at hand, the solution is simple, since it suffices to observe a fact.
which takes place every day under our own eyes.
An engineer has constructed a machine wisely contrived for the production
of its results. But an ignorant person, not understanding thp mechanism of the
Digitized by Googk
30 OF GOD AND OF EVIL.
*
machine, very foolishly charges himself with its management. ^*&ipw, if he
can not use it rightly, if he gete embarrassed in the wheelwork, if* e wounds
himself, if he kills himself, do ^>u hoM th# Engineer responsible flr the acci­
dent ?
Is it possible to construct a machine, working well when rightly managed,
which would not give bad results, when mismanaged ?
Does not this impossibility»exist for <Iod himself, the great Engineer*of the
Universe ?
He has made all things for good, but we must study the mechanism of his
admirable work, before it can be used.
If man, refusing to make use of the Intellect with which he has been endow­
ed, comes in conflict with the various forces of creation and is wounded in the
conflict, the fault is entirely his own. For he may understand, if he will but
only observe, and when he shall understand, will cease to suffer. Evil is igno­
rance. With the advent of Science it disappears.
Thus, a natural law presides over the movement of Heat, in the combustion
of bodies. This law is altogether favorable to Man, who profits by it in a hun­
dred ways, in his houses and in his shops, to supply his domestic wants, and to
aid in his industrial labors. Yet, at the outset, the first person who came in
contact with a burning body, was burned, and in his suffering cursed the new
element, because he was ignorant of the art of controlling it, and of transform­
ing it into a faithful servant. •
It is necessary to understand that the moral world is directed by laws as posi­
tive as the laws of the material world. Thus, social movement takes place,
because there are impulses in the heart of man, and the law of social movement,
a consequence of those impulses, emanates directly from God, who has made
man just what he is.
The inclinations of man, like natural forces, can produce good only in so far
as they act in their fitting sphere. Out of that sphere, those inclinations are as
destructive as the fire employed out of the legitimate bounds indicated by Sci­
ence. . To attempt to modify those inclinations because they produce evil, is to
resist a natural law and strive after an impossibility. To urge man to suppress
them, is to renounce the use of fire, because it may be the cause of disasters.
No ; t\e duty of man is to study ^¿ inclinations in orderJiL£rPve. ^ aJiflicúd
form in which they wilTyield good results. This social form is wHat the Deity
had in view when he made Man; for we can not admit that God, in making
man, acted at random, and gave him inclinations and faculties of which he did
not foresee the use. Still less can we admit that God has purposely organized
Man for evil, by giving him inclinations that can not be applied to Good.
But might not God have prevented Evil in an absolute manner ? Was it not
required by his goodness, to reveal to Man, from the beginning, all those scien­
ces which might have conducted him to Happiness, without the intermediate
experience of pain ?
Let us remark, first, that all human sciences are connected and must advance
in parallel lines, and that if one of them precede the other beyond a certain
limit, that excess will be without utility. Thus if God had revealed to man the
art of Association, and had not given him the secrets of Nature which industry
employs to create wealth, it would have been of no use to him, for Harmony
can not exist without riches and luxury.
In order to prevent evil, God would have been compelled to reveal to Man all
the sciences, and even with these sciences Man would have been obliged to pass
through a period of suffering more or less long, to fabricate the instruments,
buildings, &c., that were necessary to him ; otherwise God would have had to
make all these instruments, and commit them to man, and teach him the use of
them. Having done thus much, and given us all that we strictly needed to keep
us from suffering, it would have been pretended that he would have done better
•still, if he-had discovered to us a greater number of things, to assure us a still
greater happiness.
Thus the objection followed out into all its consequences, amounts to this:
Digitized by Google
OF GOD AND OF EVIL. 31
Why has not God taught us all things, why has he not created us in the very
plenitude of wealth, knowledge, and happiness ? Let us see.
What we thus ask for ourselves, God has done for other creatures, yet they
are far from being privileged beings.
These creatures, which know at birth nearly all they ever know—which have
no collective infancy—who receive directly from God all the knowledge of which
they stand in need—who advance, in their sphere, without ever deceiving them­
selves—furnished by nature with the instruments which are necessary to them,
instructed by her to make a perfect use of them—these creatures are living
around us in the form of animals, and especially such animals as the bee, bea­
ver, &c., which live in society. -
Thus, what God is reproached for not having done for Man, wogld have ré- \
duced man to the condition of an animal. Tf ipanknew al1thinjraafc birth—:jj[ \
he couldjiQljerr—
-he would have but one guide, instinctjfT)utjTe would not \
iff'M6Jih 'case would é“
üsHess ! "TTIieré^would be nothing )
to be learned by him ; nothing to be inferred; nothing to b&decided: and why
then should God, who is an economist of means, endow us with a faculty that
would have no object ? Men, then, would be happy as animals are, living un­
der the most favorable circumstances, and their generations would pass away in
a state of enjoyment always uniform, and always equal, but without either pro­
gress or decline.
But is such a happiness comparable to that to which Man lays claim, be­
cause he is, in the image of God, endued with Reason ?
The labors of his mind, repaid by the satisfaction of his self-love and the
consciousness of his worth; the varied enjoyments derived from differences of
character; the desire of triumph, which in the future will be a noble emula­
tion ; that love of glory, which, during subversive epochs, he does not hesitate
to gratify, by toils the most foreign to his nature, by w&r, carnage, and devasta­
tion ; all these enjoyments, and a thousand others to be ascribed to Reason, he
would no longer possess.
Surely, if Men were to select between a mediocre happiness, indefinitely
uniform, and a high, varied, intense happiness, though bought at the price
of some pain, they could not hesitate in the choice. Man is, therefore,
a privileged being, in being obliged to labor for himself to render himself
happy.
And, again, should any one ask for Man the possession of a Reason having
the infallibility of instinct, let him reflect upon the differences ofthe two faculties,
and he will see that he desires an impossibility. Or, if it be said that the epochs
of ignorance and misery on earth have been very long in duration, we reply,
that the word duration is relative, so that if the periods of rectitude are pro­
longed in proportion, Man, whose felicity depends upon the relation of the two
periods, will still have abundant cause to felicitate himself, and render devout
thanks to his Maker.
Three principles are embraced in this brief argument, which play an important
part in Fourier’s theory, and which, we think, throw a vivid light on questions
relating to our social destiny and the nature of evil.
1st. The law of exception.—As a result of his investigations into all the
branches ot hniversal action and reaction, Fourier announces that they are all
subjected to a law of exception, that may be generally estimated at one-eighth.
By this he means, that when a positive law or proceeding is affirmed of any
branch of movement, he wishes to be understood that an exception of one-eighth
is always implied. In the social sphere, for instance, when he says that all the
individuals of civilization are very miserable, it is intended to express that
seven-eighths are in a state of great suffering, while only one-eighth are in a
condition to be envied. The law of exception, however, is not invariably lim­
ited to one-eighth or one-ninth part, butvaries from one-third to one-hundredth,
and in some cases to one-thousandth part; but one-eighth part is the general
proportion of exception.
Fourier’s practical inference from this law of exception is, that if philosophers
Digitized by Google
1
i.;
32 OF GOD AND OF EVIL.
had applied it to the progressive transformations of society, they would have
seen that its State of discord was only an exception to its general destiny, and
that consequently social evil would only exist during the period of its infancy,
while gathering the materials for its future growth and manhood. They would
have discovered that Evil is not the eternal lot of mankind, but an accidental
•deviation from a general rule, which is Harmony and Happiness.
2d. Theory of Transitions.—Connected with this law, almost identical with it,
is what is termed the theory of transitions. It is a principle of Fourier that
there are no breaks in the chain of universal movement—no sudden leaps or
voids—buTllim Wufur^ t JV6iyODserves regular and successive degrees or
gradations of development. He supposes that everything in the Universe is a
se r ie s , whrch follows a regular scale of ascending and descending movement,
which may be illustrated by the following simple formula of the life of a man:
Ascending Transition,
First Phasis,
Second Phasis,
Apogee,
Third Phasis,
Fourth Phasis,
Descending Transition,
or Birth,
or Infancy,
or Youth,
or Maturity,
or Decline,
or Decrepitude,
or Death.
It will be seen that the Transitions here are placed at the extremes of the
series, and being the mere beginning and ending of that Organic Movement
called Life, differ from the usual course of its action, and are consequently pe­
riods of suffering, because, as happiness and harmony are connected with its
regular organic action, they can not be connected with a state which is the op­
posite. Now this is equally true of all Series, of the life of Humanity on Earth,
of the career of the Planet, of the declining of the Solar system; in short, of
all manifestations of existence. Transitions are the links which connect one
series with another, in all departments of universal movement. They are the
ties between one general law and another, that preserve the unity of all in the
midst of variety. Twilight, for instance, is a transitional state between day and
night; amphibious animals are exceptionably organized, and form a link be­
tween fish and quadrupeds: the polypus is a link between the animal and vege­
table ; the bat, between birds and mice; the nervous fluid is a transitional ele­
ment between soul and body; the quince forms a lihk between the apple and
pear; birth is a transition from embryo life to atmospheric; and many other
things belong to the transitional classes, which have never been explored meth­
odically by our men of science. Transitions also exist in passions and charac­
ters, enabling us to connect different bodies of people into a whole.
These transitions are placed between two orders of existence, partaking of the
features of both, without being either; thus giving unity to the countlessvariety
in the forms and proceedings of Creation.
It is a singular fact that the larger number of these transitions are disagree­
able, either physically ugly or morally painful.
Applying these principles, then, to social movement, we are led to believe
that the career of Humanity is subject to Transitions, and that the periods of
its sufferings are the links in the chain of its progress to organic harmony. It
is clear, from the testimony of the geologist, as well as from other sources of
evidence, that Man has not been upon the earth more than six or seven thou­
sand years; so that the race may still be in the very infancy of its existence, and
have before it a long future of happiness.
3d.' Duality of Movement.—This is the phrase which Fourier has chosen to
express the two-fold or two-sided development of which everything in the uni­
verse is susceptible. A machine perfectly constructed will either go right or go
wrong: if the former, it produces harmony, and if the latter, duplicity, which
is the counterpart or obverse of Harmony. An organism of any kind, from the
very nature of it as an organism, must have a true action and a false action.
Digitized by Google
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT. 33
The conséquences of the true action must be Harmony,—«s health, in a vigor­
ous and wholesome body, is the harmony of all its members ; while the conse­
quences of false action must be, just as inevitably, disease, discord, suffering,
duplicity. ^
Now, Fourier says that human passions or impulses, the springs of action, are
subject to this Duality : they have a right development and a perverted devel­
opment ; they are either harmonic or subversive. Consequently, we infer that
hatred, jealousy, selfishness, are but the inversion of qualities that are capable of
an opposite direction : i. e., to love, generosity, and benevolence. In a right
social medium, therefore, the very impulses which now lead to the most fright­
ful and disastrous crimes, are those which would confer the most of general
benefit ; and the old adage, that extremes meet, is in one sense triie. *
For the social movement partakes of this Dual character, and its states of
suffering and general depravity proceed from the false or subversive action of
the social mechanism. This subversive action, however, being only exceptional
and transitional, as we have seen above, taking place at the beginning and the
ending of the series, we have a right to infer that a long career of social har­
mony must succeed its present state of incoherence and false development. In
the following chapter, we shall undertake to give an illustration of the three
principles thus described, or rather of one principle, with a threefold aspect, by
showing the progress of society in the Past, and its probable transformations in
the Future. ,
CHAPTER IV.
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
“ Many of the celestial bodies have disappeared, others present unequivocal evidences of decrep­
itude, while others again are increasing in magnitude and splendor.”—Ajiago.
T h e present form of society, not being the first form in which Humanity has
existed upon the earth, is not likely to be the last, and it is therefore worth while
to inquire into the history of the forms that have preceded it, and deduce from
this, if we can, some probable opinions of the nature of the changes that may
follow.
Everything Jthat exists—vegetables, animals, man, the globe, the constella­
tions—are subjected to a general law of life and death. Nearly forty years ago,
Fourier announced this law as a universal law, and it has since been confirmed
by the researches of modem astronomers, who tell us that the stars, like other
existences, are the subjects of birth and decay. Indeed, it would be wonderful
if it were not so, since we can not conceive how there could be creation without
destruction, birth without death, of life without both birth and death.
Whatever may be the nature of a being, and with whatever forces it may be
endowed, vegetable or animal, its vital power varies incessantly; it has a begin­
ning, and if it be in the process of growth, it attains a term which it can not pass,
it then gradually decreases, and is at last of necessity brought to an end.
Now, if we consider the Universe as a great Wnole, we shall see that the
amount ofincrease in beings which goes to augment the vital power, must balance
the amount of decrease in those which are in the process of diminution. Noth­
ing springs from nothing ; nothing returns to nothing ; the great Whole, finite
or infinite, neither augments nor diminishes ; the amount of universal force, like
the amount of universal matter, remains constant. This force, individualized in
myriads of different Beings, increases with some, decreases with others. Youth
takes, old age restores ; birth balances death ; death permits of birth ; birth and
death are only extreme transitions from one existence to another existence.
3
I Digitized by Googl .
34 GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
Each living being incessantly changes its form and condition; it follows, de­
parting from the period of birth, an ascending movement, which is relaxed as it
approaches its apogee or plenitude; then, after a time of equilibrium, which
corresponds to the maximutn of its faculties, begins a descent, symmetrically op­
posed to its ascending movement, till it falls into decrepitude, and finally death.
Thus, the greatest amount of forces is found in the middle of its career, which
diminishes insensibly on each side till it becomes null in birth and death.
This regular and normal law, in all developments, may l>e expressed in a
general formula: for instance,
Ascending Transition,
First Phase,
Second Phase,
Apogee and Plenitude,
Third Phase,
fo u rth Phase,
Descending Transition,
or Birth.
or I n f a n c y .
or YOUTH,
or MATURITY,
or DECLINE,
or D e c r e p it u d e . '
or Death.
Note that this table is not arranged by caprice; the swelling of the white
intermediate surface, appropriately represents to the eyes the nature of that
regular development which it characterizes.
The generality of this law is by no means altered, as we readily perceive, by
diseases, accidents, exceptions, which cause a premature death.
If we apply to the social career of Humanity these principié^, demonstrated
by reason and proved by universal experience, we shall see that this career can
not be indefinitely and incessantly progressive, as many suppose, contraiy to
the more vulgar faith; but that, as the telescope shows that the Suns are born
and die, so this planet will die, and the Humanity which belongs to it will
share its fate.
The globe is confided to Humanity as a domain, over the administration of
which it is set. This is its terrestrial destiny.
But it can not accomplish this administration during its infancy, for we can
readily conceive how it must acquire virility and force to be equal to such a
task; how it must create instruments, the means of power, which can only come
as a consequence of the development of arts, sciences, and industry.
Then, during its infancy, its first stages of weakness, Humanity is not in its
true destiny; it can not then have combination of individuals, nations, or races;
and man, out of his destiny, can not find happiness in the incoherence of his fnqg
societies. It is during the continuance of these first societies, designated by
Fourier as lymbic or subversive, that the Earth is truly “ a valley of tears and
suffering.”
It is not difficult to imagine a thousand circumstances that may either accele­
rate or retard the ascending movement. A discovery in the arts, or in the sci­
ences, may quicken, as a war or catastrophe may delay or ruin, the most ad­
vanced people: for the same reason that a good or bad hygienic treatment of a
child may help or prevent its growth. * ,
But Humanity, when it has undergone its successive initiations, and passed
through its painful epochs, attains its true and normal state, which must be,
from the necessity of the case, a state of healthful and harmonious action. Yet
it still follows the regular law of movement, which is ascensional, until the globe
on which it is placed, having attained the plenitude of its life, comes gradually
to lose its productive and vegetative forces. Then, the old age of the globe,
and its impoverishment, draws with it a social decline,—very gentle, it is true,
and insensible in respect to the life of a man—but none the less a decline, the de­
struction of Harmony, and a Fall into final incoherence and subversion. The
human race, gradually losing its forces and its traditions, goes out, like an old
Man stricken in years, from whom life departs after the departure, one by one,
of all his faculties. This end is the beginning of a new order of existences, for
. the planet and for its Humanity.
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT. 35
Fourier, in order to illustrate this last idea, has published a conjectural table
of the life of Humanity on this Earth, which is too long to be inserted here, but
which may be consulted with advantage.
The extreme phases, the ages of weakness and suffering, are for Humanity as
well as for other beings, of a short duration, compared with the true and har­
monic epochs. They form an exception to the rule, and are reckoned by Fou­
rier at one-eighth for our planet.
The four principal ages, and the Apogee of social movement, are differenced
by successive characters.
This law is conformed, in all respects, to universal analogy and to pure rea­
son ; it is verified by the highest data of zoology, astronomy, and the natural
sciences, as well as by history; by the traditions of Nature, no less than by the
traditions of Man. "
The four great phases are divided each, into a certain number of periods
or particular societies. The phase of Infancy comprises seven, of which Civ­
ilization is the fifth, as follows:— •
£ a
£ s
o
I s
fa
1st. Edenism,
2d. Savageism,
3d. Patriarchalism,
4th. Barbarism,
5th. Civilization,
6th. Guarantyism,
7 th . S im p l e A s s o c ia t io n ,
« a a
c
mH
>
~
O e
d^
fa ^ .S .ï.â
Twilight of happiness.
Ages of perfidy,
injustice, constraint,
indigence, revolutions,
and corporeal weakness.
Aurora of Happiness.
All the societies which have been, or still are upon the Earth, are related to
some of the first five types, having their peculiar spirit and customs, in a great­
er or less degree. Incoherence, which is the prevailing character of Social In­
fancy, not allowing the law of movement a regular application, often forms
mixed societies, which amalgamate characters, belonging really to different
periods. /
These exceptional cases are particularly found, while different societies exist
simultaneously upon the globe,' before they have been resolved, by a general
fusion, into one great human Unity.
Let us give a brief examination of these first periods of Infancy.
§ I. First Period, or Edenism.
The state of Science at this day, no longer admits a doubt, that the creations
of the three Kingdoms of Nature, were made at successive epochs, more or less
distant. Man arrived on the Earth, and in fact could only arrive, after the min­
eral, vegetable, and animal creations, which compose the first fiirniture of his
domain. .
The human race, placed in the temperate zones, found an abundance of the
best vegetables and animals. In the midst of this wealth, which Nature fur­
nished them, as a fruitful and provident nurse, they formed a primitive Society,
the remembrances of which are preserved among all the people of the temper­
ate latitudes, under the names of, The Age of Gold, Paradise Lost, The Gar­
den of Eden, &c., &c.
In this period, individual property in the soil did not exist, love was not re­
strained by conventional laws and prejudices, and the superabundance of wealth,
above all wants, prevented contests of interest, and introduced mildness of man­
ners. Oppression and war were unknown, and all the members of society, men,
Vomen, and children, lived in the greatest independence, exempt from pain and
care. That such must have been the character of this period, we may infer
even from the accounts which very many travellers have given us of the inno­
cence, freedom, and general happiness of the inhabitants of the more genial
and prolific latitudes. In this period, men enjoyed happiness: but it was a
happiness not of a refined and intense kind. It was derived principally from
the tranquil enjoyment of the senses, unaided by the delights of intelligence*
Digitized by Google
36 GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
Those who think that the first men lived a wandering and isolated life in the
woods, can not have reflected that under such circumstances the race must in­
evitably have perished.
The first period has a limit, since it is necessary that Man should acquire
force and power. When milk ceases to be agreeable to the child, when its
growing wants demand a more substantial nourishment, a painful crisis, D e n t i ­
t io n or Teething, furnishes it with the instruments for grinding and assimila­
ting the stronger kinds of food. In the same way, the creation of the instru­
ments of power and force is a painful crisis for Humanity; for the production
of Science, Art, and Industry, is effected during the incoherent periods which
can produce neither happiness nor harmony, since their mission is to create that
industry and those sciences, which are the means and materials of Harmony.
Many natural causes brought about a rupture of the first society, the princi­
pal of which was the increase of population, which gradually reduced the
primitive abundance and changed it into scarcity. So soon as that result was
felt, the harmonious tie was broken, the feeling of individual selfishness began
to control men, and the Primitive Association was dissolved !
(Here we have the great social fact which Moses has impressed upon his
Sepher. Eve, the Will of Man, corrupted by the Serpent, an emblem of cun­
ning, cupidity, and selfishness, seduces Adam, the universal Man. The tree,
covered with fruits, symbol of material wealth, is the determining cause; and
the Serpent is the potential cause of the Introduction of Evil.
The tree, which was the source of life, was also the source of good and evil.
It was only by eating of its fruits that man lost his primitive ignorance, and that
he will begin, through a life of sorrows, to learn, to know, to discover.
After the Fall, Adam, the Universal man, driven from Paradise, was deprived
of the blessings of the first society, the elements of which are dissolved at his
death. The death of Adam, the Universal Man, is the dissolution of the prim­
itive humanitary Unity, and different people cover the earth under the name of
his children. Humanity is no longer one Man, but many Men.
( Man is condemned to earn his bread in the sweat of his brow, until the time
of his social redemption, when the head of the serpent will be bruised by the an­
nihilation of selfishness. The seed of the woman, or the volitive faculty of
Man, restored to its true passional destiny, will bruise the head of the Serpent
under its feet.*)
But whatever we may make of the cosmogony and symbols of Moses, it is
certain that a state of Harmony among men is not consistent with a state of
poverty. The former can only be maintained in the midst of an abundance of
wealth. Thus, when penury and want began to make themselves felt among the
primitive people, selfishness and individuality arose ; society was dissolved; and
only the affection which is necessary for the preservation of the species, Family
Affection, survived the shipwreck of all other affections, to become the narrow
and exclusive basis of subsequent societies.
§ II. Second Period, or Savageism.
The invasion of ferocious beasts, and the necessity of seeking subsistence in
the chase, caused the invention of arms, which, now that Harmony was destroy­
ed and the system of separate and incoherent households instituted, were soon
'employed by men in despoiling each other. War begun; and families uniting
to increase their power of resistance, the Horde was formed.
Industry was then confined to the chase, to fishing, and to the fabrication of
arms. Woman was reduced to servitude; men enjoyed a complete indepen­
dence ; and all took part in the councils of the Horde, and deliberated on ques­
tions of peace or war. Each man fully enjoyed many of the natural rights of
Man, which are all more or less invaded in our civilized societies. They were
these:—
* See the proofs of these news in the interesting work of Just Muiron, called, “ Les Transac­
tions, religieuses et sociale de Virtomiovs” and in the Hebrew Grammar, and Translation of the Sepher
by Fabre d’Olivet, both in French.
Digitized by Google 9
37
1st. Harvest,—or the right to gather the fruits of the fields and forests.
2d. Pasture, or the right to feed his cattle where he pleases.
3d. The Chase, or the right to take wild animals.
4th. Fishery, or the right to fish in all streams.
5th. Internal Federation, for mutual defence.
6th. External Appropriation of the goods of other hordes.
7th. Freedom from depressing anxiety as to the future.
These are evidently the rights which Nature concedes to Man, and which are
more or less preserved by every horde of savages; they belong to all, and are a
consequence of the fact that the earth belongs to the human race. The savage
enjoys personal and corporal liberty to its fullest extent; he has the right to
fish, to hunt, to gather the wild fruits, and to pasture his cattle where he pleas­
es; he is protected by his fellows from the incursions of his neighbors ; and he
is exempted from anxiety in general, as to his future lot and that of his family.
In many respects, therefore, his condition is to be preferred to that of the civili­
zed laborer, whose natural rights are taken away from him, without the return
of a guarantee of the right to labor, which is their equivalent. For this reason,
several authors, at the head of whom stands Rousseau, have pretended to admire
this form of social existence, and have advised a return to it from the present
false and artificial customs of civilization. But, as great as may be the person­
al freedom of the savage, his state is not one that is to be on the whole desired.
Its leading characteristic is an aversion to industry, without which Man is a de­
graded, ignorant, and undeveloped being. His mind is stricken with a stupid
inactivity ; the higher faculties of his nature slumber; he comprehends little
of the glory and magnificence of the universe of which he forms a part, and a
knowledge of which is absolutely necessary to his elevation in the scale of ex­
istence. If to this we add that the warfare of savage tribes is frequent, relent­
less, and cruel, that the condition of woman is that of the brute, and that the
weak and infirm are not always secure against oppression, we shall see that it is
among the least happy and harmonious of social states.
§ III. Third Period, or Patriarchalism.
“ This form of society, circumscribed to a very few countries, is without
importance or influence among the nations of the earth. The first step,
however, in social progress, takes place in this period : industry begins to be de­
veloped; flocks are reared; a few branches of manufactures are undertaken,
and some other of the elements of society are called into existence. Man be­
comes attached to the soil, and commences its cultivation ; he looks to his own
industry for subsistence, and does not trust to the precarious modes of savage
life alone—hunting and fishing.
Some authors have praised Patriarchal life for its simplicity and virtue. With
less ferocity than the savage state, but with more perfidiousness and petty tyr­
anny, it is on a small scale as oppressive and as false a society as any other.
“ It could be proved beyond denial,” observes Fourier, “ that all the abuses
of governments are but imitations on an extended scale of those of the Domes­
tic system, of that government, which, under the name of Patriarchal, superfi­
cial minds extol without having analyzed.
“ Facts without number show that with a population in their infancy, in a
savage and barbarian state, the father, or the head of the family, is a cruel and
insolent despot. His wife is his slave, his children are his servants. While
this king sleeps or smokes his pipe, his wife and his daughters perform all the
household work, and even that of the fields, as far as it is pursued in that state of
society. The boys when grown up, ill-treat and abuse them, and are waited %
upon in turn like their fathers.”
It is a false one-sided system of society, as far from happiness and purity as
any other, though it has its own peculiar advantages in rustic simplicity.
§ IV. Fourth Period, or Barbarism.
A rapid stride in social progress characterizes the third or barbarian period,
«idustry receives an important, and in some respects a brilliant development:
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
Digitized by Google
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT*
agriculture and manufactures become the occupation of the mass, and the arts
and sciences are called into existence. Man commences in the outward or ma­
terial world a manifestation of his higher faculties, and stamps upon nature the
impress of his intelligence. We have only to examine the perfection to which
art and industry were carried under the Caliphs of Bagdad, and the Moors in
Spain, to comprehend how immensely superior in development is this society to
the Savage and Patriarchal, and how closely allied it is to what we now call
falsely, civilization. This period must consequently be considered as an im­
portant social progress, although accomplished at the expense of the liberty of
the mass, and accompanied by the most oppressive tyranny—the corporeal sla­
very of the producing classes.
War, the main occupation of savage hordes, still remains the leading interest
of barbarian rulers. The necessity of defence against the attacks of neighbor­
ing powers, or the enticement to invasions for the purpose of conquest or plun­
der, concentrates all political authority and power in the sword. W ar in this
period is the all-absorbing object of human activity. Military despotism wielded
by a single chief, who sways alone the destinies of millions, replaces the patri­
archal and individual tyranny of the second period, and the action of the savage
horde. '
The injustice of the barbarian system is revolting, because it is open, direct,
and based upon brutal force:—the injustice of false civilization is glossed over
by an appearance of equity and justice; but the same enormous iniquity char­
acterizes both societies. The producing multitude toil and drudge to create the
means of sustaining in ease and idleness a favored minority.
“ The pivotal character of the barbarian mechanism,” observes Fourier,—
“ the character which distinguishes it from false industrial civilization—is sim­
plism of action, the action of the civilized system being always compound. A
Pacha levies a tax because it pleases him to extort and pillage; he does not
search in the constitution of Greece and Rome for theories of right and duty:
he merely informs you, that if you do not pay, you will lose your head. Tne
Pacha employs consequently but one single means : violence or simple action.
A civilized monarch makes use of the double means: first of bailiffs, fines,
and prisons, which are the true pillars of civilized law; to which are added moral
subtilties on the sacred duty of paying taxes for the maintenance of. the consti­
tution and the enjoyment of our imprescriptible rights. They are levied, be­
cause the representatives of the people have voted them; it is consequently the
people themselves who wish to pay. The mode of operation is here double;
it is based upon two heterogeneous principles—violence and cunning. In the
barbarian system the mode of operation is simple, being founded upon violence
alone. This fundamental difference is found in all the operations of the two so­
cieties ; both arrive at the same result; but civilization adds cunning to violence.
The wily caution of the Tiger in addition to its power. The Lion and the Fox
united.
We will enumerate a few of the permanent characters of the barbarian period,
in contrast with those of civilization:—
1. Stationary Spirit.
2. Fatalism.
3. Prompt Justice.
4. Simple Monopoly.
Simple Action.
5. Simple Dignity of Man.
6. Frank Action of the Passions.
7. Fanatical Theocracy.
8. Faith in Immortality.
Direction by Instinct.
“ How has it happened that men of science have given us no analysis of the
, three societies which precede Civilization, and which embrace so large a major­
ity of the human race ? Had they made such an analysis, it would have shown
the turpitude, hypocrisy, and perversity of False Civilization, characters, which,
more disguised than in the anterior social periods, are not the less real.
“ Another leading character of Barbarianism is the enslaved condition o
women. If Barbarians were to give liberty to women, throw open their seraglios
and adopt our system of exclusive marriage, they would become civilized by this
Digitized by Google
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT. 39
single innovation. If, on the other hand, industrial nations were to adopt the
sale of women, their seclusion in seraglios, they would in time become barba­
rians.”
A study of the characters which civilization has borrowed from the three
other societies, such, for example, as—
The military code from the Barbarian nation;
The privilege of primogeniture, from the Patriarchal tribe;
The abandonment of the weak and feeble, from the savage horde;
Would have been important, as it would have led the scientific world to per­
ceive that all four systems are links in a series of subversive societies, all of
which are deviations of man from his social destiny. '
§ V. Fifth Period, or Civilization.
In this society man accomplishes the task of his social infancy, the develop­
ment of the elements of Industry, Art, and Science, which are necessary to the
founding of Association. Their partial development takes place in Barbarian
society, not only without the protection and encouragement of the political
power, but in spite of the fluctuations and embarrassments caused by the wars
in which that period is constantly engaged. Although this state of things con­
tinues more or less during the first ages of civilization, still Civilization is the
true nurse of Industry. The two or three past centuries, particularly the pres­
ent one, have wonderfully developed the positive sciences, and given all a rank
which they never before held. Agriculture has been improved by a more scien­
tific mode of cultivation, and by the introduction of more perfect implements;
manufactures have received an immense extension; new branches have been
discovered, and the genius of man has been actively employed in the invention of
machinery, which, next to the spontaneous productiveness of the soil, is the
greatest source of riches.
Experimental chemistry, one of the most important conquests of human in­
telligence in the material world, has also been called into existence, and is now
assuming a high rank as the intellectual assistant of Industry. But with the
present system of incoherent action and free competition, this noble science is
often made the mere instrument of industrial and commercial fraud; for with
the improvements in chemistry there has been a corresponding refinement in
adulteration and deception in manufactures. This proves that false civilization,
which opposes no checks to individual cupidity, turns the best of things to the
worst of purposes. A second important achievement of the present age is the
successful use and application of steam. It is an agent which has given man a
new and mighty power, and which has become of the highest importance in
navigation, manufactures, and internal communications: but more important
application of the powers of nature remain still to be discovered.
To comprehend fully the progress which has been made, we must embrace
at one view the two extrem es; we must view man in the savage state, destitute
upon the earth, without having taken one step toward its cultivation and im­
provement, or toward the development of industry; and then view him in the
most advanced civilized nations; view the wonders in art and industry with which
he has surrounded himself and we shall feel that an immense conquest has been
made, and that a great preparatory labor has been accomplished.
In the first ages of false civilization, war is the leading occupation of society;
in latter ages, commerce and industry take its place. In the first period the soil
is held by military chiefs and feudal lords, and the laboring multitude are the
slaves or serfs. Renown belongs to military exploits; honors and rewards to
military services; history is a mere recital of violence and oppression, conquest,
and spoliation. During this social chaos, industry receives a slow and gradual
development, which is owing almost entirely to individual effort. It struggles
against the oppression of the military power, and attains by slow degrees a per­
manent existence, and an influence in society. Its products become so impor­
tant to the man of war himself, to enterprise and comfort, that he is forced
gradually to respect it. The industrial or laboring classes increase in strength
Digitized by Google
40 GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
and intelligence, until they finally assume a position which enables them to de*
mand and force a concession of their rights. A social transformation then com*
mences, which increases until society completely changes its character, and
becomes entirely commercial and industrial in its spirit.
If we pass rapidly over the period, during which this transformation takes
place—bearing in mind how exclusively war and its interests once absorbed the
attention of men—and then examine the present, in which commerce and its
interests are the all-pervading objects of attention, we shall be struck with the
extent of the change. The aristocracy of birth has given place to the aristoc­
racy of wealth, and become a mere shadow in those countries where it has lost
its possessions. The feudal baron with his dependants, who owe him allegiance,
is replaced by the banker or capitalist, who is surrounded indirectly with a train
0
dependant and servile. This is particularly the case in France and the
States of America.
If the pride and power of the baron were in his birth, his titles, and armorial
bearings, the pride and the power of the man of our day are in his wealth and
financial influence. If the skill of the former shone forth in military exploits,
the skill of the latter is displayed in commercial and financial operations. Thus
the spirit of society has changed from the military to the purely commercial
and industrial. The feuds of powerful families, the exploits of war, glory, hon­
ors, no longer occupy the same importance with the heralds of publicity. The
balance of trade, the state of exchange, commercial prosperity, and false credit,
have taken their place, and become the great objects of public interest. Where
commerce has not superseded birth and title, it has made itself their equal in
wealth and influence.
The present epoch of civilization, then, has greatly developed the material ele­
ments of society, which are
but it has not regulated and associated these elements, and established order and
unity in their action. As civilization rests upon an infinite variety of isolated
interests, conflicts and opposition exist in industry, as they exist in the political
world. Strife is transported to this new field; for what else can we call the
speculations, monopolies, and commercial and financial excesses which charac­
terize the present day, than a war of industry and all its elements. In such a
state of things, there must be anarchy, disorder, waste of efforts, and conflicts of
opposing interests; there must be a miserable application of all the great sources
and means of production, such as labor, capital, and natural advantages. To
suppose that such a system is the best that can be devised to facilitate produc­
tion, is an outrage upon common sense; yet the question of a reorganization
of industry, which is of primary importance to society, is entirely overlooked for
matters of minor interest and delusive controversy.”*
Thus far, the forms of society which we have noticed have been those which
are past or present;—the next step brings us to the future.
W e have shown, in the last section, how Industry has been developed by
what we call Civilization, but under circumstances of great incoherence and
strife. This incoherence finally produces its effects; we see them already in
all the more advanced nations, in the commercial feudalism to which it has led.
The accumulation of money in the hands of the few; the competition between
workmen; the invention of machinery which dispenses with human labor: all
now tend to separate society into two classes—the rich and the poor. The suf­
fering and degradation of the laboring people, in all the older nations, and even
in the United States, already surpass conception, and writers on all sides con­
cur in the belief that something must be done to put an end to the frightful
‘ riculture,
mufactures,
Arts,
Sciences,
Education,
Commerce,
Navigation,
Internal Communications,
§ VI. Sixth Period, or Chiarantedsm.
* See London Phalanx, page 74.
Digitized by Google
GENERAL FORMULA OF SOCIAL MOVEMENT. 41
effects of competition and antagonism. Singular to say, their plans partake of
the characteristics described by Fourier, many years ago, as Guaranteeism.
By this Fourier meant a general system of mutual insurance or guarantee, in
which the separate interests of different classes might be combined, so that each
would be directly interested in the general welfare of every other,—the applica­
tion to society at large of the principles already applied to private companies for
insuring life, property, &c. The safety-fund system in banking, applied to the
general political relations of men, would be one form of guaranteeism. The
savings banks and co-operative societies of England, the joint-farms of the rural
districts of France, the benevolent societies among trades, as the Odd Fellows in
this country, etc., are partial examples ofthe tendency ofmen at this dayto escape
from the uncertainty of existing civilization, and lay up for themselves a guar­
antee against disaster and fraud. Many of the professed Associations that are
now forming, are only a method which certain individuals, feeling the pressure
of social circumstances, have adopted, to secure, or, in other words, to guarantee
themselves and families against misfortune and suffering.
The more general application of this principle would secure the most valuable
results, especially to the laboring classes. It would protect them from the ter­
rible effects of extreme competitive antagonism, tend materially to the aug­
mentation of fortune, and diminish the fraud and injustice which is now the
consequence of isolated interests. The more important feature of it, however,
would be, that it would prepare many who are now unwilling to enter upon the
higher degree of association, for that progressive step. But being of secondary
importance, Guaranteeism may safely be left out of the account of the societary
Reformer, who should labor for the direct introduction of what is strictly Asso­
ciation ; as, *
§ VII. Simple Association ; or the complete association of domestic as well as
industrial interests ; but confined to distinct classes in society.
§ VIII- Contrasted Association ; or the association of all classes or all interests,
according to a graduated scale of inequality in rank and fortune.
These latter developments of the principle of association are the kind which
it is the design of this book to describe.
Thus we have taken a bird’s-eye glance at the various developments of his­
tory, to show the plans of Providence in educating man collectively for his ulte­
rior destiny on earth. We have done so, not for the purpose of presenting a
full view, for which we must refer to Fourier himself, but to enable us to deduce
one or two conclusions that may be of service to the reader in the further peru­
sal of our treatise.
1st. Each of these successive stages of society seems to have been ordained
to prepare the materials of the form of society that immediately succeeded it,
and, therefore, our present state of incoherent civilization, which accumulates
Capital at the expense of Labor, is only accumulating it to be used hereafter
by Labor in some better state. .
____
2d. The progress of society, from one phase to another, has been distin­
guished particularly by these two marks : (1), the emancipation of woman to a
condition of greater independence ; (2), the elevation of laborers to a higher
degree of knowledge and happiness. Whence we infer that the next steps in 1
advance, from existing society, must be accompanied by the same characteristics, 1
until Woman and the Laborer shall have attained their true position of Free- J
dom, Independence, and Dignity. "
3d. Societary growth is an approach from loose savage independence and
individualism, through aggregations becoming more and more compact, to a
statò of more and more perfect organization. Thus, we ascend from the savage
Horde, to the Patriarchal Clan, to the Barbaric Nation, to Civilization in an
incoherent form, to Civilization in the form of Guaranteeism, or to Organic
Association. No society that has yet existed has possessed a real organization;
and since organization is the law of perfected existence, through the entire uni­
verse, we must look to the future for social periods of organic concentration and
vitality.
Digitized by Google
BOOK THIRD.
UNITY OF MAN W I T H HIMSELF.
C H A PT E R V .
OF MAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES.
“ We should learn to be cautious, lest we charge God foolishly, by ascribing that to Him, or the
nature he has given us, which is owing wholly to our own abuse of it. Men may speak of the
degeneracy and corruption of the world, according to the experience they have had of it; but Hu­
man Nature, considered as the Divine Workmanship, should, methinks, be treated as sacred; for
in the image of God made he man.”—Bishop Bu t l s*.
T h e tr u th th a t G o d , in o rg a n iz in g a b e in g , fo resees a u se fu l e m p lo y m e n t for
h is po w ers and in clin atio n s, is so clear, th a t it re q u ire s th a t w h o le a tm o sp h e re
o f p re ju d ic e w h ic h o b scu res th e h u m a n in te lle c t to p re v e n t its b ein g a ck n o w l­
e d g ed d priori.
There must be, then, a social form possible, in which the impulses of Man
will produce as much of good as they now produce of evil, in our present socie­
ties, -so badly adapted to their play.
In the society to be discovered, Reason and Passion will be in perfect accord;
duty and pleasure will have the same meaning; without inconvenience or cal­
culation, man will follow his bent; hearing only of Attraction, he will never act
from necessity and never curb himself by restraints; and, consequently, he will
find a charm in all his functions.
Man, to accomplish his functions on Earth, must develop his physical and
intellectual faculties by action or labor, to provide for the maintenance of his
species and of his individual being. Is it not rational to suppose that the Deity,
who is O n e , who has given Attraction as a guide to the animals, and who still
employs attraction to lead man to many of the things which he ought to do, has
not departed from so wise a law, to the detriment of our race, and in order to
resort to coercive means to constrain us to labor ?
Attraction is the general law. Written on the heart of all, it reveals perpetu­
ally and unitarily the W ill of God; it acts at all times and in all places; and
thus shows the constant solicitude of our Maker towards all his works. It im­
pels each being on his way, it indicates to him his Destiny, and it remains for
ever incompressible, in spite of prejudices and prescriptions, moral or legal.
In governing by Attraction, God was certain to be obeyed with gratitude and
joyfulness If Humanity, in its earlier age, resists, through ignorance, this
beneficent law, it is punished for its fault in the sufferings that spring from those
injured attractions. It is a chastisement worthy of the greatness of God, who does
not punish man, but allows him to punish himself, that he may find his pain a
. salutary admonition that he must return to Truth.
! Now, Fourier promises to men a social system, in which Order will be pro­
duced by the free action of the passions. But let no one be so silly as to con­
clu d e * from this that we ask men to abandon themselves to their inclinations in
the actual condition of society. Constraint is indispensable in a false medium«
Digitized by Google
OF MAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES. 43
liberty is foreign to it, and engenders when fully indulged only disorder and con­
fusion. The reason of this will be seen in the sequel.
If there is a social form which is the best for man, it is evidently his highest
duty and most pressing want to inquire what it is. Why has Humanity remained
so long without finding it ? Why has it never been sought 1
Who, before Fourier, ever thought of a social system devised by God, and
reserved for the discovery of M an! Those whose mission it has been to lead
others, governors and politicians, wise men and philosophers, have all acted as
if they supposed that God, having created man without any fixed plan, suddenly
stopped, and left it to their wisdom to supply the deficiencies of His work.
Everything in man, therefore, which deranges their arbitrary systems of law,
they have pronounced bad. They proscribe his whole nature, as utterly de­
praved and corrupt. They attribute the evil to God, all the while making vain
efforts to modify and correct human nature, in the hope of making it better than
it came from the hands of its Creator. • —
Fotirier alone has placed the question on its proper grounds. He alone has
taken man for the invariable term of the social problem, and has alone found,
because he has alone sought, the solution.
Seeking a social medium in perfect accord with the nature of Man, it was
necessary for him to know strictly what Man and his passions were, and the in­
quiry into this fact, must precede all of our present investigations.
The Human B^ing is composed of three principles, .
i
1st. T h e P a s s io n s , 1he Active or Moving Principle;—Motor:
2 d . T h e B o d t , The Passive or Moved Principle ;—Mcrvee:
3d . T h e I n t e l l ig e n c e , The Neuter or Regulating Principle;—Law.
The body is moved according to laws dictated by the Intelligence or Mind, in
obedience to the Will, whose springs of action must be in the Desires or Pas­
sions.
You write, for example; that act can not be executed without the concur­
rence of your physical and intellectual faculties; but you write, not because
you possess those faculties, but because you have some Desire to satisfy in
writing. You write, perhaps in the hope of making yourself a name in litera­
ture or science, or to persuade your fellows to adopt some views which you think
all-important to their welfare; and your body and mind are moved in obedience
to your Ambition or your Benevolence. You write to the woman that you love,
or to a friend whom you esteem, and your Love or Friendship is the passion
which causes you to act.
Every free action of Man, every voluntary use of his body or intellect, is in
the same way determined by some desire. This desire, whatever it may be
called, either wish, impulse, affection, spring of action, &c., is what Fourier
means by P a s s io n . The Soul, the Me, the Mover, manifesting itself thus only
by its passions, may be regarded as their sum, or one grand Immortal Passion.
If, therefore, we make an analysis of the Passions, we shall have analyzed the
human soul, and shall know all about it which it is necessary to know, as to its
application, as to its influence upon ourselves, upon others, and upon the me­
dium in which we live. /
Fourier thus gives to the word Passion, a new but well-defined sense, and he
leaves no one in doubt as to what he means by Soul.
The meaning which he attaches to the word Passion must be kept in mind,
throughout our whole controversy, because the objectors to Fourier’s theory,
on the ground of morals, have commonly substituted another meaning, as though
they had a perfect right to do so, and then assailed Fourier for doctrines which
were entirely of their own creation. Thus, when the Social school say, that
by Passion they mean that which prompts men to act,—his Permanent Motives,
many reply with the most imperturbable gravity, that there are in Man other
motives beside the Passions!
The characters of men are so infinitely varied, that it would seem at first
Digitized by Google
44 OF MAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES.
sight, as though there were too great a number of-Passions to allow of the
making of any satisfactory analysis. , But colors present an illimitable number
o f shades; yet they all depend upon the seven primaiy colors of the prism. It
is the same case with the passions, which may be reduced to a few elementary
principles, which combined in different intensities, produce the whole infinite
variety of character.
A. All the passions of Man are included in the D esire of Happiness. in the
wish for a m whicHlEe Tndmdual will take part.
This proposition wm FeTn part contested, because we every day see M en
seeking their own well-being, their own personal gratification, at the expense
o f others, profiting by the misfortunes of others, and striking down those who
are obstacles in their way. But such facts do not give us a right to infer that
the Evil of others is in itself or in an absolute manner a delight to us. All that
is necessary to explain facts is to admit that while wishing the good of All, we
yet chiefly prefer and will*our own particular happiness. Thus, an enlighten­
ed and humane philanthropist may prefer his own nation to others, and rejoice
in the triumphs which it achieves during a war, without our necessarily ascri­
bing to him a love for the devastation and carnage of war.
If a man, having to choose between his own interest and that of others, at­
tacks that opposed to his own, it is only by suppressing his natural sentiments
of commiseration and sympathy that he can .do it ; the act which he commits
is a pain which he imposes upon himself because it is less painful to him than
the personal suffering which he would otherwise endure. If at the same time
he sees the possibility of laboring efficiently and directly for his own well-being,
by concurring in the general good, he will embrace the opportunity with the
greatest ardor. W e think, then, that we have a right to say what we have
said; that Men would desire to advance all together in the road to Happiness,
if the road were sufficiently large to enable them all to travel it, without fet­
tering or incommoding each other.*
But Men can not see this desire satisfied, so long as they have interests in op­
position. The Desire itself carries with it a need of accord and harmony among
the desires of all.
Besides, if this Happiness were realized upon Earth, Men would feel the need
o f an assurance that they would never fall back into a state less happy. They
would want the assurance of being called, after death, to a happiness at least
equal to that which they had enjoyed here below. In a word, aspiring to a
Happiness without end, they would wish that the fulfilment of their Desire
were written in the divine laws regulative of their lot. It is therefore by the de­
sire of Harmony between all beings, all creations, all worlds, and God, that this
tendency to universal happiness is to be translated.
This tendency, the greatest which is in the heart of Man, since it contains
all others, as white contains all colors, has been named by Fourier the T e n d e n ­
cy to U n it y , or U n it y ism . Man’s first immortal aspiration is toward
God and Universal Unity—Justice—Truth. It constitutes his religious being.
The perversion of this general and religious aspiration of the soul, is the desire
of individual gratification, without regard to God and Humanity. The one,
Fourier regards, in its perfect state, as religious holiness; the other diabolical
selfishness. The one is ligh t; the other darkness.
But if there were only this passion of Unity in man, we should derive from it
* There are many remarkable examples to prove that Devotedness to each other is natural to
^ men when their interests are united. The French army, for instance, in the Russian campaign,
was composed of men united by a common sentiment of glory. So strong was this feeling that
when one of the most insignificant fractions of it was compromised, it was felt bythe whole of the
grand army, who were ready to avenge the disgrace by their lives. But on the retreat from Mos­
cow, every general tendency disappeared, and the ties of the soldiery were completely disrupted.
Each one thought only of himself, and looked upon his comrade as a rival for his poor pittance of
bread or fire. Yet these were the same men that a few days before had so generously sacrificed
themselves for each other ! Nothing had been changed except the common feeling by which they
had been animated, and which Was now destroyed by their failure. They were no longer animated
by the hope of conquest, which had before united them, but on the other hand they marched with
the single object of reaching some less rigorous climate, where each one might be again comfort­
able.
Digitized by Googk
OF HAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES« 45
only a sterile desire of harmony, without the means of its realization. This
passion, therefore, may be decomposed into others, which we must seek by pen­
etrating more profoundly into the human heart.
Man desires happiness and fears suifering; but he can enjoy or suffer only in
three m odes:—
a. Independently of his relations to his fellows,' either in himself or in con­
tact with nature;
b. In his particular relations with those of his kind who are in more or less
direct contact with him ; and
c. In his general relations with society.
Such are the three sources of good and evil; the three centres or focuses
from which radiates all pleasure or pain.
a. Man enjoys or suffers independently of his relations to his kind; 1st, in
himself, according as his health is good or bad, his constitution robust or feeble;
2d, in his contact with external agents, according to the degree of power which
he possesses of bending them to his will, in order to procure the objects which
he covets. Man therefore desires Health first, and then Riches, by which he
can command the things which his constitution incites him to use. W ealth
and Health are expressed by the word Luxury, in the language of Fourier;—
Internal Luxury, or Health; External Luxury, or W ealth. The T en d e n c y
to L uxury is the first of the sub-central or sub-focal passions, the first branch
of Unityism. T
b. Man enjoys or suffers in his particular relations with those of his fellows
whom he knows, according as he may or may not unite himself to those
whom he affects, in order to engage with them in the objects of their common
sympathy ; according to the facility with which he can put himself in relation
with one or with another, in pursuance of the will, impulse, or caprice of the
moment. Man has therefore the desire to mingle with his fellows, and to form
assemblages or groups with them, and the T en d en c y to G roups is the second
ramification of Unityism.
c. Man enjoys or suffers in his general relations to society in the degree in
which that Society favors or compresses his tendency to luxury and to groups,
and directs, with more or less success the relations of those groups among
themselves. The social form to be desired, ought then, accepting these groups
freely formed as elements, to render them useful and productive, without depri­
ving them of any of their powers of attraction, in such a way as to conduct to
Health and W ealth, all the persons who are fully enrolled in them. It ought
to determine the kind of relations to be established between the groups, to class
them, to co-ordinate them, in a word, to organize them in Series—groups tend­
ing always to form series, as individuals tend to form groups. The T en d en c y
to S er ie s is the third primordial subdivision of Unityism.
This second step in the study of Man, this analysis of the three sub-focal
passions, teaches us that Harmony,—the gratification of Unityism, can only arise
from the organization of men into series of groups, that society must present a
vast social medium offering to each one the faculty of placing himself succes­
sively and fruitfully to him, in groups which are agreeable, near to those whom
he loves, and in obedience to an actual need of exercising such or such a
faculty.
But what will be the character of those groups and series? On what condi­
tion can they be completed ? This is what must be found out in decomposing
the sub-focal passions, as we have already decomposed Unityism.
a. Tendency to Luxury, Remember that the word Luxury comprises two
things which are necessary to each other, Health and Riches. Without health
man is unable to enjoy the good things which he procures by riches; and with­
out riches he can not attain to the pleasures to which his health disposes him.
Man has five senses by which he can be affected in as many different ways.
From these five sensuous appetites spring five branches of the passion Tenden­
cy to Luxury,
Digitized by Googk
46 OF MAN, HI8 FACULTIES AND DESIRES.
a. Passion to satisfy—T a s t e .
' b* Passion to satisfy—S m e l l .
c. Passion to satisfy— S ig h t .
d. Passion to satisfy—H e a r in g .
e. Passion to satisfy— T o u c h .
These, the only passions of this order, w e call the S e n s it iv e P a ssio n s.
aS8embla§e or group possesses a different qual­
ity/^coioffigtffW PcaSs* which has determined its formation. This cause
may vary because there are inequalities among men, and the inequalities to be
considered, as to the formation of groups are only of three kinds:—
1st. Men are unequal in the rank they hold—rank which is the consequence
of their fortune, their talent, and their worth;
2d. They differ in sex;
3d. They are of diverse families, and so differ by birth or blood.
Hence, there are four kinds of groups:
f. Group formed without taking into account any of the natural inequalities,
and in which reigns an inequality and confusion of ranks,—called G r o u p
o f F r ie n d s h ip .
g. Group in which men, classed according to their rank, are conducted by
superiors towards an end capable of satisfying their ambition—T h e G r o u p
o f A m b it io n .
h. Group formed by the tendency of the sexes to love each other and to unite
' themselves together in marriage,—called T h e G r o u p o f L o v e .
i. Group formed under the influence of the parental ties, being the family
union of individuals, and called T h e G r o u p o f F a m il is m .
Friendship, Ambition, Love, Familism, or the parental feeling, are the four
passions comprised in the tendency to groups, the passions which tend to bring
men together, and to unite them in the bonds of Affection. These are the A f ­
f e c t iv e P a s s io n s .
c. Tendency to Series.—The connection between grQups must be formed by
the social organization which brings them into relation. This relation of one
group to another group can only be hostile,friendly, or indifferent. A man en­
gaged with a particular group may desire the contact of another group for
these reasons:
j. He seeks the contact of rival groups, with which he desires to measure
himself;
k. He loves the presence offriendly groups, because they sustain his pre­
tensions, and because he is pleased to sustain them in the same way;
l. Then, the fatigue and ennui which he experiences, if he occupies himself
without cessation in the same labors, in the presence of the same persons,
cause him to feel the need of abandoning the group which he has chosen,
to pass into a new group, indifferent to the pretensions of the first, but
towards which he feels himself drawn by some personal attachment.
Thus the tendency to series is decomposed into three passions: the passions
of Rivalry, Accord, and Diversity. >
j. Rivalry.—This passion gives the love of intrigue, contention, cabals, so
natural to man, that all his games, from infancy to old age, are only a contest
between several parties. When this passion animates us, we forget all fatigue
in our pleasure and ardor. It is an excitement, transport,—but a reflective
transport; for he who is governed by it, calculates his acts in such a manner,
that he loses no chance of success. Known already by many of its effects, this
passion has received different names, according to the part which it has played
in the circumstances in which it has appeared. It has been denominated gen­
erous emulation, the spirit of intrigue, management, diplomatic science, the
passion of gaming, traffic, envy, etc., etc. Fourier having been the first to
characterize the passion with precision, has given it the proper name which it
required. He calls it C a b a l is m .
k. Accord.— need of accord produces a passion which is in eveiy respect,
Digitized by Googk
OF MAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES. 47
the opposite of the preceding. The friendly groups which pay attention to us,
that vast assemblage of men who applaud our efforts, gives rise in us to a
blind enthusiasm—an irreffective transport, which excludes reason, and carries
ns to feats of courage and devotedness, which would be impossible, if we were
acting in cold blood. A simple pleasure is scarcely capable of developing this
enthu^fasm; it requires a composite pleasure, or one composed of several plea­
sures. This multiple satisfaction, which alone can engender the passion, has
caused it to be called the C o m po sit e P a ssio n .
1. Diversity.—The last branch of the tendency to series, is the want which
all men experience of varying their occupations. A pleasure even becomes in the
long run monotonous and tiresome. This passion, under the name of incon­
stancy, is commonly regarded as a vice; we shall see that it is destined to play
many important parts: among others, it is that which prevents excess by main­
taining equilibrium among the various faculties of Man. It is called the Pa­
p il l o n , or A l t e r n a t in g P a ssio n .
The Cabalist, Composite, and Alternating Passions, then, are those which
distribute the groups according to their exigencies, and are called T h e D is ­
t r ib u t iv e s .
The subdivision of the three sub-focal passions have thus furnished us with
twelve radical passions, which may be divided in their turn in an analogous
way; these subdivisions being continuous indefinitely.* But we have pene­
trated sufficiently into the study of human passions to enable us to determine
the form that is to be given to the natural society which we wish to discover
The following table recapitulates what we have said:
Pivotal Passion.
A. UNITYI8M.
Harmony, Religion,
Justice.
Sub-focal Passions.
a. TENDENCY TO LUXURY.
Relation to theexternalworld.
• b. TENDENCY TO GROUPS.
Connection with Humanity.
Radical Passions.
'a . Passion answ ering to T a ste.
b. -------------------------------Sm e l l .
c. -------------------------- Sight.
d. -------------------------------- H earing.
e. -------------------------Touch.
f. A m b itio n .
f. F r ie n d s h ip .
. L ove.
i. F am ilism .
c. TENDENCY TO SERIES.
Societary Connection.
Ca b a list, or contrasting.
Co m po site, or exalting.
P a p il l o n , or interlocking.
Some developments are still necessary, in order that this table may be thor­
oughly understood.
a. The sensitive passions, being able to find some satisfaction in the isolated
man, not tending directly to unite him with his fellows, are not directly social.
Society ought to know how to render them social indirectly, by making them a
stimulus to sociability.
b. The affective passions are directly social, man not being able to satisfy
them out of contact with other men. fn order to understand the passions of
this order well, it must be remarked that each one of them has two springs, the
one spiritual and the other material, which are indicated respectively in the fol­
lowing table by the letters S. and M .:
F r ie n d s h ip ,
Unisexual Affection,
A m b itio n ,
Corporate Affection,
L ove,
Bisexual Affection,
F a m ilism ,
Consanguineous Affection,
I
S. Affinity of character.
M. Affinity of industrial tastes.
S. League for benevolence and glory.
M. League for interest.
M. Physical Love.
S. Platonic Love.
M. Ties of Consanguinity.
S. Ties of Adoption.
* Thus,
desire of
•then.
in the passion Hearing, is found the desire of music, which may again be divided into the
Harmony, the desire of melody, the desire of symphony, etc., etc.; and so with the
Digitized by Google
48 OF MAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES.
It is impossible to conceive an assemblage of men, freely formed, which has
not for its impelling cause one or several of the four affectives, acting by the
material or spiritual springs of passion, or by both at the same time.
A group formed under the sole influence of the material spring of action,
will want nobleness; it will want utility, if the spiritual spring is alone in play;
so that it is perfect, elevated, and useful at the same time, if it be forme<Tby tne
two springs of the passion.
The first two affectives in which the spiritual springs are placed in the first
line, because they are there dominant, are affections of the major order. T he
last two are of the minor order, the spiritual being subordinate to the material.
Fourier has investigated the natural properties of the groups, and has reca­
pitulated them in several tables, which we shall give in succession.
The first table indicates the natural tone of each group; the second makes
known whence the impulsion arises when the group must act; and the third
table, upon which the attention of the reader must be principally fixed, has rela­
tion to criticism—to criticism which corrects and redresses— and is therefore
one of the elements of education. Each group has a mode of criticism peculiar
to itself, which does not occur in any other group:
1st—TONE.
Group of F riendship, or Levelling:
Cordiality and confusion of ranks;
Group of Ambition, or Ascendency:
Deference of inferiors to superiors;
Group of L ove, or Inversion:
Deference of the stronger sex to the weaker;
Group of F amily, or Descendency:
' Deference of superiors to inferiors.
2d.—ATTRACTIVE POWER.
Group of F riendship :
All attracted to each other in confusion.
Group of Ambition :
Superiors attracting inferiors.
. Group of L ove :
W omen attracting the Men.
Group of F amily :
Inferiors attracting superiors.
3d.—CRITICISM.
Group of F riendship :
The Mass playfully criticises the individual.
Group of Ambition :
The superior gravely criticises the inferior.
Group of L ove :
The in d iv id u al blindly e x c u s e s the in d iv id u al.
Group of F amily :
The Mass indulgently excuses the individual.
On reflecting upon them, we shall see that these tables are a faithful expres­
sion of the impulsions which we receive from Nature, and that it is only by con­
forming to these impulsions that men can remain in contact without irritation or
uneasiness; while, if they are departed from, there must be disorder and vexation.
Thus, a superior can not facetiously criticise an inferior without losing his au­
Digitized by Google
OF MAN, HIS FACULTIES AND DESIRES. 49
thority; and he who, in a friendly reunion, would joyfully undergo a facetious
criticism, would be greatly offended by one gravely given.
Criticism, strictly, belongs only to the major groups; for in the family and
love, where it would always be discordant, it must give place to blind and indul­
gent excuses. But our present society does not allow the different groups to
take the tone which is proper to them ; and the father, that his child may not
want criticism, is obliged to criticise him himself, although his natural impulse
would be to caress and even spoil the child. Thus the child revolts against the
critique which would have had no improper offensiveness if he had received it
in the groups of ambition or friendship.
The Affectives predominate successively at the different ages of life, th u s:
Ages.
Infancy ;
Adolescence ;
Virility;
Maturity ;
" Old Age.
Dominant Passions. .
Friendship;
L ove;
Love and Ambition;
Ambition;
Familism.
Analogy.
Bud.
Flower.
Flower and Fruit
Fruit.
Grain.
The sexes are also peculiarly under the influence of some one of the affec­
tives—the major affectives dominating in man and the minor in woman. As
to the kind of equality existing between the affectives: in relations of friendship
or ambition, man is the superior; but the woman is in relations of family and
love.
These rules are subject to exceptions, of which we shall speak in the proper
place.
e. If men had sensitive and affective passions only, they would unite to form
groups, but those groups would be always strangers to each other. T he con­
nection between the groups is the work of the Distributive passions, which
tend to unite men into a single body, and make of the whole of Humanity a
vast living organism.
A. Each man carries in his heart all the twelve radical passions, and the ab­
solute or relative energy of the passions in the individual determines his char­
acter, and, consequently, his natural position in society.
As Fourier's system mainly rests upon this doctrine of the Passions, the anal­
ysis of them is not to be lightly passed over; we must see if he has omitted
any, if there be not some motives not included in those which he has given.
In the tables of the passions, we have not embraced those vicious habitudes
to which the name of passion is commonly given, and which are not passions
in the sense we ascribe to the word, but the subversive effects of the passions.
Thus Anger is not a passion, for it does not subsist in itself; it arises from a
wounded passion, is the bad result of a betrayed love or disappointed ambition,
etc. Love, ambition, &c., remain always in the heart of man, but Anger
would show itself no more, if we could attain a state in which there would be
no contrarieties and deceptions.
The workman chained from day to day to a monotonous and repugnant toil,
lest his whole life should be a continuous punishment, from time to time, seeks
relief and distraction. W hat pleasure is offered to him in our societies, unless
it be the bar-room or the groggery ? H e drinks, therefore, because he finds in
drunkenness an alleviation of nis cares, and an agreeable excitement. But if
his life was happy, if his future was certain, if every day he could chose be­
tween several pleasures, would he surrender himself to one ? D o we not see
that intoxication would disappear if we could elevate the working classes in the
social scale ?
Theft, or burglary, which ordinarily springs from the need of satisfying the sen­
suous appetites, the tendency to luxury is not found among the middling and
higher classes, where this tendency is satisfied by the activity of genial labor
and the spirit of order. Thus many who now figure at the Police Offices,
placed in other circumstances, would become worthy citizens.
Digitized by Google
50 ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWN8H1P.
Inconstancy is a wise impulse of Nature which induces men to exercise al­
ternately all their physical and intellectual faculties, and which could not have
been given them to be allowed to rust in inactivity. It is because they do not obey
this inclination, because the rich neglect to make a regular use of their physi­
cal force, and because the poor do not use it intelligently, that they are both so
often diseased in body and mind. Inconstancy is an evil in present society,
where each man having only one useful faculty, becomes idle when he leaves
i t ; but it would be a good, if society offered to each one useful occupations,
at the same time varied and adapted to all their faculties.
Idleness is the very natural desire of avoiding pain and ennui, but not action ;
the most indolent being is often the most ardent in pleasure. It would be ah
anomaly when labor shall be made attractive.
The cabalist, the love of intrigue, which frequently engenders discord, ha­
tred, and war, is likewise the source of that noble emulation which leads men
to distinguish themselves in learning, talent, and usefulness.
Avarice, disengaged from all fear of privation for itself or for others, is only
an effect of Unityism. H e who is habitually economical and saving, will ren­
der great service in the societies of the future. Then, such a character, con­
secrated to the service of all, will no longer prosecute an end exclusively selfish,
and will be no longer contemptible; he will save from destruction and waste
many things that others disdain, and from apparently small and worthless sav­
ings, will effect magnificent economies for the social W hole.
In passing in review, in this way, all the excesses and vices that now degrade
the human species, we shall convince ourselves that if those vices are intimately
connected with certain passions, they are not an essential part of it, but on the
contrary, depend upon external circumstances, which may be removed. All
that is necessary is to discover a society in which every bad route for the action
of the passions will be closed, and in which the path of virtue will be strewn
with flowers, and not be a by-way covered \^ith thorns. This is what Fourier
supposes he has done.
But we must leave the passions for a moment, to resume them again when it
shall be time to decide upon the organization of society which we are about to
propose and explain.*
C H A PT E R V L
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
“ The beginnings of a right political reform are to be made in small districts.”—JxrnasoN.
§ I. Material Arrangements.
T h e reforms attempted in the Social System, till now, have always been o f
a general nature, setting out on a grand scale, and proposing to apply themselves
to a whole nation. But this process is dangerous; for if the promises of the
theory are not realized in practice, the whole of society will have been agitated
and disturbed to no purpose, without being able, perhaps, to return to its point
of departure.
In ordinary enterprises, in which private interest alone is concerned, men
proceed with much more prudence; a discovery, however brilliant the hopes it
excites, is never generally applied until it has been tried and verified on a small
scale. W hy should we not act with the same caution, when we experiment
upon the more serious interests of society ?
* The reader will bear in mind, that this chapter gives only a theory of motives, and not of wmd.
Besides these passions, which are the moving springs of the soul, the mind makes use of certain
instrumental faculties, the best account of which, although that is very imperfect, is given by Phren-
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OP THE TOWNSHIP. 51
^ —\
oor, of this \
of all, and l
put into the l
Is not society composed of a certain number of aggregations of men united
in a centre, where they live in daily relations with each other, and where they
may, if they please, remain strangers to whatever is passing without their own
borders ? Should not every reform begin 'in the bosom of these elementary
aggregations or townships, since the greater part of men are only acquainted ,
with life as it exists in the townships ? In that case* how much would the dan-*"^
ger be diminished, in the case of a want of success ?
But if the experiment succeeded, other townships would imitate the exam-, y
pie, till it spread from one to another, and finally, according to the importance \ /
and evidence of the results obtained, the nation first, and then the globe, would
present a series of reorganized townships.
This is the sure and progressive method of reform indicated by Fourier, who
requests that his project may be tried, and if it is not sufficiently sustained by
experience, can only temporarily injure a small corner of the earth: It is this
project which we are going to make known, by sketching the principal features
of a reorganized township, called a Phalanx.*
Let us suppose that in a township of about 400 families (from 1600 to 1800
souls), the inhabitants deliberate among themselves and adopt the following
resolutions:—
1st. An association is formed among all the inhabitants, rich and poor,
township; the social Capital to be composed of the fixed property '
of the moveables and floating capital which each one may see fit to put
society.
2d. Each associate, in exchange for his quota, shall receive certificates rep­
resenting the exact value of what he may have surrendered to the society.
3d. Each certificate shall be a mortgage upon the part of the fixed property
which it represents and upon the general property of the society.
4th. Each associate, whether he shall have contributed real estate or not, is
invited to assist in the productive employment of the common fund, by means
of his labor and talent.
5th. Women and children enter the society on the same terms as men.
6th. The annual profit, the common expenses being first liquidated, shall be
divided among the associates in the following manner:
a. A first part shall pay the interest on stock.
b. A second part shall be divided among laborers, according to the difficulties
of their work, and the time which they are respectively engaged.
c. The third and last part shall be distributed among those who may be dis­
tinguished, in labor, either for intelligence, activity, or vigor.
Thus, each man, woman, and child, will touch a portion of each part propor­
tioned to his or her concurrence in the production by means of his or her three
productive faculties, capital, labor, or talent.
This question of the equitable distribution of profits, may seem at first
insoluble; but we shall show in the sequel that it is very easily solved. For the
present we must suppose the division made by common consent, and reserve the
question for its proper place. -
The basis which we have laid down for an Association being adopted, we shall
have obtained, by a simple transformation of Property, important results, which
may be briefly indicated:—
This transformation is not a dispossession; property in a mortgage is as well
guarantied as the Property itself; for even in our societies the revenues of the
richest men depend upon hypothecations and mortgages.
The firstadvantage?of ^ ^ lift fhf o fthfxjnhahitant«
o f the township, until now more or less divergent. Each of them immediately
un3ersta'nds that his part in the three distributions will augment or diminish
with the general profits, and that he can not labor for the general benefit with­
out laboring for his own, or vice versa; and each one feels that the fortune of
one can no longer be the misfortune of another.
*Phalanx, is a word which expresses the idea of wholeness, accord, and unity of object. The
Phalanstery is the dwelling-house and work-shop of the Phalanx. It is the opposite of Monastery.
Digitized by Googk
52 ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
The soil of the township is no longer to be worked in isolated farms, many
of them hardly worth cultivation; the enclosures, fences, and many of the roads
will disappear; and the whole territory be thrown into a single domain, for gen­
eral cultivation. Thus, the advantages belonging to a large estate will be
combined with those of a small estate; for the only salutary effect of a sub­
division of land is that it permits a greater number of persons to become owners
of property; while, in the associated township, the smallest saving may be con­
verted into a coupon of stock, which makes one a co-proprietor of the domain
of a phalanx.
In the isolated township, every head of a family, whatever may be his tastes
and his aptitudes, must cultivate his own fields, vines, gardens, and orchards; he
must preserve his own grains, vines, fodders, & c.; and it is clear that no one
can be occupied with so many different tasks with success. In an associated
township, among 1800 inhabitants, there will be a certainty of finding persons,
capable of every particular kind of labor. These persons will take the direc­
tion of the labor in which they excel, and the whole will be executed with great­
er chances of success, because cultivation on a large scale allows of more ben­
eficial and economical methods. The kind of soil, too, best adapted to each
kind of cultivation, will be chosen, which can not always be done by isolated
families.
A township thus organized will soon feel that it has gained immensely by re­
placing its 400 poor granaries and its 400 bad cellars, by a large central tene­
ment, perfectly adapted to the reception and preservation of its harvests»
It will soon understand that it must substitute for its 400 kitchens, occupying
exclusively the time of 400 women, a common kitchen managed by a few per­
sons, and in which the consumer will find, in accordance with his fortune
and his tastes, repasts more varied, better prepared, and less costly than any he
was able to procure in his isolation. The same would be true of the labor of
taking care of children and other domestic occupations, which could easily be
directed and controlled by a few women,— as we now see in Asylums, schools,
&c., &c. Thus seven-eighths of the women, now absorbed in the details o f
housewifery, would be emancipated from their petty cares, and turn their ener­
gies to productive labor.
As these modifications would necessarily effect great economies in work and
time, mere agricultural labors would be insufficient to employ all the momenta
of the population, and they would proceed to engage in other branches of in­
dustry. They would establish workshops, manufactories, &c., on the same
unitary plan, adapted to the local circumstances, and in such a way that they
might not lose a minute in passing from one occupation to another.
These changes being executed, each one would require only a small number
of chambers for the accommodation of his family and friends, or for his own
private labors, studies, and reflective retirement. These apartments, for the
sake of simplification, would be found in the same edifice which contained the
kitchen and dining-hall, the cellars, the granaries and the storehouses, the school­
rooms, the work-shops, and the children’s dormitories, &c. The rooms could
be of all sizes and modes of finish, to suit the fortunes and tastes of the different
members. Then, the 400 dwellings which composed the village, would disap­
pear, or be converted into summer and out-houses, and all the people be estab­
lished in the grand unitary edifice, called The Phalanstery.
Mark that we are not speaking of a convent, a barrack, or a community!
The arrangements proposed are in every respect directly the reverse of those
o f a community. The whole population, it is true, will inhabit the same edi­
fice ; but each one may have a house or suile of rooms to himself to suit his fancy,
and at just such a rent as he chooses to .pay, separated entirely from others, as
much as the houses in a city, and exempt from intrusion. Nor will all the asso­
ciates take their repasts in common, seeing that while there will be common ta­
bles, those who choose may order their meals in their own rooms,—meals to
consist of whatever they may select from the carte of the day, as it is the custom
to do now, at hotels and restaurateurs.
Digitized by Cooglc
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP. 53
Fourier gives many details in his works as to the construction of the Mansion.
W hat especially establishes its unitary character, is a covered gallery running
around the whole building at the first story, and forming a street of communi­
cation between all the different apartments, and the work-shops, the chambers,
the school-rooms, &c., &c. It would be ventilated or warmed, according to the
season, and prevent the necessity, at any time, of outward and dangerous ex­
posures.
But the following cut will give a more complete idea of the general plan of
the building, than any description in words :—
GROUND PLAN OF THE EDIFICE OF AN ASSOCIATED TOWNSHIP.
A -Avenue passing between the main Edifice and the store-houses, granaries, and other
opt houses.
P—Public Square, formed by the centre and projecting wings of the Edifice.
G—Garden enclosed within the central range of buildings ; it would contain the green­
houses and form a winter promenade.
a, e, o, u—Court-yards between the different ranges of buildings; they are about a hun­
dred feet wide, ornamented with trees and shrubbery, and crossed by Corridors.
E, p, p—Large portals or entrances to the Edifice.
C—The Church.
H—A large Hall for musical representations and festivities.
b. c, d, ¿—Granaries, store-houses, and other out-buildings.
To avoid giving too great a length to the Edifice, it must be composed of a double range
or line of buildings, encircling the court-yards—a, e, o, u, and the garden—G. The broad
dark line does not represent the foundation walls of the Edifice, but the entire width of a
range of buildings : it is intended, together with the light dotted line around the inside,
which is the Corridor, to represent a width of seventy-two feet.
Around the inside of the Edifice winds the spacious Corridor or enclosed Portico, which
we have described; the reader will see that it forms a belt, encircling all parts of tne buil­
ding and uniting them in a whole.
The ranges of buildings which enclose the garden—G, will be reserved for public purpo­
ses. They will contain the Council-Rooms, Reading-Rooms, Library, Exchange, Public
Halls, Banquet-Rooms, Saloons for parties, social unions and public assemblies, and some
of the higher-priced Apartments.
The open spaces left between the parallel ranges of buildings should be from a hundred
to a hundred and twenty feet wide; they would form elongated court-yards, traversed by
Digitized by Googk
54 ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
corridors, and should be planted with ornamental trees and shrubbery} in Association the
useful ana the beautiful must be in every way combined.
The noisy workshops would be located in the basement of one of the extreme wings ;
their noise would be lost in this distant part of the Edifice, and would not incommode the
inhabitants.
Play-grounds fbr children would occupy the court-yard of the same wing; such a place
would be necessary, particularly in winter.
A portion of the wing opposite the one devoted to noisy occupations, would contain the
suites of apartments reserved for travellers and visiters.
The Edifice of an Association of the largest description would be about twenty-two
hundred feet in length; with these dimensions the grand square could be twelve, and the
wines each five hundred feet long. As we descend to smaller Associations, the size of the
Edifice could be much reduced, and for an Association of four hundred persons, a compara­
tively plain building would answer the purpose.
The gardens should, if practicable, be located behind the Edifice, and not behind the
granaries and other out-houses, near which the fields of grain had better be placed. This
distribution must, however, be regulated by localities.
The square or garden—G, would be planted with evergreens and would contain the green­
houses ^ it could in winter be enclosed, so as to form a beautiful promenade, where flowers
and foliage could charm the eye and perfume the atmosphere. What a source of pleasure
and health would a winter garden of this kind b e!—ana how many similar improvements
over the present mode of living could be introduced into Association !*
These material arrangements would be insufficient for the great results we
•have announced; for in themselves, they would not, of a certainty, lead to a
distribution of profits perfectly equitable and unanimously agreeable, to the ac­
cord of all interest and wills, and to attractiveness of Labor. But we have not
yet spoken of the passional arrangements under which the laborers would be
brought; we have not applied the results of that investigation of Man, which
we presented as the base of every problem having relation to the organization
* of societies.
In order to facilitate the exposition of our ideas we have supposed the case
of a township suddenly adopting the theory, and conforming itself to its condi­
tions. This supposition, purely abstract, can not be realized, and the experi­
ment, if made at all, must be made, to use a common phrase, out of whole cloth,
' by which we mean that existing townships will not adopt the theory until they
see it exemplified, in some experimental association, instituted on purpose for
that end.
§ II. Passional Arrangements.
One of the inherent characters of Civilization, is what Fourier calls Simplism.
It consists, as to discussion, in the fault of considering only one of the aspects
of a complex question, and, as to action, in losing on one side what is gained on
the other, so that real Progress is after all only negative.
W e have already given an example of simplism in speaking of great and small
estates. These two methods of cultivating the soil present advantages which
ought to be cumulated or combined, and the minds of agriculturists instead o f
devoting themselves exclusively to one, to the utter neglect of the other, should
seek out some mode of reaping the benefits of both.
A no less remarkable example of Simplism is presented in the practice o f
manufacturing industry ; where, it is stated, the division of labor—parcelled la­
bor—contributes prodigiously both to the quantity and quality of its products.
There is then progress in this respect; but, great God, on what conditions!
The workman devoted for life to the exclusive exercise of a single organ is
stupified and imbruted, the human species is degraded by it, and in those coun­
tries where it has been carried to the greatest extent, instead of flourishing youth
as formerly, you find only a degenerate race— only poor sickly and emasculated
beings, that after a painful and short career, give place to a generation still more
miserable and degraded! '
Y et as the principle of division of labor is capable of producing the best re­
sults, it ought to be extended to all branches of human industry. Should we
extend it at the awful moral risks by which it is usually accompanied ? By no
means. The only course, therefore, that is left to us is to discover some way o f
* Social Destiny, by A. Brisbane.
Digitized by Googk
ORGANIZATION OP THE TOWNSHIP. 55
«voiding the evil and still retaining the good, or in other words, to prevent the
debasement of the workman, while reaping all the advantages of his work, and
thus cause the progress of the individual and the increase of wealth to advance
in parallel lines.
That’s impossible! you will perhaps say; but it is an impossibility which the
genius of Fourier has accomplished.
In all the labors of the Phalanstery, domestic, agricultural, and manufacturing,
each person will be charged with a fragment or detail- reduced as much as the
nature of it will allow. The task will not be very difficult, the time of service
will not be long, and the same man will be able to take part in thirty* different ,
kinds of labor, so as to employ alternately all the physical and intellectual forces (
that he possesses. * —,___/
Nature has too much foresight to have gifted us with even a single faculty that
was designed never to be used. A great number of the maladies that attack us
come from our not knowing how to develop and employ, integrally, with measure
and equilibrium, all the springs of action that are in us.
Thus, we shall retain all the advantages of Division of Labor, without sub­
jecting the laborer to suffering? Thus too, the laborer, passing successively
from the workshop to the fields, from domestic cares to occupations of the
laboratory, &c., will make progress on every side, will become all that it is pos­
sible for him to become, and will render to society and to himself all the services
that are in his power.
In the phalanx, isolated labor does not exisL. Every work is confided ItLa
collection o fiftdividuals composing a group.
£ ach'TiSm duafof the group is charged with some detail of the common
work that pleases him, with some speciality in which he excels. In this way,
all will have a sense of their personal worth, and of the necessity of their con­
curring with others in the production of the general result.
The group responsible for any labor, being directly interested in its perfect
execution, calculates the time which shall be consecrated to it, and divides that
time into sessions of two hours; it distributes these sessions among the days of
the year, month, or week, etc. .
Out of the hours thus fixed for the sessions of the group, its members
betake themselves, as they see fit, to other groups, of which they make a
part, in order to fulfil other vocations by a different employment of their ac­
tivity.
It must not be thought, however, that any first comer may attach himself to a
group, and, perhaps, compromise the success of it by his ignorance; he who
feels a desire to engage in any labor, must first present himself as a novice, to
the group which has the charge of that department. After having gone through
an apprenticeship, more or less long, according to his capacity, he becomes en­
titled to a portion of the profits, if he is skilful; but he can prefer no claim until
he shows himself decidedly useful.
Each one, having worked in thirty groups, becomes by his labor entitled at
the end of the year to a thirtieth of the dividends, in addition to the interest on
his original stock, and to such several sums as he may have earned, in the various
groups, by his distinguishing talent.
W e need hardly stop to answer the objection that a man engaged on a minute
detail of work, to which he returns only periodically, will not do it as well as if
he gave himself up to it all the time and without an alternative. A man whose
faculties are developed in perfect equilibrium, is more intelligent and more adroit
than he who develops only a single one, to the disuse and atrophy of the rest.
Even now we see persons engaged in certain arts which they can only practise at
intervals, which are more difficult than a majority of the details of industry, but
which are executed with astonishing facility and success. A surgeon, for in­
stance, may become an exceedingly skilful operator, although the opportunities
for the exercise of his profession are very infrequent.
As to the labors of science, letters, and art,—the labors of him who observes,
* Thirty is only an approximation, as are all the figures thatwe use.
Digitized by Googk
56 ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP*
perfects, and invents,—they constitute an exception. 6ut these exceptions are
too rare, compared with the multitude of industrial processes, to invalidate the
rule. Beside, the philosopher himself, when labor shall be attractive, when it shall
be performed in assemblages always agreeable, will abandon willingly, and many
times in a day, his high intellectual regions, to mingle in the more active groups,
and strengthen his body, and quicken his intelligence, by the employment of his
physical powers. .
The whole number of groups practising the different branches of the same
industry, form a series of the first degree; a certain number of a series of the
first degree, working in analogous relations, form a series of the second degree ;
the series of the second degree is disposed in the same way into still higher se­
ries ; and the union of the whole makes the Phalanx.
Thus, a series of orchardists may be divided into inferior series, some applied
to the cultivation of stone-fruits, and others to that of seed-fruits, etc.; the se­
ries of seed-fruits will comprise the Apple series, the Pear series, etc.; each
species of Pear will then have its particular series, and each variety of the same
species will have its appropriate group.
We need not be astonished at the great number of series or groups that would
be furnished by a single Phalanx; the more the number of series is multiplied,
the more simplified the task of each would become, and the less time it would
have to give to it. Each person taking part in thirty groups, in consequence of
the different combinations that the laborers might form, there might be many
more groups than there were individuals.
It would be necessary to observe with great care, a rule which insists upon
subdividing each kind of Industry into as many branches as possible, in order to
apply a group to each one of them. It is necessary also, among, groups forming
a series, that neighboring groups should approximate as near as possible, in
their kinds of labor, and the nature of their products. This disposition of the
series into compact scales, as they are called, aids essentially in rendering the la­
bor attractive.
Minute division of labor—short and varied services or sessions*—and groups
of laborers disposed in series of a compact scale, would be the mode of execu
ting work in a Phalanx. ,
§ III. Consequencesof these Arrangements.
We have now explained the principal arrangements upon which we rely to es­
tablish accord among the associates, and to transform all the occupations of men
into pleasures.
Attractive Labor is something so foreign to our customary notions, that we
are not surprised at the incredulity with which it is received, although there is
no real reason why it may not be effected.
Whether a man amuses himself or labors, he equally employs his physical
end intellectual faculties,—he is equally occupied. Why are certain occupations
an amusement or pleasure, and why are others, labor or pain ?
It is not simply because an occupation is fatiguing that it becomes a pain,
since there are pleasures still more fatiguing, both to body and mind, than the
most hard and complicated toil.
It is not (except in the direct gratification of the senses) in the action that
one performs that the pleasure is found; for the action may be very insignifi­
cant in itself, so much so that a man alone would never look to it for a moment’s
* Short and varied occupation. It has been objected that the frequent change of place which pas­
sing from one group to another would occasion, would lead to a loss of valuable time. Fourier
meets the objection by stating that the times for engaging in any group will be known beforehand, so
that it would not be difficult to find it; that all the workshops are near each other; that the whole
domain of a Phalanx would not be a league square; and that there will be plenty of conveyances
always ready to run to the more distant parts of the territory. The whole time lost in passing
through thirty groups would not equal that frequently lost, under present arrangements, by a work-'
man who is obliged to walk home for his dinner. In a Phalanx, too, the small loss of time occa­
sioned by change of place, will be amply compensated by the new ardor imparted by engaging in a
fresh pursuit.
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP*
diversion* One scarcely ever thinks, for instance, when he is alone, of dancing
or playing billiards, yet these are exciting amusements in company.
The pleasure found in a pursuit then, is more or less independent of the fa­
tigue and even of the nature of the act, and must be derived from certain exter­
nal conditions and accompaniaments. Let us see what these are, and whether
it is impossible to apply them to Labor.
1st. Pleasure is found in freely-formed reunions or assemblages of persons
who love to be together. *
All Labor, then, ought to be executed by a group of which the members are
chosen by each other. It is thus that men give satisfaction to their affective
passions, or those spontaneous impulses by which they are drawn together into
groups.
2d. Men united for purposes of pleasure like to separate as soon as they are
weary of it.
Then, every group of laborers ought to be dissolved as soon as tedium has
succeeded to attraction. Working thus in short and varied sessions, they would
obey the impulse of one of the distributive passions, the Papillon or Alterna­
ting Passion.
3d. Men, in their games, where they are constantly contending with each
other, seek to excel and conquer their rivals.
Rivalry must then exist among the groups of laborers, and for that purpose,
several groups ought to be engaged on similar products, between which, on com­
parison, it would be difficult to decide. Thus, for the gratification of the cabal-
ist, the groups ought to be distributed into a compact scale.
4th. Men are infatuated with pleasure, when their address or talent obtains
them brilliant triumphs, in the presence of a numerous assembly.
The groups then, ought to be connected with each other by the serial organ­
ization, in order that the attention of the greatest number should be directed upon
the acts of each; in order that there might be alliances among the groups whose
designs accord, against groups of similar and therefore rival pretensions. In this
manner, the laborer, feeling himself observed, sustained, applauded by the mass,
knowing that his part of the work is rendered distinct and brought into relief by
its parcelled exercise, will find himself in a condition for the most favorable de­
velopment of his irreflective enthusiasm, or the composite passion.
5th. When men find pleasure in useful occupations, they necessarily abandon
the mere purposeless amusements in which, until then, they had looked for it.
When Labor shall be a fete, it is for that fete that men will reserve all the lux­
ury and art with which it can be embellished. Thus, the passions of sense, the
tendency to luxury, will be gratified at all the meetings of the laborers, by
arrangements as comfortable as the nature of the work will admit of being
made. *
6th. After ranging himself under the great Serial Law, which shines through­
out creation, Man beginning to understand that nothing in the universe is
fatally hostile to him, that the happiness of others is the proper complement of
his own happiness, will be filled with a high and exalted Love for his fellows,
and with Gratitude to that Divine Being, who has arranged the entire mechanism
of the world with such perfection of Ait and Wisdom. He will experience a
degree of Blessedness, by means of his lofty Sentiment of Harmony, through
the gratification of the passion of passions, Unity, that none of the race have
as yet felt in this Life. He will find, in truth, that laborare est orare, that work
is worship.
Industry divided into parcels will offer parts agreeable to all ages and sexes,
so that each group will generally be composed of men, women, and children.
This union of the three sexes (Fourier calls infancy the neuter sex), is a
powerful means of imparting attraction to labor. Nature, in order to insure this
arrangement, has given to some men the most feminine tastes, and to some
women tastes decidedly masculine. These transitional characters are ridiculed
in our present societies, where they have no utility; but they will be appreciated
in Association, where even the labors exclusively reserved to one sex will not be
58 ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
stripped of the charms of that kind of emulation which arises from the pres­
ence of the other.
“But Morals," interposes some grave guardian of his neighbor's conscience;
“ Morals will be corrupted by these frequent meetings of the two sexes.” Verily,
a society which sees nothing reprehensible in balls and parties, has no right to
criticise such meetings of the sexes as We propose, because they will mostly
take place in public and in the presence of children, nor to blame an arrange­
ment which will spread a charm over fruitful labors, equal to that which it now
lends to frivolous and often dangerous assemblies.
Labor being organized as we have explained, society will no longer be com­
posed of men devoted to the exercise of a single function, as tailors, masons,
shoemakers, etc., etc., but of men consecrating, to various labors respectively,
only a part ot their time and faculties.
There are certain kinds of lab,or, however, to be executed in series, which de­
mand a more particular explanation.
The series having the management of domestic duties, for instance, will be a
numerous one, ana will daily furnish a detachment for the service of the day.
When its functions shall be like other social functions, and be rewarded in the
mass, when they shall have lost all character of personal servitudef they will be
by no means repugnant, and many persons will delight to consecrate two or
three hours per week to the object of rendering themselves useful to friends,
who, in a thousand other respects, will return the kindness.
The ties of affection being many in a Phalanx, where the members are often
in contact, and on points in which they sympathize, the labor of the domestic
series willbe distributed insuch away that each person will be charged with cares
relating to those whom he or she loves. A new charm will thus be imparted to the
task, which beside being paid for as other labor, will receive an additional re­
ward in thanks and affection.
Thus is resolved a problem, which has often been started in the Christian
world, but never settled, t h e a b o litio n of dom estic serv ice. There will be
no more servants, yet everybody will be served with the utmost zeal, intelligence,
and promptitude, by the groups which have undertaken that portion of the com­
mon duties, and who will be repaid by consideration and respect.
If, on one side, domestic service is a flagrant violation of the liberty and dig­
nity of man, as seems to be universally demonstrated by the fact, that the force
of circumstances—want and poverty—is the only power which can compel a
person to engage in it; on the other side, man has an absolute need of personal
services, in the cooking of his dinner, in the preservation of his clothes, and in
the general care of his house. Now, here is a problem for those who are so
fond of upholding the liberty, dignity, and rights of man, which they will find
of singular difficulty in the solution! How are they going to reconcile the two
facts ? The truth is, that many of our would-be democrats have never thought
tJf^the matter in this light. They have accepted Domestic Service, as the an­
cient philosophers and modem clergymen do slavery, as an established and con­
sequently eternal fact! Even those who have seen the evils of either kind of
servitude, are apt to regard them as remediless. The atrocious injustice which
Masters and Mistresses are almost everywhere guilty of towards their helps, is
everywhere looked upon as something which must be, until at least the individ­
uals are changed. But it is a part of the system. Individuals may be and are
greatly to blame for the cruel and selfish modes in which they exact the time
and disregard the rights and interests of their domestics; yet the system is more
to blame. And Association is the only practicable reform of this abuse that has
yet been suggested.
A series, principally composed of women and small children, is charged with
the care of the younger children, which are reared in saloons perfectly appro­
priate to their destination. During the night, the different groups of this series
will alternate in the discharge of the duties of that season, so that the work wiU
not faU frequently or heavily upon any class of persons.
This series is in close relation with the series of physicians, who watch over
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP. 59
the sickness of the younger children, and especially charge themselves with the
arrangement of those parts of their clothing and rooms which have an influence
upon health.
Every mother, undoubtedly, who might prefer it, would have her children
near herself, and might nourish them herself, if she pleased, either in her own
apartments, or at stated seasons in the general saloons. The practice, in this
respect, would depend upon the peculiar feelings and position of each person,
whether more or less opulent or more or less disposed to engage in the labors
of different groups. In cases of sickness, and of very young children, mothers
would perhaps choose to have the attendance of good and faithful assistants, in
their own apartments; but, in general, we think it would be found that the
group of nurses were so excellent, the public halls so well adapted to health and
other purposes, and the advantages in every way so decided, that a larger part
of the women would of choice leave their children to the education of the proper
groups, in which, doubtless, the mother would be herself enrolled.
The number of women necessary to the care of young children being limited.
Nature has given the inclination to that kind of occupation to only a few. It
would be easy to assure ourselves that this was the case, if the spirit of our
present society did not oblige women to dissimulate, and feign tastes that are
often the opposite of their very organization. , Yet, in spite of this hypocrisy,
how often do we see mothers that are willing to yield the care of their offspring
to mere mercenaries, and who are thankful when sleep relieves them from the
fatigue and constant attention which a single child always demands. To give «
■
all the moments of one’s life to the care of children, is often a punishment, in­
stead of a pleasure; but Association reconciles the most perfect management of
infants, with the continued, but not exhausting, devotedness of the mother.
Fourier indulges throughout his works in the most vehement denunciation
of civilized commerce, which he justly characterizes as incoherent, anarchical,
and false.
Commerce is designed to bring the producer and the consumer into relation:
that is, if it has any object. But in itself it produces nothing; it adds nothing
to the commodities which it circulates. It is obviously then for the general
interest to reduce commercial agents to the smallest number, and to carry over
the excess to some productive employment.
In our societies, precisely the contrary takes place; the agents of commerce
are multiplied beyond measure; designed only to play a subordinate part, they
have usurped the highest rank; they absorb the largest portion of the common
dividend, out of all manner of proportion to the services they render; they hold
the producer in a servile dependence; they reduce to its lowest terms the wages
of workmen, and they extort from the consumer without mercy.
Blind Competition, so much boasted of by the political economists, has largely
contributed to the evil. Traffickers, in consequence of it, give themselves up
to a regular war against each other; and in order that they may not be beaten,
they are ready to resort to any expedient. They lie, cheat, and falsify products;
they alter grains, meats, wines, and sugars; they would poison the community,
if they dared, as we have recently seen in one or two instances; and they spoli­
ate the public in a thousand modes, by exchange, brokerage, usury, bankruptcy;
in short, they deceive in every way, and defraud at all seasons; yet commerce,
in our corrupted societies, is the most certain way of arriving at fortune, honor,
and distinction.
We speak here only of intermediate commerce, by which we mean the com­
merce which consists in buying from one in order to sell to another. The man­
ufacturer and mechanic belong to the class of productive laborers, although
their functions are often complicated with the character and vices of Commerce,
strictly speaking.
We know very well that Humanity must employ a portion of its force in the
transportation of products, in order to bring them within reach of the consumer.
But it is evident that it ought to devote to this task only the force that is rigor­
ously necessary; every expenditure of time or money, beyond this minimum,
being a real loss for society.
Digitizec . Googk
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWKSHI*.
«0
It does not enter our thought, in saying severe things o f Commerce, to attack
cither classes or individuals. Our criticism relates to the system, which is guilty
o f placing men in a position exposed to so many debasing temptations and in­
fluences.
In a phalanx, the commercial mechanism is simplified as much as it can b e ;
a series is charged with effecting exchanges, purchases, sales, storage, and dis­
tribution. This series, always divided into groups, applied to each part of the
work, will devote to the service only as much time as is strictly necessary, and
will never lose a moment waiting for the consumer. The days and hours of dis­
tribution will be regulated, and the series, paid by the phalanx, will have nothing
to gain from the individual. It is this method which is generally observed in
the magazines of armies.
Philosophers and artists will likewise form groups and series. T he series in
science and art, in all the phalanxes, will be classified, and attached to centres,
which are again connected with a single centre, where all will converge, and
which will radiate light in all directions.
This arrangement will yield immense advantages, and cause the sciences to
advance with the steps of a giant. W hen a philosopher, in the silence of his
cabinet, shall have discovered a principle, he will unfold it to his associates, to
test it by discussion, and then communicate it to their particular hierarchi­
cal centre. The centre, if the principle requires the confirmation of experience,
will communicate the suspected law to the three million Phalanxes that cover
the earth, and the concurrent observation of such a multitude of series will
throw a vivid ‘light upon the subject, and in a little while either verify or reject
the inference.
The mechanical part of science, calculations for example, which sometimes
absorb the greater part o f the life of a man of genius, will be executed with a
wonderful promptitude, in a similar manner by special groups, taken from the
phalanx, the province, the kingdom, &c., &c., according to the degree of im­
portance attached to the work. Tables of logarithms, containing a million of
numbers and calculated to thirty decimals, will be constructed in as short a time
almost as it would take to establish a communication between the phalanx and
the centre, since each phalanx would have only one logarithm to calculate, even
by demanding, for its verification, each logarithm from three groups.
The series of physicians, divided into groups, of which each would apply it­
self to a special form of disease, as takes place already in large cities, woula be
connected with every other series exerting a direct influence upon health, and to
the culinary series among others. The art of appropriating nourishment to
temperaments, will enter into the duties of the physicians, who will be paid in
proportion to their success, i. e., as there are fewer diseases, so that their inter­
ests will be brought into accord with the interests of the mass.
Thus, with all the labors of the series; they will be performed in short and
varied terms, and under conditions likely to transform what is now considered a
burden into a pleasure.
There are nevertheless some works of such a nature, that it will never be
possible to draw men to them by a direct attraction. These are few in number,
and association, aided by the progress of mechanical invention, will reduce them
still further, and render the execution of them less disagreeable. But while
they continue disagreeable they must be provided for, and Fourier, with admi­
rable ingenuity, has organized little hordes, composed of the most frank and de­
cided children, whose business it will be, under many inducements, to undertake
the removal of filth, and the purification of pools, &c., &c. W e have not space
enough at our command to go into details on this point, which is not of the
highest importance.
§ IV . Education.
W hat will become of children in your society of laborers ? how will they be
raised 1 who will occupy themselves in their moral and intellectual develop­
ment ? It is time to answer these significant questions. *
Digitized by Googk
ORGANISATION OT THE TOWNSHIP* «1
In his inquiry after natural education, Fourier takes for his guide the at­
tractions of childhood, and endeavors to act upon its mind in such a way as to
give a charm to all its studies, and at the same time, to develop its faculties in­
tegrally, with a due attention to all parts of its nature.
As soon as children have some gleams of intelligence, and are capable of some
address, from three to four years of age, corporations, devoted to the guardian­
ship and guidance of children, have the care of conducting them in the differ­
ent workshops of the Phalanstery, and in the gardens, orchards, fields, kitchen-
gardens, stables, cow-houses, and poultry-yards, where they have constantly
under their eyes the labors of organized groups and series. The superintend­
ents will consist chiefly of old men and matrons, for old age sympathizes most
with childhood. The various aptitudes and talents of these young children will
be allowed freely to dawn, grow, and develop them selves; their instinct of imi­
tation is such, that to attract them to industry, it would be sufficient to allow
them the use of miniature tools of gardening, and general industry; they will
immediately make use of them ardently and passionately as they are instructed*
They will not seek to break and destroy; but, stimulated by the example o f
children a little older than themselves, already useful workers, who enjoy certain
privileges, such as larger and more substantial instruments, agreeable uniforms,
a regular organization in groups and series, the little children will strive to put
all the address of which they are susceptible into their miniature labors. A
certain pride innate in children will likewise be taken advantage of, a feeling
which makes them aspire to participate in the labors of those a little older, to
render themselves useful, to be of importance; this will be turned to account
from the earliest infancy upward. In the gardens they will grub up noxious
weeds; in the kitchen, they will turn little spits, shell peas, wash the vegetables,
sort the fruit, wash the plates, etc.; in short, they will be employed in every­
thing that does not require degrees of strength above their a g e; and all these
little children, already stimulated by emulation, will apply themselves with pleas­
ure and with ardor to the labors permitted. From the moment that they be­
come useful they will be formed into choirs and corporations, groups and series,
regularly disciplined in all their studies and their occupations. In each group
are established different degrees of capacity, which is a means of emulation con­
tained within the group itself, without reckoning the rivalries between contigu­
ous groups. A means still more powerful, is the successive passage of child­
hood in different phases, corresponding to different ages. In proportion as he
acquires vigor and intelligence, the child passes successively through different
choirs and companies of youth, all of which enjoy the prerogatives and privi­
leges conformable to their employments, which are successively more difficult
and more elevated. So that each child has before him a group more advanced
in strength and skill, into which he can not enter, without perfecting himself and
passing the examinations necessary to prepare him for the labors and studies of
the group above. H e will thus pass through a successive number of groups
and series, which mark the various phases of childhood and youth to manhood.
Then only will he enjoy a complete independence, and be entirely free. Till
then, he is never forced, never constrained, but he is guided. H e has the choice
of labors; but as they are divided into several degrees for children, it is neces­
sary, in order to pass from a lower to a higher degree, to give proof of suffi­
cient strength, and skill, and aptitude, in various branches of art, and science,
and industry.
God himself is the type and source of order in the universe—the Trinity in
unity, the universal Triune or series; and education in a Phalanstery has a tri­
une basis—spiritual, social, and material. Domestic and industrial harmony and
education centre in the Phalanstery proper; spiritual harmony and education
in the church; artistic or material harmony and education, in tne opera or the­
atre, a school of art and measured harmony for every age, from infancy to full
maturity; for those who take an active part, as well as those who passively look
on. Children from the age of three to four will there be organized in choirs,
and exercise themselves in measured chants, in measured steps and
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
and in ail the measured harmonies of sense so intimately linked with those of
soul and mind. This diversion, under the control of higher principles of uni­
ty, will powerfully attract all the members of the Phalanx at every age, and
each will find himself fit for some employment. This is an habitual pleasure
for all, and at the same time the most useful instruction; for spiritual harmony,
theharmony of the passions, the pledge of happiness and concord, intimately
unites itself with measured or material harmony.
We see how many motives unite to excite children to useful labors from the
earliest age. W e know how powerful their faculty of imitation is. All that
they see done, they will attempt. We also know their incessant activity,
their turbulent and restless nature. This is the disturbance of individual house­
holds ; the child would touch everything, and yet nothing is within his reach ;
continual chidings and scoldings are employed with the poor little one, who fol­
lows the impulse of his nature; a valuable impulse, inasmuch as when well di­
rected, it impels the child to industry. It breaks and destroys, because it is not
duly furnished with the means of ttaploying its faculties. At present even, this
may be observed; if a little girl can assist her mother in the household; if she
can have the charge of her little brother, guard him and nurse him; if she is
permitted to go into the kitchen and assist the cook, she will do her best, and
delight in being useful. In the same manner, if a little boy can dig and rake
the ground; if he is permitted to handle tools; if he is employed in some de­
partment of useful occupation, he will put forth all the care and all the skill of
which he is capable ; he will pass hours in patiently putting stone upon stone,
in turning a wheel, in arranging a heap, through the mere sentiment of the im­
portance of his labor. Children have all the useful passions and desires in
germ; it is only necessary to know how to apply them, to render them capable
of everything good, grand, useful, and generous. In the Phalanstery care is
taken to inspire the children from the first dawnings of intelligence, with the
feeling of their importance and utility. All their toys are tools, and have a
useful end; all their plays are metamorphosed into labors, and become fruitful.
With them it is a habit so native, that they can not understand how time can be
ever sheerly wasted. Labors and pleasures'are identical for the children of the
Phalanx ; they are ignorant that they can be disunited. Their labors and their
tools being always proportionate to their strength and their skill, they feel
neither pain nor fatigue. Laboring by groups in short and varied occupations,
they know neither tedium nor disgust; but, quite the contrary, constantly stim­
ulated by example, the expectation of examinations, the desire of advancing in
grades, of passing from a lower to a higher corporation, in which they see chil­
dren classed of a strength immediately above their own, they are full of zeal
and ardor. They have motives yet more powerful: the affection of all that
surround them ; the desire of responding to it, of pleasing; love, enthusiasm,
religion, the power of devotedness, of which children are eminently capable.
The love of God, humanity, their country and their parents-—
all these impel
them to duty, that is to say, to co-operation with the order and the harmony in
their native Phalanx and the whole world.
By mere imitation and successive initiation, the children go through an ap­
prenticeship to all the labors to which they are attracted by taste and inclination.
But this is only one part of instruction properly so called. It is the imitative,
mechanical, material part, that which develops the physical powers, the senses;
it is by this that childhood must commence. The body acquires strength be­
fore the mind; but the mind has never been absolutely neglected: the child
has acquired a thousand notions; he has divined in part the theory by the prac­
tice ; he has seen much, heard much, felt much. His observation and his
judgment can not be distorted; they have been developed spontaneously; they
have been exercised on the truth, and on the reality of things. The heart can
not be perverted, for these young children have constantly under their eyes ex­
amples of piety, goodness, concord, and harmony. Everything speaks to them
of God, his justice, and his goodness. They see God in his works; they feel
his presence in themselves—around themselves; in the peace of the society in
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP. 03
which they live, in the harmony of their own feelings and desires, in their whole
being. Their life is a perpetual feeling of love and gratitude towards God and
their fellow-creatures. They are ignorant of the subversive passions—hatred,
doubt, and incredulity. In the infant of harmony, love and faith will be spon­
taneously developed ; he examines, he thinks, he reflects by himself; he aban­
dons himself to his natural sentiments ; he is susceptible neither of deceit, nor
of concealment, nor of fear ; he knows but truth—he seeks it, he speaks it as
he feels it. It is thus that the development of the soul and of the spirit does
not remain behind the strength and vigor of the body. Spiritual, social, and
material education are continuous and simultaneous, though the læt is most
predominant in childhood.
With the natural development of the mind, and of the aptitude for various
branches of industry, the child acquires science, properly so called; the com­
plete theory of the arts and the various kinds of industry which he cultivates,
the principal notions of the sciences which interest every thinking being ; the
description of the heavens and of the earth, the history of nations. The rules
of grammar and literature are constantly developed by Professors for all ages
and in every degree of instruction. The children and young people will attend
to them according as their inclinations dispose them. In the Phalanx, who will
be the professors? Generally, all those learned in science and theory; their
mission is naturally to teach what they know. It is a natural desire for those
who possess knowledge, to communicate it to others. In the Phalanx, learning
is not confined to the closet : professors are at the same time workers, men
versed in theory and practice, of art and science, and industrial activity. There
are too many means of combining theory with practice in the Phalanstery for
them ever to be separated. The savants do not form a class apart ; all the la­
borers are more or less acquainted with both theory and practice, and most of
them are professors. They will enrol themselves in the various groups of in­
struction ; they will rival each other in the zeal and ardor with which they cul­
tivate the kindly feelings and intelligence of the rising generation. The most
learned will form, in their respective corporations, under-graduates and assistants,
among the most apt and intelligent pupils, to distribute the instruction, accor­
ding to their methods, to various groups and classes of students. Every branch
of art and science is thus taught in many graduated groups, according to a
method at once mutual and simultaneous. The practical lessons, whenever the
season and the climate permit, will be given in the open air, among the very
objects that serve as matter for instruction. If it be gardening, agriculture,
and botany, in which the professor instructs his pupils, he takes the earth and its
productions to demonstrate his discourse ; if it be astronomy, the heavens ; if it
be painting, it is before the master-works of the great painters, and still more in
the presence of Nature herself, that he will develop the beauties and maghificence
of the art ; if it be music, he will enchant the ear by harmony before develop­
ing the principles ; if it be the mechanical arts, the trades, the various branches
of industry, the professor conducts his pupils into the workshops, gives practi­
cal demonstration with precept, and in all cases gives a triune lesson—theory,
practice, and variety of application.
The kitchen, the barn, the cellar, the cow-house, the stable, the poultry­
.yard, the garden, the orchards, the fields, sStve at once as the scene and tne
text of instruction, which is, in some measure, perpetual.
We do not here speak of elementary instruction, of reading, writing, and
arithmetic ; because this first instruction is so simple, that it is an amusement,
as well for the professors as for the pupils. Young girls from twelve to fifteen
years of age will divide this professorship with grave old men, who will seek in­
fancy from predilection ; young girls are also fond of acting the mamma.
The one and the other will enrol themselves in the groups of elementary
instructers, and emulate each other in the invention of easy and attractive
methods.
The aged are not a burden to the Phalanx, as they often are in civilization.
, L o v e d , h o n o red , a n d resp ected , th e y la b o r an d re n d e r th em selv es u se fu l as m u c h
Digitized by Google
64 OBOAinZATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
as their strength permits them, bringing to the office of instruction all the ad­
vantages they have derived from long experience and extensive practice; and
when their strength declines, they link themselves with tender infancy and be­
come their guides, protectors, guardians. Sublime harmony! the old man
and the child mutually aid each other; the one to live, the other to die!
The children and the adolescent remain entirely free to follow the course that
suits them. They instruct themselves or remain ignorant, according to their
desires. But it is with studies as with labors; civilization alone renders them
repugnant. Man at every age is anxious to instruct himself. W ith all, men,
women, and children, it is a passion to know, to acquire knowledge. AH in­
struct themselves spontaneously, and seek light on all that has been, on all that
is. This passion or attraction is particularly active in the child. As soon as his
intelligence is open, he begins to question and examine; if he finds instruction
suited to him, he seizes it with ardor. ’
The passion for study will be excited in Harmony, where instruction, which
will be free and spontaneous as well for the professors as the pupils, wiU have
practice for its immediate object, and will link itself with daily labors, which
already please and captivate the mass. In harmony, instruction wiU be one o f
the strongest passions, and among the most lively enjoyments of childhood, ad­
olescence, and mature age, of young girls and women, as of men. The old
man himself is still a disciple, and at the same time a professor. As long as he
preserves his intelligence, he has the desire of instructing himself. The Pha­
lanx forms a vast school of mutual instruction, where all are both disciples and
professors, mutually enlightening each other on all branches of science, and
ever pushing their investigations further, so that the human intellect, freed from
all the cares and troubles of material existence, will enlarge in vast proportions;
and by an even more extended application of the sciences, it will enlarge the
field of industry beyond the limits of our actual imagination.
Every Phalanx wiU not contain within itself alone a full development of every
branch of art, and science, and industrial perfection, but each will be renowned
for some superior developments, and they wiU learn from one another their re­
spective exceUencies. Some wiU be more central and important than the rest,
and higher branches of instruction will be found in these, as in our universities.
One of the advantages of the unitary system also, is that every one wiU be
able to travel for instruction and delight—a taste at once so general and so pow­
erful. Each individual will travel as his nature prompts him with a view to
pleasure, want of motion, variety, or for instruction and utility.
If a traveller makes some stay in a Phalanx, he wiU either accept the mini­
mum offered to aU, or he will take part in the labors of the groups and the
series, which, with regard to objects of necessity, are similar in all the Phalan­
steries ; and he will thus defray his own expenses by the profits of his labor.
Travelling, which will be a necessary part of education, will not be expensive,
and young people may be aUowed to travel everywhere, without fear of danger
or corruption.
The labors of one Phalanx, however varied, would not suffice for the activity
of man, especially during the first periods of life. Youth has need of seeing,
o f travelling, of undertaking extraordinary and marvellous things.
In the present day, travels hav£but a mean aim, which is known beforehand;
armies and wars have lost all the magic, the grandeur, the chivalry, which for­
merly disguised their hideous atrocity. W ar is nothing but a common and a
tedious trade, which offers but inferior chances of advancement, and has nothing
that can satisfy an ardent mind. At the present day, when young people have
finished what is called their education, their university studies, and would launch
themselves into the world, even when they have fortune at command, what can
they do, what brilliant career is open to them ? At best, they travel monoton­
ously, distastefully, to come back wearied with what they have seen, disgusted
with what they find on their return.*
* Madam Gatti da Gammond.
Digitized by Googk
(HMMUmtATION OF TBE T O W V « P . m
§ V. Distribution o f Profits.
W e now reach the question as to the repartition of profits, and we hare to
show that the Reformed System, is so harmonic that it will produce accord up­
on a point on which our individuality and selfishness are apt to be the most dis­
cordant.
By the word profit, we mean benefits and gains of all kinds, whatever recom­
penses the services rendered, whether honors, ranks, titles, decorations, influ­
ence, or power, as well as money.
Justice demands that each laborer be consulted in this distribution; for, who­
ever does anything for society ought to have an influence in the direction given
to that society, proportional to the worth of his acts.
Thus, we are the friends of universal suffrage ! But let no one fear that we
are about to fall into that abyss of absurtuty and confusion into which our po­
litical reformers have fallen—reformers who would give the right to vote to men
who are noi competent to read even the names of the candidates they are about
to vote for, and to whom they deny at the same time the much more important
and valuable right—the right to labor and subsistence. If equity demands that
every member of society should be consulted in the management of it, Good
Sense fixes the limit of the right, by prescribing that the opinion of each one
should be asked only so far as he knows, both theoretically and practically, and
that this opinion should only have the weight of the person from whom it comes.
W e have to demonstrate, then, that in a Phalanx, all men exercising their rights
in the sphere of their competency and capacity, can decide, if they will, with equi­
ty and right: we shall therefore establish that the laborer who can be just, will
be directly interested in being so, and that he will wish to bejust.
>It is necessary to repeat: in the Phalanx, individuals form groups, groups
form series of the first degree, the series of the first degree form series of the sec­
ond degree, etc.
Thus, in an army, detachments or groups form companies, companies bat­
talions, battalions regiments, regiments brigades, etc.; only that in the Phalanx
the same laborer makes part of many groups, and figures in several series.
Elections begin in the group. The members of the groups distribute their
respective titles, honors, and grades, and name their chiefs, officers, and sub­
officers.
The chiefs of all the groups of the same series of the first degree unite to­
gether in order to choose the chiefs of that series. The chiefs of the inferior
series name, in the same way, the chiefs of the superior series, and then the
chiefs of the highest series name the chiefs or regents of the Phalanx.*
This mode of election satisfies the first condition laid down—to consult each
one, but only in things which he understands. The laborers of a group, work­
ing together under each other’s eyes, will soon come to distinguish the compar­
ative qualifications of each other in that particular work, and will select their
chiefs with prudence and sagacity; moreover, in proportion as they are elevated
in the hierarchical scale, in proportion as they are engaged in more general in
terests, the chiefs, subjected to new trials, chosen by a mass more and more
enlightened, offer every guarantee of fitness for the functions which are confided
to them. By (his election, in several degrees, too, the electors and the elected,
are never more than a step apart from each other, and are easily, on both sides,
understood and appreciated.
Every laborer having to vote in all the groups in which he takes part, sees his
influence increase with the number of things that occupy him ; besides that in
each of these things his influence is by right of his capacity, since, according
to the degree of his merit, he is called to act either simply upon the interests of
the groups, or upon the less limited interests of the series, or even upon the in­
* terests of the whole Phalanx.
The recompense of honors and ranks is distributed in the same manner: and
the pecuniary profits will be divided by a similar process.
*The choice is ratified by a ballot in which all the individuals take part, when it it submitted te
the phalanx. The modes of election in some cases vary, as will be hereinafter explained.
Digitized by Google
ü
The regency of the Phalanx, constituted as we have just explained, will first
subtract from the annual product the sum required to meet the common expen­
ses ; 1st, the taxes, which will be collected in the most simple manner without
expenses of collection, and without bringing the tax-gatherers into immediate
contact with individuals, which is often so irritating; 2d, all those things which
die Phalanx derives from without, not from the labor of its groups, but from the
world, as provisions, instruments, &c., &c., which it may not be in a state to
create; 3d, a reservation for the current expenses and labors of the ensuing
year.
This first sum subtracted, the remainder will be divided into three parts,
destined to remunerate each of the productive faculties—Capital, Labor, and
Talent
These three parts will be divided among the series, the groups, and individu­
als, by descending the hierarchical scale, of which we have given the constitu­
tion. Each laborer, besides the interest on his stock, will be entitled in each of
the groups in which he has been engaged, to a certain amount, in payment of his
work, and to another amount, in payment of whatever superior talent he maj
have manifested. . ,
The interest on Capital being determined by a fixed rate, there will be no
difficulty in making a dividend among those who possess certificates of stock.
Labor being paid not only according to the time spent, but proportionably to
the difficulty of the work, it will be necessary at first to fix the right of each
group in respect to the second point. Each group having received the sum
which is due, will distribute it among the laborers, in proportion to the time in
which each one has worked in that group, which time will have been accurately
entered upon its registers. If any one or more of the laborers should have
clearly performed more work than the others, they will be entitled to a reward
for it from the sum designated as the remuneration of talent.
1 This third part will be divided among those who are distinguished in any
manner whatever, who have merited titles, ranks,.honors, who have shone in the
display of force, address, activity, or intelligence.
As to those who have invented or improved anything, as the result of their
labor will be of use, not only to the Phalanx but to all humanity, it is from all
the Phalanxes that they will receive their reward.
An engineer introduces an improvement in machinery. His Phalanx which
profits the first by his invention, pays him by voting an inconsiderable sum, a
minimum, say of one cent. The discovery spreads, all the phalanxes of the
globe adopt it successively, if it is found to be decidedly useful, and all in the
same way vote a recompense to the inventor. If there are 3,000,000 of Pha-
.lanxes on the globe, he will be entitled to 30,000 dollars at least. The works
of art, poetry, literature, will be recompensed in the same way.
This mode has a thousand advantages over that of granting patents or com­
missions. Humanity profits with the utmost promptitude by the discovery, and
.the inventor obtains a reward proportioned to the merits of his invention.
The spirit of intrigue or a coterie will be ineffectual in giving vogue to a dis­
covery that is valueless. If, for instance, a poet by means of his friends, ob­
tains an unmerited success—if he succeeds in a few neighboring phalanxes,
where he is known and loved, his work can not go much farther witnout sink­
ing, and both be and his too friendly phalanxes will fall into confusion and
shame.
If, on the contrary, the poet or inventor should be unjustly dealt with by a
Phalanx, he would appeal to the judgment of others, and receive a speedy rec­
ognition.
Such is the mechanism of distribution; but it remains to be explained how
the reciprocal rights of Capital, Talent, and Labor, and of each kind of labor
in particular, would be guarantied according to principles of equity and com­
mon accord. .
In a Phalanx, the problem of distribution may take the form of an arithmeti­
cal problem, like this:—
ORGANISATION OT THX TOWNtSlF*
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OP THE TOWNSHIP.
What are the domestic, agricultural, and mechanical labors, which the Pha­
lanx must undertake for the general interest, to which all particular interests are
connected? ’ What development must it give to each of them? How much,
consequently, of strength, of intelligence, and of capital ought each to attract?
In other words, what are the labors it requires, to what extent shall they be pros­
ecuted, and what are the means necessary ?
It is evident that all will be interested in the solution of this problem, and
that the solution of it will be the solution of the problem of distribution.
But in effect, the laborers being free in their choice, will not group them­
selves in such a way as to conform absolutely with what the general interest had
determined. In order to establish equilibrium, therefore, to recal laborers to the
points where they are wanted, to separate them from groups in which they are
superabundant, the Association must make use of the lever of Distribution. By
diminishing the sum appropriated to a group, it will separate from it the most
lukewarm and so reduce the number of laborers. By the contrary process it
will recal laborers to a deserted group. It will thus arrive, after a few trials,
perhaps some blunders, at that equilibrium of which it feels the necessity.
There is nothing arbitrary in the determination of the sum appropriated to
each group, inasmuch as that sum will depend upon the number of laborers of
which it has need. In the group itself, the amount will be divided justly ac­
cording to the merits of individuals.
If the group is unjust toward one who has sefved it with the greatest effective­
ness, he, perhaps, the most capable laborer will abandon the ungrateful group, and
the whole group will suffer, for its injustice, more than he who has been wronged.
The phalansterian organization is the only one that permits the laborer to re­
sist the injustice of the majority. Everywhere else men*who know only one
business, who exercise only a single function, must be maintained by it, or hazard
their position in life. It is for this reason, among others, that the working-men
in civilization are so generally the servile dependants of their employers. They
know that they must do what their master (fitly characterized by the name), bids
them, or suffer the loss of their place, which is now equivalent to the loss of
their own subsistence and that of their families. But in the Phalanx, the la­
borer, may without suffering sensibly, abandon one or another of his thirty func­
tions; and he would lose nothing at all, if he presented himself to a group whose
occupations resembled those of the group he had just left. He would be received
with joy, and soon assume the rank which was his due.
It is not to be feared that self-love would exaggerate the pretensions of cer­
tain laborers. He who should estimate himself for more than he was worth,
and thinking himself neglected, retire in discontent, would speedily be brought
to see, that while on one side there was no note taken of his absence, there
would be no eagerness to receive him among others. ■
The interest on stock will be determined much in the same way; it will be
augmented when it is necessary to call in capital, and it will be diminished when
ca ' al is superabundant.
orking in a great number of grtmps and series, a laborer can not hold the
same rank in all. If he is a soldier here he will be a captain there, and will, at
one time, be in subjection to those, that at another, he will command. He may
have, then, a superiority over the most eminent men, which will not wound their
pride, although it may be a decided satisfaction to his self-love, however insignifi­
cant the superiority may be in other respects. The reason of this is that we
always attach the highest importance to the traits in which we excel, because
the character of our ambition is necessarily related to the kind and degree of
our intelligence.
Thus, all those laborers developed integrally, by a thorough education, will
have claims upon the sum designed for the recompense of Talent.
Serial labor yielding great profits, the poorest man will gain something be­
yond his bare subsistence, and with the slightest economy will enable himself to
purchase some shares in the capital stock. Many advantages, of which we can
not here take notice, are accorded to small capitalists, in order to favor such a
Digitized by Google
«B ORGANISATION OP TKE TOWNSHIP.
m ult. All the members of a Phalanx, then, will be, in different degrees,
capitalists.
Labor being transformed into a pleasure, the rich as well as the poor will be
drawn towards Ind . All will be laborers.
The profits of the vidual will, accordingly, be divided into a great many por­
tions, to which respectively he will be entitled in all the groups in which he takes
part, and for each of his productive faculties. In the arbitrations which will fix the
value of one of these portions, the laborer could not manifest as much of avidity
and blindness as he would were hfs whole fortune concerned, because just to
the extent in which he unjustly pressed his claims on one score, he would in­
jure himself on all other scores. Besides, in almost all the series of the Pha­
lanx, he would find people that he particularly loved,—a wife, or children, or
parents, or friends; and he would have extreme difficulty in combining his votes
in such a way awto satisfy, at the same time, bis selfish interests and the inter­
ests of those who were dear to him.
Nor is it to be feared that the rivalry between the series and groups would
engender hatred and the desire to injure. That rivalry would differ essentially
from that which now divides people of the same profession. A group would be
Interested in surpassing its rivals by raising itself above them, and not depressing .
them below it. The triumph obtained by the latter means would be purchased
too dearly; as by the abasement ofany one ofthe groups, the whole series will have
lost in worth, and the victorious group itself will have a smaller dividend to touch
and less honor to receive. Thus, in an army, the only example that we have
of a series even approaching regularity, the rivalries of the companies, are silenced
when they are engaged in the interests of the regiment, the rivalries of the regi­
ments are effaced when it becomes necessary to think of the army. But of the
Phalanx, so much superior in its discipline, because not forced, but passional,
we must remark, that by the constant alternations of labor, the men who were
just now engaged in a warm contest, would, in an hour afterward, be working
side by side for some common end, so that the corporative rivalries would not
. extend to individuals. .
These explanations are required by those who, living in Civilization, are
habituated to see interest predominant, everywhere and always, over the more
generous and elevated sentiments. Here the voice of self-interest is ever con­
sulted and ever heard; but will it be so in the Phalanx ?
There, labor being attractive, it will no longer be necessary to constrain men,
who, laboring from passion, will be emancipated from the yoke of necessity, by
the certainty of constantly enjoying, whatever may happen, a decent minimum
in clothing, lodging, food, public conveyances, etc., etc. This minimum will
be assured, even in cases of a refusal to labor,—cases that can only be anomalies
proceeding from some derangement of the faculties. The society will/be at the
expense, moreover, of those children who cannot labor, and of old men and in­
firm persons that are unable to do anything, so that they may not distress them­
selves about the future, either their own or their families1
.
An absolute loss of fortune, which in Civilization is a stroke almost as cruel
as death, can only be a temporary mortification and disappointment in the Pha­
lanx, because he who experiences it would not be lowered in his social position,
nor be compelled to change any of his relations. Thus, each one would find
himself in the possession of an inappreciable good, totally unknown in our so­
cieties, in the absence of solicitude or care; the mind would no longer be distracted
by anxieties, and Mankind united in all their interests, united by reciprocal ser­
vices, meeting everywhere good will and affection, would give themselves up to
noble and disinterested sentiments, such as are seen among us only in early
youth, before they are suppressed by the cares, the selfishness, the distrust, and
the jealousy of more advanced life.
Can we not see how easy it would be to resolve the problem of the dis­
tribution of profits, when all are directly interested in having it decided
equitably?
Digitized by Google
OMfAHIEATION OF THE TOWNSH1F.
§ VI. Property.
It is time to approach a question which Science must resolve, if it wishes to
prevent the commotions with which nearly all civilized society is menaced—9,
question which, in Europe, and perhaps ere long in this country, will leave the
studies of philosophers and the pages of essayists, to take up arms in the streets»
to get itself decided by broadswords and muskets. It is the question of Proper­
ty,—the question of the reciprocal rights of Labor and Capital—rights that wo
ought to respect in an equal degree, because they are both legitimate.
This question, we say, must be settled by Science, or it will be by revolution.
No one who considers the circumstances under which the mass of the people
everywhere exist; that while wealth is generally increasing, they'are as rapidly
deteriorating—a fact which puzzles all our political economists; that the many
are growing poorer and the rich richer; that the very improvements of the age
are still further depressing the working classes; no one can consider these, and
a thousand kindred facts, without feeling that a great change, violent or peace­
ful, must be wroughttn the condition of the masses. They feel that the adjust­
ments of Property are wrong, and they demand the remedy.*
» Our philosophers and statesmen, governed by that spirit of Simplism of which
we have given several examples, occupy themselves with only one side of this
question; and regarding the interests of property-holders exclusively, have over-,
looked the rights of the laborer. On the other hand, many persons, impressed
only with the rights of the laborer, and feeling that no one ought to depend for
his living upon the pleasure ofothers, have denied allrights ofproperty. So long
as both are lost in their exclusiveness; so long as they join to their affirmations»
which are just, negations of the rights which seem opposed to them, they will
be unable to terminate the dispute, except by violence: and violence, if it should
lead, by the annihilation of one party, to a factitious and precarious equilibrium»
is incompetent to establish stable order or definite agreement.
The Social School of Fourier, often the object of attack to both parties»
whose attacks, by the way, neutralize each other, has discovered a theory which
can reconcile these hostile camps, and relieve the controversy of every difficulty.
We shall unfold their theory in a few words.
The Deity has made the human race a present worthy of his magnificence $
he has given them the Earth. This Earth, so splendidly illuminated, so full
of life, so fruitful, enclosing in its bosom all that Man can desire, all wealth, all
blessings—this Earth has been given to Man.
This gift belongs to all; no man, no generation of men, can legitimately dis­
pose of it, to the exclusion of other men or other generations. The rich and
the poor, the proprietor and the proletaire, have only equal rights over the
primitive soil, over the rude products of nature. This right is the right to live,
which all have acquired by the single fact of their birth. “ Men,” says Mr.
Carlyle, in Past and Present, “ men talk of selling land! Who can or could sell
it to us ? Properly speaking, the Land belongs to these two: To the Almighty
God and to all his children of Men that have ever worked well on it, or that
shall ever work well on it. No generation of men can or could, with never such
solemnity or effort, sell land on any other principle: it is not the property of
any generation, we say, but of all the past generations that have worked on it,
and of all the future ones that shall work on it.”
Yet Man, made in the image of God, may, like him, transform and create.
Out of an ungrateful soil, he makes a fertile field; from the rude mass of rock,
he constructs a palace; worthless earthy matter, he converts into gems and pre­
cious metals; in a word, he centuples the value of everything that he has re­
ceived. What man thus derives from his labor, may with peculiar propriety be
said to be his: it is that which without him would not have existed; he may
dispose of it as he pleases; it is his property, his goods, his right to capital.
* See an Essay of(the author, called “ Constructive Democracy,*’ published in the Present for
December, 1848; also, an article headed “ One of the Problems of the Age,** by some intelligent
democrat, in the Dem. Review for February, 1844. -
Digitized by Google
70 OaeAHISATIOH OF T B S TOWNSHIP.
But each one may claim his share in every object which has received no im­
provement from the hand of man, and in the primitive and raw value of every­
thing that has been transformed or created by labor. This is the right of all
■
—it is the right of the laborer.
This right is broadly recognised in the Phalanx, where each one may lay hold
of ail raw material which he expects to use, by enrolling himself in the group
charged with the preparation of that matter. The Phalanx goes further; al­
though it is impossible to live at this day without industry, upon wild fruits and
roots, it concedes the right of doitfg nothing to whoever will content himself
upon a minimum sufficient to secure him against every painful privation.
The right of capital is equally respected. In the system we are sketching, is
perfectly conciliated the rights of capital and labor; the two are associated and
sustain each other, and move in parallel lines, by augmenting or diminishing in
the same ratio. «
If man is the legitimate owner of everything that he has created by his in­
dustry, he may dispose of it as he pleases,—give it away jf that be his inclina­
tion. He who receives it, through the voluntary abandonment of it by the first
owner, becomes its legitimate owner. And as there is nothing to limit this
right, the possessor may still give it away, even when quitting this life. Thus
Inheritance, so violently attacked by some reformers, is a just, a legitimate means
of acquiring property.
The adversaries of the right of inheritance have attacked the principle, be­
cause in civilization, Property has shut out the Laborer from his Right,
and because Inheritance has ever been accompanied by a great many abuses.
But every evil of this kind, it is too obvious to be dwelt upon, must totally dis­
appear from the Phalanx.
Among the adversaries of the right of property are found men who have gone
so far as to include in their reprobation, the rights of Labor and Talent. They
have wished an equal division of all goods, whatever may have been the concur­
rence of individuals in the production of them. But this is absurd.
The inequality of fortune is much less than the inequality in the degrees of
esteem and affection that each one is entitled to receive. If the Levellers,
therefore, are forced to accept these natural inequalities, if they can not make
each one gather an equal harvest of love, friendship, consideration, etc., of what
moment is a single inequality more ? '
■On the other band, the proprietors, when they are willing to acknowledge that
this Distribution among Capital, Labor and Talent is not Community, still ac­
cuse us of taking away the great charm of property, by putting it in the form
of a joint stock possession, which deprives the possessor, they say, of the plea­
sure of feeling that “ this is mine, my gardens, my woods, my house,** etc., etc.
On the contrary, we contend that the feeling of true Self-Love,which isgratified
by the possession of a beautiful or fine thing, will be developed in the Phalanx
to a much more intense degree that it can be anywhere else. If the orchards,
for example, are well cultivated, if luxuriantly furnished with fruits and flowers,
they win the admiration of the traveller, the series of orchardists, composed of
men, whose labor and talent have produced this delightful result, shall they not
say, with more right than an unworking owner,—this is my orchard! than an
owner who glories only in the talent of his gardener, the sagacity of his farmer,
and who is not entitled to a single plume which, like the jackdaw, he borrows
from the peacock.
§ VII. Order and Liberty.
The conception of Fourier may be recapitulated in two great theorems; the
first relating to general Order, the second, to the Liberty of all beings.
1st. T h e series d ist r ib u t es t h e harm onies of t h e u n iv er se.— Order
2d. A ttr a c tio n s a r e pr o po r tio n a l to d e s t in ie s.—Liberty.
The great serial law, applied to the social organization, would be manifested
by the most perfect order on earth, and that order would be reconcilable with
the most absolute liberty ; for, in order to organize themselves and work in a
Digitized by Googk
OM AlfISATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
Phalanx, men have only to follow one guide, Attraction, have only to yield to
their tendencies, only .to listen to their Affection.
Men, women, and children, independent of each other, as to the employment
of their faculties, will follow their aptitudes, and will do good, without being
impelled by precepts or constrained by law; and it is only from Attractive Labor
that liberty can spring. What liberty can the workingman hope for in our so­
cieties ? Is he not, under all governments, subjected to the most pitiless and
despotic of tyrants, Necessity? Necessity which strikes whoever resists it»
with the most horrible punishments, with misery and famine!
In the Phalanx, liberty will be, if we say so, unlimited. Although all things are
classed and formed into hierarchy, although the conduct of the groups and se­
ries is confided to chiefs, those chiefs counsel, not order, and each one may act
contrary to their advice. Because, in a society in which individual interests agree
with the general interest, we can not bring ourselves to believe that many persons
will resist an invitation made, for the common good, by those who have been
acknowledged the most capable,—we can not believe that there would be found
many, who would injure themselves, to show their disdain of advice in itself
good. Revolt against authority would evidently be an anomaly, an exceptional
case, like the refusal to labor. They would leave the refractory to pout their
^fill, as they would allow the indolent to fold their arms, convinced that they
would have few occasions for the exercise of tolerance in either case, and that
it would be accompanied by no danger.
Thus, there would be absolute liberty for all, even for children, of whose eman­
cipation the wildest radical has not yet dreamed, notwithstanding their palpable
and decided right to the free use of their faculties, now held in a complete,
severe, and most disastrous bondage.
It is singular to observe, how the nations of this world in their struggles after
more satisfactory forms of government, have been able to accomplish only a
distant approximation to a true and perfect form. The difficulty has been,' that
not possessing the correct formula of social equilibrium, they have vibrated
around the true point, without ever having attained to stability. They have
either had too little of liberty on the one hand, or too little of law on the other;
and thus failed through excess in the opposite quality in both cases.
In order to elucidate the various schemes of political constitution which di­
vide the world, let us resort to a table, in which the different kinds may be
seen together yet in contrast. The table we give is entirely incomplete, being
designed merely for illustration in this elementary and hasty discussion. We
could easily extend it, so as to embrace forty-eight modulations of doctrines,
but that would defeat the purpose we have in view which is simple and popular
instruction. The table is as f o l l o w s . '
Liberty and Order. X. ASSOCIATION. X. Attractive Hierarchy.
TABLE OP CONTRASTED HUMAN GOVERNMENTS.
Transition. 1. Autocracy.
Order.
Liberty.
TYansition. No-govemmentism.
Digitized by G< gle
n OBAANISATION OF T U TOWK8HIF.
W e have not space enough to develop fully the meaning of this table; but
our readers, on little reflection, will find it out for themselves. All the forma
of government here enumerated, are founded upon a true sentiment: what is
affirmative in them all, is good and true; only what is negative is wrong. It is
right that there should be in society Absolutism, or Unity of Purpose; it is right
tint there should be Individualism, or popular freedom or independence; it is
right that there should be Feudalism, or distinction of class; and it is right that
there should be Guaranteeism, or constitutional safeguards and defences of the
rights of the mass. So far, then, as any of these principles are adopted by a
society, so far it is legitimate; its falsehood commences when it denies the other
principles. Individualism denies the authority of any power but its own will,
and therefore leads to Disorder; Absolutism denies me will of the individual,
and therefore leads to Oppression and Tyranny; and so of the other forms. But
in Association, which denies none and accepts all, the liberty of the individual
is conciliated with the order of the state, distinctions of rank harmonized with
the guarantied rights of the masses. There is absolute unity of purpose and
movement; hierarchical or feudal gradations of honor; the guarantied mini­
mum and freedom of all classes; and the utmost individuality allowed to every
person.
It would be curious to trace out the path of thought here indicated, were it
consistent with the design of this book.
END OF PAE T I.
Digitized by Google
INTERMEDIATE.
ESSENTIAL DISTINCTION BETW EEN THE TWO PARTS OP THIS W ORK.
T h e r e are many persons in these times who feel that there is no salvation
for modern society, except through the organization of industry, and who have
therefore adopted the constructive principles of Fourier, as the most rational
and practicable that have ever been proposed. These men are of all parties in
politics and of all creeds in religion ; and it is because Fourier’s principles for.
township organization invade no private rights, and wound no peculiar sensi­
bilities, that they are enabled to meet on a common ground of benevolent action.
It is of such that the Societary or Phalansterian School is composed.
It is true that some persons, with a lightness that verges upon malignity or
bad faith, obstinately accuse that school of a design to abolish property, the
family relation, and religion : but can they, in the face of the sketch we have
just given, hope to persuade the public of so barefaced a falsehood? Is the
division of profits between Capital, Labor, and Talent, likely to lead to the abo­
lition of property, or to a stagnant equality ? Is the family likely to be injured,
in a condition of society which will furnish new and strong guarantees for its
independence, peace, and happiness ?—where the interchange of family affec­
tionswillnot be interrupted bythe influence ofadverse interestsf Is thereno longer
meaning in words ? Are the most positive avowals of intention and principles
not to be believed?
Whoever, then, undertakes to criticise or accuse the Phalansterian School,
must, to be honest, do so on other grounds than these. He must take up di­
rectly and only the project they present, and prove that it is in itself worthless or
impracticable. Random charges against opinions which we repel and plans
we do not propose, can only expose the authors of them to the contempt of
all fair-minded people.
The School of Fourier proposes hut one thing: t h e orga n iza tion of L abor
in t h e t o w n sh ip. It has no other object ; no other faith, as a School. In­
dividuals are, of course, always at liberty to promulgate whatever opinions they
may see fit.
Let a township be once organized according to opr principles, and the reform
will soon spread over the whole nation.
Slavery, direct and indirect, will then be abolished, because labor will have
become attractive ; savages and barbarians will more readily adopt the manners
of refined and cultivated life ; science, art, and industry, will be largely develop­
ed, and the most perfect order will reign along with the most perfect liberty.
This is our conviction : this is all we teach.
But as it is obvious that Law, Government, Manners, and Religion, would
all be more or less affected by a unitary regime of Industry, as they would all
be influenced to bring themselves under the operation of some unitary law,
Fourier has extended his researches, and uttered his thought, as to what would
Digitized by Google
74 IMTXEMEOIATS*
be the state of these Customs, Beliefs, etc., in the periods of social Harmony.
These conjectures, in the domain of pure theory, and not followed by any pro­
position, are to be accepted or rejected by the generations of the future, accord­
ing to the light which time and investigation may throw upon them.
It is from this point of view that the reader is requested to study the second
part of this work, in which are elucidated those ideas only which Fourier him­
self has called his rausings or fancies (retteries). These fancies, it is true, in
the minds of many of us, possess a clear and signal truth; but it is only, we
repeat, the practical side of Fourier’s doctrine which is universally adopted and
defended by the whole school of Societary Reformers.
Even if these ideas of the Future, which we are about to unfold, were as ob­
jectionable as some have represented, would that prove that the township need
not be, or can not be, organized ? May not the same man have suggested good
and bad thoughts ? Would it not be absurd to confound all in the same repro­
bation ? If what we have already proposed is good, can the foolishness or the
wickedness of what we are going to say, make it bad 1
After this reservation, then, which all candid and honorable men will receive
in good faith, we approach frankly and fearlessly all the questions that Fourier
has raised, well-assured that he who understands them will confess,—not their
truth in all cases,—but the magnificence of the intellect and the nobleness of
the heart in which they were born.
It has not been the policy of the Societaiy School to refer to these question»
at all, and their very reserve has brougnt suspicion upon their intentions, so
that what was in the first place a judicious caution has been converted into a
weapon of accusation. We trust that the reader will see, in the sequel, that
the reserve and the suspicion are now alike unnecessary.
No one is asked to believe in this second part; we do not ourselves individu­
ally accept all of it; and it is given, as an amusement, solely to complete our
plan.
Digitized by Googk
BOOK FOURTH.
UNITY OF MAN W I T H HIMSELF.
SE CON D S E C T I O N .
C H A PT E R V II,
ORGANIZATION OF SOCIETY« •
MJ’ai vn la Paix descendre sur la terre,
Semant de lfort des fleurs et des épis :
L’air était calme, et du Dieu de la guerre
Elle étouffait les foudres assoupis. ,
Ah ! disait elle, égaux par la vaillance,
Française, Anglais, Belge, Russe ou Germain,
Peuples, former une sainte alliance.
Et donner vous la main,
Pauves mortels, tant de haine, vous lasse, .
Vous ne goûter qu’un pénible sommeil.
D’un globe étroit divisez mieux l’espace,
Chacun de vous aura place au soleil.”—Di Berangib.
§ I. Hierarchy.
W e have said that after having laid down the fundamental principles of town*
ship reform, Fourier could not stop there ; he had yet to discover how, during
the epochs of Harmony, the phalanxes should be connected with each other,
to determine what should be me hierarchical constitution of society. We have
shown also that the ideas of Fourier on this point are not to be regarded as
propositions as to what must be done, but simply as conjectures oxprevisions of
what would probably take place in the course of time.
If his conceptions in this respect are just, they will possess that character of
Universal Conciliation which necessarily belongs to Truth, and the social hie­
rarchy, which* he foresees will have the power of causing itself to be unani­
mously adopted. It is requisite, therefore, that it should embrace all interests,
that it should recognise all rights, that it should accept all established verities ;
it is requisite that it should make amends for all injustices, without ceasing to
guaranty to each the undisturbed possession of all its peculiar advantages.
Considered as a territorial division, the Phalanx is called by Fourier an Un-
archy (corresponding perhaps to one of our counties or to a barony in Europe) ;
three or four Unarchies united form a Du-archy (as two or three counties here
form a school district, or as in Europe three or four baronies constitute the
jurisdiction of a Viscount) ; three or four Du-archies form a Tri-archy, &c.
(similar to a State here, composed of several counties, &c.), until the number
reaches a Duo-decarchy, which will be three in number,* together making the
Omni-archy which will include the entire surface of the earth.
The administrations or regencies (gérances), in thirteen degrees, of all these
divisions and subdivisions of territory, formed according to the elective system
* The three duo-decarchies will be lat, Europe—
-Africa ; 2d, Asia—Oceana ; 3d, North and 8outh
America. Fourier saya that he uses this barbarous nomenclature of Un-archy, Du-archy, Ac., for
the want of a better, and not as one which is proposed for adoption. '
—
Digitized by Googk
76 O M A R lU tlO If OP SOCIETY.
adopted in the Phalanx, will be constituted in the same manner, and of the
same number of persons, fulfilling analogous functions in a sphere more or less
extended. What we shall state, therefore, of a single administration will apply
to all, to the administration of a simple phalanx, as well as to the omniarchal
administration or the government of the whole earth.
We have seen that the Passions are the single source of all the actions of
men, and although an action may depend upon many passions, there will be one
passion dominant over the others, so that each action may take its rank or
place according to the passion which gives it its character.
The influence of government upon society being nothing but its influence
upon the actions of the members composing that society, or rather upon the
relations which those actions establish between the members, government
may be divided into branches corresponding to each kind of action, z. c., into
ministries springing respectively front one of the Passions. In this wky, the
social hierarchy wifi conform to the actual organization of man, to the hierarchy
of the passions.
The chiefs of these different branches of government are denominated Sover­
eigns. Each occupies his throne by right of some passion and of the rank
pertaining to the territorial division which it embraces. In all cases, the sover­
eignty is exercised conjointly by a man and woman, who have no other relations
than such as grow out of their common function.
The sexes are thus treated with equal favor; youth even not being for­
gotten, inasmuch as there is reserved to it, through all the degrees of the hie*
rarchy, the throne held in right of the passion of Friendship.
All these thrones, with one exception, are held by election, the greater
part for a few years only, with the incumbents always re-eligible. The principal
throne, that by right of character (a branch of Unityism*), is given for life or
that portion of life in which a man enjoys his faculties in tne plenitude of their
power. The choice will be easily made, inasmuch as there will be few candi­
dates for the place, its duties being such that only a small number of men will
be fitted by nature to discharge them, while any others would be totally out of
their element should they in any way get elevated to the dignity.
In this we take for granted that there is between inclinations or characters
and the things to be executed, a just equilibrium, without which every attempt
at social amelioration would be essentially futile. Science can only put each
one in presence of his work, and then the work will have found its workman.
In every function Nature presents many soldiers and few chiefs, so that each
may take the place which he is the best adapted to fill. Actual society offers
only one function for the thirty inclinations of the Individual, without caring
even whether the exercise of that single function is likely to develop any of his
natural tendencies.
The equilibrium of which we speak between the inward vocation and the
outward function will be admitted by all those, who having studied the great
book of Nature, are accustomed to admire the supreme wisdom of her laws.
W e see already an equilibrium of this kind between the sexes; yet that class
of thinkers which ascribes the fact to Chance, have never had sufficient confi­
dence in their theory, to disquiet themselves as to what would happen, if the
Chance which makes this equilibrium should be broken, and the numerical
equality between men and women cease to exist. So great is the instinctive
confidence of mankind in the certain and uniform operation of the laws of God!
We have said that one throne, forming an exception to the common rule, is
feot determined by election. This is the throne by right of Familism, which is
hereditary and remains in the same family for ever.
This passion of Familism presents a character which separates it very deci­
dedly from the other affectives; the ties formed by these are ties of choice,—
one chooses his wife, his friends, her husband; we attach ourselves freely,
* Each degree of the hierarchy will contain 16 thrones, IS by right of the 13 radical passions, and
4 byright of Unityism. For the details we most refer the reader to the works of Fourier.
Digitized by Google
OMAHIZATIOK OF S W ttT T . n
though ambitious, to the companies employed about the objects towards which
we are drawn ; but we do not choose either our parents or our children ; nature
gives them to us, and we accept and love them (or should love them) whatever
they may be, without having any connection with them but that simply of con­
sanguinity.
It is easy to conceive of the great utility of this exceptional character of
Familism. It is well for man that he is connected with his fellows at every in­
stant of his life, which could not happen if all the passions depended upon
choice, since the child would not then have any ties with his fellows before
having received a development sufficient to make him known and appreciated.
It is by Familism that the infant is cherished, even before he sees the tight,
that he is impatiently expected at his entrance into life, and that he lays hold
of so many by affection, in the interval of his being able to attach a greater
number by other passions.
If it is necessary that Familism should be, so to speak, an instinctive passion,
acting without the intervention of free-will, is it not also necessary that the par­
ticular character of the passion should be reproduced in all that depends upon
it, in everything that tends to regulate its exercise ?
There is found, then, in each degree of the Hierarchy, an hereditary throne
for the direction of whatever relates to the family, to its civil condition ; for the
preservation of the traces of the past, the archives, the genealogies, the traditions,
the history ; for keeping an account of the crossing of races and their effects,
etc., etc. Hereditary descent is requisite in functions which demand minute
care, exact researches, and labor continued with regularity during centuries ;
and these qualities can only be found in a family, traditional itself, so to speak,
and in which is transmitted from generation to generation, a function to which
É refers, from time immemorial, as the source of its greatness mid fortunes.
All opinions, political as well as others, must necessarily have some reason
- for their existence ; they belong to some natural tendency, to some true senti­
ment of the human heart ; and parties are wrong, not so much in what they de­
mand, as in what they deny. Their negations more than their affirmations lead
them into error. Science, Social Truth must accept all wishes (vœux), by re­
moving the obstacles to their reconciliation, and by offering a combination suf­
ficiently large to contain and to satisfy all at the same time.
The Hierarchy which Fourier has conceived gives ample satisfaction to all
the desires manifested in the heart of nations, to the desire for elective chiefs as
well as to the desire for hereditary thrones, but it circumscribes Heredicy to its
natural limits by confining it exclusively to the domam of the family.
In contrast with this hereditary throne determined by chance, the human
will not being consulted, the Hierarchy comprises a throne, the authority of
which rests upon mere caprice. It is the annual throne of Favoritism (a branch
of Unityism). A man is elevated to it for no other reason than that it is agreea­
ble to have him there ; where he assumes the presidency of festivals, fêtes, plea­
sure parties, and receptions ; and which belongs to him on no other ground than
that he best knows how to enliven and charm. The blind enthusiasm of the
masses for certain individuals is natural to man, and ought to be satisfied, but al­
ways within the limits in which it can most happily act.
When reform shall have been generally carried into effect, the first titularies
of Familism will be designated, and hereditary sceptres, twenty times more nu­
merous than the thrones occupied at this day, and of which many will have ju­
risdiction over territories much superior in extent to the vast empires of either
the present or the past, will be distributed.
The Regency of the inferior territorial divisions may be established at one of
the principal Phalansteries; but for the superior divisions, there will be neces­
sary manor-houses or head-quarters distinct from the Phalansteries,—cities more
and more important, thus raising by degrees until they reach the Omniarchal
Head-Quarters or the capital city of the Globe.*
* Fourier designates Constantinople as the city whose geographical position destines it to be­
come this great centre of the world.
Digitized by Google
T8 OftOAKÎZATIOlV OP SOCISTT.
These cities will be the centre of commercial movement, where the Indus­
-trial Armies, of which we shall speak hereafter, will concentrate. There th e y '
will join the learned, the artistic, the agricultural, the industrial societies, and p er­
sons eager for profound instruction; there they will find the libraries, the associa­
tions, the museums, the galleries, the collections of charts, of mineralogy, o f
geology, of natural history, the great theatres, etc., etc.; and there eminent m en
of all kinds will gather for intellectual converse and profit.
Thus, the cities will be occupied by a floating population, composed of bodies
and individuals coming periodically from different places. For their regular ser­
vice, each phalanx designed for the supply of the city, will furnish successive
detachments, relieved as often as it may be necessary, and which will form what
may be called the garrison. In this way, residence in the city, for nearly all,
will only be temporary.
The cities resemble the Phalansteries in their external arrangements. They
will be composed as at present of blocks of houses surrounded by streets; but
every block will have but one range of apartments on each street, and the
ground enclosed by the block, now occupied by miserable second and third rate
tenements—often by the most noisome and filthy sinks and stables, will form a
great central garden. These gardens and streets, adorned with trees, will em-
• hellish and purify every neighborhood.
A covered way, or gallery, overlooking the garden, willrun along the first story
of all the buildings, and the different blocks will be connected with each other
by means of bridges under which the carriages and carts may freely pass.
Thus, as in the* Phalansteries, people will go from one part of the city to an­
other, without exposure to humidity or the influence of the atmosphere.
The cultivation of the gardens, the promenades and public grounds of the city
will require only a small portion of the time of so numerous a population. &
this way, as an exception, the labors of science, art, manufacture, and com­
merce, will, in the cities, surpass in importance, labors purely agricultural;
purely agricultural, we say, because there will still be carried on in the cities,
the theoretical parts of culture, botanical gardens, nurseries, seed-plots, experi­
ments, etc., etc.
Cities now in existence will be gradually improved, by the re-building of such
parts as require it, according as the increase of wealth will permit of increased
expenditures, by razing to the ground the inferior tenements, for the establish­
ment of gardens, by bringing the lower stories, looking upon the court-yards,
into communication by means of doorways and staircases; and by throwing
bridges over the streets, destroying unwholesome quarters, etc., etc.
The Industrial Armies will undertake the labors which are interesting to sev­
eral phalanxes at the same time, such as causeways, bridges, railroads, canals,
the embankment of streams, and the wooding of mountains; they will have to
purify and fertilize all parts of the globe, such as deserts, savannas, steppes,
swamps, marshes, etc., which it will be necessary to conquer foot by foot; they
must open isthmuses, such as those of Suez and Panama, and they must bring
the great lakes of the interior into communication with the ocean, etc., etc.
An array will take rank according to the rank of the territorial division inter­
ested in its labors, and will be convoked and arranged by the regency of that di­
vision, which will raise a part of the whole force from the region which it gov­
erns, and demand the other parts from the regencies of other regions. A coun­
try which shall have received the aid of its allies, ought to lend these equivalent
■assistance, in similar circumstances.
The union of bodies, taken from different countries, and each executing its
tasks according to the methods of its own engineers, will excite a powerful em­
ulation. They will engage in veritable industrial battles, and their triumphs, cel­
ebrated with pomp, will resound over the whole earth. The labors of indus­
trial armies will be accompanied by greater glory than ever attended the labors
of warriors. When they shall undertake, for instance, to render fertile the
burning sands of Africa, they will be called upon to brave fatigues and dangers,
to exert an energy, and to manifest an intelligence that will justify a much no­
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OF SOCIETY. 79
bier pride than that ever felt by the most resistless of conquerors. It is here,
that the talents of an Alexander and Napoleon, will have a suitable sphere for
the exercise of their indomitable energies, and those sublime forces of genius,
now turned to works of destruction, will be absorbed in functions truly construc­
tive and extensively useful. The money and muscles wasted in the madcap ex­
pedition to Russia, might have subdued some barren and noxious territory, till
it should have been made the fitting residence for millions of people.
Industrial armies, composed of the two sexes, will unite whatever is brilliant
in both youth and age. They will be visited by the caravanseras of artists who
will travel the globe, as formerly did the troubadours and the trouvCrs.* They
will draw men towards them by the grandeur and usefulness of their labora, and
by the splendor of their festivals; and, so far from having occasion to recruit their
numbers by constraint, they will'find a"difficulty in moderating the enthusiasm
which will be everywhere felt' to share in their perils and renown.
§ II. Atmospheric Equilibrium.
The intelligent and combined labor of the Phalanxes and Industrial Armies
will render Humanity more and more the Master of the Globe. Fourier an­
nounces that- one of the results of unitary culture will be the regulation of the
seasons, the moderation of temperatures, and the control of climates, in such a
way as to have them always the most favorable. He even goes further, and
thinks that by persistence in this method man will succeed in reducing the ices
which defend the polar regions, and conquer those extreme parts of his legiti­
mate domain, inasmuch as the Deity could npt have created them for the single
and cruel purpose of causing disasters and shipwrecks.
These bold affirmations are those which have led many to believe that Fou­
rier allowed himself to be deluded by his imagination. Let us examine his
predictions, and see whether they merit the raillery and disdain with which they
have been treated. Let us see if there are not some faint grounds, at least, for
the hope that his speculations were not altogether whimsical and crazy.
It can be shown that there exists a close relation between three things: the
cultivation of the globe on one side, and on the other, the movement of the at­
mosphere, and the circulation of the imponderable fluids through the earth,—
a circulation abundantly demonstrated, among a thousand other phenomena, by
the variations of the magnetic needle.
By the “ cultivation of the globe,” we mean, all that belongs to Life, prop­
erly speaking, and not merely Vegetation,—the animals of a country being the
consequences of its agricultural condition.
How can man, who pretends to disarm the thunder-cloud by means of a few
metallic points affixed to his houses, refuse to admit the influence exerted upon
tempests by the myriad of points offered by the forests with which he covers his
mountains and hills?
Without speaking of the enormous quantity of gases absorbed and decom­
posed by animal and vegetable respiration, does not everybody know that the
state of cultivation in any country essentially modifies its temperature, and that
that temperature reacts upon the atmospheric equilibrium ? Or think, again,
of the mechanical action of a forest upon the current of air which passes over
it: how the trees are blown hither and thither; how branches and leaves are
shaken and torn off, and that the whole force required to produce these motions
is just so much force lost by the moving fluid; how the specific gravity of wood
is six or seven hundred times greater than that of air, and that consequently the
motion of a tree renders stationary six or seven hundred times its volume of air
coming against it; and we shall understand what a powerful influence the wood-
i ig or unwooding of mountains will have upon the atmosphere; we shall under­
stand why regular winds prevail only on the sea and arid plains, and why their
* Troubadours, trovers, artists in general, will not be artists merely, but will engage in other
labors that will develop all their faculties. Each member of a travelling troupe, arriving at an
Army or a Phalanx, will engage in the labors of the groups, will communicate whatever he knows
that is new in relation to improved methods, quicker processes, etc., etc.
Digitized by Google
80 OmftAmZAYfON OF SOCIETY.
action is so soon disturbed and modified when they traverse countries covered
with high vegetable products.
The mutual dependence between the state of cultivation of the globe and its
electro-magnetic circulation, becomes equally apparent on reflection.
What is the action of a galvanic pile upon a liquid holding salts and other
compounds in solution ? Each molecule seems suddenly endowed with intelli*
gence and life; it separates under this influence from the molecules which dis­
please it, and joins itself to others for which it has more affinity; and always
acts in definite proportions of number or measure. There is something per­
fectly similar in all the phenomena of life; the liquid sap or blood, which car­
ries nourishment to every part of a living being, accepts or repels with sagacity
the materials offered to it, and disperses or assimilates them with discernment
and symmetry. Nor must we, then, overlook the galvanic action which is ne­
cessarily connected with the action of that enormous pile called the Earth, the
influence of which is felt at all times and places. !
And since every action produces an equal reaction, there is a powerful reaction
of the phenomena of life and vegetation upon the great magnetic currents.
Thus, the action of the electro-magnetic fluids upon the movements of the
atmosphere is so evident, that it here needs only to be indicated. Thus, too, we
see that there is a strict dependence between the movements of the atmosphere,
the electro-magnetic circulation, and the cultivation of the globe.
The reciprocal action of these three things is not, however, the only one
which influences their equilibrium. There are causes exterior to the globe
Itself, which tend to their mutual derangement.
These exterior causes are the attractions of the celestial bodies, chiefly the
Sim and Moon. This attraction produces an effect upon the atmosphere sim­
ilar to that of marshes; the movement returns periodically, with an intensity
varying according to the relative positions of the stars by which it is determined.
The rotary motion of the globe may also be ranked among these exterior
causes, since it takes place by virtue of a primary impulsion given from without,
and produces trade-winds and similar currents of air, which cause themselves to
be felt periodically in the same places. The sun, as we know, by its calorific
or heat-producing agency, concurs in the production of these phenomena.
Such are, in general, the causes which tend to derange the atmospheric and
electro-magnetic equilibriums. But what is important in regard to them, is to
determine which of these causes act irregularly upon the equilibriums.
The exterior causes produce regular movements which can be foreseen and
announced, so that it is in the globe itself that we must look for the causes of
' ular movements or perturbations.
jw, since in the globe, everything is marked by regularity of movement or
condition, except the state of its surface, we are forced to acknowledge that ev­
ery irregular movement of the atmosphere or of the electro-magnetic system,
arises from the irregular action of man upon the surface of the earth.
Everything is regular in the globe, for the “ secular perturbations” ought not to
be taken into consideration in the question which now engages us; and among
those perturbations, we reckon the cooling of the globe, which, in the epoch in
which we find ourselves, scarcely makes itself sensible in a great number of
centuries. The action of this cooling on volcanic eruptions and earthquakes
can now only be secondary; a derangement of the electro-magnetic circulation
is the-principal cause of the phenomena.
Thus, on one side, we can not refer the irregularities of which we speak to
any other cause than the state of cultivation on the globe; and on the other
side, we see that this cause is sufficiently powerful to explain those irregulari­
ties. W e are compelled, therefore, to allow that by the regular cultivation of
the globe, man can restore all these phenomena to regularity. By acting upon
it in a unitary manner, in perfect harmony with natural laws, man will prevent
all excess, all intemperature, every atmospheric and electro-magnetic perturba­
tion. Lord of the airs, he will direct them each year so as to supply abundant
wealth as the just reward of his wisdom and intelligent labois.
Digitized by Google
ORGANIZATION OP SOCIETY. 81
How did Fourier come to believe that the new equilibrium would result in
breaking the ices of the pole, in removing the obstructions from the seas and
straits of those latitudes, and in extending the domain of man over so many
countries now deserted, and about which Man has disquieted himself so many
years, with so much fatigue and danger, and so little success ? This is the next
question. .
In studying the arrangement of the Earth’s continents, it has often been remark­
ed that they both present a point elongated toward the south, and that, in that di­
rection, the land terminates at a great distance from the polar circle. To the
North, on the contrary, the continents approach the poles, widening as they
penetrate the icy zone, so that the Arctic ocean, if it were practicable, could soon
be made, like the Mediterranean, a centre of activity and a place of intercourse
for all nations.
But these lands and seas, so favorably situated for the general interests of
Man, are useless to him in consequence of the ice and frosts which forbid all
access.
Fourier did not believe in Chance; he believed in a Great First Cause gov­
erning all creation by beneficent laws; and he boldly concluded from the dispo­
sition of the land that the globe having been providentially prepared for man, man
must have been endowed with forces sufficient to remove every obstacle to ihe
complete subjection of his domain. And since the obstacle here is the tem­
perature of the poles, he thought that it was given to man to moderate that tem­
perature.
Man, we have said, may, by his action upon the surface of the earth, render
the circulation of both winds and electro-magnetic currents more regular.
• The irregularity of the electro-magnetic currents is manifested in many ways;
among others, by irregularities in the emission of fluid during the appearance
of the Aurora Borealis. If, by unitary cultivation, the electro-magnetic move­
ment should be regulated, the Auroras Borealis would appear regularly, and dot
by fits and starts as they now do. Fourier predicts that they would augment,
in duration, in such a manner as to become permanent, and in intensity, so as
by their calorific action to rescue the circumpolar regions from their graves of
ice and warm them into life and vegetation.
Fourier does not doubt of this result, because only in this way is it possible
to understand why the continents have received a form, which, without this new
source of light and heat, without this Boreal Crown, would be useless and
unworthy of the wisdom and goodness of Deity.
An atmospheric and electro-magnetic equilibrium must have existed before
the creation of man, when the virgin earth had undergone no perturbations
through his agency. Then, warmed by the Boreal Crown, the poles were peo­
pled by animals and vegetables. The crown was extinguished, when man,
abandoning himself to social incoherence, and taking coufisel only of his selfish
interests, raised the thoughtless axe to brand the earth with ignoble marks of iso­
lated cultivation.* The Crown will be reproduced, more radiant than ever,
when Humanity, having identified private interests with general interests, ad­
vancing like one man toward its object, embellishing the globe by regular and
unitary culture, shall cause disorder to be followed, not by the primitive and
simple equilibrium, but by an equilibrium composite and refined.
Such are the wonders which Fourier, enlightened by his daring and compre­
hensive synthesis, dares to announce to men, who receive them with the smile
of incredulity. In the meantime, Science marching slowly from observation
to observation, discerns some fragments of these great things, under the object-
glasses of its analysis. Thus for instance, M. de Candolle, the learned natural­
ist of Geneva, has acknowledged that a Boreal Crown must have formerly exist­
* The cooling of the globe, at first rapid, has been one of the principal causes of those great rev­
olutions and cataclysms which distinguish the geological epochs. The cooling became less sensi­
ble in the last formations, and upon the globe prepared, for tne superior animals and man, an atmo­
spheric and electro-magnetic equilibrium was established. Man ought to refine this equilibrium by
clearings, but by clearings to which tillage would succeed, and not by unwooding elevated places,
fay the destruction of forests. The action of man upon the vegetable creation has been almost al­
ways unintelligent and fatal.
Digitized by Google
82 ORGANIZATION OF SOCIETY.
ed. In the “ Dictionaire Pittoresque d'Histoire Naturellc” vol. 3d, page 406.
we read: “ The opinion of M. de Candolle in regard to those ancient vegeta­
bles whose fossils are found in every country of the globe, obliges us to admit
that those vegetables, of which some distant resemblances, infinitely smaller,
exist only in the tropics, could only have existed by supposing changes in the
axis of the earth—a supposition which both geometricians and natural philoso­
phers repel; or that those vegetables, which have need of the action of some
Great Light, besides that of a strong heat, have been able to find these essen­
tial conditions of their existence, only in the fact of a central fire, joined to
the fact of a lum inous fl u id d if f e r e n t from t h e l ig h t o f t h e s u n .
Thus to explain the presence of these vegetables, we are forced to admit the
presence of an agent which no longer exists ; in a word, the presence of a light
like that which the Genesis makes to appear before the star of day was created,
becomes necessary here.”
The Genesis, and M. De Candolle, admitting the anterior existence of the
Crown!
§ III. The Equilibrium of Population.
W e can not avoid saying a few words here on a question, on which the Po­
litical Economists have reasoned, or, to speak more exactly, have jargoned to
their mutual confusion;—the question of Population.
Let no one be astonished that an obscure writer thus dares to accuse, both
of stupidity and error, writers who have acquired a high place in public estima­
tion. The Political Economists themselves have dared a hundred times more
than this, inasmuch as they virtually contend, in their empty theories, that die
laws of Providence are absurd, silly, and merciless! They have not hesitated
to accuse the Deity of the grossest unslylfulness and the direst cruelty, and *
have often proved themselves as presumptuous as they were impious and stolid.*
These men appear to imagine that God has never taken care to regulate the
movement of population. They seem to think that he has left it to them to
prevent disastrous exuberance, by teaching caution as to marriages, while He
holds in reserve, to re-establish an equilibrium when there shall be occasion for
it, such intelligent and fatherly means as war, pestilence, and famine!!
Let us see, if, with more faith, we can not arrive at a knowledge of the law
of the'movement of population, and if that law, like every other providential
law, is not good for the race, after the race shall have resolved to profit by it.
The tendency of Man is evidendy .to possess himself of all parts of the earth,
to cultivate them, to purify them, to draw from the globe all the wealth that it
encloses, to augment the sum of his enjoyments, and to complete his happiness.
It is good for man, then, that population should increase, until he shall have
occupied all countries, the burning deserts no less than the deserts of ice, and
until the surface of the earth shall be covered with laborers, in number sufficient
for its perfect cultivation.
Consequendy, it must be inferred that the law tending to this result, is really
providential and worthy of God, since nothing, until now, has shown that it is
otherwise. For, God never having traced the limits which separate people and
confine them, each by itself, in unfriendly herds, can not be held responsible for
any excess of population accumulating upon one point, while there are else­
.where whole countries entirely deserted, or run over only by a few savage tribes
and adventtirous travellers. Men do not spring up in the midst of wildernesses,
and, as long as it is good for population to augment, must be bom in countries
already peopled. Instead of endeavoring so ridiculously to oppose themselves,
to a movement resulting from a natural law, the Economists ought to have
sought how that law could be made advantageous, and shown the easy
modes in which the surplus of a crowded population might be spread in swarms
over regions in want of laborers. There is not, perhaps, in all history, more
singular facts than those which detail the slip-shod, wasteful, incoherent manner
in which the colonization of new countries has been effected. It has sometimes
been the result of commercial enterprise on the part of a few; sometimes of
* We purpose in some future work to showup this class of bunglers and pedants.
Digitized by Googk
religious persecution driving a feeble sect into exile ; never the result of a com­
prehensive and systematic attempt to benefit mankind.
The Law is good, if population tends to increase as much more rapidly as
the number of men is below the complement necessary to a perfect cultivation
of the globe ; if the movement relaxes in proportion as the number approaches
that limit; and if it becomes null, i. e., if an equilibrium be established between
births and deaths, when the limit is attained.
But the movement of population must depend upon the external and internal
conditions of life in which men find themselves placed. Let us see what rela­
tions may exist between the power of Humanity over its globe, and the physi­
ological state of individuals.
It i9 by the progress of science, art, and industry, that Man becomes more and
more the Master of his domain ; and human powers will attain its highest term,
when all these matters shall have reached their completest development.
This development will result in placing Man in circumstances more and more
favorable to the equilibrated employment of all his faculties and all his forces,
to his wealth, his happiness, and his physical and intellectual vigor.
All these things then,—the power of Man over his globe, the development of
sciences and industry, the refinement of the species, ought to advance by paral­
lel steps, and tend together to a common apogee.
By the refinement of the species we mean that condition of human beings which
leads to the complete and equilibrated employment of all their faculties.
Thus, a population of farmers may be composed of robust individuals; but
vigor without grace, strength without address, health without intelligence, does
not constitute the refinement to which Humanity must attain.
The law of population, then, must be such that reproduction will be less ac­
tive, in proportion as the species becomes more refined.
Again : this law must be admitted a priori, since the contrary law, which sup­
poses that population would increase the more rapidly as its conditions were
improved, would lead to atrocious results, in plain contradiction to all that we
know of Nature and its laws. We learn, moreover that man, making use of all
his faculties, employing all his forces, leaving none of his muscles inactive, no
part of his brain idle, doing in a word all that it is possible for him to do, must
expend a large amount of vital energy of which a part would have gone to the or­
gans of generation, if it had not been otherwise absorbed.
But let us examine the hypothesis in itself, and we shall confess that it is ver­
ified in every particular case in which it can be applied.
The Vegetable Kingdom ; when a plant is cultivated with care, under skies
and in a soil which are agreeable to it, when it is found in conditions most favora-
able to its development, it becomes beautiful and vigorous; but if the flower is
brilliant, it is because the number of petals has increased at the expense of the
stamens and pistils, because the organs of reproduction have been lessened, be­
cause they are indeed almost entirely effaced. If from this bed, in which the
plant is cultivated with so much care, a seed escapes and the wind carries it to
some arid soil, that soil will send forth a plant feeble and sickly, but presenting
in perfection all the organs of reproduction, by lessening the petals to their
smallest number. It seems, say the naturalists, that the plant perceiving the
danger of death to which it is exposed, summons whatever of energy remain in
it to the sexual organs, so that the loss of the species will not be a consequence
of the decay of the individual.
The Animal Kingdom: it is very well established among domestic animals,
that the female conceives with less facility in proportion as its kind is handsomer
and more refined. Thus, in England, racing mares are not brought to the male
until after they have been predisposed to conception by the precaution of a fa­
vorable regimen. Those precautions are designed to derange the perfect equi­
librium existing in the functions of the animal, by giving her only insubstantial
nourishment and sometimes even exposing her to mal-treatment. We know
that many English mares received at die cavalry school of Saumer, a few yean
since, were tried for foals many times without success, until "hey had rs-
ORGANIZATION OF SOCIETY. 83
Digitized by Googk
84 MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
placed the extraordinary care which was lavished upon them, in order to pro­
. pare them for conception, by an anti-hygienic regimen.
The Human Kingdom.—In physiological respects, the passage from vegeta­
bles to animals, and from animals to man, is an insensible one, and we must
believe that a law prevailing among the first two is still the law of the human
species. Besides, it is possible to point out a great many facts in Humanity,
which go to confirm this. law. The poorer classes, miserable, broken, are they
the least fruitful 1 Has it not passed into a proverb, that “ the poor man’s quiver
Is full of arrows?” The most delicate, refined, and uniformly cultivated women,
are they the most apt in reproduction ? Recent publications teach us that the
population of Paraguay, which lives under circumstances very favorable for the
satisfaction of its wants, increases so slowly that it quite surprises that class of
thinkers who regard the rapid increase of population as one of the signs of na­
tional prosperity.
Thus, 1st, the law which we have stated is alone worthy of Providence; 2d,
it is verified in every case in which it can be applied.
CHAPTER VIII.
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
“ To the pure, all things are pure.”—John.
In approaching the more delicate topics of our inquiry,—topics which can
only be approached with an extreme reserve, we feel the necessity of repeating
once more that the Social School, which professes to teach the positive doc­
trines of Fourier, have but a sin g le and ex c lu siv e aim —the Organization o f
Labor. With the mere conjectural opinions of their Master, or any of his dis­
ciples, they have nothing to do, except to consider them, and to adopt or reject
them, as they appear to each one to be false or true. There are some of Fou­
rier’s notions which strike the warmest of his disciples as fanciful, and to these
they ascribe no authority, leaving the decision of diem to the developments of
time. Some of these opinions will be referred to in this chapter; and we have
thought fit to say what we have just said because we foresee that the small wits
of the newspapers, and other ill-disposed persons, will take advantage of the
frankness of our statements.
If the reform which we propose were adopted; if the d em o n str a ted experi­
mental effect of our Organization were to give Reason and Passion the same
direction, to identify private interest with general interest, all restraint, both
moral and legal—all repressive action—would be at an end, since there would
be no occasion for its manifestation.
W e pretend to nothing more; we are not so senseless as to desire the sup­
pression of all coercive means, and the full play of the Passions, before a long
and satisfactory experience of the reformed state of society shall have shown,
to future generations, that it would be unattended with dangerous results.
But so long as the Passions may bring forth Disorder, so long as Inclination
may be in opposition to Duty, we reprobate, as strongly as any class of men, all
improper indulgence of the inclinations and feelings ; and where Reason is un­
able to guide them, have no objection to a resort to other means.
With this preliminary caution, we enter upon our subject.
Law, morals, and religion, can have but one legitimate tendency—to teach man
to avoid those excesses which are personally injurious to him; to prefer his
permanent happiness to any transient gratification; and to sacrifice his private
Digitized by Google
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS. 85
interestwhen it comes in conflict with the general good; or, in other words, to con­
form his life to the principles of universal Justice, Truth, and Unity. They can
have no other end: for if they commanded what was hurtful either to individu­
als or the species, they would be odious and absurd; and if they forbid things
that were innocent, they would be capricious and arbitrary.
The acts proscribed by Morals are—1st, acts absolutely bad in themselves,
independent of the actual form of society; 2d, acts hurtful, incidentally, in con­
sequence only of the organization of society.
Acts, bad absolutely, in that they injure others* or ourselves, are condemnable
for ever, and will be condemned under all social forms. Science ought to fur­
nish the means of preventing these acts by destroying the squrces from which
they are known to spring.
Acts which injure incidentally only, in consequence of the particular organi­
zation of the society in which they are manifested, may become innocent under
another social form, and in that way escape the province and consequent con­
demnation of Morality.
In Harmony, morals will continue to interdict all that is now forbidden on the
ground that it is bad in an absolute sense. To prevent the recurrence of crime, all
the instituted means of restraint and punishment may be preserved,—the whole
apparatus of existing laws, courts, prisons, constables, and houses of correction.
They may be preserved until it shall appear that there is no longer need of
them, and they are permitted to fell into complete inactivity, or are converted
to nobler uses. It would not be long, we think, before that event would arrive,
and as we now see the magnificent but almost useless castles of the feudal ages
converted into public school-houses, we should then see our Penitentiaries and
Egyptian Torpbsf made mineralogical cabinets or rooms for the preservation
of fossils.
Already, at this day, are not crimes less frequent among the classes which are
said to be in easy circumstances ? Do they not spring, for the most part, from '
the lower classes, whose sensibilities are blunted by ignorance, and whose pas­
sions are fretted by misery? And may we not conclude from these facts, that
if the poorer classes were raised to the condition of the middling classes, the
larger number of crimes—
-certainly of the more gross and revolting crimes—
would be prevented ?
How much more surely, then, would crimes be avoided in Harmonic So­
ciety, where every individual would be developed, physically, intellectually, and
morally, in the completest manner, and where all would be assured, for them­
selves and for others, a future exempt from harassing cares and privations ?
How could the Passions lead to crime, when every thing should be arranged
to satisfy them in the most agreeable manner, and when their exercise would
determine the lot of each one as to wealth, enjoyment, and pleasure? By what
strange caprice, when every honorable way would be opened for the action of
-the passions, would a man set to work to seek out base methods, which could
only conduct him to contempt and the ruin of all his affections! For crime '
could not be hidden in a society where every one would be seen for the greater
part of the day, and where it would be known, from hour to hour, what each
person did. For instance, how and when would anybody be able to use a stolen
object ? In what way Could he turn it to his own advantage ?
Yet, if Crime should show itself in Harmony, it would be so infrequent
and solitary, that society, regarding the guilty one more as a fool than a knave,
would seek only to preserve itself from a second attack, by rendering it impos­
sible for him to repeat his folly.
The excesses which Morality justly condemns, because they injure the indi­
vidual himself, would be avoided in a social medium where the attractive exer­
cise of one faculty would be unceasingly followed by the attractive exercise of
* Acta which injure others may be ranged into two classes : 1st, material violence,—the abuse
of our physical force, brutality, etc.; 2d, moral violence,—the abuse of our intellectual powers,
perfidy, etc.
t The New York City Prison.
Digitized by Googk
MANNERS AND CUST0M8.
another; as the sportsman, though he may be a decided amateur in the plea­
sures of the table, would sit long enough only to satisfy his hunger, if the chase
called him to another place. M^n commit excesses because no other pleasure
tends to withdraw them from the pleasure of the moment, or because the Alter­
nating Passion which solicits them to change their occupation offers them nomore
agreeable employment as a variety.
As to acts which morality forbids because they are accidentally hurtful under
certain social forms, Fourier says that they must cease to be culpable in a me­
,dium in which they would be innocent.
Thus, in our present society, Fourier says that Freedom in matters of love,
would lead to a frightful confusion—to the abandonment of children, to the
degradation of women, and to the destruction of the family, which is the single
base of civilized society. Morality has therefore, a thousand reasons for insist­
ing upon exclusive marriages, and denouncing every violation of the law upon
.which social order reposes.
But if Men lived in a society where a larger liberty in marriage and divorce
.would be without danger, where it would tend to strengthen the reciprocal af­
fection of both parents and children, where it would render all the relations of
the sexes, frank, loyal, and truthful, then it would not be obnoxious to the pe­
culiar condemnations with which it is now necessarily visited. Fourier, there­
fore, regarding the passion of Love as good, useful, and innocent in itself, has
proceeded to describe its probable influence in future states of society with a
boldness and freedom that have shocked the feelings and prejudices of many wor­
thy people.
That there may be no mistake in this point, that the public may know the
substance of what Fourier teaches, we shall give a brief statement of his spec­
ulations, wishing the reader to bear in mind that they are only speculations to
which we attach no authority, and which he is at liberty to condemn with all
his might, if they require such condemnation.
First, however, we must remark that Fourier dwells upon what the state of the
sexual relations is under systems which render all marriages exclusive and perma­
nent. We know that there are multitudes of unhappy families, where the hus­
band and wife ought never to have been joined together, and that there are many
too, in which duplicity, violence, and discord, reign; we know that adulteries,
even in the most polished circles, are not of rare occurrence; we know that a
majority of the young men of our cities and larger villages, are in the habit of
.visiting brothels; we are told by physicians that practices of secret vice are un­
dermining the constitution of thousands uj>on thousands of females ; we know
that that most hideous ancf awful oT~aH~social results^Prostitution, prevails over
the civilized world (in New York there are more than ten thousand public
prostitutes, and a proportional number in all the cities and villages in the United
States); and we know that such crimes as Infanticide, Seduction, the Desertion
of Children, accompanied by circumstances of the most keen and poignant dis­
tress, often occupy our courts and fill the police reports of newspapers.
Then, the injustice with which society distinguishes between the offences of
the sexes; how it assembles its judges and condemns the poor unfortunate
woman to ignominy, stripes, and death, while the infamous seducer, free, hon­
ored, and even caressed, perhaps sits upon the bench or in the jury box, which
condemns his victim to her living tomb!
Again, childhood, the hope of the future, the tender bud which must sooner
or later become the brilliant flower and the precious fruit, which must be nour­
ished with so much care, what becomes of it in our present society ? Cain!
where is thy brother?
What terrible examples are daily set before children, especially the children
of the poor, at home and abroad! What scenes of domestic strife, of intem­
perance, of brutal passions, of oaths and violence, are many of them called upon
to witness! Wherever they go, their eyes and their ears initiate them into the
dangerous secrets of vice. The placards on our walls, the conversations of the
market-place, the reports of the newspapers, the tattle of domestics, theatres,
66
Digitized by Google
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS. 87
and books are filled with impure and disgusting details, the only effect of which
can be to blast the young minds perpetually coming in contact with them, by
filthy imaginings and destructive propensities.
Now, Fourier asks, since all these disorders and vices have been developed
under a law of constraint, have co-existed with force, have never been suppressed
by any device of coercion, may we not hope that Order and Virtue will spring
from greater freedom in sexual relations established under quite different social
circumstances ?
In the Phalanx, for instance, he says that childhood, working under the eyes
of all, would never be abandoned to itself, neither in the fields nor the work­
shop, nor even in the dormitories. Preoccupied by the various industrial em­
ployments, for which it would have a passion, it would not know that profound
ennui to which existing methods of education so stupidly condemn it, and
which so greatly promote the vagaries of the imagination. At the end of every
day, the child fatigued would only think of repose to which it would go smiling
over its hopes of new industrial triumphs on the morrow»
In the Phalanx, nothing could awaken dangerous ideas in the child. En­
gaged at its tasks, its libraries, its museums, it would no longer look upon a
world made only for the eyes of adults. Men would be careful to abstain from
all acts or words of gallantry in its presence—the more so as they would be
free to speak on such matters at the meetings in the saloons in the evening, after
the children had retired to bed.
That the curiosity of childhood might not be too suddenly awakened, in pass­
ing from its customs to those of youth, Fourier suggested a transition through
what he calls the Corps of Vestals. The adolescents, of both sexes, emerging
from childhood at the age of 18 or 19,* would enter this body, and pass a greater
or less length of time, according to their characters and temperament. There
are many reasons given why it would be desirable for the young to remain in
this corps as long as they could be permitted; among others that they would
thus be trained to the highest purity and most spiritual perceptions of Love.
Their first impressions of the relations of sex would be those of its high and aw­
ful sacredness.
During the time of the Vestalate, the young woman and man would likely
make their choice. This choice would be determined by no considerations of
rank or fortune, and parents would not trouble themselves to interfere with the
arrangements of persons whose fortune would be so well secured. Each party
would consult the dictates of the heart, and, in this respect, conform to the wifi
of God, who has not placed so divine and beautiful a passion as Love in the
bosom, to have it blighted by indifference, or crushed and trampled by the op­
pression of either husbands or parents.
The choice thus made under such circumstances, would be declared a mar­
riage, and would be in all likelihood the best that could be made, and perma­
nent. The parties would then pass from the Vestalate to some other corpora­
tion composed exclusively of the Married.
But suppose that this arrangement should have been entered into unwisely«
that the parties subsequently find that they are not fitted to each other, or that
one or the other should be inconstant in passion, does Fourier regard the tie as
indissoluble 1 He answers, No ! and in this he agrees with a large number of
our modern statesmen *and moralists, while he stands on surer grounds than
they.
He thinks that Love is too sacred a passion to be forced, except in those in­
coherent and imperfect societies, where the rights and liberty of the individual
are of necessity sacrificed to the general order. His leading principle is that
perfect Liberty is perfect Law in a perfect state of existence, and that liberty
gives place to law and artificial discipline, more and more strictly, as we descend
the scale of elevation and refinement, and that in proportion as liberty, uncheck­
ed by discipline, exceeds refinement in mankind, depravity and anarchy disor­
* The active life of Harmonic Childhood, it is quite probable for certain organic and physiological
laws, would postpone the age of puberty to 17 or IS.
Digitized by Google
88 MANNERS AND CU8T0MS.
ganize society and render it infernal. On the other hand, in proportion as soci­
ety ascends the scale of progressive refinement, the bands of liberty may be
relaxed, since it becomes more and more one with Law. While, therefore, in
the present state of society divorce would be inadmissible, except in extreme
cases of unhappiness, he holds that it grows the less dangerous, as society insti­
tutes those guarantees, and advances in that purity of thought, which take away
its pernicious qualities and effects.
Mr. ‘Doherty, of London, who has studied Fourier’s science, both in his
{
jrinted works and his manuscripts, more profoundly, perhaps, than any other
iving man, says that his views of marriage are, “ that the present system will
prevail until the female sex are rendered independent in a worldly point of view,
and generally enlightened, which he supposes will require three generations at
least to effect; after which the laws of marriage and domestic order, will be al­
most exclusively under the jurisdiction of the female sex, who will legislate on
general principles, uniting female liberty and independence with moral harmony
and Christian purity. When that sex shall have been rendered independent, he
maintains that they will force the male sex to be honorable, chaste, and moral,
to obtain their approbation; for a man who had deceived a woman would be
deemed a traitor to the sex and banished from society.”
We should be unfaithful, however, to the task we have undertaken, were we
to conceal that Fourier was decidedly of the conviction, that while a part of
mankind were formed for constancy in Love, there are some who are formed for
change. It is this portion of his theory, in which he sketches a plan for the or­
ganization of the latter class, which has produced so much confusion and oppo­
sition in the minds of superficial readers.
In a Phalanx, where both sexes will enjoy an independent social position, and
the relations of Love will not be complicated with fastidious questions of inter­
est and selfishness, all characters which are true and worthy of it, he says, will
be honored, and falsehood alone will be branded.
The various relations of the sexes will lead, like all other passional relations,
to an organization into groups and series, comprising only those who have ar­
rived at puberty. Departing from the Vestalate, each one will enter some cor­
poration having constancy for its rule; many will stop there; but others are so
peculiarly formed that they will join themselves to other corporations, more or
less severe, as may be agreeable to their inclinations and temperaments.
The statutes of the different corporations of this series will be sufficiently va­
ried to allow each person to find congenial natures. In this way, no one will
have any inducement to dissimulate, and all, making known what they are, will
scrupulously obey the laws under which they are ranked, since in acting other­
wise, they would dishonor themselves without motive, being always free to fol­
' low another rule, simply declaring it by joining another corporation.
It is by the detailed description of the arrangements of these Corporations of
Love that Fourier has brought the greatest discredit on his whole system. Many
good persons havesupposed that he designed his sketchesforinstantadoption, even
under existing circumstances, and have thus been led to believe that he favored
P r o m iscu ity . Nothing could be further from his thought. And that this
may be seen, we will, at the hazard of some repetition, state what we believe to
be the key to what are considered his wildest speculations.
The time must come, he says, in the flight of centuries, when every one of
the radical passions of man, must receive its highest development, andvwhen so­
ciety must be adapted to that development.
In our present incoherent and infant societies, not one of the Passions has
received such a development or any approach to it, unless we except the pleas­
ure of Hearing, which is developed in the form of Music. The sight has
been partially developed by Painting, Architecture, Statuary, <kc., but is sus­
ceptible of a much higher education, so that the time will come when the
colors of our dresses, our habitations, and our fields, will be arranged by true
scientific principles of harmony. Taste has received a still more incomplete
attention, and that only in France, but is destined hereafter to have its composers
Digitized by Google
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
who will rank in their science, as Mozart, Handel, Auber, &c., dec., now do in
Music, or as Raphael, Angelo, and Reynolds, now do in Coloring. In this way
every other passion must receive its scientific development.
By scientific development is meant such an education and perfecting of the
organs^is will cause them to impart the highest degree of pleasure of which
they are capable to their possessor and to society at large. This Fourier sup­
poses can only be given in the Serial Organization.
Now, Fourier continues, the Affective Passions, as well as the Sensitive and
Intellectual, are susceptible of this scientific education and progress. Ambition,
for instance, must be gratified in a variety of modes, in order to develop all the
intense pleasures of which it will be susceptible in Harmony. The serial or­
ganization of government is therefore designed to give full play to the passion
of ambition in all its methods of action.
The passion of Love, he argues, before it can yield all the results of which
it is capable, must undergo a similar organization by series, to meet all the
wants of all the natures that God sends into existence. The first organization,
therefore, is that of the Vestalic Corporation, devoted to the development of
the most purely spiritual relations between the sexes, and which is surrounded
by the most attractive charms and the most ennobling honors, to retain its
members as long as possible within its instructions; another would be a corpo­
ration of Constancy, as we have said, at which the most part of men and wo­
men would stop; while others again, named Bacchantes, Bayaderes, &c., &c.,
would pass into other corporations, not so strict in their requirements. Such
characters as Aspasia, Ninon De L ’Enclos, &c., Fourier regards as essential
parts in the variety of the human race, who will always exist, who must be al­
lowed for in every scheme of philosophy, and whom society, instead of rude­
ly thrusting from its charities, must turn to some good account. The most
irregular natures must be made to co-operate in the production of Harmonic
Results.
The Passions which, for many reasons, will be the last to receive their high
scientific development will be those of Love and Paternity, because they imply
a degree of individual purity and social refinement which can only be attained
in the course of many centuries. Until the female sex and parents should de­
cide that such a state of purity had come, they must remain under existing
regulations.
Liberty of this kind, according to Fourier, would destroy Falsehood, and
Truth preside over all the relations of Love; and each one, bringing his conduct
into the full light of day, no one, in loving, would ever have occasion to fear de­
ception and perfidy.
These, then, are the views of Fourier on the subject of Love,—a subject
which is one of the profoundest that can engage the attention of man, and which
will not be satisfactorily adjusted until after society shall have been brought into
the state of organic unity and individual independence. At present, we regard
many of the marriages that we hear of, as what Miss Martineau calls, legalized
prostitution; and we believe that marriage can not now, in many cases, be any­
thing else; that i( can not rise into the mystic and divine union of soul and body,
of which St. Paul speaks, until woman shall have been redeemed from the curse
of pecuniary dependence, and the regulation of the Affections committed to
her as their most brilliant depository and Representative. Fourier’s scheme
of industrial organization is the only reform which can lead to this desirable
object, and the only part of his system to which his present disciples stand
pledged. .
As to the details which he has given, in conjecturing the peculiar customs of
the higher degrees of Harmonic Life, we must say that many of them strike us
as fanciful, and that others are highly repugnant and erroneous; but seeing
that they are only conjectures, that his school does not pretend to undsMtana
them, nor put them forth as authoritative, that he requires a preparator^msci-
pline and progressive refinement of some Three Centuries or more fot rneir
Digitized by Googk
90 MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
adoption; that no connection of love he contemplates can be secret, but m ust
be openly approved; we are disposed to leave them to the adjudications of time,
holding ourselves ready, however, at all hazards, to prove that they are not pur­
posely Immoral, although we believe them to be false. *
It was impossible for Fourier, with his deep longings after Truth and Purity,
to have intentionally conjectured anything immoral; he has erred, no doubt,
but not with any corrupt purpose. He says himself expressly, in his later
works, that he wishes no society to adopt his conjectures or truths until Parents
and Women are fully prepared for them, and then only after it shall be found
that they are “ the best and only methods of promoting fu b lic a n d e f f e c t iv e
MORALITY.”
Digitized by Google
BOOK FIFTH.
UNITY OF MAN WITH GOD AND THE UNIVERSE.
CHAPTER IX.
COSMOGONY*
“ Our birth is bat a sleep and a forgetting;
The soul that rises with us, our Life's star,
Hath had elsewhere its setting,
And cometh from afar,
Not in entire forgetfulness,
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of Glory do we come,
From God, who is our Home.” ,
W ordsworth's Ode on the Intimation* of ImmorteUhf.
“ There are celestisl bodies, and bodies terrestrial; but the glory of the celestial is one, and
the glory of the terrestrial is another.” “ There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body.”
“ We are sown in corruption, we are raised in incorruption.”—St . Paul to the Corinthiahs.
W e have shown that man is endowed with the ability to place himself in a
medium where he would be in unity with himself\ or, in other words, where
there would be a perfect accord between his inclinations and his duties, between
his passions and his reason. But the Unity of Man with Himself does not
constitute U n iv er sa l U n it y , which is composed of—
1st, The Unity of Man with Himself;
2d, The Unity of Man with God;
3d, The Unity of Man with the Universe.
If our life terminated with the present life, Man would not be in unity, in
many essential respects, with God, whom he might then accuse of partiality or
injustice.
Men living in the same age may have many interests almost identical during
the greater part of their existence, but there would be no ties between different
generations. Thus, those who have lived during the subversive period of human
fife, subject to its duplicity and misery, working like slaves to accumulate
labor, art, and science, and producing the materials for an Harmonic Organ­
ization, might reproach the Deity for having created them in ages of suffering,
and reserved his privileges for epochs of happiness. In Harmony, even, evil
will exist, although reduced from the law to the exception; and he who should,
accidentally as it would be, suffer injury in his development, so as to feel that
his life was a failure, might rightly complain, if there were no other life.
Then, too, the old man or the sick person, on the borders of the tomb, would
lose his interest in the things of Earth, and would no more trouble himself with
thoughts of progress, melioration, and discovery. What solidarity would there
be between him and those destined to survive him ?
In order that our destiny may be one, the future life must be intimately con­
nected with the present life, and the two must depend upon one another in such
Digitized by Google
92 COSMOGONY*
a way that ignorance only could lead an individual to seek his own happiness
out of the general happiness. Individual existences must be compensated, so
that no one can complain of having been treated with disfavor; and this equili­
brium must spring naturally from the laws of creation, unless God intervenes at
every instant to modify the order immutably established. The attributes of
God demand distributive justice or universal equity in all spheres of his creation.*
Let us see if the theory of Fourier fulfils these conditions, and resolves all
difficulties, to the exclusion of every other cosmogonic theory.
Natural substances may be classed into two distinct categories, according to
their properties and their mode of action upon our senses.
The first class comprises substances which we may handle, divide, cany,
weigh, etc., and are called ponderable bodies. .
The second is composed of certain agencies, so subtle that they escape our
senses, although they manifest then^selves, in certain cases, with striking and
fearful energy. These substances, which we cannot master, and which the most
delicate balances fail to weigh, are the imponderable fluids, which we shall call
aromas. .
The globe is, then, made up of ponderable substances, and of aromas.
The human soul, we have said, is an agent or mover: this agent has need
of instruments for its manifestation.
In the present life, called to act mainly on ponderable matters, the soul takes
a body of ponderable matter. •
But if it is the destiny of man to govern the globe, or to govern it in all its
relations, his soul, to act upon the aromal part of the planet, has need, in its
second life, of a more subtle and refined instrument,—of an aromal body.
Thus, the present life is a terrestrial life, in which the soul acts mediately
through a ponderable body, on the ponderable part of the globe.
The future life will be also a terrestrial life, during which the soul will act
mediately through an aromal body, upon the aromal elements which enter into
the composition of the planet.
In the two lives, therefore, the soul Will be always united to a substance; indeed,
it is difficult to conceive of the soul without some mode for its manifestation.
Yet this belief does in no wise tend to materialism, for the soul will be immor­
tal, although always united to a mortal body, which it abandons at death for a
new body. This doctrine is admitted and taught by the Church universally,
when it speaks of the resurrection of a “ glorious body.”
There is nothing repugnant to common sense in the thought that the mole­
cules of aromal substance may unite to form a body directed by the soul, any
more than there is in the thought that the molecules of ponderable substance
do, as oxygen, hydrogen, azote, etc.
Our two existences take place upon this globe. In the present life, the M un­
dane or Inferior Life, we shall be (with exceptions) without communication with
the aromal life, the Ultra-Mundane or Superior L ife, because the things
and beings of that life escape our gross senses by their subtlety.
In the aromal life, without entering into relation with the Mundanes, we shall
see, understand, and watch them in all their actions.
Before pronouncing upon a conception so apparently new, it would be well
to comprehend it fully, and attend to the developments which we are about to
make.
An aromal life, that is, the time in which the Soul is in possession of the
same aromal body (the same body with its growth, decay, and molecular modifi­
cations, etc., etc.), is, like the present life, made up of sleeping and waking.
An ultra-mundane will operate, among his aromal companions, during a state
of wakefulness, which will have about twice the duration of a mundane life—say
two centuries.
At the end of this waking state, of this day of the higher life, the aromal body
will have need of repose—becoming dull, it will give itself over to sleep. During
this sleep, the soul cannot use the aromal body, and must make another instru­
ment, which it finds in a mundane life, in a ponderable body; the moment of
Digitized by Google
COSMOGONY. 93
sleep in the aromal life, is the moment of birth in the present life—the moment
when the Soul arrives to take possession of its newly-formed body. The inferior
life is the sleep, thef night, the dream of the superior. In the language quoted
from the magnificent ode of Wordsworth, at the head of this chapter,
Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting:
The Soul that rises with us, our life’s Star,
Hath elsewhere had its .setting.
The ponderable body, offering the soul only organs that are absolutely new—
virgin in respect to all the impressions of the past—it seeks vainly in those organs
for traces of its anterior existence. The education of the new body is a thing to
be done; it is a book, of which the pages are white, and which must be written
upon before they are of any value.
The ponderable body is developed under the influence of the soul; it gradu­
ally acquires force ; and then after remaining almost stationary a little while at
maturity, it declines, decays, and is abandoned by the Soul, as we abandon an
old vestment which is no longer worth using.
This separation of the soul and ponderable body is the awakening of the
aromal body. Its night is finished, the Soul takes possession of it and enters
upon the higher life, where it recovers the reminiscences of its preceding ultra­
mundane existences, which were actively impressed on the aromal organs, and
the reminiscences of its mundane existences, which acted passively* upon the
same organs during their sleep. Thus, there is a double memory in the higher
world and a double want of memory in this.
The life of Man, then, is composed of three terms:—
1st. Simple life, or sleep;
2d. Composite life, or w aking;
3d. Super-Composite, or aromal life.
Thus, die soul alternates between night and day, between the mundane and
ultra-mundane life. In entering upon the higher life, it finds its affections, plea­
sures, and labors, only interrupted by the passage through the present life, as we
find, on awakening, the friends and objects quitted the evening before, whatever
may have been our dreams in the mean time. In descending to the inferior
life, the Soul takes each time a new body, begins a new existence, always con­
nected with the general life of the species, but without direct relations to its an­
terior states of existence. It is thus that dreams are independent of one another,
not even forming a consecutive train.
The conception of Fourier is a metempsychosis,but essentially distinct from the
simplistic metempsychoses of the ancients,—the Immortality which he has con­
ceived being what ne calls a b i-co m po site I m m o r ta lity .
To raise ourselves to this discovery of the ultra-mundane life, we must be
guided by an unlimited faith in Providence—a faith which can spring only from
a wise and liberal spirit, by a knowledge of the laws of movement, that they can
only lead to happiness, and that God does not desire evil, since he has given
Man the power of conquering it, whenever it is presented.
Man can understand and conquer his destiny in the higher life, only after
having learned and determined his destiny in this lower life. It is greatly to
his advantage, that the two states stand in this relation to each other. If, in the
subversive periods of his life, he had been without uncertainty as to the lot that
awaited him after death, how often would he not have sought relief in suicide
for the sorrows by which he was overwhelmed ?
For the same reason, the transition to the higher life, Death, must be a pain­
ful transition. Without the repugnance which it inspires, the chasm would
have been too easily leaped over during the incoherent and miserable phases in
the life of Humanity. But in Harmony, death may, without danger, inspire little
* The ponderable body receives the direct imprint of the events of the present life, and the aro­
mal body, which sleeps while these events are taking place, receives a counter-imprint, which the
soul consults on entering the higher state. Swedenborg says that all we now hear or do will be
made to re-appear at will in the spiritual world.
Digitized by Googk
CWMOGONY.
terror. When, by the culture and purification of all parts of the Earth, and by
the equable employment of all his faculties, man shall have triumphed over the
many diseases by which he is punished for his mal-administration of the globe,
almost everybody will arrive at an advanced age, and die a natural death, with­
out convulsion or pains.* Death will have lost all its frightfulness, when we
shall know that it is a transition that separates us only for an instant from those
we hold dear, that the dead continue to follow us with their wishes, and to be
interested in our acts, that they will stand ready to receive us when death has
struck us in our turn, and that all may be certain that final happiness is reserved
to them in the future state, more perfect and more blissful than any which we
can imagine on Earth.
The transition called Death, moreover, is absolutely necessary, to movement
and life. If a man were arrested, for many centuries, at the same point of his
development, or progressive career, he would be soon saturated and disgusted
with the enjoyments of his actual condition. There must be variety in all
things, variety in labor and in pleasure, and variety, as well as alternation, in ex­
istences.
All natural laws have their reason for being what they are, their justification,
which may be discovered, if we are faithful in the research. W e have said
that the anterior states are forgotten in the present life, and the reason is obvi­
ous, since otherwise, the pleasures of the inferior life would be so insipid in
comparison as to lose their value. In the higher life, that danger does not ex­
ist, and to be without remembrance there, the continuity of existence would not
be perceived, and Immortality would be nothing more than an unmeaning word.
Many moral proofs, nor these alone, concur in giving certainty to the pecu­
liar mode of Immortality which Fourier has revealed. His conception, resting
upon data the most simple, the most easy to admit, and the least mysterious,
enjoys, to the exclusion of every other, the property of resolving all difficulties,
and justifying the providence of God, without conflicting with scripture or de­
manding of Reason the abdication of any of its rights.
1st. Without deranging his established order, God is just toward every gen­
eration and all individuals. The men who formerly formed the population
of the globe, form it at this day, and will form it in the future, and no genera­
tion is reserved for the happy epochs exclusively, and no one is a privileged gen­
eration. In that indefinite series of mundane and ultra-mundane existences,
through which all are called to run, the chances are equal, and all will have an
equivalent part in evil as well as in good. The happy periods of life being
very long, compared with the subversive periods, each one, at the end of the
career of the globe, will cast his eye upon the past, and will lose himself in
overwhelming gratitude to God for the experience of so much good purchased
at the cost of so little evil. “ And they shall sing the song of Moses, the ser­
vant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, great and marvellous are thy
works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of Saints.”
2d. Individual destiny is in perfect harmony with General Destiny, and we
learn at last that there is a perfect and perpetual S o lid a r ity between all men;
young and old, sick and well, mundane and ultra-mundane,f are equally inter­
ested in the things of the earth and in the fate of Humanity. What savage or
barbarous nation, what class of civilized society, can be indifferent to him who
knows that he and his may one day share the fate of those wretched outcasts
from knowledge and virtue ? What haughty baron, what noble prince, would
* This view may be ridiculed, but why ? When man appeared, for the first time, upon the earth,
was he already afflicted with phthises, rheumatisms, scrofulas, pestilences, and fevers ? Or did
these maladies invade him, because of his excesses or his indolence, because he failed to employ
all his faculties regularly and in equilibrium, i. e., by the maladministration of the globe, whose
neglected parts gave forth miasms, fevers, &c., Ac. Why then, in harmony, under circum­
stances directly the reverse, shouldnot diseases disappear, one after another, with the causes that
engender them ? Some classes of the animals already enjoy certain advantages which we promise
to men, as the dog, his magnificent teeth, dec., «fee.
t The happiness of the ultra-mundanes is fettered so long as the mundanes have not caused Har­
mony to reign upon the earth. They are fettered physically, because the deranged administration
of the ponderable part of the globe, rests upon the aromal administration; merely because the ul­
tra-mundanes would fear to return to a region where they knew they would suffer.
$4
Digitized by Google
COSMOGONY. 95.
trample upon the crowd which flows at his feet, when he knows that they are
in so many intimate senses, his brothers, who are a part and parcel of his life,
members of his own body, but perhaps hereafter, when he shall be what they
are now, destined to shine as stars in the firmament ?
Evidently no man in a position to prevent an evil, to eradicate a vice, or to in­
troduce a good, would even in a selfish point of view, hesitate to do so, if he
were fully impressed by the belief that he would return many times to enjoy the
pood he had done, or to suffer the evil which he had neglected. Such a faith,
indeed, would reconcile selfishness and self-sacrifice ; or, in other words, selfish­
ness would be rendered impossible by the strict solidarity which connects all the
members of the human family.
No one would think of his mere individual safety, or harden his heart by the
cowardly hope that he would be saved at any rate, whatever might become of
the rest of his brothers. He would find that it was necessary to save humanity,
in order to save himself, and that the promotion of general blessedness was the
only method of securing his own safety. Behold the elevated aim offered to
each of us! an end grand enough to warm every heart, and enlarge and fecun­
date every soul with the most exalted and generous sentiments.
The solidarity of men is a holy tie which implicates the whole of humanity
in the sins of any of its members. Yet it absolves no one from his individual
responsibility. The mundane and ultra-mundane lives are connected like one
asleep and waking, and he who has failed in this life, who has disfigured it by ex­
cesses, by crimes, by suicide, will suffer for his errors in the life which succeeds.
To take an imperfect illustration, the slumber that is tormented by nightmares
and dreams, indisposes us for the enjoyments and labors of the following day.
Mankind have always had a feeling more or less distinct of the reality of their
mutual solidarity—they have inscribed it upon their creeds—it has been stirring
in their consciences. The doctrine of original sin, so widely prevalent and so
unaccountable upon any other supposition, is a proof as to how deep the vague
sentiment of it has sunk into the human heart. But no one before Fourier has
been enabled to explain its nature or its justice; it has been a subject of faith
and not of science; and the bi-composite theory alone, demonstrates how the
living have labored from the beginning to conduct Humanity on its ways of
good or evil.
3d. In connecting thus strictly the happiness of the Individual with the happi­
ness of the Species, God draws men toward the practice of virtue and all good,
in a manner which is at the same time sure and worthy of his Greatness. Gov­
erning paternally by means of attraction, and leading men to piety and joy
through solidarity, is he less worthy of honor and love than if he governed by
the scourge and fire? then, how could we respect a Being if, as he has too oft­
en been described to us, he designs to govern us solely by arbitrary decrees ?
Has not faith in such a government led to the most frightful exhibitions of
human malice? Was it not this faith which misled the church with the spirit
of persecution, which has given rise to malignant devotees, and which has taught
men to think that they honored God by inflicting tortures upon all who were
not of the elect.
But the Deity has never wished to reign over pale and trembling slaves, but
over happy and free men, acknowledging and proud of the lofty mission which
he had comitted to their charge.
4th. Bi-composite immortality agrees with all our desires. Each old man
asks to begin life again with the experience which he has acquired; and this
wish will be fully satisfied, since all will recommence life, and all will profit by
the experience of 'the pastl
Let us descend into our own hearts; do we not feel that we abandon with re­
gret the earth which science can render so beautiful ? Do we not feel happy
mat we arerbound up with its fate, connected with the fate of all men, that we
must suffer with our brothers, but like them, too, be called to the enjoyment of
all bliss ? Are not these the very conditions on which we should have requested
our life, while we should have refused it on the slightest chance of an eternal
damnation?
Digitized by Google
96 COSMOGONY.
Thus, by the add of this theory, everything is explained with simplicity and
the laws of creation have nothing in them either arbitrary or grievous. Moral
proofs, we have seen are in its favor.*
Upon this important question, however, we are referred to more than one
kind of proof. Universal Analogy, of which we have yet to speak, will give us
many confirmations. It was stated above, that in this life we had no communi­
cation with the aromal life, with exceptions, of which Fourier gives instances
in both the material and spiritual spheres. He says that we have some relations
withthe ultra-mundane world, through persons gifted with faculties that are ultra­
human ; and he instances in the material sphere the touch of a class of beings
called Sorcerers, and the sight of those who are mesmerized; and, in the
spiritual sphere, providential men, as they are sometimes called, or Men of Ge­
nius, and Prophets. All these varieties of faculties are transitional participations
m different degrees of ultra-mundane or celestial perfection.
Animal Magnetism is the influence which one man may exert upon another
by the influence of his Will. It produces a sleep, more or less profound, which
is distinguished from ordinary sleep by many very curious phenomena. The
sleep in this case has received the name of somnambulism, or, as Mr. Townsend
calls it, sleep-waking. The somnambulist enjoys the use of his sensitive facul­
ties, without the aid of their habitual organs. He sees through opaque bodies,
and sometimes at great distances; he catches thoughts which have never been
expressed by sign or sound; he perceives odors which exist only in the mind
of the magnetizer; he becomes insensible to blows and burns; in short, his in­
tellectual faculties seem no longer those which he possessed in his waking state,
and he finds himself suddenly endued with knowledge of things, of which he
never before had a conception. •
The first effect of Magnetism is to suspend the sensitive functions of the pon­
derable body, and its second will be to arouse the aromal body, very imperfectly,
from its numbness, if we may so speak, by restoring to the soul tne power of
making use of it. The soul appears to employ the aromal body in somnambu­
lism ; for it sees, hears, tastes, and has knowledge of itself, by means of its aro­
mal organs, whose perfection explains whatever is wonderful in the manifesta­
tions ofMesmerism. Sight can easily be effectedthrough substances, which, how­
ever dense, are penetrable by aromal bodies. The soul recovers, in returning
upon the impressions of its aromal body, with the reminiscenses of its preceding
states, ideas and knowledge which it can not retain when compelled to make use
of its mundane body.
The fact is stated by those who are familiar with magnetism, that the som- ,
nambulist remembers all that he has seen during his ordinary life and during
his anterior somnambulisms; but that on waking up he knows nothing of what
has passed during his magnetic sleep. This remembrance in one case, and for­
getfulness in another, is precisely similar to what Fourier states of our two live«
—the aromal life with its double memory, and the mundane life, without any
memory. The explanation is the same: in somnambulism, the ponderable
body asleep receives no impressions from without, so that when the soul
takes possession of it, there is nothing then to be read; for nothing was
imprinted.
There is a state described by Magnetizers, and in many religious books, as
Ecstacy or Trance, which the theory of Fourier explains with equal facility.
After returning to himself, after the crisis during which life seems wholly to
have abandoned his body, the Ecstatic relates that he has travelled in space,
that he met living beings, with whom he could not enter into any communica­
tion, but that he could communicate freely with the dead, who inspired him
with no terror. This voyage of the Ecstatic is only a voyage of the aromal
body, bv means of which he can enter into relations with the ultra-mundane«,
although he can not communicate with mundanes, even while seeing them. It
generally happens, moreover, that the aspect of the higher life inspires the Ec­
* This reasoning, it will be remembered, is given as from Fourier, and not by the author per.
tonally.-—
P. 6.
Digitized by Google
static with a vivid desire of remaining there, so that he complains of having been
brought back to this lower existence.
Those who deny the phenomena of Animal Magnetism will be embarrassed
to explain the analogous, and no less extraordinary phenomena of natural som­
nambulism, which have been too often authenticated to admit of a doubt. In­
deed, with the evidence now brought to bear, as to the existence of the mag­
netic phenomena, a man who could doubt it, would not believe Moses and the
Prophets.
Somnambulism is a state of transition, as we have said, between our two lives,
in which the soul employs simultaneously, but imperfectly, the two bodies of
which, in ordinary cases, it makes use only in alternation. This kind of
transition is not the only one, in the material sphere, which we can observe, for
there are too many instances on record of men enjoying faculties truly arovnal,
in cases of divining, discovering secret springs, etc., sorcery, magic, etc., etc.
Magnetism, which would be of double utility in Harmony, can not be fully
developed in our present societies, where isolated experiences are only possible,
and where the influence of individualism is so strong, that it interferes with the
perfect process of magnetising.
As higher evidences of the same terrestrial state, Fourier refers to those pro­
gressive human instincts which he divides into two distinct orders, commonly
called prophecy and genius, or, as they may be otherwise denominated, passive
and active visionaries. The instincts of both these orders are regularly con­
trasted by series with those of the other, in all their respective varieties, and the
peculiar functions of both these orders of mind are, to reveal progressively and
continuously to mankind, the secrets of nature and the laws of Providence.
There are three grand distinctions in each of these orders—the sensuous, the
mental, and the moral; but we have no spacfe to speak of these at length.*
In the purely mental department of what is called genius, in the active order,
we may class those minds which are commonly called “ theoretical visionaries”
before their discoveries are proved by practical observation, and “ great genius­
es” after death and success have demonstrated their rank; and in the mental de­
partment of the passive order, we find those minds which are commonly called
prophets, because it generally happens that they are only passive instruments of
Providence, without understanding their own mission.
The progress of human society depends entirely upon these Providential Men,
who are visionaries, because they foresee and foretell results, before they are
actually proved by experience. There are many pretenders to both characters,
but we must “ try every spirit, whether it be of God.”
Almost everybody now-a-days believes in the mission of Genius, but few have
faith in the mission of Prophets, and they will be still more incredulous when
we tell them that Prophets, as well as Geniuses, exist in all ages, though the
faculties of vision and discovery are often neutralized in these precious individu­
als by the stultifying effects of ignorance and privation. '
All religious people profess a belief in the prophetic genius of former ages,
and by acknowledging Christ as the greatest of all prophets, they acknowl­
edge different degrees of prophetic inspiration. Now, when did the spirit of
prophecy cease ? Is there not as great occasion for it as ever, and have we not
reason to believe, in the case of Swedenborg and others, that there are modern
prophets, working together with modern genius, to lead Humanity through its
accidental destiny of Discord to its essential destiny of Science and Harmony?
The function of passive inspiration or prophecy being to support the mind in
hope until it is fully corroborated by active inspiration or genius.
What we have said thus far does not show with sufficient precision the con­
nection which unites the Creator to the creature. Between man and God there
is an abyss, an immense void, which is contrary to all that we know of Nature,
who never proceeds by sudden leaps, from one centre to another, but by gradual *
transitions. Ought we not, then, to regard God and man as the extremes of a
aeries, at each term of which we shall find, in ascending, that there are beings
COSMOGONY.a t7
Digitized by Google
te COnOMNT»
m ater and greater, and more nearly approaching God f Thus the void will be
filled up, and we shall comprehend how the infinite and the finite come into re­
lation, since each Being, acting directly upon those which touch it above and
below, will be strictly connected to all by the great chain of which the Deity is
the first link.
There must then be above us a being, superior to us in such a degree that it
will cause us to feel its immediate influence, which will mingle a portion of its
own life with our life, which will partake our sorrows and divide our joys; a
being which we can see and touch.
Can we not divine that this being is the Planet on which we were bom ?—die
planet, which is admitted to be a body, and to which, without good motive, we
have refused all intelligence and passion. We say, without motive, for our
planet is not mere dead matter; it is a body wisely organized, with its aromal
circulation, analogous to the circulation of the blood, and organs of the same
nature for the manifestation of its will and desires, and its relations to the other
planets.
The stars, according to this supposition, are intelligent passional beings, sus­
taining aromal relations to each other, and whose bodies are both ponderable
and aromal. They obey the force of gravity, as we ourselves do, without re­
sistance. In particular cases, as when they leave the cometary state to choose
a convenient distance in which to circulate about the sun, they may draw from
their aromas a force, which combined with gravity, will direct them in spaces as
we combine muscular action with weight when we transport ourselves over the
surface of the earth.
Thus, the distance of each planet from the sun will be owing to the will of
the planet. Those who ascribe everything to chance, ought to be surprised at
the discovery of the four small planets of our system. This was made while
comparing the respective distances of the planets from the sun, by recognising
the fact that these distances formed a se r ies, of which one term was wanting,
and by seeking a place where that planet ought to be, in order that the defect
might be supplied. They ought to wondeV still more at that singular combina­
tion of double movement in every observed satellite, in consequence of which
the satellite always presents the same hemisphere to its planet, whereas, accord­
ing to all the calculations of probability, such a combination ought to be re­
produced, only at infinitely rare intervals.
The globes then are beings like man, but superior to him, and one degree
nearer the Creator. The soul of a globe will be united to it, till the moment
of its decease, at which time, it will take possession of a newly-formed globe,
drawing all its human souls after it, who will thus go to begin a new humanitaiy
career, or a new series of existences.
Our solar system is a group, of which the sun is a pivot and chief. The ag­
gregations of groups about suns, form a series of stars, a vortex of worlds, or a
Universe, such as we now know. In this Universe, we see an intelligent and
passional Being, two degrees superior to man, one degree superior to his planet,
forming groups and series with other universes. The whole number of univer­
ses forms what Fourier calls a Biniverse; the Biniverses combine to form a Trim -
verse, and so on indefinitely, through Quatriniverse, etc., till we arrive at God, the
Infiniverse, whose body comprises all matter, and whose intelligence includes all
intelligences. This celestial hierarchy is admitted in all religions which speak
of angels, archangels, seraphims, cherubims, thrones, dominions, principalities,
powers, etc., etc.
God alone excepted, all beings are $ubjected to increase and decrease, and to
death, which is only the abandonment of an old body for a new. At the mo­
ment of this transition, each soul draws with it the souls which are subordinated
to it. Small souls are associated with great without losing their individuality,
as our body which makes part of the body of the planet is nevertheless perfectly
distinct.
All the beings of this hierarchy are made in the image of God, have a Reason
not equal, but homogeneous with his, and passions that differ from his only in
Digitized by Google
universal analogy. 99
their intensity and modes of satisfaction. All beings, in effect, can hare only onto
passion at bottom, Unityism, by which we mean the impulses toward Universal
Justice and Truth, expressed in the desire to be happy ourselves and see all
others happy. These beings are Immortals; their movement is eternal; and
since it did uot commence at any definite period, it has always been; so that
Eternity extends both ways, behind as well as before us. The body of a dead
star is decomposed to form matter for a new star. .
It will now be easy to understand the thought of Fourier, when he says that
Man, like his Planet, like the Universe, like everything that exists, is composed
of three Eternal, Uncreated, Indestructible Principles: ,
1st. M in d ;*—the active or motor-principle;
2d. M a t t e r ;—the passive or moved principle;
3d. M a th em a tics ;f—the neuter or regulating principle.
It is of little importance, as to consequences, whether God, the Active Prin­
ciple, has caused the other principles to exist by his Will, or whether the three
principles ate the essence of God, co-eternal with him; for God, not being able
to change, would submit to laws which he had dictated, as absolutely as though
he wereentirely independentof them, sincethey wouldonly express his own nature.
These three principles showthemselves in everything that we see, in all that it
is possible to observe. Matter, the most inert in appearance, is yet subjected to
molecular attraction and repulsions, to chemical affinities, and tne influences of
bodies with which it is in contact; it lives, and the matter which is abandoned by
one individual life, enters into a more general life, to the influence of which it is
more exclusively subjected. Thus, at the death of man, his body lives the life
of the globe, and at the death of the globe, the matter which composed his
body enters again into the life of the universe.
This perpetual solicitation of matter for mind, does not take place in an arbi­
trary manner; it is submitted to precise and rigosous laws from which it can
not depart. Those laws constitute the third principle, the Regulating,—Mathe­
matics, Justice,—without which it is impossible to conceive that anything
should exist. .
CHAPTER X.
UNIVERSAL ANALOGY.
. “ Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
Sermons in stones, and good in everything.**—Shakef«**.
“ The invisible things of God, from the creation of the world, are clearly seen, being compre­
hended by the things which he hath created and ordered—even his omnipotence and the other at­
tributes of the Godhead.**—St. Paul to the Romans.
W hen a new word is used, or a special sense is attached to a word already
known, the person or school who em ploys it, should define it at the outset. In
this way, the world may know what is the whole doctrine taught, and criticism
save itself m uch verbiage, as to the significance of terms.
The word Analogy is one of those to which Fourier gives a particular mean­
ing, which we shall endeavor to explain.
Two homogeneous quantities, two things of the same nature, may be brought
into relation; it is possible to compare them and find some common measure.
Between heterogeneous things are there also points of contact,—possible
relations ?
To this question, Science will be tempted to answer, N o! but for a long time
the instincts of the multitude have responded in the affirmative. All languages
* Mmd,breath, spiritus, life, Passion. t Mathematics, in physics, Justice in morals.
Digitized by Google
100 UNIVERSAL ANALOGr.
have words which have a proper sense and afigurative sense,—that is to say,—
which are applied with equal fitness to things of a different order,—to physical
Properties, for example, and to moral qualities. Thus, the adjective hardy in
its proper sense, expresses a physical property of solids,—a hard body. But
the same adjective, in its figurative sense, expresses an accidental vice of the
•oui—as a hard character. '
The reason of this is that there are felt to be between physical properties and
moral qualities, a real relation, independent of all convention, that there is in
physical hardness something which corresponds to moral hardness. This cor­
respondence springs neither from chance nor from usage; and everybody is
conscious that it would be absurd to seek to awaken an idea of the same moral
Quality by employing another physical adjective, by agreeing to speak of an in­
flexible man, for instance, as a soft character, the adjective soft preserving the
same proper sense which it has in the phrase, a soft body.
There are, then, true relations even among things of a heterogeneous kind.
These relations, very different from those which exist between homogeneous
things, have been called by F ourier, the relations of Analogy. The profounder
tense of the term will appear as we proceed.
Fourier divides the system of Nature into five branches or movements, four
Of which are cardinal movements, and onepivotal movement.
1st. The Material Movement or the laws according to which God regulates the
movement of matter, which Newton and the modern mathematicians have ex­
plained in the theory of gravitation, by effects but not by causes.
2d. The Aromal Movement, or the laws according to which God distributes the
Itnown and unknown fluids called Imponderable, such as light, heat, electricity,
galvanism, etc., etc., which operate both actively and passively on all the king­
doms of creation, animal, mineral, and vegetable.
3d. The Organic Movement^ or the principles according to which God dis­
tributes forms, tastes, colofe, and other properties, to all the substances created
or to be created on the different globes of the Universe.
4th. The Instinctual Movement, or the laws according to which God distributes
the instincts and desires, passions and attractions, to all the beings of creation,
past, present, and future creations, in the various globes of the Universe.
X.* The Social Movement, or the laws according to which God has regulated
the order and succession of diverse systems of social organization on all the
globes of the Universe.
These five branches of the system of Nature are governed by rigorous laws,
which determine, in their respective spheres, all movements, all phenomena, all
•vents.
But is it to be believed that these laws perform their functions, each in its own
way, independently of all the others ? that these movements are not, in any man­
ner, related, combined, co-ordinated ? Let us see what are the primordial prop­
erties of the Divine Nature,—the properties which must influence the Creative
Power in all its manifestations :
Radical Attribute, X. Integral D istribution or Movement.
C1st Economy of Means.
Primary Attributes, <2d. Distributive Justice.
C3d. Universality of Providence.
Pivotal Attribute, >4 U n ity o f System .
These, we say, are the attributes which the Creator must have, as an infinitely
wise and infinitely good Being, and which must govern Him in the regulation
♦f the different parts of the system of the Universe.
If, then, there is Unity of System and Economy ofMeans, as there must be in
all that the Divinity does, tnen we must suppose that the laws of universal move­
ment are in some way closely connected, and correspondent to each other.
* In his classification, Fourier distinguishes his pivots by the sign X. Thus, in the classification
of oetors, he puts the X opposite the White, which is the Whole of the colors, and not an eighth
color. The sign K relates to transitions.
Digitized by Googk
UNIVERSAL ANALOGY.
Does not this appear, to our minds, the most simple, the most consistent, the
most satisfactory mode, in which we can regard creation ? Does not this inter*
dependence furnish to man his most powerful means of investigation, since it
allows him to compare one sphere with another,—to infer from the known to the
unknown, and to elevate himself gradually to a knowledge of all the laws of Di­
vine Government?
Unity of System and Economy of Means do not exclude variety. Only
think of the modes of reproducing organized beings, from man to the humblest
vegetable,—what an endless variety in the application of a single principle • v
W e have seen that among heterogeneous things there exist natural relations»
These relations are not an exception; they are not limited to a small number of
cases, where they are seized instinctively, without protracted study; they are the
rule; and everything that occurs, in one branch of movement, has its image or
reproduction in the other branches.
The laws of passional or social movement are the laws of the cardinal move­
ments. But, in each movement, the laws are translated into a special Ian«»
guage, by particular effects. Thus Art, which is one, may render the same
thought into different languages or modes of expression, as by form, by color, by
music, by verse, etc. *
Each phenomenon of passional movement, each effect of Passion in taiaa,
must be reflected in all the branches of the whole natural system. In the or­
ganic kingdom, for example, smells, tastes, colors, forms, properties, must bo
distributed in such a manner as to represent faithfully the play of the Passion«.
This relation among the different modes of the manifestation of Life, this ne­
cessity thatany phenomenon whatever, has everywhere its accurate image, should
be reproduced under all forms, has been discovered by Fourier, and is by hiss
named UNIVERSAL ANALOGY.
The life of an animal or vegetable is, in all its details, a consequence of the
development which a passion takes, acting upon a ^ e n character, and in some
one of the phases of human life. All that there is in it, tends to perfect the
analogical resemblance, nothing is arbitrary, and a cause can be assigned for the
most fugitive form of a petal or the lightest perfume of a flower.
Fourier has thus expelled Chance from all the points which it seemed to oc­
cupy. He shows that everything results from wise laws, from invariable prin­
ciples. It was long since said, that there “ are no effectswithout causes,” but these
has been only a half-faith in the truth. If the adage be absolutely true, the
forms, colors, properties of a being, have a cause which man ought to investi­
gate, which he is able to find, which he has.virtually found in the lawof analogy,
since that law accounts for all in the most simple and satisfactory manner.
To show how faithfully Nature has traced her portraits, we shall take from
Fourier some examples of the application of the Law. In order to find the
particular analogy of a vegetable or an animal, Fourier gives the special analo­
gies of each of its parts, of each of the characters which distinguish the indi­
vidual. Thus, in the vegetable kingdom
Root.—Emblem of the principles which govern in the action of the Passion.
Trunk.—Emblem of the course followed by the Passion.
Leqf.—Emblem of the class or.person depicted; then, an emblem of the cares (educational
, and others) which have prepared tne effect of the Passion.
Calyx.—Emblem of the form in which the Passion envelops itself, and of the circumstances
which influence it.
Petals.—Emblem of the kind of pleasure attached to a Passion.
Cram Seeds.—Emblem of the treasures amassed by the exercise of the Passions.
Pistils and Stamens.—Emblems of the product which the Passion gives.
Perfume.—Emblem of the charm which the Passion excites. '
Fourier makes use likewise, in his calculations, of the analogy of colony
geometrical forms, musical notes, &c.,—as may be seen in me following
table: *
m
Digitized by Google
UNIVERSAL ANALOGY*
SCALE OF NATURAL RIGHTS WITH ANALOGIES.
Righto.
Harvest.
Pasture.
Fishing.
Chase.
Interior Federation.
Freedom from Care.
External Appropriation.
MINIMUM.
Liberty.
Number. Passions. Colors.
1. Addition. Friendship. Violet.
2. Division. Love. Azure.
3. Subtraction. Familism. Yellow.
4. Multiplication.Ambition. Red.
5. Progression. Cabalist. Indigo.
6. Properportion Papillon. Green.
7. Logartnims. Composit. Orange.
* J . Y POWERS. UNITVISM. W H IT E .
w jj, — Favoritism. Black.
Curves.
Circle.
Ellipse.
Parabola.
Notes. Metals.
ut. Iron,
mi. Pewter,
sol. Lead.
Hyperbola, si. Copper,
Con^hoide
Logarithmic, la. Gold.
re. Silver,
la Platina.
CYCLOID. UT. H . MERCURY.
Epicycloid. B u t. -------
Fourier has not explained all the parts of this table, but we shall attempt to
•how, in regard to the curves of the second degree, how lines may represent
Passions.
Friendship and Love, which act in a circumscribed sphere, which are engaged
exólusively with the present generation, with a limited number of individuals,
are represented by the Circle and Ellipse, curves that are finite, closed, embra­
cing a space precisely described
Thiiparabola and hyperbola, on the contrary, are curves which do not termi­
nate/ which are prolonged indefinitely, like Familism, which thinks of its great-
great-grand nephew, and Ambition, which dreams of the remotest posterity.
In the group of Friendship, there prevails equality and confusion of rank; in
the circle, all the radii are equal, all parting from the centre, and returning to
the centre.
. The ellipse presents two foci or focuses. All that parts from the one is re­
flected by the other, which is an exact image of two hearts united by Love. If
the plftne of the Ellipse inclines more and more to the edge of the cone, one of
the focuses is separated and loses itself in the infinite. Then the Ellipse is no
more, and the curve beconfe a parabola. Thus love leads insensibly into Fam­
ilism, and the affection which expended itself on a single being, tends to ex­
pand itself, to embrace many, to stretch to the infinite in time, as the radii of
the Parabola, go to seek the second focus in the infinite in space.
The radius parting from the focus of the jHyperbola ascends by separating
Itself from the axis, after having been reflected on the curve; it ascends the
more, from having attained, from the first bound, a more elevated point. It is
thus that the Ambitious person tends always to surpass the point at which he
has arrived, and that his desires have grown with all his former successes.
The Hyperbola, as the Ellipse, has the Parabola for its limit, because Ambi­
tion, like Love, leads to Familism. The ambitious, when they have nothing
more to hope for theqiselves, think of their descendants, of their house, of the
name which they are about to transmit to future ages. In illustration of this,
read the letter of Edmund Burke, the British statesman, where he bewails the
loss of a son in whom his hopes had centred.
A few analogies from Fourier will show the method in which he treats this
part of his great discovery. .
In the animal kingdom the spider is an emblem of civilized commerce.—The>
spider must be guarded against incessantly, if we would not have it spread its
net over every place not visited daily; commerce also builds its shop wherever
it can be established, in the most filthy streets, against the most beautiful mon­
uments ; shops and spider-webs cleared away to-day, will make their appearance
in the same spot to-morrow. Both also present all the varieties between the
beautiful and ugly ; some dirty and repulsive, others brilliant in their order and
symmetry- In both, ingenious combinations of threads or of bells inform the
Owner of the presence of a stranger. This master-spider or merchant passes
his life in a little corner of the world, which he reserves exclusively to himself;.
he opens his eyes and his ears, he looks and he hears, and that is his function»
To move himself, to change his place, is an accident in his existence. Unfor­
* Y. Sign of the direct Pivot ; a * Sign of the indirect Pivot.
Digitized by Google
UNIVERSAL ANALOGY. 103
tunate the tnpcd or diptera who approaches that mansion! The moment he
touches that snare, his destiny is fixed. The merchant and the spider dart
forth; they seize their prey; they wrap it in glutinous threads or softy sticky
words; and when they have thoroughly despoiled it, they turn up their nose at
the poor cadaverous thing! The spider has a head covered with eyes, an enor­
mous belly, long and crooked paws; but the thorax is wanting, it has neither
lungs nor heart. The spider devours its fellows, the female eats the male, and
even her young ones, etc., etc.
The toad is an emblem of the mendicant. He crawls upon the roadside,
showing his disgusting pustules, and overpowering all by his monstrous cries.
The frog is a mendicant of a more polished exterior, who can penetrate into
the interior of good families, and thus faithfully represents a higher kind of beg­
gars or solicitors.
The monkey, with its tendency to imitate, its grimaces, its malicious and de­
structive disposition, its cynicism, is unfortunately a too striking emblem of
childhood under the peculiar influence of civilized institutions and customs.
The canary bird is somewhere given by Fourier as a representative of the
spoiled child, which demands to be fed on sweet things.
The parrot is an emblem of the false philosopher, who is dressed in a superb
plumage of fine words, that in themselves are perfidious and absurd.
The most beautful analogies indicated by Fourier are those which are found
in the vegetable world, his early and continued love of Flowers and Fruits hav­
ing enabled him to seize upon the characteristics of plants with more of accu­
racy than he appears to have possessed in other cases. But we have no space
for the details.
There are also many analogies of the Human Body,-»which is a general table
of society in the Combined Order,—that are given by Fourier. Of the bony
structure, he says: the first view presents us twelve pairs of ribs, which tend to
the three bones of the sternum. These are the emblems of the twelve passions,
which, alike in both sexes, tend to the three focusef of Attraction before de­
scribed. There are seven connected or combined ribs and five disconnected or
incoherent ribs, just, as there are seven spiritual passions, which reign in the
Combined Order, and five material passions which reign in societies of an inco­
herent nature; a thirteenth rib, the Clavicle, surmounting the seven combined
ribs, and figuring the thirteenth passion, Harmonism or Unityism, formed of the
seven spiritual passions* This passion must be the principal lever of Societary
Industry, and thus the clavicle is united to the arm, which is the lever of Cor­
poral Industry.
This ordinance is reproduced partially in the bones of the skull, of which
there are eight, of which seven represent the spiritual passions, and the eighth,
rile frontal bone, represents Unity, being of an order superior to the others.
These tables, Fourier says, can be repeated in all the solids and fluids of the
human body; for instance, in the eight hundred muscles of man and woman,
which represent the eight hundred characters of a Phalanx; in the ten pairs of
nerves, which express the ten choeurs; and in the sixteen pairs of teeth, repre­
senting the sixteen choeurs and thirty-two quadrilles of the Phalanx. For the
details, we must refer to Fourier’s own works.
Other tables, equally interesting, are to be found in the heart, the liver, the
viscera, the fluids, etc., by which there can be shown the closest correspondence
between the play of the Passions and the human mechanism, down to the mi­
nutest details of anatomy.*
What we have here given is, of course, the most meager and unsatisfactory
outline; but it is all that is consistent with the plan of this work.
Considerations of another order come to the aid of the principle of Universal
Analogy, a principle which permits us to explain a fact, utterly irreconcilable
otherwise, to the idea of an all-wise and provident Creator: we mean, the pres-
n ■
* We are aware how fanciful and inadequate these scattered instances must be. They may
be wrong, even, without invalidating the principle. >
Digitized by Google
104 •UM 1VU8AL AMA L 06 Y.
tnce on the globe of useless and hurtful animals« vegetables, and mineral»**
species in hostility to Man, who is die administrator and overseer of the Earth.
In the epochs of subversion, the human passions produce bad effects. Anal­
ogy, the faithful mirror« must represent these bad effects, no less than the good
ones, in all the kingdoms of Nature. If the venom of calumny sullies all the
relations of life, nature must paint its varied effects in the varied family of vipers,
which conceal their hideous nature under brilliant and many-colored skins. If
our roads are infested with brigands, our forests must be peopled with wolves,
their exact resemblance. And here, let it be remarked, that civilization, which
is beginning to deliver itself from brutal violence, purges the countries which it
occupies, for the most part, from ferocious animals, the emblems of brutality;
but it does not yet know how to keep itself safe from the emblems of the smaller
vices that assail it—from the vile insects, the nasty caterpillars, locusts, wasps,
etc., etc., which limit its power, and levy every year a heavy tribute upon the
products of its industry. '
During the infancy of the race, while the passions most commonly lead to dis­
order, the first creations, destined to form the materials of these unhappy epochs,
furnish malignant species in great number; thus nothing could be more meager
tiian our list of useful animals. Among insects, for instance, how few are the
fakhAl servants, such as the Bee, the Silk-worm, the Cochineal, etc., com­
pared with the almost endless multitude of those species which seem to exist
only for our torment.
But science demonstrates that there has been already upon the Earth several
successive creations, and there is no reason for supposing that the series of cre­
ations have reached their extreme term, that the future will not have its own,
as well as the past.
The future creations, destined to furnish the materials of the ages of Har­
mony, will give, as emblems of those epochs, beneficent species in great num­
ber; animals useful in themselves, and useful because they will aid man in dis­
embarrassing his domain ol whatever is contained in it that is repugnant, malign,
or odious.
Analogy is the'enchanted prism through which Nature shows herself in the
most graceful forms and most pleasing colors. By means of it, man finds a
satisfaction for his apparently most futile inclinations, even for the love of the
marvellous, which has haunted him in all ages, and to which he will surrender
himself without fear of error, since the marvellous will then accord with the
reasonable.
The study of the analogies of Nature is destined to become an exhaustless
source of pleasure. The author or the journalist, instead of presenting his
readers with a charade or an enigma, may ask the analogy of a plant or an ani­
mal, and thus amusement itself can be made to contribute to the establishment
of Truth. The empty pleasure of deciphering a riddle can be replaced by the
composite gratification of reading the lines inscribed by the finger of the Almighty
on the great book of Nature.
In this respect, as in all others, God offers man the agreeable and the useful
at the same time; for the law of Analogy is also a powerful means of comparison
and investigation, besides that the knowledge of the analogies of a plant or min­
eral, will reveal all its hygiene, medical, or nutritive properties, etc., and dis­
cover every use to which it may be put.*
The law of analogy has something in it so captivating, that many persons have
admitted it, even while rejecting other parts of Fourier’s theory.
But having accepted a theory, it is absurd to shrink from the consequences
which naturally flow from its admission. Fourier himself never regarded a
principle as an empty word: he applied it always without hesitation; he pur­
* It, for example, the analogies of the poppy had been known, we should have been able to
divine all the effects of opium, its product. Opium, the use of which degenerates into an irre­
sistible temptation, the solitary intoxication of which produces a hrutifying and mortal pleasure,
is a sad, though indirect emblem, of a terrible secret vice, which is the scourge of youth in
civilization.
Digitized by Google
UNIVERSAL ANALOOT. m
sued it to its final consequences, even to attempting to determine the properties
of beings in future creations. Some are startled by this boldness, but many
more laugh at it; but, in both cases, the gainsayers prove only the timidity or
falseness of their own minds. *
Under a subversive system, a man is led into evil by his misdirected passions,
and Nature paints the sorry result in some malevolent animal. Under a har­
monic system, the same man, directed by the same passions, brings forth good
alone, and Nature will give again, as an emblem of the happy transformation,
some useful animal. Whoever, like Fourier, knows on one side the play of the
Human Passions, and, on the other, the mechanism of all past, present, and fu­
ture societies, has sufficient data for calculating the effect of a character upon
each of these social systems, in order to determine the properties of the vege­
tables and animals destined to represent that effect.
Thus, in a barbarous society, ambition makes man a despot, of which he sup­
poses the lion is the emblem. In Harmony, the same passion would lead man
the opposite way, and the future creations, as an emblem of the inverse effect
of the same cause, will give an animal the inverse of the lion—an animal good
in all the qualities which render the lion dangerous, by its energy, by its activity,
by its strength, etc., and which, for the present, may be called an Anti-Lion.
Anti-Lion, Anti-Tiger, Anti-Crocodile! There are many small wits, no
doubt, who will be able to sustain their reputation for two or three days by the
good things which they will say of these words!
Nature, which has shown, even in her malignant creations, infinite grandeur
and variety of resource, shall she not be able to show us as great and wonderful
a fecundity in her benevolent creations?
But how are the original generating couple of each kind, of each family, of
each variety, to appear upon the Earth ? Fourier has occupied himself with
this question, and does not recoil from its difficulties.
We have said that a series of beings hierarchically distributed are interposed
between man and God. These beings have the direction of the spheres over
which they rule; they reign there as men reign over their more restricted
sphere, without ceasing to be subjected to the superior laws of the Eternal.
Placed as the Master of the Globe, man presides over it to bring At to perfec­
tion, for the multiplication of its animals and vegetables; there, he ordains, he
creates; there, God causes his power to be felt, but only by general laws which
man can not resist without suffering.
Superior beings have a vaster empire to govern, an empire in which they rep*
resent God, as Man represents him upon Earth.
By this gradual delegation of a part of his power to all intelligent beings, Fourier
explains how the Universe proceeds without an immediate relation between the
Finite and the Infinite; we understand how each being can act directly on those
which precede or follow it* at a short distance.
The nearest neighbors to Man, among the superior beings, are the planets*
He sees, then, in the planets, his habitual purveyors, or the intermediates by
which the benefactions of God are transmitted to him.
The planets, communing together by means of aromal organs, must find
in the relations thus established, the satisfaction of all the pagsions, and conse­
quently of the passion of Love, which is common to them, as to ourselves.
For the physical action of love, the planets have sexual organs and can be fe­
cundated. The products of these fecundations, will be precisely the first of each
kind, the first parents of all the new animals, of all the newvegetables. The plan­
ets are necessarily androgenous, being enabled to fecundate and be fecundated.
The fecundation of a planet by other planets of the system, will take place at
certain epochs, signalized at each time by a creation of animal and vegetable
* The action of beings upon each other to reciprocal. It iBfelt in the ascending scale, as well as
in the descending. Thus Man has an influence in the beings which govern him, but this influence
is dispensed and weakened in proportion as it rises, so that it is infinitely small or nothing when it
reaches God The Eternal, it has been,sometimes suggested, suffers to a degree, with the sufferings
of Humanity.
Digitized by Googk
106 UNlTEftSAL ANALOGY.
kinds or species. Planets formed in a regular series will give a regular series
of products.
Each planet endowed with a particular character, will give products relating
to that character, as emblems of the passions by which it is constituted. The
satellites of a planet, connected to that planet by affinities of character, furnish
emblems of the varied effects of the same passions.
A planet badly treated by its administrator, will yield in the act of fecundation
only bad germs that will produce monstrosities and hurtful species representing
the inharmonious play of the passions.
We advert to these higher speculations now, only that we may give a com­
plete view of the whole of Fourier’s doctrine, and not because his school deem
them of direct and special importance.
T hus far, we have given Fourier’s doctrine of Universal Analogy; but it is
important to observe that he was not the first man of modern times who com­
municated this view. Emanuel Swedenborg, between whose revelations, in
the sphere of spiritual knowledge, and Fourier’s discoveries in the sphere o f
science, there has been remarked the most exact and wonderful coincidence,
preceded him in the annunciation of the doctrine, in many of its aspects, in what
is termed the doctrine of correspondence. These two great minds,—the great­
est beyond all comparison in our later days,—were the instruments of Providence
in bringing to light the mysteries of His Word and Works, as they are compre­
hended and followed, in the higher states of existence. It is no exaggeration,
we think, to say, that they are t h e tw o commissioned by the Great Leader o f
the Christian Israel, to spy out the Promised Land of Peace and Blessedness.
But in the discovery and statement of the doctrine of Analogy, these authori­
ties have not proceeded according to precisely the same methods. Fourier has
arrived at it by strictly scientific synthesis, and Swedenborg by the study of the
Scriptures, aided by Hivine Illumination. What is the aspect in which Fourier
views it we have shown; we shall next attempt to elucidate the peculiar devel­
opments of Swedenborg.*
His fundamental position is, that there must be a Mutual Relation of Analogy
between things material or natural, and things spiritual or moral.
1. In proof of this relation, he relies, in the first place, upon the fact that
everything in a lower sphere of existence is produced for the sake of something
in a higher; and that, if so, every higher thing for the sake of which any object
of a lower kind is produced, is the .Proximate Cause, by derivation from the
First Cause, of the existence of the latter. There must, therefore, be an unin­
terrupted series of such causes and effects, each intermediate effect, becoming,
in succession, a proximate cause of existence to something beneath it, from the
First Cause itself, to the lowest of all. Every proximate cause, also, by the ur­
gency, and for the sake of which, something beneath it was produced, is like­
wise the real essence, or ground of being, of such lower production, which, on
its part, is thus an outward form manifesting the existence of such distinct es­
sence. The lowqf order of objects must then answer to the higher, as certainly
and immutably as the reflection in the mirror to its substance. Thus, for exam­
ple, every lower thing that exists is produced to serve, either more nearly or re­
motely, to the use of man; this being the second cause of its existence, the
thing itself is actually an image, under a different form, of something that is in
man; and Man himself was produced to satisfy the Love of God—that there
might be a being in the world capable of receiving, in a conscious manner, gifts
from God, and of returning them to him in love and adoration. God himself
thus being to Man both the Proximate apd First Cause of his existence, man
must be in a certain manner, an image of GojJ. Accordingly revelation assures
* We derive the subsequent statement from the Rev. S. Noble’s work on the Plenary Inspiration
of the Scriptures.—one of the most masterly and convincing arguments that we ever read. In gene­
ral,we have confined ourselves as nqar as might be, to his own language.
Digitized by Google
UNIVERSAL ANALDOT. 107
us that man was created in the image and likeness of God. If then, man alto­
gether is an image of God, every particular thing which exists in man, is an im­
age of something that exists in God.
2. The same truth is further sustained by Swedenborg and his disciples, by
the consideration that Creation is but an Outbirth from the Deity, a production
essentially distinct from the producing cause, but necessarily bearing to it an
immutable relation. The Deity, in the work of creation, did not operate at
random, producing things which have not in himself their divine prototypes or
grounds of being. To produce such things he must have stepped out of him­
self, which is impossible. He formed everything after the pattern of the inef­
fable attributes and perfections which exist only in his own essence. The Uni­
verse, instead of being, as it is sometimes regarded, a result of mere caprice,
little better than the offspring of blind chance, is the direct and faithful expres­
sion of the Divine Nature—a reflection of its essential propeipies. Man, there­
fore, being the image and likeness of his Maker, must reflect all these properties
of his Original.
If the whole universe is thus an outbirth from the Deity, and bears in all its
parts an immutable relation to Him who gave it birth, this,relation is more im­
mediately perceptible in the spiritual part of creation. It is generally acknowl­
edged that the two leading attributes of divinity are Infinite Love and Infinite
Wisdom, to which may be added their capacity of infinite creation, which is
called Infinite Power. Now, the Will and Understanding of Man, are a cer­
tain image, however feeble, of the Will and Intellect Divine, and the endless va- .
rieties of thought and emotion of which the former are capable are only so many
images of the variety of thought and emotion in the latter. In God, all that
the mind conceives or the heart feels, have their inward ground and essence of
being. The relation is more perfect, in proportion as Man receives into his
will the love and goodness of ¿he Lord, and into his understanding the divine
wisdom. But even when he perverts his noble endowments, he still retains an
image, though an inverted one, of his divine original. The faculties of Will
and Understanding are still related fo Divine Love and Wisdom, as opposites, the
Will still being the seat of Love, though it is a love of evil, and the under-:
standing being still the seat of thought, though it is the thought of error, which
is held for truth.
The images of divine things, however, are not confined to the phenomena of
the intellectual or moral world; they descend lower and display themselves on
all the objects of outward and material nature; first, on the corporeal parts of
man; next, on all the inferior animals; then, on the vegetable creation; and
lastly, on the inert mass of earth and water, which forms the lowest plain of all.
It would consume too much of our space, to illustrate these principles fully,
but we can not forbear indicating some of the analogies of the physical creation.
As man has two faculties in his mind, which image forth, in an essential man­
ner, the two great essential properties of his Creator, so he has organs in his
body answering to the faculties of his mind. The life of his spirit for instance,
depends upon his will and understanding, so the life of the body depends on
the heart and lungs. Again: the whole body is made up of two constituent
materials—the flesh and the blood—solids and fluids. The ^une analogy is
continued, even till we come to the most shapeless masses of matter—the ter­
raqueous globe, consisting of earth and water. Indeed it would be difficult to
find anything in the whole circuit of creation, both in general and particular,
which is not composed of two principal and constituent parts.
Man being an image of God, how evident is it, that the lower orders of crea­
tion, in their respective degrees, bear the same image, since the most cursory
inspection shows that they bear an image of man ? How strong the tendency
to the human form among all the subjects of the animal kingdom, and, more -
remotely, among vegetables ? The animals which differ most in external shape
from man, have nevertheless nearly all the organs that are found in man, es­
pecially those which are essential to life, though all display them under endless
varieties. All have heads, bodies, feet; in their heads, are eyes, noses, mouths,
Digitized by Googk
1 0 6 tmnrsfcSAi» A H A im t.
cara; and in their bodies hearts* lungs, and other viscera. As the animal de­
scends in the scale of creation, the resemblance becomes less perfect; yet most
of the species retain the principal organs; and where these cease, their place H
supplied by something analogous which performs their office in a manner suited
to the animal’s nature.
Again: the similitude of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, is in many re­
spects strikingly conspicuous. Vegetables, like animals, have a principle of life,
are propagated from parents, increase to maturity, provide for the continuance
of their kind, decay, die. They have a circulating system of arteries and veins;
they have respiratory organs; and the developments of the sexual system, by
Linnaeus, have brought to light other wonderful analogies. The discoveries
of modern science have gone farther, not only establishing general analo­
gies, between all animals and vegetables taken respectively together, but be­
tween particular classes of animals and particular classes of vegetables ;* and
thus leading to the conclusion that every individual species in the vegetable
kingdom has a species answering to it in the animal kingdom, each in its sphere
discharging like functions in regard to the whole.
Similar observations may be made in regard to the mineral kingdom, where
the tendency to offer an image of the higher creation is abundantly manifested.
Ciystallization, for example, is it not a mute prophecy of the coming vegetation ?
Or, take the inanimate globe, with its streams, and evaporations, and aromas of
all kinds, and how like to the venous and respiratory system of the human body f
But we can not dwell on these interesting details.
If the correspondence is thus obvious between the material forms of creation
and those of man, how equally, if not more obviously, the relation between the
mind of man and the moral qualities of animals. In the instincts, the propen­
sities, *he affections, the characters, in short, of the latter, we have a complete
picture of the same impulses in man. Besides the common analogy, there are
also analogies between every species and individual among animals, in particu­
lar, and something that there is in man. Even the savageswho designate them­
selves with the names of favorite birds or beasts, have long since discovered this
truth. How great is the contrariety between the wolf and the lamb, the lion
and the ox ! Yet how easy it is to see that the character of each is thus dis­
tinct, because it is formed by some specific affection taken, as it were, out of the
human mind, and made the single governing propensity of the animal, without
being modified by the innumerable variety of other affections with which in
that wonderful aggregate of affections—the Human Mind—it is combined.
Similar analogies are traceable between the moral qualities of man, and the
properties of objects in the vegetable and mineral kingdoms. How closely are
die appetites and instincts, which in both animals and man tend to the preserva­
tion of the species, emulated in vegetables! They are provided with sets of
vessels, which draw from the soil in which they grow, and the air which sur­
rounds them, the juices and gases congenial to their natures; nor has Dr. Dar­
win in his poem called the 4
4Loves of the Plants,” or Dr. Thornton in his
picture of 4
4Cupid subduing the Vegetable Kingdom,” proceeded upon mere
fanciful grounds. Even minerals draw from surrounding substances the mate­
rials of accumulation, as the plant or animal selects its food, and under the in­
fluence of alternation and chemical affinity, rush, as it were, into each other’s
arms with impulsive yet discriminating mutual affection.
Who can not see, too, marked analogies between the moral qualities of men
and animals, and the specific properties of vegetables and minerals ? Between
vegetables that afford pleasant and wholesome nutriment, the mild races of ani­
mals, and the unperverted feelings and thoughts of man, how evident the rela­
tion ? And is it not equally so, between noxious minerals, noxious plants, nox­
ious animals, and the malignant passions of our distorted souls? Thus, the
attributes of the highest nature may be viewed as in a mirror in the lowest, and
things invisible read in things which are seen.
* See “ Remarks on the identity of certain general laws, which have been observed to regulate
the natural distribution of insects and fungi,” by W. 8. Macleay, Esq.. M. A. F. L. 8. Limnmam
TYmntmctums.—Vol. 14, page 40. .
Digitized by Google
UNIVERSAL ANALOGY. 109
W e might illustrate these views further, by the common use offigurative
language, by the ordinary instincts of physiognomy, &c., by which we judge of
character, by the teachings of ancient mythology, and by the testimony of Scrip­
ture, but such a course would transcend our limits. We can, now, only again
refer our readers to the original authorities which we have indicated.
If the doctrine of Universal Analogy be true, it is one of the highest im­
portance. It furnishes us a means to unravel many of the mysteries of life and
destiny, an instrument for the enlargement of our scientific knowledge, and a
key to unlock the dark and deep sayings of Holy Writ. For example: 1st. It
has puzzled the brains of philosophers why there should be so many races of
destructive and venomous animals In the world: but the answer is found, as we
have before stated, in the fact—that every inferior creature has its immediate
antetype in man. If, therefore, man, by the abuse of the freedom of the will,
with which he is endowed, perverts the -divine gifts which he has received, ima­
ges of such perversion and evil, by the continued action of the Divine Creative
Power, must appear in the lower objects of creation. We are told by the
scripture, that all things as they came from the hand of the Creator were good,
because they were the visible manifestations of the All-Good; but when Hu­
manity fell,
“ Earth, through all her parts, gave signs of wo,”
and when Humanity shall have been redeemed, we learn on the same authority?
that the “ wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard lie down with the kid:
and the calf, and the falling, and the young lion together; and a little child
shall lead them. And the cow and the bear shall feed, their young ones shall
lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the sucking
child shall play on the hole of the asp; and the weaned child shall put his hand
on the cockatrice’s den.” In this we find plainly taught, that when evil shall
be banished from the moral world, it will cease to exist in the natural world, and
that destructive and ugly creatures will disappear with the rectification of disor­
dered passions.
2. Universal Analogy opens a new door to the cultivation of the sciences.
When it shall be recognised that there is unity in all the works of God, that all
parts of creation are but transcripts of each other, that truth is of universal ap­
plication, a discovery in any branch of physics becomes the stepping-stone to
a broad realm of analogous facts, and the laws which are now supposed to be
limited to a few insignificant species or individuals will be found to be but link»
in the grand series of corresponding links that form the chain of the universe.
At present our scientific men are too much engaged with minute and iso­
lated facts; they dwell too exclusively upon microscopic analysis; and they are
compelled to do so for the want of a rule for broad and magnificent generaliza­
tions. One result of this microscopic observation of facts has been that it has
rendered science skeptical and timid, that it has banished faith from its walks,
and that it has narrowed and belittled the intellectual vision of philosophers.
If this class of men, would ever attempt to attain to the dignity of their vo­
cation, they must elevate their minds to the higher interpretation of Nature
than is to be found in the region of mere facts.
3. Universal Analogy, if true, throws a blaze of new and brilliant light upon
the scriptures; and that it is true, seems to be proved by the researches of those
who have studied the scriptures under this light, and tell us, that from begin­
ning to end, they are found to bear a uniform and consistent construction, ac­
cording to the principles of correspondence. They have higher meanings than
the mere letter; they are sources of deep spiritual truths, that once perceived,
illuminate the entire revelation as with a celestial torch. What are to us un­
meaning narratives, what are rude and absurd ceremonials, what are insignificant
events in the history of an individual, are found to be full of universal spiritual
meanings. The Word and the Work of Deity are one; Science is harmonized
with Revelation; the secret scroll of destiny is laid open; and God is worship­
ped no longer through fear, but through knowledge and faith.
Digitized by Google
1
CONCLUSION.
M
A friendless warfare! lingering long,
Through weary day, and weary year,
A wild and many-weaponed throng,
Hang on thy front; and flank, and rear.**—Bbyakt.
W e hare now fulfilled the task which we imposed upon ourselves, we have
presented the conception of Fourier in its completeness, we have spoken not
only of what he proposes for the present, but of what he conjectures for the fu­
tures, we have touched upon all questions, from the reform of the township to
the modification which time must make in manners, from the education of the
child to planetary influences, and the creation of worlds. We have, it is true,
sketched only in the vaguest outline, but what we have done is sufficient to en­
able the reader to form an opinion of the Theory of Universal Unity. W ill
any one now dispute the grandeur and comprehensiveness of the genius to which
we are indebted for such mighty generalizations? Are his notions unworthy
of Man, or unworthy of God ? Was there ever loftier conceptions of the dig­
nity and glory of human destiny, or of the infinite wisdom and goodness of the
Creative Power? ,
But, before we answer these questions, we are reminded that our work is not
yet accomplished. The substance of Fourier’s discoveries as a science, we have
given; we have unfolded it to the extent in which it is developed in his publish­
ed writings; but deeper questions remain behind. What relation does this sci­
ence bear to the existing institutions of society; to the dictates of true Moral­
ity ; and to the doctrines of Religion and the constitution of the Church ? W e
shall attempt a solution of the difficulty supposed to exist on these points, in
the form oi an answer to the following objections:—
1. That the new doctrine is dangerous topublic order.
By this it is meant, that our plans are revolutionaiy. They certainly are rev­
olutionary, or, as the state of society now is, they would not be worth a mo­
ment’s thought.
But the revolution they contemplate is not violent, nor unjust, nor destruc­
tive. On the contrary, it can be demonstrated that ours is the only universal
and peaceful scheme of reform that is now agitated.
Society is at present divided into parties whose designs and wishes appear ut­
terly irreconcilable, so that each of them in order to triumph, must desire the
compression and ruin of all other parties. In this fact originates their deep and
unrelenting mutual hostility.
Society is also composed of a class which wishes to preserve all that it has,
and of another class that wishes to get much which it has not; the first thinks
it can not yield without losing—the second that it can not gain without taking.
For this reason, there is a perpetual and bitter hatred and war between the two
ranks who look upon each other as natural enemies. The Conservative and
the Reformer, the Tory and the Whig, the Democrat and the Aristocrat, have
been at all times, and in every nation, in a state of vigilant and exacerbated
antagonism. •
The Phalansterian School a lo n e, has nothing to do with any of these par­
ties or classes, but presents itself in the midst of all with words of Positive Af­
firmation and Peace; it recognises the legitimacy of the desires of all; infrin-
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION. I ll
ges the rights of none; it carries no torch to the temples of any; it offers to all
at the same time, a doctrine which is capable of satisfying all.
It says to the higher classes that their possessions and their advantages are
all theirs, and that it has no design of infringing them in the slightest respect.
At the same time, besides this Right, it places a Right not less sacred, the Right
of the laborer to his labor and its fruits, the assertion of which now menaces
the existence of the rich and of social order, and will continue to do so, until
it is recognised and satisfied.
It says to the lower classes that they will only suffer the more, by violently
despoiling the wealthy, and thus impoverish others without enriching them­
selves ; so that when all shall be miserably occupied in defending themselves
against hunger, the sciences, the arts, all high and noble industry, will be aban­
doned, and the human race retrograde towards barbarism. At the same time, it
sustains them in the sentiment that they are entitled to Labor, to Education, to
Justice, and to Happiness.
It proves that a greater part of our evils spring from the misdirection of human
energy, in fruitless enterprises and pernicious wars.
It proposes a plan for the organization of labor, by which the efforts of all
classes shall converge towards a useful end,—the extracting from the Globe, an
exhaustless reservoir, an amount of the elements of wealth and happiness amply
sufficient for the wants o.fall, by giving to those who have not, and by adding to
those who have.
The Social School demonstrates also that the masses have little interest in
the irritating contests of politics; that the form of the government touches them
only in a few points, since they are equally miserable (except when the accident
of abundant land, as in this country, constitutes an exception) under all govern­
ments, and that their progress depends upon social reform,—the reform of the
township, which on the diminutive scale on which it is essayed, can do no harm,
if it could do no good.
How could such peaceful notions as these prove dangerous to public order ?
What sentiment is there to impel to disorder, men who know, scientifically, that
every organic change, in a subversive state, short of a true and harmonious re­
organization, is nothing more than a revolutionary perturbation? No: while
we propose the reform of the whole world, we would not disturb the smallest
corner of its broad domain. Peace is our motto; but it is a Peace, under the
silent influences of which a new Earth would rise.
II. That the doctrine is immoral.
The Social School proposes to organize Labor; there can certainly be no
immorality in that!
But they are accused of immorality, because Fourier has expressed the
thought, that the manners of future societies, particularly in regard to the rela­
tion of the sexes, will be as different from those of our present societies, as ours
are from those of the Patriarchs and Savages. We have already made a reply
to this: if the conjectures of Fourier displease any, it is of little importance to
us that they be rejected; they do not bear upon the project which we seek to
realize. Our task is the organization of labor, and we leave to other generations
the discretion of adopting such changes in their feelings and customs as superior
intelligence, purity, and truth, may approve.
Again: we are accused of immorality, in that we urge men to indulge and
not repress their Passions. Let it be understood, however, in what sense we
use the word Passion, and to what does this objection amount? Why, that we
inculcate that it is the duty of Man so to adjust his social relations, that his na­
tive impulses, which, freely indulged in the present state, only lead to evil, may
be indulged in such a way as ohly to lead to Good! .
Much error has been started in regard to Fourier’s standard of morality, by
the use of the word Passion, which has generally a bad sense in the present ac­
ceptation, but which was perhaps the best that he could find. He means by it,
as we have before said, the springs of action in the human soul, the fundamental
impulses, the affections, the motives of the Will. The passions, he says, have
Digitized by Google
!
a right and a wrong development. The right development produces harmony,
good, justice, unity: the wrong development produces selfishness, evil, injustice,
and duplicity.
Sin, vice, and what are called bad passions, do not arise from any positive prin­
ciple of evil infused from without into the mind of man, or having its original
seat there; but are the false, disordered action of principles that are in them­
selves good. On the contrary, virtue and goodness are the true, harmonious,
unitary action of all these faculties. Virtue is the integrity of a man’s whole
nature (virtus, manliness), and implies the due subordination, the perfect co­
operation, the Unity of the Whole Man.
Fourier, in this view of human nature, is sustained by some of the most clear
and profound of metaphysical thinkers. Bishop Butler, whom we regard as one
of the acutest and large-minded of the able race of English divines, takes essen­
tially the same view in his admirable Sermons. He defines Virtue as “ the fol­
lowing of Nature,” and vice as “ deviating from it;” and proceeds to show that
this is not “ a loose way of talk.” “ Whoever,” he says, “ thinks it worth while
to consider this matter thoroughly, should begin by stating to himself exactly
the idea of a system, economy, or constitution of any particular thing or nature;
and he will find that it is a One or a Whole” (Unity), “ made up of several
parts, but yet that the several parts, even considered as a whole, do not complete
the idea, unless you include the relations and the respects which those parts
have to each other. Every work, of both nature and art, is a system,” etc. He
then illustrates this by the constitution of a watch, and adds: “ Thus it is in re­
gard to the inward frame of man. Appetites, passions, affections, etc., considered
merely as the several parts of our nature, do not give us an idea at all of the
system or constitution of this Nature, because the Constitution is formed by
somewhat not yet taken into consideration, namely, by the relation which these
several parts have to each other,” etc. (Unityism).
Again, in describing the nature of vice, he says: “ Every work of art is apt to
be out of orders which is true also of the human system or constitution.” And
after stating, from a deliberate survey of our nature, that “we were made fqr
society, and to promote the happiness of it,” proceeds as follows to state an ob­
jection : “ But it may be asked, Has not Man dispositions and principles within
which lead him to do evil to others as well as good ? Whence come the many
miseries else, which men are the authors and instruments of to each other?”
in answer, he says, “ there is no such thing as ill-will in one man towards an­
other, emulation and resentment being away; whereas there is plainly benevo­
lence and good-will; there is no such thing as love of injustice, oppression,
treachery, ingratitude; but only eager desires after such and such external goods
(what Fourier calls duplicity of action), which, according to a very ancient ob­
servation, the most abandoned would choose to obtain Dy innocent means, i f
they were as easy and effectual to their end; that even emulation and resent­
ment, by any one who will consider what these passions are in their nature, will
be found nothing to the purpose of this objection; and that the principles and
passions in the mind of Man, pr im a r il t and most d ir ec tl y lead to r ig h t
b eh a v io r , with regard to others as well as himself, and only seco n d a rily and
ACCIDENTALLY to WHAT IS EVIL.”
It would seem, then, that Fourier’s notion of the nature of evil and of virtue,
Is not unsanctioned by the highest authorities of Christendom.
Two remarks, however, are necessary to a complete understanding of his doc«
trine of obedience to the Passions.
The first is, that all the societies which have as yet existed upon the earth,
being incoherent and disorganized, were subversive and false societies, and that
the Passions of Man are subverted with them; hence, that compression and
restraint are absolutely needed to prevent the race from degenerating into a still
lower degree of degradation and suffering. In proportion to the extent of that
subversion, is the need of more rigorous laws and restraints; but as society
approaches a more organic state, the severity of its discipline may be relaxed,
until finally, having attained Social Harmony, men may be left to their native
118 CONCLUSION.
Digitized by Google
t
CONCLUSION. 113
Attractions, which are their only true guides, ever-present and permanent reve­
lations in the soul of the Will of God.
Our second remark is, that owing to this fact of the accidental and permanent,
or the false and true destinies, of society, the dictates of Morality are of two
kinds: relative and absolute. There are certain duties which are duties for all
men, of all ages or nations, and under all circumstances, such as the duties of
Truth, Justice, Love, and Devotion to our Heavenly Father; these are absolute
obligations, for the complete performance of which we are to seek all the aids
that our position requires, from the energy of our own wills, and from the grace
of God. There are other duties, which are duties exceptionally, under given
conditions, and for the production of particular results, such as self-denial,* mor­
tification, resignation, the endurance of suffering, fastings, contentment, etc.
They are duties, because in incoherent society, they aid in controlling subver­
sive passions, that would otherwise develop themselves to the injury of their pos­
sessors and others. Another reason is, that it would only be vain and irritating
to indulge desires for the gratification of which society had made no provision
—the love of wealth, for instance, which we are commanded to restrain, because
it would only become a torment in societies where it is impossible for seven
eighths of the people to have wealth.
That the present state of society is not its permanent state, and that the com­
pression of the passions is not a permanent duty, is evident from the considera­
tion that such compression is not, now, effectual, but only partial and tempo­
rary, and must contmue *o be of that character. No individual has ever suo
ceeded in the attempt at a direct subduing and suppression of his passions.
They are active and living forces, that will manifest their existence in one way
or another, like the internal fires of the Earth, which, smothered In one place,
speedily break out in another, generally made more intense by the feeble effort
of resistance. The only method of eradicating a vice of the passions, is not
suppression, but substitution, i. e. by changing the mode of their activity. Dr.
Chalmers, the celebrated Scotch Presbyterian preacher, has an excellent ser­
mon on “ the expulsive power of a new affection,”—a phrase that recognises
the truth that the best way of getting rid of an old affection is to 'get a new one,
or in other words, to change the object of the affection. A healthful activity
of all*the faculties of our nature, which can o'nly be procured in the Harmonic
Order, is a better preservative against vice, than all the saws and commands of
all the moralists from Confucius to Joe Smith. Only to the extent in which
the means for such an activity has been presented by Society, have its manners
and morals improved. This is a pregnant fact!
That the present state of society is utterly and abominably false^ and needs a
thorough organic renovation, is further evident since it imposes a restraint upon
the practice of the absolute duties of life, almost as rigid and grievous as that
which it lays upon the indiscriminate indulgence of the subversive passions. It
is almost a matter of doubt, whether the world would be more disturbed and in­
jured bythe unbounded freedom ofall the passions, or by the unflinching assertion
of all the virtues. Suppose that Truth and Justice were at once applied to the
existing ways and relations of Mankind! Could there be a more fatal supposi­
tion ? What a universal uproar and distress among the plots of public men,
the frauds of merchants, the tricks of politicians, the innumerable basenesses of
industry, of legislation, of the press, of the pulpit, among secret dislikes and
dissimulations in families, between man and wife, parents and children, the de­
ceptions of Love, the ignoble conventions of politeness and law upon which so­
ciety rests! Or, let Justice be done among men, and what devastations, what
exposures, what overtumings, what horrors, would be the wild and cruel result ?
* There is a sense, how ever, in which self-denial is of the essence of Religion. The law of life,
according to Fourier, is this, “ that God distributes to his creatures their particular attractions and
desires respectively,” and the particular exception to this law of distribution is, that m an on E arth
aspires to Heaven and a higher destiny than he can here enjoy. It is then, the link of U niversal
Unity which binds the soul of man, while on Earth, to H eaven, and every seventh function in ma­
terial and spiritual life, should be religious, and diverge from earthly satisfaction to heavenly as­
piration, as an act of devotedness ana self-denial or sacrifice of self to God and Universal Unity.
8 •
Digitized by Googk
114 CONCLUSION.
War, pestilence, and famine, are hardly more dangerous to the physical welfare
of our societies, than Truth, Justice, and Liberty, would be, if there were some
Supreme Power, capable and ready to put them into instant action. Society
itself admits this danger, every time it bristles so fiercely against some poor
starveling, “ indiscreet, imprudent, impracticable” reformer, who would only
make a feeble application of some single bit of Truth or Justice; yet Truth,
Justice, Liberty, are absolute in their requirements.
What becomes, then, of the charge that the doctrines of Fourier are im­
moral?
We admit fully the necessity of restraint in the subversive stages of society;
we invade no recognised law of the present state; we would relax the discipline
of coercion and force, only as the moral advancement of the race allowed and
required; and we are the only reformers who have a practical faith in Absolute
Virtues, because we are the only persons who can propose a social system in
which they can find there true and perfect expression.
The truth is, that we are more moral than other people, because we know
how to make morality available in the highest degree to the happiness of man­
kind. If individuals among the disciples of Fourier are immoral, they are so
in ¿ of their creed.
I That the doctrine is irreligious.
Those who make this objection, mean by it, that our views are exclusively
moralistic or material, and that we hope to achieve the reformation of society by
a mere internal mechanism, without regard to the teachings of religiqn.
We are not surprised at this charge, because the doctrine of Fourier has been
taught generally in its scientific aspects, and Science, in a one-sided view of it,
takes a position of antagonism to Revelation, although it is found in the end
that they mutually support and illustrate each other—God being the author of
both. Science is too much cultivated in the sphere of Necessity, and Revela­
tion in the sphere of Faith, whereas they should be equally instruments of un­
folding the mysteries of God’s word and works. Astronomy, mathematics, ge­
ology, have all at times presented themselves in opposition to Christianity; but
a larger knowledge of the facts of the one, and of the meaning of the other, have
made them willing co-operators in the redemption of Man from ignorance and
Buffering. n
Social Science, it will be seen in the end, so far from being hostile to true
religion, is one of its best and highest expressions.
It would lead us into too technical and abstruse a metaphysical discussion to
attempt to show the complete compatibility of eveiy word of Revelation with the
Doctrine of the Passions; but we believe we can do so, under the light of Uni­
versal Analdgy, and may hereafter make the effort. At present, we confine our­
selves to general affirmation and popular explanation.
We claim to be Christians, then, because we believe the gospel of Christ to
be the highest revelation given to Man; and we believe that this religious dis-
S
nsation will endure until it has been fully established by the creation of a New
eaven and a New Earth, described in the Book. And, again, we claim to be
Christians, because we believe that the Providence of God is Universal; that it
is both partial and general, and that he is a God of Love and Mercy, not a cold
abstraction, but ever near to us, present in the mind and heart and senses.
W e believe it to be our duty to obey the commandment of Love, and have
perfect Faith in the promise of light given by the Savior.
“ Seek ye first the kingdom of God and its Jusdce, and all these things
(worldly comforts] shall be added unto you.”
In obedience to this command, and in implicit faith in this promise, we seek
that we may find the kingdom of God and its righteousness; and we are only
afraid of those who say that nothing can be found by seeking; that the mystery
of the Universe is impenetrable ;*that the curse of civilized duplicity and misery
will last forever; that human nature is too bad to be redeemed; that the will of
God can not be done on Earth, as it is in Heaven, though we are instructed to
ask for this in daily prayer. W e are afraid, we say, of such negations, and
Digitized by Google
regard all persons who entertain them as infidels, whatever may be their profu­
sions or creeds.
W e believe that every word of the Gospel is divine, but we believe also that
no human understanding of that Word is perfect.
If, then, it be asked, what particular form of Doctrine we propose to teach,
we reply that we have no mission to teach any one religious creed or preference
to others. Individually, we admit all creeds in their peculiar spheres, inasmuch
as they are all respectively, partial aspects of the one eternal truth of Revelation,
in its infinite variety of aspects. We admit all views of truth, without deny­
ing any, and subscribe to every creed, but not exclusively; what is affirmative
in each is, for the most part, true, while the error of each is in its negation and
exclusivetéin.*
Our oHjfect, in regard to Faith and Spiritual Light, then, is not to teach a
new religion, but to point to That which has already been revealed, to show
that men as yet have only grasped the shadows of that true Religion, in its va­
rious aspects, and mistaken these for reality. The various creeds and doctrines
of religious sects are types of Unity, .but the*life and practice of these sects is
not in Unity. It is a shadowy aspiration, more or less intense, but not a positive
reality; for, while the truths of doctrine are embraced and held in veneration,
^nracticaliife is steeped in discord and iniquity; and this must ever be the case,
until the spirit of religious truth or unity be really embodied in the practice of
daily life—the end We seek to realize.
We seek to effect this practical embodiment of religious truth and love, in
daily life, by attractive industry and unitary combination; neither of which are
in themselves alone Religious Unity, but the body or collective form in which
alone the ordinances of Christianity, the spirit of religion, the Universal church,
can be incorporated practically and incessantly, for without the Body, the spirit
can not be manifested fully on Earth. We do not deny, then, the spiritual
truth of Religion; we desire to organize a body to receive that truth; a prac­
tical reality, and not a mockery. And what is more, we hold that all religious
creeds are true in their main features, and only need to be embodied in mate-,
rial organic Unity, to prove their beauty and utility respectively, and their in­
disputable claims to a true origin, ordained by Providence. It is the want of
such a body which confines them to the realms of suffering spirits and discord­
ant action: types and shadows in confusion struggling to become realities.
Religious truth is the principle of unity and harmony, but this can not be
realized in practice universally, without a correspondent unity of action in the
sphere of worldly interests; and thence it is that in the present state of disorder
and discord in the world, though spiritual light and truth are the first in prin­
ciple and importance, natural light and unitary combination are of primary inter­
est as the practical foundation of a perfect superstructure; and to frown upon
the science of industrial unity, as an inferior thing of mere material importance,
is silly and thoughtless. The man must be emancipated from the degradation
of the brute before he can be imbued with elevated views of God and a future
life.
No one will deny, we hope, that society is much indebted to the progress of
material art and science, for refinement and the spread of Christianity—the
power of multiplying and diffusing Christian knowledge among nations. No
one will deny that the ability of men to increase in knowledge, politeness, and
friendship, is greatly promoted by the alleviation of their outward circumstances;
and that comfortable apartments, freedom from care and drudgery, cleanliness,
constant labor, and education, are efficient auxiliaries in the establishment of
truth. Now, our only aim at present is to render the services of science and
industrial activity, the handmaids of religion, more constant, more direct, and
more effective. We wish to show, as society is now constructed, that there is
no security for moral discipline and religious communion. Every one is left to
act, without direct control, as his unbridled passions dictate; and as the interests
* See this m atter treated at length in our following work, soon to be published.
CONCLUSION. 115
lie CONCLUSION.
of individuals are everywhere opposed to those of general society, temptation to
iniquity is permanent and strong.
The Church has little or no hold on the minds of men (except to enslave
their intellects); and never will have the power she ought to have, until society
is organized materially on a plan of Unity, in which the light of Gospel truth
can be conveyed in permanence, instead of being, as at present, wasted by dis­
persion among beings who are not sufficiently accountable to general opinion
for their evil doing and neglect of duty. An appointed minister of light and
truth has now no other function to perform but that of holding up the banner
of religion to his dock, shut up in their purchased pens, called' m w s , for their
speculative consideration, once in seven days, and then abandon fln a to all the
snares of poverty and insecurity of worldly interests throughout tHbveek; for
if he undertake to visit and console his flock, between the intervals of Sabbath,
he is quite unable to protect them from the many allurements and necessities
of falsehood in the world. I
This is not a system, then, by which religion can obtain sUfficien^ influence
over human conduct in the common walks of life; it is too loose and incoherent.
It needs consistency and unity, in which *l?e light of true religion might be d^er
present, to inspire the minds of individuals knd control their actions. ^T^hp^hAhy
lem, therefore, to be solved, is not so much’the meaning of the Word of Gctf,*
as the means of organizing worldly interests in harmony wigutruth, and spiritual
light and love. The light of doctrine is already very great in the various branches
of the Universal Church, but want of unity in worldly combination and material
society, prevents that light from being always before the eyes of the laboring pop­
ulation, who are more or less dispersed in personal obscurity, deprived of aid
and consolation, knowledge and security, and left alone, unguarded, and aban­
doned to the recklessness of passion in the snares of iniquity.
This dispersion of the body of society, the unprotected, disunited, working
classes, is the cause of darkness and depravity on earth, the reign of chaos and
Satan. Not the absence of religious light, but the want of unitary influence
and convergency, to save it from being lost and scattered in the dust of incohe­
rent worldly interests. The spirit of religion wants a corporeal organism, to
manifest itself in truth and permanent reality on earth, and this is what associa­
tion is destined to prepare for it. The general delusion of society at present in
regard to Religion is, to suppose that holding up the type of truth in principle
and precept, once a week, to an unbanded congregation, is sufficient to prevent
their backsliding all the week, in the midst of general depravity, that the Will
alone of poor weak mortals is able to protect them from the temptations and
delusions of the Adversary, that unfriended miserable men can alone sustain the
conflict with evil, without the constant presence and aid of their fellow-men.
Association, then, is not designed to supplant Religion, but to be its servant in
the accomplishment of the Redemption of the Earth. We look upon it as the
mightiest auxiliary to Christianity that has ever been presented to men, because
it is a direct outgrowth and manifestation of the Spirit of Christianity.
The object of Christ’s mission on earth was to redeem mankind from sin and
suffering, and reveal truths of peace and unity, that would confer inconceivable
blessedness on all his creatures. No injunction occurs more frequently in the
Bible than that men should make themselves One in faith, in love, in hope. Al­
most the last word upon the lips of the Savior when he separated from his sor­
rowing heart-broken disciples, was “ Be ye one, even as I and my father are
a union the most intimate and most sacred.
Fourier did not set up any other name than that of Christ, and in one of the
last chapters written by him, describing the triumphs of Universal Association,
he exclaims, “ These are the days of Mercy, promised in the Word of the Re­
deemer (Matt. v. 6). Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righte­
ousness. for they shall be filled. It is verily in Harmony, in associative unity,
mat God will manifest to us the bounteous immensity of his Providence, and
mat the Savior will come according to his Word in all the ‘glory of his fa­
ther it is the kingdom of Heaven that comes to us in this terrestrial world; it
' Digitized by Googk
CONCLUSION. 117
is the reign of Christ; he triumphs; he has conquered evil. C h r istu s r eg ­
n a t , v in c it, im p e r a t . Then, will the Cross have accomplished its two-fold
destiny; that of C onsolation during the reign of evil, and that of U n iv er sa l
B a n n e r , when human reason shall have accomplished the task imposed upon
it by the Creator. ‘Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,’
the harmony of the Passions in Associative Unity. Then will the Banner of
the Cross display with glory its deyice, the augury of victory; I n H oc S ig n o
V in c es ; for then it will have conquered evil, conquered the gates of hell, con­
quered false philosophy, and national indigence, and spurious civilization; et
•portae inferi non prevalebunt.” ‘
Thus, we have shown, in regard to the more important objections brought
against the doctrine of Fourier—
1st. That it is the only doctrine which can conciliate all classes and parties,
on a basis of mutual interest and harmony.
2d. That it absolves no man from the obligations of true morality, but insists
upon it, as an absolute and permanent duty that every individual, being himself
an image of God and of the Universe, must bring his faculties and life into ac­
cordance with the laws of Justice, Integrity, Unity, as well as he may in this
state of duplicity and subversion. But
3d. That individuals can do this alone, only in rare cases; and that it is the
direct effect of the attempt to make our own souls at one with God’s Nature and
Providence, to seek to bring the souls of others into the same divine state, for
the accomplishment of which, no agency has ever been devised comparable in
any degree to an organization of the whole of society according to the laws of
universal gradation and harmony—the law q f variety in Unity, which is the
eternal fact of Creation.
I n d iv id u a l V ir t u e is t h e in t e g r it y , w h o len ess, U n it y , o f a ll the fa c ­
u l t ie s of t h e in d iv id u a l soul ; S ocial V ir t u e , t h e same in t e g r it y , com­
pl e t e n e s s and U n it y of a l l the p r in c ip l e s of the Social Soul. Each is
necessary to the attainment of the other ! !
T h e u n io n of bo th social a nd in d iv id u a l v ir t u e is R E L IG IO N !
If any man is able to make immorality and irreligion out of such doctrines,
he is at perfect liberty to enjoy his discovery !
No : our immorality and irreligion consists in this, that the blind and corrupt­
ed growths of civilization do not comprehend that we are greatly in advance of
them on all points of scientific and religious wisdom.
We have a morality which is not individual and selfish, and this they do not
like. We have a religion which is not arrogant, narrow, and exclusive; which
explains the mysteries of the Bible, which renders our hope, and faith, and
charity, scientific, and our wisdom and truth religious; which promises to re- •
alize the Kingdom of Go 1on Earth, and this they do not like. But we know
that the future is ours, and thus we confidently look to God for the fulfilment of
all his promises of blessedness to Earth.
“ I saw the New Jerusalem, the Holy City coming down from God, out of
Heaven, adorned as a bride for l^er husband. And I heard a great voice out of
Heaven, saying, Behold the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them
and be their God.”*
* The suggestion that those who do not like our view s of hum an nature or'of religion can fbrm
associations for them selves, is so obvious, that we have not insisted upon i t ; but w e commend the
principle of association to all sects, who are a t liberty to adopt w hat details they please. The prin­
ciple is practical Christianity.
\ *« * . t
vv ,
Digitized by Google
V
N O T E .
“ Fourier’s science is not a system, but a demonstration of the principle of unity and or*
der God has manifested in the systems of Creation, and the Word of inspiration, by which
man is to be led from misery to happiness on earth and in a ftiture state: and this science
of universal unity, is nothing but a faithful Image, though perhaps but taint, of God him.
self.
God is, Himself, the law of universal harmony, and his Creation is an image of Himself.
God is all in all, and there is nothing else for him to speak of in his word, or image in crea­
tion. but Himself; and God is a trinity in unity; from whence it follows that the law of or­
der in the Word and in the Works of God is necessarily a Trinity in unity.
This is the system of Fourier?if it may be properly called a ‘system’ and simple as it
may appear, it is the whole of his system. But then it is a Godlike system gifted with the
power of infinite creation in the sphere of thought. '
This principle of unity applied to general theology and science is, by Fourier, termed the
‘series’ or the law of order and of truth, which draws away the veil from mystery wher­
ever it is taken as a guide in studying the word of God in scripture, and his works in na­
ture ; so that we may truly say, as #eurier says, that God himself explains all mysteries,
and without him all is darkness and confusion. Christ is all in all, and unto him must all be
fathered in the end: and this is what Fourier inculcates; for he has not made a system,
but endeavored to explain the attributes of God, the law of universal unity, that all may live
in God and God in all. and that the word of God may be fulfilled as it is written:—
11 am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and
which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.’ Rev. xviii.
The System of Fourier, then, as far as it may properly be termed a system, consists in
seeking for the law of God in every part of the Creation and the Word; which law of God
is the image of God Himself and universal unity, the truth, the light, the life of all; and
the fundamental principles of science and theology propounded by'Fourier consist in what
he terms the ‘series’ or the image of Divine Love and truth: the Trinity in Unity.
This Law of order is defined in various ways, according to the sphere of thought and ac­
tion which engages our particular attention at a given time, and on a given subject; but the
< Universal theorem is, Trinity in Unity; the ‘series,’ or the 1Law of order j’ which Law of
' order is the law of God; a picture more or less imperfect of Divinity and Universal unity.
Applied to God Himself, as a definition of the Godhead, it stands thus:—
Scripturally j
f 1 God the Father " 'j
2 God the Son }
[3 God the Holy Ghost J
Analogically j
f 1 The Active principle of life 'j
2 The Passive principle of life i
[3 The Neutral principle of order J
Providentially j
( 1 Universality »^Providence 'J
2 Simplicity of action j
[3 Perfection of justice J
Trinity
in
Unity.
Trinity
in
Unity.
Trinity
in
Unity.
Godis Himself the Principle of Universal Unity. The whole and sole Governor of the Uni­
verse?the Lord of Heaven and Earth, and yet we are told in Scripture that the Devil is the God
of this World. 2 Cor. iv. 4. This leads us to what Fourier terms the 1Law of exception,
discord, and disorder which is not the law of order, but subject to that Law, as the Devil
is not God, but subject to the Power of God. God, then, is the principle of order and of
life ; the Devil is the principle of death and darkness; God is the Law, Satan the excep­
tion ; and yet God is all in all.
This is the principle of universal unity propounded by Fourier: God, the Law of order;
Trinity in unity; the fountain and the life of all things; and Satan, the exception to the
law of order, and the God of this world, as long as it remains under the curse of original
sin. God is a positive Personality; Satan a negative, or no-thing but evil. Lucifer a fallen
angel; and Diabolos a fallen man, or class of men.
The system of Fourier consists in keeping God before his eyes, in all his thoughts and
Digitized by Google
NOTE. 119
actions, to discover what the law of order is in every sphere of life, and what is the except
tion. The Trinity in unity and its ambiguous counterpart. To scripture he applies this
law; to Nature he applies it, and to the existence of Humanity. Wherever there is order
in the universe, he finds the law of unity exemplified; and where disorder reigns, the law of
discord, or the mere exception to the Law of order.
In man. he finds a trinity in unity j an intellectual or spiritual Trinity in unity subject to
the law or death and darkness, as a mere exception to the law of universal life and Harmony.
In universal nature he discovers the same law of order and existence.
The Solar System is a Trinity in unity, or a series of stars: 1st. Planets carrying moons
or Satellities: 2dly. Planets which do not carry moons j and 3dly. Satellites revolvinground
superior planets; which trinity of orders is maintained in unity upon a centre called the Sun,
which is itself neither a planet or a satellite, but the heart of all the system, and the appa­
rent source of all their natural life and movement. But to this Law of order in the Solar
System, there is also an exception in the movement of eccentric orbs called comets. The
Sun is the centre of the three inferior orders of planets as the emblem of God who is the
centre and the life of all spiritual aspirations, ana when human nature as a trinity in unity
abandons the true light ofRevelation, it is lost in darkness like the comets that ny off into
the vast infinity of space without a centre of fixed light and unity.
God is then, the principle of unity and order, and the system of Fourier consists in keeping
God before our eyes in all our speculations; and when he treats of human science ana so­
ciety, the image of Divinity is what he terms the Trinity in unity; the law of order; the
1Series.’ ”
“ This is a speculative abstract of ‘Fourier’s system’ or more properly, his method, and
the aim of what he terms the ‘theory of Uuiversal unity’ is
Unity of man with God.
Unity of man with Man.
Unity of man with the Universe.
The first of these unities is what is commonly called Religion, though Fourier includes
everything in universal or religious unity. He refers us, however, to the Word of God for
frill instruction with regard to spiritual unity, or unity of man with God, and for the laws
of natural unity, or unity of man with man collectively on earth, he refers us to the Book
of Scripture and the Book of Nature conjointly as the double source of Revelation in which
we are to seek the laws of God and righteousness, ‘Seek ye first the kingdom of God and
His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.’ Matt. vi. 33.
It is in obedience to this command, and with implicit Faith in the Promises of God to
man in Scripture, that Fourier undertook to seek the laws of universal order and the science
of social harmony, or unity of man with man; and this science is what may be deemed
especially ‘ The System of Fourier,’ as he has dwelt upon it more than upon other branches
or universal unity. In his science of ‘universal analogy’ he treats of all the unities, but in
Religious dissertations he treats principally of the unity of man with God ; in his cosmog­
ony, ne treats of the unity of man with the Universe, ana in his Science of Society, he treats
of the unity of man with man.
He has not published much of his cosmogony, because he thought it might be deemed
conjectural and fanciful by superficial minds, and though his works are eminently theologi­
cal he has not written much on school divinity because he deems the Church the proper
teacher of divinity, and he believes that she will grow in light as fast as the people are
prepared to receive it, for Christ has said to the Apostles, ‘Upon this Rock I will build my
Church, and the mites of Hell shall not prevail against it.’ Matt. xvi. 18. 1If thy brother
neglect to hear the Church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Matt,
xviii. 17.
And in Revelation, xxii. 16, etc., it is said, 11, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify unto
you these things in the Churches. I am the root and the offspring or David, and the bright
and morning Star.’
‘ And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And
whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.’
1For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy ofthis book, If any
man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that ore written in this
book; and if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy. God
shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the city, and from the tilings
which are written in this book.’
Fourier, then, has neither added to the book of Revelation, nor taken away from it, by
forming a new religious creed of faith and doctrine. He refers us constantly to the Word
of God as the true standard of Faith, and reconciles all partial creeds and doctrines based
upon the Word without preferring any one exclusively. Partial creeds or sects he looks
upon as fragmentary j a *taking away from the whole Word,’ certain parts to form a special
creed distinct from other partial creeds derived from other fragments of the Word : which
breaking of the word, and of the Body of Christ, he looks upon as an exceptional law of
progress in false unity, to be restored to true unity again, when all are gathered under Christ
the Prince of Peace, when the following Revelation shall be realized:—
*And he showed me a pure river of water of life, dear as crystal, proceeding out of the
throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of tne street of it, ana on either side of the
Digitized by Googk
120 2TOTK*
river was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit
every month, and the leaves* of the tree were for the healing of the nations/
' *And there shall be no more curse; but the throne of Godand of the Lamb shall be in i t ;
and his servants shall serve him; and they shall see his lace, and his name shall be in their
foreheads/ Rev. xxii.
As the word of God contains all partial creeds derived from it in truth, Fourier admits the
truths of all; and as all are destined, he believes, to grow more perfect, until they are all
absorbed in one religious creed of catholicity emoracing the whole word of God, and not a
part only ofthat word, put forth as special articles pf Faith exclusively; his policy of peace
and reconciliation is, to conform to the Established Church in every cnristian country, what­
ever be the special creed or articles of faith put forth authoritatively in ppticular branches
of the Universal Church of Christ respectively. His creed and that of his particular parti­
sans being that of the whole word of God, they can consistently conform to any partial
creed, but not exclusively; for catholicity is the universal creed^ embracing all, rejecting
none, receiving all, and purifying all as partial streams are purified by entering the sea.
That is the creed of Fourier and his followers in Christ. They neither add to nor take away
from the articles of Faith contained in the word of God; ana believing that word to be per­
fect, they make unto themselves no fragmentary creeds, or special articles of faith selected
by mere human wisdom from the universal Word.
Nor is there any impropriety in our conforming to the special creed of any one branch
of the universal church, Greek, Anglican, or Roman, for Christ has said in one of the arti­
cles of His universal creed, 1Again I say unto you, that if two of you shall agree on earth
as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is
in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the
midst of them/ Matt, xviii. 18,'19.
It is, however, in the name of Christ alone, we can unite, and not without a name, or with
a heathen name, or a Mahometan. Heathens arp to be converted before they are accepted,
and Christ must be acknowledged universally as the sole head of the Church.
In the twenty-sixth chapter of Matthew, there are several important articles of the uni­
versal creed, in which we are enjoined to feed the poor and clothe the naked, to visit the
sick and give shelter to the stranger | and this is the special object of Fourier’s 1system/ It
is not a new creed; but a new method of attending to the articles of the everlasting creed
of Christ, and of his universal church: one God, one Church, and one Holy Catholic Faith;
universal unity; material and spiritual unity.
HUGH DOHERTY/»
* In the science of universal analogy, according to Fourier, the leaves of trees and plants
are symbols of industry; the flowers being emblematic of the pleasures of attractive occupation,
and the fruit ofthe results.
Digitized by Google
