{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__herfner___mesmerism_dublin_university_magazine.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism Dublin University Magazine","mylang":"de"}
THE DUBLIN
UNIVERSITY MAGAZINE
A
JUttrarn anlJ U.olitical ,!Journal.
VOL. XXIII.
JANUARY TO JUNE,
1844.
DUBLIN:
WILLIAM CURRY, JUN. AND CO:MPANY
W. S. ORR AND OOMPANY, LONDON.
XDCCCXLlV •
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mumerism. 8'1
MIISMl!IUSM,
al! IIIYS R&lll'lflla.
"for so, 11nder the strangest ~ew vesture, the old great truth laiuce n~ vesturo
~an hide it) begins again to be revealed: That man is what we call a mirac11lou1
creature, with miraculous power over men ; and, on the whole, with sucq a life
in him, and such a wo~ld round him, a~ vic~orious analysis, witllller physiologies,
nervous systems, phys1c and metaphysic, wlll never completely name, to say no~
thing of explaining. Wherein also the quack shall, in all ages, come in for his
share."
THE magnet-which, if we consider
the import of its name, according to
the most probable etymology, seems,
even fron1 the period of its discovery,
to have stood in mystic repute, as a
vehicle of powers akin to those with
which the MAGic of that early time
had to do-concentrated on itself, in a
remarkable degree, the scientific curi-
osity of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries. A closer attention than
the subject had, before that era, re.
ceived,-obllervation more exact, anl;l
a course of experiment:! more syste-
matic and more extended, - had
brought into view the wide range and
manysidedness of the magnetic phe-
nomena, had revealed the curiously
complex and harmonious workinEJ of
the laws under which those pheno-
mena stand, and opened glimpses into
a region of speculation irresistibly in-
viting to the genius of an age suscep-
tible, perhaps, beyond any th"t had
preceded - certainly beyond those
which have, up to the present time,
succeeded it, to the fascination of the
marvellous and the occult. Of the
nat11ral philosophy of that epoch,
magnetism (proper) is, accordingly,
the fundamental and the pervading
thought. The spirit of philosophical
investigation had, one would say, com-
mitted itself to the same guidance
which, from immemorial time, had di-
rected the path of geographical re-
search ; and the wondrous agency
that gave certainty to the course of
the navigator over the untracked deep~
was now to point the way also to the
adventurous intellect, embarked on
the eventful voyage of philosophic dis-
covery. It was a time of the hope-
fullest boding.. Never had the pro&-
pecta of phyaieal science war~ an u-
THOMAS CARLYLE.
pect so fraught with promise. The
riddle of ages seemed to hasten to its
solution. With a deep joy, not un.
mixed with awe, the observer of the
results of magnetic experiment saw
the moment approach, when the "veil
of Isis" should be lifted bv the hand
of the goddess herself, and the lips,
sealed from eternity, should unclose,
to pronounce the key-word to the se-
cret of secrets. Nay, was not the
word already pronounced? in a low.
tone, indeed, but which the quick ear
of Paracelsus had caught. Was. it
not-magnetism? Was not here the
talisman to which, rightly applied, the
sealed inner-chambers and alchymio
workshop of nature would, nay did
already in a sort, stand open? Was
not here the key, whereby the cabal-
i&tic handwriting with which her works
were inscribed was to be deciphered?
Was not here the dial-finger that told
how her hidden mechanism went? ·
These questions, the age, with cha-
racteristic promptitude, answered in
the affirmative; and now unfolded
themselves into fair form and goodly
proportion, systems of the universe,
In which a certain divinatory instinct,
or poetic anticipative sense, held the
place which a later method of philo-
sophizing has as.~igned to the inductive
process. In these systems, framed on
the principle (since fallen into desue-
tude) of encumbering the movements
of theory with the least amount ol
experiment possible, the collective
phenomena of nature in all its depart.
ments were resolved into one vast and
infinitely modified manifestation of the
magnetic force : all operations, all
processes, all of power, and life, and
movement, that the great ·frame ol
pbyaical beiag diaolosea1 were made te
o,9 11zed by Coogle
.._____________
___. ~
38
revolve around and refer themselves
to the agency observable in the load-
stone, as the heaven with all its lights
revolves around the star to which the
loadstone points, and by its relation
to that star is every other star known
in its place. Arabian fiction is not
more prodigal of its wonders than
were Paracelsus and his disciples when
the magnet was the topic of discourse ;
nor would it be eas1 to specify a cu-
rious effect, presentmg itself in the
region of animal or of vegetable life,
of organic or of inorganic being, that
this school-including Van Helmont,
Agrippa von Nettesheim, Kircher,
and othlll' acute and comprehensive
intellects-do not trace to the opera-
tion of magnetic agencies. Magnet-
ism was, to these theorists (men of
experiment, too, and to whom physical
science owes much), the one universal
cosmic force, the ethereal primal-sub-
stance and ground-element, that per-
vaded and informed with life all that
subsists in space, the basis of all natu-
ral properties and effects, the inte-
gratmg principle, that held all parts
of the universe in organic relation to
each other, and knit them, not as by
mechanical outward connexion, or
mere hookin~ together, but by inward
living aftinibes, into an indissoluble
whole.
When every thing was thus referred
to the magnet, and its influence was
but seen in various modification in all
the conflicting and consenting activi-
ties, the manifold antagonisms and
harmonies of life in its several forms,
it is not to be wondered at that the
ground of medicinal efficacies should
be sought in the operation of the
same principle, and that the physician
should come upon the thought of a
direct exhibition of the magnetic
agency in the treatment of diseases.
If the whole materia medica acted no
otherwise than magnetically, it seem-
ed an inevitable conclusion, that the
substance in which the magnetic virtue
was most nakedly and in its least dif-
ferentiated form developed should
combine in itself the operation of the
whole materia medica, and that the
use of it was the plainest and shortest
road to the object in view.
Accordingly, we find magnetism al-
ready in the 17th century in a certain
degree of reputation as a curative
agent: not, however, animal mag~
[Jan.
netism, or what we now call Mes-
merism; but what may be termed
crude magnetism, the use of the load-
stone itself. Medical orthodoxy set,
perhaps, little store by it ; but it was
greatly relied upon by the Paracelsists.
Van Helmont, whose merits in che-
mical discovery are acknowledged,-
the medicu1 per ignem, as he styled
himself.-was the most distinguished
magnetizing physician of the seven-
teenth century ; and his work, " De
Magnetica Vulnerum Curatione," is a
fair exponent of the views and prac-
tice of his school. B~af"s " Bal-
neum Dian~e Magnettcum, 1600,"
Kircher, «De Arte Magnetica, 1643,"
and Maxwell's " MedicinE MagnetiCIB
libri tres, in quibus tam thE:oria quam
praxis continetur, 1679," are worlr.a
based on the same views.
An extract which shall here be laid
before the reader, from the writings
of Van Helmont (opera omnia, Frank-
fort, 1682), may show in what light
the subject was considered by explo..
rers of nature in that century. The
learned Dutchman is defending his
practice against the Jes11it Robert,
who had, like some sagacious and par-
ticularly anti-Jesuitic folks in our own
days, denoUflced the magnetic proce-
dure in medicine as an employment of
"Satanic agency.'' An application of
some of the following remarks may
po88ibly suggest itself to the reader,
more recent and nearer home than is
furnished bv the times and the where-
about of the ingenious Jesuit. Van
Helmont loquitur-
" He who holdeth magnetical curet
to be devilish, must from the same
grounds argue the foundation of all
magnetical P-henomena to be sorcery
and the dev1l's art. Magnetism, which
is an every-where-operative force, hath,
bating the name, nothing new ; nor yet
any thing absurd, unless it be for those
who either laugh at, or set down to the
operation of the devil 11·hatsoever they
do not understand. Magnetism is an
unknown, peculiar power, of celestial
nature, having great similarity to the
influences of the stars, and limited by
no distance of place, Every created
being possesseth its proper heavenly
power. The outward man is of animal
nature, yet withal the true image of
God ; wherefore, if God acteth by word
and sign, so must also man be capable
of doing ; else were he no image of a
living spirit, but of something inert and
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Meameriam. 39
without action. .And, name we now this
(the acting by word and sign) magic,
only the ill-instructed can take fright at
this word: name it, if that please ;you
better, force of spirit. This magiCal
faculty lieth hid in the inner being of
man ; i~ sleepeth, and beareth itst>lf as
one drunk within us; through sin it is
gone to sleep, and hehoveth therefore to
be waked up again ; for in the inner
being, in tlie domain of the soul, is
God's kingdom, and here dwelleth the
hidden secret power to work out of
one's self, barely through the will and
thtough a sigp, and also to impress
upon others the acting of this power,
which worketb upon the remotest ob-
jects: which thing, as the great secret,
I have hithert•l shunned to reveal. Now
if this proper power of man be thus
proved to be a natural power, it was
very absurd to believe, as bath been
done, that the devil bad a hand in it.
Do but open your eyes. The devil hath
to this time, through your prodigious
ignorance, stood in great fame; ye have
been bringing him, all this while, as I
mav say, the incense of fame; the while
ye have been robbing yourselves of your
natural dignity, as well as of tht> sight
of your eves, that ye might make the
same an offering to the devil.
" Yea, the will that is in man is the
first and highest of all powers, the
ground-cause of all movements ; for
through the force of will in the Creator
was all made, and this same will is a
property of all spiritual beings, only
these are more or less limited in the
putting forth of it, each by other's
eountera<'tion. According as the force
is greater on the part of the in-working
agent or of the withstanding, will the
working be with or without effect. The
occult force inherent in man is a certain
ecstatic power (of working without the
limits of his material organization),
which is not brou~ht into action save
through the impulsive agency of imagi-
nation, kindled by desire. It iB a spi-
ritual force, which cometh not down
from heaven, much less arisetb out of
hell, but is of man himself, as the fire
is of the flint. Out of the will, namely,
floweth the animal spirit, which taketh
ideal subsistence, and, mediating be-
tween spirit and body, worketh thither-
wards whither the intention of the will
is to direct it."
Thus far Van Helmont, in a style
smelling perhaps less of the lamp than
of the laboratory, where he lived, ate,
slept, and did whatsoever else is indis-
pensable to be done by mortals, thirty
years, in an atmosphere fuliginous
enough, poking, one might say, in the
bowels of nature, while a whole gene-
ration of men less learned than he
were rejoicing in the light of her face.
Here he saw, as he assures us, in the
year 1633, in a very distinct manner,
his own soul, the seat of which he as-
certained to be in the stomach and the
spleen : it was, he relates, a spiritual
substance, of a crystalline appearance,
luminous, and having the figure of a
man• ; a description of this part of
our economy, w.hich the reader will
not find the less remarkable, nor, one
hopes, the less authentic,for the very
close correspondence it bears to that
given by a visionist, or illuminated
person, in the early church, as record-
ed by Tertullian. " Among ·other
things," declared this primitive ea-
tatica, "was shown to me the soul, in
a bodily wise. I saw it, a spirit, in
thinnest reflected radiance, luminous,
of a celestial blue eolourt ; for the
rest, in a form in all reBpects human."
From the foregoing we gather that,
however the medical magnetism of the
two preceding centuries differed in the
form of its exhibition from that taught
b,r Mesmer in the latter half of the
eighteenth, the. leading conception of
a universally diffused fluid, or cosmic
. • We cannot but recognize here the same phenomenon which afterwards obtained
the name of magnetic sleep-waking and self-intuition. Van Helmont himself gives
elsewhere an account of the means by which he came into this state; it was by
tasting, in the course of his experiments in vegetable poisons, the root of the
aconite:-
" My intuitions," says he, "immediately became much stronger and of greater
compass, and this mental clearness was combined with a feeling of extraordinary
pleasure. I slept not; I dreamed not ; ml health was perfect. I felt, perceived,
and thought no longer with the bead, but m the regiou of the stomach, as if know-
ledge·had now taken her seat in that part."
t Doctor von Meyer speaks of a blue phosphorescence as characteristic of the
psychic principle in its manifestations, and refers to this head the ease of " The
Blue Dog," in the "Diary of a Late Physician"-dogs having, according to the
learned burgo.maater, blue souls, as well as men.
Digitized by Coogle
force, is common to both systems, and
the aim of both is to bring this force
to bear on the cure of diseases ; an
object, the ground of the feasibility of
which is placed in the affinity of this
universal force with the principle of
animal life.
Anton Friedrich Mesmer, in whose
l1ands the doctrine of therapeutic
magnetism was to assume a new and
considerably simplified form, was a
native of the canton of Thurgau, in
Switzerland, and a graduate in medi-
cine of Vienna. Endowed with his
full share of the somewhat mystical
temperament of his nation, it is not
wonderful that the speculations of the
imaginative theorists of the era re-
ferred to in the foregoing pages, and
in particular those of his countryman
Paracelsus, should have had a pro-
found charm for his mind. In the
year 1766 he came before the scientific
public of his time with a dissertation
" On the Influence of the Planets on
the Human Body.'' The same agency,
he taught, which gave such unequi-
vocal tokens of its presence in the flux
and reflux of the sea, in a great mul-
titude of atmospheric phenomena, and
in the ceaseless revolutions of the ve-
getable world, had as direct an opera-
tion on the animal economy, and was
to be traced in the periodical changes
and stages of development observable
in the body of man. As the vehicle
of this influence he assumed a subtle
fluid, diffused through the universe,
pervading with equal facility the
densest and the loosest material tex-
tures, as little resisted by the solid
ground that supports our tread, as by
the light air that yields to the play of
our respiratory organs. With this
fluid for its medium, the planetary in-
fluence announced itself in the height-
ened or lowered intensity of weight,
cohesion, elasticity, irritability, and
[Jau.
other propertiea obaetvable in bodie•,
whether referable to mass or to or-
ganization. To observe the workings
of this influence in the course and
issue of diseases was now Mesmer's
occupation for a series of years ; nnd,
through the experience gained during
this time, he found himself, as he be.
lieved, in a position to predict with
certainty the successive phases and vi-
cissitudes which would present them-
selves in the course of a disease. This
conducted him to the second great
feature of hi~ doctrine, namely, that a
reciprocal influence, corresponding to
that of the heavenly bodies on each
other, subsists also between the dif-
ferP.nt bodies on the earth, and in par-
ticular between Jiving organisms, and
between the different parts of the
aame organism,-an influence capable,
like other forces in nature, of being
brought under the control of art.,
and directed to the arbitrarily pro-
ducing, or, as it were, forcing, of the
natural revolutions in our vital system.
To this end we find him, in the year
1773, in consonance with the doctrine
and practice of the elder magnetiats,
using the mineral magnet (magnetized
rods of iron) in the treatment of dis-
eases. His method appears to have
been similar to that adopted after-
wards by Perkins, the inventor of the
metallic tractors. He stroked, with
his magnP.tic rods, the parts in which
disease manifested itself, and accom.
plished, we are told, cures of a re.
markable character. One of the most
distinguished experimental philoso-
phers of the age, the Jesuit Hell, then
professor of astronomy at Vienna,
who took a lively interest in the inves-
tigations of the Swiss physician, is
said to have suggested to him this us11
of the magnet, as well as to han pre-
pared for him the magnetic rods with
which he operated.•
• That a Jesuit-and the Jesuit HELL---should have assisted, so to aay, obstet.
rically, at the birth of animal magnetism, is a fact which, with whatever reluctance
one may admit the conviction of it, does tell terribly on the side of those ingenious
people who consider the whole Mesmeric business as a covert and insidious agency
the most improper ; of being designed, on the one hand, to confirm my Lord
Shrewsbury in his attachment to the mass, and on the other, to encourage M.
Jules Cloquet, and gentlemen of the medical profession in general, in the illaudabla
practice of not going to church. The Jesuit Hell! Is here no hint to him that
hath understanding to take it? Did such a conjunction of names and characters
bode nothing? Doth not "Mystery of Iniquity" stand written on the forehead of
it? Should not the Penny Pulpit, small copper kettle-drum ecclesiaatical, be beat
to defy the thing thus whered into life UDder the conjoined auapioea of Pan.
Digitized by Coogle
Mesmer did· not ·long continue this
direct application of the magnet.
Circumstances did not escape his
quick eye which led him to suspect
that the curative effects which bad
been attributed to the mineral, were
in reality produced by the hand that
field it ; and that, like a superfluous
wheel in a machine, the employment
of the material loadstone did but en-
cumber without helping. Here, then,
the Swiss physician began to diverge
from the path pursued by his prede-
cessors, and to place in the human
body itself the influence which they
had supposed to reside in the magnet.
The circumstance that confirmed him
In this view was one which presented
itself on the occasion of an operation
with the lancet, when the blood issued
from the incision or retreated-flowed
or ebbed, one might say-according
as the operator (Mesmer himself) ap-
proached and touched, or receded
from the patient.
This curious circumstance suggests
two trains of thought, one of which
arises out of the analogy between this
influence of the magnetizer on the
course of the fluids in his patient, anq
that of the moon on the flux and re-
flux of the sea. It tells for the truth
of Mesmer's hypothesis of a recipro-
eal influence of terrestrial bodies, es-
pecially of living organic systems~ on
each other, corresponding to that of
the celestial-man actin~ on man, aa
planet on planet ; and 1t leads us to
f.he conjecture that the moon may
affect the mass of waters in our planet,
not merel7 by its gravity, but by cer-
tain relations of polarity, akin to the
magnetic or the electric influence.
Would not an effect of gravity tell
still more markedly upon thefar lighter
and more mobile masa of the atmos-
phere, so that every fluctuation of the
aea should pe accompJLnied by a cor-
responding and still more forcible im-
pression on the currents of the air ?
Now that the moon does exert an in-
fluence on the atmosphere is undoubt-
edly true; but itis an influence different
in kind fr.om that which she has on
the waters ; and this seems to point t~
dynamic affinities of different kinds.
The German astronomer, Bessel, ob-
served in the nucleus of the comet of
l835, a regularly oscillating motion,
which he explained by the hypothesis,
that the sun did not only exercise ~
gravitative attraction on that body,
but that sun and comet also stood in a
polar relation to each other. Hence
Bessel was led to adopt the law of po-
larity as an element in astronomical
calculations. "To the theory of a
polar attraction and repulsion between
the planets," says Doctor Passavant,
(I11quiries respecting Vital Magneti81~
and Clainloyance, 1837,) "certain
anomalies in the proportion of their
distances from one anotht>r, lend pro-
bability ; some planets standing nearer
or farther asunder than they should,
according to the law Wurm has laid
down for their relative distances. Ac-
cording to this law, the distance ofthe
earth from the sun should be 210 semi-
diameters of the latter ; instead of
which it is 216. The distance of Mars
from the sun should be 336 semidiame.
ters, but is no more than 329. Thus
the earth is six semidiameters of the
sun farther from, and the planet Mars
seven nearer to, that body, than the
law of gravitation would asaign tQ
these orbs as their respective place&.
This is hardly to be conceived as pos-
sible, but on the hypothesis ofqualita-
tive attraction, an assignable ground
of which we have in electricity and
magnetism."
The other subject of reflection
which the phenomenon, observed by
Mesmer, suggests, is that of a belief,
prevalent in the middle ages, that the
wounds of a murdered person would
bleed if the body were approached by
the murderer. The persuasion referred
t.o was not confined to the vulgar, but
waa judicially recognised, and made the
ground of an ordeal, to which persons
suspected of murder were compelled
to Jubmit. On what observ~tion of
facta the belief in questi()n may have
demonium and the Propaganda? To be sure, we have a Jesuit Robert on
the other side, seeming, at least, to take our view of the subject. But what if
this were a blind-a strategic artifice of one who fain masks his play; and, of his
store, surell could spare a Jesuit to fight, or seem to fight on the adverse side?
Suppose th1s Jesuit Robert a spy in our anti-Mesmerite, anti-mystery-of-iniquita-
rian campi
oi9,tized by Coogle
42 Memuriam. [Jan.
rested, it would be beside our present
purpose to inquire : supposing it not
without roundation, it would point to
a magnetic relation between the mur-
dered and murderer ; a ghastly con.
ception, but which contains the solu-
tion of a great riddle-that vis san-
guinis ultra mortem, which, in a good
and an evil sense, has formed an arti-
cle of the belief of all ages, and of the
most different tribes of men. On
this subject Franz Baader is lumin-
ous:-
The life, he remarks, is in theblood;
but, when the blood is murderously
spilt, this "life," (a subtle essence,
which, after Jacob Bohm, he names
the tinctr1re of the blood-properly
the assimilative, or sanguinific princi-
ple, which combines and, as it were,
alchemically transmutes into blood the
various material substances into which
that fluid is analysable by the che-
mist,) being divorced from its proper
sanguineous vehicle, is drawn to, and
absorbed by, the blood of the mur-
derer, which, on some unfathomable
ground, (whereof, however, Baader
appears to have got to the bottom,) in
this moment stands open to it. By
this (so to speak) transcendental tra718-
fusion, a "relation," or communio "itre,
is violently established between the
murderer and the murdered ; which
relation (a certain consanguinity) re-
veals itself in sundry ways, and, in
particular, by the perturbation and
doleful unrest in wh1ch it holds both
parties-the dead and the living.
Herein, then, lies the force of the ex-
pression-to require at the hand of the
slayer the blood of his victim :-the
blood of the victim, at least the "tinc-
ture" of it, the "life'' that dwelt in it,
is actually in the slayer's possession : he
is a debtor ; and the taking of his life
is an act of justice, not to society
(which thereby does but lose two
members instead of one) but to him
whose life he has taken-whose life he
holds, bound up in such mystic inti-
mate union with his own life, that only
through the taking away of the latter
can the former be given back to its
rightful claimant. Thus, the soul of
a murdered man haunts his murderer,
not of free-will, but by inward con-
straint : it docs not relentlessly pursue
him, but he irresistibly draws it after
him ; for in his blood dwells the san-
guineous tincture which it cannot
leave, around which it hovers fascina·
ted, to which it ever strives in vain to
re-unite itself, so that it cannot rest,
nor suffer him to rest who holds it aa
it were charmed-spun round with
invisible magic threads, which it can-
not break if it would. And therefore,
also, can he that has shed blood not
escape from the spot where he has shed
it, but will circle round the same, and
stealthily return to it, and is drawn
towards it, from whatever distance, as
by magnetic force ; because that
"tincture," which has entered into his
own blood, yearns still towards the
blood it has left. But we digress.
We have seen, then, Doctor Mes-
mer discontinue the use of his magne-
tic rods, being convinced that they had
either had nothing at all to do with
the beneficial effects his treatment, up
to this period, bad ~en attended with,
or had, at most, acted merely as con-
ductors of the virtue resident in his
own person. Any other rod, probably,
would have served the purpose as
well as one of magnetized iron, the
real serviee rendered by all such aux-
iliaries being that of concentrating, or
fixing nnd directing on a !fiven point,
the force of the operator's Imagination
and will. Perhaps the manipulations,
magnetic passes, breathinga, and such
like, to which Mesmer afterwards had
recourse, did but serve the same end,
of giving, as it were, a budy, a form,
to the operator's intention. The ef-
fects produced by Perkin's metallic
tractors were, it is said, equally produ·
ced by metallic-looking tractors of
painted wood. Of course they were.
Perkinism was, as far as one can see,
but an ill-understood and worse ap-
plied Mesmerism ; and the "tractor,"
m the one system, did what the magnet
did in the other-it gave a monld to
the mental act : it was to the imagina-
tion what the plummet is to the e1e:
or, might not one say, it was a cAaro-
plast, proper to give steadiness to the
. play of a beginner on the human piano-
forte. Be this as it might, Mesmer
had, to use another figure, now learned
· to swim without the aid of his corks,
and so threw them away. Hencefor-
ward, also, he distinguished animal
from mineral magnetism ; and in the
year 177a-Doctor Stork, the em-
press's own medical adviser, having no
ear for his doctrine-he laid his theory
of reciprocal influences ( der WecA-
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmerism.
sel-wirlnmgen) formally before the
world, in a letter to a foreign physi-
cian.
Thia theory was already somewhat
modified by the experience he had
gained since the appearance of his first
dissertation, but was as yet far from
having acquired the form which the
present doctrine of animal magnetism,
ltonoril gratia termed Mesmerism,
wears. In Vienna it was misunder-
stood, partly confounded with mineral
magnetism, partly misrepresented with
intention, made an object of odium and
persecution, its founder stigmatised as
a viaionary, and such persons as bad
submitted themselves to his curative
treatment, declared dupes or imf.os-
tors. In spite, however, of a hostility
somewhat unscrupulous in its choice
of weapons and mode of attack,
Mesmer's reputation gained instead of
losin~ ground. In the years 1774-5
be VISited Sweden, Switzerland, and
Bavaria, in which last-mentioned coun-
try his character of scientific foreigner
procured him easy access to the
elector, Maximilian Joseph III. This
prince, who had received a better edu.
cation than it is often the lot of royal
personages to enjoy, and whose per-
sonal thirst for knowledge, and zeal
for the propagation of it among his
people, were equally great, heard with
mterest the doctrines propounded by
the learned stranger ; and Mesmer
was, not long after, created a member
of the Academy of Sciences at Mu-
nich, founded in 1759 by Maximilian
himself. The year following he was
invited into Hungary, where, we are
told, he effected important cures.
Hence he returned to Vienna.
Loath to encounter a renewal ofthe
bitterness of which be bad already
been the object in the imperial city, he
resolved now to refrain from all medi-
c.-al practice; but, whether by the per-
suasion of others, or by the restless
impulse to activity, and to the amas-
sing of new experiences, which could
not fail to make itself senaible to a
mind like his, he was soon brought to
renounce a resolution so little conge-
nial to the temper of an enthusiastic
explorer of nature : he took several
patients under his care, among whom,
a source to him of much subsequent
vexation, was the celebrated vocalist,
Paradies, then in her eighteenth year.
She had at the age of four or five
years lost her sight, through an affec.
tion of a paralytic naturt', and was the
victim of a nervous melancholy, with
convulsive fits, and periodical accesses
of madness. Mesmt>r bad her under
his hands for a considerable time, dur-
ing which he was watched by a host
of eyes, that wasted for very longing
to discover something equivocal, some
false step, some evidence of incapacity,
or, better still, of duplicity,of wittingly
false pretension, in the proceeding of
the hated innovator, who would de-
trude from its place, with quite new
mystification, that which was estab-
lished and venerable. Indifferent to
the petty arts of annoyance of which
he found himself the object, (and to
which the relations of the patient ap-
pear to have lent themselves in a re-
markable way,) our magnetizer went
on with what he had taken in hand,
and at la&t, to the astonishment of all
Vienna, pronounced that Fraulein Pa-
radies could see. The family of the
young lady, however, denying that
such was the fact, while Mt'smer, on
the other hand, adhered resolutely to
his assertion of it, a special commis-
sion was named by Maria Theresa--
whose namesake and protegee Fraulein
Paradies was-to examine into and re-
port upon the case.
In the prest'nce of this commiSSion
Mesmt'r presented to his patient a
number of objects, the several colours
of which, on being asked, she correctly
stated: there was, or appeared to be,
sure enough, a rt'storation or vision,
dim indeed, but promising to become
clearer, the cure being but in·its first
stage. Mesmer believed his cause
triumphant. The commission, how-
ever, was not so soon satisfied; the
magnetizer was required to leave the
room, and the experiments already
made were repeated-with a totally
different result. Thepatientwas unable
to distinguish the colour of any object
presented to her : she was evidently
as blind as ever, as blind as the most
clt'ar-sighted anti- Mesmerite could
wish. The commission gave in its re-
port,the tenor of which was, that Mes-
mer, in:asserti~g that Fraulein Paradies
had, under b1s treatment, recovered
her sight, had been guilty offalsehood;
and further, that her having appa-
rently distinguished the colours of the
objects presented to her by the mag•
netizer, was no doubt the result of a
oi9,tized by Coogle
44
preconcerted system ofsignals between
her and him.
This rt>port placed Mesmer in the
positionofasocial and proft>ssionalout-
Jaw: there was nothing which it was
not permitted to say of him, and there
was a pretty general disposition to say
the worst. Dispirited at length, or
disgusted, by the untiring animosity of
his opponents, he resolved on quitting,
not only Vienna, but Germany, which
he did in 1777. It is to be observed,
however, that he never retracted or
qualified his statement as to the cure
of Frault>in Paradit>s, but to the last
maintained-let an imperial commission
report as it pleased-that the blind
songstress had, under his hand~, be-
come, to say the least, a purblind one.
The truth of the matter, as well as we
can judge it now, appears to be this:
Fraulein Paradies, under the mag-
netic process employed by her physi-
cian, had come into a state of rlairt~oy­
ance, (lucid vision,) and, that peculiar
relation, (community of sensorial pow-
er, developing itself in the patient as a
negative, in the agent, as a positive
polarity,) termed rapport magnetique,
subsisting between them-she had, in
somno-vigil, really distinguished the
colours of the objects upon which his
attention was fixed, and which he pre-
sented to her. At this period Mesmer
was as yet unacquainted with the now
familiar phenomenon of clairt~oyance,
and it is not wonderful that he mistook
it, as it presented itself in his patient,
for a rt>storation of ordinary vision.
But when the commission ordered
Mesmer out of the room, it is very
conceivable that the clairroyunte should
have had no perception of the objects
presented to her by its members, inas-
much as no one of these gentlemen
wa.,, so to speak, her sensorial positive
pole. Had the magnetilr.er been called
in a second time, and the experiments
been once more repeated through his
instrumentality, sapient commissioners
would, very probably, have gone away
not much the wiser for this new trial ;
but it is just possible that they might,
by a somewhat less slovenly attention
than they appear to have bestowed
upon his operations, have been led at
least to spare him, as well as his pa-
tient, the odious imputation of having
first concerted a lie, and then juggled
together in confederation to support
it. l'or the rest, .this was no doubt
, [Jaii.
the easiest solution of the riddle, and
the way to get rid of Mesmer.
It may here be observed, that the
blindness of Paradies was not of a kind
formaUy incurable : it was the effect
of functional disease. There •as no
disorganization-the structure of the
eye remained unaltt>red ; it was the
sensibility of the nerve of vision alone
that was impaired. The loSll of sight
was butsymptomatic-aswere the con-
vulsive filii and the manifestations of
mental disorder-of general nervous
derangement ; defect of action In one
part of the &ystem involving excess of
1t in another. The object of the Mes-
meric treatment was to etfeet a due
distribution and equilibrium of nervous
activity : with the recovery of sight
was to be expected the cesaation of the
convulsions : the periodical frenzy
would have disappeared along with
the habitual melancholy.
That she should have been able,
with the first glimmering& ofreturning
vision, not only to distinguish different
colours, but at once to give each colour
its right name, implies an act of me-
mory, a recalling of impressions re-
ceived in earliest childhood, hardly
less trying to our powers ofbelief than
the restoration of sightitself. But an
almost preternatural clearness of me-
mory is among the most constant phe-
nomena of the state of magnetic sleep-
waking, in which the remoteet past
stands out again into the foreground
of consciousnes.,, and we discern with
a feeling of awe that the vanished
has not ceased to exist, that the forgot-
tenstillhovers near us, that whatsoever
we have done, and suffered, and ·Seen,
has entered into us, and is inseparable
fTom us, and that we have but to go
into our deeper being to find it. Truly
a strange significance lies in the fact-
that we remember. It tells us that
the past, the whole past, is with us in
the present-that the past, the wllole
past, is accompanying us into the fu-
ture-yea, that out of that very future
into whioh we are travelling, the re-
flected image of the past, the whole
past, is coming up to meet us. How
often In dream~, especially in the dream
of fever, which has ever something of
the character of sleep-waking about it,
are we carried back to the scenes of a
·long-forgotten time-to some moment
.of peril-some hair-breadth 'scape- or
perhaps to somo Q,ccurrence of an in-
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmerism. 45
significant kind enough-the sight of
some building, some garden, some bend
of a road, of' a river with a bridge,
some group of people, that gleams up-
on us, clear, minute, living, as a came-
ra-obscura picture : which we relate
afterwards as thephantasy ofour dream,
but which they under whose eye our
childhood was passed, can tell us was
no phantasy, but a memory.
" A patient of mine," relates a phy-
sician in Prussia, "in a paroxysm of
intermittent fever, saw herself, as a
little child, lying in a loam pit, and a
nurse-maid wringing her hands on the
.brink. The scene changed, and she
saw herself as a child somewhat older;
sitting at the foot of a bed, in which
her mother lay, and repeating a certain
prayer. She held all this for the mere
creation of her delirious fancy, but her
father, to whom she related it, assured
her that she had seen true images of
her earliest life ; that she bad indeed,
when quite an infant, fallen into a loam
pit through the negligence of the maid
who had the care of her; and that,
some years later, during a dangerous
illness of her mother, she had sat con-
tinually at the foot of the sick bed, and
repeated the prayer of her dream,
which had been taught her by her mo-
ther when she was but beginning to
speak. In a state of health the patient
had not the slightest recollection of
·either of these occutTences : the early-
learned and long-forgotten prayer has
aince the period of her dream remained
nxed in her memory."
In 1778 Mesmer made his appear•
ance at Paris. Here he laid the prin-
ciples of his doctrine before the sa11a11s
and physicians in a series of theses ;
and was fortunate enough to accom-
plish a number of cures, of a kind cal-
culated to draw attention, the rather
as his patients chanced to belong to the
more conspicuous classes of society.
The medical faculty looked, however,
with not inexcusable suspicion on one
who made a mystery of his mode of
practice ; and n:•tional prejudice
wrought strongly against the credit of
a discovery claiming for its author not
only a foreigner, but a German. The
temper of the age was averse to every
.doctrine that did not base itself on the
.tt·itest materialism, or that suggested
the (however remotely) possible ex-
istence, within the wide compass of
heaven and earth, of something more
than was-we win not say dreamed of
-but, with a clear waldng sense ap-
prehended, and comprehended, and
definitively placed, and named, and
explained, in the philosophy of a French
mcycwpediste. It was the shallowest
era of human intellect, wide awake to
all that lay on the surface, but without
sense for aught that haditsseatbeneath
the very outer husk of things. In
Mesmer's own manner of procedure
thE're was, also, much that was of a
nature to impress even unprejudiced
observers unfavourably, and as wearing
an air ofcalculated prestige. Arrange-
ments savouring of the theatrical ;
halls which a softened light pervaded ;
a subdued strain of music, that died
and came again and again-and again
sank and rose ; and the doctor himsE'If
gliding about in long stole, not of any
fashion affected by the time ; his pa-
tients, the while, sitting mute and ex-
pectant around" their Magnetic Mys-
tery, which to the eye was mere tubs
with water." What could be farther
than all this was; from any semblance
of au intelligent medical practice ? or
what could be more repugnant to the
spirit of a class of men by habit scep-
tical, moreacute than profound,shrewd,
more open to the impressions of the
ludicrous than of the solemn, more
familiar with the weaknesses of human
nature than with its strength-with
its ridiculous than with its sublime
aspects-and quick to detect, in the
sublime itself, the latent ridiculous:
men, generally, of a good heart, but
of a wicked wit, to whom, through the
high epic, the element of the burlesque
is ever peeping out,and who are equally
awake to, and intolerant of, all " hum-
bug" that is not professional and
of a certain standing?
At the same time, it would perhaps
be hasty, at once to set down the com-
plicated machinery of the baquet, with
the accompanying wizardry of music,
the Egyptian habit, and so . on, to the
score of quackery, and affectation of
the mysterious. Mesmer probably
believed all these auxiliaries needful to
the effects he had in view ; it was by
slow degrees that he learned to sim-
plify his practice. Besides, he had
to act on the nervous system, and
made no secret of the important pal't
which the imagination of the patient
had to play in the cure. And, as Dli-
.gnld Stewart argues, if a man can be
oi9,tized by Coogle
46 Mennerism. [Jan.
cured through his imagination, why
should any doctor scruple so to cure
him? Is it more professional to kill
a patient by potion and pill, than to
cure him by pantomime and the music
of Oberon? It may be more suitable
to the dignity of medical science, but
the question is-will the patient like it
as well? Mesmer's practice might be
dupery ; but it was pleasanrer to be
duped into staying in this world, than
to be sent in the most honourable and
above-board manner possible into a
better. It was an affront, to be sure,
but one which it required no super-
human eft'ort of meekness to pocket.
One would not, for all this, deny
that an element of' charlatanism does
88('m to have entered somewhat largely
into Mesmer's character, as it does in-
to that of hi11 nation (not the German,
but the Swiss) pretty generally. It
was certainly more like the quack than
the loyal servant ofscience to keep his
alleged discovery secret, and to traffic
with it as he did, refusing the oft'er of
the French government to purchase
the disclosure of it for twenty thousand
livres, and selling it to .private persons,
when once his subscr1ption-list of' a
hundred could be got full, at a hundred
louis a head. The spirit of trading is
in its place in what belongs to the me-
chanical arts ; hut the nobleness of sci-
ence repudiates it. The physician who
believes himself to have made an im-
P.?rtant discovery in therapeutics will,
1f he understand and be worthy of his
high vocation, hasten to promulgate
it, and not keep shop with it, taking
care of number one, and countiBg sci-
ence and the welfare of men as second-
ary things. But f'or this also the mis-
f'ortune of Mesmer's birth is the best
excuse. Point d'argent,point de Suilse-
the old proverb did but find a new
verification-" the wise saw " a "mo-
dern instance.''
Mesmer's fame spread rapidlyamong
the noble, the literary, the gay and
beautif'ul of the French capital, and
his mystic halls became a favourite re-
sortbotbofthosewho were, andofthose
who fancied themselves ill. Ennui
brought many. People were tired of
being eternally witty, eternally philo-
sophical, eternally shut up to the driest
prose and matter-of.f'act of life. A
moment's escape from bon mots and
la raison, let what would oft'er it, was
felt to be a blessing. Then they had
parted with their Christianity, and
wanted something to believe in. So
they sat, linked together bythe fingers,
in circles, each circle round a covered
tub, in which was water, with broken
glass and scorie of iron, laid in strata,
and, at the bottom, bottles, with more
water and some iron filings, placed
star-wise round an iron rod, that went
up through a hole in the middle of the
tub-cover ; and, round this centre hole,
other boles in a circle, and other iron
rods that went up through them, and
which, at a certain height, bent oft' at
a right angle, each rod to a separate
patient; and the patients held each his
(or more generallyher) rod,(when they
did not bold eachother's bands,)moving
the point of it gently up and down,
or from-:Jide to side; and Dr. Mesmer
or Dr. Deslon from time to time laid
hold of the centre rod, moving, or,
as it were, churning with it up and
down in the tub. The centre rod it-
self was bent at the top into a kind of
finger, which could be made to point
to this or the other quarter of the hea-
vens, as the magnetizer judged it ex-
pedient,thus putting the tub en rapport
with the umversal frame of things.
Hempen cords, afterwards exchanged
for woollen, were also attached to this
middle rod, and extended to each of
the patients,who could put them round
their respective waists, arms, legs, or
elsewhere at pleasure, according to the
seat of· disease. Two years later, a
globular mirror was added to the ap-
paratus. It stood on the top of the
middle rod, so that the patients, as
they sat, could see themselves, dimi-
nished and somewhat caricatured;
which, as Wolfart in his .A~elepieim&
tells us, "sensibly heightened the eft'ect
of the whole, and brought on both
more swiftly and more surely the
states of magnetic sleep and sleep-
waking.''
Thus, then, they sat, en rapport
with their doctor, and with each other
(to say nothing of the elemental inftu-
ences, streaming from the quarter of
the heavens to which the " central
rod" was pointing,)-a communion,
not of saints exclusively, " expecting,"
as Mr. Carlyle has it, " the magnetic
aftlatus,andnew-manufactured heaven-
on-earth ;"-expecting, at least, emo-
tion-of' which waking life was be-
come-by very dint of being too wide
awake-deplorably barren to them.
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmerism. 47
This went on-the medic~l faculty
sneering, but the patients, or a good
proportion of them, getting well, or
fancying that they got well-until the
year 1784, when the king, Louis XVI.,
after the example of his mother-in-
law of Austria, appointed a commission
to examine into a thing which was
making so much noise. This commis-
sion consisted of four members of the
medical faculty of Paris, to whose
number, at their own request, were
added five members of the Royal
Academy of Sciences.
The task laid upon this commission
was principally to investigate the facts
of Mesmerism, and to give an account
of the same. It is worthy of remark
that the commission did not, in con-
ducting its examination, enter into
communication with Mesmer, but with
Doctor Deslon, his associate, and with
his colleague Jumelin. A report ap-
peared, but as, instead of giving an
account of the facts obst>rved, it
addre~sed itself, almost exclusively,
to the object ofproving that the effects
of the magnetic processes were to be
attributed solely to the power of
imagination, the Society of Medical
Science appointed another commis~ion
with the same task, and published also
its report, which agreed on the whole
with that of the former. Jussieu,
however, a member of the royal com•
mission, not only declined to append
his name to the report of his col-
leagues, but published one of his own,
differing essentially from theirs, and
much more favourable to magnetism.
Both reports, namely, that of the
royal commission, and that of the
commission of the society, were re-
ceived with some disappointment in
the scientific circles of Paris. Men
had waited with impatience for a
statement that might be relied on, of
the facts of the case, and were not
satisfied to get, instead of this, the
opinion of certain academicians, who,
in a matter as new to them as to
other men, and of which many hun-
dreds had seen at least as much as
they, with questionable modestyoffered
to the French public their individual
persuasions for truth admitting of no
further discussion. The royal man-
date bad been, See for your fellows-
the commission understood it to run,
Think for your fellows. But really,
royal authority to examine into a thing
seems to act like a kind of mental
VoL, XXIII.-No. 133.
gutta serena. The judgment of one
man, who goes to see for himself, is
worth more than that of forty that go
to eee for the king : the one goes,
because he wants to see ; the forty
go, because they have to report.
Learned corporations and faculties,
also, are, in what relates to learning,
conservative to a degree, and seem to
exist, primarily, to the end of taming
down all undue ardour in the investi-
gation of truth, and of placing a salu-
tary check upon some presumable
tendency in knowledge to a too rapid
expansion. And how should commis-
sions of such learned bodies not be as
the bodies that commission them?
Will not the learned body commission
just tho11e-can it commission any
other than just those, who are surest
• to bring it no light? King Louis
commissioned those, whom a royal
personage was likely to commission :
the Society of Medical Science com-
mis~ioned those, whom a royal society
was likely to commission; and so king
and society got from their respective
commissions just what it was most
natural, but least important, for them
to get : they got, namely, not so much
an account of what Doctor Mesmer
did, and which happened or did not
happen in consequence, as a statement
of the impression of a small number of
medical and non-medical gentlemen,
that, whatever the doctor might do,
and whatever might be the effects
consequent upon his proceedings,these
effects were not attributable to the
cause the doctor supposed, but to
another.
" All effects of the imagination !"-
Perhaps so, gentlemen : but suppose
you were to consider for a moment-
What is, then, the imagination ? And,
wherein are "effects" the worse for
being of its producing ? Is the ima-
gination a certain capability of being
made to hold that to be, which is not ?
Has it no other part to play in our
curious spiritual economy than that of
being lied unto ? Is to imagine merely
to represent to ourselves the unreal as
real, or things in general as being
any thing, every thing, but what they
are? It were but bad psychology to
say so. But of this elsewhere.
The academicians knew how to
make their views the current ones at
court, and in the salons ; or perhaps
it would be juster to say, that theiL·
report was but the reflection of the
E
oi9,tized by Coogle
<48 Mesmerism. [Jan.
views already, and a priori, formed in
those hi15b regions, in which a previous
knowledge of facts had never been
found necessary to the formation of a
judgment ; nay, would in most cases
have materially interfered with the
delightful facility of that pt·ocess. It
is, perhaps, not more than will now
beacknowledgedby most well-informed
people, that the report, about which
so much noise has been made, really
owed the respect with which it was
received in Europe far more to the
names appended to it than to any thing
more intrinsic. Of these names, one
of the most illustrious, that of Frank·
lin, belonged to one now in his seventy-
ninth year,included in the commission,
one cannot but think, chit"fly honoris
gratia; and who, sick in body, and
laden with cares of state, took little or
no interest in the matter to be investi-
~ated,and saw no better way ofreturn-
mg the compliment paid him, than by
subscribing without captious or mis-
trustful questionings whatever men,
so distinguished as pis colle~es, had
seen good to present as thetr report
and his. Of the remaining names,
there is not one that outweighs that
which Jussieu threw into the opposite
scale.
The opposition of the medical pro-
fession, and of the philosophes gene-
rally, did not prove alto~ether so fatal
to the new doctrine as mtght have been
expected. At Paris, Strasbourg, and
elsewhere, associations were formed,
under the name of Societes Rarmo-
niques, the object of' which was to
keep pure, and further to illu3trate
and develope by means of experiment,
the doctrine of Mesmer. Puysegur,
at Strasbourg, and Barberio, at
Lyons, may be considered to have
founded the most important of these
societies. These two magnetists de-
parted widely from the mode of' treat-
ment which Mesmer, at least in his
earlier practice, employed. Mesmer,
holding the cause of morbid action in
general to be defect of' irritability in.
the muscular fibre, beheld in magnet-
ism, chiefly, the means of' supplying
this defect, and herein supposed its
remedial efficacy to reside. Confor-
mably to this view, the magnetic influ-
ence was strengthened as much as
possible, till it was heightened to a
degree that generated vehement reac-
tion, which presented itself under the
form of convulsions, or at least of
violent spasms. This was what he
called the " crisis," which he looked
upon as a necessary remedial process
of nature, a reaction of the solid parts
upon the exciting causes of disease
(which he placed in the obstructed
flow, and consequent depravation of
the juices), tending to restore the
balance and harmonious working of
all vital activities. On this account
he, and the magnetizer~ of his school,
had their so called chambres de crise,-
chambers, the floor and walls of' which
were covered with mattresses, that
the crisiacs, in their pythic fury and
convulsive writhings and tumblings,
might not be in danger of' hurting
themselves. At a later period Mes-
mer followed the example of Puysegur,
in discontinuing the use of' these cham-
bers, which the latter magnetist, not
altogether without justice, named
"chambres d'enfer ;"and which a gen-
tler method of' magnetic treatment
rendered unnecessary. Puysegur, with
his friends at Strasbourg, eschewed
the stormy and tumultuous " crisis,''
and excluded from his practice all that
went beyond the producing sensations
of repose and well-being. He rejected
the use of the baquet ; and the mani-
pulations to which he sometimes had
recourse were of a mueh less forcible
kind than those employed by Mesmer,
who seems to have kneaded and sham.
pooed hill patients, without much ten-
derness: the agency on which he
chiefly relied was that of' the will, fixed
in its highest concentration upon
the patient. Barberio employed this
psychic agency exclusively, admitting
only volition in faith as the instrument
of producing all the magnetic effects:
This was, in some measure, a return
to the doctrine of the elder magnetists.
We haveseen how Van Helmontspeaks
of the power of the will. To the same
effect Paracelsus 11ays, " You are to
know that the operation of the will is
a great point in medicine. The ima-
gination is the engine to effect what
the will intends. The imagination is
enforced and perfected through faith,
for all doubt brcaketh the work : faith
must confirm the imagination, for faith
is that that determindh the will : im-
perfection in men's imagining and be-
lieving is the cause that their arts are
uncertain, which yet but for this might
be of fullest certainty." In entire
conformity with this doctrine, Barberio
directed his will by a strenuous and
oi9,tized by Coogle
HH4.J Mes'!leris1J!.
sustained effort upon his patient ; and
altho4gh to tj1is menttLl act Puysegur
aqded a certain external process, the
latter se£>ms to have been intended
only as a helpto the bringing the will
into the qirection and activity desired.
The outward play of the )land was,
as t}le use of the magnet was in the
hands of Van Helmon~ or Kircher,
a vehicle to the inward act of the
spirit. And it is remarkable that,
uuder this new and tnore spiritual
·procedure, a new class of phenomena,
of a }lighly spiritual character, pre-
s~nted themselves,-phenomena un-
known to Mesmer, though familiar to
those elder practitioners in magn£>t-
ism. It was in Puysegur's hands that
the sleep-waking state first assumed a
distinct forrq ; at least he was the
first to notice and <!£>scribe it, though
we have seen it, or something like it,
occur, unrecogl)ized, in Mesmer's
practice at Vienna, in the case of Frau-
lein Paradies. Van Helmont had
evidently had experience of this state,
and eveq of that of claiT'Voyance, in his
own person: witness his account of
the soul, her locality and appearance.
And we should perhaps not be very
fa.r f•·om the t•·uth, were we to adopt
the conv£Orse of a proposition already
referred to in these pages, viz. : that
Mesme1·ism is Satanic agency ; and
say, that the greater fart of the
alleged Satanic agency o the Middle
Ages, was Mesmerism, in its higher
and spiritual forms.
The French revolution comh1g on,
Mesmer withdrew from the disturbed
}and, and took up his abode in his na-
tive Thurgau, where he lived in pri-
vacy, practising the improved manhe-
tis•n of the Strasbourg school, only
for the benefit of the poor,-the rich,
it is possible, preferring other doctors
and another method of treatment. At
an advanced age, twenty years after
the appearance of his Letter to a Fo-
reign Physician, he gave his doctrine,
rectified and confirmed by the expe-
rience of that time, again to the
world, and had the satisfaction to per-
ceive that it no longer met with the
passionate rejection which had attended
its first promulgation, though it was
as yet far from 1·eceiving the general
recognition subsequently accorded to
it. In 1787, Lavater communicated
it, in its reformed shape, to Wienhold
at Bremen. Gmelin, of Heilbronn,
learned it nt S~rasbourg, and broqght
it into his qative Suabi~. Wolfart, of
Berlin, made a journey to Switzerland
for the express purpose of paving it at
the lips of Mesmer himself, whom he
found a venerable grey-headed man,
leading a patriarchal life, held in great
veneration by those around him, anQ.
possessing, even in the adval!ced yf!ars
which be had then attaiqed, so much
magnetic energy, that he could pro-
duce magnetic effects by merely
stretching out his hand. Mesmer
died at Morsburg, in the lear 181,5.
The subsequent history of Me&me-
risrn is a history of steady progress,
and development in various direc-
tions. That it has advanced more in
Germany than In any other country is,
perhaps, owing to the fact, that the
Germans are more patient in ~akin!f
experiments, and II!ore candid in ad-
mitting the conclusions to which the
results of them lead, than any other
people. That England is, of all
countries, that in which tl!e study of
Mesmerism has gained least ground, is
also no wholly inexplicable phenome-
non. " Slow and sure" are, ~ccord­
ing to the Englishman's own boast,
the grand characteristics of the En~­
lish mind. The boMt is not a :vatu
one: the English mind is "slow," ant}
it is "sure :"-very "slow" to move iq
any direction, and .very "sur<'," as a
general principle, that there lie<~ no
existing thing in any direction worth
its moving for. Mesmerism is not the
only thing, divine or human, in which
the English mind is so very far-so
out of all sight-in the rear 9f the
general mind of Europe, ~ to seem
to it&elf, in the touching 11implicity
which characterizes it, to march m the
van of all. ·
Mesmerism, aftet' all, cannot with
any propriety be said to have as yet
attained to the rank of a science. Its
procedure is not sure: there is SOI)le~
thing in it still of a shooting-at-ran-
dom, productive of an appearance of
caprice or inconstancy in the resulta
which leads theologi(llls of a certain
calibre-gentlemen who should have
lived in the times of the witch-trials,
(the rather as they would certainly
have had nothing to fear from the
keenest witch-tinder)-to tell us that,
if it be not mere " huntan fraud for
gain's sake," it is beyond all question,
"Satanic agency."" Magnetism," saJa
Enoemoser of Munich, " has but too
evidently been, up to this tim~, more
oi9,tized by Coogle
50 Me.meri1111. (Jan.
in the hands of abuse than of right
use ; nnd, instead of serving to its le-
gitimate end, the healing of sickness,
it has been too much a subject of cu-
rious dilettantisms, and of unseasona-
ble, ill-understood, and therefore, for
the moat part, mischievous experi-
ments.'' It is impossible not to sub-
scribe to the truth of this. Magnet-
ism is, as Hoffman aptly describes it,
"a dangerous edge-tool, in the hand of
a child ;" and one cannot but wish to
see the wholesome restrictions which
the Prussian ~overnment has placed
on the use of 1t generally adopted ; to
see an agent so powerful, so enigma-
tical, and so difficult to guide, taken
out of the hands of strolling lecturers,
physicasters, and wonder-mongers, re-
deemed from the unworthy service of
affording an evening's entertainment
to an audience totally unqualified to
bring away from the spectacle one
useful thonght, andcomm1tted authori-
tatively to the hands, we will not say
merely, of the graduated physician,
but of the ph1,sician specially and ap-
provedly qual1fied to wield an instru-
ment, of the nature and use of which
they who know most feel the most
sensibly how little they know. The
dread secrets of our being into which
Mesmerism affords a far-off and un-
certain glimpse, are not the stuff of
which raree-shows should be made ;
neitherdo coma, catalepsy and hysteria,
yield the materials of quite so inno-
cent an exhibition as tricks on cards,
and " the gun delusion." We have
seen, in the case of Van Helmont, that
some of the most remarkable of the
effects of Mesmeric treatment may,
under certain circumstances, equally
be produced by the use of narcotic
poisons. What should we say to the
invitation of some itinerant scientific
ahowman, to come and see him, at
half-a-crown a bead, experimenting in
corpore 'Dili ( to wit, on some young
lady travelling with him in the capa-
city of philosophical 10uffre-douleur)
with small doses of henbane, thorn-
apple, and deadly nightshade? Deeply
worthy of consideration, as dictated
by sound wisdom and true philanthro-
PY• is that twenty-ninth concl?Uion of
the French commission of 1831, here
subjoined :-"Considered as a cause of
certain physiological phenomena, or
as a therapeutic remedy, magnetism
ought ~o be allowed a place within the .
circle of the medical sciences ; and,
consequently, physiciam only should
practile it, or 1Uperintendits use, as is
the case in the northern countries."
M. Lafontaine, however, who visit-
ed En~land in 1841, and held cont~er­
saziom on animal magnetism in this
city in the summer of the following
year, certainly merits better than to
be ranked with the common herd of
exhibitors and lecturers-errant to
whom the foregoing observations are
applicable. The Mesmeric pheno-
mena developed at his con11ersazioni,
were indeed of a common-place and
every-day character enough, rising in
no instance above the point of simple
sleep-waking-Kluge'sfourth degree of
magnetic affection. But his visit,
viewed in reference: to the results by
which it has been followed, may be
said to form an epoch in the history
of Mesmerism in these countries. An
impulse has been given to inquiry,
public curiosity bas been engaged, in a
degree which has attended the labours
of no former preacher of the Meeme-
rite doctrine among us.• The study
of Mesmerism in the British islands, it
may :be confidently stated, has made
greater progress within the last three
years than it had done within the pre-
ceding thirty. In Scotland, the new
impetus has made itself most forcibly
felt. The Scot is a more consequent
thinker, and has an intellect less
riveted to the material, than his
• No doubt, tha effect of M. Lafontaine's demonstrations has been powerfully
seconded by that of a remarkable sermon, preached on the occasion of that gentle-
man's appearance at Liverpool, by the Rev. Hugh 1\I'Neile, a popular minister of
that town, and extensively circulated through the medium of what, with an equivo-
cal sort of felicity, is designated the "Penny Pulpit." The very title of this ser-
mon, Satanic Agency tznd Mesmerism, is calculated to invest the subject, for a
numerous class of minds, with a certain thrilling interest, or horrible fascination,
sure to lead them to plunge into it; while the sermon itself, should any one actually
read it, cannot fail to allay any fears, which may have presented themselves to per-
sons of a timid or scrupulous turn, of there being something more than is quite
" canny'' at work in those mystic passes, in that spectral stare, which are followed
by effects so bewildering, and like " the atuft' that dreaDlB are made of." He that
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmerism. 51
soothem neighbour. The old Saxon
element is a far more fundamental
one, and exists in a much less modified
form in the Scottish than in the Eng-
tish nature; and, after _Germany,
there is perhaps no country more
likely to afford to Mesmerism scope
for an interesting development than
Scotland. One learns, accordingly,
with the less surprise, that "there is
now no community of the slightest
importance in the north, which does
not contain a numerous body of be-
lievers in the truths of Mesmerism."
Such is, at least, the intelligence im-
parted, in a tone ofgratulation, by Mr.
Lang, of Glasgow, in a little work, as
interesting in its contents, as it is un-
pretending in its form, recently issued
from the press ;• with some gleanings
from which these concluding pages, of
a perhaps somewhat over-lengthy dis-
sertation, shall be enlivened.
A rapidsketch of the history of The-
rapeutic magnetism, from Van Rei-
mont to Mr. Dove, occupies the first
chapter. Thesecond brieflynoticessome
ofthetheorieswhichhave bet>nputforth
by various writers, in explanation ofits
phenomena, and concludes with the
very just remark, that "as we are
almost daily receiving fresh knowledge
on the subject, there need be no hurry
in building up a theory. The phe-
nomena of Mesmerism (observes Mr.
Lang) are in themselves true, whatever
theory may ultimately be adopted, and
probably inquirers would, for the pre-
sent, be most usefully employed in
scrutinizing and recording facts, and
leave the rest to time."
In his third chapter, which treats of
the Mesmeric phenomena and states,
Mr. Lang presents us with the "con-
clusions" appended to the report of
the French Commission of 1831,
adopting, as he advertises us, the trans-
lation of Mr. Colquhoun. This com-
mission, appointed by the Rolal Aca-
demy of Medicine at Paris, m 1826,
but which had had a multiplicity or
delays and hindrances to contend with,
acknowledged, when it at length found
utterance, the truth of Mesmerism
(understanding thereby not the theory
of Mesmer, but the existence of the
agency to which he had called atten-
tion) to the fullest extent; wherein,
however, it had been already preceded
by the Academy of Sciences at Berlin.
as well as by an imperial commission
in Russia. A few of the conclusions
of the French commissioners are here
presented to the reader :-
" 1. The contact of the thumbs or of
the bands; frictions, or certaingestures
which are made at a small4istance from
the body, aud are called passes, are the
means employed to place ourselves i11
magnetic connection, or, in other words,
to transmit the magnetic influence to
the patient.
" 2. The means which are external
and visible, are not always necessary,
since, on manv occasions, the will, the
fixed look, have been found sufficient to
produce the magnetic phenomena, even
without the knowledge of the patient.
"1. Sometimes, during the process
of magnetising, there are manifested
insignificant and evanescent effects,
which cannot be attributed to magne•
tism alone ; such as a slight degree of
oppression, or heat or of cold, and some
other nervous phenomena, which c&n be
explained without the intervention of a
particular agent, upon the principle of
hope or of fear, prejudice, and the
novelty of the treatment, the ennui
produced by the monotony of the ges-
tures, the silence and repose in which
the experiments are made; finally, by
the imagination, which bas so much in-
fluence on some minds and on certain
organizations.
" 8. A certain number of the effects
observed, appeared to us to depend upon
magnetism alone, and were never pro-
duced without its application. These
are well established physiological &nd
therapeutic phenomena.
" 10. The existence of an uniform
character, to enable us to recognize, in
could continue to suspect either Mesmerists or their opponents ofany thing verging
on conjuration, after reading the sermon of the minister of St. Jude's, were, one
should fear, reason-proof. It is difficult to think that the Jesuit Robert himself,
did be live in our nineteenth century, and-feeling curious about our smaller theo-
logical currency-take in the Penny Pulpit, coufd have read " Nos. 599-600" of
that publication, without feeling somewhat ashamed of his doctrine-without con-
fessing that be bad not believed it possible to present it under an aspect of such
ludicrous intenabilit.y, and that Van Helmont might, very safely, have left it to be
dealt with b1 Mr. M•Neile.
• Mesmensm; its history, phenomena, and practice: with reports of caaee
developed in Scotland. Fruer & Co. Edinburgh ; Curry & Co. Dublin._1843.
oi9,tized by Coogle
52 Mesinerism. [Jan.
every case, the reality of the state of
somnatnbulisin, bas noi been esta-
blished.
" 13. Sleep, produced with lllOre or
less promptitude, Is a real, but not a
eonstant effect of magnetism.
"14• .We hold it as demonstrated,
that it bas been produced in circum-
stances in which the persons magnetised
could not see, or were i!fnorant of the
means eii!!>loyed to occas10n it.
" l.'J. When a person has once been
made to fall into the magnetic sleep, it
is not ahvays necessary to have recourse
to contact, in order to magnetise him
anew. The look of the magnctiser,
his volition alone, possess the same in-
. flnence. He can not only act upon the
magnetised person, but even place him
in a complete state of somnambulism,
and bring him out of it, without his
knowledge, otit of his sight, at. a certain
distance, and with doors intervening.
" 16. d. The greater number of the
somnambulists whom we have seen,
were com~letely insensible. We might
tickle their feet, their nostrils, and the
angle of the eyes, .with a feather-we
might pinch their skin, so as to leave a
mark, prick them with pins under the
nails, &c.; . without producing any
pain, without even their perceiving
at. Finally, we saw one who was insen-
sible to one of the most painful opera-
tions in surgery, and who did not mani-
fest the slightest emot.ion in her
countenance, her pulse, or her respi-
ration.
"11. Magnetism is as intense, and as
speedily felt, at a distance of six feet,
as of six inches ; and the phenomena
developed are the same in both cases.
" 18. The action at a distance does
bot appear capable of being exerted
with success, excepting upon individuals
who have been already magnetised.
"24. We have seen two somnambil•
lists who distinguished, with their eyea
tllosed, the objects which were placed
before them ; they mentioned the colour
and the value of cards, without
touching thetn ; they read the words
traced with the hand, as also some llnes
of books opened lit rarldom. This phe-
homenon took place even when the eye•
lids were kept exactly closed with the
fingers.
"25. In two ~omnambullsts we found
tbe faculty of foreseeing the acts of the
organism more or less remote, more or
le&s complicated. One of them an-
nounced repeatedly, seTeralmonths pre-
Tiously, the day, the hour, the minute
of the access, and of the return of
epileptic fits. The other announced the
period of his cure. Their pre-visions
were realised with remarkable exact-
ness, They at~peared to us to &J?ply
only to acts or inJuries of their orgaDlSm.
"26. We found only a single som-
nambulist who pointed out the symptoms
of the diseases of three persons with
whom she was placed in magnetic con-
nection. 'Ve had, however, made ex-
periments upon a considerable number.
"28. Some of the magnetised patients
felt no benefit from the treatment;
others experienced a more or Jess deci•
ded relief,-viz. one, the suspension of
habitual pains; another, the return of
his strength; a third, the retardation,
for several months, of his epileptic fits ;
ami a fourth, tho complete cure of a
serious paralysis of long standing
"30. Your committee have not been
able to verify-because they had no op-
portunity of doing so-other faculties
which the magnetisers had announced as
existing in somnambulists ; but they
have communicated in their report, facts
of sufficient importance to entitle them
to think that the academy ought to en-
courage the investigations into the sub-
ject of animal magnetism, as a very
curious branch of psychology and natu-
ral history."
Names, as distinguished as any that
the medical profession in France has
to boast, are appended to the report
of which the for,oing are some of
the conclusions. t is curious that,
while we are so often assured that
French physical science repudiated
Mesmerism as long ago as 1784, we
are generally left to find out for our-
selves that she took it into favour again
in 1831. But the probability is, that
the loudest of our anti-magnetic po-
lemists are possessed of much the
same degree of acquaintance with the
history as with the doctrine and use
of the object of their denunciations.
. The Mesmeric states are given by
Mr. Lang, after Kluge, who has enu-
merated them as :-1. the state of
waking-sense open ; 2. half-sleep,
or imperfect crtsis-senee closing J
3. magnetic sleep-sense closed f
4. somnambulism, or perfect crisis-
sense opening inwardly ; 5. self.intui-
tion, or clairvoyance-sense open in-
wardly; 6. universal lucidity, or ec-
stacy, also called disorganization-a
state of rare occurrence, and of which
one may doubt whether it be ever pro-
duced by the simple operation of mag-
nE'tic influences ; .or whether other
causes, wholly independent ot' these,
and only accidentally acting in concert
with them, constitute the true ground
of it. It is not so much a higher de-
gree of magnetic affection, as a s~te
suigeneril, which may present itself in
o;9, ized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmerism. 53
ISubjects not Mesmerised, although a
condition of Mesmt!ric lucidity offers
peculiar facilities for its development.
Mr. Dove reckons nine stages of
Mesmeric affection, as follows : 1. con-
templative abstraction ; 2. ordinary
vigil; 3. ordinary reverie; 4. ordinary
dreaming; 5. oblivious sleep (Kluge's
magnetic sleep; 6. lucid dreaming; 7.
lucid reverie; 8. lucid vigil; 9. devo-
tional ecstacy. ,
This division is essentially the same
as Kluge's, and it may be doubted
whether the alteration in the form is
for the better. "Devotional ecstacy"
belongs, still more emphatically than
the "universal lucidity" of Kluge, to
an essentially higher order of pheno-
mena, which may open itself sponta-
neously to the Mesmeric patient, but
into which no "passes," nor ".volition
in faith" of the Mesmerite phy&ician
break a forcible way.
In a chapter on the application of
Mesmerism ~o medical science, Mr.
Lang places before us the melancholy
and humiliating record of the recep·
tion which physical truth, in most of
her armtars and discoveries of herself
to men, has met with at the hands of
her chosen priests. Galileo greeted
with the epithets of "plagiarist I liar I
impostor I heretic!" Harvey rewarded
for his great discovery with "general
ridicule and abuse, and a great dimi-
nution of his practice." Sydenham
stigmatiied as "a quack and a mur-
derer." Ainbrose Pare, who first sub-
stituted the ligature 'for boiling pitch
in amputations, "hooted and howled
down by the faculty of physic, who
ridiculed the idea of hanging hurnan
life upon a thread, when boiling pitch
had stood the test of centuries." The
prescribing of antimony made penal by
an act of a French parlement, passed
at the instance of a French college of
medicine. Jesuit's bark promptly te-
jected by Protestant England, as a
phase of the "mystery of iniquity."
Doctor Groenvelt " committed to
Newgate, by warrant of' the president
of the College of Physicians, for disco-
vering the curative power of cantha.-
rides in dropsy." Inoculation de-
nounced by the medical faculty as a
murderous folly; and by the iheolo"
gical, as an impious defiance of Provi-
dence ; and the common people taught
to hoot at Lady Mary Wortley Moo-
tague, for introducing it. Vaccination
ridiculed by the learned profession of
medicine, and discovered by popular
preachers of that day to be Antichrist.
The Newtonian philosophy, encounter-
ing the reception which Doctor Chal-
mers,in his sonorous Tron-Church-bell
style .has so chronicled; "authority
scowled upon it, and taste was dis-
gusted by it, and fas}lion was ashamed
of it.'' The project of lighting our
cities with gas, declared by Wollaston
as insane a one as would be the
attempt " to light London with a slice
from the moon.'' Atl,anti~ steam navi-
gation demonstrated by Dr. Lardner
to be impossible. Percussion and
auscultation treated by the doctors with
ridicule," with " absolute indigna-
tion," with " silent contempt," pro-
nounced, in grave medi~al lecture,
" nonsense, or worse," and dismissed,
one hoped, for ever, with the character
of being «just the thing for Elliotson
to rave about!"-the said Elliotson, for
years after he published his work on
prussic acid, "not oQly ill-spoken-of,
for recommending what was useless,
but condemned for using dangerous
poisons.'' These cases (and they might
be reinforced with a host of similar
ones) would almost justify the suspi-
cion, that bigotry is not the exclusive
characteristic of one of the "learned
professions," that there exists a feel-
mg which we might name " odium
collegiale," of' which the niucb.decried
odium theologicum is only a modifica.-
tion ; that medical men, a1 a class,
are not one whit less narrow than
priests ; are, with f'ar less excuse,
(inasmuch as they do not claim for
their system the authority of a divine
revelation,) quite as ready as thE'se to
reject, as bearing. in its very novelty
evidence of' its heretieal clurncter,
every thing new iri therapeutic doctrine
or practice-every thing implying that
the existing state of' their science still
leavE's room for further development,
still admits a possibility of' progress-
perhaps of' correction.
The casea reported by Mr. Lang
are, perhaps, as interesting as any that
have as yet presented themselves in
these countries, but they are too long
to be transferred to these pages : that
of the " Mesmeriser Mesmerised" is
extremely pleasant. The little volume
will well repay an attentive perusal. .
oi9,tized by Coogle
286 Mesmeri1m. [March,
IIESMEIUII)I,
BY IBYa BI:BPIUIL
(lleeolld Anlele.)
AMONG the moat interesting results
yielded by the labours of recent ex-
plorers in the domain of physical
science, must be reckoned the views
which they have opened to us of the
nature and mutual relations of those
subtle and pervading agencies-call
them imponderable elements, cosmic
forces, or what other name best ex-
presses the little, at bottom, we know
about them-which reveal themselves
t:> our senses in the phenomena of
heat, light, electricity, and magnetism.
Intimate connections, pointing to a
common origin, have been develofe<i
between these agencies, multiplymg
themselves at every progressive stage
of the experiments to which they have
been subJected. A mass of observa-
tions has exhibited them in such
rigorous interdependence-the pre-
sence of any one of them involving
the nearne88 of all the rt.st--as to
render it very difficult to consider
them otherwise than as phases of one
and the same principle, modifications
of some expansive ground-force and
primal actiVIty of matter, universal as
gravitation, and probably antagonist
thereto. To borrow the language of
the distinguished reviewer of Whe-
well's PAilo8opAy of the Inductive
Scinwe1 in this journal:-•
" The researches of all the latest in-
quirers seem to have left no doubt as to
the identity of all the species of elec-
tricity. • • • The beating power of
the m&!Pletic fluid has now fully identi-
fied it m one of the most remarkable
characteristics of electric action, with
the voltaic and the common electricity ;
while the magnetic influence in its turn
is found to belong to them all, and com-
mon electricity is at length discovered
to deflect the needle. Animal and
thermo-electricity, as well as magnetic
agency, decompose water. As far as
tlieir powers can be summoned into suf-
ficient activity, they all appear to per-
form each other's work ; and it seems
an exaggeration of timidity to hesitate
in pronouncing them the various mani-
festations of some single and pervading
principle. The intimate connection of
this principle, again, with heat and with
light, which is perhaps little more than
the peculiar eft'ect of the vibrations of
heat upon the optic nerve, plainly asso-
ciate these with the former, and invite
us to expect the near approach of some
decisive discover1, whicli, in combining
them all, shall mdeed lift the veil of
Isis, and form before long, the great
philosophical glory of the nineteenth
century."
Should such "decisive· discovery"
ever accomplish itself, there will pro-
bably be seen, taking ita place in the
circle of the powers here referred to,
and asserting a cognate relation to
them, a fifth power-that, namely,
which announces ita existence in the
phenomena of mesmerism. If such a
power exists at all, it exists, assuredly,
not in a state of isolation, as something
sui genn-U, but is, with all other forces
and activities that are found in the
universe, a ray broken by the great
world-frism of sensuous being into
refracttons infinitely diverse in direc-
tion and colour, the mazimum of de-
flection being perbsps just at this point
where Mesmerism shows itself.
" Many organic forces," says Passa-
vant, "have in their working much
similaritv with the powers of inorganic
nature, yet are not 1dentical with these.
Now since, in nature generally, subsis-
tence is ever evolved out of subsistence,
it seems more in accordance with
nature's economy to contemplate the
organic forces not as an absolutely new
order of powers, but as modifications of
those already observed in the wider
field of th• inorganic, the modifying
agency being that of the vital principle
(and the will, where this power gives to
the vital principle a particular character
or direction), which works upon and
• Vol. xviii. p. 557.
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mestn~Jriam. 287
assimilatively transforms these powers,
in the same way as it transmutes the
inorganic material substances into or-
ganic. Those phenomena of electricity
and light, which are subject to the in-
dividual vitality of inorganic bodies,
and even to the will of certain animals,
here form the transition and mediative
link."
Certainly, if ever we possess a satis-
factory theory of Mesmerism, it must
be one which will base itself upon this
principle-the essential unity of the
organic and inorganic forces ofnature,
and show that the necromancy which
our wit~h-finders of the nineteenth
century espy in " a pass of the thumb
or a movement of the fingers, and
signs, and talismanic tokens," as Mr.
M•Neile hath it, is the very same which
their great prototypes of the twelfth
century detected in the crucible of the
chemist and the decoctions of the
apothecary.
" As we are almost daily receiving
fresh knowledge on the subject (of Mes-
merism), there need be no hurry," re-
marks Mr. Lang, "in building up a
theory. The phenomena of Mesmerism
are in themselves trne, whatever theory
may ultimately be adopted, and probably
inquirers would for tlie present be most
usefnll;r employed in scrutinizing and
recordmg facts, and leave the rest to
time.''
. This is trne : the time is not ripe
for a theory of Mesmerism that will
stand-a theory that will account for
all phenomena observed, containing
at the same time nothing that observed
phenomena will not bear out. Never-
theless, theorizin~ is a spontaneous
operation of the mmd. The first facta
obse"ed suggest, however little we
may be conscious of it, certain in-
voluntary speculative stirrings within
US-an obscure inatinctive seeking for
some common ground to rt>fer our
o~ations to, without which there
were no alternative but to dismiss
them as mere phantasm and optical
illusion. While we are observ;ng
facta, our theory is silently forming
itself'; for what else, indeed, is a
theory but a beholding? My theory
of )he Mesmeric phenomena is, in
other words, my way of looking at,
my.view ofthe Mesmeric phenomena-
what I .eein the Mesmeric phenomena.
Not to theorize is not to look, but
passively to suft'er the shapes of things
to flit over the incogmzant sense,
passing away unapprehended, and
without having added ·an impression
to the store within. Let us, then,
" scrutinize and record facta:" that is
indispensable; but while the eye and
the registering hand are busy, let not
the faculties of thought and imagina-
tion be idle : let us theorize (provi-
sionally) as we go on, were it but to
enliven the, else, all too dull work of
observing and recording. The very
terminology of our record will depend
in some measure on the theory-an the
lig~t in which, on the medium through
wh1ch we see.
Now this is just what the German
magnetizers have done : they have
scrutinized .and recorded facta ; but
facta are, to a German explorer, the
characters of a mystic language, the
deep sense of which he mu8t fathom,
or know no rest. Hence, in German7,
theory has from the first gone hand m
hand with ob~ation. Mesmer's own
hypothesis of a fluid filling universal
space, and, by reason of ita extreme
subtilty, freely pe"ading all bodies,
was perhaps as aft a one as the existing
state of physica science in his time
could aft'ord. Most of the early
French magnetizers, influenced by the
materialistic tendencies of the age,
propounded views not essentially dif.
fering from this : Villars and Barberio,
however, took a directly opposite
course, rejecting all explanations
derived from material grounds, and
resolving the whole into a mysterious
operation of the human will ; a doc-
trine which also Puseyer, and after
him Deleuze, adopted w1th little modi-
fication. The " Exegetic Society" of
Stockholm, in a letter addreued to the
"Society of Friends" (not Quakers)
at Strasbourg, in 1778, assigned, as
the sole cause of all Mesmeric eft'ecta,
a auper-sensuons agency of angels and
other spirits, which view the modern
mystic school, with Von Meyer of
Frankfort at ita head, on the whole
supports.
" The German Philo~Dply ofNatvre,"
saya Doctor Ennemoser, "contemplates
the animal-magnetic phenomena as ne-
cessary etl'ects of dynamic relations of
polarity, and ascribes these etl'ecta
neither to physical nor to psychic in.
fluences exclusively, inasmuch as this
philosophyadmits no ab1olute separation
Digitized by Coogle
qf the material· from the spiritual, -but
holds the former to be from eternity the
~'Pression of the !~tter. · Frtedrich
Hutelaild (he adds) here claims es-
pecial mention, ' as a. 'luminous ex-
positor ·of these views of the magnetic
eftects." . · · · ·· ·
·
Weber oWers a " dynamico-psycbic"
explanation, on·the ground that «body
and soul constitute· man, who is the
unity of these two opposite modes of
being.~' Others, again, assume a
suble medium, the "rether" of the
celebrated mathematician Euler, which
they also term vital or nervous spirit.
This rether is the vehicle of, and im-
mediate agent in, all Ruch working'S,
be they physical or ghostly, as seem to
contradict· the axiom, " nothing can
act where it is not." Its vivifying
presence is every where felt-in the
organic as well as the inorganic region
of nature, revealing itselt' in the latter
as light and heat~ electricity, and .the
power developed in the loadstone ; hi
the former as nervous Nrce, with itll
modifications of animal heat, animlll
light (in the glow-worm and fire-fly),
animal electricity(in t~e torpedo, aswell
&fin thegalvanicphenomenagenerally),
and Mesmerism, or animal magnetism.
It is the mediating principle between
spirit arid matter, between force and
aubject ot' force ; nay, it is assumed
to be absolute substance and prima
wrteria, the ground-element qf all
corporeal bcing, the world-essence, so
to speak, pf which all visible creation
is a precipia.te, and the higher in-
visible spheres of created exi11tence a
sublimation; Jung Stilling, Jean
Paul, Herder, J\_luge, Kerner, Passa-
nnt, with niany otherd, are numbered
aa:wng the adherents to this " rether
theory;" and as it is the one which
seems most tQ commend itself to per.
manimt reco~itioo, and perhaps baa
the most of Intrinsic beauty and com-
pleteoeu, w-the present reader and
writer-will I!'O a little more at large
into it, taking ·for our guide herein,
principally, th~t admirable work 'of
Passavant, entitled, Inquiriesr4speqiug
Vital Magnetism and Clairfloya7U'e,
availing.. ourselves, however, also, .as
we see occasion, of Ennemoser's very
instructive bo_ok, Magnetism in its rela-
#on to Nature and Religicn,'ot' Schu-
be.rft History p[the Soul, of Jqstin
_
.. ~
~~~~erl J4~on. .•ncJ·~ven• ~~ ~
IIH\~1 ~ 9m' Qlllll .WI~, .
[March,
Th~ most universal agency in the
material world is that of gravitation :
!he ti~t attribute of a!J body ia that
1t gr~mtate_s, and that m ~oo.stant pro-
perttOn to 1ts mass. Th1s 1s tht! ex-
pression of the unjty of corporeal
nature. · · ·
But there is no body, the unly pro-
perty of which is weight: that is;
t~ere is no b~dy wh.cl! is mere ~uan­
tity:_ ~ll bod1~s h~ye t.heir r.artic~lar
qua~1tl~s, their essential ~htferencest ·
accordmg t~ which they are <Jefined.
In other 'Yords, in all bodies Qther
agencie$ are found tp be present &lld
operative, besides that of gravitatiop ;
foJ·ces, which often exhibit themselves
in counter~ct!on of th? great centripe~ ·
t~~>l force, a..'l m eljlctnc or JI!~etic
att~4ction, _i~ s~ndry:chemical proce&&·
e~, 1n ela.~Jt!City, and, a.l>~ve all, in the
acti?n of org~nic forces_iq _a:n !lJlim~l
motions, ~nd In JD&ny worlun~s of th~
animal economy. · · · '·
The principal of these qualitative·
forct>s 1!-l'e t~os11 to l!Vhich r11fe~Wle
ba..'l been mad!! il~ the foregoillg
c.~>lumos, tht> subtle and problemati~l
agencies which, in their manikstation;
are known to us aa light, heat, el~ctri~
city, and magnetism. These ·princi-
ples resemble one another so mt'lch in
their laws and general cb~~oracter, that
the theory of any one of the!U giv~i
the type for that of all. · ·
"Tjle vie"!\'s," says Passav,.nt,' which
ba.ve been entertainep, ·in refer11nce· t~
tbe nature of these powers; inay be re-
duced, essentially, tb two. Either they
are specific material substances iwhii:ta
e.nter into and parvade other ltodies; in
hh mannflr IWI tho air in¥iniJ-tes i~f
io~o tho interstice~ Clf mAAY podijta, ~j:
els!l they 1!-re activitie~, ~Ptio~ · pf ~
C?rpo~eal m!ldillll!• simf!~r t.Q thP~A
v1brat10ns ()f elasttc podtes, whioh !!-ll:i
nounce tht>mselves to O!lr ear as soun;!.".
" The grouqds which bear· again'st
the former theory, are, on the whole, ao
p_repo!lderating, that i~ is scarcely poa-
SI~le, 10 the presen_t stage of physical
actence, •oy loogf'r to r$1gar4 th.eae
fort'll• as pfl.l'ticul~r m~eri~ ,llb$~9114,
Ae the c1mtrC1rer~y on tlte subjec~ bM
t:urned c~i~fly pn the pat11re Clf lis4"t
we here adduce the weight\!!s~ reits9n~
against the assumption of 1!- proper
ludfic matter ; and it will be seen that
ess~ntially t~e same ~easoo~ hold good
ay:a10st the hypothesis of specific mate•
rtal substances in the case• of the cog•
llfot~ forctl, ba.t. electricity, JA4 IU8'*
11~t1s~. · ·- - · _
Digitized by Coogle
1844.)
. " The transparency of the air; and of
diaphanous bodies in general, is wholly
inexplicable, if we suppose that a fo-
reign bo'dy, emanating from a source of
light, (for instance, the sun,) transme-
ates them; for this supposition would
account for their transparency, if at a!!,
only in the direction of the rays which
traverse them, whereas they are trans-
parent in all directions.
" Such a body, which were at the
same time warm, and electric or mag•
netic, must, on the assumption of an
advening substance of light, of caloric,
and of an electric and magnetic fluid,
be so porous that there would remain
no room at all for the proper substance
of the body. And yet it Js just in the
bodies of greatest specific density, (as
the metals,) that these powers are in
the highest degree operative.
" Against the emanation of light, a
further ar~ument is, that radiant bodies
lose nothmg of their substance, and
that irradiated ones, even those which
most absorb light, gain nothing. The
extreme velocity, and at the same time
uniform movement of light, is, on the
supposition of a Jucific matter, the more
inconceivable, as it is highly probable,
from the re~is~ance which, according to
the observations of Encke, comets have
met with in their progress, that a mate-
rial substance also occupies the space
between the planets ·and the sun.
Finally, there are various optical pheno-
mena, in particular that of the interfe-
rence of light, which cannot be explain-
ed on the supposition ofa lncific matter.
For, in that, through the meeting of
two rays of light under certain condi-
tions, darkness is produced, it is easy to
conceive how two motions should arrest
or neqtralize each other, as is the case
with the undulations of water and of
air, ·(of which we have an instance in
the analogous phenomenon of the inter-
ference of sound) ; but it does not so
readily appear bow two material sub-
stances should annihilate each other.
"The grounds which contravene the
assumption of a specific matter of light,
are for tbe most part equally forcible
against that of a material caloric. The
motion of radiating beat, the laws of
the refraction, reflection, absorption, in-
terference, polarisation, and double re-
fraction of the rays of beat, all of which
coincide so perfectly with those of light,
hardly leave room to doubt that these
are only modifications of one fundamen-
tal force.
" But as light and heat pass mutually
the one into the other, so do they also
present themselves as causes of electri-
city and ma~netism. Light frequently
generates heat, and beat electricity. A
~89:
metallic ring, f!>r instance, heated on
one side, becomes on one side positively, .
on the other negatively, ·electric. When ·.
the two electricities col!lbine, (or the·
electric tension resolves itself,) light·
and h4;lat are produced. Then, electri- ·
city calls forth magnetism, and vice
versa. Thus, these fundamental powers
generate and determine one another, re.
ciprocally, and so yield a ceaseless
round of phenomena, manifestations of
the universal vitality of nature, ever
renewing themselves, under a succession
of ever-varying aspects. ·
" As any one of these powers is ever
found to evoke and determine another,
it is not easy to say which of them is
the original power, and base of all the
rest. Every thing, however, in nature
proceeds from a unity, wbich first deve-
Jopea itself into antithetic contrast of
its elements, and finally re-produces
itself in its unity by the reconcilement.
of these. As we must consider the
primary qualitative force a.S one work-
mg expansively, and we know that beat
so wor'ks, we might look on this as the
primary force in question ; but since, as
we have remarked, beat and light seem
to be but modifications of (IRe principle,
we are led to assuqJe, as first and fun-
damental power of all, fire, co~~:tem~;~Ja.
ted as luminous heat, or as the principle
of which light and heat are alike mani.
festations. This principle or element,
then, of firP we assume as ground of
the qualities of bodies, and alf the other
so-called imponderables, we regard
merely as modifications of this-electri-
city, namely, as fire become polar."
To state Passavant's theory of the
imllonderables, or cosmic forces, in
the most general terms,-the first or
ground.energy of the prima materia,
or rether-which we must conceive as
an impulsive force, acting from the
centre outwards, and therefore as ex-
pansive, (though at the same time ·held
within limits by the continent force of
gravitation,) and which appears to us
as heat, or as fire-.,.generates, where its
working is not uniform, according to
thermo-electric laws, positive and n~a­
tive electricity, and these two, in re-
covering their equilibrium, yield light.
Or thus: the rether, unequally ·ex-
panded, becomes polar. Polar rether,
1s electricity : the collapse of rethereal
polarity is light. On which hypothe-
sis the 4ift'erent imponderables were
different motions, engendering different
state~ of the ether ; which states may
pass one into another-light into beat,
heat into e~ectricity. Where these
oi9,tized by Coogle
motions are suspended-that is, when
the ~ether is comparatively in a state of
rest-there are exhibited cold, dark-
ness, and cessation of the electric and
magnetic tension.
This theory leaves untouched the
question whether the undulating ~ether
itself pervades the corporeal aubatan-
cea which ita motion encounters, or
whether it merely propagates ita undu-
lation through their mass, by commu-
nication of motion to their atomic
particles.
The solar light we may consider as
generated by the continuous resolution
of a continually renewed electric ten-
sion between the body of the sun and
his atmosphere, or between the difFe-
rent strata of the latter, producing a
phenomenon similar to what we call
aheet.lightning, or to the aurora borea-
lis, but more general, uninterrupted,
and intense.•
This inceaaant alternation of electric
tension and resolution in the sun's at-
mosphere wouldflnd a sufficientground
in the supposition of a polar antago-
nism between the sun and the bodies
which revolve round him. For the
difFerent points of the sun's surface, as
they presented themselves to any one
of these orbs, would necessarily acquire
an altered electric tension, thus giving
room for a new equalization of electri-
city, that is, for a production of light.
Now, as these points of (so to speak)
qtUUi-contactare perpetu!.lly changing,
(especially when we take into account
the difFerent influences of the comets,)
it is evident that the balance of electri-
city in the sun must undergo per_petual
disturbance, and be perpetually m the
condition of resuming ita equilibrium,
which, however, it finds, only to be
thrown out of it again the same mo-
ment. Thus, the generation of light
and beat at every point of the sun's
surface proceedswithoutinterruption.t
The action of the sun upon the
earth and her atmosphere generates,
as the successive parts of her surface
are, by her diurnal revolution, pre-
sented to his rays, an electric current,
[March,
and at right angles to this, a magnetic.
Where the influenc" of the sun is
most direct and fOWerful, within the
tropics, the electric light is frequently
seen to traverse the atmosphere as a
continuous stream, indicating a pro-
cess analogous to that which we have
supposed to take place in the sun him-
self. In our latitudes, where the
electric balance is less violently shaken,
the reconry of its equilibrium is an-
nounced in the separate lightning-
flash. The light produced by com-
bustion, by fracture, pressure, and
friction may, as well as the solar and
meteoric lilfht, be referred to difFerent
modes of electric action.
If we know but little, and that not
certainly, of the nature and origin of
the imponderable agents, their e«ecta,
at least, are more familiar to us ; and
it may be shown that they are imme-
diately or mediately, the causes of
most of the qualities of bodies, or
that they aft'ord the conditions under
which thoae qualities are to he deve-
loped. Colour and temperature refer
themselves at once to light and beat.
Heat also determines the density of
bodies, or the degree of cohesion of
their particles. The influences of
electricity on the form of bodies is
proved by the phenomena of crys-
tallization; and this agency, as the
ground of chemical affinities, presides
also over the combination of the ele-
ments of which bodies are constituted.
Ritter has conjectured that cohesion
baa it., ground in magnetism.
The progress of physical research
is showing more and more how great
are the modifications to which these
agencie11 are subject. The rays of
heat are, no more than those of light,
alike in their capability of traversing
those bodies wh1ch are their proper
conductors ; so that, according to
Melloni, we have to admit colours of
heat as well as of light. Electricity
presents greatly modified appearances,
according as quantity or intensity pre-
dominates in ita action ; hence the
most important difFerences are observ-
• When a piece of charcoal, under an exhausted receiver, was subjected to the
action of the voltaic pile, a light was evolved as strong as that of the sun. The
charcoal, naturally, underwent no loss of substance, as no combustion could take
place. Here, then, was presented an artificial sun. ·
t The dark and bright spots in the sun.arise, on this hypothesis, from lowered
or heightened electric action in his atmosphere.
oi9,tized by Coogle
able in the working of electricity,
according to its immediate origin, as
·electricity of friction, thermo-elec-
tricity, or electro-magnetic influence.
According to Delarive's observations,
the electric currents themselves are
not homogeneous, but present as great,
and even greater differences than those
observed by Melloni in the rays of
heat. Who knows but magnetism,
which we have at last learned to re-
cognize as a power equally enlarged
in its sphere of action with electricity,
may, to our further research, exhibit
corresponding modifications, and en-
able us to account for many qualities
of bodies as yet unexplained ? The
definite relation in which magnetism
stands to heat gives a new proof of
the intimate connexion and interde-
pendence of these universal powers.
From the forces of inorganic nature
we pass to those the agency of which
is observable in organi11ed bodies. The
alchemic power of assimilation is one
of the most remarkable properties of
the living organism. Recent experi-
ments have shown that the organic
principle does not merely effect new
combinations of the substances which
it takes up in the way of nutriment,
but that it has the power of actually
transforming into other substances
those which our chemistry contem-
plates as primary or simple substances.
Thus Schrader and others sowed cress
in powder of sulphur, flint, oxide of
lead, &c. The germinating plants
were irrigated with distilled water.
In the ashes of thE'se plants were
found exactly the same constituent
parts which are found in the ashes of
such as grow in the open field.
Now as organic bodies, by virtue of
the principle of individual life that
works in them, impress their own pe-
culiar character on the substances
which they take up, so do they possess
the power of doing this also with the
universal forces of nature. The or-
ganism takes in and interiorly subjects
to itself the cosmic (ethereal) fire,
which it modifies according to its own
ends.
It is, on the whole, much more na-
tural to seek in the organic forces
·only, modifications of those of (uni-
versal nature-though how these mo-
difiQ&tiona.are wrought by the prin-
ciple of lli'e, remains Unknown to Ql-
291
than to assume a number of powers
and of substances, essentially different
from and without relation to those
which present themselves throughout
nature generally. The error is, how-
ever, to be guarded against, of making
forces identical that are only anala-
gous ; of asserting, for instance, that
the nervous and el6ctric agencies are
one and the same, instead of only
referring them to a common ground.
The organic ehenomena may be ex-
pected to exh1bit every where resem-
blance to those of light and its cog-
nate forces, but no where entire same-
ness with these. In the low and im-
perfect organisms of certain fishes,
worms, and insects, these forces pre-
sent themselves in their least modified
form, affording hereby a presumption
that in the more highly developed sys-
tems of the superior animals, and
above all in our own cerebro-nervous
system, as the most perfect or~anism
existing, these universal activities are ·
more and more altered, more and
more assimilated to the principle of
life and of {'aychic action which they
serve. A h1gher agency nowhere, be
it in the domain of nature or of spirit,
abolishes or extinguishes a lpwer ; but
subdues, appropriates, and assimilates
the latter to itself. The evolution of
light by the glow-worm, by the minute
phosphorescent infusorium, is a phe-
nomenon of higher order than the
gorgeous coruscations of the aurora
borealis, or the terrible unloading of
the thunder.charged strata of the
clouds, for it is a phenomenon of life ;
but the proCE'-'S in the higher and in
the lower phenomenon is at ground
the same; the life that is seen directing
the former does but impress its own
character on the elements which it has
taken from an inferiorand widersphere.
The experiments of Rengger prove
that the shining of the eyes of dif-
ferent animals at night has another
ground than that of a mere reflectioa
of the light from without. The eyes
of the night-ape were observed to
shine only when the darkness was very
profound, and the light they then
emitted was so strong as to render
distingvishable objects at a distance of
eighteen inches from the eye of the
animal. In the canis azarm the shining
ceased when the optic nerve was di-
vided, or injUred; but injuries of thq
cornea or the iria did not affect it.
oi9,tized by Coogle
292
The phenomenon of aqim~l heljt is
top general to need being particularly
dwelt upon. The extremely low tem-
perature at which animal life can sub.
sist, as well as the higp degrees of
heat which the livil!g organism can
support, proves how much this power
stands under the control of the vital
principle :- · ·
" The doctrine," remarks Schubert,
"promulgated chiefly by Lavoisier, that
the heat of the body is produced by the
combination of the carbon and hydro-
gen of the blood with the oxygen of the
atmosrhere, in respiration, has been
amply refuted by the observations of
Brodie and Cbossat. Heat ceased to be
generated, nay, tlje upper part of the
body (in which the function of respira-
tion takf's place) was the first to exhibit
a deathlike coldnass, as soon as the in-
fluence of the cerebral upon the gang-
lionic nervous system was arrested, by
injury of tha spinal cord above the
fourth vertebra, or by deeJ.> wounds of
· the brain, although respiration, and
consequently the therewith connected
process of combf!stion in the lungs, held
1ts accustomed course, and carbonic acid
and hydrogen gas were generated in nq
less volume than before. .
"De Ia ·Riva's hypothesis, then, would
appear not to be without foundation,
that animal heat is produced by a reci-
procal action of the cerebral and gang-
lionic nerves, in the same way as heat is
generated between the points of two
wires, by which the positive and nega-
tive electricities discharge tbemselves."
It is evident, from the foregoing
generlj.)ly, that many of the processe$
of organic life are nothing more thai!
modifications of the action of the im-
ponderable~ in inorganic nature, the
principle of individual life being the
modifyin~ agent. The way in which
the indiv!dual organs and the systcJD$
to which they belong act and re-act
upon each other, resembles the mode
of action observed in the imponder-
ables. IQ like manner, the relation
between the orgaoi~m and the externaJ
world, where it is not mereJy me-
chanical, is in a great measure a mu~
tuality of action and re-~ction bet'Veen
these elemental force~ and ~heir cog-
nate, the nervqus tiuid.
The proper conductors of 'a dyna-
mic working in the living body are the
nerves ; but that such workins-e also
take p~e wi~~out the ~nterv~I!tion of
thes~ co1lq~~or.s! ~b,e fymp~~e~·pf~~~
observed b.etween one particul~ organ.
lj.lld another are a proof~ It qften
l)appens that the sympathizing organ~
stand in much slighter and letl8 direct
nervous connection with each other
than with other org&IJS lying in theu;
neighbourhood ; yet thie does not
les3en their mutual influence, which
perfectly resembles that of two poies,
of which each, notwithstanding the
distance betweel! them, determines the
state and action of the other. The
nature ·of the interjacent organs has
no infl11ence on these sympathies : the
action of the engaged parts OQ each
other is as little intercepted by the
strpctures that separate ~hem as that·
of the magnet on the iron is by an in-
tervening slab of marble or wood.
The wonderful sy111pathy which sub-
sists between mother and fretus is the
transitionary link between thatoforgan
with organ in the same body, aQd *at
of two bodies separately existing.
Hence it is the key to all immediate,
(or what we may call preter-org&nic,)
actings of organic beings upon !iach
other. For here intersect one another
the orbits of our two-fold li.fe-the in-
dividual life subsisting for itself, and
the life in common with pthers, ·as
parts of a whole. Every separ.te· or-
gan has a cert~~oin, though very sqhl;>r-
dinate, self-subtii~tence ; a higher ielf-
sub&istence )las the germinating I!ew
life withinthe organism of the mother;
a far higher the child, that draws its
sustenance from the mother's breasts ;
J>ut mother and child abide yet ever
inly boundtogether, be the individuality
()f the latter at what stage of i~ ~eve­
~opwent it may.
.A. similar action of one livin~ '!fgllo-
nism on another, without orglj.DJC me-
diation, also takes place in the ipcuba-
tion of birds. A pair of cropper-
pigeons-so relates Stark in hii Patho-
logical Fragments-had lost one of
their lately hatched yopng, by death :
to repair this loss, a young tumbler
was put intQ the ne$t; while the old
dove, fos~ered tbit ne1f llqr~ling, an
additional numper of their O\Vfl young
were hatched, and thi~ pe~ progeny
showed n·o resemblance to the p~ent"
~
. irdsli~ but were in all reopec~ like the
nurs. ng.
· Becbstei~J set pigeon$ of a particul&l"
species to ha.tch the eggs of another
Jl_pecies, V&l"Y.ins: IJlarkedli froQl these,
!l<i!~ ~~ fp~qi ~~~ ~olu!P'. ~ T~e ·1~8
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Meameriam• . 293
brood presented npt a trace of their
real parentage, butperfectlyresembled
their fosterers.
Thus the energy of life tells, in ever
widening circles, without mediation of
ma~erial conducting machinery, first
from organ to organ of the same
body, then upon the lifll germinating
into separ-.te subsistence in the midst
of the mother-organism, next upon
the egg already loosened from its con-
nection with this organism, and finally
upon stranie eggs. The vital princi-
.
pie draws, under certain circumstan-
ces, even the strange organism into its
sphere of action, and works on this, lU!
on its owD body: the dy11amic work-
ing, in such cases, becqllles at last a.
material, plastic working; t}le im~i­
nation, from a subjective, becomes an
objective imagirl8 power. Thus life
acts, alchemically, upon other life, tqat
come' into its sphere of action,......,
transforms, assjQlilates other life to
itself, and makes this its own organ.
Such a sympathy pr~el)tt itself some-
times between wholly separate imJivi-
dualities, carrying us a ite_p farther
than the relation of the embryo to tht~
mother : of this kind is th11 e~tr~~oordi~
nary communio vitre, often observable
bttween twins.
Rey gives an account of two twin
brothers, of whom it seemed saying
somewhat less than nothing, to say
they were like each other : you were
rather inclined to 84Y they were one
man in two subsistences-an ideptity
twice told, an individual who hlld the
power of appl)aring clouble. The
meqtal correspopdence was II$ perfect
as the bodily. They devot~d thelll-
selves shnultaneQusly to commerce ;
sil:nultaneoullly they became tired of
buying •nd spllilli, and tpok military
~vice. The¥ had so ab~olutely thll
S&ml! exterior, th~t any person, *o
whom they told their names, if they
hereuppn withdrew, and retqrned
~~g~n thjj D!!~~ minute, fpupd it quite
ilnpos~ible to SllY which was which.
lnd~eq, thia point, which was which~
seem~ to h~ve been !' point which, to
the last, never was settled to the satis-
faction of any one but themselves. If
there was a difference between them,
tht>y alone were pri11y to it. Voice and
speech, manner and gesture, were the
••me i 110t a trick of hand, eye, foot,
not ~ pet exp~es~ion, bad *e oneJ but
lhe ether had it also. The Christian
name Wall the only distinction between
them ; but which was John, and which
Jame1, was a. secret of which t~ir
own breaets were the sole d~p!>sitory,·
and the secret died with them.
The twin-brothers, Laustaud, male
sick-nurses at the hospital St. ElQi, in
Bordeaux, always took ill exactly at
the same time, and both together be-
came subjects of cataract.
The foregoing bas 1hown us bow
the i111aginative power of the !'nimal
soul acts immediately, thllot is to say,
without the mediation of organs, upon
strange bodies. The rationale of this
mod.
e of aption laye open the whole re-
gion of those forces to which animal
magnetism bel9ngs.
In the lower grade~ of ~Ponimal life,
the organic force doesnotyet definitely
develop itself as nervous force : the
nervous system lies, as yet but poten-
tially existent, in the indifferent corpo-
real mass. Nevertbeless, sensation is
already present, even in these imperfect
organisms, though obscure and indis-
tinct, before the nervous structure has
evolved itselfoutof the slimy substa.nce
of which these lowest animals consist.
Where a nervous·system exists, it is
(at leaat in a healthy state) the aole
vehicle of sensation, and the sole ope-
rator of animal motions. But the
nervous energy is capable of extend-
ing its operation beyond its material
organ. Instead of terminating its
action at the extremity of the nerves,
the point at which sepsation arises, it
oversteps this limit, and exercises an
immedia~e inftuepce upop objects more
or less remote. This seem& to be the
most n~tur~l explana~ion of ~II the
phenomeQa of aqimal magnetism.
The !lecided r~emblaoce which the
nervous force, in l~ ordinary way of
acting, presents to the imponderable
agep.ts, make• it the more cpnceivahl!l
that the for111er, li~e the latter, may
also be capable of propag~Uing its ac-
tion through a certain interval of
space, the interjacent media, s11ch as
the air, hel'e serving as !JOnductors.
The facts aqduced ~boye1 of t4e work-
ing of the mother upon the embryo,
and of the incubating bird upon the
egg, here find their explanation ; as
does also the undeniable influence,
which the eye, the touch, the very
proximity of some men has upon
others, especially upon such as are of
a susceptible nature. · ·
o,9 11zed by Coogle
294 Mesmerism. [Mare~,
The temporary insensibility of the
nerves in cataleptic and ecstatic states,
the extensive loss of substance which
the brain may suffer with liitle or no
disturbance of the mental functions,
and the specifically different sensibility
of the different nerves of sense, (the
nervous substance presenting no diffe-
rence), render it probable that asubtle
organic fluid, as substratum of the ner-
vous forct>, permeates the palpable
substance of the nerves, and is capa-
ble of retiring from, as well as of pas-
sing forward beyond their extremities.
For this hypothesis of a nervous fluid,
distinct from the palpable nervous sub-
stance, speaks also the capability of
particular nenes to take up vicariously
the functions of others.
"There is, without doubt,"says Tre-
viranus, " a specific difference in the
functions of the different nerves ; but,
nevertheless, there must be at the same
time a capability in them, in a great
measure, to act one for another. There
is no nerve of motion that has an unin-
terrupted course from the brain or spi-
nal marrow to the exterior of the body,
wholly without the power of sensation ;
and, perhaps, the proper nerves of sen-
sation are mcapable of exciting motion,
only because their action is not directed
upon muscles. In some animals the
place of the optic, in others that of the
olfactory nerve, is completely, or for
the most part, supplied by branches of
the fifth pair ; and animals exist which
manifest an intense sensibility to light,
without being furnished with eyes."
The existence of a nervous fluid,
(organic mther,) seems to be further
indicated by the peculiar sensation
which magnetizing and magnetized
persons very commonly experience, as
of an eftlux and influx, suCh as is felt
in electrical operations, and a feeling
as of cobwebs at the fingers' ends, or
of a wind playing about those extremi-
ties. The electrical character of the
agency here at work, is placed almost
beyond doubt by the fact, that sparks
are sometimes evolved from the opera-
tor, though only in the case of men
endowed with a more than usual share
of Mesmeric influence.
Thus, when Richter, the magnetizer
of Lutheritz, brought the points of
his fingers into contact with the palm
of the hand of a susceptible person,
at the same time that he apphed his
other hand to his back, and, after some
seconds, when the hand was warm,
drew the points of his fingers smartly
away, the patient felt an electric shook,
and, if the experiment was made in
the dark, a spark was perceived. In
patients afflicted with gout, he detected
the seat of the pain, and the extent of
its radiations, by an influence which
held his hand fixed, as soon as it
touched the affected parts: he felt
also, in the case of flying pains, in
what direction their course was. His
hands exhibited moisture when he
rubbed the diseased parts ; but as soon
as perspiration presented itself in
these, his hands became dry. These
appearances prove that the magnetic
influence reacts upon the nervous
economy of the operator.• Richter
did not willingly Mesmerise when the
weather was cloudy, the reaction on
his system being at such times more
severe.
If we be right in placing the mag-
netic influence in a nervous principle,
extending its operation beyond the
palpable nervous substance, it is euy
to see with what force psychic influ-
ences must, in all exercise of this
agency, come in. If the soul can, by
means of the nt~rvous principlE', mould
and transfigure even the solid parts of
the organism, so that, f'or example, in
the features of the face, the degree of
mental elevation or debasement, culti-
vation or rudeness, permanently im-
prints and expresses itself, it may well
be conceived that thispsychic influence
should be as great, and still greater,
wht~re the nervons principle, in ita
ministry to the modifying soul, is no
longer bound to a corporeal organ.
The more susceptible to magnetic in-
fluences any one is, the more sensibility
will he also have for the psyshic ele-
• Mesmeric reaction, to any extent involving inconvenience to the physician, is,
according to Ennemoser, of rare occurrence. As an instance of it, however, he
mentions the case of a friend of his own, who, having a dropsical patient under
magnetic treatment, was alarmed to perceive the rapport announce itself in the
swelling of his hands ; a circumstance which induced him to give up magnetic prac-
Uoe alt{)gether.
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] - Meamerism. 295
ment contained therein. Thus, the
effects of animal, or, better, vital mag-
netism (Lebennnagnetiamus) have a
widely extended compass. From the
lowest manifestations of animal life
they reach up to the highest workings
of the soul, of which also the nervous
principle is the organic medium.
Hence the great difference in the dig-
nity of these effects. Many pheno-
mena oflife, in the lower animal world,
find in this zoomagnetic agency their
explanation. Here, the organic frin-
ciple ministers to the mere anima im-
pulse-to instinct. The highest ex-
pressions of spiritual activity, the im-
mediate influence which the inspired
or the energetic man exercises upon
other men, likewise find in this same
zoomagnetic agency their explanation.
Here the organic principle is the mi-
nister of the free-will. Between these
two extremes, the gradations are infi-
nite, rising, step by step, from the in-
cipient stirrings of life, in a region
where the operation of material laws
is only a shade less absolute than in
the processes of the inorganic worM,
up, first, to the ordinary life of man,
wherein the bodily and the spiritual
exist in a state of hollow alliance and
mutual compromise, and hence, as-
cending by loftier and loftier flights,
to a region in which the spiritual, the
will, sways and determines the natu-
ral, modifies, dispenses with, subordi-
nates to its own freedom the material
law, makes of its whole environment,
animate and inanimate, the or~an in
.which,and by which, it acts, whtle it is
itself the organ of the absolute will,
out of which all laws of all existence,
psyshic and material, in the beginning
went-and ever do go-forth.
The nt'rvous force, acting beyond
the sensible limits of the organism, is,
according to the above,•the cause of
the phenomena termed, not very hap-
pily, Mesmeric. The organs b1 which
chiefly such an extraorganic direction
and activity are impressed on this force,
are the hand and the eye.
" The most usual way of magna.
tizing," says Ennemoser, "and, as
many erroneously believe, the only
way, is by the hand. The hands are
the proper organs of the will, through
which volition becomes act: as the body
in general is tho visibility of the soul,
the manifested psychic subsistence, so
the hands are, especially in their move-
menta, the physiognomic indices or fea-
tures of the will in its constitution and
manner of working. But in.like manner
as the hands execute what the spirit
within determines, so are they also the
most natural conductors of the direc-
tion and fixation of physical ener&'ies."
"The hand," says Passavant, "18 the
organ in which the sense of feeling be.
comes sense of touch, and thus emer~es
into freedom, in the power of seekmg
and examining its object. Through the
erect _POsture of man the hand is an
emanCipated organ, which, instead of
serving to the support or the progressive
motion of the body, becomes a compre-
hensive organ of the spirit. From the
continual activity of the sense of touch,
a greater consumption of nervous force
goes on at the hand, particularly at the
extremities of the fin~ers, and in conse-
quence, probably, an mcreased etBux of
the nervous mther: this process may be
heightened in intensity through the in-
fluence of the will. In all ages a healing
virtue has been attributed to the touch,
to the imposition of the hand on suf-
fering parts of th~ body; and from the
earliest epochs of man's history has this
organ been lifted up to bless and to
curse. A custom in which all nations
and all times have shown so singular an
agreement, can have no mere arbitrary
or conventional ground: it must find its
import in the nature of the organ itself;
and this is containedin the circumstancP,
that the hand is, in man, the freest
member of the body, and that, as organ
of the sense of touch, it is ordained to
be the dispenser of the etBuent nervous
mther." ·
Passavant's directions for the mag-
netic manipulation are exceedingly
simple. The hand is to rest either on
the parts affected (where the disease
under cure is local), or on those places
where the most important nervous
structures are situated-namely, in
particular, upon the head, and upon
the region of the stomach, the former
the centre of the cerebral, the latter of
the ganglionic nervous system. Passes
made with the points of the fingers or
the"palm of the hand, whether with or
without contact, must (as a rule), in
order to work beneficially, be carried
from above downwards, from the brain
towards the extremities. According
to Ennemoser, the greater the quiet-
ness and uniformity with which the
process of manipulation is carried on-
the less there is of bustle, gesticulation,
and ceremony-the more advantageous
will it be to the patient, whose imagi.
oi9,tized by Coogle
nation should be as little as possible
appealed to, his composure as little as
possible disturbed, by what may strike
biin as oddityin the procedure he is sub-
jected to. It were best if the .mani-.
pulation wholly escaped thP. notice or
tbe patientf so that the magnetic effects
should steal upon him unawares, with-
out his having been previously agitated
by the expectation-perhaps the fear-
of a mysterious power, strange to his
experience, and the B:nticipated ap-
proach of which .must involve, one
should think, feeiings of a somewhat
uneasy curios,ity. .
Next to the han.d, the eye is the
organ through which, principally, man
exercises an immediate psychic in-
fluence both on men and beasts; From
of old has the power of working rna~
gically, ihat is, of carrying the impulses
of the will without the limits of the
organism, been ath·ibuted to the eye.
The fixed gaze of a malignant soul,
whi(\}1, a8 St. Thomas says, is often to
be met with in old women (ut in vetulis
srepe contingit), was supposed to work
with deadly effect upon unresisting .
subjects; particularly upon children,
and even to exert a baleful in6uence
on tpe atmosphere. VirgU has indi-
cated in the line-
•• Ne.clo qull teneroi occulua mlhi fuclnat acno.,••
the belief of his time on this point·
and Rousseau assures us that he killed
four toads in Egypt by what Mr.
Tappertit would call " eyeing them
over." However, .on making the ex-
periment on a toad at Lyons, the
reptile, being no benighted Egyptian
toad, but an enlightened French one,
and on a level with the intelligence of
the age, not only did not die, but re-
turned his look with such malign effect,
that he swooned on the spot. . The
eye, as Passavani remarks, has this in
common with the hand, that it n0i
only receives biit gives-not only is
itself the subject or sensaiion, but
causes sensation in others. While the
senses of t&Ste, smell, ,and hearing
are only rec~ptive, the hand and th.e
eye are at the same thile acting, magi-
cally wor'king organs.
" The eye," he proceeds, "is the
telescope through which the soul dis-
cerns, the mirror Iii which she is dis-
cerhed, and the telegraph whereby she
announces the·hUldenest feelings, No
[March,
passion so base, no dignity of aohl so
lrigh, but it speaks out and.reveals it1elf
in this transparent organ."
Jean Paul says in a letter to a
friend-
" Twice, in a. iarge company, I nearly
put Frau von K. to sleep, through mere
fixed gazing on her with that intentioJ?,
whereof nobody knew: her heart paip•-
tated and shil turned pale, to that de-
gree that S. had to doCtor her.''
Brtt magnetic worltin~ may ~e
place withbut employment of either
the eye or the hand. The approach
of the .physician is fraught with a
po*errul influence onthe patient ; and
Friedrich Hufeland's conjecture seems
not to be without foundation, that
physiCians ofien exercise a magnetic
power without having themselves sus-
picion of it, and benefit their patients
more hereby than with ti,eir prescrip-
tions. Mr. Braid's method of •• hyp-
notising" perhap~ derives its efficacy in
part from the magnetic infttience which
he uticon~ciously exerts:. it mat be
doubted, at least, whe.ther his patients
would not take fttucli loriger to become
r. hypnotised," if they ~at and squinted
at their ~yebrows iii a room by them~
selves.
Continued arid repeated magnetizing
produce~ frequently, though not al-
ways> sleep. · This isj according to
Ennemoser; one of its most salutary
properties.
'' Sleep,"he rem~rks, "h tlili first of
tnedicines In all such diseases as consist
itt, or are accompanied by an iriordhiate
degree of excitement and over-activity
of the system, and .in which the inward
harmony .of tbe different organic work-
inga is disturbed. . When once we are
fortunate enough, in nervous alfectiollll,
in fevers, in pains of whatever kind, in
mental diseii.ges, in madness, &c., by
any means to procure sleep1. crises of'
amendment beg,n to present tlietilselves;
hut in iio case so striki~tgly ana sti ~urely
as in consequence of the sleep prdlluced
by magnetism."
The great atlvaribgc of this kltid of
arHficiaT sleep, besides its extreme pro-
foundness~ involvin~ insensibility as of
death, is that it avo1ds the use of those
narcoticsubstances which, whatever im~
mediate relief their employment may
hring, are, through their _deleterious
o191tized by Coogle
1844.]
action on the brain; fatal to the sub-
sequent healthy working of the func-
tions both of mind and body.
" The mal!"netic sleep," says Passa-
vant, "distmguishes itself from ordi-
nary sleep, inasmuch ali it is deeper, and
thus that the connection of the sleeper
with the external world through the
commoh organs of sense is in a higher
degree susP-ended. In ordinary sleep,
the suscepttbility of the senses to out-
ward impressions does not wholly cease:
a light, a sound, a touch would, were
this the case, not be capable of awaking
us. But in the deep magnetic sleep the
cessation of sensibility is complete : the
most dazzling light, the loudest noise,
nay, sometimes pinching, cuttiit~, and
burning cannot awaken the indtvidual
sunk In such sleep. It is a traruiient
sleep of death."
The question here arises-How
does magnetism produce sleep ? How
can the workirig df the nervous prin-
ciple of one man upon that of another,
cause, in the latter, such a withdraw-
ing from the external world, and such
a cQncentration within himself?
Wheri the magnetic agency has
been but a short time employed, for
example; in cases of local working
upon parts affected with pain, this
does riot take place ; but only there,
where the whole nervoils system of
the patient is forcibly and for a length
of time acted upon by the .magnetic
power of the magnetizer. The most
natural explanation, i. e., that which
most connects itself with already
known laws in nature, seems to be
this : when the separate nervous
forces of two persons are brought to
bear upon each other, with a prepon-
derance of activity on the one side,
and of passivity on the other, there is
formed a relation of polarity between
the two nervous principles. Now
since, in the individual man, nervous
polarity expresses itself in the con-
trasts of waking and sleep, of a radia-
tion and a concentration of the ner-
vous force, there will, when the forces
of two nertt>us systems become pol&\' ·
in relation to each other, be presented
the same contra!ts in the two subjects
of this relation; In the same nervous
system the contrasted actings could
only manifest themselves in alterna-
tion : the rapport, or interpenetra-
tion of sensorial life between the Mes-
meriser and his patient,. fint rende~
297
possible the exhibition of them sima!-·
taneously. The above is Pwavant's
representation. Friedrich Hufeland
puts it somewhat differently, though
the principle is essentially the Rame.
According to thiR distinguished phy-
siologist and physician, the sympathy
which unites the magnetizer and the
magnetized, like every dynamic com-
bination in nature generally, can take
place only through the medium of an-
tithetic interdetermination of positive
and negative. But if the several parts
of any one organism possess a polarity,
similar to the magnetic, which con-
nects them into a living whole, then,
since the Mesmeric agency can only
be brought to bear upon the periphe-
ric pole of the subject to be Mesme-
rised, and this must be considered as
homonymous with the peripheric pole
ofthe Mesmeriser, to render an agency
of the latter upon the latter possible,
an in11erlion of the poles must take
place, according to the well-known
law by which, in the inorganic region,
the stronger of two magnets, the
homonymous poles of which are
brought into contact-north pole with
north, or south with south-has the
power of inverting the poles of the
weaker, so that the poles in contact
become contrary, and, instead of re-
pelling, attract one another. This
phenomenon, according to Hufeland,
expresses the law, from which the
effects of Mesmerism must be deduced.
The rapport will, accordingly, be the
more easily established, the weaker
the polar force at the extremity of the
nerves of the patient is.
In the successive development of
the ME'smeric stages, as given by
Kluge and others, the sensorial power
is seen passin~ from the positive pole,
(where it is 10 the state of ordinary
waking,) through the centre of indif"
terence, (magnetic sleep,) to the ne-
gative pole, which thus becomes posi-
tive (in clairvoyance), while the ordi-
nat·y positiYe pole becomes negative.
The sense, open to outward things,
gradually closes to them, and, after
an interval of total abeyance, opens
again as gradually in the opposite di-
rection, to the apprehension of an
inward region. " In sleep," says
Novalia, "body and soul are in a
state of chemical combination ; the
soul is distributed in equilibrium·
through the bOdy ; the man. is .neu-
oi9,tized by Coogle
298 Meameriam.· [March,
tralized. Waking is a state of disen-
gagement of the antagonist forces, a
state of polarization ; in the waking
state the soul is determined to a
point, localized." What Novalia here
says of sleep in general, is true, to its
full extent only of the magnetic sleep,
in which sensorial life hangs balanced
in the point where the opposing at-
tractions of two spheres of being, an
outward and an inward, meet and de-
stroy each other, so that the patient's
existence, in this state, is a formless
dark void, and interval of chaos,
through which lies the wondrous way,
from the world that surrounds us with
its illusions to the world that opens in
its deep rPality, far, far within us.
. The SW!Ceptibility to Mesmeric im-
pressions, according to Ennemoser,• is
in the inverse proportion of the ge-
neral organic force, and, more parti-
cularly, of the nervous power, of .the
patient. " For, as the individual
nerves of the system acquire their
polarity from the brain as its central
point,-the more powerful the tmsion
they receive from within, the more
energetically will they, necessarily,
work outwards. If the tension be
weak, as in sickness is oftenest the
case, then will each several part of
the system exhibit but a weak pola-
rity, and the whole will be, in relation
to a vigorous organism, acting upon it,
just what the weak magnet is to the
powerful one : in other words, its po-
larity will, in coming in contact with
the other become inverted, and it will
be attracted by the organism, of the
solicitations of which it is the object.
This attraction fl/ten becomes sensible
to the eye, and the cause of it seems to
be that thecerebralnervesoftheperson
attracted do not receive their polarity
from within, but from without, namely,
f1·om the organism of the magnetizer,
hereby becoming as it were parts of
the latter, incorporated with him and
dependent upon him. Thus, the two
persons standing in this relation of
sympathy towards one another become
in a measure fused and blended toge-
ther into one individuality ; and so
the phenomena of rapport, between
the patient and the physician, those
myaterioua tran:aferences of sensation
and of sentiment, find their explana.
tion in known laws of physiology."
• The sensible attractionhere referred
to, between the magnetizer and the
magnetized, is a phenomenon by no
means uncommon. Professor Agas-
siz, in his highly interesting account
of his having been Mesmerised by Mr.
Townshend, having described his aen-
sations during the process, the state
of half-sleep into which he was
brought, and his being finally recalled
to a waking condition, says, " be
(Mr. Townshend) then told me, and
M. Desor repeated the same thing,
that the only fact which had satisfied
them that I was in a state of Mesmeric
sleep was the facility with which my
bPad followed all the movements of
his hand, although be did not touch
me, and the pleasure-which I appeared
to feel at the moment when, after
several repetitions of friction, he thus
moved my hand at pleasure in all
directions."
In cataleptic states, particular parts,.
as the hands and feet, may be brought
into my position, at will, by the hand
of the magnetizer, which they follow
as the iron does the load-stone ; and
Ennemoser relates, not only that the
hand of a patient followed all the
movements of his finger, without con-
tact, but that, when contact took
place,thetwosurfaces·(oftheoperator's
finger and the patient's hand) adhered
with such force that demagnetizing
passes were necessary to separate them.
But efFects still more striking attended
the experiments of Doctor Nick, who,
merely holding the points of his two
thumbs towards those of his patient,
as the latter Jay in magnetic sleep on
the floor, lifted her up, and placed her
standing, unsupported except by his
neuro-magnetic attraction. Doctor
Spiritus records a similar case of
electric(?)attraction with the thumbs.•
But it is not only by their mag-
netizers that patients under the influ-
ence of this singular agency are at-
tracted. Ennemoser saw the hand of
a m&fflletically-sleeping female drawn
to an 1ron nail, from which it required
a greater degree of violence than he
• A glimpse of the cloven foot I Doctor Spiritus II Doctor NicK. Ill The
very incognito laid aside I It is of a piece with the Jesuit Hell. If thi1 does not
open people's eyea it is to be feared the Penny Pulpit never will.
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmerism. 299
judged it expedient to employ to br.ing
it (the hand) away again. Again,
some persons under magnetic influ-
ence are attracted by liquid surfaces,
though the very reverse was the case
with Kerner's patient, the world-
J'enowned Seherin von Prevo'rst, for
whom water had such a repellency
that it was impossible to get her into
a bath, with her own and her atten-
dants' greatest efforts. This reminds
us of one of the commonest witch-
ordeals of the middle ages. Little
doubt can be entertained that the
greater part, if not the whole of the
bewildering effects which that era set
down to the account of necromantic or
demoniac agencies, had their true
ground in the zoo-magnetic prin~iple.
That the unfortunate beings accused
of witchcraft, in many cases believed
themselves guilt.):, does not militate
against this solution or the ridtlle.
Nothing is more common than for a
Mesmeric clairvoyante of the present
day to describe herself, with perfect
good faith, as.being in communication
with angels, and with the souls of de-
parted men, good and evil. Spirits of
health and goblins damned enact, be-
fore the inward eye of the entranced
sleep-waker, the wonderfullest dramas,
by no means classical, but of the
Shaksperean-romantic stamp, such as
no Greek or Frenchman could abide
to behold-for your Greek and your
Frenchman, look you, shall desire to
see a world as it ought to be, as a
cook and a dancing-master, a tailor
aud a philosophe would have made it,
had circumstances allowed-aud not
in any wise a world as it is, as One
made it, who also made the things
which have made themselves cooks
and tailors, dancin~-masters and phi-
losophes-but this 1s a digression.
Whether the purely spiritual ele-
ment, the will exercised in faith, or
the ·mechanico-material element, a
system of passes and manipulations,
and the th"rewith connected agency
of a fluid, differing from any drug in
the chemist's laboratory only in the
degree of its subtilty, be the true
cause of the Mesmeric phenomena, is
.a controversy which has been ca1·ried
on to this day, with great heat, and
with very little insight. The advo-
cates of the spi.t·itual and those of the
material theory are, probably, both of
them right in their aftlrmative, and
VoL. XXIII.-No. 135.
wrong in their negativ-both of them
in error only inasmuch as they are ex-.
clush·e, in so far as each does notre-
cognise, in the system of the other~
the complement of his own. Each ia
right in holding himself to be right ;
each is wrong in holding his oppo11ite
to be wrong. The truth includes
both doctrines; not as being eclee.
tically made up of whatever ia best
and truest in what both sides respec-
tively hold-for the being of truth ia
as far as possible from the constitution
of a mental pic-nic-but as being that
original unity, of which two conflict-
ing parties do each behold one of two
inseparable aspects. Of how few
controversies, religiollll, political, or
philosophical, is this not the ratiouale.
Every where it is the shield, with its
side of silver, and its side of gold-
and so few have thought and patience
to ride round, and see both sides. Of
most disputes about principles, the
true word of reconcilement, and reso-
lution of discord, were the enunci-
ation of the law of polarity.
Schopenhauer seems to have pro•
pounded the best solution of the ques-
tion between the spiritualist and the
materialist parties, wherein the com-
patibility of their opposite doctrines1
and even the need which they have of
each other as corresponding oppo~itea
-as obverse and reverse of the same
medal, is shown:-
" Since," says this writer, "accord-
ing to my doctrine, the organism is no-
thing else than the will itself mani-
fested in an objective form, the outward
act of manipulation coincides with the
inward act of volition. But when ef-
fects are produced without the former;
this is in a certain degree artificially
done b>' a circuitous way, the phantasy
supplymg the place of the outward act:
but this way is more difficult and sel-
domer effectual, as Kieser truly says
that the spoken command, 'Sleep!'-
works more effectually than the bare
inward volition of the magnetizer. On
the other hand the manipulation, the
outward act in genera', is an infallible
means to fix and engage the will of the
magnetizer, just because outward acta
without volition are not possible. Hence
we see bow magnetizers sometimes o~ea
rate without a conscious effort of wtll,
and almost without thought, and yet
produce eltects. As a rule, it is not
the consciousness of volition, the reHec-
tion thereupon, but the pure act itself,
as little aa possible made an object of
X
oi9,tized by Coogle
300 llfesmerism. [March,
cogitation, that works magnetically:
hence, all thinking and reilecting, as
well of the physician as of the patient,
upon that which on either side is done
er suffered is expressly forbidden, and
it is recommended that the whole pro-
cess be carried on, as far as may be,
without being brought before the tri-
bunal of consciousness. The true
ground of all which is, that here the
will, in ita primar,v being, in and for
itself, is operative.'
We may brieily say, an action with-
out the organism is as dependent upon
the will as an action w1thin the or-
ganism ; but as the will, acting within
the organism, indispensably needs the
ministry of the nervous principle, so
neither, in extending its action beyond
the limits of the organism, can it dis-
pense with this ministry. What it can-
not do within the organism, if the
·nervous communication be interrupted
(if the nerve of motion going to a
particular organ be cut), that it can-
~ot do in a foreign organism, having
no communication therewith. The
body does nothing without the soul ;
the soul nothing without the body ;
for the body and the soul are one, a
living and working whole-and either
without the other is, practically, a nul-
lity.
Mr. Braid's experiments, interesting
and inRtructive as they are, do not
afford a basis of sufficient width for
the theory which he builds upon them,
neither does this theory by any means
explain all the phenomena of Mes-
merism. The whole subject of what
is called rapport, namely, as well as
that of the lower sleep-waking, to say
nothing of clairvoyance, lies, so to
speak, out of its beat. So do all mag-
netic effects, produced without the
previous knowledge of the patient,
auch as Jean Paul's, one is pained to
aay, quite indefensible proceeding to-
wards the Frau von K., such as Mr.
Townshend's not much more com-
mendable operations in regard of a
fellow-passenger by the mail-coach,
and a host of other cases. Mr. Braid,
while holding his lancet-case for his
patient to stare at, is magnetizing the
latter by his volition, without suspect-
ing it ; and there is reason to believe
that he would, by magnetizing with
his eye or hand, produce effects which
would surprise himself. There is,
l!owever, .auch a thing as self-mag-
netizing, without help of another,
which no doubt here also plays its
part. Jacob Bohme fell at once into
ecstacy and lucid vision oi the highest
degree, by an accidental look into a
bright tin platter. Light, direct or
reflected, is a powerful magnetizer.
If Mr. Braid made his patients stare
at the moon, instead of his lancet-
case, the effects would probably be
curious. Light has a peculiar affinity
to the nervous fluid, perhaps th~ near-
est in nature. For the rest, this mode
of casting into the magnetic or ner-
vous sleep, while it spares the physi-
cian, throws too much exertion upon
the patient, and seems less to avoid
the deleterious effects of narcotic
medicines than any oi· the more com-
mon Mesmeric processes.
In conclusion, a word of warning :
"Let no one," says Dr. Ennemoser,
"magnetize mer~>ly for experiment, or
in order to gratify one's own or ano-
ther's curiosity. Such experiments lead
to nothing profitable, and may have em-
barrassing consequences."
By a single magnetizing a latent
germ of disease is sometimes awaked,
and a rapid development of the evil
follows, which he who has called it
forth may not be able to control. It
is impossible to read without indigna-
tion the directions given to amateur
magnetizers by a Mr. Gardiner, of
Roche Court, as quoted by Mr. Lang
in his valuable little work, (of which
the intrinsic worth is indeed in the in-
verse ratio of its bulk):-
" Advance to your subject as an ex-
perimentalist. Say nothing to any
body ; select for your trials a person of
a sedate character, and not too young.
Shut yourself and the patient into a
quiet room, with no spectators."
Then follow directions as to the
process to be used, whereby, we are
told:-
" It is more than probable that, ere
the lapse of many minutes, you will feel
and see the establishment of your pow-
er. . . . . • Should no
effect ensue in half an hour, I would ad-
vise you to desist, and try another pa-
tient. If effects be produced within
that time, go on until you see that they
do not increase, and then demagnetize,
&c. and try the same
oi9,tized by Coogle
1844.] Mesmert'sm. 3tH
patient a~aln the succeeding dav, and
go on till ?:OU produce all the ttighet•
phenomena.'
This is deserving of the strongest
reprobation : such tentative magne-
tizing is a sporting with bodily and
mental health which cannot too se-
verely be censured, and which would
least be tolerated in countries in
which the effects of the formidable
agency thus rashly summoned into
exercise are best known. In this first
half hour's operations, just the most
important, though least immediately
perceptible, effects may be produced.
The dilettanti may find that he has
put machinery in motion which it
exceeds all his powers and his skill
either to direct rightly, or to stop. It
is easy to s&y, "demagnetize by trans-
verse passes, and blowing on the face
and head upwards from the neck, or
other means ;" but cases are daily
occurring which show that the laic in
these things may find it a far more
difficult task to bring the luckless
subject of his foolish experiment out
of, than into, a very alarming state of
coma. An American writer on Mes.
merism, the Reverend Le Roy Sun-
derland, on this point says very
wisely:-
" But it often happens that persons
succeed in putting others to sleep, and
find it impossible to waken them again.
What shall be done in such cases ?
Answer-learn to be more careful bow
you meddle with an agency of which you
know so little. We have known serious
results to follow the operations of per-
sons when the motive has been mere
curiosity."
If the first haTf hour's eft'orts pro-
duce no (apparent) effect, the " ex-
perimentalist is advised to "desist, and
try another patient," dismissing the
first as impracticable, or, as ~Ir. Gar-
diner expresses it, " tough." But no
magneticprocedut·e abides wholly with-
out consequences, though these may
escape the cognizance of an unprac-
tised eye. A " tough" cord may not
betray, to hasty observation, the effects
ofthe tension it has undergone, though
this bas brought it to the very point
of snapping.
The only legitimate way of studying
Mesmerism is as pupil of some intelli-
gent practitioner, just as any other
branch of medical science is to be
studied. Let the student accompany
the magnetizing physician in his pro-
fessional visits ;· let him see the proce-
dure of his teacher, and when the
latter judges it fit, operate und!lr his
superintendence. Not by blind ex-
perimenting and feeling of his own
way, but by witnessing the practice of
one who already knows what he is
about, let him learn to recognize the
symptoms of Mesmeric affection, so
that when they afterwards present
themselves under his own hands, he
may not be taken by surprise, nor see
himself suddenly placed in a labyrinth
to which he has no clue. With all the
variableness and inconstancy alleged
as characterizingthese symptoms, there
is yet on the whole such a degree of
general uniformity as to enable the
experienced Mesmerist to discern the
bearings of the case, to find his lati-
tude, and judge what he bas done, and
whether he is in the way to do good
or not.
But never should Mesmerism be
applied otherwise thaa remedially, and
with the defined and exclusive inten-
tion of curing a present disease. To
this object should the operator go by
the straightest course, and have done
with his case as soon as possible.
There should be no secondary or col-
lateral views-of making experiments,
ofsatisfying one's own or other people's
curiosity, of parading marvels, of
making converts. As in general
medical science, so here, that practi-
tioner will institute the most instruc-
tive experiments who thinks not of
experiments at all; and the discoveries
most conducive to the further progress
of knowledge will spontaneously evolve
themselves from the procedure of him
who with most singleness of intention
applies to the benefit of his patient the
knowledge already attained.
oi9,tized by Coogle
