{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__jackson___autobiography_of_heinrich_stilling.pdf","mytitle":"Autobiography Of Heinrich Stilling","mylang":"de"}
THE
A.UTOBlOGRA.PHf
HEINRICH STILLING,
LATB
AULIC COUNSELLOR TO THE GRAND DUKE OF BADEN,
&o.,&c., &c.
. . .
":''"<> I~ r ~ .• . -,.- , .
\ . ' ',, \ 1 t. I; ' : , \ ~\ .\ --. \ I l j ! \ , ., <
1'
. ._ " .. -
- ....;,.
TRANSL!TED FROM THE GERMAN BY S.J!Cl80!,
NEW-YORK:
PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS,
No. 82 CL1rr-STazzT.
1844.
,
0i9;11zed by Google
-
PREFACE TO THE FIRST El>ITION.
Tuni: is a species of confidence felt in
introdw:ing to the notice of the public any
foreign work which has been well received
and frequently reprinted in the original,
especially when it has been thought wor-
thy of translation into other ·languages ;
and this confidence is considerably aug-
mented, when the object of the work is
such as the translator can most cordially
recommend to his readers, and when moral
and religious instruction is conveyed in its
most striking and attractive form.
The translator experiences this confi-
dence, in a high degree, with reference to
the work he has now the pleasure of laying
before the public. It is the biography of
no every-day character; but of one who,
from the lowest ranks of society, rose to a
station of eminent usefulness, like some
brilliant star, which, gradually emerging
from a cloudy horizon, increases in bright-
ness the nearer it approaches its meridian,
and gives light to many a way-worn and
benighted traveller on his dubious path.
In describing his own remarkable history,
the author has developed such a beautiful
and indubitable guidance of Providence, as
should put unbelief to the blush, and prove
highly encouraging to all who are placed
in similarly trying circumstances.
And here the translator cannot avoid the
remark, which, indeed, will be obvious to
every reflecting mind, that a memoir of
any mdividual written by himself, is much
more intrinsically valuable than one that
proceeds from the pen of another person.
}'or unless the latter content himself with
a bare statement of facts-which, however
striking, afford only a certain degree of
interest-being necessarily ignorant of the
hidden workings of the heart and mind, he
is obliged to supply the motives which he
supposes to have actuated the individual ;
and which, since the minds of men are as
various as their countenances, are seldom
according to truth. Hence it is, that such
memoirs very frequently convey more of
the spirit of the biographer, than of the in-
dividual whose life is narrated; so that
those who have personally known the lat-
ter, are scarcely able to recognize him h•
his strange attire.
'But the life of Heinrit:h Stilling possess-
es another advantage, which must not be·
overlooked. It was written, in the first
instance, under an assumed name, and
scarcely with the intention of being made
public. Hence the author felt himself
more at liberty to draw a faithful portrait,.
both as regards his interior and exterior
life, without regard to the praise or cen-
sure that might be bestowed upon him.
It subsequently became known, indeed,
that he was the author of it; but the scenes
of humiliation through which he had pass-
ed, had too deeply abased him in his own
esteem to permit him to feel elated, even
from the deserved honours he so abundant-
ly received ; and when, at the close, he-
throws off his disguise, and appears before-
the reader under his real name, it is only
to place himself in as humble a point of
view as possible, in order that all the glory
and the praise may be rendered unto Him,.
to whom he considered them so justly due.
The remark made above, with reference-
to autobiography, may be also correctly
applied to the mode of translation. If, in
order to preserve a certain elegance of
style and iluency of expression, the trans-
lator takes the liberty of remodelling every
sentence, and clothing the author's ideas
in language ofhis own, he will certainly fail
of conveying the tn1e spirit of the original,.
and therefore seldom succeed in satisfy-
ing the reader. The translator, in accord-
ance with the judgment of a late eminent.
writer, has acted upon the opposite princi-
ple, and has sought only to give a faithful
version of his author, so far as the differ-
ence in the idiom of the language would
permit. In a work like the present, in.
consequence of the familiar mode of ~x­
pression so frequently employed, the diffi-
culty is so much the greater; and th&
translator must therefore cast himself
upon the lenity of his readers, and.intreat.
in this instance the indulgence which ha&
been extended to bis former labours.
January 3llt, 1835.
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
PART I.
HEINRICH STILLING'S CHILDHOOD.
CHAPTER I. the setting sun, while whistling the tune of the
THERE is, in Westphalia, a diocese, which hymn,
.ies in a very mountainous district, whose sum-
mits overlook many little provinces and princi-
palities. The village in which the church is sit-
~·The sun ita glorio!11 ooune bu run,"
uate is called Florenburgh; for the inhabitants
have long had a disgust at the name of a village,
and, therefore, although compelled to live by
farming and grazing, have always sought to
maintain a superiority over their neighbours,
who are mere peasanis; and who say of them
that they have gradually expelled the name of
Florendorf,• and introduced that of Floren-
burght in its stead. But, be that as it may, it
certainly possesses a magistracy, the head of
which, in my time, was Johannes Henricus
Scultetus. Rude and ignorant people called him,
out of the town-house, Maister Hans; but hon-
est townspeopk were also wont to say, Mister
Schulde.
· A league from this place, towards the south-
west, lies the little vilJage of Tiefenbach, so call-
ed from its situation between hills, at the feet of
which the houses overhang the water on both
sides, which, flowing from the valleys to the
south and north, meets just in the deepeit and
narrowest part, where it forms a river. The
eastern hill is called the Giller; it rises perpen-
dicularly, and 'its flat side1 turned towards the
west, is thickly covered witn beech-trees. From
thence there is a prospect over fields and mead-
ows, which is bounded on both sides by lofty
and connected mountains. They are entirely
planted with oak and beech-trees, and no open-
ing is visible, except where a boy may be fre-
quently seen driving an ox, and gathering fire-
wood on his half-trodden path.
Below the northern hill, called the Geisenberg,
which ascends towards the clouds like a su~ar­
loaf, and on whose summit lie the ruins ot an
ancient castle, stands a house in which Stilling's
parents and forefathers dwelt.
About thirty,years a&o, there lived in it an old
man, named Eberhard Stilling, a peasant, and
barner of charcoal. During the whole of the
summer be remained in the woods, and made
charcoal ; but went home once a week to look
after his family, and to furnish himself with pro-
visions for another week. He generally came
home on the Saturday evening, in order that on
the Sunday he might go to church at Floren-
bu-rgh, where he was one of the churchwardens.
In this consisted the chief business of his life.
He had six grown-up children, of whom the eld-
est two were sons, and the others daughters.
Once, as Eberhard was descending the hill,
and contemplating, with the utmost composur~
* lJor/1 ll Tillage, t Bwr81t, ll town
and reflecting upon the subject, be was overta-
ken by his neighbour Stahler, who was walk-
ing a little quicker, and probably did not trouble
himself much about the setting sun. After pro-
ceeding a while close behind him, and hem-
ming several times in vain, Sta,hler commenced
a conversation, which I must here iusert verba-
tim.
Staltl.er.-" Good evening, Ebert!"
Stilling.-" Thank you, Stahler!" (conti7'Uing
to whistle.)
Stahler.-" If the weather continnes thus, we
shall soon be ready with our woods. I think we
shall finish in three weeks."
· Stilling.-" May be" (whi.stling again).
Staltler.-" I am no longer so able as I was
lad I I am already sixty-eight years old, and
thou art near seventy."
Stilling.-" That's very likely. There sets
the sun behind the hill; I cannot sufficiently re-
joice at the goodness and love of God. I was
just thinkin~ about it; it is likewise evening
with us, ne1ghtiour Stahler I The sha~es of
death rise daily nearer us; he will surprise us
before we are aware. I must thank Eternal
Goodness, which bas sustained, preserved, and
provided for me so bountifully, not only to-day.
but all my life Ion~.''
SWtler.-" Thats probable!" . .
· StiJJ,ing.-" I wait also, really without tear, tor
the important moment when I shall be delivered
from this cumbersome, old, and stiffening body,
and be able to associate with the souls of my
forefathers, and other holy men, in a state ofeter-
nal rest. There I shall find Doctor Luther, Cal-
vin, <Ecolampadius, Bucer, an~ others, in whose
praise our late pastor, Mr. Wrnterbergh, has so
Often spoken to me, and said .that, next t~, the
Apostles, they were the m?st pious of men.
StaAJ,er.-" That's possible I But tell me,
Ebert, hast thou known the people thou hast just
mentioned 1"
Stilling.-" How foolishly thoa talkest I They
have been dead above two hundred years."
Stahler.-" So I that's surprising l"
Stilling.-" Besides, all my children are grown
up · they have learned to read and write, they
are'able to earn their bread, and will soon need
neither me nor my Margaret.''
Stahler•....:.." Need I that's easily said I How
soon may a girl or boy go astray, attach them-
selves perhaps, to poor people, and caase a slur
upon 'their family, when their parents can no
longer attend to them I"
Stilling. " I am not afraid of all that. God
Digitized by Google
HEINRICH STILLING.
be thanked, that my atttntion to tbt>m is not ne-
cessary. By my in~tructioos and example, l
have, through GOd's blessin~, implanted in my
children ~uch an abhorrence of that which is
evil, that l have no furtfler occasion to fear."
me, so that I can give each of them a hnndrtd
guilders, cash down.''
StallUr.-" J am not a Mr. lndilferent, like
thee. I must know what I do, and my children
shall marry as I find best.''
Stahler laughed heartily-just as a fox would
laugh, if he could, 1ha1 had carried off a pullet in
spile uf the wa1chful chanticleer-and continu-
ed : " Ebert, thou hast much confidence in thy
children ; but l think thou wilt change thy tone
when l tell 1hee all that I know."
S1illing turned about, stood still, leaned upon
his axe, smiled with the most contented and con-
fident countenance, and said, "What dost thou
know, Stabler, that would so pain me to the
soul 1"
Stallkr.-" Hast thou heard, neighbour Still-
ing, that thy son Wilhelm, the schoolmaster, is
about to marry 1"
&iJlfog.-" No, I know nothing of it yet."
Sta/Uer.-" Then I will tell thee, that he in-
tend:;; to have the daughter of the ejected preach-
er, Moritz, of L ichthausen, and that they are al-
ready betrothed."
.Stilling.-" That they are betrothed, is not
true ; but it may be that he intends to have her."
They now went on further.
Stalder.-" Can that be, Ebert1 Canst thou
sutler that 1 Canst thou give thy son to a beg-
gar-woman, that has nothing1"
StiJJing.-" The honest man's children have
never be2ged ; and if they had 1 But whkh
daughter is it 1 Moritz has two daughters."
Stakkr.-" Doris."
StiJli'Tlg.- " l am willing to end my days with'
Doris. l shall never forget it. She came to
me, one Sunday alierooon, saluted me and Mar-
faret from her lather, sat down, and was silent.
saw in her eyes what she wanted, but 1 read
.from her cheeks that she could not tell it. I ask-
.ed her if she needed any thing. She was sifent,
and sighed. I went and fetched her four rix-
.dollars. 'There l' said I, ' I will lend you this,
.till you can pal me again.'"
Stalder.-" 1 hou mightest as well have given
lier them; thou wilt never have them again, as
long as thou livest."
Stilling.-" It was, in fact, my intention to
.give her the money; but if 1 had toltl her so, the
girl would have been still more ashamed. 'Ah,'
said she, 'kindest, dearest father Stilling I (the
. good girl wept heartlelt tears;) when I see how
my oltl papa mumbles his dry bread in bis .
mouth, and cannot chew it, my heart bleeds.'
My Margaret ran and fetched a large jug of
sweet milk; and she has ever since sent them
sweet milk two or three times a week."
Stakler.-" And thou canst suffer thy son Wil-
helm to have the girl 1"
Stilli~·-" If he will have her, with all my
heart. Healthy people are able to earn some-
thing; rich people may lose what they have."
Sta!UP.r.-" Thou sa1dst before, that thou didst
not know any thing of it. Yet thou knowest, as
thou sayest, that they are not yet betrothed."
Stilling.-" I am confident of it I He will cer-
tainly ask me fil'l:'t.''
Staltler.-" Hearl hear! He ask thee1 Yes,
thou mayest wait long enough for that."
Stilling.-" Stahler I I know my Wilhelm. I
have always told my children they might marry
as rich or as poor as they woold or they could,
and that they should only have regard to indus-
try and piety. My Margaret had nothing, and
I a farm burdened with debt. God has blessed
"Every one makes his shoe according to his
own last,'' said Stilling. He was now before
his house-door. Margaret Stilling had ;ilready
~ent her daughters to bed. A piece of pancake
stood for her Ebert in an earthen dish, on the hot
ashes ; she had also added a little butter to it.
A pitcher of milk ann bread stood on the bench,
and she began to be anxious about her husband's
long delay. At length, the latch of the door rat-
tled, and he entered. She took his linen wallet
from his shoulder, spread the table, and brooght
him bis supper. "Strange," said Margaret,
"that Wilhelm is not here yet I 1 hope no mis-
fortune has happened to him. Are there any
wolves about1' "What of that1" said father
Stilling, and laughed, for so he was wont; he
often laughed loudly, when he was quite alone.
The schoolmaster, Wilhelm Stilling, now en-
tered the room. After saluting his parents wi1h.
a good evening, he sat down upvn the bench,
rested his cheek upon his hand, and was thought-
ful. It was h•ng before he said a word. Old
Stilling picked bis teeth with a knife, for such
was his custom after meals, even though he had
eaten no flesh.meat. At length the mother be-
gan: "Wilhelm, I was afraid something bad
happened to 1l:ee, because thou art so late."
Wilhelm answered," Oh, mother! there wa,s no-
need of that. My father often says, he that is in
1he line of duty need fear nothing." He then
became pale and red by turns; at length, he
broke ot1t, and said, with a faltering voice-" At
Lichthausen (for so the place was called where
he kept a school, and made clothes at the same
time for the peasants,) there dwells a poor eject-
ed preacher; I am inclined to marry his elder
daughter. If vou, my 'parent.~, are both satis-
fied, there will be no further hindrance." "Wil-
helm," answered his father, "1hou art twemy-
lhree years old; I have had thee taught; thou
ha~t knowledge enough but canst not help thy-
~elf forward in the world, for thou hast lame lt!et.
The damsel is poor, and not accustomed 10 hard
labour: how dost thou think of maintaining thy-
self in future 1" The ·schoolmaster an~wered,
"My trade will support me; and with regard to
the rest, I will resign myself entirely to Divine
providence, which will provide for me and my
Doris, as well as for the birds of the air."
"What sayest thou, Margaret 1" said the old
man. " Hem ! what should I say 1" rejoined
she; "dost thou remember what ao&wer I gave
thee, during our courtship1 Let us take Wil-
helm and his wife into the house with us, where
be may carrv on bis trade. Doris shall assist
me and my daughters, as much as she is able.
She can always learn something, for she is still
young. They mai take their meals with us ;
what he earns hes all give us, and we will pro-
vide them both wit what is needful ; this seems
to me the best way.'' "If thou thinkest so," re-
plied father S1illing, "he may fetch the damsel
home. Wilhelm! Wilhelm I think of what thou
art doing; it is no trilling matter. The God of
thy fathers hies~ th~ with all that thou anti thl
maiden requirt>.'' The tears ~tood in Wilhelm s
t>yes; he shook hi~ father and mother by the
hand, promised them all fidelity, and went to
bed. And after old Stilling ha•I sung hi$ even-·
ing hymn, !a:stened the door with a wooden bolt,
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLIN G'S CHILDHOOD. 6
and Margaret had been to see the kine, whether nothing in the world but two daughters; this
they all lay and ruminated, they also went to bed. one is the apple of my eye; take her, son I take
Wilhelm entered his cbatnber, lo which there her I" He wept. "May the blei.sing of Jeho-
was only a shutter, which did not, however, shut vah descend upon you, and make you blessed in
!iO closely as not to admit so much of the day to the presence of Him and bis ~ainL~, and blessed
glimmec through as to make it evident when it in the sight of the world I May your children
was time to rise. This window was still open; be real Christians, and your postl'rity be great I
.ne, therefore, stepped towards it; it looked di- May their names stand wriuen in the book of
rectly towards the forest; all was profonntlly lile ! My whole life has been devoted to God;
still, except where two nightingales sanl most l have pursued my course with much weakness,
sweetly. This bad often served as a hint to but without offence, and have loved all men; be
Wilhelm. He sank down by the wall. "0 this your rule of lile also, so shall my remains
God I" sighed he, "I thank thee for having given rest rn peace I" Here he wiped his eyes. The
me such parents, 0 that I may cause them joy I two lovel'l! kissed his bands, bis cheek, and bis
Let me never be burdensome to them. I thank lips; and afterwards each other also, for the
theej that thou art giving me a virtuous wife. fil'llt time, and then sat down again. The old
0 b ess me I" His tears and his emotions im- gentleman now began as follows: "But bast
peded his words, and bis heart !'poke untterable thou not observed, Doris, that thy future bus-
tbings, which only those can know who have band has lame feet 1" "Yes, papa," said she,
themselves been iu similar circumstances. " I have seen it; but then he speaks to me so
No one ever slept more sweetly than the kindly and piously that I seldom pay attention
schoolmaster. His inward felicity awoke him to bis feet."
in the morning earlier than usual. He arose, "Well, Doris, but roung women generally
went into the wood, and renewed all the holy look at a man's figure.'
resolutions be bad ever formed during bis life. "I too, papa," was her answer; "but Wil-
At seven o'clock be went home again, and ate helm pleases me just as be is. If be bad straight
his breakfast of milk pottage and bread and but- feet, be would not be Wilhelm Stilling, and how
ter. After the father had first shorn his beard ·could I Jove him then 1"
and then the son, while the mother con~uhed The clergyman smiled contentedly, and con-
with the daughters which of them sbouldremaio tinned: "Thou must this evening provide us
at home and which should ~o to church, they with somethin~ to eat; for thy bridegroom must
dressed themselves. All this was finished in ~up.with thee.' "I have nothing,'' said the in-
half an hour; the daughters then went before. nocent girl," but a liule millr, cheese, and bread;
Wilhelm followed them, and last ofall the father, and who lrnows whether Wilhelm will be satis-
witb his thick thorn sticlr. When old Stilling fied with it1" "Yes," rejoined Wilhelm, "eat-
went out with bis children, they were always ing a piece of dry bread with you, is pleasanter
obliged to go before him, that he might Observe than thick milk with white bread and pancakes."
their gait and manners, and instruct them in Mr. Moritz meanwhile put on his worn-out
propriety of bebaviour. brown coat, with black buttons and button-boles,
After sermon, 'Vilhelm went again to Licht- took his old japanned cane, and went out, sar.-
hausen, where be was schoolmaster, aod where ing, " I will go to the jostice's deputr,; be will
his elder married brother, Johann Stilling, also lend me bis goo, and I will then see 1f I cannot
dwelt. Mr. Moritz, the old clergyman, with his shoot something." This he did frequently; for
two daughte~, had hired a couple of rooms io a he had been a friend of the chase in his youth.
neighbouring house, in which he resided. After Oar two lovers were now alone, and this was
Wilhelm had read a sermon to bis peasantry, in what they wished. When he was gone, they
the chapel, in the afternoon, aod sung a hymn took hold of each other's bands, sat down to.
with them accordinf. to ancient usage, he hast- gether, and told each other what each bad felt,
ened to Mr. Moritz s, as fast as his Jame feet spoken, and done, since they became fond of
would permit. The old man had just sat down each other. As soon as they had done, they .
to his harpsichord, and was playing a hymn began again at the commencement, and gave
tune. His morning-gown was very clean, and the tale a variety oftums, so that it was always
beautifully washed; there was not a rent to be new-tedious to every·one else, but not so to
seen in it, but certainly at least a hunclred patch- them.
es. Near him, on a chest, sat Dorothy, a girl Frederica, Moritz's other daughter, ioterrupt-
of two-and-twenty years of age, likewise very l'd their enjoyment. She burst into the room,
cleanly, though poorly clad, who very sweetly singing an old ballad. On seeing them she start.
sang the hymn to her father's tune. She heck- ed. " Do I disturb you 1" asked she. " Thou
oned to Wilhelm with a cheerful smile; he sat never disturbest me,'' said Doris, "for I never
down by her, and sang with her, out of her book. attend to what thou sayest or doest." "Yes,
As soon as the hymn was finished, the clergy- thou an piotu," rejoined the other; "but ~arest
man saluted Wilhelm, and said, "Scboolmaster1 thou sit so near the schoolmaster 1 It is true,
I am never better pleased than when I play ana be is also piotu.'' "And besides that, thy future
sing. When I was a preacher, I often let the brother-in-law," interrupted Doris; " we have
people sing a long time; because in the union of been this day betrothed to each other." "There
so many voices the bean soars far away above will be therefore a wedding for me,'' said Fred-
every thing earthly. But 1 must now speak to erica, and skipped out of the door again.
you of something else. My daughter Doris While they were sitting together thus pleas-
stammered out to me yesterday evening, that antly, Frederica bul'llt violently into the room
she loves you; but I am poor; what do your again. "Oh I" cried she, stammering; "they
parents say 1" "They are heartily satisfied with are bringing my father bleeding into the village.
it," answered Wilhelm. The tears burst from Jost, the gamekeeper, is striking him incessant-
the bright eyes of Dorothy, and the venerable ly, and three of the squire's men are dragging
old man, 1<tanding up, took his daughter's right him along. Ab, they will beat him to death I"
hand, gave it to Wilhelm, and said, "I have Doris uttered a loud cry, and flew out of the
Digitized by GoogIe
6 HEIN RI CH STILLING.
• I
door. Wilhelm hastened after her, but the good
man could not run so fast as she. His brother
Johann dwelt close to Mr. Moritz; him he call-
ed to his assistance. These two then went to-
wards the noise. They found Moritz in the inn,
sitting on a chair, his grey hair clotted with
blood ; the servant-men and the gamekeeper
stood round him, swore, mocked, shook their
fists in his face, and a snipe that had been shot
lay before Moritz on the table. The impartial
landlord quietly served them with liquor. Fred-
erica begged suppliantly for mercy, and Doris
for a little spirit to wash her father's head; but
she had no money to pay for it, and the loss
would have been too great for the landlord to
have given her half a glass. But as women are
naturally merciful, the landlady brought up
some in a piece of broken pot which had stood
. under the !BJ> of the gin cask, and with it Doris
washed her father's head. Moritz had already
repeatedly said that the squire had given him
permission to shoot as much as he pleased; but
lie was, unfortunately, at that time .from home;
the old gentleman therefore was silent, and of-
fered no further excuse. Things were in this
situation when the brothers Stilling entered the
inn. The first revenge they took was on a glass
of gin, with which the landlord was coming out
of the cellar, and carr,yin~ very carefully, lest
any of it should be spillea ; although this pre-
caution was not very necessary, for the glass·
was above a quarter empty. Johann Stilling
struck the landlord over the hand, so that the
glass tlew against the wall, and broke into a
thousand pieces. But Wilhelm, who was al-
ready in the room, seized his father-in-law by
the hand and led him out of it in silence, with
as much gravity as if he had been the squire
himself, without saying any thing to any one.
The gamekeeper and the servants threatened
and held him, first in one place and then an-
other; but Wilhelm, who was as much strong-
er in his arms as he was weaker in his feet, saw
and heard nothing, continued silent, and labour-
ed but to get Moritz loose ; wherever he found
a clenched hand he broke it open, and thus he
brought him out of the door. Johann Stilling,
meanwhile, spoke with the gamekeeper and the
servant men, and his words were daggers to
them; for every one knew how high he stood in
the squire's esteem, and how often he went to
sup with him.
The affair at length terminated thus : at the
return of the squire, the gamekeeper was dis-
missed, and Moritz received twenty dollars for
the pajn he had suffered. ·
Wliat helped them the more quickly through,
was that the whole place before the house was
filled with peasants, who stood there smoking
tobacco, and making themselves merry with the
sight; and it only depended upon one of them
putting the question whether their rights had
not been encroached upon by this affair, and a
hundred fists would have been ready, all on a
sudden, to prove their Christian affection for
Moritz, on the nape of Jost and his companions.
They also called the landlord a cowardly pol-
troon, who was obliged to submit to have his
ears boxed by his wife. I must mention, in con-
clusion, that old Stilling and his sons, by their
grave and retired deportment, had become so
much esteemed, that no one had the heart even
to joke in their presence ; to which must be add-
ed, what I have already touched upon above,
that Johann Stilling was a great favorite with
11e sauire. But now to my tale again. ,
Old Moritz grew better in a few days, and this
vexatious circumstance was the sooner forgot-
ten because they were occupied with much
pleasanter things; namely, preparations for the
wedding, which old Stilling and his Margaret
insisted, once for all, upon keeping in their own
house. They fattened a couple of hens for broth,
and a fat sucking-calf was destined to be roasted
in large earthen dishes ; baked plums in abun-
dance, and rice for the soup, together with rai-
sins and currants, were provided, even to super-
tluity. Old Stilling has been heard to say that
this wedding cost him, in victuals alone, about
ten rix-dollars. Be that as it may, all was con-
sumed. Wilhelm bad suspended his school for
the time : for at such seasons people are not dis-
posed for their ordinary employments. He also
needed the time to make new clothes for his fu-
ture bride and his sisters against the wedding-,
as well as for various otherpurposes. Stilling's
daughters required it also. They frequently tri-
ed on their new jackets and clothes of fine black
cloth, and the time seemed years to them, till
they could have them on for a whole day..
At length the long-wished-for Thursday dawn-
ed. That morning, all were awake in Stilling's
house before the sun, except the old man, who,
having returned late from the woods the evening
before, slept quietly till it was time to aceom-
pany the wedding-people to the church. They
then went in due order to Florenburgh, where
the bride, with her train, had already arrived.
The marriage ceremony was performed without
anv gainsaying; after-
which they all proceeded
to Tiefenbacb, to the marriage feast. Two Jong
boards had been laid close together on blocks of
wood, in the room, instead of a table. Marga-
ret had spread over them her finest table-cloths,
and the dinner was then served up. The spoons
were of maple, beautifully smooth, and emboss-
ed with roses, tlowers, and foliage. The knives
had fine yellow wooden handles; the plates,
turned out of white beech-wood, were also beau-
tifully round and smooth. The beer foamed in
white stone jugs, enamelled with blue tlowers.
However, Margaret left every one at liberty to
drink her pleasant perry, instead of beer, if they
preferred it. ·
After they had all eaten and drunk snfllcient-
ly, rational conversation commenced. But Wil-
helm and his bride preferred being and talking
alone ; they therefore went deep into the woods ;
their affection seemed to increase the fnrther
they withdrew from mankind. Ah ! if there
had been no'necessities oflife-no cold, no frost,
nor wet, what would have been wanting in the
earthly felicity of this newly-married couple 'l
The two old fathers, meanwhile, who had sat
down alone, with a mug of beer before them,
fell into serious conversation. Stilling spoke as
follows:
"My dear sir, it has always seemed to me
that you would have done better if you had not
applied yourself to alchymy."
Mtn"itz.-" Why, my friend 'l"
Stilling.-" If you had prosecuted the watch-
makingbusiness without interruption, you would
have been able richly to earn your bread; but
now your labour has availed you nothing, and
what you had has been also expended upon it."
.Moritz.-" Yon are both in the right and in
the wrong. If I had known that from thirty to
forty years would have elapsed before I found
the philosopher's stone, I should certainly have
considered before beginning it. But now, as I
0i9;11zed by Google
S 'l' I LL I N G'S C H I LD H 0 0 D. 7
~ave lea111ed something by long experience, and
have penetrated deep into the kpowledge ef na-
ture, it would pain me lo have plagued myself
ao long in vain."
Stilling.-" You have certainly plagued your-
self in vain hitherto, for you have all the time
been scarcely able to subsist; and though you
were to become as rich as you wish, :iiet you
~ould not chan!l'e so many years of misery mto
happiness; besides which, I do not believe you
will ever find it. To say the truth, I do not be-
lieve that there is• such a thing as the philoso-
.Pber's stone."
..MorUz.-" But I can prove to you that there
is. A certain Doctor Helvetius, at the Hague,
has written a little book, called ' The Gol.den
·Calf,' in which it is clearly demonstrated; so
that no one, even the most incredulous, on read-
ing it, can doubt of it any longer. But whether
.I shall obtain it or not is another question. But
why not I as well as another, since it is a free
·gifi ofGod 1"
.stilling.-"If God had intended to give you
the philosopher's ~tone, you would have had it
1011g ago I Why should be keep it from you so
long1 Besides,itisnotnecessarythatyou should
liave it; bow many people live without the phi-
.Josopher's stone !"
Moritz.-" That is true; but we ought to make
-ourselves as happy as we can."
Stilling.-" Thirty years ofmisery is certain-
ly no happiness: but do not take it amiss," sha-
.king him by the hand. "As long asI have lived
I have never wanted; I have been healthy, and
.am now grown old; I have brought up my chil-
dren, had thelll taught, and clothed them decent·
"IJ. I am quite content, and therefore happy!
Itwouldbe ofno use togive me the philosopher's
stone. But hear me, my friend : you sing very
-well, and write beautifully ; be schoolmaster
liere in this village. Frederica can be boarded
-elsewhere; I have a clothes room to spare, in
-which I could place a bed; you could tlien live
-with me, and so be always with your children."
.Moritz.-"Your otrer, my good friend, is very
'kind; and I will accept it, after I have made one
;trial more."
/Stilli.ftg.-" Make no more attempts, my
friend; they will certainly be fruitless. But let
qie talk of something else. I am very fond of
as&ronomy;-do you know Sirius in the Great
Dog'!" -
Mllfitz.-" I am no great astronomer, yet still
l know it."
SliJJi11g.-" The direction, in the evening, is
.generallytowards the south. It is ofa greenish-
lfed colour. How far may it be from the earth1
They say it ~ even much higher than the sun."
Mlritz.-" 0 certainly,a thousand times high-
-er."
StiJling.-"Is it possible! I am so fond ofthe
stars. I always think I am near them, when I
look at them. But do you know' alio the Wain
and the Plough1"
Moritz.-"Yes; they have been pointed out
1ome."
Stilling.-" Oh, how wonderful God is!"
Margaret Stilling, hearing this conversation,
-cameand satdown by herhusband. "0 Eberl!"
-said she, " I can easily see in a ftower that God
many wonders in nature; if we duly consider
them, we may certainly learn the wisdom ofGod.
Every one, however, has something to which he
is particularly inclined."
Thus the marriage-guests spentthe day. Wil-
helm and his bride returned home, and commen-
ced their marriage state, ofwhich I will say more
in the following chapter.
But Stilling's daughter sat in the twili&'ht, un-
der the cherry-tree, and sang the followmg pa-
thetic ballad:-
" There rode a knight once over tho plain,
No friend had he1 no wealth, nor domain ;
Hie 1i1ter wa1 fair and beautiful:-
' 0 aister dear ! I bid thee adieu !
We never more each other shall view;
I'm travelling away to a distant larul1
So reach me once more thy anow·whtte han41
Adieu! Adieu! Adieu !'
"' M:y deareat brother, I once did oeo-
AIJ 1t hopp'd about in tho juniper tree-
.A. beauufnl bird of ~umago gay :
I threw my rinir at 1t in a freak,
It caught it up m its little bealt,
And ftew into the forest far away•
Adieu ! Adieu! Adieu !'
0 ' The cutle thou mu1t 9eCurely close,
And live in aolitude and roJ>OIHI
Let no one enter thy chamber fair.
The knight that ride• the jet-black atood
Bio tender ouit will.,.armly plead,
But 0 ! of him I pray thee beware;
To many a maid he bu been a man•
Adieu ! Adieu ! Adieu !'
"The maiden wept moat piteoualy ;
The brother aaluted her tenderly,
And looked behind him once more•
She then went up to her chamber to reot,
But peaoe and joy had ftod from her bro~
For ahe1 of all the 1uitor-herd,
The kll1aht of the black •teed moot preC..rr'4.
Adieu1 Adieu! Adieu !
"The knight that rode the steed 10 black
OfJanda and money had no lack ;
He hutOJ1.'d to vioit the tender maid.
Ho frequently came at the dead ofilight,
And went when dawn'd the mominl{ lig,bt.
He led her at length to hie cutlo fair,
T~1:u?o1df.,~1,t~f were then,
" IR th• glOOll! of night aho oceompuio.t him U..Z.,
And aaw how many a d&m11ol fair ·
He had caueed to fall oo irriovoualy.
She took a cup of cootlf.wine,
And pour'd a poiCIOU 'fi e therein,
And ilrank to the health ol the ewarth:r ltnigh&;-
Their eye• both cloaed in death that wght.
Adieu ! Adieu ! Adieu !
"They buried the knight in tho cutlo·rill&';
Tho maiden near to a little spri11K•
Thon in the cold ground ahe rdoepo.
At the midnight hour, oho wanden abon&.
In the moolllhine, and then aho 1ighl aloud ;
She walk1 in a robe u wbite u 1now,
And mouroa to the fon1t of all her woe•
Adieu ! Adieu ! Adieu !
" Tho noble brother haaten'd near
The edge of tho lj>ring, oo pure and cleat,
And aaw that it was hi• oi1ter fair.
'What doest thou here, my sister dear,
That thuo thou doot oigit and IO doleful appear1'
'I murtlor'd myself and the awarthy luiight,
By poiaon in the dead ofthe night;
Adieu ! Adieu ! Adieu !'
"Aa vapour in the bound.Jess space,
So fled the maid, without leaving a trace-
She nevflr more wa.a seen.
The brother retireJ to u. convent with speed,
That there a holy life he might lead;
And 'lone in hi1 cell, pour'd forth his prayer
For th"health of the soul of his aister dear.
Adieu ! Adieu ! Adie11 !"
•
CHAPTER II.
EBERHARD STILLING and Margaret his wife
cc there are so now experienced a novel epoch in their domes-
is wonderful. Lei us learn to understand them;
we live among grass and flowers; let us admire
·them here; when we are in heaven, we will con-
'11ider the stars."
"That is right," said Moritz;
Digitized by Google
8 HEINRICH STILLING.
tic arrangements, for a newly-married couple to Johann's lips. All of them then assisted U.
existed in their family. The question therefore finding the quadrature of the circle; even old
was-" Where shall these two sit, w.hen we Stilling himself devoted much attention to it. 1
dine 1" But in order to avoid obscurity in the should do violence to the inventive, or rather the
narrative, I must mention the rank and order natural good sense of this man, if I were to say
which father Stilling observed at his table. At that he contributed nothing towards it. He oc-
tbe upper end of the room, there was a bench cupied himself with it evi!n while burning his
made of an oaken board, nailed along the wall, charcoal;-he drew a string round his perry-
which extended behind the stove; before this cask, cut it with his bread-knife, then sawed a
bench and opposite the stove, stood the table, piece of board exactly four-square, and scraped
fastened to the wall as a llap, that it might be it until the string just fitted it-;-now the four-cor-
fixed up against it: it was made out of an oaken nered board must necessarily be exactly the
plank, at which father Stilling himself had faith- same size as the circumference of the perry-cask.
fully and manfully laboured. At the front of Eberhard skipped about upon one foot, laughed
this table sat Eberhard Stilllng, up by the wall1 at the great wise-heads who made so much work
to which it was fastened by the bC>ard. He haa of such a simple thing, and related the discovery-
perhaps chosen this advanta~eous place iD order to bis son Johann the qext opportunity. We
that he might support his lelt elbow, and ·at the must confess the truth ;-father !Stilling had cer-
same time eat, without difficulty, with his right. tainly nothing l'atirical in his character, yet still
However, of this there is no certainty, since he a little satire was intermingled here. But the
never expressed himself clearly upon it in his land-measurer soon put an end to his joy by say-
whole life. At his right band, in front of the iog, "The question, father, is not whether &
table, sat his four daughters, that they might the joiner can make a four-cornered box, that con-
more easily pass to and fro. Margaret had her tains just as much oats as a round cylindrical
place between the table and the stove, partly be- cask; but it must be demonstrated what propor-
cause she was easily chilled, and partly that she tion the diameter of the circlP. bears to its pe..
might duly overlook the table, to see ifrhere was riphery, and then, how large each t<ide of the
any thing wanting. Johann and Wilhelm used square must be, in order that the latter be as.
to sit on the 'opposite side of the table; but be- large as the circle·. But in both cases, not a
cause the one was married, and the other kept thousandth part of a hair must be wanting in the-
school, these plac~s were vacant; they were, calculation. It must be proved by algebra thal
therefore, after due consideration, destined for it is correct in the rheory."
the young married couple. Old Stillin~ would have felt ashamed, if th•
Johann Stilling occasionally came to visit his learning of his son, and bis immoderate joy at
parents; and the whole house rejoiced when he it, had notexpelled from him all feeling ofshame~
came, for he was a singular man. Every peas- He therefore said nothing further, except, " It is·
ant in the village bad respect for him. Even not easy to dispute with the learned;" laughed,
when he was very young, lie bad transformed a shook his head, and continued lo cut chips from
wooden plate into an astrolabe, and a handsome a log of beech-wood, for the purpose of lighting
butter-box of fine beech-wood into a compass, fire and candle, or pe.rhaps also a pipe vf tobac-
anc\ had likewise made geometrical obeervations co; for this was llis occupation in his leisure
from a neighbouring hill; for at that time the hours.
reigning prince caused a survey to be made, and Stilling'sdaughters were strong and laborious;
Johann had looked on when the surveyor was at they cultivated the earth, which yielded them
work. But he was now really become an able abundant sustenance both in the garden and in
land-measurer, and was employed by the noble the field. But Doris had tender hands and limbs;.
and ignoble in thedivision oftheir estates. Great she was soon weary, and then she sighed and ,
artists generally post<ess the virtue which always wept. The girls were not altogether unmerci-
prompts their inventive spirit to seek something ful; but they could not understand why a femal~
new, hence, that which they have already dis- who was quite as tall as one of themselves was
covered, and are acquainted with, is much too not equally able to Jabour. Their sister-in-law
tedious to refine upon still further. Johann Still- was however often obliged to rest; but they nev-
ing was therefore poori for what he was com- er told their parents that she scarcely earned her
petent to he neglected, m order to learn that of bread. Wilhelm soon remarked it ; he therefore
which he was still incapable. His good but -obtained the consent of the whole family, that
simple wife often wished that he would apply his his wife should assist him in sewing and clothes-
knowledge of the arts to the improvement of making. This arrangement was entered upon,.
fields and meadows, in order that they might and all were well satisfied with it.
have more bread. But we will forgive the good Moritz, the old clergyman, now also visited
woman for hersimplic:ity; she did not understand hii> daughter for the first time. Doris wept for
it better-Johann was wise enough in this re- joy on seeing him, and wished to be housekeep-
spect at least; he was either silent1 or smiled. er herself, in order that she might treat him as
Perpetual motion and the quaarature of the she desired. He sat the whole afternoon with·
circle occupied him at that time; whenever he his children, and spoke with them on spiritual
had penerrated deeper into a mystery ofthis kind, subjects. He seemed to be quite changed, timid
he hastened to Tiefenbach to relate his discov- and sad. Towards evening, he said, "Children;
ery to his parents and sisters. As he ascended take me for once to the Geisenberg castle."
the village, if any of Stilling's household per- Wilhelm laid aside his heavy iron thimble, and
ceived him, they immediately ran home, and spat in his hands; but Doris put her thimbll'l
called all together, in order to receive him at the upon her little finger, and then the.v ascended the
door. Every one then laboured with double dil- wood. "Children," said Moritz, "I feel so com-
igence, in order to have nothing more to do af!er fortable under the shade of these beech-trees.
supper: they then placed themselves around the The higher we ascend, the more I am at ease.
table, supporting their elbows upon it, and their For some time pasl, I have seemed like one that·
cheeks_
upon their hands-all eyes were directed is not at home. This autumn will certainly be·
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S CHILDHOOD.
·•
the last of my life." Wilhelm and Doris had
tears in their eyes. They sat down upon a ru-
ined wall of the castle on the summit of the hill,
from whence they could see as far as the Rhine,
and over the whole adjacent country. The sun,
in the distance, no fonger stood high above the
blue mountains. Moritz looked with a fixed
eye upon the scene, and was silent a long time,
nordid bis companionssay a word. "Children,"
said he, at length, "I leave you nothing when I
die: you can well spare me. No one will la-
ment me. I have spent a tedious and useless
life, and have made no one happy." "My dear
father,'' answered Wilhelm, "you have made
me happy. I and Doris will lament you tender-
ly." " Children,'' rejoined Moritz, "our incli-
nations easily lead us to destruction. Of how
much use might I have been in the world, if I
had not been an alchymist ! I should have made
you and myself happy. (He wept aloud.) Yet
I always feel that I have acknowledged my
faults, and I will still amend myself. God is a
father, even to erring children. Listen to one
more admonition from me, and follow it. What-
soever r.ou do, consider well beforehand, wheth-
er it wdl he -serviceable to others also. If you
find that it is only advantageous to yourselves,
re6ect that it is a work witho.ut reward. God
only rewards us when we serve our neighbour.
I have wandered through the world poor and un-
observed, and when I am dead I shall soon be
forgotten; but I shall find mercy before the throne
of Christ, and obtain salvation." They now
went home again, and Moritz continued sad.
He went about comforting the poor, and praying
with rhem. He also worked, and made watcb-
e~, by which he earned his bread, and had be-
sides something over. Yet this did not last
long ; for the next winter he was lost ;-after
three days, they found him frozen to death under
the snow. · 1
After this melancholy event, a novelty of an
important kind was discovered in Stilling's
house. Doris was pregnant; and everr one re-
joiced in the prospect of a child, of which there
had been none in the house for many years. It
is indescribable what labour and diligence were
employed in preparing for the accouchement of
Doris. Even old Stilling himself rejoiced at
the idea of a grandson, in the hope of once more
singing his old cradle songs before his end, and
of shewing his knowledge in the art ofeducation.
The day ofher confinement approached; and
on the 12th of September, 1740, at eight o'clock
in the evening, Heinrich Stilling was born.
The boy was lively, healthy, and well; and his
mother was al•o soon bette.r again, notwithstand-
ing the predictions of the Tiefenhach sibyls.
The child was baptized at Florenburgh chu~ch.
But father Stilling, in order to make the day
more solemn, prepared a feast, at which he
wished to see present the Rev. Mr. Stollbein.
He therefore sent his son Johann to the parson-
age, to invite the gentleman to accompany him
back to Tietenbach, to panake of the dinner.
Johann went; he took off' his hat on entering
the court-yard, in order to make no mistake;
but alas! how often is all human precaution un-
availing I A great dog sprang fonh; Johann
Stilling seized a stone, threw It, and hit the dol!'
in the l'ide, so that he began to howl dreadfullv.
The clergyman saw what passed, through tlie
window; he rushed out full of wrath, shook his
fist in poor Johann's face, and screamed our,
" Thon ragamuffin I 'II teach thee how to be-
B
have to my dog I" Stilling answered, " I knew
not that it was your reverence's dog. My broth-
er and my parents have sent to invite your rev-
erence to go with me to Tiefenbach, to partake
of the chri$tening-dinner." The clergyman wu
silent, and went away; but growlec1 back fro1D
the house-door, "Wail; I will go with thee."
He waited 'almost an hour in the yard, caress-
ing the dog, and the poor beast was really more
placable than the learned divine, who now came
out of the house. The man walked along, hold-
ing firm11 by his cane. Johann walked timidly
behind him, with his hat under.his arm; putting-
it on was a dangerous affair, since in his youth
he had received many a box on the ear from the
clergyman, for not taking it off soon enoogh-
that is, as soon as he perceived him at a dis-
tance. But still it was terrible to walk for an
hour together bare-headed, in the open air, in
September: he therefore thought of some con-
trivance by which he might with propriety cover
himself. All of a sudJen Mr. Stollbein fell to
the ground, and made a great splash. Johann.
was alarmed. "Ob!" cried he, "has your rev-
erence received any harm 1" "What's that to
you, you lubber 1" was the man's heroic reply,
while gathering himself up. Johann's fire now
took ftame in some. measure, so that it burst
forth: "I am heartily glad, then, that you have
fallen,'' and smiled beside. "What I what!"
cried the parson. But Johann put. on his bat,
let the lion roar without being afraid, and pro-
ceeded on his way, as did his reverence also;
and thus at length they arrived at Tiefenbach.
Old Stilling stood before his door, barehead-
ed; his beautiful grey hair played in the breeze;
he smiled at the rlergyman, and said, whihs
giving him his hand, " I am glad to have the
pleasure of seeing your reverence, in my old
age, at my table; but I should not have been so
bold if my joy had not been so great·in having
a grandson." The clergyman wished him hap-
piness, but with a well.meant threat attached,
that he must be more diligent in bringing up
his children, lest the cur.;e of Eli should fall
upon him. The old man stood in the conscious-
ness of his ability, and smiled; however he said
nothing, but conducted his reverence into the
room. " I will hope,'' said the reverend gen•
tleman, "that I am not to eat here among a
swarm of peasants!" "No one dines here,'' re-
plied father Stilling, "except myself, my wife,
and children; do you call them a swarm of
peasants 1" " Ay- wbat else 1" replied the
other. " I must remind you, then, sir, that yon
are any thing bot a servant of Christ, and that
you are a pharisee. He sat with publicans and
sinners, and ate with them. He was, on all oc-
casions, meek, and lowly, and humble. Your
reverence ! my grey baira stand on end ; sit
down or withdraw. Something beats here, of
else I might do violence to your cloth, for which
I have otherwise respect. Here, sir, here be·
fore m.v house, rode the prince; I was standing
at my door; he knew me, and said,' Good morn-
ing, Stillin~!' I answered, 'Good morning, your
Highness!' He dismonnted from his horse, for
he was wearied with hunting.. ' Fetch me a
chair,' said he; 'I will re11t here a little.' 'I
have an airy room,' replied I; 'will it please
vour Highnes~ to walk into the room, and sie
ihere at your ease 1' 'Yes,' said he. The ran·
ger of the fore~ts entered with him. There !.G
sat, where I have placed you my best chair.
My Margaret provided him with new milk anl
Digitized by GoogIe
10 HEINRICH STILL! NG.
bread-and-batter. He obliged us both to eat
with him, and assured us that be bad never
relished a meal so much. Where cleanliness
reigns there any one may eat. Now decide,
;reverend sir! we are all hungry." The clergy-
man sat down, and Stilling called his family;
but none of them would come in, not even Mar-
garet herself. She filled an earthen bowl with
clricken-broth for the preacher, gave him a large
plate of meat and a JUg of beer. Stilling him-
self set it before him; the reverend gentleman
ate and drank in haste, said nothing, but return-
ed again to Flo,enburgh. They then all sat
down to table. Margaret said grace, and they
ate with great appetite. Even the lying-in wom-
an sat in Margaret's pla~1 with her boy at her
breast; for Margaret wouJ<t wait upon her chil-
<iren herself. She had put on a very fine white
-chemise, which she had worn in her bridal-days,
the sleeves of which she bad rolled up above
.the elbows. She had a stomacher and dress of
~e black cloth; and her grey locks, well pow-
.de~d with honour and age, projected from be-
neath hercap. It ia really incomprehensible that
during the whole meal not a word wassaid ofthe
elergyman; but I am of opinion the reason was,
because father Stilling did not begin about it.
Whilst they were sittin&_ thus pleasantly at
dinner, a poor woman 'lmoc~ed at the door. She
had an infant hanging at her back, wrapped in
a cloth, and begged for a piece of bread. Maria
hastened to give it her. The woman came in
Uttered and dirty clothes, which seemed, how-
ever, from the cut of them, to have formerlx be-
lQDged to some gentlewoman. Father Sulling
commanded that she should sit at the room-door,
and that something of all should be given her.
"Thon mayest offer the child some rice-eap,"
said he further to Maria. She ate, and rebslied
it exceedingly ; and after she and her child were
.satisfied, s1ie thanked them with tears in lier
.eyes, and was about to depart. "No," said old
.Stilling ; "sit and tell us from whence yon arel
and why you are thus obliged to travel. I wil
.give you a liule beer to drink." She sat down,
.and began as follows:
"Ah, dear me!" said she, "how lamentable it
u that I must thus wander about I (Stilling's
-Oaughter Maria had taken her seat not far frOm
lier; she listened with the greatest attention, and
her eyes were already moistened with tean.)
.Alas I I am a poor woman ! Ten years ago
:you folks would have thought it an honour if l
had dined with you." ·
. Wi/Mlm Stillif18.-" Surprising l"
Johann Stillifl/!.-" Unless you had been of a
:Stollbein disposition."
F'alMr Stilliflg.-" Be still, children !-let the
-woman speak."
Wllll&Qll.-" My father is the clergyman of
--."
Maria.-" What is that1 Your father a cler.
gyman I" (drallli"E nearer Mr.)
Woman.-" 0 yes, certainly !-he is a clergy-
man; a very ricli and learned man."
F'alMr Stillif18.-" Of what place is he the
-clergyman1'1
Woman.-" Of Goldingen, in the province of
Barching. Yes, indeed; alas, yes."
JoAann StiJli•g.-" I must search for that
place upon the map; it cannot be tar from the
Muhler lake, at the upper end, towards the Sep-
1entrion."
Woman.-" Ah, young gentlemanI I know of
110 place near there caJled &Nndriaw.."
·,
Maria.-" OurJohann did not say~
What didst thou say 1"
Fatlu!r Stilli"E.-"Go on. Hush, chi)dren !"
Woman.-" 1 was then a bonny lasliie, and
had many a fine opportunity to marry (Maria
looked at her from head to foot), but none of
them suited my father. The one was not rich
enough-the other was net respectable enou~h­
the third did not go to church often enough. '
Maria.-" I say, Johann, what are the people
called who do not go to church 1"
JoAann Stilling.-" Hush, girl !-separatists."
Woman.-" Well! what happened 1 I clearly
saw that I should have none, if I did not help
myself. There was a young journeyman bar-
ber-"
Maria.-" What's that-a journeyman bar-
ber1"
WUAelm. StiJJ,ing.-" Sister, ask every thing
afterwards; only let the woman spealt now.
They are lads that shave oft'people's )leal'ds."
Woman.-" I beg you wilf, as one may say.
My husband could perform cure!) .in spite of the
best doctor. 0 yes! he did many, tnany cures I
In short, I ran olfwith him. We fixed our res-
idence at Spelterburgh, which lies on the river
Spa."
Jokann Stilllng.-"Yes, it lies there, a few
miles up, where the Milder flows into it."
Woman.-" Yes, that's the place. Unfortu-
nate woman that I am ! I there ascertained that
iny husband associated with certain people."
Maria.-" Were you married at the time 1"
Woman.-" No, truly I who would marry us1
0 certainly not I (Maria drew her chair a little
further from the woman.) I would absolutely
not permit my husband to associate with rogues;
for although my father was only a cobbler-"
On sayi.Dg this, the woman packed up her
child upon her back, and ran olf as fast as sho
was able.
Father St.i.lllng, with his wife and children,
could not comprehend why the woman broke
oll'in the midst of her tale, and ran away. And
really it required some knowledge of logic to
perceive the reason of it. Every one gave his
sentiments upon the subject, but all the reasons
assigned were dubious. The most rational opin-
ion, and at the same time the most probable,
was, that the woman had become ratlier indis-
posed, from having eaten too much of thingw
she was unaccustomed to; and with this they
satisfied themselves. But father Stilling, ac-
cording to his custom, drew the following in-
struction from the tale-that it was best to im-
press religion and the love of virtue upon his
childrenj and then, at a proper age, leave them
free to clloose with respect to marriage, if they
only made such a choice as not to bring a real
disgrace upon the family by it. Parents cer-
tainly must admonish their children ; but com-
pulsion no longer avails, when the individual
has attained to the age of maturity ; he then
thinks he understands every thing as well as his
parents.
During this wi:oe speech, to which all present
were extremely attentive, Wilhelm sat in deep
meditation. He supported his cheek with one
hand, and looked fixedly straight before him.
" Hum!" said he ; " every thing that the woman
has related seems to me suspicious. She faid,
at the beginning, that her father was a clergy-
man at--"
Maria.-'' At Goldingen, in the provh1.ce of
Barching."
Digitized by GoogIe
S 'rIL LI NG'S CHILDHOOD. 11
W'llltelm.-" Yes, it wa!I there. And yet she
Nid at the end, that her father was a cobbler."
All present struck their hands together with as-
tonishment. It was now evident why the wom-
an had run away ; and it was prudently resolved
to have cramps and boltll to every door and
opening in the house, No one will take this
amiss of the Stilling family, who has in a
measure learned to see the connection of the
thing.
Doris said nothing during the whole time ;
Cor what reason I cannot exactly say. She
suckled her boy Heinrich every moment ; for
this was now all to her, and the boy was also
fat and strong. The most experienced gossips,
immediately after the birth of the child, could
discover in its features a perfect resemblance to
its fatheri and in particular they thought they
had fonna traces, upon the upper eyelid of the
left eye, of a future wart, which his father had
there. However, a secret partiality must have
induced all the neighbours to give this false tes-
timony, for the boy possessed the mother's fea-
tures, and her tender, feeling heart, entirely.
Doris fell, by degrees, into a gentle melan-
choly. She had nothing in the world that any
longer gave her pleasure ; but still, nothing
caused her vexation. She continually enjoyed
a delightful sadness, and her tender heart seem-
ed to dissolve itself wholly into tears, without
grief or sorrow. If the snn arose beautifully,
she wept, contemplated it pensively, and said,
occasionally, " How beautiful must He be that
made it !" If he set, she wept again : " There
goes our soothing friend from us again," said
she often, and longed to be far away in the
woods, during the twilight. "But nothing affect-
ed her. so much as the moon; she then felt
5omething unutterable, and often walked about
whole evenings at the foot of the Geisenberg.
Wilhelm almost always accompanied her, and
conversed very kindly with her. They had both
of them something similar in their dispositions.
They could well have spared the whole world-
full of people, but not the one the other; yet still
they sympathised with all the misery and dis-
tress of their fellow-creatures.
Heinrich Stillin~ was almost a year and a
half old, when Donst one Sunday afternoon, re-
quested her husbana to walk with her to the
Geisenberg castle. Wilhelm had never yet re-
fused her any thing. He went with her. As
soon as they entered the wood, they put their
arms round each other, and went, step by step,
under the shade of the trees, up the hill, accom-
panied by the twittering of the birds. Doris be-
gan:
"What dost thou think, Wilhelm 1-hall we
know each other in heaven1"
W'tl.telm.-" 0 yes, dear Doris I Christ says
of I.he rich man, that he knew Lazarns in Abra·
ham's bosom; and beside this, the rich man was
in hell ; therefore, I certainly believe we shall
know each other again in eternity."
Doris.-" 0 Wilhelm I how I rejoice when I
think that we shall be together to all eternity,
entirely wilhout sorrow, and in unmingled heav-
enly felicity and delight I I always think I could
not be happy in heaven without thee. Yes, dear
Wilhelm I we shall most certainly know each
other there J. Now this is what I wish so heart-
ily I It is God who made my soul and my heart
to wish in this manner; and He would not have
implanted such hopes if they were improper, or
merely fanciful. Yes, I 11hall know thee, and
will seek thee out amongst all the people there,
and then I shall be happy."
Wi/Atlm.-"We will let ourselves be buried
together, and then we shall not have long to
seek."
Voris.-" 0 that we might both die the same
moment! But what would become of our dear
boy1"
Wllltelm.-" He would remain here, and be
well brought up, and at length come to us."
DurU.-" Still, I should be very anxious about
him, whether he would be pious or not.''
WilAel.m.-" Hear me, Doris I-thou hast been
a long time particularly melancholy. To say
the truth, thou makest me sad likewise. Why
dost thou love to be so much alone with me 1
My sisters believe thou art not fond of them."
· Doris.-"Yet I really love them from mJ
heart.''
WUAelm.-" Thou often weepest, as if thou
wert dejected, and this gives me pain. I shall
be melancholy also. Hast thou any thing on
thy heart, love, that torments thee 1 Tell it to
me. I will set thee at rest, whatever it may cost
me."
Doris.-" 0 no! I am not dejected, dearWil·
helm I I am not dissatisfied. I love thee, and I
love our parents and sisters; yea, I love all men_
But I will tell thee how I feel. In the spring,
when I see how every thing shoots forth, the
leaves on the trees, the dowers and the plants! it
seems to me as if it did not concern me at a 1•
I then feel as ifI were in a world to which I did
not belong. But as soon as I find a yellow leaf,
a faded dower, or a withered herb, my tears be-
gin to dow, and I feel so comfortable I cannot
tell theei and yet I am never cheerful at such
times. Jrormerly, all this made me sad, and I
was never more joyful than in spring."
• Wllltelm.-" I have no knowledge of things of
this kind; however, so muchis true, that itmakes
me very susceptible.''
Whilst conversing in this manner, they came
to the ruins of the castle on the side of the hill,
and Mt the cool breeze from the Rhine, and saw
how it played with the long dry blades of grass
and ivy leaves, which grew upon the fallen walls,
and whistled about them. "This Is justthe place
for me,'' said Doris; "here I could wish to
dwell. Tell me once more the history of Jo-
hann Hubner, who lived in this castle. Let us
meanwhile sit down on the rampart, opposite
the walls. I would not venture within the walls
for the wor1?1 whilst thou art relating it; for I
always shuaaer when I hear it.'' Wilhelm re-
lated as follows:
"In ancient times this castle was inhabited by
robbers, who went about the country in the night,
stole the people's cattleband drove them yonder
into the court, where t ere was a large stable,
and afterwards sold them, far off, to strangers.
The last robber that dwelt here was Johann
Hubner. He wore armour, and was strongerthan
any other man in the whole country. He had
only one eye, and a large curly beard and hair.
In the daytime he sat with his servants, who
were all very strong men, in the comer yonder,
where thou seest the broken window-hole; there
they had a room; there they sat and guzzled ,
beer. Johann Hubner saw, with his one eye,
very far throu~h the whole country; and when.
ever he perceived a horseman, he called out,
'Hal1011! there goes a horseman on a very fine
horse-Halloa I' Then they lay in wait for the
horseman, took his horse away, and slew him.
Digitized by GoogIe
19 HEIN RICH STILLING.
But there was a prince of Dillenburgh, called
Black Christian, a very strong man, who was
always bearing of Johann Hiibner'ij robberies,
for the peasants came and complained of him.
This black prince had a prudent servant, called
Hanns Flick, whom he sent over the country in
order to spy out this Johann Hubner. The
prince him.elf lay behind in the Giller, which
thou seest yonder, and kept himself concealed
there wilh his horsemen ; and the peasants
brouiht him bread, butter, and chee:;e. Hanns
Flick did not know Johann Hubner; he roved
about the country and inquired for him. At
length he came to a smithy, where horses were
shod. There were many wagon-wheels against
the wall, which were there lo be covered; a man
had leaned himself with his back against them,
who had only one eye, and had on an iron jerkin·
.
Hanns Flick went to him, and said, 'God save
thee, thou iron-jerkin man with one eye; is not
thy name Johann Hubner ofGeisenberg1' The
man answered, 'Johann Hubner of Geisenberg
lies on the wheel.' Hanns Flick understood
him to mean the wheel on the scatfold, and said,
'ls that latelyJ' 'Yes,' answered the man,' this
very day.' Hanns Flick did not fully believe
him, and continued at the r.mitby, and watched
the man who lay upon the wheel. The man
whispered to the smith to shoe his horse the
wrong way, so that the forepart of the shoe was
placed behind. The smith did ~o, and Johann
Hubner rode away. As he mounted his horse,
be said to Hanna Flick, 'God save thee, brave
fellow I Tell thy master he ought to send me
men that can fight, an<i not 84Vt$·dropper$.' Hanns
Flick stood still, and saw him ride over the field
into the forest, and then ran after him, to see
where be stopped. He would have followed his
track, but Jobarm Hubner rode up and down,
across and athwart, so that Hanns Flick soon lost
the track of the horse; for where he had ridden,
the track was in a contrary direction; be there·
fore soon lost him, and knew not what had be-
come of him. At length, however, Hanns Flick
got sight of him, as he was lying yonder, with
his men, on the heath in the forest, guarding the
cattle they had stolen. It was in the night, by
moonshine. He ran and told it to Prince Chris-
tian, who with his men rode silently below,
through the forest. They bound moliS under the
horses' feet, got near him, sprang upon him, and
they fought together. Prince Christian and Jo-
hann Hubner struck one another upon the iron
helmet..~ and cuirasses, so that they rang again,
till at length Johann Hubner was slain, and the
prince took possession of the castle. They bu-
ried Johann Hubner down in the comer yonder,
and the prince laid much wood about the great
tower, which they also undermined. It fell in
the evening, when the Tiefonbach people milked
their cows; the whole country about trembled
with the fall. Thou seest yonder the long heap
of stones down the hill; that is the tower, as It
fell. Between eleven and twelve at night, Jo-
hann Hubner, with his one eye, still haunts tlris
place. He sits on a black horse, and rides about
the rampart. Old Neuser, our neighbour, bas
8een him."
Doris trembled and shuddered whenever a bird
dew upwards out of the bush. "I am always
fond of hearing the tale," said she, " when I am
thus sitting here; and if I were to hear it ten
times, I should not be tired of it. Let us walk
about the rampart a little." Th'!y went together
upon the rampart, and Doris sang:
"Three atan obone OTer a regal dome,
In which throe maid•IUI abo<le;
Tbeir rather WU gene away far from bame,
And on a while bone be rodft.
Siar, abine, porlentoaa of wo !
"' Seeot tboa not yet the little while hone,
Dear titter, down in tbe dale!'
' I - the white hone, paroni~ ito coar.,
And trotting along the .ale.
Siar, obine, porlento1111 of wo !
"'I oee the white hone, bat my father'a not there;-
01i1tera, our father i1 dead !
My htart within mo i• paiued with fear;
And glare tho hoa•ena oo red !'
Sta.r, 1hi11e, porteotou1 of wo !
"There •nter'd a honem&n in bloody anay,
Iulo their chamber fair;
'0 honeman, oo bloody, we earneotly praJ
Thee our virgin live• to 1pare !'
Star, 1hn1e, portentoue of wo !
"'Ye m1y not live, ye virgina three!-
My wife, oo blooming and fair,
Your father did monler under • tree,-
A otnam ofblood iNued there.'
Star, ahine, portentou1 of wo !
"'The manlerer I foand in tho ohady wood,
And took. hie couJ"lflr away t
Aud th•re did I spill his •ital blood,-
lle r.n from the rocko that day.'
Star, 1hine, portentoua of wo !
"'My mother ao dear, thou would.st alao haTe 11.aiD,.
Ao down in the vale abo did hie !
0 ai1tera rej_oice, we 1hall 100J1 meet apia,
Right willing we are to die.'
Star, ahin.e1 port.eutou uf wo !
"The man then took a ahRrp-pointed knife,
And pierced the maidelUI dead :-
'Fast ehh'd I\way their preciou1 life,-
Tbey fell to the ground like lead.
Star, ahine, portentoua of wo !
"There fl.ow• a rivulet, pure and clear,
Along the vale in b&Ate,-
Flow winding around, thoa riwlet dear,
E'en unto the ocean •ut !
Star, shine, portentoua of wo !
" There reot the maideno, in aloep profound,
Until the judgment-day ;-
They aleep beneath tbe clay-cold gniu.d,
Until the judgment-day.
Star, ahine, portentous of wo !"
The sun now began to decline; and Doris with
her Wilhelm had peculiarly felt the pleasure of
melancholy. As they went down the wood a
mortal tremor pervaded Doris's whole frame.
She trembled from a chilly feeling, and ii was
difficult for her to reach Stilling's house. She
fell into a violent fever. Wilhelm was with her
day JUrd night. After the lapse of a fortnight,
she said at midnight to Wilhelm, "Come, lie
down in bed." He complied, and lay down by
her. She embraced him with her right arm; he
lay with his head on her breast. All at once
he perceived that the beating of her pulse
ceased, and then again beat a few times. He
was petrified; and called out, in the distress of
his soul, " Maria! Maria!" All were roused,
and ran to him. There lay Wilhelm, and re-
ceived Doris's last breath into his mouth. She
was dead already! Wilhelm was stupified, and
his soul wished never to come to itself again; at
length, however, he arose from bed, wept, and la-
mented aloud. Father Stilling himself and his
Margaret went to her, closed her eyes, and
sobbed. It was pitiful to see how the two old
greyheads looked with tenderness on the departed
angel, while the tears flowed down their cheeks.
The girls also wept aloud, and recounted to·
each other all the last words which their late sis-
·ter-in-law had spoken, and the caresses she had
given them.
Digitized by GoogIe
..
STILLING'S CHILDHOOD. 13
CHAPTER IIL
WrLBZLM STILLING had lived alone with his
Doris in a very populous district; she _
was now
dead and buried, and he found that he was living
.quite alone in the world. His parents and sis-
ters were about him, without his perceiving
them. In the face of his orphan child he saw
-0nly the lineaments of Doris; and when be went
to bed at night, he found his chamber silent and
empty. He often imagined he heard the rustling
-0f Dori.s's foot on stepping into bed. He then
s&aned, expecting to see her, but saw her not.
any thing useful. Margaret, therefore, took the
entire charge of her grandson, fod and clothed
him in her old-fashioned manner, most cleanlily.
Her daughters taught him to walk, to pray, and
repeat devotional verses; and when Father Still-
ing came from the wood on the Saturday even-
ing, and bad placed himself near tile siove, the
liule one came tottering to him, sought to climb
upon his knee, and took, exultingly, the piece of
bread-and-buuer which bad been prepared for
him; hunting even in the wallet to find it, and
relishing it better than other children are wont
to relish the best rice-pap, although it was al-
ways bard and dry from being expased to the
air. This dry bread-and-butter He1Drich ate on
his grandfather's lap, during which the latter
sung to him either the song,
He redected on all the days they had lived to-
gether, found in each of them a paradise, and
was astonished that be had not at that time ex-
ulted for joy. He then took his little Heinrich
in his arms, bedewed him with tears, pressed
him to his breast, and slept with him. He olieo
dreamed he was walking with Doris in the Gei- or,
11eoberg forest, and how happy be was to have
her a~ain. While dreaming, he was afraid of
awaking, and yet he awoke; on which his tears
began to tlow anew, and his condition was com-
fonless. Father Stilling saw all this, and yet
"My litlle hen'• JWDe ii Oeberli,''
"Rider, to bone, we're coming along!"
he DP.Ver comforted his son Wilhelm. Marga-
ret and her daughters often auempted it, but they
only made the evil worse; for every thing ot~
fended Wilhelm which had even a tendency to
withdraw him from his sadness> But they could
not comprehend how it was possible that their
father made no effort to render his son more
cheerful. They therefore determined to unite in
exhorting him to do so the next time Wilhelm
went to roam about in the Geisenberg forest, to
seek out and weep over Doris's traces and foot-
steps. This he did frequently, and therefore it
was not long before they found an opportunity
of accomplishing their purpose. Margaret un-
dertook it as soon as the cloth \HS removed, and
Wilhelm had left them; and while Father Still-
ing was picking his teeth, and looking at some
spot straight before him, "Ebert,'' said she,
"why dost .thou Jet the lad wander about so 1
Thou payest no attention to him, nor speakest a
little to him, but behavest as if be did not con-
cern thee at all. The poor fellow may fall into
a consumption from mere 1.'0rrow." "Marga-
ret," answered the old man, smiling, "what dost
thou think I could say to him, to comfort him 1
If I tell him be must be content-his Doris is in
heaven, and that she is happy, it amounts to the
same thing as if any one were to take away all
that thou lovest the most in the world, and I were
then to come and say to thee, 'Be satisfied, thy
'things are in good keeping; at the end of sixty
years thou wilt have them again; he is a worthy
man in whose possession they ate.' Wouldst
thou not be very vexed at me, and say, 'But
what shall I live uf)n dnring the sixty y1>ars1'
If I number up al Doria's faults, and seek to
persuade him be had lost nothing so particularly
valuable, I should insult her memory, be a liar,
<>r a slanderer, and etrect nothing more than make
Wilhelm for ever my enemy; be would, in op-
position to this, recount all her virtues, and I
should come otf too short in the reckoning.
Ought I to seek another Doris for him 1 It must
be just such a Doris as she was; and yet he
would feel a disgust at her. Ah! there is not
such another Doris I" His lips faltered, and his
eyes were. moist. They then all wept, .chietly
because their father wept.
Under these circumstances, Wilhelm was not
in a i>ituation to lake care of his child, or to do
making always at the same time the movement
of a trotting horse with his knee. In one word
Stilling had the art, in bringing up children, of
providing every moment a new amusement for
Heinrich, which was always of such a kind as
to be suitable for bis age; that is, they were
comprehensible to him; yet in such a manner,
that that which ought always to be bad in ven-
eration was not only not degraded, but repre-
sented, as it were, en passant, as great and beau-
tiful. The boy thus attained a fondness for his
grandfather which exceeded every thing, and
hence the ideas which he sought to impart to
him found entrance into bis mind. What the
grandfather said, he believed without further re-
(lection.
W iihelm's silent grief transformed itselfgrad-
ually into a communicative and confidential
sadness. He now spoke again with his family;
they conversed for days together about Doris,
sung her songs, looked at her clothes, and other
things of the kind. Wilhelm began to experi-
ence a feeling of delight in remembering her, and
tasted the most i<upreme peace when be repre-
sented to himself that in a few short years death
would call him away also; when, without fear
of termination, he would eternally enjoy, in the
society of his Dori~the highest felicity of which
man 1s capable. This great idea produced an
entire change of life, to which the following
event much contributed. Some leagues from
Tiefenbach, there is a large manor-house, which
had fallen, by inheritance, to a certain Count.
A society of pious people had rented this man-
sion, and had established a manufacture of half.
silk staff's, by which they maintained themselves.
Wise.heads who knew the fashions of the world
and what was most esteemed in it, or, in one
word, people of consequence, had no relish for
such an establishment. They !rnew how dis-
graceful it wa~, in the great world, publicly to
profess Jesus Christ, or to bold meetings in or-
der mutually to admonish one another to follow
his life and doctrine. Hence these people were
despised in the world, in the eye of which they
were of no value; there were even those who
gave out that they had seen all kinds of abomi-
n111ion~ practised in their mansion, by which the
contempt for them was increased. But nothing
could vex such peN>ons more than when they
beard that the..e people even rejoiced at such re-
vilinn, Md ..Rid that lhe same thing had ha~
pened to their Ma~ter. In this society, there was
a person of the name of Nicolas, a man of Ull•
Digitized by GoogIe
14 HEINRICH STILLING.
common genius and natural gifts. He had
studied divinity, and having discovered the de-
fectiveness of all systems of religion, had also
publicly spoken and written against them ; on
which account he had been cast into prison, but
afterwards released from it again, and had trav-
elled for a <long time with a certain nobleman.
In order to live freely and peaceably, he had be-
taken himself amongst these people; and as he
understood nothing of their manufactory, he car-
ried about the goods they manufactured, for sale,
'r as people are wont to say, he hawked them.
This Nicolas had been often in Stilling's house;
but as he knew bow firmly the family adhered to
the principles of the reformed church and reli-
gion, he had never expressed ·his sentiments.
On this occasion, however, when Wilhelm Still-
ing began to divest himself of his gloomiest sor-
row, he found an opport1,mity of speaking to him.
This conversation is of importance; I will
therefore subjoin it, as Nicolas himself related
it to me.
After Nicolas had seated himself, he began:
"How is it with you now, Master Stilling1-can
you accommodate yourself yet to your wile's
decease1"
Wilhelm.-" Not very well. My heart is still
so much wounded, that it bleeds ;-however, I
begin to find more consolation."
Ni.colas.-" Thus it happens, Master Stilling,
when we attach ourselves, with our desires, to
any thing of a transitory nature; and we are
certainly haPfY' when we have wives, as though
we had none. (1 Cur., vii. 29.) We may love
them cordially; but still how useful it is, to ex-
ercise ourselves in mortifying even this pleasure,
and denying ourselves in it !-the loss would then
certainly not be so grievous to us."
WilJi.elm.-" It is very easy to preach so ; but
doing-doing-observing, and keeping, is anoth-
er affair."
Nicolas smiled, and said, "Certainly it is dif-
ficult, particularly after possessing such a Doris;
but yet, if any one is in eame~t-if he only be-
lieves that the doctrine of Jesus Christ leads to
the highest felicity, he becomes in earnest-it is
then not so difficult as people may imagine. Let
me briefiy explain the whole matter to you. Je-
.sus Christ has left us a doctrine, which is so
adapted to ~he nature of the human soul that, if
practised, it must necessarily render the individ-
ual perfectly happy. If we go through all the
precepts of the wise men of this world, we find a
numberofrules, which bang together just as they
have formed their system. At one time they are
lame, at ·another, they run, and then they stand
still. The doctrine of Christ alone, deduced
from the deepest mysteries of human nature,
never fails, and perfectly proves to him who has
a right insight into it, that Hs author must him-
self have been the Creator of man, since he
knew him even from his first original impulse.
Man has an infinite hunger after pleasure-after
pleasures which are able to ilatisfy him, which
ever yield something new, and are an unceasing
90urce of new delight. But we do not find any
of tltis kind in the whole creation. As soon as
we are deprived of them by the vicissitude of
things, they leave a pang behind; as you, for
instance, have felt at the loss of your Doris.
This divine Legislator knew that the origin of
all human actions is real self-love. Far from
expelling this motive, which is capable of pro-
ducing much evil, he gives us the means of en-
nobling and refining it. He commands us to act
towards others as we wish them to act towards
us; if we do so, we are assured of their love,-
they will be respectful to us, and cause us much
enjoyment, unless they are wicked men. He
commands us to love our enemies:-nowas soon
as we show love and kindness to an enemy, he
will be certainly tormented to the utmost, until
he is reconciled to us; whilst in the practice of
these duties, which cost us only a little trouble
at the commencement, we ourselves enjoy an in-
ward peace, which far exceeds all the pleasures
of sense. Besides this, \>ride is peculiarly the
source of all our social vices, ofall disturbance,
hatred, and infraction of peace. Against this
root of all evil, there is no better remedy than
the above-mentioned laws ofJesus Christ. I do
not wish, at present, to explain myself further on
the subject; I only meant to say, that it is well
worth the trouble to employ eamestness in obey-
ing the doctrine of Christ, because it procures
us permanent and substantial delights, which are
able to counterbalance the loss of others."
Wilkelm.-" Repeat all this to me, friend Nic-
olas ! I must write it down; I believe what you
say is true."
Nicolas rehearsed it very cordially, with some
little addition or diminution, and Wilhelm wrote
it down as be repeated it to him. "But," con-
tinued he, "if we are to be saved by obedience
to the doctrine of Christ, of what use are his lite'
and death 1 The preachers say1we cannot keep
the commandments, bat that we are justified and
saved only through faith in Christ, and by his
merits."
Nicolas smiled, and said, "We will speak of
this some other time. For the present, look at
the matter thus: that even as by his pure and
holy life, in which he walked in favour both with
God and man, he has enabled us to take a free
survey of our mortal existence, and of the con-
fused state of earthly things, that by looking unto
him, we might be encouraged, and hope in the
grace that rules over us, for the attainment of
greater simplicity of heart, with which we can
make our way every where; so He has also, I
say, planted his cross in the night ofdeath, wh~re
the sun goes down, and the moon loses her light,
in order that we may look up, and with humble
hope, exclaim, ' Remember me I' We are thus
saved by his merits, ifyou will; for He has paid
dearly and severely enough to ransom his peo-
ple from eternal death, and thus we are saved by
faith; for faith is salvation. But in the mean
time, do not let this trouble you; and be faith-
ful in small things, otherwise you will accom-
plish nothing great. I will leave with you a lit-
tle tract, translated from the French of Arch-
bishop Fenelon; it treats of fidelity in small
things. I will also bring with me, for you1 the-
Imitation ofChrist, by Thomas aKempis, wnich.
will instruct you further."
I cannot exactly say whether Wilhelm re-.
ceived this doctrine from real conviction, or·
whether the state of his heart was such, that he-
felt its beauty without examining its truth. Cer-
tainly, when I redect coolly on this discourse or-
Nicolas, l find that though I cannot agree with
it altogether, yet on the whole it is good and ex-
cellent.
Wilhelm purchased a few ells of cloth of Nic-
olas, for which he had no immediate occasion;
and then the- good preacher took up bis bundle
on his back, and went away, promising however
to return soon; and Nicolas doubtless thanked
God heartily, all the way ac~oss the Giller, for
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S CHILDHOOD. 15
Wilhelm's conversion. The 13ter now found a
deep nnd irresistible inclination in his soul to re-
nounce the whole world, and to live alone with
his child, in an upper room of the house. His
sister Elizabeth was married to one Simon, a
linen-weaver, who took his place in the housed·
and he betook himself to !tis room, procure
some books which Nicolas had recommended,
and lived there, in this manner, many years with
his boy.
During this time, the whole of Wilhelm's en-
deavors were directed, first, to the supply of his
necessities, by means of his trade as a tailor; for
he gave a considerable sum weekly to hi' pa-
rents for the board of himself and his child;-
next, to quench every inclination of the heart
which had not reference to eternity; and finally,
also to educate his son in the same pririciples,
which he imagined to be true and firmly found-
ed. He rose at four o'clock in the morning, and
began his work; at seven he awoke his little
Heinrich, and reminded him in a familiar man~
ner of the goodness of God, who had watched
over him, by his angels, during the night.
"Thank him for it, my child," said Wilhelm,
whilst dressing the boy. When this was done,
he was made to wash himself in cold water, and
Wilhelm then took him with himhshut the room-
door, and fell on his knees with im at the bed-
side, and prayed with the utmosifervour ofspirit
to God, during which the tears often fiowed co-
piously to the ground. The boy then had his
breakfast, which he was oeliged to take with as
tnuch decorum and order as if he had been eat-
ing in the presence of a prince. He had after-
wards to read a small portion of the catechism,
and gradually learn itby rote; he was also permit-
ted to read old and pleasing tales, adapted to the
capacity of a child; some of which were reli-
gions, and others of a worldly nature, S'llch as
the "EmperorOctavian, with his wife and son;"
the-" History ofthe Four Children ofHaymon;"
"the Beautiful Melusina,'' and the like. Wil-
helm never permitted the boy 'to play with other
children; but kept him so secluded, that in the
seventh year of his age he kuew none of the
neighbours' children, th6ugh well acquainted
'With a whole row offine books. Hence it was,
that his whole son! began to delight in that which
was ideal; his imagination was excited, because
it had no other objects than ideal persons and
actiou,s. The heroes of old romance, whose vir-
tnes were described in an exaggerated manner,
fi.xed themselves imperceptibly in his mind, as
so many objects wonhy of imitation, and vice
was in the htghest degree repugnant .to him.
But because he was continually hearing of God
and pious men, he was imperceptibly placed in
a peculiar point of view, from whence he ob-
served every thing. The first thin~ he inquired
after, when he had read or heard ot any one, had
reference to his sentiments towards God and
Christ. Hence, when he had once obtained Got-
fried Arnold's lives of the Primilive Fathers, he
could not cease from reading it; and this book,
together-with Reitz's History of the Regenerate,
continued his chiefdelight till the tenth year of
his age; but all these persons, "hose biography
he read, remained eo firmly idenlized in his ima-
gination that he never forgot \hem during his
whole life.
In the afternoon, from two to three o'clock, or
even somewhat later, Wilhelm let him walk in
the orchard and the Geisenberg forest: he had
appointed him a district there, which he was at
liberty to appropriate for his amu~ment, but
which he was not to exceed without the company
of his father. This dislrict was not larger than
Wilhelm could overlook from his window, in
order that he might never lose sight of him.
When the time appointed had expired, or if only
a neighbour's child approached Heiurich, though
distantly, Wilhelm whistled, and on this signal
he was in a moment again with his father.
This district, Stilliul?'s orchard, and a ponion
of the forest which borilered on the ~en, were
therefore daily visited by our youth, when the
weather was fine, and made entirely into ideal.
landscapes. There was an Egyptian desert, in
which he transformed a bush into a cave, where
he hid himself, representing St. Anthony; and,
in his enthusiasm, also occasionally prayed very
heartily. Jn another pan was the fountain of
Melusma; there was also the land of the Turks,
where the sultan and his daughter, the fair Mar-
cebilla, dwelt; and on a rock, there was the cas-
tle Montalban, in which Rinold lived, &c. T<>
these places he made a pilgrimage daily; and no-
one can form an idea of the delight which the
boy there enjoyed; he stammered out verses, and
had poetic feelings. Such was the nature of this
child's education, till he was ten years old. One-
thing more must be mentione<l here. Wilhelm
was very strict; he punished the smallest trans-
gression of his commands most severely with the
rod. Hence there was added to the above-men-
tioned fundamental feelings, a certain timidity
in young Stilling's soul; and from fear of cor-
rection, he sought to hide and conceal his faults,
so that he gradually let himself be seduced to
telling- falsehoods, a propeusity which afterwards
gave nim much trouble to overcome, even to his
twentieth year. Wilhelm's intention was !<>
bring up his son to be docile and obedlent, in or-
der to render him capable of keepillg divine and
human laws; and ,it seemed to him, that acer-
tain severity was the shortest way to attain his
object; and thus he conId not comprehend whence
it came, that the felicity he enjoyed in the good
qualities of his boy should be so hatefully em-
bittered by the vice of lying, in which he often
caught him. He redoubled his severity, particu-
larly when he perceived he was telling an un-
truth; however, he eft"ected nothing more than
causing Heinrich to employ every possible art
to make his falsehood more probable, and thus
the good Wilhelm was still deceived. No soon-
er did the boy perceive he was successful, than
he rejoiced and even thanked God that he had
found a means ofescaping punishment. How-
ever, I must mention (his to his credit, that he
never spoke falsely except when he was able, by
~ doiug, to avoid correction.
Old Stilling regarded all this very quietly.
His son's austere mode of life he never con-
demned; but smiled occasionally, and shook his
grey locks, when he saw how Wilhelm seized
the rod, because the boy had eaten or done some-
thiug contrary to his orders. He would ther,
say in the absence of the child, " Wilhelm, he
that does not wish to have his commands r~
peatedly tran1'gressed, must not command much.
All men Jove libeny." "Yes," said Wilhelm,
"bnt the boywill become wilful." "Forbid him
his faults," rejoined the old man, "when he is
about to commit them, and inform him why;
but if thou hast previously forbidden it, the boy
for1?ets the many commanns, and prohihitions,
and is alwavs in fault; whilst meanwhile thou
must make thy words good, and thus there is no
Digitized by GoogIe
H EI N RI C H ST I LL I N G.
end to chastising." Wilhelm acknowledged
thL~, and gradually let the greater part of his
rules fall into oblivion. He now governed no
longer so much according to laws, but entirely
in monarchical style; he gave his orders always
when they were needful, regula1ed them accord·
ing to circumstances, and lhe boy was no long-
er chastised so much; his whole mode of life be-
came somewhat more animated, free, and noble.
Heinrich Stilling was therefore educated in
an extraordinary manner, entirely without the
society of otbers; hence be knew nothing of the
world, aod nothing of vice; he was ignorant of
tre~~hery and i:nvolity; i:iraying,_ read!ng, and
wnung was his occupation. His mind was
therefore filled with few things; but all that was
in ii was so lively, clear, refined, and ennobled,
that his expres.,ions, speeches, and actions are
not to be described. The whole family were as-
tonished at the boy; and old Stilling often said,
"The lad is soaring away from us; the feathers
are growing larger upon him than was ever the
case with any other of our family; we must
fray that God will guide him by his good Spir-
11." All the neighbours who visited S1illing,
.and saw the boy, were amazed, for they under-
stood no1hing of all he said, although he sr.>ke
good German. Amongsto1hers, neighbour Stah-
ler once came thither, because he wanted Wil-
lielm 10 make him a great-coat; however, his
chief object in this was a secret hope to provide
for his daughter Maria; for Stilling was respect·
ed in the village, and Wilhelm was pious and
diligent. Young Heinrich might be about eight
years oltl; be sat on a chair, and read in a book,
looking, according to custom, very serious; and
l do not believe that up to that time he had ever
laughed loudly in his whole life. Stabler look-
ed at him, and said, "Heinrich, what art thou
doing 1here 1"
Ht:inridr..-" I am reading."
Sta/ik-r.-" Art thou able to read already1"
Heinrich looked at him with astonishment, and
said, "That is a foolish question, for I am a hu-
man being." He then read aloud with ease,
proper emphasis, and due distinction. Stahler
was amazed, and said, "The d-- fetch me I
I have never seen the like in all my life." At
this imprecation, Heinrich jumped up, and look-
ed timiJly around him; at length, when he saw
that the devil did not come, be exclaimed, "0
God, how gracious art thou!" stepped up to
Stahler, and said, "Man, have yon ever seen
Satan 1" " No," answered Stabler. " Then
call ul.'on '1im no more," rejoined Heinrich, and
went into another room.
The fame of this boy resounded far and wide;
every one spoke of him with astol)ishment. EV"eD
(be Rev. Mr. Stollbein himself was curious to
see him. Now Heinrich had never been at
church, and had consequently never yet seen a
1nan with a large white wig and fine black
clothes. The clergyman came to Tiefenbach ;
and havi11g, perhaps, previously entereil some
-0tber house, his arrival was already known in
Stilling's hoase, and the reason of his coming.
Wilhelm, t.herefore, instructed his boy Heinrich
bow to behave when the clergyman ~hould come.
At length he appeared, and old Stilling with him.
Heinrich stood straight up by the wall, like a
soldier !.'resenting arms; he held in his folded
hands his cap, composed of blue and grey rem-
nanL• of cloth, and regarded the clergyman full
in the face. Afier Mr. Stollbein had seated him-
.self, alld spoken a few wordti with Wilhelm, be
turned towardslie wall, and said, "Good moni-
ing, Heinrich!"
Heinricl&.-" People ~ay good morning as soon
as they enter the rootn."
Stollbein perceived with whom he had to do;
be therefore turned himself with his chair to-
wards him, and continued, " Dost thou know
the catechism 1"
Heinridi.-" Not the whole of it."
Sto/lliein.-" How I notthe whole ofit1 That
is the first thing children ought to learn."
Heinridr..-" No, your reverence, that is not
the first; children must first learn to pray, that
God may give them nnderatanding to compre-
hend the'catechism."
Mr. Stollbein was already seriously vexed,
and had studied out a severe lecture for Wilhelm,
but this answer startled him. "In what way
dost thou pray 1" inquired be further.
Heinridr..-" I pray, 'Gracious God, give me
understanding lhat I may comprehend what l
read.'" ,
Stollhein.-" That is right, my son; continue
to pray thus.''
Heinridi..-" You are not my father."
SlollJJein.-" I am thy spiritual father."
Heinridi.-" No, God 1s my spiritual father:
you are a man ; a man cannot be a spirit.''
StollJJein.-" What I hast thou no spirit, no
soul1" •
HeiMiclt..-" Yes, cerlliinly I How can you
ask such a simple question 1 But 1 know my
father."
Slollhein.-" Dost ihou know God, thy spirit-
ual father 1"
Heinrich smiled and said, "Should not a man
know God1"
Slollbein.-"But thou hast never seen him."
Heinrich did not reply, but fetched his well-
used Bible, and pointed out to the clergyman the
passage in Rom. i. 19, 20.
Stollbein had now heard enough. He told
the boy to leave the room, and said to his father,
"Your child will surpass all his forefathers;
continue to keep him well under the rod; the
boy will become a great man in the world.''
Wilhelm still continued to feel the wound oc-
casioned by the death ·or Doris, and cons antly
sighed after her. He now also occasionallr took
bi8 boy with him to the old castle, pointed out
to him the tracks and footsteps of his deceased
mother, and all that she had done and spoken
there. Heinrich became so auacbed to the mt>m-
ory of h0
is mother, that be made all he beard of
her bis own, which pleased Wilhelm so well
that be.could not conceal his joy.
Ouce, on a fine evening in autumn, the t\\·o
lovers of the departed Doris went ahour the ru-
ins of the castle, and sought for snail-shells,
which were very numerous there. Doris had
taken great pleasure in so doing. Heinrich
found under a stone, near a wall, a pocket-knife,
with a yellow back and green handle. It was
still not at all rusty, partly from lying in a dry
place,1
and partly because it was so covered, that
the rain could not fall upon it. Heinrich was
glad on finding it, ran to his father, and shewed
it him. Wilhelm looked at it, grew pale, and
began to sob and weep. Heinrich was terrified,
and the tears already stood in his gyes without
knowing why, nor did he dare to ask. He turn-
ed the knife about, and saw written with aqua-
fortis upon the blade, •·Johanna Dorothea Cath-
arina Stilling." He cried aloud, and foll down
like one dead. Wilhelm hearu the reading of
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLlNG'S CHILDHOOD. 17
the name, as wela a·s the loud cry ; be sat down
by 1be boy, and sought to bring him to himself.
Whilst he was thus occupied, he felt inwardly
happy; he found himself comforted, he took the
boy in his aiir1s, pressed him to his breast, and
e:i:perienced a delight which for a time excluded
every other feeling. He drew near unto God as
onto his friend, and thought be ascended into
the glory of heaven, and saw Doris amongst the
angels. Meanwhile Heinrich came to himself
again, and found himself in his father's arms.
Be could not recollect that his father had ever
had him in his arms before. His whole soul
was penetrated; tears of the strongest emotion
11owed down llis full and snow-white cheeks.
"Father, doyou Jove me 1" asked he. Wilhelm
had never either joked or trilled with his child;
therefore the boy knew of no other father but a
grave and severe man, whom he was obliged to
fear and honor. Wilhelm's bead sunk upon
Heinrich's breast; he said, "Yesl" and wept
aloud. Heinrich was beside himself, and on the
point of fainting away again; but his father sud-
denly rising up, placed him upon his feet. He
wu scarcely able to stand. "Come," said Wil-
helm, ·"we will walk about a little." They
sought for the knife, but could not find it again;
it had cenainly fallen down deep between the
stones. They searched long, but found it not.
No one was more grieved than Heinrich; bis
father however led him away, and ~poke to him
as follows:
"My son, thou wilt now soon be nine yeari:
old. I have taught and instructed thee as well
as I am able, and thou hast now so much sense
that I can talk ratior1ally to thee. Thou hast
much before thee in the world, and I myself am
.still young. We shall not be able lo end our
lives in our chamber; we must again associate
with mankind; I will keep school again, and
thou shall go with me, and learn further. Em-
ploy thyself in any thingtbat give~ thee pleasure;
thou shalt have no want of books; but in order
that thou mayest have something certain. by
which thou canstearn thy bread, rhou must learn
my trade. IfGod irraciously gives thee a better
vocation, thou wilt have reason to thank him;
but oo one will despise thee for bei~ my eon,
4!Veo wert thou to become a prince." Hein-
rich was delighted with his father's confidential
manner; hi11 soul became infinitely enlarged ;
he felt such a gentle uncontrollable freedom as
is not lo be described ; he experienced now for
the first time that he was treated as a human be-
ing. He looked at his father, and said, " I will
do all that you wish me 10 do." Wilhelm smi-
led at him, and continued, "Thou wilt be suc-
cei<sful in the world; only thou must never for-
get to cultivate a confidential communion with
God, who will take thee into his protection, and
pre5erve thee from all evil." During this con-
versation they arrived at home and entered their
chamber. From that time, Wilhelm appeared
to be entirely changed ; his heart was again
opened, and his religious sentimentsdid not hin-
der him from going amongst people. All men,
even the rudest, felt a reverence in his presence;
for his whole man had put on, in bis retirement,
ao irtel'i~tible, gentle gravity, through which a
pure and simple soul beamed forth. He also
frequently took his son with him, to whom he
felt an entirely new and warm affection. Be
had perceived, in the finding of the knife, Doris's
enure character in the boy; he was his and
Dt>ris's ~on, and at this discovery all hia aJfec-
0
tion was transferred to Heinrich, and he found
Doris again in him.
Wilhelm now conducted his boy, for the first
time, to church. He was astonished at every
thing he saw ; but as soon as the organ began
to play, his sensations became too ppwerful, and
be ·was slightly convulsed. Every soft harmo-
ny melted him; the minor keys caused his tears
to ftow, and the rapid allegro made him spring
up. However inditl'erently the good organist
understood his trade, Wilhelm found it, notwith-
standing, impossible to prevent his son, after the
sermon, from going to look at the organist and
his organ. He saw them; and the vinuoso, to
please him, played an andante, which was per-
haps the first time that this bad ever been done
in the church at Florenburg to please a peasant's
boy.
Heinrich now saw also, for the first time, his
mother's grave. He wished he could likewise
have seen her remains; but as this could not be,
he sat himself down upon the mound of grass
that covered the grave, plucked a few autumnal
ftowers and plants that grew upon it, put them
into his button-hole, and went away. He did
not feel so much on this occasion as on finding
the knife; however, both he and his father had
wept their eyes red. The former circu111stance
was sudden and unexpected, but the latter un-
dertaken considerately; the sensations produced
by the church music were also still too powerful
in his heart.
Old Stilling now likewise perceived bow
mu<;h his eon Wilhelm was consoled. He saw,
with inward delight, all the reciprocal kindness
and affection manifested by him and bis child ;
he became by this, still more animated, and al-
most renovar.ed.
One Monday morning in the spring, as he
went to his occupation in the woods, he request-
ed Wilhelm to let his grandson accompany him.
The latter consented, and Heinrich was highly
delighted. As they ascended the Giller, the old
man said, "Heinrich, relate to me the hi11tory
of the beautiful Melusiana ; I listen so gladly to
ancient tales, and then the time will not seem
long to us." Heinrich related it very circum-
stantially, with the greatest pleasure. Fa<ber
Stilling made as i.f he were quite astonished at
the tale, and as if he believed it in all its details.
But this was necessary, in order not to vex Hein-
rich; for he believed all these tales as firmly as
the Bible itself. The place where Stilling burnt
charcoal was three leagues from Ti'efenbach;
the road to it lay entirely through the wood.
Heinrich, who idealized every thing he saw,
found nothing but a paradise the whole of the
way. Every thing seemed to him beautiful and
faultless. A very dark beech-tree, which be saw
at some distance before him, with its beautiful-
treen light and shade, made an impression upon
him; the whole country around was immediate-
ly ideal, and heavenly-beautiful in his eyes.
They at length reached the scene of labor, on a
very high hill. The woodman's hut covered
with sods, immediately attracted young Stilling's
attention; he crept into it, saw the mossy couch
and the fireplace between two rough stones, and
was highly deli,hted. During the time that his
grandfather was at work, he went about in the
wood, and contemplated all the beauties of the
scenery around, and of nature; every thing was
new and unspeakably charming to him. One
evening, when they intended to return home the
day following, they sat down in front of the hut,
Digitized by GoogIe
18 H.EINRICH STILLING.
just as the sun was set. "Grandfather," said
Heinrich, " when I read in the books that the
heroes were able to reckon t<o far back who were
their forefathers, I wish that I also knew who
my forefathers were. Who knows whether we
are not likewi~e descended from some great man
or prince! My mother's forefathers were all of
them preachers, but I do not yet know yours. I
will write them all down if you will tell me
were encamped in a meadow in the Hessian ter-
ritory; there were twentr-six of them, strong
men. Towards eleven o clock Jn the evening
he heard some horses entering the meadow ; he
awoke all the carriers very quiellt, and placed
each behind his cart. But Heinrich Stilling
kneeled down and prayed by himself, very fer-
vently. At length he ascended his can, and
looked about. The moon was on the point of
setting, so that there was just light enough. He
then saw about twenty men dismounting from
theit horses, and softly approaching the cartS.
He crept down again, went under the cart, that.
they might not see him, and gave heed to what.
they were doing. The robbers went round about
the barricado, and on finding no admission, they
began to draw one of the carts. Stilling, as soon.
as he saw that., called out, 'Fire, in God's name I'
Each of the carriers had cocked his gun, and
shot from under the carts, so that six of the roh-·
bers immediately fell; the rest of them were ter-
rified, drew back a little, and conversed together.
The carriers, meanwhile, reloaded their mus-
kets. 'Now,' said Stilling, 'give heed: when
• them." Father Stilling smiled, and replied, " It
would be hard to prove that we were descended
from a prince; but that is all the same to me,
nor must thou wish it. ·Thy forefathers were all
honest and pious people ; there are few princes
that can say that. Let this be thy greatest hon-
or in the world, that thy grandfather, great-grand-
father, and their fathers, were all men who
though they had nothing under their command
out of their house, were notwithstanding beloved
an~ honored by all men. None of them married
in a dishonorable manner, or transgressed with
any female; none of them ever coveted that
which was not his, and all died honorably at a
very great age." Heinrich rejoiced, and said,
"I shall then find all my forefathers in heav-
en." "Yes," replied his grandfather, "that thou
wilt ; our family will there bloom and ftour-
ish ; Heinrich, remember this evening 8l5 long
as thou livest. In the world to come, we shall
be of high nobility : do not lose.this privilege.
Our blessing will rest upon thee, as long as thou
an pious; but if thou become wicked, and de-
spise thy parents, we shall not kno'w thee in the
next world." Heinrich began to weep, and said,
" Do not fear that grandfather I I will be reli-
gious, and rejoice that my name is Stilling. But
tell me what you know of our forefathers." Fa-
ther Stilling narrated as follows :
"My great-grandfather's father's name was
Ulli Stilling. He was bom about the year 1500.
I know, from ancient letters, that he came to Tie-
ienbach, where, in 1530, he married the daughter
of Hans Stahler. He came from Switzerland,
and was acquainted with Zuinglius. He was
a very pious man; and so strong, that once he
recovered his four cows from five robbers, who
had stolen them from him. In the year 1536 he
had a son, who was called Reinhard Stilling;
this was my great-grandfather. He was a quiet
and retired man, who did good to every one. Jn
his 50th year, he married a very young woman,
by whom he had many children. In his 60th
year his '1"ife bare him a son called Heinrich
Stilling, who was my grandfather. He was bom
in 1596, and lived to be 101 years old; therefore
I just knew him. This Heinrich was a very
active man ; in his youth he bought himself a
hors!', became a earner, and travelled to Bruns-
wick, Brabant, and Saxony. He was at the
head ofa number of carriers, and had generally
from twenty to thirty people with him. At that
time robberies were very frequent, and but
few inns on the road, so that the carriers took
their Jlrovision with them. In the evening they
rangeil the carts in a circle, close to each other;
the horses were placed in the midst, and my
grandfather with the carriers were with them.
After feeding the horses, he called out ' To pray-
ers, neighbours.' They then all came, and Hein-
rich Stilling prayed to God very eamestly. One
of them kept watch, and the others crept under
their carts where it was dry, and slept. But
they had always sabres and well-loaded muskets
with them. Now it once happened that my
grandfather himself had the watch, when they
they come near again, then fire !' However,.
they did not come, but rode away. At daybreak,
the carriers yoked their horses again; and pro-
ceeded further ; every one carried his loaded gun,.
and his sword, M>r they were not safe. In the
forenoon, they again saw some horsemen riding
towards them out of the wood. Stilling drove
first, and all the rest after him. He then called.
out, 'Every man behind his cart, and his mu.<J-
ket cocked !' The horsemen halted, and the
chief of them rode up to them alone, unarmed,.
and called out for ihe head-carrier to appear.
My grandfather stepped forth, with his gun in
his hand, and his sword under his arm. 'We
come as friends,' said the horseman. Heinrich.
did not trust him; but sk>od still. The cavalier
dismounted, offered him llis hand, and asked
whether they had not been attacked by robbers
in the night. 'Yes,' answered my grandfather,.
'not far from Hirschfeld, in a meadow.' 'Just.
so,' replied the horseman; 'we have pursued
them, and just reached the m.eadow as they rode
off, after you had blown out the light of some of
them; you are brave people.' Stilling asked
who he was. The cavalier answered, 'I am.
Count Wittgenstein; I will give you ten horse-
men for an escort, for I have still ~ople enough,
with me in the wooo behind.' Stilling accepted
them, and agreed with the Count how mucli he-
should give him yearly, if he would always es-
cort him through Hesse. The Count promised
to do so, and the carriers drove home. This.
grandfather of mine was married in his twenty-
second year, and in .his twenty-fourth-that 1s,
in 1620-he had a son called Hanns Stilling;.
this was my father. He lived quietly, employ-
ed himself in husbandry, and served God. He
lived through the whole of the lhirty years' war,
and often fell into the greatest poveny. He be-
gat ten children, of whom I am the yOflllgest. l
was born in 1680, just as my father was sixty
years old. I have, God be thanked! enjoyP.il
tranquillity, and freed my land again from all
debt. My father died in 1724, in the hundred-
and-fourthlear of his age; I had to lead him
like a chit , and he lies buried at Florenburg
with his forefathers."
Heinrich Stilling had listened with the great-
est attention. "Well," said he," God be thank-
ed that I have had such progenitors I I will
write them all down neatly, that I may not for-
Digitized by GoogIe
s·r1LLING'S CHILDHOOD. 19
get them. l ne knights call their forefathers an-
eestors; I will also call them mr, ancestors."
His grandfather smiled, and was silent.
The next day they went home again, and
Heinrich wrote all the narratives in an old wri-
tin~-book, which he reversed, and filled the
while leaves at the end with the account of his
ancestors.
My tears burst forth '1Vhilst writing this.
Whither are ye fled, ye happy hours 1 Why
does the remembrance of you alone remain to
man 1 What fulness ofsupernal pleasure does
the susceptible spirit of,outh enjoy! There is
no meanness of rank i the soul be ennobled.
Ye, my tears, pressed forth by my laboring spir-
it, say to every well-disposed heart, say without
words, what that individual is, who is acquaint-
fd with God his Father, and tastes all his gills
in their greatne.~ !
•
CHAPTER IV.
' HEINRICH STILLING was the hope and the joy
ofhis family; for although Johann Stilling had
an elder son, no one took any particular notice
of him. He often came to visit his grandpa-
rents; but as he came so he went away again-
&strange circumstance!-and yet Eberhard Still-
ing was really not partial. But why do I linger
at this 1 Who can prevent one person from be-
ing loved more than another 1 Mr. Stollbein
saw clearly that this boy would become some-
thing, if people only made something of him;
and hence it was, that on one occasion1 when he
was in Stilling's house, he spoke of tne boy to
his father and grandfather, and proposed to them
that Wilhelm should let him learn Latin. "We
have a good LItin schoolma$ler," said he, "at
Florenburg; send him thither; it will cost lit-
lie." Old Stilling sat at the table, chewing a
chip, for such was his custom when he reflected
on matters of importance. Wilhelm laid his
iron thimble on the table, folded his arms to-
gether on his breast, and redected also. Marga-
ret laid her arms in her lap, twisted her thumbs
over each other, looked wistfully occasional-
ly towards the room-door, and considered too.
Bnt Heinrich sat with his cloth-pieced cap in
his hand, in a little chair, and did not rellect,
bot only wished. Stollbein sat in his arm•chair,
one hand upon the head of his cane, and the oth-
er on his aide, and waited the result of the mat-
ter. They were long silent: at length the old
man said, "Now, Wilhtlm, he is thy child;
what thiukest thou 1"
WILVlm.-" Father, I know not how to bear
the expense."
&i/U111f.-" Is it that causes thee the most
anxiety, Wilhelm 1 Be only careful, ifthe boy
learns Latin, that he may cause thee joy."
"What joy are you talking of1" said the cler-
eyman; "the question il!! whether you are will-
ing to make something 01 the boy or not. Ifany
thing proper is to be made of him, he must learn
Latin, otherwise he will remain a lubber, like-"
"Like his parents," said old Stilling.
"I believe you mean to banter me," rejoined
the preacher.
"No, God forbid I" replied Eberhard; "do not
take it amiss; for your father was a woollen-
weaver, and was unacquainted wilh Latin; yet
the people say he was a worthv man, although I
never bought cloth of him. Hear me, dear sir!
-an hone:;t man loves God and his neighbour;
he does that which is right, and fears no one;
he is diligent, and provides for himself and his
family, that they mav have bread enough. Why
does he do all this 1''
Stollbcin.-" I really belie,.e you want to cate-
chise me, Stilling! Be respectful, and remem-
ber whom you are speaking to. He does it, be-
cause it is just and right that he do it."
Stilling.-" Do not be angry if I contradict you
-he does it that he may have joy, both here and
hereafter."
SlolJIH:i.n.-" How so 1 He may, notwithstand-
ing, go to hell."
Stilling.-" With the love of God and his
neighbour1" _
SW/lhein,-" Yes, certainly !-ifhe has not true
faith in Christ."
Stilling.-" But it follows of course, that we
r.annot love God and our neighbour, if we do not
believe in God and his word. But tell us, Wil-
helm, what dost thou think 1"
WiJAelm.-" Methinks if I knew how to bear·
the expense, I would take care the boy should not
·become too much of a Latin scholar. During
the leisure days, he shall be employed in makin,;
camel-hair buttons, and help me at the needle,
until we see what God will make of him."
"That does not displease me, Wilhelm," said
father Stilling; "it is mv advice also. The boy
possesses unheard-of abi1i1ies for learning; God
has not given him such a head in vain; let him
learn what he is able and willing to learn; give
him occasionally time for this purpose-but not
toa much, otherwise he will ~w idle, and not
read so diligently; but after 1at· has laboured
well at the needle, and is truly hungering after·
his books, let him read an hour ; that is enough.
Oaly let him learn a trade properly, and then he·
will be able to earn his bread till be can make
use of his Latin, and become a gentleman."
"Hum ! hum !-agentleman !" growled Stoll-
bein; "he shall be no gentleman, but a villa~e
schoolmaster, and then it is good to know a ht-
tle Latin. But you peasants suppose it such an.
easy matter to become a gentleman. You plant
ambition in the children's hearts, which never-
theless proceeds from its father the devil."
Old Stilling's large bright eyes i;parkled; he
stood there like a little giant (for he was a tall,
good-looking man), shook his white bead, smiled,
and said, "What is ambition, your reverence 1"
Stollbein sprang up, and exclaimed, "'What!
another question ! I am not bound to answer
you, but you me. Attend to my sermons; you
will there hear what ambition is. I know not
bow it is you grow so proud, Churchwarden!-
you were formerly a modest kind of a man."
Stilling.-" As you take it, proud or not proud,
I am a man that bas loved God and served him ;
given every one what belonged to him ; brought
up·my children, and been faithful. God l ktto'IV
will forgive me my sins. I am now ~Id-my
end is near. Although I am in good health still
I must die; and I rejoice at the thought of1
soon
l~aving this world. Let me be proud of dying
hke an honest man in the midst of his grown-up
and pious chi!dren, ~hom he has brought up.
But when I think of It, I am more active than I
was when Margaret and I married."
"People don't enter heaven ai if in shoes and
stockings," said the clergyman.
"My grandfather will pull them otf ~are be
dies," said little Heinricli.
Every ~ne laughed; even StollbeiQ was obli-
ged to smile. .
Digitized by GoogIe
20 H E l N RI C H ST l LL I N G.
Margaret put an end to the consultation. She
proposed to give the boy enough to eat in the
morning, and a sandwich for dinner in bis pock-
et; whibt in the evening he could eat again as
much as he pleased; "And s~ the boy ~an go
to-1Uorrow to the school at Florenburg," said she,
"and return in the evening. The summer is at
hand, and in winter we will see what istobe done."
Thus the matter was concluded, and Stollbeill
went home agaiq.
and the natural scenery around him made a pro-
found and solemn impression on his free and
open heart. In the evening, the five good peo-
ple met together again, supped, poured out their
souls to each other, and Heinrich, in particular,
related his histories, with which all, not except·
log Margaret, were uncommonly delighted.
Even the grave and pietistic Wilhelm took
pleasure in them, and read them himself on a
Sunday afternoon, when making a pilgrimage
to the old castle. Heinrich, on such occasions,
A great change took place at this period, in always looked at the place where be was read-
Stilling's house; the eldest daughters married ing; and whenever an affecting passage occur.
out of the house ; and thus Eberhard and his red, he rejoked in bim~elf, but when he saw that
Margaret, Wilhelm, Maria, and Heinrich, con· bis father also was affected by it, his joy was
stituted the whole family.. Ebe1hard now also complete.
determined to give up burning charcoal, and at- Meanwhile young Stilling proceeded rapidly
tend merely to his farm. in learning the Latin language--at least, the
The mastership of the village-school at Tie- reading and understanding Latin histories, and
fenbach became vacant, and all the pea~antry the speaking and writing Latin. Whether that
had Wilhelm Stilling in view, to choose him for is enough, or whether more is required, I know
their ocboolmaster. The place was offered him; not; the Rev. Mr. Stollbein, at least, demanded
he accepted it without reluctance1 although he more. After Heinrich had gone for about a year
was inwardly concerned at forsa1eing, with so to the Latin school, it once occurred to the above.
little rellection, his solitary and holy lite, and mentioned gentleman to examine ouryoung stu-
again associating with mankind. But the good dent. From bis room-window, he saw him
man did not perceive that it was merely the standing before the school; be whistled, and
grief be t"elt at the death of Doris, that sulfered Heinrich tlew to him.
no riyl feeling, which had made him a hermit; Slolll>ein.-" Art thou diligent in learning'!"
and that, as this became more supportable, be Heinrick.-" Yes, your reverence."
was. again able to mix in society, and coultl Stollbein.-"How many verba anomala are
again take pleasure in being employed. He there 1"
explained it to himself very differently. He be- Heinrich.-" I do not know."'
Jieved that the holr. impulse above mentioned be- Stollbein.-" What, dost thou not know that,
gan to abate in .ll'l'ln, and be therefore accepted thou clown 1 I had almost given thee a )lox 011
the situation with fear and trembling. He filled the ear. Sum, possum, now-what further1"
it with zeal and fidelity, and IJegan at length to Heinrick..-" I have not learned that."
suppose that it might not be displeasing to God Stollbein.-" Ho I Madalene I-call the ichool-
if he put our bis talent to usury, and ~ought to master." •
serve his neighbour. The schoolm.a~ter came. •
Heinrich, therefore, now began to go to the Stolll>ein.-" What do you teach !be boy 1"
Latin school. It may easily be imagined what The RchoolmaMer stoi>d at the door, with his
attention he excited among the other ~chool- hat under his arm, and said, humbl.v, "Latin."
boys. He was known merely in Stilling's house Stollbein.-" There, yvu good-for-nothing!-
and garden, and had never been among other he does not even know how many verba anomala
children. His speeches were always uncom- there are."
ruon, and few persons understood what he meant. &lwolmasler. - "Koowest thou not, Hein.
No youthful games, of which boys are generally rich 1"
so fond, affected him; he passed by, and saw "No," said the latter," Tknow not."
them not. Wieland, the schoolmaster, remark- The schoolmaster continnet!, "Nolo and malb,
ed bis abilities and his great diligence; he there- what kind of words are thev 1"
fore avoided troubling him; and as he perceived Heinrick..-" They are vei-ba anomala."
that he was unable to follow the tedious method Sclwnlma.ster.-" Fero and volo, what are they 1"
of committing long lessons to memory, he dis- Heinrick.-" Verba tinomnla."
pensed with it; and really, Heinrich's plan of "Now, your reverence," continued the scbool-
learning Latin was very advantatreous to him. master, "the boy knows all the words in thie
He placed the Latin trxt before him, looked for manner."
tlte words in thP. lexicon, found there what part Stollbein replied, "But he mu~t commit all
of speech ea~h word was, then looked at the ta- the mies to memory; go home-I'll have it so."·
ble of exceptions in the grammar, &c. Bv this Bntl1.-" Ye:, yo11r reverence!"
method, his spirit found food in the best Latin From that time Heinrich also learned with
authors, and he learned to write, read, and un- little·trouble all the rules by memory, hut he
derstand the language sufficiently. But what soon forgot them again. This appeared as though
caused him the greatest pleasure was a liule it wonld he peculiar to him; bis gl'nins soared
· library of the schoolmaster's which he bad per- above what was not easily overt'ome. But
mission to use. It consistecl of all kinds of u~e- enough of Stllling's learning Latin: we will
ful Cologne works, particularly RP.ynard the fo~, proceed fnrther.
with excellent wooden cuts; the Emperor Octa- Old Stilling now began to lay a~ide his pater-
vian with his wife and sons; a beautifnl history nal seriousness. and to be more tender towards
of the four children of H~vmon; Peter and his few remaining inmates. Jn particnlar, he
Magelone; the fair Melusina, and lastly, the kept Heinrich, who wa~ now eleven }eRrs old,
excellent Hanns Clauert. As soon as the school much awav from ~chool, and took him with him
was over in the af\ernoon, he set out on the rond when he went to his lahour in the fieltls; spoke
to Tiefeuhach, an•I read one of rhe•e histories 1mnc:h with him npon m~n's intee-rity in tht'
upon the way. The path led thron!!'h green Iworld, an<! p~rtic11larly of his conduct towards
meadows, wood•, and bnehea, up and down bill; God; recommended good books to him, espe-
Digitized by GoogIe
S T,I LL I lft•s CH IL DH 0 0 D. 91
cially the reading of the Bible, and afterwards
also ~·bat Dr. Luther, Calvin, <Ecolampadius,
and Bucer have written. One morning early,
Father Stilling, Marla, and Heinrich, went into
the forest, irr order io procure fire-wood. Mar-
garet had put a good mess of milk, with bread-
and-batter, into a basket for them, which Maria
carried upon h'r bead; she ascended the forest
first; Heinrich followed, and related with great
hilarity the history of the four children of Hay-
mon ; and Father Stilling, sapponlng himself
on h js hatchet, according to his custom, stalked
lahoTiously after them, and listened attentively.
They came at length to a remote pan of the for-
est, where there was a verdant plain'-at the end
of which was a beautiful spring. "Let us stop
here," said Father Stilling, and sat down; Ma-
ria took down her basket, placed it on the ~round,
and sat down also. But Heinrich agam saw,
in his soul, the Egyptian desert before him, in
which he would gladly have become a St. An-
thony; soon after, be saw before him the fountain
of Melosina, and wished that he were Raymond;
bOtb ideas then united themselves, and re$Ulted in
a piotlll romantic feeling, which enabled him to
taste all that which was good and beautiful in
this solitary region with the highest pleasure.
Father Stilling at length arose, and said,
"Children, stay here: I will go about a little,
and collect fallen wood; I will occa5lonally call
out, and you must answer me, lest I lose you."
He then went his way.
Meanwhile Maria and Heinrich Nit together
very sociably. "Tell me, aunt, once more,"
said Heinrich," the tale ofJoringel andJorinde."
Maria complied.
" Th'!re was once an old castle in the midst
of a large and gloomy forest. An old woman
lived in it quite alone; she was an arch-enchant-
ress. In the jlay-time she made herself into a
cat, or a hare, or an owl; but in. the evening, she
was again regularly formed like a human being.
She could entice game and birds to her, which
she afterwards killed1 and boiled or roasted. If
any one came within a hundred paces of the
c.istle, he was compelled to stand still, and could
not move from the place, until she 8et him free;
bat when a pure chaste virgin entered the circle,
she transformed her into a bird, and shut it up
in a cage in the rooms of the ca$t)e. She had
about seven thousand such cages with such rare
birds in the castle.
"Now there was once a maiden, whose name
•as Jorinde; she was more beantifnl than all
other maidens, and had promised herself Jn mar-
riage to a very handsome youth of the name of
Joringel. They were on the eve of their nup-
tials, and took the greatest delight in each other's
company. In order that they might converse
confidently together, they took a walk into the
wood. •Beware,' said Joringel, 'that thou dost
not come too near the castle!' It was a beauti-
ful evening; the sun shone brighl between the
trunks of the trees, into the dark verdure of the
forest, and the turtle-dove sung mournfully upon
the old beech-trees. Jorinde wept occasionally,
placed herself in the sunshine, and complained.
Joringel complained also; they were as confu-
sed as if they had been near death ; they looked
about, wece at a loss, and knew not which way
to return home. The sun still stood half above
the hill, and was half-set. Joringel looked
through the bushes, and saw the old walls of
the castle near him; he was terrified, and be-
came deadly afraid; Jorinde sung:.
• My lillltl' bird with the rillr oo nd,
Sing Iida, Iida, Iida;
The turtle-don moQl'U befOJ'O it i1 dead,
Sinr Iida, li-Ziebut ! Zicbut ! Zicbut !'
"Jorin~el looked at Jorinde. Jorinde was
cban~d into a nightingale, which sung Zick-
ent I :c.ickeutI An owl, with glaring eyes, dew
three times round them&. and cried three times,
'Sboo-hoo-boo-hoo I' Jorlngel could not move;
he stood there like a stone; he could neither
weep, nor speak, nor lift hand or foot. The sun
was now set; the owl dew into a bush, and im-
mediately afterwards, an old crooked woman
('ame out of the bush, yellow and meagl't', with
large red eyes and a crooked nose, the point of
which reached to her chin. ·she muttered, and
caught the nightingale, and bore it away in her
hand. Joringel could not utter a word, nor
move from the place. The nightingale was
gone; at length the woman came again, and
said, with a hollow voice, 'Greet thee, Zachiel l
when the moon shines into the cage, let loose,
Zachiel, at the proper hour!' Joringel was then
at liberty: be fell down on his knees before the
woman, and besought her to give him his Jo-
rinde again; but she said he should never have
her again, and went away. He called, he wept,
he mourned, but all in vain. Well, what hap-
pened 1 Joringel went away, and came at length
mto a strange village; be there kept sheep a
long time. He often went about the castle at
night, ·b'ut not too near; at length he dreamed,
one night, that he found a blood-red flower, In
the midst of which was a beautiful large pearl;
that he broke off the ftower, went with it to the
castle, and all that he touched with the flower
became free from enchantment ; he also dreamed
that by this means he recovered his dear Jorin-
de. In the morning when be awoke, be began
to search through hill and dale1 in order to find
such a flower; he sought until the ninth day,
when he found the blood-red dower, early in the
morning. In the midst was a large dew-droe,
as large as the finest pearl: He carried this
flower with him, day and night, till he arrived
at the castlii•. Well I what thinkest thou 1 When
he came within a hundred paces of the castle, he
did not stick fast, but went on to the gate. Jo-
ringel was highly rejoiced; he touched the gate
with the fiower, and it sprang open; he went in,
across the court, anil listened if he could hear
where the many birds were singing. At length
he heard them, and went on till he found the
chamber; the enchantress was there, feeding the
birds in the seven thousand cages. When she
saw Joringel she was angry, very angry; scold-
ed, spat forth venom and gall against him, bot
couM not come within two paces of him. He
did not trouble himself about her, but went and
looked at the cages with the birds. There were,
however, many hundred nightingales, and how
was he to find his Jorinde amongst them 1
Whil~ thus viewing them, he perceived that the
old woman privately took a cage with a bird in it,
and went with it towards the door. He imme-
diately sprang thither, touched the cage with the
flower, and also the old woman. She could now
enchant no longer; and Jorinde, who stood be-
fore him, threw her arms around his neck, as
beautiful as she had ever been. He then also
restored all the other birds to their original form,
went home with bis Jorinde, and they lived long
and happily together."
Heinrich sat as if petrified-his eyes fixed and
bis month half open. "Aunt I" said he, at
0i9;11zed by Google
HEIN R I C H S T1l. L I N G.
length, " it is enough to make one afraid in the
night!" "Yes," said she; "I do not tell these
tales at night, otherwise I f'hould be afraid my-
self." Whilst they sat thus, Father Stilling
whistled. Maria and Heinrich called out in-re-
ply. He came not Jong after, loQked cheerful
and pleasant, as if he had found something,
smiled also occasionally, stood, shook his head,
looked fixedly at onl' particular spot, folded his
hands1 and smiled again. Maria and Heinrich
lookea at him with astonishment, yet they did
not venture to ask him about it; for he often di·
as though he laughed to himself. Still111;, ~
heart was however too full; be sat down by
them, and related as follows: when he began,
his eyes were full of tears. Maria and Hein-
rich saw it, and their tears already overflowed.
"On leaving you to go into the wood, I saw
at a distance before me, a light, just as when the
sun rises in the morning, and was much surpri-
sed. ' What is that1' thought I; ' the sun is al-
ready standing in the heavens-is it a new sun J
It must be something strange: I will go and see
it.' I went towards it; as I approached, there
was before me a large plain, the extent of which
I could not overlook. I had never seen any thing
so glorious in all my life !-such a fine perfume,
and such a cool air proceeded from it, as I can-
not express. The whole region was white with
the light-the day with the sun is night compared
to it. There stood there many thousand beauti-
ful castles, one near another-castles! I cannot
describe them to you! as if they were made of
"silver. There were also gardens, bushes, brooks.
0 God, how beautiful I Not far from me stood a
large and glorious mansion (the tears here
flowed abundantly down the gaod Stilling's
cheeks, as well as those of Maria and Heinrich).
Some one came towards me out of the door of
this mansion, like a virgin. Ah 1 a glorious
angel I When she was close to me, I saw jt
was our departed Doris! . (All three now sob-
bed; neither of them could speak, except Hein-
rich, who wept, and exclaimed, '0 my mother,
my dear mother!') She said to me, in such a
friendly manner, with the very look which for-
merly so ofbn stole my heart,' FaJw, yonder is
mvr eternal ltabitation; you will soim come to m.'
I looked, but all was forest before me ; the glo-
rious vision had departed. Children, I shall die
soon-how glad am I at the thought!" Hein-
rich could not cease asking how his mother
looked, what· she had on, and such like. All
three pursued their labor during the day, and
spoke continually of this occurrence. But old
Stilling was from that time like one who is in a
strange land and not at home.
It was an ancient custom, which, like many
others, I have not yet mentioned, that Father
Stilling should, with his own hands, cover every
year a part of his straw-thatched cottage. He
had done thi.s for forty-eight years, and it was to
be done again that summer. He arrangl'd it so,
that he covered it anew every/ear, as tar as the
rye-straw served which he ha grown that year.
The time of thatching fell towards Michael-
mas-day, and was rapidly approaching, so that
Father Stilling began to prepa1'e for the work.
Heinrich was appointed to hand him the straw,
and therefore his going to school was postponed
for a week. Margaret and Maria daily held a
secret council in the kitchen, respecting the fit-
test means of restraining him from thatching.
Both at length resolved to represent the matter
to him seriously, and to warn him of the danger.
- . .... .
They appointed the time during dinner for die
purpose.
Margaret therefore brought up a dish of~
tables, on which were four pieces ofmeat,wh1ch
were laid so that each of them stood just before
the person they were destined for. Behind her
came Maria, with a jug full of milk and crum-
bled bread. Both placed their dishes on the
table, at which Father Stilling and Heinrich
already sat in their places, and spoke, with an air
of importance, of the thatching they intended to
commence on the morrow. For, to speak in
confidence, however intent Heinrich might be
upon his studies, sciences and books, still it was
a much greater joy, either to roam about the
woodsl or in the fields, or even climb upon the
roof 01 the house in the compally of his grand-
father; for this was now the third year in which
he had assisted his grandfather as deacon at this
yearly solemnity. It may therefore be easily
supposed, that the boy was heartily vexed when
he began to comprehend Margaret and Maria's
intention.
" I know not, Eberhard," said Margaret, whilst
laying lier left hand upon his shoulder; "thou
seemest to me to fall away so. Dost thou not
feel any thing of it in thy constitution 1"
Stilling.-" One grows older every day, Mar-
garet."
Margaret.-" 0 yes! certainly, old and stift"
" That's true," rejoined Maria, and sighed.
" My grandfather is still very strong for hia
age,'' said Heinrich.
"That I am, lad," answered the old man. "I
would still run up the ladder with thee for a wa-
ger.''
Heinrich laughed aloud : Margaret soon saw
that she could not carry the fortress on that side;
she th.erefore sought another way.
" (j yes," said she, "it is a peculiar favour to
be so well in one's old age; thou hast never been
sick, I believe, in thy life, Ebert 1"
Stilling.-" Never in my life; I know not what
sickness is ; for I went about when I had the
small-pox and measles."
"Yet I believe, father," rejoined Maria," tliat
you have been ill several times from falling; for
you have sometimes told us .that you have often
had dangerous falls.''
Stilling.-" Yes, I have had three mortal falls."
"Aud the fourth time thou wilt fall down,"
said Margarl'l; "I forbode it. Thou hast lately
seen a vision in the wood; and a little while
ago, a neighbour warned and begged of me not
to let thee go upon the roof: for she said that, in
the evenings, wlien she milked the cows, she had
heard a noise and a piteous lamentation near
our house in the road. I beg ofthee, Ebert, do
me the pleasure, and let some one else thatch
the hous~ ; thou dost not need to do it."
Stilling.-" Margaret, may not I, or any one
else, meet with some other misfortune on the
road 1 I have seen a vision, it is true; and our
neighbour may have had such a foreboding.
Now if this is certain, who can escape what
God has ordained coDCeming him 1 If he has
determined that I should end my course in the
road here, shall I, a P,!'Or stupid mortal, be able
to avoid it~ And 1f I am to fall down dead,
how shall I be able to presl'rve myself1 Sup-
posing I do not go upon the roof, may not I, to-
day or to-morrow, ascend a cartload of wood in
the road, in order to unload it, stumble, and
break my neck 1 Margaret, let me alone! I
will go on just as I have hitherto done, and if
my hour comes suddenly, I will call it welcome.''
Digitized by GoogIe
STI LLING'S CHILDHOOD.
'Margaret and Maria added still ·something more together the sweet fruits of their youth;
"'Jllore ; bat he heeded it not, and spoke, on the Stilling was particularly cheerful. Margaret
·c-.outrary, with Heinrich, on a variety of things descended again, and went with Maria to the
-regarding the thatching; they were therefore garden, which was a good way olf, down the
obliged to be content, and auempted the thing village. An hour afterwards, Stilling also de-
no more. sceaded ; and took a mattock in order to cut
The next morning they rose early, and old sods. For this purpose, he went to the end of
:Stilling began, whilst singing a morning hymn, the orchard, near to the wood. Heinrich re-
to loosen and throw down the old straw, which mained opposite the house, sittiQg under the
he easily accomplished in the course of the day, cherry.tree. Eberhard came at length again,
·so that the next day they were able to commence carrving a large piece ofgreen turf on hi11 head1
covering the roof with new straw; in short, the and bowed to Heinrich, looking very grave, ana
TOOfwas finished without experiencingthe slight- said," See what a night-cap." Heinrich start-
est danger or affright; only it was necessary to ed, and a tremor pervaded his whole soul. He
ascend it once more, In order to place strong has subsequently confessed to me, that this made
fresh sods along the ridge. Old Stilling, how- an indelible impression upon him.
ever, was in no hurry with this; a week some- Father Stilling, meanwhile, ascended the roof
times passed over before it occurred to him to _
with the sods. Heinrich was cutting a piece of
perform this last part of his labor. wood ; and whilst thus engaged, he heard a
The next Wednesday morning, Eberhard rose noise of some one falling. He looked towards
-uncommonly early, and went about in the house, the place, and blackness covered his eyes, like
from one room to another, all_ if be were seeking the night. The kind and dear old man lay
something. His family were surprised, and stretched out under the weight of the ladders,
asked him what he sought 1 "Nofhing,'' said his hands folded upon his breast, his eyes fixed,
-he; " I know not. I am very well, and yet I his teeth shaking, and all his limbs trembling,
.have no rest; I cannot be still any where, just like a person in a severe frost. Heinrich hasti-
as if there was something in me that impelled ly threw the ladders off him, stretched out his
me; I also feel an appreMnsion of which I know arms, and ran like one insane down the village,
not the reason." Margaret advised him to dress filling the w~ole valley with his moaning and
himself, and afterwar<ls to go with Heinrich to lamentation. Scarcely had Margaret and Ma-
·Lichthausen to visit his son Johann. He assent- ria heard in the garden the sorrowfal and well-
-ed, but wished first to lay the sods upon the ridge known voice of their dear boy, than Maria utter-
.of the house, and visit his son the day following. ed a deep cry, wrung her hands above her head,
His wife and daughter were both opposed to and dew up the village. Margaret hastened
this idea. At dinner, they seriously warned after her, with her arms extended, her eyes
·him not to go up<>n the roof; even Heinrich staring wildly, and now and then relieving her
begged him to hire some one to complete the oppressed bosom a little by a hoarse shriek.
thatching. But the worthy old man smiled with Maria and Heinrich were the first with the good
an unlimited induence on those around him-a man. He lay stretched out at full length, his
smile which had won so many a heart, and im- eyes and mouth were closed, his hands folded
pressed it with reverence, although at the same UP?n his breast, and he was breathing slowly
time he did not say a word. A man who has and strongly, like a healthy man in a sound
grown old in the enjoymentof a good conscience, sleep; nor was it any where perceptible that he
·with the consciousness of many good actions, had lost blood. Maria shed many tears upon
and who has accustomed himself to a free inter- his face, and moaned continually, "Ah I my
course with God and his Redeemer, acquires a f;lther ! my father!" Heinrich sat at his feet in
greatness and a freedom which the greatest con- the dust, sobbing and . weeping. Meanwhile
~ueror never attained. The whole of Stilling's Margaret arrived also; she fell down beside him
answer to this well.meant warning of his fam- on her l.."tlees, took her husband round the neck,
ily consisted in this.-That he would ascend the and called into his ear with her usual tone of
·cherry-tree, and once more eat Jiis full of cher- voice ; but he made no sign. The intrepid wom-
ries; for there was a tree which stood in the an then rose, took courage, nor had a tear fallen
.orchard behind, which bore fruit very late, but from her eyes. Some of the neighbours now
.so much the more excellent in quality. His came to them, and all shed tears, for he was
wife and daughter were amazed at this propo- universally beloved. Margaret quickly made
.sal, for he had not been in a tree for the last ten up a low bed in the room; 1he spread over it
years. "Now then,'' said Margaret, "for this her best sheets, which she had used,'some forty ·
time thou must exalt thyself, let it cost what it years before, in her bridal days. She then came
will." Eberhard laugher! and replied, " The out, quite resigned, and exclaimed, "Bring in
higher, the nearer heaven.Ii With this he went my Eberhard, and lay him upon the bed." The
out of the door, and Heinrich after him, towards men took hold of him, Maria held his head, and
the cherry-tree. He took hold of the tree with Heinrich had both his feet in his arms; they laid
his arms and knees, and climbing up to the top, him upon the bed, and Margaret undressed him
placed himself in a forked branch of the tree, and covered him up. He lay there, just like a
and began to eat the cherries, occasionally throw- healthy man asleep. Heinrich was now order-
ing down a twig to Heinrich. Margaret and ed to run to Florenburgh, to fetch a surgeon.
Maria came likewise. "Hold !" said the hon- . The latter came the same evening, examined
-est woman; " lin me up a little, Maria, that I him, bled him, and declared that, though there
may take hold of tb'l lowest boughs. I must try was no fracture, y'et his death would certainly
.whether I can also climb up." She succeeded, ensue within three days, there being a complete
and got up ; Stilling looked down, and laughed concnssion of the brain.
heartily, and said, "This may truly be called On this, Stilling's six children were all sent
·having our youth renewed like the eagle's." for, and arrived betimes on the Thursday morn-
There sat the two honest old grey-heads .in the ing; they all sat down round his bed, were silent,
branches of the cherry-tree, and enjoyed once ·mourned, and wept. The windows were hung
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
with cloth, and Margaret, very resignedly, attend.
ed tu her household atfairs. On the Friday af.
temoon, the sutferer's head began to move, the
upper lip lilted itself up a little, and became of
a blueish colour, and a cold sweat burst fonh
all over. His children all approached nearer
the bed. Margaret saw it also; she took a chair
and sat backwards near the wall in the dark; all
looked down and were silent. Heinrich sat at
bis grandfather's feet, looked at him occasion-
ally, with weeping eyes, and was silent also.
Thus they all sat till nine o'clock iri the even-
ing. Catherine then first observed that herfalher
ceased to breathe.-She called out piteously,
" My father is dying !" All fell with their faces
on the bed, sobbing and weeping. Heinrich
stood up, took his grandfather by the feet, and
wept bitterly. Father Stilling drew his breath
deeply, like one that sighs profoundly, and be-
tween each sigh his breath ceased entirely; no-
thing moved in his whole body, except the under
jaw, which projected forward a little at every
sigh.
Margaret Stilling, with all her grief, had not
yet wept; but, as soon as she heard Catherine's
exclamation, she rose up, went to the bed\ and
looked her dying husband in the face. Some
tears now fell down her cheeks ; she stretched
.herself ont, for she was a little bent by age, lift-
-eel up her eyes, and, extending her hands to-
·wards heaven, prayed wiih the utmost fervour
ofhean; she fetched her breath deeply every time,
which she spent in an ardent ejaculation. She
spoke the words as she was wont, in low Ger-
man, hut all were full of spirit and life. The
pUIJIOrt of them was, that her God and Redeemer
would graciously receive her dear husband's
soul, and take him to himselfin everlasting joy.
As she bCgan to pray, all her children looked
up astonished, sank by the bedside upon their
knees, and prayed with her in silence. The
last mortal blow now arrived :-the whole tody
was convulsed,i.
e uttered a cry, aud departed.
Margaret cease raying, took her deceased hus-
band's right ban , shook it, and said, " Fare-
well, Eberhard! we shall soon meet again in.
heaven." On saying thi•, she sank upon her-
knees, while all her children fell down around
her. Margaret now wesit the bitterest tears, and
mourned deeply. '
Meanwhile the neighbours came to dress the-
deceased. The children rose up, and the mother
tetched the shroud. He lay till the following
Monday on the bier, and was then taken to
Florenburgh to be interred.
The Reverend Mr. Stollbein appears in this.
history as a strange and obstinate man; bat
when not in this humour, he was kind and ten-
der-hearted. When Stilling was lowered int<><
his grave, he wept big tears ; and, in the pulpit,,
in the midst of c'ontinual weeping, his words
were, "I am grieved fur thee, my brother Jona-
than! Would God, I had died for thee'" And
the text for the funeral sermon was, " Well done,.
good and faithful servam ! thou hast been faith-
ful over a few things, I will make thee ruler
over many. Enter thou into the joy of thy
Lord!"
Should any of my readers come to· Floren-
burgh, opposite the church-door, at the highest
part of the church-yard, sleeps Father Stilling,
on the ascent. No sumptuous tombstone cov-
ers his grave; but in the spring, a pair of doves
coo and caress i:ach other solitarily between the-
grass and the dowers which spring fonh from.·
the mouldering remains of Father Stilling.
HEINRICH STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS.
CHAPTER V.
FATHE!I. Stilling was gone to the quiet babita·
tioh of his forefathers, and in his house every
thing reposed in mournful and deathlike silence.
For upwards of a century, every hatchet, milk·
pail, and other article of household furniture,
had bad its fixed place, and from long use had
become smooth and polished. Each neighbour
and friend from the neighbourhood or from a
distance, always found every thing in its wont·
ed 01'9er ; and this renders people sociable. On
C' entering ~e house-door, the individual felt him-
self at home. But now, every thing was still
and deserted, the voice of mirth and joy was
silent, and his place at the table remained emp-
ty ; no one ventured to sit down in it, until at
length Heinrich took possession of it ; but he
only half.filled it.
Margaret Stilling, meanwhile, mourned calm-
ly and without complaining ; but Heinrich spoke
much with her concerning his grandfather. He
imagined heaven to himself as a glorious coun-
try, full of woods, fields, and meadows, in all
the bloom and verdure of the finest spring, when
the south wind breathes over them, and the sun
imparts life and fecundity to every creature.
He then saw father Stilling walking about with
a glory round his head, and a silvery robe flow-
ing about him.
All his conversation had reference to these
ideas. Margaret-ence asked him, "What think-
est thou, Heinrich, that thy grandfather is doing-
at present!" He atiswered, " He will he trav-
elling to Orlon, to Sirins, to Charles's Wain, and'
the Pleiades, ·and take a good view of every
thing; he will then be truly astonished, and say,
as he has so often said, •0 what a wonderful'
God!'" "Bu• I have no mind for all this,'..
said Margaret; "what shall I do there!" Hein-
rich rejoined, "Act like Mary, who sat at the
feet of Jesus." With such discourse the memo-
ry of the good man was frequently renewed.
The housekeeping could not long exist on the-
footing it now was; the old mother, therefore,
requested her son-in-Jaw Simon, with his wife
Elizabeth, to take up their abode again in the--
house, for they had rented a house and garden
in another place, where they resided during-
father Stilling's life. They came with their
children and furniture, and took charge of the
paternal inheritance ;-immediately every thing-.
became strange ; they broke down a wall of the
room, and built out four feet further into the
yard. Simon had not room enoogh. He was-
no Stilling; and the oaken table, full of bless-
ing and hospitality-the honest old table-was
obliged to make way for a yellow maple one,
full of closed drawers, and had its place assign·
ed it on the beam behind the chimney. Hein-
rich occasionally made a pilgrimage thither, laid
himself down near it, on the loft, and wept.
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. i6
Simcm found him once In this posture, end said
to him, .. Heinrich, whet art thou doing here!"
The latter answered, " I am weeping about the
table." The uncle laughed, end eaid, "Thou
best good reason tu weep for an old oaken
board !" Heinrich was vexed, and added," Thia
handle behind, and that foot there, end thie work
at the handle, waa made by my grandfather ; be
that loves him would not break it." Simon waa
angry, and replied, "It was not large enough
for me ; and besides, what should I hue done
with my own!" "Uncle," said Heinrich," you
should hue placed it here till my grandmother
dies, and the rest of us-are gone."
Meanwhile, every thing was changed ; the
gentle breathing of Stilling'• spirit was trans-
muted into the roaring ofan anxioas desire af\er
money and property. Margaret felt "this, and
her children with her; she retired into a comer
behind the stove, and there she spent her re-
maining years; she became entirely blind, yet
this did not hinder her from spinning flax, in
which she passed her time.
Father Stilling is gone ; I will now follow
the footsteps of young Heinrich, his grandson,
wherever he.may go; nothing besides shall re-
tard me.
Johann Stilling was now bailiff'and landmeas-
nrer ; Wilhelm schoolmaster at Tiefenbach ;
Maria at service with her sister Elizabeth ; the
other daughters were married out of the house;
and Heinrich went to Florenburgh to the Latin
eebool.
Wilhelm had a room in Stilling's house; in
it there stood a bed in which he slept with his
son, and at the window was a table with the
appurtenances of his trade, for as soon as he
came from the school he laboured at his needle.
Jn the morning early, Heinrich took his satchel,
in which, besides the necessary schoolbooks,
there was a sandwich for dinner, as alao the
"History of the Four Children of Haymon," or
some other such book, together with a shep-
herd's flute. As soon aa he had breakfaated,
he set oft'; and when he waa outside the vil-
lage, he took out his book, and read whilst walk-
ing, or else q11avered some old b&llad or other
tune upon his flute. Learning Latin was not at
all difficult to him, and he had still time enough
to read old tales. In the summer he went home
every evening; but in the winter he came only
on the Saturday evening. and went away again
on the Monday morning ;-this continued four
years ; but the last summer he stayed much at
home, and assisted his father at his trade, or
made buttons.
Even the road to Florenburgh and the school
afforded him many a pleasant hour. The school-
master was a gentle and sensible man, and
knew I>< th bow to give and to take. After din-
ner Stilling assembled a number of children
about him, went out with them into the fields,
or to the edge of a brook, and then related to
thP.m all kinda of fine sentimental talee; and
after his store was exhausted, others were
obliged to do the same. Some of them were
once together in a meadow, when a boy came
to them, who began as follows : " Hear me,
children' I will tell you something. Near us
lives old Fruhling : you know how he totters
about with his etick ; be has no longer any
D
teeth, and he cannot see or hear much. Now
when be sits at the dinner-table, and tremble;
in such a manner, he always scattera much, and
sometimes some1bing falls out of bis mouth
again. Thia diagnsted his eon and his daugb-
ter·in-law ; and, therefore, the old grandfather
was at length obliged to eat in the comer, be-
hind the stove; they gave him something to eat
in an earthen dish, 11nd that of\en not enough
to eatiefy him. I have seen him eating; and
he looked ao sad af\er dinner, and hia eyea were
wet with teara. Well, the day before yeeter-
day he broke hia earthen dish. The young-
woman aeolded him eeverety, but he said noth-
ing, and only sighed. They then bought him a
wooden dieh for a couple of farthings, and he
was obliged to eat out of it yeeterday for the
first time. Whilst they were sitting thus at
dinner, their little boy, who is three years and
a half old, began to gather little boards together
on the floor. Young Fruhling said to him.
•What art thou doing there, Peter!' •O,' said
the child, 'I am making a little trough, out of
which my father and mother shall eat when I
am grown up.' Young Friihling and his wife
looked at each other awhile ; at length they
began to weep, and immediately fetched the.old
grandfather to the table, and let him eat witb
them." ·
The children sprang up, '•lapped their hands..
and cried out, "That is very pretty ;-did little
Peter say so!" "Yes,'' rejoined the boy, "I
atood by when it happened." Heinrioh Stilling.
however, did not laugh : he etood still. and
looked down ; the tale penetrated through him,
e•en to his inmost soul ; at length be began :
" I believe if that had happened to my grand~·
father, he would have risen up from his wooden
dish, gone Into a comer of the room, and, hav- ·
ing placed himself there, would have exclaimed,
' Lord, strengthen me at this time, Uiat I viay
avenge myselfof these Philistines!' He would
then have laid hold ofthe comer-poata, and have
polled the house down about them." "Gently,
gently, Stilting!" eaid one of the tallest of the
boya to him; "that would ha'Te been a little too-
bad of thy grandfather." "Thou art In -the
right," eaid Heinrich ; "but only think bow sa-
tanic it was !-how often may old Fruhling hne
had hie boy in his lap, and put the beat moraela
into his mouth ! It would not have been won-
derful if some fiery dragon, at midnight, whell
the first quarter of the moon had just set, had
hurled itself down the chimney ofsuch a houae.
and poisoned all the food.'' It was nothing
strange that he thought of the dragon; for eome
days before. on going home in the evening, he
himself had seen what he.thought a great one
flying through the air, and he was etill firmly
persuaded that it was one of the chief of the
devils.
Thus the time glided away, and the period
was at hand when he was to leave the Latin
school, and aesist his father in hie trade. Thia
was, however, a great trial to him ; he lived
only amongst his books, and it alway• seemed
to him that time eno11gh wa! not afforded him
for reading; on which account he had an iode-
acrib~ble longing to become a achoolmaater.
This was, in bis eyes, the most honourable eta·
tion he ever expected to attain. The. thought
of becoming a preacher was too far beyond Ilia
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
ephere. But when he sometimes eoared on
high, imagined himself in the pulpit, and then
redected what a happiness it would be to spend
a whole life surrounded by books, his heart en-
larged-delight pervaded him, and then it some-
times occurred to him that God did not create
·this impulse in him in vain ; therefore eaid he,
"'I will be quiet. He will lead me, and I will
.follow him."
of son-dials ; inside, before tile window, there
stood a square block, in the shape of a die, cov-
ered with paper, all the five sides of which were
adorned with sun-dials, the bends of which were
broken needles. On the ceiling above, there
was likewise a sun-dial, on which light was cast
by a piece of looking-glass in the window ; and
an astronomical ring, made of whalebone, hung
by a thread before the window; this latter served
in the place of a watch, when he went out. All
these dials were not only correctly and properly
drawn, but he also, even then, understood com-
mon geometry, together with writing and arith-
metic thoroughly, although he was only a boy
of twelve years of age, and an apprentice to the
trade ofa tailor.
This enthusiasm sometimes induced him,
when hie family was not at home, to act a pleas-
ant comedy; hecollected as manychildren round
tiim as he could gather together, hung a woman's
black apron on his back, made himself a ruff of
white paper, which he put round his neck, then
ascended an arm-chair, with the back before
him, and began to preach with a gravity which
astonished all his hearers. He did this ofien ;
for it was perhaps the only child's play in which
be ever indulged.
Now, it happened on one occasion, as he was
.declaiming very violently, and making hell hot
for his hearers, that the Rev. Mr. Stollbein all
at once entered tlie room ; he did not often
'llmile, but this time he could not smother his
·Jaughter. Heinrich, howtlver, did not laugh,
but stood there like a statue, pale as the wall,
and he was nearer weeping than laughing. His
bearers placed themselves all along the wall,
and folded their hands. Heinrich looked timid-
·Jy at the clergyman, fearing Jest he should lift
lip his cane to strike him, for sueh was his cus-
tom when he saw children at play ;-however,
be did not do so on this occasion ; he merely
. aaid, "Come down and place thyself yonder,
and throw aside that foolish dress!" Heinrich
· ·willingly.obeyed. Stollbein continued:
" I believe thou intendest to act the preacher."
Heinril:h.-" I have no money lo study."
StoUbein.-" Thou shalt not be a preacher,
but a schoolmaster."
Heinril:h.-"That I will, gladly, your rever-
-ence ! But if our Lord God will have me be-
eome a preacher, or eome other learned man,
mllllt I then say, 'No, gracious God, I will con-
·tinue a schoolmaster-his reverence will have
it eo.'"
Stollbein.-" Hold thy tongue, thou ass ! do11t
1bou not know whom thou hast before thee 1''
I The clergyman then catechized all the chil-
1iren, in which he had an excellent git\.
At the next opportunity Mr. Stollbein sought
to persuade Wilhelm to send bis son to the uni-
versity ; he even promised to procure the sup-
;plies, but this undertaking was too great to be
1mrmounted.
Heinrich, meanwhile, struggled honestly with
bis unpleasant situation. His inclination to
1ceep a school was inexpressible ; but solely in
()rder that he might get rid of his trade, and be
able to occupy himself with books ; for he felt
plainly that the instruction of other children
would be extremely tedious to him. However,
he made his life as tolerable as he possibly could.
Mathematics, together with ancient histories,
and tales of romance, were his department ; for
be had really studied through Tobias Beutel,
and Bion's mathematical work-school ; dialling,
in particular, dehghted him beyond measure.
It was curious to see how he had garnished the
comer in which he sat at his needle, according
So his own fancy. The window-panes were full
Young Stilling now also began to attend Mr.
Stollbein's catechizations. But though this
was a tride to him, yet it had also its difficul-
ties; for as the reverel)d gentleman had always
an eye upon him, he continually discovered
something that displeased him ; for instance,
when he entered the church or the vestry, he
was always the'foremost, and had therefore al-
so always the uppermost place; this Stollbein
could not endure, for he uncommonly loved hu-
mility in other people. Once, he attacked him,
and said,-
" Why art thou always the foremost 1"
He answered, "When there is any thing to
learn, I am not willingly the hindmost."
StoUbein.-" What, thou clown 1-knowest
thou no medium between behind and in the
front 1"
Stilling would gladly have added a word or
two, but he was afraid of enraging the clergy-
man. Mr. Stollbein walked up the room, and
on coming down, he said smiling,-" Stilling,
how do'st thou translate medium tenutre beati ?"
Heinrich.-" That means, the saints have
kept the middle way ; yet it seems to me, it
might also be said, plerique medium tenentu .rullt
damnati." (The most of those are damned, who
kept the middle way-that is, men neither cold
nor hot:) Mr. Stollbein started, looked at him,
and said, "Boy, I tell thee thou shalt have the
right of standing first ; thou hast made an ex-
cellent reply.'' However, he never stood fore-
most again, in order that the other children
might not be vexed. I know not whether it
was cowardice or humility. Mr. Stollbein now
asked him why he did not go to his place. He ·
answered, " He that humbleth himself shall be
exalted.'' "Silence !" rejoined the clergyman;
"thou art a presumptuous boy.''
Things continued thus until Easter of the
year 1755, when Heinrich Stilling was fourteen
years and a-half old. A fortnight before this
time, the Rev. Mr. Stollbein sent for him to
come to him alone, and said to him, " Hear me,
Stilling ; I would gladly make a brave fellow of
thee, bot thou must behave thyself well, and be
obedient to me, thy superior. At Easter I will
confirm thee, with some others, who are older
than thou, for the reception of the holy sacra-
ment, and then I will see if I cannot make a
schoolmaster of thee.'' Stilling's heart leaped
for joy; he thanked the clergyman, and pro-
mised to do every thing he wished him. This
pleased the old man exceedingly ; he let him go
in peace, and faithfully kept his word ; for at
Easter he went to the sacrament, and was im-
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. 97
mediateay appointed ecboolmaater of Zellherg, place between hie father and hie late mother, •
which office be wae to enter upon on the first and between bis father and himself, then pre-
of May. The Zellberg people also anxiously sented themselves to his soul, like so many pic'-
desired him, for his fame had spread far and tures irradiated with the most glorious light;
wide. It is impossible to expre1a the pleaeure he stood like one intoxicated, and yielded him-
whicb young Stilling felt on this occaaion ; be self entirely up to bis sensations. He then
could scarcely wait for the day which was fixed looked at the distant prospect ;-twelve Ger-
:for bis entrance into office. man miles southward lay the Taunus, or Feld-
Zellberg lies just behind the summit of the berg, near Frankfort ; eight or nine miles west.
Giller; and the road to it from Tiefenbach leads ward, lay before him the seven hills on the
directly up through the wood. As soon as a Rhine, besides numberless less celebrated emi-
person ascends the hill, h~ has before him a nences; but to the north-west lay a high hill,
large level field, near the rigot side of the wood, whose summit almost rivalled that of the Gil.
whose aged oaks and beech-trees planted in a ler, and hid from Stilling's view the prospect of
straight line towards the east, like a PruBBian the scene of his future important destinies.
regiment on the parade, seem to prop the sky ; This was the place wher~ Heinrich could
in the same direction, at the end of the wood, linger for an hour together, without being fully
there rises a bqshy hill, called the Heights, and conscious of himself; his whole spirit was
also, 1he Hiingesberg ; this is the highest point prayer, inward peace, and love to the Almighty,
in all Westphalia. From Tiefenbacb to this who had made all these things.
J>lace, there is a continual, straight, and steep Sometimes also, he wished himself a prince,
aeoent, for three quarters of a league. To the that be might build a town upon this plain. It
left lies a delightful plain, which, towards the was immediately there in his imagination. His
llOrth, elevates itself into a hill, covered with own residence was fixed on the St.,Anthony's
com-fields ; this is called St. Anthony's Church; Church ;-on the heights he saw the citadel of
probably a chapel stood there in ancient times, the town, like Montalban in the wooden cuts in
dedicated to that saint. In the front of this the book of the Fair Melusina ; this citadel was
bill, to the south, lies a charming manorial farm, to be called Heinrichsburg; but as to the name
which is occupied by farmers. To the north- of the town, he was still in doubt ; however, the
east, the plain terminates in a beautiful mea- name Stillingen seemed to him the most beauti-
dow, at the foot of two busby hills; betwixt ful. Whilst occupied in this manner, he as.
this meado)V and the heights a green path-way cended from a prince to a king; but when he
leads through the bushes from the field, along had reached" the Heights," he saw Zellberg Jy.
the aide of the bill, until at length it hides itself ing before him, and he was then nothing more
in solemn obscurity from the view; it is a mere than the temporary schoolmaster of that place,
forest-path, so formed by nature and accident. and with this he was quite satisfied-for he had
As soon as the highest bill is surmounted, the time for reading.
traveller arrives at the village of Zellberg; it There dwelt at this place a forester, of the
lies -therefore on the east side of the Giller, name of Kriiger, a worthy and honest man ;
where a brook springs up in a meadow, which this person had two young boys, of whom he
at length becomes a river, and falls into the was desirous to make something. He bad been
Weser not far from Cassel. The situation of . cordially attached to old Stilling, and therefore
this place is enchantingly beautiful, particularly he loved bis children also. It gave joy to the
towards the close of the spring, during the sum- soul of this man to see young Stilling as school.
mer, and in the beginningof autumn; but in the master in his village. He therefore resolved to
winter it ia terrible there. The bowling of the take him into his house. Heinrich was well
storm, and the quantity ofsnow which is hurled pleased with this arrangement ; his father made
down by the wind, tranaforms this paradise into all the clothes for the forester and bis family,
a Norwegian landscape. This place therefore and therefore was well acquainted with them ;
was the first in which Heinrich Stilling was to besides, he knew that Kruger had many rare
give proof of his abilities. books, of which he hoped to make good use.
· In the small villages in that country, echool He consequently fixed his quarters there; and
is kept from the first of May till Martinmas, and the first thing he undertook was the examina- ,
<COnsequently through the summer, but only two tion of Kruger's library. He opened an old
days in the week, namely, Friday and Satur- folio, and found a translation of Homer in Ger.
day; and such was also the case at Zellberg. man verse; he leaped for joy, kissed the book,
Stilling went thither on the Friday morning at pressed it to his breast, requested the loan of it,
sunrise, and returned the Saturday evening. and took it with him to the school, where he
This walk had for him something indescribable, carefully shut it up in the drawer under the ta·
particularly when he ascended the hill and en- hie, and read in it as often as possible. He had
tered the plain before sunrise, and saw the sun translated Virgil at the Latin school ; and on
rising in the distance between the bushy bills ; that occasion had heard so much of Homer, that
-rbefore it breathed a gentle wind, which play· he would previool!ly have given treasures to
ed with his locks ; his heart then melted, he have been able to read it ; the opportunity now
often wept, and wished to see angels, like Jacob presented itself to him, and be faithfully availed
at Mahanaim. When he thus stood dissolved himself of it.
in feelings of delight, be turned about, and saw Seldom has the Ilia1l, since it has been in the
Tiefenbach lying below in nocturnal vapour. world, been read with more rapture and feeling.
To the left, a large hill descended from the Gil- Hector was a man-not so Achilles-still less
ler, called der laitzige Stein; and forward, to the AgaJllemnon; in a word, he took the part of
right, lay close at hand the ruins of Geisenberg the Trojans throughout : yet he scarcely deign-
.castle. .All the scenes which had there taken ed to bestow a thought upon Paris and his Hel-
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
en ; particularly because he always remained at
home. although be caused the war. " What an
intolerably n11serable fellow he is!" thought he
often to himsell. He regretted no one so much
as old Priam. The images and scenery of Ho-
mer were so much according to his taste, that
he could not refrain from exultiQg aloud when-
ever he met with a very animated expression,
which was adapted to the subject ;-this would
have been the right time for him.to have read
Ossian.
This high degree ofsentimentansm had how-
ever its minor causes also, for the whole sur-
rounding country contribute.I to it. Let the
reader imagine to himself a mind susceptible,
even to the highest degree ofenthusiasm, whose
taste was natural, and not yet in subjection to
any specific mode, and which had felt, seen, and
studied nothing but real nature, which Jived
. without care or sorrow, highly satisfied with its
situation, and open to every pleasure ;-imagine
such a spirit reading Homer, in the most beau-
tiful and natural scenery in the world, and that
early in the morning ;-call to mind the situa-
tion of the place : he sat in the school, near two
·Windows which looked towards the east; the
school stood on the south side, on the declivity
of the loftiest hill, and around it were planted
old birch-trees with snow-white stems, on a
verdant lawn, whose dark-green leaves trem-
bled continnaJly in the restlesljl breeze. To-
wards sunrise, there was a beautiful valley of
meadows bordered by bushy hills and moun-
tains. Towards the sooth lay, something low-
er, the village ; behind it a meadow, and then
a range of fields imperceptibly rose, which were
terminated by a wood. Towards the west, and
near at hand, was the lofty Giller with its thou-
sand oaks. Here Stilling read Homer in May
and June, when the whole hemisphere is beau-
tiful, and rejoices in the strength of its Preserv-
er and Supporter.
Jn addition to this, all his peasants were na-
turally a gOod sort of people, whose minds were
stored with old tales and narratiYes, which they
brought to light on every occasion. By this
means the schoolmaster was nourished with his
own element and increasingly disposed to sen-
timentalism. On one occasion, he took a walk
upon the highest hill behind the school ; and on
its summit he met with an old peasant from the
village, who was gathering sticks : as soon as
the latter saw the schoolmaster coming, he
ceased working and said, " It is well, schoolmas-
ter, that you are come, for I am tired. Listen
now to what I wiJJ tell you ; I was just think-
ing about it. I and your grandfather once burnt
charcoal here, above thirty years ago, and we
were then very happy. We always came to
meet each other, ate and drank together, and
were continually talking over old tales. As far
as your eye can reach, you cannot see a hill the
name of which we did not caH to mind, and the
place to which it adjoins; we had then great
pleasure in lying down on the graes, in this
manner, and telling each other tales, pointing
out at the same time the place where they hap-
pened." The peasant now held his left hand
over his eyes, and with his right he pointed to-
watds the west and north-west, and said, "A
,. little below, yonder, you eee Geisenberg castle;
immediately behind it, a good way off, is a lofty
hill with threeeummits, the middle one of which
is still called the Kindelsberg. In ancient times,
there stood a csstle there, which had also that
name, and wht>rein fe9ided some knights, who
were very wi!lked. To the right, they had a
very excellent silver-mine, hy which they be-
came amazingly rich. Well, what happened!
Their presumption went so far that they caused
silver balls to be made, and when they played,
they struck at these balls with ail•er bats ;-
then they baked large cakes of wheaten flour,
as big as coach-wheels, made holes in the mid-
dle, and put axle-trees on them ; now this was
a heinous sin, for how many people have not
bread to eat ! At length the Lord God was
weary of it ; for there came a little white man
to the castle, one evening late, who notified to
them that they must all die within three days,
and gave them a sign, which was, that in that
Slime night a cow would cast two Jambs. This
took place, but no one heeded it, except the-
youngest son, a knight whose name was Sig-·
mund, and a daughter·who was a very beautiful
lady. These two prayed day and night. The-
others died of the plague, but these two conti-
nued alive. But there was here, on the Gel-
senberg, also a young·bold knight, who con-
stantly rode a large black horse, on which ac-
count he was always termed •the Knight with
the black horse.' He was a wicked man, and
was continually robbing and murdering. This.
knight fell in Jove with the fair lady on the Kin-
delsberg, and would abeolutely have her; but
the thing had a bad end. I still know an old
song about it.''
The schoolmaster said, "Let me beg of you,
Kraft," for so was the peasant called, "to n--
peat the song to me." Kraft answered, "That
I will, gladly ; I will sing it to you.''
"~ear Klndel~berg Cllllle'• lofty IOwere,
There 1tand1 an old linden-tree ·
118 numerous branches, 10 crook;./ and latge,
Wave lo the cool breeir.e., free.
Cloee IO thla linden-tree there atalldll
A 11one both broad nnd high ;
'Tia clad with old mo.1 of red and grey hue
And the storm and the rain dOlh defy.
There oleepa a maiden the doleful sleep,
Who was truelO her knlitht so·dear;
A noble count of lhe Marl< was he.
Rut her end wu woeful and drear.
He went with her btolber IO a dillant land,
To the tournament oo gay ;
He gave the mnlden the Iron hand;
She wept In sad dlemny.
The time already wu long elnpood;
.... The count retum'd not again;
l!lhe aat he-If down by the linden-tree,
And moum'd from heartfelt pain.
There come a young knllcht IO the pince where lhe lay,
Upon a jet-black steed;
He spoke IO the maiden In friendly guile,
And proudly his suit did plead.
The virgin replied, •Tbeu never mayest have·
Me for thy tender bride.
Until this linden-tree "° green
Shall have wltber'd away and died.'
The linden-tree waa still young and tall :-
The knight aought the country round
For a wltber'd one, equally hl&h and large,
Until such a tree be found.
He went by the light or the mldnll!bt - .
Dug up the green linden·tree,
And planted the whber'd one In 118 placa
With care, that none might see.
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'$ YOUTHFUL YEARS. 29
Tbe maiden rose nt break orday.
Her window appenr'd IO light;
TIMI linden-uee'• ehadow play'd on It no more,
And darlul- cover'd her lighc.
A-y llbe ran to the linden-tree,
Alld eat henelf down to complain;
The kn(j(bt soon appear'd, wllh lolly mien,
. And demanded her heart aguln.
The maiden repllPd, In deep dl1"911,
'lam unable thee to love!'
The haughty knight stmck her dt!tld to the ground,
Wblcb tbe count to tean did move.
The count return'd that aelf-aame day,
And eaw, In doleful mood,
Bow by the wlther'd linden lay
The mu.Idea In her blood.
And there he made a grave profonnd
Bia love'• aad resting-place ;
And sought for a llndeo the counll)' round,
The virgin'• tomb to grace.
And a tarp stone he fixed there,
Which lllalldl In the breeze IO flee;-
Th.,., tlee1» the maiden once so l&lr,
IA Ille &bade ofthe llnden·tree."
much too tedious for hiin. On the Sunday
morning the school-children assembled them-
selves around their agreeable teacher, and Uiua
he walked with his retinue, whilst relating the
most beautiful tales, to the church at Floren.
burg, and after sermon, in the same order, home
again.
The Zellberg people were, however, well sat-
isfied with Stilling; they saw that their children
learned, without receiving much correotion ;
many of them even took a pleasure in all the
beautiful tales which their children were able
to relate to them. Kruger, in particular, loved
him extremely, for he could talk much with him
out of Paraacelsus (for so he pronounced the
word Paracelsus); he had.an old German trans-
lation of his writings, and as he was a slavish
admirer of all those whom be believed to have
possessed the philosopher's stone, consequently
Jacob Bohme's, Count Bernhard's, and Paracel-
sus's works were precious relics in bis esteem.
Stilling himself had a relish for them, not merely
Stilli.ng listened in silence ;-he scarcely ven- on account of the philosopher's stone, but be-
tured to breathe ;-the fine voice of old Krafi, cause he thought he found very sublime and
the touching melody, and the tale itself, wro11ght glorious ideas, particularly in Biihlll_e; when
upon him in such a manner that his heart beat they pronounced the words " wheel of the eter-
violently. He often visited the old peasant, nal essences," or even "oblique lightning," and
who sang him the song repeatedly, until be others of the same kind, he felt a very peculiar
knew it from memory. · elevation of mind. They investigated magical
The sun now sank beneath the distant blue figures for hours together, until they ofien lost
bill, and Kral\ and the schoolmaster descended both beginning and end, and imagined that the
cbe eminence together ; the brown and piebald figures before them 1ived and moved ; this was
coo were grazing in the pasture, the sound of then a real enjoyment of soul to them in this
thei! hoarse bells reechoing hither and thither; kind of intoxication, to have and feel grotesque
rhe boys ran about in the gardens, and divided ideas in a lively manner.
their bread, huller, and cheese with each other; This paradisiacal life, however, was of short
the women were engaged in preparing the cow- duration. The Rev. Mr. Stollbein and Kruger
stalls, and the hens fluttered 11p to their roosts; the forester, were mortal enemies. The reason
the orange and red.brown cor.k turned himself of it wa1 this :-Stollbein was an unlimited
once more upon his perch before the hole, and monarch in his parish ; his privy-council, I
and crowed a gnod night to his neighbours; the mean the consistory, was entirely composed of
burners of charcoal conversed together, as they men whom he himself bad selected, and of
descended the wood, their wallets on their whom he knew beforehand, that they were sim-
backs, and rejoiced at the approach of repose. pie enough always to say ye•. Father Stilling
. Heinrich Stilling's method of teaching was was the last that had been appointed by the
smgular, and so ordered that he lost little or former preacher; hence he found opposition no
nothing by it. In the morning, as soon as the where. He declared war and concluded peace,
children entered the school, and we(e all as- without asking advice of any one; every one.
sembled, he rrayed with them and catechized feared him, and trembled in his presence. How.
them in the first principles of religion, according ever, I cannot say that the common weal suf.
lo his own ideas, without book. He then let fered particularly under his government ; for
each of them read a portion ; when this was with all bis faults he bad. a number of good
done, he encouraged the children to learn the qualities. Only Kruger and some of the first
catechism. promising to relate charming tales people of Florenburg hated him so much that
lo them if th!!y learned their tasks well. Mean· they scarcely ever went to church, much less
while he wrote what they were to copy, let took the sacrament with him. Kruger asserted
them all read once more, and then began his openly, that·he was possessed by the evil one;
narrations, by which all that he had ever read and therefore he always did the very' reverse
10 the Bible, in the Emperor Octavian. the Fair of that which the clergyman wished.
Magelone, and others, was graduallv exhausted ; After Stilling had been some weeks at Zell·
eYen the destruction of the regal "city of Troy. berg, Mr. Stollbein resolved to visit his new
.,,.as undertaken. Such was the manner and schoolmaster there. He came to the school at
cust!•m in his school, from one day to another. nine o'clock in the forenoon; fortunately, Still·
It is impossihlc to express with what zeal the ing was neither reading nor relating. But sti.J.l
children learned their tasks in order that they he knew that he was lodging with Kruger; he
might the earlier listen to the tales; and if therefore looked very cross, gazed around him,
they were perverse or not diligent, the school- and asked, "What are you doing with slates in
:naster did not relate his histories, but read .to the s<:hool 1" {Stilling instructed the children
himself. in the eYening in arithmetic,) The schoolmas-
No one lost by this singular mode of instruc- ter answered, "The children use them for cal-
tion, but the scholars in A. B. C. and spelling; culations in the evening." The clergyman
this part of StiUing's scholastic duties was continued,-
Digitized by GoogIe
30 HEINRICH STILLING.
"That I can suppose; but who told yon to Ihim again in bis old comer, at the needle.
do that 1" The trade of a tailor was now doubly disgusting
Heinrich knew not what he should say ; he to him, al\er having tasted the sweets of keep-
looked his reverence in the face, and was as- ing school. The only, thing that still gave him
tonished ; at length he replied, with a smile, pleasure, was, to repair his old sun-dials, and
" He that appointed me to teach the children to relate to bis grandmother the excellencies of
read, write, and the catechism, told me also to Homer, who seemed pleased with all she heard,
instruct them in arithmetic." and even relished it-not from a natural feel-
Stollbein.-" You --- ! I had almost said ing, but because she remembered that her dear
something. ';['each them first what is most Eberhard bad been a great admirer of such
needful for them, and when they have learned things.
that, then teach them arithmetic likewise."
Stilling's heart now began to give way ; it Heinrich Stilling's sufferings now assaulted
was constitutional with him, instead of being him in all their violence; he firmly believed he
angry and irritated like others, for the tears to was not born to be a tailor, and be was heartily
come into his eyes, and tlow down his cheeks ; ashamed of sitting in such a manner at his
but there is a case in which he can be really needle; therefore when any person of respecta-
angry, and that is, when he himself, or some bility entered the room be blushed.
grave and sentimental subject, is treated satiri- Some weeks after this, uncle Simon was met
eally. "Indeed!'' rejoined he; "what shall I on the highway by the Rev. Mr. Stollbein. On
do~ The people will have me teach the chil- seeing the clergyman on horseback at a dis-
dren accounts, and your reverence will not per- tance, he laboured with all bis might to get his
mit it. Whom must I obey1" cart and oxen out of the road into the field, and
" I have to command in school matters," said placed himself near the oxen with bis hat in his.
Stollbein, "and not your peasants !"-and with hand, until Mr. Stollbein came up.
that be went out of the door. Stollbein.-" Well, what is your brother-in-
Stilling immediately ordered all the slates to law's son doing~"
be taken down, and laid in a heap behind the Simon.-" He sits at the table, and sews."
stove, under the seat. He was obeyed; every Stollbein.-" That's right ! I'll have it so !"
one, however, wrote hie own name upon his Stollbein rode on, and Simon continued his.
slate, with his pencil. way home. He immediately related to Wil-
Al\er school, he went to the churchwarden, helm what the clergyman bad said. Heinrich
related the circumstance to him, and asked bis heard it with the most heartfelt pain ; but took
advice. The man smiled, and said, "Mr. Stoll- courage again, when be saw how his father
bein has probably vented bis ill-temper ; lay threw his work aside in a rage, and said pas-
the slates aside, so that be may not see them sionately, "And I'll have him keep school as.
when he comes again; but do you continue as soon as opportunity offers!" Sim)n rejoined.
before ; the children must learn arithmetic." " I would have lei\ him at Zellberg; the clergy-
He told it also to Kriiier, who thought the evil man might have been conquered." "That
one possessed him; and according to his opin- might have been done," replied Wilhelm; "but
ion, the girls ought to learn accounts-bis chi!- then I should have made him always my enemy,
clren, at least, should now begin. This accord- and have lived uncomfortably. Suffering is
ingly took place, and Stilling was even obliged better than striving." "For my part," contin-
*° instruct the eldest boys in geometry. ued Simon, "I do not care a Straw for him;
Matters continued thus during the summer; let him only once come too near me!" Wilhelm
bnt no one imagined what would occur in the was silent, and thought it was easy to say so in
autumn. A fortnight before Martinmas, the the room, behind the stove.
churchwardens came to the school, and an- The tedious time which he was obliged to
nounced to Stilling, in the name of the clergy- devote to his trade, did not, on this occasion.
man, that be must leave the school at Martin- last long ; for a fortnight before Christmas, a
mas, and return to his father. This was a clap letter from Dorlingen, in the Westphalian coun-
of thunder to the schoolmaster and his scholars; ty of Mark, arrived at Stilling's house ;-a rich
they all wept together. Kriiger and the rest man of the name of Steifmann dwelt there,
of the Zellbergers were almost mad; they who wished to have young Stilling as private
stamped with their feet, and swore that the tutor. 'fhe conditions were, that Mr. Stief-
clergyman should not deprive them of their manni's children should receive instruction from
schoolmaster. But Wilhelm Stilling, however new-year until Easter, for which he would give
much vexed he felt, found it more advisable to Stilling board and lodging, light and fire ; he
take back his son, in order not to prevent his· was also to receive five rix-dollars salary ; but
future good fortune. The Sunday afternoon for this he would have to instruct as many of
before Martinmas, the good schoolmaster put the children of the neighbouring farmers as.
bis few clothes and books into a bag, bung it they would send him, while Mr. Steifmann
over his shoulder, and, leaving Zellberg, as~ pocketed the money for their schooling; in this
cended the Heights ; his scholars followed him mariner, he bad his own children educated al-
in troops, weeping ; be himself shed tloods of most for nothing.
tears, and bewailed the sweet season he had Old Margaret, Wilhelm, Elizabeth, Maria, and
spent at Zellberg. The whole of the western Heinrich, now conferred together respecting
heaven presented a gloomy appearance ; the this letter. Margaret, aller some considera-
sun crept behind a black moutain of clouds, and tion, began as follows :-" Wilhelm, keep the
he wandered in the darkness of the forest down lad with thee; only think, it is no joke to send
the Giller. a child to such a distance! There will be
On the Monday morning, his father placed doubtless some situation to be found for him
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. 31
here in the neighbourhood." "That is true,"
said Maria ; " my brother Johann often says
that the peasants thereabouts are such coarse
people ; who knows what U1ey will do to the
boy~ Keep him here, Wilhelm !" Elizabeth
also gave her vote ; but she thought it was bet-
ter that Heinrich should try to make bis way
in the world ; if she had to command, he should
go. Wilhelm at length concluded, without say-
ing why, that if Heinrich had a mind to go, he
should consent to it. "Yes, indeed, I am will-
ing to go," interrupted he; "l wish I was al-
ready there !" Margaret and Maria grew sad
and were silent. Wilhelm, therefore, answered
the letter, and every thing was agreed to.
Dorlingen lay nine whole leagues from Tiefen-
bacb. Perhaps none of Stilling's family had, for
centuries, wandered so far away, or been so
long absent. For some days before Heinrich's
departure, all the family wept and lamented ; he
alone was inwardly rejoiced. Wilhelm conceal-
ed his sorrow as much as he co1lld. Margaret
and Maria felt too deeply that be was a Stilling ;
hence they wept the most, which from the blind
eyes of the old grandmother bad a pitiable ap-
pearance.
The last morning arrived, and all were
plunged in sorrow. Wilhelm usually demean-
ed himself harshly towards him, but the parting
softened him so much the more. Heinrich also
shed many tears ; but be ran and wiped them
away. At Licbtbausen, he called upon his un-
cle, Johann Stilling, who gave him much good
advice. The carriers now came, who were to
take him with them, and Heinrich joyfully set
out on bis journey.
That part of the country through which he
bad to travel looked very melancholy at this
leal!On of the. year. It made an impression
upon him which plunged him into a kind of de-
spondency. " If Dorlingen lies in such a coun-
try as this," thought he, continually, "I shall
not be pleased with it." The carriers with
whom h'3 travelled were at· home there ;-he
often observed how they went behind him and
ridiculed him ; for because be did not converse
with them, and looked rather bashful, they took
him for a simpleton, with whom they might do
what they would. Sometimes one "
of them
pulled him behind, and when be turned about
they pretended to be transacting matters of im-
portance amongst themselves. Such treatment
was enough to excite his anger: he bore it a
few times ; but at length he tamed about, look-
ed at them sharply, and said, "Hear me, good
people : I am going to be your schoolmaster at
Dorlingen, and if your children are such ill-bred
creatures as I suppose them to be, I shall know
bow to teach them other manners ; you may
tell them of this when you get home !" The car-
riers looked at each other, and merely for the
sake of their children they lei\ him in peace.
Late in the evening, at nine o'clock, he ar-
rived at Dorlingen. Steifmann examined him
from head to foot, as did also his wife, children,
and servants. They gave him something to eat,
after which he lay down to sleep. On awaking
early in the morning, he was much terrified,
for he saw the sun, according to his ideas, rising
in the west ; it continued to ascend towjlrds the
north, and set in the evening in the east. This
he could not at all comprehend; and yet he un-
deratood so much of astronomy and geopraphy
aa to be well aware that the Zellberg and Tief-
enbach sun must be the eame as shone at Dor-
lingen. This strange circumstance confust!d
his conceptions, and he now heartily wished he
had his uncle Johann's compass, in order to see
whether the needle agreed with the sun in de-
ceiving him. He found, indeed, at length, the
cause ofthia phenomenon; he had arrived late·
the evening before. and had not observed the
gradual winding of the valley. However, he-
was unable to master his imagination; every
view he took of the rude and desert country
around, appeared to him, for this reason, gloomy
and terrific.
Steifmann was rich ; he possessed much
wealth, land, oxen, kine, sheep, goats, and
swine; and besides these, a steel.foundry, in·
which articles were manufactured with which
he carried on business. At that time, he bad
only his second wife ; but afterwards he mar-
ried a third. or perhaps even a fourth; fortune
favoured him so much that be was able to take-
one wife after another-at least, the decease of
his wives and marrying again seemed to afford
him peculiar amusement. His present wife was
a good-natured creature ; but her husband often
spoke to her in a very edifying manner of the
virtues of his first wife, so that from excessive
and heartfelt feeling she wept bitter tears. In
other respects, he was not at all irascible ; he
did not speak much, but ·what he said was
weighty and emphatic, because it generally gave
offence to some one present. He entered into
conversation with his new schoolmaster at first,
but he did not please him. Of all that Stilling
was accustomed to talk about, he did not un-
derstand a 'ivord, just as little as Stilling com- ·
prehended his patron's conversation. They .
were therefore both silent when together.
The following Monday morning, the school
commenced. Steifmann's three boys made the
beginning; in a short time, about eighteen tall,
square-shouldered lads made their appearance,
who, compared with their schoolmaster, were
like so many Patagonians compared with a
Frenchman. Ten or twelve girls of much the
same size and figure, came also and placed
themselves behind the table. Stilling scarcely
knew what he should do with these people. He
was afraid of so many wild faces ;-however,
he attempted the customary method used in
schools, and made them pray, sing, read, and
learn the catechism.
Things continued their ordinary course for
about a fortnight ; but then there was an end
of it. One or other Cossack-like lad attempted
to banter the schoolmaster, which caused Still-
ing to use his stick faithfully, but with such
contrary effect, that when he had wearied him-
self with thrashing the stout shoulders of any
of the scholars, they laughed alo11d, whilst the
schoolmaster wept. Now this was Mr. Sleif-
mann's greatest amusement; so that whenever
he heard a noise in the school-room, he came,
opened the door, and was heartily entertained.
This behaviour gave the last blow to Stilling.
His school became a Polish diet, where every
one did what he pleased. And after the poor
schoolmaster had endured this fiery trial in thR
school, he had not a happy hour even out of it.
Books he found few, except a large Basie Bible,
Digitized by GoogIe
32 HEINRICH STILLING.
1he wooden cuta of which he studied over and
over, and likewise read therein, although he
b.ad frequently read it through. "Zion's DO<l·
trines and Wonders," by Dr. Mell, together with
some old volumes of sermons and hymn-books
stood on a shelf in the clothes-room, in calm re-
pose, and had certainly been little used since
Mr. Steifmann had inherited them. In the
house itself no one was kind to him. All look-
ed upon him as a completely foolish boy, for he
did not understand their vile, ironically obscene,
and ambiguous ·speeches; he always replied in
sincerity, and; as he thought, according to the
sense of the words, seeking to gain every one
hy kindness ; and this was exactly the way to
ber.ome every one's shoe-black. ·
However, something once occurred which
might easily have cost him his life, if the kind
Father of men had not peculiarly preserved him.
He was obliged to tight the fire himself in the
morning. in his stove ; on one occasion, finding
no wood, he wished to fetch some. Now there
was over the kitchen a smoke-room, where meat
was smoked, and the wood dried at the same
time. The thrashing-lloor adjoined the kitchen,
end from thence there were steps up into the
smoke-room. l:>ix day-labourers were just then
epgaged in thrashing. Heinrich ran up the
steps, and opened the door, from which a thick
~loud of smoke burst forth ; be left the door
open, made a spring towards the wood, and
~aught hold of a•fow pieces. Meanwhile, one
of the thrashers fastened the door on tbe out-
side; poor Stilling fell into an agony,-the
smoke stilled him,-it was dark as midnight.-
he became confused, and knew no longer where
the door was. In this dreadful situation, he
made a spring against the wall, and hit just
~ainst the door, ·so that the fastening broke,
and the door sprang open. Stilling fell down
tbe steps upon the lluor, where he lay stretched
out, stupified and insensible. On coming again
1o himself, he found himself surrounded by the
thrashers, who with Mr. Steifmann were laugh-
ing aloud. "It was enough to make the d--
laugh," said Steifmann. This went through
Stilling's soul. " Yes," answered he, " he
laughs in reality at having at length found one
of his like." This plt>ased his patron extreme-
ly, and he was wont to say it was the first and
last clever speech he had heard from his school-
master.
However, the best of ti)e matter was, that
Stillingsustained no injury ; he gave himeelren-
tirely up to grief, wept till his E>yes were red,
and gained nothing by it but contempt. Thus
mournfully passed his time ; and his pleasure
in keeping school was dreadfully embittered.
His father, Wilhelm Stilling, was meanwhile
OCl'Upied at home with more agreeable matters,
The wounil occasioneil by the decease of Doris
was healed ; he always remembered her with
tenderness, yet he lamented her no more ; she
had been dead now fourteen years, and his se-
vere mystic mode of thinking softened itself eo
far that he cultivated acquaintance with every
one ; all was however mingled with friendly
gravity, the ff'ar of God, and uprightness; so
that he grew more like father Stilling than any
other of his children. He now wished to be-
come the father of a family. to have his own
house and garden, and to carry on farming to-
gether with his trade; he therefore sought out
a wife fur himself, who, with the necessary
qualities of body and soul, had also house and
land ; and he soon found what he sought. At
Leindorf, two leagues westward of Tiefenbach,
there was a widow of twenty-eight years of age,
an honest good-looking woman; she had two
children by her first marriage, one of whom,
however, died so11n after her nuptials. This
person was very glad uf Wilhelm's addresses,
although he had lame feet. The marriage·was
agreed upon, the wedding day fixed, an4 Hein-
rich received a letter at Dorlingen, which, in
the wannest and tenderest expressions which a
father can possibly employ towards his son,
made him acquainted with the affair, and in-
vited him, on the day appointed, to the wedding.
Heinrich read this letter, laid it down, rose up,
and rellected within himself; it required him
deeply to examine, first, before he could ascer-
tain whether be was pleased or grieved at it,
such entirely different emotions arose in bis
mind. At length', after walking a few paces, he
said to himself, "My mother is in heaven ; let
this one, meanwhile, take her place in this vale
of tears, with me and my father. Eventually, I
shall forsake the latter, and seek the former.
My father does well ; I will be very fond of her,
and do all she wishes, as well as I am able ; she
will then love me in return, and I shall rejoice."
He now made Steifmann acquainted with the
matter, rt>quested some money, and travelled
back to Tiefenbach. He was received there
most joyfully by all, particularly by Wilhelm,
who had been alittle dubious whether his son
would not complain ; but when he saw him
coming so cheerfully, the tears flowed from his
eyes, he sprang towards him, and said,
"Welcomf', Heinrich!"
Heinrich.-" Welcome, father! I heartily
wish you happiness in what you have in view,
and I rejoice much that you can now have con-
solation in your old age, if it pleases God."
Wilhelm sank down upon a chair, held botll
his hands before his face, and wept. Heinricll
we11t also. At length Wilhelm began as fol-
lows : ''Thou knowest, that while, I was a
widower I laid by five hundred rix-dollars; ·1 am
now forty years old, and I should. perhaps, have
been able to save m.uch more; thou wilt be de-
prived of all this, of which thou wouldst ot.her-
wise have been the sole heir."
Heinrich.-" Father, I may die-you may die
-we may both live a long time ; you may be
sickly, and not even be able to subsist on your
money. But, father, does my new mother re-
semble my late mother!"
Wilhelm again held his hands before his eyes.
"No," said he; "but she is a worthy woman."
" I am glad uf it," said Hi:inrich ; and stood
at the window to review, once more,· his oM.
romantic country scenery. There was no snow
1ipon the ground. The prospect of the neigh-
bouring forest appeared so 11leasant tb him, that
although it was in the latter end of February,
he resolved to walk thither ; he therefore went
up the hill, and into the wood. After he had
wandered about a while, he felt su comfortable
within. that he forgot the whole world, and, lost
in thought, walked forwards until he impercep-
tibly arrived at the west side of Geisenberg cas-
tle. He already saw, between the trunks of
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. 13
1he trees, the ruined walls lying upon the hill. Ior syrup. and the arhoolmaster waa obliged to
This surprised him a litile. Something now drink with them. He soon perceived their in-
ruatled in a husla on one aide; he !<Miked, and t~ntiona ; and tberefore after taking a mouthful,
aaw an agreeahle-lookiog femalesta1Jdingthere. he ejected it again, unobserved, behind the
pale, hut of a delil'ate countenanf!e, and clotlled stove, into the coalscuttle. Hent'e the men
in linen and cotton. He shuddered, and his were intoxicated first, and they no longer paid
lleart heat. Aa it was still by no means late in attention to the schoolmaster, but became com-
e.tie day, he was not afraid, but asked, "Where pletely fuddled; under these circumstances,
are you from 1" She answered, "From Tiefen- .they at length sought a quarrel with Stilling, and
bach." Thiit seemed strange to him, for he did he escaped with difficulty out of their hands.
not know her. "What ia your name 1" "Doria." He paid his proportion of the charge, and went
Stilling uttered a loud cry, and sank upon the away privately. On reaching home, he related
ground in a fit. The good girl knew nut what the circumstance to Mr. Steifmarm, who only
to think of the circumstance, for she waa like- laughed at it; it waa ob•ioos that he lamented.
'll'iae unacquainted with the youth, having come the bad succeas of the attempt. The men-ser-
to Tiefenhach only at new year, as a maid- vants were afterwards quite in a rage, and
aernnt. She ran to him, knelt down by him sought every opportunity of re•enging them-
apon the ground, and wept. She waa much selves; but God preserved him. Only two days
surprised at the young man, particularly because before his departure, a peasant's son from the
lie had such soft hands and so white a face ; village met him in the fields, who had also been
his clothes were also 11 little cleaner and neater, present at the drinking-bout; the latter seized
u weU aa a little better, than those of other him by the bead, and wrestled with him in or-
lsds. The stranger pleased her. Meanwhile, der to threw him to the ground ; fortunately
Stilling came again to himself; he saw the there waa an old man near in a garden, who
female close to him, raised himself, reganled came up, and asked what the schoolmaster had
her with a fixed look, and said to her tenderly. done to him. The lad replie<!, "He has done
"What are you doing here 1" She answered in nothing to me ; I will only gi•e him a box or
a very friendly manner, "I am gathering dry two on the ear." But the old peaaant laid hold
WtKtd ; where 11re you from 1" He replied of him, and said to Stilling, "Do you go home !"
"I am also from Tiefenbach--Wilhelm Stilling's He then gave the other a violent blow on the
son." He now heard that she had only been mouth, and added, "Now, thou go home also,-
\bere since new-year, aa maid-servant, and she I only did it for a joke."
liate11ed to the statement of hie circumstances ; On Easter-Monday. Stilling took his lea•e of
both were grieved at being obliged to part. Dorlingen, and arrived again in the evening at
Stilling walked to the castle, and she gathered the house of hie parents at Leindorf.
firewood. Nearly two years elapsed before the He was now so far in his element again ; he
image of thia girl w11s obliterated from his heart, was indeed ohliged to labour hard at his trade,
80 Cimily had h impressed itself upon him. yet atilt he again found opportunity of obtaining
Whe'l the ann was about to set, he returned books. The firat Sunday be went to Zellberg,
holllfl, but related nothing of what had happen- and fetched Homer; and where•er else he
ect-not so much from luYe of secrecy, as from knew of 11ny thing which in his estimation wa
other reasons. beautiful to read, he brought it hoire, so that in
The next day he went with his father and a ahon time the hoard aboYe tbe windows,
other friends to Leindorf to the wedding ; his where pre•ioualy all kinda of implements bad
llother-in-law received him with all tendemeas; stood, was entirely filled with books. Wilhelm
lie became fond of her, and she loved him in was accustomed to this, and was glad to aee it;
return; at which Wilhelm was heartily ple11sed. hut they were sometimes in his wife's way, so •
He now informed his parents how painfully it that she said to him, " Heinrich, what art tlloa
fared with him at Dorlingen. The mother·s ad- doing with all these booka 1" He read also oa
•ice was, that he should remain at home, and the Sunday, and duringmeal-time.e: his mothP.r•
Dot go again ; but Wilhelm aaiJ, "We hue al- in-law then often shook her head, and said.
ways kept our word hitherto, and thou must not "What a strange lad he is!" whilst Wilhelm
be wanting; if other people do not do so, they smiletl, in Stilling's manner, and said, "Greta,
must answer fur it; but thou must continue thy do not hinder him."
time." Nor was Stilling much apposed to this, After a few weeks had elapeed, the most ar-
but set oft' again tbe next rooming for Dorlin- dnona part of agricultural labour commenced.
gen. His acholara howeYer did not return; Wilhelm waa obliged to make uee of his ann for
•pring approached, and every one betook him- this purpose also, or else engage a day laborer
eelf to the 6eld. As he had now nothing to do, in his place, with which his wife would not have
contemptible offices were aesigned him, su that heen satisfied. Thia period, however, was the
bis daily bread w11a rendered very bitter. beginning of Stilling'• gre•ious suft'erings:
Previous to his departure before Easter, Steif- he poesessed, it is true, common st11ture and
mann•s servant-men resolved to make him •ery strength; but he had not been accusLomed to
Grunk, that so they might make themselves so severe lahour, nor were his limbs suited for
merry at his expence. On Mmir.g out ofchurch, such employment. As soon aa he beg11n to hoe
on the Sunday, they said to one another," I.et or mow, all his limhs bent to the implement he
us w11rm ouraPlvea a litthi, before we set out,"- was usini. as though they would break ; he or.
r,r it was cold, and they had a lesgoe to walk. ten thought he sh11111tl sink down from weariness
Now Stillin~ was allcustomed to go home in and pain. But all uailed not; Wilhelm feared
tompany : he therefore went in with thf'm, and vexation at homP, and his wife always helieYed
nt down hy the stove. They then began tu he would gradually accustom himaellto it. Thi•
'rink spirit.a, which were sweetened witb a kind mode orlife at length became intolerable whim,
E
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING
and he n!joiced when he could aometimea ait at Ithing ; and tbia h11d the belt effect on a min4t
his needle on 11 rainy day. and refresh hie weary so euacepiihle. Thia treatment of the clergy-
limhe; he sighed llt'nPath this yoke, of\en man'• wae really surprising; for he was a pa..
walked alone, wept the hittereat tears, and be- eionate and violent man, hut hie anger mani-
110ught hie heavenly Father to pity and change fealf!d itself solely against vice, and not against
his condition. failings; he was. at the same time, not at aU
Wilhelm IM'Cretly suffered with him. When ambitious of ruling. In order to ponray thia.
he came home in the evening with his bands man's character to my readera, I will relate a.
awnllen and full of blisters, and trembling from circumstance which occurred to him when he-
fatigue, his father sighed, and both longed most was coun-chaplain to the Prince of R--
fe"ently for his being again employed as school- This prince had an excellent consort, and by her
master. This at length oecurred, after a very several princesses; he notwithstanding fell in-
painful and wearisome summer. The inhabi- Jove with a tradesman's da11gh1er in his capital..
tants ofl.eiodorf, where Wilhelm dwelt, appoint- with whom be spent whole nights, to the great;
ed him their schoolmaster at Michaelmas. 1766. griefofthe princess. Dahlheim could not suffer
Stilling accepted this vocation with joy; he w11s this to pass unnoticed. He began to preacho
now happy, and entered upon his office witb bis against it coverlly from the pulpit; the prince-
aeventeenth year. He dined with his pPasant- however was well aware what the chaplain was
ry by turns ; but before and after school, he was aiming at ; he therefore no longer went to-
ohliged to a88ist his father at his trade. Thus church, hut drove, during the time, to his coun-
there waa no time left him for studying, except try residence, at the Menagerie. Dahlbeim
when he was in the achoo! ; and that was not was once just entering the church in order to-
the place to read himself, but to instruct others. preach, when he met the prince upon the spot,
However, he stole many an hour which he de- as he was on the point of getting into Ilia car-
1'oted to mathematics and other scientific pur- riage. The chaplain stepped up to him, ancl
eoite. Wilhelm perceiving this, took him to saiJ, " Whither does your highness intend to
task for it, and asked him how he cuuld do it go 1" " What is that to thee, parson !" Wair
conacientiously. the reply. "Verymu1:h," rejoined Dablheim;.
Stilling, with heartfelt grief. replied, " Father, and went into the church, where he attacked,
my whole soul is dire<.'ted to study ; I cannot in plain terms, the excesaes of the great men of
restrain my inclination ; give me time before this world. and pronounced one woe afuor anoth-
and after school-hours, and I will not take a er upon them. The princess was at church,
book into the school." Wilhelm rejoined, " It and aent to invite him to dinner; he came, and
ia a lamentable thing! All that thou !earnest she lamented his boldness. being apprehensive-
yields thee neither bread nor clothes. and for all of evil consequences. MPanwhile the prince·
that could maintain thee thou an unfit." returned; but drove immediately again into the
Stilling himself lamented his condition ; for town to bis mistress, who unfortunately had
keeping school was likewise burdensome to him, also been at chun·h, and heard Mr. Dahlheim.
ifhe had with it no time for reading ; he therf!fore The chaplain as well as the princess had seen
longed to he away from his father, and to be in her there, and they could therefore easily fore-
eume other place. ' see the storm which hove.red over the head o(
The people, however, at Leindorf, were pret- Mr. .Dablheim. The lauer however was en-
ty well satisfied with him, although their chil- tirely unconcerned about it, and told the prin-
dren might hue learned more in the time; for <'A!llll that he would go instantly, and tell the-
his conduct and deportment to•·ards the children prince the truth to his face. He would take
plealt'd them. The Rev. Mr. Dahlbeim also, lo no warning, hut went directly into the prince'•
•whose parish Leindorfhelonged, a man who waa apartment. On entering, the latter started, ancl
an honour to his office, was fund of him. Stilling asked him what business he had then>. Dahl-
waa astonished ahove measure, the first time he heim replied, "I am rome to lay bt>fore your
entered the room of this excellent man ;-he Hil(hness blessing and curse. If your HighneatT
was an old man of eighty years of age. and was will not renounce thia vnbicoming c1>Urac of life,
lyingupon a couch : as he f!ntered the door, he im- the curae will fall upon your noble lunut a11d /11m-
mediately arose. offered him his hand, and saiJ, ily. and your city a.11d country atra11gera ahall in-
" Do not take it amiss, schoolmaster, th11t yuu l1trit." On. which he went away, and the day
find me rPposiog; I am old, and my powers following he was diamissPd from f1is office, and
fail." Stilling was penetrated with reverence, banished the country. However, the prince
and the tears 6owed down hie 1·heeks. He re- had no rest after doing su, hut honourably re-
plied, " Sir. it gives me great pleasure to keep called him at the end of two years, and gave
eeh1N>I under your superintendence. God grant him the best living he had in his tPrritory.
you much joy and blessing in your old age!" Dahlheim's prediction was neverthPk>88 fulfilled.
" r thank you, dear sch1K1lmaster." rt>plied the For more than forty .v1·srs, there hlls not bf>t>n;
worthy old man, "I am, thank Gori. near the a single branch left of this princely house. But
end of my course. and I heartily rt>jnice at the I return to my narrative.
prosper! of my grt>at Sahhath." Stilling went Stilling, with all his good nature, could not
home, and on rhe road he made the per.uliar re- prevent some pPnple from thinking he read too
mark, t.hat Pith1>r Mr. Dahlhf'im rnnst be an apos- many hooks in the sr.hool; thne was a mur-
Ue or Mr. Stollhein a priPSt of Baal. mur in the villagt', and many suppns..d that tbe-
Mr. Dahlheim smnetimf'a visited thr. J..f!indorf rhildrf'n wt>re neglected. The pl'ople were not
echo•1l, and though he might nut find ev..ry f'Olirely in the wrong. but yet not quite in the
thing in due ordPr, yl'l he did not hrt>ak out into right; for he still tcH1k preuy good care that hie.
a pas~\im like Mr. Stollbem, but admonit1hP.d ohjPCt in lwing there was attain.-d. It 11ppear
Stillinll very kindly, to alter any panicular eel i11deed atrango to the boors, to see such uu-
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. 31
heard-of' trun11 in the acbnol-windon, H his I wanted for nothing : and of tblt they knew bow
1Un-diala were. Two or more of them often I to take advantage ; hence thP.y pall8ed their
a&ood atill in the street, and saw him atlhe win- time, after attending to their household affaira,
dow, l<H•king through a pi~e ofglass at the sun ; in singing, and a variety of other allowable re.
then said one of them, "The fellow is not right creations. Stilling, it is true, loved pleaaure
in hia head !"-the other imagined he wae con- also; but such inactivity of the human spirit
aidering the course of the heavens ; but both was so repugnant to him that he could not con-
were grP.atly mi11taken ;-tht1y were only pieces ceive how the people did not become weary of
of the broken feet of apiri.t-glaasea, which he it. However, he found himeelf very comfitrta-
held before his eye, and contemplated in the hie in their society; and when he had ocl'asion-
eunshine the glorious colours, in their various ally fatigued himself with study and business,
forms, which pleased him extremely, and not it was a sweet recreation for him to associate
\\;thou( reaaon. with them.
Thia year therefore proceeded on its course Stilling had hitherto neYer thought of love;
as above described. Working at his trade, this passion and marriage were, in his eyes,
keeping school, and stolen hours for reading, had one; and the one without the other an abomi-
alternately succeeded each other; until a short nation. Now as he knew for a certainty that
time before Michaelmas, as he had just entered he could not marry either of the Misaes Schmoll,
bis e!ghteenth year, he received a letter from since they would not be permitted to take either
the Rev. Mr. Goldmann, who offered him a good a tailor or a school-master, he consequently sup-
1ehool, attached to a chapel at Preisingen. pressed every feeling of love which would uf-
This village lies two leagues southwards of ten have sprung up in his heart, particularly tor
Leindorf, in a charming broad valley. Stilling Maria. But what do I talk of suppressing!-
was so delighted with this letter, that he could who can do it in his own strength! It was
ecarcely contain himself; and his father and Stilling's angel that guided him, who turned
mother also rejoiced beyond measure. Stilling aside the arrows which were shot at him. The
thanked Mr. Goldmann by letter for this excel- two sisters thought, however, very differently;
lent recommP.ndation, and promised that he -the schoolmaster pleased them heartily ; he
1bould have joy of him. was in his first bloom, and full of fire and feel-
Tbis prf'acher was a distant relation of the ing ; for although he was serious and quiet, yet
departed Doris, and consequently also of young there were moments in whi~h his ligh~ shim.&
Stillini. This reason, as well as the general forth from every corner of his he.art ; hr.s s11rrrt
reputation of his nncommon gifts, had inducf'd then enlarged, he overflowed wnb social a~ct
Oie worthy clergyman to propose him to the cheerful delight, and then it was g~ to be. ID
congregation at Preisingen. He proceeded his company. But there are few s~mts whrch
therefore, at Michaelmas, to his new destina- are susceptible of this; it is somethrng so sprr-
tion. After ascending the hill, and on seeing itual and sublime, und so remote from rude and
before him the beautiful valley with its broad noisy pleoasure, that very few comprehend what
and Yerdant meadows, and on the opposite side I mean by it. Madame Sc~moll an.d her dang~­
a range of green hills covered with woods and ters, however, were conscious of 1t, and felt 1t
fields, whilst in \he midst of the plain lay the in all its power. Others of the commo~ sort
"fillage of Preisingen, in a compressed circle, onen sat and listened ; thll one exclarme~,
the green fruit trees and the white houses be- "Paul, thou art beside thyself:". another sat ID
tween, presenting a pleasing appearance; exact- mute astonishment; and the thrrd believed .he
Jy in the midst of which rose the chapel turret, was half-witted. The two girls, meanwbtlll.
covered and clothed with blue slate ; and he- reposed in some dark corner, where they C?ould
yoQd all the rest, the little rivulet Sal, behind contemplate him undisturbed ; they w~r!" silent,
the Tillage, glittering in the rays of the sun-he and fixed their eyes upon him. S11lhng per-
was deeply affected, sat down a while upon the ceived this with deep sympathy ; how.ever.• he
graaa, and delighted himself with the charming was firn1ly resolved to give no occasion fur a
prospect. Here he first began to attempt versifi- further f'Xpression of love. They were both
cation ; he succeeded pretty well in it, for he modest and bashful, and cons!'quenl ly far from
bad a natural talent that way. r have 110•111ht revealing themselves to him. Madamf' Schmoll,
for the piece among his papers, but was unable meanwhile, sat playing with her black paper
to find it. snuff.box in her lap, and reelected as lo wha.~
He now resolved firmly and irrev1>cably to class of men the schnolmaster properly belon&'-
apply himself to teaching with diligence and ed : he was good and gentle in her eyes, ancl
ual, and devote Ihe rest of the time to making besides that, truly devuut; but as he spoke Of
progress in his mathematical s1udies. Aner he any thing "lse hut things by which he mii>~.t
bad concluded this covenant with himself, he earn his bread, she often said, as he lel't lhe
ruse up, anti finishP.d his walk to Preisingcn. room, " Pour rogue, what will become of him!'
His lodging was fixed for him at a rich and " It is impossible to say." rf'joined Maria
respectable widow's, who was, at the same " somf'times I believe he will yet he 11 rl'specta-
time. immodf'rately corpulent. ShP. was called hie man in the world." The mothn laughed
Madame Sc·hmoll, 11nd hail two handsome mod- and ofiPn rf'plied, "God grant it. may g•i weli
.est daughters; the name of rhe f'ldest was with him !-be is an f'X"ellent you1h !" wh~h
Maria, who was twenty yt>ars of airr, anti of I.ht> was enough immediately to animate h.er daugh-
01her Anna, who wa11 f'igl1tet'n. Both the girls tera.
were really g•Hid creatures, as well as thPir I am able tn affirm that Stfllin~ attended to
nrntber. They livrd 10g..1her likP anJ!Pls.- in the his school at PreisiOl(f'n. accorr'~ing to duty and
nmst JlPTft·ct harmony, and so to Sf>Pak, rn a sn- cmler; he sought. wrth hrs rr•Ort' mature v"ara
perabundance of joys and pleasures, for they and views, to eatabl.sh his r.eputation in ui11 in-
0i9;11zed by Google
HE I N RI C H ST I LL I NG.
airuction of youth. However, it was to be la-
mented that it did no' prO\·eed from natural in-
clination. If he mil!ht have appliPd only eight
hours uf the day to the tailor's trade, as well as
to keeping school, he «enainly would h&Ye
rather continued at his needle ; for it was a
more quiet occ11pation, and not suhject to so
much responsibility. In order to make the
achoo) more agreeable, he thought of a variety
of means, bow he might with the less trouhle
excite his scholars to learn. He introduced an
order of rank, which had reft.rence to greater
ability ; he invented all kinds of prizes for writ-
ing, reading, and spelling; and as he was a
great lover of singing and 'lllusic, be collected
a number of pretty hymns, learned the notes
himself with liule difficulty, and introduced
singing in four parts. All Preisingen ti.us he·
came full of life and song. In the evening, be·
fore supper1he gave a lesson in arithmetic, and
after it, in singing; and when the moon glisten·
eel so tranquilly and solemnly through the trees,
and the stars glanced down from the azure sky,
he went out with his singers to the Prei<iingen
bill ; there they sat down in the shade, and
sang, so that hill and valley resounded. Hus-
band, wife, and children in the village then went
out before the door, stood, and listened ; they
blessed their schoolmaster, went in again, gave
each other the hand, and lay down to sleep. He
oflen went with his retinue into the orchard be-
hind Madame Schmoll's house, and there they
sang softly and gently, either, 11 0 pleasure
sweet!" or, 11 Jesus is my heart's delight," or,
"The night is at the door," and other beautiful
hymns of the kind ; the two girls then Wf'nt up
into their chamber without a light; sat down,
and lost themselves in emotion. He oflen
found them sitting thus, when he came home
and retired to rest, for all the rooms of the
house were in common-the schoolmaster had
free admittance every where. No one was less
careful of her daughters than Madame Schmoll ;
and it was fortunate for her that she did not
need to be otherwise. When he thus found
Maria and Anna with closed eyes, in a dark
corner, it went through his heart; he took them
by the hand, and said, " How do you feel. Ma-
ria~" She then sighed def'ply, pressed his
hand, and said, 11 Your singing delights me!"
He then frequently responded, " Let us he de-
vout, my dear girls !-in heaven we shall learn
to sing properly;". then went hastily away, and
retired to rest ; he often felt bis heart heat, hut
be heeded it not. Whether the damsels were
entirely satisfied with being consoled io a fu-
ture world, cannot be exactly ascertaine1l, be-
cause they never explained themselves on the
subject.
In the morning, before school commenced.
and at noon, in the interval of tf'aching, he
studied Geography, and Wolrs Principles of
Mathematics entirely through ; he also found
opportunity of extending his knowledge of dial-
ling; for he had drawn in the school-one of
the windows of which lay directly towards the
south-upon the ceiling, with black oilcoionrs, a
aun-1lial as large as the ceiling itself introduced
into it correctly the twelve signs, of.the zodiac,
and divided each into its thirty degrees; ahove,
in the zenith of the dial, stood written in Ro-
man r.haracters, aeatl1 painted, " C12li enoar-
rant gloriam Dei :"-(The heavens declare tile·
glt1ry of God.) Bt>fore the window, a round
mirror was fixed, across which a line was drawia
in oil-colours ; this mirror rellecLed downwards,
and showed not only the hour of the day, but
also, minutely, the situation of the sun in the
zodiac. Thia dial is perhaps i;till in existence;
and every schoolmaster can make use ol'it,and
at the same time be con~cioua what kind of a
predecessor be has bad.
Up to thii; period,.he bad read nothing of his-
tory, except churc.'h hi11tory, the history of the
martyrs, and the biography of pious persons,
together with old histories of the wars, of the
"thirty years' war," and the like. He was still
deficient in poesy,-in which he had hitherto
advanced no further than from Eulenspiegel to
the Emperor Octavian, including Reynard the
Fox. All these excellent works of the a11ciea.t
Germans be had read, perhaps a hundred times.
and related them again to others; he now
lunged after the moderns. He did not reckoa
Homer in this Sllf!Cies of reading ;-he waa
anxious to obtain the poets of h:s own country.
And he found what he sought. The Rev. Mr.
Goldmann had a son-in-law, who was a surgeoa
and apothecary ; this man had a store of beau-
tiful works. particularly of romances, which be
willingly lent to the schoolmaster ; and the first
hook he took home with him was " the Asiatic
Banise."
He began to read this book on a Sunday af-
ternoon. The style was new and strange to
him. He imagined he had entered into a for-
eign land, and heard a new language, but iC
transported and touched him even to the very
centre of his heart ; " lightning, thunder, 11n4'
bail, as the avenging instruments, of a right&-
ous ffpaven," was to him an expression the
beauty of which he was unable sufficiently to
applaud. "Gilded towers,"-what admirable
bPauty !-and thus be wonderer! through the
whole hook at the numher of metaphors witll
which the style of Mr. Von Ziegler overflowed.
But abnve all, the plan of this romance seemecl
to him a master·piece of invention, and its au-
thor was, in his eyes, the greatest poet that
Germany had ever produced. When in the
course of reading he came to the place where
Balacin delivers his Banise in the temple, and
slays Chaumigrem, the thrill of sensation so
overpowered him, that he tan out, knelt dow1t
in a private corner, and thankf'd God that be
had at length recompensed the wickedness o
the wicked on their own heads, and placed in-
nocence upon the throne. He shed sympathet-
ic tears, and perused the second part with equal
warmth of feeling. This latter pleased him
still· hetter ; the plan is more intrieate,-and on
the whole, more romantic. He anerwards read
two quarto volumes of the history of the Ger-
man Christian grand-prince Hercules, and the
royal Bohemian princess Valiska; and this
hook likewise pleased him exceedingly ; ho
read ii in summer, during the hay-harvest,
when he had a vacation of a few days, and for-
got the whole world over it. What a felicity it
is, to read su<'h a new creation of histories.-
lo be as it were a spectator, and feel every
thing with the actors of them !-hut this call
only be understood b7 thuse who hue a Still-
iog'a hearL
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS.
There was onee a time when it waa said that
lhia Hercules, BaniM-, and 1mch like, were the
greateat worka that Gnmany ever produced.
There waa also a time when llf'nllemen'a hate
1tood three.cornered, high in the air, and the
lligher the handsomer. Meanwhile, the head-
4rea of the wnmen and virgins stood athwart,
die broader the better. People now laugh at
Baniee and Hercules, just as they laugh at some
.W bachelor, who etill appears in a three-corn-
ered hat, atiff..akined coat. and long depending
eulrs. Instead of these, they now wear little
llale, little coata, little frills, read love sonnets
Bad chequered romances, and impere1>ptibly
llecome ao email, that a man of the last century
ia regarded as a giant, that awella with gross-
neee. Thanks be, first to Klopatock, and from
llim down lo--, for offering resistance to this
foleign trilling taste, and causing it to decline.
A time will come, once (!tort", when large hara
will be worn again, and Banise be read as an
ucellent piece uf antiquity.
The elfect of thia kind of reading on Stilling's
l!pirit was wonderful, and certainly uncommon;
lllere waa something in him, which forehoded
etraage events in hie own life ; he rejoil'ed in
the anticipation of the future, took confidence
in his gracious and heavenly Father, and mag.
nanimously resolved blindly and implicitly tu
follow the elue which a wise Providence might
pot into hie hand. He likewise felt a sweet and
heavenly impulse to be truly nohle in all hie ac-
tions-just as the heroes are depi.,ted in the
above-mentioned books. He then read, with a
heart thus rendered susceptible, the Bible, and
spiritual biographiN of pious people, anch aa
Gottfried Arnold's "Lives of the Primitive
Fathers," his " History of the Church and
Heretics," and others of the same kind. By
ibis means his spirit received an extremely
singular direction. Every thing that be aaw in
1ature, every prospect, was idealized into a ·
paradise ; all was beautiful in bia estimation,
IDd the whole world almost a heaven. He
placed wicked men in the same class with brote
beasts ; aod that which might be construed into
partially good, was no longer evil in bis eyes.
A mouth that spoke differently to what the
heart thought, and all irony and satire, was an
abomination ~ him ; all other weakneaaes he
could excuse.
Madame Schmoll learnt aleo gradually to
lnow him better, and therefore her fondness for
~m increased. She lamented nothing eo much
aa that he waa a tailor and schoolmaster, both
of which were, in her eyes, a poor means of
gaining a subsistence ; and in her way, she waa
quite in the right. Stilling knew this aa well as
abe. But his secondary employmenta pleased
her joat as liUle ; she said sometimes in jest,
"The schoolmaster will eventually either come
&o my door and beg, or be will come on horse-
back aa a gentleman, so that we shall he obliged
&o bumble ourselves before him." She then
presented him her snuff-box, tapped him on the
ehoulder, and said, "Take a pinch, schoolmas-
ter !-we shall live to aee something more of
each other!" Stilling smiled, obeyed, and nid,
.. The Lord will direct !" Thia continued until
the second year of hia kC11ping ecbool at Prei-
einpn. The two lirla then began to manifest
tbeir a1fection for \he achoolmuter more and
more. Maria had the courage to revt>al herself
more clearly, and to lessen the obstacles which
lay in the way to it. He felt very sensibly that
he could love her, but he was horrified at the
consequences of encouragini the sentiment;
he tht>refore continued to resist every thought
of her; yet in secret, he alwaya felt tenderly
inclined towards her-it was impossible for hilo
to be reserved. Anna saw this, and was in
dt>spair; 11he did not discover herself, b'ut waa
silt>nt, and v111lently suppressed her sorrow.
Stilling, however, did not perceive it; be did
not once forehode any thing disagreeable;
otherwise he would have been prudent enough
to have trt>ated her with kindneBB also. She
grew silent and melancholy ;-no one knew
what ailed her. A variety of diversions were
sought for. but all was in vain. At length she
wished to visit her aunt, who lived full a league
from Preisingen, near the town of Salen. Thia
was willingly granted her; and she departed
with a servant-girl, who returned the same
evening, and affirmed that ahe had become
quite cheerful, on arriving at her friend's Af-
ter a few days, ahe waa expected back again;
but she remained away, and not the smallest
news was receive1t of her. Madame Schmoll
began to be anxious: she could not compre-
hend why the girl staid so long away; she al-
ways started when the door opened in the even-
ing, 11nd was apprehensive of hearing some
gloomy tiding~. At noon, on the Saturday lol-
lowing, she requested the schoolmaster to fetch
her Anna back again ; he was not disinclint:d,
but made himself ready, and set off.
It was late in October; the sun stood low in·
the south ; a green leaf still bung here and
there on the trPes, and a cool east wind whistled
through the leafle-ss birches. He bad to pass
over a long and extensive heath, and there a
horrible and melancholy feeling oppressed him.
He reflected upon the transitory nature of all
things; he felt at parting with the beauties of
nature as at parting with a dear friend ; but be
was also terrified by a gloomy presf'ntiment.
similar to what is felt in paSBing some notorious
and solitary place by moonlight, where appari-
tions are dreaded. He proceeded on his way,
and arrived at her aunt's. On entering the door,
Anna skipped towards him with dishevelled
hair, and ·neglected dreBl', frisked a few times
round him, and aaid, .. Thou art my dear boy !
but thou loveat me not. Wait! thou shalt have
a little nosegay-such a nosegay of ftowers as
grow on the rocks and cliffs-a nosegay of wild
llowers-that is for thee !"
Stilling was petrified ; he stood, and aaid not
a word. The aunt looked at him and wept,
but Anna skipped and danced away aaain, and
sang,
A lambkin ,...zec1 near lhe ftlnty llone,
But found no pasture aweet;
The ahepberd went and ten It alone.
Which cauoed Ille It mbkln lo bleaL
Two daya before, abe had gone to bed In the
evening sensible and well ; but in the morning,
abe was just aa Stilling now fonnd her. No one
could guess the cause from whence this misfor-
tune t1K1k its rise ; the schoolmaster himselfdid
not know it at that time, but be afterwards
learned it from the speeches that ahe made.
The wortby wpman would not aulfer the two
Digitized by GoogIe
38 HEINRICH STILLING.
to depart that day ; bot besought Stilling to stay I"Thou canst make her happy !" But bis ono-
the night there, and to go home with her poor soience replied, "This happiness would be oC
niece the next morning; he willingly agreed to abort duration, and he followed by long and un-
tbe proposal and remained there. limited wretchedness." His heart thought, Gud
In the evening. during suppt>r, she eat quite might cause bis future fortunes to turn out
still at the table, but ate very little. Stilling very happily; but conscience judged, that wo
said to her, "Tell me, Anna, do not you relish ought not to tempt God, nur expect that, for tho
your supper!" She answered, "I have eaten, sake of grati(ying the passions of two poor
but it does not agree with me-I have pain in worms, He would alter the course which bia
the heart!" She looked wildly. ••Hush !"con· providence might have marked out for him.
tinued the schoolmaster ; " you were formerly " That is but too true !" said Stilling, as ho
a meek and gentle girl ; bow is it that you are jumped out of bed, and walked up and down;
so changed~ You see how your aunt weeps "I will behave in a friendly manner towarda
ovPr you,-does not that pain you! I myself her; but at the same time with seriousness and
have been forced to weep over you ; reflect a reserve."
little !-you were not formerly as you are now ! On Sunday morning, the schoolmaster set
Be as you were before !" She replied, " Lis· off with the young lady to return home. She
ten ; I will tell thee a pretty tale :-There was would absolutely take his arm ; he consented
once an old woman-" she now rose up, bent unwillingly, because it would have been taken
herself, took a stick in her hand, went about much amiss of him, if it had been seen by grave
the room, and imitated quite naturally the figure and serious people. However, he overcame his
of an old woman.-" Thou hast surely seen an repugnance, and gave her his right arm. Oa
old woman going a-begging. This old woman arriving at the heath above-mentioned, she left
also went a-begging, and when she received him, walked about, and plucked herbs, not green,
any thing, she said •God reward you !' Is not but such as were either half or entirely wither-
that what beggars say when people give them ed and dry. She sang, at the same time, tile
something 1 The beggar-woman came to a following song:-
door-to a door. There stood a friendly rogue
of a boy at the fire, and warmed himself. He
was just such a youth as-," she winked at the
schoolmaster.-" The lad said kindly to the poor
old woman, as she stood at the door and trem.
bled, 'Come in, old mother, and warm yourself.'
She came towards the fire."-She now walked
about again very nimbly, came and stood bent
near Stilling :-" but she went and stood too
near the fire; her old rags began to burn, and
she knew it not. The youth stood and saw it.
He should have extinguished it, ought he not,
schoolmasterl He should have extinguished it."
Stilling was silent. He knew not what to
think ; he had a kind of gloomy presentiment,
which made him very melancholy. But she
would have an answer ; she said-
" Tell me, should he not have extinguished
it 1 Give me an answer, and I will also say,
•God reward you !' "
"Yes," replied Stilling; ''he ought to have
extinguished it. But suppose he had no water,
and could not extinguish it !"
Stilling now rose up; he was much disturbed,
yet did flOt dare to let it be perceived.
"Yes," continued Anna, and wept; "he
ought in that case to have poured all the water
out of his body through bis eyes, that would
have made two such pretty streams to put the
fire out."-She came again, and looked at him
keenly in the face; the tears stood in his eyes.-
" Come," said she," I will however wipe these
away!"
She took her white pocket-handkerchief,
wiped them away, and sat down again quietly
in her place. All were silent and melancholy.
They then went to bed.
It was impossible for Stilling to sleep; he
thought nothing else than that his heart would
burst in his body from pure sympathy and com-
passion. He revolved within himself how he
ought to act. His heart spoke for compassion
upon her, hut his conscience demanded the
strictest reserve. He then examined which re-
quirement he ought to follow. , His heart said,
"There Silt upon the verdant heath,
A shepherd old and gray ;
Bia sheep around the pl\Sture grazed,
And by the wood dld atray.
0 sun, look bock once more !
The ohepherd, tlred and bent with ap,
About hi• ftocb did go,
And when the sun at noontide glow'd,
Bis steps were falnt and slow.
0 oun, look back once more I
Be had a daughter, young and fair,
An only daughter she ;
And many a she)lherd'a aon did long
Thal she his brlde mlght be.
0 oun, look back once more !
There was but one amon119t them all,
The worthy Pbaramond ;
That couch"dthe maiden'ocenderheart,
Ofwhom she could be fond.
0 sun, look back once more!
A itrlevous bile he had recelved
From some atran~e shepherd's hound,
Which core his tleah, and In hla foot
lnJllcced deep a wOUDd.
0 sun, look back once more !
One time, ns they tngelher went
Beneath the forest's shade,
And walked aide by side, Ibey felt
Dismay eoch henrt pervade.
0 aun, look back once more !
Now to the heath at length they came,
Where the old shepherd was,
Whilst round about the pasture mourn'•
The sheep npon the grass.
0 sun, look bnck once more
On a green spot, all suddenly,
Poor Pharamond stood fut;
The little birds in cerror Hie
Quite atlll, each In ill neot.
0 sun, look back once more !
And with his cruel teeth so white,
He eeized upon his bride,
Who shed a thousand bittertean,
And for compll8'1on cried.
0 sun, look back once more !
The fearful agonizing cry
The fnther'a ear ooon found :
The maiden's lamentation loud
Did through the wood resound.
0 run, look back once more!
The father, otUfand weak with qe,
B&ll llowly to Ille place ;
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLlNG'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. 39
Jle loud ber oaly jUlt allye,
Auel botrur elmll•d bbl 14u.
0 1UD, luok b..cll ouee moN I
1.l'be younc nwn now re111ro'cl aplD,
Fn1111 bl» inoanhy,
And dying, lell lliJOll the pound,
Wbo>nt L<ir•'• head did 116.
0 1UD. look hllelt uoee mure !
And 'midst n tbo11A11d kl- aweet,
Their aouls ~1gelher fted;
And whllat the tearw llow'd weakly down,
'l'bey 111intled with tbe dhd.
0 sUD, look back once uaore I
The f111her, In dl•U.. of aoul,
Nt.w totlefll up nod down
No genlnl •tnr ahlnee on him more,
And every joy Is 8nwn.
011111,look blldl- more!''
Stilling was forced to do violence to himself
1o prevent himself from weeping and crying
aloud. She ol\en stood op!Josite the sun look-
ed tenderly at it, and sang, "0 sun, look back
once more!" Her tortes were soft, like those
' of the turtle-dove, when it coos once more be·
fore the setting of the sun. I could wish my
readers had only heard lhe soft harmonious
melody of.this and. the other songs which ap.
pear m this narrdttve; they would then proba-
bly ~eel them doubly ; however, I may perhaps
.publish lhem at some future period.
At length she again seized hold of his arm,
and went on. with him. " Thou weepeet, Phar-
amond !" said abe, " but thou dost not bite me
yet ; call me Lora.- I will call thee Phara-
mond ; wilt thou 1" "Yes," said Stilling, with
tears; "be thou Lora, I am Pharamond. Poor
Lora ! what will your mother say to you !"
.Anna.-" Here is a withered nosegay for
thee, my Pharamond !-but thou weepeet!"
Stilling.-" I weep for Lora."
Anna.-·• Lora ia a good girl. Hast thou ever
been in hell, Pharamond 1"
Stilling.-" Gdd preserve us from it !"
She seized his right hand, laid it under her
Jet\ breast, and said, " How it beats there !-
1here is hell- thou belongest there, Phara-
mond !" She gnashed her teeth, aud looked
wildly around her. "Yes," continued she,
"thou art already in it! but-like an evil angel."
Here she paused, and wept. ..No,•• said she,
'' not so, not so !"
During speeches of this kind, which were ao
many daggers to the heart of poor Stilling, they
reached home. As she crossed the threshold
Maria came out of the kitchen, and her mothe;
out of the parlour. Anna threw her arms round
her mother's neck, kissed her, and said, "O my
dear mother! I am now become so good-as
good as an angel ; and thou, Maria, mayst say
what thou wilt (shaking her fist at her) ; thou
bast taken my shepherd from me ; and feedest
quietly in a good pasture. But dost thou know
1he song:-
•A lambkln srueil near the ftlnty 1toue r"
She skipped into the parlour, and kissed all
ahe saw there. Madame Schmoll and Maria
wept aloud. " 0 what have I lived to see!"
said the good mother, and cried bitterly. Still-
ing meanwhile related every thing he had heard
from her aunt, and was heartily grieved for her.
His soul, which on all occasions was e1ttreme-
Jy eueceptible, sank in profound sorrow ; for he
now aaw clearly how the misfortune had arisen,
and yet he did not dare to say a word of it to any
one. Maria perceived it a.so; abe reftected
bel'l!elf ill her 11.ater, aod gradually withdrew her
heart from 8tiUmg, by g1v111g ear to otbi:r wur-
tby young wen who paid their court to her.
Poor Anna, meanwhile, was taken to an upper
room in the house, where an old woman waa
placed w1tb her, to aLlend ber and wait upon
her. She sometimes became ao insane, that
she tore every thing she could lay bold of ; the
schoolruaster was tbt>n called, because there
was no oaher man in the house, except the
man-servant ; be was soon able to tram1uillise
her ;-he bad only to call her Lora, she then
called him Pbarawond, and was as tawe as a
lamb.
Her customary pastime consisted in imitating
a shepherdeee ; and this idea must have solely
proceeded lrom the song above-mentioned, fur
she had certainly read no shepherd's tales or
1dyls, e1tcept a few songs of the kind, which
were curreu.t in Madame Scbmoll'a house. On
coming up into the room, she was found drt!ll8tld
in a white shirt put over her ·clothes, and a
man's round hat upon her bead. She bad gird-
ed herself about the l>ody with a green nband,
the long depending end of which she bound
about the neck of her shepherd's dog, whom
she called Philax, and who was none other than
her old attendant. The good old woman was
obliged to creep about on her bands and feet,
and to bark as well as she was able, when abe
was ur~ed to it b~ her miatre88; the barking
often did not suffice ; but she was obliged to
bite one or other in the leg. Sometimes the
woman was weary of acting the part of a dog•
but then she received hard blows, for Anna bad
constantly a long staff in her hand ; the good
old woman, however, was willing to let herself
be used in this manner, because ahe waa thus
able to pacify Anna, and besides good eating and
drinking, was well paid for her trouble.
This wretched state of things lasted only .a
few weeks. Anna came to herself again ; a"8
lamented much the state in which she bad been,
and grew more prudent and rational than be-
fore ; and Stilling revived again, particularly aa
he now perceived that be had escaped two sucb.
dangerous rocks. However no one in the lilm-
ily ever discovered what bad been the true rea-
son ef Anna's indisposition.
Stilling continued to pay unwearied attentioa
to his school ; yet, although be was diligent ia
imparting knowledge to hie scholars, there were
several of the peasantry who began to be very
hostile to him. The cause of this cannot be de-
veloped. Stilling was one of those characters
who are indifferent to no on&-he was neces-
sarily either loved or hated ; those who >ovecl
him looked at the goodness of bis bean, and
willingly forgave him bis faults; whilst those
who hated him, regarded hie kind-heartedneu
as stupid eimplicit.y~ _
his actions as fawning
flattery, and his ab1ht1es as ostentation. The
latter were implacably opposed to him, and the
more he sought, according to bis character, to
gain them with kindoeee, the more bitter were
they against hira ; fur they believed it was mere
dieeim11:Iation, _
and therefore became only the •
more his enemies. At length he committed aa
imprudence, by which he entirely lost the Prei-
smgen school, however well mean. the thioJ
was on hia part.
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
He was unwining to conlint himself to the
old and cue111mary method of teac~g, but
sought out a variety of contrivances to amwie
bimeelf and bie scholars; on which accuunt he
wu continually thinkin& of aomething new.
Hie in•enti•e mind found a •ariety of waye of
amuaiogly conveying to the children what they
bad to learn. Many of the peasants regarded
it as useful ; otbera conaidered it aa childish-
. ne.a, and himself as a complete fool. He began
eomething, in particular, which excited much
attention. He cut piecee of white paper, as
large aa cards ; these he distinguished by num-
bers ; the numbers referred to those questions
in the Heidelberg catechism which answered to
them; these leaves were shuffled by four or five
boys, or as m1rny ae would play together; the
cards were then dealt round and played ; the
greater numbers always woo the leae ; be who
at laet had the highest number. needed only
learn the question which hie number indicated ;
and if he had already previously learned it, he
learned nothing more till the following day ; but
the rest were oblige<! to learn whatever num-
bers they had lying before them. and their luck
con1isted in knowing many of the questions
which fell to them in their numbers. Stilling
bad occasionally seen cards played, and taken
bis game from thence ; although he understood
nothing of gaming, yet such was the construc-
tion put upon it; and the whole affair was laid
before his relative, the Rev. Mr. Goldmann, in
ks worst point of view.
'l'his excellent man had a cordial affection
for Stilling, and his impruclence grieved him be-
yond measure ; he sent for the schoolmaster,
and took him to task on the subject. Stilling
frankly stated every thing to him, shewed him
ibe game, and convinced him of the utility he
had derived from it. But Mr. Goldmann, who
knew the world better, said to him, "My dear
cooei11, we muat not, in the pre11ent day, look
merely to the utility of a thing, but also always
duly consider whether the means to attain it
are approved of by the world'; otherwise we
llhall earn reproach instead of t'banke, and con-
tempt instead of reward. Thue it fares with
you at present ; for your ,peasantry are so en-
raged, that they will not retain you longer than
Michaelmas ; they intend, if you do not volun-
&arily resign, to inform the inspector of the
whole all'air, and you know what kind of a man
lie ia. Now it would be a pity if the matter
were carried so far ; because you could then
Dever lie a ecboolmaater again in this country.
I therefore advitle you to resign ; and tell your
people this very day, that you are wf!ary of
keeping achoo!, and that they may choose an-
Olber schoolmaster. You will then come oft'
honorably, and it will not be long before you
~·ea better school than thie you are now keep.
1nr.. I shall in the meantime, etmtinue my af-
feeuon fur you, and take care to be of service to
yoa as much aa I am able."
This speech penetrated Stilling through and
ibrough ; be grew pale, and the tears etood in
hie eyee. He bad represented the mauer to
himself as it was, and not as it might be eon-
ltroed ;-however, he perceived that hie rela-
live was quite in the right ; he was now again
made wiser, and resolved in future to be ex-
vemely careful. Howe•er, he aecretly lament-
ed that the greater part of bia bretbNll ir. o~
lice, with less ability and diligence, e_njoyecl
more rest and success than he ; and he began
to caet a gloomy look into the future, with re--
epect to what hia heavenly Father might have
io view for him. On coming home, he an-
nounced his resignation, with heartfelt grief, to
the congregation. The majority were aston-
ished ; but the baser sort wart> glad, for they
had already some une else whom they intended
to propose, who would suit their purpose better..
and now no one hindered them from attaining
their object. Madame Schmoll and her daugh-
ters found the most difficulty in being satisfied
with it; for the former loved him, and the tw<>
latter bad changed their Jove into a heartfelt
friendship, which might easily, however, have
assumed ita former fire, if he had acted more
tenderly towards them, or if any other possihil·
ity bad manifested itselfAJfattaining the wiehed-
for aim. They all three wept and dreaded the
parting boor, which came, however, still ta&
soon. The girls were plunged in silent sorrow;
but Madame Schmoll wept. Stilling staggered
like one intoxicated; they pressed him to visit
them often, which he promised to do, and reel-
ed again northwards up the hill ;-from its sum-
mit, he looked once more towards his beloved
Preieingen, sat down and wept. "Yes," thought
he, " Lampe is quite in the right, when he
sings, • My life is but a pilgrimage.' Thie is
the third time I am obliged to return to my
trade ; when will it please God to make me at
length constantly happy, aince my sole inteu-
tion is to act uprightly and virtuously !" He
now commended him~elf to God, and walked
with his bundle towards J,eindorf.
In the course of two hours, he arrived there.
Wilhelm looked angrily at him, as he entered
the door : this pierced him to the soul ; but his
mother did not once regard him ;-he eat down,
and knew not what to think. At length his fa-
ther began : " Art thou there again, worthless
boy! I thonght to have had nothing but joy
of thee ; what avail thP.e thy ueeleee arta !
Thou hast taken a dislike to thy trade, and eit-
teet there sighing and sighing ; and when tho11
art schoolmaster, thou proeperest nowhere. At
Zellberg thou wast a child, and hadst childish
projects, therefore somethipg was conceded
there. At Dorlingen thou wast a shoe·hlack.
so little power and energy there is in thee~
l'lere at Leindorf thou vexedst the people with
triftee, which were of no use either to thyself
or others ; and at Preisingen, thou wast obliged
to make thy escape, in order to eave thy credit.
What wilt thou now do here! Thou most ap-
ply thyself regularly to thy trade and to farming,
or else I cannot employ thee." Stilling sighed
deeply, and answered, "Father, I feel within
my •Oul that I am not to blame; but I cannot
justify myself. God in heaven knows all ! I
must be satisfied with what He ordains concern-
ing me. But
" •Eventually the b&ppy year
Of wiah'd-for llbeny will onmel'
"It would be dreadful, if God had implanted
impulses and inclinations in my soul, and his
providence refused during my whole life to sat-
isfy them!"
Wilhelm was silent, and laid some work •
fore him. He eat lklwn and began to work ;
Digitized by GoogIe
STIL LIN G'S YOUTHFUL YEARS.
lie IJHH!lllN eo moclt a:f.titude for it, that his I the happy !iml's that were past; bot it w:aa.
fathtor onen begaio to nubt whether he was only a nan•ory enjoyment. He was surround.
not e.eo destined by God to he a tailor. But ed entirely hy frigid spirits ; he felt the contio-
tbie idea was eo intok>rable to Stilling, that his ual operation of a hungry desire aner money;
whole soul roae atainst it; he therefore said and cheerful, quiet enjoyment had disappeared.
BOllletimee, when Wilhelm expressed an idea He wept over his youth, and mourned over it,
of the kind, "I do not believe that G111l bas like a bridPgroom for bis deceased bride. Yet
condmmed me to a continual hell in this life!" all was in vain; be did not dare to complain,
It was now autumn, and the farming husineee and his tears only caused him reproaches. He
was principally over: he was therefore obligP.d had, however, an only friend at Leiodorf, who
to labor almost incessantly at bis trade, and completely understood him, and to whom he
this he preferred; his limbs could endure it could utter all his complaints. This man's
better. His melanr.holy, however, soon re- name waa Caapar, an iron-founder, who poa-
turned ; he felt as if he was in a strange land, sessed a noble soul, warm in the cause of reli-
fol'llllken by all men. This suffering had some- irion, together with a heart full of sensibility.
tbin1 very peculiar and indescribable in it; the Tbt>re were still some beautiful days in No-
oaly Lhing I have never been able to understand, vemher; Caspar and Stilling therefore walked
was tbis--as soon as the sun shone, be felt bis out on the Sunday afternoons, on which occa-·
autrerings doubly; whilst the light and shade sions their souls overftowed into each nt,ber.
o( a.utumn brought such an inexpressible feel- Caspar, in particular, had a firm conviction in·
mg into h1s 11oul, lbat he often thought be should his mind, that bis friend Stilling was destined·
die of sorrow ;-on the contrary, when th!' hy hi11 Heavenly Father to something very dif-
weatber was rainy and stormy, he felt more at ferent from keeping school, and the trade of a,
ease ; it seemed to him as if he were sitting in a tailor; this he was able to demonstrate so in·
a dark cleft of a rock, and he then felt a 11ecret controvertibly, that Stilling calmly and magnan-
eecurity. in which he was comfortaMe. Amongst imously resolved paliently to endure all that
lua old papers, I have fonnd a piece which he mi11ht befan him. At Christmas, fortune again
wrote in the month of October of that autumn. smiled upon him. The wardens of Kleefeld
on a Sunday aliernoon; the following are ex- came, and appointed him to be their schoolmas-
lricta from it:- ter ;-now this was the best and finest parochial
"Yellow ls !he momln1 .i,_ school in the whole principality of Salen. This
or the e.rplrlag lef\son; quite revived him, and he thanked God upo°'
Yellow ls the sunny ray h" k 0 h. d h" " ti
Th11tohinesobllqaelyfromthe-'>, 1s nees. n 1s eparture, 1s 1a 1er gave
Reposing wearily him the most faithful admonitions; and he him-
Along the field nod on the hill: set( made, so to speak, a vow, from that time·
The frigid shndow• lengtben to devote all his ability and knowledge to obtain
U (!On the fKded grass.
Grey wilh the honry fl"Ol'I. the greatest cefPhrity that t'ould he derived
The h11rsb and ahnrp eastwlnd from teaching. The wardens went with him t~
Ca111 down the withered leavf'I, Salen, and he was tllere confirmed in his office.
They rusUe with the frost," 8r.c before the consistory, by the Inspector Mein-
And in another place :- hold.
" When lo the night I wake, With this firm determination, he entered
I he.-.r the hootlnir owl ; > ffi f '--
The onk-tree whi•Ues in the wbld; again mto o ce. at the commencement o h...-
Tbe hlllf-dec:ayetl ho&rda yl'ar 1760, in the twentieth year of his age, and
Battle ap1011 the wolls; fulfilled its duties with such earnestness and
Aud rudely roars the OIOnn I h · d f; d "d d 11
Theo lo the gloom rfeel at-· zea t at 1t was reporte ar an w1 e ; an a
And tnste 11 pe•ce profound, his enemies and adversaries began to he silent..
.A melancholy sweet," &c. whilst his friends triumphed. He maintained,
When his father was more kindly disposed. tins fidelity also as long as he was there ; but
IO that he could venture to disburden himself notwithstanding this, continued his reading in
to him a little, he sometimes complained to him his leisure moments. The harpsichord and
of his inward melanch11ly feelings. Wilhelm mathPmatics were his principal occupations at
then smiled, and said, "That is something with such times; however, poets and romances were
which we Stillings are unacquainted, and which not forgotten. Towards the spring, he became
thou haat inherited from thy mother. We have acquainteJ with a colleague in office, ofthe name·
always heen good friP.nds with nature, whether of Graser, who kP.pt school up the valley. a good.
ahe looks green, yellow, or white; we then half-league from Kleefeld, at the village of Klein-
lbink there is a needs-be for it, and are satisfied hoven. This man was one of those who, witb
with it. But thy late mother skipped and a much-implying mien, are always silent, aod·
danced in the spring; in the rnmmer she was all they do is done in sPcret.
cheerful and husy; in the beginning of autumn I have often had a desire to classify mankind;
ahe began to grieve; she WP.pt till Christmas, and then J would designale the class to whicb
and then she began to hope and to count the Graser helnngl'd, as the splenetic. The best or·
days; but in March she was again half.alive." this class are silent observers without feeling-
Wilhelm smiled, shook his head, and said, the middling sort are dissemblers-and the
"Thcae are strange things!" Heinrich then worst, spiPs and traitors. Graser was friendly
often sighed in his heart, and said to him•elf. towards Stilling, hut not confidential; Stilling,.
"0 that she were now alive !-she would have on the contrary, was both, and that pleased the
understood me helter then any one." fhriner; he gladly made his observations OI\
Stilling sometimes found an hour which bl' others in the li11ht, hut preferred remaining in
could apply to reading, and thf'n it seemed to the dark himself. In order that he might make
him 811 if be atill enjoyed a distant relish of a real friend of Stilling, he always spoke of.
F
0i9;11zed by Google
HEINRICH STILLING.
ifeat mysterie&-that be understaod bow to
render magical and sympathetic -,iwers sub-
servient to him; and once he confided to Still-
ing, under the seal of the most profound secre-
cy, that he was well acquainted with the first
material for procuring the philosopher's stone.
Graser assumed, at the same time, as mysteri-
. ous a look as if he really possessed the great
secret himself. Stilling supposed it was the
case; and Graser denied it in a manner which
fully convinced the former that he really pos·
aessed the philosopher's stone. To this must
be added, that Graser had always much money
--far more than bis vocation could yield him.
Stilling was extremely pleased at having made
such an acquaintance; nay, he even hoped
eventually, by the help of his friend, to become
an adept himself. Graser lent him the writings
of Basilius Valentinus. He read them very at-
tentively through, and when he came, at lhe
close, to the process with. Hungarian vitriol, he
was no longer master of his feelings. He real-
ly believed that he himself could now make the
philosopher's stone. He reflected awhile with
himself; but it occurred to him, that if the pro-
cess were so perfectly correct, any one would
be able to make it who possessed the book.
I can assure the reader, that Stilling's inclina-
tion to alchymy never had the philosopher's
atone for its object ;-if he had found it, it
would have afforded him pleasure, it is true ;
but a principle in his soul, of which I have
hitherto said nothing, began to develope itself
in his maturer years-and that was an insatia-
ble hunger after an acquaintance with the first
principles of nature. (At that time, he was ig-
norant what name to apply to this science ; the
wercl "philosophy," appeared to him to signify
something different.) ThiJ wish is not yet ful-
filled ; neither Newton, nor Leibnitz, nor any
other has been able to satisfy him ; however,
he has confessed to me, that he has now found
the true track, and that in due time be will
bring it to light.
At that period, alchymy seemed to him the
way to arrive at it, and therefore be read aU the
writmgs of that kind he could lay hold of. But
there was something in him, which continually
cried out, Where is the proof that it is true!
He acknowledged only three sources of truth-
experience, mathematical demonstration, and
the Bible; and none of these three sources af-
forded him any light into alcbymy ; he therefore
abandoned it, for the present, entirely.
He once visited bis friend Graser on a Saturday
afternoon, when be found him sitting alone in
the school, where be was engraving something
that resembled a seal. Stilling said to him,
" What are you making there, colleague!"
Gra•er.-" I am engraving a seal."
Stilling.-" Let me see it; the work is very
1ine!"
Gruer.-" It belongs to Mr. Von N--.
Hear me, friend Stilling; I would gladly assist
you, so as to enable you to maintain yourself
without keeping school or following the trade
of a tailor. I conjure you by all that is sacred,
that you do not betray me."
Stilling gave his hand upon it, and said, "I
will certainly not be\ray you."
Gra1er.-" WeU, bear me, then. I have a
eecret ;-I can change copper into silver. I will
take you into partnel'llhip with me, and fiYe ya.
half the rain ; however, you must eometimee
privately take a journey for a few days, and seek
to exchange the silver with certain people."
Stilling sat and reflected upon the matter ;-
the offer altogether did not please him ; for first,
his motive was not to gain money, but only to
attain an acquaintance with the truth, and with
the sciences, in order thereby to serve God and
his neighbour; and secondly, notwithstanding
his little knowledge of the world, the whole·at~
fair appeared suspicious to him ; for lhe more
he looked at the seal, the more be was con-
vinced it was a ~tamp used for coining. He
therefore began to be alarmed, and sought an
opportunity to get loose from schoolmaster Gra-
ser, by telling him that he would go home and
consider the matter.
After some days, an alarm was spread through
the whole country. The thief-takers went in
the night to Kleinhoven, with the intention of
arresting Graser the schoolmaster, but he es-
caped, afterwards went to America, ancl was
never beard of more. But his accomplices were
imprisoned and punished as they deserved. He
himself had been the leader of the gang, and
would certainly have been rewarded with the
rope. if he had been caught.
Stilling was struck with the danger in which
he had been placed, and heartily thanked God
for having preserved him.
He now passed his life very pleasantly, and
thought that the season of his sufferings was
certainly at an end ; in the whole parish there
was not one that bad said any thing to his pre-
judice. But what a stonn followed this calm !
He had been nearly three quarters of a year at
Kleefeld, when he received a summons to ap-
pear, the following Tuesday morning, at nine
o'clock, before the Consistory at Salen. He
was surprised at this uncommon occurrence,
though nothing unpleasant suggested itself to
him. "Perhaps," thought he, "some new
school regulations are agreed upon, with which
they intend to make me and others acquainted."
And therefore be went, very calmly, on the day
appointed, to Salen. 1
On entering the anteroom of the consistorial
chamber, he found two ofthe parishionen1 stand-
ing there, whom he had never imagined were
opposed to him. He asked them what was the ,
matter. They answered, "We have been sum-
moned, but know not why." They were then
all three ordered to appear.
At the upper end of the room, at t~e window,
stood a table ; on one side ofit sat the·president, ,
an able civilian, who was small of stature, of a 1
rather long and meagre countenance, but a man
of an excellent character, full of fire and life.
On the other side of the table sat Meinhold, the
Inspeclor, a corpulent man with a full oval face,
his large double chin resting very majestically
upon his fine well-smoothed and stiffened ruff,
that it might not be easily disordered ; he had a
beautifully white and handsome wig on his bead,
and a black silk cloak hung down bis back ; bis
eye-brows were lofty, and when be looked at
any one, he elevated his lower eye-lids, so that
his eyes twinkled continually. The heels of
bis shoes creaked when he trod upon them, and
be had accustomed himself, whether sitting or
standing, to tread by t11rns upon h.ia heels, and
Digitized by GoogIe
STI LLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS. 43
make them creak. Thoe aat the two gentlemen 1atand a single wotd o( all that he bad heard•
.as the parties entered, whilst the secretary, The whold scene was like a dream to him ; ha
aeated behind a long table, looked over a heap arrived at Kleefeld without knowing how. Aa
<Jf papers. Stilling placed himself at the foot soon as he reached it, he went into the chapel,
of the table, but the two men stood opposite by and polled the bell ; this was the signal for the
the wall. pari11hionera to aseemhle ii) all haste in extraor-
The Inspector cleared his throat, turned him· dinary cases of necessity. All the men ilnme-
aelf toward;i the men, and said, in a broad pro- diately came together on a green plot, near the
•incial acc1mt, "Is that your schoolmaater l" chapel. Stilling related to them cirnurustantial-
Tlu mm.-" Yea, your reverence!" ly the whole affair. It wa11 then plainly obvious
Jleinhold.-" So, right !-you are, therefore, how the different dispositions of men manifest
•be schoolmaster of Kleefeld l" themselves differently, from one and the same
"Yes!" said Stilling. cau-some raged, others were splenetic, oth-
Meinhold.-" You're a fine fellow, aren't you 1 era again were grieved, whilst some felt elated
and worthy to be horsewhipped out of the couo- at the thing ; these latter cocked their hate on
try 1" one side, and cried out, "The d-- himself
''Gently ! gently !" interrupted the president; shall not take our schoolmaster from us !" In
"4wliatur et altera par• r• the midst of this confusion a young man of the
Meinhold.-·• Mr. President, this aft'air belongs name of Rehkop( stole away, and prepared a
ad forum t«luiaaticvm, in which you have noth-. letter of attorney at the inn ; with this paper in
iog to say " his hand, he came to the door. and cried out,
The president was vexed, but made no reply. "Whoever loves God and the schoolmaster, let
The Inspector looked at Stilling contemptuous- him come hither and sign his name !" On
ly, and said," How be stands there, the mis- which the whole troop, coiasisting of about a
creant !" hundred peasants, went in and signed. Reb-
The men laughed sneeringly at him. Stilling kopf, that very same day, went with twenty of
could not endure it at all ; be was on the point the peasants to Salen, to the house of the In-
of exclaiming, " Like Christ before the high- spector. ,
priest," but he restrained himself, and said, Rehkop( neither knocked nor rang at the door
"What have I done 1 God is my witness, I of the parsonage, but went straight in, and the
am innocent !" peasants after him. The footman met them in
The Inspector laughed sarcastically, and re- the hall; "Good people, where are you going!"
plied, as if he himself didn't know what he had he exclaimed ; "wait, I will announce you."
committed, " Ask your own conscience !" Rehkopf replied, " Go and fill thy wine-bottles:
"Mr. Inspector, my conscience absolves me, we can announce ourselves;" and thus the
and He that judgeth righteously aleo: what will whole company marched up-stairs, and went
&ake place here, I know not." directly into the Inspector's room. The latter
Meinhold.-" Peace, you wicked wretch !- was sitting in his arm-chair; he had on a dam-
Tell me, churchwarden, what ia your accusa. ask morning-gown, a cotton night-cap on bi1
tion 1" head, and a fine I..8¥den cap over it; he wa1
The men.-"Your reverence, we have bad it drinking, at the same time, bis cup ofchOl'..olata
protocolled a fortnight ago." very r.omfortahly. Alarmed, he put down hi1
Meinhold.-" Right! it's very true." cup, and said, "What now 1--pcople, what d'ye
"And tbia protocol," aaid Stilling, "I must want 1"
have." Rehkopf answered, "We wish to know
Meinllold.-" What will he! No! he aball whether our schoolmaster is a murderer, an
never have it!" adulterer, or a thief!"
" C'ut etmlre rordre du prince!" rejoined the Meinho/d.-" God forbid !-who says he ia 1"
president, and let\ the room. Rehkop/.-" Sir, whether you say it or not,
The Inspector now dictated, and said," Write, you treat him aa such! You must eilher say
aecretary. •Thill day appeared N-- N--, and prove that he is a criminal, and in that case
churchwarden of Kleefeld, and N-- N--, we will send him away oaraelves, or you shall
inhabitant of the same, contra, their ach1mlmas- give us satisfaction for the insult offered him;
ter Stilling. Plaintiffs refer to the former pro- and in this case we will retain bim. Look. here
tocol. The schoolmaster desired eztriu:tum pro- is our authority."
toeolli, but which we, for sufficient reasone, have Mein/lo/d.-" Let me see it."
refused.' " The Inspector took it, and laid hold of it aa ii
The Inspector creaked a few times with his he intended to tear it. Rebkopf stepped up to
heels, put bis bands upon his sides, and said, him, took it out of his hand, and said, "Sir, let
.. You may now go home." All three depart- that alone, or else I a88ure you you will bura
ed. your fingers, and I also."
This relation ia most strictly true, and every Meinho/tl.-" What! do you insult me in my
thing really OCQDrred as stated above. It would own house l"
be a disgrace for me, were I to fabricate such a Rehkop/.-" As you take it, sir, insult or not."
character as belonging to the Protestant church ; The Inapector touched a gentler atring, and
and it would be a shame for me to expose him, said, " Dear people, ye know not what a bad
if Meinhold had still possessed one good quality. man your schoolmaster is; let me act!"
But let every young theologian reflect himself Rehkop/.-" That is just what we want &o
in this example, and c111l to mind the words, know, whether he is a bad man or not."
"He that will be the greatest among you, let Meinhold.-" I have heard terrible tbinp-
him be your servant-" terrible things of the fellow !"
&illing waa quite aiunned ; he did not under- Rehkop/-" May be ! I have also heard that
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH :STILLING.
Mr. Tnapector got beastly drunk, when he lately
held visitation at Kleefdd." ·
MeiRlwld.-" What !-who aays IO !-will
ye-"
Rehkopf-" Hush ! bush ! I have heard so ;
Mr. lnapt:ctur judges from hearsay, and 80 may
I."
Meinliold.-" Wait, I'll teach you-"
Rehkop/.-" Sir, you shall teach me nothing ;
and with regard to getting drunk, air, I stood
by when you fell down on the other eide of the
ho1'118, after you bad been lif\ed up upon it. We
hereby d~lare to you. in the name of the con-
gregation, that we will not let our schoolmaster
be taken from us, until he i8 convicted ; and so
good-bye to you !"
They then went home together. Rebkopf
walked in the streets all the evening, coughing
and clearing his throat, 10 that all the village
might bear him.
Stilling now saw himself again inYolved in
the greatest labyrinth ; he was quite aware that
be would be obliged to remove, and what would
then await him 1 Meanwhile, however, be as-
certained the whole mystery of hie persecution.
The previous schoolmaster of Kleefeld had
been universally beloYed ; be bad engaged to
marry a young woman there, and, in order the
better to support himself, bad sought to obtain
a larger salary. Therefore, on receiving a call
io another place, be stated to the people that be
would withdraw unleaa hie salary were in-
creased, feeling confident that they would not
let him depart for the sake of a little money.
But be was mistaken ; be wae left at liberty to
go, and Stilling was chosen.
It is easy to suppose that the family of the
young woman now used every endeavour to
overthrow Stilling; and this they effected with
all secrecy, by loading the Inspector with valua-
ble presents the year through, so that be deter-
mined, without law or equity, to get rid of him.
Some days after this event, the preeident sent
to reque\lt him to come to him; he went. The
president told him to sit down, and said, " Friend
Stilling, I pity you from my heart, and I have
sent for you to give you the beat advice I know.
I have heard that your peasants ha•e signed a
letter of attorney, in order to protect you ; how-
eYer, it will not be of the smallest eerYice to
you; for the matter. must be decided in the
Upper Consistory, wbich is formed entirely of
the Inspector's friends and relatiYea. You will
gain nothing by it, except that you will make
him more and more bitter against you, and your
native land too bot for you. Therefore, when
you come before the Consistory, demand your
dismieeinn."
Stilling thanked him for thie faithful advice,
and added. "But my honor suffers from it !"
'fbe president replied, " Let me take care of
that." The schoolmaster promised to follow
his advice, and went home; hut he told no one
what he intended to do.
When the Consistory again met, he was sum-
moned to appear with bis opponents; hut Reh-
kopf went unbidden to Salen, and even into
\be anteroom of.the Consistory-court. Stilling
came, and was first called up. The president
beckoned to him to make his statement ; on
which the schoolmaster began as follows :-
"Mr. IDSpec4or, I see that elforta are made to
render ruy 1ituatioa unpleasant to me ; I ~
fore request, from. love to peace, my honorable
diamiesion."
The Inspector looked at him with a cheerful
smile, and said, "Very well, schoolmaster!-
that you shall have, and an attestation beaidea.
which is incomparable."
"No, Mr. Inspector, no atteatation ! Deep
in my eool there is an aiteatation and a justifi-
cation written, which neither death nor the fire
of the last day will erase, and which shall eYen-
tually blaze in the face of my persecutors enough
to blind them." Stillin& BBid tbia with glowing
cbeeka aod sparkling eyea.
The president smiled at him, and winked at
him with his eyes. But the Inspector appeared
as though be heard not, and read a dooumeot
or protocol.
"Now," said the president to the Inspector.
smilingly, "paaaing sentence belongs to you,
but the execution to me. Write, secretary :-
• 'fhia day appeared schoolmaster Stilling of
Kleefeld, and desired, from love to peace, his
honourable dismi11Sion, which for this reason ia
granted him ; yet with the condition that be
bind himself, io case he should again recei•e a
call, or be wanted for any other employment,
to apply bis excellent talenta for the good of bi&
country.'"
"Right!" said the Inspector. "Now, school-
master, that you may know who had a right &e
reprove you, I tell you that you have prostituted
the holy sacrament. The last time you com-
munieated, you laughed aatirioally after receiY·
ing it."
Stilling looked him in the face, and said,
"Whether I laughed or ~ot, I know not ; but
this I know, that I did not laugh satirically."
Meinhold.-" No one ought to laugh on such
a sacred occasion."
Stilling answered, " Man sees that which is
outward; but God looks at the heart. I cannot
say that I laughed, but I well know what FD/•
Mtio Hcrorum ie, and hue long known it."
The president now gave orders for his oppo·
nenta to appear ; they came, and the secretary
was commanded to read to them the protocol
just dictated. They looked at each oLber and
were ashamed.
"Have you any thing more to aay !" asked
the president. They answered" No."
" Well, then," continued the worthy man, "I
have still something to say. ~t belongs to thlt
Inspector to confirm the choice of a schoolmas-
ter, when you have elected one; but it is my
duty to take care that peace and order are pre-
served ; on wbi<'h account I command you, on
pain of a hundred guilders fine, not to choose
the former schoolmaster, but an entirely im-
partial one, in order that tranquillity may be
restored."
The Inspector was startled ; he looked at the
president, and said, "In that way, the people
will never be quiet." '
"Mr. Inspector," replied the former, "that
belongs ad forum politicum, and does not con-
cern you."
Meanwhile, Rehkopfannounced himself. He
was admitted. He desired, io the name of hia.
principals, to see the protocol. The secretary
was ordered to read him the one of that day•.
Rehkop{ looked at Stilling, and aaked him if
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS,
that was right. Stilling answered, "A man there must be something in your deportment
cannot always do what is right, but muet also which displeases the people ; otherwise it would
aomctimca shut his eyes and do wh':lt he can, be impos~iblc to be so unfortunate. I shall
and not what he will; however, I thank you a soon perceive it, after you have been a few days
thousand times, my sincere friend ! God will with me ; I will then inform you of it, and you
reward you!" Rehkopf was silent awhile; at must endeavour to alt.er it." Stilling smiled,
length he began, and said, "I protest, therefore, and replied, "I shall be glad, cousin, if you will
in the name of my constituents, against the tell me my faults; but I know very well where
choice of the former sch<>j>lmas&er, and desire the difficulty lies, and I will solve it for yo11 :-
that this protest be entered in the protocol." I do not live in the vocation for which I am
"Good," said the president; "it shall be done. born ; I do every thing by constraint, and there·
I bave already forbidden it on pain of a hundred fore there is no blessing with it."
guilders fine." They were then all sent home, Goldmann shook his bead, and answered,
and the affair was terminated. "Ha, ha !-to what do you suppose younielf
Stilling was thus again placed in painful cir- born ! I believe, through the reading of ro-
eumatances; he took a very sorrowful leave mances, you have fixed impossible things in
of the dear people at Kleefeld, and did not go your head. The. fortunate events which the
home, but to the RAv. Mr. Goldmann, and com- imaginations of the poets invent for their heroes,
plained to him of bis situation. The latter fix themselves firmly in the mind and heart,
sympathised cordially with him, and kept him and excite a hunger after similar wonderful
all night at his house. In the evening they changes."
conferred together, upon what would be the Stilling was silent awhile, and looked down ;
moat proper course for Stilling to undertake. at length he regarded his cousin with a pene.
Mr. Goldmann perceiYed clearly, that he would trating eye, and said emphatically, "No !-in
have little enjoyment at his father's, and yet perusing romances, I feel merely ; it seems to
he knew of no other atep which be could take. me as if every thing happened to myself that [
At length something occurred to him, which read ; but I have nu desire to experience such
seemed pleasing and advantageous, both to the adventures. It is something else, dear cousin.
clergyman and to Stilling himself. I take delight in the sciences; if I bad only a
Ten leagues from Salen, lies a email town vocation in which I could gain my bread by
ealled Rothhagen, and young Mr. Goldmann, a the labor of my head, my wishes would be ful-
aon of the clergyman, waa the magistrate there. filled."
At Lahnburg, which is two leagues beyond that Goldmann replied, "Well, then, examine this
place, Mr. 8ehneeberg was court-chaplain to impulse impartially. Are not fame and ambi-
&wo noble princesses, and he was a cousin of tion connected with it 1 Have you not been
Mr. Goldmann. The worthy man thought, that pleased with the idea of being able to appear in
if he sent olf Stilling with letters of recommend- a fine coat and the dress of a gentleman, when
ation to these two persons, he could not fail of the people will be obliged to bow themselves
being assisted. Stilling himself hoped, with before you and take olf their hats to you, and
eertainty, that eYery thing would turn out ac- at the thought of becoming the pride aod the
(X)rdini:t to his wish. The affair was therefore head of your family 1"
tbas decided, the letters of recommendation "Yes." answered Stilling, candidly; "I cer-
were prepared, and Stilling eet out the next tainly feel that, and it causes me many a happy
morning, in high spirits. oour."
The weather was that day very cold and "Just eo." continued Goldmann ; " but are
rough ; besides which, travelling was rendered you really in earnest to be a virtuous man in
very difficult, on account of the miry roads. the world-to serve God and man-and thua
Stiffing, however, went on his wav much more he happy also in the life to come 1 Now do not
pleasantly than if he had been ret1irning. in the dissemble, but be sincere. Are you firmly re.
moeL beautiful weather in spring, to his father's solved to be so!"
at Leindorf. He felt in his mind so profound a "0 yes!" rejoined Stilling ; " that is really
peace, and such a consciousness of the good the polar star to which at length my spirit, after
plP.asure of the Father of men, that he cheer- many aberrations, poin\11, li,ke the needle to .th&
fully pursued his journey. continually offered north."
up •hanks and ardent ejaculations to God, al- "Now, cousin,'' replied Goldmann, "I will
though he was wet to the skin by the rain. cast your nativity, ia which you may place con-
He would scarcely have felt so comfortable if fidence. Listen to me. God abominates no-
Meinhold had been in the right. thing so much as vain pride, and the ambitious
At seven o'clock in the evening he arrived, desire of seeing our fellow-creatures, who are
Wt!t and weary, at Rothhagen. He ssked for often better than we, low at our feet. But He
the houl!fl of Mr. Goldmann the magistrate ; it loves that man who, in quietness and conceal-
waa pointed out to him ; he went tn it and an- ment, labors for the good of mankind, and does
nounced himself. Mr. Galdmann cam1> running not wish to become known. By his gracious
down the stairs, and exclaimed, "Welr.ome, guidance. He at length brings forward such an
eousin Stilling! welcome to my house!" He individual and places him on high. The vir-
then led him up-stairs. His lady received him tuons man then e1ts there without the risk ur
likewise in a friendly manner, and made RT· being cast down ; and because the burden of
rangements for bis changing his clothes, that Isuch an elevation oppresses him, he regards all
bis own might be dried again ; after which they laboi1L him a>1 being equally good with himself.
eat down to supper. During supper, Stilling , See, cousin, this is real, ennobled, amended, or
wai. requested to relate his history ;-when he j' regenerate human nature. I will now prophesy
had finiabed, ·Mr. Goldmann said, " Cousin, to you, what will become of you. Gud, by a.
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING
Jong and painful tMln of e•ents, will Set'k to
sweep away all your nin desires; if He suc-
ceeds, you will at length, after many ae•ere
trials, become a great and happy man, and an
excellent instrument in the hands of God. But
if you do not follow his guidance, you will per·
haps soon soar on high, and experience a dread·
ful fall, which will make the eal'!l of all that
hear it to tingle."
Stilling knew not what to think; all these
words were as if Goldmann had read them in
his aoul. He felt the truth of them in the cen-
tre of his heart, and said, with inwanl emo-
tion and clasped bands, " My dear cousin.
what rou say is true ; I feel that such will be
my fate.''
Goldmann smiled, and concluded the conver-
eation with the words, " I begin to hope you
will at length succeed."
The next morning. Justice Goldmann took
Stilling into hie office, and set him to copy; he
immediately saw that he would suit excellPntly
for such a station; anti if his latly had not been
a little miserly, he would directly have engaged
him as his clerk.
After a few days, he went to Lahnhurg. The
chaplain was gone to the beautiful menagerie
adjacent. Stilling went after him, and sought
for him there. He found him walking in a
ehady path; he went up to him. presented him
the letter, and saluted him from the MPssieurs
Goltlmann, father and sbn. Mr. Schneeherg
knew Stilling as soon as be saw him, for they
had once seen and spoken to each other at
Safen. Aller reading the letter, he reqnestl'f!
Stilling to walk with him till sunset, and mean-
while relate his whole history to him He did
so with his wonted animation, so that the chap.
Jain occasionally wiped his t>yes.
In the evening, after supper, Mr. Schneebt>rg
eaid to Stilling, " My friend, I know of a situa·
tion for you, which·it is to he hoped you will
~ot fail in obtaining. There is only one quf'll.
tton to answer. whether you feel confident of
being ahle to fill it with honour!
"The princeseee have in the nt>ighhourhnod
a productive mine, with a smelting·house he·
longing to it. They must have a person there
who understands mining and smelting, and is.
at the same time, faithful and honest. and who
must watch over and attend to their Serene
Highnf'ases' interest on all occasions. Tht>
present manager retires next epring, and it
would then be the time tn enter ·upon this sd-
•antagl'Ons situation. You would there have
house, yard, garden, and ground frt>e, hesidt>s
thrt>e hundred guilders yearly salary.• I have
therefore two questions lo ask; do you under-
stand mining and smelting sufficiently, and can
you trust yourgelf to undertake such a responsi-
ble situation!"
Stilling could not uonceal his heartfelt joy.
He answered, " With respect to the first, I
have been brought up amongst charcoal·hnrne1s,
miners and Stnt'hers; 11n1I that in whinh I may
be dt'fiCif'nt, f Can perfect DIYSf!lf ID durinl!
the approaching winter. In writing and ac-
couma, r shall nnt be wanting: with rP'1'11rcl to
the second, that is a question to which my
• Th• ntue or a guilder Is about tweaty-penee In Eng-
lleh lllUDey.
•
whole enul an1wen in the aftlrm1t1•e : I d8'eS
all unfaitbfulnese, u J do Saum himeelf."
The chaplain replied, "I willingly helie•e
that you will not be wantin1 in abundant ahili·
ty ; of that I have already heard, when I was
in Salt>n and the neighbourhood. But are yoll
so confident with respect to fidelity 1 Thia ia
a point with which you are aiill unacquainted.
I allow that you hate e'fery consciuus act of in-
fidelity like Satan himself; hut there is here a
peculiar kind of prudent faithli1lneas rt>quired,
with which you cannot he yet acquainted, he·
cause you have had no experience of it. For
instance, supposing you were placed m auch a
situation, and all at once, you were out of mo-
ney; you needed something for your house-
ket'ping, but had it not yourself. and knew not
how to ohtain it ; would you not go. under such.
circumstances, to your employer's cash, and
take what was needful!"
" Yes," aaid Stilling ; " that I should do bold-
ly, as long as I had any salary due to me."
" I agree to that, for the .present," rej<>ieed
Sct.net>ht>rg; "hut such a circumstance makes
the individual, when ol\en repeated, still bolder.
and he becomes accustomed to it ; the firat.
year, he is twenty guilders in arrear; the sec-
ond, forty ; the third, eighty; the fourth, tW4>
hundred; and so on, until he must either run
away, or else be treated as a rogue. Do not
think there is no fear of that !-Your d:sposi-
tion is kind-and you will be visited both by
high and low, who will aonn perceive it. Yo11
wilt not he able to du with a single bottle or
wine daily. and this article alone will take from
you yearly a hundred guilders, without inclu-
ding any other contingency ; the clothes for
yourself and your household another hundred..
Now, do you think you will he able to mak$
ends meet with the remaining hundred guild-
ers!"
Stilling answered, "Going beyond that mast
he avoided."
"Yes," continued the chaplain," that must
CP.rtainly l.e B'foided ; but how will you accom·
plish it!"
Stilling replied, "I would frankly say to the
people that visited me, •Gentlemen, or friends,
my circumetancf'a do not permit me to offer
you wine ; with what else can J wait upoa
you 1'"
Mr. Scbneeherg laughed. "Wt>ll," said he,
"that would do ; however. it. is more difficult
than you auppose. Ht>ar me. I will Ml yo11
aomt>thing that will be 11seful to you all your
life long, whate•er you may e'fentually be in
th!' world. l.t>t yoor outward dress, and de.
pnrtmt>nt in clothing. eating. drinking. and be-
haviour, he always moderatP., and as a com.
mnner; no 11ne will then require more of yoll'
than your appearance indicates. When I en-.
1er a hand11ome)y.furnishP.d room, and find a·
man in 11 costly dress. I dn not ask l<>ng of what
rank he is, hut expt>ct a hnttle of wint· a11J con-.
feclionary ; hut if I come into a modt.-r11tely-
furnisht>d riH>m, toe man in the dreu of a cum-.
moner, I expect nothing niore than a glass of
bef'r and a pipe of tnhacnn.''
Stilling a..knnwledtied the truth of this at.ate--
"1ent: he laughed. and aaid, ·•This is a lt!cture .
I shall nevn forget."
"And yet," continued the chaplain, •• it ia .
• Digitized by GoogIe
8 TILL I N G'S Y 0 UT HI' UL YE AR S•
•
more 4illlcolt to praotiee thll'I ia auppoeed.
Tbe old ..tum pleases himself ao easily when
lbe·indi•idual gets some liitle honorable poet.
0 bow difficult it ia in such a case always to re-
main the old Stilling! He then takes pleasure
iD being called Mr. Stilling, 111·ould gladly have
also a little lace on his waistcoat; and this
gradually increases, until the man sticks faer,
and knows not how to help himself. Now my
friend-in one word, I will do what I can that
you may become steward oftha mine."
Stilling could not sleep the whole night for
joy. He already saw himself inhabiting a hand-
110111e house ; beheld a number of fino books
atanding in a room by themsel•ee ; nrious beau-
tiful mathematir.al instruments ranged in or-
der-in short, hia whole imagination was al-
ready occupied with hie future happy situation.
He continued the next day at Lahnburg. The
ebaplain ga•e himself all poS11ible trouble to ob-
tain an assurance fur Stilling with respect to the
employment in question, and b~ was successful.
The whole atf11ir was, so to speak, conclu-
cled; and Stilling returned to Mr. Goldmann at
Rotbhagen intoxicated with joy. He related
tbe 111·hole affair to him. Mr. Goldmann was
obliged to laugh heartily on hearing Stilling
apeak with so much enthusiasm. Afier he had
finished, thejustice began : "0 cousin ! cousin !
what will at length become of you ! Thia is a
1itua11on which God will gi•e you in his wrath,
ifyou attain it; this is just the way to ruin you
entirely, which I will now proYe to you. As
eoon as you are there, all the courtiers will be-
gin to •iait you and to make themaelYes merry
wilh you ; if you will not autfer that, they will
Ol'ertbrow you as soon as they can ; and if you
gi•e them their will, your income will not be
balf sullicient."
Stilling was frightened at bearing his cousin
speak thus ; he afterwards told him all tbe good
adTice the chaplain had ginn him.
"Preachers are seldom acquai11ted with these
things," said Mr. Goldmann; "they moralize
well, and a worthy preacher may also live mor-
ally well in his circle; but we, laity, cannot act
io such a nranner, nor do men tempt the clergy
so easily 88 other people. It is easy fur them
to talk ! Hear me, conein ; all moral sermons
are not worth a pepper-com ; the understanding
never determines our actions when the passions
are pretty strongly interested ; the heart always
bangs a cloak about the thing, and persuades
oa that black is white. (;ousin, I will tell yon
a greater truth than friend Schneeherg :-to
him tliat doe• not attain t11 a atrong and arfimt
loec to God, all moralizing i8 utterly of no nail.
Tiu lt10e of God alone enablea ua to beeotM mor-
rUy good. Let this be a memento fur you,
cousin Stilling; and now I beg yon to gi•e Mr.
Steward of the mim~a his honourable diemisaion,
a:id welcome the p<H•r needle "'ith joy, unlll
God brings you forth to thl' light. You will
continue my dear cousin Stilling. even though
JOU are but a tailor Summa •11mmarum ! I will
reyeree the whole affair 88 soon 88 I go to
Lahnhurg."
Stilling from heartfelt Pmotion, <mold not re-
ltrain his tears. He felt inwanlly ao hap11y.
that he could not express it. " Oh," said he.
"cousin, that is true ! But from whom shall I
obtaiu atreogth w reeiat my uoboly pride I A
few days, or years, perhaps, and I am no more.
What will it than a•ail ma to have been a great
and reputable man in the world ! Yes, it ia
true !-my heart is the falsest creature on God'a
earth ; I am always thinking that my intention
is merely to eena God and my neighbour with
my knowledg11; while in reality, it is not tbe-
case. l only desire to be a great man, to climb-
on high, in order solely that I may fall the deep-
er. 0 where shall I get strength to o•ercome-
myself!"
Goldmann could no longer contain himself.
He wept, fell upon Stilling'• neck, and said~
" Noble, noble cousin ! take courage ; God will
not forsake such a faithful heart. He will he-
your father. Strength is obtained only by la-
bor ;-the smith can turn about a hundred-
weight of iren under his hammer, as if it were
a light staff, which is imposaible to either of
us ; and thus a man who has been exercised by
trial. can o•ercome more than a little darling-
child tfiat has always sucked the breast, and'
has experienced nothing. Be encouraged, cous-
in ; rejoice when afflictions come, and believe
that you are then in God's uni•ersity, who is
willing to make something of you !"
StUling set off therefore the next morning.
comforted and strengthened, on hie return to
his native pro•ince. Parting from Mr. Gold-
mann coat him many tears; he believed that
he was the most virtuous and upright man he-
had eYer seen; and I think, e•en now, that Stil-
ling was in the right. A man like this may well
he called Guldmann ;-aa he spoke, so he also
acted ; if he is still alive and reads this, he will
shed tears, and his feelings will be angelic.
On his journey. Stilling firmly resolved to con-
tinue quietly at his needle, and cherish no more
nin wisbea ; but those hours when he would
he at liberty, he would again devote to study.
Howe•er as he approached Leindorf, he felt his
melancholy again announce itself. He feared,
in particular, the reproaches of his father, so
that ha entered the room very downcast.
Wilhelm sat at his needle wiLh an apprentice.
at the Lahle. He saluted hie father and mother,,
sat down, and was silent. Wilhelm was also
silent for awhile ; at length he laid down hia
thimble, folded his arms together, and hPgan :-
,, Heinrich, I have heard e•ery thing that has
happened Lo thee at Kleefeld ; I will not reproach
1hee; hut this I see clearly. Lhat iL is not God's
will thou ahouldet be a schoolmaster. There-
fore go quietly to work aa a tailor, and take
pleasure in it. There will still be many RB
honr in which thou mayest proceed with thy ,
other atrotil'll."
Stilling was much vexed at himself, and con-
firmed the resolution he had formed on the way.
He therefore said to his far her. "Yes. you artJ
quite in th11 right; I will pray that the J..ord oor
God would change my mind." So saying, he
rook his SPat, and applied himsPlf to his nef'dle.
Tl•ia .took place a fortnight after MichaPlma&
1760, after he bad entered his twenty-first
year.
If hP bad had nothing more to do than .to ta.
hor 11t his nePdlP, he would have l>ePn sat1sliPd.
and haYe auhmittl'd lo circumstan<'P8; huL his
falhPr st't him to thresh. .The whole winter
thronl!h. he wots obliged to rilie from hed at two
o'clock in the morning, to go to the cold tbresb-
Digitized by GoogIe
48. HE I N RICH ST I LL l NG.
•
1ng lloor. The llail was dreadful to him. Hie Ias soon as he returned home, his wre&cbed-
band11 were lull of blisters, and his limbs trem- began ag-din. Stilling then immediately sough&
bled from pain and weariness. Thie. however, out some other master, in order to escape Lb•
availed him nothing ; perhaps his father would the yoke. Hie earnings, boweyer, were by no
have had pity upon him, but his mother-in-law means sufficient to clothe him decently.
would have every one in the house earn their On one occasion, after being at work in a
food and clothing. To this was addt>d another neighbouring village, he returned home with the
tr) ing circumstance. Stilling could never sub- intention of fetching something. He expected
sist on his pay as a schoolmaster, which is re- nothing unpleasant, and therefore cheerfully eo-
markably small in that country; twenty-five rix tered the room. His father jumped up as soon
dollar:;* a ye'ar being the most that is given to as he saw him. and tried to throw .him on the
any one; meat and drink are provided him by the ground; but Stilling eeized bis fat.her with buth
peallllnts in rotation. Hence the schoolmasters his arms. held him so Lhat be could not moTe,
all know a trade, which they follow out ofschool- and looked him in the face with an expresaion
bo11re, in order the better to gain a subsistence. nf countenance enough to baYe rent a rock.
But this was no system of Stilling's; he knew And, truly, if ever be felt the power of eutrering
how to employ his leis•ne time more agreeably ; in all ite violenc& upon his heart, it was at that
besides which, he sometimes bought a book or moment. Wilhelm could not bear tbie look-
aome other article which suited his purpose ;- he sought to tear himself loose, but could not
he therefore fell into necessitous circuml'tances : move ; the arms and handsof bis son were like
his clothes were mesn and mueh worn, so that iron, and convulsiYely closed. "Father," said
he looked like one who aimed at what lfll was he, with a gentle, and yet piercing voice--
Got ahle to accomplish. "fat.her !-your blood llows in my veins. and the
Wilhelm was careful, and his wife still more blood-the blood ofa departed angel. Provoke
eo; but they had seYeral children, one after me not to anger !-1 honour you-I love you-
another, so that the father had trouble enough hut-{bere he let hie father loose, sprang to the
to support himself and bis family. He thought window, and exclaimed,) I could cry out, till the
bis son was tall and strong enough to maintain earth shook upon its axis, and the stare tremb-
himself. Now, as this did not succeed according led." He then etept nearer his father again,
to his wish, the good man hecame melancholy, and said, with a t<Oft Yoice, ·•Father, what have
and began to doubt whether his snn would not I done that is culpable!" Wilhelm put his hande
al length turn out a disorderly good-for-noth- before his face, subbed and wept; but Stilling
ing. He began to withdraw bis affection from went into a remote corner uf the house and sub-
him, treated him harshly, and compelled him to bed aloud.
do all kinds of work, whether it was painful to The next morning early, Stilling packed up
him or not. Thie gave the last blow to poor his bundle, and said to his father, "I will leave
Stilling. He saw that he should not be able to the country, and travel ass journeymen tailor;
endure it long. He had a horror of his father's let rue go in peace;" and the tears again flowed
house ; on which account, he sought opportu· down his cheeks. "No," eaid Wilhelm, "I will
11i1y to work ae journeyman with other master- not let thee go at present," and wept also. Stil-
tailore, and this his father willingly permitted. ling tould not bear that, and therefore stayed.
Chf'erful moments, however, occasionally still This took place in the autumn of 1761.
intervened. Johann Stilling, on account of hie Shortly afterwards, there was a muter-tailor
great ability in geometry, mine-surveying, and at Florenhurgh who desired to. have Stilling to
mechanics, as well as his 6delity to his country, work with him a few weeks. He went, aocl
was made president of the board of commerce, helped the man at his trade. The Sunday fol-
for which reason he transferred the land-meas- lowing, be wenuo Tiefenbach, to 11ieithis grand-
111ring business to his brother Wilhelm, who mother. He found her sitting in her wonted
thoroughly understood it. When he went there- place. behind the etove. She soon recognised
fore for some weeks into the Mark country to him by hia Yoice, for she was stone blind, and
measure and divide woods, hills, and estates, therefore could not eee him. "Heinrich," saicl
be took his son with him ; and this was just she, "come, sit down here beside me." Stilling
what StilLiog liked. At such times he was in did so. " I have heard," continued ·ahe, "that
his element, and his father rejoiced that his son thy father treats thee harshly ; is thy mother IO
had superior ideas of the matter to himself. blame for it!" "no," said Stilling; ••she ia
This frequently gave occMion to a variety of not to hlame, but the painful cireumsta11ces io
of dis<'ussions and proje<lts which they inter- which I am placed."
changPd in their solitude. HoweYer, all was "Listen to me," said the Yenerable woman;
fruitless, and ended in mere words. People "it is outwardly dark around me, but ao much
who had much to do; often observed him. and the lighter in my heart. I know that thy fate
might have employed him occasionally ; l\ut his will be like that of a traniling woman; with.
mean dress displeased every one who saw him, much pain, thou will hring forth that which thou
and they secretly judged him to be nothing bet- art to become. Thy late grandfather foresaw all
ter than a ragamuffin. He saw this; and it this. I shall never forget how we lay one even-
cauei>d him intoli>rable pain. He himself loved ing in bed, .and could not sleep. On which
a cleanly and del)ent lookin!? coat beyond mPas- we began to talk of our children, and aleo of
ure; hut his father could not provide him with thee,-for thou art my eon, and I bav·e brought
one, and let him want. thee up. •Yes. Margaret,' said Ebert.• could I
Theae seasons were briefand transitory ; and but Iive to see what would become of the hoy !
I know not. -Wilhelm will yet fall into Jiflimd·
• A rlx-dollar 11 a!Mntt four •hllllDp and llz-peoce ties; religious as he now is, he will not perse-
Eqtilh. l vere in it ; he will continue a pious and buneu
Digitized by GoogIe
STIJ.LING'S YOUTH~UL YEARS .
•
man, bot he will still have something to pass I
Uirough; for he loves to save, and is fond of
money and wealth. He will marry again, and
his mfirm feet will then be unable to follow his
head. But the boy !-he has no desire for riches
llut only loves books, and upon these a man can-
not live who is only a peasant. How the two
will agree together I know not; but that the lad
will at length be successful, is certain. If I
make an axe, I mean to hew something with it;
and in that for which the Lord createa man, He
will also make uae of him !' "
Stilling felt as though he was silting in eome
dark sanctuary, listening to an oracle; it seemed
lo him as if he were transported out of himself,
and from the gloomy sepulchre of hisgrandfaher
beard the well·known voice say, "Courage,
Heinrich ; the God of thy fathers will be with
.thee!"
He continued to converse awhile with bis
1randmothN. She admonished him to be pa-
tient and magnanimous; he promised to be so,
with tears, and took leave of her. On coming
before the door, he reviewed the old romantic
scenery around him. The autumnal sun shone
clearly and beautifully upi;m it ; and it being still
early in the day, he determined to visit all these
J>laces once more and return by way of the
old castle to Florenburgb. He went therefore
op the court, and into the forest; he still found
all the scenes where he bad enjoyed so much
&ratification ; but one bush was grown crooked,
and another pulled up; and this grieved him.
He walked slowly up the hill to the castle;-
.e•en there, several of the walla were fallen
down which were still standing in his younger
days ; everything was changed,-only the elder-
tree on the wall to the west still retained its
"lace.
He stationed himself upon the highest point
between the ruins, from whence he bad a com-
manding-view all around. He surveyed the road
from Tiefenbach to Zellberg; and all the charm-
ing mornings passed before his soul, with the
high enJoymeot which be bad f11lt all the way
"1p. He then looked northwards at the distance,
and saw a high blue hill; be remembered that
this hill was near Dorlingeo, and all .the scenes
which took place there presented themselves
dearly to hie mind-what happened to him in
the smoke-room, and every thing else he bad
sull"ered there. He now looked weatwards, and
aaw the Leindorf meadows in the distance. He
.started, and a shudder ~"aded every limb.
He saw southwards ~he hill of Preisingen, and
1be heath where Anna sang her song. To-
wards the southwest, the plains of Kleefeld pre-
.anted themselves to his eye; and thus, at one
view., he took a retrospect of his short and pain-
fui life. He sank upon bis knees, Wl'pt aloud,
.and prayed ard'3ntly to the Almighty fur mercy
and compassion. He then rose up, bis soul
.swimming in emotion and sensibility ; he sat
Gown near the elder-tree, took out 'his POCket-
book, aud wrote:-
" Listen, all ye (el\ther'd thronr,
To your lovens' mourn(ul tlOlll;
Shrubs and trees of every lize,
Hear the l·•n~ue.ge of my 1lghl;
Wt1her'd flower~. once so gny,
Liaten IO my p&rtln11 lay I
M-M•n•ei ! doe! lbna not
liOYU ~el lhia nrda.nt plac1
G
Or, whilst •hlnee the moon's pale ray,
Radiant, ne•r lh- gr- aeata, 11ay ;
Where thy heart oo oft o'erflow'd,
Whilal thy blood witbln me llow'd 1
Does, perhaps, thy lucid eye
Mark the sun's declining beaDll t
Or rrom out Uie azure sky,
Which with atnno unnumber'd teelllB,
8omellmea east a look on me,
When my joys and comforts dee!
Hut thou not to soothe me pres'd,
When my eyes with teano did melt1
Wheu, my hurt wilh woe disll'eu'd,
I a 1ilent kla have felt1
Then l drank, with heavenly zest,
Rapture from my mother's breast,
Now on Luna's gentle my,
Grave and calm, thou aoar'st away;
Paat lhe lllll'll thou t&lt'ot thy flight,
Galn'ot lhe lofty domes of light; !
And thy chariot, whlle and blue,
Tums to dropa of purest dew.
Father 81llllng'a silver hair
Curio In the eternal bre8%8 ;
And hla atar·brlght eye oo fair,
Doris, gently ftooling, - ,
Like a golden cloud along,
For tiom lhhl world's busy throng.
Tall hia form, and firm bis pace,
Now he heara his favorite's woe.-
How to 10rmw be gives place,
Nor from sul!ering finds repose.
Bending low, he then regards
What the priestly ableld awanl&.•
Llght and ju•tice beam around;-
Father Stilling aeee with joy,
Though the trials may ab11und
Of hl5 dear and darling boy,
Yet at length the sun will shed
Raya unclouded on bls bead."
Stilling now rose up pleased, and put hia
pocket-buok into his pocket. He saw that the
edge.of the sun trembled on the seven hills.
Somethiag shuddered around him; he started,
and hastened away, nor has he ever returned
thither since that time.
During the few weeks he spent at Florenburgh,
his mind was in a very peculiar state. He waa
melancholy; but it was a melancholy mingled
with such delicate sweetness, that he could have
wiahed to be always melancholy in such a man-
ner. The cause of this singular state he could
oeYer discover. I believe, however, the domes-
tic circumstances of his master contributed
much to it ; a peaceful harmony reigned in the
house ;-what the one desired, the other desired
also. He bad, besides, a grown-up and well-
educated daughter, who might justly have been
reckoned amongst the greatest beauties of the
whole country. She sang incomparably well,
and possessed a stock of many beautiful songs.
Stilling felt that he sympathised with this
girl, and she also with him, but without any in-
clination to marriage. They could sit hours to-
gether and sing, or tell each other tales, with-
out any feeling intervening of a more intimate
nature than a mere tender friendship. But what
might have resulted from it, if this intercourse
hacl lasted long, I will not investigate. Stilling,
however, enjoyed at that period many a pleasant
hour; and this pleasure would have been com-
plete, if he had not needed to return to Leindorf.
One Sunday eveninj?, Stilling sat at the table
with Lisette-for so the girl was called-and
• The author's Idea Is, tbal In the man•lnn• of lhe
bl-d. the will of God I• mnde known tothem by means
of a tablet, In a limllar manner lo the Urlm and Thum-
mlm In Ille breaot-pla18 oi the Jewlah hlgh-prinL-N*
of IM Treadotn.
o;g;:;zed by Google
so HEINRICH STILLING.
they sang together. Now whether the. song
' made an impression upon her, or eomething else
of a gloomy nature occurred to her, I know not ;
-but ebe began to weep bitterly. Stilling asked
her what was the matter ;-.she said nothing,
but rose up, and went away ; nor did she return
during the evening. From that period she con-
tinued melancholy, without Stilling's ever being
able to ascenain the cause. Thie alteration
disturbed him ; and on another occasion, when
they were again alone, he plied her so clo~,
that 11he at length began as follew11 :-" Hem·
rich, I cannot and dare not tell you what is
tile matter with me ; but I will relate some-
thing to you. There was once a girl, who was
good and pious, and had no desire for a disso-
lute life ; but she had a tender heart ; she was
also handsome and virtuous. She stood one
evening at her bed-room window; the full
moon shone betutifully into the court ; it \Vas
summer, and every thing outside was still. She
felt a wish to go out a little. She went, there·
fore. out of the back-door into the oourt, and
out of the court into a meadow adjoining. Here
she sat down under a hedge, in the shade, and
aaog in a low voice,
Begone, tonnenllnc lhougb11!'
(Thie was the very song which Lieette eang
with Stilling, the Sunday evening when she be-
came so extremely melancholy.) Afl.er she had
aung a couple of verses, a youth, with whom
she was well acquainted, came to her, sainted
her, and asked her whether she would not walk
with him a little down the meadow. She was
at first unwilhng ; but as he continued to urge
her strongly, she went with him. After they
had walked some little distance together, all at
once, every thing seemed to become strange to
the girl. She found herself m an entirely un-
known country ; the yonth stood near her, tall
and white, like a corpse lying upon a bier, and
looked dreadfully at her. The young woman
grew mortally afraid, and prayed very heartily
that God would be gracious to her. The youth
now all at once turned her about with his arm,
and eaid, with a hollow voice, ' See there, how
it !Dill go IDitk thee !' She saw a female stand-
ing before her, who much resembled her, or was
perfectly like her ; she had old rags hanging
about her instead of clothes, and a little child in
her anns, which appeared equally wretched.
•Look,' continued the spirit, 'thi1 ia already tM
tltird illegitimate child thou IDilt ha"e.' The girl
was horrified, and fell into a fit. On coming to
herself again, she found herself in bed, in an
agony of trepidation ; ehe however thought that
she had been dreaming. See, Heinrich,-thie
is always on my mind, and therefore I am
melancholy." Stilling plied her hard with ques-
tions, whether this had not happened to her-
eelf; but she constantly denied it, and affirmed
that it was a tale she had heard related.
The lamentable fate of this unfortunate per-
eon has at length made it obvious that she must
have bad this dreadful presentiment herself;
and then it is easy to concei•e why ehe became.
eo melancholy at that time. I pase by her hi&-
torr, for weighty reasons; and only mention,
that a year afterwards, abe committed a triding
and verr excusable folly; but this waa the liret
11~p to her fall, and the cause of her subsequent
..
painful and grievous fate. She was a nob.e:
soul, gifted with excellent bodily and mental
qualities ; but a tendency to tenderness, joinecl
with something of levity, was the remote cause
of her misfortunes. But I belie•e her Refiner
will sit, and purify her 88 gold in the fire ; anct
who knows, whether she will not eventually
shine brighter than her judgee, who furbade her-
to marry, and then, when she brought into th&
world a child by him to whom she was betrotll-
ed, sentenced her to public expoeure, with the
mark of an arch-strumpet! Woe to the legis-
lators, who-but I must restrain myself: I shall
not mend the matter, but may make it worse.
Still another woe with a curse.-Woe to thoae-
youths, who regard a poor girl merely aa. an imtru-
ment of lasci"iounzeu ; and cv.raed be he be/ore
God and man, who caiuea a good arni-
pimu maidm
to Jail, and a/ten.card. lea"" her to periah in·
misery!
The Rev. Mr. Stollbein had meanwhile dis.
covered Stilling at Florenburgh, and sent for
him, the last week he was with hill master. H&
went. Stollbein was writing. Stilling preeentecl
himself, with his hat under hi.a arm.
"How goes it, Stilling~" asked the preacher~
Stillin~·-" It goee ill with me, your nn--
erence; Just like Noah's do1e, which found no.
rest for her foot."
Stollbein.-" Well then, go into the ark!"
Stilling.-" I cannot find the door." .
Stollbein laughed heartily, and said, " That's
very probable. Your father and yourself cer-
tainly took it much amies of me, when I eaid ti>
your uncle Simon that you mast stick fo your
needle ; for shortly afterward•, you went into
the Prussian territory, and would keep eohool.
in spite of the Rev. Mr. Stollbein. I hue heari
bow it has fared with you since. Now that yoo
have so Jong duttered about, and cannot find the
door, it is again my turn to show you one."
"O sir," said Stilling, "if you can assist me
in obtaining a resting-place, I will love you aa
an angel whom God baa sent to my help."
Stollbein.-" Yes, Stilling; there is now a
situation vacant, to which I bad deatined )'OG
from your youth up ;-this was the reason why
I was urgent that you should team Latin, and
why I would so gladly have had ·you remain at
your needle, when you could no longer etay at
Zellberg. I was irritated because ·you were
with Kriiger, aiace be certainly would have
drawn you gradually to his aide. and away from
me ; but I could n\t tell you why I treated ~Oil
thus, although I meant well. If you had COD·
tinued at your trade, you would now have had
clothe• on your back, and 88 muoh money in
your pocket as yon needed. And what lOlllS
would you have sustained by it1 · It is aLUI ear-
ly enough to be eucceaaful in the world. The
Latin school in this place is now Tacant ;.-you
shall be the master of it; you have abilities
enough to enable you soon to acquire-thal iD
which you may be •till deficient, with reepect to-
knowledge and languages.
Stilliog's heart expanded. He eaw himself
translated, as it were, out of a dark dungeon io-
to a paradi11e. He could not find words euffi··
cient to thank the clergyman, although he felt
a secret horror at again entering upon the du-
ties of a echoolmaster.
Mr. Stollbein, meanwhile, continued : "There
Digitized by GoogIe
• STILL IN G'S Y 0 UT H FU L YE AR S. 61
ii only one difficulty to be removed. The ma-
gistracy of the place must be gained overfor you.
I have already labored in secret, sounded the
people, and found them inclined. However, you
know how things stand here ;·88 soon as I only
begin to carry something usefulinto effect, they
resolve upon directly opposite measures, be-
cause I am the clergyman. We most therefore
dieeemble a little, and eee how the thing will
go. Only continue quietly at your trade, till I
tell you what you are to do."
Stilling acceded to all that was proposed, and
returned to his work.
Before Christmas, Wilhelm Stilling had many
clothes to make, and therefore took his son
bome to help him. Scarcely bad he been a few
days at Leindorf, when a respectable citizen of
Florenburgb, Bailiff Keilhof, entered the room.
Ar088 bloomed in Stilling'& heart ; he forebo-
ded a happy change of circumstances.
Keilbof was Stollbein's greatest enemy ; he
bad perceived that there was a secret move-
ment to choose Stilling to be the schoolmaster,
and this was just what he wished. Now as h11
ibought that-the clergyman woald certainly op-
pose them with all bis might, he had already
taken his measures to carry the thing the more·
effectually through. On this account he stated
the matter to Wilhelm and bis eon, and request-
ed that Stilling might remove to bis house at
new-year. in order to undertake the private tu-
ition of his children in the Latin language. The
other inhabitants of Florenburgh would gradu-
ally send their children to him, and the thing
would then be linked together in such a manner,
that they would be able to etreet their purpose,
eYen against Stollbein's will.
Their intention, however, was e:ztremely un-
J08l ; fur the clergyman had the superinten-
dence of the Latin, as well as of all the other
aeboola in his parish ; and had therefore the
4nt vote at the choice of every schoolmaster.
Stilling, knowing the secret bearings of the
matter, rejoiced that all went on so well. Yet
he dared not mention the sentiments of the
clergyman, Jest Mr. Keilhof should immediate-
ly change his purpose. The matter was there-
fore terminated as proposed.,
Wilhelm and his son now firmly believed that
all bis suffering was about to terminate ; for the
place was respectable and the salary conside-
rable, so that he might live decently, even were
he to marry. The mother-in-law herself began
to rejoice, for she really loved Stilling, only she
did not know what to make of him ; she was
always a~raid he did 11ot earn his board, much
less his clothes ; but with regard to clothes he
had never yet been troublesome to her, for he
bad scarcely even what was needful.
He removed therefore at new-year, 1762, to
Hr. Keilhors at Florenburgh, and began to give
instruction in Latin. After he had been ~ere
IC!ltle days, Mr. Stollbein secretly sent him word
to come to him so that no one might be aware
of it. He therefore went one evening in the
twilight. The clergyman was heartily glad
that the matter had ·taken such a turn. "Ob-
serve," said he to SLilling; "when they are
once unanimous respecting you, and have ar-
ranged every thing, they must still come to me
to obtain my c•msent. Now, as they are al-
,,.,. in the habii of doing foolish thinp, they
are accustomed to find me continually opposea ,
to them. How they will study to say biting
things !-and when at length they hear that I
am of their sentiments, they will really be sorry
that they have chosen yon ; but then it will be
too late. ·Keep yourself quite quiet, and be on-
ly good and diligent, and it will fare well with
you."
Meanwhile the Florenburgh people began to
assemble in the evenings, after supper, at Bai-
liff Keilbof's, in order to consult together how
the thing might be conducted in the best man-
ner, that they might be prepared at all points to
battle with the clergyman. Stilling listened to
it all, and was often obliged to leave the room,
in order to give vent to his laughter.
Amongst those that came to Keilhof's, there
was a singular man, a Frenchman by birth, of
the name of Gayet. Now, 88 no one knew
whence he came, whether he was Lutheran
or Reformed, and wby he wore woollen upper-
hose with buttons at the side in summer as well
as in winter, ao they were likewise ignorant
which side he took. Stilling had already be-
come acquainted with this singular character,
when he went to the Latin school. Gayet
could not endure any one of an ordinary mind :
-the people with whom he chose to associate,.
were such as possessed fire, energy, truth, and
knowledge ; and when he met with any one of
this character, he was open and confidential.
But as he knew no one of this kind at Floren-
burgb, he took a pleasure in making fools of
them altogether, including the clergyman. Stil-
ling, however, bad always pleased him; and
now that he was grown up, and become tutor
at Mr. Keilhof's, he often came to .visit him.
This Gayet was there also of an evening. and
and consulted with the rest; he was, however,
never in earnest, but did it only to amuse him-
self. Once, as six or eight of them were con-
sidering the school affair very seriously, he be-
gan, " Hear me, neighbours ! I will tell you
something. At the time when I travelled from
door to door, with a pedlar's pack on my back,
and offered hats for sale, I came once by chance
into the kingdom ofSiberia, to Emugia, its me-
tropolis ; the king was just then dead, and the
States-General were about to choose another.
Now there was one circumstance on which ev-
ery thing depended ; the kingdom of Croes-
spider-land borders on Siberia, and both the
states have beei1 continually at loggerheads to-
gether, eYer since the time of the llood, solelr
for the following reason. The Siberians have
Jong ears standing up aloft, like those ofan ass ;
and the inhabitants of Cross·spider-land have
ears the flaps ofwhich bang down to their shoul-
ders. Now there was always a strife between
the two nations ; each maintaining that Adam
had ears like themselves. Therefore it was.
necessary for each nation always to choose an
orthodox king, the best mark of which was,
when the individual had an implacable hatred
against the other nation. When I was there,
the Siberians had an excellent man in view,
whom they were desirous of making king, not
so much on account of his orthodoxy, as on ac·
count ofhis excellent endowments. Only he bad
ears standing up aloft, and also ear lappets that
hung down ; be consequently halted between
two opinions ;-tbi1r-did nouatiafy many; bow-
Digitized by GoogIe
5~ HEINRICH STILLING.
. ever, he was chosen. The council of state Ithe Devil is sowing his tares again. On what
then determined, that the king with the well- is your schoolmaster to live!"
regulated high-eared army, should take the field Keilhof-" That, too, is our affair, and not
against the Jong-eared king ; this was accord- yours.''
ingly done. But what an uproar ensued!- .Stollbein.-" Hear me, Ballitr Keilhof! YOG
Both kings met peaceably, gave each other the are really a fooliah fellow, a beast, as big as
hand, and called each other brother! They any on God's earth-get home with you !"
immediately deposed the king with the herma- Keilhof-" What 1-You-you scold me !"
phrodite ears, cut his ears entirely away, and Stollbein.-" Go, you great fool ! You shall
turned him adril\ !" not have your Stilling, as true aa I am a preach-
Burgomaster Scultetus took his Jong pipe out er." And with that he went into bis closet, and
of his mouth. and said, " Mr. Gayet has certain- shut the door after him.
Jy travelled far in the world." "That he has," Before the baliff returned home, Stilling re-
said another ; " but I believe he is aiming at ceived orders to attend at the vicarage ; he
us ; he means to say by it, we are all asses to- went, expecting nothing else than that he should
gether." But Bailiff Keilhof winked secretly now be installed as the schoolmaster. But bow
at Mr. Gayet, and whispered in his ear, "The was he dismayed, when Stollbein spoke to him
fools do not understand that you· mean the par- as follows :-
eon and his consistory." Stilling, however, "Stilling, your affair ie at an end! If you do
who was a good geographer, and understood not wish to plunge yourself into the greatest
the fable well besides, laughed heartily, and said misery, and into poverty and wretchedneu,
nothing. Gayet whispered into Keilhol's ear have nothing to do with the Florenburghers."
in return, " You have guessed it half and half." On this, the clergyman related to him every
When they believed that they had made cv- thing that had passed. Stilling took leave of
ery thing eafe, they sent a deputation, on him with the profoundest sorrow. "Be satia-
Shrove-Tuesday, to theclergyman. BailiffKeil- tied," said Mr. Stollbein; "God will yet bleea
hof went himself with the deputation, to act and prosper you ; only continue at your trade,
as epokesman. The time seemed long to Stil- till I can provide for you decently elsewhere."
Jing till they returned, that he might bear how The Florenburghers however were angry with
the affair had terminated ; and he heard it word Stilling, because they imagined he had secretly
for word. Keilhof was the speaker. conferred with the clergyman. They forsook
Keilhof-" Sir, we have selected a Latin him, therefore, and chose another. Mr. Stoll-
schoolmaster for our school, and we are now bein this time Jet them have their will ; they
come to inform you of it." made a new schoolmaster, gave him a separate
Stollbein.-" But you have not.first asked me, house, and as they could not and dared not
whether I will also have him whom you have withdraw the salary from the old German school,
chosen." and knew of no other means, they determined
Keilhof- " That is not the question ; the to procure him sixty children to learn Latin, each
children are ours, the school is ours, and also of whom should pay fonr rix-dollara yearly.
the echoolmaster." However, the honest man had the first quarter,
Stollhein.-" But who amongst you under- sixty; afterwards forty; at the end of the year,
atands 80 much Latin as lo be able to exam- twenty; and at length scarcely five; so that
ine such a schoolmaster, whether he is fitted with all the pains he took, he died at length of
for his office!" poverty, sorrow, and misery; and bis wife and
Keilhof-" We have people that are able to children were obliged to beg.
do that." Al\er this event, Mr. Stollbein betook himselt'
8tollhein -" But the prince says, J am to be to real ; be began to be quiet, and to trouble
the man who is to examine the schoolmaster himself about nothing beyond the fulfilment of
of this place, and confirm him in his office ; do his official duties, to which he attended with all
you understand me!" fidelity. His principal failing, which 80 often
Keilhof.-" It is for that reason we are come misled him to act foolishly, was family pride.
hither." · His wife's relatives were people ofr.onsequcnce,
Stollbein.-" Well, then, to be brief, I have and he was gratified at tbei- elevation. He
~lected one who is a good one, and that is- himself also strove to attain authority and hon-
acboolmaster Stilling, whom you know!" or. With this exception, he was a learned and
Keilbof and his people looked at each other, very kind-hearted man ; a poor man never so-
but Stollbein stood and smiled triumphantly ; all licited him in nin ; he gave as long as he bad
were then silent awhile, and did not utter a word. anything, and assisted the wretched as much as
Keilhof recovered himself at length, and said, he was able. He was only irritated and impla-
" ·wen, then, we are of one mind !" cable when he saw that any one of inferior rank
Stollhein.-" Yes, Bailiff Headstrong! we are made pretentions to aspire near him. For this
at length ofone mind! Bring your schoolmas- reas.-i, be ha.d always been hostile to Johann
ter hith&r; I will confirm and install him in bis Stilling. Thd latter, as mentioned above, was
office." president ofcommerce for the province ofSalen ;
Kcilhof.-" We are not quite so far yet, your and as Stollbein was a great amateur of the
reTerence ! We will have a separate school- science of mining, he always let Mr. Stilling
house for him ; and divide the Latin school from perceive that be by n<_> means acknowledged him
the German. (For the two schools were united, for that which he was ; and if the latter bad
each schoolmaster receiving half the salary, and not been sufficienlly discreet to yield to the old
the Latin schoolmaster assisted the German man, bard thrust& would have been the conll8-
when he had finished.) quence.
Stollbein..-'' God pardon me my sine ! There, Stollbein'a example, however, ehewed that up-
01gi1ized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YOUTHFUL YEARS.
ricb&nesa &nd goodneu of heart ne'fer autrer
ttbeir poaa8810r to die unamended.
Once, there waa a general meeting to pa1111
the accounts of the wortrs, 110 that the principal
miners in the land had to asaemble at Mr. Stil-
lillp, their president. The Rev. Mr. Stollbein
eame also, 811 well 811 Bailiff Keilhof, with aome
o&ben of the Florenborgh people. Mr. Stilling
went up to the clergyman, took him by the band,
and led him to a chair on his right hand. The
preacher, during the whole time, waa exceed-
ingly friendly. After dinner he began as fol-
lows :-
" My frienda, and gentlemen, I am old, and
I feel that my powers are rapidly decaying ; it
ia the last time that I aball be with you. I shall
Ml come hither again. Now, if there is any
ooe amongat you that has not forgiven me
wherein I may have offended him, I heartily de-
aire a reconciliation."
All present looked at each other, and were
silent. Mr. Stilling could not possibly endure
this. "Sir," said he, "this touches my heart!
We are men, and all of us liable to err. I have
infinitely much to thank you for :-you have
inltilled into me tho principles of our religion,
and I have perhaps often given you occasion to
be angry with me. I am therefore the first that
requests your forgiveness from the bottom ofmy
llOlll, in whatever I may have given you offence."
The clergyman was so affected that the tears
ran down his cheeks; he stood up, embraced
Stilling, and said, "I have often offended you ;
I regret it, and we are brethren." "No," said
Stilling, "you are my father !-give me your
bleeaing !" Stollbein still held him fast in his
anns, and said," You are blessed, you and your
whole family, and that for the sake of that man
who has been so often my pride and my joy !"
This scene was so unexpected and affecting,
ibat most of those present shed abundance of
&ears, but Stilling and Stollbein most of all.
The clergyman now stood up, 11nd went down
IO Baliff Keilhof and the rest of the Florenburgh
people, smiled, and said, "Shall we also balance
our accounts, on this general reckoning-day!"
Keilbofanswered, "We are not angry with you."
"That is not the question now," said Mr. Stoll-
bein ; " I solemnly ask forgiveness of you all, if
I have offended you in any thing !" " We will-
ingly forgive you," replied Keilhof; " but you
must do this from the pnlpit."
Stollbein felt all his fire again ; however, he
waa silent, and sat down near Stilling ; but the
latter grew so warm, that his face glowed. "Mr.
Bailiff," be began," you are not worthy that God
ahoald forgive you your sins, as long aa you
think so. His reYerence is free, and bas fulfill-
ed his whole duty. Christ enjoins love and a
forgiving spirit. He will repay your obstinacy
on your own head!"
Mr. Stollbein terminated this affecting scene
with the words, ·• That shall be done also ; I
wiJJ publicly ask forgiveness of my whole con-
gregation from the pulpit; and prophesy to
them that one shall come after me who will re-
taliate upon them what they have done against
me." Both these things were fully accom-
plished.
Shortly after this event, Mr. Stollbein died in
peace, and was buried in the church at Floren-
burgh by the side of his wife. In his life be
was hated ; but after his death, lamented, hon-
oured and bel~ed. Heinrich Stilling, at leaat,
will reYere his memory Bil long as he liYes.
Stilling continued until Eaater with Bailift'
Keilhof; he then perceived that eYery one look-
ed sourly at him, and therefore became weary
of this mode of life also.
One morning, in ~he revolYed bis ci~um- •
stances OYer in his mmd ;-the idea of return-
ing to his father was dreadful to him, for agri-
cultural labour would at length have entirely
worn out his constitution ; besides which, his
father only gave him meat and driak ; for what
he earned abo'fe that, he placed against the ad-
vances he had made him in former years, when
he could not subsist on his schoolmaster's pay ;
he therefore dared not think of clothes, although
these in the course of the year were worn out.
It was likewise painful to him to work with
other masters, and he saw that he could not
save for himself by it ; for the weekly pay of
half-a-guilder did not bring him in so much in
the whole year as the most needful clothing re-
quired. Half distracted, he threw himself out
of bed, and exclaimed, " Almighty God ! what
must I do!" That very moment he felt as if
it was said to him in his soul, " Get thee out of
thy country, and from thy kindred, and from
thy father's house, into a land that 1 will shew
thee." He felt himselfprofoundly tranquillised,
and immediately determined to go into another.
country.
This took place on the Tuesday before Easter.
That very day, his father visited him. The good
man had again heard ofhis son's fate, and it waa
on this account he came to Florenburgb. Both
took their seats in a solitary room, and Wilhelm
began as follows :-" Heinrich, I am come to
take counsel with thee : I now see clearly that
thou bast not been to blame. God bas certainly
not destined thee to keep school ; the tailor's
trade thou nnderstandest, but thou art in cir-
cumstances in which it cannot yield thee what
is needful. Being with me is also not proper
for thee; thou shunnest my house, nor is that
any wonder. I am not able to procure thee
what is needful, if thou canst not do the work
which I have to do ; it is difficult for me to
maintain my wife and children. What dost
thou think! Hast thou considered what thou
intendest to be1"
Heinrich.-" Father I hue reftected upon it
for years together ; but it has -only this morn-
ing become clear to me what I ought to do; I
must remove into another country, and see what
God intends to make of me."
Wilhtlm.-" We are then of the same opinion,
my son. When we re!lect upon the matter ra-
tionally, we shall find that His dealinga with
thee, from the beginning, have aimed at driving
thee from thy native province ; and what hast
thou to expect here! Thy uncle bas children
himself, and he will first seek to provide for
them, before he helps thee ; meanwhile thy years
are passing away. Bot-then-when I retlect
-<>n thy earliest years-and the joy I promised
myself-from thee-and when thou art gone,
Stilling's joy is at an end!" He waa unable to
say more, but held both his hands before hill eyes,
writhing his body about, and weeping aloud.
This scene was too much for Stilling'& feelinga,
-he fainted away. On coming to himselfagain,
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
bia father J'Ole up, preaed bia hand, and aaid,
" Heinrich, take leave of no one ; go where thy
Heavenly Father beckons thee. The holy an-
gels will accompany thee wherever thou goest ;
write to me often how it fares with thee.'' He
then hastened out of the door.
Stilling became firm, took courage, and com-
• mended himself to God ; he felt that he was en-
tirely set at liberty fro~ all hie friends. No
further impediment remained ; and be waited
with desire for Easter-Monday, which be had
appointed for his departure :-he told no one of
bis intention, nor vi.sited any one, but remained
at home.
However, be could not refrain from going once
more into the cburch,yard. He was unwiUing
to do so by day : he therefore went thither in
the evening before Easter-day, by the light of
the full moov, and visited father Stilling's and
Doris's grave, sat down a little while upon each,
and wept silent tears. Hissensations were inex-
pressible. He felt something within him which
said," Were these two still alive, it would fare
-very differently with me in the world !" At
length he took a formal leave of both the graves,
and of the venerable remains which were de-
caying within them, and went his way.
The following Easter-Monday morning, which
was the twelfth ofApril, 1762, he settled his"ac-
count with Bailiff Keilhof, from whom he re-
·ceived something more than four rix-dollars.
'This money he put into his pocket, went up into
bis room, packed up his three ragged shirts, (the
fourth 'be bad on,) a pair of old stockings, a
night-cap, together with his scissors and thim-
ble, in a portmanteau ; then put on his clothes,
which consisted ofa pair ofmiddling good shoes,
black woollen stockings, leather breeches, black
cloth waistcoat, a tolerably good brown coat of
coarse cloth, and a large bat after the fashion
of those days. He then turned up bis straight
brown·hair, took his long thorn-stick in his hand,
and walked to Salen, where he provided himself
with a travelling-pass, and went out of a gate
which lies towards the north-west. He fell into
a high road, without knowing whither it would
lead him; be followed it, and it brought him in
the evening to a large village which lies on the
borders of the province of Salen.
He then went into an inn, and wrote a letter
to his father at Leindorf, in which be took a
tender leave of him, and promised him, as soon.
as be should settle himself anywhere, to write
to him very circumstantially. Amongst the
various people who sat drinking in the house,
there were several carriers, a kind of persons
who are the most suitable for giving information
respecting the roads. Stilling asked them whith-
er that road led ;-they answered, to ScbOnen-
tbal. Now he bad beard much in his life-time of
this celebrated commercial town ; be tlierefore
determined to travel thither, and inquire the
names of the places upon the road, and their
distances from each other. All this he marked
down in his pocket-book, and betook himself
quietly to rest.
The next morning, after haTing drunk coffile
and eaten hie breakfast, he commended himaelf
to God, and proceeded on bia journey ; bat it
was so foggy, that he could scarcely see more
than a few paces before him. On arriving thive-
fore, at an extensive heath, where there were
many roads near each other, he always followed
that which seemed to him the most trodden.
But between ten and eleven o'clock, when the
fog dispersed, and the sun broke through, be
found that bis path led towards the east. He
was much alarmed ; and walkeli on a little, un-
til he came to an eminence, from whence he aaw
the village in which he had passed the night,
again before him. He therefore turned about;
and as the sky was clear, he found the higb.
road, which, in the course of an hour, led bi.al
to a large hill.
Here he sat down on the green turf, and look-
ed towards the south-east. He there saw in the
distance the old Geieenberg castle, the Giller,
the Heights, and other well-known districts. A
deep sigh arose in his breast, and tears flowed
down his cheeks. He drew out his tablets and
wrote:-
" With mellinr eyes I look once more
To yonder well-known omlling hills;
Oh, when I view the landecape o'er,-
T he rocks, the fields, the woods and rills,
The lofiy heights, the light and shade,
Which paradise around me made.-
I feel, as when In pleasing dreams,
The purest zephyrs breathe around;
AA'!'.i':f~ ~~;~d~~~=·:.=d.·
As though I living water drank,
And by the brook uucoW1Clo11111ank.
My thoughts then, euddenly, ~ain
Awoke me, like the thunders roar
DM:endlq to the distnnt plain,
Whilst forked llghtoioga blue all o'er.
Scared b)• the 1l11ah. the roe-buc.t 1tar1o,
And deep Into the thicket darts.
My spirit elnks to grief'• dark hole.
And looks for old both near and far;
No light then penetrates my soul,
No longer shines a sintle star;-
I call ao loud, the rocks ""'°nnd;
A thouannd echoes •well the sonnd.
At length there shine• a gleam of lighl-
Manklnd's great Father beckoDI me ;
Ye mountains, bloom in beauty bright,
Thm1Jh you I never more may see
Till the last 1l1111h earth'a centre lbakeo,
And one grnod CQnd"lll\UOO makes !
Then, with immortal verdure CJOwo'd,
I'll seek your much-loved heights again
For father Btllliog look around,
With Doris your tnll summits galo;
And 1
.n thoee bowen she held ao ~
Clothed in white robell will I appear.
F111ewell !-I now direct my view
To hilts and lands 10 me llllkoown
And look no longer back to you,
Until my earthly coune la run.
My Snvlour, guide me all the day,
Whilst walking on lhll unknown way!"
Stilling now rose up, wiped away his teara,
took his staff in his hand, his portmanteau 011
his back, and wandered over the hill down into
the val~ below.
0i9;11zed by Google ·
ST .ILLI~q•s WANDERINGS. 65
HEINRICH 8TlLLING'8 WANDERINGS.
CHAPTER VI. Iin bis eyes, and dared not look at one; bot this
one appears kind and friendly; he has certainly
,As Heinrich Stilling descended the hill into a goooconscience."
.the valley, and lost sight of his native frovince, "Well1 well," concluded Arnold, "we will
his heart be~ame lighter; be felt that al the con· conimena him to the Lord our God, who will
nections and relations in which he bad hitherto take care of him, if he is pious."
.-utrered so much, were at an end; therefore he The good people now fell uleep. Stilling
.bzeathed more freely, and was well contented. meanwhile was well satisfied upon his straw;
The weather was incomparably beautiful; at he felt the spirit ofStilling breathe around him1
noon he drank a glass of beer at an inn which and slept as sweetly till the morning as if he haa
sCood solitarily by the road-side, and ate a sand· lain upon eider.down. On awaking, he saw that
wich with it; he then proceeded on his way, his landlord and landlady were already dre55-
which led him through waste and desert places, ing; he looked smilingly at them both, and wish.
and brought him in the evening, after sunset, to ed them a good morning. They asked him how
a miserable village, lying in the fens, in a nar. he had slep,t. He answered, "After midnight,
row valley, amid the bushes; the dwellings very well I' "You were certainly very tired
were all miserable huts, and stood more in the yesterday evening," said Trina; "you looked so
earth than upon it. It had not been his intention dejected." Stilling replied, "Dear friends, it
to pass the night at this place, but two leagues was not because I was so weary; but I han
beyond it; having, however, strayed from his sutfered much in my life-time, and on that ac>
path in the morning, he could not proceed further. count look more melancholy than I am; besides
He inquired at the first house he came to, which, I must confess I was a little alarmed, lest
whether there was any one in the village that I should not be with pious people." "Yes,"said
lodged travellers. A house was pointed out to Arnold, "you are with those that fear God, and
him; he went thither, and asked whether he would gladly obtain salvation· had you had
.could/ass the night there. The woman an- great riches with you, they would have been safe
swere in the affirmative. He went into the with us." Stilling tendered him his right band,
room, sat down, and laid aside his portmanteau. and said, with the most tender mien, "God bless
Her husband now entered; some little children you! we are then of. the same sentiments."
collected round the table, and the woman brought "Trina," continued Arnold, "make us a good
a lamp, which she hung up in the middle of the cup of tea; fetch some of the best cream, aild
room by a hempen string; every thing looked so we three will breakfast together; we may per-
J>OOr, and, to say the truth, so suspicious, that haps never meet again." The woman was ac-
Stilling began to feel apprehensive and afraid, tive and cheerful, and gladly did what her bus.
and would rather have slept in the open air;· this, band told her. They then sat down to breakfast,
however, was quite unnecessary', for he possess- and all three were at home with each other.
ed nothing that was worth stealm~. Meanwhile Stilling overflowed with friendship and suscep-
they brou~ht him an earthen dtsh with sour. tibility; it pained him to leave the good people,
.krout, a puice of bacon with it, and a couple of and he shed tears on parting with them. Strength-
eggs upon it. He ate it with a relish, and lay ened afresh, he proceeded on his way.
down upon the straw which had been spread for After travelling five leagues, be arrived, just
him in the room. He slept but little before mid- at noon, at a large village, which lay in a plea&-
nigbt, chiefiy.from fear. The landlord and bis ant country; here he inquired for a good inn,
wife slept also in the same room, in an alcove. and was shown one, by the road-side, into which
Towards twelve o'clock, he heard the woman be went, entered the traveller's room, and asked
.say to her husband, "Arn'bld, art thou asleep1" for something to eat. An old man was sitting
"No,"answered he," I am not asleep." Stilling by the stove, the cut of whose clothes indicated
listened, but purposely drew his breath strongly, something respectable, but their present condi-
:that they mi~ht believe he was sleepin§ soundly. tion showed that he must have d.!scended far be-
"What kmd of a tnan may this be 1' said the low his former circumstances. There were b&-
woman. Arnold rllJ>lied, "God knows I I have sides, two youths and a girl present, whose deep
been thinking abou!" it all the evening; he did mourning-aress indicated the loss of a near rela·
not sa'f much; dost thou think all is right with tive. The girl attended to the kitchen, and ap-
him 1' peared modest and cleanly.
"Do not immediately think ill of people," an- Stilling took his seat opposite the old man;
swered Trina; "he looks honest; who knows whose attention his open countenance and friend.
how many troubles he may have already passed ly deportment excited, so that he entered into
.through 1 I really pity him; as soon as he enter- conversation with him. They soon became in-
ed the door, he seemed to me so melancholy; timate, and Stilling related his whole history to
may the Lord our God preserve him! I can see him. Conrad Brauer- for such was the old
that he has something on his heart." man's name-was astonished at it, and prophe-
"Thou art in the right, Trina!" rejoined Ar- sied him many good thitigs. The worthy man
nold; "God forgive me for being suspicious! I in return was anxious to tell him his own fate
was just thinking of the .schoolmaster from the· also, which he related to every one who express-
province ofSalen, who slept here two or three ed a desire to hear him; he accordingly did so
years ago; h~ was dressed ID the same manner, before, during, and after dinner. The young
and we heard, afterwards, that he was a coiner." people, who were his brother's children, bad
"Arnold," said Trina, "thou art quite unable probably heard it a hundrecl times over; they
to know people by countenances. That man therefore paid no particular attention to it, yet
look~ so black, and had such a dark expression occasionally confirmed anv thing that seemed in·
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
credible. Stillinghowever listened the more at- "He &hat 11111 Goel the A!mipty nale."
tentinly, for narrating was peculiarly his fa- The old man folded bis hands and aang moat
vorite employment. Conrad Brauer began in heartily, so that the tears rolled down his cheeksi-
tbe following manner: as did also the three young people.
"I am the eldestoflhreebrolher11; the second Stilling, after paying for what he had consu-
of them is a rich merchant of this place; and med, gave his hand to each of them, and took:
the youngest was the father of these children, leave. All of them were friendly with him, and
whose mother died some years ago, but my broth- accompanied him to the front-doorcl where thel'
er only a few weeks since. When I was y~ng all four again gave him their ban s, and com-
1 devoted my attention to the manufacture of mended him to I.he divine protection.
woollen cloths; and as we inherited nothing He f.roceeded forward on the road to Sebo..
from our parents, I instructed my two brothers nenlha , and was heartily pleased with all the
in the same trade. However, the youngest mar- good people he had hitherto met with. I will
ried well, by which he ca111e into possession of call this village Holtzheim, for I shall be obli-
lhis house; he therefore gave up I.he trade, and ged to reven to it in the sequel of my history.
became innkeeper. I and my second brother, From this place to Schonentbal, be had only
meanwhile, continued I.he manufactory. I was to travel five leagues; but having stayed so long
fortunate, and wit.h the blessing ofGod, became at Hollzheim, he was unable to reach it that
prosperous in trade, so that I attained riches and evening; he therefore remained a good league
affiuence. I let my second brother enjoy it rich- on this side, during the night, in the litlle town
Jy. Yes, God know~ I did I of Rasenheim. The people where he lodged
"My brother, meanwhile, commenced a sin- were not suitable comr.any for him, and conse-
gular courtship. There dwelt in the neighbour- quently be continued silent and reserved.
hood an old woman, who was at least sixty The next morning he set out upon the road to
years old, and besides that, uncommonly ugly; Schonenthal. On ascending the hill, and re-
so that, on account of her intolerable unclean- viewing the incomparable town and the paradi.
liness, one would not, so to speak, have taken siacal valley, he was delighted, and sat down on
hold of her with the tongs. This old virgin the grass surveying the whole for awhile; at the
was very rich; but at the same time, so covet- same time the wish arose in his inmost soul, " 0
ous, that she scarcely ate bread and water suf- God I if I might but end my life there!"
ficient to keep body and soul together. It was He now began to consider what he intended
commonly said, that she had put all her money to do. Disgust at the trade of a tailor induced
into a sack, which she 4ad hidden in some very him to think ofa situation with ~ome merchant;
secret place. My brother went to her, and tried but as he knew no one at Schiinenthal to whom
to rekindle the extinguished fire of this person ; he could address himself, it occurred to him thl!t
he succeeded according to his wish; she fell in Mr. Dablheim was preacher in the village of
love with him, and he with her, so that betroth- Dornfeld, which lies three quarters of a league
ment and marriage soon followed. But it was up the valley, eastward of Schonenthal ; he
long before he could discover the retreat of the tlier~fore immediately determined to go thither
household god; however, my worthy brother at and discover himself to him. He arose, went
length succeeded in this also-he found it, and slowly down the hill, in order to be able to take
joyfully carried it to a place of safety; this a good view ofevery thing, until he reached the
gneved my good sister-in-law to such a degree town.
that she fell into a consumption and died, to the He immediately perceived what prosperity
great joy ofmy brother. and afiluence manufactories and commerce may
"He held out faithfully during the usual time procure to a place; the sumptuous palaces of
of mourning; but in the mean time privately the merchants, the neat houses ofthe tradesmen
sought for a young lady, who might be about as and mechanics, together with the great degree
wealthy as he had so innocently become. In this of cleanliness which manifested itself even in
also he was successful i and he began to lay out the clothes of the servant-women and the lower
his money to profit, ana that too at my expense; classes, quite charmed him; the place pleased
for he traded in woollen cloth, and deprived me him exceedinaly. He went through the whole
of all my customers, by offering his goods al- town, and up t~ valley, until he arrived at Dorn-
ways cheaper than I did. On this, I began to feld. He found Mr. Dahlheim at home, and
go back, and my affairs grew worse every day. briefly stated his circumstances to him; but the
He soon saw this, and, assuming a greater de- worthy clergyman knew ofeJ!o situation for him.
gree of kindness towards me, promised to ad- Stilling had not yet much experience, otherwise
vance me as much money as I should require. he might have easily thought that a person is
I was foolish enough to believe him. When he not taken in that manner from the road into mer-
tbought it was time, he took away every thing cantile service; for Mr. Dahlheim, although he
that I had in the world ; my wife grieved her- was from the province of Salen, knew neither
self to death, and I am now living in misery, Stilling nor his family.
penury, and sorrow. He devoured my late He therefore returned to SchOnenthal, and was
brother, who dwelt in this house, in the same half willing to en~age himself as a journeyman
manner." . tailor; but perceiving, as he passed by a tailor's
"Yes, that is true," said the three children, shop, that it was the eustom there to sit cross-
and wept. legged upon the table, he was again deterred, for
Stilling listened to this tale with horror; he be had never sat otherwise than in a chair before
said, "He must be one of the most detestable the table. While he was thus walking up and
men under the sun; he will have to pay for it down the streets, he saw a horse with two bas-
dearly in the next world." keL~ upon its hack, and a tolerably welJ-dressed
"Yes," said old Brauer· "but such people man standing by it, who was tying on the bas-
eare little about that." kets. As the man's appearance f.leased him,
After dinner, Stilling went to a pianoforte, 1Stilling asked him whether he was eaving town
which stood against the wall, and played and Ithat evening. The man said, "Yes; I am the
sang the hymn,
o;g;:;zedbyGoogle •
STILLING'S WANDERINGS. 67
Schauberg carri~r, and shall set off immediate-
ly." Stilling recollected that the young Mr.
Btollbein, the son of the preacher at F'loren-
burgh, was minister there, and that several jour-
neymen-tailors from Salen resided in the same
place; he therefore resolved to go thither with
the carrier, to which the latter willingly assent-
ed. Scbauberg lies three leagues to the south-
westward ofSchonenthal.
Stilling sought on the way to become intimate
with his companion. If it had been the honest
"Catrier of Wandsheck,"• the two would have
had an agreeable conversation together; how-
ever, he was not; although the Scbauberg car-
rier might have been one of the most worthy
among many, for be took Stilling's portmanteau
on his hone without charging for it; so that al-
though he was no sentimental carrier, yet be
was a good, honest man, which is saying much.
As soon as they arrived al Schauberg, be re-
paired to the Rev. Mr. Stollbein's house; the
latter had been well acquainted with bis grand-
father, as well as bis late mother; he also knew
his father, for they had been boys tc.getber. Stoll-
bein \Vas heartily pleased at seeing bis country-
man; he advised him immediately to apply him-
self to his trade, that be might earn bis liveli-
hood; and meanwhile, he would take pains to
procure him some decent situation. He sent in-
stantly for a journeyman tailor, of whom he in-
quired whether there was any employment to be
obtained in the town for the stranger.
" 0 yes!" answered the former; "he comes
as ifhe had been sent for; Mr. Nagel is in great
want of a workman." Stollbein sent the servant-
maid thither with Stilling, and he was joyfully
received and accepted.
In the evening, when he went to bed, he re-
1lected upon his change of circumstances, and
the faithful providence of his heavenly Father.
Without purJ>Osing whither to go, he bad left his
native prov10ce ; Providence had graciously
cuided him during three days, and on the even-
ing of the third day he was again provided for.
It now became apparent to him, what a great
tenth it was which his father bad so often told
him," a trade is a valuable gift ofGod, and bas
a golden foundation." He was vexed at him-
self for being so much an enemy to this voca-
tion; be prayed heartily to God, thanked him
lOr bis gracious guidance, and laid himselfdown
lo sleep.
He rose earlyin the morning, and placed him-
self in the workshop. Mr. Nagel had no other
journeymen besides him; but his wife, his two
dau~hters, and two boys, all assisted in making
clothes.
Stilling's dexterity and uncommon ability in
his trade very soon procured him the tavoe of
bis master; and bis affabilityand good disposi-
tion, the love and friendship ofbis wife and chil-
dren. Scarcely had he been three days there,
when he felt himself at home ; and as he had
neither reproach nor persecution to fear, he was
"r rbe lime, so to speak, perfectly satisfied.
The first Sunday afternoon he devoted to let-
ter-writing, and informed bis father, his uncle,
and other good friends, of his present circum-
&tances, in order to set the minds of his family at
ease: for it may be supposed that they were anx-
ious about him, until they knew he was earning
Ms bread. He soon received friendly answers
to these letters, in which be was exhorted to hn-
• A much·eoteemed publication which .bean that title.
H
mitity and integrity, and warned against danger
from associating with unsafe people.
Meanwhile, he became known throughout
Schauberg. On the Sunday forenoon, when be
attended church, he always went up to the or-
gan-gallery; and as the organist was extreme-
ly old aml inexpert, Stilling felt confident that
during the singmg and on leaving church he
could play better; for although he had never
learned to play on the piano scientifically, but
merely from his own retlection and practice.
yet he played church-music very correctly from.
the notes, and perfectly in four parts; be there-
fore requested the organist to.let him play; the
latter was heartily glad of his as-istance, and
permitted him to perform on all occasions.
Now, as he was fond of continually touching
sixths and thirds in the preludes and interludes.
and ofplaying the softest and mostpathetic keys,
by which the ear of the vulgar and of those who
do not understand music is most affected; and
because, when the service was over, he always
played an harmonious vocal piece, which was
either tender or melancholy, and in which the
tlute-stop with the tremulant was almost always
used-every one was auentive to the singular
organist; and most of the people stood before the
church until be came down from the organ an4
out of the church-door· when they laid their
heads together, and asked each otherwho it could
possibly be. At length it was generally known
that it was Mr. Nagel's journeyman. ,
When any one came to Mr. Nagel, particular-
ly respectableJeople, merchants, men in office,
or even learne men, who bad any orders togive
respecting clothing, they entered into conversa.-
tion with Stilling regarding his performance 011.
the organ · and one word led to another. At
that time, he mingled many scraps of Latin in
bis discourse, particularly when conversing with
people whom he supposed to understand Latin 0
this was wont to astonish them all, not so much
because ofhis wondrous learning, as because ho
sat at bis needle, and yet spoke in such a man-
ner; which, united in one person, was something
unheard-of, particularly in Schauberg. All men,
whether high or low, who became acquainted.
with him, loved him; and this was peculiarly
Stillinlt's element: where be was unknown, he
was sifent, and where he was not loved, melan-
choly. Mr. Nagel and his whole family honor-
ed him in such a manner that be was more the '
master than the journeyman in the house.
The Sunday afternoon was a most agreeable
season to them all. At such times they went to
a beautiful room in the upper part of the house,
the prospect from which was !l'uly deligbtfu¥;
Stilhng there read to them out of a book which
Madame Nagel had inherited; it was an old
folio, with many wood-cuts; the title page was
lost. It treated of the history and wars gf the
Netherlands, under the government of the Duch-
ess of Parrnt, the Duke of Alba, the great Com-
meter, &c., together with the. wonderful adven-
tures of Prince Maurice of Nassau. Stilli~
acted, at the same time, the part of a professor
who reads lectures; be explained, he related cir-
cumstances between whiles, and bis auditory
were allattention. Narrating had always been his
delight, and practice at length makes the master.
Towards evening, be went with his master,
or rather bis friend Nagel, to take a walk about
the town; and as it is situated on an eminence
scarcely five leagues from the Rhine, the prom-
enade was incomparable, on account of the
o;g;:;zed by Google
HEINRICH STILLING.
·J>quliful prospect. Toward• the wesr, this mag-
nUicent stream was seen for a considerable dis-
t@ce in the rays of the evening sun, hastening
majestically to the Netherlands; roUDd about
.lay a thousand bushy hills, where either 6.ourish-
ing farms, or the sumptuous residences· of mer-
chants peeped forth fr<>m between the green
trees. On these o~casions Nagel's and Stilling's
conversation was cordial lmd intimate;.. they
poured out their souls to each other, and Stilling
·went to bed as well pleased as he h.ad formerly
done at Zellberg.
The Rev. Mr. Stollbein was exceedingly grat-
·i.6.ed that his countryman Stilling was so gener·
ally beloved, and gave him hopes that in time
he should be able to provide for him respectably.
Thus pleasantly ~assed thirteen weeks; and
I can ajlirm, that Sulling, during tbat time, was
neither ashamed of his trade, nor had any par·
ticular desire to forsake it. At the end of that
time, about the middle of June, he was passing
one Sunday afternoon through a street in the
town of Schauberg; the sun shone pleasantly,
and the sky was partially covered with light
·.clouds; he was neither meditating deeply, nor
had be any thing else of a particular nature in
his thoughts. He accidentally looked upwards,
and wilh tbis look an unknown power penetrated
his soulj he felt inwardly happy, his whole body
·tremblea, and he could scarcely keep himself
from sinking to the ground. From that time, he
felt an invincible inclination to live and die en·
tirely for the ~lory of God and the good of his
fellow-men ; his love to the Father of men, and
to the divine Redeemer, as well as to all men1
was at that moment so great, that he woula
gladly have sacrificed bis life, had it l>een re-
. quired. He felt, at the same time, an irresisti·
·ble impulse to watch over his thoughts, words,
and.works, that they might all be useful, agree-
al)le, and acceptable to God. He made upon the
·spo~ a finn and irrevocabl11 covenant with God,
· t.o resign himself henceforth entirely to his gui-
.dance, and cherish no more vain wishes; but
that if it should please God that be should con-
tiliue a tradesman all his life long, he would will-
iDgly and joyfully assent to it.
He therefore turned about, and went home,
and told no one of this circumstance ; but con-
·tinned as before, except that he spoke less, and
more cautiously, which made h.im still more be-
loveil. •
This circumstance is a real truth. I leave it
.to men ofgenius, philosophers, and psychologists
to make what they please of it; I am wel\ aware
what it is that thus converts a man, and ~o en-
tirely changes him.
Three weeks after this took place, Stilling
went on the Sunday afternoon to church; after
·service, it occurred to him at the church-door, to
pay a visit to the schoolmaster of the place; he
was astonished at himself that he bad not done
so before; he therefore went dir~ctly to him.
The latter was a worthy and resp.cctable man ;
he was already acquainted witli Stilling, and
was glad to see him; they drank tea together,
and afterwards smoked a pipe of tobacco. At
length, the schoolmaster began, and asked wheth-
er he would not like to enter upon a good place.
His desire for it was instantly again as great as
it had ever been. " 0 yes !" answe.red he ; " I
should be heartily glad to do so." The school-
mastercontinued, "You come as if you had been
sent for: I have received a letter to.day from a
wealthy merchant, who lives half a league be·
yond Boltzheim, iJl which he requesta me .to
point out to him a good domestic tutor. I di4
not think ofyou, until you had entered ; it now
occurs to me, that you would be the man for
him; if you will acce.Pt the situation, there is
no doubt you will obtain it." Stillingwas heart-
ilf glad of it, and believed firmly that the hour
• his deliverance was come; he therefore said,
it had always been his aim to serve God and
bis neighbour with bis few talents, and that he
should seize this opportunity with both hands,
because it. might tend to his advancement.
"There is no doubt of that," rejoined the school·
master; "itdepends solely upon your behaviour,
and in time you will certainly prosper, and ol>-
tain preferment; I will write .next post-day to
Mr. Hochberg, and you will soon be sent for."
After some further discourse, Stilling returned
home. He immediatelv related this event to Mr.
Stollbein,'as also to Mr. Nagel and his family.
The clergyman was gladhbut Mr. Nagel and his
household were sorry ; t ey employed all their
eloquence to retain him with them, but it was in
vain; his trade was again odious to him, and the
time seemed tedious until he reached his desti·
nation. However, he now felt something with·
in him which continually opposed such an en·
gaaement; this "U1:known somethinti"' convin·
ced him in his mind that his present mclination
again proceeded from the old corrupt motive.
His new conscience, if I may so speak, had
awoke in him only since the Sunday above
mentioned, when he experienced such a power.
fol inward change. This conviction pained
him; he felt that it was true-but his inclina·
tion was too strong, he could not resist it; be-
sides this a species of serpent had insinuated
itself into him, which sought to help itself by the
aid of reason, suggesting to him as follows:
" Hath God indeed determined that thou sbouldst
remain eternal\y sitting at the needle, and bury
tliy talents 1 By no means 1 thou must lay out
thy talent to usury the first opportunity; do not
Jet thyself be persu.aded to the contrary; it is a
mere hypochondriacal phantom." Conscience
then again wbisfered, "But how often hast thou
been desirous o laying out thy talent in the in-
struction of youth, and how has it then fared
with thee1" The serpent knew how to object to
this by replying, "Those were purifications, in-
tended to fit thee for important employments."
Stilling gave credence to the serpent, and con·
science was silent.
The following Sunday, a messenger came
from Mr. Hochberg to fetch Stilling. All wepc
at his departure; but he left them withJ'oy. On
arriving at Hollzheim, they went to ol Brauer,
who had related his history to Stilling on his
first passing through the village; he told the
honest old man ·his renewedJood-fortune; but
the latter did not, as it seem , particularly re-
joice at it; however, he said, "This is, for you,
a good beginning." Stilling imagined the man.
might have his reasons for saying so.
After proceeding half a league further, they
reached Mr. Hochberg's house. It lay in a lit·
tie pleasant valley by a beautiful brook, not flu
from the high-road by which Stilling had travel-
led. On entering the house, Madame Hochberg
came out of the parlour. She was splendidly
dressed, and a lady of uncommon beauty. She
saluted Stilling in a friendly manner, and told
him to go into the parlour. He went in, and
found an excellently furnished and beautifully.
papered apartment. Two fine-looking boys en.
Digitized by GoogIe
8TILLING'S WANDERINGS.
reqd, Yilb a pretlJ gilt; Ille bQys _,. drumd
in scarlet clothea, in the hussar fashion ; but the
girl quite in the style of a princess. The good
children came, in order to pay their respects to
their new tutor; they made their obeisances as
they had been taught, and stepped towards him
to kw his hand. Now such a thing had never.
before happened to Stilling in bis whole life; be
knew neither bow to act nor what to say; they
seized his band, but as he held the hollow of it
to them, they were obliged to take the trouble of
turning it about, in order to press their little
mouths upon the back of it. Stilling now per-
ceived how he bad to behave on the occasion;
bot the children skipped away again, and were
glad that they bad finished their task.
Mr. Hochberg and his old father-in-law were
gone to church, while bis lady was occupied in
makiu~ her domestic arrangements in the kitch-
en. Stilling was therefore alone in the room;
he clearly saw what was requisite here, and that
he was defective in two essential things, in order
to be private tutor at Mr. Hochberg's. He was
entirely ignorant of the sdence of poliu:ness;
for although he had not been brought up in stu-
pid rudenesa, yet he had never made a bow in
all his life-every thing had been hitherto ver-
bal salutation, and a shake of the hand. His
language was his native dialect, in which, at the
most, be could only buuor a perl'On with the lit-
tle word "You." Aud secondly, his clothes
were not fashionable, nor even good, but coarse
and much 1Ve>m. He bad earned, it is true,
eight guilders at Mr. Nagel's, but what was that
in such want of every thing I For two guilders
he had purchased a pair of new shoes, a hat for
two more, a shirt for two, and two be had in bis
pocket But all this outlay was scarcely visible
upon him; he immediately felt that he would be
daily ashamed; he had also honrly to learn, by
attention, a more J?<?lile behaviour, and to en-
deavour by his faithful diligence, abilily, and
good conduct, to gain the favor of his employers,
so that they might ~radually help him out of his
necessities.
Mr. Hochberg, at length, also made his ap-
pearance, for it was noon. He united in one
person every thing that can be called dignity and
mercantile respectability. He was a good-look-
ing man, tall, and rather corpulent; he had a
very round face, of a brown complexion, with
large jet-black eyes, and rather thick lips; and
when he spoke, two rows of teeth like alabaster
always showed themselves; his gait and pos-
ture were perfectly Spanish, but I must at the
same time confess there was nothing a1fected in
it, but all was natural to him. On entering the
room, he looked at Stilling, just as great prin-
ces are wont to look at any one. This look pen-
etrated Stilling through and through, perhaps as
forcibly as that did which he nine years after-
wards felt in the presence of one of the greatest
princes of Germany; and his knowledge of the
world at that time, was probably in the same pro-
ponion as Hochberg with this excellent prince.
After this look, Mr. Hochberg nodded at Still-
ing, and said, " &ruilell.r, tnOtlSit:rwf'
Stilling immediately collected himself, bowed,
as well as he could, and said, "Your servant,
wonhy sir!"
To confess the truth, he had studied for an
hour over this compliment; but as he could not
know before-hand what Hochberg would say
further, there was an end to it, as well as to his
•dexterity. Mr. Hochberg paced the room a few
.... .- . .. . ..... ·- ..
times; he then loeked at Stilling again, and said,
" Are you resolved to eerve with me u a pr&-
ceptor1"
suaing.-" Yes." 1
Hocllberg.-" Do you understand langua~a t•
Sl.illing.-" Latin, pretty well."
Hodd>er$.-" Btm, fllD'Mieurl You do not in-
deed require it, but the con.noiJsana of it is most
essential in orthography. Do you understand
arithmetic also 1"
StiUing.-" I have exercised myself in geom-
etry, for which arithmetic is requisite; I have
also studied a little in dialling and mathemat-
ics."
Hoell.berg.-" Ell.bin.I that's clever· that pleas-
es me. I will give you, together with board and
lodging, twenty-five guilders a year."
Stilling was satisfied with it, 111lhough it seem-
ed to him rather too little; he therefore said, "I
shall be content, with what you may add to it;
and I hope you will give me what I may de-
serve."
Hocllkrg.-" Ord; your amdlu.ite will deter-
mine bow I may act in that respect."
They now went to dinner. Stilling saw here
also how much he had •still to learn before he
could bring meat and drink to his mouth al&
mode. But notwithstanding all these difficulties,
be felt within him a secret joy, on being at length
elevated from the dust, and introduced into the
circle of respectable people, for which he had so
much longed. All that he saw, which apper-
tained to propriety of behaviour and good man-
ners, he observed most minutely; he even exer-
cised himself in making proper obeisances, when
be was alone in his chamber, when no one could
see him. He regarded his present situation as
a school, where the opportuuitv was afforded
him of learning decorum and politeness.
The ne.xt day he began to attend to the tuition
of the two boys and the girl ; he had great pleas-
ure in the children, for they were well brought
up, and panicularly very obliging towards their
teacher, and this sweetened all bis labor. A few
da;vs after, Mr. Hochberg set off for the fair.
His departure grieved Stilling, for he was the
only one that could converse with him; the rest
spoke always upon such subjects as were en-
tirely indiJferent to him.
Thus passed ~ome weeks very pleasantly,
without Stilling's having any thing to wish for,
except that he might at length be provided with
better clothes. He wrote an account of this
change in his circumstances to his father, and
received a pleasing reply..
Mr. Hochberg returned at Michaelmas. Still-
in!t was glad of his arrival; but this joy was not
of long duration. A total change gradually took
place, which rendered his situation painful to
him. Mr. and Mrs. Hochberg had tho11gbt that
their preceptor had still clothes at SchJiuberg.
But when they saw, at length, that he had really
brought all be had with him, they began to think
meanly of him, and to mistrust him; they lock-
ed every thing up in his presence, were reserved,
and he perceived from their conversation that
they looked upon him as a vagabond. Now
there was nothing in the world more repugnant
to Stilling than to be suspected of the slightest
breach of trust, and therefore this circumstance
was quite intolerable to him. It is likewise in-
conceivable how the good people could fall upon
such a satanic idea. However, it is most prob-
able thllt some. one of the servants was unfaith-
ful, who sought to transfer the suspicion to him,
0i9;11zed by Google
00 HEINRICH S":ILLING.
behind his back; and tbe worst of it was, they
did not openly make any charge against him,
which deprived him ofall opportunity of defend-
' i11g himself.
By degrees, they made his duties more diffi-
cult. As soon as he arose in the morning, he
went down into tbe parlour; they then drank
coffee, which was over by seven o'clock, and he
was obliged immediately to accompany Lhe chil-
dren into the school-room, which consisted of a
little chamber, four feet wide and ten feet long i
he did not come out of it till between twelve ana
two o'clock, ~en he was called 10 dinner; and
direclly afler lhat, he went in again unlil four,
when they drank tea; immediately after tea it
was said again, "Now, children, 10 school!"
and 1hen he did not leave it again before nine
o'clock, when supper was served; after which
be went to bed.
In Ibis manner, he had not a moment for him-
self, except on Sundays; and lhese he also spent
sorrowfully, because, on account of bis wanl of
clothes, he could no longer go to the door, much
less to church. If be had continued at Schau-
berg, Mr. Nagel would by degrees have suffi-
ciently provided for him, for he had, in fact, made
remo1e preparations for so doing.
A three-headed monster was now really let
loose upon poor Stilling. The most extreme
poverty, a continual incarcera1ion or imprison-
ment, and thirdly, an insufferable mistrust, and
the extreme contempt for him which resulled
from it.
Towards Martinmas, all his susceptibilities
awoke, his eyes opened, and he saw the blackest
melancholy approaching him like a legion of
devils. He called aloud to God so that it might
have been beard from pole to pole, but there was
no longer any feeling of consolation; he could
not even once think of God so that his lleart
might have participated in it; and this dreadful
torment he had never before been acquainted
with, even by name, much less ever experienced
the least of it. Besides this, he had not about
him a single faithful soul to whom he could com-
municate his circumstances; nor had he clothes
to seek for such a friend-Ibey were torn, and
time was not even allowed him 10 repair them.
He thought at the very commencement, that
he would not long be able to bold out under such
circumstances; and yet they daily grew worse.
His master and mistress, and every one else,
troubled themselves as little about him as if be
had not been in the world, although they were
well satisfied with bis tuition.
As Christmas drew near, his painful situa-
tion increased. The whole of the day he was
quite stiff and reserved; but in the evening,
about ten o'clock, when be retired to his chamber,
his tears began to flow, he trembled and shook
iike a malefactor who i5 about to be broken on
the wheel; and when he was lying in bed, he
struggled in such a manner with bis mental tor-
ment, that the whole bed, and even the glass in
the windows shook, till be tell asleep. It was
. still very fortunate for him that he was abletto
'leep; hut when be awoke in the morning, and
:he sun shone upon his bed, be was horrified,
and was again stiff and cold; the beautiful sun
.
'i8emed lo him nothing else than the wrathful
eye of God, which, like a flaming world, threat-
ened to hurl down thunder and lightning upon
him. But all the day long the heavens appeared
red to him, and he started at the sight of every
living being, as if it had been a ghost; while,
on the contrary, it would have been a joy and
refreshment 10 him to have watched in some
~loomy abyss, between corpses and terrible ob-
Jects.
At len~ he found time, during the holidays,
to give bis clothes a thorough re{'air; be turned
bis ·coat, and put every thing to ngbts as well as
be could. Poverty is the mother of invention;
and he covered his deficiencies in such a maoner
that he could at least go a few times to church
at Holtzbeim, without being ashamed; but he
bad become so pale and thin that he could no
longer cover his teeth with his lips; the features
of his face were dreadfully disfigured by sorrow.
his eyebrows were raised up very higli, and bis
forehead was full of wrinkles i his eyes lay wild,
deep, and dark in bis bead; nis upper lip, with
the nostrils, had drawn itself upwards, and the
comers of bis mouth sank down with the skinny
cheeks; every one wbo saw him considered him
fixedly, and turned away from him with appre-
hension. .
On Sunday, after new-year, he went to church.
Tbt.re was no one of all the people who spoke
to him, except the Rev. Mr. Briiclc; he had ob-
served him from the pulpit, and when the sermon
was over, the worthy man hastened out of the
church, sought for him among the people who
stood at the door, seized him by the arm, and
said, "Come with me, tutor I you shall dine with
me, and spend the afternoon with me." It is in-
expressible what an effect these kind words bad
upon his mind; he could scarcely refrain from
weeping and crying aloud ; the tears flowed in
streams down his cheeks; he could not answer
the preacher a word, and the latter asked him no
further questions, but conducted him directly to
his house; his lady and the children were shock-
ed at his appearance, and heartily pitied him.
As soon as Mr. Bruck had unrobed, they sat
down to table. The clergyma& immediately be-
gan to speak of bis situation, and that so power-
fully and emphatically, that Stilling did nothing
but weep aloud, and all that sat at table wept
with him. This excellent man read in his soul
what was the matter with him; he impressively
asserted that all the safferings he bad hitherto
eI¥1ured had been only purifying tires, bf which
eternal love sought to put away bis pride, and
to make him meet for some peculiar purpose-
that his present painful situation had been allot-
ted him for the same reason, and it would not be
long before the Lord would graciously deliver
him; and similar consolations ofthe kind, which
refreshed the parched soul of poor Stilling like
a cool dew. But this consolation did not last
long; he was obliged to return in the evening to-
his prison, and the pain, after this refreshment,
was only the more intolerable.
Thesedreadful sufferings continued from Mar-
tinmas to the 12th of April, 1762, consequently
nineteen or twenty weeks. This day was there-
fore the happy epoch of his deliverance. He
rose early in the morning with the very same 1
painful sufferings with which he had lain do1Vlt
to sleep; be went down as usual to breakfast,
drank coffee, and from thence to the school-room.
At nine o'clock, as be was sitting at the table in
his prison, and quite retired within himself. en-
during the tire of bis sufferings, he suddenly felt
his state completely changed: all his melancholy
and pain had wholly disappeared; he felt such a
delight and profound peace in his soul, that be
knew not what to do for joy and felicity. He
bethought himself, and perceived that he was
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'$ WANDERINGS. 81
wilUngtogoaway; he had taken this resolution and feeling in one of his pockets, he found that
without being conscious of it; he therefore robe he had his scissors and thimble with him, witb-
up the same moment, went up to bis bedroom, out knowing it. He returned, therefore, and
and refiected upon his circumstances. How went in at the gate. He found a person stand-
many tears of joy and gratitude llowed there, ing before bis door, whom he saluted, and asked
those alone can comprehend who have been where the best master-tailor in the town lived.
themselves in a similar situation. The man called a child, ancl said to' it, "Take
He now packed his few remaining rags to- this person to Mr. Isaac." The child ran before ·
getber, bound up his hat with them, but Jen his Stilling, and conducted him lo a small house, ill
stick behind. This bundle be threw out of a a remote corner of the town; he went in, and en-
window into the yard behind the house, then tered the parlour. Here he found a pale, thin,
went down again, and walked, with perfect in- but civil and cleanly woman, who was SP.read-
dilference, out of the gate, went behind the house, ing the cloth, in order to dine with her child~.
took his bundle, and walked as fast as he could Stilling salutP.d her, and asked her whether he
up the field, and pretty far into the thicket. He could have work there. The woman looked at
there put on his worn out coat, his hat, and put him, and considered him from head to foot.
his ofd chamois-frock, which he wore in the "Yes," said she, in a modest and friendly man-
week days, into his bundle, cut a stick on which ner; "my husband is at a loss for a journey-
he supported himself, and wandered northwards man; where are you from 1" Stilling answer-
over hill and dale without any certain path. ed, "From the province of Salen." The woman
His mind was now quite tranquil; he tasted the hrightened up, and said, "My husband is also
sweetness of liberty in all its fulness; but he from that part; I will send for him." He waa
was still so stupified and almost insensible, that gone to work at a house in the town, with &
he did not rellec1 upon h., situa1ioo, and was journeyman and apprentice; and she sent one
incapable of thinking. At.er walking onwards of the children thither to fetch him. In a few
for almost an hour through waste places, he bit minutes Mr. Isaac entered the house; his wife
upon a high road, and then saw, about a league told him what she knew, and he made further
before him, a liule town upon a hill, to which inquiries regarding what he wishetl lo know~
this road led; he followed iL involuntarily, and he then willingly took him into his employ.
about eleven o'clock arrived at the gates. He His wife now invited him to sit down with them1
there asked the name of the town, and was rolcl and thus his dinner had been already prepared
it was Waldstatr, which he had sometimes beard for him, while he was wandering in the wood
mentioned. He went in at one gate, directly and reflecting whether God would that day
throagb the town, and oat of the other. There grant him his necessary food!
he found two roads, which seemed to him equally Mr. Isaac stayed and dined with them. Aft<ir
trodden; be cho~e one of them, and wenl, or dinner, he took him to work with him at a bail-
ratber ran forwards upon it. After travelling ilf's, whose name was Schauerof; this man
scarcely half a league, he found himself in a was a baker, a tall, thin personage. After Mr.
wood, the road disappeared, and he saw no fur- Isaac and his new journeyman bad sat down,
lher trace of it. He sat down, for he had tired and began to work, the bailiff came also, with.
himself with runDing. All his mental faculties his long pipe, sat down with the tailors, and
now returned; he recollected him~elf, and found commenced a conversation with Mr. Isaac,
that he had not a single farthing of money in his where they had probably previously left olf.
pocket, having demanded little or nothing of his "Yes," said the baililf; "the idea that I form
salary from Mr. Hochberg; besides which, he to myself of the Spirit of Christ is, that of an
was hungry, he was in a wilderness, and did omnipresent power, which every where seeks
not know a single individual, far and wide, that entrance into the hearts of men, in order to
was acqaaioted with him. • change every soul into ilS own nature; now,
He now began to say to himself, "I have at the further any one is from God, the more
length ascended the highest summit of abandon- estranged is he from this Spirit. What dost
ment; nothing more is left me but to beg or die. thou 1hiok of it, brother lsaa" 1"
This is the first day in my life in which I know "I view the matter much in the same man-
ofno Jinner provided for me! Ye~, the hour is ner," rejoined the lauer; "it chielly depends
come, when that great promi11e of the Redeem- upon the will of man; the will makes hini sus-
er is put to the highest test, Rs it respects me, ceptible of it"
'Not a hRir of your head 1<hall perish!' If this Stilling could now no longer restrain himself;
be true, I must have immeiliate ai1l; for to thiR be felt that he was with pious people; be began
moment I have trnsted in Him, and believed his all on a sudden to weep aloud, behind the table,
word. J belong 10 those eyes that wait upon the and exclaim, "0 God, [ am at home! I am at
Lord, that He may give them their meat in clue home!" All who were present starred, and
season, and satis~v them with his good pleasure; were astonished; they knew not what was the
I am his creatnre, at least as much as any hird matter with him. Mr. Isaac looked at him,
that sinlr." in the rreeA, and aIway< finds its food and said, "What is the mailer, Stilling1" (for
when it requires it." S1illing's heart, at the'e he hacl told him bis name.) Stilling answered,
words, was in a slate similar to that of a child "Ir is long since I have heard this language; and
when bv severe <'orreclion it melts at length like ns I now sPe that you are people who love God,
wax, and the father turns awav 10 hide his tear.<. I was unable lo contain my<elf for joy." Mr.
0 Goil ! what moment< are· the'!', when it is Isaac continued," Are vou theu a friend ofre-
man ifest how the bowels of the Father of men ligion and true godliness 1"
vearn over them, and when, from compassion, "Oh yes," rejoined Stilling, "from my very
Be c•n no longer restrain himself. heari !"
While reflecting thus, his mind was suddenlyIThe bailiff laughed for joy, and said, "We
at ea~e, nncl it seemed to him as if some one have tht'refore one brother more." Mr. Isaac
whi~pered to him, "Go into Che town and seek and baililf S!'hanerof shook him by 1he hand,
a ma...ierl" He lurned about the same moment, and were much pleased. In the evening, after
oigi;ized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
supper, !he journeyman and apprentice went
home i bnt the haililf, Isaac, and Stilling, con-
tinued long together, conversing in an edifying
manner on religious subjects.
Heinrich Stilling now lived again content-
edly at Waldstatt; after so much sutrering and
imprisonment, peace and liberty tasted so much
the sweeter. He had not written one word con-
cerning his distresses to his father, in order that
he might not grieve him; but now, having left
Mr. Hochberg'"s and living again at his trade,
he wrote him much, but not all. The answer
which he received, was a reiteration of what he
had often told him, that he was not destined for
the instruction of youth.
After Stilling had been some days with Mr.
Isaac, the latter once began, while they were at
work together, during the absence of the other
journeyman and apprentice, to speak to him re-
specting his clothes, and inquired minutely con-
cerning every thing he hail. Aller Isaac had
heard all, he immediately rose np, and fetched
aome beautiful violet-coloured cloth for a coat,
a fine new hat, black cloth for a waistcoat, stutr
for an under-waistcoat and trowsers, and a pair
ofgood fine stockings; the shoemaker had or-
ders to measure him for a pair of shoe~, and his
'Wife made him six new shirts; all this was ready
in a fortnight. His master then put one of his
walking-sticks into bis hand; ana Stilling was
now better clothed than ever he had been in his
life; besides which, every thing was according
te the fashion, and now he was not ashamed to
be seen.
This was the last enemy that wa~ to be over-
come. Stilling could not sufficiently express
his heartfelt gratitude to God and his benefac-
tor; be wept for joy, and was completely com-
fortable and happy. But blessed be thy ashes,
thou friend of Stilling, where thou lies! and re-
posest I When once the words shall resound
over a flaming world, "I was naked, and ye
c1IJtMd me1'' then shalt thou also lift up thy
head,-and thy glorified body will shine seven
times more brilliantly than the .sun on a sum-
mer's morning!
Stilling's inclination to rise higher in the
world was for this time. so to speak, completely
torn Up hy tbP roots j and be was firmly and ir-
reVOCab}y resolved to remain a tailor, until he
ebould he clearly convinced that it was the will
of God he should begin something else. In a
word, he 'solemnly renewed the covenant with
God, which be bad made the previous summer,
on the Sunday afternoon, in the street of Schau-
berg. Hls master was also so satisfied with
him that he treated him in every respect as bis
companion; but bis wife loved him as tenderly
as a sister; and the children likewise were fond
of him, so that be again lived in bis proper ele-
ment.
His fondness for the ~ciences, indeed, still re-
mained what it bad been; however, it rested
vnder the ashes-be had no longer a passion for
them, and he let them rest.
Mr. Isaac bad a large acquaintance with pi-
ous and awakened people for five leagues round
Waldstatt. Sunday was appointed for visiting;
be therefore went, early on the Swtday morning,
with Stilling, to the place they bad resolved
upon, and after spending the day with their
friends, returned home in the evt>ning. Or if
they intended to go far, they set out toi:ether on
the Sunday afternoon, and returnt>d on the Mon-
day morning. It afforded joy to Stillin~s soul
to become acquainted with 10 many virfuoas-
characters ; and he was particularly pleaeed
that all these people bad nothing entnusias-
tic, but slmp1 sought to exercise love to God
and man, an to imitate Christ, their Head, in
their walk and conversation. This fully ac-
corded with Stilling's religious system, and
therefore he united with all these people in sin-
cere and fraternal affection. And JD reality,
this connexion 'bad an excellent effect upon
him. Isaac continually admonished him to
watch and pray, and always fraternally remind-
ed him when he was not sufficiently careful in
bis conversation. This manner of life was be-
yond measure useful to him, and prepared him,
more and more, for what God intended to make
of him.
In the middle of May-I believe it was near
Whitsuntide - Mr. Isaac determined to visit
some very pious friends in the province of Mark,
about six leagues from Waldstatt; they dwelt in
a little town, which I will here call Rothenbeclr.
He took Stilling with him: it was mostdelightfol
weather, and the way thither led through a cbarm-
lng part ofthe country; at one time across a mead-
ow; at another through "green thicket filled with
nightingales; sometimes up a field covered with
flowers; at others, over a busby hill; sometimes-
on a heath, where the scenery around was para-
disiacal; then into a large wood; afterwards
along a cool and murmuring brook, and thus
continualll changing as they proceeded. Our
two pilgrims were healthy and well, without
care or sorrow; they had peace both within and
without, loved each other as brethren, saw and
experienced every where the goodness and near-
ness of the Father of all things in nature, and
possessed a number ofgood friends in the world,
and few or no enemies. They walked, or rath-
er ran, band-in-band, along their way, spoke
quite confidentially on all kinds of subjects, or
sang some edifying hymn, until they arrived, to-
wards evt>ning, without weariness or difficulty,
at Rothenbeck. They took up their residence
with a very wbrthy and affiuent friend, to whom
they therefore proved the less burdensome. The
name of this friend was Glockner, who was a
tradesman, and dealt In a variety of wares.
This man and his wife had no children. They
both received the strangers with cordial at!ec-
tlon ; and thoogh they were not yet acquainted
with Stilling, yet they \ffre very friendly to-
wards him, on Isaac'~ assuring them that he was
of the same will and st>ntiments with them all.
During suppt"r, in the evening Gl0ckner re-
lated a very remarkable tale rega'~ing bis broth-
er-in-law Freymuth, which was to the following
etrect :~Madame Freymuth was Glockner's
wife's sister, and of one mind with her-concern-
ing religion ; the two sisters therefore came fre.
quently together, with other friends, on the Sun-
day afternoon, when they recapitulated the
morning's sermon, read in the Bible, and sang
hymns. Freymuth could not bear this at all;
be was an arch enemy to such thin~, notwith-
standing he went diligently to church and sacra-
ment, but that was all; horrible oaths, drinking,
gamin!!', licentioos conversation, and fighting,
were his most gratifying amuttments, in which
be passed bis time after his business was fin.
isbed. When he came home in the 1>vening,
and found his wife reading the Bible, or 11ome
other edifying book be began to swear in a
dreadful manner, and to say to her," Thou c~nt­
ing, pietiatic d--. knowest thou .not that I will
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S WAND~RINGS.
not bve thee read 1" He then seized her by the
hair, dragged her about upon the ground, and
beat her till the blood gushed from her no11e and
mouth ; however, she did not say a word, but
when he left oft", she embraced his knees, and
besought him, with many tears, to be converted
and change his course of life; he then kicktld
heraway from him with bis feet, and said," That
I will not, thou wretch I I will be no hypocrite,
like thee." He treated her in the same manner
when he knew that she had been in company
with other pious people. In this way be had
acted, ever since llis wife had been of di1ferent
stntiments to himself. But now, only within
!he last few days, Freymuth had become entire-
ly changed, and that in the following IJ)anner:-
Freymuth took bis departure for the fair at
Ftanlcfort. During this time, his wife was en-
tirely at liberty to live as she pleased; she not
only went to visit other friends, but also occa-
aionally invited a considerable number of them
IO her house; this she did, also, last Easter fair.
Once, when many of them were assembled in
Freymuth's house on a Sunday evening, and
were reading, praying, and singing together, it
pleased the mob not to suft"cr this; they came,
and first of all broke all the windows within
their reach, and as the house-door was fastened,
they bust it open with a strong pole. The com-
pany in the parlour were alarmed and terrified,
and every one sought to hide himself as well as
he could. Madame Freymuth alone remained;
and on bearing the house-door broken open, she
stepped out with a light in her hand. Several
of the mob had already burst in, whom she met
in the hall. She smiled at the people, and skid
good-humouredly," Neighbours I wbat is it you
want 1" Immediately it seemed as though they
had received a beating, they looked at each oth-
er1 were ashamed, and went quietly home again.
Tile next morning, Madame Freymuth sent for
lhe glazier and carpenter, in order to restore ev-
ery thing to its proper state i this was done, and
scarcelr was all finished wnen her hasband re-
tarooo from the fair.
He immediately observed the new windows,
and therefore asked bis wife how ii bad hap-
pened1 She told him the pure truth, circum-
stantially, and concealed nothing from him; but
sighed at the same time, in her mind, to God for
assistance; for she expected nothing else but
that she would be dreadfully beaten. Freymuth,
however, did not think of tbat; but was mad at
the outrage of the mob. His intention was to
take cruel revenr upon the villains, as he called
lbem; he therefore commanded his wife, with
threats, to tell him who they were that had com-
miued the outrage, for she bad seen and recog-
nized them.
"Yes, dear hui;band," said she, "I will tell
thee; but I know a still greater sinner than they
all togethe1·; for there was one who for the very
same rea5on beat me most dreadfully."
Freymuth did not understand this as it was
meant; he llew into a passion, beat upon his
hreast, and roared out, "May the d-- fetch
hirn and thee too, If thou dost not this moment
tell me who it was." "Yes," an$wered Ma-
dame Freymuth," I will tell thee; revenge thyself
upon him as much as thou wilt; IJtou art IM man
lhal did u, and·art therefore worse than the peo-
ple who only broke the window~." Freymuth
was mute, and stood as if struck by lightning;
he was silent awhile : at length he began, "God
in heaven, thou art in the right I I have certainly
been a real villaill I I am withing to revenp my-
selfon people who are better than I I Yee, wife t
I am the most wicked wretch upon eanh !" He
jumped up, ran up stairs to his bed-room, lay
there three days and three nlghls, llat upon the
ground, ate nothing, and only occasionally took
something to drink. His wife kept him com-
pany as much as she could, and helped him in
prayer, that he might obtain favour with God.
throngh the Redeemer.
On the morningofthe fourth day, he rose with
his mind at ease, praised God, and said, " I am
now assured that mypievous sins are forginn
me!" From that mt>ment he has been quite
another man, as humble as he was proud before~
as meek as he· had been previou11ly wrathful and
darin~, and as heartily pious as he had before-
been impious.
This man would have been a subject for my
friend Lavater. The expression of his counte-
nance was lhe maddest and wildest in 1he world;:
it needed only a single passion-for instance,
anger-to be excited, and the animal spirits re--
quired only 10 extend every muscle ofnis face,.
and he would have appeared raging mad. But
now he is like a lion turned into a lamb. Peace-
and serenity are impressed upon every muscle
of his countenance, and this gives him an aspect
asxious as it was previously brutal.
fter supper, Gl6ckner sent his servant to-
Freymutb!s bouse, to say that friends had ar-
rived 10 visit him. Freymuth and his wife came-
immediately, and welcomed Isaac and Stilling•.
The latler made his observations, all the even-
infr, upon the two people, and at one time ad-
mired lhe meeknes~ of the lion1 and at another
the courage of the lamb. All tne six were very
happy together, edified each other as well u
they were able, and went late to bed.
Our ~wo friends continued a couple of days
longer at Rothenbeck, visiting and receiving
Tisits. The schoolmaster there, who was also
a Stilling, and from the province of Salen, be-
longed likewise to the society of the pious at
Rothenbeck; him they visited also. He became
particularly fond of Stilling, especially on hear-
ing that he had been a long time schoolmaster.
The two Stillings made a covenant with eacb
other, that one should write to the other as Jong
as they lived, in order to"maintain the friendship
then formed.
At length they travelled back again from
Rothenbeck to Waldstatt, and betook themselves
to their occupation, during which they passed
their time in all kinds of pleasing conversation.
There dwelt, aboat a league from Waldstatt,
a considerable merchant, of the name of Span-
ier. Thito man had seven children, of whom the
eldest was a daughter of about sixteen, and ihe
youngest a girl of a year old. There were in
all, three sons and four daughters. He had a
very large iron.foundry, which consisted ofsev·
en forges, of which four were near his house,
and three lay at the distancc·of a league and a
half, not far from Mr. Hochberg's house, where
Stilling had formerly resided. He possessed,
besides, a great many estates, houses, gardtns,
and all that belongs to them, together with a
number of domestics, footmen, servants, and
grooms; for he had several horses for his own use.
When Mr. Spanier had collected together suf-
ficient employment for the tailor, he sent for Mr.
Isaac with his journeyman to work for some
days at his house, in order to repair bis own and
his people's clothes.
oigi;ized by GoogIe
..
HEINRICH STILLING.
After Stilling had been twelYe weeks with Mr.
Isaac, it happened that they were sent for to work
at Mr. Spanier's. They went thither early in
the morning. On entering the room-door, Mr.
Spanier was silting alone at the table, drinking
coft"ee out of a liule pol that had been filled for
him alone. He turned himself slowly about,
looked S1illin1 in the face, and said, "Good
morning, Mr. Tutor."
Stilling blushed deeply, and knew not what to
say ; however, he soon recovered himself, and
said, "Your servant, Mr. Spanier." The latter
remained silent, and continued to drink his cof-
fee. Bot Srilling betook htmself to his work.
Some hours afterwards, Mr. Spanier walked
up and down 1he room, but without speaking a
word; at length be stood still before Stilling,
looked at him awhile, and said,
"Yon succeed as well in that, S1illing, as if
you had been born to be a tailor; but that you
~re not."
" How so 1" asked Stilling. ,
"For this very reason," rejoined Spanier;
"because I will have you for tutor to my chil·
dren."
Mr. Isaac looked at Stilling, and smiled.
"No, Mr. Spanier I" replied S1illing; "that
will not be the case. I have irrevocably deter-
mined to teach no more. I am now quiet and
eomfonable at my trade, and I will not depart
from it."
Mr. Spanier shook his bead, laughed, and
continued, "I will teach yon something differ-
ent to that; I have levelled so many a mount-
ain in the world, that if I were unable to bring
you to another war of thinking, I sbopld be
ashamed of myself:'
He said nothing more upon the subject that
day; but Stilling entreated his master to let him
go home the same evening, in onler to escape
Mr. Spanier's snares. However, Mr. Isaac
would not permit it; Stilling, therefore, armed
himself in the best manner, in order to be able
lo resist Mr. Spanier with the most weighty ar-
guments.
The next day it again happened that Mr. Span-
ier walked up and down the room, and began to
•peak to Srilling as follows:-
"Hear me, Stilling. If I were to let a fine
coat be made for me, and then hang it upon a
nail, without ever putting it on-should I not be
thought a fool 1"
"Yes," replied Stilling; "first, ifyou neE"ded
it, and, secondly, ifit fitted well. But supposing
you let such a coat be made without requiring
it, or if you put it on, and found it was eve~
where tootiglit for you, what would you do then~ '
"I will tell you what I would do with it," an-
swered Spanier; "J would give it to some one
else, whom it fitted."
• "But," rejoir.ed Stilling, "if you had given
it to seven, and each of them returned it to you,
and said, 'It does not fit me,' how would you
then act1"
Spanier rtplied, "I should still be a fool if I
suffered it to bana up for the moths to devour; I
would give it lo the ei!thth, and say,' Aller it till
it fits you.' But supposing the eighth was per-
fectly willing to take the coat as it was, and not
to require more of it than it was made for, I
should be committing a sin if l did not give it to
him!"
"You are io thl' right there," rejoined Stilling;
"however, notwithstanding all this, I entreat
you, Mr. Soanier ror God's sake, leave me at
n1y trade."
"No," answered he, "that I will not; you
shall and must become my domesti.: tutor, and
that on the following terms: You are unac-
quainted with the French language, but with me
it is necessary, for many reasons, tbal yoo un.
derstand it; therefore look out for a langua~
master wherever you please ; remove to him,
and learn the language; I will gladly pay wbar.
ever it may cost. Funher, I give you, notwith·
standing, full libeny to return to Mr. Isaac as
~oon as you are tired of living with me; and
finally, you shall have all that you need as to
clothing, &c., as long as you continue with me.
But then I have also a right, oo the contrary, to
demand tltis ofyou_;that you will not enter upon
any other situation, as long as I require you, un-
less it be to provide yourself for lite."
Mr. Isaac was touched with this pt<>posal.
"Now," said he to Stilling, "yon will como1it a
sin, if you do not consent. This comes from
God, and all your previous engagements from
yourself."
Stillin~ examined himself closely, and found
within bun no passion or ambitious feelinf:', bot
felt, on the contrary, a hint in bis conscience,
that this situation was pointed out to him by God.
After a short pause, be began: "Yes, Mr.
Spanier, I will venture upon it once more, but l
do it with fear and trembling."
Mr. Spanier rose up, gave him his hand, and
said, " God be tbanke<i I I have now made this
mountain into a plain. But you must immedi·
ately betake yourself to a language-master; She
soonP.r the belier."
S1illing was quite willing to do so, and even
Mr. Isaac said, "The day afler to-morrow is
Sunday; you may then set off in God's name.w
This was therefore agreed upon.
I must confess, now that Stilling is again be·
come another man, that however happy be ima·
gined himself to be, be had !<till a discordant
string, which he never dared to touch. As soon
as it occurred to him, what be had read and at·
tained to in the mathematics and other sciences,
his heart was pained; however, he expelled it
from bis mind again; hence he felt very different
on being conscious that he was about to enter
into bis proper element.
Although Isaac was pleased at his good for·
tune, yet it grieved him much that he was so
soon to part with him; and it pained Stilling to
the soul, that he was obliged to take leave of the
most upright man in the world, and the best
friend lie ever had, before he was able to repay
him for his clothes by his earnings; on this ac•
counr, he secretly spoke with Mr. Spanier, and
told him what Mr. Isaac had done for him. The
tears came inrq Mr. Spanier's eyes, and he sairll
"Excellenl man! i will reward him;· he shal
never want!" He then gave Stilling some
loui~-d'ors, with the intimation to pay Isaac
with pan, and economize wirh the remainder;
when it was expended, be should have more,
onl.v be must give a proper account bow he bad
spent it.
Stilling rejoiced above mea~ure; he had nev-
er yet met with ~uch a man. He therefore paid
Mr. Isaac wilh the monP.v; and 1he la11er rhell
confe~sed that he had realiy hnrrowecl the moner1
for all the clothe~. Thi~ went to ~tilling'«
heart; he <'onld not refrain from we<'ping, an41
thought within himself, if ever a man de•erved~·
marhle monument, this man doe~-not for hav:
ing made whole nalioM happy, but because
would have done so if he could.
Digitized by GoogIe
I
STILLING'S WANDERINGS. 65
<>nee more! Blessed be thy ashes, my friend I
who wast one of a thousand, where thou liest
and sleepe~t; these sacred tears bedew thy grave,
thou true follower of Christ I
Stilling, therefore, took leave, ou Suuday, of
his friends at Waldstatt, and proceeded by way
of Rasenheim to Schonenthal, in order to seek a
good language-master. On approaCLing that
place, he recollected that a year and some weeks
before, he had first travelled that road; he re-
volved in his mind all that had befallen him in
that short period, and then again, his present
~ondition; be fell down upon his knees, and
thanked God heartily f.,r his severe but sacred
guidance, at the same time beseeching Him to
cause the sunshine of his favor to beam upon
him. On ascending the eminence, from whence
he could surver all S<:h6nenthal, and the extent
-ofthe beautifu valley, he felt poetically inspired,
aat down under the bushes, drew out his tablets,
.and wrote:
" I feel a eon emotion flow,
A !:"""celo1tial and profound ;
Whi o pure delighta within me glow,
And cooling breezes breathe &J'Ollnd.
The cloud• along the placid llr.y,
Fringed with ligM, oerenely lly.
..The ruahi114' of the distant rill
Flnata hither, aa on gentle wingo :
J listen !-all beaide ia atill.
Sa.,. whe111 the lade aspiring lingo,
~lnaW:!~"tl.!':.:~!~u.~n:!'k.
"Now, joyfully, my eye1 I raiae
To enry well-known lofty hill ;
Then downwards on my path I gaze,
And my appointed coune fulfil;
For enr from my breaat expel
The foul, tormenting fiend of hell.
•Once mQl'9 I look, with feelinga bold,
Down into aorrow•a gloom.r Yale,
And with a placid eye behold ·
The plac<i w~ere heart and 4e1h did fail.
J hear a dreadful ocean roar,
And waTe1 terrifio laah the ahore.
... Like aeme pale ghoet, which feebly ro&m1
Through hallo and moaoioao lone lllld chear,
Or oadly llitting o'er the tomba
Fillo the night-wanderer with fear,
While laboriD!f hard a word to oay,
Which might 1ta suffering atate connr-
• So did I totter on the brink ·
Of the dread gulf of black dOlplir ;
And enry moment aaw me ain.k.
Deeper into the infernal anare.
Loudly beluw the dragoao growl'd,
While high aboT8 black thunden roll'd.
,.. I went, aud saw, with aad diamay,
Angell of death !\round me wait;
While forked lightningo mark'd the way 1
Until I '•pied a little gal•-
I haaten'd through, in.ifite of foe1,
And found tho end of my woe1.
.. Onwards I crept\ in silent abade :
It atill waa twi ight all around ;
I felt my powen and aeD11a fade,
.A.nd beat in wealuieu towards the gro1lJld ;
Fainting, I felt my eyelids cloee, .
And nak, unconacious of my woea.
.., I oank aa when on friendship'• breaat
Some deadly-wounded wam0r falla,
While 1urgic aid, with inllutnce bl...'d,
The ebbing tide of life recallo ;
I wu re-rived, refresb'd, re1tored,
And through my frame new atrength wu pou'd.
... In laaac'a hoopitable dome
I tasted pure and sweet repoee ;
'Twas there I found a bliuful home,
There aanga of thankfulneu arw ;
To Goel we chanted hymao uf prallll,
The Author of our happy daya.''
Stilling now hastened down the hill to Schon-
ethal; he ascertained, however, that the Jan-
i
guage-maslers there wonld not suit his purpose
because, on account of their '*ing much occupi;;d
in going from one ,house to another, they would
have little time to spare for him. As be was in
has1e, and would gladly accomplish his object
soon, be was obliged to seek an oppartunily
where he could learn much in a little tune. At
length he heard that a very able language-mas-
ter resided at Dornfeld, where Mr. Dahlheim
was the minister; and as this place was only
three quarters of a league from Schonenthal, he
the more readily determined to go thither.
He arrived at Dornfeld at three o'clock in the
afternoon. He immediately inquired for the
lang11age-master, went to him, and found a very
strange, original man, whose name was Hees-
feld. He was silting in a dark room; he bad on
a dirty morning-gown of coarse camblet, girded
about him with a band of the same stuff; on his
head was a cap with fiaps to it; his visage was
as pale as that of a man who had been i;ome
days in the grave, and, compared with the
breadt.h, much too long. His forehead was
beautiful; but beneath a couple ofjet-black eye-
brows, lay two small black eyes deep in 1be
head ; his nose was small and long, his mouth
regular, but bis chin was flat, and projected
far forwards1 and- his extremely black hair was
curled rouna about; in other respects, he was
thin, tall, and well-made.
S1illing was in some measure startled at his
singular countenance; however, he showed no
symptoms of it, but saluted him, and stated his
intention. Mr. Heesfeld received him in a
friendly manner, and said, "I will do what I can
for you." Stilling next looked out for a lodging,
and commenced his study of the Frenr.h lan-
g11age, which he did in the following manner.
In the forenoon, from eight till eleven o'clock.J
he attended the regular school, as also in the at-
ternoon, from two to five. He sat, however, at
the same table with Heesfeld, conversing and
passing the time with him; but when the school
was over they took a walk together.
Stran~ as Heesfeld was in his appearance,
he was Just as peculiar in his life and conversa-
tion. He belonged to the class of Lhe Splenetics,
as did Graser also; for be never told any one
what he thought; no one knew whence he was,
and they were equally ignorant whether he was
poor or rich. Perhaps he never loved any one
ID bis life more tenderly than Stilling; and yet
toe latter on7 ascertained after his death whence
he came, an 1bat he .bad been a rich man.
His peculiar mode of thinking appeared also
from bis always concealing bis al>ilities, and
only letting so much of them be perceived as
was neces.~ary. It was every day manifest that
be understood French perfectly; but that he was
also an excellent Latin scholar was onl1 first ap-
parent when Stilling came to him, wub whom
he commenced his instruc1ion on the principles
of the Latin grammar, and daily made Latin
verses with him, which were incomparably beau-
tiful. He understood drawing, dancin~, physic,
and chemistry, in a high degree; and only two
days before Stilling's departure, it happened that
the latter was playin2' on 1he harpsichord in his
company, and Heesfeld was listening. When
Stilhng ceased, he sat down to it; and ncted, at
first, as if he had never touched an instrument
in his life; but in le~s than five minutes he be-
gan a voluntary, so sweetly and dreadfully mel-
ancholy, that it was enough to make a man's
hair stand on end. In short, he showed himself
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
a complete master of the art, and knew how to
touch every responding chord in the human
frame in such a manner, that Stillin~ was ready
to melt at his atrecling mode of playmg, and ad·
mired the man beyond measure.
Heesfeld, in his youth, had entered into the
military service. On account of his abililies, he
was taken by an officer of high rank into his
particular service, who had him instructed in
every thing he desired. He travelled through
the world with this gentleman, who, twenty
years afterwards, died, and left him a handsome
sum. Heesfeld, at that time, was forty years
old; he returned home-not, however, to his
parents and friends-but took the name of an-
other family, went to Dornfeld as French lan-
guage-master, and allhough his parents and his
two brothers lived only two leagues from him,
yet they knew nothing of him, but believed he
had died in a foreign land. On his deathbed,
however, he made himself known to his broth-
ers, stated his circumstances to them, and left
them a rich inheritance; which, according to his
sys1em, was then quite early enough.
Now whether this be termed a failing or a
virtue, he had1 with all this, a noble soul. His
philanthropy nad risen to a great height, but
be acted in secret; even those to whom he did
good were not permitted to know it. Nothing
delighted him more, than to hear that people did
not know what to make of him.
When he went out to walk with Stilling, they
conversed together upon the arts and sciences.
Their path always led them into the wildest sol-
itudes. Heesfeld then ascended some waving
tree, which would bend easily, sat down in the
top1 held fast with his hands, and weighin~ him.
sell down wi1h it to lhe ground, then laia him-
self a while in the branches, reposing. Stilling
imitated him, and thus they lay and chatted to-
gether; when they were tired of this, they rose
up, and the trees resumed their perJ>endicular
Position; this was an amusement to Heesfeld ;
be was wont to say, "How beautiful are air.
beds! when we riSE', they ascend towards heav-
en." Sometimes he gave a person an enigma to
solve1 and asked, "What !rind of beds are those,
whicn fiy up into the air when one rises 1"
Stilling hved very happily at Dornfeld. Mr.
Spanier sent him money enoui;h, and he studied
very diligently, for he had finished in nine
weeks. It is incredible, but certainly true; in
two months he understood this language suffi-
ciently; he could read the French journals in
German, as if they had been printed in the latter
language; he was also already able to write a
French letter without a grammatical error, and
read correctly; he only required exercise in
speaking. He was sufficiently acquainted with
the whole of the syntax, so that he could boldly
begin to give instrnctions himself in the lan-
guage.
Stilling therefore determined to take leave of
Mr. Heesfeld, and to remove to his new patron.
Both wept on separating from each other. Hees-
feld accompanied him the distance of a league;
and when they were taking leave of each other,
he embraced him, and said, "My friend, if you
are ever in want of any thing, write to me, and
I will do to you what one brother ought to do to
another. , My life is a hidden one, but I wish to
work like our mother natore; her sources are
not seen, but the individual drinks his fill at her
clear brooks." Stilling felt it hard to part from
him; at length they tore themselves from each
other, and each went his way, witho•t oncet
looking behind him.
Stilling therefore retunied on foot toMr. Span-
ier's, and arrived at his house in the eveningr
two days before Michaelmas, 1'763. Mr. Span-
ier rejoi~ not a little on seeing Stilling retura
so soon. He immediately treated 11.im as a
friend; and Stilling felt convinced that he wu
now with people with whom he could be happy.
The next day, he began his tuitio11, the ar-
rangement of which was regulated by Spanier in.
the following manner. The children and their
teacher were with him in his room; he could
therefore observe and direct them himself, u
well as speak continually with Stilling on a va-
riety of subjects. At the same time, Mr. Span-
ier gave his family-preceptor time enough· to
read also for himself. The tuition lasted the
whole day; but was so convenient and amusing,
that it could not be tedious or burthensome to-
any one.
Mr. Spanier, however, had designed that Still-
ing sbould be not merely the tutor of his chil-
dren, but he had also another favorable inten-
tion respecting him-he purposed employing
him in his business; but this he did not com-
municate to him until the day when he commit-
ted a part of his iron-works to his charge. He
thought, by so doing, to make an agreeable
change in Stllling's situation, and to preserve
him from melancholy.
All this was attended with perfect success.
After he had been engaged a fortnight in teach-
ing, Mr. Spanier transferred to his care his three
forges, and the estates which lay a league and a
half from his house, not far from the residence
of Mr. Hochberg. Stilling had to go thither
every three days, in order to fetch away the ar-
ticles which were ready, and to look after every
thing.
He had also to purchase the raw materi~
and to go for this purpose to the di$tance of three
leagues on the high-road, two or threl'! times
every week, whither the carriers came with the
iron ore, in order to buy of them what was neces-
sary. When he returned much fatigued, a few
days' reet did him good; he then read for him-
self, and taught at the same time.
But the pleasing intercourse which Stilling
had with Mr. Spanier, was his principal enjoy-
ment. They were very intimate together, and
conversed .cordially on all sorts of subjects.
Spanier was, in particular, an able and excel-
lent a~riculturist and merchant; so that Stilling
often used to say, "Mr. Spanler's house was my
academy, where I had an opportunity of study-
ing farming, arriculture, and commerce, in their
very essence."
Stillin~s manner of life, as here described,
continuea, without the intef\'ention of a single
gloomy hour, for seven whole years together; I
will say nothing further respecting it, thaa that
during the whole of this time, he made consider-
able progress in his knowledge of the world, in
good breeding, and the above-mentioned domes-
tic sciences. He instructed bis pupils, daring
this period, in the Latin and French languages,
by which he attained to still greater expertness
in both; as well as in reading, writing, and arith·
metic; and i~ principles of the reformed re-
ligion.
His own reading consisted1 in the beginning,
of a variety of poetical works. He first read
Milton's ~aradiSe ~ost, _
_
then Young's Night
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'8 WANDERINGS.
Thoughts, and afterwards Klopgtock's Messias 1 before his eyes, and wept; his BOD likewise shed
-three books which truly harmonized wilh his tears. The mother then·eame also, shook him
soal; for as he had been previously of a san- by the hand, and wept aloud for joy, on seeini
gnine and tender temperament, he had assumed, him again in health.
after his dreadful snlferings at Mr. Hochberg's, Stilling now related to his parents all that bad
a soft and tender melancholy, which will prob- happened to him, and how comfortably situated
ably adhere to him till his death. he was at present. Meanwhile, the reporl oC
He did not, at that time, do mneh more in Stilling's arrival spread itselfthrough the whole
mathematics, but aeplied himself, on the eon- village. The house was filled with people; old
trary, seriously to philosophy; he read the whole and yonng came to see their former seboolmas-
of Wolf's German writings, as also Gottsehed's terJ...and the village was full of joy on his account.
Compendium ofPhilosophy, and LeibnilZ'sThe- Towards evening, Wilhelm took his son with
odie6e. He demonstrated the whole of Bau- him to walk in the fields. He s~oke much with.
meister's Minor Logie and Metaphysics; and him on his past and fulnre fate.Just in the man-
nothing was more agreeable to him thau exer- ner of old Stilling; so lhat his son was penetra~
cising himself in these sciences; but still he felt ted wilb reverence. At length Wilhelm said,
a void within, and a mistrust of these systems· "Hear me, my son: thou must visit thy grand-
for they really stiJled every childlike feeling of mother; she snlfers much from the rheumatism,
tbe heart towards God. They may be a series and will not live much longer. She very oftea
of truths; bnt we do Dot yet possess the true speaks of thee, and wishes to converse with thee
philosophical chain, to which all things are ap- once more before her end." The next morning,
pended. Stilling expected to find this, but he therefore, Slilling rose, and went to Tiefenbach.
found it not; he then set abontsearching further, How he felt, when he saw 1he old castle, der
partly by bis own reJlection, and partly in other 11.iUige Skin, the Giller, and the village itself!
writings; bnt hitherto he walks mournfully npon His sensations were inexpressible; be com-
this path, because he sees no outlet menced a self-examinalion, and found, that if he
Mr. Spanier was also originally from the prov- were able1 he wonld gladly exchange his present
inee of Salen, for his father was bom not far stale for tnat of his youth. He arrived in a short
from Kleefeld, where Stilling had kept his last time at the villa~e; all the people ran out, so
parochial school. On this account, lie had oe- that he came, as 1t were, in a crowd,·to the ven-
casionally bnsin~ in that place; and for this erable house of his falhers. He felt a thrill per-
he made use of S1illing by preference, partien- vade him as he entered, just as if he had been
larly because he was known there. After he crossing the threshold of some ancient temple.
bad been a yearwith his patron, and consequent- His aunt Elizabeth was in the kitchen; she ran
17 nearly two years and a half away from home, to him, gave him her hand, and led him joyfully
he began his first iourney, on foot, to his native into the parlour; there lay bis grandmother,
province. He had twelve leagues to travel from Margaret Stilling, in a neat little bed by the
Mr. Spanier's to his uncle Johann Stilli11R's, and wa111 near the ~love; her chest was drawn up-
thitteen to his father's. This journey lie pur- waras, the joints in her hands were swollen, and
posed accomplishing in one day. He tbe~e her fingers stilf and turned inwards. S1illing
1et olf early In the morning, at daybreak, and ran to her1 took hold ofher hand, and said, wi1h
travelled onwards very agreeably; bnt he took tears in his eyes," How are yon, my dear grand-
& nearer road than that by which he had former- mother1 It rejoices my soul to see yon again."
ly come. At four o'clock in the afternoon, he She strove to raise herself up, but sank power-
gained the summit of a hill on the borders of the less back again. "Ah!" cried she, "I can still
]>l'OTinee of Salen, from whence he could see all hear and feel thee, before my end. Come nearer
the well-known heights; bis heart melted, he sat to me, that I may feel lhy face!" Stilling bent
do111'11, shed tears of sens«bility, and thanked God himself towards heri she felt his forehead, hia
for his painful, but very uneommou guidance. eyes, nose, and mouth, his chin and cheeks. In
He rell.ected how poor and wretched he ha\f doing Ibis, her stiff fingers came in contact witb
gone forth from his native province, and that his hair, and she felt the powder. "So," said
now he had money in abundance, fine clothes, she, "tbon art 1he first or onr family 1hat ha"
and all that he needed. This 801\eoed him so wom powder; but be not the first to forget in-
mueb, and made him so grateful to God, lhat be territy and 1he fear of God I Now," continued
could not refrain from weepins-. she, " I can form an idea of thee, as though I
He now proceeded on his Journey, and arri- saw thee; tell me bow it has fared with thee>
m in the C(IUrse of an hour at h.iS uncle's at and how it now goes with thee." Stilling re-
Lichthausen. The joy they felt on seeing him lated every thing brieJly and pointedly. . Wheo
was unspeakable; he was grown tall, and of a he had fi.nishe~, ~he began as follows: " I,.i~
good figure· had ou a fine dark-blne coat, ud ten to me, Heinrich I Be humble and devout,
!De while linen; his hair was powdered, and and it will go well with thee; never be ashamed
rolled up round about, and he looked, at the same of thy deacent, and thy poor friends, however
time, cheerful and blooming, because things great thon mayest be in the world. Be that is
went well with him. His uncle embraced and low may become great by humility, and he that
kissed him, whilst the tears nm down his cheeks. is high maf become low by pride; when I am
Meanwhile his annt, Maria Stilling, came alsoi once dead_, it is all one what I have been in tbe
she bad been married since his departure, ana world, if 1 have only lived as a Christian."
had removed to Liehthausen; she fell upou his Stilling was obligedoSolemnly to promise this1
neck, and kiesed him repeatedly. both by word, and by giving her his band; ana
He remained that night with his uncle; the after he had conversed with her Cor some time
next morning, be proceeded to Leiudorf to his longer, he took a hasty leave of her. His heart
father's. How the worthy man jumped up, OD pained him, for he knew that he should not see
seeing him come ao unexpectedly I bilt he 11ank her again in this life. She was on the borrlers
back again, whilst Stilling ran towards him, em- of the grave; but she took him by the hand, held
braced and kissed him. Wilhelm held his hands him fast, and said, "Thou art ~ haste-God be
.. Digitized by GoogIe
68 HEIN RICH STILLING.
with thee, my child! I shall see thee again be-
fore the throne of God!" He pressed her hand
and Wf:pt. She perceived it, and continued,
"No! weep not over me I it is well with me.
I heani!y commend thee into the fatherly hands
of God; may He bless thee, and preserve thee
from all evil! Now go, in God's name!'' Still-
ing tore himself loose, hurried out of the house,
and has never returned thither since. Some
days af1er, died Margaret Stilling; she lies bu-
ried at Florenburgh with her husband.
Stilling uw felt as if he had no longer any
attachment to his native province; he took leave
of his relatives..r _hastened his departure, and ar-
rived again at Mr. Spanier's after an absence of
five days.
I will not expatiate upon Stilling's uniform
mode of life and occupations, during the first four
years; but pass over to more imponant mat-
ters. He had·now been for a considerable time
employed in tuition, and Mr. Spainer's affairs;
his years increased, and the idea began to occur
to him, what would at length become of him 1
There was now a complete end to his trade; he
had not attempted it for some years, and the tui-
tion of children was also disagreeable to him;
he was heanily tired of it, and he felt that he was
not formed. for it, for he was ofa busy and active
turn of mind. A mercantile life al~o did not
please him, for he was very conscious that be
would be unfit for continual occupation with
such things, and this vocation was opposed to
his inward impulse; he was, however, neither
disturbed nor melancholy, but waited to see what
the Lord intended concerning him.
One morning in the spring of the year 1768, be
was sitting at the table after breakfast, whilst the
children were running about in the court for a
little while; he stretched out his hand behind
him for a book, and caught hold of "Reitz's
History of the Regenerate." He tunied it
over a little, without intention or refiection;
when the history of a man met his eye, who had
travelled into Gree<'e, in order to search after
the remain~ of the first Christian churches there.
He read the .narrative solely to pass the time.
When he came, in the course of reading, to the
place where the man, on his deathbed, testified
ihe great pleasure he still took in the Greek lan-
guage, and particularly, what a pleasing feeling
he had at the word Eilikrineia-it seemed to
Stilling as if he were awaking out ofa profound
sleep. The word Eilikrineia stood before him,
as if surrounded with radiance; he felt, at the
same time, an irresistible impnbe to learn the
~reek language, and a strong and latent attrac-
UOD to something with which he was still unac-
qnainted, nor could he tell what it was. He
· recollected himself, and thought, "What shall I
d9 with the Greek language 1 What an im-
mense labor would it be for me to learn so diffi-
cult a language, which I cannot even read, in
my twenty-eighth year!" However, all the ob-
jections of reason were entirely fruitless; bis im-
·pulse towards it was so l(Tl'at, and his inclina-'
lion so powerful, that the time seemed tedious to
him before he could commence it. He mention-
ed all this to Mr. Spanier; the latter refiected a
little, and at length be said, "If vou mu~t learn
Greek, learn it!" Stillinl!" immediately prepared
to set out; and went to Wald~tatt, to.a cenain
excellent theologian, who was a good friend of
his, and to whom be made known his intentions.
The good man waa much pleased, gave him en-
cduragement, and even recommended him to
study diviniiy; however, Stilling felt no incli-
nation to the latter, and his friend was also sat-
isfied with his sentiment~; but advised him IO
pay close attention to the Divine guidance, and
as soon as he was conscious of it, to follow it
implicitly. He then gave him the books neces-
sary for learning the Greek language, and wish-
ed him the Divine blessing. From thence he
went likewise to the preachers, and mentioned
his purpose to them; they were also in favor of
it, particularly Mr. Seelburg, who promised him
every a~sistance and necessary instruction, for
he came to Mr. Spaniei's house twice every
week.
Stilling now began to learn Greek. He ap-
plied bim~lf to it with all his powers, and troub-
led himself little about the scholastic mode of in-
struction; but sought only to penetrate, with hil
understanding, into the genius of the language,
in order rightly to understand what he read. In
short, in live weeks, he translated the first five
chapters of the gospel of Matthew into the Lati11
language, without making a fault, and at the
same time, analyzed every word. The ReT.
Mr. Seelburg was astonished, and knew not
what to say; this wonhy man instructed him
only in the pronunciation, and this he caught
very rapidly. On this occasion, he also attempt-
ed the Hebrew; and in a short time made sueh
progress in it, that he could proceed with the
help of a lexicon; Mr. Seelburg did his beat for
him in this also.
Whilst he thus occupied himself with aston-
ishing industry and labour in these languages,
Mr. Spanier continued entirely :.ilent on the sub-
ject, and let him do as he pleased: no one knew
how the matter would end; and he himself did
not know it, but the majority believed that he
would become a preacher.
At length, the whole affair developed itself all
at once. One afternoon in June, Mr. Spanier
walked up and down the room, as he was wont
when refiec1ing upon some important aft"air,
whilst Stilling was engaged with his languages
and tuition. At length Mr. Spanier began:
"Preceptor! it all at once occurs to me whu
you ought to do; you must study medicine."
I cannot express how Stilling felt at this prop
osition; he could scarcely keep on his feet, 56
that Mr. Spanier, being alarmed, seized bold of
him, and said, "What is the matter with you 1"
"0 Mr. Spanier," replied Stilling, "what shall
I say-what shall I think1 I am certain.that is
my vocation. Yes, J feel in ·my soul, that this
is the great object which bas been so long hid- '
den from me, which J have so long sought, and 1
been unable to find I For this my Heavenly Fa- .
ther has been so long del'igning to prepare me, I
by severe and painful trials, from my youth up. I
Blessed be the merciful God, that has at length I
made known to me his will I I will boldly fol- .
low his ~uidance." . I
On thi$, he ran up to his bed-room, fell upon I
his knees, thanked God, aod besought the Fa-
ther of men to lead him the sh_ortest way to the
attainment of his object. He refiected upon all I'
the way in which Providence bad led him, and
now clearly perceived why be had enjoyed such i
a peculiar education; why he bad been obliged
to learn the Latin language so early; the reason
of hi~ innale impulse for the mathematics, and
the knowledge of the occult powers of nature;
why he had been rendert>d pliant and fit, by his
many sufferings, to serye his fellow-creatures;
oigiti. ed by GoogIe
STILLING'S WANDERINGS
vby, for some time past, bis inclination to phi· served that Johann had an inte••igent mind, and
losophy had so much increased, as to impel him be therefore encouraged him to apply himself
to s1Udy logic and metaphysics; and, lastly, why diligtntly to geometry. Molitor's mtentions ro-
be had felt such an inclination for the Greek wards him were kind; he had the prospect of
language. He now knew his destiny; and from becoming steward to a very rich and honorable
that hour, he dett>rmined to study for himself, baronet, and tbi~ employment he preferred to his
and lo collect materials, until it should please' clerical office. This baronet was a great admi-
God to send him to the university. rer of geometry, and desirous of having plans
Mr. Spanier now gave him permission to take made of all bis estate. This was what Molitor
a few hours in the evening for himselt; and did designed for Johann Stilling, and the plan suc-
llOt employ him any longer so much in his busi- ceeded admirably. As long as the old baronet
ness, in order that be might have time to study. lived, Molitor, Johann Stilling, and sometimes
Stilling applied himself with all bis powers to Wilhelm Stilhng, were supported by him; but
the languages, and began to make himself ac- when the latter died, Molitor was dismissed, and
41!1ainted with anatomy from books. He read there was also an end to the land-measuring.
Kriiger's System of Nature, and made all that Molitor, in bis old age, was made vicar in a
he read bis own; he sought also to form a plan little town which lies four leagues to the north
for himself with regard to the prosecution of his of Licbthausen. His principal occupalion con-
stodies, in which he was assisted by some emi- sisted in chemical operations, and cures of the
nent physicians, with whom he corresponded. eyes, in which he was still the most celebrated
In one word, he went through all the discipline man in that part of the country. .
ol the art of medicine for himself, as much as Jast at the time that Heinrich Stilling was
was possible at the time, in order that he might about bis master's business in the province of
at least obtain a general idea of all its parts. Salen, old Mr. Molitor wrote to Johann Stilling,
This important news he immediately commu- informing him that he had most faithfully ana
nicated to his father and uncle. His father re- circumstanlially copied out all his ophthalmic
plied to this, that he resigned him entirely to the arcana, both with xespect to their application
guidance ofGod; he must not, however, hope for and preparation, as also an explanation of the
any a.~sistance on bis part, and be careful not to principal .diseases of the eye, with the method
plunge himself into a new labyrinth. But his of cure. Now, as he was old and near his end,
mother was quite displeased at him; and believ- he wished to see this valuable manuscript in
ed to a certamty, that he was actuated only by a good hands-and in consideration of the firm
love of novelty, which would assuredly turn out and intimate friendship that had uninterruptedlT
ill. Stilling did not let this disturb him in the subsisted between them, notwithstanding their
least, bot cheerfully prosecuted his studies, leav- difference of religion, be requested him, as a
ing it to the paternal providence of God to pro- friend, to inform him, whether there was not
Yide the means. some wonhy individual in bis family wbo bad
The following spring, when he had already a desire to study the art of medicine; that if
atudied a year, liis master's business again obit- there were, he might be sent to him; and pro-
ged him to travel into the province of Salen. fessed himself ready to commit the manuscript
This delighted him uncommonly; for he hoped to him, together with other valuable medicinal
the beuer to convince his friends, by word of matters, immediately and gratuitously, with the
month, that it was really the will of God respect- sole condition, that he most pledge himself to
iDg him that he should study medicine. He set benefit poo1" sufferers with it at all times without
otr, therefore, early in the morning, and arrived any charge. But it ou~ht to be some one who
in the aflernoon at bis uncle's at Licbthausen. intended to study medicine, in order that the
This worthy man, immediately after welcoming things might not fall into a bungler's hands.
him,began to dispute with him respecting his new This letter had entirely changed Johann Still-
plan. The whole question was, "Where shall ing's mind with respect to his nephew. That he
the large sum come from that is requisite for should just arrive at thal period, and that Mr.
such an extensive and expensive study 1" Still- Molitor should fall upon tbis idea at the very
iug always answered with his motto, "Jeho:vah time when his nephew intended to study medi-
Jirelh" (the Lord will provide). cine, seemed to him a most convincing proof
The next morning, he went to his father's, that God had his hand in the mauer; he there-
wbo bad also his apprehensions, and feared he tore said to Stilling, "Read this letter, nephew!
might snffer shipwreck in the important under- I have nothing more to object to your plan. I
taking; however, he did not dispute with him, see it is lhe fin~r of God I"
but left him to his fate. Johann Stilhng therefore immediately wrote
After he had finished his business, he went a very friendly and grateful leller to Mr. Moli-
again to bis father's, took leave ofhim1 and af- tor, and most warmly recommended his nephew
1l'rwards proceeded to his uncle's; bul tne latter to him. With this letter Stilling walk.
ed the
bad entirely ..changed his mind, within a few next morning to the little town where Molitor
days. Stilling was astonished at it, but slill lived. On arriving lhere, he inquired for the
more so when he heard the reason of it. "Yes," gentleman, and was shown a }li6tty little house.
saidJohann Stilling," you must study medicine; Slilling rang the bell, and an aged female open-
1 now know tbal it is the will of God." ed the door lo him, and asked who he was. He
In order to comprehend this matter in its ori- answered, "My name is Stilling, and I wish to
gin, I must make a little digression, which has speak with the clergyman." She went up-stai1'111
reference to Johann Stilling. He was acquaint- and the old man himself came down, welcomea
ed, before he became land-measurer, with a sin- his visitor, and led him up into his little cabi-
gular man, a Catholic priest, who was a very net. Here he presented his Jetter. After Moli-
able oculist, and celebrated far and near. Now tor bad re.ad it, he embraced Slilling, and inqui-
Jobann Stilling's wife had very sore eyes, for red into his circumstances and intentions. The
Yhich reason her husband went to Molitor, to latter continued with him the whole day, looked
fetch something for them. The priest eoon ob- at his pretty laboratory, his convenient surgery,
Digitized by GoogIe
I
f
70 HEINRICH STILLING.
and his little library. "All this," said Mr. Mo-
litor, "I will leave you in my will, before I die."
Thus they spent the day very pleasantly iogeiber.
Early the next morning, Molitor delivered up
the manuscript to 81illing, with the condition,
however, that he should transcribe it, and return
him the original. Molitor, on the other hand,
solemnly pledged himself that he would give it
to no one else, but would conceal it, ao that no
body should be able to find it again. Besides
this, the worthy old man had laid aside several
books, which he promised to send Stilling forth-
with; the latter, however, packed them up in
bis portmanteau, took them upon his back, and
set out. Molitor accompanied him beyond the
gates; be then looked up to h11aven, took Still-
ing by the band, and said," The Lord, the Holy
One, the Omnipresent, make you, by his Holy
Spirit, the best of men, the best of Christians,
aJld the best of doctors!" On which they kb'Sed
each other, and parted. · .
Stilling shed tears at this separation, and
thanked God for this excellent frtend. He bad
to travel ten leagues to Mr. Spanier's; this he
accomplished the same day, and arrived at home
in the evening, heavily laden with books. He
related the recent occurrence 10 his patron, who
admired with him the singular leadings and gui-
dance of God.
Stilling now set himself to the work of trans-
cribing the manuscript; and notwithstanding his
otker business, he fuiisbed it in four weeks. He
therefore packed up a pound of good tea, a pound
of sugar, and some other things, in his portman-
teau, together with the two mauusr.ripts1 and set
otf again early one morning, to visit his friend
Molitor, and return him his manuscript. He
arrived in the afternoon, rang at the door oftbe
hous~, waited a little, and then rang again ; but
no one opened to him. A woman who was
standing at the door of a house opposite, asked
him whom b11 wanted. Stilling answered, "The
Rev. Mr. Molitor." The woman said, "He bas
been in eternity above a week!" Stilling was so
struck, ihat be turned pale; he went to an inn,
where be inquired into the circumstances of Mo-
litor's death, and who was executor lo bis will.
He there heard that he had died suddenly of an
apopletic fit, and that no will had been found.
Stilling therefore turned about with his portman-
teau, and went back four leagues, where he spent
the night at a little town, with a good friend of
bis, so that be was at home again early the next
day. He could not refrain from weeping the
whole of the way, and would gladly have wept
on Molitor's grave, had not the entrance to his
tomb been closed.
As BOon as be came home, he began to prepare
Mr. Molitor's medicines. Now Mr. Spanier had
a man-servant, whose son, a lad of twelve years
of age, had for a long lime had very sore eyes.
Stilling made his first attempt upon this boy,
which succeeded admirably, sothat he was cured
in a shorttime; hence he soon came into regular
practice, so that be had much to do; and towards
a11tumn, the (amt' of his cures extel)ded itself
for leagues round, even as far as SchOnentbal.
Mr. Isaac, the tailor of Waldstatt, saw his
friend's progress and success, and rejoiced heart·
ily over him; nay, be swam in pleasure, in an-
tielpation of eventually visiting Doctor Stilling,
and delighting himself with him. But God drew
a ..iroke through this calcalation, for Mr. Isaac
fell ill. · Stilling visited him constantly, and per-
ceived with sorrow Ilia approaching end. The
day before his decease, Stillingwas sitting at h.ia
friend's bed-side; Isaac raised himself up, Cook:
him by the hand, and said, " Friend Stilling, I
shall die, and leave behind me a wife and fonr
children ; I am not anxious about I.heir mainte-
nance, for t.he Lord will provide for them ; bat
whether they will walk in the Lord's ways or
not, I know not, and therefore I commit the over-
sight of them to yon; assist them, in word and
deed; the Lord will reward you." Stilling cor-
dially promised to do !'o, as long as he could
possibly take charge of them. Isaac continued,
"When yon remove from Mr. Spanier's, I ab-
solve you from your promise. But now I .beg
of you always to remember me wit.h affection.
and live in such a manner that we may be eter-
nally united in heaven." Stilling shed tears, and
said, "Pra:r for grace and strength for me.•
"Yes," sai Isaac, "that I will do, when I have
finished mv course; I have now enough to do
with myselt:" Stilling did not suppose bis end
was so very near; he therefore went away, and
promised to come again the next day; however/
he diql the same night. Stilling acted as cbie
mourner at his funeral, because be had no rela-
tions; he wept over his grave, and lamented him.
as a brother. His wife died not long after him;
but his childrt'll are all well provided for.
After Stilling had been nearly six years in
Mr. Spanier's service, during which he.contin-
ued to practise as an oculist, it occasionally hap-
pened that bis master spoke with him concern-
ing a convenient place for the regulation ofhii
studies. Mr. Spanier proposed to him to con-
tinue some years longer with him, and to studr
for himself; he would then give him a couple of
hundred rix-dollars, that be might be able to
travel to a university, pass the usual examina-
tion, and take his degree; and in the course of
a quarter of a year, return, and continue to re-
side with Mr. Spanier. What further intentions
he had respecting him, I know not.
Stilling was quite satisfied with this plan at
one time, but not at another. His object at the
university was to study medicine thoroughly;
and he did not doubt but that God, who bad call-
ed him to it, would put ways and means into his
hands to enable him to accomplish it. But Mr.
Spanier was not satisfied with this, and, there-
fore, they were both at length entirely silent Oil
the subject.
In the autumn of the year 1769, when StllHne
bad just entered his thirtieth year, and bad beell
six years with Mr. Spanier, he received a letter
from a merchant at Rasenheim, a league on this
side of Schonenthal, whose name was Friedell·
be~, in which the latter requested him to come
to Rasenheim as soon as possible, because one
of his neighbours had a son who had beeu troub-
led for scime years with sore eyes, and was ia
danger of becoming blind. Mr. Spanier urged
him to -go immediately; he, therefore, did so,
and after a three hours' walk, arrived in the
forenoon at Mr. Friedenberg's, at Rasenbeim.
This man dwelt in a neat aod beautiful house,
which he had had built for him a short time be-
fore. The part of the country where be d11relt
was extremely agreeable. When S11lling en;te~­
ed the house, and perceived that order, cleaiBli·
ne~s, and neatness without magnificence J>~
vailed in every part of it, he was pleased, ;ind
felt that he coold live there. But on entering
the parlour, and seeing Mr. Friedenberg him·
self, with his consort, and nine handsome well·
made children, who presented themselves, ,Die
Digitized by GoogIe i
_,j
ST ILLING'S WANDERINGS. 71
;after the other, in neat and elegant, but not ex-
pensive clothlog, every face beaming with truth,
mtegrity, and cheerfoloess-he was quite in ec-
stasy, and wished in reality to dwell for ever
with these people. Thel'l' was no bustle nor
hany to be seen, but an efficient activity, the re-
sult of harmony and good-will.
Mr. Friedenberg, in a friendly manner offer-
ed him his hand, and invited him to dinner.
Stilling accepted the offer with pleasure. On
conversing with these people, he immediately
J>erceived an inexpressible harmony of spirit;
all of them immediately beci;;me fond of Stilling,
.and he also loved them all exceedingly. His
conversation with Mr. and Mrs. Friedenberg
was entirely upon religion aod tnie godliness,
which was the chief aod sole concern of these
people.
After dinner, Mr. Friedenberg accompanied
him to the patient, whom he attended to, and
then went back with his friend to drink cotfee.
Jn a word, these three spirits, Mr. and Mrs.
Friedenberg and Stilling, united firmly together,
and became intimate friends, without venturing
to express it. In the evening, the latter ~turned
to his place; but after this visit, he felt, m some
measure, a void; he had never met with such a
family since the days of his youth, aod would
gladly have resided nearer Mr. Friedenberg, in
order to associate more with him and his family.
Meanwhile, the patient at Rasenheim began to
recover, and there were several io that part, aod
even in SchOneothal itself. who desired his aid;
he, therefore, resolved, with the consent of Mr.
Spanier, to go everr fortnight, on the Saturday
afternoon, to visit his patients, and return on the
Monday morning. He arranged it so, that he
arrived on the Satul"iay evening at Mr. Frieden-
berg's, then went about on the Sunday morning
"fisiting his patients, even as far as Schonenthal,
ana returned back to Rasenbeim on the Sunday
evening, from whence he went home again on
the Mondar morning. Througlt tltese repeated
vi~its, his mtimate connexion with Mr. Fried-
il!lberg and bis family became more and more
strengthened ; be acquired also a pleasing ac-
.quaintance with many pious people in Scbonen-
·thal, who alternately invited him on Sundays to
dine with them, and conversed with him on re-
ligion and other good subjects.
Things continued thus until the February of
the following year, 1770, when Mrs. Frieden-
berg was delivered of a daughter. Mr. Frieden-
berg not only informed Stilling of tltis pleasing
event, but even requested him to stand sponsor,
the following Friday, at the christening of his
.ctlild. This caused Stilling extreme pleasure.
Mr. Spanier, however, could not comprehend
how a merchant should come to ask the clerk of
another merchant to be godfather to his cltild;
but Stilling was not astonished• at ii, for Mr.
Friedenberg and he no longer knew of any dif-
ference of rank-they were brothers.
Stilling, therefore, went, at the time ap~int­
ed, to assist at the baptism. Now Mr. Frieden-
berg had a daughter, who was the eldest of bis
children, and about that time in her twenty-first
year. Tltis young latiy had loved .quiem.ess and
retirement from her youtlt, and she was, there-
fore, reserved towards all strangers, particular-
ly when they were better dressed titan she was
accustomed to. Although this circumstance, as
it regarded Stilling, was not an obstacle, yet she
avoided him as much as she could, so that he
saw .her very seldom. Her whole occupation.
from her youth up, had consiated in those do-
mestic employmenlS which wel'l' suited to her
sphere of life, aod the necessary instruction of
the Christian religion according 10 the evangel-
ical Lutheran confession, together with reading
and writing; in a word, she was a pretty, agree-
able loung girl, who had never mixed with the
worl , so as to be able to live according to the
fashion, but whose good disfosition richl)'. rec-
ompensed for the want of al these iosign1ficant
trifies in the estimation of a man of integrity.
Stilling bad not particularly remarked tltis
youn~ lady in preference to the other children of
his fnend · he felt within him no impulse to do
so, nor did be venture to think of such a thing,
because it was necessary, previously, that obsta-
cles ofa stupendous kind should be removed out
of the way.
This amiable girl was called Christina; she
had been for some time very ill, and all tile phy-
sicians doubted of her recovery. Now when
Stilling came to Rasenheim, he inquired after
her, as the daugltter of his friend ; but as no one
gave him an opportunity of visiting her in her
apartment, he did not think of it.
That evening, however, after the christening
was over, Mr. Friedenberg filled his long pipe,
and said to the new sponsor, "Will it afford you
pleasure for once to visit my sick daughter1 I
wish to know what you will say of her. You
have already more knowledge of diseases thatl -
many." Stilling consented, and they went up-
stairs into the invalid's chamber. Site lay 1n
bed, weak and poorly; yet still she had much
cheerfulness of spirit. She raieed lterself·up,
gave Stilling her hand, and asked him to sit
down. Both sat down, therefore, at the table,
near the bed. Christina did not now feel asha-
med in the presence of Stilling, but conversed
with him on a variety of religious topics. She
became very cheerful and socillble. Sbe was
often subject to attacks of a serious nature; so
that some one was obliged to sit up with her all
night; another reason for which was, because
she could not sleep much. When they had sat
awhile with her, and were about to leave her,
the sick damsel requested her father's permission
for Stilling to sit up with her that night, along
wi'h her elder brother. Mr. Friedenberg will-
in~ly consented, but with the condition that
Stilling had no objection to it. The laner was
glad to show this piece of friendship to tile pa·
tient as well as to the family. He betook him-
self, therefore, in the evening, with the eldestson,
about nine o'clock, to her chamber; they both
sat down at the table near the be<j, and spoke
with her on a variety ofsubjects in order to pass
the lime ; they also reail alond to her at intervala.
About ooe o'clock in the morning, the innlid
requested her two companions to be quiet a little
while, as she tltougltt she should be able to sleep.
Accordingly they were so. Yoong Mr. Fried-
enberg, meanwhile, stole down stairs, in order
to prepare some coffee; but continuing absent
some time, Stilling began to nod in bis chair.
Aboot an hour after, the patient again began to
move. Stilling drew the curtains a little aSU'll·
der, and asked her how she had slept1 She an-
swered, "I have lain in a kind ofstupor. l will
tell you something, Mr. Stilling! I have receiY·
ed a very lively impression on my mind, respect-
ing a subject which, however, I must not men-
tion to you till another time." At these words,
Stilling was powerfully struck; be felt from
head to foot a trepidation he had never before
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
experienced, and all at once a beam of light pen-
etrated through his sonl like lightning. It was
evident to his mind, what the will of God was,
and what the words ofthe sick maiden signified.
With tears in his eyes he arose, bent over the
bed, and said," I know, dear miss, what impres-
sion you have received, and what the will ol God
is." She raised herself op, stretched out her
hand, and replied, "Do you know it 1" Stilling
put his right band into hers, and said, "Ma1
God in heaven bless us; we are eternally UDl-
ted!" She answered, "Yes I eternally 80 !"
Her brother now came and brougbttbe colfee1
placed it upon the table, and all three partook 01
it. The invalid was quite as tranquil as before;
she was neither more joyful nor more sorrowful
-just as if nothing particular bad happened.
But Stilling was like one intoxicated; he knew
not whether he was waking or dreaming; he
could neither think nor redect upon this un-
heard-ofevent. Hbwever, he felt in bis soul an
indescribably tender inclination towards the dear
invalid, so that he could joyfully have sacrifi<'ed
his life for her, if it had been requisite; and this
pure ftame was as if, without being kindled, a
ire had fallen from heaven upon his heart; for
certainly, bis Christina had, at that lime, neither
charml!I, nor the will to charm; and he himself
was in such a situation that he shuddered at
lhe thought of marrying. But as aforesaid, be
was stupified, and could not redect upon his sit-
uation until the following morning, while be
was returning home. He previously took a
tender leave of Christina, on which occasion he
expressed bis fears; but she was quite confident
in the matter, and added, "God has ceriainly
commen<'ed lhis affair, and he will as certainly
finish it!"
On the way, Stillit1g began to redect upon his
situation, and the whole alfair appeared dread-
ful to him. He was convinced that Mr. Span-
ier, as soon as be was made acquainted with
the step be bad taken, would immediately with-
draw his assistance from him and dismiss him;
consequently he would be out of bread, and be
placed in his former circumstances. Besides
Ibis, he could not possibly imagine that Mr.
Friedenberg would be pleased with him ; for to
betroth himself with his daughter while in a
situation in which he was unable to maintain
himself, much less support a wi(e and children
-nay, even while requiring a large sum him-
self-this was in reality a miserable return for
his friendship; it might rather be looked upon
as a dreadful abuse of it. These redections
caused Stilling heartfelt anxiety, and be feared
being placed in still more difficult circumstances
than he had ever experienced before. He felt
like one who bas climbed up a high rock by the
sea-side, and cannot come down again without
the danger of being dashed to pieces; but ven-
tures, and leaps into the sea, in the hope ofsav-
ing himself by swimming.
Stilling knew not what to do; be cast himself
with his Christina into the arms of the paternal
providence of-God, and was then tranquil; but be
:resolved, notwithstanding, to mention nothing of
thisevent, eitherto Mr. Spanieror to any one else.
Mr. Friedenberg bad given Stilling permis-
sion to consign to him all the medicines for his
patients in that part of the country, to be for-
warded to them ; he therefore sent off a packet
of physic to him on the following Saturday,
which was eight days after his betrothment, and
this he accompanied by a Jeuer, which 1lowed
entirely from his heart, and which pretty clearl7
revealed what waa pa6Sing in it; nay, what wu
still more, be even inclolied in it a sealed letter
to Christina·; and be did all this without consid-
ering or redecting what might result from it; but
when the packet was despatched, he began to
consider what the consequences might be. ~
heart beat, and be could scarcely contain him-
self.
Never bad he found a journey more Jaborioua.
than bis cu.~tomary one to Rasenheim, which be
took the week following, on the Saturday even-
ing. The nearer he came to the house, tl>e more-
bis heart palpitated. He entered the parlour~
Christina had recovered a little; she was there,
with her parents, and some of the children. He
went up to Mr. Friedenberg with his usual
pleasant look, gave him bis band, and the latter
received him with his wonted friendship, as did
also Mrs. Friedenberg, and last of all, Christina.
Stilling then left the room, and went into his
bed-chamber, in order to lay down a tew things
be bad with him. His heart was already light-
er; for his friend bad either perceived nothing,
or else was satisfied with the whole alfair. He
now went down again, expecting what further
would take place. On arriving at the bottom of
the stai~, Christina, who was standing at the.
door ofa room opposite the palour, beckoned to.
him to enter; she closed the door after him, and
both sat down together. Christina then began :
"Oh bow much you terrified me by your letter!
my parents know all. Listen, and I will tell you
every thing as it occurred. When the letters-
came, I was in the parlour with my father, but
my mother was on the bed in her chamber. My
father broke open the letter; be found another in.
it for me, and banded it to me, with the word!!o
''l'here is also a letter for thee.' I blushed, took
it, and read it. My father also read bis, sorne-
times shook his bead, stood, considered, and then..
read further. At length, he went into the cbam-.
bc>r to my mother; I could hear all that was.
said. My father read the letter to her. When
be bad finished, my mother laughed, and said,.
'Dost thou understand what the letter means i .
be bas a mind to our daughter.' My father an-
swered, 'That is not possible; be was only one·
night with her, with my son; besides which, she
is ill ; and yet the letter seems to me to imply
something of the kind.' 'Yes, yes,' said my
mother; 'do not think otherwise; it is so.' My
father then went out, and said nothing more.
M1 mother immediately called out to me, and
said, 'Come, Christina, lie down a little by me;.
thou art certainly weary of sitting.' I went to .
her, and Jay down by her. 'Hear me,' she ~
gan ; 'has our friend Stilling an inclination for
thee 1' I boldly said, 'Yes, he has.' She con-·
tinned, 'You have not, however, promised mar-
riage to ellch other1' •Yes, mother,' I answer-
ed, ' we are betrothed ;' and I was then obliged
to weep. ' Indeed!' said my mother; 'bow did.
that happen 1 for you have not been alone to-
gether! I then related to her every thing cir-
cumstantially, as it bad occurred, and told her
the plain truth. She was astonished at it, and
said, 'Thou art involving thyself in difficulties..
Stilling mu~t first study, before you can live to-
gether; how wilt thou bear that1 Besides, thou
art but weak in mind and body.' I answered,
that I would do as well as I was able-the Lord
would assist me; that I mwt marry him; yet if
my parents forbade it, I would obey them; but I
wonld never take another. ' Thou hast nothing
Digitized by Google
STILLING'S WANDERINGS.
to fear,' rejoined my mother. Aa aooD as my
parents were again alone in the room, and I iD
lhe parlour, she related every thing to my father,
just as I had told her. He was long silent; but
at length he said, 'I have never heard of such a
thing before; I can say nothing to it.' Thus the
matter still stands; my father has DQt said a
word to me, either good or bad. But it is now
our duty to ask our parents this very evening,
and obtain their full consent. Just as you went
up-stairs, my father said to me, 'Go with Still-
ing into the other room alonei thou hast proba-
bl)' somethiDg to say to him.''
Stilling's heart leaped for joy. He felt that
the matter would terminate favorably. He
conversed some time longer with his beloYed,
and they bound themselves once more, in a close
embrace, to inviolable fidelity, and an upright
depurtment before God and man.
After supper in the evening, when all besides
in the house were asleef,, Mr. and Mrs. Fried·
en.berg, together with Christina and Stilling,
tODtinued sitting in the parlour. The latter
then began, and faithfully related the whole
event in all its minutest details, and concluded
with these words: " Now I ask you sincerely,
if you are heartily willing to receive me into tlie
number ofyour children 1 I will faithfully, with
the help of God, fulfil every filial duty, and I sol-
emnly protest against all help and assistance
toward& my studies. I request your daughter
alone; yes, I take God to wimess, that it is the
most dreadful thought I could have, were I to
imagine you perhaps might think I had any
mean intention in this connection.''
Mr. Friedenberg sighed deeply, and a few
tears ran down his cheeks. "Yes," said ht',
"my dear friend, I am satisfied, and willingly
accept you for my son ; for l see that the finger
of God is at work in the matter. I cannot say
any thing against it; besides, I know you, and
am well aware that you are too honorable to
have such unchristian intentions; but this I
must candidly add, that I am not at all in a sit-
uation to bear the expense of your studying at
the university.'' He lben turned to Christina,
and said, " But bast thou sufficient confidence
in thyself to be able to bear the long absence of
thy lriend 1" She answered, "Yes; God will
give me strength for it.''
Mr. Friedenberg now rose up, embraced Still-
ing, kissed him, and wept on his neck i after
him, Mrs. Friedenberg did the same. Tne sen-
salions which Stillin~ experienced are inexpres-
sible; it seemed to !nm as if he were translated
into paradise. He did not trouble himself in the
least whence the money for the prosecution of
his studies was to come from. The words,
"The Lord will provide," were so deeply engra-
Ten on his soul, that he could not feel anxious.
Mr. Friedenberg advised him to continue that
year with Mr. Spanier, and to betake himself to
the university the following autumn. This was
just what Stilling wished, and had also been his
intention. Finally, they all resolved to keep the
matter a profound secret, in order to prevent the
misjudgings of others; and lhen by fervent pray-
er on all sides, entreated the blessing of GOd on
this important undertaking.
Stilling therefore still continued in his situa-
tion with Mr. Spanier, as well as his customary
walk~ to Rasenheim and SchOnentbal. A quar-
ter of a year before Michaelmas, he announced
bis intention to Mr. Spanier, in a polite and
friendly manner, and besou,ht him not to take
K
this stepami1111, since, being in the thirtieth year
of his age, it was at length time for him to pro-
vide for himself. To all this, Mr. Spanier did
not answer a word; but remained perfectly si-
lent; from that time, however, his heart was en-
tirely turned away from Stilling, liO that the last
three months were Dot a little painful to him-
not because any one threw any difficulty in his·
way, but because friendship and familiarity had
wholly disappeared.
Four weeks before the..Frankfort aotnlllllal
fair, Stilling took leave of his former dear pa-
tron, anJ the whole household. Mr. Spanier
wept bitterly, but did not say a word, either good
or evil. Stilling wept also; and thus be !ell. hi•
last school or situation as tutor, and removed to
his friends at Rasenheim, after having quietly
spent seven entire and pleasant years m one-
place.
Mr. Spanier bad never communicated his true-
intentions with regard to Stilling. It was im-
possible for the latter to enter iilto bis plan of
becoming a doctor merely as regards the title,
without possessing sufficient knowledge; and as
Mr. Spanier did not fully communicate to him.
the rest of his plan, Stilling could not be ac-
quainted with it, much less depend upon it.
Besides all this, Providence led him, as it were,
with might and power, without his coC>peration;
so that he was obliged to follow its guidance,
even though he had resolved upon something
different for himself. But the most disadvan-
tageous circumstance for Stilling was, that hav-
ing never made any certain agreement with Mr.
Spanier "'itb ttgard to salary, the worthy man
gave him only what was sufficient for his neces-
sities. But as he bad been in the habit of pur-
chasing books and other requisites-which, ta-
ken altogether, made something considerable
yearly-Mr. Spanier gave him nothing at his
departure; so that he arrived at Mr. Frieden-
berg's, at Rasenheim, without i;noney. The lat-
ter, however, immediately advanced him a ban-
dred rix-dollars to procure what was most ne-
cessary for bis journey, and the remainder be-
was to take with him ; whilst bis Christian
friends at Scbonenthal presented him with a new
coat, and offered their further assistance.
Stilling continued four weeks with his in-
tended and her family, during which time he
m;ide preparations for removing to the universi-
ty. He had not yet made choice of one, but
waited for an intimation from his Heavenly Fa-
ther; for since be intended to study simply from
faith, it was necessary he should not follow his
own will in any thing.
At tbe end of three weeks, he went once more
to Schiinenthal to visit his friends there. On
his arrival, a very dear and valued friend asked
bim whither he intended to go. He replied, he·
did not know. "Oh," said she, "our neighbour,
Mr. Troost, is going to Strasburg to spend a
winter there; go with him." This touched Still-
ing's heart; he felt that this was the intimation
he had waited for. Meanwhile, Mr. Troost
himself entered the room. Stilling's friend im-
mediately began to speak to him concerning
him. The worthy man was heartily pleased at
having him for a companion, for be had already
heard something of him.
Mr. Troost was, at that time, a man of about
fony years of age, and still unmarried. He bad
already practised for twenty years, with much
celebrity, as a surgeon in Schonenthal; but be-
ing no longer satisfied with his knowledge, he
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
-determined once more to study anatomy thor~
ooghly, at Strasburg, and attend other surgical
leciures, in order to return furnished with new
powers, that he might be able to serve his neigh-
bours the more etfectually. He had already
spent some years at this celebrated university
in bis youth, and there laid the foundation of
his knowledge.
Now this was just the proper man for Stilling.
He bad the best and noblest of hearts, composed
entirely of philanthropy and friendship ; and
possessed, besides this, an excellent character,
much religion, and the virtues resulting from it.
He knew the world, and was well acquainted
with Strasburg; and certainly it was a very pa-
ternal guidance of Providence, that Stilling be-
came acquainted with him just at that time.
He therefore immediately made friends with
Mr. Troost. They agreed to travel to Frank-
fort with merchants proceeding to the fair, and
from thence to Strasburg by a return-chaise;
they also decided upon the day of their depart-
ure, which was tii:ed for that day week.
Stilling had already communicated to bis fa-
ther and uncle, in the province of Salen, bis fur-
ther and sin~1dar guidance; they were terrified
=d astonislied; they feared, hoped, and confess-
ed that they must resign him entirely to God,
and merely stand at a distance, and contemplate
his aspiring ftight with fear and trembling ;
meanwhile they wished him every imaginable
blessing.
Stilling's 'lituation was now, in every re~pect,
-Oreadful. Let any rational man imagine him-
self in bis place, and feel! He had betrothed
himself with a tender, pious, susceptible, but at
the same time sickly young woman, whom he
loved more than his own soul, and who was
pronounced by all the physicians to be consump-
li'f'e, so that he had great reason to fear when he
took leave of her that he should see her no more.
Besides this, he felt all tbe painful sufferings
which her tender and affectionate heart would
have to endure for such a length of time: The
whole of bis fature wellltre depended solely on
his becoming a complete physician, and for this
purpose a thousand rix dollars at least were re-
~uisite, of which he could not tell where in the
whole world to raise a hundred; consequently
his situation was critical, even in this respect;
if he failed in the latter point, he would fail in
every thing.
Yet, although Stilling placed all this before
him iu a nry lively manner, he nevertheless
tii:ed his confidence firmly ou God, and drew
this inference : "God begins nothing without
tenninating it gloriously. Now it is most cer-
uinly true, that He alone has ordered my pres-
ent circumstances, entirely without my coopera-
tion: consequently, it is also most certainly true,
1bat he will accomplish every thing regardmg me
:in a manner worthy of him."
This conclusion frequently rendered him so
.courageous, that he smilingly said to bis friends
~t Rasenheim, "I wonder from what quarter mr,
Heavenly Father will provide me with money! '
However, he did Dot communicate bis peculiar
11ituation to any other individual, and especially
-not to Mr. Troost, for this tender friend would
have hesitated much to take him with him; or
'he would at 'least have had to endure much anx-
iety on bi! account.
At lenitth, the -day of bis departure approach-
ed; Christina swam in tears, and occasionally
.tllinted away, and the whole house was troubled.
The last evening, Mr. Friedenberg and Stil-
ing sat together alone. The furmer could not
refrain from w~ing. He said with tears to
Stilling, "My dear friend, I am heartily con-
cerned about you; how gladly would I provide
you with money, if I were able! I began my
business and manufactory with nothing, and I
am now just in a situation to maintain mysel!
respectably; hut were I to bear the expense of
your studies, I should quite lose ground again.
Besides this, I have ten children ; and what I do
for the first, I owe to all."
"Hear me, my dear friend," answered Still-
ing, with a cheerful courage and a joyful mien ;
" I do not wish for a farthing from you ; believe
assuredly, that He who was able to feed so many
thousand people in the desert with a little bread,
lives still, and to Him I commit myself. He will
certainly find out means. Do not you therefore
be anxious-' The Lord will provide.'"
He had already sent off' his books, clothes,
and luggage to Frankfort; and the next mora-
ing, after having breakfasted with his friends,
he ran up to the chamber of bis Christina, where
she sat and wept. He took her in his arms.
kissed her, and said, "Farewell, my angel!-
the Lord strengthen thee, and preserve thee in
health and happiness, till we see each other
again!" So saying, he ran out of the door.
He then took leave of every one, hastened
away, and wept copiously on the road. Chris-
tina's elder brother accompanied him to SchOn-
enthal. The latter then turned back sorrow-
fully, and Stilling repaired to his travelling com-
panion.
I will aay nothing respecting bis journey to
Frankfort. They all arrived there in safety,
with the exception of having suffered a violent
fright in the neighbourhood of Ellefeld on the
Rhine.
Forty rix-dollars was the whole of Stilling's
property on setting out from Rasenheim. They
were compelled to remain eleven days at Frank-
fort, waitmg for an opportunity to proceed fur-
ther; indeed, Mr. Troost could not leave soon-
er; his money consequently melted away ia
such a manner, I.hat two days before bis depart-
ure for Strasburg, he bad only a single rix-dollar
left, and this was all the money he had in the
world. He said nothing of it to any one, but
waited for the assistance of bis Heavenly Fa-
ther. However, notwithstanding his courage,
he was still uneasy1 be walked about, and pray-
ed inwardly to Goo. Meanwhile, he happened
to reach the Romerberg, and there met with a
merchant t\oom Sch6oenthal, who knew him
well, and was also a friend of his; I will call
him Liebmann.
Mr. Liebmann saluted him in a friendly man-
ner, and asked him bow it fared with him. Be
answered, "Very well.'' " I am glad of it," re-
joined the other; "come this evening to mt
apartment, and sup with me on what I have.
Stilling promised to do so, and Mr. Liebmana
then showed him where he was lodging.
In the evening he went to the place appointed.
After sapper, Mr. Liebmann began as follows:
"Tell me, my friend, who furnishes you with
money to enable you to study 1" Stilling smi-
led, and answered," I have a rich Father in heu·-
en; He will provide for me." Mr. Liebmann
looked at him, and continued, "How much have
you at present 1" Stilling answered, "One rix-
dollar-and that is all." " So !" rejoined Lieb-
mann ; " I am one ofyour Father's sJewards; I
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S WANDERINGS. 76
will therefore now act the paymaster.'' On this
he handed over thirty-three rix-dollars to Still·
illg, and said, "I cannot at present spare more;
you will find assistance everywhere. Ifyou are
subsequently able to retnm me the money, well l
ifnot, it is no matter." Stilling felt warm tears
in his eyes. He thanked him heartily for his
kindness, and added, "I am now rich enoagh.
I do not wish to have more." This first trial
made him so courageous, that he no longerdoubt-
ed that the Lord would certainlyhelp him through
every difficulty. He also received letters from
Rasenheim, from Mr. Friedenberg and Christi-
na. The latter had taken courage, and stead-
fastly determined to wait patiently. The former
wrote to him in the most tender language, and
commended him to the paternal providence of
God. He answered the two letters likewise
with all possible tenderness and affection. How-
ever, he mentioned nothing of this first trial of
his faith, but merely wrote that he had abun-
dance.
Two days after Mr. Troost met with a return-
chaise to Manheim, which he hired for himself
and Stilling, in company with an honest mer-
chant from Lucerne, in Switzerland. They
then took leave of all their acquaintances and
friends, took their seats in the chaise, and pro-
ceeded on their way.
In order to pass the time pleasantly, each re-
lated what he knew. Their Swiss companion
became so sociable that he opened his whole
heart to our two travellers. Stilling was affect-
ed by it; and he related his whole life, with all its
particulars, so that the Swiss gentleman often
shed tears of sympathy. Mr. Troost also had
never heard it before; he was likewise much
moved by it, and his friendship for Stilling be-
came so much the greater.
At Manheim they again took a return-chaise
to Strasburg. On entering the great forest be-
tween Speyer and Lauterburg, Stilling alighted.
He was unaccustomed to riding, and could not
well bear the motion of the chaise, particularly
in sandy roads. The Swiss gentleman alighteii
also, but Mr. Troost remained in the carriage.
While the two travellers were thus walking to-
gether, tlie Swiss asked Stillingwhether he would
not part with Molitor's manuscripts, since he pos-
sessed a copy of it, for five louiS-d'ors. .Stilling
regarded this again as a hint from God, and
therefore promised it to him.
They at len~h got into the chaise again.
Whilst conve~mg on a variety of subjects, Mr.
Troost, very mal-apropos, began to speak of the
manuscript above-mentioned. It was his opin-
ion, that when Stilling had once finished his
studies, he would put little value on such se-
crets and quaclrery, becau!'e they were never
what they pretended to be. This made the Swiss
gentleman prefer his five louis-d'ors to the manu-
script. Had Mr. Troost been aware of whal
had passed between the two, he would certainly
have been silent on the subject.
Our travellers arrived safe and well at Stras-
burg, and took up their quarters with counsellor
Blesig, at the sign of the Axe. Stilling, as well
as his friend, wrote home, and announced their
safe arrival to their several friends.
Stillinr could not rest until he had viewed the
beautiful cathedral, both externally and inter-
nally. He was so much delighted with it, that
he publicly said, "The sight of it alone was
worth the journey; it is well it was built by a
.German." The next day they inscribed them-
selves as members of the university; and Mr.
Troost, who was known there, sought for a con-
venient apartment for them both. This he found
also according to lfis wish; for in the most con-
venient place for them dwelt a ric;!i and respect-
able merchant, of the name of R--, wbose
brother had resided in Schonenthal, and he there-
fore showed lrindness to Mr.Troost and his com-
panion. This gentleman let them an excellent-
ly-famished rqom on the first tloor, for a moder-
ate price, of which they accordingly took pos-
session.
Mr. Troost next went in search ofa good eat-
ing-house; and this he likewise found close at
hand, where there was an excellent dinner-clnb.
Here he agreed for himself and Stilling by the
month. The latter, meanwhile, inquired about
the lectures, and attended as many of them as
were held. Physics, chemistry, and anatomy
were his chief objects, and these he immediately
entered upon. .
The next day at noon, they went, for the first
tirue, to the table-d'hOte to dine. They were the
first there, and their places were pointed out to
them. About twenty persons dined at this table,
and they saw them enter one after another. In
particular, there came ·one into the room, very
briskly, with large bright eyes, beautiful fore-.
head, and handsome figure. This person attract-
ed the eyes of Mr. Troost and Stilling; the for-
mer said to the latter, "What a fine-looking
man I" Stilling was of the same opinion; how-
ever, he thought that they would both have much
trouble with him, because they looked upon him
as a wild young fellow; this he inferred from
the freedom of manner assumed by the student;
however, Stilling was mistaken. Meanwhile
they heard that this remarkable individual w.as
called " G<iethe." .
There were also two other students of medi-
cine; the one from Vienna, the other from Al-
sace. The name of the first was Waldberg.
He showed, in his whole deportment, that he
possessed ability; but at the same time, a heart"
full of ridicule against religion, and full oflicen-
tiousness in his manners. The one from Alsace
was called Melzer, and was rather foppish; he
had a good disposition, but unfortunately was
inclined to be irascible and mistrustful. He bad
his seat next to Stilling, and soon became verr
friendly with him. Then came a student of di-
vinity of the name of Lerse, one of the most ex-
cellent of men; he was Goethe's favourite, and
this partiality he justly merited; for his abilities
were great, he was a good divine, and had be-
sides the rare gift of uttering the most striking
satirical things in the presence of persons of
vicious habits. His temper was extremely no-
ble. Another came who took his place near
G0ethe ; I will say nothing more of him, than
that he was a good daw in peacock's feathers.
A very worthy Strasburger sat also at table.
His place was the uppermost, and would have
been so, if it bad been behind the door. His
modesty does not permit me to panegyrize him;
it was Mr.Saltzmann the registrar. If my read-
ers can imagine to themselves a man possessing
the most thorough and sentimental pbilosophy,
combined with the most genuine piety-they
will form an idea of Saltzmann. Gaethe and
Saltzmann were cordial friends.
Mr. Troost said in a low voice to StiJling,
"We shall do best to be silent here for the first
fortnight." The latter recognized the truth oC
this remark; they therefore ~aid nothing, nor did
Digitized by GoogIe
76 H-EINR CH STILLING.
any one take particular notice of them, except
that Goethe sometimes rolled bis eyes upon
them; he sat opposite Stilling, and bad the pres-
idency of the table, without seeking it.
Mr. Troost was very useful to Stilling; be
knew the world better, and could therefore lead
him safely through i without him, Stilling would
have stumbled a nundred times. Thus kind
'Was his Heavenly Father towards him, so that
he even provided him with a guardian, who
could not only assist him in word and deed, but
from whom he could also receive instruction and
direction in his studies; for certainly Mr. Troost
was an able and experienced surgeon.
Stilling having now made all his arrange-
ments, pursued his course heroically ; he was
in his element; he eagerly altended to every
thing he heard; bot he neither transcribed lec-
tures nor any thing else, but transferred every
thing into general ideas. Happy is he who
knows how to practise this metbOd well ; but it
is not given to every one. His two profes5ors,
the celebrated Messieurs Spielmann and Lob-
stein, soon observed him, and became fond of
him, particularly because be conducted himself
in a grave, manly, and retired manner.
But bis thirty-three rix-<lollars bad now melt-
ed down again to a single one; on which ac-
count, therefore, he began again to pray fervent-
ly. God heard and answered him; for just at
the time of need, Mr. Troost began to say to him
one morning, "You have, I believe, brought no
money with you; I will lend you six Carolines
(about five pounds) until yon receive a remit-
tance." Although Stilling knew as little where
a remittance as money was to come from, yet
he accepted this friendly offer, and Mr. Troost
paid him six Jouis-d'ors. WM teas it tAat exd-
ted tM lleart of It.is friend to make tllis offer, at tM
-.ery moment when it was needed?
Mr. Troost was dressed neatly and fashion-
ably; Stilling likewise pretty mncb so. He had
on a dark-brown coat, with velveteen trowsers;
he had, however, still a round wig, which he
wished to wear by turns with bis bag-wigs. He
put this on, on one occasion, and appeared with
it at the dinner-table. No one troubled himself
about it, except Mr. Waldberg from Vienna.
The latter looked at him, and as he bad already
heard that Stilling was inclined to be very reli-
gious, be began by asking him, whether Adam
wore a round wig in paradise1 All laughed
heartily, except Sallzmano, G0etbe, and Troost
-they did not laugh. Stilling's anger pervaded
every limb, and he answered, "You ought to be
ashamed of such ridicule. Such a common-
place idea is not worth a laugh!" But G0ethe
mterrupted him, and adlled, "Try a man first,
whether he deserves to be ridiculed. It is dev-
ilish to make a jest of a worthy man, who has
offended no one." From that ume, Giiethe took
Stilliog's part, visited him, became fond of him,
made an allianae of friendship and fraternity
with him, and labored on every occasion to
show him kindness. It is lamentable that so
few persons know the heart of this excellent
man.
After Martinmas, lectures on midwifery were
announced, and those who were desirous of at-
tending them were invited. This was a princi-
pal thing with Stilling; he therefore presented
himself, on the Mondav evening, with others, in
order to subscribe. He had no idea but that
these lectures would be paid for, like the others,
after thev were ended; but how was he dismay-
ed, when the doctor announced that the centle-
men would please pay six louis-d'ors each for
the lecture1, the following Thursday evening l ·
There wa~ therefore, an exception in this caee,
and that ior a good reaS(ln. Now if Stilling
did not pay on the day fixed, his name would be
struck ouL This would have been disgraceful..
and would have weakened the credit which Still-
ing absolutely required. He was therefore at
a loss what to do. Mr. Troost had already ad-
vanced him six loois-d'ors, and there was still
no prospect of being able to return them.
As soon as Stilling entered his apartment, and
found it empty-for Mr. Troost was gone to at-
tend a lecture-he shut the door after him, threw
himself down in a corner, lllld wrestled earnest-
ly with God for aid and compassion. The
Thursday evening however arrived, without
any thing of a consoling nature manifesting it-
self. It was already five o'clock; aud six was.
the time that be ought to have the money. Still-
iog's faith began almost to fail ; he broke out.
into a perspiration with anxiety, and his whole
face was wet with tears. He felt no more cour-
age or faith, and therefore be looked forward to
the future as to a hell with all its torments.
Whilst he was pacing the room occupied with
such ideas, i;ome one knocked at the door. .He
called out, "Come iu !" It was their landlord,
Mr. R--. He entered the room, and after the
customary compliments, he began, " I am come
to see bow yon are, and whether yon are satis-
fied with your lodging." (Mr. Troost was still
not there, and knew nothing of Stilling's present
struggles.) Stilling answered, "Your inquiries
after my llealth do me much honor; I am well,
thank God I and your apartment is quite accord-
ing to the wish of both of us."
Mr. R-- rejoined, "I am very glad of it,
particularly as I see you are such well-behaved
and worthy people. But I wished particularly
to ask you one thing : have r.ou brought money
with you, or do you expect bills 1" Stillin~ now
felt like Habakkuk, when the angel.took him by
the hair of his head to carry him to Babylon.
He answered, "No, I have brought no money
with me."
Mr. R-- stood; looked at him fixedly, and
said, " For God's sake, how will you be able to
proceed 1"
Stilling answered, "Mr. Troost has already
lent me something." "But he requires his
money himself,'' rejoined Mr. R--. " I will
advance you money, as much as you need; and
when you rec..,ive your remittance, you need
only gtVe the bill to me, that you may have no
trouble in disposing of it. Are you in want of
any money at present 1" Stilling could scarce-
ly refrain from crying out; however, he restrain-
ed himself, so as not to show bis feelings.
"Yes," ~aid he, "I have need of six louis-d'ors
this evening, and I was at a loss."
Mr. R-- was shocked, and replied, "Yes.
I dare say you are I I now see that God has
sent me to your assistance," and went out of the
room.
Stilling felt at this moment like Daniel in the
lion's den, when Habakkuk brought him his
food; he was overpowered by his feelings, and
was scarcely aware of Mr. R--'s reenter-
ing the room. This excellent man brought
eight louis-d'ors, handed them to him, and went
away.
In the sr.here in which Stilling now moved,
be had dailv temutations enough to become &
Digitized by GoogIe
STILL! NG'S WANDERINGS. 77
-aceptic in religion. He heard, every day, new hour he was at leisure. For as he bad a good
reasons against the Bible, against Christianity, natural gift of eloquence, be the more readily
· and against the principles of the Christian reli- resolved to do this, partly to rehearse what he
gion. All the proots he bad ever collected, and had heard, and exercise himself further in it, and
which had always hitherto tranquillized him, partly also to attain an ability for speaking in
were no longer sufficient to satisfy his indexible public. As he demanded nothing for it, and as
reason; the trials of faith alone, of which he 1his lecture was regarded as a repetition, he suo._
had already experienced so many in the deal- ceeded in it, without any one objecting to iL He
iDgs of Divine Providence with him, made him obtained a number of hearers, and in conse-
quiie invincible. He therefore concluded as quence, many acquaintances and friends.
follows: " He who so obviously hears the pray- His own lectures he never neglected. He
-era of men, and guides their destinies so won- prepared bis own studies in anatomy with plllas-
dertWly and visibly, must, beyond disput~ be ure and delight; and what btl had prepared, be
the true God, and his doctrine the word of uod. demonstrated publicly, so that both professors
Now I have ever adored and worshipped Jesus and students were astonished at him. Professor
Christ, as my God and Saviour. He has heard Lobstein, who, as is well known, occupied this
me in the hour of need, and wonderfully sup- department with the greatest celebrity,grew very
ported and succoured me. Consequently Jesus fond of him1aud spared no J>Bins to instruct him
Christ is incontestably the true God, his doctrine thoroughly m the science. He also visited, that
is the word of God and his religion, as He has winter, the sick in the hospitals, with Protessor
instituted it, the true religion." Ehrmann. He there observed the diseases, and
This inference, indeed, was of no value to in the dissecting-room, their causes. In a word.
others, but it was perfectly sufficient for himselt; he took all possible pains in order to attain a
to delend him from all doubts. thorough knowledge of the science of physic.
As soon as Mr. R-- was gone, Stilling fell Goethe gave him another direetion in refer.
on the ·ftuor, thanked God with tears, and cast ence to polite literature. He made him ac-
him:1elf anew into His paternal arms, after quainted with Ossian, Shakspeare, Fielding,
which he went to the college, and paid as well as anJ Sterne; and in this manner, Stilling made a
tb.e best. transition out of nature into nature. There was
Whilst this was passing in Strasburg, Mr. also a society ofyoung people at Strasburg, whe
Liebmann of Schonentbal paid a visit, on one called themselves the Society of the Belles Let-
occasion, to Mr. Friedenberg, at Rasenheim, for tres, to which he was invited, and received as a
they were very good friends. Liebmann knew member; here be became acquainted with the
nothing of Stilling's alliance with Christina, al- best works, and the present state of polite litera-
thougb he was well aware that Friedenberg was ture in the world.
his cordial friend. During that winter Herder came to Stras-
Whilst they were sitting !Ofl'etber, the conver- burg; Stilling "·as made aGquainted with him
eation turned upon their friend at Strasburg. by Goethe and Troost. He never in his life ad-
Liebmann was never weary in relating bow Mr. mired any one so much as this man, of whom it
Troost commended Stilling's industry, genius has been said "Herder bas only one idea, and
and good success in his studies. Friedenberg and that is a who\e world." He furnished Stilling
bis family, particularly Christina, were heartily with a sketch ofall things in one,-1 cannot call
delighted at it. Liebmann could not comprehend it otherwise; and if a spirit ever received an im-
wbence he had his money, any more than Fried- petus to an eternal movement, Stilling received
enberg. "Well," continued Liebmann," I wish it from Herder, and this because he harniouised
some friend would join with me; we would re- with this excellent genius, with respect to natll-
mit him, for once, a considerable snm." ral disposition, more than with G6ethe.
Mr. Frldenbergperceived tbhl leading ofProv- The spring approached, and Mr. Troost made
idence, and he could scarcely refrain from tears. preparations for his departure. Though Stilling
But Christina ran up-stairs into her room, cast deeply felt the separatioa from such a worlby
herself before God, and prayed. Friedenberg man, yet he had now the best acquaintance in
replied, " I will join with you in iL" Liebmann Strasburg, and besides this, he hoped in the
rejoiced, ~ said, "Well then, do you count out course of a year to be with him again. He gave
one hondrW and fifty rix-dollars; I will add as ·him letters to carry with him; and as Mr.Troost
many more lO them, and send oil'the bill to him." bad discovered that he was betrothed, Stilling
Friedenberg willingly did so. besought him to go to Rasenheim, the first of;
A fortnight after the severe trial of faith which portunity, and relate to bis friends personal y
Stilling had endured, he received, quite unex- every particular respecting his present position.
pectedly, a letter from Mr. Liebmann, together Thus this worthy man set off again, m April,
with a bill for three hundred rii:-dollars. He for the Low-lands, after having once more gone
laughed aloud, J>laced himself against the win- through the studies of the sciences he most re-
dow, cast a joyful look towards heaven, ilnd said, quired, with the greatest industry. But Stilling
"This is only possible with thee, thou Almighty courageously continued his academical course.
Father!-may my whole life be devoted to thy The Tuesday before Whit.•untide was fixed
praise!" for the marriage of the son ofone of the Profes-
He now paid Mr. Troost Mr. R--, and sors, on which account there were no lectures.
others to whom he was indebted, and retained Stilling therefore determined to Rpend the day in
enough to enable him to get through the winter. his own apartment, and study for himRelf. At
His manner of life at Strasburg was so remark- nine o'clock, a sudden panic seized him; his
able, that the whole university spoke of him. heart beat like a hammer, and be knew not what
Pbilosophy'had been, from the first, the science was the matter with him. He rose up, paced
to which his spirit most peculiarly inclined. In the room, and felt an irresistible impulse to set
order to exercise himself in it the more, he re- off' home. He started at this idea, and consider-
solved to Tead a public lecture in bis apartment, ed the loss he might sustain both with reg.ard to
In the evenings, from fi.ve to six o'clock, at which money and with respect to his studies. He at
Digitized by GoogIe
'
•
78 HEINRICH STILLING.
length believed it was only a hypochondriacal
chimera; he therefore strove to repel it from his
mind by force, and sat down again to his studies.
But the uneasiness he felt was so great, that he
was obliged to rise up again. He was uow re-
ally troubled; there was something in him which
powerfully urged him to return home.
Stilling knew not whither he should look for
counsel or comfort. He represented to himself
what people might think of him, were he to trav-
el fifty German miles at a venture, and perhaps
find every thing at home in the best situation.
But as his anxiety and the impulse he felt still
continued, he betook himself to prayer, and be-
sought the Lord, if it were His will that be
should travel home, to give him an assurance
respecting the cause 0fit. WhiM praying thus
within himself, Mr. R--'s clerk entered the
room, and brought him the following letter:-
" Rasenlleim, 9tk May, 1774.
"MY DEARLY BEI.OVED FRIEND,
"I doubt not that you have duly received the
letters from my wife, son, and Mr. Troost. You
must not be alarmed when I inform you, that
your dear Christina is rather poorly. She has
been, for the last two days, so extremely ill, that
she is now very-very weak. My heart is so
affected by it, that tloods of tears run down my
cheeks. However, I must not write much of
this; I might be saying too much. I sigh and
pray most heartily for the dear child; and also
for ourselves1 that we may filially resign our.
selves to Gods hory will. May the Eternal and
Most Merciful be gracious unto all of us I Your
dear Christina is pleased at my writing to you
on this occasion, for she is so weak that she can-
not say much. r must cease writing a little;
may the Almighty Godput it into my heart what
to write! I will go on m God's name; and must
tell you that your beloved Christina, according to
human appearance-be firm, my dearest friend I
-bas not many days to spend here, before &he
will enter her eternal rest; however, I write ac-
cordiog as we men view the matter. Now my
beloved friend-I think my heart will melt; I
cannot write much more to you. Your dear
Christina wou!J gladly see /ou once more in
this world; but what shall say to, or advise
you 1 I can write no further, for the tears tlow
so rapidly upon the paper. 0 God, thou know-
est me1 and that I will gladly pay the expenses
ofthe Journey ;-but I dare not advise you: ask
advice of the true Counsellor, to whom I hearti-
ly commend you. Myself, my wife, your be-
trothed, and the children, salute you a thousand
times.
"I am, eternally, ·
"Your atrectionate friend,
"PBTEa FRIEDENBERG,"
Stilling threw himself li,ke a madman from
one side of the room to another; he did not-.ob
nor weep, but looked like one who despaired of
his salvation ; at length he recollected himself
ao far as to throw off bis morning-gown, put on
his clothes, and then ran, as well as be was able,
with the letter, to GOet!ie. As soon as be enter-
ed his room, he exclaimed, in the agony of bis
soul, " I am lostI-there, read the letter I" Goethe
read it, 11arted .np, looked at him with tears in
bis eyes, and said, " Thou poor Stilling I" He
then went back with him to his lodging; an-
other true friend, to whom Stilling relatPd bis
misfortune, also accompanied them. Goethe
and this friend packed up what was needful in
bis JX>rlmanteau, another inquired for an oppor-
tunuy for him by which lie might take his cl•
partnre; which was soon found for a vessel lay
ready on the Preusch, that would set sail at noon
for Mayence, the captain of which readily took
Stilling with him. The latter, meanwhile, wrote
a few lines to his friends, to announce his speedy
arrival. After Goethe had packed his portman-
teau, be ran to procure some provisions for hi&
friend, and carried them on board the vessel.
Stilling went with him, prepared for bis journey.
Here they took leave of each other with many '
tears. Stilling set sail in reliance on Divine
protection ; and after commencing his journey,
felt his mind more at ease, and he bad the pre-
sentiment that be would find his Christina still
alive, and that she would get better; however~
he took several books with him, in order to con-
tinue his studies at home. It was just the most
convenient time for him to travel; for most·of
the lectures had ceased, and the most important
bad not yet recommenced.
Nothing remarkable occurred on the voyage
to Mayence. He arrived there on the Friday
evening, at six o'clock, paid for his passage, took
bis portmanteau under his arm, and ran to the
Rhine bridge, in order to find a conveyance to
Cologne. He there heard that a large covered
barge had left two hours before, which would
stop the night at Bingen. A boatman imme-
diately stepped up to him, and promised Stilling
to take him thither in three hours, for four guild-
ers, although it is six leagues from Mayence to
Bingen. Stilling agreed with him. Whilst the
boatman was making ready to depart, a smart
little fellow of about fifteen years of age, with a.
small portmanteau, came up to Stilling, and ask-
ed whether he would permit him to travel with
him to Cologne. Stilling consented; and as he
promised the boatman two guilders more, the-
latter was also satisfied.
The two travellers, therefore, entered the tbree-
boarded boat. Stilling was not pleased with it
from the first, and expreS11ed his apprehensions,.
but the two boatmen laughed at film. They
then set ojf. The water came within two fin-
gers' breadth of the edge of the boat; and when
Stilling, who was rather tall, moved a little, he
thought it would have upset, and then the water
really came into the boat.
This son of conveyance was dreadful to hlm,
and he wished himself heanily on terrafi.rma:
however, in order to pass the time, he entered
into conversation with bis little fellow-traveller.
He heard, with astonishment, that this youth
was the son of a rich widow in H--, and in-
tended, ju11t as be sat with him, 10 travel quite
alone to the Cape of Good Hope, in order to
viiit bis brother there. Stilling was astonished
above measure, and asked him whether his
mother bad consentell to his journey 'l " By n()
means," answered the boy; " I went away frem
her secretly; she bad me arrested at Mayence,.
but I entreated her, until she permitted me to.
travel, and sent me a bill for eleven hundred·
guilders. I have an uncle at Rotterdam, to-
whom I am addressed, and who will a~sist me.
further." Stilling was now at ease with respect.
to the youn~ man, for he did not doubt that this .
uncle woula have secret orders to detain him by
force.
Dnrinr this convel'!lalion, Stilling felt a cold- .
ness at his feet, and on lookin~ down, found that
the water was forcin~ itself mto the boat, and
that the boatman behind him was bailing jt out.
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S WANDERINGS.
u tut as he could. He now became strioualy
alartned, and requested peremptorily to be set on
shore on the Biogen siae, say10g that he would
gladly give them the money agreed upon, and
walk to Bingen on foot; however, the boatmen
refused to do so, and continued rowing. Stilling
therefore also betook himself to baling, and with
bis companio!1i bad enough to do to keep the
boat empty. Meanwhile, it grew dark; they ap-
proached the rocks, the wind rose, and a storm
seemed coming on. The youth began to tremble
in the boat, and Stilling fell into a deep melan-
choly, which was increased on perceiving how
the boatmen spoke to each other by signs, so that
they certainly intended something evil.
It was now quite dark; the storm approached,
the wind blew tempestuously, and it lightened,
so that the boat rolled about, and its destruction
appeared more certain every moment. Stilling
turned inwardly to God, and earnestly prayed
that be might be preserved, particularly if Chris-
tina should be still alive; lest by the dreadful
news of his unfortunate end, she should breathe
out her soul in sorrow. But if she had already
entered into her rest, be resigned hims"lf cheer-
fully to the will of God. Whilst immersed in
these rellectioos, he looked up, and saw, a little
way before him, the mast of a yacht; he called
out with a loud voice for help, and in a few mo-
ments, one of the sailors was on deck with a lan-
tern, and a long boat-hook. The boatmen row-
ed with all their might in a contrary direction;
l!Ut they couId not succeed, for as they were
rowing towards the shore, the wind and the
stream drove them to the yacht, and before they
were aware, the book was in the boat, and the
boat along.side the yacht. Stilling and his com-
panion were on deck \fith their portmanteaus,
before the villains of boatmen perceived it. The
sailor held the lantern to them, and began to ex-
claim, "Ha1 ha! are you the wicked rascals
that drownea two travellers down yonder a few
weeks ago 1 Only wait till I come again to
Mayence." Stilling threw them their full pay
into the boat, and let them go. How happy was
he, and how did he thank God, after escaping this
danger! They then went down into the cabin.
The men were from Coblentz, and honest people,
They all supped together; and the two travel-
lers lay down on the luggage that was there, and
slept quietly until day-break, when they found
themselves before Bingen· they gave the sailors
a handsome gratuity, left the vessel, and saw the
barge in which they wished to sail to Cologne,
moored there to a post.
Not far from the shore was an inn, into which
Stilling went with his comrade, and entered a
room, the lloor of which was strewed with straw.
lo one comer lay a man of a pleasing and re-
~ctable appearance; at a little distance from
him, a soldier· a step further, a young man,
who looked as like a drunken student as one egg
does to another. The first had on a cotton cap
drawn over his eal'8, and a cloak hanging over
bis shoulders, whilst his Russian frock-coat was
wrapped round his feet. The second had bound
bis pocket-handkerchief about his head, and
thrown his soldier's coat over him, and was sno-
ring aloud. The third lay with his bare head in
the straw, with an English frock across him; he
raised himself, stared strangely about him, like
one who has looked too deeply, the previous
evening, into the dram-glass. Behind, in the
comer, lay something, which it was impossible
to say what it was, until it began to move, and
look forth from between clothH and cushions•
Stilling then perceived that it was some sort ol
a female. Stilling contemplated this excellent
group awhile with pleasure; at length he be-
,an, "Gentlemen, I wish you all a happy mom-
10g, and a pleasant joumey I" All three raised
themselves, gaped, rubbed their eyes, and made
other such motions as are usual on a.waking;
they looked, and saw a tall, smiling man, and a
lively boy standing by him; they then all sprang.
up, returned the compliment, each after his faah-
io~ and thanked him in a friendly manner.
The principal gentleman waa a person of dig-
nified and noble aspet; he stepped up to Stilling,
and said, "Whence come you, so early1" Still-
ing related brielly what bad happened to him. ·
Wilh .
a noble mien the gentleman rejoined.
"You are certainly not in business; at least yoll
do not seem to me to be so." Stilling was s1ir-
prised at this speech ; be smiled, and said, " Yoll
must understand physiognomy well; I am not a
merchant, but am studying medicine." The-
strange gentleman looked at him 'ravely, and
said, "You are therefore studying in the midst
of your days; you must previously have had
great obstacles to surmount! or else you made-
your choice very late." Stil ing reP.lied, " Both
was the case with me. I am a child of Provi-
dence; without its particular guidance, I should
either have been a tailor, or a charcoal-burner."
Stilling spoke this with emphasis and emotion,
as he always does when on this snbject. The
unknown gentleman continued, "You will, per-
haps, relate your history to us, on the way."
"Yes,'' said Stilling, "most willingly."
The former now clapped him on the shoulder,
and said, "Be you who you may, you are a man.
after my own heart."
You that scourge my brother Lavater so ec-
verely, whence came it, that this noble stranger
became fond of Stilling at first sight 'J-and what
is the language, and which are the letters that
he knew how to read and study so ably 1
The student by this time liad recovered his.
senses; he had become sober, and greeted Still-
ing, as did also the soldier. Stilling asked
whether the gentlemen would take breakfa11t1
"Yes," said they all, "we will drink coffee...
" So will I,'' rejoined Stillingl· and he hastened
out of the room, and ordered t. On returning,
he said, "Cao I have the honor of your agreea-
ble society to Cologne, with my companion 1"
They all immediately said, "Yes, it will cause
us much pleasure." Stilling made an obei-
sance. They then all dressed themstlves; and
the lady behind, very shamefacedly, also put on
one garment after another. She was house-
keeper to a clergyman at Cologne, and conse-
quently very careful in the company of strange
men· which, however, was quite unnecessary
for she was too ugly to be an object of their at-
tentions.
Colfee was now brought in; S.tilllng placed
himself at the table, drew the colfee-pot towards
him, and begait to pour out the beverage; he
was cheerfuJ, and Inwardly pleased; bnt where-
fore, I know not. The strange gentleman placed
him~elf near him, and clapped him again on the
shoulder; the soldier sat down on the other side,
and clapped him upon the other shoulder; whilst
the two young j>eople seated themselves on the
opposite side of the table, and the lady sat be·
hmd, and drank her coffee alone.
After breakfast, they went on board the barge,
and Stilling observed that no one knew the
Digitized by GoogIe
80 HEINRICH STILLING.
ltraoge gentleman. The latter urged Stilling to
re!a!e the history of his life. As soon as they
had passed the Bingen lock, be began it, and re-
lated every thing, without concealing the small-
est circumstance; he even stated with sincerity
the particulars of his betrothment, and the reason
of bis present journey. The unknown gentle-
man occasionally dropped a tear, as did also the
llOldier, and both wished heartily to bear where
and in what state he had met with his Christi-
na. Both were now intimate with him; and the
soldier then began to relate as follows : " I was
bom of mean parentage in the duchy of Zwei-
briicken, but was kept diligently at my learning,
in order, by knowledge, to make up for what
· was wanting in property. After I left school, a
person in office employed me as a writer. I was
with him some years; his daughter was kind to
me, and we became such good frie·nru., that we
betrothed ourselves inviolably to each other, and
bound ourselves Mver to marry, if any obstacles
were laid in our way. My employer soon dis-
covered it, and I was sent away; however, I
still found half-an-hour to converse with my
aweetheart alone, on which occasion we bound
ourselves to each other still more firmly. I then
went to Holland, and e111isted for a soldier; I
very often wrote to the young lady, but never re-
ceived an answer, for every letter was intercept-
ed. This rendered me so desperate that I often
sought death, but r.till I bad always an abhor-
rence of suicide.
"Our regiment was soon after sentoffto Amer-
ica; the cannibals had commenced war against
the Dutch; I was therefore obliged to go with it.
We arrived at Surinam, and my company was
stationed at a very remote fort. I was still
grieved to death, and wished nothing so much as
that a ball might at length strike me dead; all
that I was afraid of, was being taken prisoner;
for who likes being devoured I I therefore con-
tinually entreated our commander to give me a
few men to make inroads upon the cannibals;
this he did, and as we were always fortunate, he
made me serjeant.
"Once I commanded fifty men; we ranged
through a wood, and went to a considerable dis-
tance from the fort; all of us having our mus-
kets cocked, under our arms. Meantime, a shot
was fired at me;. the ball whistled !>y my ear.
After a short pause, it occurred again. I looked
about, and saw a savage reloading his gun. I
-called out to him to halt, and pointed my mus-
ket at him. He was close to us; he stood still1
and we took him. This savage understooc1
Dutch. We forced him to betray their chief to
u11, and take us to hi• retreat, which was not far
from where we were. Here we found a troop
of aava«es reposing. I bad the good fortune to
take their chief prisoner myself. We drove as
many of them before us as we could keep to-
gether; many, however, escaped.
"In consequence of this affair, the scuffie with
these people was at an end. I was made lieu-
tenant at sea, and returned with my regiment to
Holland. I obtained a furlough, and travelled
home, where I found the young lady as I had
left her. Being furnished with both money and
honor, I found no further opposition ; we were
married, and have now live children."
This tale delighted the compaov. The lieu-
tenant, as well as Stilling, would now gladly
have learned the unknown gentlt"man's circum-
etances1 but he smiled, and said, "Excuse me at
present, gentlemen. I dare not."
Thus the day passed away in the most agreea-
ble conversation. Towards evening, a storm
came on, and they therefore landed at Leiders-
dortf, uot far from Neuwied, where they paSlled
the night. The dissolule young man they bad
with them, was from Strasburg, and bad run
away from his parents. He soon made ae-
quaintance with the youth who was passenger
wi1h them. Stilling warned the latter, very se-
riously, in particular, not to shew the bill of ex-
change; but it was ofno avail. He afterwards
beard that the boy bad lost all his money, and
the Strasburger had disappeared.
Io the evening, on retiring to rest, it was
found that there were only three bed1 for five
persons. They cast lots which should sleep to-
gether, when it fell out that the two youths were
to be in one bed, the lieutenant in another, and
the strange gentleman and Stilling were to have
the best. Stilling now perceived the r.ostly valua-
bles of his bedfellow, which indicated something
very dignified. He could not make this mode
of travelling agree with such elevated rank, and
began to suspect all was not right; however, as
he observed that the stranger was truly devout,
he was ·ashamed of bis suspicions, and was sat-
isfied. They fell asleep, after much confidential
conversation; and the next morning, they again
pursued their voyage, and arrived in the even-
ing, safe and well, at Cologne. The stranger
began to be busy there; persons of consequence
went and came to him with all secrecy. He
provided himself with a couple of servants, and
purchased a quantity of jewellery and other
thinp of the kind. They all lodged together,
at the same inn ; and although there were beds
enough iu the house, yet the stranger requested
to sleep again with Stilling, to which he readilf
assented.
In the morning, Stilling hastened to talre bia
departure. He and the stranger embraced and
kissed each other. The lattersaid to him," Your
company, sir, has afforded me uncommon pleas-
ure. Go on as you have begun, and you will
ri~e high in the world. I shall never forget you."
Stilling once more expressed his desire to know
with whom he had travelled. The stranger
smiled, and said, "Read the newspapers atten-
tively when you arrive at home, and when yov.
find the name of••• remember me." _
Stilling now set out ou foot; be bad 1<till eight
league~ to walk, before be reached Rasenbeim.
On the way, he reflected on the stranger's name;
it was known to him, and yet be knew not who
be was. A week after, ht' read in the Lippstadt
journal the following article:
"Cologne, 19th May.-M. von • • •, ambas-
SJ!dor oflhe court of• • • to • • •,passed through
this place, in the strictest incognito, on his way
to Holland, in order to transact important busi-
ness."
In the afternoon ofTuesday afterWhitsuntide
Stilling arrived at Rasenheim; he was receiv;;d
with a thousand demonstrations of joy. But
Christina was not mistress of herself; when
Stilling went to her, she pushed him away, for
she knew him not. He went for a little while
into another room, and in the meantime she re-
covered herself, and it was told her that Stilling
was arrived. She could now no longer contain
herself. He was called, and came to her. The
mosi tender salutations which can be conceived
took place; but it cost Christina dear; she fell
into the most violent convulsions, so that Still-
ing, in the extremity ofgrief, awaited the mortal
Digitized by GoogIe
ST I L LIN G'S WANDERINGS. 81
tilow·at her bed-side, for 1hree days and three
nights. Contrary to all expectation, she recov-
ered again; and in a fortnight was so much bet-
ter, that she sometimes rose for a little while du-
ring the day.
Stilling's alliance with Christina was now
generally known. Their best friends advised
Friedenberg to let them be married. This was
assented to ; and after the customary formali-
ties, the marriage ceremony was performed, on
the 17th of June, 1771, at the bedside of bis
Christina.
There dwelt in Schonenthal an excellent phy-
sician, a man of great learning, and active per-
severance in the stUd,f of nature; he was at the
same time devoid ofJealousy, and possessed the
best bean in the world. This worthy man had
heard pan of Stilliog's history from bis friend
Troost. Stilling hacI visited him several times
on this occasion, and requested his friendship
and instruction. His name was Dinkler, and
his practice was e.xtensive.
· Mr. Dinkier, therefore, and Mr. Troost were
present at StiUing's marriage; and on this occa-
.aion, they both proposedto him to settle at Schon-
~nthal,• particularly because a physician had
just died there. ~tilling again awaited the Di-
vine direction, ana therefore said he would think
.upon it. His two friends, however, gave them-
aelves much trouble in order to find out a house
for him in SchOnenthal ; and t)ley succeeded in
4oing so, even before Stilling took his departure
again; the doctor also promised to visit his
Christina during his absence, and to take care
of her health.
Mr. Friedenberg now likewise found a source
from whence he might procure money ; and
after every thing was arranged, Stilling prepared
to depart again for Strasburg. The evening be-
fore the melancholy day, he went up to his wife's
chamber. He found her lying on her knees
with folded hands. He stepped up to her, and
tooked at her; but she was stiff as a log of wood.
He felt her pulse, which beat quite regularly.
He lifted her up, spoke to her, and at length
brought her to herself. The whole night was
spent in continual mourning and confiict.
The ne.xt morning Christina continued lying
upon her face in the bed. She took her husband
round the neck and wept and sobbed incessant-
ly. At length he tore himself forcibly from her.
His two brothers-in-law accompanied him to
Cologne. The next day, before lie took his seat
in the diligence, a messenger arrived from Ra-
senbeim, and brought the news that Christina
· .had become tranquil.
This encouraged Stilling; be ftlt much re-
lieved1 ~d did not doubt but that he would again
meet n.is dear and faithful Christina in good
health. He commended her and himself into
the paternal hands of God, took leave of his
brothers-in-law, and set otr.
In seven days he again arrived at Strasburg,
safe and well, without danger, and without meet-
ing with any thing remarkable. His first visit
was to G0ethe. The noble young man started
up on seeing him, fell upon his neck, and kissed
him. "Art thou hel'f' again, my good friend I"
exclaimed he ; " and how is thy intended 1"
Stilling answered, "She is my intended no long-
er; she is now my wife." "Thou hast done
well," replied the former; "thou art an excellent
fellow.'' They spent the remainder of the day
entirely in cordial conversation, and in narrating
what had occurred
L
The well-known and gentle Lenz had also ar-
rived there. His pleasing writings have render-
ed him celebrated. Giiethe, Lenz, Lerse, and
Stilling, now composed a kind of circlt, in which
every one felt happy who was able to tee! what
is good and beautiful. Stilling's enthusiasm in
the cause of religion did not prevent him from
cordially loving such men as thought more freely
than himself, if they were only not scoffers.
He now prosecuted his medical studies with
all diligence, and omitted nothing which belongs
to that science. The following autumn, G0ethe
disputed publicly, and then set otf home. Be
and Stilling entered into a mutual and indisso-
luble bond of friendship. Lerse also took bis
departure for Versailles, but Lenz remained at
Strasburg.
The following winter, Stilling, with the per-
mission of Professor Spielmann, read a lecture
upon chemistry, completely finished his anatom-
ical studies, went thro~h some.things a second
time, and then wrote his Latin 1rea1ise for ex- ·
amination without the assistance of any one.
This be dedicated, by special permis ion, to His
Serene Highness the Elector of the Palatinate,
his gracious prince; he then passed his exam-
ination, and prepared for his departure.
Here much money was again requisite and
Stilling wrote home on the subject. Mr. Fried-
enberg was startled at it; at the dinner-table,
he thought he would put his children to the test.
They were all present, great and small. The
father began : " Children, your brother-in-law
requires still so much money; what think you, I
would vou send it to him if you had it1" They
all answered unanimously, "Yes I even were we
to take off our clothes and pledge them I" This
moved the parents, even to tears; and Stilling
vowed them eternal love and fidelity, as soon as
he heard of it. In one word, a remittance arri-
ved at Strasburg, which was sufficient.
Stilling now disputed with credit and ap-
plause. Mr. Spielmann acted as dean on the
occasion. On giving him the license, after the
disputation was ended, he broke out into com-
mendations of him, and said, " That it was long
since he had given the license to any one with
greater pleasure than to the present candidate;
for he had done more, io sucli a short 'time, than
many others in five or six years " &c. Stilling
was still upan the rostrum, and the tears stream-
ed down bis cheeks. His soul overtl.owed with
thankfulness towards Him who had brought him
out of the dust and given him a vocation in
which, in acco~nce with his own inclihations1
he could live and die to the honor of God ana
the benefit of his neighbours.
On the 24th of March, lm, he took leave of •
all his friends at Strasburg, and set off home.
At Manheim he had the honor of presenting his
Latin Treatise to his Serene Highness the Elec-
toral Prince, as well as to all his ministers. He
became on this occasion, correspondent of the
Palatinate Society of Sciences, and then travel-
led to Colo~e, where Mr. Friedenberg met him
with every upression of joy; his brotbers-in-
law also met him on the way, on horseback. On
the 6th of April he arrived, in the company of
the friends above-mentioned, at Rasenhe1m. His
Christina was up-stairs in her room, She lay
with her face upon the table, and we(>t aloud.
Stilling pressed her to his breast, embraced, and
kissed her. He asked her why ~he wept. " Oh,"
answered she, " I am weeping because I have
not power sufficient to thank God for all ~
Digitized by GoogIe
HEINRICH STILLING.
goodness." "Thon art in the right, my angel I"
rejoined Stilling; "but our wh<>le life, in time
and in eternity, shall be made up of thanksgiv-
ing. However, rejoice now, that the Lord has
helped us hitherto. '
On the 1st of May, he removed, with his
spouse, into the house taken for him at Schonen-
thal, and began to exercise bis vocation. Doc-
tor Dinkierand Mr. Troost were the faithful com-
panions of his life and labours there.
On the first medical promotion at Strasburg,
he received, through a notary, his doctor's di-
ploma, and this was the conclusion of bis aca-
demical course. His family, in the province of
Salen, heard all this witb rapturous joy; anJ l
Wilhelm Stilling wrote, in his first letter to hiu.
at Schonenthal, "It is enough that my son Jo-
seph liveth; I must go down UMl see liim. before
I die."
Unlo the tnrone of Majeoty 111preme,
With grateful heart I now draw near;
And mingle with the 1eraph'1 lofty tluome
My humble aoq of praiae and prayer.
A!thm1gh but duat, ahd form'd of earthly etar-
Although I feel both ain and death-
y ot to a aeraph'a height aapire I may,
Since Chriat for me resigned hit breeth.
Words....., not thanb-no, auch like noble de.i.
A• Chri1t'1 own precedent appron1,
Miagled with aull'erinp' and aftlictiona' teed.I,
An incenae, which th' Almighty loveo :
Be the1e my thaw; and may my lledfaat will
Each hour be dedicate lo Thee;
And grant, I always may tbi1 wnh fnllll,
E'en till I reach eternity!
HEINRICH STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE.
CHAPTER VII. heim. The young married couple then etoocf
and looked at each other with tearful eyee.
ON the lat of May, 1772, in the afternoon, .Their whole stock of furniture was very limit-
.Stilling proceeded with his Christina on foot to ed ; six wooden chairs, a table and bed for tbem-
Schonenthal, and Mr. Friedenberg accompanied selves, and one for the servant, a couple of dish·
them. All nature was still, the sky was serene, es, six pewter plates, a few pans for cooking,
the sun shone over bill and dale, and its warm &c., together with the moat needful linen, and
and genial rays unfolded herbs, and leaves, and a very bare supply of clothP.S, was all that could
1lowers. Stilling contemplated bis present cir- be found in the house, though large; this fumi-
cumstances and prospects with delight, and telt ture was divided hither and thither. and yet the
aaaured that bis sphere of operation would be- apartments seemed &II indescribably empty.
come wide and comprehensive. Christina in- The third story was never thought of; it wa&
dulged the same hope ; whilst Mr. Friedenberg void, and continued so.
som·etitnea walked on alone, or lingered behind, And then the cash! Their funds consisted
smoking bis pipe; and when any thing relating altogether of five rix·dollars in ready money,
to domestic economy occurred to him, be ex- and that was all! Really, really, it required
praised it brie11y and emphatically, believing great confideRee in the paternal providence of
that such practical maxims would be useful to God in order to sleep quietly the first night;
them, as they were now about to keep house. and yet Stilling and his consort slept well, for
On arriTing at the eminence from which they they did not doubt for a moment that God would
could survey the whole of Schonenthal, an in- provide for tJiem. His reason, however, occa-
describable sensation thrilled through Stilling sionally tormented him much ; but he gave no
which be could not account for; inwardly sor- ear to it, and simply belined. The next day be
rowful and joyful by turns, he prayed in spirit, paid his visits ; but Christina paid none, for her
and des~nded the hill with bis companions in intention was to live as unknown and privately
silence. as propriety would permit. Stilling now found
This town lies in a very pleasant valley, which a great difference in the behaviour of bis futUJ'6
runs in a straight line from east to west, and is fellow-citizens and neighbours. His pietistle
intersected by a small river called the Wupper. friends, who had formerly received him aa au
In summer, the whole valley, for the space of angel ofGod, and embraced him wi'11 the warm.
two leagues, to the borders of the Mark, is seen eat salutations and blessings, stood at a dis·
covered with linen-yarn, as with snow, whilst tance, merely bowed, and were cold ; but thi8
the bustle of a busy and prosperous population was no wonder : for he now wore a wig with a
is indescribable. This valley is filled with iso- bagr to it ; formerly it was only round, and pow.
lated houses; one garden and orchard borders dered a little; besides, he wore ruffles to his
on another, and the walk up the valley is en- shirt, at the neck and hands, and was therefore
chanting. Stilling dreamed offuture happiness; become a gentleman, and a man of the world.
and thus dreaming, he entered the noisy town. They attempted occasionally to speak with him
In a few minutes, bis father-in-law conducted on religion, in their usual way; but he express·
him to the house which Dinkier and Troost had ed himself in a friendly and serious manner, to
selected and hired for him ; it stood back a lit- the effect that ke h4tJ. talked~ en<1Ugla about dil-
tle from the high-road, near the Wupper, and tie•; he would no111 builmt and priutUe them; and
had a email garden attached to it, with a beau- as he no longer attended any of their meetings,
tiful prospect ofthe so11thern hills. The servant they regarded him as a backslider, and epoke of
girl, who had preceded them a few days, had him on every occasion in an unkind and lament--
cleaned every thing th!>roughly, and arranged ing tone. How much is this mode of proceed-
their little stock of household furniture. ing to be deprecated in such characters, other-
After sufficiently surveying and giving bis wise so worthy and excellent! I willingly con-
opinion upon every thing, Mr Friedenberg took fess that some of the moat upright people an~
his leave with many cordial wishes for their the best of Christians are to be found amongst
happiness, and walked back again to Rasen- them ; but they ruin every thing by their love
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE.
of judging. He that ie not precieely of one produce any effect. The woman concluded her
mind with them, nor triiee, and affects religious copious account with expressing her auspicioa
1e111ibility with them, is of no value in their whether the child might not possibly be be-
eyee, and is regarded 1111 unregenerate; they do witched.
aot reftect that the mere profesaion of religion "No," ans111:ered Stilling, "the child is not
ia unavailing, and that the individual must let bewitched; I will come and see him." The
his light ebine by his good worka. In abort, woman wept again, and aaid, "Oh, doctor, de>
Stilling was not only entirely forsaken by hia come!" and with that she wenfaway.
old frienda, but even cclumniateit; nor did they Doctor Stilling paced his room with rapicl
scarcely ever employ him 88 a pbyaician. The strides. " Who can do any thing in such a
majority of the rich merchants received him case 1" thought he. "There ia no doubt that
merely with politeneas, 88 a man who bad no all poaaible means have been used (for the peo-
property, and whom it waa necee88ry, at first pie were wealthy); what remains, therefGrep
eight, to impress with the idea, "Never have for a beginner like myself!" With these mel-
&be heart to aek money, help, °"eupport from ancholy thoughts, be took up his bat and &tick.
me; I will reward thy ee"ioes ae they deserve, and set out for Dornfeld ; praying to God, the
and nothing more." HoweTer. be likewise found whole way, for light, and blessing, and power.
10me worthy men, and true pbilantbropisl.8, He found the child exactly aa its mother hacl
whose looks bespoke a noble mind. deacribed ; its eyes were closed, it fetched
All this bad a depreaaing effect upon Stilling; breath regularly, and the right arm moved, u
hitherto be had dined at a table well provided tboogb it beat time, from the breast towards the
lly others, or elee had been able to pay for it right aide. He sat down, looked and consider-
bimaelf; the world around him had bad little ed, inquiring into all the circumatances ; and
reference to him ; and, with all hie sufferings, on going away, ordered the woman to come to
Jiia sphere of operation had been inconsiderable. Schonenthal to him in an hour, telling her he
But now, be aaw himeelf all at once plaoed in would reB.ect upon this strange case during the
a nat, splendid, low-bred, anricious, mercan- time, and preacribe something. On his way
lile world, with which he did not harmonize in home, he thought of what he could order that
the lea.at, where the learned were only esteem- might be useful ; at length it occurred to him.
ed in proportion to their wealth-where sensi- that Mr. Spielmann had commended " Dippel'•
bility, reading, and learning, were ludicrou- animal oil" as a remedy for convulsions ; b&
and where he alone was honored who made was &he more glad of this medicament, for b&
much money. Hence, he was like a very small felt assured that none of the physicians had
lighi, at which no ooe would think of lingering, used jt, because it was no longer in laahion"'
much 18118 of warming himself. Stilling there- He therefore decided upon it ; and as soon as
fore began to feel melancholy. be came home, be preacribed a mixture, of
Meanwhile, two daye, and eTen three days, which this oil was the basis ; the woman came
paaaed, before any one came who needed his and fetched it. Scarcely had two hours elapsed,
aaaiatance; and the tiYe rix-dollare melted away when a meseenger arrived, who requested Still-
rapidly. But on the morning of the fourth day, ing to return immediately to his patient; b8'
a woman came from Dornfeld, a small town hastened to him, and on entering the house, he-
&hat lies about three-quarters of a league to the saw the boy sitting up in the bed, happy ancl
east of Scbonenthal. On entering the door, she well ; and waa told that scarcely had the child
cried out, with tears in her eyes, "Oh, doctor, swallowed a teaspoonful of the mixture, before
we ha~e heard that you are a very able man, he opened his eyes, awoke, and asked for aome-
nd know a good deal ; a Tery, nry great mis- thing to eat, and the arm had become still amt
fortune !au happened at our house, and we have just like the other. It is impossible todeecribe:
employed all the doctors far and near, but none bow the good doctor felt on this cccasion ;. th•
of them can do any thing for him : I am there- house was full of people, desirous of seeing th&
fore come to you ;-Ob, help my poor child !" miracle ; every one regarded him with delight
" Gracious heaTen !" thought Stilling to him- as an angel of God. Every one blessed him ;
lelf; "the first patient I get baa put to shame but the child's parents wept tears of joy, and
all the experienced physicians ; what shall I, knew.not what they should do for the able phy-
wbo am so inexperienced, be able to effect!" sician. Stilling thanked God inwardly in his
He aaked, howeTer, what was the matter with heart, and his eyes were filled with tears of de-
tbe child. light; boweTer, he waa heartily ashamed of th&
The poor woman related, with many tears, praise bestowed upon him, which he had so Ut-
t.he history of her sick child, of which the fol- tie merited ; for the whole cure was neitlier flkr
lowing were the principal circumstances :- result of plan nor reftection, but mere accident,
The boy was eleno years old, and had had or rather Divine and paternal providence.
the measlee about a quarter of a year before ; When reftecting on the whole affair, he l:loulil
through the carelessneaa of his nurse, be had scarcely refrain from laughing aloud at hearing
been expOsed too soon to the cold air; the in- them speak of his s~upendous ability, being con~
:tammatory matter bad retired into the brain, scious how little he had done in the matter ~
and produced very singular results. For the however, prudence required him to be &ilent.
last six weeks, the patient had lain in bed with· and to take every thing for granted, al.though
•at con11eiousness or feeling; he did not move without ascribing vain glory to himself; he
a limb of his whole body, with the exception of therefore prescribed purgatives and tonic med-
hia right arm, which, day and night, ince88alltly icines, and healed the child completely.
-.Ibmed, like the pendulum of a clock ; his life Here I cannot restrain the impulse of my
1lad been hitherto supported by the injection of heart from communicating to young physicians
ibio eoupe, i.ut no medicille had been able to a warning and an admonition, which is the ra-
rn~itized by GoogIe
HEINRICH 1
STIL LING.
suit of much experience, and which may be like-
wise useful to the public, who are obliged to
confide themselves to such inexperienced per-
sons. When the young man goes to the uni-
versity, his first idea is, to finish as soon as pos-
sible; for studying costs money, and be would
gladly soon be able to support himself. The
most needful auxiliary sciences, such as the
knowledge of the Greek and Latin languages,
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and Natural
Philosophy, are neglected, or, at least, no\ suf-
ficiently studied ; while, on the contrary, the
time is spent in a variety ofsubtle and sophisti-
cal anatomical disquisitions; the individual then
attends the other lectures mechanically, and im-
mediately hastens to the sick-bed. There, how-
eTer, every thing is found to be very different ;
the man knows little or nothing of the secret
course of nature, and yet ought to know eTery
thing ; the young doctor is ashamed to confess
his ignorance ; he therefore talks a great deal
of high-sounding nonsense, which makes the
ears of the experienced practitioner to tingle ;
then sits down, and prescribes something, ae-
corcyng to his fancy. Now, if he is still in any
degfee conscientious, he makes choice of rem-
edies which, at least, cannot injure ; but how
often is the most important crisis by this means
neglected, in which a beneficial effect might
have been produced ! and besides all this, the
individual often thinks he has prescribed some-
thing of a harmless nature, not considering that
injury may nevertheless be done byit, because he
is ignorant of the real character of the disease.
It is therefore imperative upon young stu-
dents, after attaining a perfect knowledge of
the auxiliary sciences, to study Surgery to the
very bottom ; for the latter contains the most
certain principles of knowledge, from whence,
by analogy, internal diseases may be ascertain-
ed. They ought then to study nature at a sick-
bed, with the professor of practical medicine,
who should, however, himself be a good physi-
cian ; and then, at length, enter upon this high-
ly important office ; but mark ! only undtr the
6uperintendmce of·an able practitioner ! Alas !
where is there a greater deficiency, than in the
arragements of the medical establishment, and
in the regulations appertaining to it~
This first cure made a great noise ; thil blind,
the lame, the crippled, and incurables of every
kind, now came for his assistance ; bnt Dippel's
Oil did not avail for all, and Stilling had not yet
found any such specific for all diseases. The
concourse of people to him therefore diminish-
ed ; but he came into a regular practice, which
procured him a bare subsistence. Meanwhile,
his competitors began to attack him ; for they
looked upon the cure as a piece of quackery, and
ma4e the public suppose that he was, and would
be, a mere charlatan. This unfounded report
reached the medical board at Riisselstein, and
caused the members of it to entertain prejudi-
cial ideas of him ; he was required to appear
before I.hem for examination, and was rather
severely handled ; however, he stood firm, not-
withstanding all the attempts at chicanery, so
that no one could establish any thing against
him; he obtained therefore the diploma of a
privileged physician.
In the beginning of that summer, Stilling
made it known that he would read a lectW'e on
Physiology to young surgeons. Messieurs Dink-
ier and Troost attended the lecture diligently,
and from that time he has read lectures almost
without interruption. When he spoke in pub-
lic, he was in bis elemetft ; in speaking, his
ideas developed themselves so/ast that be oft-
en could not find words enough to express them
all ; his whole existence felt reanimated, and
became life and delineation. I do not say this
for the sake of boasting ; God knows, it waa He
who gave him the talent ; Stilling had done
nothing towards it. His friends often foreboded
be would become a public lecturer ; at which
predictions he sighed within himself, and wish-
ed it might bho ; but saw no way before him
how to ascend that step.
Scarcely had Stilling spent a few weeks ia
such occupations, when all at once the heal'}'
hand of the Almighty again drew forth the rod,
and wounded him seTerely. Christina begaa
to grow melancholy and ill ; by degrees her
dreadful fits returned in all their violence ; she
became subject to tedious and painful convul-
sions, which often lasted for hours together~
and contracted her poor weak body in such. a
manner, that it was pitiful to behold. The con-
vulsions often threw her out of bed ; during
which she shrieked so dreadfully that she might
have been heard to the distance of several
houses in the neighbourhood. This lasted for
some weeks, when her state became evidently
more dangerous. Stilling looked upon her as
perfectly hectic, for she bad really all the symp-
toms of a consumption ; he now began to de-
spair, and to wrestle with God i all his powers
succumbed, and this new species of sorrow-
that of losing a wife whom he so tenderly loTed
-indicted deep wounds on hia heart. To this •
were joined daily new cares respecting his
maintenance in a place of trade, like Schonen-
tbal ; he had no credit ; besides which, eTery
thing was very dear, and the manner of liTing
expensive. Every morning, on awaking, the
question recurred to him with redoubled force,
" How shall I find subsistence this day!" for
the ease was very rare that be had money
enough for two days. His experi'lnee and his
trials of faith, indeed, stood befoni his eyee ;
but then he daily saw still more pious people,
who struggled with the bi£terest want, and bad
scarcely bread enough to satisfy theit hunger ;
therefore, what else could console him, but an •
unconditional surrender of himself to the mercy
of his heavenly Father, who would not.1111tl'er
him to be tempted beyond his ability~
To this was added another circumstance ; he
had adopted the maxim, that every Christian,
and particularly a physician, ought to be beneT-
olen' without redaction, merely in confidence
upO\> God ; in consequence of this, he committed
the great mistake of frequently having medicine
made up at the apothecary's on his own account,
for those he visited, who were unable to pay ; by
which he plunged himself into debt, which snb-
sequently caused him much sorrow ; nor was be
careful, on such occasions, to reserve the mon-
ey be had been receiving. I cannot say that in
such instances an inward beneTolent impulse
alone guided bis actions. No; there was also.a
certain thoughtlessness and disregard for money
connected with it, of which weakness of char-
acter Stilling at that time was icnoraot, but at
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLIN G'S DOMESTIC LIFE.
length became sufficiently acquainted with it,
through many ·grievous trials. It is no wonder
that in this manner his practice became very
extensive ; he had more than enough to do, but
bia labors brought him in very little. Christina
also felt grieved at it, for she was very careful ;
and be said nothing to her when he gave away
any thing, lest she should reproach him ; for he
felt a88ured that God would bless him for it in
some other way. In other respects, they were
both very moderate in food and raiment ; and
contented themselves with that which the ex-
treme of propriety required.
Christinagrew worse, and Stilling thought he
should certainly lose her. One forenoon, as be
aat by her bed and waited upon her, her breath
all at once began to ceaae-abe stretched out
lier arms towards her husband, gave him a
piercing look, and breathed out the. words,
"Farewell-angel-Lord, have mercy upon me
-I am dying!" With that her eyes became
fixed, all the appearance of death showed itself
iR her face, her respiration ceased, she was con-
wlaed, and Stilling stood like a poor criminal
before bis executioner. At length be threw
himself upon her, kissed her, and spoke conso-
ling words into her ear ; but she was insensi-
ble. The. moment, however, that Stilling was
about to call for help, she.came again to her-
.elf; she was much better, and evidently re-
lieved. Stilling bad not yet by any means suf-
1icient medical experience to know all the parts
which this dreadful hysteric evil is wont to act
in such a weakly and irritable frame ; hence it
was, that he was so often alarmed and terrified.
Christina did not die under this attack, but she
remained dangerously ill, and the dreadful par-
11i:ysms continued ; hence his life was a con-
stant torture, and every day bad new torments
in readiness for himself and his consort.
Just in this severe time of trial, there came a
JllC8llenger, from a place which wae five leagues
distant from Schonentbal, to conduct him to a
rich and respectable individual, who was con-
fined by a lingering illness. Painful as it was
to him to leave bis own wife in such a melan-
choly condition, yet he felt as deeply the du-
ties of bis office ; and as the state of the pa-
tient above-mentioned was not dangerous, be
aent the messenger away again, promising to
come the next day. He therefore arranged bis
affairs so as to be able to be absent for a day.
J\t seven o'clock in the evening, be sent out the
servant-girl to fetch a bottle of Malaga wine,
which was intended for Christina's refreshment;
if she took only a few drops of it, she felt her-
eelf invigorated. Christina's younger sister, a
girl of thirteen years of age, was at that time
residing with them on a visit to her sister, and
ahe went out with the servant to fetch the
wine. Stilling seriously enjoined the latter to
return immediately, because there were still
"veral things to do, and he had to prepare for
his journey on the morrow ; however, she did
not do so ; the fine summer eTening seduced
the thoughtless girl to take a walk ; and it was
nine o'clock before she came home. Stilling
bad consequently his wife's bed to make, and
other things to do himself. Both were there-
fore justly irritated. As the girl entered the
door, Stilling began, in a gentle but serious tone,
'°admonish her, and remind her of her duty;
the girl wae silent, and went down-stairs with·
Miss Friedenberg into the kitchen. After a lit-
tle while, they both heard a hollow, terrible, and
dreadful sound, and at the same time, the sis-
ter calling out for help. The gloom oftbo twi-
light, together with this appalling noise, produ-
ced such an effect, that Stilling himself grew
cold through his whole frame, while his sick
wife shrieked out with terror. Meanwhile,
Stilling ran down stairs, in order to see what
was the matter. He found the servant-girl
standing by the sink, with dishevelled hair, and,
like a lunatic, emitting this horrible sound,
whilst foaming at the mouth, and looking like
a fury.
Stilling now felt exasperated ; he seized the
girl by the arm, turned her about, and said to
her, energetically, "What now! what are you
doing! what Satan impels you to trouble me
thus, in my distressing circumstances! have
you no human feeling!" But this was pouring
oil into the fire ; she shrieked convulsively, tore
herself from him, and fell into the most dread-
ful epileptic fit. At the same moment,be beard
Christina likewise screaming dreadfully ; be
ran up-stairs, and found, in the twilight, bis
wife in the most appalling condition ; she bad
thrown oft' all the bed-clothes and bedding, and
was writhing convulsively in the straw beneath;
all recollection was ded, she gnashed her teeth,
and the convulsions drew her head backwards to
her heels. The waves of afiliction now rolled
over his bead ; he ran out to bis next neigh-
bours and old friends, and called aloud for help
most piteously. Persons of both sexes came,
and exerted themselves to bring the two suffer-
ers again to themselves; they succeeded first
with the servant-girl ; she came to herself
again, and waa taken to bed ; but Christina re-
mained for a couple of hours in the same mel- ·
ancboly condition. She then became quiet ;
her bed was made, and she was put into it,
where she Jay like one asleep, entirely without
consciousness, and unable to move. The day
now dawned ; two females from the neigh-
bourhood, together with the sister, continued
with Christina ; and Stilling rode, with the
heaviest heart in the world, to visit bis patient.
On returning in the evening, be found bis wife
in the same state of stupefaction, and she only
came to herself again the next morning.
He now sent away the malicious servant, and
hired another. The storm passed over for this
time ; and Christina got well again. The fol-
lowing autumn, she was again troubled with an
ulcerated breast, which was the cause of many
painful occurrences ; though, with this excep-
tion, she was very well and cheerful.
•
CHAPTER VIII.
STIJ.LING's domestic life had commenced pain-
fully and sorrowfully in every respect. There
was nothing pleasing in his whole situation, ex-
cept the tenderness with which Christina treat-
ed him; both loved each other cordially, and
their tntercourse was a pattern to married peo-
ple. However, the exceBSive affection of bis
wife sometimes occasioned him very bittPr mo-
ments, for it frequently dege~erated into jeal-
Digitized by GoogIe
86 H EI N RICH ST I LL I NG.
ouay ; but thie weakoeae entirely nnished in
the course of a year or two. In other respects,
Stilling'• whole staie resembled that of a wan-
derer travelling by night through a wood full of
·robbers and raTenous beasts, who hears them,
from time to time, rustling and roaring around
him. He was continually tormented by care
respecting his daily 1upport; he had little suc-
cess in his vocation, little Jove in the circle in
which he moved, and consequently little com-
fortable society. No one encouraged him; for
those who could have done it, did not know
him, nor he them ; and those that observed and
were acquainted with him and his circumstan-
ces, either despised him, or were indifferent to
him. If he occasionally went to Rasenheim,
he did not dare say any thing of his condition,
lest he should cause anxiety, for Mr. Frieden-
berg had become security for the amount his
studies had cost; he was compelled to hide his
sorrow from bis Christina, for her tender mind
would have been unable to have borne it with
him ; he was even obliged to encourage her, and
hold out to her the most pleasing hopes.
It was, on the whole, a singular affair with
reference to Stilling's vocation and attending
the sick. As long as be labored, unobserved,
amongst the poor and the lower class, her per-
formed excellent cure11, and wss successful in
almost every ease ; but no sooner had he to
attend one of the higher class, to whom many
eyes were directed, than all was in vain ; his
sphere of action, therefore, continued limited to
people who could pay him but little. This cir-
cumstance, although it ·seemed strange, is ea-
sily understood : his whole soul was sys~m ;
in his· ideas it was requisite that every thing
should be according to rule; hence he had no
disposition for the refined and allowed charla-
tanry, which is so needful to the practical phy-
sician who v>iahea to gain aometlaiag for ltimaelf;
therefore, when he 'f.isited a patient, he inquired
into his case, then formed a plan, and acted
according to it. If it did not succeed, be was
~anquished ; bis labora then became disagree-
able to him, and yet be was unable to help him-
self. With common and robust constitutions,
in which nature works more regularly and sim-
ply, his method was moat successful; but where
laxury, delicate nerves, perverted sensibility,
and imaginatiOn, were in full play, and where
bis attention to the patient had to consist of a
hundred diffilrent kinds of seemingly important
employments, Stilling did not feel at home.
All this gradually inspired him with a pro-
found repugnance to the medieal profession ;
aad only the idea that God had designed him to
be a physician, and would therefore gradually
render him successful in his vocation, supported
his soul, and kept him in unwearied activity.
For this reason he formed, the very first sum-
mer, the gigantic resolution to study and inves-
tigate, until he had attained to mathematical cer-
tainty in his vocation. In this tedious underta-
king, be bit npon several important tracks, and
discovered many new philosophical truths; but
the further he sought, the more he found that
hie misfortunes would increase, the more ground
and foundation he discovered in his profession ;
for he perceived very clearly that the physician
can do very little, and consequently can earn
very little. Thia weakened. hia hopes, and his
prospeots became dark, jnat like a wanderer ea
an unknown and dangeTOllS path, who ia OTilf'-
taken by a thick fog, so that he cannot see ten
steps before him. He therefore cast himself
unreservedly into the paternal arms of God,
hoped, where nothing was to be hoped for, a!Hl
proceeded in a very melancholy manner on hi8
pilgrimage. ··
Dare I tell you, friends and readers. that Still-
ing, notwithstanding all this, waa a happy·man!
What is the object of human life, but a perfect-
ing of existence, in order to be able to spread
happiness around us1 Similarity to God and
to Christ is the brilliant aim which beams upoa
a mortal, like the morning radiance, tiom hia
youth up ; but where is the boy, the youth, or
the man, in whom religion and reason have BG
much the ascendency over sensuality, as to pre-
vent him from wasting his life in gratifying
himself. and from forgetting his exalted destmy t
It is therefore an invaluable blessing, when at
individual is instructed, from his youth up, i.
place an entire reliance upon God ; and is thea
placed by Providence in a situation where he U.
compelled to exercise that confidence. His soul;
by this means, becomes pliant, humble, resign--
ed, patient, and unceasingly operative ; it strug-
gles through doing and suffering, and overcomea
every thing ; no adve111ary can essentially in-
jure it, for it strives against them with the
weapons of love, which no one effectually r&-
sists: nay, even Deity itself may be overcome
by love ! This was Stilling's case; The wise
man must therefore ~~ttiem him happy, althougll
scarcely any one would wish himself in hit
place.
Towards the autumn o(the year 1772, the
two excellent brothers Vollkran, of Riisselstein.
came to Schonenthal. The eldest was court.-
chamberlain, and a noble, upright, excellent
man ; be had a commission to execute at th•
latter place, which detained him some weeks.
His brother, a sentimental, tender, and well-
known poet, and at ihe same time, a man of the
best, noblest, and most upright sentiments, ae-
companied him, in order to be with him in a
place which was so entirely destitute of fOCMI
for his soul. Doctor Dinkier was very well ac-
quainted with these two worthy char~cters. At
the first visit, he described Stilling to them ..
advantageously that they were desiroua of lte-
coming acquainted with him. Dinkier gave him
a hint, and he hastened to visit them. He wEtnt
to them for the fi111t time one evening ; whea
the chamberlain entered into conversation witll
him, and was so taken with him, that he saluted
and emhraced him, and favored him with his en-
tire love and friendship; the same was the case
also with the other brother. Both understood
him, and he thern; their hearts overllowed into
each other, and a conversation arose, such as
is not understood by every one.
Stilling's eyes were continually filled witll
tears on this occasion. His deep sorrow sough~
alleviation ; but he never mentioned any thing
of his situation, for he knew how humbling it ia
to confess one's need even to friends. He ther&-
fore bore his burden alone ; which, however,
was much lightened from. having met with those
who understood him, and were confidential a!Hl
open to him. Besides this, Stilling was of low
birth ; he bad been accustomed, from hia yqu.dt
Digitized by Go0gIe
STI LLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE 87
up. io regard persona of rank, and eTen ric'b
and reputable people, as beings of a superior
kind; hence he was always timid and reserved
in their presence. This was often construed
into stupidity, ignorance, and adherence to his
low descent : in a word, he was despised by
persona of the common sort, who were destitute
of refined feelings : but the brothers Vollkraft
were of a very different stamp ; they treated
him confidentially ; he revived in their society,
and was able to shew himself in his true col·
onrs.
Friedrich Vollkraft, for so was the chamber-
lain called, asked him, at his first visit, if he
had written ariy thing. Stilling answered that
he had ; for be had sent his history, in lectures,
by piecemeal, to the Society of Belles Lettre&
at Strasburg, which existed at that time, and
had received the copy of it back again. The
two brothers much wished to read it ; he brought
it, therefore, at the next visit, and read it to
ibem. The style, as well as the declamation,
was so unexpected, that they exclaimed aloud,
"That is beaUJiful - incomparable!" They
therefore encouraged him to write more, and
induced him to furnish something for the "Ger-
man Mercury," which was then commencing.
He did so, and wrote " Aseneitba, an Oriental
Tale," which appeared in the first part of the
ibird and the first part of the fourth volume of
that periodical work, and gave general satisfac-
tion.
Through this acquaintanceship, Vollkraft be·
-came a support to Stilling, which much relieved
him on a very painful occasion. He had now a
lodging and a friend when he travelled to Riis-
aelstein, who imparted to him, by his corre-
spondence, many a refreshing ray of light. This
.connection, however., made him still more hated
by his fellow-townsmen, and particularly by the
Pietiats : for in Schonenthal, a rigid adherence
to systems of religion universally prevails, and
he that varies from them in the smallest degree,
u was the case with the brothers Vollkraft,was
regarded as Anathema and Maranatha ; so that
ifa person writes any thing, if it be a poem that
is not spiritual, or a romance however moral,
·he is in their eyes already tainted with irreli-
gion, and becomes odious. It is true that all
ibe inhabitants of Schooenthal do not think
alike, of which proofs will be given in the se-
.quel ; these are, however, the sentiments of the
majority, and it is this which gives the ton.
Doctor Stilling continued to live thus circum-
8tanced, amidst a variety of changes. At the
close of the year 1772, be made a calculation of
his expenses ; be balanced receipts and pay-
ments-or rather, income and expenditure-
and found, to bis great sorrow, that he was two
hundred dollars deeper in debt ; the reason of
which was as follows. It is the custom in
Scbonenthal, to carry every thing that is earn·
eel to account ; therefore, as no money came in,
none could go out ; consequently, what is want·
ed is fetched from the tradespeople, and placed
to account. At the end of the year, the bills
are made out and sent, and thus accounts are
received and paid. Now, although Stilling bad
earned as much as he had spent, yet his de-
mands were scattered about in such trilling
aums that be could not possibly collect them all ;
·~ was therefor.e at a stand ; and thus, the
shopkeepers not being paid, bis credit sank still
more; his grief, on 'this account, was inexpres-
sible. He met bis daily ready-money expenses
by what he received from patients in the coun-
try; but this resource was so limited, that he
bad barely sufficient for mere necessaries, and
was frequently put to the severest tests ; in
which, however, Providence never forsook him,
but came to his aid, as formerly, in a visible
and wonderful manner. The following is an
instance amongst many.
In Scbonenthal, coals alone ,re used, both in
the kitchen and the parlour stoves ; all these
coals are brought from the neighbouring prov-
ince of Mark. Stilling bad also his coalman,
who from time to time brought him a horse-
load, which, however, be was obliged to pay for
on the spot ; for the carrier required the money
to buy more, and he had been hitherto always
provided with the needful. On one occasion,
this coalman drove up to the door, in the after-
noon ; the coals were wanted, and the man
could not be sent away. Stilling had not half-
a-guilder in the house, and be did not feel him-
self at all at liberty to go and borrow of his
neighbour. Christina wept, while be prayed
ardently to God. All that was required was a
couple of Convention dollars ; but to him that
does not posseSB them, the payment of two dol-
lars is as difficult as to one who has to pay a
thousand, and does not possess a hundred.
Meanwhile, the carrier unloaded his coals; and
when that was done, he washed his hands, in
order to receive the money; Stilling's heart
beat, and he wrestled with God. All at ouce,
a man came to the door with his wife ; the good
people were from Dornfeld ; Stilling bad healed
the man of a painful disease some weeks be-
fore, and bad charged him, in bis account, for
the end of the year. After the customary salu-
tations, the man began: " I have just been re-
ceiving money ; and as I was passing your door,
it occurred to me, that I had no need to let my
account stand over till next year~ I therefore
wish to settle it now. You, perhaps, may be
able to make use of the money." "Very well,"
replied Stilling; so saying, he went and fetched.
the book, made out the account, and received.
ten rix-dollars.
Stilling frequently met with examples of this
kin.d, by which he was much strengthened in
bis faith, and encouraged to persevere.
On the 5th of January, 1773, Christina bore ,
him a daughter; and although every thing pan-
ed over in the ordinary course of nature, yet
there was again a dreadful period of six hours'
continuance, in which the fury, Hysteric, used
her claws in a terrible manner; the poor wom-
an writhed about like a worm ; and such times
were always a penetrating and purifying fire for
Stilling.
The following spring, after riding, one Satur-
day, to a neighbouring village, which lies at the
distance of a league and-a·balf from SchOnen-
thal, in order to visit the sick, and spending the
whole day in going from house to house, and
from cottage .to cottage, there came in the eTen-
ing, a poor, young, well-made female, across
the street, who was blind, and was obliged to
be led by the band. Stilling was still eminent
for curing diseases of the eye; he stood at the
door. of the inn, near his horse, and was just
Digitized by GoogIe
88 HEINRICH STILLING.
about to mount, when the ·poor woman called
out, "Where is the Doctor1"
Stilling.-" Here! What do you want,good
woman1"
Woman.-" Oh, sir, look at my eyes! I have
been blind some years; I have two children,
whom I have never seen, and my husband is a
day-labourer; I helped formerly, by spinning,
to maintain our family, but I cannot do so now;
and though my husband is very industrious, yet
he cannot support us alone, and therefore we
are badly off. Oh look, sir, and see whether
you can do any thing for me!"
Stilling looked at her eyes, and said, " It is a
cataract ; you might, perhaps, be healed of it,
if you met with an able man who could perform
the operation."
Woman.-" Do not you understand it, Doc-
tor 1"
Stilling.-" Yes, I understand it, it is true;
but I have never yet tried it on any living be-
ing."
Woman....,." Ob, then, try it upon me!"
Stilling.-" No, good woman! that I will not;
I am too much afraid of it ; it might not suc-
ceed, and then you would always continue
blind ; it would be afterwards impossible to
cure you."
Woman.-" But now, if I will run the risk 1
You see I am blind, and shall not be blinder
than I am now ; perhaps the Lord will give his
blessing with it, and make it successful : per-
form the operation upon me!"
At these words, Stilling was seized with a fit
of trembling; operations were not bis business;
he therefore threw himself on horseback, and
said, " Let me alone !-I cannot-I cannot-
perform the operation."
Woman. - " Doctor, you must ; it is your
duty ; God bas called you to help the poor and
the needy, whenever you can; now you can
operate for the cataract ; I will be the first to
take my chance, and I will accuse you at the
day ofjudgment, if you do not help me!"
These words were daggers in Stilling's heart;
be felt that the woman was in the right, and
yet he had an invincible dread and dislike to all
operations on the human body ; for he was, on
the one hand, too tender and too susceptible,
and, on the other, too conscientious, also, to
risk the happiness of any one in such a man-
ner. He therefore made no further reply, but
rode otr; he struggled with himself on the way,
but the result was the same-a resolution not
to perform the operation. However, the poor
woman did not Jet the matter rest there ; she
went to her minister-why should I not name
him1-tbe worthy man, who was one of a thou-
sand-the late Theodore Muller. He was the
father, the counsellor of all the members of his
church; the prudent, gentle, unweariedly active
servant ofGod, without being a pietist; in short,
he was a disciple of Jesus in the full sense of
the word. His Master soon called him away,
assuredly to make him ruler over much. La-
vater sang hrs death, the poor wept over him,
and the sick lamented him. Blessed be thy re-
mains, thou seed for the day of retribution !
The poor blind woman came to this worthy
man to tell her sorrows, and, at the same time,
accused Doctor Stilling. Miiller therefore wrote
him a pressing Jetter, in which he represented
to him all the happy results which this opera. ·
tion would occasion, in the eTent of its aucceed-
ing ; and, on the other band, the inconsiderabl~
consequences in the event of its being unsuc-
cessful. Stilling ran, in the dis.
treas of his-
heart, to bia friends Dinkier and Troost. Both
advised him seriously to undertake the opera-
tion ; and the former even promised to accom-
pany him and assist him. This encouraged him
in some measure, and be resolved upon it with
fear and trembling.
There was another circumatance to be addect
to all this. Stilling had been particularly in-
structed at Strasburg, by Professor Lobstein, m
the extraction of the cataract, and bad also pro-
cured from Bogner the instruments for it ; for
it was his intention, at that time, to unite this-
excellent and beneficial method of healing to·
his other ophthalmic remedies. But, on becom-
ing a practical physician himself, and being-
grieved to see all the misery that resulted froDl'
unsuccessful medical attendance, be grew ex-
tremely timid, and did not dare to venture oir
such operations ; he consequently Jost all de-
sire to operate for the cataract ; and this was·
one of the principal reasons why be could not
perform as much-or, at least, did not appear
to accomplish as much- as others of his col-
leagues, who undertook every thing, labored on,
and though they often made miserable falls.
gathered themselves up again, and notwith-
standing,all, got forward better than be.
Stilling wrote, therefore, to Miiller, that be
would come on a certain day, with Doctor'
Dinkier, to perform the operation on the poor
woman. Accordingly, both set oft', on the day
appointed, and wallted to the village ; Dinkier
gave Stilling every possible encouragement, but
it was of little avail. At length they arrived at·
the village, and went to Muller's house ; the-
latter comforted him, and the woman was then:
sent for, together with the surgeon, who had to:
hold her bead. When every thing was ready,
and the woman bad taken her seat, Stilling-
placed himself before her, took the instrument,
and introduced it into the eye at the proper
place. But as the patient, as is natural, moved
a little on taking breath, Stilling drew the in-
strument out again ; consequently the water:r
humour fiowed out of the wound, down the
cheek, and the anterior eye closed. Stilling,
therefore, took the .curved scissors, and pene-·
trated into the wound with the one blade, and'
then regularly cut the semi-circle below, as cus-
tomary ; but on looking closely, be found that
he bad also cut the coat of the iris ; he wair
alarmed ;-bnt what was to be done! He was
silent, and sighed. That moment the lens felt-
through the wound, down upon the cheek, and·
the woman exclaimed, in the greatest transport·
of joy," 0 Doctor, I can see your face! I see
the black in your eyes !" All present rejoiced.
Stilling then bound up the eye, and healed it·
successfully ; ~he saw extremely well with one-
eye. Some weeks after, he performed the op-
eration upon the other eye, with the left hand ;
all was done regularly, for be bad now more-
courage : this was also healed, and the wom-
an was perfectly restored to sight. This was ·
noised abroad, so that several blind people
came, on whom he successfully performed the·
operation ; it was seldom that he did not sue--
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE.
ceed. Ne•ertheleu, it was aingular, that these
important cures rarely yielded him any emolu-
ment. Moat of the individuals being poor, he
performed the operation on them gratuitously ;
and it waa seldom that any one came who wu
able to pay any thing ; his circumstances were
coneeqnently little improved by his auecess.
:Many even took oocasioo from it to cla88 him
with operators and quack-doctors. "Only pay at-
tention," said they; "he will soon begin to traTel
from place to place, and enter into some order.••
In September of the following autumn, the
lady of one of the principal and moat wealthy
merchants, or, rather, men ofproperty, who was,
at the aamo time, a very worthy man, was con-
fined for the first time. The case was a very
painful and protracted one, and Dinkier, as phy-
sician to the family, proposed to call in the as-
sistance of Stilling, who was therefore aeot for.
After having sufficiently conTinced himself that
the child was dead, to assist the mother, he
opened its head, and pre88ed it together. Every
thing afterwards went on well, and the lady
soon became convalescent. But the heartfelt
anxiety, tears, struggles, and sympathy which
aucb employments occasioned our susceptible
Stilling, cannot be described. However, be felt
it bis duty, and was obliged to go whenever be
was sent for. He started, therefore, ao that
his heart beat, on hearing a knock at his door
during the night; and this bas interwoven it-
aelf so firmly into his nerves that, to the present
momeJ't, be shudders whenever any one knocks
at bis door in the night-time, although he is
well aware that be is no longer sent 1br to act
on such occasions.
This atrair gained him, for the first time, the
esteem of all the inhabitants of Scboneothal ;
he now saw a number of friendly faces. But
this pleasant state of things did not last long ;
for about three weeks afterwards, there came
an order from the medical board at Russelstein,
enjoining him to abstain, for the time being,
from acting as accoucheor, and to appear before
the board to be examined regarding that depart-
ment. Stilling stood as if thunder-struck; he
did not comprehend a word ofit, until, at length,
he learned that some one had sent a very uofa.
vorable account of his professional aid in the
above-mentioned case.
He tbetefore set out for Riisselstein, where
he took op his abode with bis friend Vollkraft,
bis worthy lady, who is equalled only by few,
and his excellent sisters ; and he needed. this
recreation in his painful circumstances. He
then waited upon one of the members of the
medical board, who received him very scornful-
ly, with the words, "I hear you put out people's
eyee." "No," answered Stilling; "but I have
cured several of the cataract."
" That is not true," said the man, insolently;
"you say false." "No!" rejoined Stilling, with
ire in his eyes, and burning cheeks, " I do not
speak falsely ; I can bring witnesses to prove
it incontestably ; .and were I not aware of the
respect I owe you, sir, as one of my superiors,
I would answer you in the same tone. A grad-
uated person, who seeks every where to do his
duty, deserves the esteem, even of bis superi-
ors." The member ofthe medical board laughed
jn his face, and said, "Is 1t doing your duty to
destroy children 1"
M
Dimneu now obecured Stilling'a eight ; he
turned pale, stepped nearer, and rejoined, "Sir;
do not say that again !" He felt, howeTer, at
the same time, all the horrors of bis situation,
and his dependence upon this horrible man.
He therefore sank back into a chair, and wept
like a child ; but this produced no effect, except
to excite more scorn ; be therefore rose up, and
went away. In order that his grief might not
be too much perceived by the Vollkral\s, be
walked awhile up and down the rampart ; and
when he entered the house, be seemed more
cheerful than be was. The reason why be did
not relate all his griennces to Mr. Vollkral\ lay
in bis nature ; for, open-hearted as be was with
respect to eTery proeperous circumstance, be
wu just as ailent regarding all be bad to suffer.
One cause of this was a great degree of self-
Jove, and a wish to spare bis friends. He wa&
ready, however, to say every thing and reveal
every thing, to certain people, who had passed
through similar situations ; but this phenome-
non had a still deeper foundation, which be did
not perceive till long after. Rational and acute-
tbinking people could not, like him, regard every
thing as the result of Divine guidance; no one
doubted that Providence was specially leading
him to some exalted aim ; but whether mucb.
that was human had not intervened in the case
of bis marriage, and in other circumstances that
had befallen him, was another question, to which
every philosophical reasoner would loudly an-
swer, "Yes!" Stilling, at tlfat time, could not:
bear this at all ; he thought he knew better, and
this was the real cause of bis silence. The se-
quel of this history will show bow far these
people were right or wrong. But I return to
my subject.
The medical board fixed a time for his exam-
ination in Midwifery, and for deciding respect-
ing bis treatment of the ScbOoentbal lady. In
his examination, the most captious questions
were putto him, and itwas decided, that"tbougll
be was pretty correct in the theory, yet be had
entirely fallen abort in the practice ;" be was,
therefore, only permitted to assist in cases of
the utmost extremity.
Notwithstanding all these vexatious circum-
stances, Stilling could not refrain from laughing
aloud on reading this, and the public laughed
with him ; be was forbidden to practise as an
accoucbeur, as an unfit person ; but an excep-
tion was made in extreme cases, in which the
assistance of this unfit person was permitted.
With respect to the case of labor above-men·
tioned, Stilling was declared to have been the
cause of the child's death, but the punishment
was spared him; a great favor for the poor doc-
tor-to be allowed to mutder unpunished !
Thie decision, however, pained him to the
soul; and he therefore rode, the same after-
noon, to Duisberg, in order to bring the whole
atrair before the medical faculty there, the bead
of which, at that time, was the venerable Leide-
frost. There be was declared perfectly inno-
cent, and received a re1pomum which entirel)l
restored his credit. The husband of the lady
that bad been delivered, published this document
himself at the Scbi:inenthal town-house. But
the estimation of the cure suffered much by the
course the matti:r had taken ; and Stilling's en-
emies took occasion from it to calumniate him.
Digitized by GoogIe
I
HEINRICH STILLING
&itli11g's suooeu in earing the cataract had •before, accompanied by oae of bill lno&hen.ia--
howe11er eauaed much aenaatioa ; and a certain law, whilet be remained a few rniautea loager.
friend e'l'en inserted an account of it in the in order to give free Yea& to hia feelings in &he
·Frankfort newspape_
r. Now there was at the bosom of Mr. Friedeaberg'a family; Ile weJ*
univereity of Marburg a very worthy and able aloud, thaDked God, and then haateaed lfier b.ia
professor of Juriaprudence, of the name of Sor- father. He bad never travelled the road from
ber, who bad been three years blind of the cat- Raaeoheim to Schiinenthal with such heartfelt
aract, to whom thi1 account in the newepaper delight as on the preeeot ooeaaiao; and Wil-
waa read. He instantly felt impelled to take helm likewise rejoioed in his God.
the long journey to ScbOnenthal, in order to On entering the bouae, Christina 1lew down.
hue the operation performed. by Stilling, and stairs to meet the worthy JlUUI, and fell upou
*<> place himself under bis care. He therefore bis neck with teara. Suchacenea moat be wit-
.arrived at the end of April, 1774, with his lady neeaed, and the spectator of them must poaseas
.and two daughters, and Stilling aucceBSfully the requieite organs of aensibility, in order to be
jlerformed the operation in the beginning of able to feel them in all their force.
May ; bis patient recovered so satisfactorily Wilhelm remained a week with his children;
·that he perfectly regained his sight, and still and Stilling again accompanied him as far 88
.continues to fill his situation in an honorable Meinerzhagen, from whence each pursued bis
manner. During this time, Christina waa way in peaee.
brought to bed a second time, and bore a son. Some weeks after, Stilling was sent for early
With the exception of dreadful hysterical tits one morning to an inn, and was told that a
from the milk-fever, eYery thing went on fa· strange gentleman, who was sick, desired to
vorably. speak with him. He therefore dresaed himself,
There was still one thing which lay at Still· went thither, and was conducted into the cham·
ing'a heart. He wished to see his father again, her of the stranger. He found bis patient with
after so long a lapse of time. As Doctor, he a large cloth wrapped round his neck, and bis
bad not yet spoken to him, and his consort waa bead enveloped in clothes. The stranger
~till entirely unacquainted with him ; but atretched hia hand out of bed,. and said, with a
though he had frequently invited the worthy weak and hollow voice, "Doctor, feel my pulse!
man, and Wilhelm had often promised to. come, I am very weak and poorly." Stilling felt it,
yet he always postponed his visit. Stilling now, and found the poise very regular and healthy;
however, did his utmost. He wrote to him to be expressed himself therefore to that effect,
say that he would ride on a certain day to and declared he found nothing wrong, for the
Meinerzhagen, which was half-way, to meet pulse went regularly. Whilst saying this, GO.
him, and would fetch him from thence. This ethe took him round the neck. Stilling's joy
produced the deaired effect. Wilhelm Stilling was indescribable, and he took him home with
set out at the proper time, and they met at the him. Christina was also happy to see tbia
.appointed inn, at Meinerzhagen. They ran to friend, and made preparations for dinner.
-each other's arms, and the feelings which as- Meanwhile he led Giiethe to an eminence out
,sailed the hearts of both were unspeakable. of the town, in order to show him the charmill(
Wilhelm in unconnected ejaculations expresaed view of the town and the extenaiYe valley.
'his joy, that bis and Dorie's son bad now attain· Just at that time, the brothers Volikraft were
ed the object for which he wu designed ; be again in SchOllenthal on business. They had
wept and laughed altemately; and his son took a friend with them, who baa rendered hi1111elf
1ood care not to give him the slightest hint rel- celebrated by his beautifol writing&, but whom
~tive to his painful sufferings, his doubtful sue- Stilling did not like, becauae of bis satirical and
eeas, and the difficulties of his profession ; for sarcastic humour ; be therefore seldom visited
by this he would hne spoiled all his father's hia friende, for Juvenal (as I will for the presem
joy. Hf} neverthelel8 felt his grief the more call the man) continually ridiculed him on ae-
deeply ; it pained him not to be so happy 88 bis count of his altaehment to religion. During
father imagined him to be, and he doubted also the time that Stilling waa taking a walk with
.that he ever ahoold be thus happy; for he al- Giiethe, Mr. Vollkraft the chamberlain rode up
ways regarded himself as one whom God had to Stilling's door on horseback, and called out
.destined to the medical profession, and that he to tile servant, to tell her master that he had
most continue in this TI>Cation, although he had suddenly set offfor Riiaselatein, becauae Goethe
for some time taken adislike to it ; because, on was there. Christina was not present at the
the one band, he found so little real encourage- moment to inform him of the true state of the
ment in this science; and on the other, because case. Vollkraft therefore trotted oft" in baate;
if he proceeded with it in an honest manner, it when Goethe and Stilling returned home, ancl
was not sufficient to support him, much leas to the servant related the occurrence to them, they
prove the basis oftbe prosperity ofhis family. both regretted the mistake, but it was then too
The next morning, he placed his father on late to alter it.
the horse, and acted \he pedestrian at his aide The peculiar occasion of this journey of Gc>-
on the path ; and thus they travelled nine ethe's was the following: Lavater bad bee1l
leagues that day, converain_g in a moat agrees- visiting the·batba at Ems, from whence be traT·
ble manner, until they reached Rasenheim, elled to M11hlheim on the Rhine, to visit a friend
where he introduced his father to the whole of there. G0ethe bad followed him to Ems; and
his Christina's family. Wilhelm was received in order to see every thing of a remarkable na-
in a manner worthy of him ; he ahook every tore, and to visit some eminent characters, he
one by the hand ; and his honest, charaeteri&· had accompanied him to Mublheim. Giiethe
tio Stilling'a-face, inspired every one with rev- then left Lavater behind him, and made an~­
.erence. The Doctor now let his father walk on cursion, by way of Russelstein, to Scbonenthal,
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LI FE.
m order likewise to Tisit bis old friend Stilling,
promising Lavater to return to Muhlheim at a
eertain time, and accompany him back again.
However, during Goethe's absence, Lavater
was under the necessity of likewise proceeding
to Riisselstein, and from thence to Schonenthal;
but of this, Goethe did not know a syllable;
consequently, afier dining with Stilling, he set
out on horseback on the way to RiiBBelstein,
with the above-mentioned Juvenal, in order to
meet the Vollkrafts there. Scarcely were they
gone, when Lavater came driv~g up the street,
accompanied by the two Vollkraft11, the cele-
brated Hasenkamp of Duisburg, and the very
remarkable, pious, and learned Doctor Collen-
bosch. Stilling being informed ofthis, hastened
after the two horsemen, and brought them back
again.
Lavater and his attendants, meanwhile, had
torned In at a well·known and pious merchant's..
Stilling, Goethe, and Juvenal hastened thither
also. Never, perhaps, had a more singularly
mixed company met together, than that which
now surrounded the large onl table, which, ac-
cording to the Schiinenthal fashion, waa at the
same time loaded with refreshments. It is
worth the while for me to give even a rude
aketcb of these guests.
Lavater's fame for practical godliness had at-
tracted thither, amongst others, an old adhe-
rent of Tersteegen's; he was in every respect
a venerable man : unmarried, according to the
principles of pure mysticism ; extremely partic-
ular in the choice of bis company ; very friend-
ly ; grave ; ofa son-featured countenance, com-
posed look, and careful in all bis expressions ;
all bis- words were weighed, as it were, in gold
acalea ; in short, he was an excellent man, if I
excPpt the single peculiarity, which all persons
of this kifld so easily aasume-that of being in-
wlerant towards all who dilfer from them in
opinion. This venerable man, with bis round
1md lively face, round bob-wig and black small-
clotbea, sat towards the bead of the table ; be
looked about him with a ·kind of friendly anxi-
ety, and now and then privately dropped mon-
itory hints, for he scented spirits of very ditfer-
ent sentimenta.
Next to him sat Vollkrat\ the chamberlain,
i11 a fashionable riding-dress, a refined man of
the world equalled only by few ; bia lively dis-
position shot forth sparks of wit, and his high-
ly-rectified philosophical feeling judged always
according to the balanceas of prppriety, of recti-
tude, and ofjustice. _
After him followed his brother, the poet ;
from whose whole being atreamed gentle, pleas-
ing feeling, and benevolence towards God and
man, let them think and believe as they would,
if they were only good and worthy people; his
grey fiock-hat lay behind him in the window,
and his form was covered with a light summer
frock.
Tbe landlord sat next him ; he had on bis
oead a coal-blaclt wig with a bag, and a brown
chintz morning-gown, girded about with a green
ailk sash ; bis large prominent eyes &tarted
forth from beneath his broad and lofty forehead ;
his chin was pointed, and the face, on the whole,
iriangular and meagre, but full of traits of un-
aratanding ; he loved rather to bear than to
.peak; and when he apoke, every thing was
previously considered Hd deereed in tile obam-
ber of his brain ; certainly bis dove-like simpli-
city was not unaccompanied by the wisdom of
the serpent.
Lavater was next in or4ef ; hie apostle John's
face forcibly attracted every heart with venera-
tion and love ; and bis cheerful and pleasing
wit, combined with a lively and amuaing hu-
mour, made all present its own, who did not
think they sinned by wit and humour. Mean-
while his physiognomical feelers were aecretly
and conatantly at work ; for here there waa no
want of objects. He had an able drawing-mas-
ter with him, who also did not sit with hie bands
in his bosom. .
Near Lavater sat Hasenkamp, a man of about
forty years of age; a little bent, thin, and hec-
tic, with rather a long face, remarkable physi-
ognomy, and an aspect which inspired venera-
tion. Every word was a paradox, exciting re-
flection and pleasure, though seldom systemat-
ic; his spirit sought for liberty, and struggled in
its tabernacle after truth, until, having soon
burst it, be soared aloft with a loud halleluj11h
to the Source of light and truth. His detached
pieces cause orthodox and heterodox Christiana
to shake their heads ; but be required to be
known ; he constantly walked with his per-
spective glass in bis band, up and down the
land of shadows, and looked over into the re-
gion of the plains of light, the dazzling rays of
which occasionally dimmed his sight.
Collenbuach followed next, a theological phy·
sician, or medical divine. His countenance was
remarkably singular-a face which shook Lava-
ter'a whole system ; it contained nothing disa-
greeable, nothing bad ; but1 at the same time,
nothing of all that on whieh he builds greatness
of soul. A secret and serene majesty, howev-
er, beamed forth through his features, which
were disfigured by the small-pox, but so sligfttly
as.only to be gradually discovered in a880Ciating
with him. His eyes,which were struggling witll.
the cataract and the gutta serena, and his ever.
open mouth, showing two rows of beautiful
white teeth, seemed as if they would attract the
truth through worlds of space ; and his Tery
pleasing and agreeable language, connected with
a high degree ofpoliteness .and modesty, fetter- ·
ed every heart that approached him.
Juvenal then followed. Let the reader ima-
gine to himself a little, young, round-headed
mannikin, the head inclining a little to one
shoulder, with bright and roguish eyes, and an
ever-smiling countenance-he said nothing, but
made his observations in silence ; his whole at-
mosphere was an impenetrable power, which re-
pelled every thing that sought to approach him.
Close to him sat a worthy young Scbonen·
thal merchant, a friend of Stilling, full of reli·
gion without pietism, and glowing with a hun-
ger afier truth-a man who has few that are like
him.
Now followed Stilling ; he sat there, with a
profound and secret grief on his brow, which
circumstances for the moment diapelled ; he
spoke occasionally, and sought to abow each
one his heart as it was.
Some inconsiderable physiognomies, merely
to fill up the vacant apace, completed the circle.
Goethe could not sit atill ; he danced about the
table, made facea, and abowed every where, ia
Digitized by GoogIe
I
"
l
HEINRICH STILLING.
hie way, how royally the circle of men delighted
him. The Scbiinenthal people thought to them-
aelves, "Good heaven! the man cannot be right
in bis bead !" but Stilling and others, who knew
him and his ways better, thought .they should
bu11t with laughter, when some one regarded
bim with a fixed, and as it were compassionating
eye, and he would confound him with a"full and
piercing look.
This scene lasted, rather tumultuously, scarce-
lyhalf-an-boor; when Lavater, Hasenkamp, Col-
lenbuacb, the young merchant, and Stilling, rose
up, and wandered forth in the clear evening
sunshine, up the lovely valley, in order to visit
the excellentTheodore Miiller above-mentioned.
Stilling will never forget that walk ; Lavater
became acquainted with him, and he with La-
vater ; they spoke much together, and became
attached to each other. On arriving at the vil-
lage, Stilling returned to Schiinenthal with his
friend ; in the mean time, Goethe and Juvenal
had set off for Russelstein, Lavater came next
morning to visit Stilling, had his portrait taken
for bis work on Physiognomy, and then pursued
his journey further.
It was necessary to touch upon this remarka-
ble period of Stilling's life circumstantially ; for
although it made no alteration in his situation,
yet it laid the foundation for a variety of impor-
tant changes in bis future course of life. One
thing more I have forgotten to observe ; Goethe
took with him the manuscript of Stilling's life,
in order to be able to read it at home, at bis lei-
sure; we shall find, in.the sequel, the excellent
use which Providence made of this apparently
trifling eircum,tance, and of Goethe's visit.
•
CHAPTER IX.
IN the autumn ofthat year, 1772, a Schonentbal
merchant brought with him from the Frankfort
fair a merchant of the name of Bauch, from
Sonnenburg in Saxony, in the hope that Stilling
-would be able to cure him. Stilling looked at
his eyes ; the pupils were broad, but still in
some degree moveable ; though there was the
commencement of the cataract, yet the patient
was much too blind for it to proceed solely from
this trilling obscurity. Stilling saw clearly !bat
the beginning of the gutta wima was the chief
cause of the evil ; he mentioned this ; but his
friends all advised him to attempt the operation,
:particularly because the patient was otherwise
mcurable, and th~refore would Jose nothing by
the operation ; whilst, on the other hand, duty re-
quired that every means should 'be tried. Still-
ing therefore suffered himself to be /revailed
upon, for the patient himself requeste that the
attempt might be made, and expressed himself
to the effect that this last remedy must be also
tried ; the operation was successfully performed,
and the cure commenced.
The step was very inconsiderate, and Stilling
(Qund sufficient cause to repent of it. The cure
did not succeed; the eyes indamed, suppurated
strongly, and the sight was not only irreparably
Jost, but the eyes had now also an ugly appear-
ance. Stilling wept in solitude, and prayed to
God on his face for this man, that he might be
healed; but he was not heard. To this, other
circumstances were added; Bauch learned that
Stilling was needy, and hence he began to her
Jieve that he had performed the operation mere-
ly in order to gain money. Now though the
m~rchant, his landlord, who had brought him
with him, was Stilling's friend, and sought to
divest him of his suspicions, yet there were o~
ers, who visited the patient, who insinuated dis-
trust enough conc;erning Stilling's povertx, de:.
ficiency in knowledge, and limited abilities~
Bauch therefore travelled back to Frankfort u~
hap_py, and full of vexation and mistrust ofStiU-
ing's integrity and attainments; he remained
there some weeks~ in order to make new attempts
with his eyes, ana after that to return home.
During this time, a very worthy and respect-
able Frankfort patrician, Mr. Von Leesner
heard how Professor Sorber of Marburg had
been cured by Stilling. He himself had beeo
blind for some years; he therefore sent to Sor-
ber for the requisite information, and received
the most satisfactory reply. Mr. Von Leesner
consequently had his eyes inspected by several
physicians, and as all of them agreed that the
cataract might be cured, be committed the mat-
ter to his family-physician, the respectable and
worthy Doctor Hoffmann that he might corre-
spond with Stillin!l' upon the subject, and induce
him to proceed to Frankfort; because, bein~ old,.
blind, and infirm, he did not think himselt able
to undertake such a journey. Leesner promi3ed
to pay Stilling a thousand guilders, whether the
operation proved successful or not. These thou-
sand guilders dazzled Stilling's eyes in his afilict-
ed circumstances; and Christina, however intol-
erable her husband's absence might seem to her,
advised him, very seriously, not to neglect this
establishment of his reputation ; the Friedenberg
family, and all his friends, also advised him to
go. Theodore Millier alone was entirely oppo-
sed to it: he said, " Friend, you will repent of it,
and the thousand guilders will cost you dear. I
forebode a melancholy result; remain here; Jet
him that will not come to you, stay away. Lees-
ner has money and time; he will come when he
sees that you will net undertake the journey."
However, all bis advice was fruitless; Stilline's
former impulse to run before Providence again
got the ascendancy; he therefore determined to
set off' for Frankfort, and accordingly promised
Mr. Von Leesner that he would come.
Stilling now dreamed of future prosperity and
the end of his s11fferings. With the thousand
guilders, he expected to be able to pay.the most
urgent demands upon him; and he likewise saw
clearly, that the successful cure of such an in-
dividual would excite great attention,. and pro-
cure him an extensive and lucrative practice
from far and near. Meanwhile it seemed that
Bauch, who was still residing at Frankfort,
would ruin the whole affair again; for as soon
as he heard that Von Leesner intended to place
himself under Stilling's care, he seriously warn-
ed him, and depreciated Stilling as much as he
could, on account of his needy circumstances
and mean acquirements ;-however, it was of
no avail; Von Leesner persisted in his inten-
tion. No one could, in reality, blame Bauch
for acting thus, for he had no other knowledge
of Stilling, and his object in warning Von Lees-
ner against misfortune was not ignoble.
Goethe, who was still residing at Frankfort
with his parents, rejoiced at the prospect ofhav•
ing bis friend Stilline- with him for a time; his
parents invited him, during his abode there, to
dine at their table, and hired a handsome.a~
Digitized by GoogIe
S TILL I N G'S D 0 ME S'T I C LI FE. ,93
ment for him in their neighbourhood. Goethe
also inserted an advertisement in the newspa-
pers, in order that other sufferers might be ben-
efited by him; and thus the whole affair was
regulated and agreed upon. Stilling's few friends
rejoiced and hoped, others were anxious; and
the greater part of those who knew him wished
he might not succeed.
In the beginning of the year 1775, in the first
week ofJanuary,_
Sti!ling mounted a hired horse,
took a guide with him, and rode one afternoon,
in dreadfully rainy weather, to Waldstatt; there
he remained the night. The day following the
heavens seemed willing to pour a new deluge
over the eanh ; all the brooks and streams were
immensely swollen, and Stilling more than once
was in the utmost danger of his life. However,
he arrived safely at Meinerzhagen, where be
passed the night. The third morninghe set out
ag-1., nnon his way; the sky was now pretty
clear, large clouds fiew over bis head, and the
sun occasionally shot its gentle rays through
them upon his face; all nature reposed; the for-
ests and bushes were grey and Jealless, the fields
and meadows half:.green, the streams murmured,
the storm-wind whistled from the west, and not
a single bird animated the scene.
Towards noon, he came to a solitary inn, in a
beautiful and fretty valley called Rosedale;
here he saw, with astonishment and terror, on
riding down the hill, that the stream, which was
furnished with a strong arched bridge from one
bill to the other, had overllowed the whole val-
ley; so that he imagined he saw the Rhine be-
fore him, except that here and there a bush peep-
ed forth. Stilling and his companion mutually
expressed their sorrow; he had also promised
his Christina to write from Leindorf, where his
father lived; for his way led him directl.v through
his native province. He knew that Christina
would expect letters on the day appointed, and
there was no opportunity of sending them from
the place where he was; he was therefore obli-
ged to proceed, or be under the apprehension
that from anxiety she would be seized with fits,
and become dangerously ill again.
In this dilemma he perceived that the balus-
trade, which conducted from the road to the
bridge, still'projected a foot high above the wa-
ter; this gave him courage; and he determined
to take his attendant behind him on the horse,
and endeavour to ride along the paling to the
bridge. ,
It was dinner-time when he reached the inn;
here he met with several carriers, who awaited
the falling of the water, and all advised him not
to venture; it was in vain,-his active and ar-
dent spirit was not disposed for waiting, where
working or restincr depended solely upon him;
he therefore tookhis attendant up behind him,
entered the fiood, and struggled successfully
through. ·
A couple of hours after, Stilling gained the
eminence, from which he saw before him the
mountains and plains of his native province.
There lay the lofty Kindelsberg, south-west-
ward before him; eastward, at its foot, he saw
the smoke of the chimneys of Lichthausen, ancl
soon discovered which of them belonged lo his
uncle Johann Stilling; a sweet thrill pervaded
all his limbs, and all the scenes of his youth
passed before his soul; they seemed to him to
be golden times. "What have I now attained1"
thought he to himself; "nothing but splendid
misery! I am indeed become a man that ex-
eels all his forefathers in honor and respectabil-
ity; but what avails all this 1-a painted sword
hangs by a silken thread over my head; it only
need fall, and every thing would vanish like an
empty bubble! My debts are growing more
and more heavy, and I have reason to fear that
my creditors will lay bands on me, take the lit- ~
tie I have1 and then leave me naked in the street;
and besiaes, I have a delicate wife, who coula
not bear this, and two children, that would cry
for bread." Theidea was dreadful !-ittorment-
ed Stilling unceasingly for hours together, so
that he could not enjoy a single happy moment.
At length he recovered himself again; the great
experience he had of the paternal fidelity ofGod,
and the important prospects of his present jour-
ney, inspired him with renewed courage, so that
he trotted cheerfully and joyfully into the vil-
lage 0£ Lichthausen.
He rode first to the house of the son-in-law of
Johann Stilling, who was an innkeeper, and had
therefore accommodation for his horse. He was
received by the friend of his youth and her hus-
band with great rejoicing; he then walked, with
trembling joy and a beating heart, to his uncle's
house. The report of his arrival had already
spread through the whole village; every window
was full of heads, and as he opened the house-
door, the two brothers, Johann and 'Vilhelm,
came to meet him ; he embraced one after the
other, wept on their necks, and ·the two grey.
heads also shed large tears. " Bless you, bless
you, my dear nephew!" began that truly great
man, Johann Stilling; "our joy is unspeakably
great on seeing you at the summit ofyour wish-
es ;-you have ascended to it gloriously, on the
footsteps of honor; you.have outreached us all;
you are the pride of our family," &c. Stilling
answered nothing more than, "It is solely and
wholly God's work; He has done it!" He
would gladly have also added, "And still I am
not happy; I feel on the brink of a precipice;"
however, he kept his troubles to himself, and
went without further ceremony into the parlour.
Here he found all the chairs and benches fill-
ed with neighbours and peasants from the vil-
lage, the greater part of wbom stood crowded to-
gether. All of them had known Stilling when.
a boy ; but as he entered, every hat and cap was
thrust under the arms of the wearers, and every
one regarded him with respect. Stilling stood
and looked around ; with tears in his eyes, and
a faltering voice, he said, "Welcome, welcome,
dear people, and friends ! God bless every one
ofyou I Be all ofyou covered or I will imme-
diately leave the room ;-what I am, is the work
of God, and to Him alone be the glory !" A
murmur ofjoy now arose; all of them admired
and blessed him. The two old men and the
Doctor then sat down amongst the good people,
and every eye was fixed upon his deportment,
and every ear was directed to his words. What
Father Stilling's sons then felt, cannot be descri-
bed.
But how came it that Doctor Stillingexcited so
much attention 1-and what was the reason that
his elevation to the rank of Doctor of Medicine,
which was in no respect any thing so very won-
derful, should excite such astonishment1 There
were many sons of peasants, in his native prov-
ince, who had become learned and worthy men;
and yet no one troubled himselfabout it. When
we consider the thing in its true point of view,
we shall find it very natural. Stilling, only nine
or ten years before, had been schoolmaster
o;g;:;zed by Google
HEINRICH STILLING.
amongst them; be had been universally regard- Ids profession, his neeessldes, and the contempt
ed as a poor and hopeless youth;-he had then in which he lived, which made him unhappy.
gone upon bis lravels; what occurred to him At Salen,.Doctor Stillfng kept himself mcog-
abroad1 he bad communicated to bis uncle and nito; be merely dined there, and ·rode to Dillen-
his fatner; report had exaltt>d every thing that burg, where be arrived ra1ber late in the enn-
was natural into something wonderful, and that ing, and took UJ;> bis quarters with his honest
which was wonderful into something miracn- and'-wortby cousm Johann Stilling's second son,
Ions; and hencll it was, that they sought to see who was surveyor of lbe mines there. Both
him as a curiosity. But be humbled himself were of the same age, and had been cordial
inwardly before God; he knew bis silualion and friends from their youth up; it is therefore easy
circumstances better, and regretted that so much to suppose bow be was received. After a day's
was made of him; however, it slill caused him rest, he set oul again, and travelled by way of
pleasure that be was not here so mistaken as it Herbom, Wetzlar, Butzbacb, and Friedberg, to
was bis daily lot to be in SchOnenthal. Frankfort, where be arrived in the evening, and
The next morning, he set out with his father took up his abode with 00ethe's family, who
on the way to Leindorf. Johann Slilling lent received him in the most friendly manner.
his brolher Wilhelm his own saddle-horse, and The following morning, he received Mr. Von
went beside him on foot; he would not have it Leesner, and found him to be an excellent old
otherwise. Before reaching the village, whole man, full of1;>leasing politeness, united with en-
groaps of youths and men from Leindorf, who lightened rehgions sentiments. His eyes were
had formerly been his scholars, came about a fit for the operation, so that Stilling was enabled 1
league to meet him; they surrounded his horse, to give him the best hopes; and the day was
and accompanied him. The rest of the popula- fixed for extracting the cataracL Stilling made
tion of Leindorfstood in the meadow by the wa- likewise some other important acquaintances;
ter, and the cries of welcome resounded from a he visited the old and celebrated Doctor Burgraf,
distance. He rode with his father in silence, who had grown old, grey, and infirm in the most
and deeply abased and affected, into the village. extensive and successful practice. After this
His uncle Johann then returned home. At his excellent man bad observed Stilling awhile, be
father's house, Stiliing's mother received him said, " Sir, rou are in the right WB'f. I heard
Tery timidly, but his sisters embraced him with of your invitation hither, and imagined to my-
many joyful tears. Father Stilling's daughters self a man who would visit me dressed in the
came also from Tiefenbach with their sons; 1 height of the fashion, and would, as is common-
people l'lln together from all side~, so that lhe ·ly the case, .:ppear like a charlatan; but I find
hou:1e was tilled from top to bottc>m, and the ! you just the contrary to this; you are modest in
whole day and the following night it was impos- Iyour behaviour and in your dress, and are tbere-
aible to think of repo~e. S1illing let himself be fore llllch a one as be ou¢it to be who bas to ad-
1een on every side; he spoke little, (or his sen- minister aid to those who eigh under the rod of
sations were too powerful; they continually af- the Almighty. The Lord bless you I It causes
fecled his heart, and he therefore hastened his me pleasure still to find, at the end of my days,
departure. The next morning, he mounted his men who give every hope of becoming what
horse, surrounded by a hundred people, and rode they ought to be." Slilling sighed, and thou«ht
otf in the midst of the shouts and cries of a man- to himM!lf, " Would to God I were that which
ifold and oft-reiterated farewell! Scarcely had this great man takes me to be!"
he lefl the village, when his attendant told him He then visited lhe Rev. Mr. Kraft; his whole
that his father was running after him; be there- soul harmonized with this worthy man, and an
fore turned about: "I have not yet taken leave, intimate friend!>hip arose betweep them, which
my dear son I" said Lhe old man; be then took will continue beyond the present life.
his left hand into his two hands, wept, and stam- Meanwhile, the lime for performing the oper-
mered out, "The Almighty bless tliee I" ation drew near. Stilling performed it quietly,
Stilling was oow again alone, for bis attend- without saying any thing to anr one, except a
ant was on the foot-path at one side. He then couple of surgeons and physicians, who were
began to weep aloud; all his feelings streamed present on the occasion, in order that be might,
forth in lloods of tean, and gave vent to his in every case, have experienced men as wit·
heart. Pleasing as the universal applause and nesses. Every thing succeeded according to bis
the affections ofhis friends, relatives, and conn- wish: the patient saw and recognized all his
trymen were to him, yet .it deeply grieved him friends after the operation; the fame of it i;pread
in bis soul, that all their rejoicing was founded through the whole city .
1friends wrote to friends
on false appearances. "I am not happy I I at a distance, and Sti Ji11g received letters of
am not the men I am taken to be I I am no- congratulalion from Scbonen1hal, before he could
thing wonderful in the science of medicine!- have answers to his own. The Prince ofL..-W-
no physician made so by God, for I seldom cu.re enstein Wertbeim, the Duchess of Courland,
any one; if it happen, 1t is a mere chance! I born yrincess ofWaldeck, who was at that time
am just one of the most.every-day kind, and the re&id1ng in Frankfort, all the noble families
most inexpert of my profession I And what at there, and, generally speaking, all those of the
best have I become, tliat is so great 1 I am Doc- higher class, inquired respecting the result of
tor of Medicine, a graduated person ;-well, I the operation, and sent every morning to know
am therefore one of the middle class I-no great how the patieut was.
light, that excites attention, and deserves such Stilling was never more satisfied than at pres-
a reception!" These we•e Stillinit's loucl and ent; hesawbowmuchattentionthillcurewould
perfectly true thought.~, wuich continually burst excite, and what celebrity, applause, re~pect.
forth lik:e a Ilame of fire from his brea~t, until at and resort, it would cause him ; and people
length he perceived the town of Salen before .began already to talk of presenting him with
him, and compo~ed himself. Stilling did not 'the freedom of Frankfort, in order to induce
now strive for l1onor; he thought his ~tat ion suf- Ihim to remove thither. In this expectation the
1iciently respectable; it was only his disgust at good doctor rejoiced beyond measure ; for he
Digitized by GoogIe
STILL I NG'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 95
thought that thee his sphere ofoperation would but be found no hearing; these hard-hearted
be grea1er, and lhe public opinion less narrow- people bad no feeling for I.be extreme wretched.
minded than in Scboneothal ; that there the coo- ness of the-ir brolher. Stilling was silent until
eourse of strangers and persons of rank: was nn- he perceived that begging aod praying were of
interrupted and great ; and that there he could no avail ; but he then began to speak seriously;
earu something, aod then become the mao he he sharply reproved them for !heir unmerciful·
had desired to be from bis youth up. ness, and solemnly affirmed before lbem, that he
Jost at that time, some olher blind persons ar- would immediately abandon the Rabbi and the
rim. The first was Doc1or Hut, physician aod pa~ient he had in hand, and do nolhing more for
counsellor of state in Wiesbaden, who, by taking 1hem, unless the poor man was iregularly and
cold, had become entirely blind of one eye in one conveniently lodged for a fortnirht, and duly
night; he lodged with his brother, counsellor supported. This had its effect; for in less than
and advocate Hertz, of Frankfort. Stilling pet'- two hours the poor Jew had all that he needed>
formed the operation, and healed him success. in an ino near the Jews'-street.
fully. This was universally made public, and Stilling now paid him a visit. The Jew.,
that very worthy man became thereby his con- though pleased by the hope of cure, showed m
lltallt friend; ·par1icularly, also, because they extraordinary degree of apprehension of the op.
were of the same sentiments. eratioo, so that Stilling began to fear it might
The seeond was a Jewish Rabbi, dwelling In prove prejudicial to the cure; he therefore took
the Jews'-street at Frankfort; he had bf'en long olher measures, aod said, "I will postpone the
blind ofboth eyes, and requested Stilling to come operation for a few days; but to-morrow I must
to him. The latter went, and found an old man rub and brighten the eyes a little; this will not
of eixty-elght years of age, with a snow-white give you pain; we will alterwards see what Is
beard hanging down to his girdle. On hearing to be done;" with whicb the poor man was well
that the doctor was there, he rose from his chair sati'Sfied.
with a tottering step, ~trove to find him, and.said, The next morning, therefore, be took the sur.
"Doctor, look at my eyes!" He then made a geon and some friends with him. The Jew was
grinning face, and pulled both his eyes wide in good spirits, sat down, and opened his eyesc
OJ>'b. Meanwhile, a multitude of Jewishfaces widely. Stilling took the instmment, and oper·
ofall kinds crowded into the room, and here and ated on one of his eyes; as soon as the lens was
there a voice was heard, exclaiming, "Silence I extracted, the Jew exclaimed, "I believe the
what will .he say'!'' Stilling looked at his eyes1 gentleman has done the job I 0 heaven! I seer
anddeclaredthatbwiththehelpofGod,heshoulo I 8ee every thing! Joel, Joel (for so hi1 son
be able to assist im. was called), go and kiss his feet!" Joel cried
"Blessings on the ~ntleman !"resounded from aloud, fell down, and would have kissed them;
all sides; "may he live a hundred years!" but he was not r,:rmitted.
The Rabbi now began: "Hush !-hear me, "Wei~ well!' continued the Jew," I would I
doctor; only one eye-only one !-for if it does had a million of eyes ; I would have ·them
not succeed-only one!" couched, one af1er the other, for sixpence each!"
"Well," answered Stilling, " I wiU come the In short, the Jew regained his sight perfectly;
day after to-morrow; and, u you wish, it shall and on taking bis departure, he ran through the
be only one." streets, with his arms stretched out, and over 1h~
The next day Stilling performed the operation Saxonhaaser bridge, exclaiming incessantly," O
on a poor woman in the Jews' hospital, and the .good people, thank God for ·me! I was blind;.
following morningon the Rabbi. Thesamtiday, and am now able to see! God grant long life I<>
being at Mr. Von Leesner's, he was called l.O the the doctor, that he may be able to cure 'lllany
house-door; he there found a poor beggar Jew, blind people!" Stilling performed the operalion
ofabout sixty years of age, who was completely on seven other persons besides Mr. Von 1-5'-
bllnd of both eyes, and therefore sought help; be ner, and all received their sight; however, none
Yaa led by his son, a good-looltiog youth of si:i- of them were able to pay him any thing, except
teen years ofage. The poor man wept, and said, Doctor Hot, who richly rewarded him for hls
"Ah, dear doctor, I and my wife have ten living trouble.
children; I was an ind11stri0Rs man, have travel- But now began all at once the most dreadful
led about much, and maintained them honestly; period of Stilling's life, which lasted uninter·
bat now, alas! I am a beggar, and all my chil- ruptedly for more than seven years. Notwith·
chen beg; and yon knowhow it is with us Jews." standing all his e1forts, Mr. Von Leesoer did not
Stilling was inwardly affected; with tears in his recover his sight; his eyes began to in11ame and
eyes, he sei~ed his·two hands, pressed them, and 1111pp11rate; several physicians came to bis u-
said, "With the Lori's help, you shall have slstanee, but all was unavailing; pain, and the
yaur si«ht agai.11." The Jew and his son wept fear of illcurable blindness, dashed llvery hope to
aloud, and would have fallen upon their knees, the groand.
but Stilling did not suffer them, and continued, Stilling thought it impossible to survi\re this ;
"Where will you take up your quarters 1 I will he wres1led with God for help, but all in vain;
take ·nothing from you, but you must stay here every friendly countenance vanished, all drew
a forlnii?ht." "Ah, good heaven!" answered he, back, and Stilling continued alone in his sorrow.
"that will be a difficult matter; many rich Jews His friend G<lethe and his parents sought to en.
reside here, but they do not receive strangers." courage him, but it was of no avail; he saw
Stilling rejoined, "Come to-morrow, at nine nothing before him but horrors; sympathy from
o'cloclc, to the Jews' hospital; I will there speak his friends, which could render him no service i
with the managel'!I." and, on the contrary, abundance of scorn ana
Accordingly, whilst Stilling was binding up contempt, by which all his further prac1ice would
the poor woman's eyes, the blind man arrived be rendered difficult. He now began to doubt
with his son; the whole room was filled with whe1her God had called him to the medical pro-
Jews, both high and low mingled together. The fession ; he tl!ared be bad still perhaps followed
bliDd man now pleaded his case molll piteously, his own impullle, and would have to drudge du--
Digitized by Google
HEIN RI CH STILLING.
ring his whole life at a vocation which was ex-
tremely repugnant to him. His needy circum-
stances presented themselves again, in a lively
manner, to his soul; he trembled, and only a
secret confidence in the paternal providence of
God, which was almost imperceptible to him-
self, supported him, so that he did not entirely
fall to the ground.
As he was once sittingwith Mr. Von Leesner,
and lamenting, with tears, the unsuccessful re-
ault ofthe operation, the worthy man said, "Be
aa1isfied, dear doctor; it was good for me, and
therefore also thewill ofGod, that I should remain
blind ; but it was necessary I should underiake
the thing, and pay you the thousand' ir,iilders,
that other poor people might be healed. ' Still-
ing personally received the thousand guilders;
he took them sorrowfully, and after a residence
-of eight weeks, returned to Schiinenthal. Every
thing was tranquil there; all his friends com-
passionated hbn, and avoided speaking of the
matter as much as possible. The wor1hy The-
-Odore Muller, who had counselled him so faith·
!ully, had during the time, to his great sorrow,
entered the eternal world; but the generality of
people, and particularly the lower class, scoffed
at him unceasingly;' " I well knew,'' said they,
"how the thing would terminate; the follow has
learnt nothing, and yet he is always striving to
rise above others; the coxcomb is rightly served,
by thus running his head against the wall."
Now though Stilling was desirous of setting
himself above all this, yet it aided in preventing
any more resort to hiru. The families be previ-
-ously attended had, during his 11bsence,/rovided
themselves with other physicians, an no one
:seemed inclined to return to him. In a word,
Stilling's practice became very smalli people
began to forget him; his debts increasea, for the
thouSlllld guilders were insufficient to discharge
them, and his grief in consequence w~ un-
bounded. He concealed lt, indeed, from the
whole world, as much as he was able, but it
was so much the more difficult for him to bear.
Even the Friedenberg family began to be cold to
him, for his own father-in-law began to believe
that he could not be a good housekeeper. He
was obliged to listen to many a grave admoni-
tion ; and was often reminded that the sum of
fifteen hundred dollars, which had been expended
~n his studies, and in instruments, necessary
books, and the most requisite household furni-
ture, ani for which Mr. Friedenberg had become
aecurity, must soon be paid. Stilling had not
the smalle5t prospect of this; it pained him to
his inmost soul, that he who gave him his child
whilst he was still without a vocation, and even
without bread who with him had unreservedly
trusted Providence, should now begin to totter.
Christina also felt this change in her father se-
Terely; but she began to exhibit an heroic cour-
age, which was really remarkable ; and this
was quite requisite, for without this uncommon
strength she must, as one of the weaker sex,
have succumbed under her trials.
Notwithstanding the desperate situation of
his affairs, however, what was needful never
failed him; Stilling had never any thing before-
hand, but, when it was required, it was there.
This strengthened the faith ofboth; so that they
were enabled still to bear up under their sutfer-
inf:the springof1775,Christin~again bore a son,
who, however, died four weeks a(IA,rwards. She
1u1fered exuemely in this con1inement. One
morning Stilling saw her lying in a state of J>ro-
found stupor; be was terrified, and asked her what
was the matter. She answered, "According to
circumstances, I a111 well; but I have a dreadful
conllict within; let me alone, until I have over-
come." He waited with the greatest anxiety for
the time of explanation upon this point. Af7
ter two melancholy days, she called him to·
her, fell upon his neck, and said, ''Dear hus-
band, I have now overcome, and I will tell thee
all I I have 'struggled for two days with God
and myself for my dissolution, aDd have fer-
vently entreated Him to take me to himself,
in order that thou mayest be able to marry an-
other wife, that shall be more suitable for thee
than I." This scene pierced his very soul.
"No, my dear wife,'' said he, while pressing
her to his beating heart, "thou shalt not struggle
on this account, much less pray for thy death;
live, and be only ofgood courage."
The following summer, Stilling received a let-
ter from his friend Doctor Hofi'mann, of Frank-
fort, in which it was mentioned in confidence,
that Mr. Von Leesner deeply felt his incurable
blindness, and sometimes expressea distrust re-
specUng his oculist. Now as he had been paid
in such a princely manner, it would be aeuing
the crown upon his good fame, if he would
pay Mr. Von Leesner another visit at his own
expenseJ !n order that nothing might be left un-
tried. .Meanwhile, he, Mr. Hoffmann, would
again insert his intended visit in the newspa-
pers, and perhaps the expense would be richly
repaid him. Stilling felt the nobleness of the
plan, if it could be accomplished; even Chris-
tina advised him to undertake the journey, but
no one besides; every oue was against the prop-
osition. However, he followed merely his feel-
ing of justice and propriety; he found a friend
who advanced him a hundred dollars for the
journey; and thus he travelled by the stage once
more to Frankfort, where he again took up his
residence with G0ethe.
Mr. Von Leesner was extremely affected by
this unlooked-for :visit, and it had the desired
effect. Several individuals, also, who were suf-
fering from the cataract, presented themselves,
on all of whom Stilling JM:iformed the operation;
some recovered their Slght, others did not; but
none of them were in a condition to repay his
expenses. This journey, therefore, plunged him
a hundred dollars deeper in debt; he resided,
also, this time,eight melancholy weeks in Frank-
fort.
During this period, Stilling committed an im-
prudence of wliich he often repente.i, and which
caused him much vexation. He found at a
friend's house, "The Life and Opinions of Ma-
gister Sebaldus Nothanker." He took the book
and read it through. The bitter satire, the rid-
icule cast upon the pietists, and even upon truly
pious men, pained him to the soul. Althongh
he himself was not satisfied with the pielists,
and had to suffer many things from them, yet he
could not bear them to be ridiculed ; for it was
his opinion, that faults in religion must be wept
over and lamented, but not held up to scorn and
contempt, because in this manner religion itself
is ridiculed. These sentime11ts were certainly
very correct; but the step which Stilling ventu-
red to take was not less hasty. He wrote from
the impulse of the moment'·' The Sling of a
Shepherd's Boy against the scornful Philistine,
the author of Sebaldus Nothanker;" and with-
out even once going through the m11J1uacript
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 97
'1001ly again, he gave it, glowing hot, to Eichen-
berg the publisher. His friend Kratt strongly
.advised him not to print it; but i1 was of no
avail,-it was published.
Scarcely had be returned to Schonenthal, be-
fore he repented of the step he bad taken. He
JJOW retlected on what he had done, and what
weighty enemies he had made himself by this
.means; besides, he had not sufficiently devel-
.oped his {lrinciples, and he was afraid that the
.public might regard him as stupidly orthodox.
He therefore wrote a little tract under the title of
" The great Panacea for the disease of lnJidel-
.ity,'' which was also printed by the same pub-
lisher. In the mean time a defender of Sebal-
-dns Nothanker appeared ; for a certain mer-
chant in the Netherland.• wrote against "The
Sling." This occasioned Stilling to seize the
pen once more, and publish " The Shepherd-
b>y's Theory, in rectification and defence of his
Sling." In this work he acted gently i he begged
J)&l'don of the author of Nothanker for his vio-
lence, without however recanting the least ofhis
t>!'inciples; he then sought to impan correct
ideas of his sentimenta to his opponent, the
Netherlands merchant, avoiding at the same
~me all bitterness, as much as was possible,
with the exception of a little innocent raillery :
with this the whole affair terminated.
About this time, two institutions were eatab-
Usbed in Sehonentbal, in which Stilling took a
prominent part. A number of worthy and en-
Jigbtened men fonµed a private society, which
met on the W e<Uiesday evenings, in o~r mutu-
-ally to improve themselves by the perusal of
11Seful writings, and by conversation on a ·vari-
.et.y of subjects. He that bad the desire and abil-
ity, was also at liberty to read lectures•. By
means of fixed subscriptions, a library of select
books was gradually collected, and the whole in-
.Uu:uion rendered generally useful. It still ex-
ists and 11.ourishes, and is become since that
time still more numerous and prosperous.
&iUing, who was one of its first members, to-
#ther with his constant friends, Troost and
Dinkier, had here an Op{>Ortunity of displaying
his talents, and of making himself better ac-
~uainted with the most excellent of his fellow-
townsmen. In the meetings of this privale so-
~ety, he read a lecture upon Physics, in which
he took " Euler's Letters to a German Princess"
.as the basis: by this he recommended himself
uncommonly; all the members became fond of
lWn, and supported him in a variety of ways.
Jt is true, his debts were not by this means di-
minished; on the contrary, the absence ofprac-
.tice increased them daily; they would, howev-
er, have been still greater, if Stilling had pur-
-chased all that was presented him by these wor-
thy men.
The second institution had reference to a min-
-eral spring, which had been discovered in the
vicinity of Schonenthal. Dinkier, Troost, and
Stilling, carried on the affair; and the lauer was
appointed physician to the establishment by the
magistracy. He received, indeed, no salary;
bot his practice was in some degree increased,
lhough not to such an extent as to enable him to
meet his regular expenditure, much less to pay
his debts.
His participation in these two institutions ir-
ritated the pierists 14?ainst him still more. They
aw that he associated more and more with the
people of the world, and there was therefore no
end to their reaaoniJlgs and their calWDDies, It
N
is lamentable, that this otherwise worthy class
of people so little observe the great precept of
Jesus, whom they so highly honor in orber re-
spects-" Judge not,thatyebenotjudged." All
their good qualities are thereby destroyed; and
their judgment, on the great day, lilie the judg-
ment of the pharisees, will be severe. I here
solemnly except rbe noble and upright amongst
them, who are the salt of the earth; they are de-
serving of respect, love, and forbearanc.o; and
may my end be like theirs I
In the spring of the year 1776, Stilling was
under the necessity of removing to another hab-
itation, because his landlord wished to occupy
his house himself. Mr. Troost therefore sought
and found one for him; it lay at the lower end
of the town, on the way to Riisselstein, near a
number ofgardens; it was enchantingly beauti-
ful and convenienL Stillingrented it, and made
preparations for removing into it. But here he
had a dreadful trial to sua&.ain ; be had hitherto
been able to pay the sevi:nty dollais house-rent
regularly every year; but he badnot at that time
a single farthing in band, and, according to the
law, he was not permitted to remove un~il the
rent was dulr paid. The want of credit and
money likewJSe rendered him timid in requesting
his landlord to have a little patience; there was,
however, no other remedy. Oppressed with ex-
treme sorrow, he therefore went to him, and be-
sought bis landlord, who was a worthy and up-
right merchant, but punctual and severe, to al-
low him a little more time. The merchant re-
tlected a little, and said, "Remove, ifyou choose;
but with the condition that you pay in a fort-
night." Stilling, firmly confiding in the Divine
aid1 promised to settle every thing by that time,
ana removed into his new habitation. The
cheerfulness of the house, the prospect of the
beauties of nature, the convenient accommoda-
tion, and in short, every circum~tanc; certainly
contributed much to allPviate his painful feel-
ings ; but the difficulty itself was not yet remo-
ved, and the gnawing worm remained.
The end of the fourteen days drew near, and
there was not the slightest appearance of ob-
taining the seventy dollars. The iron now again
entered into poor Stilling's soul; he often ran up
to his chamber, fell upon his Cace, wept, and en-
treated help of God; and when his voeation
called him away, Christina took his place ; she
wept aloud, and prayed with·such fervour of
spirit as might have moved a stone ; but there
was no trace of obtaining so much money. At
length the dreadful Friday arrived; both prayed
incessantly, the whole morning, during their oc-
cupations, and their heart-rending anxiety caus-
ed ardent ejaculations to ascend continually.
At ten o'clock, the postman entered the door:
in one1iand he held his receipt-book, and in the
othE'r a letter, the contents of which were heavy.
Stilling took it, full of expectation ; the super-
scription wai; in Goethe's hand, and under thead-
dress was written, " Enclosing one hundred and
fifteen rix-dollars in gold." He broke open rhe
letter with astonishment, read it, and found that
his friend Goethe, without his knowledge, had
caused the commencement of his history to be
publishP.d, under the title of" Stilling's Youth,"
and this was the sum obtained for the copy-
right. Stilling qoickly signed the receipt, in or-
der to send the postman away; the married
couple then fell upon each other's necki:, wept
aloud, and praised God for his signal interposi-
tioD. Durillg SU.lling's laat journey to Frank-
Digitized by GoogIe
98 HEINRICH STILLING.
fort, G0ethe had received biscall to Weimar, and sisted ofa number oflearned and intelligent mear
bad there procured the publication of Stilling's who associated themselves together for the pur-
history. pose ofpromoting agriculture, manufactures, and
It cannot be expressed what a powerful effect trade, and by this means, rendering both prince
this visible interforence of Divine providence and people prosperous. The Elector had also-
produced on the hearts of Stilling and his con- patronized and sanctioned this excellent institu-
sort. They firmly and unhesitatingly resolved tion, and had provided it with certain revenues~
never to waver any more, but to endure every that it might be able to proceed the more etfect-
sutfering with patience; they also perceived, in ually. Now this society had commenced a
the light of truth, that the Father of men led manufactory ofchamois leather: Eisenhart was
them by the band, that therefore their path and acquainted with Stilling, for the latter bad vis-
course were right before God, and that he in- ited him on his way from Strasburg to Schon-
.tended by such trials to prepare them for higher enthal. As the manufacture above-mentioned
purposes. Ob, how feeb1e and disgusting to one .ftourisbed exceedingly at the latter place, Eisen-
who has had so much experience of this kind, hart wrote to him and requested him to make
is the sophistry of modem philosophers, when himself acquainteJ with the various modes and
they assert, "That God does not tranble him- processes by which the fabric might be brought
self with the detail, but merely with the total i to perfection, and to give him information on.
that He has fixed the plan of the world, ana the subject.
that therefore prayer cannot alter it." 0 ye Much as Stilling was pleased with the ins&i-
daubers with untempered mortar I how much tution, and much as he rejoiced at its prosperity.
the ancient abomination glimmers through ! yet this commission, which was to make him
Jesus Christ is the governor of the world; Still- serve as a spy, seemed dangerous to him; for he
ing called upon Him a hundred times, and he had reason to fear the Schi:inenthal peo{>le might
was heard by Him. He led him up the dark, at length hear of the affair, and then his misery
and dangerous, and precipitous ascent, and-but would be boundless. He therefore wrote to Mr.
I will not forestall myself. What avail sophis- Eisenhart, in a very friendly manner, and reP:'
tical cobwebs af correct and logical inferences, resented to him the danger in which he would
where one experience follows the footsteps of plunge himself by such a step; but inquired, at
another I In tbesequel of this history, still more Jhe same time, whether he could not be of ser-
striking proofs of a direct providence will ap- vice to the institution by a variety of u:;eful es-
pear. · says; for he had collected practical ex~rience
Stilling's friendship with Gaethe, and the visit in the science of political economy. E1Senhart
of the latter to Schonenthal, were so bitterly spo- soon replied to him, and assure4 him that such
ken against by those who profe~sed to be the treatises would be very welcome. Stilling there-
electofGod, that they shuddered at him as though fore appiled himself to the work; and wrote out
he were an infidel, and reviled Stilling because one treatise after another, sending them to Mr.
he associated with him; and yet the matter was Eisenhart the director, who caused them to be·
according to the plan and arrangement of Eter- read to the society at Rittersburg.
nal Love, to try its pupil, to convince him of Stilling's labours met with very unexpected
its fidelity, and to promote his advancement. approbation; and he was soon honored with- a
Yet none of those who thus calumniated him, patent as foreign member of the Electoral Pala-
were feeling enough to assist Stilling with a tine Society of Political Economy. This pleas-
farthing. Those who. are called men of the ed him uncommonly; for although the whole
world, were most frequently the blessed instru- connection, together with the honor he enjoyed
ments in God's hand, when Be intended to aid from it, brought him no emolument, yet he ex-
and instruct Stilling. perienced a real joy in occupations of this na-
1 have said and written it a hundred times, ture, which had such immediate reference to the
and am not weary of repeating it: "Let him that best interests of mankind. ,
is desirous of beine a true servant of GOO, not Stilling was respected on account of the histo-
separate himself from men except on account of ry of his life, and his treatises. He now began
sin ; let him not join any particular society, to be known as a ·not altogether unpopular &11·
which professes for its object toserve God better thor; and he felt encouraged to continue the his-
than others; for in the consciousness of this tory of his life to the period of his settlement in
better seruing Him they gradually become proud Sch6nenthal. This also yielded him something,
mean-~pirited, hypocritical in appearance, and and thus alleviated his domestic circumstances;
frequently so in reality, and therefore an abomi- but his debts still continued, and were even in
nation in the sight of a pure and holy God. I some measure increased. But who could have
have known many such societies, and yet they imagined that this work caused him to be su.s-
always crumbled to the dust, with derision, and pected in Schonenthal of infidelity! It is in-
were a reproach to religion. Young man, wilt comprehensible, but certainly true; he was can.
thou tread the true path 1 Distinguish th1self ed a hero of romance, a fantastical fellow ; and
by nothing but purity of life and noble ac11ons ; principles were pretended to be discovered in.
confess Jesus Christ by faithfully following His the work which were diametrically opposed to
life and doctrine, and only speak of Him where the system of the reformed church; and he was
it is necessary, and where it may edify; but then, declared to be a man without religion. To ab-
be not ashamed of Him. Trust Him in every literate this suspicion, he wrote " The History
situation of life, and pray to Him with confi- of Mr. Von Morgenthau." But this availed
deuce; He will assuredly lead thee to the de- little or nothing; he continued to be despised,
sired aim." and a constant object of calumny, which m the
About this time, Counsellor EisenhartofMan- autumn of the year rrn reached the highest
heim, a person of great activity and powerfully summit of wicliedness. Stilling began all at
operative mind, had formed a society, in the an- once to perceive that as he passed alone the
cient city of Rittersburg, in Austrasia, for the street, people regarded him with a fixed eye, and
purposes of civil and political acience. It con- observed him awhile; as he walked on, they ran
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 99
to the windows, looked inquisitively at him, and· was no merchant, much less did he possess
then whispered to one another, "See, there be wealth; hence it was of liule consequence what
goes I poor man !" &c. This conduct from et>- became of him.
ery quarter was incomprehensible to him, and My readers will allow me to dwell a little
pierced him through and through; when he upon this cruel a1fair, and describe to them the
spoke with any one, he observed how first one peculiar condition in which Stilling was now
considered him attentively, and how another placed; for it is neceRsary that they should have
tumed himself sorro~ully away; he therefore a correct idea of bis situation.
went rarely out, grieved profoundly in secret, Stilling and his consort bad, as before observ-
and seemed to himself to Ile like an apparition, ed, not the smallest propert,y, and, consequently,
of which every one is afraid, and tries to avoid. not the least real credit. Besides his medical
No one can form an idea of this new species of practice he had no vocation, and no means of
suffering; it is too singular, but likewise so in- gaining money; nor had he either ability or dis-
tolerable that it requires very peculiar power to posilion for the latter, and still less desire; he
be able to endure it. He now observed also, was not wanting in knowledge, but in the art of
that scarcely any more patients came to him; turning it to account. To be obliged to found
and it therefore seemed as it were entirely over the healing of diseases, where life or death is the
with him. This dreadful state of things lasted stake (and Jet the reader reflect what is implilld
a fortnight. in this), on unceasipg suppositions-and where
At length, one afternoon, his landlord entered ha!l the physician, unless he is likewise a sur-
tbe door, sat down, looking at Doctor Stilling geon, sure grounds 1-did not suit Stilling. He
with fixed and tearful eyes, and said, "Doctor, w11s therefore fit for any thing rather than a prac-
do not take it amiss-my regard for you impels lical physician; and yet he was nothing else,
me to mention something to you. Only think- and knew of no other means of subsistence. At
the report is spreading in Scbonentbal, that last the same time, it was Providence which had led
Saturday fortnight, in the evening, you became him to this vocation: what a contrast; what a
all at once insane ; and although it is not seen contradiction ; what a trial of the steadfastness
outwardly, yet that you have completely Jost of his faith and confidence! And then reflect
your sensesi therefore all your patients have also upon the people amongst whom, and by
been wamea not to employ you; but now telt whom be was obliged to live, and who acted to-
me, how is it with you 1 I have paid strict at- wards him in such a manner! •
tention to you, and have perceived nothing." His cures of cataract indeed continued very
Christina covered her face with her apron, successful; but the most of his patients were
weeping aloud, and hastened away; but Stilling poor, and seldom was there one that could pay
stood astonished. Grief, vexation, and innu- him any thing; and if occasionally a wealthy
merable feelings of every kind, ascended so person came, the operation generally proved un-
powerfully from his heart to his head, that he successful.
might have become insane in reality, if bis con- But was there any thing in Stilling's mode o!
stitutional temperament and bis inward organi- life and conduct that possibly so degraded him;
zation had not been so extremely regular. or was be really no economist, or even a spend-
Tears shot from bi~ eyes, and feelings from thrift1 To this I will repl[ impartially, and ac-
his ~ul, with an indescribable effect, composed cording to truth: Stillings whole deportment
of the supremely ridiculous and the deepest mel- was naturally free and open, but now univer-
ancboly; and he said, "Certainly no Adrame- sally tinctured with melancholy. There was
Jech could ever have invented such wickedness I nothing in him which could have offended any
It is more than devilish I Nor could apy one one, except his open-heartedness; in conse-
have undertaken any thing with more §atanic qnence of which, he suffered much to flow out
cunning, completely to deprive me of my main- of his heart which he might have kept to him-
tenance ; but God, my avenger and my provider, self; and this caused him to be regarded by bis
still lives. He will deliver me, and provide for colleagues, and those of the same profession, as
11\e I I will give account to no man with regard ambitions, aspiring, and desirous of taking the
IO my sanity; let myself and my actions be ob- precedence of them; though, in reality, his soul
servetl, and it will be apparent. The whole af- was devoid of this feature. That which, in
fair is so extraordinary, so inhumanly wicked, other respects, bad caused him the greatest suf-
tbat there is nothin~ more to be said upon it.'' ferin~ was a high de~ee of thoughtlessness,
"Do not take it ami" of me, dear Doctor," con- he did not always weigh the consequences of
tinued the landlord; "my attachment to you im- what he did or said; in a word, he bad a certair,
pelled me to inform you of it.'' "No," rejoined colouringofdo11rderieor inconsiderateness; and
Stillin!(; "I thank you for doing so." it was this very failing which paternal Provl-
The repon now gradually disappeared, as dence intended, by such a tedious purification, t•.
some pe~tiferous monster steals away; bot the banish from his character. With regard to his
effect remained, and Stilllng and his suffering economy, no one had reasonably any thing to
cC\nsort felt the atmosphere of Schonentbal in- object to it; and yet there was a reason why he_
fected; his practice diminished still more, and was so much cramped in his reputation and in
with it the hope of being able to support himself. his domestic arrangements. NoaIng in the
Where the horrible calumny originated, and world oppressed him more, than to owe any
who bad hatched the basilisk, which kills with thing to any one, and to have many and burden-
its look, remains for the great day of revelation. some debts. His diligence and activity were
Stilling himself never learned with certainty unbounded; but he could not urge any one for
from whence it sprang; he had, however, his payment; hi~ character constrained him, even
suspicions, which were founded on the highest m his own most urgent necessities, to remit the
probability; but he takes care not tu give the poor man his deht, an<I to cross out the account
sligh1est hint on the subject. The whole affair of the rich man who was niggardly or mur-
was in general not much taken notice of, for mured at his charges; too magnanimous to
Stilling was not of sufficient importance; he spend even an unpleasant word, or to cause any
Digitized by GoogIe
100 HEINRICH STILLING.
individual pain, for the sake of money. la food
and clothing, be was cleanly and neat, but very
modest and simple; neither bad he any expen·
sive hobby-horse, and yet he often expended
somet.Ring without sufficient reftec1ioo, which
might have been much better applied; in short,
he was a man of learning, and not a tradesman.
Christina, on the contrary, was extremely spa.
ring; she turned every farthing over and over be-
fore she laid it out; yet she did not exercise a
judicious oversight over the whole of the house-
keeping; she spared only with that which she
had in band.
It is however true that if Stilling and his
spouse had possessed a tradesman-like spirit, be
would have made fewerdebts; but in the1rsitaa-
tion it was impossible to remain free from them.
This observation I owe to truth.
He that is desirous of forming to himself a
lively idea of Stilling's stAte of mind at that
time, must imagine to himself a wanderer on a
narrow foot-path, close to a perpendicular range
ofrock11, on bis right hand: further on, an abyes
of invisible depth; on his left, steep and rugged
rocks, and impending loose masses of stone,
hanging over his head; before him, no hope of a
better or surer way; on the contrary, the path
becoming smaller, and at length ceasing entire-
ly; nothing but precipices are seen all around.
Stilling had only needed to have become a
professor of the new-fashioned religion, to have
abandoned his wife and children ; but the tempt-
ation to this neverentered his mind; he adhered
only the more closely to a paternal ProvideoceJ
·
he believed it was an easy thing for that to fin
an outlet, where all human forethought could
not discover any ; and he therefore proceeded, in
darkness and twilight, step by step, on his nar-
row path.
In the beginning of the /ear 1778, he again
made up his accounts, an found, to his utter
dismay, that he had fallen during the past year
still deeper into debt than before; add to which,
some of hill creditors began to threaten him, and
his a1fairs now seemed to be at the wol'llt. Be-
sides this, there was another circumstance which
harassed bis mind; he had andertaken to collect
the subscriptions for the works of the Society of
Political Economy, and had received money;
he was therefore indebted to Mr. Eisenhart
twenty-eight guilderi<, which he was unable to
pay: " I ahall be lfisgraced, even there," said be
to himself. In the greatest anxiety of heart, be
ran up to his chamber, threw himself before
God, and prayed a long time with unequalled
fervour ; he then arose, sat down, and wrote a
letler to Eisenhart, in which be disclosed to him
his whole situation, and besought him to have
patience wilh him a little while. He soon after
received an answer. Eisenhart wrote to him,
desiring him not to mention a word more of the
twenty-eight guilders ; he had thought it went
well with him, and that the practice of medicine
was a pleasure to him; but since he now saw
that the colfrary was the case, he proposed to
him, if agreeable, to accept a professorship of
~culture, Technology, Commerce, and the
Veterinary art, in the lately-established provin-
cial academy at Rittershurg. Two professors
were already there, one of whom taught the aux-
iliary sciences, Mathematics, Natural History-,
Physic, and Chemistry; and the other, Civil,
Financial, and Political Economy; the stipend
was six hundred guilders, and the lecture-money
might easily amoant to two or three hundred
guilders more; living was cheap at Rittersbarg,
and be was confident that be could easily induce
Lhe Elector to give Stilling the appointmenL
Reader, stand sLill, and cast a look into Stiil-
ing's whole being, on reading Lhis letter! Sup-
posing that the wanderer whose dreadful alpine
path 1 have described above, met wilb an open
door to the left, at the poi~ where bis path had
disappeared before him, through which he found
an oullet into blooming fields, and saw before
him a sumptuous habitation-a home, which
wu destined for him, how would he feel 'I Just
so was Stilling affected; be sat like one stupe-
fied ; so that Christina was terrified, and lookfng
over hill shoulder, read the letter which had so
moved him; she clapped her hands together,
sank upon a chair, wept aloud, and praised God.
At length he recovered himself; the brilliance
of the light had dazzled him; he now looked
with a fixed eye through the opened door upon the
radiant prospect, and reflecting deeply, saw in
prospect his whole destiny. From bis youth
up, public speaking, elocutioa, and declamation
had been his greatest delight, and in these he bad
always enjoyed much approbation; lungs and
voice-all were formed for speaking in public.
But be had never been able to cherish the most
distant hope of becoming Professor, although it
was his highest wish; for be had neither succesa
aor celebrity in the medical profession, and both
were requisite for that purpose; and he knew of
no other department in which he might have
been placed. But what is there that is im-
possible to Providence 1 It created for him a
new sphere of action, in which little bad been
accomplished, and where he found enou~h to do.
He reviewed his attainment8 in knowledge, and
found, to his extreme astonishment, that he had
been imperceptibly forming for this vocation
from his cradle. Brought up amongst farmers,
be bad learnt agriculture, and had himself re-
peatedly performed all its attendant lallors.
"Who Ca.n teach it better than I 1" thought be
to himself. He had Jived long in the woods,
amongst foresters, charcoal-burners, wood cut-
ters, &c., and was therefore perfectly acquainted
with the practical part of these things. Sur-
rounded froru his youth up wita miners of every
description, with iron, copper, and silver-smelt-
ers, with bar-iron, steel, and speller-founders and
wire-drawers, he had become thoroughly ac-
quainted with these important ·manufactures,
and had also himself bad the management for
seven years together, at Mr. Spaioer's, of es-
tates and foundries; whilst at the same time, he
perfectly understood commerce in all its branch-
es, and was practised in all. And in order that
he might notbe deficient in the fundamental and
auxiliary sciences, Providence had very wisely
directed him to the study of medicine, in which
Physic, Chemistry, Natural History, &c., are in-
dispensable. In reality, be had labored through
these sciences, and especially Mathematics,
with greater predilection than all the rest, so that
even in Strasburg he had read a lecture upon
Chemistry; the veterinary art was also easy to
him, as a practical physician. Finally, he had
made himself acquainted, in Schonenthal, with
all sorts of manufactures; for an irresistible im-
pulse had always predominated in him, to be-
come thoronirhly acquainted with every branch
of trade, without knowing why. Be~ides all
thi11, he had uninterruptedly exerci~ed himself
in lecturing; and i\ is now the time for me to
mention a fact of which I could say nothi.og be- ,
Digitized by GoogIe
' STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 101
ten without appearing ridiculous, which is
laowever, extremely imponant. Stilling had
been, from his youth up, extraordinarily fond of
IUeeory, and had studied it intently; he had there-
iore attained a good acquaintance with matters,
of government. To this -add novels and ro-
mances ofall sons, especially political, by which
a propensity aroee in.his soot which no one had
discovered1 because he was aHhamed of it; it
wu a desire to rule, an exceedingly powerful
anxiety to rendPr mankind happy, that continu-
ally actuated him. He had tbougbt be should
have been able to do the latter in the capacity
of a practical physician, but nothing satisfied
him in that department. The "History of Mr.
Von Morgenthau" had ftowed from this source.
Ll't the reader now imagine to himself a man of
mean birth and low rank without the smallest
hope ofever being able to fill a civil office, and
yet endued with this passionate desire l But
now, this irregular mass melted together into
the stream of his future course of life. "No,
no! I would not be myself a ruler," he ex-
claimed when he was alone; " but it was the
forming of rulers, and princes' ministers, for the
prosperity of the people, and I knew it not."
Just aa a condemnea criminal, on whom the
judge pronounces pardon and raises from the
dust, sinks down and stammers oot unutterable
thanks, so sank Stilling before God, and faltered
out unspeakable words. Christina was also
extremely rejoiced; she longed to depart from
her present situation, and go into a land which
she knew not. ·
As soon as the tumult had subsided in his
aonl, and he had become tranquil, all his debts
presented themselves to his mind, and scarcely
could he control his confusion. "How shall I
be able to leave this place without paying1"
This was a hard knot to unloose. However, he
took courage again ; for ha was too strongly
convinced of his destiny, to doubt in the least.
He wrote, therefore, to Eisenhart, that a profes-
sor's chair in Rittersburg would be very agreea-
ble to him, and that he felt himself competent to
the situation, but that his creditors would not
sutrer him to depan ; be therefore inquired
whether a certain sum could not be advanced
him ;-he would pledge his income, and pay off
yearly a couple of hundred guilders, together
with the interest. This request was ftatly refu-
sed; but Eisenhart consoled him on the other
hand with the hope that his creditors would be
contented, ifthey only saw that he had the meaus
ofbeing able in time to satisfy them. Stilling,
however, knew better, for his personal credit
was too much weakened; eight hundred guild-
ers at least must be paid, otherwise they would
not let him go1-nevenheless, he placed a firm
confidence in tiod, and hoped against hope.
He kept this occurrence by no means con-
cealed, but related it to his friends, and they
again related it to others; it therefore became
the general talk ofthe town, that Doctor Stilling
was to be made Professor. Now nothing ap-
peared more laughable to the people of Scbonen-
thal than this:-" Stilling a professor! How
comes he to it 1-be does not understand any
thing! It is mere rhodomontade; it is all an
invention, solely in order to make himself ap-
pear great," &c. But in the mean time every
thing weut on in its regular course ; the aca-
demical seuate at Rittersburg chose Stilling as
regular and public Professor of Agriculture,
Technology, Commerce. and the Veterinary art;
..
and propo.~ed him to the Elector; the eontirma-
tion followed, and nothing more was wanting
but the formal vocation. While all this -was
transacting, the s11mmer passed away.
Stilling now gradually withdrew himselffrom
the medical prolession. With the exception of
a few wealthy town-patients, who afforded him
his needful support, lie scarcely did any thing in
physic, but devoted himself entirely to his future
engagement, which was so agreeable to him.
All his knowledge of political economy lay in
his soul like a confused chaos· but, as future
profesRor, it was necessary that he should bring
every thing into a system. Nothing was easier
to him than this, for his whole soul was system;
his plan of instruction in th6se sciences, there-
fore, developed itself before his eyes without
trouble, and he contemplated the beauteous
whole with the utmost inward delight. I refer
my readers to his numerous publications, in or;
der not to detain them here with teamed disse.I'!
tatlbns.
Jn these pleasing employments, the summer
passed over,,the harvest approached, and he ex-
pected his appointment day after day. But what
ensued 1 In the first week of September, he re-
ceived a letter from Eisenhart, which entirely
annihilated the whole affair! On the Elector's
proceeding to Bavaria, the project was started
of removing the newly-established academy to
Manheim, where there were men of everx de-
scription able to fill the professorships. Eisen-
hart def.lored it, both on his own account and
Stillings; however, he could not alter it.
Bis condilion was now perfectly indescriba-
ble. He and his poor wife sat together in their
chamber, and shed ftoods of tears; all seemed
now to be lost; for a long time be could neither
think nor recover himsel~ he was so stupefied.
At length be cast himselt before God, bumbled
himself under His mighty hand, and committed
himself, his wife, Mld his two children, to the
paternal guidance of the Most Merciful ; resolv-
mg, without the smallest mnrmur, to return once
more to the practice of medicine, and to endure
every thing that Providence might ordain re-
specting hfm. Be now began to go out again,
to visit friends and acquaintances, and relate his
misfortune to them; his practice returned, and
it seemed as if it would go better with him than
before. He therefore surrendered himself en-
tirely to the will of God, and was tranquil.
He who is acquainted with the divine proc&o
dure will be aware, without my reminding him
of it, that all this is precisely the method of
Providence. Stilling had hastened towards his
aim with eagerness and impure desire ;-pride
vanity, and other passions, had intermingJ;;J
themselves in his mind; in such a state, he
would have arrived at Rittersburg with bluster-
ing ambition, and would certainly not have been
successful. It is the maxim of Eternal Love, to
render its pupils pliant and perfectly resign.ed in
their wills, before Be advances funber with
them. Stilling, therefore, at that time, believed
firmly that he ought and must remain a physi-
cian; and his resignation went so for, that he
even no longer desired the vocation, but was en-
tirely indifferent to it. It fared with him pre-
cisely in the same manner as on former occa-
sions ;-when he was disgusted with his trade,
he hastened eagerly away from Schonberg to
Mr. Hochberg's; and I have already described,
in his "Wanderings," how miserably he was.
situated there; he afterwards engaged himself
Digitized by GoogIe
102 HEINRICH STILLING.
to Mr. Isaac, where he was satisfied, and would
gladly have remained at his trade i so that Mr.
Spanier was obliged to constrain nim to leave
bi$ situation.
The Schonenthal people, meanwhile, again
sounded fiercely the alarm; for now it was
deemed evident that the whole atfair was Still-
ing's invention, and solely fabricated from van-
ity ; but this troubled him little, for habit had
inured him to calumy; he no longer saw or
heard any thing of the kind. Profoundly re-
signed to the will of God, he hastened from one
patient to another, from morning till evening;
and Christina made preparations for the winter,
as she was wont, by preserving a variety of
fruits, white-washing, and repairing the house,
&c.
A week before Michaelmas, his appointment
suddenly and unexi;>ectedly arrived. He receiv-
ed it calmly, and without the smallest eagerness;
~t he felt inwardly happy; be and his consort
returned God thanks, and they began to prepare
for their depa11ure, and their long journey. The
academy was to be continued at Rittersburg, be-
cause too many difficulties had occurred in the
way of its removal.
I have described the first cas" Stiiling attend-
ed; 1 will now also detail the last, for it is not
less remarkable.
A full league beyond Schiinenthal, Jived a
very upright, pious, and wealthy merchant, of
the name of Krebs ; his spouse, as regards her
head and her heart, was one of the noblest of
her sex ; and both of them had often employed
Stilling, for they knew and loved him. They
had a private teacher for their children, a man
of seventy years of 8f?e, who was by birth a
Saxon, and was called Stoi. This man was a
most singular character ; tall, thin, and of a
very venerable aspect ; very learned, and imbu-
ed with the most exalted virtues, he possessed,
as the result of religious principles, a coolness,
a resignation, and a submission to the will of
God, almost unexampled ; every motion and
position of his body was decorous; his whole
being was naturally grave, and every thing he
said was weighed in the balances · each wonl
was a golden apple on a .salver of silver; and
what was particularly excellent in this worthy
man, was his modesty and carefulness in judg-
ing; he never spoke of the tilults of others, but
concealed them where he could, and looked
merely at himself. Stoi was a pattern for a man
.and a Christian.
This remarkable man was seized with the
military fever. The course of the disease was
natural, and, as usual, not dangerous. At length
the whole of the intlammatory matter settled in
his right arm, which became scarlet all over,
and burned and itched so intolerably that he
could not endure it any longer. Stoi, through
his whole life, had troubled him~elf about no-
thing so little as his body; he considered it as a
borrowed tenement; he was always temperate,
and had never been ill; consequently he knew
not the nP.Ccssity of carefulness, and was igno-
rant ofdanger; he therefore sent for a bucket full
of cold water, and plunged his arm into it, to the
bottom ; this relieved him - the burning and
itching subsided, and with it the redness and
emption; he drew bis arm out again, and, be-
hold, it was like the other.
Stoi was glad that he had been so easily curP.d.
However, he soon perceived that his arm had
lost its sense of feeling; he pinched the skin, but
felt nothing; he felt the pulse of that arm, and
found it was quite still; he felt it at the neck,
and it beat regularly ; in shon, he was in other
respects perfectly well. If he wished to move
his arm, he found that he was unable, for it was
as if it were dead ; he now began to think all
was not ri$'ht, and therefore sent for a neighbour-
ing physician; the latterwas alarmed, as was rea-
sonable, applied blisters to the arm, and scourged
it with nettles, bot all in vain; it remained insen-
11ible. By degrees, the fingers began to rot, and
the putrefaction crept gradually up the arm.
Troost and Stilling were now called in. They
found the arm swollen up to the elbow, of a
blackish hue, and emitting an intolerable stench.
As they entered the door, Stoi began, " Gentle-
men, I have committed a piece of imprudence
(here he related the whole aJfair); do your duty;
lam in the hand of God; I am seventy years of
age, and shall be well satisfied whichever way ·
the matter terminates."
The two physicians consulted together; they
already perceived that the arm must be ampu-
tated ; however, they thought they would still
attempt some other means P.reviously, by which
the operation would be facilitated. Mr. Troost
therefore took his instruments, and made a varie-
ty of incisions round about, near where the mor-
tification ceased; the patient felt nothing at all
of it; they then made applications of the decoc-
tion of Peruvian bark, and prescribed this de-
coction to be taken frequently inwardly.
The next day they were again sent for, and
requested to bring their instrnments to amputate
the arm. They accordingly set out for that
purpose. On their arrival, they found the pa-
tient lying on a field-bed, in the middle of i.he
room ; around him, along the walls, stood a
number of young people of both sexes, who shed
silent tears, and prayed in secret. Stoi lay very
tranquil, and did not manifest the smallest fear.
''Gentlemen," he began, " I cannot endure the
stench; take otf my arm above the elbow, near
the shoulder, where it is certainly still sound;
whether the stump be afterwards an inch longer
or shorter, is of little consequence." Stilling and
Troost found what he said was correct, and
promised to have it finished speedily.
Although all others present trembled at the
dreadful preparations, yet Stoi did not; he strip-
ped the arm, rolled up the shirt above the shoul-
der, and pointed out the place where the arm
was to be taken olf. Stilhng and Troost could
scarcely forbear smiling; when the latter ai;>plied
the screw, in order to close the pulse-vein, he
assisted them very quietly and resignedly ; he
even wished to help them during the operation.
Stilling, however, prevented this i and, on thl'
contrary, bent himself towards tne old man's
face, turned it away from the operation, and
spoke with him upon other subjects; du~
which time Troost made the incision througn
the flesh to the bone. Stoi sighed only once,
and continued his speech. The bone was thea
sawn otf, and the stump bound up.
The whole of the case was remarkable. Mr.
Troost slackened the screw a little, in order to
see whether the vein would spring or not; but it
did not do so, even when the screw was entirely
removed; in short, the intlammatory matter had
concentrated itself in a swelling m the Uppel'
part of the arm, which kept the nerves and
veins firmly pressed together; but this was first
discovered after his death.
Appearances were encouraging; a favorable
-
Digitized by GoogIe
S T I L LI N G'S D 0 M E S TI C LI F E. 103
'Uiceration suceeeded, and the cure was consid-
ered certain, when Stilling was again sent for in
hai:te; he ran thither, and found poor Stoi rat-
tling in his throat, and drawing bis breath with
great difficulty. "I have committed another
imprudence," stammered out the sick man to
him. " I rose up, and went to the window; a
cold north-wind blowing upon my arm, I began
.to shiver; the matter bas lodged in my breast.
I am dying; and it is weU: however, do your
duty, Doctor; in order that the world may not
afterwards slander lou." Stilling took off the
bandage, and foun the wound perfectly dry;
he strewed it with powdered cantharides, and
-covered the whole stump with a blister ; he
then prescribed other appropriate remedies; but
they were all unavailing-Stai died under his
hands.
"A full stop now to my medical practice,"
Mid Stilling to himself. He accompanied the
good Stoi to his grave, and buried him with bis
profession. However, he resolved to retain the
<>ccupation of an oculist, merely because he was
so successful in it; but then he made it a law
with himself, that he woµld in future receive no
recomJ>l!nse, but practise it solely for .the glory
<>f his Heav~nly Father, by serving his fellow-
men.
The period now approached when he was to
leave Schonentbal and remove to Rittenburg.
October was already far advanced, the days
were short, the weatlier and the roads bad; and
jnally, he was .under the necessity of com-
mencing his lectures with the beginning of
November. However, there was previously
•till a steep cliffto climb; eight hundred guilders
must be paid before he could remove. Many
friends advised him to assign over his ~ods,
and to give up all to his creditors. But this was
Bot according to Stilling's views of propriety.
"No, no," said he; "every one shall be paid to
the uttermost farthing. I promise this in the
name of God; He has been my guide; ;and cer-
tainly will not let me be confounded. I will not
make myself a knave, and abandon the school
<>f my heavenly Father." "It is all very well,"
answered they; "but what will you do now 1
You are unable to pay; and if you are arrested,
and 1our furniture seized, what will you L'ien
do 1' "I leave all that to God," rejoined he,
" and do not trouble myself about it, for it is
His affair.''
He consequently began to pack up, and for-
ward to Frankfort what he intended to take with
Jlim, and appointed a day for selling the rest by
auction. Every thing passed over quietly, and
no one stirred; he sent away furniture and re-
«ived money without any one interfering; he
even took places in the stage to Riisselstein for
himself, his wife, and the two children, for the fol-
lowing Sunday, consequently a week before-
ltand. Meanwhile, he was privately informed
that a couple of his creditors had concerted to-
gether to have him arrested; for, as the little
household famiture he possessed was altogether
-of trltling value, they had not troubled them-
selves about it, but believed that if they thus
hindered him in his course, people would be
found to liberate him. Stilling inwardly trem-
bled with anxiety, yet still he firmly trusted in
God.
The following Thursday, his friend Troost
entered the door, with a cheerful, smiling coun-
tenance, and tears in his eyes; his pockets seem-
ed loaded. "Friend/' he began, "things go
again in Stilling's fashion.'' So saying, he drew
out a linen bag, filled wilh French dollars, and
threw it upon the table. Stilling and Christina
looked at each other, and began to weep.
"How is that 1" said he to his friend Troost.
" It is as follows," answered the latter. 11 I was
at a certain merchant's," whose name he men-
tioned; " I knew that you owed him sixty dol-
lars, and begged him to remit the debt. The
merchant smiled, and said, •Not only so, but I
will present him with sixty in addition to it; for
I knOw how much he is straitened.' He paid
me, therefore, the money, and thete it is; you
have now nearly the eighth part of what you
need; but I will give you a little advice: to-
morrow you must take leave of all your ac-
quaintances, in order that you may spend Satur-
day quietly, and thus prepare for your 1
·ourney.
Be comforted, and see what God wil do for
you.''
Stillingfollowed this advice, and on the Friday
morning began to take leave. The first to w,hom
he went was a rich merchant. As he entered
the door, the latter came to meet him, and said,
11 Doctor, I know you are come to take leave.
I have never mistaken your character; you
were always a man of integrity ; but I couId not
employ you as IL physician, for I was satisfied
with my: own. God has raised me from the
dust, and made me what I am; I acknowledge
how much I am indebted to Him; have the
goodness to receive this acknowledgment in His
name; do not shame me by a refusal, nor sin
through pride." So saying, he embraced and
kissed him, and put into his hand a little roll of
twenty ducats, consequently a hundred guilders.
Stilling was petrified with astonishment, and
his noble-minded benefactor hastened away.
Amazement seized him by the hair of his head,
as the angel did Habakkuk; be was lifted up on
high by the greatness of his joy, and proceeded
further.
But, why do I detain my readers 1 Acknowl-
edgments were pressed upon him with the great-
est delicacy and consideration; and in tke even--
ing, wk.en lie '1ad finUked Ms round and returned
!tome, and cquntea tke '1IUYM1j <rrJe1'. lune mvdi. had
ke?-exadly eight ltundmJ, guilden, neitlter mqre
Mr less!
Such sublime scenes are only weakened by
description, and by the most brilliant expres-
sions ; I am silent, and adore ! God will re-
member you, ye secret Schonenthal friends I J
will bring you forward on the day of retribu.
tion, and say, "Lo, 0 Lord! these are they that
rescued me from my state of helplessness; re-
ward. them immeasurably, according to thT
great promises;" and He will do it. To thee,
thou chosen and unshaken friend, Troost, I say
notbina. When eventually we walk ~and in
hand through the plains of yonder world, we
will talk the matter over!
1 have hitherto, in several places, described
the character of the inhabitants of Schonenthal
in no very favourable manner ; and it is very
possible that many of my readers may have re-
ceived a general impression of dislike to that
place. I must myself confess, that I cannot di-
vest myself of this impression; but this has no
reference to the nobl1t-minded few, who, even in
their striving after wealth, or, together with their
vocation, cherish those exalte.
d feelings which
ever have real love to God and man for their
inseparable companions. These Scbi:inenthal
citizens cannot therefore take it amiss o{ me
Digitized by GoogIe
lH HEINRICH STILLING.
that I write the truth ; for their sakes, the Lord
blesses that tlourishing place; and it causes
them honour, both in the sight of God and men,
thal1 in the midst of so many temptations, they
retain their courage, and do not auffer them-
selves to be carried away with the stream.
But the pietists of that place will, in an es-
pecial manner, pronounce a woe upon me, for
having so openly represented them in their true
colours; this also bas only reference to those
amongst them who have de~erved it. Why do
they hang out.the sign of religion and the fear
of God.z and yet do not what religion and the
fear 01 God command 1 In our time, when
Christianity is assaulted on all sides, and made
the butt of bla."lphemy, the sincere admirer of
religion must work and be silent, except where
be must necessarily speak. But why ao I Blay
to excuse myself1 The Lord will take cogni-
zance of it, who judgeth righteously.
It is Jong since f ban mentioned any thing
respecting Mr. Friedenberg and his family, or
stated how this worthy man and his household
acted on the occasion of Stilling's appointment
to Rittersburg.
Friedenberg was a manufacturer and mer-
chant. Both he, as well as his wife and children,
were extremely industrious, thrifty, and activ.e;
their attachment to religion had preserved them
from all dissipation and all the amusements of
the great world. He had ht-gun with nothing,
and yet, with the divine blessing, had become a
moderately wealthy, though not a rich man;
hence an nnfavonrable sentiment towards Still-
ing prevailed in him and his family. They
had no idea of the char.lcter of a -learned man,
and, generally speaking, learnin~ was little es-
teemed by them; that which did not increase
their property was very indifferent to them. As
men of business, tbey were quite in the right ;
but it was on -this very account they were in-
capable of forming a correct judgment of Still-
ing, for the latter strove after the attainment of
truth and knowledge ; the unceasing considera-
tion how every moment romething was to be
,gained or saved, could not possibly fill a mind
whose whole sphere of operation was occupied
with higher thmgs. Hence arose a species of
coolness, which inexpressibly pained the sensi-
tive heart ofStilling. He sought to portray the
matter in its true form to his father-in-law; but
the result always was, "A man must maintain
himself.honestly; this is his first duty; the sec-
ond is then, certainly, that of being useful to the
world." "Very correct," thought Stilling; "no
one in the world can think ill of the worthy man
for_judging thus."
Friedenberg was not merely indifferent to the
Rittersburg appointment, but even displeased;
for he regsrded hi!< son-in-law as a continned
bad manager, !\<> that he thought a fixed income
would avail him just as little as bis practice in
Schonemhal; and since be was become security
for. his debts, be was afraid he would now have
, to bear all the burden himself, and, perhap~. in
the end, be obliged to pay all. Stilling's heart
suffered extremely from this circumstance; be
had nothing to say in his defence, but was
obliged to lay his hand upon his mouth and be
silent; but the most ardent sighs for succour
incessantly arose from bis opprr.ssed heart to
his heavenly Father. His confidence remained
unshaken, and be finnly believed God would
~foriously deliver him and crown his faith.
However, he promised his father-in-law to pay
off yearly a couple of liundred guilders, &114·
thus continually lighten the burden. 'rbis wu.
agreed upon, and Friedenberg consented to bis.
removal.
On the Saturday, Stilling went with his Chris-
tina and the two children to Rasenbeim, in order
to take leave. Tbe painful feelings which are
customary on such occasivns were now much
alleviated by the situation of affairs. Stilling,.
however, fear~d his consort might be unable to
bear the assault upon her sensibilities, but he
was mistalcen ; she felt, much more deeply thaA
be did, how much she and her husband were
misapprehended. She wu cull8Cious that she
had economized to the 11tmost of her power;
that her dress, for a doctor's lady, was extreme-
ly moderate, and much beneath the wardrobe-
of her sisters; and, finally, that, neither in eat-
ing nor drinking, nor in fomiture, had she done
more than she could answer for. She was
therefore, cheerful and courageous, for she ii;{
a good conseience. Hence, when the evening-
approached, and her whole family were sitting
in a circle, mourning, she sent her two children
away, after their ~and-parents had blesaed
them, and then stepping into the circle, she stood.
and $aid:
"We are about to travel into a foreign land,
with which we are unacquainted; we forsake
parents, brothers, sisters, and relations, and .we
forsake them all willinglyi for there is nothing-
that renders parting paintul to ua. The Lord
has sent us sufferings and aJDictions without
number, and no one has helped, refreshed, or
consoled us ; the grace of GOd alone has pre-
served us, by the aid of strangers, from totat
ruin. I shall go with joy. Father, mother,.
brother, and sisters, live so that I may meet yOll
all again before the throne of God !"
So saying, she lcissed one after the other in
their tam, and hastened away, without skedding
a iear. Stilling now also toolc leue, but with
many tears, and walked after her.
The following rooming he placed himaelf~
with his wife and children, in the stage, and
set olf.
•
CHAPTER X.
THE further Stilling removed from the scene·
of his fiery trial, which had lasted six years and
a half, the more his heart expanded; his whole-
soul was filled with thankfulness and a hi~
degree of joy. Nothing brings purer pleasure
than the experience which the sulferings Wlt
have endured afford us; we come forth more-
porified and more and more glorified from eTery
purifying fire; and this likewise is solely the
mvaluable characteristic of the reijgion of Je
sus, which no other ever had; it teaches us to
know sin and suffering. To this was added the
more exhilarating prospect of the future-a des-
tination entirely accordant with his previoll1f
guidance and his character; a vocation which.
insured him a certain maintenance, and gave-
hopes for the liquidation of his debts; and final-
ly, a people who could not have any prejudices.
against him. .All this infused profound peace-
into bis soul.
At noon he met a part of the private society-
of SchOnenthal at an inn, where they had order-
ed a parting dinner. Here, therefore, he dined,
and enjoyed himself in the company of these
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 105-
ucellent men, and then travelled to Riisselatein.
Two of his brothers-in-law accompanied him
thus far, and lhen returned. From Riiseelstein
he took a conveyance to Cologne, and another
from thence to Frankfort. At Coblentz he visit-
ed the.celebrated Sophia Von la Roche, to whom
he was already knowa by means of the history
of his life. He then proceeded to Frankfon,
where he visited bis old friends, but especially
the Rev. Mr. Kraft1 who shewed him extraordi-
nary atrection and Iriendship.
After a day's rest, he went, on account of the
great fioods, by way of Mayence, Worms, a.ild
Frankenthal, to ManheiJI!,_ where he was re-
ceived with open arms. Here he found man.Y
friends and well-wi~hers, in consequence of his
hisiory having appeared in print. Favor, friend-
ship, affection, and tenderness, were every where
shown him; and it is indescribable what a
pleasing effect this had upon him and his Chris-
tina, after having been so Jong trodden under
foot. Eisenhart now gave him several impor-
tant admonitions. Slilling's history, notwith-
standing the favorable reception it had met
with, had excited a prejudice of pietism; every
one regarded him as a man who was, after all,
a refined enthusiast, and of whom it was neces-
sary to be upon their guard in this respect. He
was therefore warned not to speak too much of
religion, but to let his light shine solely by in-
tegrity and good actions; for in a country where
the Catholic religion predominated, it was ne-
cessary to be prudent. Stilling perceived the
truth of all this, and therefore sacredly promised
to follow his advice punctually; however, he
was forced to laugh heartily, for at Schonenthal
he was reputed an infidel, whilst here he was
accounted a pietist; so little truth is there in
man's judgment.
He now pursued his journey into the woody
and mountainous province of Austrasia. Not-
withstanding the rude season of the year, 8'1ld
the dead and ~all.ess scenery, Stilling gazed
with pleasure on the precipitous rocks and
mountains, the aged forests, and the ruins ofold
baronial castles everywhere hanging to the cliffs
~very thing reminded him strongly of his na-
tit'e province. He felt at ease, and soon saw
at a distance the wood-crowned Rittersburg,
with all iL-i ancient towers; his bosom heaved,
and his heart beat more strongly, the nearer he
approached the scene of his future life. At
length, in the twilight, he drove in at the gates.
Aa the carriage tnmed to the left, and drove
through the narrow street, he heard a man's
Toice call oat, on his right, "Halt!" The coach-
man stopped. " Is professor. Stilling in the
coach 'l" A twofold "Yes" responded from the
nbicle. " Well, then, alight, my dear and
chosen friend and colleague ; here you must
lodge."
The kind and gentle tone of his voice affected
Stilling and his consort even to tears. They
alighlf'd, and were received in the arms of pro-
fessor Siegfried and his lady ; professor Stillen-
feld, bis other colleague, also soon appeared,
whose retired, quiet, and peaceable character
panicularly attracted Stilling's attention. Stll-
lenfeld was still unmarried, bat Siegfried had
already one child; he and his spouse were ex-
celient people, foll of zeal for religion and all
that is good, and at the same time enthusiasti-
cally pbilanthropical. Sitgfried wa~. at the same
time, a very learned and deep-thinking philoso-
pher, whose chief inclination was directed to
0
Divinity, which he bad formerly studied; bu•
he now taught the lawsofnatareand of nations,
and Civil, Financial, and llolitical Economy.
Stillenfeld, on the conlrary, was a vel')' relined,
noble-minded, upright character, full of system,
order, and mathematical exactness; in Mathe-
matics, Natural Philosophy, Natural History,
and Chtmistry, it was difficult to find his equal.
Stilling felt happy with theee men; and his wife
soon attached herself to professor Siegfried's
lady, who gave her information in every thing,
and assisted her in the regulation of her house-
hold.
The difference between Schonenthal and RU..
tersbarg was certainly great. Old, irregular
houses; low rooms, with ceilings supported by
crossed beams ; little windows, with round or
hexagonal panes of glass; doo~ which could not
be shut close; stoves of dreadful dimensions, on
which the marriage of Cana fa Galilee, with its.
twelve stone vessels of water in bas-relief, was
edifyingly portrayed; then a prospect into no-
thing but gloomy forests of fir-nowhere a
rushing stream, but a serpentine, creeping, fen-
ny water, &.<:. All this certainly formed a sin-
gular contrast with the scenes to which they
had been so long accu~tomed ; Christina als<>
had often tears in her eyes; but by degrees we
become accustomed to every thing, and thus
both habituated themselves to their new situa-
tion, and were heartily satisfied with it.
Stilling now wrote both to Rasenheim, to his
father-in-law, and to his father at l.ieindorf, as
also to bis uncle at Lichthausen, and faithfully
pictured to these friends his whole situation; in
doing which, •he by no means forgot to dilate'
upon the excellent prospects he had respecting:
the future. Johann and Wilhelm Stilling we~
filled with utonishment at their Heinrich's new
elevation ; they looked at each other, and said
one to another, "What will he at length be-
come 'l" Friedenberg, on the contrary, was not
particularly pleased; instHd of expressions of
8atisfaction, his answer was full of paternal ad-
monitions upon domestic economy; he had no
feeling for the honor done to his son-in-law and
his daughter, in his being nominated professor r
in fact, fame and honor did not affect him.
As the system of Political Economy which.
Stilling had formed to himself lay much on his.
hean, he appropriated the first winter to the de-
velOpment of it in his manual, and at the same-
time to the reading of lectures from what he had
written. In the sprin!f, this book was printed at
Manheim, under the title of "An Essay on the-
Principles of Statistical Knowledge." It met
with much approbation, notwithstanding its
faults and imperfections ; and Stilling now be-
gan to be,tnUy assured of lfis destiny- be felt
himself entirely in the department that was nat-
ural to him. Every obligation which his office
laid upon him, was at the samt time his greatest
pleasure. It is impossible to conceive a more-
happysituation than that in which he now found
him~lf; for even the people amongst whom he-
lived, loved, honored, and valued him and his
Christina beyond measnre; all calumny and
turmoil was at an end; and if a storm had not
continually threatened him from Schouenthal on
account of his debts, he would have been per-
fectly happy.
The following summer, Stilling read lectures
JipoD the treatment of woods and forests, Tech-
nology, and Agriculture; for he did not satisfy
himself merely with the sciences to which he
Digitized by GoogIe
106 HEINRICH STILLING.
was appointed, but also glowed with desire to mighty obstacle. But how was he terrified on
expand his system as far as possible in his learning that most of the buyers were creditors,
sphere · and as the treatises in use were not who had demands on the estate; whilst the rest,
adapted to his plan, he formed the resolution of to whom the estate was not indebted, were poor·
writing compendia upon all the sciences he was he therefore obtained little money, and he found
acquainted \vith, and made preparations for that if he wished to help himself, he must put
commencing the work. his hand into his purse, and where that did not
Stilling had been hitherto in the furnace of his suffice, borrow money on his own credit.
divine Founder, and from the rough had been He had, it is true, the well-grounded hope,
wrought into a serviceable instrument; but the that in the following summer a large and abun-
file and the polish were still wanting; nor were dant harvest would be more than sufficient to re-
these forgotten; for events were forming at a pay every thing, and that the produce of the
distance, which were to put the last hand to the large clover-fields and grass.lands would relieve
work, and which at length were more painful to him from the burden ; and so far he was excu-
him than every thing he had hitherto endured. sable; still, however, for a man in his cirnum-
Tbe Society of Political Economy, of which stances it was thoughtless to undertake any
he was now a regular member, operated with thing of the kind, particularly when he learned
unspeakable blessing and success tor the conn- the true state of the case; but, oh, how easy it
tcy, and the Palatinate can never sufficiently is, after struggling throurn grievous sulferings,
thank it for its labors; this is troth, and no com- to discover the little outlet by which we might
pliment. It instituted the statistical academy; es- have escaped! God be praised for his guidance I
tablished a manufactory which tlourishes great- To these threatening clouds, others collected
ly, and affords maintenance for many hundred themselves. The ruling persons at Rittersbnrg
people; and of all this, Counsellor Eisenhart were all Roman Catholics, in the coarse sense
was the first and last main-spring, the real of the word ; the Franciscans lilied the clerical
weight to the clock. They had also bought a office, and had the care of the souls of the par-
farm in the village of Siegelbach, a league and ishioners ; it was therefore of importance to
a half from Rittersburg, where they intended to these divines that stupidity and superstition
make a variety of new agricultural experiments, should be always preserved; the chief magis-
anci thus to set a good example to the farmers. trate, in particular1 was their faithful adherent.
This farm had been hitherto under the care of But the academy 01 Political Economy had now
managers; but every thing had failed, nothing established itself in the town, the teachers or
would succeed, for every circumstance proved which were all Protestants, and the latter even
unfavorable. Now when Stilling came to Rit- exercised a jurisdiction; all which was natural-
tersburg, the managementwas committed to bim1 ly a thorn in their eyes. Now there resided
as professor of Agriculture; and' he acceptea there a certain learned man, of the name or
this secondary office, believing. that he was fully Spassel, a singular character, who had few
~mpetent to it. The steward was therefore dis- equals; his dreH was very negligent, and even
missed, and the whole business committed to occasionally dirty; bis gall and walk slovenly;
Stilling; this took place immediately after his and all bis s:eeeches savoured of low wit, so that
.entrance upon his professorship. he acted the 1ack-pudding in every company. In
On arriving at Siegelbach, and after examin· secret, he was the sp:y of one of the superior
ing every thing, he found a large and beautiful clergy, who was high m favor with t~e Elector,
<aw-stable, laid with tlags, arranged entirely in and· likewise the news-monger and tale-bearer
the new style; in this there were twenty Jean of the chief magistrate; openly, he was a face-
11keletons of Swiss cows, which gave altogether, tious scoffer at ~rtain usages ofbis own religion;
daily, three pails of milk; the true image of but woe to that man who assisted him in so do.
Pharaoh's lean kine. There were likewise two ingl for be had secretly entered into the Fran-
working horses, with two foals; and outside, in ciscan fraternity1 to which he faithfully adhered.
separate sties, a tolerable herd of swine ; and, It is painful tor me to hold up this man to
although it was only November, yet all the hay public view. However, as he was an instru-
was Jong ago consumed, as well as all the straw ment in the hand of Providence, I cannot pass
:for strewing. Hence there was a want of milk him by. If he be still living, and be recognised,
and butter for housekeeping, and fodder for so and if he be still what be was, he is justly &en'·
many great mouths. This presSP.d strongly ed, and it is a duty to warn every upright char·
'1pon the good professor's heart; he therefore acter against him; but if•he be dead, or be not
applied directly to the society, but there he could recognised, my description of him will do him
Bot obtain a hearing. Every' one told him he no injury. As long as an individual is still
must do as well as he could, for all ~re weary coatinued in this state of probation and purifi.
of having always to pay. Stilling was now cation, be is capable of amendment and return;
again deficient in needful prudence; he ought if Spassel, therefore, become, even according to
immediately to have resigned, and given up thr. the principles of his own church, a worthy, up-
management; however, he did not .do so-he right, and benevolent character, all those wlio
was too much attached to the whole institution, formerlY. knew him exactly as I here describe
and believed its honor was so closely connected him, will alter their sentiments-will love him1
.
with bis own, that it was incumbent upon him and there will be more joy in Rittersburg, as wel
to proceed with it, and this was his misfortune. as in heaven, at his return to virtue, than over
The first thing be undertook was the sale of ninety-and-nine worthy individuals, who have
half of the cattle; for be hoped with the sum he not had so severe a struggle with disposition
should realise from it, to be able to buy so much and character as he. Then will I also step for·
straw and fodder as to provide in a proper man- ward, before the whole world, and say, "Come,
ner for the other half. He therefore made ar- brother, forgivei as I have forgiven thee; thou
rangements for a public auction, and was a~ton.,, art better than , for thou hast overcome more
ished at the concourse of people and the prices, numerous enemies."
110 that he felt assured he should surmount the This Spisael had sought, from the commence-
Digitized by GoogIe
ST I L L l N G'S D0 ME ST I C L I F E. 107
ment, to be made a member of the Society of
Political Economy, and even to become profes-
80r of the Veterinary art; but they were afraid
ofhim, for he was a very dangerous man, who,
besides, did not possess the decorum which is so
requisite for a profossor; they had consequently
been very careful to keep him at a distance.
Now as Stilling obtained the Veterinary depart-
ment along with the rest, be was therefore in his
way. There was also something in addition to
this; the society had a library, which was open
once in the week for a lecture, from six till
eight o'clock in the evening. Stilling voluntari-
ly undertook this lecture gratuitously; panly, in
order to increase bis knowledge of literature,
and partly by this means to be the more useful
to bis hearers; the society had also permitted
all the literati of the place to make use of their
books at this lecture.
Spassel rarely took advantage of this privi-
lege ; but towards the spring, he began to come
oftener. The management of the farm at Sie-
gelbacb, however, .:aused Stilling to make an al-
teration in the matter; as be was compelled to
go thither every Monrlay, and being nnable to.
read the customary lecture on that day, he trans-
ferred it to the Tuesday evening. This he
made known to all the students, and begged
them to make it public. Spassel however,
came three Mondays following, and found the
door closed ; on the third, he sat down and wrote
the following note: l insert it just as it was:•
"it Is probablee intended bi Professer Stilling
To make A fool of me-but This is to informe
Him-That Spassel duz not intend To b maid a
fool of! ! I-the zosiete ote to instrukt there pee.
pie in there dooti and devores. SPASSEL."
Stilling sent this note in a letter to counsellor
Eisenhart, the Director, and informed him of the
circumstances of the case; the latter wrote im-
mediately to Mr. Sp'issel, and represented the
matter ill its true light, in a polite and honest
manner. But this was pouring oil into the fire;
{or the honest man came to Stilling, and made
use of such malicious and offensive expressions,
that the latter broke out into a glowmg tlame,
and marched Mr. Spassel as quickly as possible
.out of the door and down the steps, and then
.called after him, "Never cross my threshold
~gain, until you are become a better man."
Here the matter ended ; but that Spassel kept
.all this in remembrance, in order eventually to
'Cake advantage of it, may be easily supposed.
About this time there appeared another mete-
.or in the horizon of Rittersl>urg. A certain ar-
.rogant Englishman, of the name of Tom, bad
:travelled through many a province as English
language-master, made a thousand plans, and
built castles in the air, but all had failed. In
'Other respects, be was a man of uncommon tal-
ents, learned, and, on the whole, a ~enius, in the
real sense of the term. The motive of all his
actions was nngovemable pride; destitute of re-
ligion, rigid materialism and blind fate seemed
10 be his guide~. Philanthropy, that offspring
-0f Deity, was unknown to him; he loved nothing
but himself; the name of "language-master"
was odious to him, although, in reality, he was
nothing more, and be assumed the appellation
.of Professor of English Lllerature. Poverty
was a bell to him', and yet he was extremely
poor; for when formerly hew.as a wealthy mer-
• A• the note of coune mutt be traoa~d for the Jiing·
·Jiab reader, the aboTO ia ginn u the neareat poaible ~ci·
men of the illiterate original.-ED.
chant, he had acted the part of a great man, and
afterwards, as may easily be supposed, became
bankrupt. This individual resided at that time
in Manheim; and as the institution at Ritters-
burg seemed to him to be just the place where be
could support himself and acquire fame, he ap-
plied to Eisenhart to assist him in obtaining a
prnfessorship in the Rittersburg academy. E'-
senbart, who knew the ability of the man, but
also bis dangerous character, and besides deem-
ed it necessary to economize with the favor of
the Elector, always positively refused his re-
quest. At length Tom resolved to go thither,
without either salary or employment; he there-
fore merely applied for permission to reside
there and lecture; and this was readily granted
him. Eisenhart therefore wrote to Stilling, who
bad the providing of lodgings and quarters for
the students committed to him, to procure a
dwelling for professor Tom, at the same time
describing the man to him, and stating what
kind of a lodging it must be. Stilling accord-
ingly hirell a couple of handsome rooms at a
merchant's, and awaited Tom's arrival.
At length, on.e aftern.oon, a female-,
servant
came from an inn, with the following note, ad-
dressed to Stilling:
"Professor Tom is here."
" Ha !" thought Stilling; "a singular an-
nouncement!"
As he always made it a maxim, in cases
which could not prejudice himself or the good
cause, IO " take the lowest place," be took up his
hat and stick, in order to go to the inn. At the
same moment, word was sent from the merchant
that he wonld not permit the English language-
master to enter unless be paid for the first quar-
ter in advance. "Very well," thought Stilling,
and proceeded to the inn. There be found a re-
spectable-looking well-made man, with a broad
and lofty forehead, large staring eyes, thin face1
and pointed lips, from whose features spirit ana
craftine~s every where looked forth; near him
stood his wife, dressed in a riding-habit whilst
grievous care gnawed her beart1 which was ev-
ident in her swimming eye, ana the downward
inclining corners of her mouth.
After the exchange of compliments, during
which Tom seemed to wish to penetrate deeply
with his feelers into Stilling's soul, the latter
said1 "Sir, I have now ,seen where you have
alignted ; come with me, .in order also to see
where I live."
" I will," said he, at the same time ~inting
bis lips, and looking very sarcastical. On ar-
riving at Stilling's house, he said to him further,
" Sir, we are pleased at having so able a man
amongst us, and heartily wish it may go well
with you."
Tom walked up and down, making all kinds
of grimaces, and replied, " I will make the at-
tempt."
Stilling.-" But I must tell you one thing; you
will not take it amiss of me. I have rented two
handsome rooms for you at Mr. R--'s; but
the honest man demands a quarter's rent in ad-
vance; now, as vou are unknown to us all, the
man is DOI SO much to blame."
Tom.-" So! (he walked hastily up and down,)
I will go back again to Manheim; I will not let
myself be insulted here, either by a professor, or
any one else."
Stilling.-" As you please! We will quietly
and contentedly suffer you to return."
Digitized by GoogIe
108 HEINRICH STILLING.
Tbm.-" What!-why then have I been de-
eoyed hither 1"
Stilling now took him by the arm, looked him
:full and seriously in the face, and rejoined, "Sir,
you must not seek to act the proud Briton here.
None of us, nor any honest German, troubles
himself in the least on that account. At your
own request you have been permitted to come
hither, and it is altogether in our power whether
we send you out of the gates or not. Now be
calm, and observe the respect you owe to one
who is your superior, or else depart, if you
please. However, I advise you to remain here,
and act the part of a man of integrity, and all
will go well. Remember that you are an entire
stranger here, whom no one knows, and who
consequently bas not the smallest credit; for a
rogue may p,osscss your name, as well as an
honest man. '
. Stilling was now called out; the merchant
had taken a view of Mr. Tom's furniture, and
sent word that he would receive the language-
master without the advance. This news paci-
fied Mr. Tom, and be took possession of the
apartments.
But that I may not waste both time and room
in detailing every little event and circumstance,
1 will only observe, in short, that SpiiSsel and
Tom united together, and formed a plan to over-
throw Stilling, expel him from his situation, and
then divide his office between them. Their
preparations were extremely cunning, exten-
sively concerted, and maturely digested, a~ the
result will shew.
The general idea that Stilling had still some
inclination to enthusiasm and pietism, appeared
to the two caballers the weak side, to which they
must direct their artillery and make a breach.
They walked, therefore, a long time up and down
the street before Stilling's house, in the twilight,
in order to spy out what they could. Now he
was frequently in the habit, after dinner, of play-
ing hymn-tunes upon his harpsichord and sing-
ing to them, in wllich bis Christina joined; this
was spread abroad; it was said he had family-
worship, prayer-meetings, and the like; and thus
the public were gradually prepared. This intel-
ligence Spassel communicated also to the court
at Munieb, in order that every thing might be
complete.
A circumstance was added to this which fully
decided the matter. Stilling bad found at Sie-
gelbach a stock of Swiss cheese, which he took
home with him, in order to sell; in·consequence
of which, a number of tradespeople, women, and
girls, ca~ frequently to buy cheese. Now there
were ~ome of them who were of a religious turn,
and occasionally spoke on the subject with Still-
ing's consort-one of them once invited her to
her garden, in order to afford a little change to
herself and her children. Christina accepted it
without hesitation, and Stilling imagined no-
thing evil. She went therefore on the day ap-
pointed; and after the lecture-hours, be walked
to the garden also, to fetch bis wife and children.
Here he found four or five females sitting round
his Christina in the summer-house; some edify-
ing works Jay on the table, between currant-
cakes and coffee-cups, and all were engaged in
religious conversation. Stilling sat down by
them, and began to preach circumspection : he
represented to them how dangerous meetings of
that kind were in a place where.every action and
movement of the Protestants were so minutely
observed; be then clearly and fully proved to
them that religion does not consist in such con-
versation, but in a devout life, &e.
But who could have imagined that SpasseJ,.
at that very time, was standJng behind the hedge._
and overheard every thing! Stilling, at leas~
never dreamt of such a thing. How was be as-
tonished, therefore1 on receiving letters a week
after, containing tile most serious, and I may
well say the severest reproaches from his friends
at Manheim and Zweibrucken 1 he really knew
not what to think of it; and if the holding a
garden-conventicle had not been mentioned, he
would never have dreamt how this venomous
calumny.had originated. Be therefore answer-
ed the above letters in a manly manner, and ac-
cording to truth ; and bis friends believed him ;
but on the whole, there always remained a sen-
sation behind which was prejudicial to him, at
least amongst the Catholics.
In Rittersburg itself, the thing created disturb-
ance. The chief magistrate threatened impris-
onment, and reasoned very excellently; but the
Protestants murmured and complained that they
were not sulfered even to bold family-worship.
Stilling lost nothing in their estimation ; on the
contrary, they valued him so much the more-
Tbe two Protestant clergymen, two venerable
and excellent men Mr. W·-- and Mr. S--,
also took up the alrair; they visited the females
in question, admonished them to be prudent,
consoled them, and promised them protection ;
for they knew they were good and worthy peo-
ple, who cherished no principles which were
contrary to religion. Mr. W-- even preach-
ed, the following Sunday, upon prudence and
duty with respl'ct to family-worshiP.; during
which, he finally turned towards Stilling, and
addressed him openly, by.breaking out into the
following words: "But thou, suffering wanderer
to the lofty aim of the Christian and the truly
wise, be of good cheer; endure patiently, and
walk with circumspection between the snares
that adversaries lay for thee! Thou wilt over-
come, and God will crown thee with blessings;
God will make shame the companion ofthy foes,
but upon thee shall the crown of the conq11eror
flourish. Let us accompany each other, hand
in band through the burning sandy desert, and
one shah console the otht!r when his,heart sighs
for help," &e. The whole congre~ation fixed
their eyes on Stilling, and blessed him.
Through the elforts of these excellent men, the
whole parish was again tranquillized; and as a
statement of the affair was transmitted to the
Palatine ecclesiastical board, the chief-magis-
trate received an injunction to talk no more or
imprisonment, until really illegal conventicles
had been held, and excesses committed under
the name of religion. But in the mean time,
Tom and Spassel se~retlycontinued their mach-
inations at the court of Munich, and really car-
ried matters so far that Stilling was on the point
of being cashiered. Be did not hear of this dan-
gerous storm until it was happily over; for the
divine interference of a superintending Provi-
dence was also visible lo this alfair. At the very
momem when an ecclesiastic ofhig'i :ank seri-
ouslyerged the Elector to remove him, and ren-
dered Stillin~ suspected by him, and when the
thing was all but decided, another ecclesiastic
equally respectable, but a warm friend of Still-
in~, and who knew the real state of affairs at
Rittersburg, entered the cabinet of the Elector.
The latter on hearing the subject of the conver-
sation. to~k Stilllng's part and defended it SC>
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 109
strikingly and convincingly, that the Elector at
once ordered the intolerant prelate to let the mat-
&er ret<t, and did not withdraw his favor from
Slllling. Had not this wonhy clergyman come
thither accidentally, StJlling':> misfortune would
have been boundless. He first heard of the
wnole affair half a year afterwards, just as I
have related it.
During this period, he lived quietly, fulfilled
his duties, and acted as prudently as possible.
Spiissel and Tom, meanwhile, concocted a va-
riety of extensive plans for a general literary
elnb, a topographical society, &:e. But they be-
came themselve~ at variance on these important
affairs, and began to hate each other bitterly.
Tom's crediton1 now made a stir.i and as Still-
ing was at the same time DPan or the academy,
and therefore his regular superior, he crept to the
cross, came to him, wept, and confessed every
thing in which he had c06perated with Spusel
to his detriment; he even shewed him the letters
and statements which had been sent from thence
to Munich. Stilling was perfectly amazed at all
the infernal wickedness and extremely artful de-
vices of these men; but as all was now over,
and as he learned just at that time bow he had
been rescued at Munich, he forgave Spusel and
Tom every thing; and as the latterwas in pain-
fal and ni!etly circumstances, he consoled and
supported him, as well as he was able, without
infringing upon strict justice; .and when at
length Tom could no longer remain at Ritters-
burg, and was desirous of removing to a certain
German university, in ortler to try his fortune
there, Stilling provitled him with mont';r for the
journey, and gave him his hearty blessing.
Tom there tried all bis tricks once more, in
order to elevate himself; but be failed. And
what did he attempt next1 He laid aside bis
pride, was converted1 pUJ on a very modest
dress, and became a p1etist ! God grant that bis
conversion may be real, and not a mask for wick-
edness and pride. However, the way from one
extreme to the other is by no means distant or
difficult, but very easy and beaten. May the
Lord bless him, and :Vve him the opportunity
ol effecting much good', that so his former cata-
logue ofsins may be blotted out!
Meanwhile, Stilling was highly successful in
his situation as pl'flfessor; he Jived entirely in
his element. But as I am unwilling to detain
my readers with a variety of circumstances, even
though of an interesting nature, which have no
direct reference to his fate or his guidance, I
will merely proceed with the principal course of
his history.
The management of the Siegelbach estate
went wrong; nothing succeeded; there was ev-
-ery where curse insi.ad of blessing; unfaithful
servants, thievish neighbors, secret ~rtidy of
the inferior officers; all these stood in Rtilling's
way, so that at length, unless be were willing to
be ruined himself, along with the estate, he was
obliged to give up the entire management, and
render in his accounts. Though he was deliv-
ered by this means from this heavy burden, yet
he was plunged still deeper into debt; for be
had attempted and expended much, which he
~nly could not charge, and partlv would not,
10.order not to be suspected ofself-Interest; and
thus he came off from the affair with honor, but
at the same time with an addition of debt.
Misfortunes of every kind now began to gath-
-er over his head. Debts had heen formed at
Rittersburg, as well as at Schonentbal; the in-
terest WRS SCal'Ct'Jy raid, much leu any liquida-
tion of the principa ; besides this, all kinds or
reports were spread abroad, that S1illing kept a
col!ch and horses, lived at an amazing expense,
and never thought of his debts. He bad six hun-
dred guilders salary and received from two to
three hundred guilders lecture-money; at the
same time, the prices of every thing in Rltters-
burg rose almost double, so that with all econo-
my scarcely so much remained over his neoes-
sary exp!'nditure as covered the interest; with
what, therefore, were the debts to be paid 1 Al-
most every post-day1 the most tormenting let-
ters arrived from his lather-In-law, or from 801116
creditor in Scbonentbal. Mr. Friedenberg him-
self was in a very unpleasant situation; he was
security, and was threatened with an action at
law by the man who had formerly so kindly u-
si~ted Stilling from love to God and man. Still-
ing therefore bad every moment to ex!leCt that
his benefactor, his father-in-law, woul~, on his
account, be obliged to stop payment, This
thought was agony to him; and then, under all
these dreadful circumstances, to possess not the
smallest intimation of help, nor the remotest pre-
sentiment of it!
Dreadful! dreadful was this situation I and to
whom could be unbunlen himself1 To no one
but God ; and this be did incessantly; he strove,
without ceasing, with unbelief and mistrust, yet
never cast his confidence away.•All his letters
to his father-in-law were full of submission to
Divine Providence, and consoling; but they no
longer produced any effect. Counsellor Eisen-
hart himself, who knew something of his situa-
tion, made fruitless attempts to assist him. Still-
ing wrote "Florentine Von Fahlendom," and
"Theodore Von der Lfnden," and sought, with
what he received for them, to stem the torrent;
but it was like a drop in a bucket. He wrote
to several great and eminent friends, and stated
to them l\'is circumstances; but some were un-
able to help him, others took a dislike to him,
others again exhorted him to endure to the end;
and a couple assisted him with a drop ofmremr
ment to bis parched tongue.
Every thing therefore was in vain, and it con-
tinued to thunder and lifhten incessantly from
Schonenthal.
During this dreadful period, the Almighty
prepared for judgment upon Stilling, in order, at
length, to decide his fate.
On the 17th of August, 1781, on a very sul-
try and thundery day, Christina bad lifted a
heavy basket upon the head of the servant-girl,
and in doing so felt something crack in her
breast, which was 600D succeeded bv acute pain,
with shivering and fever. On Stilling's re&orn
from the college, as he entered her room, sho
came to meet him, deadly pale, with the air of
a culprit, and said," Be not angry, my dear hus-
band ;-by lifting a basket, I have done myself
an injury in the breast; God be gracious to thee
and me! I forebode my death."
Stilling stood stupefied, and like one thunder-
stn1ck; wt'ak and worn-out with protracled sor-
row, be imagined be felt the mortal blow; bis
head inclined upon his shoulders, !'lld projecting
forwards, his hands clenched, his eyes fixed,
with a weeping expres~ion of countenance,
though not a tear flowed, he stood mute; for he
now also anticipated Christina's deMase with
certainty. At length he recovered himself, en-
deavored to comfort her, and brought her to
bod. In the twilight of the evening, the disease
Digitized by GoogIe
110 HEINRICH STILLING.
manifested itaelf in all its virulence. Christina
laid herself down, like a Jamb for the slaughter,
and sa.id, "Lord, do with me as seemeth thee
JOO<I. I am thy child; if it be thy will that I
shall never see my parents and sisters again in
this world, I commit them into thy hands; only
' guide them in such a manner as that I may
eventually see them again, before thy throne I"
Christina's first attack was, therefore, properly
speaking, a pectoral fever, accompanied by hys-
terical paroxysms, which manifested themselves
in a violent cou~h; several' physicians were
called in, and vanous remedies were employed
in order to save her. After the lapse of a fon-
night, there was some amendment, and it seem-
ed as if the danger were over. Stilling there-
fore composed thanksgiving-hymns, and wrote
the pleasing account of her recovery to his
friends: however, he was greatly deceived; she
did not even leave her bed; on the fontrary, her
illness settled into a regular pulmonary con-
sumption. The waters now entered into Still-
ing's soul; the thought of losing so dear a con-
son wa:s intolerable to him, for she was the best
of wives; polite, extremely obi iging, whilst the
tont> of her conversation and her modesty capti-
vated every one. Her cleanliness was remark-
able; all were happy around her; neatness and
order predominated in her very simple dres~;
and all that she did was performed with extreme
facility and celerity. Amongst intimate friends
ehe was mirthful, and witty with due decorum,
whilst at the same time she was eminently de-
vout, and dt'void of hypocrisy. She avoided the
outward mask of godliness, for experience had
warned her against pietism. Stilling knew all
this; he deeply felt her value, and hence he
could not bear the thought of losing her. She
herself now again desired to live, and consoled
herself with the hope of recovery. However,
the dreadful paroxysms returned occasionally;
she coughed so violently that pie~s of her
lunp, as large as nuts, tlew about the room;
and she suffered, at the same time, the most
dreadful pain. In all this atlllction she never
murmured, nor was ever impatient, but only ex-
tlaimed incessantly, with a loud voice, "Lord,
spare me, according to thy great mercy I" And
when her husband and nurse were perspiring
with anxiety, com~ssion, and fatigue, she look-
ed at them both wtth an inexpressibly supplica-
ting countenance, and said, "My angel and my
all I My dear Mrs. M--, have patience with
me, and forgive me the trouble r cause you."
Acquaintances often stood at a distance at the
door, and wept aloud, as did also poor people,
whom she had relieved, for she was very benefi-
cent.
Stilling struggled in prayerfor days and nights
together; a comer of his stndy was rendered
1mooth by kneeHng, and wet with tears; but
heaven was shut against him; every ardent sigh
rebounded· back apin; he ftlt as if the paternal
bean of God were closed. Christina being un-
able to bear the sound of footsteps, he went con-
stantly in stockings, and ran in the distress of
his heart from one rorner of the room to an-
other, nntil the feet were worn through, without
his being aware of it. During alt this time,
threateninir and insulting letters continued to ar-
rive from Schiinenthal. Mr. Frierlenberg's heart
was broken by the expectation of his daughter's
approaching death; but still his reproaches did
not cease. He was now convinced that Stilling
was the cause of all his misfortunes, and excuse
was of no avail. The situation iu which the
poor susceptible man found himself, exceeds all
description; but the more hi~ distress increased,
the more ardently and earnestly did he cleave to
the compassionating love of God.
Aller some weeks, in the beginning of Octo.
her, Stilling was standing one evening at the
staircase-winrlow; it was already night, and he
prayed to God in secret, as he was wont; all at
once he felt a profound tranquillity, an unspeak·
able peace of soul; and consequent upon this,
a deep submission to the will of God; he still
felt all his sufferings, but, at the same time,
strength enough to bear them. He went into the
sick-room, and approached the bed; but Chris-
tina beckoned to him to remain at a distance;
and he thPn perceived that she was engaged in
earnest silent prayer. At length she called him.!
motiom!d him to sit down, and turned hersell
with difficulty, in ordl'r to lay herself on the
side next him; i;he then regarded him with an
inexpressible look, and said, "I am dying, dear-
est angel; take heart,-1 die gladly; the ten
years we have passed in the marriage-state have
yielcled nothing but suffering; it does not please
Goel that I should see thct> delivered out of thy
distress, but He will deliver thee; be comforted
and calm-God will not forsake thee. I <lo not
commend my two children to thee,-thou art
their father; and God will provide for them."
She then gav~ several directions, turned herself
about, and was qniet. From that time, Stilling
ofien spoke with her concerning death, and of
her expectations afier death; and did all he po~
sibly could to rrepare her for her end. Hours
of anxiety stil frequently occurred; and then
she wi~hed for an easy death, and that it should
happen in the day-time, for she dreaderl the
night. His colleague, Siegfried, ofien visited
her (for his conson, on account of sickness,
pregnancy, and sympathy, cou1':1 seldom come,
and at length not at an), and assisted him in the
struggle, and in affordmg to her consolation. ·
At length she approached her dissolution. On
the 17th of October, in the evening, he perceiv-
ed the forerunners of death; towards eleve11
o'clock he lay down, completely weary, in an
ante-room, and repo~ed in a kind of stupor, till
five o'clock in the morning, when be again
arose, and found his dear sufferer very compOst.d
and cheerful. "I have now overcome!" she
exclaimed, as he entt>red; "I now see the joys
of the world to come vividly before me; nothing
cleaves to me any more-nothing whatever."
She then repeated the following verses :
" ' Amnngot tho lilieo thon shalt feed,
With joy aupromoly bleot:
Thither, 0 aoul, thy piniono apoed,
Like eagles to their noot.
Behold for thee tho s.....ur waita,
To open wide beann'a pearly pieo.'
0 let mo run, and mount, and 111,
To join the b.avenly boot,
And th•heraphic cboin on high,
In adoration loat-
With blisoful songs ourround tho throne
Of Joouo, and the gnoat Throe-One !
Dear Brother of my ooul ! unmoor
My n11el from tho otrand,
Give mo to reach the peaceful ohoro,
The aafo, the beav'nly land-
Thl!ro, wltore thy oheop aocurely feed,
Afar f'Tom sorrow, want, and need.
There'• nothing to my heart shall clea...,
Of all tho world can gin :
Why ohould I lonlfer mourn and gilne,
Or wish on earth to live f
I'd bunt these fl•ohly prison-wallo,
A.lid hasten where my Saviour callo.
Digitized by GoogIe
81' ILLI.NG'S DOMES TIC LIFE. UI
BeloYed Redeemer ! gnat me faith-
A faith that conquen all-
That triumphs over tin aocj death,
And diea to reach the go&!.
Far Thee, mrsoul, like tome Jone dove,
Mouma, till climb the realma above.
Bow aooo caDlt thou my grief dilpel,
My mouth with laughter fill ;
.t.t~~\!hzi~~hTU'~ death and hell.
Theo ahall life'• painful puaage eeom
But lilr.e some empty, traoaieot dream.
The cune of sin thou hut far mo
lo all ita aoguiah bomo ;
Diamay and fol\r must therefore 11ee,
Like night before tho mom.
Tho sting of death no more gifft pain,
And all my bonea thall riae again.
Thou Prince of life, with pureot 1lamo
My soul ahall aing thy praiee,
And magnify thy holy name
Here, and to endlen days !
Etemal life to me it given-
Talr.e me, 0 Lend! lo thee iu heaven.''
Stilling's whole soul melted into tears; he sat
down by the bedside, and waited the departure
of the friend of hi~ soul; she often pressed his
hand, with her customar,y favorite expression,
"My angel and my all I' bnt she safd- nothing
more. She did not desir~ to see her children,
but only commended .them to God. But she
frequently repeated the words,
" And through tho ahadea of death and hell
Lead 1afe to ZiOD'I hill/'
and rejoiced in the coneolation they contained.
Towards ten o'clock, she said, "Dear hus-
band, I am very sleepy, and feel very comforta-
ble; should I wake no more, and dream myself
into eternity, farewell I" She then looked at
him once more, with her large black eyes, most
expressively, pressed his band, and fell asleep.
In about an hour, she began to be convulsed,
sighed deeply, and shuddered; her breath now
ceased, and the features of death covered her
conntenance; her mouth still, however, inclined
itself to a smile. Christina was no more 1
A tender husband must have witnessed a sim-
ilar scene, or he can form to himself no idea of
this. At the same moment Siegfried entered,
looked towards tlie bed, fell upon his friend's
neck, and both shed gentle tears. '
"Thon dear angel I" exclaimed Siegfried,
whilst bending over her " thou hast now en-
dured to the end I" But Stilling kissed her pal-
lid lips once more, and said, "Thou unparallel-
ed sufferer, thanks be to thee for all thy love and
fidelity; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord I"
When Siegfried was gone, the two children
being brought into the room, their father led
them to the corpse, and they cried a)oud ; he
then sat down, took one on each knee, pressed
them to his boeom, and all lhree wept together.
At length be recollected himself, ana made the
arrangements which the circumstances required.
On the 21st of October, in the morning twi-
light, Stilling's Rittersburg friends carried his
deceased consort to the burial-ground, and in-
terred her with all quietness. His friends, the
two Protestant preachers, who sat with him du-
ring the time, a!ltviated this last separation, and
supported him by consolatory conversation.
With Christina's death ended a great and im-
portant period in Stilling's history; and one
equally important gradually commenced, which
gloriously and tranquilly developed the object
Qf the painful trials through which he had hith-
eno :ieen led.
CHAPTER _
XI.
AFTER the death of Christina
1 Stilung sought
to arrange his ~litary mode 01 life in a pi;ppu
manner. He took a Journey to Zweibriic1'en,
where he had very good and faithful friends;
and with them he conferred respecting where he
could best place his children, in order to have
them educated in a pro~r manner. It appeared
that there was in Zwe1brucken, as it seemed, a
very good opportunity for that purpose; he
therefore settled the matter, travelled back again,
and fetched them. His daughter was now nine,
and his son seven years old.
But after having disposed of his children, anti
returned to his solitary and empty dwelling, all
his sufferings returned upon him; with an ineJr
pressibly melancholy feeling he covered his tace,
weeping, and sobbing, eo that he could scarcely
comfort himself. He had given up his house-
keeping, sent away the maid, and the people
with whom he lived brought his dinner into his-
room; he was therefore like a complete stranger,
and quite alone. He almost repented having
sent away his children and the servant, but he-
coulll not possibly do otherwise; his cbildrea
must necessarily receive an education; beside11
which, his vocation took up ,too much of his-
time for attention to his domestic alfairs, and he
could not entrust a servant with the housekeep-
ing; the arrangement he had already made was
certainly the best, but to him intolerable. He
had been accustomed to walk, hand in handy
with a faithful friend, and her he possessed no
longer; his sufferin~ were unspeakable. His
father, Wilhelm Bulling, sometimes sought to
comfort him by letter, and recalled to his recoJ..
lection the years of his childhood, when he was
reminded how long and painfully he also had
lamented the loss of his departed Doris; yet
time hacl graqually healed the wound, and such
would be the case with him. But this availed
little; Stilling was in distress, and saw no out.-
let by which he could escape.
To this was added also the gloomy close of
autumn, which, irrespective of other circum-
stances, had much influence on Stilling's spir-
its. When he looked out of the winaow, and
beheld the lea1less scene around him, it seemed
to hitn as if he were walking solitary amongst
corpses,.and saw nothing around him but death
and corruption; in a word, his melancholy was
indescribable.
Four weeks after, in the middle ofNovember,
one Saturday afternoon, this sorrowful feeling
rose to its height; he ran in and out, and could
find rest no where; all at once he began to pray;
be shut himself up in his closet, and prayed wnh
the utmost fervour, and with unspeakable con-
fidence, to his Heavenly Father, so that he could
not leave off. When in the lecturer's chair, his
heart continued its supplication ; and when
again in his chamber, he was again upon bis
knees, calling and praying aloud. At six o'clock
in the evenin~, afier reading his last lecture,
and as he had JUSt entered his room; the servant-
maid came and told him a young man had just
been there to inquire for him. Immediately af-
terwards, the latter entered; with a friendly and
captivating expression of countenance, he said,
"I am from R--, and bold an appointment m
a government ollice; in accordance with the
electoral regulations, I must study here at least
half.a-year, however inconvenient it may be lo
me; for though I have no children, yet I have
Digitized by GoogIe
119 HE INRI C H ST I LL ING.
.a wife ;-I am glad, however, to become ac-
quainted with S1illing. Now 1 have a request
to make to you; I have heard, with regret, that
.,-ou.r lady is dead, and that you are solitary and
melancholy;-bow would it suit you, supposing
you permitted me and my wife to lodge with
you, and dine at the same table1 We should
then have the benefit of/our company, and you
would have society au entertaiomenL I can
~atler myself that you will be pleased with mr,
wife, for she is of a noble mind and disposition. '
Stilling's soul revived at these words, and he
felt as if some one bad all at once taken the
burden of his sorrows from his shoulders, so that
he could scarcely conceal his extreme pleasure.
He therefore went with Mr. Kiiblenbach to the
ion, to pay his respects to his conson, who heard
with joy his willingness to receive them. The
next day, this excellent and worthy couple re-
moved into Stilling's habitation.
Every _
thing now went on in its regular and
.cheerful co11rse. Stilling, it is true, was still al-
ways melancholy ; but it was a pleasing melao-
ciloly, in which he even felt a comfort. He was
now also enabled to publish his lectures in ro-
tation, the sums he received for the copyright
-Of which encouraged him with respect to the
liquidation of bis debt.<;; for he saw a boundless
field before him, in which he could labour as an
author all his life, and thus make his income
amollot yearly to fifteen hundred guildere. He
made a public sale of his superfluous household
fumiture, and re&aioed nothing more than he
himself required; and with the money thus ob-
tained he paid his most urgent debts.
This verv tolerable mode of life continued till
the end of ibe winter of the year 1782. Kiiblen-
bach then began to talk of removing, which re-
newed Stilling's anxiety, for he was apprehen-
•ive that his horrible melancholy would' again
return; he therefore sought to form a variety of
plans, but none of them satistied him. Just at
dtat ptriod, be received a letter from Mr. Eisen-
hart, advisio~ him to marry again. Stilling
clearly perceived that this would he the best
COlll'Se for him; he therefore resolved upon it,
after many contlicts, and awaited the intimation
and guidance of Providence.
His lirst thoughts fell upon an excellent wid-
<l'W·lady, who had one child, aome property,
bore die noblest of characters, and was of very
'!food descent and respectable family. She had
already given great proofs of her domestic man-
agement, and was acquainted with Stilling. He
there40re wrote to her; the wonby woman an-
swered him, and stated such imJ?Ort&nt reasons
which prevented her from manymg again, that
Stilling, as a man of integritr, was obliged en-
tirely to relinquish her. Tbts unsuccessful at-
tempt made him timid, and he resolved upon
acting more cautiously.
About this time, a light entered his mind re-
garding bis affairs, of which, up to that period,
he had not had the smallest idea ; for ts he was
once taking a walk alone, and reviewing his ten
years of sorrow in the marriage-state, he inves-
tigated whence it came that God had led him
through such painful paths, since his marriage
was so entirely ordered by Providence. "But
was It really thus ordered 1" inquired be ; " may
not human wealmes..'1-may not impurity of mo-
tive have mingled themselves with it 1" The
scales now seemfld to fall from his eyes; he
perceived in the light of truth, that his father-in-
law, hia depaned Christina, and he himself, had
acted at the time neither according to the pm-
cepts of religion, nor of sound reason; for 1t is
the Christian's highest duty, 111nder tll.e guidance
of Pr~, to e.umine every step, and panic-
ularly the choice of a wife or a husban<l, ac-
cording to the rules of sound reason and propri-
ety; and after this has been properl1 done, ex-
pect the Divine blessing. But all this was neg·
lecled at that time; Christina was au innocent,
inexperienced girl; she secretly loved Stilling,
clung to his love, prayed to God for the fulfil-
ment of her wishes ; and thus religion and af.
fection mingled in her hysteric attacks. Neither
her.parents nor Stilling knew anr thing of thisi
they looked upon it as Diviiie 10spiration ana
inlluence, and were obedient to it. The impro-
priety and imprudence of the thing showed it-
self too late, in the painful consequences. Chris-
tina had no property, Stilling was equally desti-
tute; he wu compelled to study with other peo-
ple's money, and afierwards was unable to econ-
omize like a tradesman, so that he could neither
support himself nor pay his debts. Christina,
on the contrary, who was brought up in a trades-
man's family, expected from her husband tbe
principal regulation of the household, and econ-
omized only with that which came to her hand;
she would therefore have made any tradesman
happy, but never a man of learning.
Stillmg, however, dearly recognized, with all
this that his ten years of painful probation, as
well as the events of his whole life, had been in-
expresaibly beneficial to his character and his
whole existence. God bad made use of bis own
impurity as soap, in order to purify him more
and more; his dear and beatified Christina had
stood the ordeal, and had been periected in this
very path. Stilling therefore broke out in loud
thanks to God, that he had done all things eo
well.
This discovery he also communicated to Mr.
Friedenberg, but the latter took it amiss; he al·
ways believed the thing was from God, that Still·
ing alone was to blame fur every thia,, and
that he ought to amend himself. I sincerely de·
sire my readers not to cherish any bitterness
a~ainst this worthy man, who has now finished
his coul"8e. Be was upright and pious, and
w·
as recognized, loved, and honored as sncb by
all men. But how easily may the most upright
man mistake; and what saint in heaven has not
erred I However, it was most repugnant to him
that Stilling was determined to marry again.
His first attempt to find a consort being un-
successful, Stilliog's inmate, K;l.hlenbacb, began
to prop<!se. He was acquainted with an excel-
lent young lady in S--, who possessed con-
siderable property, 11nd who, he hoped, would
he suitable for Stilling. I must, however, ob-
serve, that every one now advised him to take a
rich wife; for they concluded that he wlluld lw
the moi<t easily assisted by so doing, and he
himself thought it was the best step be could
take. He often shuddered indeed for himself
and his children, when he thought of a rich
wife, who perhaps had no other l!'Ood qualities;
however, he placed his trust in God. Kiihlen-
hach left him at Ea~ter; and at Whitsuntide
Stilling travelled to S--, to make the second
attemp~; but this, together with the third, was
fruitless, for both persons were previously en-
gaged.
Stilling now put a full stop to these endeav-
ours; it was not at all congenial to him to re-
ceive refusals; he therefore presented himself
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. 113
with a cootrite heart before Goel, and said to
Him, with 1he mos1 forveot filial c9ofideoce,
"My Father I I resigo my destioy entirely to
Thee; I have now dooe what I could. At
preseot I look for Thy direction ; if it be thy
will that I should marry again, do thou conduct
a faithful spouse to me; but if I am to remain
single, do thou mrnquillize my heart!"
At that time, that excelleot lady, Sophia Von
la Roche, was residing with her husband and
her still unmarried children at S--. Still-
ing had visited her; but as he did not enjoy her
intimate friendship, he had told her nothing of
his intention.
The first post-day after the above-mentioned
prayer and filial resignation to Providence, he
received, very unexpectedly, a letter from that
admirable lady; he opened it eagerly, and found,
to his astonishment, amongst other things, the,
following :-
" Your friends here have not beeq so prudent
as you were with me; for it is here a generally
well-known affair, that Stillin~ has made sever-
al unsuccessful offers of marriage. This vexes
me, and I wish it had not occurred.
"Must you necessarily have a lady of prop-
erty1 or would one of my friends suit you, of
whom I will now give you a correct descrip-
tion 1 She is very virtuous, handsome, and of
a ooble, ancient, and learned family, and excel-
leot parent~. HP.r father is dr.ad; but her ven-
erable, sickly mother is still alive. She is about
twenty·three years of age, and has suffered
much; she has been well brought up, exceediog-
ly able in every female employment, and a very
ecooomical housekeeper; devout, and an angel
for your two children. She has not much prop-
erty, but will receive a regalardowry, &c. Ifall
these qualities, for the truth ofwhich I ple<lge my-
eelf,are an equivalent with y<>u for somt'! thousand
guilders, please inform me. I will then mention
her to yciu, and tell yon what you have to do,"
&c.
Stilling's feelings on reading this 1etter cannot
be described; a few days before he had solemn-
1ycommitted the affair of his marriage to Provi-
dence, and now a person is pointed oal to him,
who posse~ses exactly all the qualities which he
desired. The thought certainll occurred to him:
"But she has no property; will not my torment
therefore continue1' However, be dared not
reason now accordinr to his own principles;
she was the object to which the finger of his
heavenly Leader pointed; he therefore obeyed,
and that very willingly. He shewed the letter
to Mr. Siegfried and his lady, as well as to tht'
Lutheran preacher and his spouse; for these
four persons were his most intimate friends.
All of them recognized, in a very lively manner,
the intimation of Providence, and encouraged
him to follow it. He decided therefore to do so,
with God's bl'lp; and wrote a ve~obliging Jet-
ter to Madame Von la Roche, in which he be-
~ught her to make him acquainted with the in-
dividual, for he would obey the intimation of
Providence, and follow her advice. A week af-
ter, he received a reply; the worthy lady wrote
10 him that her friend's name was Selma Von
St. Florentin, and that she was the sister of the
unatorial advocate of that name, who resided
there ; that all she had written of her was true;
that she had also shewn her his letter, mention-
ed something of the affair to her, nod shP. had
'expressed her~elf to the etfect that it would not
be disagreeable to her to receive a visit from
p
Stilling. Madame Von la Roche advised him
therefore 10 take a journey to Reichenburg, where
Selma was at that time residing at the Eagle
Inn, because the innkeeper was a relation of
hers. Stilling was always rapid and ardent in
his undertakings; he therefore directly 1ravelled
to Reicbenburg, which is a day's journey from
Rittersburg, and four leagues from S--. He
consequenlly, arrived there in the evening, and
drove to the inn above-mentioned. But he Willi
now in a dilemma; he dared not enquire after
the lady whom he sought, and yet without this,
his journey would probably be fruitless ; how-
ever, he hoped she would make her appear-
ance, and tliat God would further direct his
way. As it was still very early, he went to an
intimate friend, to whom he communicated bid
intentions ; and although this friend had ar.-
other plan for him, yet he confes~d that Seim&.
was all that Madame Von la Roche had de-
scribed her to be; nay, that she was even wor-
thy of higher rraise, if possible, bat with all this,
not rich. Stilling rejoiced in his heart at thi9
testimony, and replied, "Although she is not
rich, if she be only a good housekeeper, all will
go well."
He now returned to the inn ; but notwith-
standing all his observation, he could hear or
see nothing of her. At nine o'clock supper was
served up; the company at the table d'hote was
agreeable and sele(·t; yet he sat as on thurns,
for evt>n then Selma did not appear; he was
grieved, and knew not what he should do next.
At lt>ngth, when the dessert was placed on 1he
table, a venerable old man, who sat on his left,
began as follows :-" A pretty joke has happen-
ed to me. l had resolved to-day to pay my re-
spects to Madame Von la Roche; and as our
agreeable dinner-companion, Mademoiselle Von
~t. Florentin (here Stilling pricked up his ears
very nimbly) heard that I was returning this
evening, she requested I would take her with
m~, because she wished to visit her brother the
advocate. Her company was very agreeable
to me ; she therefore rode with rile to S--,
went to her brother, and I to Madame la Roche.
At dinner, she sent to tell file that she would walk
with herbrother towards Reichenburg, and would
wait for the coach at a certain village, where
she requested I would stop and take her back
with me. I therefore mentioned this to the
coachman, who however forgot it, and took an-
other way; consequently, we are now deprived
of her society."
Much was then said in Selma's praise, RO that
Stilling had enough to listen to; he now knew
what he wi~hed to know-the object of bis de-
sires was in S--. He therefore retired to his
chamber as early as he could, not to sleep but
to think; he retlected whether his not meeting
with her was not an intimation of Providence,
in order to draw him away from her. He tor-
mented himself the whole night with this idea,
and knew not whether be should return straight-
way home again, or go 6l'llt to S--, in or-
der previo11sly to speak with MadQme Von la
Roche. At length the latter decision predomi-
nated; he therefore rose.at four o'clock in.the
morning, paid his bill, and went on foot to S--,
where he arrived on the 25th of June, 1782, at
eight o'clock in the morning. .
On entering the parlour of Madame Von la
Rocht>, the 1~11er clapped her hanis together,
and exclaimed, with an inexpre~ibl.v kind loolr1'
"Ha,. Stilling I where do you come from 1
Digitized by GoogIe
114 HEINRICH STILLING.'
Stilllna replied, "You directed me to Reichen- They now anived at the summer-house, where
INug, 1>11t Selma is not there; she is in this be waa considered, investigated, examined, and
town." exposed to view on all sides. Selma alone call&
" Selma is here I how is that 1" her eyes down, lllld did not sar a word. Stilling
He then stated the whole affair to her. shewed himself unvarnished,Just as he was, and
" Stilling, this is admirable! it is the finger of did not dissemble. It was then agreed that Sel-
Provitlence. I have been reflecting on the sub- ma and her brother should come in the aflernO<lllt
ject; at the inn at Reichenburg yo11 would not after dinner, to Madame Von la Roche, and that
once have dared to look at her, much less to there the mauer should be further discussed; on
speak with her; but here it can be all arranged." which every one went horue again. •
These words quite cheered him, and tranquil- Sophia asked him, immediately on entering
lized his heart. the room, how he had been pleased with her
Madame Von la Roche now made arrange. Selma.
ments for a meeting. Mr. Von St. Florentin's Stilling.-" Admirably I she is an angel I"
colleague in office, Mr. P--, together with his Madame Von la Roche.-" Is she not 1 I hope
lady, were very good friends of Madame Von la God will bring you t.ogetber."
Roche, as well aa of Selma; she therefore wrote After dinner, Selma was eagerly expected, bu&
a note to them, in which she informed them that she did not come. Sophia and Stilling became
Stilling was at her bouse1 and requested them uneasy ; tears forced their way into the eyes oC
to. mention it to Selma an11 her brother, and beg both; at length the worthy lady made a propo-
of them to take a walk, about ten o'clock, in sition, should Selma entirely refuse her consrnt,
their garden, and that Mr. P-- would then which fully shewed her angelic soul as it really
~ for Stilling, to take him thither. was; but modesty and other important reasons.
All this accordingly took place; advocate forbid me to mention it. ·
P--'s lady went to fetch Selma and her broth- At the moment when Stilling's anxiety bad
er, and Mr. P-- conducted Stilling. reached its height, Mr. Von St. Florentin with
What his feelings were upon the way, God his sister entered the room. Sophia took hold
knows. Mr. P-- led him out of the gates, of the advocate's arm, and conducted him into-
and to the left by the walls, towards the south1 an adjoining apartment, and Stilling drew Sel.
into a beautiful shrubbery, with trellis-work an11 ma near him upon the sofa.
a hand8(1me summer-house. The sun shone in StiJJ,ing.-" Was it indifference, or what wu
the cloudless sky, and i1 was a moat beautiful it, that you suffered me to wait 80 anxiously 1"
summer-day. · "Not indifference," answered she, with tears
On entering, he saw Selma, dressed in an in her eyes ; " I was obliced to pay a visit} and
orange.coloured silken gown, and a black straw was detained; my feelings are inexpressib e."
hat, walking much disturbed amongst the trees; Stil.ling.-" You therefore determine to become
ahe wrung her hands, evidently in extreme men- mine1"
sal emotion; in another place, b-.r brother was Selma.-" If my mother consents, I am eter-
waUcing.with the advocate's lady; As Stilling nally yours !"
approached and appeared to them,they all placeci SfiJJ.ing.-" Yes but your mother1-" ,
themselves in a positian to receive him. After Selma.-" Will hav,e no objection to it."
he had complimented them generally all round, He embraced and kissed her with unspeak-
he atePJ!ed up to Selma's brother i this gentle- able delight ; and at the same moment Sophia,
man bad a digni.6.ed and very han11some fignre, wjth the advocate, entered the room. They
which pleaeed him extremely at first sight; he stopped short, and were evidently amazed.
approached him therefore, and said, "Sir, I am "Are you s-0 far advanced already 1" ex-
desirons of soon being able to call you brother!" claimed Sophia, with evident pleasure.
This address, which <.'ould only have proceeded "Yes! yes!" said he, and led her arm-in-arm
from Stilling, must necessarily strike a man of towards them.
such a refined education and knowledge of the The noble-millde4. &001 now embraced both,
world; he therefore made a bow, smiled, and lifted np her eyes, and said, with tears and the
said, "Yourobedientservant,professorStilling! utmost inward emotion, "God bless you, my
l shall account it an honour." children! The beatified Christina will now
Mr. P-- and his lady, with St. Florentin1 look down with heavenly delight upon her Still-
now hastened into the. summer.house, and len ing, for she has besought this angel as a wife
Stilling alone with Selma. for thee, my son !"
He walked towards her, presented her his This sctne was heart and soul-atrecting; Sel-
a.m, and led her slo.
wly forwards; just as di· .ma's brother also mingled with the group, bles&-
rectly and without circumlocution, he said to ed them, and vowed etemal and fraternal fidelity
her, " Mademoiselle, you know who l am (for •to Stilling.
she had read his history); you know also the . Sophia then sat down, taking her Selma upou
object. of my journey; I have no property, but a her lap1 who hid her face in her friend's.bosom.
.sufficient income, end two children; my charac- and be11ewed it with tears. .
ter is as I have described it in the history of my All at length recovered themselves. The at-
life. Ifyou can resolve to become mine, do not traction Stilling felt to this excellent young lady,
leave me long in suspense; I am accustomed to who was now bis betrothed, was unlimited, al-
hasten to the object I have in view without cir- though be was still unacquainted with the hie-
cnmlocution. I believe if you make choice of tory of her life. She, on the other hand, de-
me, you will never repent of it; I fear God, and clared she felt an indescribable esteem and rev-
will seek to make you happy." · erence for him, which would soon be cbanited
Selma Tt'<'overed from her confusion, and with inlo cordial love. She then approached him,
an unspeakably graC"eful expression of counte- and said, with dignit.v, "I will take the place of
nan<.'e, she raised her beaming eyes, elevated your departed Christina towards your children,
her right hand, in which she held a fan, and in such a manner as to enable me boldly to pre-
said, "What is the will of Providence, is mv sent them to her at a future day."
will also."
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE. ll5
They now separated : Selma rode the same
evening to Reichenburg, from whence she in-
tended to travel to Creutznach1 to her mother's
sister, and there pass the perioa before her mar-
riage. When she was gone, Stilling wrote a
1et1er to her, which was sent after her the fol-
lowing day; and then he also travelled back,
well pleased and happy, to Rittersburg.
When be w;as agam alone, and minutely re-
1lected upon the whole affair, his many debts
recurred to him and/ressed heavily upon bis
heart; of these he ha not mentioned a word to
Selma. This was certainly very wrong, and in
reality, an unpardonable fault, if that may be
called a fanlt, which arises from a moral impos-
sibility. Selma knew Stilling only from bis
writings and from report; she saw him for the
first time, on the day she promised him mar-
riage ; that, which between young people is
called love, had no place in the matter; the
whole affair was determination, consideration,
anti the resnlt arising from rational retlection.
Now if he had said any thing about his debts,
she would cettainly have drawn back, terror-
etruek; Stilling felt this fully, bat he also felt
what the consequences of a discovery of the
kind would be when he could no longer with-
hold it. He was therefore in a dreadful strife
with himself, but found himself too weak to
mention the matter.
Meanwhile, he received the first letter from
her; he was astonished at the mind that dictated
it, and looked forwards for future happiness.
Liberty of feeling, without affectation-correct-
ness and order in her tbougbt.s-well-made and
mature resolutions reigned in every line; and
every one to whom he confided the letter for
perusal, pronounced him happy in the prospect
of such a partner.
In the mean time, the consent of Madam
Von St. Florentin was received; it was com-
municated to Stilling, and all was now in order.
Be therefore travelled to Creutznacb to his be-
trothed, in order to spend some days with her,
and beceme more intimately acquainted with
her. He there teamed· to know her in reality ;
and found how all th~ painful and tediouio suf-
ferings be had hitherto endured were supera-
bnndantly rewarded by the everlasting and pa-
ternal love of God; but he found it impossible
to make any mention of his debts to her, and
&herefore prayed unceasingly to God, that He
would so order the affair as that it might have a
favorable termination.
Selma's aunt was .also a very wortbt and
pleasant lady, who became very fond o him,
and was glad of this addition to the family.
Near this aunt dwelt a merchant of the name
of Schmerz, a man cif much taiote and knowl-
edge. This gentleman had read Stilling's his-
tory, he was tlierefore an object of attention to
him; hence he invited him one evening, with
Selma and her aunt, to his beautiful garden,
well-known to manv connoisseurs. It lies on
the north.west side of the town, and includes in
it what was previously a part of the old town-
ditch.
To tbfs charming pleasure-ground, Schmerz,
as mentioned above, had invited Stilling, Selma,
and her aunt, to spend an evening. After they
had walked about for some time, taken a view
of evey thin~. and it bad t.ecome dusk, they
were connueted into the grotto, where they wt're
served with refreshments until it was quite dark.
At length Schmerz entered, and said, "Frit>nJs,
come once more into the garden, in order to see
how the night beautifies every thing." All fol-
lowed him; Stilling went before, having Schmerz
on his left, and Selma on his right; the others
followed behind. As they entered the long walk,
a sight surprised them with extreme astonish-
ment; the urn above, in the poplar-wood, was
illuminated with manr, little lamps, so that the
whole wood glittered hke green and gold.
"Schmerz• had illuminated his urn for Still-
ing, and near him walked.his Salome,t harbin-
ger of future and sublime peace I"
Beautiful, charming, and affecting tbonght I
After they bad all finished their joyful expres-
sions of admiration, there commenced behind
the ttrn, in the obscurity of the wood, very af-
fecting music, beautifully performed on wind-
instruments; it was the charming air from Ze-
mira and Azor, which is sung behind the mir-
ror; the sky was at the same time overcast with
heavy clouils, and it thundered and lightened be-
tween. Stilling sobbe,d and wept; the scene was
too powerful for bis soul and bis heart; he kiaaed
and embraced first Schmerz and then his Selma,
and in fact he overtlowed with sensibility.
He now discovered something new in his in-
tended ; she also felt it all, and was affected
likewise; but she continued perfectly tranquil;
her sensations were no prec1pi1<>us mountain-
torrent, but a peacefully tlowing brook In a
meadowy vale.
Two days before his departure from Creutz..
nach, he was sitting in the ball with Selma and
her aunt, when the postman entered, and pre-
sented a Jetter to Selma ; she took it, broke it
open, read it, and tumed pale; she then drew
her aunt with her into the parlour, soon came
out again, and went upstairs into her chamber.
The aunt now came, sat down by Stilling! and
informed him that Selma had received a etter
from a friend, in which it was stated to her that
he was much involved in debt; this bad sur-
pri$ed her, and she therefore requested him to
go upstairs to her immediately and speak with
her, in order that she might not witbdraw her
consent; for there were many worthy men that
had the same misfortune, and any thing of thia
kind ought not to cause a separation. Stilling
accordingly went upstairs, with sensations per-
fectly like those of a poor culprit who is Jed up
before the judge to receive his sentence.
On·entering the room, he found her sitting at
a little table, leaning her head upon her hand.
"Pardon me, my dearest Selma," he began,
"that I have said nothing to you respecting my
debts. I could not possibly do so, for I should
not then have gained your consent; and I can.-
not live without you. My debts have not amm
from a Jove of splendour oi extravarance but
from extreme necessity. l can earn much' and
am unwearied. in my labors. With regui'arity
in housekeepinll', they will be liquidated in a
few years; ana if I should die, no one can
make any demand upon you. You must there-
fore imagine the. matter to xourself, as if you
had yearly a few h11ndred guilders Jess incomei
you Jose nothing further by it; with a &housaoo
guilders, you can meet the house expenses, aud
the residue I will apply to the payment of my
debts. However, dear and valued friend, I now
leave you at perfect liberty, and if it were to
cost me my life, yet I am incapable of keeping'
• Schmen: i1 the German wnrd for pain.
t Salome, from whence Selma i1 dorind, mHm peace,
lhe kingdom of pe-.
Digitized by GoogIe
116 HEIN RI CH STJL LI NG.
you to your word, from the moment you repent
of it."
So saying, he was silent, and awaited his
aentence.
She then arose with the utmost inward emo-
tion, looked at him with a kind and penetrating
expression of countenance, and replied, "No, I
will not forsake you, Stilling. God has destined
me to assist in bearing your burden. I will
gladly do so; be encouraged, we shall also
overcome this, with the help of God."
How Stilling felt can scarcely be conceived ;
he wept, fell upon her neck, and exclaimed,
"Angel of God !"
Thev then descended the stairs, hand-in-hand;
Selma1s aunt rejoiced exceedingly at the happy
result of this vexatious and dangerous affair,
and sweetly comforted both by her own experi-
ence.
How wisely did Providence again rule Still-
ing's destiny I Do not tell me that prayers are
not heard; an earlier discovery would have ru-
ined every thing, and a later would probably
have occasioned vexation. It was then just the
right time
•
CHAPTER xn.
STILLING now travelled back a1?ain, quietly
and contentedly, to Rittel'l'bnrg, and made prep-
arations for the celebration of his marriage,
which was to take place at the house of Selma's
aunt, in Creutznach.
The space of time which intervened, I will fill
ap with the history of
SELMA'S LIFE.
In the middle of the previous century, there
lived in France two brothers, both of whom
were of an ancient Italian noble family; they
were called knights of St. Florentin de Tansor.
One of them became a Huguenot, and was
therefore obliged to llee, and leave his property
behind him ; moneyless, he took refuge in the
Hessian dominions, where he settled a1 Ziegen-
hain, r.ommenced business, and married a worthy
young woman of the middle class. ·one of his
sons, or perhaps his only son, studied jurispru-
dence, became a IP"at, active, and upright man,
and Syndic In the imperial city of Worms; from
whence he was under the painful necessity, when
- this city was destroytd by the French at the close
of the previous century, of emlgratinl? with his
wife and many children, and leaving his habita-
tion in ashes. He retired to Frankfort-on-the-
Maine, where he again became Syndic, counsel-
lor to many imperial cities, and a man of emi-
nence. Amongst his many sons, there was like-
wise an able lawyer, who for a period occupied
the place of government-assessor in Marburg,
and afterwards accepted the place of chancery-
director at Usingen.
One of his sonl', of the name of Johann Wil-
helm, was the father of Selma; he first of all fill-
ed the place of counsellor of finance at W-,
and was aflerwards appointed finance-director
In the principality ofRothingen, in Upper Swa-
bla. Be was a man of great penetration, fiery
resolve, rapid accomplishment, and incorrupti-
ble Integrity; and as he always li\•ed at court,
he was, at the same time, a very refined man of
the worM, an<l his house was the favorite re-
sort of the noblest and the best ·of men. His
consort was likewise noble-minded, kind-heart-
ed, and very genteel in her manners.
This couple had five children, two sons and
three daughteri:, all of whom are still living.
The whole five need not my commendations:
they are excellent characters. The eldest daugh-
ter married a counsellor and magistrate in tile
principality of U--; the eldest son is advocate
m S--; the second son, counsellor of1inance
in Rothingen; the second daughter Is united te
a worthy preacher in Franconia; and the young-
est child is Selma.
The finance-director, Mr. Von F. Florentin,
had a moderate income, but he was too consci-
entious to accumulate wealth. On his sudden
death, therefore, in the rear 1776, hi' widow
found that he had left bttle; she received, in-
deed, a pension on which she could subsist, and
all her children were provided for, with the ex-
ception of Selma, to whom a variety of offers
were made; but she was only in her sixteenth
year, and besides this, none of these modes of
provision pleased her.
She had formerly a very rich and distant re-
lation, who in her fiftieth year had married a
young cavalier of twenty-seven, and was at thal
time residing on her estate in Lower Saxony,
in a verv handsome mansion. The St. Floren-
tin family knew, meanwhile, nothing but good
of this peT!IOn; and when the lady, who was at
the same time Selma's godmother, heard of the
finance director's death, she wrote, in the year
1778, to the widow, and requested her to send
her Selma to her, promisin&' to provide for her,
and make her happy.
Madame Von St. Florentin found it almost
impossible for her to decide upon sending away
hrr dearly beloved daughter, to a distance ofup-
wards of seventy German miles; however, as
II her friends and children earnestly urged her
to it, she at length consented. Selma kneeled
down before her, and the venerable woman gave
her her blessing, amidst lloods of tears. In Octo-
ber of the year 1778, she set off, therefore, under
safe convoy, to Lower Saxony, and was In
Frankfort just at the time when Stilling passed
through it with his wil! and children, on re-
moving from Sch nenthal to Rittersburg.
After a long and tedious journey, she at length
arrived at the mansion of her godmother, a gen-
eral's widow, he having gone over to America,
where he died. Here she soon perceived that
she was disappointed, for she was ill-treated in
a variety ofways. This wa.~ a school and a hard
trial for the good girl. She was well brought
up, and every one had behaved kindly to her;
but here no one had any feeling for her talents;
it is true, there were people enough that esteem-
ed her, but they could only comfort, without~
ing able to help her.
To this something of a different nature was
added: a young cavalier made her serious offers
of marriage; these she accepted, the marriage
was agreed upon between the families, on both
sides, and she was actually betrothed to him.
He then set out on a journey, and on this jour-
ney, something occurred which withdrew him
again from Selma, and the affair came to no-
thing.
I am silent respecting the true reason of hia
faithlessness; the great day will develope it.
By degrees, the sufferings of the good'lnd pi·
ous girl rose to their height, and at the same ·
time she teamed that her godmother owed much
more than she posaessed. She had now no long
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S DOMES TIC LIFE. 117
er any reason for remaining1 and determined, these enjoyments one against the other, and let
therefore, to :return to her molller. heart and soul decide which of them deserve the
It would not become me to enter more partic- preference, they will immediately and certainly
ularly into the df'scription of her sufferings, and pronounce in favor of those in which the sweet
her conduct under tbem; did I dart'! to tell all, and noble social feelings, which the Creator has
my readers would be astonished. 'But sbe is implanted in our souls towards our fellow-crea- ,
ltill living, and already blushes at that which, tures, find satisfaction. With the possession of
as Stilling'i: biographer, I must necessarily say. a friend to whom we may open our whole heart,
She grew sickly also at the same time; and it and in whose bosom we can deposit our JDOSt
appeared as if her sorrow would have ended in secret cares, as in an inviolable sanctuary-who
a consumption. However, she undertook the participates in every happy event; !ympathises
journey, after having endured for two years the with our sorrows; mcltes us by his example to
furnace of afiliction. On reaching Cassel, she noble and virtuous deeds; by 1'ind admonitions
stopped at the house of an excellent, pious, and recalls us from the path of error and of stum-
worlhy friend, government-counsellor M-- ; bling; assists us in prosperous seasons with
here she continued three quarcers of a year, du- sage advir.e; and wipes away our tears in the
ring which time she entirely regained her health. season of sutferiug-without such a friend, what
She then pursued her journey, and arrived at would be our life 1 And yet the enjoyment of
length at her brother's at S--, where she again the most perfect friendship mullt yield to that
resided a considerable time. Here a varietv of which the nuptial union with a virtuous woman
opportunities presented themselves of providing atfords to a virtuous man.
fOr herself becomingly; but none of them suited "Since I am to have the happiness this day
her; for her exalted ideas of virtue, conjugal af- of confirming so blissful a bond, by the sacred
fection, and of extending· her sphere of action, seal of religion, permit me, my honoured audi-
~be feared, would be all frustrated by these otfers; tors, before I lay my hands on the folded hands
and she preferred remaining with her mother. of my most worthy friend and the future amia-
She now often visited Madame Von la Roche, ble pariner of his Ii~, to detain you with a short
and she was also present when it was mention- description of the pure enjoyments of conjugal
ed to that venerable lady that Stilling had made and gentle friendship1 which is sanctified by the
fruitless offers of marriage there; Selma testified religious feelings ana noble love of virtue of the
her repugnance at this report, and was surprised couple who are thus united.
when she beard that Stilling resided in the neigh- "Excellent, and rich in blissfnl and delightful
bourbood. The idea now occurred to Madame feelings, is the bond which lhe pious and nobla-
Von la Roche, that Selma would be suitable for minded youth establishes with the lovely com-
Stilling; she was therefore silent, and wrote the panion of his plooming years. In the midst of
:first letter to him, to which he immediately re- the bustle of a world, which meets together from
plied. When this answer was received, Selma childish vanity, and separates again from base
was at Rekbenberg; Sophia therefore handed self-interest, the feeling youth discovers a beau-
Stilling's determination to advocate P--'s teous soul, which invites him, by the irresistible
lady, the mutual friend of both. The latter has~ attractions of a noble sympathy, to the mos1 in..
ened directly to Reichenberg, and found her ward union, and sweetest brotherly love. A
friend, in lhe morning, still in bed; her eyes like-disposed heart, full of uncorrui;>ted natural
were wet with tears, for it.was her birthday, and feeling; a like inclination for what 1s beautiful,
she had been praying and rendering thanks to and good, and noble, and great, brings them to-
God. getber; they behold each other, and friend1y
The advocate's lady presented her Stilling's confidence glows upon their countenances; they
Jetler1 together with an epistle from Sophia, in converse wilh each other, and their thoughts har-
whicn she gave her maternal advice. Selma monize; their hearts open to each other, and one
did not reject ibis opportunity, but permitted soul attracts the other; they already know each
Stilling to come. My readers know tlie rest. other, and, hand in band, vow to love each other
eternally. But-David and Jonathan love in a
• world in which connections which must be holy
and venerable to us, often dissolve the sweetest
CHAPTER XIIL bonds of friendship; ofien occasion joylessness,
or even painful feelings. Jonathan bas estab-
EvERY thing being at length duly arranged lished the bond of sacred friendship with the art-
,Stilling set otf for Creutznach, on the 14th of less son ofJesse, and the youth is then more to
August, 1782, in order to be married to his Se!- him tharra brother; for he had loved him, as the
ma. On his arrival he observed the first mani- sacred historian says as his own soul. Happy
festation oftenderness in her; she now began not Jonathan !-couldst thou but impart to thy king
merely to esteem him, but she also reallY loved and father only a small part of thy tender esti-
him. The day following, being the ftith, the mation for the favourite of thy heart I But no;
marriage was solemnized in her aunt's house, the wrath of Saul persecuted the innocent Da-
in the presence of a few friends, by the Rev. vid; and the gentle and virtuous heart of the
Mr. W-, inspector of the district, who was a son and friend strives in vain to combine the sa-
friend of Stilling, and in other respects an excel- cred duties of filial love with the duties of the
lent man. The address which he gave on this most faithful and tender friendship. Who can
occasion is inserted in the printed collection of read the history of the two noble-minded youths,
his sermons; notwithstanding which it is also and see them embrace and weep over each oth-
subjoined here, as in its proper place. er, at the stone Asel, in the bitter parting hour, l
It is verbatim as follows: and not shed tears with them 7-and how often
"There are many enjoyments with which is this the lot of the most dignified and magnan-
Eternal Wisdom has strewed the path of that imous souls 1 Although the bond oftheir friend-
man's life who possesses a mind and feelings ship may be founded upon the purest and mos&
for the joys of virtue. Now if we weigh all virtuous inclinations, they cannot remove the
Digitized by GoogIe
118 HEINRICH STILLING.
severe restraint ofconnections which are sacred Ily sternness rests upoa it; or ti,' gentle words le
to every good and upright human soul. The soothe his cares, when ad'f'el'!le results of well
o>mmand of a father; coutlicting tamily views; J meant intentions disturb him-this iB the endeaT-
.nay, sometimes, the same wishes, which, though Ior of the day, and this the nightly meditation of
just on the part ofevery one, can only be fulfill- the spouse who loves God and virtue.
ed with respect to one, often divide, in this world " Such a wife is the most valuable gift of heav-
of imperfection, the most tender friendly allian- en; such a husband; the blest blessing wbere-
ces, or rend the heart, in order to avoid an anx- with Eternal Love rewards a pious and faithful
ious separation. he~. If He who dwells in heaven blesses such.
"Not so with the friendship which is estab- a m6riage with a progeny, what ravishing proe-
lished between noble souls, by the holy and in- pects, what pure delight, what felicity on earth,
violable bond of matrimony· its genial enjoy- to see themselves Jive anew in well-dispoaed,
meats are not snbjected to such assaults. Death beloved children i to bring op useful citiZt>ns of
alone can dissolve the bond which the flame of earth, and blessea inhabitants of heaven; to see
the tenderest love bas established, and which a powerful support growing np for helpless 'Old
solemn vows at the holy .altar of religion have age; a sensible comfort in their infirmities I 0
sealed. The circumstances and intentions, the God ! what a rich recompense for all the toil,
wi,bes and elforts, oftbe Jover and the belov~d and Jabour, and care, which we expend on edu-
are one and the same; the relationship of the cation and attention to the inheritors of our
husband is the relationship of the wife; his hon- names and property; and when, as we may hope,
or her honor; his property her property. our wishes are fulfilled, of onr virtues also f
"The guileless heart of the pious and selected What a goodly lot, to be permitted to hear the
sp6use, full of tender and noble emotions, finds sweet names of father and mother!
in the man that loves God and virtue a safe- "All happiness to you, my estimable friend,
~uard on the journey of life; a faithful adviser who to-day enjoy the felicity of being etel'Qillly
in perplexing circumstance!!; a courageous de- united with such a consort I I know her noble.
fender in dangers; a magnanimous friend, who minded and pious heart, which is open to an4
continues faithful even unto death. What he warm for every friendly feeling. I cfo not need
accomplfahe~ for the good of the world, of bis to place before your eyes the duties which such
country, and his family, has all a beneficial ef- a union imposes upon you; you have practised
feet upon the happiness and the joy of the worn- them; you have thereby become happy; you.
an to whom he has presented his hand and his will become so again; and if the spirits of the
heart. Wearied with the labours of the day, he blessed learn the fate of their mortal friends, and
hastens to the sweet companion of bis life; im- participate in it, the departed saint that is in
parts to her the experience and knowledge be heaven will -look down with pure and indescri-
has collected; seeks to develope every shooting bable joy on this new union, upon which you
blossom of her mind, and prevent every timid this day enter with the chosen one ofyour heart.
wish of her atrectionate heart; willingly forgets "Happiness and the blessing of God be npon
the gnawing cares of his vocation, the ingrati- you, amiable and virgin bride! The friend of
tude of the world, and the bitter hindrances your heart is the husband of your choice, and
which every honest man meets with in the path worthy of your whole esteem and of your ten-
of incorrnptible integrity, in order to live entire- derest affection. You may boldly cast yourself
ly for her happiness; to give himself wholly lo into his outstretched arms; e.rpect, without ap-
her, who, for his sake, has left father and moth• prehension, from him, what tbe most perfect
er, and friends, and companions; and who, friendship, nuptial love, and inviolable fidelity
adorned with every 11.ower, has cast herself into can give. He that fears God, fulfils vows, and
the arms ofa single individual, who is all to her keeps covenant even unto death; to him that has
~eart. How could he be faithle5s to her, even passed through rough and solitary paths, warm
'in idea-the man that feels the greatness of the and heart-felt friendship is like a coniial to the
otfering she has presented to~him, and who wanderer, who, after roaming through baneu
knows and belteves that there is a rewarder in dtlferts, finds a shady spring; he approaches it
heaven 1 And what a valuable treasure be has with the JUO$t fervent gratitude, and every drop
found in her, who loves God and virtue! Her of water which pours refreshment into hIS Iaa:-
gentle, heart-constrai.ning society sweetens ev- guishing heart is sacred to him.
ery hour of his life; her tender sympathy in his "0 God, thou hearest our prayer; do thou.
fate alleviates his every pain, and gives him bless those whom thy band has jomed together,
donbly to feel each enj()fment of life;. her kind and bless them with all the felicity of a p,ore
disc.ourse translates him often into the blissful love, which death cannot destroy! Amen!'
feehngs of a better world, when his eye, troubled Hereupon followed the priestly benediction;
by the miseries of this earthly state, needs the Stilling's and Selma's hearts and bands were
most to be directed upwards. Gladly does she insepa~bly united, and the Almighty gave his
renounce the deceitful glitter oftransient amuse- gracious blessing to this union. Mr. Scbmen:
ment.<i, in order, unembittered, to enjoy quiet, do- took much interest in this joyful event; he pro-
mestic hafpiness-tbe only happiness which is vided the marriage-feast, and entertained the
worthy o being sou~ht ·and found by noble newly-married couple, with their friends who
souls; and knows no JOY of which he does not were present, both to dinner and supper.
partake who is the choice of her heart. To Schmerz also wished to celebrate the day fol-
please him; to take charge of the affairs of his lowing by an excursion into the Rheingau; two
house; by good example and love of order, and coaches were therefore ordered, in one of which
bJ: meekness and kindness to maintain that do- Madame Schmerz, the aunt, and Selma, rode,
mmion of love over children, and inmates and and in the other, Mr. Schmerz, Mr. W-- the
domestics, which is the most difficult duty and Inspector, and Stilling. The way led from
the noblest embellishment of her sex; to season Creutznach to Bingen, from whence Ibey cross-
her husbands hours of recreation with pleasure; ed the Rhine, thence to Geisenheim, to vlew the
by harmless mirth to cheer his brow, when man- baronial residence of Ostein; and from thence.
Digitized by GoogIe
STI LLING't:l DOMESTIC LIFE. 119
Oftr against Bingen to Niederwald, which alllo As they were walking towards the Mouse
belongs to the Count of Olllein, and is laid out tower, having their eyes constantly Ii.led on the
in the manner of an English park. The whole stream, they heard opposite them, on the Jen
journey was enchanting; objects every where band, a rattling and rushing, as if a coach were
presented themselves which aJforded peculiar driving between the hedges; all four looked
food for the eye of a mind susceptible of the thi,her, but it was too dark to see any thing.
be'luties of nature and of art; the whole com- Stilling therefore called aloud, and Selma an-
pany was con~aently extreme!}" well pleased. swered, "We are safe!"
They dined in the midst of the Niederwald, at Klopstock's "Come hither, Abaddona, to thr,
a forester's honse; and after dinner, the after- Redeemer!" and these words," We are safe I'
.noon was spent in walking, waile the various produced one and the same eJfect. Schmerz,
beautiful scenes, proi;pects, and objects, refresh- .W-1 and Stilling fell upon the neck of the
ed the eye and the heart. Towards five o'clock,' good Catholic priest, just as if be himself had
they commenced their return; the coaches with been their deliverer, and he rejoiced with them'
the ladies drove down the hill, and the gentle- as a brother. 0 thou messenger of peace, tho11
men went on foot. The latter now resolved to real evangelist, eternal blessings be upon thee I
stop at RUdesheim, and drink another bottle of All three now ran to the coach; Stilling out-'
the excellent wine of that place, to cement tbeir stripped them, and met on the way bis Selma,
friendship; meanwhile, the ladies were to cross wh<> went before the others on foot. He was
the river at the ferry, and wait at Bingen till astonished to find her quite composed, undis-
they should follow them in a boat. This was turbed, and without any sign of having suJfered
accordinglydone;butmeanwbileastormarose, from fear; be could not comprehend this, and
-the waves were high, and it already began to be asked her respecting this singular phenomenon;
dark, particularly as the sky was covered with she replied, with a tender and smiling co11nte-
black clouds. They took their 8eats in the boat, nance, " I tlumgkt, Goa does all things todl; if it
notwithstanding, and pai;sed over the rushing were M.s will to tea;r me from '!flYU aiain, He must
waves, in the midst of the roaring of the storm; have a g«Jd. object i• view: t/ierejore M.s toill be
and with much dangerand anxiety arrived safely done r•
at the other side. They now again betook themselves to their
All three now stood on the shore at Bingen to carriages, and drove quietly, and safely, in the
zeceive their beloved friends, who were bow- night-time, to Cruetznach.
'8ver still waiting with their coach on the oppo- The cause of all this terror and grief was
site shore. At length they drove into the ferry, merely the drunkenness oftbe ferry people, who
and the ferry-boat pushed otf. But what were were so intoxicated that they were unable to
their feelings, when the ferry-boat, instead of stand, much less guide the ferry-boat. The sail-
eotning across, went down the river! The ors, who were sent otr with the boat, were the
stream raged, and scarcely half-a-quarter of a sole cause of their deliverance; they found the
league funher down, the waters roared in the ferry close by the Bingen-loch, fastened their
Bingen-loch like distant thunder; the ferry-boat boat to it, andwith dreadful toil and labour row-
was drifting towards this dangerous place; and ed it across above the rocks and the Mouse tow-
.all this when it was growing darlc. Schmerz, er. As a punishment, the ferry-men we"\ dis-
W-, and Stilling stood there, as if lamed hand plac.ed, and imprisoned on bread and water; all
and foot; they looked like poor criminals that which they well deserved.
1iad just received their sentence ; all Bingen ran It is the plan of Providence, in all its dealinp.
tegethel'-all was in an uproar-and some sail- by which it leads him who lets himself be led l>y
.ors put off' in a large boat after the unfonllllllte il to the great and glorious aim, that when be-
~ple. stowing some great felicity upon him, if he
Meanwhile, the ferry-boat with the coach·con- cleave passionately to it, it threatens in a pow-
1inued to drift funber down; the boat followed erful manner to take it from him again, solely
them, and at length neither of them ·could be in order entirely to mortify this !'ellsual attacb-
111een ; besides all this, it grew ever darker and ment, which is so extremely opposed to all moral
more dismaying. perfectit:>n and to activityfor the $'ood ofmankind.
• Stilling stood as before the judgment-seat of lt is true what the mystics say in this case, that
the Almighty; he could neither pray, nor think; "Goel see/a an undi11iikd Aearl; it mag 1oDe a7Wl
his eyes gazed·fixedly between the lofty mount- tlaltu tlle !f!-/t, Ind im "° accotmt lllQ7'e /ri.gh/.y tM•
ains towards the Bingen-loch; be felt as though tlle Giver. ' Stilling bas always founa it thus;
lse stood up to the neck in burning sand; his as every attentive reader, who is experienced in
Selma, that excellent lt'ift of God, was Jost to the ways of God, will easily perceive.
him i the horrible cry of the crowd resounded in A few days after, Stilling, with bis Selma, ac-
llis deafened ears on all sides, "The poor people companied by her aunt, set out for Rittersburg.
are lost I God be gracious to them I" 0 ! what They were met half-way by the students of that
intense misery! and this lasted two hours. place, who testified their joy and the interest
At length, a young man, a clergyman, of the they toolc, by presenting a poem, and by music,
name of Genth, pressed through the people to and a ball.
the three men. He placed himself with a cheer- Thus began a new period of bis domestic life.
ing expression of countenance before them, Selma sent immediately for the two children
pressed their bands, and said, "Be satisfied, dear from Zweibtiicken, and with extreme care un-
sirs I be not apprehensive; people are not so dertook their much-neglected education. At the
easily Jost. Be not disturbed by the foolish tallc same time, she represented to Stilling the neces-
<>f the mob; most probably, the ladies are al- sity of her having possession of the cash; for
·ready over. Come, we will go along the shore she said, "My dear husband, your whole soul
-on this side; I will show yon the way I" This is engaged in its important vocation, in its high
was like a cool dew on their burning hearts; destiny; domestic arransrements, and domes-
they followed his advice, and he conducted them Itic cares and expenses, whether great or small,
by the arm down the meadow, and all bis words are beneath vonr attention; pll?Sue your course
were words of comfon and peace. /
Digitized by GoogIe
190 HEINRICH STILLING
witbont interruption, and henceforth leave IO me students, and the town; besidea which, his fide.;,.
income and expenditure. Commit both debts ity and diligence, notwithstandinir every <>bsta-
and housekeeping to my management, and let cle, penetrated at length to the ears of the Elec-
me provide ; roa will find your account in 80 tor, who, without bis knowledge, and entirely
doing." Stilling most joyfully assented, and gratuitously, sent him the patent of Electoral
soon saw the happy result; bis children, bis Aulic Counsellor, and aS6Ured him of his favor.
fumitllre, his table, were all becomingly and Abont this time, Mr. Friedenberg died of wa-
agreeably attended to, so that every one was ter on the chest. Selma bad previonsly con-
gratified. Every friend was welcome to his ta· vinced him, by a very a11'ecting letter, of Still-
ble, b11t never sumptuonsly treated ; his house inf['s integrity, and of the certain payment 0£
was the refuge of the worthiest young men i his debts, and thus he died in peace and as a
many a one was thus preserved from ruin, ana Christian; for this he was, in the foll sense o(
others reclaimed from going astray; but all thia the word. Peace be with nia ashes!
was managed with such decorum and dignity, Stilling was also accepted as a reipilar mem-
tbat even the most poisonous-tongued calumni· ber of the German Society in Manheim; in con-
ator did not venture to spread any unbecoming sequence of which he travelled tbiLber once ev-
report. ery fortnight, with bia friend Counsellor Mieg.
With all this, the money was never entirely These excursions were alwayi> a very pleasing
expended; there was al'!fays something in hand, recreation, and be felt happy in the circle of S()
ana comparatively, even superlluity. Selma also many estimable men. His acquaintance with
formed a plan for liquidating the debts, the in- excellent characters also became more exten-
terest upon which was to be regularly paid, and sive and useful. To this, another circumstance
the Rittersburg debts discharged first. This lat· greatly contributed.
ter was accomplished in lesa than three years, In the year 1786, the University of Heidelberg
and money was then sent to Scbonenthal, by celebrated the jubilee of its fourth ·centenary,
which the creditors were rendered more tranquil; with great pamp, and amidst t~e concourse of a
in a word, Stilling's tedious and painful suffer- great multitude of people from far and near.
ings had an end. The solemn jubilee address in the name and on
And if, occasionally, tormenting letters still the part of the Academy of Civil and Political
arrived, Selma answei:ed them herself, and that Economy, was committed to Stilling; he there-
in such a manner as must necessarily have im- fore prepared it considerately and calmly, and
paned confidence and satisfaction to every one experienced an effect of which there are few par-
who was in any degree rational. allel instances{ but to which circumstances con-
However, circumstances gradually occurred tributed not a ittle, and, perhaps, the chief part.
which greatly limited Stilling's sphere of action. All the other addresses were given in the great
Bis activity and the number of his writings ere· ball of the university, in Latin; besides whi.ch,
ated envy; there were those who sought, as it was bitterly cold, and all the auditory were
much as possible, to envelope him in obscurity, weary of the endless Latin speeches, and taking
and to place him in a wrong light; be did much degrees. When it came to Stilling's tum, the
for the general good, bat it was not observed; whole auditory were conducted into the ball of
on the contrary, his coul'l!le was not always the statistical academy, which was a beautiful
deemed right; and when the court or other po- one, and as it was evening, was lighted up and
litical bodies were desirous of bestowing a rec- warmed. Stilling step~d forth, and made a11
ompense upon him it was prevented. Add to oration in German, with his wonted cheerful-
tbis, Stilling wished to be able to complete and nes.,. The result was unexpected; tears begaa
teach his whole system; bat Ibis was impossible to flow-a whisper ran ·through the assembly-
in thP. existing order of tbiogsJ for his colleagues and at length they began to clap, and exclaim.,
participated in the system 01 tuition. Finally, "Bravo!" so that he was obliged to cease until
his income was too small to enable him to the noise was over. This was repeated several
make provision for bis family; and this had be- times; and when be descended from the ro~trum.,
come tbe chief object of his attention, since his the representative of the Elector, the Minister
debts no longer opprei;sed him. All this excit¢ Von Obemdorf, thanked him very expressively;:
in him the determmation IO accept a more ad- after which the grandees of the Palatinate, in ·
vantageons vocation, as soon as Providence their stars and orders, approached to embrace
should put it in his power. However, be was and salute him, which was also subsequentlr
inwardly cheerful and happy; for all this was done by the principal deputies of the imperial
not suffering, but merely a limiting of circum- cities and universities. It may easily be con•
stances. ceived what Stilling felt on this occasion. God
At length, in the year 1784, the Elector re- was with him, and granted him a drop of well•
solved to remove the academv of Politfoal Econ- earned, honorable enjoyment, which had bet-n Sc>
omy from Riacrsberg to He'idelberg, and unite long unreasonably withheld from him. How-
it with the ancient university there. Stilling's ever, he was fully conscious· in all this, how
situation was thereby improved, inasmuch as little he had contributed towards deserving this
his sphere of operation was more extensive, honor. His talent was the gift of God; that he
and his income in some measure increased; but had been enabled duly to cultivate it, was the
there was still no possibility of making provis- consequence of Divine providence; and that the
ion for bis family, and envy now became still present effect was so astonishing, was chiefly
stronger. He found indeed many powerful the result of circumstances. To God. a10M he tM
friends there ; and he gained the affections of gWn!I
the public because he continued gratuitously to F'"rom this time, Stilling enjoyed the love and
practise as an oculist, with' much success. esteem of all the higher ranks of the Palatinate
However, he was obliged to submit to much in an abundant measure; and ii was just at this
that was painfnl and vexatious. What con- time also, that Providence began to prepare the
soled him the most, was the universal love of station for him for which it had intended, during
the whole t.Iliversity and its officers of all the the last fonrteen years, by tedious and painful
sufferings, to lead and form him.
Digitized by GoogIe
~TI LLING'S DOMES'rIC LIFE. 121
The Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, from the
time be first assumed the reins of government,
had taken the beneficent resolution of placing
&he University of Marbnrg in a better condition;
and lo thill end bad removed thither dlose cele·
brated men, Von Selcbow, Baldinger, and oth-
en. He now also wished to see the Economi-
c:al department filled, and for this purpose sev-
eral learned men were proposed to him; but cir-
cumstances stood in the way which hindered
&heir coming. At length, in the year 1786, the
late Mr. Leske of Ll'ipsic received the appoint-
ment, and be proceeded thither, but suffered a
dangerous fall on the journey, so that he died a
week after bis arrival in Marburg. Now, though
Stilling had been often ~poken ot; yet person• of
consequence opposed his appointment; because
they believed a man who had written so many
novels was scarcely suitable for such a station.
But no man can withstand the plan of Provi-
dence. Stilling, in conseq11eoce of a rescript
from the Landgrave, was formally and regular-
ly appointed by the University of Marburg, fUb-
lic and ordiillary Professor of the Economical
Financia~ and Statistical sciences, with a fixed
income 01 1200 dollars sterling, or 2130 guilders
current money, and a respect11ble provision for
his wife in ca~e of his death.
Thanks, ardent and heartfelt thanks lo Will-
iam the Ninth, the prince of the noble and wor-
thy Hessians. He recognized Stilling's honest
intentions and bis impulse to be useful, and this
was the cause of his being appointed. This he
afterwards testified to him, when he was favor-
ed with an audience; be was requested to relate
his history, with which the Landgrave was affect-
ed and pleased. He himself thlluked God for
havinc made use of him, as an instrument, to
lay the foundation of Stilling's good fortune ;
and promised, at the same time, constantly to
sopport him, and to manifest paternal fidelity to
him and his family.
Stilling accepuld this appointment with the
most heartfelt thankfulness to his wiSI! and heav-
enly Guide, and now saw all his wishes ful61l-
ed; for he could now fill up and teach bis whole
system, and in bis domestic affairs and manner
of life, could also lay up something for bis chil-
dren, and consequently make them happy. At
that time he had only three children; the dau~b­
ter and son by the first marriage were growmg
up: the daughter be sent for a year to the rela-
tive-s of be-r late mother; but the son was boarded
with a very worthy preacher, in the neighbour-
hood of Heilbroon. Selma bad had three chil-
dren, bat an infant son and daughter had already
died in Heidelberg; the youngest child, a girl of
a year old, he therefore took with him to Marburg.
He set out for this his place of destination, at
Easter, 1787, with bis wife and child. At Frank-
fort, he again visited bis old and faithful friend
Kraft, who heartily rejoiced at the admirable re-
s11lt of bis painful trials, and thanked God with
him.
At Marburg he was received in a very cordial
and friendly manner by all the members of the
university; it seemed to him as if he were enter-
ing bis native land, and coming amongst bis
friends and acquaintances. Even those who had
labored against him became his best friends, as
soon as they learned to know him, for their in-
tentions were p11re and good.
'After having courageously entered upon his
office, confiding in the Divine assistance, and
duly established himself, bis heart impelled him
Q
to see once more bis aged father, Wilhelm Still·
ing. The journey was not a great or difficult
one for the venerable old man, for Stilling's oa.
tive province and birth-place is only a few miles
from Marburg; be wrote to him, therefore, and
invited him to come to him, because be bimsel!
had not time to undertake the journey. The
good old man consented with joy; and Stilling,
therefore, made pre.Parations for fetching him
with a horse, all which was provided by the son
of Johann Stilling, the mine-surveyor of Dillen·
burg.
He would gladly also have seen bis uncle Jo-
hann Stilling. But the great Father of men had
called him away a year before from his daily
'labor, and removed him to a more exten8ive.
sphere ofaction. ln bis latter years, be had be·
come surveyor-in-chief of the mines, and bad
contributed much to the prosperity of bis c-oun-
try. His whole life was an unceasing activity
for the good of mankind, and an ardent ~triving
after the discovery of new truths. His intluence
on the life, manners, and conduct of his neigh·
bours was so great and so powerful, that his
whole olltward manner of life lijlcl conduct is di-
vided amongst the peasants of bis village ; the
one laughs like him, the other has assumed his
gait, a third his favorite expressions, &c. · His
&pirit remains distributed amongst bis friend;;,
and renders him immortal, even with respect to
this world; his memory also, as a servant of the.
state, is blessed; for bis establishments and in-
stitutions will afford food and refreshment to the
poor in after-times, when Johann Stilliog's bones
are become dust. Rest sweetly, thou worthy son.
of Eberhard Stilling ! thou bast done honor to
him, the pious patriarch; and now, in his exal-
tation, he will rejoice over bis son, conduct him
before the Redeemer's throne, and render thanks
unto Him. ·
Io the summer of the year 1787, on a fine cleai: .
afternoon, as Stilling was upon tlie rostrum, and
lecturing on Tecbnologv, some of the young gen-
tlemen who were studying there all at once en-
tered the lecture-room. One of them exclaimed
aloud, "Your father is come; a!l is now at an
end here!" Stilling was mute; a variety of feel-
inp assailed bis heart ; be tottered down the
steps, accompanied by his whole auditory.
At the house-door below, Selma bad welcom-
ed her good father-in-law with tears; had led
him and bis attendant, the mine-surveyor, into
the parlour, and was gone to fetch her child; du-
ring which time Stilling entered with his reti-
nue. Immediately opposite the door stood the
mine-surveyor, and at the side, to the left, Wil-
helm Stilling; he held his hat in his band; stood
bent with age; and in bis venerable visage, time,
and a variety of affiictioos, had graven many
and deep furrows. Timid, and with a very pe-
culiar shamefacedness, which leaves no one un-
affected, he looked askant in the face of his son
as be approached. The latter slept up to him
with the most heartfelt emotion; belflnd him
stood his numerous auditory, and every one smi-
led with extreme and sympathetic satisfaction.
Father and son first of all looked fixedly at each
other for some moments, and then fell into each
other's embrace, with a mi.tture of sobbing and
weeping. After this, they stood again and look.
ed at each other.
Slilling.-" Father, you have aged very mucll
in the la~t thirteen years."
JVtlhelm.-" So have you also, my son."
SliJling.-" Not 'you,' my venerable fi\ther t
Digitized b~GoogIe
122 HEIN RIC H STILLING.
bot tAou! I am yourson, and am proud ofbeing
eo. Your prayers, and your mode of educating
me, have made me the man I am now become;
without you, this would not have been lhe case."
. Willlelm.-" Well, well, let it be so. God has
done it. His name bf! praised I"
Stilling.-" It seems to me as if I were stand-
ing before my grandfather; you are become very
like him, dear father!"
Wilhelm.-" Like in body and soul. I feel the
inward peace which he possessed ; and as he act-
ed, I seek also to act."
SUiling.-" Ah, how hard and stiffyonr hands
are ! does it then go hard with you 11•
He smiled like father Stilting, and said, "I am
a peasant, and born to labor; that is my voca-
tion ; do not let that tronble thee, my son ! it is
difficult for me to earn my bread, bul yet I have
no want."
He now cordially welcomed lhe mine-survey-
-Or, on which Selma entered with her little daugh-
ter; the old man took it by the hand, and said,
with emotion, " The Almighty bless thee, my
child!" Selma sat down, contemplated the old
man, and shed gentle tears.
The assembly now broke up; the students took
~eir leave; and the Marb11rg friends began to
visit Stilling's father. As much honor was done
him as if be had been a person of ra1'>lc. God
will reward them for their noble-mindedness ; it
is worthy of their hearts.
Wilhelm resided for some days with bis son,
and frequently said, "This season bas been a
foretaste of heaven to me." Pleased and much
affected, he then returned with bis attendant.
Stilling, therefore, now lives in Marborg, per-
fectly happy and useful. His marriage-state is
daily a source of the most sublime delight that
can be conceived on eanh; for Selma loves him
with her ·whole soul, above every thing in the
world ; her whole heart incessantly inclines to-
wards him; and as his many and long-continued
sufferings have made him timid, so that be is al-
ways apprehensive ofsomething without know-
ing what, her whole endeavours are directed to
cheer him, and to wipe away the tears from his
eyes which so easily flow, because their courses
and floodgates have become so wide and ftuent.
She possesses what is called good and agreeable
manners, without loving or seeking much socie-
ty; they have therefore been formed by llie com-
pany slie kept, and rendered pleasing also to per-
sons ofraoli. Towards the children by the fi~t
marriage she is every thing that Stilling can
wish ; she is wholly mother and friend. I do not
wish to say more of the noble-minded woman;
she has read all that precedes, and reproved me
for having praised her; however, I owe more 10
her and my readers, to the praise ofGod; I have
therefore concealed from her what I have just
said, and what follows. She is rather short, and
stiflly formed; has a pleasing and intelligent
connteoaoce; and from her blue eyes and smi-
ling looli:s a stream of benevolence and philan-
thropy pours forth towards every noble-minded
individual. In all her affairs, even in those
which are not directly feminine, she has a calm
and penetrating look, and always a mature and
deciding judgment, so that her husband often ad-
vises witll her; and when his rapid and aclive
spirit is partial, he follows her, and always fares
well in so doing. Her religious views are en-
lightened, and she is warm in her love to God,
to her Redeemer, and to man. Sparing as she
is, she is equally fr1!Derous and benevolent. where
it is rec;.•1isite. Ber mode~ty is peculiar; she
seeks always to be dependant on her h1u;band,
and is so even when he follows her advice; she
never seeks to shine, and yet she pleaBes wher-
ever she Appears; every worthy character feels
happy in her society. I could say still more;
bot I set bounds to my ,r:n. " Whom Gen love8,
he gives such a wife,' says Gotz Ven Berlich-
ingen of his Maria, and Stilling says the same
of his Selma.
Besides all this, bis income is large, and all
care about his maintenance is entirely vanished.
Of bis usefulness in his vocation it is not the
place to speak here ; the man of integrity and
ti)e Christian labors inceSllantly, commits the
success of it to God, and is silent.
He continues to operate for the cataract, at
Marburg also, gratuitousiy, and with much suc-
cess. More than a hundred blind people, prin-
cipally of thejoor and laboring class, have al-
readl receive their sight through him, with
God s help, and with it the means of again earn-
ing their bread. How many a delightful hour
does this t'asy and beneficial aid occa~ion him;
when, after the operation, or at their departure,
those who have beenso lungblind press his hands,
and direct him for a recompense to the exceed-
ingly rich inheritance of the future world! For
ever blessed be the woman who formerly con-
strained him to try this beneficial mode of cureI
without it, be would not have been so efficient
an instrument in the hand of the Father of the
poor and the blind. Ever blessed be also the
memory of the venerirble Molitor I May his
spirit enjoy, lo 1he brilliant plains ofth~ paradise
ofGod, all thesuperabundantfelicity ofthe friend
of man, for having instructed Stilling as an oc-
ulist, and laid the tin:t masterly band on him.
Young man, thou who readest this, watch over
everygerm of benevolence and philanthropy that
springs fonb in thy soul; cherish it with su-
preme care, and nonrish it up IO a tree of life
that bears twelve manner of fruits. Ifforesight
destines thee to a useful vocation, pursue it;
but if some other impulse awake beside, or if
Providence unfold a prospect to thee, where,
wilhout injuring thy peculiar vocation, theu
canst di9Seminate seeds of blessedness, then
neglect it not; Jet it cost thee toil, and anloous
labour, ifneedful; for nothing conducts '111' more
immediately nearer 10 God than beneficence.
But beware of the false activity which so
greatly prevails in the present age, and which I
am wont k> call bustling affectation. The sl•ve
of sensuality, the voluptoary1 covers filthiness
with the whitewash ofphilantnropy; he wishes
to do good in all directions, but knows not what
is good; he often aS8ists a poor good-for-nothing
to gain a situation, where be does amazing in-
l·nry, and works where be ought not to work.
n this manner acts also the proud priest of his
own reason, who, notwithstanding, makes dread-
ful mistakes by bis childish sophistryin the vale
of shadows and lgnes fatui ; he seeks to be an
autocrat in the moral creation, lays U:nbewn or
even mouldering stones in the boildiog, in the
impropl!r place, and /!asters up chasms and
holes with untempere mortar.
Young man, first seek a renewed heart, and
Jet thy understanding be enlightened by the
heavenly light of truth I Be pure in heart, and
thou shalt see God ; and when thon beholdest
the source of light, thou wilt also discover the
strait and narrow way that leadeth unto life;
then pray daily to God, that he may give thee
o;g;:;zed by Google
STI LLI NG'S YEARS OF TUITION. H3
'Opportunities ofdoing good; and ifsuch present
themselves, seize them with avidity; be ofgood
courage, God will assist thee ; and when thou
hast Rueceeded in a worthy action, thank God
fervently in thy closet and be silent I
Before I conclude, I must cast something off
. my heart that oppresses me. It is difficult to
write the history of living persons; the indi-
vidual commits faults, sins, weaknesses, and
follies, which cannot be revealed to the public;
hence the hero of the tale appears better than be
is ; just as little can all the good be told that he
does, Jest he be deprived of his gracious reward.
However, I am not writing Stilling's whole
life and conduct, lluJ, t4e M.sf,qry of PrlJ'l1i.denu in
itsguidance ofhim. ThegreatJudgewilleventu-
ally lay his faults in the one, and bis little good
in the other golden scale of the sanctuary. He
is altogether an unprofitable servant; but thy
eternal love, 0 ThDu Most Merciful I as mani-
fested in the gift of thy beloved Son, will abun-
dantly supply all his need.
STILLING'S HYMN OF PRA.ISE.
[lmitaled from Palm o:niii.J
BLB•BD be the Lord ! Bio eye benirnant belo!IUI,
And from his face divine compuaion atrAams i
Ilis genial breath unfolds th• blooming roee ;
Be gi•H tho tronbled opirit sweet repooe.
Ye Minto of hi1, appl'OllCh, and praile hia rnoe,
Jloly and good.tbrou11h nerluting days;
Servanll of God, rejoice, and blHS the Lord,
And tread the path preocribed you in his word !
Let all that l°'e Him to hi1 throne aocend1
And olFer grateful prai1Hwitbout end;
.bcend, ye righteous, who true 't'imte lO'le '
And let yuur IUDg8 reoound &o God above.
.)(y pt.1h wu steep, in twilight and in 1bade,
And lightnings tlaah'd o'er my devoted bead,
Sorrowa, on e•ery hand, my aoul did wound,
llat ltill my prayer &o Thee adml- folllld ;
And thou did'lt bear- did'lt amwer my req11e1t,
.And bring my llUll'ering heart to pMCOfal nit ;
Didot let me oee sublime and glorious aid,
And oootbed the griefwhich on my Yitalo prey'd.
The Lord it with me ! who can now oppooe !
Or who disturb my inward, C8lm npooe 1
ll'en tbeagh new llOITOW& in 1111 path appear,
.I fea.r \hem now no =-the 1.ord i1 hen!
Tiie Lord it ever near1o atrenglhen and llUltain ;
He can tb4 rage of nery foe restrain.
Ofwhat avails the trust in human aid,
8o oft frn.ltraMcl, and 10 iJl repsid1
Tbe Lood i8 good ; hi1 word !DUI$ he helleve4 ;
Who lr1lltt in him •ball ........ be .i-i-.ed.
Row often it the word of princea broke!
The Prince of princee doea whate'er He apoke
Trouble• aaail'd me, like the buoy swarm ;
Fiercely they buzz'd around to do me harm;
E'eu as Jehovah'• hoot they sharply fought,
And made the arduous conquest dearly bought.
Aa smoking thorns around and ufwards dart,
Cau1iog the brightest ~ye to fee the smart,
And, hiaiDJ, in the heat couawne away,
Till root and branch fall to the 1lame1 a prey:
So pi•rced the purging fire through all my frame,
Till chaff and stubble diaappear'd in flame ;
Down to the dust aank my dejected eye,
Or upwards look'd, for succour from on high.
But IOOD Jehovah's breath th- foH "'P.:'ll'd,
And gnu:iou1ly the raging flame dispell d;
With mighty band lie shew•d hie power to save,
And drew me forth, renew'd as from the grave.
God is my strength, my succour and my song! ·
Ye saintl, your hallelujah'• loud prolong!
From earth to heaYen your glorious anthems raiae,
Whilst 1uno, and spheres, and oerapha sound bis prai.te.
The Lord's right hand the Tictory retains,
And, highly lifted up, its power maintain•;
Jehovah'e hand o'ercomea: and though l fall,
I rile again when on hie name I call.
I shall not die, hut live, long to declare
How great and marvellom ht. merCJ.ea are ;
Although He chasten, yet bi1 strength prepares
Me for bis '°"ice in succeeding yean.
Unfold the golden gates, that l may bring
A warm aild contrite heart to heaven'• great Kinr.
And at the golden altar sing his prailO,
Who all my w-with happinHI repays!
BJe...d be the Lord, who brinp the lofty low,
And makes 1111 towering 1pirit humbly bow;
Abaaea, softens, awl with kindneaa 1waya,
To fit me for hie oernoe o.nd hill praise.
The atone by men for building tbongbt unfit,
Too tender, or too hard, no place would fit ;
Yet otill the 111&11ter-builder fonn'd and hew'd,
And shaped the atone out of the man so rude•
.'Twu God's own wotk, and wondrous in onr eyes !
,. Bia people view i& now. with glad surprioe.
Thia it the joyful day, when we behold
How every hair upon our beads i1 told.
0 Lord, help •till ! and further grant 1ucce11,
And on my soul thy image deep impren !
Ble...d i• the man that comes to praioe thy - ;
.,.,Who doe• thy will aball ne'er be put to abame.
God i1 our light! come and adorn bia house,
And at hi• holy altar pay your WWI;
Let harp and tlbret to hi1 honour oound,
Faithful, and kind, and &rue for ever found !
' Thou art my God ! aud I thy goodnen prai1e,
Which wondrouslr hath led me all my days.
Thou art my God • when I thy grace nview1
l pa• the thanb which justly are thy dne.
Hallelujah!
HEINRiCH STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION.
CHAPTER XIV.
D11a readers and friends ofStilling, you may
take the title, "Heinrich Stilling's Years of Tui-
tion," in whatever sense you please. He had
been hitherto a teacher himself, and had served
in every gradation ; he began as village-school-
master at Zellberg, ancl ended as profesaor at
Marburg. But he was aleo a pupil or appren-
tice in the work-shop of the chief Master ;
whether he will become j<1Urntym41& or no, will
soon be seen :--further ·than this, he will cer-
tainly not advance. becau11e we have all only
- master, and can liaoe only one.
Stilling now firmly believed that the profes-
eorship of civil and political economy was the
vocation for which he had been preparing from
hia cradle, and that Marburg was the place
where he wu to Jive and labour till his end.
This conviction afforded him inward .tranquil-
lity ; and he strove, in his official situation, to
do every thing which was in the power of man
to do. He wrote his large and oopioue Manual
o( Civil and Political Science, hie Science of
Finance. the Camerale Practicum, the Princi-
ples of Political Economy, Heinrich Stilling's
Domestic Lite, and many other little treatises
and pamphlets, during which be continued, un-
interruptedly, his ophthalmic practice. He daily
read lectures for four and sometimes five hours
together, and hie correspondence became more
and more extensive ; so that he was obliged to
labour with all his might, in order to keep his
large and difficult sphere of action in motion ;
much, however, was rendered easy to him by
his residing at Marburg. ··
Digitized by GoogIe
124 H EI N RI C H ST I LL I N G.
Thia ancient city, celebrated of old aa being Ithe aptjng of 1788. A student·from Anspach
the last abode and burying.place of the holy accompanied him to that place.
Landgravine Elizabeth of Hesse, lies crookedly, It is something peculiar in Stilling's charae-
obliquely, and irregularly below an old castle, ter, that rural scenery makes such a deep and
on the slope of a bill ; its narrow streets, clay beneficial impression upon him; whether he be
houses, &c., leave on the mind of him who only travelling or merely taking a walk, it is with
travels through it, or is merely superficially ac- him aa with a Jover of the arts when walking
quainted with it, a prejudicial, but in reality an about in an excellent picture-gallery. Stilling
incorrect impression ; for if be becomes ac- poesesaea a ela88ieal feeling for the beauties of
quainted with the internal social life of its in- nature.
habitants, and the people in their true charac- On the journey through Franconia. be wu
ter, he finds a cordiality, and such a real friend· inces8antly tormented by apasms at the st~
ship aa ii seldom met with elsewhere. Thia ii roach ; he could not bear any kind of food ; b!U
no vain compliment, but a thank-offering and a the character of the acenery of that country waa
true testimony, which I owe to the worthy in- strengthening and comforting to him ;-tlieJe
habitants of Marburg. ii much grandeur in the Yiews and prospects of
To this must be added, that the vicinity of Franconia.
the city ii beautiful and very agreeable, and the At Anspach, Stilling visited Uz, the Germaa
whole scene is animated by the river Lahn ; Anacreon. He entered into the apartment of
for thongh it bears no heavy burdens upon its this great lyric poet with a kind of timidity;
slender back, yet it labours diligently .as a por- Uz, who is short, but rather corpulent in per-
ter, and helps the neighbours on every side. son, came towards him with a cheerful gravity,
The first family in Marburg which opened and awaited, with reason, the declaration of the
the arms of friendship to Stilling and Selma, stranger, to tell him who he was. This decla-
was that of the Coings. Doctor Johann Franz ration waa no sooner made, than the worthy
Coing was professor of Divinity, and a real old man embraced and saluted him, saying,
Christian ; and to these, be united a friendly, "You are truly Heinrich Stilling !-it rejoices
gentle, pleasing, and secretly benevolent char- me much to see the man whom Providence so
acter. His spouse waa likewise devout and remarkably leads, and who so boldly confesses
pious; both were descended from the French and courageously defenda the religion of Jesus."
refugees, and the family-name of the professor's The conversstion then turned on poets and
lady was Duising. This worthy couple had poesy ; and when they separated, Uz took Still-
four grown-up children,-three daughters, Eli- ing once more in his arms, and said, "May God
za, Maria, and Amalia ; and a son called Jus- bless, strengthen, and preserve you! Never be
tus, who studied theology; these four children weary in defending the cause of religion, and of
are the images of their parents, and models of bearing the reproach of our Redeemer and our
the christian and domestic virtues. The whole Head ! The present age needs such men, and
family lives in a very quiet and retired man- the following will need them still more! We
ner. shall eventually see each other again with joy in
The reasons why the family of the Coings at- a better world !"
tached themselves so warmly and cordially to Stilling felt deeply and inwardly affected and
that ofthe Stillings, were various:-parents and strengthened, and hastened away with his eye&
children had read Stilling'a history ; both the suffused in tears.
. men were from the same province ; relatives on Uz, Cramer, and Klopetock will probably be
both sides had intermarried. The Rev. Mr. the Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun in the temple
Kraft in Frankfort, Stilling's old and tried friend, of the new Jerusalem. We 11hall see if this be
waa Coing's brother-in-law, their wives being the ease, whfln •cent• in the inmible to0rld are
sisters ; and what ii still more than all, they again unfolded to us.
were ehriatians on both sides, and this establish- The next morning Stilling rode five leagae&
es the bond of love and friendship more firmly further to the village of Kemmathen, a place
than any thing else. Where the spirit of ehristi- not far from Diinkelsbuhl. He there drove up
anity reigns, it unites the hearts, by the bond of to the parsonage-house, alighted at the door of
perfectiop, in such a high degree, that all other the court-yard, and waited for it to be opened.
human connections are not to be compared with The clergyman, a handsome, dark-complexioned
it ;-he is happy, who experiences it! man, came out of the house, opened the gate.
Selma attached herself particularly to Eliza and thought of nothing so little as of seeing
Coing; equality of age, and perhaps other his brother-in-law, Stilling ;-the surprise was
causes, which lay in the character of both, laid great. The clergyman's lady, meanwhile, was
the foundation for this intimate connection. otherwise engaged, and in reality, she did not
Stilling's many and laborious employments, exactly like to be disturbed in her employment
and particularly also a most oppressive spasmo- by a visitor; however, when her husband COil
die attack, which greatly tormented him daily, ducted the visitor to her, she received him po-
and especially towards evening, operated pow. litely, as customary; but when he told her that
erfully on his mind, the first winter he spent in he brought a message from her sister Selma,
Marburg. He lost his cheerfulness, became and also called her "sister," she welcomed him
melancholy, and so easily excited that he could most cordially.
not avoid weeping on the slightest o<'.casion. Stilling spent a 'few happy days with brother
Selma therefore sought to persnade him to un- Hohlbach and sister Sophia. Their reciprocal
dertake a journey, during the Easter ncation, brotherly and sisterly affection is immutable,
to her relatives in Franconia and Oettingen. a"nd will continue beyond the grave.
With much difficulty ahe at length induced him Sister Sophia accompanied her brother-in-law
to consent; and he undertook this journey in to Walleratein, to her brother's house. At
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 125
Oettingen they drove past the church-yard
where Selma's and Sophia's father reposes, to
whom each devoted some silent tears ; as they
did also at Baldingen, at their mother's grave.
The brother and bis lady rejoiced at the visit.
No sooner had Prince Kral\ Ernest Voa Oet-
tingen Wallerstein heard of Stilling's arrival,
&ban he invited him, as long as be should re-
main there, to dine and sup at the prince's
&able ; he accepted this offer, but only for din-
ner, because be wished to spend the evenings
in the circle of his friends. This prince's terri-
tory is one of the most pleasant in Germany ;
for the Riess is a plain, many miles in diameter,
which is watered by the Memitz, and surround-
ed by lof\y mountains. From the moderate
eminence at the foot of which Wallerstein lie.s,
there is a commanding prospect of thia garden
of God ; near at hand is the imperial city of
Nordlingen, and an innumerable multitude of
1towns and villages are also within view.
Stilling'• residence here was beneficial, by
hia being of service to several persons diseased
in the eye ; be performed •n operation upon
president Von Schade, which proved successful,
and the worthy man recovered his sight. At
this time the notorious Weckherlin, author of
"The Grey Monster," and " The Hyperborean
Letters," was in prison in a bill-fort in the
principality of Wallerstein. He bad grossly
and in a malicious manner insulted the magis-
trate of· the imperial city of Nordlingen, who
aeot a requisition to the prince of Wallerstein,
in whose territory Weckherlin was residing,
demanding satisfaction. The prince therefore
bad him arrested and conveyed to the hill fort.
The prince's brother, Count Franz Ludwig,
would gladly have procured the captive's free·
dom, and bad made several fruitless attempts
to do so ; but on observing that the prince ex-
pressed a particular fondness for Stilling, he
entreated the latter to beg that Weekherlin
might be set at liberty, for be had already en-
dured a sufficient penance for his petulance.
. There are cases in which the true christian
cannot come to a decision with himself; and
&hie was .one of that kind. To request the
liberty of a man who bad abused it to the pre-
judice of bis fellow-creatures, and especially of
&be magistracy, required consideration ; and on
the other band, imprisonment, particularly for
IMlch a man as Weckherlin, is a grievous aftlic-
tion. Tbe recollection that there were still a
Tariety of means to restrain a man that abuses
his liberty, outweighed Stilling's scruples; be
therefore ventured, during dinner, to beg of the
prince to set Weckherlin at liberty. The prince
smiled, and rejoined, " If I let him loose he will
go into some other country, and then I shall
be attacked ;-besides this, he is in want of
nothing ; he elm take a walk in the castle, and
enjoy tbe free air." However, not long after,
tbe prisoner was released.
After an agreeable residence of ten days,
Stilling set out again from Wallerstein. His
• relatives accompanied him to Diinkelsbiibl, to
which pl.ace sister Sophia also came ; here they
·.all remained together a night; and the next
·morning, Stilling took a tender leave of them
llK, and continued his journey to Frankfort.
He there met bis daughter Hannah at bis friend
Kraft's; sbe bad been for a while with her
relatives in the Netherlands, and v.·as now
grown.up. The father rejmced over the daugh-
ter, and the d~ughter over the father. Both.
then rode together to Marburg. Selma, ac-
companied by friend Coing and her friend Eliza,
came as far as Giessen to meet them, and thus
they all arrived again, happy and contented, at
home.
He that imagines Stilling's situation was at
that time devoid of sorrow, is much mistaken.
There are sufferings, the most painful of all, of
wbicb we can cwnplain to the Almighty alone ;
because they would become perfectly intolerable
through the idea that our most intimate friends
bad any knowledge of them. I therefore very
seriously beg all my readers, by nd means to
rellect upon this kind ofsufferings, lest they fall
upon suppositions which in this case would be
sinful. Irrespective of this, Stilling's spas-
modic attacks caused him sufficient suffering.
About this time, there came a worthy indi-
vidual to Marburg. He was governor to two
young noblemen, who were to study there under
bis superintendance ;-we will here call him
Raschmann. He had studied divinity, and poa-
sesaed peculiar abilities ; he had a penetrating
mind, an extraordinarily quick perception, a
very highly cultivated classical feeling, and wu
possessed of an incomparable diligence. But,
on the other hand, he was also a severe judge
of every one with whom he became acquainted ;
and this very becoming acquainted with persons
was one of his most favorite and agreeable em-
ployments. Jn every place and in every com-
pany, be observed with an eagle's eye each -
individual, and their actions, and then decided
respecting their character; practice had, it is
true, made an adept of him ; but his judgments
were not al)'l'ays under the direction of christian
love, nor were failings always covered with ita
mantle. However, he had excellently educated
the young Counts, and they still rank amongst
the best men I know. This caused him, not-
withstanding his criticising habit, to be esteem-
ed in tbe eyes of every worthy man.
He had acted a prominent part in a certain
connection, and had there attained his expert.
ness in the knowledge of mankind. In other
respects, be loved splendour and a good table ;
he drank the best wines, and bis food wu
choice and delicate. In his deportment, he was
very precise, captious, and passionate ; and his
domestics were harassed and ill-treated. This
remarkable man sought Stilling's friendship;
he and his young pupils attended all his lectures,
and visited him two or three·times a week at
bis house; and be dined frequently with him,
together with other professors and friends. So
much is certain, that Stilling found Raschmann's
society agreeable, however much they differed
in their religious sentiments; for Raschmann's
acquirements were very extensive aAd refined,
and, in the company of those who were not lie.
neath him, he was very agreeable and extremely
entertaining.
In the summer of that year (1788), Counsellor
Mieg, of Heidelberg, with his estimable lady,
came also to Marhurg, in order to visit their
friends there, and amongst others, Stilling and
Selma. The integrity, unremitting activity in
doing gnod, and the feeling, benevolent soul of
Mieg, had made a pleasing impression upon
Digitized by GoogIe
UJ6 HEINRICH STIL,LING.
Stilling, eo that they were cordial friends ; and
the two ladies, likewise, stood in the eame con-
nexion with each other. This visit tied the
knot still more firmly; but it had, besides this,
,an important effect on Stilling's mode of think-
ing and his philosophical system.
Stilling, by , means of Leibnitz and Wolf's
philosophy, had fallen into the heavy bondage
of fatalism. He had struggled (or twenty yeus
together, by prayer and supplication, against
this giant, without being able to overcome him.
He bad, indeed, always maintained, in his wri-
tings, the freedom of the wilt and of human
actions, arid had believed in it also, in opposition
to all the objections of his reason. He had,
likewise, never ceased praying; although this
giant continually whispered in his ear, "Thy
prayers avail not; for what God in his counsels
bas decreed, takes place, whether thou pray or
not." But notwithstanding thia, Stilling con-
tinued to believe and pray, but without light or
consolation ; even his answers to prayer did
not comfort him, for the giant said it was mere
accident. 0 God ! this was a dreadful tempta-
tion ! All the delights of religion ; its promises
of this life and that which is to come; this only
consolation in life, suffering, and death, becomes
an illusive phantom, as soon as ·the individual
gives ear to fatalism. Mieg was accidentally
Stilling's deliverer from this captivity. He was
speaking, on one occasion, of a certain treatise
on philosophy, which had pleased him extreme-
ly. He then adduced, likewise, the postulate
of Kant's moral principles, which is, "Act so,
that the maxims of thy intentions may be al-
ways a universal law." This excited Stilling'•
attention. The novelty of this posi\ion made a
deep impression upon him, and he determined
to read Kant's writings ;-he had hitherto shud·
dered at the thought, because the •study of a
new philosophy, and especially this, seemed an
unsurmountable object. ·
He naturally read first, Kant's " Critique of
Pure Reason." He soon comprehended its
meaning, and his •truggle with fatalism was all
at once at an end. Kant proves, from incon-
trovertible grounds, that human reason knows
nothing beyond the limits of the visible world ;
'and, that in super-sensible things, so oft.en as it
judges and decides from its own principles, it
.always stumbles upon contradictions; that is,
it contradicts itself. This book is a commen-
tary on the word's of Paul, "The natural man
knoweth nothing of the things of the Spirit of
God, for they are foolishness unto. him," &c.
all truth, which, when reuon baa meuuref1
out its whole juriediction, can be found nowhere
else."
Stilling at\erwards read also Kant's "Critique
of Practical Reason," and then his "Religion
within the Bounds of Reason." At first he
thought he perceived probability in both ; but
on maturer reflection, he saw that Kant did not
seek the source of super-sensible truth in the
gospel, but in the moral principle. But can
this moral feeling in man, which bids the .Mexi-
can offer human sacrifices, the North American
scalp the innocent captive, the Otaheitan steal.
and the Hindoo worship a cow,-ean this be
the source of auper-sensible truth ! Or, sup-
posing it was said,-Not the cMTUpt, but the
pure moral principle, which properly upreaaea.
,his position, is this aource ; I answer, that the
pure moral principle-is a mere form,.an empty
faculty of knowing good and evil. But now
show me, anywhere, a man who is solely under
the influence of this moral principle. All are
deluded, from their youth up, by a variety of
errors, so that they take good for evil, and evil
for good. In order that the moral principle
may become the true guide of human conduct.
that which is truly good and beautiful must be
giDm the individual from a pure and infallible
source ;-but where caq such a pure and infal-
lible source be found, out of the Bible! ll ;.
a nire and eternal tnUlt, tlal rwry mom of the
tDhok code of morality u an iflunediaJc rncllllion
from God; let any one pro¥e to me the contrary.
What the wi888t heathens have said that is
beautiful, was imparted to them by means of
manifold redection from·the light of revelation.
Stilling had, however, gained sWlicient from
Kant's "Critique of Pure Reaeon ;" and this
book is, and will remain, the only possible phil·
osophy,-taking the word in the common ac-
ceptation of the term.
Stilling's soul -was now as if it bad gained
wings ; it had been hitherto intolerable to him
that human reason, this divine gift; which dis-
tinguishes us from the brute creation, should
be entirely opposed to that religion which was
supremely dear to him. But be now found
every thing appropriate and worthy of God ;-
he found the source of super-sensible truths, in
the revelation of God to man in the Bible ; and
the source of all the truths which appertain to
this earthly life in nature and reason. On one
occasion, when Stilling wrote to Kant, he ex-
pretllled his joy and approbation to this great
philosopher. Kant replied, and in his letter
Now, much u Stilling was traoquillized on
this side, yet a different and still greater danger
threatened him from another; a more subtle,
and consequently also a more dangerous foe,
sought to ensnare him. His frequent inter-
course with Raaehmann .graduaJly imparted to
him, without his ohlerving it, a number of ideas
which, singly, did not seem to him at all ans-
picious; but at\erwarde, collectively taken, form-
ed a basis from whence, in time, nothing oould
have resulted but, first, Socinianism ; next,
Deism ; then, Naturalism ; and finally, Athe-
ism ; and with it, a~i-ehristianity. But bis
heavenly Guide did not suffer it to prevail so
far with him as evea to make a commencement
of this falling-away from dh'ine truth ;-how-
ever, it was already bad enough, that the atoning
sacrifice of Jesus began to appear to him to be
an oriental embellishment of the moral merits
of the Saviour ie behalf of men.
Raschmann was able to expres& this with so
much apparent warmlh and veneration for the
Redeemer, and with sueh a plausible love to
Him, that Stilling bigan to be persnaded. How·
ever, happily it did aot proceed further with •
him ; for his religious ideas and frequent expe-
rience were much too deeply rooted in his whole
being for him to decline further, or even to be-
gin tu do so.
/' stood the never-Lo-be-forgotten words, "You
also do well in seeking your sole consolation in
the gospel ; for it is the never-failing source of
This atate of mind lasted about a year ; and
a certain illuatrioua and devout lady will stm
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YE.A.RS OF TUITION.
:remember a letter of Stilling'• written at that
time, which withdrew her affection and esteem
. ftom him for a period,-that. is, until hie mind
had again returned to the truih.
Thank God, it did return thither. !~nd be
then observed, with Btltoniahment, bow much
the reproving grace of God bad gradually with·
drawn itaelf from his heart. Sinful sensual
impulses, long ago extinguished, already began
to show themselves faintly in his heart, and
the inward peace of God in bis soul bad become
a distant glimmer. The good Shepherd re-
stored him, and led him again into the right
way; the sequel of this history shows the
means used for this purpose.
This aberration, however, was of utility to
Stilling, in causing him to examine more strict·
ly the doctrine of the Atonement ; and he then
apprehended it so firmly that no power can ever
deprive him of it.
•
CHAPTER XV.
Tus following year, in the winter of 1'789, the
reigning Countess of Stollberg Wernigerede
wrote to Stilling to visit her during the Easter
Tacation. He answered that be could not t.ake
the journey merely f9r the eake of a Tiait ; but
as soon as there were any blind people there, to
whom be could be se"iceable, be would come.
This caused the reigning Count to make it
known throughout his territory, that an oculist
would visit him, and be that desired his assist·
ance should come to the castle of Wernigerode
in the passion-week. This excellent arrange-
ment occasioned the ridiculous report that the
Count ofWemigerode bad ordered all the blind
people in his dominions to appear in the passion.
week at his castle, on pain of ten rix-dollars
line, in order to be operated upon.
On receiving the intelligence that blind peo-
ple would be there, Stilling set 011t on his jour-
ney on Tuesday in the passion-week, on horse-
back. The youthful sprinit was in full activity ;
the shrubs and bushes were every where un-
folding.their leaves, and the fecundity of nature
lilied all things with delight. Stilling had, from
hie childhood, always sympathized with nature ;
he therefore felt highly delighted on this journey.
During the whole way, nothing struck him
more than the difference between Osterrode at
the foot of the Han, and Clausthal on its sum-
mit ; at the former, the spring was blooming ;
at the latter, only two leagues distant, every
thing was stiff with ice, cold, and snow, which
lay at least eight feet deep.
On Good Friday evening Stilling arrived at
the castle of Wernigerode, and was received
with uncommon kindness and affection by the
family of the Count. Here be found eleven per-
sona blind of the cataract, who were quartered
at the castle and fed from the kitchen. Stilling
performed the operation upon them on Easter
Suaday morning, before the servil',e at church,
and tbe surgeon to the Count took charge of
&he binding-up.
Amongst these blind people was a young wo-
man of twenty-eight years of age, who had al·
most perished in the snow, on her return home
from Andreasherg to llsenburg, on the side of
the Broeken ; the snow fell so thick ~d deep
that at length it went over her head. and abe
could proceed no further ; slfe was found, after
lying twenty-four -houra in quiet stupefaction.
This unfonunate ooeurrence had injured her
health no otherwise, than by leaving her per-
fectly blind of the cataract ; she now obtained
her sight again.
An old man and his sged sister were also
amongst the number. Both of them bad had
the cat.arsct for a series of years, and had not
seen each other for at least twenty years.
When they were both cured, and eame together
again, their lirst sensation was astonishment at
each other, and wonder at their aged appear-
ance.
The days which Stilling here spent, as in the
precincts of heaven, will remain ever memora-
ble to him. A week after East.er be set out.
again for Marburg. .
A few weeks after this, the worthy and no-
ble family ofWemigerode passed through Mar-
burg, on their way to Switzerland. Stilling and
Selma were Tiaited by them ; and on this oeea-
alon the Count expressed his intention of being
with him again, with hie fellow-travellers, on
lhe ISth of September following, and that he
would then celebrate bis birth-day with him.
The nobleman kept bis word; on the 12th of
September, which was Stilling's fiftieth birth-
day, the whole company again arriTed safe,
well, and delighted, in Marburg. ·
A good friend in the suite of the Count had
given Selma a hint of it a few days before. She
bad, therefore, prepared a large supper in the
evening, to which Raaohmann, with bia young
nobleman, and other worthy Marbnrg people.
were invited. I scarcely need mention that the
family of die Coings were not forgotten on thia
occasion. Never had Stilling's birth-day been
celebrated in such a manner befbre. His lec-
turer's chair was illuminated, and a speech from
Raaebmann heightened the solemnity. . It waa.
however, remarkable, that the jubilee• of Stil·
ting's life was eolemnized in such a manner.
without any one thinking that this waa just bis
fiftieth birth-day ; the whole happened natural-
ly ;-it afterwards occurred to Stilling, and it
then waa evident, that that evening waa a con-
secration to a MW epoeb in his life.
Soon afterwards, in the autumn of 1789, tb8
vacation commenced, in which Stilling took a
journey into the province of Darmstadt, and
from thence to Neuwied, in order to aasm the
blind. Raachmann, his two young pupils, and
Selma, accompanied him to Frankfort; be theo
travelled to Riiseelsileim on the l\laine, where
be couched the Rev. Mr. Sartorius's lady, and
spent nine agreeable days in this religious fami-
ly. This was the place where Stilling with
respect to the doctrine of the Atonement, caught
himself on the pale horse ;-Sartorius was one
of the Halle school, or admirers of Franke, and
spoke with Stilling on the truths of religion in
his style. The conversation was chiefly upon
the doctrine of the Atonement and imputed
•Tile German• pny much mere ftltellllon to the observ·
ance o( blrlh·dnya. annlvenarleo, l;e.. thNl la cuotomnry
In thla country, and pnrticulnrly when n •Pl'C• of ftny
years hna elnJl!ed, which Is then called a jubl1P<1. This
is also e•peclally the case when R couple have lived to-
119ther ftfly yent11 in the 11nte of matrimony ; the ceremo-
ny Ill then again performed, and the second ct•lebniUon ill
called "the golden nuptlals."-Xolf of IA• Traiulalor.
Digitized by GoogIe
. .
128 HEINRICH STILLING.
tighteom•nellll; without intending it, he fell into
a dispute with the pious clergyman upon this
subject, and now discovered how far he had
already deviated; his return, therefore, com-
menced here.
The then reigning Prince, Johann Frederick
Alexander, famous for his wisdom and maxima
oftolerance, and who was far advanced in years,
was at that time with hia consort at his coun-
try-seat, Moorepos, which is two leagues dis-
tant from the town, and lies on the summit of a
hill, up the vaUey,.from whence there ie an in-
comparable prospect. One beautiful day he
sent his equipage to fetch the two Marburg pro-
In Darmstadt also, Stilling conched several
persons who were suffering from the cataract;
and there be met with a man who, up to that
time, was the only one be had found laboring
under that disease, who was willing to remain
blind for the honor of God ; for, on being in-
formed of Stilliog·s arrival, and told that, with
the help of God, he might now regain bis sight,
he replied, very reaignedly, "The Lord bas laid
this cross upon me, and I will bear it to His
honor!" What a mistaken idea !
fesaors, Erxleben and Stilling, who dined with
this princely pair, and returned in the evening
to Neuwied. Here arose an intimate religious
acquaintance between.the old princess and Stil-
ling, which was maintained by a lively corres-
pondence until her transition into a better life.
She waa born Burgravioe of Kirchberg, was a
very pious and intelligent lady, and Stilling re-
joices at the prospect of her welcoming him in
the blissful plains of the kingdom of God.
From Darmstadt, Stilling journeyed to May-
ence, where Count Mai:imilian Von Degeofeld
at that time resided. Both were desirous of
travelling together to Neuwied. Io the com-
pany of this nobleman he visited Mr. Von Thioe-
wald, celebrated for his peculiar musical instru-
ment ; they viewed bis pretty garden, and then
aaw and heard the above-mentioned instrument,
on which the proprietor played them a whole
symphony, with all the accompanying instru-
ments, very naturally and admirably. I know
not what became ofthis instrument in the wars,
and whether it he not for ever uotuned.
The next morning they sailed down tbe Rhine
in a covered barge. The voyage was this time
more prosperous than in the year 1770, when
~be yacht upset on its passage to Strasburg ; or
m 1771, on the journey home, when Stilling
$ook the aame trip in the evening, in a three-
boarded boat, and saved himself with hie com-
panion on board a barge. It was a beautiful
morning in autumn, and the purple dawn swell-
ed the saila of the barge in auch a manner that
they performed the six leagues, from Mayence
to Bingen, in three hours. Th)! water excur-
sion ie celebrated far and wide for its romantic
J!roepects ; but will never be forgotten by Stil-
ling, on account of the unfortunate accidents
above-mentioned. At four in the afternoon they
arrived at Neuwied, where they met Raech-
mano, with the young Counte, and the present
"rice-chancellor of the university, at that time
professor Erxleben. Stilling took up his quar-
ters with this friend at the Rev. Mr. Miog'a;
the rest were lodged in part at the castle.
Thia journey of Stilliog'a to Neuwied is re-
markable in his history, from hia having for the
first time become acquainted with a Moravian
church in that place, and attended once at their
Sunday's worship, when .Brother du Vernoy
preached an excellent sermon. The whole
made a deep impression upon Stilling, and
brought him into closer contact with the Mora-
viaos; to which Raschmaoo also contributed
much, for although he widely differed from
them in his religious sentiments, yet he spoke
of them with much eateem and enthusiasm.
Stilling had always been well disposed towards
the Moraviaos, although he had many prejudices
against them, for he had hitherto associated
solely with "awakened" people, who had much
to object to the Moraviane, and he had pre-
viously had no opportunity of e;xaminiog for
himself. Notwithstanding all this, they were
very estimable in hie opinion, on account of
their missionary ioatitutiooa
After Stilling had spent a few days here, also,
in ministering to the blind, be set off again for
Marburg, in company with hia friend and col-
league, Erxleben.
At Wetzlar, Stilling expected with certainty
to find a letter from Selma, but be found none.
On. his entering the parsonage, be observed a
kind of embarrassment in his friend Macben-
hauer and his lady ; he immediately asked whe-
ther there was not a letter from Selma. "No,"
answered they ; " Selma i's not well, yet she is
not dangerously ill; we have to mention this to
you, with her kind remembrances." This was
enough f9r Stilling ; he instantly took post-
horses, afid arrived in the afternoon at Marburg.
His daughter Hannah met him quite unex-
pectedly in the hall ; she had been for half a
year with Selma's relatives in Swabia, at Kern-
matben and Wallereteio. Sister Sophia Hohl-
bach bad shewn her great kindness ; but she
bad been brought very low by a very vexatious
disorder, from which she had suffered inexpres-
sibly, and looked very ill. The paternal heart
of Stilling was rent, and its wounds bled. From
Hannah he learnt that her mother was not dan-
gerous)y ill.
As he ascended the stairs he saw Selma, pale
and altered, standing in the corner on the land-
ing-place. She received her husband with a
tenderly melancholy look, and, smiling through
teara, she said " My dear, be not afraid !-there
is nothing the matter with me." This tranquil-
lized him, and he went with her into the room.
Selma had suffered much in her confinement
in the spring, and Stilling believed that her pres-
ent indisposition arose from the same cause.
She did indeed recover; but a declaration fol-
lowed on her part which plunged his soul, wea-
ried by eo many tedious and painful sufferings,
into a profound melancholy. Soon after his re-
turn from Neuwied, whilst sitting on the sofa
with Selma, she took him by the hand, and
said, "Dear husband, listen to me calmly, and
be not melancholy ! I know for a certainty that
I shall die in this confinement. I am no longer
fit to accompany you through life. I have ful-
filled that for which God gave me to you; but
in future I should be unsuitable for the situation
in which you are placed. Now, if you desire
that I should paee the rest of my time quietly,
and then die cheerfully, you must promise me
that you will marry my friend Eliza Cuing; she
will be more suitable for you than r, and I know
Digitized by GoogIe
STILL I NG'S YEARS OF TU IT ION. 129
that Rhe will be a good mother for my children,
ant! an excellent r.onsort fur you. Now, for
once place yourself above what is termed dec•1-
rum, and promise me this! Do, my dear,
promise it me !" The pleading look which
beamed from her fine blue eyes was inde-
ecribable. ·
My readers may judge for themselves how
Stilling felt at that moment. That he could not
possibly fulfil her wish, and promise her. that he
would marry Eliza after her death, may be easi-
ly supposed; however, be recovered himself,
and replied, "My dear, you well know that you
have foreboded your death in eYery such times,
and yet you have always come eafely through.
f trust it will also be the ease this time ; and
then consider duly, whether ~t is possible to
promise what you require of me; for it is op-
posed to every thing that can be even called pro-
priety." Selma looked embarrassedly around
tier, and replied, "It is, however, grievous that
you cannot place yourself above all this, in or-
der to satisfy me ! I know for a certainty that
·1 shall die; it ia now very different with me to
what it has been before."
Although Stilling did not place any strong
faith in this presentiment of death, yet his mind
was oppressed by a deep and foreboding melan-
choly, and he took the resolution. from that
time, daily to pray specially for Selma's life,
which he fulfilled.
During the whole of the winter, Selma pre-
]l8red for her death, as for a lung journey. It
may be supposed how her husband felt on the
occasion ; she sought to arrange every thing,
and did it all with cheerfulness and mental
serenity. At the same time, she was constant-
ly seeking to induce her husband to marry Eliza,
and to make him promise her to do so. In this
she went incredibly far ; for one evening it
happened that Stilling, Selma, and Eliza, were
sitting quite alone at a round ta~le, and aupping
"together ; when they had nearly finished, Selma
looked longingly at Eliza, and said, "Dear
Eliza, you will marry my husband when l am
dead, will you not~" The situation in which
Stilling and Eliza felt themlll!lve11 placed by this
speech, is indescribable. Eliza blushed deeply,
and said, •• Do not speak so ! God prese"e us
from such an event !"-and Stilling guc her a
kind reprooffor her improper behaviour. When
she found that she could not gain her point with
lier husband, she applied to gond friends, who
ahe knew bad much influence with Stilling, and
entreated them euppliantly, to take care that
-af\er her death her wi!lhee might be fulfilled.
In the spring of 1790, the important period
or Selma's confinement gradually approaebed.
Stilling's prayers for her life became more fer·
vent, but she continued always calm. On the
eleventh of May, she was happily delivered of a
son, and was well, according to circumstances.
Stilling felt very happy, and gave God thanks ;
he then tenderly reproached the dear invalid for
her presenti11ient ; but she looked at him seri-
ously, and said very impressively," Dear hus-
'band, all ie not over yet." For five days she
was vPry well, suckled her child, and was eheer-
·fut : but on the sixth. an eruption broke out.
she grew very ill, and Stilling became greatly
alarmed. Her friend Eliza came to wait upon
:her, in which she was faithfully assisted by Han-
R
nab. Madame Coing came also every day, and
occasionally relieved her daughter.
Stilling had still hopes of her recovery ; hut,
as he was sitting one afternoon alone hy her
bedside, he perceived that she bPgan to speak
irrationally, and to pull and straighten the bed-
<'lothes. He ran out into the open air, through
the Kenthof gate, and then through the beech·
wood about the castle-hill. and prayed from his
inmost soul, so that it might have penetrated
to the very highest heaven-not for Selma's
life, for he did not expect a miracle, but for
strength for bis weary soul, in order to be able
to bear this severe etroke.
Thie prayer was heard; he returned home
tranquillized ; the peace of God reigned in hie
breast; he had offered up this great sacrifice to
the Lord, who had graciously accepted it. After
that time. he only saw Selma twice for a few
moments; for his physical nature suffered too
much, and it was apprehended she could not
bear it. He therefore sutrered himself to be ad-
vised, and kept at a distance.
On the afternoon of the following day, he
went again to her ;-she had already a locked
jaw ; Eliza was reposing upon the sofa ; Selma
lif\ed up her half-closed eyes, looked wistfully
at her husband, and then beckoned to Eliza.
Stilling east down his eyes, and departed.
· The next morning he went to her bed once
more ;-he will never forget the sight ! the
dawn of eternity beamed on her countenance.
" Is it well with you !" asked he. She audibly
whispered through her closely-fastened tePth,
"0 yes!" Stilling tottered away, and saw her
no more; (or strong as bis spirit was, yet his
physical nature and his heart were shaken.
Nor could Eliza bear to see her friend expire;
but Madame Coing closed her eyes. She de-
parted this life the following night, on the 2-'Jd
of May, at one o'clock. They came weepin&
to Stilling'e bed to inform him of it: "Lord,
thy will be done !" was his reply.
•
CHAPTER XVI
SsLJU dead !-the woman of whom Stillina:
was so proud, dP.ad !-that is eaying much1
Though profound peace reigned in his soul, still
his state and condition were indescribable ;-bis
frame was dreadfully shaken ; the spasmodio
complaint which continually tormented him, had
already excited his nervous system to a high
degree, and this stroke might have entirely
ruined it, if the paternal goodneSll of God had
not supported him; or, to speak in fashionable
terms, if he had not had so strong a constitution.
Death and silence now environed him. At
Christina's departure, be bad been so much pre-
pared, by previous wearisome sutrerings, that it
was a relief, an alleviation to him ; but now it
was quite different.
That Selma was in the right when she said
she was no longer suitable for his mode of life,
he began, indeed, clearly to see, and in the
sequel, found it true; hut still her departure
was heart-rending and dreadful to him ;-she
had been much to him ; and had heen a striking
instrument in the hand of his heavenly Guide,
with reference to him: but now she was no
more.
Digitized by GoogIe
130 H ~INRI CH STILLING.·
Stilling, when he married Selma, had never
been amongst people of high rank. Much still
adhered to him from his parentage and educa-
tion; in his whole life and deportment, gait.and
gestures, eating and drinking, and in his mode
of address, especially in his intercourse with
people of rank, he conducted himself so that hia
low origin was immediately observed ; he al-
ways did either too much or too little in a
thing. Selma, who was an accomplished lady,
polished all this away completely ; at least, the
observation was never aft.erwards made that
Stilling was deficient in good breeding ; for it
aft.erwards appeared that he was destined to
associate with persons of the highest class.
But she was, particularly with reference to
his debts, a helping angel sent from God. She
was an excellent housekeeper ;-with a very
moderate income, in Lautern and Heidelberg,
she had liquidated above two thousand guilders
of debt, by which all the creditors were so paci-
fied that the rest were content, and willingly
waited. But the chief thing was, that immedi-
ately aft.er she had married Stilling, she tran-
quillized his soul, which had been tormented by
the miserable, unfeeling, and mercenary spirit
of unmerciful creditors, iii such a manner, that
he knew not what to think of it ; from a storm,
which threatened him every moment with ship-
wreck, she placed him on dry land. " Attend
to your vocation," said she ; " trouble yourself
about nothing, and commit the care to me;"
and she faithfully kept her word. Selma had
been, therefore, during the nine years in which
they lived together in the marriage state, a
continual means of happiness to Stilling.
When she declared that she was no longer a
suitable companion for Stilling, though this
declaration was perfectly correct, yet I must
entreat every reader not to think any eYil on
that account, nor to imagine any. Selma pos-
sessed an extremely noble character ; she was
an excellent wife; but there are situations and
circumstances for which even the most excel-
lent of mankind are unsuitable.
Stilling'11 guidance was always systematic ;
or rather, the plan according to which he was
led, was always so manifest, that every acute
observer perceiYed it. Raschmann also saw
through it ;-he oft.en regarded Stilling with as-
tonishment, and said, " Providence must have
something peculiar in view with reference to
you, for all the trifling as well aa important
events which have befalle,n you, tend to some
great opject, which still lies hidden in the ob-
scurity of the future." Stillinglikewise felt this
perceptibly, and it humbled him in the dust ;
but it gave him also courage and boldness to
struggle forward in the path of conflict; and it
may easily be supposed how much such a guid-
ance promotes true Christianity, and faith in the
Redeemer of the world.
Selma lay a lifeless corpse. Hannah, a girl
of sixteen years and a half old, now seized with
courage and resolution the helm of the house-
keeping, in which she was assisted by a worthy
and faithful maid-servant, whom Selma had en-
gaged in Lautern, and who, under her instruc-
tions, had become an able housekeeper.
Of six children, which Selma bad borne, three
were still alive; Lisette, Caroline, an\! the
phan suckling which she had forsaken. Lia-
ette was four years and a quarter, and Caroline·
two years and a half old. Selma herself had
not completed her thirtieth year when she died.
and yet had accomplished so much. It is sin-
gular that in her bridal days she said to Stilling,
"You will not have me long, for I shall not live
to be thirty years old; a remarkable man ii
Dettingen told me so."
However faithful and well intentioned Han-
nah was, yet she was not at that time capable
of undertaking the bringing-up of her little sis-
ters ; but the departed saint had already pro-
vided for this ; for she had arranged that Lisette
should be taken to her friend Madame Mieg, at.
Heidelberg, until her father had married again.
and Caroline was to remain, for the same length
of time, with another good friend, who lived
some miles distant from Marburg. The first
arrangement was carried into effect some weeks
after. Stilling sent her, with a maid-servant.
to Frankfort, to the house of his friend Kran.
whence she was fetched by Madame Mieg; but
Madame Coing took Caroline, for she said, " Ile
was hard that two children should be removed,.
both at once, from their deeply-sorrowing pa-
rent, and to such a distance." Stilling wu
satisfied with this, for he was convinced Selma
would have committed both the children t<>
Eliza, if it had not been contrary to decorum,
which now enjoined him to withdraw himself
a little from the family of the Coings, in whose
place anotherfriend pressed forward with his ailL
The present privy-counsellor and government-
director Riess, of Marburg, was at that time
government-advocate, and commissary for the
management of the University estates, to which·
Stilling hat! been also appointed treasurer from
the .beginning; both knew and loved each
othe'r. Scarcely, therefore, had Selma expired,
when Reiss came and undertook all the arrange-
ments which circumstances required ; whilst
Stilling was taken home to his house, where he
continued till all was over. His good consort im-
mediately took away the little suckling, and
provided a nurse for it, whilst Riess gave the
necessary orders for the interment ofthe corpse,
so that Stilling had no occasion whatever to
trouble himself in the least. The child was
baptized in Riess's house; who wit'n Coing,
Raachmann, and the Counts, who offered them-
selves, were the sponsors. Such actions will
be eventually highly esteemed : Riess and Still-
ing are friends for eternity, and there it will be
easier to speak of such things than here.
The first thing that Stilling undertook for his
consolation, was 19 send for his aged father.
Wilhelm Stilling. The venerable old man, now
seventy.four years of age, and severely tried i11
the school of afiliction, came without delay ; his
peace of soul and resignation imparted consola-
tion also to his son, who resembles him. He
remained with him about a fortnight ; during
which time Stilling regained in some measure
bis serenity, to which also Selma's last will con-
tributed much. That he must marry again was
a matter of course, for he required some one to
bring up his children, and keep his house ; be-
cause it was not proper that Hannah should
trifle away her prospects of happiness for the
sake of her father·s housekeeping. How bene-
ficial therefore it was that the legitimate pos-
sesilor of hia heart should have appointed her
0i9;11zed by Google
STILLING'S YEARS o\' TUITION. 131
suceeuor, and tbat in such a manner that Still-
ing himself would have made no other choice!
He who has not experienced it, cannot be-
lieve how consolatory it is to a widower to
know that his departed consort approved of bis
choice ;--and here was more than approbation.
After the period had elapsed which decorum
determine11 and the laws prescribe, Stilling paid
his addressee to Eliza ; whose parents, as well
as herself, made him again happy by their affec-
tionate oonl\Fnt. The gracious good pleasure
of God in.this union, the accomplished will of
the departed Selma, and the kind wishes and
approbation of all good men, imparted to hie
soul a peace which cannot be described. From
that time, Eliza undertook Caroline's education ;
she also visited Hannah, and aseisted her with
her advice; and.Stilling had now a friend with
whom he could converse with unlimited confi~
dence.
The twelfth of September, which had been
so brilliantly celebrated the previous autumn,
now again approached. Stilling had, since then,
struggled through a year of painful suffering.
The hereditary Prince of Heese was at that
time _
atudyin!f in Ma~burg, to whom Stilling
113v_e mst:i-uction. four time~ a week ; the prince
m~1ted him to dmner on his birth-day, together
with Father Coing ; and his natal day was cele-
brated in the evening at the house of the latter.
The nineteenth of November, the day of the
holy Elizabeth, had always been obse"ed in the
family of the Doisings, the ladies of which also
ge!'era!IY bore. tha~ name. With respect to
Ehza, it was likewise particularly remarkable,
because she ia properly thrice called Elizabeth;
ahe was born on the 11th of May, 1766, and had
three such sponsors at her baptism as probably
few persons have had. Theae were, her grand·
mother Duiaing; the mother of the latter,
Vulteius; and her mother, consequently Eliza's
great-great-grandmother, Madame Von Hamm;
-these three matrons, her grandmother, great-
grandmotber, and great- great- grandmother,
were present at the baptism ; and the latter,
Madame Von Hamm, presided at the christen-
ing-dinner. All the three ladies bore the name
of Elizabeth. This "Elizabeth-day" was fixed
fur Stilling and Eliza's nuptials. He first read
his four lectures, instructed the prince for an
hour, and then proceeded to the house of the
Coinga, where the marriage.ceremony was to
be performed. The Elector of Hesse expressed
his high approbation ofthis fidelity to the duties
of his office, although at the same time he re-
proached him severely for marrying again so
soon.
Eliza's parents had invited several friends to
the marriage-supper ; and the refonned minis·
ter, Schlarbaum, a sure and tried friend of Still-
ing, performed the ceremony. He and his
family were very beneficial companions to Still-
ing on his path, during hia residence at Mar-
burg.
Between the ceremony and the supper, Still-
ing played on the piano-forte the following
verses ; and Hannah aang them with her silver
Toice:
"A«end, my oplrll, to tbe tbrcme
Of Him who rules above;
Wbn visibly bath led thee on,
With aU a parelll'1 lo•e.
Father ofall creeled tblnp,
Io alr, or earlh, or 1ky,
To Thee my heart Us tribute br1np,
Thou Author of It. joy!
The radiance of the morning light
Beam'd on my flowery way,
And wilh a flood ofnew delight
Thou crown'dat each paaolng day.
Selma, lhy gift, wllh aiding hand,
Walk'd lovely al my aide;
And all my grieli, at her command,
Consumed away and died;
When 1uddenly, the gloom ofnight
Obocured my radiant mom;
Thy llghrnlop ftll'd my ooul wllh frlchl
• And lei\ me quite forlorn. ·
The corpse of Selma aank In du.st:
Her spirit burst !ta clod ;
'Be suong,' It aald, •believe and tnut;
And lhen it aoar'd to God;-
And whilper'd, u It dlappear'd,
•Be now Eliza thine ;
For thou shalt by her love be cheer'd.
E'en it.a thou wast with mine.
A sacred lltlllneu relgn'd around,
And I wu ten alone ;
I cried, though plun1ed In grief profoWMI
'Thy will, 0 God be done!'
Again, thy kind, benignant eye
lleam'd on me gmcioualy;
And she descended from !be sky,
Whom Selma gave to me.
Now, Loni, before lily tbftllle we bow,
Oh may we happy be !
And kindly make our cup o'erilow
With tme felicity.
The seeds of pure beneftcence
Which we in hope would oow,-
A gracious shower. 0 Lord. dilpeue,
And cause the seed to grow.
0 let Eliza, at my side,
Thy richest bieseings see;
With me the day of grief abide,
And bend the ooppllant knee.
Then listen to the an:r:I0111 1igha
Which from our hearts aacend,
Thnt Ion~ to pin perfection'• prlu
And ever upwards tend.
Father ! thus to our jo11mey'1 end
Conduct us band In bar:d;
Until before thy face we bend,
llome, In our native land!"
The evening was spent cheerfully and bappt-
ly ; and a new course of life now commenced
which gradually distinguished itself from everY
former period, and brought Stilling nearer to
bis peculiar dP.Btiny. Eliza cheerfully com-
menced her new sphere ofaction, in confidence
in God ; and soon found, what a friend had
already observed to her, that it was no easy
matter to tread the same path with Stilling.
She bas hitherto faithfully and firmly accompa-
nied him on his pilgrimage ; and has often and
variously made it evident that she understands
how to be Stilling's consort.
Some weeks before Stilling'& marriage, Rsscl'l-
mann and the young Counts, his pupils, left
Marburg. He was a comet, which accompa-
nied the planet Stilling for a period on its
course, and made the latter feel Lhe influence of
its atmosphere. .
He had certainly, in one respect, operated
prejudicially on Stilling, as before mentioned ;
but this impression soon vanished in the ne#
family circle, and be became afterwards, through
other ci>operating causes, still more fimlly
grounded in the doctrine of the Atonement
than before. But on the other hand, Rasch-
mann belonged, in a remarkable manner. to the
i11strumente ofStilling's improvement ;. through
01git1zed by Google
139 HEIN R,CH STILLING.
·him he learnt greal, my•lenoiu, and important
things; thin!!• which toere of an ezlen1iTJe un1l
comprehensive nature. That which Burruel an1l
the trirlmph of philosophy intend to relate. and re·
late correctly, in the main, but erromoiuly in the
detail, toaa now made known to him.
It must not, however, be supposed that Rasch-
mann purpo•ely instructed Stilling in all this.
The truth was, be was very talkative ; so that
when be had invited bis friends to see him,
aome morsel or other continually made its ap-
pearance ; and, as Stilling had a good memory,
he retained correctly every thing he heard, and
thus learnt, in the three years which Rasch·
mann spent at Marhurg, the whole connexion
of that system of philosophy whicl! has subse-
quently produced such great and dreadful phe-
nomena in the ecclesiastical and political hori-
zon ; and when he connected that which he
himself had learnt and read, with the frag-
menta above-mentioned, and rectified one by
the other, a correct and true whole resulted from
it. How useful and necessary this knowledge
was, is still, and will be In future to Stilling,
may be judged of by those who have a clear
insight into the object of their existence.
•
CHAPTER XVII.
Tua first weeks after Eliza's marriage were
pleasant, and her path was strewed with flow-
ers. Stilling bad also no other afBiction but his
tormenting spasmodic attack; but a fortnight
before Christmas, his constant house-friend
again appeared in a very serious manner.
Hannah, from her youth up, had freqnently
suffered dreadfully from a tetter on the left
cheek ; Selma bad employed every possible
means to deliver her from it, and Eliza contin-
ued the attempt with all :teal. Just at that time,
there came a celebrated physician to Marhnrg.
who was also consulted, and he prescribed the
external application of the sublimate of mercu-
ry. Now, whether it was this, or a pre11isposi-
tion inherited from her late mother, Christina.
or both together, that produced such dreadful
consequences, I know not--Hannab was seized,
about the time above-mentioned; with the most
dreadful hysteric fits. These attacks, so pain-
fully exciting to every beholder, were partiou-
larly terrific to Eliza; who, besides this, was
in the family-way; yet, notwithstanding, she
heroically took courage, and nursed Hannah
faithfully. But the Lord graciously presened
her from all prejudicial consequences,
This was the first act of the tragedy; the
second now followed-it was a severe and fiery
ordeal for Stilling, Eliza, and Hannah. I will
relate it, for I.be warning and instruction of the
young-yet in such a manner that a certain
family, whom I much esteem, will be satisfied.
.Hannah bad been requested, in a polite rom-
pany, to sing and play. She complied. What
can be more innocent than this 1-and yet it
was the sole occasion of passing half-a-year of
anxious and painful suffering. A young man
who was studying divinity, and whose selfwill
had never been broken. whom Hanrytb bad
previously never seen, nor t.ven beard of, was
pr"ent on the occasion. He was so enchanted
with her singing, that from that period, be em-
ployed all-and at length the most desperate--
means of obtaining possession of her. He first
applied to Stilling for her band, and was told,
that when he was properly provided for, no ob-
jection would be made, if be could gain Han-
nah's consent. But this was not enough by
far for this ardent euitor ; he insisted upon it
that the assurance should be then given him
that she would marry him. Hannah firmly de-
clared that she could never Juve him, nor mar-
ry him, and that she bad never given him the
smallest occasion for this application. But all
this was unavailing. He next applied to the
parents, and &ought to prove to them that it
was their duty to compel their daughter to mar-
ry him ; and on bis proof being found invalid,
be attempted violence. He came once, unex-
pectedly, into Stilling's house, whilst Stilling
was lecturing, and burst into the room where
Hannah was; fortunately, she had a female
friend with her,-ber father heard her anxious
cry, and ran thither with brother Coing, and
both of them reproached the senselesa ma11
most bitterly.
He then took lodgings at an inn immediately
oppositEt, that he might repeat the tragedy at
any moment ; but on Hannah's being remoYed
to a place of safety, he again withdrew. Ano-
ther time, he made bis appearance unawares,
and acted in such a wild and riotous manner
that Stilling was obliged to shew him the door.
He then ran to the Coing's house, where Ma-
dame Coing was lying dangerously ill ; but
Eliza, who was there just at the time, with a
strong arm pushed him out of doors. He now
became desperate-was fetched back from the
river, into which be intended to plunge himself;
then cast himself on the ground before~StiUing'a
house ; and was at length, with difficulty, sent
back to bis home, which was some leagues dis-
tant. He afterwards roamed about the coun-
try, and assailed Stilling with threatening let-
ters ; so that, at length, he was oompelled to
request th11 aid of the magistrates, nnd to pro-
cure bis safety in that manner.
The unhappy and pitiable youne man went
abroad, where he died in the bloom of his years.
It will not be difficult for parents, and young
people of bntb sexes, to derive due adYantage
and appropriate instruction from this melan-
choly affair, which was so painful to Stilling
and his family.
The good Hannah was however happily re-
warded for this fiery trial. In the village of
Dexhacb, in the province of Darmstadt, fi•e
leagues from Marburg, there was a young cler-
gyman of the name of Schwarz, who lived in
intimate friendship with Stilling, and being still
unmarried, kept house with his excellent mother
and amiable sister. This , pious and upright
man afterwards rendered himself celebrated by
several valuable treatises, particularly on "The
Moral Sciences," "The J.leligious Teacher,"
elementary works, &c. Hannah and his sister
Caroline loved each other cordially, and it was
she who was with Hannah when the student
burst into the room. It was this young lady
also who tonk her to Dexbacb, to her brother's
bonse, for safety. Through the wise guidance
of Gnd, and in a cbristian and becoming man·
ner, there arose between Schwan and Hannah
Digitized by GoogIe
'
STILLJNG'S YEARS 9F TUITION. 133
a love which was acceptable in His sight, and
which was crowned with the consent of the
parents and the paternal goodness of God. In
the spring of the year 1792, the marriage was
solemnized between Schwarz and Hannah in
Stilling's bo11se. She makes a good wife, a
good mother of six hopeful children, an excel-
lent assistant in her husband's seminary, and
altogether a worthy woman, who causes joy to
her virtuous husband and her parents.
The unpleasant affair with the student occur-
red in the first halfof the year 1791, which was
also aggravated by two mournful event.. In
the month of February died little Franz, the
suckling which Selma left behind her, .of water
in the head ; and Madame Coing also now ap-
proached her end. She had been in a weak
state for BOme time, and waa in particular sub-
ject to asthma. By works of Jove which she
had performed, in sitting up at night, she had
taken cold, and her illness now became serious
and dangerous. Stilling visited her frequently
-she was tranquil and joyful, and met her dis-
solution with an indescribable calmness of
BOU!; and when she expressed anxiety respect-
h1g her children, Stilling assured her that they
should be his, if their parents died before him.
All these mournful events operated BO preju-
dicially on Eliza's health, that she also fell ill,
though not dangerously so ; however, she was
obliged to keep her bed, which pained her the
more because she was unable to visit her good
mother. Both the invalids. .mother and daugh-
ter, daily interchanged messages ; and each
comforted the other with the idea that their
case was not dangerous.
One morning early, towards the end of March,
the melancholy news arrived that Madame Co-
ing had departed this life. H was Stilling'e lot
to inform Eliza of it.-thie was a painful task,
but he accomplished it, and then ran to her pa-
rents' house. As he entered the room, the be-
loved corpse met his eye-she lay on a field-
bed, opposite the door-she had been a very
handsome woman, and the long continued and
tranquil exercise of a religious life had ennobled
her features uncommonly; not hope, but the
enjoyment of eternal life, beamed upon her
pallid countenance. Father Coing stood before
the corpse ; he smiled at Stilling through his
tears, and said, " Thank Gild ! she is safe with
Him !" He mourned, but in a christian man-
ner. There ia 110 conviction more pleasing, or
more heart-elevating, that that of knowing our
dear departed friends are happy. Father Co-
ing, who celebrated bi11 birth-day aboutthis time,
bad intreated God for bis dear consort as a
birth-day gift, but did not obtain it-Stilling had
prayed half.a-year for Selma's life, but was also
not heard.
My dear christian readers, do not suffer such
instances to deter you from prayer ! It is the
Fath~'s will that we, his children, should ask
Him for every thing, because this retains us
continually in •achment to, and dependance
upon Him. If lie cannot grant us that for
which we pray, He bestows upon us something
better in its stead. We ma¥ rest assured that-
the Lord hears e"ery believing prayer-we al-
ways obiain BOmething by it, which we should
not have obtained without praying, and that,
indeed, which is the best for us.
When a Christian baa made such progress
that he is able to remain continually in the pre-
sence of God, and has entirely and unreserved.
ly deferred his own will to the only good will of
God, he prays incessantly iu his inmost soul.
The Spirit of the Lord then makes intercession
for him with unutterable sighing; and then he
never prays in vain, for the Holy Spirit knows
what ia the will of God. Therefore when He
incites the heart to pray for something. He at
the same time gives .faith and confidence that
the prayer may be heard. The man prays, and
his prayer is answered.
Stilling and Eliza, from the commencement
of their union, bad taken the re~lution of
having his son Jacob, who was a child of the
first marriage, again at home. He was now
seYenteen years old, and therefore it was time
he should begin his academical course. He
hid hitherto been in the boarding-school of the
worthy, learned, and reverend Mr. Grimm, at
Schluttern, in the neighbourhood of Heilbronn,
where he had..been educated and prepared !Or
further study. Now as Stilling could only travel
during the vacation, the next Easter holidays
were fixed upon for the purpose of fetching his
son : and Jacob was therefore written to, to be
at friend Mieg's in Heidelberg, on a day appoint-
ed, for his parents would come thither and meet
him. They also determined to take Lisette
back with them ; for Eliza wished to have all
the four children together, in order to enable
her to exercise her maternal duties towards
them with all fidelity, and that they might like-
wise afford a refreshing season and a beneficial
recreation to father Cuing and his children in
their profound sorrow, they both resolved to
take these dear relatives with them to their
friend Kraft in Frankfort, and then, on their re-
turn from Heidelberg, take them back to Mar-
burg. The whole of this plan was carried into
effect precisely in this manner, during the Eas-
ter holidays in 1791.
. Soon alter their arrival at Heidelberg, Jacob
also made his appearance. He was become a
good and worthy youth, who caused joy to his
parents. He likewise rejoiced to see them, and
that be was at length about to live with them.
But as it respects Lieette, there were difficul-
ties in the way. Madame Mieg, who had no
children, wished to keep the girl ; and asserted
a1BO that her mother, whose heart was attach-
ed to the child, might possibly pay for it with
her life if she were removed from her. It
pained Stillling to the soul to leave hie little
daughter behind ; and Eliza wept,-she believed
it was her duty to bring up the child of her de-
parted friend, and that they would be eventual-
ly required at her bands, and not at those. ofan-
other. However, the two parents oontented
themselves, and left the dear child in the care
oftheir friend Mieg :-that she was well taken
care of will be seen in the sequel. They then
returned with their son to Frankfort. Brother
Coing accompanied them on this journey into
the Palatinate.
After a abort stay in Frankfort, the whole
company commenced their journey back to Mar.
burg, where the two professors arrived in sufli-
cient time to resume their vocation and their
lectures.
In the autumn of 1791, Eliza was happily
Digitized by GoogIe
HEIN RI CH STILLING.
brought to bed of a daughter, to whom was giv-
en the name of Lubecka, customary in the fam-
ily of the Duisings. With the exception of
Stilling's spasmodic attack, there was now a
small cessation of suffering: but it did not last
long ; for Hannah, who was betrothed to
Schwarz, was again seized with the most dread-
ful hysteric fits, from which, however, she was
entirely freed in a few weeks, by that very able
physician, Michaelis, who is also one ofStilling'a
most intimate friends.
On new-year's-day, 1792, Stilling wa11 choaen
pro-rector of the university. This dignity bas
always been held in high estimation ; but, on
the other hand, there is no university in which
this office is so difficult to fill as that of Marburg.
Stilling entered upon it confiding in Divine as-
sistance ; and really he needed it, this year,
more than ever.
As Easter, and consequently Hannah's mar-
riage was now approaching, Eliza undertook
the preparation of the dower ; and Stilling in-
vited uncle Kraft, with his consolil and children,
and likewise his father Wilhelm Stilling, to the
wedding. They all came, and Stilling reckons
this season as one of the most delightful in his
whole life ;-to the cro&shearer, Wilhelm Still-
ing, it was, as he himself expressed it, a fore-
tiute of hea?Jen. Schwarz and Hannah were
united in Stilling's house, amidst the blessings
of their parents, grand-parents, friends and rela-
tives-;-their marriage is a happy one, and it
goes well with them. After the ceremony, the
beloved visitors returned to their homes.
A young gentleman had been for some time
studying at Marburg, who is now the Prussian
counsellor of administration, Von Vincke. He
lodged in Stilling's house, and dined at his table ;
he was one of the most excellent young men
who have ever studied at Marburg. His father,
the Rev. Dean Von Vincke, of Minden, wrote
to say that he would come during the summer,
with his lady and family, and would visit Stil-
ling and hie Eliza. They did eo, just as the
Gennan princes were marching to Champagne,
and the Doke of Weimar with his regiment
puaed through Marburg. Stilling now became
acquainted with this prince, wit!l whom the
dean end he spent a pleasant afternoon. After
this agreeable visit, Eliza was again ill ; she
was in a state of pregnancy, which was render-
ed abortive by her illness ; however, it passed
over happily, so that on the ninth day, the
weather being very fine, she was again able to
go out. They determined therefore to go to
the garden; and as Schwarz and Hannah were
there also to visit their mother, father Coing
likewise joined the company in the garden. He
was that afternoon particularly cheerful and
happy; and as he was afraid of the evening air,
which Eliza also could not bear, he took her by
the arm and conducted her home ; and as he
passed along under the garden-wall, the young
people strewed llowers upon him from above.
The next morning, at five o'clock, Stilling's
kitchen-maid came into his room, and requested
him to come out; he dressed himself a little,
went out, and found Schwarz and Hannah, pale
and with downcast eyes, standing in the room
opposite. "Dearfather," began Schwarz" what
you have so often foreboded has occurred ;-
father Coing is no more !" These words pene-
trated Stilling like a tbundf!fbolt, through ao4
through, and with it the conside1ation of hia
Eliza. who waa still so weak, and who loved
her father eo tenderly ! However, he took
courage, went to her bedside, and said, " Eliza,
a dear friend is dead !" Sbe answered, " What 1
-Hannah!" for ahe also was in the fa·mily-way.
"No," replied he;" it'is father Coing !" Eliza
grieved very much for her father ;-however
she bore it with chriatian resignation. Never-
theless, the shock laid the basis for a painful
affliction, which she has ever since had to bear.
Stilling now hastened to the dear family ;-they
were all three standing in the room, weeping.
Sulling embraced and kissed them, and said,
"You are now all three my children ; aa soon
as it ie possible, remove to my house." Thie
accordingly took place, as eoon as the corpse
was interred. Residing together with this dear
family was, in the sequel, indescribably benefi-
cial and consoling to Stilling, as will be subse-
q11ently seen. Father Coing bad been seized
with symptoms of suffocation, the physician
had been called, and all possible means used to
save him, but in vain. He declared very calm-
ly that he was ready to die. He waa an ex-
cellent man, and his· blessing rests upon bia
children.
The most important period of Stilling's life
now commences ;~hanges took place in him
and out of him, which gave bis whole being a
very important direction, and prepared him for
the situation he was eventually to fill.
Soon after father Coing's death, the time ar-
rived wlfen, as pro-rector of the University of
Marburg, he was obliged, in company with the
government commissary, to travel to Lower
Hesse, in order to visit the districts there under
the jurisdiction of the University, and to sell
the tithe belonging to it to the highest bidder.
The two friends, Riess and Stilling, therefore
set out on the journey ; and the latter took
Eliza with him, in Mder to afford her recreatioa
and amusement, and to accelerate her recove-
ry ; for her illness, and in particular, iler
father's sudden death, had brought her very
low. After executing the duties of their office,
Stilling returned with her, by way of Cassel, to
Marburg. At Cassel, and even previously,
Eliza observed an unpleasant sensation inward-
ly in the neck; this feeling became strongero11
arriving at Cassel ; and there arose an involun-
tary and occasional convulsive movement ofthe
head towards the right side, but still it was
not perceptible by others. She travelled home,
and attended to her domestic duties.
The autumn vacation again approached. Their
uncle Kraft, at Frankfort, wrote that there was
a rich blind Jewess In that town, who wished to
be couched for the cataract by Stilling, and that
she would gladly pay the ei:pences of his jour-
ney, if he would come and administer bis aid.
Stilling assented to this; but required, first, to
procure permission from Cassel, because the
pro-rector of Marburg was n<>lJat liberty to pass
a night out of the town. He obtained the per-
mission, and consequently confided bis office to
·the ex-pro-rector, and set out for Frankfort, ac-
companied by his Eliza. On arriving towards
evening at Vilbel, a beautiful village on the
Nidda, two leagues from Frankfort, as they
were stopping before an inn to feed the ho~
Digitized by GoogIe
STIL LING'S YEARS OF TUITION. ,135 •
"the hosteas came out to the <'oach, and said, Iyouth up into the essence of human re8ection,
with an anxious expression of countt>nance, opinion, and inference, and which, if the indi-
" Oh, are yor1 aware that the French l.a-oe entered vidual be not very watchful, urges itself upon
·llu empire, and haf!e already taken Spire!'' This him quite involuntarily by the spirit of the times,
intelligence penetrated through Stilling's whole altered the moral principle and reason in such
existence like an electric shock ; but still he a manner that people now found much in the
hoped that it was a mere report, and that the Bible that was pronounced superstitious, ridic-
matter might not be so bad ; be therefore con- ulous, and absurd, and therefore placed them-
tinued his journey to Frankfort, with his atten- selves above every thing; and then, with this
dants, and took up his residence with Mr. Kraft. spurious principle, and altered organ of investi-
He there learnt that the news was but too true gation, undertook-the boldest enterprise ofall-
in its whole extent, and that the whole city was the revision of tlie Bible, that ancient and sacred
in a state of apprehension and disturbance. ll relic ! Thus arose the beginning of the great
is quite requisite that I make a few observations falling-away, so clearly foretold by Christ and
here, on the singular effects which this infor- his apostles, and especially by Paul, who at
mation produced in Stilling's soul. the same time asserts that soon after, the man of
King Louis the Fourteenth of France, after sin, the incarnate Satan, should appear, and be
him the Duke of Orleans, who was regent, and hurled into the abyss by the sudden manifesta-
1inally Louis the Fifteenth, had in the course of tiQn ofthe Lord.
a century introduced an unexampled degree of These great ancl important views of the pre-
Juxury into France. A nation that is sunk in sent state of Christendom and the kingdom of
voluptuousness, and whose nerves are weaken- God, had gradually arisen in Stilling's mind du-
ed by every species of licentiousness, receives ring a Jong course ofyears, partly from the study
the witty derisions of a Voltaire as philosophy, of history, partly from observingt he signs of
and the sophistical dreams of a Rousseau as re- the times, partly by the diligent reading and
ligion. Hence, a national character naturally studying the prophecies of scripture, and partly
arises, which is extremely captivating, agreea- by secret communications from great men ; and
ble, and pleasing to the sensual man ; and hav- their importance filled his soul. To this, ano-
ing that which is dazzling in the system, and at ther observaLion, no less important, was added,
the same time possessing an external polish, it which was in unison with the former.
becomes interesting even to the reflecting mind, He had observed the origin of an extensive
and therefore gains the approbation of every alliance among people ofall ranks; bad seen its
-cultivated nation. increase and progress, and had become ac-
lt was for this reason, also, that our German quainted with its principles, which bad no less
nobility, both high and low, regarded France as an object in view than the changing of the
the chief school for politeness, good breeding, Christian religion into natural religion, and of
and- morality ! They were ashamed of the the monarchical form of government into demo.
powerful German language, and spoke French ; cratic republics, or at least into an unobserved
French adventurers, friseurs, and-any thing, direction of the ruling powers ; and be bad
if they were but French-were chosen as the learnt, by the wonderful guidance ofProvidence,
tutors of future rulers ; and very frequently, from Raschmann, how far the thing bad already
French milliners were appointed governesses of prospered, and this just at the time when the
-
our princesses, countesses, and ladies. The French revolution broke out. He knew in
German national character, and religion along what degree bis countrymen who belonged to
with it, went out of fashion, and was consigned this alliance stood in agreement with the French
to the lumber-room. demagogues, and therefore was sufficiently in-
Learned men, and theologian• in particular, formed with respect to the state of the timea
were now desirous of giving their advice and and their connection with biblical prophecy.
assistance ; and for this purpose, they chose- The result of all these ideas in Stilling's soul
the \vay of accommodation. They sought to was, that Germany, because of its playing the
make peace between Christ and Belia! ;-each harlot with France, would be severely punished
was to give way a little ; Christ was to annul by this very power. He foresaw the great con-
the dogmas of the doctrines of faith, and Belial tlict by which the great chastisement would be
to forbid gross vices, and both were in future to infticted, for men are punished by that through
.recognize nothing as the basis of religion but which they have sinned; and as the falling-
morality ; for they were agreed upon this, that away increased with rapid strides, he already
-the latter must be belie11cd and taught ; but as remotely foreboded the founding of the kingdom
for the performance, it was left to the liberty of of the " man of sin." That all this was really
-every iadividual, which must be held sacred, so-that is, that these ideas really existed in
and be by no means infringed upon. This Stilling's soul before any one thought of the
.Christo-Delia! system was then, par honncur de French revolution and its consequences,-is
Jettre, to be called chrislian doctrine, in order not evident from certain passages in his writings,
too grossly to offend Christ and his true wor- and particularly from an oration he made in
iihippers. Thus arose the intellectual enlight- 1786, before the Electoral German Society at
ening, so much esteemed in the present day, Manheim, but which, for reasons that may be
and the neology of tbe Christian religion. easily conceived, did not appear in print. Dot
But I earnestly beg that I may not be mista- with all his ideas and convictions, he had no
ken. None of these men voluntarily intended supposed that the storm would so rapidly an«
to make peace between Christ and Delial, es- suddenly break out over Germany. He con-
11ecially as the existence of tlie latter was no ceived, it is true, that the French revolution
longer believed; but the basis of all human would lay the remote basis for the last great
ideas, which imperceotibly insinuates itselffr:_om conftict between light and darkness, but he hnd
Digitized by GoogIe
• 136 HEINRICH STILLING. •
no presentiment that this conflict was ao near; Ied. and the French general, Costine, could have
for he did not doubt that the united forces of the arted as he liked. If his courage and his un-
German princes would conquer France. But derstanding had been as large as his whiskers
now, when he learnt that the result was quite dif- and mustachios, the greater part of Germany
ferent, his feelings were indescribable. On the would have lost ita political existence; for the
one hand was the approaching fulfilment ofsuch general feeling was, at that time, revolutionary,
expectations as exceed the highest wishes of and favourable to France.
the Christian ; and 011 the other, expectations al- However, it was not then known what Cus-
BO ofunheard-of sufferings and aftlictions, which tine's intentions were, and it was necessary to
the impending mighty conllict would unavoida- be prepared for every thing. His troops rav-
bly bring with it. Truly, this was a state of aged the Wetterau, and at times the thunder of
mind the weight of which might have easily their cannon was beard. . All prepared for flight.
pressed to the ground a man who had suffered with the exception of the heads of the college,
so much and laboured so hard, and still labour- who dared not leave their posts ; consequently
ed, if Providence had not iatended to preserve Stillinf as well as the rest, was obliged to re-
bim for objects of importance. main. This situation of things extremely op-
IL might be supposed that this of itself was a pressed his soul, which was already haraBSed
sufficient ordeal ; but just at this very anxious on all sides.
season, a particular beat was added, which tile One Sunday morning, towards the end of
Great Refiner, for reasons known to Him alone October, the terrible report was spread in tbe-
found it needful to permit. I have mentioned town, that the French were near at hand, and·
above, that Eliza, by a fright in a weak state coming down the Lahnberg. Stilling's anxiety
from indisposition, had been seized with a con- now became insupportable. He fell on bis-
vulsive motion of the bead towards the right knees in his study, and besought the Lord, with
side. Hitherto the evil had not been very con- tears, for strength and consolation ; his eyes
siderable, but it now became terrible and dread- then fell upon a little text-book, which stood
ful both to herself and her husband ; for on the before him amongst other books ; he felt incited
second day of her abode in Frankfort, a terrific in his mind to open it; and on doing so, he
alarm was spread that the French were on the found the text, "I will lift up mine eyes to the
march. The magistrates assembled on the hills, from whence cometh my help ; my help
Romer ; water-casks were filled in order to cometh from the Lord," &c. He opened it
extinguish fire during the bombardment, &c. ;- again, and found, "I will be a wall of fire round
in a word, the general panic was indescribable. about them," &c. He rose up encouraged and
With respect to Eliza, there was also another comforted, and from that time he was 110 longer
consideration :- the University of Marburg afraid ofthe French; nor did any of them come,
forms one of the Hessian states, Stilling was and the Prussians and Hessians soon after ap-
its pro-rector, and its sovereign was at war proacbed, Frankfort was retaken, and Mayence
with France. There was therefore nothing besieged.
more probable than that the French, on enter- Here [ must make two observations, which
ing Frankfort, would send Stilling as a hostage none of my readers will take amiss.
to France. This was too much for Eliza, who I. The opening upon passages of Scripture,
tf>nderly loved her husband ;-her bead now in order to ascertain the will of God, or even
moved continually towards the right shoulder, the future, is certainly an abuse of the Holy
and the whole of the upper part of her body Scriptures, and not permitted to a Christian.
was thereby distorted. Eliza suffered much If a person wishes to do it in ·order to derive
from it, and Stilling thought he should .have consolation from the divine word, it ought to
died in the midst of so much misery. Eliza be done in complete resignation and submission
had naturally a straight and fine figure, hut now to the will of God ; but he ought not to be cast
a disagreeable and suffering form ; it was scarce- down or discouraged, if he hits upon a passage
Jy to be endured. Besides all this, it was utterly which is not of a consoling nature. Cutting for
impossible to leave the town ; they were there- a text is no means which God has ever appoint.
fore under the necessity of remaining tbere that ed for any object; it is a kind of lot; and this is
day and the next, when it appeared that the a sacred thing which ought not to be profaned'.
French first intended to take Mayence. Still- 2. Stilling's extreme timidity may possibly
ing now found an opportunity for departing; excite, in some, unfavourable ideas of him, as
and as the JeweBS was incurably blind, be if be were a man devoid of courage. To this
travelled back again with Eliza to Marburg. it may he answered, that Stilling trembles at
Every possible means were attempted to de- every danger, whether great or small, before it
liYer the worthy woman from her aftliction, but is realized : but when it arrives he is confident
every thing has been hitherto in vain. She and courageous, even in the greatest trials.
has suffered in this way for more than eleven This is the natural consequence of long-endured
years ; it is certainly rather better now than at sufferings ;-we fear them, because we know
that time, but it is still a very heavy cross for their pain ; and endure them with confidence,
herself and her husband to bear. because we are accustomed to bear them, and
Stilling faithfully persevered in the discharge are acquainte•l with their blissful results.
of his office as pro-rector and professor, and Stilling was invited by the worthy family of
.Eliza bore her afiliction as becomes a Chris- the Von Vinckes to visit them at Prussian Min-
tian ;-to this was now joined the fear of being den during the next Easter vacation. He
attacked by the French. The Elector return- thankfully accepted this invitation, and his in-
ed, it is true, about the beginning of October; mate, young Von Vincke, and some friends from
but his troops followed him very slowly, on ac- Cassel, accompanied him. Stilling suffered
count of the badness of the weather. Hesse much on this journey, from spasms in the sto-
and the whole country was therefore unprotect- mach; the weather was raw, and be rode
Digitized by GoogIe
"
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 131
thither on horseback. He also accompanied
the family above-mentioned to their sumptuous
manorial residence of Ostenwalde, four leagues
from Osnabruck, and then travelled home again
by way of Detmold.
Stilling became acquainted with several re-
markable individuals on this journey, with some
ofwhom he entered into an intimate and friendly
connection; namely, the lately deceased Prin-
cess Juliana of Biickeburg, Kleuker of Osna-
bruck (who had however already visited Still-
ing in Marburg). MOser and his daughter, Ma-
dame Von Voight, the Princesa Christina of
Lippe Detmold, the three divines-Ewald, Pas-
savant, and Von Colin, and Doctor Scherf, phy-
sician to the prince of Lippe. All these worthy
individuals manifested respect and kindness to
Stilling. There was also then living in Det-
ID\lld a very worthy matron, the .widow of the
late S•1perintendant-general Stosch, with her
daughters, the eldest of whom had been Selma's
intimate friend. Stilling visited her, and was
received with affecting tendernesa. On taking
leave, the venerable woman fell on bis neck,
and said, "If we see each other no more in this
world, pray for me, that the Lord would perfect
that which concerns me, in order that I may be
able eventually to embrace you again in his
kingdom with more joy than at present."
On Stilling's return from this journey to Mar-
burg, when he came to his house-door, Eliza
stepprd out to receive her husband : but what
a sight !-a sword pierced his soul ; Eliza stood
there, bent and crooked ; the motion in her
neck communicated itself more violently to the
upper part of her body ; it was dreadful ! His
heart bled with sympathy and sorrow; but this
was of no avail-he was compelled to bear it.
However, every thing was done to cure the
sufferer, and the most powerful remedies were
resorted to ; four balls of mora were burnt upon
her shoulder, on the bare skin. She bore this
dreadful pain without uttering a word ; but it
proved of no utility. She used baths, especial-
ly the shower-bath, which is very powerful in
its ope.ra1ion, but it all ended in nothing. Be-
sides this atlliction, she sutfered a second mis·
carriage, in which her life was really endanger-
ed ; but with the Divine assistance, she was re-
stored again hy the means that were employed.
By degrees, the convulsive motion in her neck
amended itself so far as to make it, at least,
more tolerable.
In the spring of the year 1793, brother Coing
entered upon the pastoral office, having been
appointed to the Reformed Church at Gemund.
a town in the principality of Upper Hessia, five
leagues from Marhurg. He had resided above
half a yPar in Stilling's house. Coing would
have been his brother. even though no bond of
consanguinily' had endeared him to him.
The most remarkable particular in the history
of Slilling's life, during this and the following
year, is the publication of two works which were
peculiarly instrumental in dete~mining his final
vocalion ; these were, " Scenes in tho Invisi-
ble world," in two volumes; and "Nostalgia,"•
in four volumes, with the key bl!longing to it.
•We hove no word In u"" In English, COITeSfl"ndlng
With the Germ•n word •• Hehnweh," which lllernlly
-n• " home-ache ;" probnbly becRule "" euch dl•-
ls known in this country.-Nou of IM Tran1latn.
B
The "Scenes in the Tnviaible World," prodn·
ced an unexpected etrect; they gained Stilling
a large class of religious readers, I may ssy
with truth and without boasting, in every quar-
ter of the globe. By their means, the true wor-
shippers of Jesus Christ were again made at.
tentive to the man the history of whose life bad
already made an impresaion upon them ; but the
"Nostalgia" bad still more particular results ;
-it gave the first bias to Stilling's future pur-
suits, aa the sequel will show.
The origin of both books is very remarkabl0>,
for it proves incontestibly that Stilling did noi
contribute in the least degree towards the pro-
curing cause of hia subsequent appointment; ae
indeed was the case during the whole of his
course, as I will show at the end of this vol~
u.me. However, with respect to these books,
and particularly the" Nostalgia," which proved
peculiarly instrumental in that respect, it is re-
quisite that I relate their origin circumstantial-
ly, and according to the precise atate of the
case.
The "Scenes in the Invisible World'' origi-
nated as follows. Whilst Raschmann and the
Counts were at Marburg, one evening, in com-
pany at his house, Wieland's translation of L11>-
cian waa spoken of. Raschmann read a few
passages from it which were extremely com~
cal ; the whole company laughed aloud, and
every one admired the translation as an inimi-
table master-piece. On a certain occasion this
book again occurred to Stilling ; and he wrote
for it immediately, without refiection. Some
time after, his conscience smote him for tbia.
hasty step. "What!" said the reproving voice
in his soul, "thou art about to purchase BO valu-
able a book in seven volumes ; and for what
purpose !-merely in order to laugh ! Yet thoa
hast still BO many debts, and must provide for
thy wife and family! And if this were not the
case, how much assistance mightest thou have
afforded by it to some poor sulferer ! Thou art
buying a book which is not ev~n of use to thee
in any part of thy vocation, much less necessa-
ry." Stilling now stood before his judge like
a poor criminal who surrenders himself at dis-
cretion. lt was a hard struggle, a painful wrest-
ling for grace ; but at length he obtained it, and
then sought, on his part, to make as much re-
paration for this transgression as possible. If
Lucian and Wieland, thought he, have written
scenes in the world of fabulous deities, partly in
order to exhibit the absurdity of the heathen
mythology in a ridiculous point of view, and
partly also to amuse their readera, I will now
writ.e scenes in the real Christian invisible
world, for the serious consideration and for the
instruction and edification of the reader, and
apply what [ may obtain for the work to the
benefit of poor blind people." He carried this
idea into execution, and thus originated a book
which produced the entirely unexpected etreot
above mentioned.
The origin of the "Nostalgia" was just at
little the result of refiection. Stilling, from par
ticular inducement, had perused attentive!}
Sterne's "Tristram Shandy." Soon after, it
also happened that he read the "Genealogical
Biographies." Both books, as is well known,
are written in a sententious and humorous st)lle.
In the perusal of these works, Stilling had a
Digitized by GoogIe
138 .HEINRICH STILLING.
very different object in view from that which I whole work took quite another form, and the
Providence intended. . composition quite another tendency, to that
To these two preparatives a third was added. which he had proposed at the commencement.
Stilling had for a long time accustomed himself He e:rperienced, besides, another singular
daily to translate a passage out of the Old Tes- phenomenon ;-in the atate between sleeping
tament from the Hebrew, and another out of and waking, the most beautiful and as it were
the New from the Greek, and then form from paradisiacal scenery presented itself to his in-
t.hem a concise and pithy sentence. He had a ward senses. He attempted to delineate it, but
large atore of such sentences in his possession, found it impossible. With this imagery, there
with no other object in view than biblical study. was always a feeling connected, compared with
Now who could imagine that these insignificant, which all the joys of sense are as nothing;-
and in reality, trilling things, should have laid it was a blissful season! T.hia state of mind
the real and peculiar foundation for the devel· lasted exactly as long as Stilling was engaged
-0pment of such a remarkable circumstance~ in writing the "Nostalgia;" that i11, from Au_.
Truly, Stilling bad not the remotest presenti- gust, 1793, to December, 1794, consequently full
ment of it. a year and-a-quarter.
Soon after '\he perusal of the books above- But here I must seriously entreat the Christ-
mentioned, and about the end of July 1793, Mr. ian reader not tu judge uncharitably, as if Still-
Krieger, a bookseller in Marburg, came one ing wished to arrogate lo himself Vivine inspi-
iorenoon to Stilling, and requested him to give ration, or even any thing approaching that na
him something of a classical nature, in the ture. No, friends ! Stilling assumed no sue.
ahape of a novel, to publish, in order that be thing. IL was an exalted feeling of the nearnes~
might have something which might prove profit- of the Lord, who is the Spirit ;-this light irrad-
able to him, because the dry Compendia went iated the powers of his soul, and enlightened
off so slowly, &.c. Stilling felt something in his his imagination and reason. In this light Sllll-
mind which acquiesced in this request; he ing was to write the "Nos1algia ;" but yet
therefore promiaed him a work of the kind, and it ie still an imperfect human work. Supposing
&bat he would commence it without delay. that an apprentice, who had hitherto produced
The idea now soddenly occurred to Stilling, wretched performances by the dubious light of a
that from his youth up he had cherished the lamp, had his window-shutters suddenly thrown
wish in hie aoul, after John Bunyan's example, open, and the light of the sun suffered to shine
to portray the true Christian'11 path of repent- into his work-room, his productions would still
ance, conversion, and sanctification, under the be only those of an apprentice, but yet they
•imilitude of a journey; he therefore resolved would be better than before.
to put thie idea into e:recution ; and as he had Hence came also the unexampled approbation
-0nly lately been reading those humorous works, which this book met with. A number of copies
to adopt their style and mode of diction, and wandered to America, where it is much read.
then intermingle in it bis stock of sentences in In Asia, where there are also some pious Ger-
an appropriate manner. An idea which be had mans, the "Nostalgia" was known and read.
.ahortly before expressed in writing in a peraon's From Denmark, Sweden, and RuSBia, even to
. .tibam, gue occaaion to the title" Nostalgia;" Aetracan, Stilling received proofs of approba-
it was as followa :- tion. Out of every province in Germany, from
"Blffled are they that long for home, persona of all ranks, from the throne to lbe
For lhltller lhey lhall IWllly come;" plough, Stilling received a multitude of letters,
!or it was his opinion that this title would auit which testified the loudest approval ;-not a
·well to a book which was intended to describe few learned sceptics were convinced by it, and
the painful journey of a Christian to bis beal'en- gained over to true cbristianity; in a word. there
ly home. are few hooks that have caused such a power-
Thue prepared, Stilling began to write bis ful and extensive sensation as Stilling's " Nos-
46 Nostalgia." But aa he waa not fully oonfi- talgia." This must not be regarded as boasting;
dent whether he should succeed in this method, it belongs to the essential part of this history.
be read the firat si:r parts to his intimate friends, But the" Nostalgia" operated powerfully and
Micbaelia and Schlarbaum, who were extreme- painfully upon Stilling himself. The delight be
ly well pleased with the commencement, and had felt whilst writing it now ceased ; the deep
encouraged him to proceed in tbe same manner. and inward conviction, that even political econ-
But in order to be the more sure, he selected omy was not bis real vocation, produced the very
.even individuala from the circle of hie friends, same etfect on his mind aa did the discovery at
who met at his house once a fortnight, and to Elberfeld,* that the practice ofmedicine was not
whom be read what he had written in the in- that for which he was ultimately designed. He
tervening time, and beard their judgment re- felt the presaure (Ifa dejection which penetrated
.11pecting it. into his inmost soul, an unspeakable melting of
The state of mind which Stilling e:rperienced the heart and contrition of spirit ;-all the praise
whilst labouring at this work, which consists and all the approbation of princes, and of the
<if four large octavo volumes, is utterly inde- greatest and most excellent men, caused him
seribahle. His spirit was as if elevated into indeed, a momentary joy ; but then he felt pro-
ethereal regions; a feeling ofserenity and peace roundly, that all this did not belong to him, and
pervaded him, and he enjoyed a felicity which 1hat all the praise was due to Him alone who
worda cannot express. When he began to had entrusted him with such talents. Such is
work, idea11 glistened past bis soul, which ani- his state of mind still, and such it will remain.
mated him so much that he could scarcely write It is remarkable tbat just at this period, three
with the rapidity which the fiow of ideas re-
.qnired. Thia was alao the reaaon why the •Called Be~ at the commeacement of the wort.
Digitized by GoogIe
STllJLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 141 •
•oicea entirely indepencleot of each other, de-1 aay, when he' learnt that Stilling did, or rat fa-
clared that Stilling'& academical situation was was able to do, 80 little for his heavy salary.'th
no longer his proper vocation. The year 1794 again strewed many thorns ft:-
The first was an inward conviction, which Stilling'e path; for in February, Eliza's eldest
·bad arisen in him during the tiwe he was wri- daughter, Lubecka, died, from the consequences
ting the "Nostalgia," and for which he was of the measles, and in the sequel, other bitter
unable to give a reason. The impulse he had sufferings were added.
80 strongly felt from hie childhood to become an In July of the following summer, Lanter
active instrument in the Lord's hands, for the wrote to him that he would pass thro~h Mar-
advancement of religion, and which was also al- burg ·on his return from Copenhagen. Thie
ways the operative cause ofhis minor religious caused him real joy; be had seen this friend
occupatioos, now stood more coospicuously be- of his heart just twenty years before, in Elber-
fore his eyes than ever, and filled him with a feld, and consequently only once in hie life;
longing to become free from all earthly things, but still, at times, had exchanged confidential
in order to become able to serve the Lord and letters with him. It was ofextreme importance
His kingdom actively and with all his powers. to him once more to converse personally with.
The second voice, which spoke the same this witness for the truth, and discuss many
thing. was contained in every letter he received, subjects with him which were too difticult and
whether from far or near ;-persons of every copious for correspondence. Lavater arrived
rank in society, from the highest to the lowest, one Sunday afternoon in Marburg, with hie pi-
~alled upon him to devote himself exclusively ous and amiable daughter, now the consort of
and entirely to the service of the Lord and the the Rev. Mr. Gessner, ofZurich. Stilling went
cause of religion, and by no means to discon- about a league to meet him. Lavater contin-
tinue his Libours in that department. ued at Marburg unt'il early the next morning,
The third and last voice was, that just about when be proceeded on his journey.
this time, academical orders and a revolution- It is difficult to nall to mind in the whole
ary spirit prevailed amongst the students at course of history, a learned man that has exci-
Marburg, by which their whole minds were fill- ted so much attention, and who so little sought
ed ~ith principles and sentiments directly op· it, as Lavater. In the evening, whilst he was
posed to the doctrines which Stilling taught. supping with Stilling, the place before the house
Hence the number of his hearers continually de- was filled with people, and the windows were
creased ; and the spirit of the times, the prevail- crowded with beads. He was cert1tinly in ma-
ing mode of thinking, and the general tendency ,ny respects a remarkable man, and a great wit-
of the German financial policy, left him not a ness for the truth of Jesus Christ. The bond
glimmer of hope that he would be in future of of fraternity was now more firmly established
any utility with reference to his principles of po- between Lavater and Stilling; they strengthened
litical economy. each other, and resolved that neither death, nor
I now request my readers calmly to redect life, nor reproach, nor shame, should ever cause
how an honest and conscientious man must feel them to turn away from Christ, who was then
in such a situation, and whether·the whole po. so despised and hated.
sition in which Stilling now found himselfcould Soon afterwards followed the bitter a11liction
haTe resulted from blind accident or chance. I hue mentioned above ;-it was a fiery trial.
However clear and evident alk this was, yet Stilling was accustomed, during the Whiteun-
the way to attain to it was; on the other hand, tide holidays, to go with his auditory to Casael,
equally obscure. No expedient could be at in order to shew them the foreign horticultural
&hat time'thought of by which to arrive at it; productions at Wilhelmahohe. This was done
-for his family was numerous ; his son was at principally for the sake of those who studied
&.be university ; the war and other circumstan- the botanical sciences ; but many others also
ces made every thing very dear ; the needy accompanied him, to see what else was remark-
were many ; his large income was scarcely suf- able in Cassel. The journey thither and back
ficient; and there w~re still many debts to pay. was generally performed on foot. On this oc-
Eliza, indeed, who trod sincerely in Selma's casion, Stilling had the pleasure to see ooe of
footsteps with regard to the bogsekeeping, bad, his wishes fulfilled by the Elector, which was,
notwithstanding all the sickness, heavy expen- the laying out a particular nursery for forest-
aea, and Hannah's marriage, already liquidated trees. As be was returning home with his ret-
in a few years, some hundred guilders; and the inue, and the students were conversing among
intere11t was regularly paid every year. But themselves on the pleasure they bad enjoyed at
under present circumstances, it was impossible Cassel, and that every thing had succeeded so
to think of any perceptible liquidation of debt ; well, Stilling joined in the conversation, and
it was therefore necessary that Stilling should said, " I have likewise been much pleased, for
retain his professorship, and attend to it with I have also obtained something of which I was
all fidelity, for the sake of the stipend. Let the desirous," without explaining himself further;
reader imagine himself in bis place ;-insur- but be had in his eye the promise of the Elect-
mountable hindrances lay in the way of the vo- or, with regard to the nursery of forest-trees.
cation and sphere of action in which he could There was at that time a private teacher in
have been most beneficially and cheerfully oc- Marburg, a worthy and learned young man, of
cupied, and to which, from his youth up, be had whom the students '\\'ere very fond. He was
an unconquerable inclination. On the other hand addicted to Kant's philosophy, which at that
that vocat;on in which be was obtiged to labour, time was the order of the day. Now, as tho
without benefit and without hope, was complete- Elector was not very favourable to that system,
lyindispensabletohim. Andjoinedwiththiswas and bad, perhaps, beard something to the pre-
1be melancholy idea of what the Elector would judice of the private teacher, l:o sent a rescript
Digitized by GoogIe
138 H E I N R I C H ST I LL I N G.
ve~be young man ; m coneequence of wbieh he
Prrlla remoYed to Hanau, aa professor of philoso-
phy, with a stipend of a hundred dollars. The
latter was obliged to obey ; but the students
were enraged, and the whole of their suspicion
fell upon Stilling ; for they construed the ex-
preaeion he had made use of on theJourney from
Cassel, respecting the euccese of his wishes, as
having reference to the removal of the private
teacher, of which they deemed he bad been the
cause. The ferment at length reached its
height ; and, in order to make a tumult, they
determined to serenade the private teacher, who
was then ready to depart, and afterwards take
the opportunity of storming Stilling'• house and
breaking bis windows. Hie good son Jar.oh
was informed of all this ;-he was studying ju-
risprudence, wae very regular and diligent, and
never took the smallest part in such disorderly
proceedings. The worthy youth was in a state
of great anxiety ; for bis mother-in-law Eliza,
whom he cordially loved, was again pregnant,
and his aunt, Amalia Coi11g, Eliza's youngest
sister, wae seriously ill of the dysentery. He
saw therefore, before hie eyee, the lives of three
individuals in danger ; for the spirit of the times
at that period, which stood in connexion with
the reign of terror in France, breathed out mur-
der and death ; and the students lived in the
intoxication of revolutionary sentime11ts.
Jacob therefore informed his parents of the
danger that tbrf'.atened them in the evening, and
requested them to remove the windows which.
were next the street and the square, and to lay
Amalia in another place ; for she lay at the win-
dow towards the street. The windows, how-
eYer, were not taken out ; but the invalid had
a bed made behind, in an afoove. Meanwhile,
Jacob went about amongst the students, and
represented to them the danger which might
arise from the fright ; but this was like preach-
ing to deaf ears. At length, as be ceased not
to entreat them, they consented, on condition
that he would also enter " the order." The
good youth stmggled for two painful hours in
the choice between two eYils; however, he
finally thought that entering into an order was
the smaller of the two. He therefore did so;
the misfortune was averted, and it was agreed
that the students, ae the procession passed Still·
ing's house, should merely show their hostility
by spitting ; this they were at liberty to do;
there was room enough in the street for it.
Stilling knew not a word of bis son's having
entered a students' order; he first heard of it a
year afterwards, but in such a way that it nei-
ther occaeioned him terror nor sorrow. Jacob
earnestly besought b;s parents to send him for
half-a-year to Gottingen. The true reason of
this no one was acquainted with. He pretend-
ed that it would be much to his advantage to
atudy in Gottingf'n : in short, he ceased not
to urge this request until his parents con-
ceded, and sent him for the wintP.r half of the
year to Gottingen; but his secret object was,
to leaYe the order in which he was enrolled, and
to notify it to the pro-re"tor ; which he could
not do at Marburg, without exciting fresh dis-
turbance. Just at that time, all academic or-
ders were prohibited by the Diet at Ratisbon,
and the univel'!lities began the examination.
Jacob had fortunately already given in his res-
ignation to the pro-rector o( the oraer, and re-
ceived an attestation to that effect, and thus he
escaped the punishment. The followir1gsummer,
when he waa again in Marburg, the examina-
tion began there alao. To their great astonish·
ment, and quite unf'xpectedly, they found hia
name likewise .upon the liat. He of counre
stood forth, and produced his attestation ; and
the matter was referred to the decision of the
Elector,whom StiHing informed ofthe real reason
why bis eon had entered the order. The Elec-
tor was pleased with his conduct, and acquitted
him from all punishment and responsibility.
During this year, there arose also a new con-
nection in Stilling'• family. Eliza's two sisters,
Maria and Amalia, both very good and amiable
girls, were to Stilling a real present from God;
he felt happy in their society, as did every one
who entered the family circle. The three sis-
ters bore, 88 it were, in their hands, the man
who hy labor and sorrow was almoet pressed
down to the ground.
Amalia, by her excellent disposition, her beau-
ty, and Madonna-like countenance, hlld made a
deep impression upon Jacob. At first, the good
young man imagined that it was not permitted
him to marry his step-mother's sister. He
atroggled therefore for a time with this partial-
ity, and was in doubt whether it would not be
better to leave his father's house. However,
he confided his secret to his brother-in-law
Schwan:, who encouraged him, and advised him
to make bis parents·acquainted with his wishes.
Stilling and Eliza hnd nothing to object to it,
but gave them both their blesaingand their con-
sent to the marriage, as soon 88 Jacob was pro-
vided for ; but this was not till after the lapse
of seven yeara. During this period, the con-
duct of both, as well theircharacter, was hlame-
le88 ; but in order to avoid the tongue of <'.alum-
ny, he undertook, not Jong after, the place of
governor to a young gentleman who was stu-
dying the Jaw at Marburg, to whose residence
he remoYed ; and did not again live with his
parents until he married Amalia.
Thia autumn also, the Elector appointed
young Coing chaplain to the emba88y ai Ratis-
bon, which office be filled for some years, witla
distinguished approbation.
•
CHAPTER XVIII.
IN this state of things, commenced t.le yea1
1795. On the 4th of January, Eliza was hap-
pily delivered of a son, who received the name
of Friedrich, and is still living. A fortnight af-
terwards, on a Sunday afternoon, Stilling re-
ceived the mournful intelligence that his qld and
intimate friend Kraft, who was his uncle by
marriage, had suddenly been called into eternity.
Stilling wept aloud; for it was a loss which it
would be difficult to replace.
The manner in which this excellent man and
celebrated preacher died, was stri kin~ly beauti-
ful; he was sitting with his worthy consort, a
daughter, and one or two good friends, at the
supper-table; all were cheerful, and Kraft par-
ticularly lively. He was wont to return thanks
aloud at table, which he was also about to do on
this occasion. After supper was ended, he
arose. looked upwards, began to prav and at the
Digitized by GoogIe
STILL.ING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 141 •
same moment tl1e L<>rd received his spirit; he
sank down, and died on the spot.
Kraft was a learned the11logian, and a man of
great biblical research. Without possessing
particular pulpit eloquence, he was an eminent
and popular preacher; in every sermon some-
thing might be learnt. He always excited the
attention, and irresistibly touched the heart.
When I was once in bis church at Frankfort, a
Prussian officer came and sat down by me; I
saw that be was merely there in order to have
been at church. The door-keeper came and
laid a hymn-book before each of us, open at the
hymn. The officer looked coolly into it, and
that was all ; he did not at all look at me, which
wascertainly quite at hisown option. At length
Kraft entered the pulpit; the officer looked up,
just as a ~on looks when he knows not wheth-
er he has looked or not. Kratt prayed; the offi-
cer looked up a few times, without taking any
further notice. Kraft preached; but now the
bead of the officer was immoveable· his eyes
were fixed upon the preacher, and bis mouth
was wide open, as if to swallow every thing that
Kraft brought forth out of the good treasure of
his heart. When he pronounced the "Amen,"
the officer turned to me, and said, "I never heard
guch a ~ermon in all my life."
Kraft was a man endowed with wisdom, and
consistent in all his actions. His heart burned
with love to hi~ Redeemer, and he was thence
a faithful follower of Him. He was indescri-
bably beneficent, and in this, hi~ pious l'onsort
was bis faithful helpmate; when it was needful,
and the gift would be well applied, he could joy-
fully contribute a hundred guilders, and that in
such an agreeable manner, that it appeared as
if rhe greatest kindness were shown him by ta-
kin.,. the money of him. When he was still a
stu8ent, a poor man begged alms of him, but as
he had no money, he immediately took his silver
buckles from his shoes, and gave them to him.
Although he was very onhodox, yet he was the
most tolerant man in the world, and polite and
hospitable in the hi~best degree.
Jn company, Kraft was l'heerful, pleasant, jo-
cose, and witty. On hi8 visit to Stilling, at Eas-
ter, 1792, the latter bad one evening lDviled a
company ofgood friends to supper; the conver-
sation turned upon the exchequer• courts of the
German princes, and on the ruinous principles
which, in some cases, prevailed in them, to the
great detriment ofthe rulers and their subjects.
At length Kraft, who had hitherto been silent,
began with bis usual pathos, and said, 11 Though
the.v should say unto you that Christ is in these-
cret cltambers, believe it not."
Blessed art thou, dear man ofGod!-the con-
sideration of joyfully meetin~ thee again in the
kingdom of God, is a cordial to thy friend Still-
ing on his painful pilgrimage.
Kraft was replaced by the pions preacher
Passavant of Detmold, Stllling's intimate friend.
Besides his deeply af!licted consort, he left be·
hind him three daughters, the eldest of whom
had been married some years before, to his
worthy colleague the Rev. Mr. Hausknecht;
the larter is likewise a truly christian and evan-
gelical man, and Stillin~s intimate friend; his
house has taken the place of Kraft's with refer-
ence to Stilling. The second daughter marrieil
an exemplary pions preacher from Bremen, of
thl' name of Ei<entr~er, who was afterwards
• The German wunl here llM<I, may be litenillv render·
ed ••revenue chawben.
stationl'd at Worms, but soon followed his fa.
ther-in-law. The third daughter, alter the deaih
of both her parents, married a young and re-
ligiously·disposed lawyer, oftbe name ofBurck-
hardi, who is now Government-Advocate at Dil-
lenburg, in the principality of Nassau. Ma-
dame Coing's and Madame Kraft'~ youngest
sister, Mademoiselle Duising, had resided for a
period in Kraft's house; these two sisters, Kraft's
youngest daughter, and an old, faithful, and pi-
ous female servant, called Catherine, now con-
stituted the household. But as the good widow
no longer found any permanent place of abode
in Frankfort, anrl longed to be at Marburg, her
native town, amongst her relatives by blood, Still-
ing hired a habitation for her; which, however,
she left at the year's end, and removed, with
Stilling and his family, into the ancient familyt
house, where they all lived together in cbristian
affection and harmony.
Stilling's melancholy turn of mind, and the
pressure ofoccupation, which was almost insu-
perable, occasioned him and bis Eliza to hire a
country-house at Ockershausen, a village a mile
distant from Marburg, and there pass the great-
est pan of the summer; in order that from a
pure and free atmosphere, and the beauties of
nature, they might derive invigoration, refresh-
ment, and recreation. Eliza also stood in need
of all this; for by the convulsive affection in her
neck, the free motion of the pectoral muscles
was impeded, in consequence of which she
felt always more or less oppression on the chest,
with which she is troubled even to the present
time, and which occasionally renders her ex-
tremely dejected. Her path much resembles
Stilling's; and this makes her husband, who·
loves her tenderly, often feel his burden the more
heavily.
From that time Stilling dwelt with his familyl
for four years together, during a great part 01
the spring, summer, and autumn, at Ockershau-
sen, in a pretty house, to which a beautiful or-
chard with an arbour is attached, and from
which there is a line prospect to the Lahnbe~.
But he continued to read his lectures in his
~~fu~ci~ .
One morning, in the spring of the year 1796,
a handsome young man, in a green silk-plush
coat, and otherwise well-dressed, came to Still-
.ing's house at Ockershausen.
This gentleman introduced himself in such a
manner as betrayed a polished and genteel ed-
ucation. Stilling inquired who he was, and
learned that he was the remarkable--. Still-
ing was astonished at the visit; and his aston-
ishment was increased by the expectation of
what this extremely enigmatieal individual might
have to communicate. After both had sat down,
the stranger began by saying that he wished to
consult Sulling relative to a person diseased in
the eye. However, the real object of his visit
pressed him in such a manner that he soon be-
gan to weep, kissed first Stilling's hand, then his
arm, and said, "Sir, are yon not the author of
1he Nostalgia1" 11 Yes sir."
11 You are therefore one of my secret superi-
ors !" (here be a~ain kissed Stilling's hand and
arm, and wept almost aloud.)
S!illin{l.-11 No, dear sir ! I am neither your
nor an.v one else's secret superior. I am not in
any secret connection whatever."
The stranger looked at Stilling with a fixed
eye and inward emotion, and replied, "Dearest
friend, cease to conceal yuuraelf! I have been
o;g;:;zed by Google
I~ HEIN RICH STILL! NG.
tried long and severely enough; I thought you
knew me already !"
StiJling.-" No, Mr.--. I assure you sol-
emnly, tbat I stand in no secret connec1ion, and
in reality nnderstand nothing of all that you ex-
pect from me."
This speech was too strong and too serious to
leave the stranger in uncertainty; it was now
his tum to be astonished and amazed. He
therefore continued; 11 But tell me, then, bow it
is that you know any thing ofthe great and ven-
erable connection in the east, which you have
so circumstantially de.scribed in the Nostalgia,
and have even minutely pointed out their ren-
dezvous in Egypt, on Mount Sinai, in the
monastery of Canobin, and under the temple at
Jerusalem 1"
StiJJing.-" I know nothing at all of all this;
but these ideas and conceptions presented them-
selves in a very lively manner to my imagi-
nation. Itwas therefore mere fable and fiction."
11 Pardon me, the maner is in truth and reality
as you have described it ; it is astonishing that
you have bit it in such a manner I-this cannot
possibly have come by chance I"
The gentleman now related the real particu-
lars of the association in the East. Stilhng was
astonished and amazed beyond measure; for
he heard remarkable and extraordinary things,
which are not however ofsuch a nature as can
be made puhlic. I only affirm, that what Still-
ing learned from this gentleman had not the most
remote reference to political matters.
About the same time1 a certain great prince
wrote to him, and askea him 1.0Mn.a it tea.! that
Ae knete a111!Jthing oftltetWOCiation in tlte Ea.it; f'"
tlte thing 1.0a.1 a.i lte had described it in tlte Nostalgia.
The answer in writing was naturally the same
as that given verbally t<> the above-mentioned
atranaer.
Stifling has experienced several things of this
kind, in which his ima~nation exactly accorded
with the real fact, wuhout previously having
the least knowledge or presentiment of it. In
the sequel, two cases ofthis kind will be related.
How it is, and what it is, God knows! Stilling
makes no retleclions upon the matter, but lets
it stand upon its own value, and looks upon it
as the direction of Providence, which purposes
leading him in a distinguished manner.
The development of the eastern mystery is,
however, a most important matter to him, be-
cause it bas reference to the kingdom of God.
Much, indeed, remains in obscurity; for Stilling
afterwards also heard from another person of
great consequence, something of an oriental
alliance, which was ofa very different kind, and
likewise not of a political nature. It remains to
be developed, whether the two are entirely dis-
tinct, or stand more or less in connexion with
each other.
Othl'r extraordinary and remarkable discov-
eries were added to these. Stilling received in-
formation from various sources of apparitions
from the world of spirits, of the reappearan<.-e of
persons of all classes, some long and others
recently dec':'ased; of remarkable presentiments,
discoveries, &c.,-all of which are demonstra-
tively proved to be true.• It is to be regretted
that not one of them is of a nature to be made
public; but this Is generally the case in such
• See hi•" Theory or Pneumatol<>u," oupported by a
oeri" of highly interesting facla of 1upernatural phenome-
na ; with copiou1 nolea to \he ll&lll8 effect by U.e traulator.
-Lo1101uK & Co.
matters; the words are also applicable here,
11 They have Moses and the prophets;" and we
possess besides these, Christ and his apostles;
we are not relerred t.osuch extraordinary sources
ofinformation. Stilling's ideas of Hades, oftbe
world of spirits, of the state of the soul after
death, next to the hints thrown out in the Scrip-
tures for consideration, are derived from these
sources. Yet still,these are not articles offaitb;
let every one think of them what he please~;
only let him not condemn them, for by >O doing
be would at the same time condemn himselt:
The year of 1796 was a year of terror and
misery to the whole of Lower Germany. The
crossing of the Rhine by the French, their march
to Franconia, and their subsequent retreat, filled
ibe whole country with indescriba~ wretched-
ness; and as Hessia was at peace, the people
fled from all parts to the neighbourhood of Mar-
burg. On numbering on one occasion, by order
of the magistracy, the forei~n fugitives that
resided there, there were fauna in Marburg and
the adjacent towns and village~, Jurtyji.ve tlwu-
$llnd. It was pitiable tCl see how people of all
ranks, in an endless train, in carriages, carts,
and waggons, drawn by oxen, horses, cows, and
mules, with rich or wretched baggage, on foot,
on horseback, or on asses, barefooted, in shoes,
or in boots, with misery and woe depicted Oil
theirfa<:es. filled the roads, and with loud thanks-
givings blessed the prince who bad made peace.
Stilling's mind was extremely oppressell by
all this, and also by the prevailitig spirit of the
times, which laughed to scorn all that is holy;
and his desire to labor for the Lord increased. _
All this had induced him, in the preceding year,
to publish a periodical work entitled, "The Grey
Man," which very unexpectedly met with great
approbation; on which account he still conrin-
ues it. It is not only much read in every prov-
ince of Germany, but also, like the 11 }:'irostalgia,"
in every quarter of the globe. I have myself
seen American newspapers, in the German lan-
guage, in which the "Grey Man" was inserted
byliece-meal, under promise ofits continuation_
mongst the many fugitives were two very es-
timable personages, who were particularly im-
portant to Stilling and his family. Prince
Frederick of Anhalt-Bemberg-Schaumberg, a
true Christian in the purest sense of the word,
hired a house in Marburg; and bis next relative
by blood, the Countess Louisa of Wittgenstein-
Berlenburgberg, resided with him. The moth-
ers of both were sisters, the Countesses Henck-
el of Donnersmark, and real Christians, wh<>
brought up their children excellently, and in the
fear of God. These two noble individuals in
every respect honored Stilling and Eliza with
their confidential intercourse; and they were
truly angels of consolation and of succour both
to them and their family, during their five years•
residence in Marburg. This excellent prince
and amiable countess dwelt there from the sum-
mer of li96 to the aurumn of1801.
At the same time, Stilling also entered into-
nearer connection wirh two absent princes; the
universally-acknowledged excellent and pious
Elector of Baden wro!e to him occasionally;
and Prince Charles of Hesse, a real and very
enlightened Christian, entered into a regular cor-
respon-le.nce with him, which is still continued.
•
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 143
CHAPTER XIX.
IT is now time for me again to notice father
Wilhelm Stilling, and embody the history of the
rest of his life with this. His second marriage
hat! not been blessed. Notwithstanding all his
striving, labouring, and sparing, he continually
lo~t ground, and was ever deeper in debt; and
hb tour children by the second marriage-three
daughters and one son, all worthy and hone!t
people-were all poor and unfortunate. The
uld p11triarch saw them all about him, and be-
heltl their misery without being able to help
them. Stilling, meanwhile, lived at a distance,
and knew little of all this; indeed, he was utterly
i~norant that it fared so very ill with his father.
Wilhelm, however, had more than one good
reason for concealmg hi5 true situation from
his son ; for he had formerly often expressed
himself to him to the effect that he would rather
eat dry bread than be supported by one of his
children. But the following idea probably lay
heavy on his heart: /le It.ad oftm mo# bUterly rt-
proaclted llis wn i?i kis misery, mpectin.g his cir-
cu11ul.n:nces, a?id told kim /le ioas a /Q# nia?i; that
Ae was good ftrr Mtkin.g; that lt.e 1DOUld ca1l.$e him
flDl.hi?ig lntt Ma1M a'll.d disgro.ce; tllnJ, lie tDOtdd be
at f,en.gtlr. obliged to beg llis f>read, &c. To suffer
himself now to be supported by this very son, or
to be dependant upon him was probably a very
difficult matter to the ~ old man's honorable
feelings. However, Stillin?, heard by degrees in
Marburg more of his fathers true situation; and
although he had himself a heavy debt to li9ui-
date, be thought that in such a case be might
make an exception to the well-known rule, "as
long as a person Is in debt, be ongbt not to ap-
J>IY money to other purposes." He determined,
therefore, after considering the matter with
Eliza, to contribute a dollar weekly for the sup-
port e>f bis aged father, and occasionally to send
him as mo<"h coffee and sugar as the two old
folks-for the mother was still living-required.
Eliza also sent to Liendprf now and then, when
she found a fitting opportunity, a bottle of wine
to cheer them.
At length, Wilhelm Stilling's second wife died
suddenly. He then gave up the housekeeping
to his youngest daughter1 who bad married a
carrier, and boarded witn her. Howenr, it
went hard with this poor woman; her husband
was always from home with his horse, and being
too poor to procure what was needful without
laboring from early in the morning till late in
the evening, in the field and garden, the good old
man was entirely destitnte of neces$ary atten-
tion. The other children were equally unable
to do any thing for him, for they could scarcely
subsist themselves, much less assist others; in a
word, their wretchedness was great.
Wilhelm Stilling was at that time in his
eightieth year, and in excellent health ; but his
feet, which were always weak and Infirm, now
broke out into ulcerous swellings; bis mental
powers also began to fade, and his memory, in
particular, failed him extremely.
At length, in August, 1796, Stilling received a
letter from a relative, who had visited the pious
old man, and bad witnessed all bis wo. This
letter contained a description of his misery, and
called upon Stilling to take bis father to him,
before he perished in his sufferings. Stilling
bad not known lhe extent of them before. He
Instantly sent for him, and bad him brought in
a conveyance to Marburg. On being told, at
Ockershausen, that his father was in his house
at Marburg, he hastened thither to welcome him;.
but, as he entered the room, a pestilential efftu-
via met him, such as he had never experienced
in a dissecting-room. He could scarcely ap.
preach him to kiss and embrace him. The dis-
tress was greater than I can describe. It was
an advantage to the good man that bis mental
faculties were already so decayed that be did not
panicularly feel his misery. A few years pre-
vious, it would have been mtolerable to his feel-
ings ofdecorum and habitual cleanliness.
Stilling's heart bled at the sight; but Eliza~
who bad often wished that she might have the
happiness of tending her parents in their old
age, began the work with joy. Great boast has
always been made of holy individuals of the
Romish Church, and it has been esteemed ex-
traordinarily meritorious in them, that they
bound op the putrifying ulcers of poor invalids
in the hospitals and lazarettos ; here mtrre was
done, muc.11 mmeI Thou wilt on no account con-
sent, kind and noble-minded consort, that I should
here say any thing to thy praise, and I am silent;.
but Father Wilhelm, who has no longer suffi-
cient understanding to recognize thy unexam-
pled, childlike love, and is unable to bless thee
for it, will eventually meet thee, in bis glorified
form, thou l&ithful suffe,rer, thon companion of
Stilling's life and afftictions, and return thee, in
an abundant measure, the thanks omitted here!
Doris hovers near, holding him by the band, t<>
welcome her daughter Eliza; father Eberhard
Stilling smiles peace to thee; and Selma will
also embrace her friend, and say, "Blessed art
thou, for having so excellently fulfilled my ex-
pectations I" All these glorified ones will then
conduct thee before the throne of the Most Mer-
ciful, who will incline the sceptre of all worlds ·
towards tbl forehead, and say," What thou bast
done to this my servant, thou hast also done to
me; go thy way, thou inhablUIDt of the new Je-
rusalem, and enjoy the fulness of felicity."
Eliza continued this painful labour of love tilt
the month of October, when she was a~in con-
fined of a daughter, who is etill living, and bears
the name of Amalia. Amalia Coing, the future
grand-daughter-in-law of Wilhelm Stilling, now
undertook the task of attending to him, for which
it will be well with her, and her reward will be
great in time and eternity.
The close of the year 1796 was melancholy;
a brother of the late Madame Coing and Aunt
Kraft died in the autumn. He was a lawyer in
Frankenburg, unmarried, and expired suddenly.
in consequence of an apoplectic fit. Another
brother, who was likewise unmarried, and pro-
thonotary at Dorthelm in the Wetterau, came,
In order to arrange his brother's affairs in
Franlcenburg, and died, ten days before Christ-
mas, in Stilling's house. In consequence of
these repeated strokes, the good Widow Kraft,
whose daughter Eisentrager bad also returned
to her the previous summer as a widow, was
quite cast down to the ground ; she likewise
took to her bed, and died on Christmas-day, qui-
etly and happily, like her sister Coing. Tht're
still remained Mademoiselle Dui~iol!', Widow
Eisentriger, and the unmarried Mi~s Krafi, with
her worthy old Catherine. Miss Kraft married,
during the following year, Mr. Burckhardi, of
Dillenburg; and the remaining three members
of the e~timable circle of the late Mr. Kraft now
live in Von Ham's family man~ion in Marburg,
which ia the property of Aunt Duising.
Digitized by GoogIe
H4 HEINRICH STILLING.
The 111..orthy Schwarz bad also something of
a severe nature lo sutfor with his consort, in tbe
year li:l6; be bad lea bis solitary Dexbacb, and
had accepted a livrng ut .b:chzell in tbe Wetterau,
where he was exposed to all the horrors of war.
Hannah was also amongst the forty-five thou-
sand refugees ; and she passed her third confine-
ment quietly at her parents' in Marburg, and
&hen set off again to her posL
The year 1797 was not particularly remark-
able in Stilling's history. Every thing proceeded
In j!Jj customary course, except that Stilling's in-
ward sufferings were rather increased than di-
minished; an inward melancholy continually
oppressed him ; an indescribable cheerlessness
deprived him of every enjoyment. The only
&bing which sustained him was his domestic
circle, in which every one felt happy who en-
tered it. Eliza and her two sisters, Maria and
Amalia, were the instruments the Lord made
nae of to 1ighten the load of his cros.sbearer, al-
though Eliza herself almost sunk beneath the
burden.
Father Wilhelm Stilling experienced nothing
of this; he was childish, and ~came more and
more so; and, in orrler that be might not want
attention in any way, Stilling se01 for his eldest
•ister's daughter, Maria1 who faithfully fulfilled
her duty to her grand1a1her, until allendance
upon him was no longer proper for a young girl,
and an old widow was engaged, who waited
npoo him day and night. Maria's character
developed itself advantageously; she enjoys the
esteem and love of all good men, and is beloved
by Stilling and Eliza as their child. It grad-
ually came to such a length with Father Wil-
helm, that he knew no one, and, in the end, not
even his son. Respecting his second marriage
and children he Sl'arcely remembered any thing;
but occasionally spoke in an unconnected man-
ner of his marriage with Doris, and of his youth-
ful years. No sooner, however, was the subject
of religion introduced, than his spirit returned to
him; he then spoke connectedly- and rationally;
and when this also Ce&l'ed to be the case, his
mental faculties still clung to a few texts of
Scripture respecting the forgiveness of sins
through the sufferings and death of Christ,
which be repeated times without number, wring-
ing his hands and shedding manr tear.o, and
comforting himself with them in his sufferings.
From this instance may be learnt how important
it is to fill the memory of children earfy with
edifying texts of Scripture and verses ofhymns.
The first impressions on the memory ofchildren
can never be erased. Such passages and verses
may be apparenLly of little service to them in
their youth; but when, in old age, they have
co travel through Wilhelm Stilling's desert, in
which, solitary and divested of all susceptibility
of social life and of their own existeuce, they
retain only a small glimmer of reason for their
guide-when they have thus forgotten their whole
course of life, such passages and verses are as
bread from heaven, which strengthens the indi-
vidual in crossing the awful stream of death.
Generally speaking, they are an excellent means
ofinvigoration and comfort in distress and death.
In the midsummer.vacation of the year 1797,
Stilling and Eliza experienced another remark-
able instance of Divine providence. He had
~ertainly a con,iderable income, but also an
~qually considerable and neces.•ary expenditure;
for, aL that lime, every thing was dear al Mar-
bnrg. En:ry housekeeper will remem.ber sea-
sons in which a variety of circumstances con-
curred in causing a demand for money, from
which he knew not how lo escape, and in which
he was not in a situation to be able, or to ven-
ture to increase bis debts. It was much such a
situation as this in which Stilling, or rather his
Eliza, found herself, who had trodden in Selma's
footsteps, and had undertaken, quite alone, the
care of the housekeeping and the management
of the cash. A very worthy and respectable
lady in Switzerland bad written to Stilling some
time before, and asked his advice regarding the
blindness of her husband. Just al this pressing
emergency, as Stilling was with the students at
Passel, and had made his customary midsum-
mer excursion with them, he received a letter
from thil1 lady, with a bill of exchange for three
hundred guilders. She mentioned, at the same
time, that Stilling must never think of repay-
ment, or ofrendering any service for it; she felt
herself impelled to send this tri.6.e, and begged he
would think no more of the matter. The pres-
sure was thus all at once removed, which much
stre:.gthened Eliza's faith.
There was added, this year, another very esti-
mat.le personage to the most important of Still-
ing's friends; the Countess Christina of Wal-
deck, widow of Count Josias ofWaldeck-Berg-
heim, and born Countess of Isenburg-Biidiogen,
determined to send her two younger sons to
Marburg, that they might study there. She
finally resolved to remove to Marburg herself,
with her amiable daughter, the Countess Caro-
line, till her sons should have finbhed their
studies. It cannot be described what a valuable
associate this pious lady was to Stilling and
Eliza-how variously her heart, which was
lbrmed for philanthropy, was occupied with
showing it in word and deed. She harmonized
entirely with Prince Frederick ofAnhalt and the
Countess Louisa; all three had the opportunity
of communicating their sorrows to Stilling anil
Eliza, and ofconversing confidentially with them
resper.ting all their atfairs.
The year 1798 is remarkable in Stilling's his-
tory; because in it be wrote his "History of the
Triumph of the Christian Religion, in an Expo-
sition of the Revelations of John, adapted for
general usefulness," and then made his first con-
siderable journey with his Eliza.
The "History of the Triumph," &c., origi-
nated as follows. The.important results pro-
duced by the French Revolution, and the events
which occurred in several places, ~erywbere
made a deep impression upon the true servants
of the Lord who observed the signs of the times.
Several individuals now began to apply certain
parts of the Revelation to those time~, without
regarding the whole connexion of prophecy and
its spirit in the Bihle generally. Very sensible
men already held the Frenrh cockade to be" the
mark of the beast;" and therefore believed that
the beast had already ascended from the bottom·
less pit, and that "the man of sin" was already
in existence. This pretty general sensation
amongst true Chri,tians excited Stilling'< consid-
eration, and he sought, in "The Grey Mao," to
warn them against it.
On the other hand, it appeared to him ex-
tremely remarkable, that the well-known, pious,
and learned prelate, Bengel, bad fifty years be-
fore pointedly foretold, in his Exposition of the
Apocalypse, that in the last ten years of the
eighteenth century the great conllirt wonl<I com-
mence. and the Romish throne be overturned.
o;g;:;zed by Google
STILLING'S yEAR s 0 F ·ru IT I 01'.
This bad been made slill more minulelyevident,
by an anonymous wriler in Carlsruhe, in a more
~xact and precise explanation of the Bengelic
Apocalyptical syslem of calculalion, which even
determmed lhe years, in lhe last decenniary of
the eighleenth cenlUry, in which Rome was to
be overlhrown; and this eighteen years before it
really look place. All this drew Stilling's at-
.tention .lo Bengel's writings, and particularly to
the book just mentioned bv lhe anonymous an·
tbor in Carlsrnhe. •
Two circumslances also were connected with
this, which operaled upon Stilling's mind, and
prepared it for so important a work. The" Nos-
talgia" had made a deep and beneficial impres-
•ioo upon several members of the Moravian
church; be became more kuown in that com-
munity; the bislory of bis Jile began to be read
more univtrsally; and his other writings, par-
ticularly "The Grey Man," were ienerally rec-
OfDized as edifying. He was visued by Mora-
<J1ans who were passing through Marburg, and
he read many of their works. In short, the Mo-
ravians became more and more estimable to
him ; particularly from observing that in their
writings ~enerally, and especially in their church
and miss10;;?.ry Intelligence, as also in their con-
ference minutes which were sent to him, an un-
~ommonly rapid progress in the perfer.lionating
of lite and doctrme was evident; and that all
their instit11tions were guided in a most dislin-
g-uisbed manner by Providence, and crowned
with its blessing; and what finally produced a
more inlimate union, was, a correspondence
with a dear and worthy preacher of the Mora-
vian church, brolher Erxleben, who bad former-
ly filled the pastoral office In Bremen, and af-
terwards at Norden in East Friesland, but is
11ow a class-leader at Herrohut. The oorre-
apondence with this worthy man still continues,
and will probably not cease until one of the two
.aball be called away to the church above.
Stilling discovered, tbtrefore, in this church
an important institution for the preparatory es-
tahlishment oflhe kingdom ofGod. It appeared
to him to be a seminary for it; and this idea
gave him an important lighl into a principal
hieroglyphic of the Apocalypse.
The other circumstance which prepared Still-
ing for so bold and important a work, was tbe
great and very unexpected awakening in Eng-
land; the reeult of which was the remarkable,
,Dew, and comprehensive Mi,sionary Society.
This circumstance was so striking, and lhe pe·
riod of Its commencement so remarkable, that
Do true servant of Christ could remain inditrer-
ent to it. Io Stilling's mind, it strengthened the
idea that this institution also was a proof of the
rapid approach of lhe kingdom of God; real
Christians every where looked to the great gold·
-en dial on the turret of the temple, and be that
had weak eyes asked him whose Fight was
.stronger, to what boor the gnomon pointed.
But notwithstanding that all this was passing
in Slilling's soul, yet the idea of venturing on
the sacred hieroglyphics of the Apocalypse nev.
·t'r entered his mind; he intended rather in "The
Grey Man," to warn every one against su<.'h a
hazardous enterprise, because it had proved the
~onfusion of many. But as that which is un-
c.1.pecte<l is, on all occasions, the rule and max-
im of Providence in its guidance of Stilling, so
it was al~o in the present case·.
One Sunday morning in March, 1'798,·Stilling
.Setermined not to go to church, but to work at
T
"The Grey Man," and insert In it something of
a useful nature for the christlan reader, respect-
inir the book of Revelations. But in order to
make himself better acquainted with this diffi-
cult and important subjeoi, be took up the above-
mentioned Carlsruhe Elucidation, sat down to
his desk, and began to read. Suddenly, and
quite unexpectedly, a gentle, inward, and very
beneficial inftuence pervaded him; which pro-
duced in him the delermination to translate the
whole Apocalypse from the original Greek, ex-
plain it verse for verse, and retain Bengel's sys-
tem of calculation; because it had hitherto been
so applicable and bad proved so remarkably
correct. He therefore instantly commenced
the work, and hoped that the Spirit of the Lord
would enlighten bim in every obscure pasaage,
and lead him into all truth. Stilling's "Histo-
ry of the Triumph of the Christian Religion" iR,
therefore, not a work which is the result of re-
ftection and 11tudy; but it was indited by piece-
meal, in seasons of leisure, during prayer and
supplication for light and (race; and then sent
otf, without any further correction, to Rau, the
publisher, at Nurenburg. As soon as Stilling
cau find time, he will establish, correct, and ex-
plain many things more precisely, in the "Ap-
pendix to the History of the Triumph."
He that is not purposely and maliciously dis-
posed to misconslrue every thing and tum it into
poisoned arrows, but lhinks candidly and reasoo-
ably, will not accuse Stilling of desiring to ex-
cite in his readers the idea that he wrote from
divine inspiration; but my object is to convince
them that bis writings, however defeNive, are
nevertheless under the peenliar direction of
Providence, of which his whole life, as well as
the uncommon and unexpected bleissing which
rests upon bis writings, Is a pledge to him. This
was alro the case with " The History of the Tri-
umph;" for scarcely had a year elapsed before
a second edition of it .was published.
During the whole of this summer, Stilling's
melancholy rose to the highest degree. He oft-
en refiected upon this circumstance, and employ-
ed bis whole medicinal reason in order to come
to the bottom of it ; but he found none. It was
not that be was hypochondriacal,-at least, not
what is usually termed so; but it was, properly
speaking, a cll«r~, on which the pul't'st
sensible enjoyment made no impression. The
whole world became strange to him, as though
It bad no reference to him. Every thing that
atrorded pleasure to others, even to good men,
was to him completely indifferent. Nothing,
utterly nothing wliatever, but the great object he
bad in view, which appeared to him partly ob-
scure and partly unattainable, filled his whole
soul; be fixed his eye upon this, and upon no-
thing besides. His whole soul, heart, and un-
derstanding adhered, with all the fulnes~ of af-
ft'ction, to Christ, but only with a melancholy
feelinir. The worst of it was, that be could not
complain to any one of his painful situation, for
no one understood him. He on<'e or twice dis-
closed it to pious friends in theNetht'rlands; but
these men even took it amiss of him, for suppo-
~ing himself to be in such an elevated m.r.stic
state· for he bad called his mental cond1t1on,
Ille dat-e of ohm1re faith. 0 God! it is difficult
to walk the path of the sacred cross; but after-
wards it bring.. unspeakable blessings.
The true reason why his heavenly Guide suf-
fered him ro fall into this melancholy disposition
of mind, wa~ probablv, first, to preserve him
Digitized by GoogIe
146 llEINRICH STILLING.
from pride, and from that vanity which destroys
all sense of religion and piety, iDlo which, with·
out this thorn in the tlesh, he would certainly
have f111len; since so much of what was agree-
able and exhilarating wa¥ said concerning him
on every side, from far and near, by high and
low, and by learned and illiterate. In this state
it rejoiced him for a moment, even as a warm
sunny ray on a gloomy day in December; but
then all was again as before, and he felt just as
if it had no reforence to him. Secondly, the di·
vine Refiner might also probably have put this
son of Levi into this refiningfire from olher and
higher reasons, in order radically to bum up
certain propensities of corruption. .
This ~tate of mind still continues, except that,
at present, an inward serenity and a profound
peace of soul are united with u.
Eliza, though she suffered much, was yet the
only one among all bis friends to whom be could
entirely reveal and communicate himself. She
then suffered yet more, without being able to
help him; but still her sympathy and faithful at-
tention were invaluable benefits to him, and her
companv, in particular, made every thing much
more tolerable. From that time they both ad-
hered still more cl<>sely to each other, and be.
came reciprocally more indispensably necessa-
Tf to each other. Stilling's whole domestic cir-
cle, generally speaking, was inexpressibly love-
ly and beneficial to him. It was also well that
the spasms in his stomach began to abate; for
he would not have been able to bear them with
euch a debilitated frame.
Stilling's cataract operations and ophthalmic
cures were particularly blessed, and he had hith·
erto continued them uninterruptedly from the
time of bis residence in Elberfeld ; but they
also occasioned him double difficulty. The
muim he bad once adopted, and from which be
cannot deviate, ~at of demanding nothing for
any cataract operation or other ophthalmic cure,
but ministering it to every one gratuitously, (un-
less any one voluntarily makes him an acknowl-
edgment, and presents him with any thing with·
out any injury to himself,) attracted an aston-
ishing concourse of persons diseased in the eye.
He was interrupted every moment in his labours
by such sufferers, and bis patience put to the
.everest test. But the ·second and still greater
trouble was, that blind people were sent to him
from all quarters with testimonies of poverty,
without being furnished with the necessary sum
for their maintenance during the time of cure.
To send away such a pitiable blind person with·
out assisting him, for the sake of a few guildel'!I,
did not accord with Stilling's character. The
directors of the two Protestant orphan-houses in
Marburg had indeed the goodness to receive
euch blind people, and attend to them during tbe
cure, for a moderate payment; bat for the latter
·stilling had to provide. This beneficial arrange-
ment had also the troublesomP. effect ofinducing
his countrymen, and even forcignel'!l, to send
their poor blind people without money the more
boldly. This \:Bused many trials of faith; but
the Lord manifested himself gloriously in them
all, a:o the result will 11how.
At midsummer of this year, 1798, Doctor
Wienholt of Bremen wrote to Stilling, and re-
quested him to come thither, because there were
several tl'rere afflicted with the cataract, who
wi<hed to he couched by him; for the Puccess
of his practice was known far and wide, and
spoken ofevery where, particularly by tbose who
~tudied at Marburg. Stilling rep...ed that be
woulll come <luring the au1umnal vaca1io11.
This was curried imu etfect;'aud Eliza dett'rmin-
ed to accompany him, ahhough she was uot
very well. !:.he had a twofold rea~on fur this;.
she was unwilling to be so long separated Croll)
her husband, and he also required her support
and care; besides which, she wished to ~t>e the
city from whence her predece~sors on her moth-
er's side had sprung; for her ancestor was a
Brabanter, of the name of Duising, who-had
emigrated under the Duke of Alba and settled
in Bremen. Two of her cousins, men of great
respectability, were still living there, the brothers.
Meyer, both of whom were doctors of the law;
one of them was one of the four presiding burg-
omasters, and the other, secretary to !lne of the
colleges. These relatives also wished much
that their Marburg friends would for once pay
them a visit.
Stilling and Eliza, therefore, commenced tbtt
journey to Bremen on Saturday, the 2'Jd of Sep-
tember, 1798; but the indispo~ition of bis goud
lady made the journey a very anxious one. He
wa11 obliged to give the postillions a handsome
douceur in order that they might drive slowly,
for she could not possibly bear a rapid motion.
They travelled by the way of Hanover, where
they were cordially received and treated in a
very friendly manner by Stilling's intimate
friend, Falk, anlic counsellor and consi~torid
advocate. On Friday the 28th of September,
they arrived late in the evening, but safely, iu
Bremen, and took up their abode with Mr. Sec-
retary Meyer. This worthy man, and bis ex-
eellent spouse, suited Stilling aod his Eliza 6<>
well that they soon became as one heart and 011e
soul, and concluded a brotherly and sisterly al-
liance with each other. The Burl!'omaster, ou
his 11ide, who was personified friendship itself,
did his best to afford his Marburg relatives pleas-
ure. The good and worthy man now rests in
his chamber; learning, unlimited kindness of
disposition, and faithful diligence in his admin-
istration, formed the basis of hie character.
Stillina_ performed twenty-two cataract opera-
tions in tsremen; and besides these, was of ser-
vice to many who were diseased ia the eye.
Amongst the cataract patients, was an old man
of the middle class, who had been Llind many
yeal'!I, and had therefore retrograded in his cir-
cumstances. Several ladies requested Stilling
to let them be present at the operation, for ther
wished to be spectators of the joy which woul<f
be manifested by one who had been blind SOo
long. The operation proved succe!>Sful, and
Stillinl? then permitted him to look about him;
the patient did so, struck his h.ands together,aDd
said, "Oh, there are ladies, and it looks so dis-
orderly here!" The good ladies knew not what
to sa.v or think, and followed one another out of
the door.
Stilling made likewise some interesting ac·
quaintances in Bremen, and renewed a couple
of ancient friendly alliances; namely, with Doc·
tor and Professor Meister, whom he had al-
ready known in Elber/eld, and with Ewald, who
was now preacher there. The celebrated Doc·
tor Others became Stilling's friend; and at bis
house he also became acquainted with that ~at
astronomer, alderman Schroder. He also con-
cl11ded a fraternal alliance with Wienhvlt;-be
and hi~ consort belong to the class of the best
of mankind.
Bremen possesses very many pious and cbris-
Digitized by GoogIe I
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 147
tlan inhabitnnts; and the character of the peo-
plt.>, generally speaking, is more poli:shed and
moral than in other large commercial cities.
This is particularly to be ascribed to the excel-
lent preachers which .the city has always enjoy-
ed, and still possesses.
After a very pleasing abode of three weeks
and a few days, S1illing and Eliza set olfagain
from Bremen on the 21st of October. The Lord
had blessed his hand; and the wealthy patients
had also made him such rich presents, that not
only the expensive journey was paid for, but
something also remained, which was a timely
supply for the great and oppressive expen~es of
his hou~ehold.
The Bremen relatives accompanied their trav-
elling friends to the Asseler Damm, where they
took a weeping leave, and returned. The road
to Hoya was terrible; however, they arrived
safely, though late in the evening, at the above-
mentioned place. In Hano\•er they again call-
ed upon their friend Falk, who received them
with true cbristian brotherly love. They then
continued their journey; and arrived in due time,
well and happy, at .Marburg, where they also
met :he whole family in health and comfort.
The journer to Bremen bad/rocnred Stilling
aeveral additional frien~s an acquaintances;
but bad, at the same time, considerably increas-
ed his correspondence, and with it his labol'll.
Consultations on diseases of the eye and letters
of a religious nature came every post-day in
abundance; to this was added also, the daiz
concourse ofophthalmic patients of every kin ,
so that it was almost impossible to accomplish
all that was required. However, Stilling neg-
lected nothing relating to his office, but exerted
his utmost powers to fullil all these duties.
Under such circumstance~, he commenced the
year 1799. On the 22nd of February, Eliza was
1&fely delivered of her youngest child, ~irl;
the Countess Waldeci wished to stand sponsor
for it, which was naturally accepted with many
thanks. The little girl was named Christina
from her; she is still Jivinlt', and with the rest of
the children, is a source ofjoy to her parents.
Aller Lavater's visit to Marburlt', Stilling had
entered into a much clo.~er connection with him.
In certain poinl~, they bad both been ofdilferent
sentiments; this, therefore1 caused an animated
correspondence, by which nowever the most cor-
dial brothtrly love was not disturbed. Both liv-
ed and labored for the Lord and his kinitdom :
dieir great object was likewillt' their bond of love.
At that time also, the celehratecl physician .Dr.
Hotze, was in Frankfort, with his excellent son-
in-law, Doctor de Neufville. Stilling had been
already acquainted with Hotze for some years,
.and had concluded a fraternal alliance with him
for eternity. · Passavant was also in Frankfort;
both were Lavater's and Stilling's fraternal
friends, and closely united with each 01her. L~­
Tater therefore stilt his lettel"' to S1illinl!' open
to these two friends, Holze and Passavanr, and
the latter sent likewise his replies nnf.eale:I to
them, wbirb gave rise.to a very plea•ing- and in-
structive correspondence. The snhjects which
were discussed, werv 1he most important anicles
of faith; such as the doctrine of the atonement,
nnswers 10 praver, wonder-working faith, &c.
In 1bi11 ~·e1r, li99, 1hi11 correspondence termina-
ted; for Lat·a•er wa~ taken pri«oner and 11ent to
Bli.«le, and Hotze no longer resided in Frank-
fort.
I take notice of all this, for the sake of a re-
markable circumstance which occurred to Still-
ing on Saturday the 13Lh ofJuly.
Before bis journey to Bremen, a friend had
communicat'ed to him, in confidence, that a cer-
tain celebrated and very worthy m11n had fallen
into extremelv necessitous circumstances. Still-
ing related this in Bremen to a few friends;
Doctor Wienholt undertook a collection for him,
and sent Stilling, iu the winter, about three htin-
dred and fitly guilders, in old louis-d'ors: but on
Stilling's inquiring more minutely in what man-
ner the money could be safely sent to the hands
of the worthy man, he learnt that his necessities
were not now so urgent, and that this mode of
help would be very painful to him. This in-
duced Stilling to retain the money, and to in-
quire in Bremen, whether it might be applied to
the English Missionary Socie1y, or else to the
inhabitants of Underwald in Switzerland, who
bad lately suffered so severely. The lauer was
assented to; and Stilling consequently entered
into correspondence upon the subject with the
pious and celebrated Anlistes Hess of Zurich·
he, as well as many other of the inhabitants of
Zurich, having seriously undertaken the cause
of these unfortunate people. .
Stilling wrote on this business to Hess, on
the 13th of July above-mentioned, during which
something singular occurred to him. In the
midst of writing, just as he was retl.ecting upon
the state in which Switzerland then was, he felt
in his mind, all at once, a deep impression, with
the conviction that LafHlier wquf4 die a bloody
deatli-tluU of a martyr. These last words, " c1
martyr's deaili.," was the expression which be pe-
culiarly felt. Something was also connected
with it, w/ridr, can11Dt yet be discloud. It is natu-
ral 1hat Stilling was much astonished at it; and
during this aslonishmen't be felt also convinced
that he ought to mention the matter in this letter
to Hess; he did so, and requested him, at the
same time, to take an opportunity of telling it
to Lavater. Hess soon replied, testifying his
astonishmtnt, and promising to disclose it to
Lavattr, but that he should have lo wait for a
suitalole opportunity. As far as I remember, it
was really mentioned to Lavater.
My estimable friend Hess will very well re-
member all this. S1illing bad this presentiment
on the 13th of July; and ten wel'ks and some
days afterwards, namelv, on the 26th of Septem-
ber, Lavater received the mortal wound, the re-
sult of which was a continual manyrdom for
fifteen months, which terminated in bis death.
The pious and truth-loving reader is kindly
requested not to estimate such phenomena and
incidents higher than they deserve; and rather
to pass no judgment upon them. A time will
come when this presentiment will be again foz..
cibly called to mind. '
In the a111umnal vacation Stilling rook his
wife and childrl'n to the village of Muns1er, near
Bu1zbach in the Wetlerau, to which place
Sc:hwarz had 1-een removed from Echzell. Still-
ing tht'n travelled to F'rakfort and Hanau, where
ophthalmic pati~nts again awaited him; but
Eliza conlinued at Munster.
Amonl!"the remarkable individuals with whom
Stilling formed a personal or a more intimate
acquaintance on this journt'.Y was the reigning
Landlt'fave of Homhnrg. He had already be-
C!!me arqn~inred wilh this real Christian at
Prinre Frederick's in Marhn~. and now waited
upon him a few rime~ at Frankfort. Nexi,. tl1e
reigning prince, W ollgang Ernest of Isenllurg,-
Digitized by GoogIe
148 HEINRICH STILLING.
Birstein, and his excellent consort, both also
true Christians; the reigning Count of lsenburg-
Budingen, Ernest Cassimir, his consort, and her
sis.ter, Countess Caroline ofBentheim Steinfurth,
all three truly evangelical-minded and very
worthy individuals. With the Countess Caro-
line, Stilling already carried on an edifying cor-
respondence; her sister Polyzene, a very devout
woman, lived in Siegen; with her also Stilling
bad long carried on a religious correspondence;
but she had entered into her rest some time be-
fore this period.
If in this history I frequently make mention
of persons of high rank who held Stilling worthy
of their confidence, I beg that tbis may not be
looked upon as done with an intent to boast of
it. 1 have no other object Ui vie'v than to shew
the world that in the' higher classes true chris-
tianity has its adherents as well as in the lower.
I hold it my duty to say this very emphatically
and frequently; for within the last twenty or
thirty years it is become the order of the day to
degrade both rulers and nobility as much a!' pos-
sible. Certainly, in the present day, it is no
very special recommendation to pronounce any
one a true Chri~tian, in the ancient evangelical
sense of the term ; but it is still less a recom-
mendation Lo describe a penoon as not a Chris-
tian, or even an anti-Christian. The spirit of
our times is very inconsistent.
Stilling found also in Biidingen three valuable
individuals, the Inspectur Keller, the govern-
ment-advocate Hedebrand, and the young court-
chaplain Meister, a son of his Bremen friend,
from whom he heard a masterly and genuine
christian discourse.
After a very pleasant residence of three days
in Budingen, Stilling set out for Butzbach, with
a young Mr. Voe. Grafenmeyer, who intended
proceeding to the university of Gottingen. The
road led through a fenny and watery country,
which was reported, at that time, to iJe unsafe.
Much was related of a tinman, or coppersmith,
who was said to be the captain of a band of rob-
bers, and to be at home m those parts. This,
therefore, furnished abundant matter for con-
versation between the coachman and the ser-
vant on the box. Midnight assaults, tales of
robbery, . murder, and executions, of various
kinds, were related very seriously and solemn-
ly, and probr.bly also embellished a little with
inventive fire. · This continued until they reach-
ed the Florstadt forest.
All at once the coachman looked at the ser-
ivant very significantly,·and said, "There he is,
to a cenainty !" Stilling looked out of the coach,
and saw a strong-made, tall, and grave-looking
man, in a blue coat with brass buttons, and
lar~e lappets, a three-cornered hat on one ear,
ana a knotty stick in his hand, walking for-
ward towards the wood; the coachman turned
about, and timidly and significantly whispered
into the coach, "There he is I"
"Who1"
"'Vhy, the Tinman, to be sure!"
''So!"
This was certainly not plea~ant; buf Stillin~
is no·t apprehensive in such cases. On entering
t i1e wood, he alighted on account of the bad
roads, and went before on foot, for he feared the
roads more than all the world of tinmen and
coppersmiths. The forest was full of wood-
men, nor did a :oingle robber suffer himself to be
seen or heard.
On arriving in the evening at Butzbach, Still-
ing found his good and faithful son-in-iaw
Schwarz; both passed the night with the head-
furester Beck, whose father-in-law Stilling freed
the next morning from the cataract; they then
went together to Munster, where they met with
Eliza and the rest of the family, and found them
well, according to circumstances.
Aller a quiet and refreshing residence of six
days, Stilling with his family commenced their
journey homewards. Schwarz accompanied
them to Butzbach, on Monday, the 14th of Oc-
tober. Here a little delay took place; they
breakfasted with the foresters, and Schwarz
went out to provide something. All at once he
came running back, just as Stilling was getting
into the coach, and exclaimed, "Dear father,
Lavater has been shot at, and severely wonnd-
ed !" This news penetrated like lightning and
a thnnderbolt through Stilling's whole being; he
uttered a loud cry, and the tears rolled down his
cheeks. But with all his pain and sympathy,
he still felt a profound serenity and submission
to the will of God; and the remarkable circum-
stance of his presentiment having been follilled,
gave him an uncommonly slroog confidence that
the Lord had 'salutary objects in view in it.
They now proceeded on their journey, and ar-
rived in the evening at Marburg in safety.
The last year of the eighteenth century Je..
volved, with respect to Stilling, loftily and heav-
ily in its sphere, although nothing particularly
remarkable occurred to him in it. During the
Easter vacation, he had again to travel to Frank-
fort, Offenbach, and Hanau. Eliza could not
accompany him this time. Stilling operated
upon several blind people in all three places.
At Hanau he resided three oat of four days with
the government-councillor Ries~. a brother of
his Marburg friend. He and his lady are among
Stilling and Eliza's most intimate friends.
I!b formed at this time a new acquaintan'!e at
the Frankfort fair,-thll celebrated merchant
Wirsching of Niirenburg. This old and vener-
able man had traveled, as it were, for pleasure,
with his children to the fair, and he was much
delighted to find Stilling there, whose biography
and other writings he had read with satisfaction
and benefit. Wirsching had been once a poor
orphan-boy, whose parents had left him nothing.
By diligence, blameless piety, confidence in God,
and by his eminent mercantile abilities, and bis
long 1ourneys, he had acquired a large proper-
ty; and with praise and thankfulness towards
his heavenly Guide, be showed his friend Still-
ing the two large magazines which were now
his property, filled with Niirenburg ware. Wirs-
ching, by his humility, modesty, IUld thorough
knowledge of religion, made a deep impression
upon StillinlJ, and they formed a fraternal alli-
ance with each other. After completing his
affairs, Stilling set otr again for Marburg.
Lavater was not immediately mortally wound-
ed by the shot he had received; bot still in such
a manner that the wound in time uecessarily
became mortal. His sufferings affected all his
·friends most deeply; tender sympathy impelled
them to mutual prayer for tileir friend, and
brought them nearer together. Stilling corre-
~ponded on his account, and respecting him, with
Passavant in Frankfort, the reformed preacher
Achelis in GOttingen, and also with a certain
lady calltd Julia. This pious and Christian
femall', who had been exercised by many painful
sufferings, had been deeply and inwardly affect-
ed and edified in particular by Lavater's wri·
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TtJITION. 149
tinp. This induced her to enter into corre-
spondence with Lavater; but as she had well-
grounded reasons for remaining concealed, she
never discovered herself to him, He conse-
quently corresponded long with a certain Julia
in the North of Germany, without eveu having
the least knowledge who she was. He sent her
many tokens of remembrance and friend~hip, as
bis manner was; but all this took place through
Passavant, who was acquainted with her secret
and knew her. It was during Lavater's painful
sufferings that Stilling first beard any thing of
Julia; he wrote, therefore, to Passavant, to re-
veal to him, if possible, who this Julia was, and
after some time the disclosure was made.
Julia is the daughter of the late worthy and
upright Burgomaster Eicke, of Hanoverian Min-
den. She was married to the well-known and
pious divine Richerz, who was first univel'!'ity
preacher in Giittingen, and at length superin-
tendent at Giffhorn in Hanover. He became
celebrated by several good theological works,
and died also as a true Christian, after a tedious
.illness in consumption. J'ulia had likewise been
always verr weakly and sickly j she suffered
extremely m her own body, and was obliged
al50 wattend her sick husband: so that had uot
her cheerful spirit, and her cairn resignation to
the will of God, and in general, her religious
sentiments, supported her, she would have been
unable to bear all that affliction laid upon her.
She had no children, and lived as a widow in
Minden, her native town; her father being now
very old and infirm, she regarded it as her duty
to wait upon and oorse him, and consequently
lived in the same house with him.
From this time Stilling corresponded very
frequently with Julia; and the subject of their
letters was Lavater's sufferings, and then the
only thing needful, which ought to be the chief
object of every Christian.
O, if all might be to)d tbat the Lord does to
his people, even the infidel would be astonished,
and yet not believe I
Lavater maintained a lively correspondence
with Stilling, even on his sick-bed. ·They no
longerdiscussedcontroversially, but unanimous-
ly and fraternally, the most important religious
truths. A fortnight before his death, he wrote
for the last time to his friend in Marburg; and
on the 2d of January, 1801, two days after the
commencement of the nineteenth century, this
great and remarkable man expired; he died as a
great witness for the truth of Jesus Christ.
Shortly afterwards Stilling composed the well-
known poem entitled "Lavater's Glorification,"
which was first printed separately, and after-
wards inserted at the end of the first volume of
the third edition of the "Scenes in the Jnvisible
World." Some critics would not allow that
Stming-
,W'as correct in terming Lavater a wit-
ness for the truth unto blood, and others main-
tained that his gun-shot wound was not the
cause of his death; but the thing speaks for
itself.
. Lavater's sanctified , heart perfectly forgave
his murderer; he even said 114 would sull~y
!'.,Jc lr.im out, 101'etlll:r in Mal'en or in lttU, and /Jtank
lr.imfur tltt WOtt'lld tDlr.ick II.ad been suck an imtnu:t-
ive sc/lool t,o lr.im; and he gave orders, very ear-
·nestly, that no inquiry shCJild be set on foot re-
~ardiog the unfortunate man, but that he should
be left to the Divine mercy. His bereaved fam-
ily· obey him punctuallv in this; but I may be
allowed to state whal follows, in confirmation
ofmy as11ertion. ·
The soldier who mortally wounded Lanter,
was a Swiss, from the French part of the can-
t,,n of Bern (Pays de Vaod). He and one of
hi$ comrades made a disturbance at a house
adjoining Lavater's parsonage. Lavater heard
them ask for somethrng to drink ; he according-
ly took a bottle of wine and some bread, in or-
der to carry it to the two soldiers. The grena..
dier, who afterwards shot him, was panicularly
friendly towards him; he tbanked him for what
they had consumed, and called him a dear fel-
low (Bruder Herz), for he spoke German as well
as bis native French tongue. Lavaterthen went ,
into his house again; but the grenadier contin-
ued speaking with some Zurich people, who
stood near. Soon after, Lavater came again, in
order to request this friendly soldier to protect
him from another; but the man was now in a
rage at him, and shot him.
In what way can this horrible change in the ·
mind of this unhappy young man be accounted
for, except in the following manner1 He was
a well-educated man, and was acquainted with
Lavater's writings; for every Swiss, who was
able to read, had read them. He was at the
same time of revolutionarv principles, as were
very many of the Pays de 'vaud people; conse-
quently, not only ofentirely opposite sentiments,
but also outrageously incensed against him on
account of his energy in reference to religion
and his country; for not Jong before, his letters
to the French Director Reube!, and to the Di-
rectory itself, had appeared in print, and been
much read. When Lavater brought him the
bread and wine, he did not know who he was;, .'.
but after he was gone away, he spoke with the
bystanders, and learned that this friendly and
benevolent man was the Rev. Mr. Lavater. On
this he fell into a rage, which was increased by
his having drunk a little too much; jnst at this
time, the good man unfortunately came ro him,
and was shot. Every thing is thu~ easily com-
prehended and explained. lo this persuasion, I
assert that Lavater is a witness for the truth
unto blood; for he was mortally wounded on ac-
count of his religious and political sentiments
and testimony. ·
Lavater's death was like the signal to the great
and glorious development ofStilling's fate, which
still continued hidden in the impenetrable ob-
scurity of'1he future. In order to place the whole
affair most clearly in the light of truth, I must
circumstantially detail his whole situation; the
Christian reader will find that it is worth the
while.
The members of Stilling's household, whom
he had· to provide for, were the following indi-
viduals:
1. Father Wilhelm Stilling; who was now
in such a state that a young girl like Maria
could no longer wllit upon him, but
2. An old woman was taken into service, who
tended him, and kept him and his bed clean.
Stilling's eldest step-sister, Maria's mother, a
truly worthy woman, came also occasionally to
assist; but having to keep house herself, was
soon obliged to retum 10 her husband and chil-
dren.
3. Stilling himself; and -i, his Eliza.
5. Maria Coing; she had been residing with
her brother, who the previous autumn had been
appointed minister at Braach, near Rotenburg
in Lower Hessia, for the purpose of supt'rin-
tending his household; but as she was weakly
and unaccustomed to a country life, she return-
ed the autumn following. G I
Digitized by 008 C
150 HEINRICH STILLING.
6. Amalia Coing, Jacob's betrothed; these
two sisters were ~liza's faithful helpmates in
the housekeeping. 1'he children of the Coings
had entrusted their property to their brother-in·
law, for which they boarded and lodged with him.
7. Jacob himself. After long waiting, he had
at length become government.advocate and at-
torney in Marburg; a profession, however,
which brought in little lo a man of his charac·
ter. Though he lodged out of his father's house,
yet he ate at his table.
8. Caroline, who was now growing up, and
whom it was necessary to have instructed in ev·
erv thing that becomes a well-educated female.
·9, JO, and 11. The three li1tle children, Fred·
ericlr, Amalia, and Christina.
12. Maria, who served faithfully, sometimes
as child's maid, sometimes as kitchen-servant,
sometimes as housemaid, and who could not be
dispensed with.
13. An elderly widow of the name of Bobbin;
her husband had died early, and left her with
three Jiule boys; she had subl'isted for a long
time upon daily labour, until Eliza took her into
service. Her real childlike simplicity, incor-
ruptible integrity, pure deportment, and unclis-
sernbled piety, made her of such value that she
was sent for on every occasion when help was
necessary. Her three sons bad now each learnt
a trade, and were abroad; she herself obtained
a place in the St. James's Alms-houses at Mar.
burg, so that she is now provided for; but she
was the greater part of the time in S1illing's
.house, where there was always enough for her
to do. She could not be employed to wait upon
Father Wilhelm, because slie bad an excessive
repugnance to any thing of the kind. Lastly,
there was also
14. A regular servant.woman, who is natural·
ly indispensable in such a household.
Every rational reader, who knows the arrange-
ment of a household in town, where every thing
is purchased for ready.money, and where pro.
priety of station must be obsen·ed, and reflects
also how Stilling was circumstanced with re.
spect to the poor blind people, will easily com·
prehend that at such dear times he could not pay
off any of his debts; the interest, however, was
regularly paid, and no new debts contracted.
With this domestic situation, let the reader
also consider Stilling's accumulated occupations
in bis sphere of action :
l. A constant conflux ofapplications, both by
Jetter and in person, from ophthalmic patients
of every kind, from far and near; so that this
vocation alone was sufficient to employ a man,
but which, with the exception of the Journeys,
brought in next to nothing in his practice at
home. B11t the journeys he undertook only when
he was sent for, and during the holidays.
2. An immense religious correspondence, the
importance and utility of which, in a variety of
ways, can only be judged of by him who has
seen the letters; and then the entreaties, from all
sides, to write religious works, and labor alone
' for the Lord and his kingdom; from which
again he derived nothing, since the sale of the
copyrights by no means fufficed to pay the nu·
merous postages. Stilling had therefore two ex·
tremely important species ofvocation, both which
were extensively and beneficially u~eful, and to
which, particularl.v to the religious sphere of ac.
tion, he now felt himself ful!v called and des-
tined. But having al the same time such a DU·
merous and expensive houllehold, and then these
two vocations from whence pay was not to be
thought ofnorexperted, how could these be made
10 harmonize 1 and besides all thi:s, a burden.
some delit of from sixteen to 5eventeen hwidttd
guilders; how was thts amount to be liquidated t
Add to these
3. Stillini(s professorship, which, from rea.
sons already mentioned, be<'ame more and more
unproductive, and his lecture-room more and
more empty. Neither his acknowledged ani-
mated deli1•ery, nor his perspicuity, which bad
been formerly so much admired, nor his fluent
eloquence, a11y longer availed. In shon, the
study of finance began to go out of fashion in
Marburg, and the number ofstudents, from well·
known cause~, decreased in every faculty; and
it was this unprocluctive, ever.retrograding vO..
cation, for which Stilling was kept in pay, and
without which he could not possi&ly live. ·
In addition to all this, there was also the pain·
ful, conscientious feeling, lliat a man of inJ.egri-
iy, even if 110t a true Clirislian, mwt resign !tis of-
fia a114 salary inlo the hands ofliis pri11Ct, as .-
as M is unaJ.i/e f,o administer it amsi.~ wit4
duty; and tlurugli tJiis may110tbe /r,iJ fault, yet M ii
still bound to do $0. This requirement, which no
sophist can demonstrate out of Stilling':s con-
sc1ence, rendered him anxious and apprehen-
sive, and yet he could not yield obedience to it;
he was bound, as it were, both band and foot.
I now ask every sensible reader, what possi-
ble means of escape or deliverance could be
tbo11gh1 oft In the present state of his house-
hold be required above two thousand ~uilders an-
nually, without being able to pay oil any of bis
debt,,
This sum must either be ~ven him by the
Elector of Hesse, along with his dismission from
his professorship, or-a foreign prince must give
Stilling an appointment as oculist and religious
author, with ~ salary of two thousand guilders.
These were the only methods to be thought
of, for his dellveranct' from this situation.
He that is only in some measure acquainted
with the Hessian constitution knows that the
first-mentioned plan was mor11lly impossible;
besideR which, an event occurred in tlie winier
of 1803 which made it likewise morally impossi·
hie on the pan of Stilling; as l will sub.'lequent-
ly relate in its proper place.
To hold fonh tbe possibility, or at least the
practicability of the second way of deliverance
as the object of his hope, would have been en·
thusia~tic vanity; and even if this object tM't
attained, Stilling could not remove from Mar.
burg; for father Wilhelm was in such clrcom·
stances that he could not be removed even a sin·
gle league; and to leave him behind, amongst
strangel'll, did not lie in Stilliog's and Eliza's
sphere ofpossibility. Besides which, Jacob was
also not yet provided for; and to sup~ him
from a distance, take his Amalia with tliem and
separate her from him, was considered on all
sides too hard. In a word, in this case there
were also insuperable difficulties.
Such were Stilling's circumstances. Bis
manifold occupations and his oppressive situa·
tion rendered his life painful to him; to which
was also joined his wonted inward melancholy,
so that he needed every possible experience de-
rivable from suffering and a continual walk in
the presence of God, with uninterrupt~ watch·
ing and prayer, in order not to sink under the
burden. Under 11uch circum~tances, travelling
was beneficial to him, and another journey now
occurred. G -I
Digitized by 008 C
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 151
The "Nostalgia," and the "History of the
Trinmph," had procured him a great number
of friends and corre~pondents of all ranks, learn-
ed 11nd unlearned, male and female, ol every
province in Germany, but especially in Wiir-
temberg, and still more so in Switzerland. In
St. Gall, Schalfhausen, Winterthnr, Ziirich,
Bero, Baslt!, and up and down the country, there
were many friends of Stilling and readers of bis
work~. 1$esides this, young Kirchhofer, an ex-
cellenl youth, the only son of the.worthy co-rec-
tor Kirchhofer of Schalfhausen, had studied di-
•inity about the year 1795 in Marburg, and was
tre:ned in Stilling's house as if be had been at
home. He was now preacher at Schlatt, in his
native canton. Through this connection an in-
timate bond of friendship had been formed be-
tween the families of lhe Kirchbofcrs and the
&illingi:; the four religiously di$posed and ac-
complished sisters of young Kirchhofer, who
poSSt·ss an extensive acquaintance with the
Lord's true worshippers through the whole of
Switzerland, and correspond diligently with
them, now commenced a correspondence with
Stilling, and procurt"<i him a still greater and
very interesting circle of acquaintances. All
this prepared the way for the journey which was
by far the mosl important and considerable in
Stilling's life hitherio.
Jn March of the year 1801, he received, very
unexpectedly, a letter from bis dear friend the
Rev. Mr. SulzerofWintertbur, who was a neph-
ew of the celebrated and learned Sulzer of Ber-
lin, in which he was asked whether he could
come that spring to Winterthur, to perform the
operation on a very venerable matron who wa:o;
blind of lbe cataract; for she wished, with the
Divine assistance, to receive her i.igbt again
fJOm Stilling, whom she e&teemed and loved;
for lbe expenses of the journey and the time il
would occupy, he would be duly remunerated.
This proposition filled Stilling's soul with jciy;
and the children, particularly Jacob, foreboded a
beppy result from the journey. Notwithstand-
ing all this, Stilling thought that prudence was
necessary in undertaking so great and expensive
a journey. He therefore wrote again to Sulzer,
atating that he would willingly come, but 1ha1
Eliza must accompany him, and as the diligence
travelled during the night she could not avail
.herself o{ it, on account of weakness, but must
travel post, and this would be ralher expensive.
Sulzer only bridly answered, that every thing
would be adjusled, and they bad nothing 10 do
bat to come. ·
Stilling now ap;>lied to the Elector for permis-
sion; and he and his Eliza made preparations
for this extremely in1eresting and desirable jour-
11ey. And in order to be lhe more at ease, it
was agreed that Jacob, Amalia, Caroline, and
the three little ones, should he taken lo brolher
Coing and sister Maria al Braacb, pass some
time tbere,.lhen leave liule Amalia and Freder-
ick with them, and return wilh the elder Ama-
lia, Caroline, and Chrislina, who was now two
years old, by way of Bergheim, to visit lhe
Countess of Waldeck, who had removed from
.Marburg. During ihe time of their absence,
the good Maria and the rest of the household
were to nurse the old granrlfather,~nd attend lo
the housekeeping. 'lhis plan was carried into
execution minutelv.
Stilling and Elii11 commence<l their first Swiss
journey on th.e27lh of MRrrh, 1801, at five o'clock
in ihe morning. At Butzliach lbey met their
children and grandchildren Schw11rz, who wish-
ed them a haepy journey; and in the evening
!bey were received with jo.v by the amiable fam-
ily of the Hausknechts al Frankfort. The next
day they purchased a variety of necessaries for
the journey; Stilling bought, in particular, a
light travelling-carriage, which he required for
such a long journey; and on the 29th of Mal'ch,
took post-horses to Heidelberg.
I must not forget lo observe that Stilling, on
the first day of his journey, was attacked by tor-
menting spasms in rite stomach in all their vio-
lence; for some time previous, they bad entire-
ly left him. This embitlered, it is true, all the
pleasure; but be afterwards found how good it
was that the Lord had j!'iven him to taste this
biller on the way; for without it he would cer-
tainly have been in danger of soaring too high,
and of suffering a dreadful fall, by reason of all
the commendations and marks of respect he re-
ceived.
Oar travellers pleased them~elves muc:h with
lhe expectation of reaching Heidelberg, partlf
in lhe hope of seeing their friends the Miegs, but
still more so Lisene, who was now lilieen years
old, and whom they bad nol seen since 1791,
con,,equently for ten years. This young girl
had won the hearts of all who Irnew her, hy her
distinguished and very peculiarly amiable dis-
position. Every one that cam~· from Heidel-
berg,.and bad been at Mieg's house, could not
say enough in praise of Lisette ; her whole
character was piety, and a tranquil and peaceful
cheerfulness; her whole being, apart from all
noisy recreations, lived only in a ~igber sphere,
and her praying soul adhered wuh her whole
heart to her Redeemer. To press such a daugh-
ter once more to the parental breast, was pure
and sublime delight.
Liseue had also expected her parents so ar·
dently, that it was necessary, in the evening, to
refresh her with a Jillie wine, as il was some-
what late before they arrived. At half-past eight
they stopped at Mieg's door; the welcome was
indescribable. They spent the Monday at Heid-
elberg, and rode on Tut!sday lo' lleilbronn; on
Wednesday they continqed their journey, and
arrived towards noon at Ludwigsburg. Al the
Orphan-house there, they met with Stullgard
friends, who were come to meet them; namely,
the minister Von Beckendorf, with whom Still-
ing had stood in a religious and friendly connec-
tion for many years; Doctor Reus, the physi-
cian to the court, and Walther, councillor of
slate, if I mistake not, from Gaildorf; a French
army-surgeon named Oberlin, a son of that dear
man of God, Oberlin of Steinthal in Alsace, and
perhapll some others, whom I no longer recollect.
Stilling rejoiced particularly to see his old friend
again, Israel Hartmann, the orphan Sl'hoolmas-
ter, of whom Lavater said, "If Christ were now
living amongst ns, he would choose him for an
apos1le." The whole company dined together
al the Orphan-house, and every one felt happy;
there ill something great in a company of purely
good men. Eliza sat next to the worthy old
Hartmann; she was never weary with looking
al him, and Ji5tening to him; especially as she
found a resemblance between him and her late
father Coing. An intimate bond of friendship,
for time and eternity, was formed between Doc·
tor Reus, his lady, Stilling, and Eliza. In the
llllernoon, they all rode to SIUll2'8rd, where
Stilling and Eliza took up their residence in lhe
house of Mr. Von Seckendorf.
Digitized by oogle
169 HEINRICH STILLING.
Stilling formed here also numerous and re- The same day, in the afternoon Stilling allll
n:iarkable personal acquaintance with pious and Eliza, accompanied by the KirchlWier family,.
learned natives of Wiinemburg, amongst whom went to the Rhinefall on foot; bat bi11 spasmodic
his heart adhered panicolarly to Storr, Rieger attacks were so violent that be was-0ften obliged.
the court-chaplain, Dann, and others. He found to remain behind, and hail not the expected en-
here also unexpectedly his friend Matthison, who joyment of this sublime spectaole of nature.
was residing with his former inmate, the wor- Stilling and Eliza went along th11 wooden balm1-
thy anlie conll$ellor Hanmann. tratle, so near tbe waterfall that t~y could hav~
The next day, being Holy Thursday, they washedinit. 1'hisstrikingnaturalphenomenon.
rode to Tnbiogen; on Good Friday to Tottlin- is utterly indescribable ; it mnst be seen and
gen; and the Saturday before Easter to Behalf- heard in order to form a correct idea of it. The
haosen, where they were received with loud ex:- continual thunder, the trembling of the ground.
pressions of joy by the family of the Kirchhof. on which one stands, and the immenae ma.ss of
ers. water, which hurls Itself with irre~tlble fore~
On the way from Tnttlingen to Schalfbaosen, about eighty teet down the rocks, foaming with.
in riding over the hill, there is a place from milky whiteness, and· precipitating itself roari.1g
which a prospect presents itsel~ which to a Ger- into the wide and boiling gulf below, to the ex-
man who has never been in o::;witzerland, and tent ofa couple of hundred foet-all this togetheJ"
has a feeling for any thing ofthe kind, is aston- presents a spectacle in which proud man be-
ishing. From Tuttlingen, the road Jead:r grada- comes a worm in the dost. Generally speaking,
ally up an ascent, and over it to the sommit, the scenery of Switzerland is of such a charao-
from whence the following view is seen: on the ter that it shows its proud sister Art its superi-
leli, towards the south-east, about the distance ority, and humbles her under its mighty band.
ofa league, stands the Riesenfels (Giant-Rock), The day following, that is, on Easter Tues-
with its ruined fortress, Hohen-Twiel; and to· day, in the afternoon, oar travellers · rode tO<
wards the south-west, on the right, at about the Wintenhur. Half-way, at the romantic town
same distance, ii\ brother, an equally strong and of Andolfingen-under-Thnr, they found their
lofty giant, with its likewise ruined fortress, venerable friend the Rev. Mr. Sulzer, with a few
Hohenstaufen, bids us defiance. Between these of the family of the matron who had sent for
two side-posts, the following prospect shows it- Stilling. They bad come to meet them, and re.
self: to the left, along the Hohentwiel, about ceived them most tenderly and cordially. They
three German miles broad, the Bodensee glitters then proceeded on their Journey to Winterthar,
far aod wide, like liquid silver; on the south where they arrived in the twilight of evening.
side of it, we overlook the paradisiacal Thargao, The patient who had sent for Stilling was the
and beyond it, the Graubundtner Alps. More widow Frey, who resided at the sign of the-
to the right, the canton Appenztllt with its snow- Harp. She had two sons with her in the house,
clad mountains, the canton Glarus with its giant who were married, and with whose assistance
hills, and particularly the Glarnitsch soaring ~he carries on a considerable business. Stilling:
high above the rest; the lofty Sentis and the and his Eliza were received and treated-if I
seven-toothed Kuhfirsten, lie more eastward. dare so express myself-as angels of God.
Thus the prospect extends over the whole range Dear reader, pardon me for here giving vent.
of the snowy mountains, as far as into the cao- to a very just effusion of my heart, which I fiDd
ton of Bern, and a great part of Switzerland. it impos.~ible to restrain.
This was an exhilarating feast for Stilling's I cannot possibly express in words what Still-
eyes. When one looks at the whole Alpine. ing and Eliza enjoyed in the family of the Freys
range, as it lies along the horizon, it appears -that outer-court of heaven! They will botb.
like a great saw, with which planets might be one day thank every dearly•beloved member of
cot asunder. that family before the heavenly host.~, and pro-
Stilling continued at Schalfhausen till Easter claim aloud the benefits they have received lrom
Taeeday. He performed several successful them, which tongue and pen are too ieehle to ex-
ophthalmic operations; amongst which one was press; and the Lord will reward them, both here·
particularly remarkable, on a youth of fifteen and hereafter. Eliza formed a permanent and:.
years of age, who was born blind, a son of the intimate sisterly alliance with the daughters-in-
pious Professor Altorfer, and who underwent Jaw of Madame Frey.
the operation on Easter Monday morning, in the Stilling performed the operation on the worthy·
presence of many persons. When the first ray lady, the next day, with perfect success. An in-
of light beamed into his right eye, on being dammation afterwards took place in the right.
freed from the cataract, he rose up and exclaim- eye; but with the left she is able, thank God I to
ed, "I ~ee the majesty of God I" This·expres- see very well.
sion affected all present, even to tears; the oper- Stilling was completely occupied with bosi·
lion was then performed on the other eye. A 'Dess daring his residence at Winterthur. He
slight indammalion afterwards hindered the at- daily performed several operations, and bun-
tainment of perftlct vision; however, he has a dreds of sufferers came to consult him; and to-
partial power of sight, and Stilling hopes, by a this was joined intolerably tormenting spasmodic
second operation, to restore to him the perfect attacks, by which every enjoyment was griev-
nse of his eyes. ously embittered. However, on Friday the 10th
I most also mention another pl'etty thought of of April, he received a visit which for a short
the good youth's. His parents had caused a time counterbalanced the spasms. Lavater's
gold ring to be made, in which a beautiful lock pious brother, Senator Diethelm Lavater, a very
of hair trom every member of the family was in- able pbysiciae; the devoutly cheerful Gessner,
closed, and heavily embossed with golden fruits. Lavater's son-in-law; and Louisa, the un.vea-
Eliza had this ring presented to her after the ried nurse and attendant of her glorified father;.
operation ; and the dear patient had had the and then another noble sufferer, a widow Fuess-
idea of having the followmg device engraved Ii, of Zurich, who now alrt'adv mingles with th~\
upon it, " Written. in fai/,/t, preseiUed in siglrJ.;'' harpers on the glallSy sea in 'their hallelujahs-\
but the space was not sufficient.
• Digitized by GoogI~
STILLING'S YEARS OF' TUITION. - 163'
these 1bar dear people entettd S1illlng's apart-
mmL Thus will it on· dRy be, when we have
overcome, and reach the plains of light in the
kingdom ofGod. The'blessed spiri1s of former
times, oar dear predecessors, and all 1he emi-
nent saints whom we have so mach wished to
know here below; will hasten to our embrace;
and then to see tAe Lurd Himself-with bis l'adi-
ant woaads l-1he pen falls from my bands.
These dear friends ·stayed to dine, and then
travelled baek again to Zurich.
On Monday t~ 13th of April, Stilling set out
for Zorich, accompanied by Sulzer, the young
Kirchhofer of Schalfhausen, and the abon-
mentioned Madame Fuessli, to visit the friends
tbere, as also to inspect a cataract patient, who
awa.ted him; this was the celebrated manuf.ac-
tarer and merchant Esslinger, whose pious and
benevolent sentiments are universally known,
and who is already receiving their reward in the
kingdom of light above. Esslinger resolved
upon the operation with the following woros:
" I had committed the mailer to the Lord, and
expected help from him; He now ~nd~ it into
my house, I wlll therefore receive it thankfully."
S1illing now-sawlikewi:l'e the venerable widow
of bis fi:lorilied brother Lavatel'-a woman who
was worthy of such a man-the image of the
most exalted Christian virtues. Truly Lavater's
widow aud children belon<> to the best class of
mankind I In the evening,S1illing, accompanied
bf Sulzer, travelled back 10 Winter1hur.
Stillin~ there received a leuer from Lhe magis-
trates of Schalfbausen, in which they thanked
him very kindly and obli~ingly for the benefits
he bad bestowed upon some unfortunate people
in their town. But on the day of his departure
for Zurich, another peculiar honor was done
him. Whilst at dinner at Madame Frey's,
Doctor Steiner, an excellent young man, who
was a member of the magistracy, came and
presented Stilling with an addl'l'Ss in the name
of the town of Winterthur, accompanied by a
very handsome massive silver medal, in a neat
cover which a lady of Wintenhur had embroi-
dered. On the outside of this cover stand the
wonis:
"The gilldivine bestow"d on thee,
To caaae the darketa'd eye to see,
Remring heaTen'a nviving- light,
Where all wu dull and cheerlou nigbi.-
Impela full many a h•art to praise
The God ofmercy 11nd ofgrace."
On one side of the medal, the following in-
scription is cut, in the lapidary style:
"Prei1ented to the Christian philanthropist,
Heinrich Stilling, Aulie Counsellor and Profes-
sor at Marburg, by lhe elders of the charch at
Winterthur, as a trifling memorial of his benef-
icent residence in that town in April of the year
1801, and as a testimony of the respect and
grateful love of its inhabitants."
On the other side stands, engraved in the
same mannt'I": ·
"Unweariedly active in affording consolation
to suffering humanity, be sows excellent seed
for the great day of recompense."
My readers may easily think with what emo-
tion and deep humiliation before God he receiv-
ed this honorable testimonial, and how he replied
to it.
On this solemn day, Thursday the 16lh of
April, Stilling and Eliza took their departure
from 'Vinterthur for Zurich, amidst the reg-rets
of all their friends. They there took up their
u
abode with Gessner, who, with his excellent
spouse-a daughter of Lavater, who was wita
him in Copenhagen-received them with ths
arms of friendship.
·The linst work which Stilling performed in
Zurich, was an operation on Esslinger. It suc--
ceeded very well ; he received his sight, but
soon after gutta serena ensued, and he continued
incurably blind till his death.
This family also Stilling can only sufficiently
thank in eterni1y; it is impossible here.
In Zurich be was oppressed and tormented
ootwardly by an indescribable concourse of
ophthalmic patients, 11nd inwardly by the most
painful spasmodic attacks, Occasionally, his.
patience forsoo)( him, so that be treated the peo-
ple harshly, and complained of the multitude
that came to him. Several Zurich people took
this so much amiss, that be afterwards found it
advisable to circulate a written document in that
town, in which be begged pardon of all and
every one whom he had otrended. It is impos-
sible to mention here by name the numerous re-
markable·and excellent individuals of both sex-
es, with whom Stilling became personally ac-
quainted in Switzerland generally, and particu-
larly in Zurich, and who deemed.him worthy of
their friendship. Hess, the Doctors Hirzel, fa-
ttier and son, professor Meyer, the celebrated en-
graver and painter Lips, who took Stilling's
likeness, and engraved it, and several other re-
spectable individuals, distiogui5bed thems,.lves,
next to Lavater's family, relatives and friends.
by marks of friendship.
On Tuesday the 26th of April, Stilling and
bis Eliza, after taking a very affecting leave,
set off from Zurich. Doctor Steiner of Winter-
thur, who presented him the medal, and his
yoangfriend the Rev. Mr. Kirchhofer ofSoflatt,
accompanied them.
It must not be forgotten that the magistrate.
of Zurich also thanked Stilling in an official le~
ter.
They pursued their journey from Zurich by
way of Baden and Lenzburg to Zoliugen, in the
canton of Bern, where Stilling wa11 to perform
the operation on Bailitf Senn; (at the·word bail-
iff, the reader must not imagine to himself a
German village bailiff.) It was ou this aecount
that Doctor Steiner accompanied them, for be
was a relative of Senn ; and as Stilling could
not prolong bis stay, Steiner intended to remain
in Zofingen a few days, lo perfect 1he cure.
Senn is a venerable man ; and placid, modest,
cbristian virtue is the chief trait in his and his
familv's character.
On' Wedn~sday morning the 22nd of April,
Stilling performed the operation on Baiiitr Senn,
and also on a poor girl; and then travelletl with
bis Eliza down the beautiful valley, along the
Aar, through Aarburgh and Olten, and np the
Hauenstein. This hill would be looked upo11
in Germany as a lofcy mountain, but here it is
considered of no account. On the lop, the road
is hewn through arock; and when past the sum-
mit, there is a prospect of Germany; in the
nonh-west, the Vogesen mountains are indis-
tinctly seen, and in the north the beginning of
the Black Forest is perceptible; on the other
hand, the whole Alpine chain appears in the
southern horizon.
After they had ridden for some distance on
this ~ide, they reached a solitary ion, 0111 ofwhich
a well-dressed preuy woman came running, who
inquired, in a very friendly manner, whether
o;g;:;zed by Google
IH HEINRICH STILLING.
Stilling was in the carriage. On bearing the an-
swer in the affirmative, her whol•heart and eyes
overtlowed wi1h expressions of love and friend-
ship. She bronght them out a breakfast; her
husband and children also joined them, and a
quarter of an bou1's very cordial and christian
conversation ensued; the travellers then took
their leave, and proceeded further down the val-
ley. The place is called Leufelfingen; and the
landlord's name is Fluhebacher. Stilling has
since carried on an edilying correspondence with
Madame Fluhebacher.
At six in the morning the travellers arrived at
Bti:lle, where they wen: received in the most
friendly manner by Senator Daniel Scborndorlf,
bis consort, and children. In thi~ dear and re-
ligiously-disposed family they spent several hap-
py days.
There was here also murh to do. Stilling
again formed important acquaintances; partic-
ularly with the divines, &c., of the "German
Society for the promotion of true Godliue1>111"
as also with the pious preachers, Huber, La
Roche, &c.
After a four days' residence, Stilling took an
afi'ecting leave of his friends here also, and set
0111 from Basie with his Eliza on Monday the
27th of April, early in the morning.
Now, my dt>ar readers, he that bath ears to
hear, let him hear; and he that has a heart to feel,
let him feel 1
Stilling was indebted to the amount of one
thousand six hundred and fifty guilders; a111ongst
tA.e U'lltnly-two individvab, blind of tlte cataract,
to.tom !£e CO'Udled in SU!itzerland, tliert was om,
toi\o lmeio not a word of his debts-or ta lea.st, C01d4
ftOt remotely sitppou t/£e amount oftltem-and sim-
pltg from an inward im~ to place Stuli:ng in
fllOf'efasy eircumsta'l&Ctl for tlte fut'l/.re, pa.id him.
tr4dJ,y om tlunuafld six Awn.dred andfifty gu.i/4en
(qr couclt.ing tlte catarad., afld tlte comequent cure.
'When Stilling and Eliza went up to their bed-
-chamber in the evening, they found the money,
panly in cash, and the remainder in bills, upon
iht>ir bed, exactly the amount of tht>ir debts, of
which this instrument in the hand of God knew
DOI a word I
'What were the feelings of the good couple I
With an unparalleled emotion they both sank
.down at the bed-side upon their knees, and ren-
<lered ardent thanks to Him who had l'O very
visibly ·~n this unspeakably important testf·
mony of his most special providence and gui-
<lance.
Eliza said, " This may prorc:rly be called
·•giving to his beloved sleeping; from this time
I will never distrust Him again."
Still more! the worthy individual who a few
years before sent the three hundred guilders,
when Stilling was at Cassel, and Eliza in needy
·circumstances, was also visited, in order to
return her due thanks. Her husband under-
went the operation; and when Stilling protested
against any funher payment, the worthy man
said, very patbetically1 "That is my business!"
and then sent six huuared guilders to Stilling at
his lodgings; with this, the expenses of the
journey were likewise paid.
Still more I Stilling's heavenly Guide knew
that in a few years be would require a hand-
some sum; but Stillinl:' had no presentiment of
such a oecessitr. This was provided for by the
sums paid him by several wealthy pstieots, with
many thanks. Besides thi~, so many prt>sents
Mid memorialsofaffection in jewellery were add-
ed, that Stilling and Eliza retamed from Bwits-
t>rland like two bees from a journeyamongst the
ftowers.
Dear readers, God the Omniscient knows that
all this is pure and unt>mbellisbed truth. But if
this is pure and sacred truth, what results from
it 1 At the close of this volume we shall dis-
cover.
Our travellers now took their way through
the Breisgau down to Carlsruhe. From Buie
h> this plact>, or rather to Ra11tadt, Stilling was
manyred by a dreadful ft>eling of anxiety. It
seemed to him as if he were golng to meet cer-
tain death. The occasion ofthis was a warning,
which was secreily and seriously given him at
Basie, on no account to return through Stras-
burg, from which place also this warning ema-
nated, a friend having written to Biisle expressly
respecting it.
Betides this, there was another circumstance;
a certain dangerous man threatened Stilling,
when at Basie, whose enmity was t>xcited only
by his writings, which contain much that is in-
tolerable to a revolutionary freethinker. I know
to a certainty. that there are pe<>ple who gnash
their teeth wfth rage if only Sti.ling's name is
mentioned. Strange! Stilling gnashes his teeth
at no one's name. Friends, on which side is the
truth 1 Verily, verily, not on the side of Lhose
who thus act.
With all this, it is still something singular
that Stilling, at certain times, and often on Mill
inferior pccasioos, is seized with such an in·
describable terror; while in other and far great·
er dangers he is often not at all dismayed. I be·
lieve that it procet>ds from the inftueoce of some
invisible evil being, some angel of Satan, to
which God, for wise reasons, sometimes gives
permission. Physical predisposition may give
occasion to such a fiery trial, but the whole of
the temptation is founded neither in the body
nor the soul ; but this can be proved by nothing
but individual experience. The Holy Scrip-
tures tes1ify that there are such siftings of. Sa-
tan.
Stilling's anxiety was at its height at Freiburg,
in the Breisgau, at Olfenburg, and at Appeowe-
yer. At Rastadt it became tolerable ; but his
spasmodic attacks then began to rage violently.
On Monday the 29th of April, they set olf in the
morning with a .drowsy postillion and two wea-
ried horses, for Carlsruhe; on the way, the
spasms in the stomach were almost intolerable,
and Stilling longed for repose. At first, be was
unwillin~ to visit the Elector, but wished rather
to rest himself; however, he still thought that
as that great, wise, and pious prince had read
the "Nostalgia" with so mnch approbation, and
had written to him a few times JD consequence
of it, it was his duty at least to make the attempt,
and ascertain whether he would be admitted to
an audience. He went therefore to the palace,
announced himself, was immediately intrOduced,
and urged to return in the evening for an hour,
at five o'clock. I Ray not a word more res~­
ing this visit, except that it laid the remote found-
ation for the final solution of Stilliog's destiny,
without his having any presentiment of it at the
time.
On Thursday the 30th of April, they travelled
from Carlsruhe to Heidelberg. Lisette had pray-
ed during .the whole time that her parents might
have a prosperous journey. The next morning,
Friday the fil':'t of May, they journeyed further.
Mieg and Lisette accompanied them to Heppen-
Digitized by GoogIe
STI LLING's' YEARS OF TUITION. 155
heim, where, before the door of tne inn, they saw
their Liselie fvr th~ lal>t time in this lile. Mieg
went l:iack'witb her to Heidelberg, and Stilling
anu Eliza continued their way to .lo'rankfori,
whtire .they arrived safe and well the following
day•. .
Froin Ji'rankfort, they made an excursion to
the Schlangenbad, in order to perform the opera-
tion on..the old and venerable ,Surggrave Rull-
man!\ and some poor people. There; in pleas-
ing solitude, they had time to recapitulate the
whote journey; and after accomplishing al.I that
was de~ired, they proceeded on their return to
M.irburg, where they arrived on the 15th of
May, anll found the whole family in good health.
The first thing Stilling now undertook was the
liquidation of his debts. The greater part of the
principal sum which had been advanced him at
Schiinentbal, immediately after his return from
Strasburg, on the security of his father-in-law,
was still owing, nor was the security removed;
but now it was done at once. He now did not
owe any one a farthing, to the best of bis recol-
lection. He had formerly removed from Heid-
elberg in order that he might liquidate his debts
by means of his large salary; this was bis and
Selma's plan, but not the Lord's; for the chief
amount was not paid by the salary, but by the
fonds provided by Providence. The Lord's in-
tention 'in removing him to Marburg was no
other than to preserve lfim from the misery and
terrors of war, by bringing him to a place of
safety, and then to crown, in a striking manner,
his; tl;irty years' unshaken stedfastness in con-
fiding in His aid, even in the darkest time~, and
in a country which had been the most exhausted
br war; so that every one must confess and say,
" This is the Lord's iloing."
·Should any object to my saying that it was
the Lord's plan to preserve Stilling from the hor-
rors of war, since there have been much better
men who have been obliged to endure them, the
follo\\·iug may be to such a serviceable reply:
That a good s/t,epkerd marks tMtDeakes/, ofhis sheep;
an.ti sucli as can endure the least are tM cltuf and
primary objects ofMs care, that lie mayyro/,ect tkem
from Ille sl.orm and t,em,pest,
When Providence intends to accomplish any
thing, it does not do it by halves, but entirely.
Siilling was indebted, when he studied at Stras-
lturg, between forty 11ud fifty guilders, to a friend
lhe.re ; the latter did not urge the payment, and
Stilling had so much to do with his other bur-
densome debts, that be was happy when a cred-
itor Jet him alone. This went on till the French
.-1.1e.volution when every thing was turned up-side-
-dS)wn in Strasburg, as well as elsewhere. The
.war afterwards broke out, by which the commu-
nication between Germany and France was ren-
.dered extremely difficult; and as Stilling had
more heavy and urgent debts, he thought no
more of this amount. But his heavenly Guide,
who is thoroughly and perfectly just, by no
means forgot it; for immediately after Stilling's
journey to Switzerland, a friend came to the
·brother of the Strasburg creditor, who had died
Jong before, and paid him not only the small
sum owing, but also the interest for thirty years,
so that bis payment amounted to nearly a bun·
dred guilders. Stilling therefore received from
an unknown hand the acknowledgment for this
amount; but he has never learnt who the friend
was that so nobly performed this act ofkindne~s.
But he will eventually find thee, thou noble-
minded individual, where everr thing is made
manifest. and he will then be able to thank thee
as thou deservest I
This was therefore, indeed,·a blessed, debt-
liquidating journey! A mighty difficulty was
now gloriously surmounted. .Aft,erbeing o/Jliged
to imur a load of debt to tki: amO'k?i/. offuur t/1Q11,o
sand}foe hundred guilders, antt then to be enabled ·
to pay tM u·lwle, wit/wut any property, merely ly
faitll., 11prig/U/.y and lumeslly, vri.tJi the interest, to
the very la.<tfarthfog, did not fail 10 call forth his
fervent hallelujahs.
A fow weeks after Stilling's return from Switz..
erland, something remarkable occurred to him.
He was sitting one forenoon at bis desk, when
some one knocked at bis door. On calling out,
';Come in!'' a young man of from twenty-;;even
to thiriy years of age entered the room. Heap-
peared restless and uneasy, looked timidly about
him, and often cast a shy glance at Lavater's
portrait. "You have been in Zurich," said he;
"I was there also; I must be gone;" be walk-
ed about in a state of agitation, looked at Lava-
ter's picture, and said hastily," 1 cannot remain
in Germany-I am every where unsafe; I might
be c.a11gh1; 0 sir! help me in making my es-
cape!" Stilling fell emh~rras,ed, and ~sked
him if he were a Swiss 1 "0 yes," answered
he," I am a Swiss; but l have no rest-I wish
10 go lo America; assist me in getting thither I"
He said other things besides, and continued rap-
idly to pace rhe room, looking al Lavater's pic-
ture, which excited a suspicion in Stilling's mind
that he was Lavater's murderer. He therefore
advised him to go to Hamburg, where he would
always find opportunity to go to America; but
told him to hasten, Jest be should fall into the
hands of the police. The poor man then sud-
denly ran out of the door, and disappeared.
After Stilling had thus honestly thrown,oft'
the burden of his debts, which he had so long
carried, another affair was underiakeu. On
Stilling and Eliza's return from Switzerland,
the.v had passed the night at Munster, with tb~ir
children the Schwarzes; and after they had m-
formed them of what the Lord had clone for
them, and how he had blesse1l them, Schwarz
and Hannah proposed that the parents should
now crown Jacob and Amalia's long-tried love,
and let them be united, since in reality, circum-
stances would be neither changed nor rendered
more irksome by it. The parents found nothing
to object to this; and in order to surprise the
young cc:iple and cause.them still greater joy,
lt was resolved to keep all the preparations i.e-
cret, invite friend Schlarbaum with his family
to tea, and that the latter should at once step
forth and marry them. The accomplishment of
this plan succeeded only in part, for the thing
did no: remain entirely secret; the wedding took
place on the 12th of July in that year-1801.
Jacob now removed to his parents' house again;
and he and his consort continued to hoard with
them on the same economical footing as before.
The previoui< summer, Eliza had used the
baths at Hofgeissmar, but her neck had become
rather worse than beUer; she was now ad.vised
to try the Schlangen baths, where she stayed six
weeiri<, but this was also of Huie avail. .
This snmmer Stilling wrote the second vol-
ume of the "Scenes in the Invisible World."
On this occa~ion, I must mention something
pleasing and remarkable; every one is at liberty
to make of il what he pleases. I have already
ohservect that Stilling, the winter before, soon
after Lavater's dcath,.had published a poem an-
Digitized by GoogIe
156 HEINRICH STILLING.
der the 'title of "Lavater's Glorification." lo latter conferred with Eliza on the subject; and
this poem, Felix Hess and Ptennioger, two of they resolved that as the Lord bad so greatly
Lavater's friends, who die.I before him, are rep- blessed their Swiss journey, and showed them
resented as coming in the form of two angels to so many Javors, they would, from gratitude, un-
fetch the weary warrior after his death and con· de-rtake the jonmey 10 tMir worthy patient at
dtlct him to the New Jerusalem. Abont half a 1beir own expense, and wilb the Davine a~in­
year after the publication of this poem, Stilliog's. ance reslore her to sight; they dterefore prepa-
pious' and faithful friend Breiden~tein, the re· red for the journey, and Stilling wrote to the
formed preacher at Marburg, came 10 visit him; persco that he would come. The lauer was ex-
botb cooversed upon a variety of subjects, and tremely pleaaed, as may easily be supposed, and
amongst other things, upon the poem. "It is made Slilliog's intention known in the neigh-
snrprisiog," said Breidenstein, "bow beautiful· boorbood; and as he wonld have to pass through
ly you baye made use of the late Felix Hess's Brnnswick, he was kindly invited to lodge in
promise." "How so1" inquired Stilling; "what the holllle of Mr. Stobwasser, an eminent trades-
promise1" Breidenstein replied, " Upwanis of man, who has a considerable manufactory ofja·
twenty years ago, Lavater stood by the side of pan-ware, and is a member of the Moravian
Felix Hess's dying-bed, weeping, aod said,• Now church. Stilling thankfully accepted the offer;
thon wilt not stand at my bed-side, when I die!' and as their way led them through Minden, they
Hess answered, •Bnt I will come and fetch rletennined to pay a visit to Julia, in order to
thee!'" Stilling rejoinecf," Really, I never heard become acquainted with that worthy woman;
a word of it; it is, however, something strange; and on her invitinir them to stay at her boase,
where is it1 I must read it for myself!" "That they joyfully assented.
you shall," said Breidenstein; "it is indeed very Stilling and Eliza commenced this joumey on
strange!" The next day he sent Lavater's mis- the 18th of September; they took Carol:ne with
cellaneous work!~ in which there is a short bior;- them as far as Cassel, where she was to remain
raphy of Felix Hess; and this conversation is until her parents returned; for as by her' good
inserted, just as Breidenstein related it. conduct and cordial atrectioo to her parents. she
1 can with the greatest truth assert that this caused them joy, they sought, when occasion of.
circumstance had either never come to Stilling's fered, to return it 10 her. They lodged at Cas-
knowledge, or at least that he bad not thought sel with privy-counsellor Voo Kunckcl, whose
of it for many years, even though he might have lady is a near relative of Eliza. Mr. Von
read it-which latter, however, 1 do not believe. Kunckel had al1Hys been Stilling's faithful,
Therefore, if this singular affair be chance, it is tried, and intimate friend, and will remain so as
one oftbe strangest that ever occuned; fortirst, long as they shall both continue to exist. Von
Hess says to Lavater immediately before his Kunckel bas served in every gradation, and by
death, nearly thirty years since, "I will come his faithful activity is become what he is.
and fotch thee, when thou diest I" Many years In the afternoon of the next day they rode to
after, Lavater dies; Stilling resolve5 to make a Minden, where they remained till after the Sun-
poem on his death; decides upon forming the day. Julia received them with all the fulneS11 of
plan of it, so that two of his friends are to fetch Cliristian affection; she and the worthy reform·
him, and makes choice of the very man who ed minister, Klugkist, together with his excel-
bad promised him to do so thirty years before. lent lady, manifested all possible friendship to
One thing more: when Stilling was in Zu- our two travellers. Julia and Eliza formed an
rich, he was told that Lavater bad had a friend indissoluble si~terly alliance with each other,
with whom he bad lived oo a still more confi. and bound themselves to walk in the path which
dential footing than with Felix Hess, and was our adorable Redeemer has himself marked out
asked why be bad not made use of him in the aod trodden. Julia has also two excellent sis-
poem, for the purpose of fetching Lavater 1 ters, who were likewise there, and helped to in-
Stilling inquired who this friend was, and was crea~e the religious and friendly circle.
!old it was Heinrich Hess. This occasioned At Gottingen they found the faithful Achelis
Stilling to introduce this friend in the "Scenes just on the point of departing; he harl received
in the Invisible World," in the following man. a call as preacher to a place in theneighbourhood
ner: the glorified Heinrich Hess is represented of Bremen; hi~ lady, with her sister, had al-
as bringing Lavater to the Virgin Mary, be- ready gone before to Bovenden, where she ex-
caui;e she was desirous of seeing this faithful pected him. Achells now accompanied Stilling
follower of her Son. Mary then relates to La- and Eliza, and from Boventlen they travelled
vater the Lord's character, as exemplified in his together to Nordheim, where they separated,
earthly life, &c. This is brought forward pre- amidst the expression ofa thousand blessings.
cisely io this manner in the second volume of At Nordheim, Stilling was attacked by an in-
the Scenes. Long after the work was printed, describable apprehension; it began before ta-
Stilliog was once accidentally reading in Lava- king leave ofAchelis; hut whether the good man
ter's "Jesus Messias," the 26th chapter of the observed it or not, I know not. It was in reality
first volume, which relates the quiet conceal- an apprehension of bad roads, and of the over-
ment ofJesus, and found again, to his astonish. turnmil: of the coar.h, bot it was so horrible that
ment, that Lavater consoles himself with the it could scarcely be endured; it lasted during
hope that t!&e Virgin Mary W01dd even!JUally re- the whole journey, and was sometimes stronger
lat,e to Aim, in t!&e hliJ.<fuJ, regions, t!&e cliaracter lier and at others weaker.
Sim bore in his earthly life, &c. It may be be- On Tuesday, the 22nd of September, in the af!.
lieved, on my word, that Stilling had never read ternoon, they arrived safely at Mr. StobwaS!!er's
this before. house in Brunswick; he himself with his con-
Another journey was also uodenaken in the sort was at Berlin, where he has also a consid-
a111umn of the year 1801. In a place in the erable manufactory; but his household showed
north of Germany there was a very pious per- the travellers all po~sible affection and friend-
son, who had the cataract; she was too poor lo 11hip, and Stilling and Eliza felt truly happY'
come to Marburg, or to send for Stilling. The amongst these good people.
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 167
From this place Stilling rode to the pe~on on
wb11se accounl be had underlaken the journey;
and happily she received her sight. In Bruns-
wick itself, be performed 1he operation on lwelve
individuals; and four leagues from thence, at
Ampleben, 1he manorial residence of Mr. Von
Bouicher, to which a church-town is annexed,
on Madame Von Bode, who, with hP.r husband,
belongs also to the true followers of the Redeem-
er. Stilling and El'lza rode thitht;.rJ and remain-
ed there some days; Madame von Bode re-
gained her sight, and they returned to Bruns-
wick.
Eliza having been seriously advised to con-
sult the celebra1ed and learned physician Bey-
reis, aulic counsellor at Helmstadt, on accounl
of the convulsive affection in her neck, the jour-
ney thither was also undenaken. The great
man took all conceivable pains to afford the
travellers pleasure; he also wrote directions for
the use olEliza, whichhhowever, she was una-
ble to follow, because t ey affected her too vio-
lently.
During his residence in Brnnswick, Stilling
formed several interesting personal acquaintan-
ce!!, with Campe, Von Zimmerman, Eschen-
burg, Pokels, and others. The Duke showed
himself extremely gracions· be sent twice for
Stilling, and conversed with bim a long time, on
a variety of subjects, and amongst others, on re-
ligion, respecliog which he expressed himself in
a satisfactory and edifying manner. He then
also said to Stilling, " All t/lat you haiie dune liere,
I look ttpcm as dune to myself;" and the following
day he sent sixty louis-rt'ors to bis lodgings.
With this the travelling expenses were not only
paid, but something even remained over. It
was therefore the will of Providence that the
Swiss money should be reserved for another
very different object.
Whilst Stilling continued at Brunswick, the
consort of the hereditary Count of Stollbe~­
Wernigerode, born Princess of Schonberg, was
safely delivered of a young counteM; the pa-
rents had chosen Stilling as sponsor for the
child; and this still more eonfirmed the inten-
tion, already formed in Marburg, of making a
little circuit to Wernigerode. Accordingly, they
set off from ·Brunswick on Friday the ninth of
October, and arrived in the evening at the place
above mentioned, at the lofty ca~tle which has
belonged to the Count's piously-disposed family
Crom ancient times.
Stilling and Eliza felt here as in the precincL,
of heaven. He also visited bis old friends, su-
perintendent Schmid, aulic counsellor Fritsche,
advocate Benzler, Blum, government-advocate,
and Secretary lJlosse, who has excellently set to
music his song in the "Nostalgia"-" A wan-
derer," &c.
They remained Saturday, Sonday, and Mon-
day, with tht> noble family ofWernigerode. A
gentleman from Saxony, who had business there,
and sat next to Stilling at the table, said to him
with emotion," Really a person ought from time
to time to !rave! hither, in order to recreate and
revive himself;" and centainly be wa11 in the
right; religion, decorum, politeness, cheerful-
ness, dignity, and completely unassuming man-
Dt>rs, distinguish the character of every member
of this noble family.
Notwithstancling all this, Stilling's melan-
chol.v di1I not leave him here; it could scarcely
be endnrPif.
On Tuesday, tht> 13th oCOctober, the travel-
Jers took an affecting and grateful leave of the
family ofWeroigerode; the count sent his own
coachman with two horses wilh them to Leesen,
from whence Stilling travelled post to Gander-
sheim, where the Countess Frederica of Orten-
be~, who bas been many year.o his friend, is
canoness; she had requested him to .visit her,
because there were ophthalmic patients there
who expected him.
The Countess Frederica was highly rejoiced
at Stilling's visit; and, generally speaking, much
honor was shown to both the travellers in that
place. They supped in the evening with the
Princess of Coburg, who took the place of the
princess her mother during her absence. Still-
ing was of service to several patients there, and
performed the operation on a poor ol.d wom-
an. Tlje evening before their departure, his
melancholy rose to a tormenting agony; but to-
wards midnight, he applied himself very seri-
ously to God in prayer, so that it could not fail
to be heard, and then slept quietly till mornin~,
1fhen he continued bis 1oumey home 1"itb his
Eliza; they arrived late in the evening at Min-
den, where Julia, Klugkist, and his lady, vied
with each other in manifesting their friendship.
It was now obvious that Julia's aged father
was drawing near his end; Stilling and Eliza re-
quested her, therefore, when her father had en-
tered into his rest, to visit them at Marburg, for
it would serve to cheer and refresh her; which
she promised to do.
Stilling found much to do at Cassel; so that
he was o!>liged, from morning till evening, to
write prescriptions and give his advice: he also
operated on several persons for the cataract.
My readers will remember that brother Coing
had been appointed preacher at Braach, near
Rothenburg on the Fulda, eleven leagues from
Cassel, and that Maria Coing, with the two
children, Frederick and Amalia, were also there.
It was Stilling and Eliza's intention to fetch these
two children from thence, as well as their sister
Maria, If she wished it; bot especially to visit
their good and. dear brother again, particularly
as they were now in the neighbourhoqd. In or-
der to fulfil this intention, they set out on Thurs-
day the 22nd of October, from Cassel ; on dri-
ving through the Leipzic gate, he said to bis
wife, "0, my dear, what would I not give if I
could now travel to Marburg!" Eliza answer-
ed, "Well, let us do so." Stilling, however, re-
fused, for he thought If a misfortune awaited
him, it might happen to him any where; they
therefore rode on, the brother came on horseback
to meet them, and in the rooming they arrived
safely at Braach. .
Their stay at this pleasant place was fixed for
a week, during whic& time Stilling felt like some
poor criruinal, who is to be executed in a few
days. However, he performed the operation on
a lady in Rothenburg, and attended several pa-
tients. Maria, who had become weakly ·at
Braach, walt to retttrn with th.em to Marburg,
together with the two children, and their depart-
ure was fixed for Thursday the 29th of October. _
For this purpose, brother Coing ~ent to the post-
ing-house at Morschen, and ordered the hor.oes.
On Wednl'sctay eveninir, the day before their
departure, Stilling's melancholy rose to sur.h a.
height that he said to Eliza, "lf the torment oC
the lost in bell is not greater than mine, it is still
great enouj!"h I"
The next mominir, the postillion came at the
time appointed; he bad driven the diligence to
Digitized by GoogIe
168 H El N RICH STILLING.
Rothenburg, and conM>quenlly brought four hor-
ses, which, however, coutraty lo all po~ting reg-
ulations, were very llrisk andJively. Ht." put the
horses to the carriage, and d10ve empty through
the Fulda; Stilling, ~liza, Maria, the children,
and the brother, were transported across, about
a gun-shot higher up, h a boat; meanwhile, the
poslilhon drove up the meadow on the other ~ide,
and waited on the opposite shore.
They got in ;-Stilling sat behind, to the right;
next to him Eliza, with Amalia in her lap; op-
posite her sat Maria, aud Frederick opposite
l:ltilling. Brother Coing now took leave, and
went back again; the postillion ~uddenly smack-
ed his whip, the four ~pirited horses weut olf in
full trot, aud the driver mrning short round, the
fore-wheels got entangled, and threw the car-
riage to the ground with such violence that the
body of, the vt>hicle burst in two in the midst.
Being only a chaise, aud open in the front, Eli-
za, Maria, and the two children, were thrown
out upon the meadow; but Stilling, who was
. sitting in the corner on the falling side, contin·
ued in the carriage, end was seriously htirt.
Fortunately the wheels came olf, so that the
coach was not drag~ed along; there it lay, there-
fore, and Stilling was so fast ~queezed in that
he could not move. It is extremely remarkable
that all his melancholy vanishetl in a moment.
Notwithstanding the violent pain-for his whole
body was as if it bad been broken on the wheel,
-he tell an inward tranquillity and cheerful-
ness, such as be bad hardly before experienced;
and although he was :;till utterly unconscious
what the cooseq11ences might be, he was so in-
wardly resigned to thP Divine will, that he was
unalf~cted by the smallest fear of death. Much
as the postillion deserved a severe reproof and
after that a considerable punishment, Stilling
said nothing further to him than, in a kind man-
ner, "Friend, you have turned too short."
Eliza, Maria, and the children, had not suffer-
ed in the smallest degree; brother Coing came
also running to them; but when Ibey saw the
man to whom they were so much auached, ly-
ing bloody and disfigured beneath the coach,
they all began to lament bitterly; the carriage
was lifted up again, and Stilling, wounded and
disabled, hailed on Eliza's arm back again to
Braach; the postillion dragged the equally wound-
ed and disabled vehicle thither also, and it was
with dillicuhy he escaped l;>eing soundly beaten
by the peasantry of that place. However, they
were active in another way; one of theru mount-
ed a horse and rode full gallop to Rotheoburg 10
fetch medical assistance, and the others sent re-
freshments, such as they bad, and as well as they
understood what was ner.essary ; bot all was nat·
urally received as if it were the most precious
and suitable of its kind.
Stilling was in a miserable condition as re-
g11rds the body; the whole of the right breast
was hugely swollen, and when one pressed the
hand over it a noise was heard; one of his ribs
was fractured; behind, under the right shoulder-
blade, he felt violent pain~; he had a wound on
the right temple, which bled profusely, and was
only the breadth of a straw distant from the ar-
tery; and in the right groin and hip he fell great
pain, as ofien as he moved bis thigh. In short,
every motion was painl'nl.
The physicians of Rothenbnrg, Mei~i; and
Freys•, two very able men, soon made their an-
pearance, and by their faithful care and the Di-
vine blessing, Stilling in a few days recovered
so far as 10 be able lo •ravel lo Marburg. But
the coach, with all their learning and abili1y,
they were unable to cure; however, they pro-
vided for its reparation, which was committed
10 the court·aaddler, who restored it so ably that
ti wai; firmer than before.
On Monday the 2d of November the jouroty
to Mao Lurg was commenced; Stilling rode ~low·
ly on horseback, because he did not choose to
uust driving in ~uch dreadful roads; and it was
well he diet so; for the ladies and children were
overturned once more, yet without injury. Co- ,
ing accompanied his brother-in-law on ho™·
back to Mabern, where Caroline expected them;
the next day they rode all together to Marburg,
because from thence there is a regular chaus:see,
but Coiug returned to Braach. Stilling bad 10 '
struggle for a season with the cousequences or 1
this fall; in particular, a giddiness remained for
a Ion~ tiwe, which however at length disap-
pearea.
Stilling's state of mind during this journey to
Brunswick, may be be&t underst<tOd by a simile
-A solitary traveller on foot enters a wood in
the evening; he must pass through this before
he arrives at the inn. It grows dark; the moon
s.hines in the first quar1er, consequently oniy
faintly; a very suspicious and terrible man now
join~ him, never leaves him, and continually
makes as if he would attack him and murder ,
him; at length, all at once he seizes him and
wounds bim; suddenly some of tbe traveller's
best friends make their appearance, the t>nemy
flies, the wounded man recognizes bis friends,
who carry him to the inn, and nurse him till he
is well again. Dear readers, take this simile as
you will, but do not abuse it.
The commencement of the year 1802 proved
a grievous one for Stilling and Eliza. On Sun-
day the 3d of January, he received a leuer from
his friend Meig of Heidelberg, in which he in·
formed him that Liseue was ill, but that he did
not believe it was of serious consequence, for the
physicians still gave hopes. On reading !his
letter, Stilling felt a deep impression on his mind
that she was really dead. There is something
in his soul, which causes him always to feel
pleasure when he knows that a child, or any
truly pious person, is dead, for he is conscious
that another soul is in saJety; this coovictioo
makes him feel the dealh of any one belonging
to him less than is ~ustomary; but as he pos-
ses~es a sympathizing heart, it always causes
him a severe struggle with respect to his physical
nature. Such was also now the ease; be suf-
fered much for some hours; then offered up his
Lisette to lhe Lord again who had given her to
him; and on the 6th of January, when he re-
ceived from Meig the news of her decease, be
was strong, and was able himself elfeclually to
comfort the deeply-mourning foster-parents; but
Eliza suffered severely.
Their friends, the Meig:., buried Lisette in a
very honorable manner. Meig published a littl'e
book, containing an account of her life, charac-
ter, death, and burial, together with some linle
pieces and poem~ which this even! occasioned.
The grief which these foster· parents felt al the
departure of this dear girl, can be scarcely con-
ceived. They had brought her np and educated
her excellen1ly, and God will l'l'ward them for
having trained her up in His fear, and in reli·
gious sentiment~.
It is rem;\rkable that the ol.t mother Wilhel·
mi followed her favorite some weeks after, even
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 159
as her daughter Melg had long before appre-
hended.
About this time died also Burgomai1ter Eicke
of Minden, Julia's lather. Stilling and Eliza
therefore repeated their invitation to Julia to
CC'me as soon as her affairs were arranged; she
ac<'eptE'd it, and arrived in Marburg about the
mitlale of ~anuary, where she was bO much
plea~ed with Stilling's domestic circle and chris-
tian society, that she al length expressed a wish
to live in the family. Stilling and Eliza re-
joi«ed at this declaration, and the matter was
soon arranged; Julia pays a ~llllicient sum for
her board, and occupies herself with the educa-
tion of the lillle girls, Amalia and Christina.
Eliza, indeed, protested seriou~ly against being
paid for her board; but Julia maintained that
she would not come to live wilh them on any
other terms. Thebe nearlv allied souls were
therefore at length unanimous. Jn March, Ju-
lia travelled to Erfurth to visit a friend, and re-
turned the August following. From that time,
she has been incorporated into Stilling'!' domes-
tic circle, in which she is a real blessing from
God, by her piety, cheerfulness, sutreriog expe-
rience, and particularly in the governance and
education ot •he two children.
This spring, another journey was undertaken;
Stilling was sent for from Fulda, whither Eliza
accompanied him. On returning, tbP.y passed
through Haoau and Frankfort, and visited also
Prince Frederic of Anhalt and the Countess
Louisa, who, the preceding autumn, had remo-
ved from Marburg 10 Homburg-vor-der-Hohe.
On this Ot'casion they became acquainted with
I.he widow of Prir:ce Victor of Anhalt; she is a
11·orthy sister of the Princess Christina of Lippe,
a true Christian, and humility personified. Af-
ter an ahsence of about four weeks, they return-
ed to Marburg, soon after which Amalia was
safely delivered of a daughter.
The important period also approacht.d, in
which Caroline was to be confil'IIled, previous
to ret'eiving thl' sacraanent,-she was now four-
teen years and a half old, and tall and strong of
her age; she bad received very excellent re-
li,ious instruction for two years, from the two
'reformed preachers, Schlarbaum and Breidt'n-
stein, Stilling's worthy friends, and it bad oper-
ated beneficially upon her. She possesses a
mind disposed to piety and religion i and it is a
great joy and consolation to her fallle'r, that bis
three eldest children are on the way to become
true Christians. Julia wrote to Caroline from
Erfurth, and commi~ioned Aunt Duising to
present her with the letter ou the day of her
confirmation: it is worth the while to insert it
here :-
"MT DEAR AND EVER·BELOVED CAROLl!'fE:
"On the most solemn day of thy life, on which
all thy dear friends press·thee with new affection
to their heart, my prayers will also mingle with
theirs ;-probably m the very hour in which thou
wilt make the sol~mn vow of eternal love and
fidelity to Him who ought always to fill our
whole soul, I shall also be asking of Him, faiah,
fidelity, and love, for thee.
"My best and dearest Caroline, I earnestly
. lntreai thee duly to coD!'lider and keep that which
thou promises! on rhis day, so important for thee
in time and eternity ;-love the LonJ !'IO as thou
loVP!~ no one else I Thou t'anst not do any
thing veaur, better or more important; dn not
aulfer'tbyselfto be deprived of that crown which
thy faith this day views in the Lord's hand far
thee, either by llattt'ry, or by the'contempt of
the world; but continue faithful to Him until
death," &c.
The confirmation took place at Whitsuntide,
with prayer and much emotion on all sides.
Stilling's situation, meanwhile, became more
and more oppressive. On the one hand, his re-
ligious sphere of action became greater, more
profitable, and considerable :-the directora or
the" London Tract.l:>ociety," which, in the space
of a couple of years, bad disseminated edifying
and useful publications amongst the common
people in England to the amount of a million of
guilders, wrote him a heart-cheering letter, anll
encouragt'd him to set on foot a •imilar societr
in Germany. At the same time, also, his reb-
gious correspondence increased, as well as hi•
practice as an oculist; whilst, on the other band,
his peculiar academical vocation became more
and more unproductive; the German indemni-
fication had transferred the provinces, whicla
generally fnrnished the university with students,
to other rulers, who bad themselves universities,
whither their young people were obliged to re-
sort and study; the number of students dimin-
ished, therefore, visibly; and tbol!e that contin-
ued to resort to Marburg applied themselves to
such studies as might procure them a mainte-
nance, to which the financial department does
not belong; and finally, a decrease in the desire
to study was observable in all the universities,
the cause of which need not be discussed here.
Be that as it may, Stilling's auditory diminish-
ed to such a degree that he had often only two
or three hearera. This state of things was ia-
tolerable to him. To have so la~ a stipend,
and to be able to do so little for it, did not coa-
sist with his conscience; and yet be was nailed,
as it were, to bis post ;-he could not do other-
wise, and was obliged to persevere; for withoat
this income he could not live. Bei1ides all 1hi:1,
his great end and motive, to work and live for
the Lord and his kingdom alone, filled his whole
soul; he saw and heard, every d11y, bow extea-
sivcly beneficial his religious sphere of action
was, and this he was obliged to make a secon-
da17 COl!Sideration for the sake of a very barren
mamtenance.
Finally, another important consideration wu
added to all this. The Elector of Hesse is sin-
cerely desirous of supporting religion; but he
has also a maxim, which, abstractedly consid-
ered, is perfectly correct-that ewry $ef17Qftt o/
tM slak 11ttg11.t to gitt Aim$elfvp entirety ID tlle de-
partmmt ID w,\ick lie ltas onu de'l)OUd ll.vt11Sl!lj. He
is Mt at all pleaSl!d, 10.tm a ~ mt,ers t1ptm
a'IWIJ&er -r:ocaJ.ion. But Stilling was now so cir-
cumstanced, that he was obligt>d to act in oppo-
sition to bQth parts of this maxim; which also
caused him many a mournful hour. His con-
flict was painful°: but at this very time Provi-
dence beit"an to make di!'ltant arran1temen1s for
the accomplishment of its plans. It i11 worth
while that I relate every thing here with the
greatest minuteneP11.
On the 6th of July, 1809. Stilling re<'eive<l a
Jetter from a poor mechanic.', in a rloce at a
great distance from Marhull!", ••ho neitht'r knew
nor coul.l know one word ofStillinii's siln•rinn.
bet'ause he reveal<'d it to no one, in which rhe
msn ~lated that he had had a rt'markable dre?m,
in u·hlcb he bad Ftl'n him iraver~inj!" and 1u·ru-
pied in a large field, in which much tre11su1e
Digitized by GoogIe
HO HEINRICH STILLING.
lay scattered about in email heaps; and that he
had been commissioned to write to him, and tell
him, tllat lie ouglt/, Mio kl ga/Aer aJJ t4is ere<Z1¥rt
i'llJ,o 011t /,aap, then. sit do11m quietly, a-1tlt aum4 to
tllis single treasure alon.e.
Stilling, during the whole of his life, had !'Cen,
heard, and felt so many elfecis of the developed
faculty of presentiment, and also so many-
without the theory of the faculty of presenti·.
meat-incomprehensible predictions of hyster-
ical and hypochondriacal persons, that be is well
aware IO what such things trenerally belong,
and under what head they ought to be classed.
But the contents of this leuer harmonized so
much with what passed in his own mind, that
he could not possibly regard it as a matter of
·chance. He wrote therefore to the man, saying,
that though he was well aware that the uniting
of that which was manifold with that which
was simple, would be good for him, yet he was
obliged to live by his professorship; he there-
fore wished for a further explanation of his
meaning. The answer was, that he must resign
himself to the Lord's guidance, who would duly
arrange every thing. This event produced in
Stilling's mind the fil'llt foreboding of an ap-
proaching change, and of the development of
the Lord's iutentions respecting him; and gave
him, from that period, the proper dirertion, by
fixing his eye on the hitherto scarcely percep-
tible aim, so that be might not lose any time m
preparing himself for it.
About the same time, or somewhat later, he
received a letter also from the Rev. Mr. Konig
ofBurgdorf, in Emmenthal in the canton of Bern,
requesting him to go thither~ adding that the ex-
penses of the journey were provided for. This
Mr. Konig was blind of the cataract, and bad
already corresponded with Stilling on that ac-
connt; the latter had also promised him to come,
as soon as he should be informed that the travel·
ling expenses would be repaid. Stilling and
Eliza, therefore, now 6egan to prepare for their
second journey to Switzerland.
During all these occurrences, father Wilhelm's
state of health, which bad been hitherto so nry
firm and dural>le, took quite a dilferent direction.
With respect to bis mental powers, be had be-
come so completely a child that he had po longer
any undeutanding or judgment; but his body
:now-began to neglect the fu11etions necessary to
life; at the same time, bis continual lying posi-
tion produced painful sores, so that his condi-
tion was extremely pitiable. The surgeon was
obliged te come datty, with a couple of assist-
ants, to bind bis wounded back and other parts;
during which operation the poor man moaned
so dreadfull1 that the whole neighbourhood
prayed fur his dissolution.
Stilling could not endure the misery; he gen-
erally w~nt out when the time for, binrling up
arrived; but even in the interval Wilhelm ofie11
moaned piteously. The day of his deliverance
at length arrived; on the 6th of September, at
half-past ten in the morning, he passed over into
the blissful habitations of his forefather.<. Still-
ing had him interred with the solemnities cus-
tom~r.r to per!;ons in affluent circumstances.
Wilhelm Stilling is now therefore no loniter
here bfolow; his serene walk, unobserved by the
great of this world, was nevertheless seed Jor a
fruitful futurity. He is not always a great man
wbe> is celebrated far and wide; nor is he al-
way~ great who does much; but that individual
is so, in a oeculiar sense, who llOWs here, to reap
a thoui1and-fold in the world to come. Wilhelm
Stilling was one who sowed in tears; be went
fonh weeping and bearin~ precious seed ; now
be is doubtless reaping wub joy. His children,
Heinrich and Eliza, rejoice in the prospect of
his welcomej they rejoice in the thought that he
will be sati~ned with them.
A week after father Wilhelm Stilling's deall.
Stillingand Eliza commenced theirsecond Swiss
journey. They leftMarburgonMonday the J31h
ofSeptember, 1800. At Frankfon, Stilling fimod
ophthalmicpatients, whodetained bima few days.
On Thursday the 16th, they arrived early in the
afternoon at Heidelberg, where the welcome
from Madame .Mieg was deeply affecting to
both. Mieg was engajred b{ business in the
country, and did not amve til towards evening;
he had dined in company with a person ofemi-
nence, who had expressed the idea that 10111e g-teat
man ought kl keep St:iUi:11g in pay, llJkly tMt lie
migkt carry on lti.s ~ pradia as an octdist,
toUJiovt impt4Unen.t. This again excited Still·
ing's attention, together with all that had pre-
ceded it. The dream of the mechanic; Father
Wilhelm's death; and this speech, which in it-
self wa11 of no importance, but made an impres-
sion just at this time; and finally, another Swiss
journey-all this together produced in Stilliog's
mind a feeling of exalted expectation.
The following day, Friday the 17th of Sep-
tember, the two travellers pursued their way to
Carluuhe.
I must here go back a little in my narrative,
in order to bring every thing into a proper point
~rie~ ·
Jacob, as I have already observed, had be-
come a father the previous spring. Notwitli-
standing his ahility and integrity,.and ootwitb-
i;tauding all the favorable testimonials of the
Marburg magistracy, not the smallest thing
could be accomplished for him at Cassel.
With his mode of think{n~, it was impossible
to live by the practice of jurisprudence; his
fatller was therefore oblifed to assist hilJl con-
•iderably, and besides thts, he now saw an in- :
creasing family before him. All this togethet '
pressed much upon the worthy young man; ke
therefore urgently entreated his father to reco111r
mend him to the Elector, on his journey through
Carlsruhe; for as be was born iii the palatinate,
he could lay claim to being' provided for there.
It is contrary to Stilling's whole character to
RSk any thin~ of the kind ofa prince with whom
be is in particular favor, or recommend any one
to an office. Hence, however necessary it was
that his son should be provided for, it seemed to
him equally difficult, and almost impossible, to
make application on his behalf to the Elector.
I must also mention, that the Countess of
Waldeck, in order to gratify Jacob on his wed-
ding-day, bad reqnested the reigning Count of
'Vemigerode to give him the title of" Coun&l'l-
lor of Justice;" he did so, and the Elector of
Hesse also permitted him to make use of this
title. I now return to the continuation of tbe
narrative.
Stillinjl' and Eliza arrived at Carlsruhe in the
evening of Friday the 17th of September. On
Saturday morning, 1he 18th, Stilling looked into
the well-known Moravian w11tch-word book,
which contains two pas•ages from the Bible and
two verses of a hymn for every day in the year.
The first paS11age is called the watch-wnrd, and
the ~econd, the doctrinal text. Stilling always
takes this book with him, when travelling, in
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 161
•order to have daily a religious subject on which Iit,.or be neglected." The prince rejoined, "You
he m9 employ both bis head and his heart. He can, therefore, wait half-a-year, or a year 1"
found with astonishment, that the words for that Stilling replied, "I will wait as long as God
day were, "And now, 0 Lord God, establish the pleases, and until your Highness has found the
word that thou bast spoken concerning thy ser- way which Providence marks out."
vant and COAceming bis house, for ever, and do I pass over the remainder of this remarkable
as thou hast said:" 2 Samuel, vii., 26; and the day in Stilling's history, only obserYing that he
ven;e of tbe hymn was, also paid his respects to the MargraviDe, who was
"Bia failhfulnea o let wi praiae, still inconsollble for the death of her late consort.
.I.Del co Him ccmaecnte our daya: He that is acquainted with the Elector of Ba-
~·C~'::o~.ii:!'hia wi·tL den knows that this ruler never retracts his
princely word, but always performs more than
Hallelujah." he proOliaes. Every f~ling christian heart can
He then so\lfbt out also the doctrioal te:rt for sympathise with Stilling, as he then felt. Ble&led
lhe day, and found the beautiful words, "Be be tlie Lord I bis ways are holy I happy he who
lhou faithful .unto death, and I will give thee resigns himself to Him without reserve; b9 that
the crown of life." places his confidence in !Jim, shall never be
This remarkable circum&tancc completed the confounded I
pleasing foreboding, and the confidence be bad, On Sunday morning, Stilling performed the
Chat it would come to some killd of elucidation operation on a poor old peasant, wliom the Elec-
reepectillg him during the day. Soon after, a tor himself had sent for; he then continued his
conn-page entered the room, presenting the journey to Switzerland with bis Eliza. The
Elei:tor's compliment.~, and requesting him to nearer they approached the frontiers, the more
come to him aL nine o'clock, and to stay to din· fearful grew tile reports, that the whole of Switz.
11er with him. · erland was under arms and in a state of iDsur-
Io consequence of this command, and thus rection. This was certainly not pleasant; but
prepared, Stilling went at nine o'clock to the Stilling knew that be was travelling in his be-
palace, where he .was instantly admitted and nevolent vocation, and therefore, with Eliza, put
very graciously received. After exchanging a firm confidence in the Divi11e protectiwi; nor
few word$, Stilling felt himself at liberty to was thiR confidence unavailing.
recommend his son; he began by premising, At Frieburg, in the Breisgau, they learned
that nothing was more difficult for him than to the severe trial which the city of Zurich was
make application of the kind to princes who CQlllpelled to endure on the 13th of September
showed him favor; however, his circumstances but likewise that it had powerfully experienc;;J
and situation pressed him so much, that he was the Lord's protection. In the evening ofTues-
now constrained to make an e:rception to bis day the 21$1 of.September, they arrived safe and
role. Be then gave a true account of his eon, well at Basie, at the house of the wonby Mr.
and ofi'ered to procure the most valid written Scborndorf; but as there were still disturbances
proofs, namely, the testimonials of the Marbnrg in the neighbourhood of Buf!tdorf, Stilling wrote
magistracy; and finally-besought the Elector to to the Rev. Mr. Konig, stating that he was at
let him i;erVoe in the lowest station, and then Saale, and expected intelligence from him when
promote him as he might de11erve. If he only he could come with safety. Until this intelli-
earned so much as to enable him to live, with gence arrived, they continued quietly and con-
doe economy, he would loolr upon it as a great tentedly at Basie; where be attended some oph-
favor. Be then concluded with the words, thahnic patieots, and operated upon two blind
·"Your Highness will not take this first and last people.
recommendation ungraciou~ly of me." The On the following day Wedaesday the !22d of
Elector expressed himself very favorably; and September, Stilling had a gr.eat pleasure alford-
said he would see if be could not provide for him ed him. There lives in Basie a very able
ill the organization of the palatinate. "Speak painter, of the name of Marquard Woeher, a
also," added the excellent prince, " with the man of the noblest heart and cbristian 8enti-
ministers and privy counsellors, in order that menL<i; on Stilling's first Swiss journey, he had
they ma:r know of the matter when it is brought conducted him to a Mr. Reber, a Ie!<pectable
forward." It follows of course that Stilling gentleman there, who possessed a •ery elegant
Jlll>mised to do so, and also kept his promise. collection ofpictures; amongst which an "Ecce
This introduction gave occasion to speak of Homo" drew Stilling's particular attention. Af-
Stilling's own situation. The urbanity of the ter contemplating for some time this representa-
Elector impartt'd such a cenfidence to Stilling tion of the sulfering Saviour, tears came into
•hat he expressed himself exactly as he inwardly his eyes; W ocher observed it, and asked him
felt; on which this great and noble-minded prince if the picture pleased him. S1illing answered,
rejoined, "I hope Gll<l fl1ill gi.w t.u tM "1"f'D'W•ity " Extremely! Ah, if I had only a faithful copy
4.f bri~ you md oftAis pai11ful litvalitm, and of itI but I cannot afford it." " You shall have
.Of placing yot£ !D UuU yrN.may ht mablea to atl.en.d it," rejoined Wocher; "I will make you a pres-
~to yqur religiO'lts autJorship, and l.o !JO'llll' octv ent of it."
Wtic practi«; !!"" mmt ht m etttirtly at liJJerlt/ On the day above-mentioned, Wocber brought
from aU oti- eartllly occupationJ anul cunnedions.1' this beautiful painting as a welcome; every con-
It is impossible to describe how Stillint felt noisseur admires it.
at that moment, in which the great development This is also the place where I must mention
of his destiny beamed so gloriously upon him one of the extraordinary favors of God. Who
Crom afar. "Are you in haste with respect to can recount them all 1 but one and another,
the accomplishment of this affair 1" continued which stllnd in eonnection with this history,
.the Elector. Stilling replied, "No, most gra- mn~t not be omittE'd.
eious Sire! and I mo'lt humbly beg you by all Mv readers will remember Mr. Isaac of
mean~ to wait unil Providence opens a door Walilstadt, and how kindly he received Stilling
-wmewhere, in order that no one may suffer by in the greatest depth of his misery, and clothed
x
Digitized by GoogIe
162 HEINRICH STILLING.
him from bead to foot. Stilling, it is true,
whilst be was with Mr. Spanier, bad repaid
him for the money he bad laid out; but it
grieved him often that he could not in any way
recompense to the worthy family of this noble-
minded individual bis kindness to him. This
recompense was now to be made in a very
striking manneri a manner worthy of God.
Mr. Isaac's e dest son had also leamed the
trade of a tailoriand in the course of his travels
had been at Bas e, where he resided some years;
and being also a sincere lover of religion1 ~e
·had become acquainted with the true worsnip-
pers of Christ in that place. He had afterwards
eettled at Waldstadt-Rade Vorm Wald, in the
duchy of Berg, his native place1taken his broth-
ers and sisters to him, and kept .nouse with them;
but as he could not bear the sitting-posture, he
began a little shop; a worthy merchant gave
him credit, and thus be maintained himself and
the family honestly and uprightly. This sum-
mer, on the 23d of August, a fire broke out· in
a few hours the whole town was laid in ashes,
and the good children of the pious Isaac not
only lost that which belonged to them, but also
the whole of the stock bought.on credit. Friend
Beeker, for such is the real tamily-name, did
not communicate this misfoi:tune to Stilling, for
he '\1US too delicate in his sentiments to do so·
but another friend wrote to him, and reminded
him of his obligations to this family. Stilling
felt himself in a dilemma; what he could give
the family even at the utmost, was only a trifie
for them, and yet, situated as he was, it would
be oppressively felt by himself; he therefore
sent what he could, and as, just before his jour-
ney, he wrote No. 12 of the "Grey Man," he
annexed to it an account of this calamity1 and
besought comllassionate aid. While remaming
in Basie, Stilling, at the request ofthe members
of the German Society, gave a religious address,
at ~hich several hundred persons were present·
at the close of the discourse, Stilling reminded
them of his former friend, and related bis mis-
fortune to them· and his address operated so
effectually that the same evening nearly a hun-
dred guilders were collected and brought to
Stilling. This wa'l the handsome commence-
ment ofa considerable assistance; for the me-
morial in No. 12 of the "Grey Man," produced
about a ·thousand guilders for Becker's children,
and about five hundred for the town of Rade
Vorm Wald, all which money was transmitted
to Stilling.
I relate this, merely to prove that the Lord
provides so completely for those who sulfer
themselves to be guided entirely and uncondi-
tionally by Him, that they are enabled to repay
all debts whatever, and even testimonies of
Christian affection.
In a few days the news arrived from Burg-
dorf that every thing was quiet there; in conse-
qnence of which, Stilling and Eliza set out on
the 29th of September. He performed the op-
eration on an individual at L1estall; at Leufel-
fingen, they dined with their friend Madame
Fl~hebacher; at Olten they found friends from
Aarao, with whom they drank tea; and at Aar-
burg thev were fetched by the worthy baililf
Senn, of Zolingen, with whom they were to pass
the night. As they drove down the magnificent
vale of Aar in the evening, and whilst the de-
clining sun irradiated the whole landscape, Still-
ing saw, all at once, in the south-west, above the
horizon, a purple-coloured meteor, which pre-
sented a brilliantappearance; he soondiscovmd
that it was a snowy mountain, ~robably the
Jungfrau, or the Jongferhorn. He that has
never seen any thin~ of the kind can have no
conception of it; it 1s just as if the individual
beheld a celestial landeoape in the regions of
light; but the view is all that Is pleasing, for to
climb up thith«:_r1 and to dwell in the eternal iee
and snow, wouw. not be very agreeable. Friend
Senn, who drove before in his cabriolet, turned
about and exclaimed," What divine majesty I I
have seen the snow-hills illuminated many hun-
dred times, and yet the sight always alfects me."
After being very kindly entertained at Mr.
Senn's house at Zofingen, they rode the next
morning to Burgdorf, where they arrived at Silt
o'clock in the evening, and took up their quar-
ters at the parsonage. The town of Burgdorf
lies on a hill, which resembles a saddle; on tht
summit towards the west, stands the church,
with the parsonage; and on the eastern summit
lies the castle; on the saddle between these tWI>
summits, lies the town itself, which hangs down
on both sides like a parti-coloored saddle-elotli;
on the northern side, the Emme, a roaring wood·
land torrent, rushes past. There is a beantifal
prospect from both summits; towards the north-
west are the Jura, there called the Blue Monnt..
ain8, and in the south the magnificent Alpine
range appears again, from the Mutterhom and
Schreckhom, to. a considerable distance beyond
the Jungfrau.
Stilling operated upon several blind persons
here; the wonby Mr. Konig regained the per•
feet sight of,one eye; besides these, he also at·
tended upon many ophthalmic patients. I mUJI
mention one operation, in particular, during
which somethirig occurred which throws ligllt
upon the character of the Swiss peasantty.
Two strong and handsome meR, dressed as
peasants, bot iD a very decent and cleaaly man-
ner-for cleanliness IS il prominent feature ill
the character ofthe Swiss--eame to the parsoa-
age, with an aged and venerable grey-lteaded
man, and inquired for the strange doctor: Still-
ing came, and one of them said to him, "We
have brought our father to you; he is blind;
can you help him 1" Stilling looked at his eyes,
and replied," Yes, dear friends I With God's
help, your father shall return hqme seeing."
The men were silent, but the big tears rolled like
pearls down their cheeks; the lips of the old
man trembled, and his sightless eyes were wet.
During the operation, one of the sons placed
himself on one side of his father, and the other
on the other side; in this position, they looked
on. When all was over, and the father saw
again, the tears tlowed afresh, but no one said a
word, till the eldest said, "Doctor, what do we
owe you 1" Stilling answered, " I am not an
oculist for money; but as I am on a journey,
and am at much expense, I will take something,
if you can give me any thing; but it must not
be burdensome to you in the least." The eld·
est son replied, pathetically, "Nothing is bur·
densome to us that regards our father;" and the
younger added, " Our left hand does 11ot take
back what our right hand has given;" which is
as much as to say, "What we give, we give
willingly." Stilling pressed their hands, with
tears, and said, " Excellent I you are worthy peo-
ple; God will bless you."
Stilling and EliZR made many friends in Burg-
dorf. They were loaded with kindnesses and
testimonies of alfeetion; and the excellent Ma·
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'$ YEARS OF TUIT ON. 163
dame Konig maae 'them ashamed· by her su-
perabundant faithful attention and hospitality.
Here also they became acquainted with the cel-
ebrated Pestalozzi and his institution for educa-
tion, which now excites so much attention every
where. Pestalozzi's prominent feature is love
to man, and particularly to children; hence he
has long devoted himself to the subject of edu-
cation; he is consequently an estimable and no-
ble-minded man. That which is taught is not,
strictly speaking, the object that excites so much
attention, but it is his pla'll of tnition, the in-
struction of children, which is astonishing, and
no one would believe it till he had seen and
heard it; but it is peculiarly only the intuitive
perceptions that are developed by it, which have
reference to time and space; in this bis pupils
altaiu, in a short time, to a high degree of per-
fection. But how it will result with respect to
the development of abstract ideas, and of the
moral and religious powers, and, generally, what
intluence the Pestalozzian method will have
upon practical life in future, time must reveal.
It is however necessary to be careful, and first
of all to see what will become of the boys that
are educated in this manner. It is really a baz-
ar<lous thing, to drive on at such a rapid rate in
matters ofeducation, before one is sure ofa good
result. ·
On Monday, the 4th of October, in the after-
noon, Stilling and Eliza travelled four leagues
further to Bern, where they lodged with Stewar<I
Niehaus, a pious and faithful friend of God and
man. Their four days• residence in tbi11 extreme-
ly beautiful town was completely taken up by
business: cataract operations, ministering to
many ophthalmic patients, and paying and re-
ceivmg visits, rapidly succeeded each other.
The two travellers here also added greatly to
their stock of friends; and Stilling became inti-
mate more .particularly with the three pious
preachers Wyttenbach, Miiesslin, and Lorsa.
Nor must the estimable brothers Studer be for-
gotten; one ~f whom presented him with a beau-
tifully coloured copperplate, representing the
prospect from Bern to the snowy mountains,
a.rawn and engraved by himself.
On the 10th of October, Stilling and Eliza set
oft" again from Bern. On the way, they saw at
Bindelbank the celebrated monument of the Rev.
Mr. Langhan's lady, a performance of the great
Hessian artist Nahl.
At Bufidorf Stilling operated upon some
blind people, and then both set out again by way
of Zo6ngen to Zurich, Winterthur, and St. Gall1
where they lod~d with the pious and leamea
Antistes Stahehn, and again formed a friendly
alliance with many estimable individuals. He
there couched only one person, but attended
several who were diseased in the eye.
On Wednesday, the 27th of October, they
travelled through the paradisiacal Thurgau,
along the Bodensee, to Schatfhausen. On the
road thither, a man was freed from the cataract
at Arbon. At Schatfhausen, they again resided
wirh the dear family of the Kirchhofers. There
was here also much to do, but at the same time
mental uneasiness and sorrow; for on Sundav,
the 31st of October, in the afternoon, the French
again entered the place.
On Monday, the ht of November, they left
belovecl Switzerland; but as a blind merchant
of Ebingen had sent an express 10 Schalfhausen,
thev were obli!lPcl to make a considerable cir-
cuit by way of Mosskirch and the Swabian AIp;
from Ebingen they were sent for to Balingen,
where there was also much to do; and from
thence they rode to Stuugar<I, where they en-
joyed a blissful abode in the house of Mr. Von
Beckendorf, and where Stilling was also ena-
bled to be of servi& to many afilicted people.
Here he found, to his great joy, the Moravian
Unity-elder Goldmann, with whom he entered
into a warm and fraternal connexion.
From Stuttgar<I the;v were again obliged to
make a large and tedious circuit through the
Black Forest to Calw, where Stilling found the
pious and Rev. Mr. Havlin of New Bulacb,
with his excellent spouse and daughter, who
were all three already known to him by Jetter.
Here also a circle of worthy people collected
about the travellers, in the. house of the pious
book-keeper Schille. From thence they.traveJ...
led, on Tuesday, the 9th of November, to Carls-
ruhe. It was at the desire of the Margravine
that Stilling made this circuit, because there
were several blind persons there, who required
his aid. The Elector repeated his promise; and
on Friday, the 12th of November, they com·
menced their journey home, by wayof Manheim
and Frankfort: in the latter place, and at Vilbel,
three blind persons were couched; and on Tues-
day, the 16th of November, they again arrived
well and happy in Marburg.
The first Swiss journey solved the first prob-
lem in Stilling's life-the payment of bis debts;
and the second solved the second-Stilling's
future sphere of action.
What the exalted Governor of the world be-
gins He accomplishes, in small things as well
as in great-in the cottage of the peasant as in
the court of the monarch. He forgets the ant
as little as the ifeatest potentate. Nothing
proves unsuccessful with Him, and nothing
stops short with Him. Providence proceeds
uninterrupted on its exalted path.
Brother Coing married, in the spring of IBO'J,
an excellent lady, who is worthy of him. Still-
ing, Eliza, sister Maria, and Jacob, set out in
order to be present at the marriage, which was
to be celebrated at Hamberg in Lower Hessia,
in the house of the worthy widow ofthe Metro-
politan Wiskemann, the mother of the bride.
Now there lives in Cassel a noble-minded, pi-
ously-disposed, and afiluent individual1 Coun-
sellor Enyeim, who was a widower, ana whose
two amiable children were married; he therefore
lived alone, with a footman and a cook i and
was again in want of a pious and faithful
spouse, who might accompany him in his pil-
grimage through life.
A brother of this worthy man is preacher at
Hornberg, and likewise a very amiable charac-
ter; and having seen and observed sister Maria,
considered that she would make his brother in
Cassel happy. After the observance of the due
J>recautipnary measures and rules of decorum,
the match was concluded; and Maria, the noble,
gentle, good, and pious soul, has obtained a hus-
band such as snits her exactly; she is as happy
as a person can be here below.
Thus the blessing of the elder Coinga rests
upon these four children; they are all happily
and blissfullv married; for brother Coing lias
obtained a consort such as the Lor<! gives to the
man whom he loves; Amalia also lives happily
with Stillina's, virtuous son. Eliza treads the
most painfufand hardest path, at Stilling's side;
however, besides father Coing's ble11Siug, her
father Wilhelm will also supplicate pecu.iar
grace for her from the Lord.
Digitized by GoogIe
16' HEINRICH STILLING.
The year 1802 was terminated by an agree- 1 In fact, Stilling conld aow remain no longer
able visit; Stillin~s next relative1 and the inti- in Hessia; and how fortunate it was that, shordy
mate friend of his youth from tne cradle, the before, a pleasing prospect had been unfolded to
chief surveyor of the mines at Dillenburg, paid him at Carlsruhe. He openly declared, as well
him a visit of some days. lie is Johann Still- as in his proiest, which at his request was an-
ing's ~econd son, and a min of integrity and nexed to the memorial of the University to the
ability. Both renewed their fraternal bond, and Elector, that if his Highness would relieve the
parted with regret. University from the censorial edict, he alone
In the beginning of the year 1803, a circum- would submit himself to iL But this proved
stance occurred that had an 'Important inlluence of no avail; the law, once given, continued in
n_pon Stilling's fate. An edict from Cassel ar- force.
nved at the Marburg University, to the etreet The Elector had otherwise always shown
"'4t no a'Uilurr s/wu.ld se1Ut Ms wmpositimis to tJt.e Stilling much favor for which he will thank
press, until they /&ad been examined bytJ.e pro-reclqr him in eternity; and bis respectful attachment
and dean of tM faculJ,y to wlu« tkpar~ tJ.e to this prince, who may be called great in ao
treatise /Jelmr.ped. many respects, will nevM be extinguished.
This limitation of the liberty of the press, During these Easter bolidays, another im.-
which had no reference to the whole country, or portant and remarkable journey was undertaken.
to all the schools of learning, or the learned in At Hermhut, in Upper Lusatia, and the neigh-
Bessia generally, but solely to Marburg, uncom- borhood, there were many blind people, and
monly grieved all the professors there, who were such as were diseased in the eye, who desired
not in the least conscious of any thing wrong; Stilling's aid. His dear and faithful correspond-
for, in fact, none but professors, who are ac- ent, Erxleben, therefore wrote to him to come,
quainted with the difficult collegiate relations, and that the expenses of the journey were al-
can have an idea how greatly an honest man is ready provided for. Stilling and Eliza conse-
exposed to all possible raillery when two of his qnently prepared themselves for another long
colleagues possess the right to examine bis works. Journey; for Herrnhut is Ji.11.y-ni.ne German miles
Stilling rellected awliile, and probably every distant from Marburg.
Marburg P.rofessor did the same, upon what On Friday, the 25th of March, they set out
could po~s1bly have occasioned this severe ordi- from Marburg. On account of the badness of
nance. There was now nothing published by a the roads in Thuringia, they resolved to go by
Marburg author, except the usual academical way of Eisenach. Stilling here saw, for the first
. :wl'itings, programmes, dissertations, &c., bot time, a gentleman who had been many years bis
the "Grey Man," by Stilling, and the Tbeologi- friend, the treasury-director, Von Gochhausen;
'cal Annals by Wacheler; one of these two, this worthy man was then.ill, but be soon be.
therefore, must probably have become suspect- gan to amend. They did not stop on the way,
ed. Stilling reflected over the last number of but travelled through Gotba, Erfurth, We.imar,
the "Grey Man," and found nothing that was Naumburg, Weissenfels, Leipzig, and Wurzen,
in the least objectionable; be could not, there- where they spent a few hours very agreeably
fore, possibly imagine that such an orthodox with their Christian friend, Justiciary Ritcher,
work, which has for its object piety, the general with whom, and bis daughter Augusta, Stilling
tranquillity and safety, and the maintaining carries on an edifying correspondence, and then
of obedience and the atfection of the subjects proceeded to Meissen and Dresden. They passed
towards their ruler.'!, had given rise to a law so the night there at.the Golden An1'9l, and found
grievous to the University. In order, however, their friend Von Cuningham likewise ill. Still-
to obtain a certainty in the matter, he wrote a ing paid a visit the same evening to the vener-
'very polite and cordial Jetter to a certain gentle- able minister, Von Burgsdorf, and was received
man in Cassel, whom he had never injured in like a Christian friend.
lhe slightest degree, and modestly inquired the On Friday, the first of April, they travelled
cause of the severe edict concerning the censor- into Lusatia, and arrived in the afternoon at
.
ship. But bow was he alarmed on receiving, Kleinwelke, a beautiful Moravian settlement
in a rather satirical and ungracious reply, the They found their friend the Rev. .Mr. Nietschke
news that the" Grey Man" had caused the cen- ia profound grief; he had Jost his excellent con-
. sor-edict. By degrees this became generally sort a fortnight before, fur this life. !::)tilling
,,. 'known ; and any one may easily imagine bow we{ll with him; for this is the best consolation
.Stilling must have felt when he rtllected that wh1cbcan be afforded to one who, like Nietschke,
b,e had given occasion for the imposition of so can have recourse to every source of consola-
lieavy a burden upon the University. He had tion. Nature demands her rights; the outward '
now at once finished with Marburg and Hesse; man mourns, whilst lhe inward. is resigned to
and the time seemed tedious to him, till the Lord God.
should completely decide his fate. I scarcely They were present, in the evening, at the sing-
need mention that the Landgrave of Hesse was ing, or the commencement of the celebration of
entirely innocent of this edict; for how can the passion-week. They formed several agree-
a ruler read and examine every work 1-he must able acquaintances in this place, and Stilling
commit these and many other things to be de- looked at a few blind people, on whom he ill-
cided by men of experience in such matters. I tended to operate on bis return.
appeal to all the readers of the "Grey Man," On Saturday, the second of April, they traT-
ana if a single passage can be shown which is elled in the morning from Kleinwelke, through
oppo5ed to the imperial Jaw of censorship, I will Budissin and Lobau, to Herrnhut. · This place
confess I have been in error. lies on an elevated level, between two hills, the
Ought not a hint to have been given Stilling one to the north, the other towards the south; the
to cease publishing the" Grey Man 1" But, in· former is called the Gutberg, and the latter the
1>tead of this, to make him a ~tumhling-hloclr to Heinrichsberg, on each of which stands a pavil-
all his colleagues and the whole University, was ion, from whence the prospect is extremely beau-
Tety hard for a man who had served his prince tiful. At about five leagues' distance, towanl•
and the state with all fi:delity for sixteen years.
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 165
ilae east; the majestic Bilesian Giant Bills are
1ee11, and towardii the south is a distant prospect
ti Bohemia.
It ia impossible to describe how cordially and
lningly Stilling and Eliza were received at this
stremely beautiful and agreeable place, and
how much enjoyment they experienced there.
I am equally unable to recount the history of
&heir ten days' residence, for it would .increase
the size of this volume too much; besides which,
Stilling was aerioosly requested by the Elders
wil to say ur "'"'4. mua to tJte praUe of tJte Mora·
eiri1t Cbtrm, mrce it prospered /Jett.er under onwes·
liM, ~.and o&illUm, than whm it was com·
fff41tUtL
Erxleben and Goldmann were particularly
glad of their arrival, the first as correspondent,
and the second from ~rsonal acquaintance at
Stottgard. No one will take it amiss that I do
not on this occasion mention the names of any
other friends. How could I name .them all 1
And ifl did not do I.hat, itmight pain him who
was omitted.
Were I even only to mention the many per-
sons of rank and nobility with whom Stilling and
Eliza entered into a fraternal alliance here, it
would again grieve a number of excellent souls
of the middle class, and that justly; for in the
connection existing.at Hermhut all ai'e nearly
allied in the Lord Jesus Christ; rank is no longer
of any value, but the new crealUre, which is
born of water and the Spirit. He, however, who
wishes to know more of Herrnhut and its reli-
gious and political constitution, has only to read
tile Rev. Mr. Frohberger's letters on Herrnhot,
where he will find every thing minutely de-
scribed.
The celebration of the passion-week is heart.
cheering and heavenly in all the Moravian set·
tlements, but especially at Herrnhut. Stilling
an!l Eliza diligently and devoutly attended all
the services that are devoted to it. The vener-
able bishops and elders allowed them also to
communica&e with the church on the evening of
Holy Thursday. This communion is what it
properly ought to be-a solemn uniting with
Christ the Head, and with all his members of
every religions denomination. What a piously-
disposed heart experiences on this occasion,
cannot be described-it must be experienced.
Stilling felt at that lime as if he were conse-
crated to his new and future occupation; and
for such a consecration, certainly no place was
better fitted than that in which Jesus Christ and
his religion are confessed and taught, perhaps
the most clearly and purely in the whole world ;
than that place where, in proportion to the pop..
ulation generally, certainly tlie greatest number
of true Obristians dwell.
I must however notice, in particular, two in-
dividoals at Herrnhut, the lord of the manor,
Baron Watteville, and his consort, born Count·
ess of Zinzendorf. This worthy lady much
resembles her late father, and overtlows in
a similar manner with love to God and man;
her husband is also a worthy and religious man,
and both of them showed Stilling and Eliza
much friendship.
Stilling operated upon several persons at
Hermhut, and administered help and advice to
some hundreds, for the concourse of people re-
quiring assistance was extremell great.
On Easter Tuesday, the 12th of April, they set
out from Herrnbut to Kleinwelke, amidst the
blessings of many worthy people. Here a few
more were couched; and the next day they l'Qde
to D.readen, where tlley continued till Saturday,
and then returned by way of Waldheim, Coldiz,
Grimma, and Wurzen, to Leipzig. The rea&ul\ ,
of this circuitous roole was, because there were
some blind people in the poorhouse atWaldheim;
whom the kind father of the poor, the minister
Von Burgsdorf, desired to see restored to sight;
they bad also a friendly invitation from bis chit:
dren, the Von Hopfgartens in Coldiz. Stillillff.
th~re. performed the last cataract-operation Oil
this 1ourney. I regret that I cannot, and dare
not, loudly and publicly thank all the dear and.
excellent people who manifested such unspeak-
able kindness to Stilling and Eliza, and with
whom they united themselves for time and eter-
nity. Every one, however, will see that lhis-
cannot be done, for many important reasons; we
will leave it for the next world.
In the afternoon of Thursday, the 21st, they
set otf from Leipzig and passed the night at
Weissenfels; the following day ,they travelled
to Weimar, and as they had a commission from.
the settlement of Herrnhut to Neu-Dietendorf.
they made a llttle circuit thither from Erfurth~
spent tbe Sunday there, and then travelled 011
Monday, by way of Gotha, to Eisenach. ID
Gotha1Stilling waited upon the duke, with who~
he baa a short and interesting conference.
At Eisenach they found their dear friend Von
Gochhausen better again; with him, his brother
and sister, and the worthy Doctor Miiller, they
spent a pleasant evening, and then travelle~.l on
Tuesday, the 26th of April, to Cassel. 11ere
they rested till Monday, the 2nd ofMay. Brother
Coing came also thither with his lady, and the
':>rothers and sisters spent the few days very
pleasantly together. BrotherCoing then returned
home with his Julia, and Stilling and Eliza, on
the day above.mentioned, to Marburg.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Landgrave
of Hesse Cassel accepted the Electoral dignity
this spring, for which purpose !p'eat solemnities
were prepared. In the meauume, early in the
morning of Friday, the 20th of May, i:;tilling re-
ceived a letter by a courier from Cassel, in which
he was requested to take post immediately and
go thither, for Prince Charles of Hesse was there
from Denmark; he had unexpectedly surprised
his brother, and wished now to speak with Still-
ing also. The latter immediately ordered post-
horses, Eliza also got ready, and at half-past five
they were both seated in their carriage; at nine
o'clock in the evening they arrived at their
brother and sister Enyeim's in Cassel. In the
course of the two following days Stilling spent
some extremely pleasant hours with the {>rince;
atfairs of the greatest impo,rtance concernmg the
kingdom ofGod were disco115ed. Prince Charles
is a true Christian; he cleaves with the highest
degree of affection and adoration to the Redeem-
er; be Jives and dies for him; at the same time
he possesses singular and extraordinary knowl-·
edge and acquirements, which are bf no means. j
for every one, and which can in no wise be men-
tioned here. After taking a Christian and affec-
tionate leave ofthis great and enlightened prince,.
Stilling and Eliza set off again from Cassel on
Monday, the 23d of May, and arrived in lh•
evening at Marburg.
Stilling'a lectures were very ill attended this
summer. Had it not beea for the new prospect
atrorded him the previous autumn at Carlsrube,
he would have been inconsolable. The Whit-
suntide vacatioyow approached. Stilling and
Digitized by GoogIe
166 HEINRICH STILLING.
Eliza had long purposed visiting their friends at
Wittgenstein, durmg these holidays ; and as
Stilling's birth-place is only five leagues distant
from that place, they intended to make a pilgrim-
~ together to Tiefenbach and Florenburg, and
nsit all the places which StiUi~3 cllildMod and
'°"""Jul years had rendered remarkable-at least
&o them. Stilling rejoiced much in the expect-
ation of once more visiting these places, arm-in-
arm with his dear Eliza, which he had not seen
for thirty-seven or thirty-eight years. A thrill-
ing sensation pervaded him when these ideas
presented themselves to his mind.
For the accomplishment of this purpose, they
both set otr for Wiugenstein, which is seven
leagues distant from Marburg, on Saturday, the
28th of May, the day before Whitsunday, ac-
companied by their son Frederick, now eight
years old, to whom they intended to show his fa.
ther's birth-place. The chancer.v-director, Hom-
bergk of Yach, is a native of Marburg and not
only a near relative of Eliza, bul he and his con-
sort are also Stilling and Eliza's intimate friends,
and are excellent characters. Their abode with
these good people was very beni:Jicial; and all
the friends in Wittgenstein did their best to re-
fresh and gratify the two visitors.
Tuesday in Whitsuntide was the day on which
the journey to Stilling's birth-place was lo have
been undertaken, ancf Hombergk with his lady
wished to accompany them. Stilling, however,
was seized with an inexplicable terror, which
increased as the day approached, and rendered
the accomplishment of his purpose impractica-
ble. In proportion as he had previously rejoiced
at the idea of visiting the scene of his youthful
days, so much did he now shudder at it; he felt
just as if great dangers awaited him there. God
alone knows the cause and reason of this very
singular phenomenon ; it was not such an anx-
itey as that which he felt on the Brunswick jour-
ney, but it was perhaps the warning of his
guardian angel, which struggled with his lon~­
ing to see his native place, and this struggle
caused suffering. The former was like Job's,
the latter like Jacob's con1lict. The journey
was therefore not undertaken; his dear friends
respected his terror, and gave way.
Whilst at Wittgenstein, the remarkable period
at length arrived in which Stilling, In the sixty-
third year of his agei learnt the decisfon of bis
fate. He received a etter from his son at Mar-
bul'!l', in which the latter communicated to him
the Joyful intelligence that the Elector of Baden
had appointed him Counsellor of Justice to the
Supreme Electoral Court at Manheim, with a
regular income in money and perquisites; this
was a vocation which exceeded the expectations
of both; there was also annexed a question to
Stilling in particular, whet/t,er for the preunt, and
vntil kis inanne could be i'llC1'eaud, ke wuuld wme
~ t'Wel1Je hundred guilkrs yearly?
Joy at the provision for the long-tried Jacob,
and the near and certain prospect of escaping
from a situation which had now become intoler-
abl~ filled Stilling and Eliza with delight and
protound serenity; they otfered thanks to God
with tears, and hastened home, because Jacob
had at the same time received orders to come as
soon as possible, and enter upon his office. They
therefore left Wittgenstein on Friday, the third
ofJune, and arrived in the afternoon atMarburg.
All hands were now put into activity to accel-
erate Jacob and Amalia's removal to Manheim.
But a violent conflict between '8ith and reason
•ow arose in Stilling's soul.
If Stilling's situation at this time is conaidend
on rational and economical grounds, it was cer-
tainly a matter for hesitation, to exchange a
place producing twelve hundred dollars in gold
for .one of twelve hundred guilders currency,
particularly as nothing remained over from the
large salary first-mentioned; there were even
reasons which might have removed Stilling's
difficulties, and decided him to remain at Mar-
burg, and retain his place; for he could proceed
quietly as before, travel during the vacations,
and in the interval fai<hfully discharge the duties
of his office: if be had few hearers, or none at
all, it was not bis fault; and with respect to the
impulse he felt to be active in the cause of reli-
gion, he might act as he had hi1herto done, and
if he could not force every thing to be as he
wished, God does not require of us more than.
we are able to perform; the stone is left lying
which cannot be lifted, &c.
But Stilling's conscience, which has been reo-
titied by many trials of faith and much experi-
ence in sutrering, and purified from all sophistry
by being exercised for many years in the school
of grace, judged very differently. According to
his inmost conviction, it was imperative upon
him to resign his office and return his salary
into the hands of his prince, when he found he
could no longer earn it to the satisfaciion of his
own conscience. This position admits of no
limitation, and he that tbinks otherwise thinks
incorrectly. Stilling could now do this boldly1
since a way was shown him by which he could
attain bis object as soon as he entered upon it.
He had learnt in the last few years, that the
Lord has means enough of helpmg him out of
his distresses without the Marburg stipend; for.
his debts were liquidated, not by this, but with
Swiss money, and it was wi1h the latter, and not
with the former, that the expenses of the removal
and the new arrangements would be covered. .It
is, further, the unconditional duty of the true
Christian, as soon a.q the choice is left him of
various vocations, to choo.'JC that which is the
most useful to mankind, and which operates the
most beneficially, without any reference to a
smaller income, or even none at all; for as soon
as thf! individual follows this maxim he enters
into the immediate service of the Father and
Ruler of all men, and it follows of course that
He rewards his servants, and gives them what
they need. Stilling therefore felt himself under
weighty obligations to accept the call; for that
he was of infinitely greater service by his ocu-
listic practice, and especially by his writinp,
than by his professorship, was beyond a doubt,
and those very occupations constituted his whole
vocation in the event of his accepting the Baden
appointment. It was therefore by all means his
duty to accept the calli particularly as in process
of time an increase 01 stipend was promised by
a prince who faithfully performs what he prom-
ises.
There came to his mind, in addition to all
these motives, the whole of StiUing's guidance,
from the very cradle. He must be very blind,
who cannot perceive that this had systematically
pointed out the way to the door which the Elector
of Baden now opened. If Stilling had purposed
waiting for some other opportunity, m whicil
more salary would be promised him, it would
have been, in his situation, and with the triats
of faith which he had experienced, a highly cul-
pable mistrust; and as Providence had undoubt-
edly prepared and provided the vocation, it
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION. 167
'WOUid have been also a heinous sin of disobe-
dience ifhe had not accepted it. And, then, this
appointment was 50 strange and 50 singular in
ite kind, that another such could not possibly be
expected; and, finally, !he true and enlightened
Christian easily perceives that Stilling's great
Leader had no or.her object in it than to retain
him and his Eliza continually in the exercise of
faith, and to place them in such a situation that
their eyes must ever be directed to his gracious
hand, and wait upon Him. All these convic-
tions decided both to accept the call in reliance
on Divine direction; but in order to do every
thing that could be done to keep himself free
from blame, Stilling wrote to the~lector of Ba-
den, mquesting an addition, if possible, in the
way of residence, &c., on which the vocation
came, and in it this addition was promised him
as SV'Jn as any thing of the kind should be va-
cant.
It was now, dear readers, that the great ques-
.ion respecting Stilling's real and final destiny
was decided, and the second great problem of
his wonderful guidance solved. It can no long-
er be said, that his faith and confidence in Jesus
Christ and in his government of the world, was
enthusiasm or superstition; on the contrary, the
Redeemer has glorious![ and obviously justified
himself and the faith o his servant; and as a
proof that Stilling's decision was well-pleasing
to Him, He gave him the following distinguish-
ed sign of his gracious approbation.
.More than fifty µerman miles from Marburg
there lives a lady, who was utterly ignorant of
Stilling's present situation and necessities, but
t
. o whom he was known by his writings. This
person felt herself inwardly impelled to send
Stilling twenty louis-d'ors. She followed this
impulse in simplicity and faith; packed up the
twenty louis-d'ors, and wrote him at the same
time, that w fell herself impelled to !e1ul !r.im ~
mDMy; /r.e tcould lcnotD well enuugk kow to apply
u, andfur tckat prurpose. By these hundred and
eighty 1?11ilders, what etill remained over from
the Swiss journey was increased, and thus the
removal from Marburg and the establishment of
a new household in a strange place was facili-
tated. I imagine, however, that something yet
awaits Stilling, which will develope the reason
-why this money was sent him.
What a maniftstguidance ofGod, when clear-
1;ightedly and impartially considered! If one
.of all the drawings of Providence hitherto de-
scribed had bePn wanting, it would not have
been possible to have accepted this appoint-
ment ;-if Stilling had obtained in Switzerland
<>nly the amount of his debts and his travelling
expense11, it would have bten a glorious and
visible favor from God; but then he must have
continued in Marburg, because the means would
have been wanting for his removal and estab-
lishment in a strange place ; for he retained no
surplus ofall his income at Marburg.
The Lord'" name be praised I He is still the
sameGod asHe has revealed himselfin theBible.
.Yes, He is justly termed, I am, and tD4$, and
Mall be, ever tM same. Jesus Ckrist, tM same ye5-
terday, to-day, and fur ever.
On tbe 25th ofJune, Jacob and Amalia took
their departure, amidst the tears of all their
friends and with the heartiest blessings of their
parents, for Manheim; and Stilling and Eliza
now prepared for their removal to Heidelberg,
which place the Elector had recommended to
diem for their future residence; for though they
~
are at liberty to reside in any part of the Baden
territories they please, because Stilliug has no
official situation, but devotes himself solely to
the great and primary impulse which has labor-
ed to attain its development in him from his
youth up-that is, to be active as a witness of
the truth for Jesus Christ and his kingdom, and
to serve his neighbour by his beneficial ophthal-
mic cures; notwithstanding all this, he was un-
der the greatest obligation to regard the advice
of the Elector as a command; which was also
easily obeyed, because StilHng knew no place
more convenient or agreeable, and because he
was already known there, having lived in that
city before.
He now applied to the Elector of Besse for
his dismission, and obtained it. At his depar-
ture, Stilling wrote once more to him, and thank-
ed him for all the favors and benefits he had
hitherto enjoyed, and entreated the continuance
ofhis kind favor; of which the Elector also as-
sured him in a gracious letter from his own
hand.
It cannot be describtd what a melancholy sen-
sation Stilling's departure caused through~t
the Hessian dominions, but especially at Mar-
burg; all its inhabitants mourned, and on his
leaving, on Satt~rday, the 10th of September,
in the morning, the whole neighborhood wept.
But not a word more of these affecting scenes.
Stilling and Eliza's hearts were deeply wounded,
particularly on passing the cburcli-yard where
so many dear friends and relatives repase.
It follows, of course, that their friend Julia
removed with them. They travelled the first
day to their children, the Schwarzes, at Mun-
ster; there they spent Sunday and Monday,
which latter was Stilling's birth-day, and was
celebrated on this occasion in an extremely.stri-
king manner. Schwarz and Julia had fol'Jlled
the plan of it, which was admirably executed.
I have omitted recounting any of the birth-day
solemnities since 1791 ; they contained too much
that is tlatteringand panegyrical, and to describe
all thi!I would be disgusting.
On Tuesday the 13th of September, they took
leave oftheir cbildren, the Schwarzes, and trav-
elled to Frankfort; there they spent Wednesday
and Thursday; on Friday they rode to Heppen-
beim, and on Saturday, the 17th of September,
they entei:ed Heidelberg. The watchward for
the day was strikin~; it stands in Exodus, v .,
17: " Thon shalt brmg them in, and plant them
in the mountain of thine inheritance, in the
place, 0 Lord, which thou hast made for thee
to dwell in; in the sanctuary, 0 Lord, which
thy hands have e~tablished." I suppose I need
uot observe that the mountain of the inherit-
ance of Jehovah, and his sanctuary, must not
be applied to Heidelberg; but l!tilling's idea
of tlie mountain of JPhovah's inheritance, his
dwelling, and his sanctuary, was, the spiritual
Zion and the my~tic temple of God, in which
he was now to be placed as a servant, and in
which he was to labor.
Friend Mieg had provided a handsomedwell-
ing; and his lady and a friend of hers, had made
other requisite preparations. There dwells Still-
ing, with his Eliza, Julia, and ceoline; and
with the three children, Frederick, Amalia, and
Christina; together with the dear, good, and
faithful Maria, and a maid-servant; and now
waits further upon the Lord and his gracious
guidance.
How gladly would I here have openly and
o;g;:;zed by Google
168 HEINRICH STILLING.
publicly thanIred certain families and l~tlmate and I am its friend; In this relation we 'Ifill eoa-
and cordial friends al Marburg, for their love tinue towards each other until our gk>rifieation;
and friendship I But tell ine, my beloved friends, and beyond it as long as our existence lasts.
how could I do so, without grieving some one You all know us, and we you; the Lord our
or other, whom I do not or cannot name 1 The God knows all of us. Be He your great rewanl f
whole dear, cordial city of Muburg is my friend, Amen I
RETROS PE CT O·F S'l'ILLIN G'S LIFE.
F1HT of all, I very heartily request all my
readers to peru88, and carefully eumine these
few remaining pages, with a calm and impartial
mind ; for they deYelope the real point of view
from whence Stilling's whole life, as displayed
throughout this work, must be estimated.
That I, Johann Heinrich Jung, Aulie Coun-
sellor, the author of this work, am myself Hein-
rich Stilling, and th'at it is therefore my own
history, every one knows; my incognito is there-
fore no longer of any use ; I lay it aside, and
sp~k no longer in Stilling's, bot in my own
peilon.
The first and principal question is, whether
my whole history, as I have related it in" Hein-
rich Stilling's Childhood, Youth, Wanderings,
Domestic Life, and Years of Tuition," be really
and actually true 1 To this I can with a good
conscience answer in the affirmative. In the
history of my "Childhood," the persons, char-
acters, and the narrative itself, are written and
described according to truth ; a variety of em-
bellishments, it is trne, are introduced, because
they 'were requisite for my object at the time ;
but these embellishments decrease in such a
manner that few appear in the " Youthful
Years," still fewer in the" Waaderillg!I;" and
none at aU in the·" DG1Destic Life;" only the
persons and plaoea, for relll!ons which I could
not avoid, were concealed underfabuioes names.
In the last part, bow.ever, "Stilling'a Years of
Tuition," with the exception of Raechmann,
and a certain student, I have called every plaoe
and person by their proper names, for this very
important reason-that Mery one may be ena-
bled to examine and ascertain whether I relate
the pure and unadorned truth. It is fully worth
the while for the reader to convince htmself of
thir; for if my history be true in its whole ex-
tent, results arise from it which perhaps few of
my readers would suppose, and of which the
maJority cannot have even a remote presenti-
ment. It is, therefore, an indispensable dnty
for me to develope and place before them these
results and consequences conscientiously, and
with rational lll!d logical correctness. I there-
f09 earnestly beg of all my readers to examine
most minutely and strictly all that follows.
The events of an individual's life, from bis
birth to his death, all of them in their turn, arise
either.
1. From blind chance ; or,
2. Frow. a divine and wisely-formed plan, in
the accomplishment of which men cooperate,
either as bein• really free, or else mechanical-
ly, like pbfsical nature, yet in such a manner
aa seems to them that they acted freely. This
latter dreadful idea, that men •eem only free to
ac'l, whilst in reality they act only mechanical-
ly, is what is called Fatalinn. This is not the
place to refute this awful absurdity ; but should
it be required, I can do it, thank God! incon-
trovertibly.
I take it therefore for granted, that God goY-
ernlr the world with infinite wisdom; yet in
such a manner that .mankind cooperate, as free
agents ; for this reason ; because fataliam has.
no inftuence on my presen' object.
It is evident from the meaning of the expres-
sion "blind chance," tbat this nonentity caenot
remotely prepare, from premeditated plaue, with.
vast wisdom, the means for their accomplish-
ment, and afterwards powerfully execute them;
consequently, when all this is supremely e'ri·
den:t, as in the history of my life, it would be
folly to think of ascribing it to ·blind chance ;
as, in the events of each indiTidual'a life, and
therefore in mine also, an immense number of'
other iodividuals cooperate ; and it is impossi-
ble that all these co0perating beings can be un-
der the direction of a blind chance. I therefore
establish the principle, that nothing ltappem, or
can happen, hy mere chance. .
That a person, generally speaking, is in part
master of his own fate, and has us11ally to as-
cribe bis happiness for the most part to himself,
none of my readers will doubt, unless be be a
fatalist; but with such a one I do not come into
collision here. BIU whether I .ha'De co0perated iu
to tht '114'11ntr of my guidani:e, and whether I l&a11e
in tht •lfUlllut degree, intentionally, contributed It>
any one of tht deci•i'De e11cnt• of my life, u t'M
q-tion on which euery thing htre depend• ; for, if
I cm prove that this is not the case; results
arise from it of a very comprehensive nature;
and which are of the utmost importance for our
contemporaries.
There are persons who, from their youth up.
experience within them a certain impulse ; this
they apprehend and keep in view till their death~
and they apply all their understanding and all
their powers to attain the object to which this
impulse excites them. For instance, one man.-
has an invincible inclination and a primary
impulse to mechanical labors. He wrestles,
strives, labors, and invents, until he produces
works of art which astonish the beholder. Now
this is the case in every vocation, and with all
the arts and sciences ; for snch aspiring indi-
viduals are found in each particular depart-
ment. They are ·called great men, people of
great minds, great geniuses, &c. Bot many,
notwithstanding all the power and strength of
their impulse, and all their pains and labor; do-
not prove successful, because it does not com
port with the mighty plan ofthe world's govern-
ment ; whilst others, who are also men of great
talents, and are the cause of horrible evils in the
world, succeed in attaining their object, because
their actions, with the consequences arising
from them, can be applied to good purposes. It
ia therefore- evident, and indeed very certain,.
•
Digitized by Google ·
RETROSPECT OF STILL I NG'S LIFE. 169:.
tlat auob men have themselves formed and ex-
ecuted the- plan of their lives, at least for the
most part, and that their impulse was natural
to them. Let the reader re11.eot upon tbjl lives
of many great and eminent good and wicked
men, and then be will no longer be able to doubt
of the truth of my a88ertion.
The great and principal question, therefore,
now really is, Am I such a man ! Do I belong
to the above-mentioned class of remarkable in-
dividuals, who have for the most part been the
authors of their own destinies!
Let us examine and reply to this question
most strictly and impartially ; and first of all,
whether I really poBBessed such a powerful im-
pulse. Most certainly ! I possessed it, and
have it still ; it is to labor extenaitiely and com·
prelunaioely fur Je11u Chrial, hil religion, and hu
kingdom ; but it must be well observed, that
this impulse did not at all lie in my natural
character ; for its chieffeature was, on the con-
trary, an utenaitie and highly frit10loua delight in
ph1aical and nuntal anuible plea.aure1 ; I beg that
f.ll1s fundamental part of.my character be on no
account lost sight of. I received the first-men-
tioned impulse entirely from without, and that
in the following manner.
The earlydecease ofmymother laid the found·
ation of it. My Heavenly Guide' began with
this, in tqe second year of my age. If she had
continued alive, my father would have become
a farmer, and I should early have been obliged
to accompany him to the field ; I should have
learned to read and write, and that would have
been all ;. my head and my heart would then
b.ave been filled with the commonest things, and
what would have become of my moral charac-
ter, God only knows. But my mother dying ear-
ly, my father's religious character was stretched
to the utmost, and took its direction from inter-
course with 1the Mystics. He withdrew with
me into solitude, for which his trade of tailor
was well adapted; and in accordance with his
principles, I was brought up entirely separate
from the world. My head and heart, therefore,
bad no other objects to bear, see, ~nd feel, but
religious ones ; I was constantly obliged to read
the histories and biographies of great, pious, and
holy men, and such as were eminent in the
kingdom of God, to which was also added the
repeated perusal and reperusal of the Holy
Scriptures. In a word, I saw and beard no-
thing but religion and christianity,and men who
thence became pious and holy, who Jived and
labored for the Lord and his kingdom, and had
.even offered up their hlood and lives for Him.
Now it is well-known that the first impressions
upon a mind still entirely void, particularly when
they are uomiogled, strong, aad of many years'
duration, become, as it were, indelibly engraved
upon the whole being of the individual; and this
was also the case with me. The impulse to act
extensively for Jesus Christ, his religion, and his
kingdom, was so deeply impressed upon my
whole b'eing, that no sufferings nor circumstan-
ces, during the course of so many years, were
able to weaken it; it became, on the contrary,
more and more powerful and invincible; and
though the view of it might occasionally be ob-
ecured by gloomy prospects for a shorter or
longer period, yet it presented itself to my sight
so much the more clearly afterwards. That I
y
·sought and cherished this impulse, wben a child.
no one will suppose; and it is ridiculous to
imagine that this waa my father's object. He
sought to make me, tirst of all, a pious and reli-
gious man, and next, an able schoolmaster •
and as this vocation, in my country, cannot.
support a man with a family, be wished me to-
leam his trade besides, ir order to be able to
pass through the world honestly. He gave me
hiatoriea of the kind above-mentioned to read..
because children must have something to en-
tertain them, and also that they might excite a.
desire in me to become a true Christian. But.
that the fundamental impulse above alluded t<>
arose from it, was the purpose, not of a blind
chance, not of my father, nor my own mind, but.
of the greai Ruler of the world, who intende4
eventually to make use of me.
I therefore take it as a settled point, that it.
was not by natural predisposition, but by God's
own wise guidance and government alone, that.
He imparted to my spirit the impulse to live and·
labor on a large scale for Jesus Christ and bis.
kingdom, and made it my peculiar vocation.
But as my natural impulse-the higlily frivo-
lous and copious enjoyment <ifphysical and men-
tal pleasurea---0perated in a man·ner entirely OP:·
posed to the other engrafted impulse, my Hea~
enly Guide began early to combat this danger-
ous foe. The instrument for this purpo8e was
also my father, but again, without his having a. •
remote presentiment of it ; for he was entirely
unacquainted with my natural impulse, or be
would most certainly have avoided rocks OB
which I should have inevitably suffered ship-
wreck if the paternal hand of God bad not ea-
sily Jed me past them. My father bad no idea
of all this; but merely from the mystic princi-
ple of mortifying the 11.esb, I was almost daily
whipped with the rod. I know for a certainty
that he bas frequently chastised me merely to-
crucify and mortify his atfection for me. Thia.
kind of correction would have had a highly in-
jurious effect on any one else ; but, Jet it be be-
lieved on my word, it was an indispensably re-
quisite mode of tuition for ine, for my thought-
less temperament went to incredible lengths in:
unguarded moments ; no one, but God and my-
self, knows what horrible thoughts, wishes and
desires, were awakened in my soul ; it seemed
as if some mighty hostile power bad excited in-
nocent people, who intended no evil, to cast me-
into the most baneful and dreadful temptations.
and dangers, with respect to my moral charac-
ter ; but it never succeeded ; it was not my re-
ligious impulse, nor my principles (for whence
does a child derive principles!} but illy father's.
severe corrections and God's gracious preser-
vation, which were the sole causes that I was
not thrown a hundred and a thousand times'.
into the pit of perdition.
This very innate corruption, which was so:
entirely opposed to my religious impulse, is the
reason why my Heavenly Guide was obliged to
exercise me, for sixty years together, in the
school of affiiction, before He could· make use
of me; and in the sequel it will be found that
all my sufferings had a tendency to mortify fri-
volity and worldly-mindedness, and to tear them
up by the roots.
It is therefore now necessary to examine,
whether I am really a great man, a man or·
Digitized by GoogIe
170 HEINRICH STILLING.
great rnmd, or a great genius ; that is, tchetler, ters, aud the akin remained sticking to the shaft
liy mean• of my OID1I p0tcer1 and ftuultiea, I ha-oe, of the hoe ; and when I nserl the scythe, or the
'f&rough my OIC1I effort•, pltued myaelf in auch a 11ail, my ribs and hips· cracked with the exer-
aituatwn that I can 110U1 yield ohedimce to the im- tion ; so that days and weeks seemed an eter-
tndaea granJed to me bg God, to labor ntenai-oely nity to me. At the same time my future proe-
cnd comprehen1if1ely for Cltrilt, hi1 religion, and peels were gloomy ; I saw no way of escape
hi1 kingdom ? from this situation, nor was I any longer em-
What my father intended to make of me, was ployed as schoolmaster ; consequently, nothing
a good schoolmaster, and besides that, a tailor ; remained for me, except to work up and down
and he so far attained his object that I became in the country as a journeyman tailor. Oppor-
a schoolmaster and a tailor; but I had no high- tanities for doing so occurred ; but with all this,
er wish than to become a preacher. This latter my clothes and linen grew so shabby that I was
effect was therefore produced by my religious looked upon as a good-for-nothing and Jost man.
impulse : I wished to study theology ; and this My religious impulses shone upon me from afar ;
would have afforded my father pleasure, but it when I re11ected on Spener, Franke, or pious
was utterly impossible ; for his whole property preachers in general, and then imagined to my-
was not sufficient to.support me at the Univer- self what bliss it would be for me to become
sity even for two years. I was therefore obli- such a one, and that it was impossible in my
ged to continue a schoolmaster and tailor; and situation, my heart broke within me.
my impulse now contented itself with insatiable The reasons why Providence led me into this
reading and research, in every department of terribly painful situation, were two-fold ; first,
science ; as my mind bad attained a relish for to subdue my worldly-mindedness, which ex-
intellectual ideas and sciences, or a classical ceeded all description, and my ungovernable
feeling, it now pursued its course unrestrained, frivolity; this intention I plainly perceived : and
and only l!lought opportunities for reading and then to take me from my native province, b&-
brooding over books. The progress I have cause it could not execute its plan with respect
~ade in the departments ofscientificknowledge, to me, in it ; bat I was not at all aware of this
may certainly be ascribed to my diligence and object. I was so fond of my own country, that
.activity; and so much is true, that the Lord extreme necessity alone could banish me from
has made use of it, in a secondary point of view, it, and this soon occurred ; I left it.
as a preparatory means, but it bas not directly Let it be well observed here, that this first
.aided the development of my real destiny. step to my future destiny was taken by no
To be always sitting at the needle, and ma· means with, but against, my will. It was ne-
king clothes for people, was highly repugnant cessary that I should be dri11m out by the pow-
to me ; and to be everlastingly instructing boys er of Providence ; and it is of the utmost impor-
and girls in A B C, in spelling, reading, and tance to my object, that the reader should con-
writing, was equally wearisome; by degrees, I vince himself most clearly, that I have contrib-
eonsidered the being doomed to be a schoolmas- uted nothing to the plan of my guidance.
ter and tailor as something very melancholy ; My first intention was to travel to Holland,
and with this commenced my inward sufferings, and seekemployment from the merchants there;
for I saw no possibility of becoming a preacher, but what I heard at Solingen, in the Duchy of
ot any thing else. Berg, caused me to change my purpose. I con-
My father's severe discipline still continued ; tinued there, and worked at my trade. Thia
for though I was no longer beaten every day, I kind of employment was extremely repugnant
was never happy near him. His inexorable se- to me; for my sensuality always required di-
verity at every tri11ing fault awakened in me vertingvariety. The reading of novels, or otb-
tbe irresistible impulse to get away from him as er entertaining stories, was peculiarly that to
-01\en and as Jong as possible : and this also be- which my worldly tum of mind was directed.
cause I was obliged to sit at the needle with My imagination and fancy were incessantly oc-
him from early in the morning till late at night; copied with the most romantic imagery, in an
.ao that I accepted every call to be schoolmaster indescribably vivid manner, and my levity soar-
with the greatest joy. As I did not instruct ed above every scruple. Eternal love bad com-
-0hildren with pleasure, but merely from a sense passion upon me, in such a manner, that by an
of duty, and out of school-hours brooded over unspeakably inward drawing to introversion,
books, whilst my heart never thought of earning which penetrated deep into my heart and perva-
any thing in addition by working as a tailor ; ded my whole being, it irrevocably decided me
.and besides this, as my easy-minded thought- to devote myself and the whole of my future
lessness deprived me of the tri11ing pay I receiv- life to the Lord: This attraction bas always
ed as schoolmaster, my father was continually hitherto continued, and will continue till I stand
obliged to clothe and support me. He saw, to before the throne; but my natural corruption
his great grief, that I should never make a good was far from being eradicated by it. Jesus
acboolmaster, which naturally rendered him Christ, by his great and glorious redemption,
more severe and unfriendly towards me ; and and by his Spirit, had to combat and subdue ii
after he bad married a worldly-minded, unfeel- through the medium of wearisome and painful,
ing woman, who required her stepson to go to but gracious trials ; this great business is not
the field with the rest, and perform all kinds of yet completed, nor will it be until my soul is
agricultural labor, even the most difficult, such. delivered from the body of sin and death.
as hoeing, mowing, threshing, &.c., my misery Notwithstanding my spirit bad now taken ita
rose to its height ; for my limbs being unaccus- direction to the great object for which mankind
tomed to hard labor from my youth, I suffered is destined, yet there were an infinite number
'1readfully. By using the rough implements of of ~e-paths, and I soon hit upon one of them.
husbandry, my bands were always full of blis- My disinclination to the trade of a tailor caused
Digitized by GoogIe
. RETROSPECT OF STILLING'S LIFE. 171
me to seize with avidity the offer of a situation
as private tutor in a merchant's house, and my
thoughtleBBness did not make a single enquiry !
My wretchedness there rose to its height ; such
melancholy, such hellish torments, such a pri-
vation of all that can afford consolation, no one
can form an idea of, who has not experienced
the like. Sensuality and frivolity were there at-
tacked at the root. At length, I could no long-
er endure it ; I ran otf, and wandered about in
the wilderness; then recollecting myself, I went
back to Rade vorm Wald, where the late Johann
Jacob Beeker (Mr. Isaac) exercised towards me
that glorious master-piece of Christian philan-
thropy recorded in my life. I was now so thor-
oughly cured of my disgust at the tailor's trade,
that subsequently, Mr. Spanier and my master,
Beeker, could scarcely persuade me to accept
the situation of domestic tutor with the former;
and I am even now so far from feeling a repug-
nance to it, that if needs be, I could immediate-
ly place myself again upon the shop-board.
During my residence with Mr. Spanier, every
thing seemed as though I should become a mer-
chant. I was daily employed'n mercantile af-
fairs, every thing succeeded with me, and al-
though I had naturally no inclination to com-
merce, yet I believed it was the guidance of
God ; particularly as I was secretly assured
that the rich, handsome, young, and virtuous
daughter of a merchant was destined for me,
that her father would bestow her upon me, and
then take me into partnership. Although I felt
no particular pleasure at all this, yet I believed
it was the course of Providence, which I must
necessarily follow, and regard the whole affair
as a piece of peculiar good fortune.
In tfte midst of these ideas and expectations
I received, most assuredly without my own co-
operation, the particular impression mentioned
in my history, that I must study medicine. To
this I had no objection, nor had thoee that in-
tended to over-rule my future life; for they said
it was, after all, something uncommon for the
head of a respectable family to give his daugh-
&er to a man who a short time before had been
a tailor's apprentice ; but that if I had studied
~d taken my degrees, all this might be done
with propriety ; I should be then Doctor and
Merchant at the same time. This was man's
plan, and mine likewise, but not the plan of my
heavenly Guide. Soon afterwards, the remark-
.ablecircuDl8tance occurred to me with.the Rev.
Mr. Molitor of Attendorn, who presented me
with his ophthalmic arcana, and then laid him-
self down and died. God knows, that in my
whole life I bad never thought of becoming an
-OCUiist, and that neither I, nor any one of my
family, had given the remotest occasion to this
bequest. And now let every one who has read
my history, re11.ect, what my ophthalmic prac-
tice baa hitherto been, is still, and may yet be!
He that does not here recognize the all-ruling
band of an omniscient and omnipotent Deity,
bu neither eyes to see, nor ears to hear ; no-
ilring will do him any good.
I made use of the remedies I had obtained for
diseases of the eye, and became by this means
acquainted with the worthy family of my late
father-in-law, Peter Heydere, of Ronsdorf in the
doeby of Berg ; and contrary to all expectation,
4'0ntrary to all my plane and purposes, I was
obliged to betroth myself to a consumptive and
weakly female on a sick-bed, an act in which my
worldly interests were reallynot consulted; I did
it merely from obedience towards God, because
I believed it was his will ; there was no idea on
my side offalling in love, or anything ofthe kind.
I engaged myself to Christina, although I knew
that her father could not support me in the least,
and that assiet,ance.from the quarter whence I
had previously received it was entirely at an
end. I then went with !)alf a French dollar to
the University of Strasburg; how wonderfully
the Lord there assisted me my history shows.
I now ask again, was it my plan to marry
Christina, and was it my doing that I studied
medicine at Strasburg~
I returned, and fixed myself at Elberfeld as
practical physician and oculist, entirely without
salary. I now expected extraordinary results
from my practice, for I regarded myself as one
whom the Lord had particularly fitted for that
vocation. I then thought also, with my reli-
gious impulse in connection with this, to work
for the Lord and his kingdom ; and believed
that I should be a very beneficial instrument in
his hand at the couch of the sick, and be able to
serve them both as it respects body and soul.
I intended also to write religious books, and
thus to satisfy my inward impulse. But all
these expectations ended in nothing at all ; my
practice was nothing extraordinary, but very
ordinary, very common, except that my oph-
thalmic cures excited much attention ; my cat-
aract operations were in particular extremely
successful ; but for these, likewise, I am not at
all indebted to my own abilities ; I learned the
practice indeed at Strasburg, because it belongs
to the study ofsurgery ; but I had snch a hor-
ror and repugnance to the practice of it, that I
still well remember how I felt, when the poor
woman at Wichlinghalisen, together with the
late Rev. Mr. Miiller, Doctor Dinckler, and my
friend Troost at Elberfeld compelled me, 88 it
were, to hazard the operation on the above-
mentioned poor woman ; I performed it with
fear and trembling, miserably ill, and yet the
woman recovered her sight admirably. I then
gained more courage; but even now, after hav-
ing operated upon upwards of fifteen hundred
blind people, a trepidation always comes over
me when I have to perform the operation.
I therefore testify again, by all that is true,
that I did not contribute in the least degree to-
wards my becoming an oculist, nor to the ex-
traordinary blessing which has attended my
practice as an oculist. This is entirely the
Lord's guidance.
It cannot be described into what profound
melancholy I sank, when I clearly saw that the
art of medicine was not my department ; and
in addition to this painful conviction, there was
the oppressive load of debt, which considerably
increased every year, without my being able to
alter or prevent it. This was in reality medi-
cine against sensuality and frivolity ; and both
were also, God be thanked ! entirely eradicated.
I now saw no way of escape whatever ; I had
a wife and children,-an increasing debt, and a
continually decreasing income. I was not de-
ficient in learning and knowledge ; I crept
through every ancient and modem cranny of
medicinal literature, and found in this unstablo
Digitized by oogIe
17il HEINRICH STILLING.
science nothing but obscurity. I was now I IthereforeremovedwitbmyfamilytoLsu\em.
heartily weary of medicine; but wherewith wu That this qain wa1 no preconcerted plan of
I to support myself, and how was I to pay my mine, aod not my own guidnnoe, but solely and
debts ! I was consequently obliged to surren- completely the plan and execution of my heav•
der myself to Providence at discretion ; this I enly Guide, every one mlllt feel, who is ia auy
did most sincerely, both for time and eternity, de(tee capable ofre1lection.
and this surrender is not only not annulled, but I now believed to a certainty, that the study
it has become more and more effectual and an- of political economy was the vocation for which
conditional. Providence bad guided and ·prepared me from
Religious books! Yes, I wrote them, but my youth op; fo.r I bad ample opportunity of'
with little perceptible result. " The Sling of a learning practicallyall the sciences I taught. I
Shepherd's Boy," "TUil Great Panacea for the had studied medicine, because the auxiliary sei-
Di.sease of Scepticism," and "The Theodice of ences belonging to it were indispensable in my
the Shepherd's Boy," produced little effect; on present vocation. My religious impulse was.
the contrary, "Stilling's Childhood," a piece not extinguished; on the contrary, I intended
which I wrote without any intention of publi· to unite it with this calling. In this convie-
cation, but mere~ to read to a company of tion, I continued perfectly quiet five-and-twenty
young people, an which Goothe sent to the years, and labored with all fidelity in my voca-
prese entirely without my knowledge and will, tion ; this is proved by iny eleven manuals, and
made an unexpected and incredible sensation ; the great multitude of treatises which I wrote
so that I was urged to continue it, and there- during that period. My heart no longer coa-
fore wrote, whilst in Elberfeld, "Stilling'&Youth· templated any more changes, particularly in my
ful Years, and Wanderings," one after the otb· old age, until at length the" Nostalgia" became
er. I can boldly allirm, that very few books the mighty meau of placing me in my peculiar
have gained their authors eo large, so 'noble- station.
minded, and so benevolent a class of readera as My readers are already aware, how uninten-
this ; and even now, afier the lapse of twenty. tionally I wrote the "Nostalgia ;" the prepara•
eight yeara, afier so many changes, so much tives to it, which COMisted of the collection of
progress and regress in culture and literature, many sentences, the reading of humorous wri-
Stilling still continues to be fashionable ; he is tings, &c., were by no means systematic as re-
still read with pleasure and the same edification garded myself, though systematic with God;
as at first. And what a .blessing this book has and the determination to publish the " Noetal-
produced with reference to religion and true gia" was so unpremeditated, that I only decided
Christianity, God the Omniscient knows; and upon it when Krieger besought me to compose
I also in part, for I can show a multitude of something of a classical nature for him; and
written testimonies to the truth of that asser- when I began, it was by no means my object to
tion. The history of Stilling's life, therefore, write a work of such an extent as it became
laid the first and considerable foundation far my under my hands, and as it afierwards proTed in
real destiny, and the followiDg·UP of my reli· its effects, which were great, and still are so~
gious impulse. . · since it operates like a ferment in every quarter
I now again beg that· it may be carefully ob- of the globe ; thi• 1 can pro'l!e. I now received
served, that·I did not give the smallest occasion requisitions from nery quarter, to devote my.
to this extraordinary and important part of my self entirely to religious authorahip; stating that,
history, which proved the basis of that to which I was designed for it by God, &o. "The Grey
I was eventually and really called; that is, the Man,''" The Scenes in the Invisible World,"
following-of my religious impulse; \mt that it and "The History of the Triumph," increased
was simply the free arrangement of Providence. and strengthened this requisition of my clua
If it be asked why my1leavenly.Guide did not of readers, which consisted of many thousand
at that time place me at my true.post, I answer, good men. Bot how could I listen to these
that there was still very muchin me to smooth calls 1 A, multitude of domestic hindranee8'
away ; nor was I yet firm enough in my princi· stood in the way; my debts were not yet liqui.-
ples. I still struggled with fatalism ; and be- dated; and where was the prince who would
sides this, the period was not then arrived in pension lllP for such a very uncommon objectf.
which it was proper for me to act. The answer to these questions is this: the Lord
At length, in the hour of extremity, and when cleared the hindrances out of the way In a glo-
I saw no way of escape, I was delivered in a rious and divine manner; in a similar manner
manner of which I had not the remotest idea, I was enabled to pay my debts ; and the " Noe-
and of which I had never dreamt. In conee- talgia" had so prepared the good, great, and ·
quence of a treatise on the scientific improve- pious Elector of Baden, that he immediately re-
ment of the common forests in the principality solved to place me in my true station, u SOOD
of Nassau Siegen, my native province, by which as opportunity was afforded )aim.
I sought to afford pleasure to a certain friend, I See, my dear readers ! it is in trus indeSori-
was appointed public teacher of Agriculture, bably wise and gracious manner that the Lord
'technology, Commerce, and the Veterinary bas at length Jed me to the attainment of that
Art, at the newly-established Financial Acade- aim, the impulse for which He caused to be ea-.
my at Kaisers-Lantern in the Palatinate, with grafied in me in my earliest infantine yeua.
a fixed income of six hundred guilders ; and at My present occupation therefore is;
my departure, the most urgent debts, to the 1. The continuance of my ophtbalmio pmc-
amount of eight hundred guilders, were liquida- tice; for this vocation has been legitimated ancl
ted in a manner as unexpected as that in which assigned me by the Lord's direction;
the principal sum was liquidated in Switzerland, 2. The continuance of my religious au&~
two years and &·half ago. ship, as my heavenly Guide directs ; and
Digitized by GoogIe
RETROSPECT OF STILLING'S LIFE. 173
8. The distributing and editing of littleedify- than that which Christ and his apostles, and
ing tracts for the lower classes, for which pur- subsequently all the orthodox fathers of every
pose contributions in money are sent me by century, have taught, is tnu, ancl has again le-
kind and piously-disposed friends, in order to gitimated itself in my guidance 1 I may have
enable me to disseminate such tracts gratui· ideas, I may have minor conceptions, which
tously among the lower oniers. Whether the are not altogether pure, and which are not yet
Loni has any thing further in view with me, I sufficiently rectified ; but in the main object of
know not; I am his servant, let him employ christianity, it is as certain that I do not mis-
me as He pleases; but I shall take no step with- take, as that I am sure that God bas led me
out first epdeavoring clearly to ascertain hie during my whole life, and has Himself formed
will. me to be a witness of the truth. However, I
All my readers will now probably be convin- can affirm before God, with the meet perfect
ced that I am not a great man, a man of great sincerity, that none of my religious ideas have
mind, or a great genius; for I have contributed arisen through wearisome reflection, or are the
nothing whatever to any part of the manner in reanlt of any deductions of mere reason, bot all
which I have been Jed ; it was even nece88ary, of them have unfolded themselves to my mind
first of all, painfully to prepare my natural dis- during the consideration of difficult paseagea of
-rsition, by much labor and tedious sufferings. Scripture. The principal points of the Chris-
was merely a passive maBS in the forming tian religion, according to my conviction, are
hand of the Artist-clay in the hand of the Pot- contained in the following .fundamental poei-
ter. He, therefore, that regards me as a man tione.
of great talents, and great virtues, or even ea- I. The Holy Scriptures, as we at preeent
timatee me as a great saint, does me much poseeas them, contain, from the first chapter of
wrong ; he acts just as improperly as a person Genesis to the last of the prophet Malachi, and
would do, who praised an old, oaken, rude, and from the first chapter of the Gospel of Matthew
coarsely-made chest, as a great specimen of art to the last chapter of the Apocalypse, the bisto-
and a master-piece, because some great man ry of the revelation of God to man ; and are,
Jays up valuable treasures in it for daily use. therefore, the only credible source of all those
Dut, whoever is inclined to wonder and rejoice super-sensible truths which are needfol for man
at me, let him wonder at the way in which I in the attainment of that to which he is dea-
have been Jed, adore the Father of men, and tined.
thank him that He still does not leave himself 2. Man was first created by God in a state
without a witness ; that He also prepares wit- of perfection ; but he sinned by disobedience
neBBes to tread his sacred paths, and still sends against God, and by this means, Jost the equi-
Jaborers into bis vineyard, even at the eleventh librium between the sensual and moral impuJ-
hour. see; the sensual became more and more pre-
1 now earnestly intreat my readers to give dominant, and, therefore, with respect to all his
God and the truth the glory, and minutely ex- posterity, the thoughts and imaginations of tbe
amine the following positions._ heart of man are evil from bis youth up, and
I. Does not the whole history of my life in- that continually.
contestably eh9w that, not human wisdom and 3. Previous to this, a olaBS of higher and more
prudence, but He who knows bow to govern the spiritual beings bad fallen away from God, and
hearts, actions, and fates of men, yet, without. become evil ; the prince of these beings bad se-
controlling their free will, has really guided, duced the first man to disobedience ; these evil
formed, and brought me forward, from begin- spirits can tlaen work upon the spiritual part of
oing to end, according to a premeditated plan! man, when he gives them the opportunity for eo
2. Does not my history likewise incontro- doing. But there are aleo good spirits, whiob
Tertibly show that, on my part, not the small- are about a man, and likewise induence him,
est thing was done, either with respect to the when circumstances require tt. Evil spirits,
project, or tlie accomplishment of the plan of together with Satan their prince, hie angels,
my life ! Neither enthusiasm nor error had and all evil men, I call the kingdom of darkness.
any part in that plan or its execution; for 4. God has, from eternity, begotten a being,
whenever I was enthusiastic or mistaken, I of the same nature with himself, and whioh
was always taught better by the resuk stands in the same connection with him as a
3. Therefore, if the all-wise, all-kind, and all· sou to bis father; hence he is also called in the
powerful Governor of the world bas himself Bible, the Son of God, Logos, the God·wonl.
guided and prepared me, without either myself This Son of God undertook the guidance and
or any other individual having part in his plan, redemption of the fallen human race. In the
can his work have been fruitless 1 Can He s~ Old Testament, he revealed himself under the
lead and guide a fanatic, an enthusiast, and a name of Jehovah; and in the New, as a real
deceiver, as He bas led me, in order to mislead man, under the name of Jesus Christ. He is
men 1 He may permit a fanatic and a seducer God and man in one person. -
to labor through difficulties, and obtain, through 5. This God.man, Jesus Christ, redeemed
their own efforts, a number of adherents ; for fallen human nature, by bis bloody sacrificial
He leaves free agents at liberty to work, so death, from sin, death, and the punishment of
long as it can consist with bis high counsels. sin. In this bloody sacrificial death lies the
But let any one make it appear that, during my foundation for reconciliation with God, the for-
whole life, I _
have at any time labored through giveness of sins, and, consequently, also of sal~
difficulties of the kind, or have sought to form vation. The moral precepts of Christ-which
for myself a party in a religious respect. are contained likewise in all their points in the
4. Doe.s it not follow from all this, that my Old Testament, and have been taught ahnost
religioua ayatem of doctrine, which is no other perfectly by heathens-merely serve to enable
Digitized by GoogIe
174 HEINRICH STILLING.
a man to examine tDhetlaer, and in hOtD far, tbe
bleeding !acrifice ofChrist has had its effect on
him. They are the natural consequences of the
work of redemption ; but without this, as little
possible to be practised in a manner aueptabl~
to God, as that a sick man should be able to
perform the business of one in health.
6. Jesus Christ rose from the dead, and thus
became the procuring cause ofthe resurrection
of mankind ; He then ascended to heaven, and
undertook the government ofthe world. He is
now, therefore, that God who governs all things,
guides all the destinies of mankind, and leads
every thing, in great thiilgs as well as in small,
collectively as well as individually, to the great
end of human redemption, which He finally ac-
complishes. For this purpose, He stands op.
posed, with all his true servants and worship-
pers, together with the holy angels, as the king-
dom oflight, to the kingdom ofdarkneBB; both
fight against each other, until the latter is en-
tirely overcome, and thus the work of redemp-
tion is completed ; the Son then gives up the
kingdom to his Father, who again becomes all
in all.
7. God will and must be worshipped in Jesus
Christ, in his name; that is, in his person.
God, out of Christ, is a metaphysical nonentity,
which daring reason has abstracted from the
idea of a supremely perfect man. To worship
this nonentity, which never existed any where
but in the head of a philosopher, is pure idola-
try. In Christ alone the Father of men is to
be found ; there alone Be will and can be wor-
shipped.
8. The Holy Spirit, the Spirit of the Father
and Son, is, in reality, a being of an equally di-
vine nature with the Father and the Son. He
is a moral divine love-power proceeding from
both, even as light and warmth emanate from
the sun. Since the day of P11ntecost until now,
He is continually operative ; every one who be-
lieves in his heart In Christ, receives his saving
doctrines, heartily repents of his sin and misery,
and .inwardly longs to be free from sin, and to
become a true child of God, puts on, according
to the measure of his faith and the degree of
his longing, the Holy Spirit ; so that his moral
powers become gradually stronger, and his
sensual bias in the same degree weaker.
This is my true and invariable system of
faith, doctrine, and life, which bas stood the
test of many trials and much experience and
purification ; which I have gleaned and collect-
ed singly, by degrees, like rare grains of gold,
on my wearisome pilgrimage : not by specula-
tion, or the effort of my reasoning powers, but
whilst striving, for many years, after light and
truth, from heartfelt pressure and necessity, and
then formed into a rational whole. It is the
p11re dogma bf the Holy Scriptures, untMubled
by any sophistry or fashionable commentary, on
the truth and certainty of which I am willing
to live and die.
The modern "march of intellect" (as it is
termed) stands directly opposed to these an-
cient cbristian doctrines of faith and salvation.
Many worthy, upright, and well-meaning men
prefer the former to the latter, because they
conceive that the doctrines of religion, modified
by enlightened reason, are better adapted to the
human understanding than this ancient chris·
tian system. They hue therefore invented an
exposition, .a Bible commentary, which suits
their pbilosophy. But these good men either
perceive or do not perceive, that the tendency
of this new enlightening is directed to the es-
tablishment of a natural religion, whose dogmas
are merely moral, and which, in the end, makes
the sending of Christ quite unnecessary, and
the Bible no longer needful. But as neither
classical feeling nor the·beauty of virtue can
restore the moral powers lost in Adam's fall,
immoralityinceBSantly increases under the sway
of this enlightened reason, corruption grows
with rapidity, mankind sinks back into the most
senseleBB barbarism; and the divine judgments
exercise severe and righteous vengeance upoo
a people that despise every means ofmoral im-
provement and amendment.
On the other band, the experience of every
age proves, in the cases ofmillions of individu-
als, that the ancient christian doctrine of faith
transforms its adherents into good and holy cit-
izens, husbands, wives, friends, parents, and
children. The new enlightening may, here
and there, produce an honest man and an ex-
ample of civil virtue, but only for public appro-
val ; such a man may at times perform a brilliant
action, but to show kindness in secret, entirely
unknown, from real love to God and man, even
to enemies, is utterly impossible, except where
the spirit of Christ prevails.
But now the very important question arises,
whence comes it that such worthy and well-
meaning men, notwithstanding all these un-
doubted facts, still continue attached to their
new.enlightened system~ To this it is answer-
ed, there are two premises, two foundations for
all religioua demonstration ; if these premises
are false, every mathematically-correct demon-
stration becomes also false and incorrect, and
that is just the case here.
The whole of the christian doctrine of faith
is founded upon the following fundamental po-
sition. God created the first man as a free
agent, with the tendency to continually-increas-
ing moral perfection, and with it an equally
progressive enjoyment of the Supreme Good ;
but he suffered himself to be deceived by ao
unknown evil being, so that he applied this biaa.
to a continually-increasing sensual perfectio~
and with it an equally progressive enjoyment
ofearthly good. The Holy Scriptures teach us
this fundamental position, and the experience
of almost six thousand years teaches us that it
is true. Hence it follows immediately, that,-
lf man had continued in his natural state, it
would have been natural to him to obey the
dictates of morality; his head would have dic-
tated them, and bis heart would have followed
them ; natural religion would then have been
the only true one. But in our present fallen
state, where the senses rule supremely and the
moral powers are maimed, we cannot require
of the weaker part to overcome the stronger ;
there is, consequently, no way of redemption
in nature, and the Creator was therefore again
obliged to interfel'e, in order that men might be
saved.
Now be that founds a correct logical demon-
stration on these premisPs, finds the whole
christian system ofsalvation very rational, and
the enlightening of the present day very irra-
tional.
o;g;:;zed by Google
RETROSPECT OF STILLING'$ LIFE. f75
The fundamental position of the new-enligbt-1 know bow to act towards you. Remember Lao-
ened system is the following:-" The entire dicea. The midway is a snare which Satan baa
creation is a connected whole, on which the placed for man.
Creator bas bestowed intellectual and physical I Dear brethren and sisters, let us faithfully
powers, and bas given them their eternal and cleave to the Father of our J,ord Jesus Christ,
unchangeable laws, according to which they I and to Jesus Christ and bis Spirit; and let us
work unhindered; so that there is now no fur- receive the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New
tber need of divine cooperation, or influence : Testaments as we have them, and as our sound ·
consequently, every thing in the whole creation human understanding comprehends them, as ·
takes its necessary and unaltraeble course, our only source of faith and knowledge. He
which bas for its object the general good of will come quickly, and will then graciously re-
every being. The human race is a part of this gard our fidelity. Amen.
whole ; and the eternal laws of nature operate
so that the free will of every man, in every ac-
tion, is so guided that be does what be does.
Moral philosophy contains the laws according
to which the free will must be governed." This
position is, in reality, fatalism; and however
much it may be concealed and guarded, it is,
with all, even the most moderate rationalist,
more or less openly or concealed, the universal
fundamental idea.
But how may reason hne arrived at this
idea 1 I answer, In a very natural manner. It
seeks to convince itself of the existence of a
Supreme Being, and afterwards to search out
bis nature and qualities ; and as it knows no
other rational being but itself in the whole sen-
sible creation, it removes every limitation from
the human soul, and then finds an infinitely ra-
tional, almighty, omniscient, all-gracious, om-
nipotent human soul, which it calls God. Now
even as a human artist makes a work ofart-for
instance, a watch ; and as this watch would be
very imperfect, if the artist were continually
under the necessity of turning, moving, and
helping in various ways, first one little wheel,
and then another,-the supremely perfect Art-
ist has made a machine, which, because its
Maker is supremely perfect, must also be su-
premely perfect, and therefore no where requires
any after-assistance or cooperation of the art-
ist.
But that this horrible position is not tnu, our
own free feelings tell us, and likewise our Yery
reason ; for if it were true, every act of man,
whichever way it may be turned and twisted,
as it is performed, is determined by the Crea-
tor. The most abomiuable deeds which any
individual may commit, and the most dreadful
sufferings which· men may cause each other,
all the oppressions of widows and orphans, all
the hol'rors of war, &c. ; all this, the God of the
modern enlightening has purposed; for he bas
formed the plan of nature in such a manner that
all this must necessarily take place.
No one will deny that eYery man who is only
in some measure rational, must shrink back
from this inference, which is certainly logically
correct ; consequently, reason here stands in
contradiction to itself: and when that is the
case, its jurisdiction ceases. it has reached its
limit. Nothing more dreadful can be imagined
than that human reason - particularly in our
times, when the most unbounded luxury Ties
with the most ungovernable immorality-11hould
be led in such paths, and that this should even
be called the Christian religion ! 0 the mon-
strous blasphemy !
My dear friends, be either entirely Christians,
according to the real, ancient evangelical sys-
iem, or entirelv rationalists, and we shall then
Taou who upon th' eternal tnrone
Dost wei1th the fates of all below,
And ever wear'st the radiant crown
Of worlds nnnumber'd on thy brow:
Snrronnded by seraphic tlameo,
And throned in light of sevenfold ray,
Amidst thy senanta' loud acclaim1,
Dildain not, Lord! my humble lay.
IIear, 0 ye heavens !-thon earth, attend t
Let roaring thuuders silent be !
That ye the 10B1f may comprehend
Which, Lord, I now will sing to Thee.
Ye saints, who in his courts reside,
I.end me your melody divine,
That I may praise my heavenly Guide,
And He hia gracious ear incline.
Thou X-e u111peakable and kind,
The element in which 1 move,
Behold with what a dame refined
My heart bums in thy precious love !
A nothing in the d11st was I ;
Yet thou, my All ! mad'st choice of ma
My growing faith thou long didst try,
And my delirea laid hold of Thee.
ChOMn thy guidance to di1J>lay,
·A witness of thy truth to be,
My heart and all my powers now •r,•
" My God, I !in and die for thee ."
Thee will I faithfully confe• ;
0 grant me courage, strength, and power?
And neither 1u1f'ering nOT di1tre11 "
Shall part u in the trying hour.
Gi..er of every perfect Jih !
Thou fonnd'1t me in the lowly cot,
And kindly from the dust didst lilt
And raise me to a happier Jot.
For thou didst hear a father'• cry ;
A mother's prayers touch'd thy heart;
And power and apirit from on high
To me didst graciouly impart.
Upon the golden IC&les of fate
My sufferings thou didst nicely weigh;
Appoint my daya their final date
When I must thy last call obey ;
Didst form, e'e11 then, the plan aublime
Of what my future course ehould be:
The path didst show which I mwit climb
To reach my final destiuy.
An angel at the Savior's throne
Commilllion now received frdt thee;
He laid aaide hia pearly crown,
And came enwrapp'd in gloom to me.
Of mercy he unconscious aeem'd ;
No pity did his eye betray;
Perhaps by Thee, once fittest deem'd
T' &1111ounce tbe awful judgmeni-day
With all fidelity he led
Me through youth'• wild and ftried _., ~
I followed him with secret dread,
Aud did each geutle hint obey.
Amidst the howlinga of tbe blast,
My feet by tho rude bramble• rent,
Through rocky clefts l toiling paa'd-
Thua painfully each day wu apent.
A dubioua glimmer often aeem'd
To terminate my arduous way ;
J hasten'd on to what I deem'd
Would all my weary etepa repay;
When, all at once. my guide severe
WooId tear me from the path I sought,
And lead again, throu'h caverns drear,
And rugged IO<;U Wllh honon fraaglt.
Digitized by GoogIe
176 HEINRICH STILLING.
A moot opproioiYe 1..d ofdebt
Weigh'd on me whereaoe'er I wem;
Whi\at Erloomy oadnoa e•er met
Mo with her breath oo peotilont.
.No cool aod gentle eutem broeao,
Which bringo rofrellunent u it blowa-
No tlowery fielda, aor ahady treet,
Yiel4ed the trevellor aweet repoee.
Tbua did I journey on my way,
Through many a winding up and down,
When, suddenly, a cheering ray
Beat11'd on my po.th-my load wu,.....
Hr laader with a powerful erm,
The burden from my shoulder took
And with a look that grief might ebara,
He plunged it in the llowing brook.
Followi~ the footatepo of my guide,
J walk d more euy on my way,
Until, at length, a brilliant light
Amloanced the near approach of day.
k C&llle-the golden morning auae-
And all my anxious fearo wore fted ,
l now have roach'd my bliufu) aim,
And loudly ehall my th&Alto be paid.
Ye heuenly choin around the thron
Yo11r part in ruy thanllgiYingo boar, ·
Till I, at leJllth, the Yictor'a CIOWll
At the great marriage feut lhall wear.
Then, of my/.olden harp pouea'd,
With yuu ehovah•a name I'll pniae,
And II• ahall elup me to hia braa,
Who led me all my 0arth).y daya
Till then, let pMOer di'liM inteot.
And heavenly peace my ~rit ch-
My footatepa, here below, direct,
Till I before thy face appear.
Tho pre..nt ..ed I now ehall eow
To ripen for eternily-
0 let it IO,perlection grow,
Thon ialr.e thy pilgrim Iiom. to thee ,
STILLING'S OLD AGE.
CHAPTER :XX.
W1TB the prospect of IOOn arriving at the end
of my pilgrimage-at the commencement of my
eeventy-seventh year-and afterhavingstruggled
through a year of bodily suffering occaeioned by
spasmodic affections, debility, a feeling ofsacred
awe, as it were, thrills through me. The long se-
ries of the years of my previous life pue be·
fore my soul like shadows on the wall; and
the present appears to me like a great and so-
lemn picture, covered with a veil. which I shall
draw aside only when my earthly tabernacle
reposes in the grave, and ripens for the resur-
rection. Grace, and mercy, and salntion,
throulth the atoning love of my heavenly Guide,
will then shine through my whole being from
this picture. Hallelujah !
The aspect of things aronnd me ia now very
different to that which it presented when I de-
.cribed Heinrich Stilling's youth. My old age
and my youth are two very different points of
view. I no longer sit between aun-dials, at the
oaken table, in the dark little room, working at
a doublet for neighbour Jacob, or sowing but;
tona upon shoemaker Peter's Sunday coat.
Eberhard Stilling no longer walks about, in his
linen frock, with powerful etep ; aod Margaret
no longer comes busily to fetch salt for the soup
from the party-colored box behind the stove.
The wheels of my blooming aunt no longer
whirl about the lamp,..and the voiae of her song
has long been mute.
Uncle Johann Stilijng no longer comes to re-
late to his wondering auditory his new discove-
ries in electricity, mechanics, optics, mathe-
matics, and the like. No ! the aspect of things
around me is now totally changed.
I now sit in my convenient easy-chair, before
my much-used desk, and on the walls around me
hang pledges to remind me of near and distant
friends. My aorely-tried and long and heavily
aftlicted Eliza totters about me, and cares for
the present and the future; whilst my youngest
daughter, Christina, attends upon her and exe-
cutes her commands. She is the only one of
my children who is still with me, and who often
cheera and revives me by her performance on
the harpsichord. My daughter Hannah lives
happily at Heidelberg with her beloved Schwan,
and ten children. Her eldee& daughter is mar-
ried to Professor Vomel in Hanau, and hu pre-
sented me with a great-grandaon, whose god-
father I am. Her eldest son Wilhelm was
head-maater of the school at Weinbe"im on the
Berg-road, and also uaistant preacher there;
but he ia now here as governor and tutor of the
only son of Mr. Von Berckheim, our worthy
minieter of state. The university of Heidel-
berg gne him the diploma of doctor of philo-
phy, on account of hia diligence, knowledge,
and good conduct ; be also 'Visits me almost
daily. My son lives in Rastadt with bis wife
and six children, in the enjoyment of the divine
blessing. The Lord leads him through painful
paths, but he passes through them as becomes
a Christian. His eldest daughter Augusta ie
a1ao with me, fur the purpose of being trained,
in Madame Von Grainberg's seminary, to be-
eome a IDOdest, pious, '8Dd accomplished young
female. She likewise contrib11tes to cheer my
old and gloomy age.
The worthy lady who founded the institu-
tiou above-mentioned, Madame Von Grainberg,
,having undertaken the education of the two
grand-d11cal prlnceaeea, and taken my third
daughter Amalia, with her to the palace, in the
character of an aaaimnt, my eldeat daughter
Caroline hae now entered upon the management
of the seminary. Her desirable sphere of ac-
tion cheers tke evening of my life ; a11d both
the daughtera visit us, their parents, almoet
daily. Lastly, my second eon Frederick also
spent the last half-year with ua, before com-
mencing hie career in RoSBia, aa financier and
agriculturist; his guitar and his fine manly
song dispel many of my gloomy houR1. But it
just occurs to me, that grandfathers and grand-
mothers grow veTy loquacious when the con- ·
versation turns upon their family. In order
therefore not to fall into the commission of this
fault, I will now return to the subject, and take
up the thread of the history of my life from
"Stilling's Years of Tuition."
On my arrinl at Heidelberg, in September
1803, I learnt that the Grand-duke, at that time
still Elector of ,Baden, was at Manheim. · I
therefore rode t'bither the next day, in order to
announce 'my arrival to him in person, and to
pay my respects to him. He received me very
graciously, and said, "I rejoice at having you·in
my territories. From my youth op I have llad
Digitized by GoogIe
S T I L L I N G'S 0 L D A G E. 177
'&he df'sire to devote all my powMs to religion given into thy hands for this purpose., for a sit-
aod ohristianity; hut God having confided tu uatioo which, with all thy good intentions, and
me the office of ruler, I am obliged to yield my- good will, is still enveloped in the ohscurity of
self up to it entirely. You are the man whom the fuwre!" &.c. All these questions stood
God has prepared for this object. I therefore like reproving judges before my soul, and I
free you from all earthly obligations, and com- could not bring forward a single word in my de-
misai1m you by your correspondence and au- fonce. What were my feelings ! I now found
.&hurship to promote religion and practical chrie- no other way of escape than that of the 11e-
tia:iity in my place; for this I call you, and verest, strictest, and most impartial self-exam-
take you into my pay." ination, bow it stood with me in reference to
, This was threfore my political and legal call- all tbeae poin&e. '
ing to my fnture vocation, which wanted noth- In the courae of this examination, I found--
ing but a written confirmation, which, howev- what all the children of Adam find in similar
-er, I did not deem necessary, well knowing eircumatance&--lhat whatever men undertake,
that no qne would have any claim upon me on and in whatever they cooperate, sin is inter-
•hat aeoount. mingled ; but in the material part of my guid·
I returned with great inward peace of mind ance I found nothing with which I could re-
to Heidelberg ; for the great and radical im- proach myself; for all the cirenmstaneee which
.pulse, which I had felt within me from the era- decided my sphere of action, and my eonnex-
ille, was now satisfied. A material point;how- ion and situation in Marburg, una11imously gave
eYer, still disturbed my repose, notwithstanding me the hint to withdraw from that station. But
my unshaken eoufidenee in my heavenly Guide; that which completely impressed the seal of
I found every thing quite different in Heidelberg divine vocation upon this hint, was, that there
to what I bad left it ten years and a-half previ- was a prince wbo was just in· want of a maQ
ous. Every thing was dear, and by no means whose predominating impulse was to be active
cheaper than at Marburg; many things, indeed, for the Lord and bis kingdom, and that this
were even dearer. Our friends had written to prince knew and loved this man,-a case whiek
us, advising us to sell our household furniture, is probably singular in its kind.
for we could replace it in a superior manner at Even the summer before, when the Elector
Heidelberg ; but we found it just the reverse. wrote to me that he was then able to offer me
Our handsome furniture was sold in Marburg twelve hundred ·guilders, that I might come,
.at a low price, and we were obliged to procure and that he would by; degrees improve my eir-
in its stead inferior arti<'les at a higher rate. eumstanees, I informed him that I could not
In short, the removal from Marburg to Heidel- 1upport myself and my family upon it. But as
berg, with the whole arrangements at the lat- nothing further transpired, I reconsidered eve-
ter place, cost me nearly a thousand guilders. ry point minutely, and felt that it was my duty
I was able to meet this heavy expenee from to obey the call; for I was convinced that it
what remained over from my journies; but was the only one I could expect duriog the re-
there was nothing lefi as a .resource for any fu- main4er of my life.
ture occasion. On examining whether my impulse to work
In Marburg, my yearly income was about two for the Lord was pure, or whether the vain de-
tboueand five hundred guilders, of which noth- sire did not secretly mingle with it to become
ing remained over, notwithstanding the strict· celebrated by my writings, I fovnd that all our
-est eoooomy. Circumstances, which I eanriot best works cannot s.land the test in the diYine
diseloee or explain to the public, considerably light; but I found, likewise, that if vanity had
increased my expenditure. These eircumstan- been my motive, I certainly should not have
ees continued almoat entirely the same ; and eboeen that particular vocation which is the
to meet them, I had scarcely half the amount most. exposed to the contempt and opposition
of my Marburg income to receive. When, at oftbe great men of the preeent age.. After all
the close of the year 1808, my wife and I grad- this had become clear to me, providing for my
vally discovered and experienced this. and family was DO lon~er a questioa with me; for I
found that we could not keep ho\l&e in Heidel- was.coovinced that I had followed the will of
berg by any mean& for less than in Marburg, my Heavenly Guide, and therefore that troubled
gloomy melancholy Jay like a mounlain on my me no longer. How gloriously the Lord legiti·
aoul ;-my reason spoke very lively·and loudly : mated my confidence, will be shown in the 88·
•• Thou bast never before taken a step towards quel.
.arbitrarily removing thyself out of the situation I employed the close of the year 1803 in ar-
in which Providence had placed thee; there- ranging my library, and with the complete re-
fore thy Heavenly Guide helped thee power- gulation of my escrutoire and my study ; but
fully through. But is this now the case 1 Hast this occupation was almost daily interrupted by
'thou neither directly nor indirectly contributed a multitude of leuers and visits, as well as by
to the call whioh the Elector of Baden bis oph.tbalmic patienla. Thus I concluded ilie year
~iven thee to come hither! Was thy impulse 1803, whicb had been such an important one
to work for the J..ord and his kingdom pure 1 for me, and began the next by continuing the
Did not the vain desire also lie hidden in the 1 history of my life, under the title of " Heinrich
boltom of thy soul, to shine as a great light in IStilling's.Years of Tuition." This work, tuge-
the church of God, and by thy writings to he- Ither with the preparation of the fifteenth num-
-eome famons throughout the world 1 And ber of the "Grey Man," and a couple of tales
finally, are there any duties superior to that of\ in Asehenherg's Annual, oocupied me during
laking care that thy wife and children do not the winter, which was, on the whole, a very
fall into poverty! And canst thou answer for 1 painful one for me and my family; for our Caro·
exchanging the means which Providence had, line fell dancero1181y iU, and ouryoungest dauglt·
z
Digitized by GoogIe
1'78 HEINRICH STILLING.
ter, Christina, suffered from an abeceu in the
lei\ arm, which gave reason to fear a caries in
the bone, which might induce lameness, and
even death itself. Caroline at length recover-
ed ; but Christina, who was then in her fifih
year, seemed gradually to waste away, and be-
come consumptive. My stock of money, be-
sides, began also to declin?, and assistance was
therefore requisite from a higher quarter. Nor
was this assistance delayed ; for towards the
end of the month of March, f received a letter
from a very estimable lady in Upper Lusatia, in
which she calldd upon me to go thither, since
there were many poor blind people and such as
suffered in their eyes, who required my pre-
sence; the travelling expences would be repaid,
and I should find on the way, two hundred dol-
lars (three hundred and sixty guilders) for my
expenses.
We thanked the Lord for this continuance of
hie gracious guidance, and began to prepare for
this long journey ; for Herrnhut, or rather Gar-
litz, 11·hither I was invited, is eighty German
miles, or one hundred and sixty leagues distant
from Heidelberg.
The first duty incumbent upon me waa to in-
fc;-m the Elector of my intended journey. I
therefore rode to Carlsruhe, where I spent some
agreeable days in his society. On thia occasion
he commissioned me to speak with the mem-
bers of the Moravian Conference at Berthols-
dorf, for he was very desirous of having a set-
tlement of the brethren in his territories. I
then took leave of him, and returned to Heidel·
berg.
Although our friend Julia Richerz undertook,
with true maternal fidelity, the care of our two
little girls, yet.it was painful to us both, and
particularly to my wife, to leave the little suf-
ferer, Christina, for so many weeks. Howev-
er, it could not be avoided; for on account of
my age and my frequent spasmodic attacks, I
could not travel alone.
We commenced our journey on the Srd of
April, 1804., in our own carriage with poat-
horees. The weather was extremely agreea-
ble; at Heidelburg. and along the Berg.road,
tbe almond and peach-trees were arrayed in the
richest bloom ; all nature seemed to smile upon
us, and announce a pleasant journey. But we
were deceived ; for in the afiemoon, when we
came within view of the distant Feldberg, be-
tween Darmstadt and Frankfort, I saw it waa
still covered half-way down with snow, and that
the Wetterau mountains were also enveloped
in this wintry garb ; I consequently began to be
apprehensive, for I was acquainted with the
road to Herrnhut, having travelled thither be-
fore. We arrived in the evening at Frankfort.
It must be a matter of great indifference to
the reaJer of the evening of my life, what befel
us at each posting-house from one day to ano-
ther. In short, It was a wearisome journey:
spasms in the stomach within, and continual
danger from the weather and bad roads from
without, were the order of the day. There
were occaaionaslly, however, days of cheering
and Terna) weather ; seldom, indeed, but eo
much the more agreeable and invigorating. It
fullows of COllTilf', lhat the two hundred dollars
were wai•ing for us in lhe way.
Do.ring this journey, we epent a few daye at
Caesel, one at Eieenach, and one and a-half at
Erfurth ; and at length we arrived, "in the eve-
ning of lbe 19th of April, at Kleinwelke, a Mo-
ravian settlement, near Bautzen in Upper Lu-
eatia.
The sphere of operation to which I was called
hy lhis journey commenced here ; a crowd of
blind people, and such aa were diseased in the
eye, came about me, and I attended to them,
in weakneu, as much and aa well as I waa
able. ·
On the 23rd we Jell Kleinwelke for Herrnhut.
where we fixed our quarten at the congrega-
tional lodging-house, and were immediately vis-
ited by various dear friends. At Herrnhut,
we enjoyed the fruits of brotherly love in au,
their plenitude, and the Lord also gave me the
opportunity. of effecting much, and of being of
se"ice to mal)y sufferers.
I also laid before the Moravian conference at
Bertholedorf the wish of the Elector of Baden,
to have a Moravian settlement in his domin-
ions ; but ae they were just on the point of ea-
tablishing a settlement at Konigsfeld in the
Black Forest, in Wiirtemburg, near the borders
of Baden, the Elector's willh could not be grant-
ed, for two reasons ;-first, because the estab-
Jiehment of such a settlement is Tery expen-
sive; and eecondly, because Konigefeld being
situated near the borders of Baden, a second
elation in the vicinity would be soperJluoua. h
ie, however pleasing to notice, that 80me yeara
afterwards, by an exchange of territory, Ko-
nigefeld came under the dominion of Baden, and
thus Charlee Frederick's pious wieh was event-
ually fulfilled.
We remained at Herrnhut till the 9th of May•
and then rode five leagues further to Gorlitz,
whither I was called by various ophthalmic pa-
tiente,
Gorlitz ia an extremely agreeable and very
flourishing town. It lies on a beautiful and fer-
tile plain, which is terminated towards the easa
by a rocky declivity, adjoining the little rives
Neiese. On this rock etands the sumptuous
church ofSt. Peter and St. Paul, which is cele-
brated for its large and astonishing organ, ita
great bell, and its subterranean crypt. It i.s a
glorious eight to aee the sun rieing over the
giant mountaine, from this place. Towards the
south-west, at 80me little distance, etanda the
hill called Landekrone, quite isolated. From
this point of view it doea not appear very high,
although it ie visible from every part of Lusa-
tia, from any eminence. The reason is, be-
cause the whole land is high in this part.
Gorlitz waa also interesting to me on another
account. The celebrated Jacob Bohme was a
master-1hoemaker and citizen of thie place •
and it waa extremely affecting to me, to fincl
hia memory still 80 much cherished, and it.a in-
Jluence 80 beneficial. The inhabitants of Gor-
litz eateem it an honour that Bohme was a
townsman of theirs, although it is now two hun-
dred years ago since he lived there, and was
undese"edly aud baeely ill-treated hy the cler-
gy of those timee, especially by Gregorius Rich-
ter, one of the chief preachers. Bohme incul·
catee nothing in hia writing& eontrary to the
Angahurg Confession: he went diligently to
church, and frequently received the sacrament.
In his manner of life he was blamelese ; a faiU..
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S OLD AGE. 170
fol subject, an exemplary husband and father, Iand these six towns have also their peculiar lib-
and a kind neighbour; this was well known in erties and privileges.
Gorlitz, and yet the proud priesthood treated The subjects of these manors are all of them
him as an arch-heretic. One morning, Bohme Wends; that is, descendants from the ancient
went on some errand to the Rev. Mr. Richter; Vandals, who acted such a conspicuous part at
but scarcely had he entered the door, when the migration of the northern tribes. They all
Richter seized a slipper, and threw it at the prqfess the christian religion, but still retain
head of the good shoemaker ; the latter quietly their original Jariguage, although they almost all
picked it up, and laid it again at the clergy- speak and understand German. There are still
man's feet. On Bobme's decease in 1624, the also churches in which the Wend language ia
clergy would not suffer him to be buried in the used in preaching. Vassalage prevaila through-
cburchyard. The case was referred to the high out the country.
consistory court at Dresden, and the corpse was The day following we received an invitation
obliged to be kept until the decision returned, from the lord and lady of a neighbouring manor,
which ordered that Bohme's corpse should be to spend a few days with them, in order that I
interred with all the honours due to a good might operate upon an old blind woman in their
Christian, and that the whole of the clergy own house. We therefore rode in the afier-
sbould attend the funeral. This was d<ine; but noon to this delightful mansion.• In the evening,
the clergy accompanied the procession only as the countess took me by the arm, and Jed me
far as the gate of the town, when their worships through billy nurseries, at the end of the Til-
turned back again. The churchyard lies.on the lage, into a little, mean, hut cleanly and well-
north side of the town. I had Bohme's grave kept peasant's cottage, where we found an old
pointed out to me ;-it is covered with a small blind woman sitting upon a chair in the dark-
square hewn stone, on which is inscribed the ened room.
year in which Bohme was born, bis name, and \• Good evening, aged mother," said the
the year in which be died. A private teacher countess; "God bas here sent you a friend,
of respectability in Gorlitz, related to me, that through whom He will restore you to sight."
taking a walk one day,.he had seen two Eng- The woman started up from her chair, strove
liahmen at this tomb, emptying their snuff-box- to come towards us, stretched out her bands,
es, and filling .them with earth from Bobme's and exclaimed, with tears, "Where are you,
grave. This had induced him to Jay a new divine angel 1" The countess kissed her cheek,
stone upon it, in place of the old one, of which and said, "Sit down, good mother ! I bavo
scarcely anything remained. brought you something you must take to-mor-
We enjoyed much friendship in this agreea- row, and the day afler I will bring you this
hie town, and I had opportunity enough of ren- friend, who will open your eyes." I also spoke
dering service to the afflicted. After a six some friendly and consoling words to the old
days' residence, we Jen Gorlitz for Niesky, a woman, and then we returned home. On the
considerable Moravian settlement, in which is morning of the day appointed, I again went
the seminary where young people are prepared thither with the countess, and performed the
and formed for the ministry. Here I became ac- operation on the woman. I then presented her,
qoaintcd with several excellent and learned with her eyes re-opened, to the coootess,-but.
men, and also witll other interesting members such scenes are altogether indescribable. It
of the Moravian church, who showed us much was a faint image of that inteniew I shall soon
affection and friendship. experience, when I shall appear before Hur, as
The day following, I rode a few leagues into a poor sinner, naked and bare, and shall then
the country, to perform the operation for the behold Him, with open face, as He is. The
cataract on a blind person of rank. I saw at a countess embraced the delighted woman with
distance before me the mountain called the tears of joy, after which we again set off for
Schneekuppe, the highest peak of the Giant Niesky. It may easily be supposed that the
· range. I think, howeTer, that the Blauen, at patient enjoyed all due attention. But the good
the upper end ofthe Black Forest, is still higher cowitess had now another affair at heart, whicll
than either the Brocken or the Schneekuppe ; was, how she could put into my hands, in a ten-
and yet these mountains are but hills compared der and feeling manner, the two hundred dol-
with the Alps of Switzerland. l Jars she had destined for me as a reward for the
In the afternoon I returned to Niesky, where operation; and this also she accomplished in a
we lodged at the congregational hotel, as is masterly manner.
customary in all the Moravian settlements. I Blessed art thou now, thou sorely-tried and
am unwilling to detain the reader with all the glorified friend, who wast perfected through
'Tisits paid and received, and with all the opera- suffering! Rest sweetly in the arms of thy
tions and ophthalmic cures performed here ; it Redeemer, till we again see each other.
would only be a reiteration of what occurred at It is a very correct remark, that subjects can
every place I came to ; I shall insert only one never be happier than when they are vassals of
remark. LUsatia has a very peculiar constitu· such excellent masters.
tioo. It consists entirely of large manorial es- We continued nine days at Niesky; and
tates, which are called state properties, and when my business was ended, we travelled
their noble possessors statesmen. Bertholsdorf back to Kleinwelke, where we arrived in the
ia a manor of this kind; but it now belongs to evening of the 24th of May.
the Moravian community, which chooses its I again found much to do there, so that I
atates-man out of its own members, amongst was obliged to remain until the 19th. On thaL
whom there are always several noblemen day we returned to Herrnhut, in order to be
'l'here are six towns which belong to Lusatia, present at the conference of the preach~ to
the principal of which are Bautzen and Gorlitz ; whioh 1had been invited.
• Digitized by GoogIe
HIO H E I N RIC H ST I LL 1N G.
It was just fil\y years smce Bishop Rt-ichel
bad instituted this meeting ; and the venerable
old man was still living, so that he was also
able to join in the celebration of the jubilee of
this preacher's conference. On the 30th of
May, a great number of preaohers, belonging to
both the Protestant confessions from all the
neighbouring provinces, assembled at Herrn-
hut. On this occasion·there were about seven.
ty oflhem. No preacher is rejected, and it is
of no importance whether he is in connexion
with the Moravian church or not. Persons of
other ranks are not admitted unless by particu-
lar favor, except the states-men; for it is ne-
cessary that the latter be acqu!Unted with what
their preachers undertake or conclude upon, in
order, if needful, to render them their advice
or assistance. Admission is also granted to a
few students of divinity. They assemble at
eight o'clock in the morning, open the sitting
with singing and prayer, and then consult to·
gether, nut so much upon acientilic subjects as
upon their official duties, the life and walk of
the preachers-and members of the church, and
especially upon the maintaining of the pure doc·
trine of practical chriatianity.
Leuers are received at this conference of
preachers, not only from every province in Eu-
rope, but also from all parts of the world. It
being impossible to read all these in one day,
the most important of them are selected, read
aloud, consulted u11on, and afterwards answer:
ed. The transactions of the day are committed
to paper, and these minutes are then communi-
<!ated to the foreign members and friends of the
Moravian church.
The jubilee rendered the conference that
year particularly interesting. The two bishops,
Reichel and Rissler, who had labored many
years' with Zingendorf, and had travelled in
Asia, Africa, and America, in the service of the
J..ord, were present. The first, as the peculiar
founder of the institution, and the Rev. Mr.
Baumeister ofHerrnhut, opened the sitting with
brief addresses full of unction. It is necessary
to have beard such men, in order to pronounce
a judgment upon religious eloquence.
At noon, the whole company is decorously,
moderately, but abundantly entertained at the
congregational hotel, at the expense of the com.
munity; 1,1nd the next morning, all the gentle-
men take their departure.
We also left Herrnhut on the same day, and
travelled by way of Kleinwelk~, Ponnewitz,
Konigshriick, and Herrnsdorf, to Dresden, in
consequence of having been very kindly invited
by the lords of the manor at those pl&<les. We
passed a night at each of them, and arrived at
Dresden on the 4th of June, at nine o'clock in
the morning. There we spent the day, visited
our ffiends, and continued onr route the next
morning: I was detained in Wurzen and J.eip-
zig, by cataract and ophthalmic patients ; which
was Iikewise the case in Erfurth and Cassel.
'fhere I learnt; with astonishment, that the
Elector had given a vocation to my son-in·law
Schwarz. to become Professor of Divinity at
Heidelberg. and that be had accevted the call.
To this I had not contributed io the smallest
degree; for J had made it a most inviolable Jaw
never to make use of the inlluence I might have
in my present connexion with the :Elector, to
•
recommend any one, and leut .oC all my own
chiltlren and rnlatives. Howf'ver, it was to me
a subject of inliu•te importance and adoration,
that a gracious Providence should conduct my
two eldest married children, with llheir families,
into my immediate vicinity, and provide for them
so reputably.
AL Marburg, where I was likewise obliged to
remain a few days, I was visited by Schwan:,
in order "' relate Lo iue the circumsta11c&1 of his
nominaLion, on whiob oecaaiun we conversed
with great earnes&nesa upon his importijnt voca·
tion. From this place we continued our journey,
wiLhout 111opping, till we reached Heidelberg,
where we arrived in the evenin1 of the 4'th of
July, in health u it reapeeis the body.and blessed
in our souls. We were met at Weinheim by our
children from Manheim and Heidelberg, where
we also found our daughter Chri11tina recovered,
and in health. All this incited in us the most
lively th11nksgivings to our Heavenly Guide.
During the whole of this tedious 11nd danger-
ous journey, which lasted a quarter of a year,
Providence bad so graciously guided and pre·
served us that not the smallest accident bad be-
fallen us ; and were I fully to relate all the
benefits and blessings which we had enjoyed,
and could relate all the edifying conver111ations
and the heavenly intercou~se with so many
favoured children of God of all ranks, it might
serve as a matter of edification to many read-
ers ; but modesty on my part, and the possibili·
ty of pitiful censure on the other, make it my
duty to be silent upon the subject. This I can
however assert, that this journey was extreme-
ly conducive to the instruction and restoration
of us both.
Our residence at Heidelberr was not at this
time of long duration. The Elector, whti was
still at Sehwetzingen, sent for me from time to
time, in the court equipage, to dine with him.
One day he said, during dinner, "Dear friend,
I shall now soon go to Baden ; you must ac-
company me .thither for a lew weeks, for I
gladly have you near me." I replied," As your
Electoral Highness commands." But in reality
I was alarmed, for where should I find the
money to reaide for several weeks at such a
much-frequented bathing-place 1 The journey
had certainly produced me a few hundred guild-
ers, but these I required f(lr the time tu come,
and the following winter. However, I immedi-
ately took courage; and my old motto, which had
been so often nty rod and my staff"-" The Lord
will provide"-traoquillized my mind. After
dinner, the prince tQQk me into bis cabinet,
and gave me three hundred guilders, with the
words, "This is for your residence at Baden."
My occupation now consisted in carrying on
my extensive correspondence; in writing "The
Grey Man," and "The Christian Philanthro-
pist," as well as in attending to many cataract
an'd ophthalmic patients, who dail,y came to me
for aid.
The 21st of July was the time fixed for my
departure for Baden. I therefore took with me
our friend Julia. my wife, the little CbrisLi na,
and my niece Maria to wait upon us • for the
haths were very salutary to my wife. to Julia.
and the delicate Christina. We fixed our QU1'r-
ters at the lodging anti ba~hing-house, whils~
our daughter Caroline continued. the huuaekeep
Digitized by GoogIe
STILL l N G'S LAST H 0 URS. 181
ing in Heidelberg, with the twn liule onea, ground, it presents a sight which may be justly ·
Frederick and Amalia, and the &ervants. dee1ned one ot the grealeat beauties of nature.
Baden ia a very ancient place, and was very It muat be seen, for it is impossible to describe
much frequented even daring the time of lhe it. In other respects, the air is here so balmy
Romans. for its bathe. It lies in 11 beautiful and pure, that many come hither merely to
valley, and is an extremely agreeable abode. It breathe it, without uaiug the baths.
is seven lea1uee distant fnttn Karlsruhe, and My readers will easily believe me upon my
&wo from Ra11tadt. 'l'he valley takes its direc- w:o~d, that I was not one of the customary
tion from the eouth-eaet, and runs towards the v1s1tors of the baths, who only come thither to
nortb-weet; through it Hows the little river make lhemselvee merry once a year; for every
Ohes, which is of some importance, particularly deserip\ion of sensual taete finds there oppor-
fur lloating wood. The horizon is bounded by wnity enough to indulge itself.
&be lol\y indented mountains ofthe Black Forest, I occupied myself, just aa at home, with
at wtio.e feel, on both aides of the valley, fruit· writing letters, literary labours, and ophthalmic
fel hills delight the eye, covered from the top to cures ; but did not neglect, when the weather
ihe bouom with fields, vineyard11, and gardens. permiued, daily to ramble out ia this garden of
On the southern side of one of these hills, to- God, in order to listen to &he pervading voice
warda the north, the town extends itself; upon of eternal love which ·is not obvious· to every
its summit stands Oie castle, which, before Lite one. By degrees a circle of good men formed
buildinf of Raetadt, was inhabKed by the Mar- itself, in which we felt at ease, and who shared
pve of Baden. • with us in the pure enjoyment of nature.
Tbruueh the wide opening of the valley to- I here wrote the first "Pocket-book Annual,"
wards the north-west, the eye surveys the lovely fur l805, which contains the totally-unlike por-
plaioe of the Grand Dut>hy of Baden and the trait of the Elector. The tatter mostly J'Mided
luxuriant Alaaee, whilst iR the blue distance the about two leagues from this place, at the "Fa-
romantic Vofeaen mountains riee to View, and vorile," a very pretty eonntry-aeat, where I
the majestic river Schein winds through thhl visited him from time to time.
9P1Ciooe valley, like a broad ailver ribbon thrown Towards the end of the month of August,
over a varieglHed flow'ery meadow. In the there was oeeuion for another journey. The
height of summer, when the sun goes down be- old blind clergyman, Faber, at Gaiesburg In llle
hind the Vo~n, anti illuminea the •alley of vicinity of Stuttgard, desired me to pel'Wrm the
Baden u far the lofty moontaiue in the back- 1operation upon him. • * • • *
STILLING'& LAST HOURS.
ll't' Rll OltANDlJON, w. II. II:. IOBW.utZ.
CHAPTER xxr. ing on earth, for a longer season than we coaid
have expected from existing circumstances.
TH life of Johann Heinrich Jung, surnamed An excursion of pleasure, to visit his children
Stilling, private Aulie Counsellor to the Grand at Heidelberg and the neighbouring places, aud
Duse of Baden, Doctor of Philosophy and Medi- later in the summer, a similar one to Baden and
cine, and member of many learned societies, his children in Rastadt, appeared to have re-
which wss ao abundantly bleeeed in its mani- stored strength to his eonstitut1o!i ; and in the
fold labors, has, by bis own account of it, been course of that summer he was still enabled to
long made known to the public, and is regarded restore sight to seventeen blind persons; but as
by every believer as a striking instance of the he was incessantly troubled with painful spas- •
paternal guidance of Divine Providence. In the modie attacks, together with his general de-
following pages, we propose giving only the bility, and suffered besides this from a pain In
principal features of the last ecenes of his life, the side, which he himself ascribed to a fall he
which terminated on the 2d of April, 1817, in had experienced some time before from a coach,
orderto give the world a new proof how a Chris· and an organic defect which bad been thereby
tian may glorify God by his faith, even unto produced, he was under the necessity of keep-
death. ing his bed during the whole winter of 1816-17.
The Tenerable old man, whose eldest grand- Notwithstanding the moat invigorating reme-
eon I have the honour to be, and in whose dies, which were administered in order to alle-
Tieinity circumstances had fortunately placed viate his sufferings, his strength decayed more
me for a year previous to hia death, began, at and more. From that time, he ll'as no longer
the commencement of 1816, in the seventy- able to continue bis correspondence; he mere-
eeventb year of his age, sensibly to feel the ly,'gave instructions for replying to letters of the
diminution of his constitutional powers, \Vhieh most importance;. but at length, even dictating
llad been previously so strong and healthy. became too difficult for him in his illness, and
It was with mournful anxiety that his children, no more answers could be given.
gtandchildren, friend11, and admirers, observed Yet this was not the only thing that troubled
the increasing debility of their beloved friend him, since he was well persuaded of the indol-
and parent ; and many a prayer ascended from genee of those who addressed him by letter ;-
ftlr and near, to heaven, for the prolongation of he had the pain of seeing his consort, who had
Ille mortal life. God answered them in his wis- suffered for a series of years from jugular eon-
.tom; for He 1u1fered him to remain as a bless· Itractions, attacked by a violent pectoral disor-
Digitized by GoogIe.
182 HEINRICH STILLING.
'lier and ulcers in the ·1ungs. The venerable
couple bore their afilictions with the most cheer-
ful resignation to the will of divine Providencfl;
but whilst the view of their painful sufferings
rent the hearts oftheir children and their friends,
their example inspired them at the same time
with fortitude.
Father Stilling'& vital powers seemed occa.
eionally to recover themselves, and at such
times he endeavoured to proceed with his prin-
cipal labours ; but his bands soon succumbed
u.nder bodily weakness. It was in these more
vigorous hours that he began to write his " Old
Age," and waa able to prepare it for the press
as far as the preceding fragment extends.
His strength did not suffer him to write more,
and be forbade the continuation of it. That
which be relates in it of his old age, is indeed
,sufficient to make the reader acquainted with
his final outward circumstances, and cause him,
at the aame time, to admire the strength of
miAd which continued bis constant attendant
-upon his sick-bed, and bore bis soul, even at bis
last breath, towards heaven. The little which
we shall here notice of the remainder of bis life,
must not.be considered as a continuation of bis
biography, but as a testimony to the truth of the
Christian faith, and at the same as a fulfilment
-0f the wishes of many friends, who desire to
.know the particulars of bis last hours.
He said, with joy, at the beginning of the
winter, on receiving the last volume of bis
"Scripture Nar1atives" and his "Casket" from
the press, "I have still been able to complete
my •Scripture History !'" Towards Christmas,
our honoured father's weakness and the illness
-0f his dear consort increased to such a degree,
that we could no longer entertain hopes of re-
taining either of them for any length of time.
They both now divested themselves of every
earthly care which they might still have bad upon
their hearts, for tbose they were about to leave,
and were ready for their departure. However,
Heaven was still willing to grant us their
presence for some months longer ; for at the
commencement of the year 1817, they again
attained more strength, s.o that they were
occasionally able to continue out of bed for a
time.
The Tenerable old man had previously often
aaid to his consort, who was concerned for him
even on her dying-bed, "It is all the same to
me bow it comes, whether I am able to con-
tinue my labors or not ; I am prepared for every
thing." And this entire submission to the will
of his be8'1'enly Father he continually manifest·
ed ; and hence he exclaimed, in a fit of pain
occasioned by his violent spasmodic attacks,
" God hu guided mt from my ywth up, by a par·
lietdar protridence ; I !DiU not be diHali1futl now,
/nu gltlT"ify him a.lao in my 1ujfering1."
During the whole period of his confinement
to bis bed, his thoughts were incessantly direct-
ed to subjects connected with the kingdom of
God. These were his favorite topics of con-
Tersation with his partner, bis children, and his
friends ; and hence he read with indescribable
eatisfaction Kanne's work, entitled " Lives, and
Extracts from the Lives of Awakened Chris-
tians," and Schubert's "Antiquities and Novel-
ties of Superior Psychology ;" and he observed
on one occasion, "These men are selected by
Providence to be important instrnmelita lD tile
present century." After having finished the
perusal of Blumhardt'& Magazine of the most
recent intelligence of the Protestant Bible and
Missionary Societies (Basie, 1817), on our con-
versing together upon the pleasing progress of
the kingdom of God in modem times, he said,
" See, my dears ; it is a pleasure and recrea-
tion to me in my old age, whilst I am lying
thus, to bear of the further extension of the
Christian religion."
In this kind of occupation, in the perusal of
other religious books, and edifying himself from
the Holy Scriptures, which always lay near him,
and from spiritual poetical compositions, he
passed his time, which, as be said, never seem-
ed long to him.
It was only occasionally that bis strength
permitted him to converse with us ; and if
friends came at such favorable moments who
were desirous of speaking with him, he was
able to comply with their wishes. At these
times he always conversed in the same cheer-
ful manner as had rendered him at all times so
amiable in social life. On such occasions, he
was fond of speaking of his youthful life ; and
frequently spoke to a female friend, with pecu-
liar pleasure, of his relatives in the provinces of
the Lower Rhine. But if any one expressed
satisfaction at his improTing state of health, he
would not listen to it; and when a young friend
once ssid to him, she hoped that the more fa-
vorable weather in the spring would impart
new 'l'ital strength to him, he replied, " Oh, do
not tell me anything of the kind; for I do not
wish my friends to deceive themselves." And
he often mentioned to his physician that he felt
his end approaching.
His chief recreation was, as it had always
been, song and music ; and whilst young friends
sang in accordance with his feelings, tears of
pleasure would escape him. Having been for
some weeks unable to lie any longer in the same
apartment with his suft'ering consort, because
her disorders required a dilferent temperar,,ire,
be visited her daily for some time ; on which
occasions he was led to the bedside of the suf-
ferer, and at last rolled thither in an arm-chair.
Jt was then delightful to listen to their edifying
discour11e.
Even as from his youth up, by his life and
conTersstion, and his numeroua writings, as
well ae in the astonishing acquaintance and
knowledge which he had acquired with so
much industry in every department of science,
be at all times proved what the Apostle Paul
says,-tbat the knowledge of Jesus Christ llur-
passes all other knowledge. He confirmed this,
as we were speaking with each other upon the
effects of his writings, and said to us, " Yes, all
knowledge, all ability for writing, all reputation,
and the like, is obtained merely through cir·
cumstances, according to the will of God ; and
no man will be either interrogated or judged
according to them, when he stands before the
throne of God. But it is the application of
them, and the little portion of humility and faith
which the individual possesses, which the grace
of God will regard as acceptable." He like-
wise said on one occasion to his youngest son,
that " He was grieved that he bad not devoted
more time in bis life to drawing and manual oo-
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLING'S LAST HOURS. 183
eupations ;" for in auch things he possesaed
particular ability'.
We might have adduced many expressions
which had reference to his love of activity and
his faith in Jesus Christ, did we not fear being
too prolix.. It is also universally known that
our venerable father Stilling, in his life and
writings, praised and glorified the Redeemer
alone, and was chosen as a distinguished instru·
ment of divine grace, together with many other
able men, to be a great support of the church in
the age of a falsely-enlightened infidelity. His
company was always cheering, instructive, and
edifying, and continued so till the hour of bis
-departure.
However, as the Temal season approached,
the illness of the Tenerable couple increased.
But both of them, in their willingness to suffer,
and in their confidence in the Lord, sought with
great self-denial to bide from their family their
11utferings and decay. We perceived, never-
theless, the approach of the mournful period
that soon followed. After his faithful com-
11anion's ulcerated lungs, in defiance of all the
Temedies which bad been administered, had at-
.tained to complete suppuration, and oppression
-and debility had increased to the highest de-
«fee,·•he gently and blissfully fell asleep in the
·Lord, on the 22nd of March, 1817. Two days
previously, the Tenerahle old man, clearly per-
-ceiving by bis medical knowledge that her end
·was fast approaching, after having repeated to
ber some beautiful verses out of Gellert's and
·Paul Gerhard's hymns, "Unto the Lord com-
-mend thy way," &c., took leaTe of her with the
words, " The Lord bless thee, thou suffering
angel ! The Lord be with thee !" And when
be heard of her decease, be calmly folded his
bands, lifted up bis eyes to heaven, sighed, and
ejaculated, "Thank God she bas finished her
-course!" After this, he likewise lived more in
the other world, and prferred being left to bim-
-98lf more than before, clearly conacious that
.&be departure of his consort was also for him
&be firat step of transition. Hence be said to
·US, when we were lamenting her decease in bis
.presence. " Thia cannot be so painful to me as
it is to you ; since I hope so soon to see her
·again." And that was fulfilled for which be
-prayed many years before, on the 19th NoTem-
ber 1700, in the ode be composed on bis third
-11uptiala, and which both bad foreboded, name-
Jy-
" Father, unlll our journey'• end
Conduct ua hand In hand."
His debility increased, although his spirit al-
ways remained animated like that of a young
-man, as be himself expressed it, and as the
lively look of his eye testified, which continued
~pen and bright to bis last breath. Hence be
was able, only a few days before hie end, to
.speak a few words of encouragement to the no-
ble daughter of an illustrious female friend,
previous to her confirmation, and also to dis-
course briefly with her illustrious son and noble
sister. He also spoke upon several subjects
with other acquaintances ; and said once to an
()Id friend, .and to his second daughter, amongst
other things, "Listen ; I have something of
importance to tell you, relating to .psychology ;
I have completely the feeling as if I possessed
a two-fold personality ; one spiritual, the other
corporal. The spiritual hoTera over the ani-
mal. Both are in a state of warfare in man ;
and it is only by the mortification of all sensual )
desire that he can attain to their entire separa-
tion ; not, indeed, by his own power, but by de- ,1
nying himself, with the Divine assistance." ·
All other discourse but such as bad reference
to God and hie plan of salvation was onerous
to him and therefore be said " that he had not
spent a weary moment on bis sick-bed, until
after the death of hie wife; since which, time
seemed long to him." For the deceased, by
her self-sacrificing love and anxiety for him, as.
well as by her sympathy even in the smallest
things which concerned him, bad become indis-
pensable to him as the partner of bis life and
the friend of bis soul. She overflowed with
tenderness even towards the children of his
former marriage, and was, generally speaking,
a pattern of human kindness and gentleness,
of self-denial and humility, and was therefore
truly invaluable to him. Hence be longed so
much the more to reach his home, and to be
elevated above all earthly thoughts and cares.
His debility daily increased; and having had,
for the last half.year, an invincible repugnance
to substantial food of every kind, of which the
efforts of the most able physicians and all the
care of his friends were unable to divest him,
and as the water now rose in his chest, it was
easy to foresee that the dear man would only
continue a few days longer as a living pattern
amongst us. In this situation he said to a fe-
male friend, " It will soon be over!" And on
her replying "Ab, bow happy you are, in being
able to say this!" be answered. in a friendly
tone," Well, I am glad that you acknowledge
it."
When we learned that his end was so near,
we took courage in our a1Diction, and sought to
take advantage of every moment of bis remain-
ing with us, for our edification and establish-
ment in faith. For if ever his society produced
this blissful inlluence, it waa so on his dying-
bed, where, with the most astonishing consid-
eration and calmness, be awaited the moment
of hie departure, which be probably perceived
beforehand to the very hour, and in which, by
his filial resignation to the Divine disposal, as a
true hero of the faith, be glorified God in the
mortal conllict, who strengthened him for it, and
afterwards beatified him. His end was an ob-
vious proof of the truth of the cbriatian faith;
for no mere deist or rationalist, but the Chris-
tian alone, is able to resign bis breath with that
spiritual fortitude and all that consciousness
which the departed saint retained with every
recollection to his latest breath ; and with that
seriousness with which, although so far ad-
vanced in the divine life, be represented to him-
self his near dismission, with the tranquillity
and cheerfulness consequent upon it, which ir-
radiated bis dignified co110tenance.
Hence the honor of his life and sentiments,
and the cause oCthe kingdom of God, calls upon
me publicly to state to the world the particulars
of his last hours, together with the most im-
portant expressions be made use of in the full
possession of consciousness, according to the
testimony of all present, as well as that of bis
estimable physician, in order that all the glory
may be given to God.
Digitized by GoogIe
184 HEINRICH STILLING.
When he saw that hie di1Solution wu no
longer at a distance, he deeil't'd that aH his cbil·
dren should assemble around him ; and the
latter were able to arrange their aflllire in such
a manner as to aft'ord tbemaelves this Jut plea-
sure. Yet still the idea troubled him. leet their
official duties should be forgotten for.his sake ;
and hence he said to them, on eeeing them re-
main longer with him than usual, " You are
staying too Jong; you are neglecting too mueh ;
attend to your incumbent dutiee ;" for however
gladly he had them about him, he coald not
endnre it, when it seemed to him that t¥>' ne-
glected the business of their TOCation. After
they had pacified him on this point,•he 1ulfered
one of bi• children to be continually with him
at his bed-side. He had previously alwaya
used a bell in order to call thoae of hie family
who were in attendance in the anteroom, 1ince
he was fond of being alone. He alao spoke
with each of bis children of things which, on
their account, were 1till at his heart. His fre.
quent inquiries about the time, proves that d11-
ring the last two days, in the frequent attacks
of diseaae, the time seemed long to him; and
that he longed for bis he8\'enly habitation. In
the night between Palm-Sunday and the Mon-
day following, he spoke much to his youngeat
son, who was watching by him, respecting his
approaching dissolution, which he had not done
before; and believing his end to be near. even
at thllt time. he said to him, towards day-break,
"Now go and call the family... However, his
strength returned in some measure, and he
amoked a pipe, as he did also the day before bis
decease. But the water in tbe pleura caused
tbi• euhject to hi• third daughter : " r believe r
have fought the mortal conftict; for I feel -
much alooe as if I were in a desert, and yet in-
wardly ao comfurtable !" But on their expre11&-
ing 'their.opinion that he would have no farther
atrugfle with death, and on asking him reepect-
ing it, be replied, " No, there is many a little
trial to sDBtaill." And that the Christian con-
templates the near approach of death neither
with levity oor preaumptioo, is evident from
what be ezpreaed on the subject to his second
daughter;-hen she wu convening with him
during this period en the BDhject of death, he
aaid,. " Dying is an important afl'air, and no-
trifte ;" and on another occasion," Futurity is.
a wonderfol tbiq." From whence it appears
that, even to the man who baa labored with all
hie powera, and in every possible direction, for
the honor of the Moet High, and to whom futu-
rity W88 able to present itat1f in the fairest col-
ore-that even to him, the tranaition into the-
life to come, aad the account so aoon to be
rendered, appeared eopremely llOlemn and im-
portant. Being wont to speak aloud in bis
sleep during the whole of his life, it W88 alao-
now the case; aad 1&1 be awoke occaeionally,
he aaid to hi• IBCOftd daughter, " Since the
death of my wife, I do no& feel at home, and
talk nonsense in my sleep." But on her reply-
ing, "No-nn the contrary, what you 1ay is only
edifying;" he said, "Indeed !-that ia truly a
divine fa,-or !" He frequently expressed hi.a
anxiety leet he should say anything improper
during hie slombere ; fur he wiahed only to·
speak and sutrer for the glory of hi1 Lord.
Th11s I heard him make use of no other than
devotional exprenioa1 wllen aaleep, euch as,
" God has goided me with unspeakable kind
ne911 ;""The Lord blesa :yw ;" "We must be·
very cautious in examining into the meaning
of a subject, lest we fall iato error ;" and sim--
ilar phrases.
... him much uneasiness, after the pain in his
aid.e and the apasmlldic attacks had for some
weeks disappeared ; he was therefbre obliged
to breathe and groan alond, and with diftlculty;
and cough frequently; but all this paned away,
the day preceding his dissolution. He spoke
very little, and only in broken aentences, but
~!ways in perfect consciousness ; he also slept
ltttle, although he frequently closed bis eyes ;
for he immediately opened them when any one
moved, or the door was opened.
On that day, and even previously, as well lls
ou the following day, he was probably much
occupied in thought, with proofs, objections,
counter-proofs, and refutations of the doctrine
of immortality and of the Christian faith; this
was apparent from his uneasiness in sleeping
and waking, and from the broken words and
sentences which be uttered on these subjects ;
for he constantly saw near him in a dream-as
is also related of St. Martin-a black man, who
harrassed him, and occupied and disturbed his
active spirit ; seemingly as if evil spirits sought
still to trouble him upon his dying-bed, and even
to cause to him to swerve from the faith ; for
he said w~ile asleep, "Tell me, my de~r chil-
dren, who 1s that black man there, who is con-
tinually tormenting me? Do not you see him!"
He had dreamed some clays before, as he toltl
his daughter the day following, that the black
man said to him," Come with me;" but that
he had answered, "No, I will not: go away !"
But all these temptations were overcome the
day before his end, on which his uneasiness
was succeeded by a profound tranquillity and
eolemoity. He also thus expressed himself on.
When his weakneea mc~ed, his frequent
talking in his alt'!ep oeaaed; and when awake,
he spoke Iese by words than by friendly loob.
When he ob~rved how every one vied in wait-
ing upon him, he frequently aaid, " Dear angels.
I cause you so much trouble." Thus be said
also, " 0 children, I am so afl'eeted by your un-
exampled love ;-however, I could willh, for
ynur sakes, not to die in the p'arox.ysm of my
complaint;" for be experienced a frequent re-
petition of violent attacks of his disorl'.er, which
was occasioned by water In the pleura, his.
disease having terminated in that painful disor-
der ; and hence he aaid to us more than once,
"There is something melancholy in being suf•.
focated, hut there is perhaps a necessity for it."
Near his bed, which was fixed in his stutly, front
whence so many blessings for the world had
emanated, and which being adorned with 1ub-
lime paintings, engra11ings, and memorial•, re-
sembled a sanctuary, be had constantly beauti-
ful dowers standing in pots. His looks linger-
ed with particular pleasure upon these, and on
Muller's engraving ofRaphael's Madonna, which
hung upon the wall opposite him.
He said also, whilst conversing with his
youngest son, who had the care of his ftowera,
"See, dear boy, the pretty ftowera ;" they were
hyacinths, narcissuses, and violets ; and round
about them the pretty children's beads. In th8'
Digitized by GoogIe
S1'1LLING'S LAST HOURS. 185
111ptbetween the last day ofMarch and the firet ian death produeed many new and ardent t~
of April, he said many things to Ille respecting s9lves to glorify God upon earth hJ a lite well-
my dear parents, brothel'll, and 11ietere, In Hei- pleasing to Him.
delberg, as well as upon otht>r topics, and my And then, when father Stillinf 1111w hie fliends
olllce as a preacher. He then requestecl a «fass looking, or coming in through the half"llpen
of fresh water, whieh he drank with particular door, whioh stood immediately opptisite his eye,
pieas11re, his parehed gum• tanl!'lishing more he testified ftis Juve for them by a friendly nod,
and more for refre.
shing liquids; and he ptaieed and if at the n1ott1ent he felt a little acceesion
this draught of water the nellt day to his two ·of stren~, be spoke a few words to one and
.youngest daogbters, saying," No one can form another of them. At the same time hie clleet-
an idea of the pleasure I had, hlst night, when fulneas, Which had been an in•ariable attraction
drinking a glass of fresh water. When nature to every une, never fonook him. On obset"9'tng
returns to her pure etate, and par$akee of water a female friend looking \hfough the door, he
and wine, it is the beet thing the fudi'liciual can jOOOl!l!ly eaid, .. Madame Von R- is peeping
take, if the spasms will permit ii." And hence throllgh the key-hole!" Another remale friend
he said, 11oon afier, " The most simple fuod is came towards noon, and grateful for the ac-
requieite for man in bi11 lint and )81t daya; 41113intanee she had mede with him by the grace
water and milk is the beginning aml the end." or God, she spoke of the heauiifully pure mind
Towards day-break, he called to hi11 yoonge11t which the Lord had given him. on which he an-
1111n, tu fill hie pipe, which he aeemed to reliah. swered, " Oh, you must not praise me !" He a(-
The same morning, being the lint b( April, &erwards lni!ntioned to the same individual, that
whilst hie children were with him, and another Whilst refte<lling upon the whole periud ufhis life,
of my brothers was with us, of whom on Ilia whieh, 88 he himself said, was Joog, but ap-
arriv11l the evening before he bad enquired after peaf'6d to him as ll dream, "I had nnce in my
the welfare of the family, he exhurtetl us as yuuth a little ftute, Which tell upon the ground,
follows; "Dear children, be diligent in the true and Wiiii broken, on whlc!h I wept for twu days
fear of Gud ! People often think they do together; and it cost only sixpence ;~but muney
enough if they only occasionally attend ohurch was llC!arce in thoee daye ;" and then eon-
and sacrament ; but trUe religion consists in en- tinued, "·ren me, what hue the ctitice been
tire resignation to the will of God, and in oon- able &o effect against me ~ Whatever they
tinual intercourse with Him, and in prayer!" WTote, availed nothing!" Ahoot this time, he
Hereupun, as bi11 secund daughter requeeted sent for me, and inquired whether the jubilMl of
him to interr.ede in heaven, together with his the Reformation fe~tival would be celebrated
beatified consort, for hie family ; be •nswered that year; on my telling him I wa~ convinced
in bis simple way, "We must 6rat eee what that no solemnity would he neglected as rf'gatd-
the usage is in yonder world ;-we will then ed that Important feetinl, he replied, "Yea, I
pray for you.'' have, in feet, heard something of it," and wu
He then repeated the following verses from satiefied respecting it.
the Halle Hymn-Bouk.-Hymn xi. v. H. At dinner-time, he willhed to be again tell
"T"- bl...Ung .,.011111111 which Jeau bore, alone, and spoke litile or nothing; his tli11tre1111-
My refuge are, my only -•t; ing seneation11 had also at that time passed away,
'l'brough th- with Jt>y to heaven rn IOU\ and cheerful repoee glistened in his large and
And Dll~ with Ille heavenly h1111." intelligent eyes.
And on hearing his third daughter aak tier The watches which hung near him he had
llhlter where these words were to be fhund, he wound up himself to thi11 time, anti had also
gave thr. Halle collection of spiritual songs, counted his jewels, &e., in the drawer of the
whklh wa11 lying near him, to his second daugh- little table which stood near him ; fur his love
ter, directed her to 11earch and mark out some of order, which had been of such service tu him
of the n1011t beautiful hymns, and enjuined her in hill nemeroos occupations, did not. leave him
to Jet her ehiJQren in the seminary learn to sing to the last moment; for even then, he wa11
them well in choir, and said, "Learn plenty uf anxioos to take themixture11 and medicines, for
text11 and verses by heart ; they will be found which he alwey11 a11ked at the preci8e perind,
to be of service." At the eame time be recom- which he freqnenlly refused when presented to
mended her alway11 to Jet the church hymns be him earlier. He al110 directed the faded tlow-
eung in the genuine and simple church melodies, ere to be exchanged fur fresh ones, which he
..,ithout any thing of an artificial nature ; for be was able to call hy their proper names, and had
loved that which wa1111imple and sublltne, even them placed on hie table. In the afternoon, he
In church matters. He afterwanl1 said to her, again asked for hie pipe, and was calm and
811 the conversation turned upon certain friends, cheerful. Hi11 lips being swollen, he requested
•• Write to the dear peuple, and eay that I a glass pipe to drmk out of, and directed where
thought much ahout them in my last days,-that ·it was to be shortened, in consequence of being
I loved them. and that we sho11IJ eventually find found too Jong. He was well pleased with this
11ufficient 11ubjec111 for conversation." He al110 mode of drinking, and said joe011ely, "When
aub11equently said concerning them, "They are using the glass tube, the douaniers in the neck
beloved of the Lord." do not perceive it."
That day, which was Tuesday the Jet of Towards evening he again fell asleep, on
April, many friend11 still came to see him, and which account it was impossible to gratify man,
to be witnesses of the cheerfulness and solem- of his friends who desired once more to see him
nity with which the venerable old man endured whum they so much esteemed, because the fre-
his sufferings through the power of faith. And quent moving of the door disturbed him.
every heart was elevated to heaven at the sight; Once, on awaking, he 11aid to his daughters
and the wish evenLually to die a similar christ- who were present, "I always think it is morn-
A a
0i9;11zed by Google
186 HEINRICH STILLING.
mg. In the next world there will be an eternal
clay."
On his second daughter's presentinghim with
a nosegay from her pupils, all of whom he lov-
$1 inexpreasibly, with the words, "Dear father,
.the children send you these llowera :" he re-
plied in his usual cordial tone, " The dear chil-
dren ! They' are also like the tender llowera,
which voluntarily unfold themselves to the rays
of the sun."
Towards six o'clock, he stated to his friendly
physician all his complaints, and even began a
converaation with him npon the goodness of the
water of the Herrnbrunnen in Baden-Baden.
His eldest son from Rastadt soon afterward ar-
rived, in order to see his venerable parent once
more. He could not immediately receive him,
-0n account ofthe paroxysm under which he was
auffering ; as soon as it was over, he called him
to him, and as the former was speaking of the
.happy exit of his deceased mother, he replied,
" Observe, we cannot exactly say how it is with
her; she has endured to the end, and I must still
.either labor on, or suffer on !" Of a friend
who had seen him only the day before, he spoke
with much respect and affection, and said, " I
have had frequent opportunities of seeing him,
and have spoken much with him on theosophi-
-0&1 subjects, the whole extent of which he had
investigated, on which occasions I learnt to
lmow his heart." Subsequently, I said to him,
"Theae May-llowera," which stood upon his
.table," are much too beautiful;" on which he re-
.plied, in his cheerful way," Nothing is too beau-
tiful for me!" And on his second daughter's
eying to him af\erwards, "Yes, dear father,
_you will soon see much more beautiful things
than these!" he rejoined, "That cannot be
.known, it must be felt." He subsequently said,
" I love you all so dearly, and yet it is so easy to
j>llrt with you." On his eldest son's replying.
"The reason is, because yon love the Lord so
much more;" he answered," Yes, that is it."
He also said afterwards to the former, "Be
.ateadfast in faith ; it has never misled me ; it
will also guide thee faithfully, and by it we will
.all abide." He then said, "continue in love,
_you dear angels !" And on his third daughter's
replying, " You are our angel, dear father 1"
he answered, " We will be so reciprocally !"
.Meanwhile the night approached, and he fre-
quently laid himself in a sleeping posture, and
generally speaking, his whole frame was tran-
quil. Aa soon as he awoke, and found occasion
.and power to speak, he did so. Thus he once
.aaid, " If our Redeemer had only that to drink
which I have, it would have done him good ;
but they gave him vinegar to drink, stretched
-out their tongues at him, and mocked him, and
.Yet he said, •Father, forgive them, they know
not what they do !' This was the mightiest
prayer that ever was uttered." Arid on this he
prayed, " Father, if it be thy holy will that I
•hould longer remain here, give me strength and
I will gladly still labor and suffer." His third
daughter afterwards said, " How it grieves me
.to see you lie there and suffer so much !" To
which he replied, " Do not always speak so ;
our Lord was stretched out in a very different
manner." Later, on observing us all about him,
.and mournful looks fixed upon him, be said, " If
.YOU still wish to say any thing to me, do so."
When the watch-ligh~ was brought, which he
generally sent for about the time of falling
asleep, he said, "I do not require it; I travel
the whole night." He subsequently continued,
" When a person belongs to the christian church,
not only must man and wife, but all the children
also, agree in one point ; and that is dreadfully
difficult."
Towards morning, he had the following dream,
which he related on awaking, to his eldest son
and his third daughter. " I felt myself actively
engaged," said he, " with my late consort in do-
mestic affairs ;-the ' Grey Man ' af\erwards ap-
peared to me-but not the one in the Nostalgia
-and conducted me into heaven, and said to
me that I need not trouble myself in the least
about my wife, with whom it went "fell ; he
himselfhad conducted her from one stage ofper-
fection to another ; but that I must still wait."
He afterwards expressed himself as follows ;
" Oh, I feel such an indescribable peace of soul.
which you cannot perceive in consequence of
my bodily wretchedness." Meanwhile his weak-
ness increased, and it was difficult for him to
speak in continuance, hie voice having already
lost its power ; hence he made frequent use of
broken expressions, such as " A complete resig-
nation to the Lord," &c., and would of\en have
gladly continued, had his weakneas permitted.
But his serenity and solemnity of feeling rose
to a still higher degree, and we could only pray
in his presence. It was then, on feeling him·
self sufficiently strong, that he uttered an inter-
cessory prayer, in which he besought God "to
preserve all his children in the faith of Jesus
Christ, and to keep them as branches in the
vine, that he might find them after thousands of
years bound together as in one bundle."
Soon af\er, towards four o'clock in the morn-
ing of the same day, beingAsh-W~dnesday, the
2nd of April, feeling .that his end Wlls approach-
ing, and that he was going to the Father, and
in the consciousness that he was sufficiently
strong for a last and solemn act, he collected ua
all around him, inquiring, with his wonted kind·
ness, whether we had any ojection to his pres-
ent intentionof partaking ofthe sacrament with
us ; and af\er his eldest son had removed fils
scruples respecting it, since at that time of
the night the only clergyman of the Reformed
Ohnrch (there being at that time no evangelical
church-union existing), who was also a venera-
ble old man, could not be sent for, and having
received our heartfelt consent and our thanka
for his patriarchal intention, he made us kneel
down, uncovered his head, folded his hands, and
prayed with all the power ol the spirit and of
faith-which even still expressed itself in his
voic&-to the following effect : "Thon, who
didst shed thy blood for us on the cross, and
didst overcome death and hell; who didst even.
there forgive thy enemies; thou divine Media-
tor, forgive us also now, whilst venturing in our
weakness upon this solemn act, which we other-
wise would not have undertaken."
He then took the plate, on which he had bro-
ken in pieces the bread, held his hands cross-
wise over it, pronounced the usual form of ben-
ediction, and .continued, " And thou, 0 Lord,
bless this element ofbread." On which he said.
"Take, eat !-this is His body, which was given
up to death for our sins."
Digitized by GoogIe
STILLIN G'S LAST HOURS. 187
Inwardly affected by the dignified action of Iwhen he saw us standing mournfully around
the pious old man, thus celebrating with his him, and perceived our sorrow for him, he said,
family, even on his dying bed, the bond of Jove, "Have patience." Later in the forenoon, he
the sacred suppt>r, we partook of the consecra- saw one of bis friends, who was a clergyman,
ted food. And after be bad e:rpressed the wish looking in at the door, whom he greeted with a
that his Heidelberg children had also been with friendly look ; and when the latter stepped up
us, be took his ordinary goblet instead of the to his bedside, and e:rpressed bis thoughts, say.
cup, crossed his hands over it in the same man- ing, " He who suffered on the cross enables you
ner, gave thanks, and said, according to the to overcome," he replied," Certainly, I do not
words ofthe institution, "Drink ye all of it ;- doubt of it." And when the fol1ber pronounced
this is the cup of the new covenant in His blood. the following words--
which was shed for you and for many, and in .. How llhall I feel, o God of grace,
the end for all, for the forgiveness of sins!" When I ucend to worlds unknown,
And having himself partaken of it the last, he 4nd oee thee with unveiled face,
stretched out his hands to bless us, and ex.claim- And worship at thy glorlows throne?"
ed, "The Lord be with you!" he also assented to them with a "Yea and
And after having terminated this solemn and Amen !"
exalted act, as a Christian patriarch on his dy- But the solemn and mournful moment now
ing bed, and according to pure evangelical prin- gradually approached. The far-advanced Cbris-
ciples;-wbich he would not have undertaken tian, like bis Redeemer, was to drink the cup
bad there not been a necessity for it, because of tribulation to the very dregs, as a glorious
be honored and followed order, usage, and cus- testimony of faith to the world. And it was
tom in all things-be laid himselfdown to sleep, the middle of the holy week. He went, with
and sublime peace ofsoul evidenced itself in the bis Saviour, to meet death and victory. On be-
already transfigured countenance of the hero in holding bis countenance beaming with affection
the faith. He might also have doubted, as well and dignity, one could have exclaimed, "0
as we, whether he should live to see the dawn- Death, where is thy sting ! 0 grave, where is
ing of the following Wednesday. thy victory! But thanks be unto God, who
His weakness from this time increased more hath given him the victory, through his Lord
and more, and convulsive feelings manifested Jesus Christ."
themselves, so that we frequently thought the He continually sought us out, one after the
moment of suffocation had arrived. Heart rend- other, with his benign and solemn look, and
ing was the sight of the venerable old man, once exclaimed, "Continue in prayer;" and we
when bis breath failed him ;-he folded bis ceased not.
hands, lifted up his eyes towards heaven, sup- He refreshed his languishing lips a few times
posing he would never again enjoy the vital more with cooling drinks, until at length he
air. We had frequently to witness this distress- said, "It is enough ; no more will go down!"
ing and, to us, terrific appearance of suffoca- Several times he stammered forth supplicating
tion ; and we could only pray that God would expressions, when suffering from convulsive at·
alleviate bis passage home. When the severe tacks, to the great Consummator, such as,
attacks were repeated, he exclaimed, "Lord, "Lord, cut short the thread of life!" and "Fa·
receive me into thy everlasting habitatioDll !" ther, receive my spirit!" and then we thought
And once, when it was difficult for him to strug- we heard him breathe bis last. However, bis
gle for breath, in consequence of the water in vigorous constitution recovered itself a little ;
his chest, he stretched out his arms upwards, be prepared himself for the approaching mortal
and exclaimed, "Away, away!" Meanwhile blow by stretching himself out at full length,
bis dry and languishing gums were constantly and what he otherwise regarded as necessary :
refreshed by reviving liquids, and his love for then fixed his eyes on the picture of the infant
eleanliness and order was perceptible even till Jesus, which hung opposite to him ; and now
his end. At another time he exclaimed during his eyes failed, and he closed them with all the
the tormenting spasm, " Strength, 0 thou Con- powerof bodily and mental strength. We stood
.queror of death!" All this he uttered with a breathless, and continued in prayer, while con-
weak but affecting tone of voice, whilst bis looks vulsion fearfully distorted the features of the
!ingered upon the various members of his fami- sufferer. 0nce-4lnd a second time-it seemed
ly who surrounded his bed, and whom his ex- as if evil spirits sought to discompose bis noble
alted example of patience and fortitude in this mien; but behold! the dignified traits of his
eontinuoua mortal conftict could not but incite sublime countenance returned to their dignity
to prayer. And whenever the one or the other and benignity, and heavenly purity perfectly
-of us found himself obliged to leave the room, presented itself to our gazing eyes; and when
in the course of waiting upon him, and in the at noon-tide the sun shone most cbeeringly, his
anxiety to present their dying parent with every breath departed, and the Christian had over-
refreshing and strengthening remedy, he looked come ; in faith was his victory.
anxiously after him, and occasionally said, "Let There is sorrow on earth for the departed
no one go away." benefactor, counsellor, friend, and incomparable
Thus did the venerable old man struggle for father. Father Stilling is lamented, even in the
.several hours with dissolving nature, and it most distant countries; but in heaven there is
seemed as if distant rays from the kingdom of joy amongst the blessed, and an unceasing song
light encircled his dignified countenance, and of praise before God ascends from his beatified
imparted to bun strength for the conftict. Then spirit !
TBS K1'D.
Digitized by GoogIe
